"There is not a stone of that accursed building standing upon another. The property has passed
to a family of a different name, and the series of incessant calamity which pursued all concerned
in this cruel deed is as romantic as true."

Visit to the Eagle's Cliff, in Inniskea.

We ascended the hill (while the crew were clearing and baiting their spillets) in the vague
hope of getting a shot at these predatory birds, of whose spoliations we had heard so much
on the preceding evening.

On reaching the bottom of the rock, in whose face the aërie stands, we discovered that the
old birds were absent, and as the nest was formed in a deep fissure, we could not ascertain
its situation exactly. But that the eagles' dwelling was above us was evident, enough: the
base of the cliff was strewn with bones and feathers, and the accumulation of both was extraordinary.
The bones of rabbits, hares, and domestic fowls, were most numerous, but those of smaller game,
and various sorts of fish, were visible among the heap.

Many attempts are annually made to destroy this predatory family. It is impossible to rob the
nest. Situated two hundred feet above the base of the rock, it is of course unapproachable
from below, and as the cliffs beetle over it frightfully, to assail it from above would be
a hazardous essay. An enterprising peasant, some years since, was let down by a rope and basket,--but
he was fiercely attacked by the old birds, and the basket nearly overturned. Fortunately the
cord was strong and had sufficient length to allow his being lowered rapidly, or he would have
undoubtedly sustained some bodily injury from the wings and talons of those enraged and savage
birds.

The village of Dugurth suffers heavily from its unfortunate proximity to the aërie. When the
wind blows from a favourable point, the eagle in the grey of morning sweeps through the cabins,
and never fails in carrying off some prey.

To black fowls eagles appear particularly attached, and the villagers avoid as much as possible
rearing birds of that colour.

A few days before, one of the coast-guard, alarmed by the cries of a boy, rushed from the watch-house;
the eagle had taken up a black hen, and, as he passed within a few yards, the man flung his
cap at him. The eagle dropped the bird; it was quite dead, however, the talons having shattered
the back-bone. The villagers say (with what truth I know not) that turkeys are never taken.

That the eagle is extremely destructive to fish, and particularly so to salmon, many circumstances
would prove. They are constantly discovered watching the fords in the spawning season, and
are seen to seize and carry off the fish. One curious anecdote I heard from my friend the priest.
Some years since a herdsman, on a very sultry day in July, while looking for a missing sheep,
observed an eagle posted on a bank that overhung a pool. Presently the bird stooped and seized
a salmon, and a violent struggle ensued; when the herd reached the spot, he found the eagle
pulled under water by the strength of the fish, and the calmness of the day, joined to drenched
plumage, rendered him unable to extricate himself. With a stone the peasant broke the eagle's
pinion, and actually secured the spoiler and his victim, for he found the salmon dying in his
grasp.

When shooting on Lord Sligo's mountains, near the Killeries, I heard many particulars of the
eagle's habit and history from a grey-haired peasant who had passed a long life in these wilds.
The scarcity of hares, which here were once abundant, he attributed to the rapacity of those
birds; and he affirmed, that when in pursuit of these animals, the eagle evinced a degree of
intelligence that appeared extraordinary. They coursed the hares, he said, with great judgment
and certain success; one bird was the active follower, while the other remained in reserve,
at the distance of forty or fifty yards. If the hare, by a sudden turn, freed himself from
his most pressing enemy, the second bird instantly took up the chase, and thus prevented the
victim from having a moment's respite.

He had remarked the eagles also while they were engaged in fishing. They chose a small ford
upon the rivulet which connects Glencullen with Glandullagh, and posted on either side waited
patiently for the salmon to pass over. Their watch was never fruitless,--and many a salmon,
in its transit from the sea to the lake, was transferred from his native element to the wild
aërie in the Alpine cliff; that beetles over the romantic waters of Glencullen.

[The volumes are handsomely printed, and embellished with aqua-tint plates and clever vignettes:
some of the latter, by Bagg, are spirited performances on wood.]

       *       *       *       *       *

PETER THE GREAT.

[What a mine of adventure and incident is the life of this extraordinary man. A modern French
writer enumerates 95 authors who have treated of his actions, and concludes the list with et
cetera threefold. What a field for the editors of the compilation libraries--wherein they may
store their little garners or volumes to advantage. Such has the editor of the Family Library
done in the volume before us; although he has only consulted one-fourth of the above number
of authorities for his memoir of the life of the Tzar. He prefaces with the modest observation
that he has done little more than bring together and arrange the scattered fragments of Histories,
Lives, Anecdotes, and Notices, in manuscript and in print, "of one of the most extraordinary
characters that ever appeared on the great theatre of the world, in any age or country;--a
Being full of contradictions, yet consistent in all that he did; a promoter of literature,
arts, and sciences, yet without education himself; the civilizer of his people, 'he gave a
polish,' says Voltaire, 'to his nation, and was Himself a savage; he taught his people the
art of war, of which he was himself ignorant; from the first glance of a small cock-boat, at
the distance of five hundred miles of the nearest sea, he became an expert ship-builder, created
a powerful fleet, partly constructed with his own hands, made himself an active and expert
sailor, a skilful pilot, a great captain: in short, he changed the manners, the habits, the
laws of the people, and very face of the country." How different is this course of activity
to the usual luxurious lives of the sovereigns of civilized countries: how ill assort Peter's
"savage" notions with the accomplished ease and personal elegance of a succeeding autocrat:
how wide is the contrast between Peter's ship-building education, and the youth of a prince
passed amidst court corruptionists--or pilotage over the boundless ocean, and launching gilded
pleasure-boats upon an unruffled lake; personally watching the welfare of his subjects, or
slinking into retirement, and leaving their interests to the intrigues of party. Yet, such
are a few of the opposite characteristics--the every-day occupations--of the great Tzar of
Russia, and of the kingships of the last and present centuries.

The events of the life of Peter may be well known in detail to the reader of the history of
modern Europe. Yet they must be gathered from many volumes; while in the above little book
we have them brought in amusing and sufficiently copious narrative, within 350 pages. We have
here the Tzar's war with Sweden--Narva, Pultowa, and the Pruth; but the incidents that will
prove most interesting to the Family readers are the domestic habits--the unkingly life of
Peter; and above all, his visit to England--how he drank deeply of pepper and brandy, lodged
in Buckingham-street, Strand; spoiled Mr. Evelyn's holly hedge at Sayes; and peeped from the
roof of the House of Lords at the King upon his throne. We shall therefore endeavour to abridge
a few of these entertaining anecdotic details from the chapter devoted to the Tzar's stay in
England.]

Two ships of war and a yacht, under the orders of Admiral Mitchell, were despatched to Helvoetsluys
to bring over the Tzar, who, with his suite, consisting of Menzikoff and some others, whose
names are not mentioned, embarked at that port on the 18th of January, 1698, and on the 21st
reached London. Here no secret was attempted to be made of his rank, but he requested to be
treated only as a private gentleman; and it is remarkable enough that, though he paid frequent
visits to the King, and attended his court, his name never once appears in the only official
paper which then, as indeed now, was and is in existence, the London Gazette. Lord Shrewsbury,
at this time, was Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs; but as the Tzar came not in any public
character, he appears to have been placed under the especial charge of the Marquess Carmarthen,
who was made lord president of the Council in the following year. Between this nobleman and
Peter a very considerable intimacy took place, which was uninterrupted during the Tzar's abode
in England. A large house was hired for him and his suite at the bottom of York-buildings where,
it is stated in a private letter, the Marquess and he used to spend their evenings together
frequently in drinking "hot pepper and brandy." The great failing of Peter, indeed, was his
love of strong liquors. We find in one of the papers of the day, that he took a particular
fancy to the nectar ambrosia, "the new cordial so called, which the author, or compounder of
it, presented him with, and that his Majesty sent for more of it."

Of the proceedings of the Tzar, during the four months he remained in England, very little
is recorded in the few journals or other publications of that day; the former consisting chiefly
of the Postmaster, the Postman, and the Postboy.

In the Postboy it is stated that, on the day after his arrival, the Tzar of Muscovy was at
Kensington, to see his Majesty at dinner, as also the court; but he was all the while incognito.
And on the Saturday following he was at the playhouse, to see the opera; that on the Friday
night the revels ended at the Temple, the same being concluded by a fine masquerade, at which
the Tzar of Muscovy was present; that on the following Sunday he went in a hackney-coach to
Kensington, and returned at night to his lodgings in Norfolk-street,[7] where he was attended
by several of the King's servants.

His movements, during the rest of the month, were a journey to Woolwich and Deptford, to see
the docks and yards; then to the theatre, to see the Rival Queens, or Alexander the Great;
to St. James's, to be present at a fine ball; and, it is further stated that he was about to
remove from Norfolk-street (York buildings) to Redriff, where a ship was building for him;
and that he was about to go to Chatham, to see a man-of-war launched, which he was to name;
and that on the 15th of February, accompanied by the Marquess of Carmarthen, he went to Deptford,
and having spent some time on board the "Royal Transport," they were afterwards splendidly
treated by Admiral Mitchell. These are the principal notices concerning the Tzar Peter contained
in the Postboy.

It is evident that London could not be very agreeable to him, on two accounts; first, because
his great object in coming here was to see our dock-yard establishments, and to profit also
by observing our mode of making draughts of ships, and laying them off in the mould-loft; and
to acquire some knowledge in the theory of naval architecture and navigation, which he had
heard, when in Holland, was superior to what he had seen or could obtain in that country, though
it was assumed that the mechanical part of finishing and putting together a ship was there
fully equal, if not superior, to ours.

In the next place, he was equally annoyed by the crowds he was continually meeting in the streets
of London, as he had been in Amsterdam, and which he could not bear with becoming patience.
It is said that, as he was one day walking along the Strand, with his friend the Marquess of
Carmarthen, a porter, with a hod on his shoulder, rudely pushed against him and drove him into
the kennel. He was extremely indignant, and ready to knock him down; but the Marquess interfering,
asked the man what he meant, and if he knew whom he had so rudely run against, and "that it
was the Tzar." The porter, turning round, replied, with a grin, "Tzar! we are all Tzars here."
But that which annoyed him most of all, was the intrusion of our countrymen into his lodgings,
and into the room even where he was eating, to which they gained access through the king's
servants. Disgusted at their impertinent curiosity he would sometimes rise from table, and
leave the room in a rage. To prevent this intrusion, he strictly charged his domestics not
to admit any persons whatever let their rank be what it might. A kind of forced interview,
however, was obtained by two Quakers, the account of which, as given by one of them, is singular
and interesting.

One month's residence having satisfied Peter as to what was to be seen in London, and having
expressed a strong desire to be near some of the King's dockyards, it was arranged that a suitable
residence should be found near one of the river establishments; and the house of the celebrated
Mr. Evelyn, close to Deptford Dock-yard, being about to become vacant, by the removal of Admiral
Benbow, who was then its tenant, it was immediately taken for the residence of the Tzar and
his suite; and a doorway was broken through the boundary wall of the dock-yard, to afford a
direct communication between it and the dwelling-house. This place had then the name of Saye's
Court. It was the delight of Evelyn, and the wonder and admiration of all men of taste at that
time. The grounds are described, in the life of the Lord Keeper Guildford, "as most boscaresque,
being, as it were, an exemplary of his (Evelyn's) book of forest trees." Admiral Benbow had
given great dissatisfaction to the proprietor as a tenant, for he observes in his Diary--"I
have the mortification of seeing, every day, much of my labour and expense there impairing
from want of a more polite tenant." It appears, however, that the princely occupier was not
a more "polite tenant" than the rough sailor had been, for Mr. Evelyn's servant thus writes
to him,--"There is a house full of people right nasty. The Tzar lies next your library, and
dines in the parlour next your study. He dines at ten o'clock and six at night; is very seldom
at home a whole day; very often in the King's yard, or by water, dressed in several dresses.
The King is expected there this day; the best parlour is pretty clean for him to be entertained
in. The King pays for all he has."[8] But this was not all: Mr. Evelyn had a favourite holly-hedge,
through which, it is said, the Tzar, by way of exercise, used to be in the habit, every morning,
of trundling a wheel-barrow.

We have little evidence that the Tzar, during his residence here, ever worked as a shipwright;
it would seem he was employed rather in acquiring information on matters connected with naval
architecture, from that intelligent commissioner of the navy and surveyor, Sir Anthony Deane,
who, after the Marquess of Carmarthen, was his most intimate English acquaintance. His fondness
for sailing and managing boats, however, was as eager here as in Holland; and these gentlemen
were almost daily with him on the Thames, sometimes in a sailing yacht, and at others rowing
in boats,--an exercise in which both the Tzar and the Marquess are said to have excelled. The
Navy Board received directions from the Admiralty to hire two vessels, to be at the command
of the Tzar, whenever he should think proper to sail on the Thames, to improve himself in seamanship.
In addition to these, the King made him a present of the "Royal Transport," with orders to
have such alterations and accommodations made in her, as his Tzarish Majesty might desire,
and also to change her masts, rigging, sails, &c., in any such way as he might think proper
for improving her sailing qualities. But his great delight was to get into a small decked boat,
belonging to the Dock-yard, and taking only Menzikoff, and three or four others of his suite,
to work the vessel with them, he being the helmsman; by this practice he said he should be
able to teach them how to command ships when they got home. Having finished their day's work,
they used to resort to a public-house in Great Tower-street, close to Tower Hill, to smoke
their pipes and drink beer and brandy. The landlord had the Tzar of Muscovy's head painted
and put up for his sign, which continued till the year 1808, when a person of the name of Waxel
took a fancy to the old sign, and offered the then occupier of the house to paint him a new
one for it. A copy was accordingly made from the original, which maintains its station to the
present day, as the sign of the "Tzar of Muscovy," looking like a true Tartar.

(To be concluded in our next.)

    [7] This is an oversight of the Editor, as the Tzar resided in the
        last house in Buckingham-street, towards the river on the east
        side. It is a handsome mansion, containing some very spacious
        apartments, with some few relics of its original decoration.
        Upon the site of this and the adjoining streets was formerly a
        palace of the archbishops of York, the only vestige of which is
        the water-gate, called York Stairs erected by Inigo Jones.
        Throughout the narrative it will be seen that the Editor has
        mistaken Norfolk-street for Buckingham-street.--Ed. M.

    [8] Memoirs of J. Evelyn.

    [9] Evelyn's Sylva.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE NATURALIST.

       *       *       *       *       *

STOMACH OF THE OSTRICH.

(To the Editor.)

Allow me to add, as a further illustration of the various and uncommon substances sometimes
found in the stomach of the Ostrich, mentioned at page 262 of The Mirror, a fact which came
under my own observation a few months since, on the occasion of dissecting two full-grown birds
intended for the Surrey Zoological Gardens; but, which died while performing quarantine in
Stangate Creek. On opening the maw, the stomach appeared distended to its fullest extent, and
contained not less than half a bushel of various substances, besides a large quantity of the
usual food in an undigested state, as, maize, barley, potatoes, onions, &c. There was nearly
a peck of stones, most of which were as smooth and as highly polished as if they had passed
through the hands of the lapidary; a sample of which I enclose you. Among this mass I found
portions of tobacco-pipe, pieces of china and glass, brass buttons, copper coins, nails, and
what most likely caused the death of the bird, a large quantity apparently of the head of a
woollen mop, with portions of oakum, which from its size and quantity had proved too much for
the bird to digest. It would appear, however, that many substances remain for years in the
folds of the stomach, without injury; as on opening an Ostrich that died at Exeter 'Change
after being some years in the possession of Mr. Cross, there were found besides a large quantity
of rubbish, a handful of buttons, nails, marbles, stones, several keys, the brass handle of
a door, a copper extinguisher, a sailor's knife, a butcher's hook, an iron comb, with penny
pieces and coins to the amount of 3s. 4-1/2d.; and besides these various articles, there were
several cowries, glass beads, such as are used for the purposes of traffic by the natives of
the Barbary Coast, whence the bird was brought; and it never having had the opportunity of
getting at such articles while in a state of confinement, little doubt remains of their having
been swallowed by the bird while in its native country.

Another instance may be added of a full grown Ostrich, that was for some time in the possession
of the Consul of Tripoli: during the period of the bird remaining at his house, a silver snuff
box, of considerable size and value, was missing, and many were the persons suspected of having
stolen it. The bird was after the lapse of a few months shipped as a present on board a frigate,
and died during the voyage. The captain had it opened to ascertain if possible the cause of
its death, when, in the stomach were found nails, keys, pieces of iron and copper, part of
a lantern, and the identical snuffbox, although the chasing and sharp edges were worn completely
smooth by the action of the stomach.

J. WARWICK.

Surrey Zoological Gardens.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE CONDOR.

A pair of condors has lately been received from South America, for the Surrey Zoological Gardens.
They are male and female, and are stated to be by far the largest specimens ever brought to
this country, the male measuring nearly 14 feet across the wings, and in height upwards of
three feet. They were brought from Chili, where they are sometimes met with at an elevation
of 15,000 feet above the level of the sea. During the removal of the birds from the vessel,
the male dropped one of his largest wing feathers, the quill of which measures an inch and
a half in circumference.

     *       *       *       *       *

THE GATHERER.

       *       *       *       *       *

The King.--(From the Spectator.)--Touching the business habits of the King, we have been favoured
with the following statement, by a gentleman on whose honesty we can place perfect reliance,
and who has ample opportunities of correct knowledge:--The attention of our present excellent
Sovereign to public business is truly exemplary; and whilst he exceeds in regularity and despatch
the habits of his late father,--whose conduct in this respect has seldom been properly appreciated,--his
diligence forms a striking contrast to the supineness exhibited in the late reign, when days
and weeks sometimes elapsed before the Royal signature could be obtained.

"The public learn from the Court Newsman that the King regularly comes to town once a week,
to receive his ministers, and for the transaction of whatever business may be required; and
these journeys are occasionally repeated within a few days of each other without the slightest
regard for his personal convenience. Stronger proofs, however, exist of the King's devotion
to the duties of his station. Every document submitted for his consideration and signature,
is executed and returned to the proper office within twenty-four hours after he receives it,
and generally within twelve hours. If a letter be addressed to Sir Herbert Taylor or to Sir
Henry Wheatley, no matter how trifling may be its subject, it is certain of receiving an immediate
and polite answer, the contents of which show that his Majesty must undoubtedly have been consulted;
and if the request be refused, regret is expressed, and a satisfactory reason is usually assigned.
Those only who are aware of the masses of papers submitted to the King, or of the innumerable
subjects on which his pleasure is taken, can appreciate the promptness, courtesy, and decision
which he displays; whilst in giving audiences, the extent of his information, and his business-like
habits, excite equal surprise and satisfaction. When it is remembered that the King is above
sixty-seven years of age, the labour which he undergoes seems extraordinary; and the admirable
manner in which he executes his duties, is consequently entitled to still higher applause.
His office is indeed no sinecure; and it would be well for the country if every department
of the State, and every public officer imitated the example set them by the Sovereign.

"Before concluding this subject, justice demands that the manner in which Sir Herbert Taylor
and Sir Henry Wheatley conduct the Royal correspondence, should not pass unnoticed; for, doubtless,
a share of the praise which has been here expressed of their Master's decision and promptness,
is due to them, and more especially for the extreme courtesy with which their letters are written."

We had before heard the fact of the King's extraordinary punctuality in signing papers, with
this addition, that when they are more than ordinarily numerous, the Queen sits at the table
with her Royal husband, lays the papers before him, and when signed, removes and arranges them,
like a secretary.

Learned "Ladies."--Mr. Murphy used to relate the following story of Foote's, the heroines of
which were the ladies Cheere, Fielding, and Hill, the last the widow of the celebrated Dr.
Hill. He represented them as playing at "I love my love with a letter;" Lady Cheere began,
and said, "I love my love with an N because he is a Night;" Lady Fielding followed with "I
love my love with a G, because he is a Gustis;" and "I love my love with an F," said Lady Hill,
"because he is a Fizishun." Such was the imputed orthography of these learned ladies.--Taylor's
Records.

Den.--The names of places ending in den, as Biddenden, are perhaps not generally known to signify
the situation to be in a valley, or near woods.

J.E.J.

       *       *       *       *       *

Mock-heroics.--Cowper, in one of his letters to Joseph Hill, reminds his friend of the following
mock-heroic line, written at one of their convivial meetings, called the Nonsense Club--

  "To whom replied the Devil, yard-long-tail'd;"

And adds, "there never was anything more truly Grecian than that triple epithet; and were it
possible to introduce it either into the Iliad or Odyssey, I should certainly steal it." This
of course was written in jest; and had the translator been disposed to exemplify his own pleasantry,
he might have found an opportunity in the well-known line of the sixth book of the Iliad--

  [Greek: Aideomas Trôas ai Trôadas elkesipeplous.]

  I dread the Trojan ladies, yard-long-tail'd;

Of which Pope makes this sweeping periphrasis--

  "And Troy's proud dames, whose garments sweep the ground."

E.B.I.

       *       *       *       *       *

Burton Ale.--Many of our readers may recollect the dispute, about three years since, between
the Burton Ale brewers and the Useful Knowledge Society, when the excellence of the ale was
proved to be the result of the hard water of which it was manufactured flowing over a limestone
rock. A chemist was dispatched to Burton, and the settlement of the matter assumed the importance
of a discovery; though in the last century this fact was ingeniously explained by Dr. Darwin,
in a letter to Mr. Pilkington, upon the supposition that some of the saccharine matter in the
malt combines with the calcareous earth of hard waters, and forms a sort of mineral sugar,
which, like true sugar, is convertible into spirits.

Read-y Wit.--A young man, in a large company, descanting very flippantly on a subject, his
knowledge of which was evidently very superficial, the Duchess of Devonshire asked his name.
"'Tis Scarlet," replied a gentleman who stood by. "That may be," said her Grace, "and yet he
is not deep read."

CANTON.

       *       *       *       *       *

