"Now, my girl," she said, when she had made the tea, "drink this, and you'll feel better."

Milly leaned forward, her round chin on her hand, and looked intently at the tea-service and
at the proffered cup. Then she suddenly raised her head, clapped her hands softly, and cried
in a tone of delighted discovery, "Tea!"

"Excuse me," she added, taking the cup with a little bow; and in two seconds had helped herself
to three lumps of sugar. Tims was surprised, for Milly never took sugar in her tea.

"That's right, M., you're going along well!" cried Tims, standing on the hearth-rug, with one
hand under her short coat-tails, while she gulped her own tea, and ate two pieces of bread
and butter put together. Milly ate hers and drank her tea daintily, looking meanwhile at her
companion with wonder which gradually gave way to amusement. At length leaning forward with
a dimpling smile, she interrogated very politely and quite lucidly.

"Pardon me, sir, you are--? Ah, the doctor, no doubt! My poor head, you see!" and she drew
her fingers across her forehead.

Tims started, and grabbed her wig, as was her wont in moments of agitation. She stood transfixed,
the teacup at a dangerous angle in her extended hand.

"Good God!" she ejaculated. "You are mad and no mistake, my poor old girl."

The "old girl" made a supreme effort to contain herself, and then burst into a pretty, rippling
laugh in which there was nothing familiar to Tims's ear. She rose from her chair vivaciously
and took the cup from Tims's hand, to deposit it in safety on the chimney piece.

"How silly I was!" she cried, regarding Tims sparklingly. "Do you know I was not quite sure
whether you were a man or a woman. Of course I see now, and I'm so glad. I do like men, you
know, so much better than women."

"Milly," retorted Tims, sternly, settling her wig. "You are mad, you need not be bad as well.
But it's my own fault for giving you that brandy. You know as well as I do that I hate men--nasty,
selfish, guzzling, conceited, guffawing brutes! I never wanted to speak to a man in my life,
except in the way of business."

Milly waved her amber head gracefully for a moment as though at a loss, then returned playfully,
"That must be because the women spoil you so."

Tims smiled sardonically; but regaining her sense of the situation, out of which she had been
momentarily shocked, applied herself to the problem of calling back poor Milly's wandering mind.

"Sit down, my girl," she said, abruptly, putting her arm around Milly's body, so soft and slender
in the scanty folds of the blue dressing-gown. Milly obeyed precipitately. Then drawing a small
chair close to her, Tims said in gentle tones which could hardly have been recognized as hers:

"M., darling, do you know where you are?"

Milly turned on her a face from which the unnatural vivacity had fallen like a mask; the appealing
face of a poor lost child.

"Am I--am I--in a maison de santé?" she asked tremulously, fixing her blue eyes on Tims, full
of piteous anxiety.

"A lunatic asylum? Certainly not," replied Tims. "Now don't begin crying again, old girl. That's
how the trouble began."

"Was it?" asked Milly, dreamily. "I thought it was--" she paused, frowning before her in the
air, as though trying to pursue with her bodily vision some recollection which had flickered
across her consciousness only to disappear.

"Well, never mind that now," said Tims, hastily; "get your bearings right first. You're in
Ascham College."

"A College!" repeated Milly vaguely, but in a moment her face brightened, "I know. A place
of learning where they have professors and things. Are you a professor?"

"No, I'm a student. So are you."

Milly looked fixedly at Tims, then smiled a melancholy smile. "I see," she said, "we're both
studying--medicine--medicine for the mind." She stood up, locked her hands behind her head
in her soft hair and wailed miserably. "Oh, why won't some kind person come and tell me where
I am, and what I was before I came here?"

Tears of wounded feelings sprang to Tims's eyes. "Milly, my beauty!" she cried despairingly,
"I'm trying to be kind to you and tell you everything you want to know. Your name is Mildred
Flaxman and you used to live in Oxford here, but now all your people have gone to Australia
because your father's got a deanery there."

"Have they left me here, mad and by myself?" asked Milly; "have I no one to look after me,
no one to give me a home?"

"I suppose Lady Thomson or the Fletchers would," returned Tims, "but you haven't wanted one.
You've been quite happy at Ascham. Do try and remember. Can't you remember getting your First
in Mods. and how you've been working to get one in Greats? Your brain's been right enough until
to-day, old girl, and it will be again. I expect it's a case of collapse of memory from overwork.
Things will come back to you soon and I'll help you all I can. Do try and recollect me--Tims."
There was an unmistakable choke in Tims's voice. "We have been such chums. The others are all
pretty nasty to me sometimes--they seem to think I'm a grinning, wooden Aunt Sally, stuck up
for them to shy jokes at. But you've never once been nasty to me, M., and there's precious
few things I wouldn't do to help you. So don't go talking to me as though there weren't any
one in the world who cared a brass farthing about you."

"I'm sure I'm most thankful to find I have got some one here who cares about me," returned
Milly, meekly, passing her hand across her eyes for lack of a handkerchief. "You see, it's
dreadful for me to be like this. I seem to know what things are, and yet I don't know. A little
while ago it seemed to me I was just going to remember something--something different from
what you've told me. But now it's all gone again. Oh, please give me a handkerchief!"

Tims opened one of Milly's tidy drawers and sought for a handkerchief. When she had found it,
Milly was standing before the high chimney-piece, over which hung a long, low mirror about
a foot wide and divided into three parts by miniature pilasters of tarnished gilt. The mirror,
too, was tarnished here and there, but it had been a good glass and showed undistorted the
blue Delft jars on the mantel-shelf, glimpses of flickering firelight in the room, amber hair
and the tear-bedewed roses of a flushed young face. Suddenly Milly thrust the jars aside, seized
the candle from the table, and, holding it near her face, looked intently, anxiously in the
glass. The anxiety vanished in a moment, but not the intentness. She went on looking. Tims
had always perceived Milly's beauty--which had an odd way of slipping through the world unobserved--but
had never seen her look so lovely as now, her eyes wide and brilliant, and her upper lip curved
rosily over a shining glimpse of her white teeth.

Beauty had an extraordinary fascination for Tims, poor step-child of nature! Now she stood
looking at the reflection of Milly without noticing how in the background her own strange,
wizened face peered dim and grotesque from the tarnished mirror, like the picture of a witch
or a goblin behind the fair semblance of some princess in a fairy tale.

"I do remember myself partly," said Milly, doubtfully; "and yet--somehow not quite. I suppose
I shall remember you and this queer place soon, if they don't put me into a mad-house at once."

"They sha'n't," said Tims, decisively. "Trust to me, M., and I'll see you through. But I'm
afraid you'll have to give up all thought of your First."

"My what," asked Milly, turning round inquiringly.

"Your First Class, your place, you know, in the Final Honors School, Lit. Hum., the biggest
examination of the lot."

"Do I want it very much, my First?"

"Want it? I should just think you do want it!"

Milly stared at the fire for a minute, warming one foot before she spoke again. Then:

"How funny of me!" she observed, meditatively.

CHAPTER IV

Tims's programme happened to be full on the following day, so that it was half-past twelve
before she knocked at Milly's door and was admitted. Milly stood in the middle of the room
in an attitude of energy, with her small wardrobe lying about her on the floor in ignominious
heaps.

"Tell me, Tims," said Milly, after the first inquiries, "are those positively all the clothes
I possess?"

"Of course they are, M. What do you want with more?"

"Are they in the fashion?" asked Milly, anxiously.

Tims stared.

"Fashion! Good Lord, M.! What does it matter whether you look the same as every fool in the
street or not?"

"Oh, Tims!" cried Milly, laughing that pretty rippling laugh so strange in Tims's ears. "I
was quite right when I made a mistake, you're just like a man. All the better. But you can't
expect me not to care a bit about my clothes like you, you really can't."

Tims drew herself up.

"You're wrong, my girl, I'm a deal fonder of frocks than you are. I always think," she added,
looking before her dreamily, "that I was meant to be a very good dresser, only I was brought
up too economical." Generally speaking, when Tims had uttered one of her deepest and truest
feelings, she would glance around, suddenly alert and suspicious to surprise the twinkle in
her auditor's eye. But in the clear blue of Milly Flaxman's quiet eyes, she had ceased to look
for that tormenting twinkle, that spark which seemed destined to dance about her from the cradle
to the grave.

Presently she found herself hanging up Milly's clothes while Milly paid no attention; for she
alternately stood before the glass in the dark corner, and kneeled on the hearth-rug, curling-tongs
in hand. And the hair, the silky soft amber hair, which could be twisted into a tiny ball or
fluffed into a golden fleece at will, was being tossed up and pulled down, combed here and
brushed there, altogether handled with a zeal and patience to which it had been a stranger
since the days when it had been the pride of the nursery. Tims the untidy, as one in a dream,
went on tidying the room she was accustomed to see so immaculate.

"There!" cried Milly, turning, "that's how I wear it, isn't it?"

"Good Lord, no!" exclaimed Tims, contemplating the transformed Milly. "It suits you, M., in
a way, but it looks queer too. The others will all be hooting if you go down-stairs like that."

Milly plumped into a chair irritably.

"How ever am I to know how I did my hair if I can't remember? Please do it for me."

Tims smiled sardonically.

"I'll lend you my hair," she said; "the second best. But do your hair! You really are as mad
as a hatter."

Milly shrugged her shoulders.

"You can't? Then I keep it like this," she said.

An argument ensued. Tims left the room to try and find a photograph of Milly as she had been.

When she returned she found her friend standing in absorbed contemplation of a book in her hand.

"This is Greek, isn't it?" she asked, holding it up. Her face wore a little frown as of strained
attention.

"Right you are," shrieked Tims in accents of relief. "Greek it is. Can you read it?"

"Not yet," replied Milly, flushing with excitement, "but I shall soon, I know I shall. Last
night I couldn't make head or tail of the books. Now I understand right enough what they are,
and I know some are in Greek and some in English. I can't read either yet, but it's all coming
back gradually, like the daylight coming in at the window this morning."

"Hooray! Hooray!" shouted Tims. "You'll be reading as hard as ever in a week if I don't look
after you. But see here, my girl, you've given me a nasty jar, and I'm not going to let you
break your heart or crack your brain in a wild-goose chase. You can't get that First, you know;
you're on a fairly good Second Class level, and you'd better make up your mind to stay there."

"A fairly good Second Class level!" repeated Milly, still turning the leaves of the book. "That
doesn't sound very exhilarating--and I rather think I shall do as I like about staying there."

Tims began to heat.

"Well, that's what Stewart said about you. I don't believe I told you half plain enough what
Stewart did say, for fear of hurting your feelings. He said you are a good scholar, but barring
that, you weren't at all clever."

Milly looked up from her book; but she was not tearful. There was a curl in her lip and the
light of battle in her eye.

"Stewart said that, did he? Now if I were a gentleman I should say--'damn his impudence'--and
'who the devil is Stewart'; but then I'm not. You can say it."

Tims stared. "Oh, come, I say!" she exclaimed. "I don't swear, I only quote. But my goodness,
when you remember who Stewart is, you'll be--well, pained to think of the language you're using
about him."

"Why?" asked Milly, her head riding disdainfully on her slender neck.

"Because he's your tutor and lecturer--and a regular tiptop man at Greek and all that--and
you--you respect him most awfully."

"Do I?" cried Milly--"did perhaps in my salad days. I've no respect whatever for professors
now, my good Tims. I know what they're like. Here's Stewart for you."

She took up a pen and a scrap of paper and dashed off a clever ludicrous sketch of a man with
long hair, an immense brow, and spectacles.

"Nonsense!" said Tims; "that's not a bit like him."

She held the paper in her hand and looked fixedly at it. Milly had been wont seriously to grieve
over her hopeless lack of artistic talent and she had never attempted to caricature. Tims was
thinking of a young fellow of a college who had lately died of brain disease. In the earlier
stages of his insanity, it had been remarked that he had an originality which had not been
his when in a normal state. What if her friend were developing the same terrible disease? If
it were so, it was no use fussing, since there was no remedy. Still, she felt a desperate need
to take some sort of precaution.

"If I were you, M.," she said, "I'd go to bed and keep very quiet for a day or two. You're
so--so odd, and excited, they'd notice it if you went down-stairs."

"Would they?" asked Milly, suddenly sobered. "Would they say I was mad?" An expression of fear
came into her face, and its strangely luminous eyes travelled around the room with a look as
of some trapped creature seeking escape.

There was an awkward pause.

"I'm not mad," affirmed Milly, swallowing with a dry throat. "I'm perfectly sensible, but any
one would be odd and excited too who was--was as I am--with a number of words and ideas floating
in my mind without my having the least idea where they spring from. Please, Tims dear, tell
me how I am to behave. I should so hate to be thought queer, wanting in any way."

Tims considered.

"For one thing, you mustn't talk such a lot. You never have been one for chattering; and lately,
of course, with your overwork, you've been particularly quiet. Don't talk, M., that's my advice."

"Very well," replied Milly, gloomily.

Tims hesitated and went on:

"But I don't see how you're going to hide up this business about your memory. I wish you'd
let me tell old B., anyhow."

"I won't have any one told," cried Milly. "Not a creature. If only you'll help me, dear, dear
Tims--you will help me, won't you?--I shall soon be all right, and no one except you will ever
know. No one will be able to shrug their shoulders and say, whatever I do, 'Of course she's
crazy.' I should hate it so! I know I can get on if I try. I'm much cleverer than you and that
silly old Stewart think. Promise me, promise me, darling Tims, you won't betray me!"

Tims was not weak-minded, but she was very tender-hearted and exceedingly susceptible to personal
charms. She ought not, she knew she ought not, to have yielded, but she did. She promised.
Yet in her friend's own interest, she contended that Milly must confess to a certain failure
of memory from over-fatigue, if only as a pretext for dropping her work for a while. It was
agreed that Milly should remain in bed for several days, and she did so; less bored than might
have been expected, because she had the constant excitement of this or that bit of knowledge
filtering back into her mind. But this knowledge was purely intellectual. With Tims's help
she had recovered her reading powers, and although she felt at first only a vague recognition
of something familiar in the sense of what she read, it was evident that she was fast regaining
the use of the treasures stored in her brain by years of dogged and methodical work. But the
facts and personalities which had made her own life seemed to have vanished, leaving "not a
wrack behind."

Tims, having primed her well beforehand, brought in the more important girls to see her, and
by dint of a cautious reserve she passed very well with them, as with Miss Burt and Miss Walker.
Tims seemed to feel much more nervous than Milly herself did when she joined the other students
as usual.

There were moments when Tims gasped with the certainty that the revelation of her friend's
blank ignorance of the place and people was about to be made. Then Mildred--for so, despising
the soft diminutive, she now desired to be called--by some extraordinary exertion of tact and
ingenuity, would evade the inevitable and appear on the other side of it, a little elated,
but otherwise serene. It was generally marked that Miss Flaxman was a different creature since
she had given up worrying about her Schools, and that no one would have believed how much prettier
she could make herself by doing her hair a different way.

Miss Burt, however, was somewhat puzzled and uneasy. Although Milly was looking unusually well,
it was evident that all was not quite right with her, for she complained of a failure of memory,
a mental fatigue which made it impossible for her to go to lectures, and she seemed to have
lost all interest in the Schools, which had so lately been for her the "be-all" as well as
the "end-all here." Miss Burt knew Milly's only near relation in England, Lady Thomson, intimately;
and for that reason hesitated to write to her. She knew that Beatrice Thomson had no patience
with the talk--often silly enough--about girls overworking their brains. She herself had never
been laid up in her life, except when her leg was broken, and her views on the subject of ill-health
were marked. She regarded the catching of scarlet-fever or influenza as an act of cowardice,
consumption or any organic disease as scarcely, if at all, less disgraceful than drunkenness
or fraud, while the countless little ailments to which feminine flesh seems more particularly
heir she condemned as the most deplorable of female failings, except the love of dress.

Eventually Miss Burt did write to Lady Thomson, cautiously. Lady Thomson replied that she was
coming up to town on Thursday, and could so arrange her journey as to have an hour and a half
in Oxford. She would be at Ascham at three-thirty. Mildred rushed to Tims with the agitating
news and both were greatly upset by it. However, Aunt Beatrice had got to be faced sometime
or other and Mildred's spirit rose to the encounter.

She had by this time provided herself with another dress, encouraged to do so by the money
in hand left by the frugal Milly the First. She had got a plain tailor-made coat and skirt,
in a becoming shade of brown; and with the unbecoming hard collar de rigueur in those days,
she wore a turquoise blue tie, which seemed to reflect the color of her eyes. And in spite
of Tims's dissuasions, she put on the new dress on Thursday, and declined to screw her hair
up in the old way, as advised.

Accordingly on Thursday at twenty-five minutes to four, Mildred appeared, in answer to a summons,
in the quiet-colored, pleasant drawing-room at Ascham, with its French windows giving on to
the lawn, where some of the girls were playing hockey, not without cries. Her first view of
Aunt Beatrice was a pleasant surprise. A tall, upstanding figure, draped in a long, soft cloak
trimmed with fur, a handsome face with marked features, marked eyebrows, a fine complexion
and bright brown eyes under a wide-brimmed felt hat.

Having exchanged the customary peck, she waited in silence till Mildred had seated herself.
Then surveying her niece with satisfaction:

"Come, Milly," said she, in a full, pleasant voice; "I don't see much signs of the nervous
invalid about you. Really, Polly," turning to Miss Burt, "she has not looked so well for a
long time."

"She's been much better since she dropped her work," replied Miss Burt.

"Taking plenty of fresh air and exercise, I suppose"--Aunt Beatrice smiled kindly on her niece--"I'm
afraid I've kept you from your hockey this afternoon, Milly."

"Oh no, Aunt Beatrice, certainly not," replied Milly, with the extreme courtesy of nervousness.
"I never play hockey now."

Lady Thomson turned to the Head with a shade of triumph in her satisfaction.

"There, Polly! What did I tell you? I was sure there was something else at the bottom of it.
Steady work, methodically done, never hurt anybody. But of course if she's given up exercise,
her liver or something was bound to get out of order."

"No, really, I take lots of exercise," interposed Milly; "only I don't care for hockey, it's
such a horrid, rough, dirty game; don't you think so? And Miss Walker got a front tooth broken
last winter."

Lady Thomson looked at her in a surprised way.

"Well, if you've not been playing hockey, what exercise have you been taking?"

"Walks," replied Milly, feebly, feeling herself on the wrong track; "I go walks with Ti--with
Flora Timson when she has time."

Aunt Beatrice looked at the matter judicially.

"Of course, games are best for the physique. Look at men. Still, walking will do, if one takes
proper walks. I hope Flora Timson takes you good long walks."

"Indeed she does!" cried Milly. "Immense! She walks a dreadful pace, and we get over stiles
and things."

"Immense is a little vague. How far do you go on an average?"

Mildred's notions of distance were vague. "Quite two miles, I'm sure," she responded, cheerfully.

Aunt Beatrice made no comment. She looked steadily and scrutinizingly at her niece, and in
a kind but deepened voice told her to go up to her room, whither she, Lady Thomson, would follow
in a few minutes, just to see how the Mantegnas looked now they were framed.

As soon as the door had closed behind Mildred, she turned to Miss Burt. "You're right, in a
way, Polly, after all. There is something odd about Milly, but I think it's affectation. Did
you hear her answer? Two miles! When to my knowledge she can easily walk ten."

Meantime, Mildred mounted slowly to her room. She had tidied it under Tims's instructions and
had nothing to do but to sit down and think until Lady Thomson's masculine step was heard outside
her door.

Aunt Beatrice came in and laid aside her hat and cloak, showing a dress of rough gray tweed,
and short--so far a tribute to the practical--but otherwise made on some awkward artistic or
hygienic principle. Her glossy brown hair was brushed back and twisted tight, as Milly's used
to be, but with different effect, because of its heaviness and length.

"Why have you crammed up one of your windows with a dressing-glass?" asked Aunt Beatrice, putting
a picture straight.

"Because I can't see myself in that dark corner," returned Mildred, demurely meek, but waiting
her opportunity.

"See yourself! My dear child, you hardly ever want to see yourself, if you are habitually neat
and dressed sensibly. I see you've adopted the mannish style. That's a phase of vanity. You'll
come back to the beautiful and natural before long."

Mildred leaned back in her chair and clasped her hands behind her head.

"I don't think so, Aunt Beatrice. I've settled the dress question once and for all. I've found
a clean, tidy, convenient style of dress and I can't waste time thinking about altering it again."

"You don't seem to mind wasting it on doing your hair," returned Aunt Beatrice, smiling, but
not grimly, for she enjoyed logical fencing, even to her opponent's fair hits.

"If I had beautiful hair like yours, I shouldn't need to," replied Mildred. "But you know how
endy and untidy mine always was."

Aunt Beatrice, embarrassed by the compliment, looked at her watch. "It seems as if we women
can't escape our fate," she said. "Here we are gabbling about dress when we've plenty of important
things to talk over. Miss Burt wrote to me that you were overworked, run down, nerves out of
order, and all the usual nonsense. I'm thankful to find you looking remarkably well. I should
like to know what this humbug about not being able to work means."

"It means that--well, I simply can't," returned Mildred, earnestly this time. "I can't remember
things."

"You must be able to remember; unless your brain's diseased, which is most improbable. But
I ought to take you to a brain specialist, I suppose."

Milly changed color. "Please, oh please, Aunt Beatrice, don't do that!"

Lady Thomson, in fact, hardly meant it; for her niece's appearance was unmistakably healthy.
However, the threat told.

"I shall if you don't improve. I can't understand you. Either you're hysterical or you've got
one of those abominable fits of frivolity which come on women like drink on men, and destroy
their careers. I thought we had both set our hearts on your getting another First."

"But, Aunt Beatrice, they say I can't. They say I'm not clever enough."

"Oh, that's what they say, is it?" Lady Thomson smiled in calm but deep contempt. "How do they
explain the idiots who have got Firsts? Archibald Toovey, for instance?" Her eyes met her niece's,
and both smiled.

"Ah, yes! Mr. Toovey," returned Milly, who had met Archibald Toovey at the Fletchers', and
converted his patronizing courtship into imbecile raptures.

"But that quite explains your losing an interest in your work. Just for once, I should like
to take you away before the end of term. We would go straight to Rome next Monday. We shall
meet the Breretons there, and go fully over the new excavations and discoveries, besides the
old things, which will be new, of course, to you. Then we will go on to Naples, do the galleries
and Pompeii, and come back by Florence and Paris before Christmas. By that time you will be
ready to settle down to your work steadily again and forget all this nonsense."

Mildred's face had lighted up momentarily at the word "Rome." Then she sucked her under lip
and looked at the fire. When Lady Thomson's programme was ended, she made a pause before she
said, slowly:

"Thank you so much, dear Aunt Beatrice. I should love to go, but--I don't think--no, I don't
think I'd better. You see, there's the expense."

"Of course I don't expect you to pay for yourself. I take you."

"How very kind and sweet of you! But--well, do you know, you've encouraged me so about that.
First, I feel now as though I could sit down and get it straight away. I will get it, Aunt
Beatrice, if only to make that old Professor look foolish."

