THE PURITAN MINISTER.

It is nine o'clock upon a summer Sunday morning, in the year sixteen hundred and something.
The sun looks down brightly on a little forest settlement, around whose expanding fields the
great American wilderness recedes each day, withdrawing its bears and wolves and Indians into
an ever remoter distance,--not yet so far but that a stout wooden gate at each end of the village
street indicates that there is something outside which must stay outside, if possible. It would
look very busy and thriving in this little place, to-day, but for the Sabbath stillness which
broods over everything with almost an excess of calm. Even the smoke ascends more faintly than
usual from the chimneys of these abundant log-huts and scanty framed houses, and since three
o'clock yesterday afternoon not a stroke of this world's work has been done. Last night a preparatory
lecture was held, and now comes the consummation of the whole week's life, in the solemn act
of worship. In which settlement of the Massachusetts Colony is the great observance to pass
before our eyes? If it be Cambridge village, the warning drum is beating its peaceful summons
to the congregation. If it be Salem village, a bell is sounding its more ecclesiastic peal,
and a red flag is simultaneously hung forth from the meeting-house, like the auction-flag of
later periods, but offering in this case goods without money and beyond price. But if it be
Haverhill village, then Abraham Tyler has been blowing his horn assiduously for half an hour,
a service for which Abraham, each year, receives a half-pound of pork from every family in town.

Be it drum, bell, or horn, which gives the summons, we will draw near to this important building,
the centre of the village, the one public edifice,--meeting-house, town-house, school-house,
watch-house, all in one. So important is it, that no one can legally dwell more than a half-mile
from it. And yet the people ride to meeting, short though the distance be, for at yonder oaken
block a wife dismounts from behind her husband;--and has it not, moreover, been found needful
to impose a fine of forty shillings on fast trotting to and fro? All sins are not modern ones,
young gentlemen.

We approach nearer still, and come among the civic institutions. This is the pillory, yonder
the stocks, and there is a large wooden cage, a terror to evil-doers, but let us hope empty
now. Round the meeting-house is a high wooden paling, to which the law permits citizens to
tie their horses, provided it be not done too near the passage-way. For at that opening stands
a sentry, clothed in a suit of armor which is painted black, and cost the town twenty-four
shillings by the bill. He bears also a heavy matchlock musket; his rest, or iron fork, is stuck
in the ground, ready to support the weapon; and he is girded with his bandoleer, or broad leather
belt, which sustains a sword and a dozen tin cartridge-boxes.

The meeting-house is the second to which the town has treated itself, the first having been
"a timber fort, both strong and comely, with flat roof and battlements,"--a cannon on top,
and the cannonade of the gospel down below. But this one cost the town sixty-three pounds,
hard-earned pounds, and carefully expended. It is built of brick, smeared outside with clay,
and finished with clay-boards, larger than our clapboards, outside of all. It is about twenty-five
feet square, with a chimney half the width of the building, and projecting four feet above
the thatched roof. The steeple is in the centre, and the bell-rope, if they have one, hangs
in the middle of the broad aisle. There are six windows, two on each of the two sides, and
two more at the end, part being covered with oiled paper only, part glazed in numerous small
panes. And between the windows, on the outside, hang the heads of all the wolves that have
been killed in the township within the year. But the Quakers think that the wolves have cheated
the parish and got inside, in sheep's clothing.

The people are assembling. The Governor has passed by, with his four vergers bearing halberds
before him. The French Popish ambassadors, who have just arrived from Canada, are told the
customs of the place, and left to stay quietly in the Governor's house, with sweetmeats, wines,
and the liberty of a private walk in the garden. The sexton has just called for the minister,
as is his duty twice every Sunday, and, removing his cocked hat, he walks before his superior
officer. The minister enters and passes up the aisle, dressed in Geneva cloak, black skull-cap,
and black gloves open at thumb and finger, for the better handling of his manuscript. He looks
round upon his congregation, a few hundred, recently seated anew for the year, arranged according
to rank and age. There are the old men in the pews beneath the pulpit. There are the young
men in the gallery, or near the door, with ruffs, showy belts, gold and silver buttons, "points"
at the knees, and great boots. There are the young women, with "silk or tiffany hoods or scarfs,"
"embroidered or needle-worked caps," "immoderate great sleeves," "cut works,"--a mystery,--"slash
apparel,"--another mystery,--"immoderate great vayles, long wings," etc.,--mystery on mystery,
but all recorded in the statutes, which forbid these splendors to persons of mean estate. There
are the wives of the magistrates in prominent seats, and the grammar-school master's wife next
them; and in each pew, close to the mother's elbow, is the little wooden cage for the youngest
child, still too young to sit alone. All boys are held too young to sit alone also; for, though
the emigrants left in Holland the aged deaconess who there presided, birch in hand, to control
the rising generation in Sunday meetings, yet the urchins are now herded on the pulpit- and
gallery-stairs, with four constables to guard them from the allurements of sin. And there sits
Sin itself embodied in the shrinking form of some humiliated man or woman, placed on a high
stool in the principal aisle, bearing the name of some dark crime written on paper and pinned
to the garments, or perhaps a Scarlet Letter on the breast.

Oh, the silence of this place of worship, after the solemn service sets in! "People do not
sneeze or cough here in public assemblies," says one writer, triumphantly, "so much as in England."
The warning caution, "Be short," which the minister has inscribed above his study-door, claims
no authority over his pulpit. He may pray his hour, unpausing, and no one thinks it long; for,
indeed, at prayer-meetings four persons will sometimes pray an hour each,--one with confession,
one with private petitions, a third with petitions for church and kingdom, and a fourth with
thanksgiving,--neither part of the quartette being for an instant confused with the other.
Then he may preach his hour, and, turning his hour-glass, may say,--but that he will not anticipate
the levity to be born in a later century with Mather Byles,--"Now, my hearers, we will take
another glass."

In short, this is the pomp and circumstance of glorious preaching. Woe to any one who shall
disturb its proprieties! Nor this alone, but the law stands by the minister's doctrine even
out of the meeting-house. It is but a few days since Nathaniel Hadlock was sentenced to be
severely whipped for declaring that he could receive no profit from Mr. H----'s preaching,--since
Thomas Maule was mauled to the extent of ten stripes for declaring that Mr. H---- preached
lies, and that his instruction was the doctrine of devils,--since even the wife of Nicholas
Phelps was sentenced to pay five pounds or be whipped, for asserting that this same Mr. H----
sent abroad his wolves and bloodhounds among the sheep and lambs. Truly, it is a perilous thing
to attend public worship in such reverential days. However, it is equally dangerous to stay
at home; there are tithing-men to look after the absentees, and any one unnecessarily absent
must pay five shillings. He may be put in the stocks or in the wooden cage, if delinquent for
a month together.

But we must give our attention to the sermon. It is what the congregation will pronounce "a
large, nervous, and golden discourse," a Scriptural discourse,--like the skeleton of the sea-serpent,
all backbone and a great deal of that. It may be some very special and famous effort. Perhaps
Increase Mather is preaching on "The Morning Star," or on "Snow," or on "The Voice of God in
Stormy Winds"; or it may be his sermon entitled "Burnings Bewailed," to improve the lesson
of some great conflagration, which he attributes partly to Sabbath-breaking and partly to the
new fashion of monstrous periwigs. Or it may be Cotton Mather, his son, rolling forth his resounding
discourse during a thunder-storm, entitled "Brantologia Sacra,"--consisting of seven separate
divisions or thunderbolts, and filled with sharp lightning from Scripture and the Rabbinical
lore, and Cartesian natural philosophy. Just as he has proclaimed, "In the thunder there is
the voice of the glorious God," a messenger comes hastening in, as in the Book of Job, to tell
him that his own house has just been struck, and though no person is hurt, yet the house hath
been much torn and filled with the lightnings. With what joy and power he instantly wields
above his audience this providential surplus of excitement, reminding one irresistibly of some
scientific lecturer who has nearly blown himself up by his own experiments, and proceeds beaming
with fresh confidence, the full power of his compound being incontestably shown. Rising with
the emergency, he tells them grandly, that, as he once had in his house a magnet which the
thunder changed instantly from north to south, so it were well if the next bolt could change
their stubborn souls from Satan to God. But afterward he is compelled to own that Satan also
is sometimes permitted to have a hand in the thunder, which is the reason why it breaks oftener
on churches than on any other buildings; and again he admits, pensively, at last, that churches
and ministers' houses have undoubtedly the larger share.

The sermon is over. The more demoralized among the little boys, whose sleepy eyes have been
more than once admonished by the hare's-foot wand of the constables,--the sharp paw is used
for the boys, the soft fur is kept for the smooth foreheads of drowsy maidens,--look up thoroughly
awakened now. Bright eyes glance from beneath silk or tiffany hoods, for a little interlude
is coming. Many things may happen in this pause after the sermon. Questions may be asked of
the elders now, which the elders may answer,--if they can. Some lay brother may "exercise"
on a text of Scripture,--rather severe exercise, it sometimes turns out. Candidates for the
church may be proposed. A baptism may take place. If it be the proper month, the laws against
profaning the Sabbath may be read. The last town-regulations may be read; or, far more exciting,
a new marriage may be published. Or a darker scene may follow, and some offending magistrate
may be required to stand upon a bench, in his worst garments, with a foul linen cap drawn close
to his eyes, and acknowledge his sins before the pious people, who reverenced him so lately.

These things done, a deacon says impressively, "Brethren, now there is time for contribution;
wherefore, as God hath prospered you, so freely offer." Then the people in the galleries come
down and march two abreast, "up one ile and down the other," passing before the desk, where
in a long "pue" sit the elders and deacons. One of these holds a moneybox, into which the worshippers
put their offerings, usually varying from one to five shillings, according to their ability
and good-will. Some give paper pledges instead; and others give other valuables, such as "a
fair gilt cup, with a cover," for the communion-service. Then comes a psalm, read, line after
line, by some one appointed, out of the "Bay Psalm-Book," and sung by the people. These psalms
are sung regularly through, four every Sunday, and some ten tunes compose the whole vocal range
of the congregation. Then come the words, "Blessed are they who hear the word of the Lord and
keep it," and then the benediction.

And then the reverend divine descends from his desk and walks down the aisle, bowing gravely
right and left to his people, not one of whom stirs till the minister has gone out; and then
the assembly disperses, each to his own home, unless it be some who have come from a distance,
and stay to eat their cold pork and peas in the meeting-house.

Roll aside the panorama of the three-hours' Sunday service of two centuries ago, lest that
which was not called wearisome in the passing prove wearisome in the delineation now. It needed
all this accumulation of small details to show how widely the externals of New-England church-going
have changed since those early days. But what must have been the daily life of that Puritan
minister for whom this exhausting service was but one portion of the task of life! Truly, they
were "pious and painful preachers" then, as I have read upon a stone in the old Watertown graveyard;--"princely
preachers" Cotton Mather calls them. He relates that Mr. Cotton, in addition to preaching on
Sunday and holding his ordinary lecture every Thursday, preached thrice a week besides, on
Wednesday and Thursday early in the morning, and on Saturday afternoon. He also held a daily
lecture in his house, which was at last abandoned as being too much thronged, and frequent
occasional days occurred, when he would spend six hours "in the word and in prayer." On his
voyage to this country, he being accompanied by two other ministers, they commonly had three
sermons a day,--one after every meal. He was "an universal scholar and a walking library,"--he
studied twelve hours a day, and said he liked to sweeten his mouth with a piece of Calvin before
he went to sleep.

A fearful rate of labor; a strange, grave, quaint, ascetic, rigorous life. It seems a mystery
how the Reverend Joshua Moody could have survived to write four thousand sermons, but it is
no mystery why the Reverend John Mitchell was called "a truly aged young man" at thirty,--especially
when we consider that he was successor at Cambridge to "the holy, heavenly, sweet-affecting,
and soul-ravishing Mr. Shepard," in continuance of whose labors he kept a monthly lecture,
"wherein he largely handled man's misery by sin and made a most entertaining exposition of
the Book of Genesis."

For the minister's week-days were more arduous than his Sundays, and to have for each parish
both pastor and teacher still left a formidable duty for each. He must visit families during
several afternoons in every week, sending previous notice, so that children and domestics might
be ready for catechizing. He was "much visited for counsel" in his own home, and must set apart
one day in the week for cases of conscience, ranging from the most fine-drawn self-tormentings
up to the most unnatural secret crimes. He must often go to lectures in neighboring towns,
a kind of religious dissipation which increased so fast that the Legislature at last interfered
to restrict it. He must have five or six separate seasons for private prayer daily, devoting
each day in the week to special meditations and intercessions,--as Monday to his family, Tuesday
to enemies, Wednesday to the churches, Thursday to other societies, Friday to persons afflicted,
and Saturday to his own soul. He must have private fasts, spending whole days locked in his
study and whole nights prostrate on the floor. Cotton Mather "thought himself starved," unless
he fasted once a month at farthest, while he often did it twice in a week. Then there were
public fasts quite frequently, "because of sins, blastings, mildews, drought, grasshoppers,
caterpillars, small pox," "loss of cattle by cold and frowns of Providence." Perhaps a mouse
and a snake had a battle in the neighborhood, and the minister must expound it as "symbolizing
the conflict betwixt Satan and God's poor people," the latter being the mouse triumphant. Then
if there were a military expedition, the minister might think it needful to accompany it. If
there were even a muster, he must open and close it with prayer, or, in his absence, the captain
must officiate instead.

One would naturally add to this record of labors the attendance on weddings and funerals. It
is strange how few years are required to make a usage seem ancestral, or to reunite a traditional
broken one. Who now remembers that our progenitors for more than a century disused religious
services on both these solemn occasions? Magistrates alone could perform the marriage ceremony;
though it was thought to be carrying the monopoly quite too far, when Governor Bellingham,
in 1641, officiated at his own. Prayer was absolutely forbidden at funerals, as was done also
by Calvin at Geneva, by John Knox in Scotland, by the English Puritans in the Westminster Assembly,
and by the French Huguenots. The bell might ring, the friends might walk, two and two, to the
grave; but there must be no prayer uttered. The secret was, that the traditions of the English
and Romish Churches must be avoided at all sacrifices. "Doctor," said King James to a Puritan
divine, "do you go barefoot because the Papists wear shoes and stockings?" Even the origin
of the frequent New-England habit of eating salt fish on Saturday is supposed to have been
the fact that Roman Catholics eat it on Friday.

But if there were no prayers said on these occasions, there were sermons. Mr. John Calf, of
Newbury, described one specimen of funeral sermon in immortal verse:--

  "On Sabbath day he went his way,
      As he was used to do,
  God's house unto, that they might know
      What he had for to show;

  God's holy will he must fulfil,
      For it was his desire
  For to declare a sermon rare
      Concerning Madam Fryer."

The practice of wedding discourses was handed down into the last century, and sometimes beguiled
the persons concerned into rather startling levities. For instance, when Parson Smith's daughter
Mary was to marry young Mr. Cranch,--(what graceful productions of pen and pencil have come
to this generation from the posterity of that union!)--the father permitted the saintly maiden
to decide on her own text for the sermon, and she meekly selected, "Mary hath chosen the better
part, which shall not be taken away from her," and the discourse was duly pronounced. But no
sermon stands recorded under this prefix, though Abby lived to be the wife of one President
of the United States and mother of another.

The Puritan minister had public duties also upon him. "New England being a country," said Cotton
Mather, "whose interests are remarkably enwrapped in theological circumstances, ministers ought
to interest themselves in politics." Indeed, for many years they virtually controlled the franchise,
inasmuch as only male church-members could vote or hold office, at least in the Massachusetts
Colony. Those malecontents who petitioned to enlarge the suffrage were fined and imprisoned
in 1646, and even in 1664 the only amendment was by permitting non-church-members to vote on
a formal certificate to their orthodoxy from the minister. The government they aimed at was
not democracy, but theocracy: "God never did ordain democracy as a fit government," said Cotton.
Accordingly, when Cotton and Ward framed their first code, Ward's portion was rejected by the
colony as heathen,--that is, based on Greek and Roman models, not Mosaic,--and Cotton's was
afterwards rebuked in England as "fanatical and absurd." But the government finally established
was an ecclesiastical despotism, tempered by theological controversy.

In Connecticut it was first the custom, and then the order, lasting as late as 1708, that "the
ministers of the gospel should preach a sermon, on the day appointed by law for the choice
of civil rulers, proper for the direction of the town in the work before them." They wrote
state-papers, went on embassies, and took the lead at town-meetings. At the exciting gubernatorial
election in 1637, Rev. John Wilson, minister of the First Church in Boston, not satisfied with
"taking the stump" for his candidate, took to a full-grown tree and harangued the people from
among the boughs. Perhaps the tree may have been the Great Elm which still ornaments the Common;
but one sees no chips of that other old block among its branches now.

One would expect that the effect of this predominant clerical influence would have been to
make the aim of the Puritan codes lofty, their consistency unflinching, their range narrow,
and their penalties severe,--and it certainly was so. Looking at their educational provisions,
they seem all noble; looking at their schedule of sins and retributions, one wonders how any
rational being could endure them for a day. Communities, like individuals, furnish virtues
piecemeal. Roger Williams, with all his wise toleration, bequeathed to Rhode Island no such
system of schools as his persecutors framed for Massachusetts. But the children who were watched
and trained thus carefully might be put to death, if they "cursed their orderly parents" after
the age of sixteen;--not that the penalty ever was inflicted, but it was on the statute-book.
Sabbath-breaking was placed on a level with murder,--though Calvin himself allowed the old
men to play at bowls and the young men to practise military training, after afternoon service,
at Geneva. Down to 1769 not even a funeral could take place on Sunday in Massachusetts, without
license from a magistrate. Then the stocks and the wooden cage were in frequent use, though
"barbarous and cruel" punishments were forbidden in 1641. Scolds and railers were set on a
ducking-stool and dipped over head and ears three times, in running water, if possible. Mrs.
Oliver, a troublesome theologian, was silenced with a cleft stick applied to her tongue. Thomas
Scott, in 1649, was sentenced for some offence to learn "the chatachise," or be fined ten shillings,
and, after due consideration, paid the fine. Sometimes offenders, with a refinement of cruelty,
were obliged to "go and talk to the elders." And if any youth made matrimonial overtures to
a young female without the consent of her parents, or, in their absence, of the County Court,
he was first fined and then imprisoned. A new etymology for the word "courting."

An exhibition of this mingled influence was in the relation of the ministers to the Indian
wars. Roger Williams, even when banished and powerless, could keep the peace with the natives.
But when the brave Miantonimo was to be dealt with for suspected treason, and the civil authorities
decided, that, though it was unsafe to set him at liberty, they yet had no ground to put him
to death, the matter being finally referred to five "elders," Uncas was straightway authorized
to slay him in cold blood. The Pequots were first defeated and then exterminated, and their
heroic King Philip, a patriot according to his own standard, was hunted like a wild beast,
his body quartered and set on poles, his head exposed as a trophy for twenty years on a gibbet
in Plymouth, and one of his hands sent to Boston: then the ministers returned thanks, and one
said that they had prayed the bullet into Philip's heart. Nay, it seems that in 1677, on a
Sunday in Marblehead, "the women, as they came out of the meeting-house, fell upon two Indians,
that had been brought in as captives, and in a tumultuous way very barbarously murdered them,"
in revenge for the death of some fishermen: a moral application which certainly gives a singular
impression of the style of gospel prevailing inside the meeting-house that day. But it is good
to know, on the other side, that, when the Commissioners of the United Colonies had declared
an Indian war, and the Massachusetts Colony had become afterwards convinced that the war was
unrighteous, the troops were recalled, though already far towards the field, and no pride or
policy prevented the order from being rescinded.

These were some of the labors of the clergy. But no human being lives without relaxation, and
they may have had theirs. True, "ministers have little to joy in in this world," wrote old
Norton; and one would think so, to read the dismal diaries, printed or manuscript, of those
days. "I can compare with any man living for fears," said Hooker. "I have sinned myself into
darkness," said Bailey. "Many times have I been ready to lay down my ministry, thinking God
had forsaken me." "I was almost in the suburbs of hell all day." Yet who can say that this
habit of agonizing introspection wholly shut out the trivial enjoyments of daily life? Who
drank, for instance, that twelve gallons of sack and that six gallons of white wine which the
General Court thought it convenient that the Auditor should send, "as a small testimony of
the Court's respect, to the reverend assembly of Elders at Cambridge," in 1644? Did the famous
Cambridge Platform rest, like the earth in the Hebrew cosmology, upon the waters,--strong waters?
Was it only the Derry Presbyterians who would never give up a p'int of doctrine, nor a pint
of rum? It is startling to remember that in 1685 it was voted, on occasion of a public funeral,
that "some person be appointed to look after the burning of the wine and the heating of the
cider," and to hear that on this occasion there were thirty-two gallons of wine and still more
of cider, with one hundred and four pounds of that ensnaring accessory, sugar. Francis Higginson,
in writing back to the mother country that one sup of New England's air was better than a whole
draught of Old England's ale, gave convincing proof that he had tasted both beverages. But,
after all, the very relaxations of the Puritan minister were more spiritual than spirituous,
and to send forth a good Nineteenthly from his own lips was more relishing than to have the
best Double X go in.

In spite of the dignity of this influential class, they were called only Elders for a long
time. Titles were carefully adjusted in those days. The commonalty bore the appellations of
Goodman and Goodwife, and one of Roger William's offences was his wishing to limit these terms
to those who gave some signs of deserving them. The name "Mr." was allowed to those who had
taken the degree of Master of Arts at College, and also to professional men, eminent merchants,
military officers, and mates of vessels, and their wives and daughters monopolized the epithet
"Mrs." Mr. Josiah Plastow, when he had stolen four baskets of corn from the Indians, was degraded
into plain Josiah. "Mr." seems to have meant simply "My Sir," and the clergy were often called
"Sir" merely, a title given also to college graduates, on Commencement programmes, down to
the time of the Revolution. And so strong was the Puritan dislike to the idolatry of saints'
names, that the Christian Apostles were sometimes designated as Sir Paul, Sir Peter, and Sir James.

In coming to the private affairs of the Puritan divines, it is humiliating to find that anxieties
about salary are of no modern origin. The highest compensation I can find recorded is that
of John Higginson in 1671, who had £160 voted him "in country produce," which he was glad,
however, to exchange for £120 in solid cash. Solid cash included beaver-skins, black and white
wampum, beads, and musket-balls, value one farthing. Mr. Woodbridge in Newbury at this same
time had £60, and Mr. Epes preached in Salem for twenty shillings a Sunday, half in money and
half in provisions. Holy Mr. Cotton used to say that nothing was cheap in New England but milk
and ministers. Down to 1700, Increase Mather says, most salaries were less than £100, which
he thinks "might account for the scanty harvests enjoyed by our farmers." He and his son Cotton
both tell the story of a town where "two very eminent ministers were only allowed £30 per annum"
and "the God who will not be mocked made them lose £300 worth of cattle that year." The latter
also complains that the people were very willing to consider the ministers the stars, rather
than the mere lamps, of the churches, provided they, like the stars, would shine without earthly
contributions.

He also calls the terms of payment, in one of his long words, "Synecdotical Pay,"--in allusion
to that rhetorical figure by which a part is used for the whole. And apparently various causes
might produce this Synecdoche. For I have seen an anonymous "Plea for Ministers of the Gospel,"
in 1706, which complains that "young ministers have often occasion in their preaching to speak
things offensive to some of the wealthiest people in town, on which occasion they may withhold
a considerable part of their maintenance." It is a comfort to think how entirely this source
of discomfort, at least, is now eradicated from the path of the clergy; and it is painful to
think that there ever was a period when wealthy parishioners did not enjoy the delineation
of their own sins.

However, the ministerial households contrived to subsist, in spite of rhetorical tropes and
malecontent millionnaires. The Puritan divine could commonly afford not only to keep house,
but to keep horse likewise, and to enjoy the pet professional felicity of printing his own
sermons. As to the last privilege there could have been no great trouble, for booksellers were
growing rich in New England as early as 1677,--not that it is always an inevitable inference
that authors are,--and Cotton Mather published three hundred and eighty-two different works
for his own share. Books were abundant enough at that day, though somewhat grim and dingy,
and two complete Puritan libraries are preserved in the rich collection of the American Antiquarian
Society at Worcester,--without whose treasures, let me add, this modest monograph never could
have been written. As for the minister's horse, the moral sentiment of the community protected
him faithfully; for a man was fined in Newbury for "killing our elder's mare, and a special
good beast she was." The minister's house was built by the town; in Salem it was "13 feet stud,
23 by 42, four chimnies and no gable-ends,"--so that the House with Seven Gables belonged to
somebody else;--and the Selectmen ordered all men to appear with teams on a certain day and
put the minister's grounds in order.

Inside the parsonage-house, however, there was sometimes trouble. Rev. Ezekiel Rogers wrote
in 1657 to his brother in England,--"Much ado I have with my own family; hard to get a servant
who enjoys catechising or family duties. I had a rare blessing of servants in England, and
those I brought over were a blessing; but the young brood doth much afflict me." Probably the
minister's wife had the worst of this; but she seems to have been generally, like the modern
minister's wife, a saint, and could bear it. Cotton Mather, indeed, quotes triumphantly the
Jewish phrase for a model female,--"one who deserved to marry a priest"; and one of the most
singular passages in the history of the human heart is the old gentleman's own narrative, in
his manuscript diary, of a passionate love-adventure, in his later years, with a fascinating
young girl, an "ingenious child," as he calls her, whom his parish thought by no means a model
female, but from whom it took three days of solitary fasting and prayer to wean him at last.

He was not the only Puritan minister who bestowed his heart somewhat strangely. Rev. John Mitchell,
who succeeded the soul-ravishing Shepard at Cambridge, as aforesaid, married his predecessor's
widow "on the general recommendation of her," and the college students were greatly delighted,
as one might imagine. Rev. Michael Wigglesworth, in 1691, wooed the Widow Avery in a written
discourse, which I have seen in manuscript, arranged under twelve different heads,--one of
which treats of the prospect of his valuable life being preserved longer by her care. She having
children of her own, he offers mysteriously to put some of his own children "out of the way,"
if necessary,--a hint which becomes formidable when one remembers that he was the author of
that once famous theological poem, "The Day of Doom," in which he relentingly assigned to infants,
because they had sinned only in Adam, "the easiest room in hell." But he wedded the lady, and
they were apparently as happy as if he had not been a theologian; and I have seen the quaint
little heart-shaped locket he gave her, bearing an anchor and a winged heart and "Thine forever."

Let us glance now at some of the larger crosses of the Puritan minister. First came a "young
brood" of heretics to torment him. Gorton's followers were exasperating enough; they had to
be confined in irons separately, one in each town, on pain of death, if they preached their
doctrines,--and of course they preached them. But their offences and penalties were light,
compared with those of the Quakers. When the Quakers assembled by themselves, their private
doors might be broken open,--a thing which Lord Chatham said the king of England could not
do to any one,--they might be arrested without warrant, tried without jury, for the first offence
be fined, for the second lose one ear, for the third lose the other ear, and for the fourth
be bored with red-hot iron through the tongue,--though this last penalty remained a dead letter.
They could be stripped to the waist, tied to a cart, and whipped through town after town,--three
women were whipped through eleven towns, eighty miles,--but afterwards the number was limited
to three. Their testimony was invalid, their families attainted, and those who harbored them
were fined forty shillings an hour. They might be turned out shelterless among wolves and bears
and frosts: they could be branded H for Heretic, and R for Rogue; they could be sold as slaves;
and their graves must not be fenced to keep off wild beasts, lest their poor afflicted bodies
should find rest there.

Yet in this same age female Quakers had gone as missionaries to Malta and to Turkey and returned
unharmed. No doubt the monks and the Sultan must have looked on the plain dress much as some
clerical gentlemen have since regarded the Bloomer costume,--and the Inquisition imprisoned
the missionaries, though the Sultan did not. But meanwhile the Quaker women in New England
might be walking to execution with their male companions,--like Mary Dyer in Boston,--under
an armed guard of two hundred, led on by a minister seventy years old, and the fiercer for
every year. When they asked Mary Dyer, "Are you not ashamed to walk thus hand in hand between
two young men?" she answered, "No, this is to me an hour of the greatest joy I could enjoy
in this world. No tongue could utter and no heart understand the sweet influence of the Spirit
which now I feel." Then they placed her on the scaffold, and covered her face with a handkerchief
which the Reverend Mr. Wilson lent the hangman; and when they heard that she was reprieved,
she would not come down, saying that she would suffer with her brethren. And suffer death she
did, at last, and the Reverend Mr. Wilson made a pious ballad on her execution.

It is no wonder, if some persons declare that about this time the wheat of Massachusetts began
to be generally blasted, and the peas to grow wormy. It is no wonder, that, when the witchcraft
excitement came on, the Quakers called it a retribution for these things. But let us be just,
even to the unjust. Toleration was a new-born virtue in those days, and one which no Puritan
ever for a moment recognized as such, or asked to have exercised toward himself. In England
they did not wish to be tolerated for a day as sectaries, they claimed to have authority as
the one true church. They held with Pym, that "it is the duty of legislators to establish the
true religion and to punish false,"--a doctrine equally fatal, whether applied to enforce the
right theology or the wrong. They objected to the Church of England, not that it persecuted,
but that its persecution was wrongly aimed. It is, therefore, equally absurd to praise them
for a toleration they never professed, or to accuse them of any inconsistency when they practised
intolerance. They have been so loosely praised, that they are as loosely blamed. What was great
in them was their heroism of soul, not their largeness. They sought the American wilderness
not to indulge the whims of others, but their own. They said to the Quakers, "We seek not your
death, but your absence." All their persecution, after all, was an alternative sentence; all
they asked of the Quakers was to keep out of their settlements and let them alone. Moreover,
their worst penalties were borrowed from the English laws, and only four offenders were put
to death from the beginning;--of course, four too many.

Again, it is to be remembered that the Quaker peculiarities were not theological only, but
political and social also. Everything that the Puritan system of government asserted the Quakers
denied; they rendered no allegiance, owned no laws, paid no taxes, bore no arms. With the best
possible intentions, they subverted all established order. Then their modes of action were
very often intemperate and violent. One can hardly approve the condemnation pronounced by Cotton
Mather upon a certain Rarey among the Friends in those days, who could control a mad bull that
would rend any other man. But it was oftener the Quakers who needed the Rareys. Running naked
through the public streets,--coming into meeting dressed in sackcloth, with ashes on their
heads and nothing on their feet,--or sitting there with their hats on, groaning and rocking
to and fro, in spite of elders, deacons, and tithing-men: these were the vagaries of the zealots,
though always repudiated by the main body. The Puritans found themselves reproached with permitting
these things, and so took refuge in outrageous persecutions, which doubled them. Indeed, the
Quakers themselves began to persecute, on no greater provocation, in Philadelphia, thirty years
afterwards,--playing over again upon George Keith and his followers the same deluded policy
of fines and imprisonment from which they had just escaped;--as minorities have persecuted
sub-minorities ever since intolerance began.

Indeed, so far as mere language went, the minority always watched the majority. They surpass
even Dr. Chauncy's catalogue of the unsavory epithets used by Whitefield and Tennent a century
later; and it was not likely that they would be tolerated by a race whose reverence for men
in authority was so comprehensive that they actually fined some one for remarking that Major
Phillips's old mare was as lean as an Indian's dog.

There is a quaint anecdote preserved, showing the continuance of the Quaker feud in full vigor
as lately as 1705. A youth among the Friends wished to espouse a fair Puritan maiden; but the
Quakers disapproved his marrying out of their society, and the Congregationalists his marrying
into theirs; so in despair he thus addressed her:--"Ruth, let us break from this unreasonable
bondage. I will give up my religion, and thou shalt give up thine; and we will marry and go
into the Church of England, and go to the Devil together." And they fulfilled the resolution,
the Puritan historian says, so far as going into the Church, and marrying, and staying there
for life. But probably the ministers thought it to be another case of synecdoche.

With the same careful discrimination we must try to study the astonishing part played by the
ministers in the witchcraft delusions. It must be remembered that the belief in this visitation
was no new or peculiar thing in New England. The Church, the Scriptures, the mediæval laws,
had all made it a capital crime. There had been laws against it in England for a hundred years.
Bishop Jewel had complained to Queen Elizabeth of the alarming increase of witches and sorcerers.
Sir Thomas Browne had pronounced it flat atheism to doubt them. High legal and judicial authorities,
as Dalton, Keeble, Sir Matthew Hale, had described this crime as definitely and seriously as
any other. In Scotland four thousand had suffered death for it in ten years; Cologne, Nuremberg,
Geneva, Paris, were executing hundreds every year; even in 1749 a girl was burnt alive in Würtzburg;
and is it strange, if, during all that wild excitement, Massachusetts put to death twenty?
The only wonder is in the independence of the Rhode Island people, who declared that "there
were no witches on the earth, nor devils,--except" (as they profanely added) "the New-England
ministers, and such as they."

John Higginson sums it up best:--"They proceeded in their integrity with a zeal of God against
sin, according to their best light and law and evidence." "But there is a question," he wisely
adds, "whether some of the laws, customs, and privileges used by judges and juries in England,
which were followed as patterns here, were not insufficient." Cotton Mather also declared that
he observed in judges and juries a conscientious endeavor to do the thing which was right,
and gives a long list of the legal authorities whom they consulted; observing, finally, that
the fact of fifty confessions was, after all, the one irresistible vindication of their strong
measures.

It must have been so. Common sense and humanity might have refuted every other evidence than
that of the victims themselves. But what were the authorities to do, when, in addition to all
legal and Scriptural precedents, the prisoners insisted on entering a plea of guilty? When
Goody E---- testified that she and two others rode from Andover to a witch-meeting on a broomstick,
and the stick broke and she fell and was still lame from it,--when her daughter testified that
she rode on the same stick, and confirmed all the details of the casualty,--when the grand-daughter
confirmed them also, and added, that she rode on another stick, and they all signed Satan's
book together,--when W. B----, aged forty, testified that Satan assembled a hundred fine blades
near Salem Meeting-House, and the trumpet sounded, and bread and wine were carried round, and
Satan was like a black sheep, and wished them to destroy the minister's house, (by thunder
probably,) and set up his kingdom, and "then all would be well,"--when one woman summoned her
three children and some neighbors and a sister and a domestic, who all testified that she was
a witch and so were they all,--what could be done for such prisoners by judge or jury, in an
age which held witchcraft a certainty? It was only the rapid rate of increase which finally
stopped the convictions.

One thing is certain, that this strange delusion, a semi-comedy to us,--though part of the
phenomena may find their solution in laws not yet unfolded,--was the sternest of tragedies
to those who lived in it. Conceive, for an instant, of believing in the visible presence and
labors of the arch-fiend in a peaceful community. Yet from the bottom of their souls these
strong men held to it, and they waged a hand-to-hand fight with Satan all their days. Very
inconveniently the opponent sometimes dealt his blows, withal. Surely it could not be a pleasant
thing to a sound divine, just launched upon his seventeen-headed discourse, to have a girl
with wild eyes and her hair about her ears start up and exclaim, "Parson, your text is too
long,"--or worse yet, "Parson, your sermon is too long,"--or most embarrassing of all, "There's
a great yellow bird sitting on the parson's hat in the pulpit." But these formidable interruptions
veritably happened, and received the stern discipline in such cases made and provided.

But beside Quakers and witches, the ministers had other female tormentors to deal with. There
was the perpetual anxiety of the unregenerated toilet. "Immodest apparel, laying out of hair,
borders, naked necks and arms, or, as it were, pinioned with superfluous ribbons,"--these were
the things which tried men's souls in those days, and the statute-books and private journals
are full of such plaintive inventories of the implements of sin. Things known as "slash apparel"
seem to have been an infinite source of anxiety; there must be only one slash on each sleeve
and one in the back. Men also must be prohibited from shoulderbands of undue width, double
ruffs and cuffs, and "immoderate great breeches." Part of the solicitude was for modesty, part
for gravity, part for economy: none must dress above their condition. In 1652, three men and
a woman were fined ten shillings each and costs for wearing silver-lace, another for broad
bone-lace, another for tiffany, and another for a silk hood. Alice Flynt was accused of a silk
hood, but, proving herself worth more than two hundred pounds, escaped unpunished. Jonas Fairbanks,
about the same time, was charged with "great boots," and the evidence went hard against him;
but he was fortunately acquitted, and the credit of the family saved.

The question of veils seems to have rocked the Massachusetts Colony to its foundations, and
was fully discussed at Thursday Lecture, March 7th, 1634. Holy Mr. Cotton was utterly and unalterably
opposed to veils, regarding them as a token of submission to husbands in an unscriptural degree.
It is pleasant to think that there could be an unscriptural extent of such submission, in those
times. But Governor Endicott and Rev. Mr. Williams resisted stoutly, quoting Paul, as usual
in such cases; so Paul, veils, and vanity carried the day. But afterward Mr. Cotton came to
Salem to preach for Mr. Skelton, and did not miss his chance to put in his solemn protest against
veils; he said they were a custom not to be tolerated; and so the ladies all came to meeting
without their veils in the afternoon. Probably the most astounding visible result from a single
sermon within the memory of man.

Beginning with the veils, the eye of authority was next turned on what was under them. In 1675
it was decided, that, as the Indians had done much harm of late, and the Deity was evidently
displeased with something, the General Court should publish a list of the evils of the time.
Not much was effected, however,--"divers of the elders' wives," as Winthrop lets out, "being
in some measure partners in this disorder." The use of wigs also, at first denounced by the
clergy, was at last countenanced by them: in portraits later than 1700 they usually replace
the black skull-cap of earlier pictures, and in 1752 the tables had so far turned that a church-member
in Newbury refused communion because "the pastor wears a wigg." Yet Increase Mather thought
they played no small part in producing the Boston Fire. "Monstrous Periwigs, such as some of
our church-members indulge in, which make them resemble the Locusts that came out of y'e Bottomless
Pit. Rev. ix. 7, 8,--and as an eminent Divine calls them, Horrid Bushes of Vanity; such strange
apparel as is contrary to the light of Nature and to express Scripture. 1 Cor. xi. 14, 15.
Such pride is enough to provoke the Lord to kindle fires in all the towns in the country."

Another vexation was the occasional arrival of false prophets in a community where every man
was expected to have a current supply of religious experiences always ready for circulation.
There was a certain hypocritical Dick Swayn, for instance, a seafaring man, who gave much trouble;
and E.F.,--for they mostly appear by initials,--who, coming to New Haven one Saturday evening,
and being dressed in black, was taken for a minister, and asked to preach: he was apparently
a little insane, and at first talked "demurely," but at last "railed like Rabshakeh," Cotton
Mather says. There was also M.J., a Welsh tanner, who finally stole his employer's leather
breeches and set up for a preacher,--less innocently apparelled than George Fox. But the worst
of all was one bearing the since sainted name of Samuel May. This vessel of wrath appeared
in 1699, indorsed as a man of a sweet gospel spirit,--though, indeed, one of his indorsers
had himself been "a scandalous fire-ship among the churches." This doubtful personage copied
his sermons from a volume by his namesake, Dr. Samuel Bolton,--"Sam the Doctor and Sam the
Dunce," Mather calls them. Finally, "this eminent worthy stranger," Sam, who was no dunce,
after all, quarrelled with his parish for their slow payments, and "flew out like a Dragon,
spitting this among other fire at them:--'I see, no longer pipe, no longer dance,'--so that
they came to fear he was a cheat, and wish they had never seen him." Then "the guilty fellow,
having bubbled the silly neighbors of an incredible number of pounds, on a sudden was gone,"
and Cotton Mather sent a letter after him, which he declares to have been the worst penalty
the man suffered.

It is safer to say little of the theological scheme of the Puritan ministers, lest the present
writer be pronounced a Wanton Gospeller, and have no tithingman to take his part. But however
it may be with the regular standards of theology of that period, every one could find a sufficient
variety to suit him among its heresies. Eighty-two "pestilent heresies" were counted as having
already sprung up in 1637; others say one hundred and six; others, two hundred and ten. The
Puritans kept Rhode Island for what housekeepers call an "odd drawer," into which to crowd
all these eccentricities. It was said, that, if any man happened to lose his religious opinion,
he might be sure to find it again at some village in Rhode Island. Thither went Roger Williams
and his Baptists; thither went Quakers and Ranters; thither went Ann Hutchinson, that extraordinary
woman, who divided the whole politics of the country by her Antinomian doctrines, denouncing
the formalisms around her, and converting the strongest men, like Cotton and Vane, to her opinions.
Thither went also Samuel Gorton, a man of no ordinary power, who proclaimed a mystical union
with God in love, thought that heaven and hell were in the mind alone, but esteemed little
the clergy and the ordinances. The colony was protected also by the thoughtful and chivalrous
Vane, who held that water baptism had had its day, and that the Jewish Sabbath should give
place to the modern Sunday. All these, and such as these, were called generally "Seekers" by
the Puritans,--who claimed for themselves that they had found that which they sought. It is
the old distinction; but for which is the ship built, to be afloat or to be at anchor?

Such were those pious worthies, the men whose names are identified with the leadership of the
New-England colonies,--Cotton, Hooker, Norton, Shepard, the Higginsons, the Mathers. To these
might be added many an obscurer name, preserved in the quaint epitaphs of the "Magnalia":--Blackman,
"in spite of his name, a Nazarene whiter than snow";--Partridge, "a hunted partridge," yet
"both a dove and an eagle";--Ezekiel Rogers, "a tree of knowledge, whose apples the very children
might pluck";--Nathaniel Rogers, "a very lively preacher and a very preaching liver, he loved
his church as if it had been his family and he taught his family as if it had been his church";--Warham,
the first who preached with notes, and who suffered agonies of doubt respecting the Lord's
Supper;--Stone, "both a loadstone and a flint stone," and who set the self-sacrificing example
of preaching only one hour.

These men had mingled traits of good and evil, like all mankind,--nobler than their descendants
in some attributes, less noble in others. The most strait-laced Massachusetts Calvinist of
these days would have been disciplined by them for insufferable laxity, and yet their modern
successor would count it utter shame, perhaps, to own a slave in his family or to drink rum-punch
at an ordination,--which Puritan divines might do without rebuke. Not one of them has left
on record a statement so broad and noble as that of Roger Williams:--"To be content with food
and raiment,--to mind, not our own, but every man the things of another,--yea, and to suffer
wrong, and to part with what we judge to be right, yea, our own lives, and, as poor women martyrs
have said, as many as there be hairs upon our heads, for the name of God and for the Son of
God's sake,--this is humanity, this is Christianity; the rest is but formality and picture-courteous
idolatry, and Jewish and Popish blasphemy against the Christian religion." And yet the mind
of Roger Williams was impulsive, erratic, and unstable, compared with theirs; and in what respect
has the work they left behind them proved, after the testing of two centuries, less solid or
durable than his?

These men were stern even to cruelty against all that they held evil,--Satan and his supposed
emissaries, witches, Quakers, Indians, negligent parishioners, disobedient offspring, men with
periwigs, and women in slash apparel. Yet the tenderest private gentleness often lay behind
this gloomy rigor of the conscience. Some of them would never chastise a son or daughter, in
spite of Solomon; others would write in Greek characters in their old almanacs quaint little
English verses on the death of some beloved child. That identical "Priest Wilson" who made
the ballad at Mary Dyer's execution attended a military muster one day. Mr. Cotton was a terror
to evil-doers, yet, when a company of men came along from a tavern and said, "Let us put a
trick upon Old Cotton," and one came and cried in his ear, "Cotton, thou art an old fool,"--"I
know it, I know it," retorted cheerily the venerable man, and pungently added, "The Lord make
both me and thee wiser!" Mr. Hooker was once reproving a boy in the street, who boldly replied,
"I see you are in a passion; I will not answer you," and so ran away. It contradicts all one's
notions of Puritan propriety, and yet it seems that the good man, finding afterwards that the
boy was not really guilty, sent for him to apologize, and owned himself to have been wrong.

What need to speak of the strength and courage, the disinterestedness and zeal, with which
they bore up the fortunes of the colony on their shoulders, and put that iron into the New-England
blood which has since supplied the tonic for a continent? It was said of Mr. Hooker, that he
was "a person who, while doing his Master's work, would put a king in his pocket"; and it was
so with them all: they would pocket anything but a bribe to themselves or an insult to God
or their profession. They flinched from no reproof that was needed: "Sharp rebukes make sound
Christians" was a proverb among them. They sometimes lost their tempers, and sometimes their
parishes, but never their independence. I find a hundred anecdotes of conscientious cruelty
laid up against them, but not one of cowardice or of compromise. They may have bored the tongues
of others with a bar of iron, but they never fettered their own tongues with a bar of gold,--as
some African tribes think it a saintly thing to do, and not African tribes alone.

There was such an absolute righteousness among them, that to this day every man of New-England
descent lives partly on the fund of virtuous habit they accumulated. And, on the other hand,
every man of the many who still stand ready to indorse everything signed by a D.D.--without
even adding the commercial E.E., for Errors Excepted--is in part the victim of the over-influence
they obtained. Yet there was a kind of democracy in that vast influence also: the Puritans
were far more thorough Congregationalists than their successors; they recognized no separate
clerical class, and the "elder" was only the highest officer of his own church. Each religious
society could choose and ordain its own minister, or dispense with all ordaining services at
will, without the slightest aid or hindrance from council or consociation. So the stern theology
of the pulpit only reflected the stern theology of the pews; the minister was but the representative
man. If the ministers were recognized as spiritual guides, it was because they were such to
the men of their time, whatever they might be to ours. Demonax of old, when asked about the
priests' money, said, that, if they were really the leaders of the people, they could not have
too much payment,--or too little, if they were not. I believe that on these conditions the
Puritan ministers well earned their hundred and sixty pounds a year, with a discount of forty
pounds, if paid in wampum-beads, beaver-skins, and musket-balls. What they took in musket-balls
they paid back in the heavier ammunition of moral truth. Here is a specimen of their grape-shot:--"My
fathers and brethren," said John Higginson, "this is never to be forgotten, that our New England
is originally a plantation of religion, and not a plantation of trade. Let merchants and such
as are making cent. per cent. remember this.

       *       *       *       *       *

THOREAU'S FLUTE.

  "Haunting the hills, the stream, the wild,
    Swallow and aster, lake and pine,
    To him grew human or divine,--
  Fit mates for this large-hearted child.
  Such homage Nature ne'er forgets,
    And yearly on the coverlid
    'Neath which her darling lieth hid
  Will write his name in violets.

       *       *       *       *       *

MR. MARTIN'S DISAPPOINTMENTS.

The circumstances of a first meeting so color long years of acquaintanceship, that, should
these circumstances be comic in their nature, the intercourse which follows partakes much of
the grotesque. Thus, perhaps, it is, that the misfortunes of Edward Martin, apart from the
whimsical demeanor of the man himself, provoke in my memory a smile rather than a sigh.

Some years ago, journeying on foot through Northern Connecticut, it became necessary for me
to stop overnight at the quiet inn of Deacon S----.

Sharon I had visited, fair as Berkshire, but less an old story; I had lingered about the twin
lakes of Salisbury; I had carried away many sweet memories of Warramaug and its mountain; and
I now found myself in the neighborhood of Gramley Bridge, eager for fresh water, clean towels,
and the plenty of a country tea-table,--not averse to strawberry short-cake, or the snowy delights
of cottage-cheese.

