On the 16th December (1851), a series of resolutions were passed by the legislature of South
Australia on the motion of Mr. Hall. Thus, three colonies, by a unanimous vote, pronounced
the doom of transportation. Their governors were silent or approving. All, whether servants
of the crown, or representatives of the people, united in one voice. Tasmania was the last
to obtain the constitutional organization. On the 30th of December the governor met the men
of the people, and found not one to sustain the policy of transportation. Mr. Dry, the first
country born legislator, was unanimously elected to the speakership. The address presented
to Sir Wm. Denison expressed deep regret that he had not considered it necessary to notice
the all important subject of transportation, the violation of a pledge--broken by the ministers
of the crown, or had been able to announce that his own earnest representations had concurred
with the unanimous desire of the Tasmanian constituencies. This complaint he received in silence.
On the 14th of January, the subject was brought before the house by Mr. Sharland, who moved
twelve resolutions. They recorded the violated pledge of Earl Grey, the protests of the colony
against transportation; they professed the warmest loyalty to the throne, and attachment to
Great Britain, and they pronounced the unchangeable opposition of the house to transportation.
The discovery of gold was stated as calculated to induce her Majesty's ministers to comply
with the petitions of the people; "but if it should unhappily be otherwise" said the faithful
representatives of Van Diemen's Land, "it is our duty as colonists, and as British subjects,
to exert to the utmost all the power with which this council is invested, to oppose, and if
possible to defeat, every measure that may be suggested or attempted for the introduction of
criminals into this country, at any time, or under any circumstances."

For this resolution none but representatives of the people voted; against it, none but the
nominees of the crown.

The triumph of this cause was the work of many and the labour of years. Thousands of articles
often distinguished for ability, appeared in the colonial papers, and thus ripened the public
mind to vigorous action. Many who have toiled survive to participate in the gladness of success:
others have passed to the grave; among these the names of Archer and Oakden will recur to colonial
remembrance, A future generation will best appreciate the value of that noble stand made against
the allurements of real or imaginary gain, and the children of Tasmania will delight to inscribe
the patriot's name in the record of their country's redemption.

But the impartiality of history demands a confession, less favorable to the colonists at large,
and which must arrest a deliberate and absolute judgment against the ministers of the crown.
The voice of employers too long favored transportation, and their temporary interests were
preferred to their ultimate welfare. The press visited the friends of social freedom with sarcasm
and contempt, and described them as purists and fanatics. Until the last ten years the colonial
will has been neither steady nor distinct. Emigration and time have wrought a change in the
prevailing feeling. Nor should it be forgotten that the first colonies of this hemisphere were
planted for the punishment of crime and the reform of criminals--that those who came to share
their fortunes, necessarily inherited their dishonor, and that we require the abandonment of
a policy once thought profoundly wise, and which was scarcely questioned for more than three
score years.

The opposition of Sir William Denison to the colonial will on this subject, his injustice to
the judges, and his sarcastic delineations of colonial character, have narrowed the circle
of his friends. In future times an opinion more favorable to his reputation may be expected
to prevail. It will then be remembered that he promoted the advancement of science, fostered
liberal education, increased the facilities of commerce, abated the practical evils of the
convict department, advocated the principles of legislative freedom, and, by a respectable
private character, sustained the moral dignity of government. But even then it will not be
forgotten, that in perpetuating the convict curse, he adopted any argument, however false,
and tolerated any ally, however abject.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 261: If this question had been brought forward in a large and comprehensive view
before the Federal Assembly of the Australian colonies, which is soon to be called into being,
I admit that the decision arrived at might have had some effect on the home government; I think,
even now, the wisest and safest course would be to postpone its further discussion, and remit
the whole matter to that body. Then, if they were all as sincerely opposed as I am to transportation
in any shape, they might come to a conclusion, that convicts should come to none of these colonies;
and to such a decision the minister might succumb. It is to such an assembly as this that a
question of this magnitude ought to be remitted, as it is a question on which all the colonies
are alike concerned. If South Australia, Van Diemen's Land, and Port Phillip, all agreed with
New South Wales, in one common determination not to receive convicts in any shape, there would
be some hope that they might accomplish their end.]

[Footnote 262:

     THE AUSTRALASIAN LEAGUE.

     The League and Solemn Engagement of the Australian Colonies,
     declared by the Delegate in the Conference held at Melbourne,
     February, 1851.

     WHEREAS, in 1840, by an Order in Council, the practice of
     transporting convicts to New South Wales was abandoned by the
     Crown, and, whereas, by divers promises the government of Great
     Britain engaged not to send convicts from the United Kingdom to New
     South Wales, New Zealand, Victoria, or King George's Sound. And,
     whereas, by an Act of the British Parliament, transportation to
     South Australia was positively prohibited. And, whereas,
     Lieutenant-Governor Denison, in 1847, declared to the colonists of
     Van Diemen's Land her Majesty's most gracious purpose, that
     transportation to that island should be discontinued. And, whereas,
     the colony of Van Diemen's Land has been deeply injured by the
     pouring in of enormous masses of transported offenders. And,
     whereas, divers and repeated attempts have been made to depart from
     the letter and spirit of these promises. And, whereas, the avowed
     object of her Majesty's Secretary of State is to transfuse the
     convicts disembarked in Van Diemen's Land through the Australasian
     Colonies, and thus to evade the spirit of the promises and Act of
     Parliament so made. And, whereas, large tracts of land have been
     purchased by the colonists from the crown; many millions of capital
     invested in improvements; and many thousands of her Majesty's
     subjects have settled in Australasia on the pledged faith of the
     Crown not to disturb their social welfare by the importation of
     crime. And, whereas, the native Australasians are entitled to all
     the rights and privileges of British subjects, and to the sympathy
     and protection of the British nation. And, whereas, many and varied
     efforts have been made to induce her Majesty's ministers and the
     British Parliament to terminate the practice of transportation to
     these colonies, but without success. Now, THEREFORE, the Delegates
     of these Colonies, in conference assembled, do declare their League
     and Solemn Engagement, to the effect following:--

     1st. That they engage not to employ any person hereafter arriving
     under sentence of transportation for crime committed in Europe.

     2d. That they will use all the powers they possess--official,
     electoral, and legislative, to prevent the establishment of English
     prisons, or penal settlements, within their bounds; that they will
     refuse assent to any projects to facilitate the administration of
     such penal systems, and that they will seek the repeal of all
     regulations, and the removal of all establishments for such
     purposes.

     And lastly, That they solemnly engage with each other to support by
     their advice, their money, and their countenance, all who may
     suffer in the lawful promotion of this cause.]

[Footnote 263: William Westgarth, William Kerr, William Nicholson, Dalmahoy Campbell, William
Stawell, George Annand, William Bell, J. Stewart Johnstone, and John Hood, Esqrs.]

[Footnote 264: The Raven, Capt. Bell, was the first vessel that carried the league flag, now
floating over every sea.]

[Footnote 265: "My anxiety now is, to reiterate and give permanency to the assurance, that
my determination originated not in any feeling of insensibility, or indifference, towards the
noble object in which you are engaged. No man, who feels as he ought to do for the country
in which not only himself but his children and grandchildren are established, (which is my
case), but must, from his heart, desire and pray for the success of your endeavours. As having
once held the spiritual charge over all the colonies to which your league extends, and, in
a certain sense, continuing still to do so, I hope my feelings towards them are such as become
that relation; and my persuasion is, that to extend, or resume, or continue the practice of
transportation to any one of them, must be injurious to all.... A perseverance in this policy
would tend more than almost any other cause that could be mentioned, to weaken the respect
which is now so generally entertained for the name of England. It cannot be supported if England
cause herself to be regarded as the author of a continual wrong; and if respect be forfeited,
the principal tie of love and obedience will be severed. It is impossible to believe that any
British statesman will be found, who, upon the ground of policy, and, still less, upon a principle
of justice, will recommend the continuance of the practice against which you are united in
petitioning."--Letter of the Lord Bishop to Charles Cowper, Esq., and Charles Kemp, Esq.]

[Footnote 266: Address to electors, July, 1851.]

[Footnote 267: Mr. MacDowell's speech.]

HISTORY OF TASMANIA.

       *     *     *     *     *

ZOOLOGY.

ZOOLOGY.

SECTION I.--MAMMALIA.

The most perfect list of the mammals of Australia which has yet appeared is in the appendix
to Capt. Gray's Travels in North-west and Western Australia, compiled by J. E. Gray, Esq.,
of the British Museum. Since its publication (1841) a few additional species have been added
to the fauna of Tasmania, and a few of the smaller animals, probably, remain still to be described;
but they will not materially affect the following list, which is compiled from the table by
Mr. Gray, and a subsequent History of the Marsupiata, by G. R. Waterhouse (1846):--

