And, now, we may point out what we conceive to be the significance, the implication of the
facts just set forth.  If we are to think about the matter at all, if we are not to adopt a
Positivist attitude and absolutely bar metaphysic as a sterile and unprofitable investigation,
it seems to me that the moral law, like all law, points unmistakably to reason as its source;
and since, as already pointed out, man does not create the moral order in which he lives any
more than he creates the mathematical or chemical laws which he uses, but simply discovers
them by observation, the moral law must be the expression of a mind other than man's.  When
we say "other than man's," we do not mean specifically, but individually, for we hold the specific
oneness of all mind in all intelligent creatures from first to last.  We mean, the moral law
is an expression of the "Mind which is the Whole," the Mind which is the Infinite, so that,
just as Mr. Spencer refers everything ultimately--and in this he is "not far from the kingdom
of God"--to an "Infinite and Everlasting Power," we refer everything, the moral law above all,
which to us is the highest expression of the Divine known to this earth, to an Infinite and
Everlasting Mind, the Soul of the World, the Soul of all souls, the inexhaustible Intelligence
upon whose treasury I am drawing now as I think and write, upon whose stores all creatures
are drawing in every intelligent action of their lives.

Law we define as an ordination of reason.  From first to last it is so. From the laws which
we daily obey to the everlasting laws holding the spheres together--can we account of them
as other than the expression of reason?  So do we account of the moral law, with this essential
difference, that while the rules of man, the laws of man, may be arbitrary, the moral law is
no arbitrary enactment, but essential righteousness; it is the Supreme Mind and Will in actual
manifestation--the moral law is God.  I mean thereby that it could not be otherwise.  It is
beyond the power of omnipotence to dispense with it.  Right recognised as right could never
be other than right, it could never become wrong, any more than two and three could become
interchangeable ideas.  One may say now that this definite act is right, and a century later
that it is wrong; but for all that, for all the imperfection, the limitation, of our intelligence,
as much in the moral as in the mental spheres, one thing is certain, that the right does exist
and is eternally dissevered from the wrong, and that this "quite infinite distinction" is the
instant revelation of Supreme Mind.

Now, if to bar this conclusion it were argued that so far from the moral law being an expression
of mind, supreme or otherwise, it was merely the generalised experience of mankind which had
discovered that certain acts were attended by pleasurable or useful results, and certain other
acts by painful and mischievous consequences, which had led men to describe the first class
as good and the second as evil, one might reply that herein we have stated a truth but not
the whole truth. To us the fact that good living and well-being are so intimately associated,
and that "the way of the transgressor is hard," is only one more evidence of the main contention
of our school.  Surely, if man awakes to the discovery that the laws, neither of nature, health,
nor of private or public life, can be violated with impunity, more than ever is he convinced
that the universe is, in Emerson's singularly expressive phrase, "so magically woven" that
man must come to ruin if he sets himself to systematically disregard them.  The word "woven"
is an illumination in itself, showing how the warp of constant nature and life and the woof
of man's conduct are meant to work and must work harmoniously together.  And if this be indeed
so, if we adopt Bentham's language and call "pleasure and pain our sovereign masters," what
have we but a further indication that things are so ordained, that the universe is so constructed,
so to speak, that you cannot get the good out of it unless you conform to moral law--in other
words, that in the long run wrong, virtue and happiness are reconciled?  Well, but the ordering
of things, the ordaining of a course of things, what is this but the work of intelligence?
And therefore Bentham, no less than Kant, contributes his quota to the universal conclusion
that the moral law implies theism in the sense explained.  Wherefore, it may be added, there
is no reason whatsoever why a rational ethic such as has been sketched should not avail itself
of the unquestionable services of experience in determining what is and what is not in conformity
with morality.  If a man sees the world as one, and all intelligence as one, he will be assured
beforehand that things are so constituted that mischief cannot permanently or ultimately befall
him if he lives what he knows to be the life.  And, therefore, the considerations of pain and
pleasure, utility and mischievousness, are extremely serviceable criteria whereby we are assisted
in that codification of morality, in that determining of what is good and what is evil, only
it must ever be pointed out that they are not the ultimate explanation or basis of morality,
which is built, not on any hedonistic or utilitarian foundation, but on the reason in us, in
the universe, which commands us to live as offspring of that reason, or as Paul puts it from
his point of view, as "children of the light".

And, in explaining why pleasure and pain cannot be regarded as "the sovereign masters" of ethic,
we may add to the evidence for our conclusion.  It appears that Bentham and his school do not
observe the proprieties of language in identifying the moral good, the moral right, with pleasure.
The ideas are really incommensurate, as is well pointed out in Schurman's monograph on the
Kantian and the evolutionary ethics of Spencer.  The ethical "ought," the word which gives
the keynote to the whole science, does not and cannot mean what is "pleasurable," "serviceable,"
or "useful".  The word essentially implies the "ideal," the conformity to a definite standard
of right, the approximation towards a goal or standard of conduct implicitly recognised as
absolute good.  But the ideas of "pleasurable," "useful," and the like concern the moment only;
they merely suggest that man should secure the advantage offered or avoid the pain which may
befall him here and now, or some time subsequently to his contemplated action.  Hence there
is no obligatory force in this ethic.  Prudential motives, suggestions of expediency, abundance
of counsel, if you will; but we miss the note of authority, the commanding voice, the categorical
imperative, the solemn injunction, "Thou canst, therefore thou must".  Indeed, it seems difficult
to see how one could convince a man on hedonistic or utilitarian grounds that a course of conduct
on which he was bent, and to which he was allured by the overmastering impulse of a vehement
nature, and which promised him sensible gratification, possibly even material advancement,
was not legitimate.  I do not press this, nor do I suggest that moral elevation of life is
not discernible amongst professors of this interpretation of ethics equally with those who
take an idealist view.  All I say is, that the recognised terminology of the ethical life,
the "ought," the "must," receive an ampler recognition, a fuller interpretation, in the rational
schools than in those of Bentham and Spencer.

And, finally, we may approach the question from the point of view of evolution.  Everybody
knows the pitiless manner in which the late Professor Huxley contrasted the ethical man with
the cosmical process, how he pointed out that the one hope of progress lay in man's ability
to successfully combat by ethical idealism the rude realism of the material order of which
he is a part.  The facts need no exposition. Every man has the evidence of it in himself, in
the periodical insurrection of the ape and tiger element in him against the authority of some
mysterious power which in the course of his long sojourn here has been acquired, and to which
he recognises that the allegiance of his life is due.  That tearful, regretful expression of
the Grand Monarque, after one of Massillon's searching, scathing sermons on the sensual and
spiritual in every man, "Ah, voilà deux hommes que je connais très bien!" may be repeated with
even greater truthfulness by every one of us, now that Darwin has superseded St. Paul in the
explanation of the phenomenon.

Now, here we have a surprising contradiction in Nature, the startling apparition of an element
in man so utterly opposed to all that is beneath him, that a scientific chieftain tells us
that his only hope is to kill out that ape and tiger, or at any rate keep it under unceasing
control.  Whence is this extraordinary human element, and what explanation can be given of
the contradiction unless there be some higher synthesis into which the antinomy is taken up
and resolved into unity?  If out of the primordial nebula both the cosmos and man, with all
that he is, have been evolved, then it would appear, plain as the writing on the wall, that
some extraordinary transformation has come over the scene as soon as man appeared, and that
an element utterly irreconcilable with all that has appeared previously manifests itself in
him, not as an accident or a fortuitous occurrence, but as an essential, nay, as the essential
law of his being.

How can we explain this?  How can we account for this complete volta face in Nature, which
bids man turn his back on all that made the universe and him, and resolve to live by a law
so irreconcilable with the methods of the cosmos, that I take it we should be justified in
saying that had it been in operation before man Nature itself could not have been evolved?

We believe the contradiction receives its explanation in the synthesis already suggested, that
above the two processes, the cosmical and ethical, there is another, that of absolute intelligence
or mind, energising through them both from first to last, but in widely different ways.  In
the cosmos, by ways which we describe as non-moral; in us by law, which we recognise as moral.
In every grade of being, in every stratum of Nature, the self-same ever-active Mind is manifest,
nay, the very distinctions of Nature's life are fixed by the intenser or remisser energy wherewith
the eternal Mind functions in them.  From first to last it is mind-power behind all and in
all.  "In the beginning was Mind; in the beginning was the Reason."  Lao-tze is right; the
Alexandrian mystic is right; En archê ho Logos, and the Mind was the light of man, the light
of reason, the holier light of conscience, leading him if he will but follow it, in the way
which has been described in language of philosophic precision by the Hebrew poet as "the way
everlasting".

Man may sing a Magnificat, because mighty things have been done in him, such as a cosmos or
an infinity of worlds never knew or shall know.  And thus the very contradictions manifested
by evolution do but contribute to the truth of the general conclusion, that there is a Power,
not dead, dull, inert, but an ever-living, ever-energising Mind, whence the mighty procession
set forth, unto which it is ever returning.  There is a Power above the water floods and cosmic
disasters which is bringing to fulfilment purposes known from everlasting, which we are compelled
to acknowledge as beneficent.  We see its workings in history, in the rise and fall of nations;
we witness the morally, no less than the physically, unfit fall out of the ranks.  Progress
here and there may seem to stop, but the course of things is "never wholly retrograde".  Is
not that hope strong in every man of us, going before us as an unquenchable light, encouraging
us to persevere even to the end, because we shall not be deprived of the fruits of our toil,
and no demon power shall come to dash the cup of happiness which we have striven to fill?

And what is this but to confess that the Power manifested in the cosmos is identical with the
Power manifested in life, that physical and psychical are ultimately one, that virtue and well-being
are indissolubly associated?  What is this but to confess the supreme synthesis, embracing
all apparent contradictions, the ultimate harmony in which all discords are ultimately merged
and lost for ever?  What is it finally but to proclaim our faith one with that of the most
eloquent voice heard in this century, poet and philosopher in one, the sublime Victor Hugo:
"La loi du monde matériel, c'est l'équilibre, la loi du monde moral c'est la justice"?  Pindar's
words again!  "Justice is rightful sovereign of the world."  The Reason which is revealed as
equilibrium in the spheres, reveals itself as justice among men.  Both spring from one indefectible
source.

[1] Lao-tze, quoted in Huc's China, vol. ii., p. 177.

IV.

IMMANUEL KANT, THE ETHICAL PHILOSOPHER.

To think of what Immanuel Kant has been to the many men and women of this century, who, having
unlearnt the old traditions, had not yet found a new inspiration--the souls that were athirst
for the waters of life which the ancient wells could no longer supply--is to be reminded of
the pious and generous tribute which the Jewish exiles, after their sad return from the Babylonian
captivity, paid to Nehemiah and his brethren, the reorganisers of their race.  "Let Nehemiah,"
they said, "be a long time remembered amongst us, who built up our walls that were cast down,
who raised also the bars of the gates!"  Precious indeed is the man who can recreate the shattered
fabric of the Commonwealth, re-enkindle the pure flame of patriotism, and restore the inspiration
of religion.  A benefactor indeed is the thinker who can give us a glimpse of the Divine on
rational terms, satisfy the exigencies of the intelligence without denying the cravings of
the heart, and provide an idealism for the inspiration and guidance of life.

Perhaps it is not too much to say that the temporal destitution of the repatriated Jews was
a symbol of the religious and ethical decay of the last century.  Protestantism of the orthodox
type, which essentially was and is nothing more than the substitution of a book for a Pope,
the pruning of the tree dogmatical, the lopping off of some of its more reprehensible excrescences,
had visibly failed to meet the necessities of "the irresistible maturing of the human mind,"
to quote an expression of Emerson's.  The older Church had prophesied accurately enough that
Lutheranism would turn out but a half-way house to infidelity, and sure enough it did.  Its
thorough application of the principle of private judgment in matters of religion could no more
justify the inspiration of Leviticus than the federal headship of Adam and the dogma of endless
vindictive punishment.  Hence Lutheranism necessarily meant the gradual disintegration of dogma,
that is, of all super-rational truth, for every man "outside the sacred circle of those bound
over not to think".

When we remember, in addition to the decay of Protestantism, that Roman Catholic countries
afforded more than sufficient evidence of the inability of their own religion to meet the increasing
needs of the age--how France, Spain, and Portugal were devastated by the sceptical disease;
how they insisted on and carried the total suppression of the Jesuit Order, beyond compare
the ablest body of men their Church had ever produced; how the French Revolution was in its
inception profoundly anti-Christian, and in its progress even anti-religious--when, I say,
we call to mind these facts, we are able to appreciate the accuracy of the statement that,
through the maturing of the intelligence of man, the ancient traditions had lost their hold,
not only of Protestant, but of Catholic, lands.  Without leaving for a moment the eighteenth
century, I think we are warranted in stating that the close of the nineteenth century does
not witness a rehabilitation of those traditions.  The truth is more obvious than ever that
in the men of to-day,

  The power is lost to self-deceive
  With shallow forms of make-believe.

Now, it would appear that Immanuel Kant was the man of destiny for the work of the reorganisation
of ethical and religious life.  I look upon him as the morning star of the New Reformation.
He witnessed in his own day the very low-water mark of scepticism, reaching even to the gross
atheism of Holbach in the Système de la Nature.  He had the advantage of everything which David
Hume, "the Prince of Agnostics," as Mr. Huxley styled him, found to say, and indeed Hume exercised
a marked influence on his German brother-savant, as we may, perhaps, later see.  The whole
work of the Encyclopaedia in France was done under his eyes; the galaxy of brilliant writers
who composed that school were contemporaries of Immanuel Kant.  He witnessed the crash which
accompanied the downfall of the old regime in France, the enthronement of anarchy in the place
of government, the complete eclipse of religion, and the worship of reason symbolised on the
altar of Nôtre Dame as my tongue refuses to describe. It was the era of the deluge: the water-flood
had burst upon Europe; and there was nothing, no institution of State or Church, no philosophy,
no religion then extant that could stem the rush of the torrent.  Never was the effeteness
of ancient systems, the impotence of the old idealism, more conspicuous.  In the midst of this
wreckage the problem of reconstruction had to be faced.  Immanuel Kant did face it, and his
object was to provide against the recurrence of atheisms and anarchies, to make godlessness
and revolutions impossible, to ensure religion's being a help instead of a gross and deplorable
hindrance to progress, and to provide man with an idealism and an enthusiasm which would satisfy
his utmost desire for knowledge, and yet stir the pulses of his moral being by the suggestion
of an irresistible emotion.

Such I conceive to have been the work which Immanuel Kant undertook in the system of the transcendental
philosophy.

The name of this thinker is so famous, I had almost said so venerable, in the ethical Church,
that I may be allowed to put before my readers, who may be unacquainted with the details, a
few personal or biographical notices concerning him.

Immanuel Kant was born at Königsberg, in Prussia, on 22nd April, 1724, of humble parentage.
He was apparently destined for the Church, since his first efforts were directed towards the
study of theology in the university of his native town.  But natural science and philosophy
proved of far more powerful attraction, and, abandoning Divinity, he earned his livelihood,
first of all, by acting as a private tutor in the neighbourhood of Königsberg, and afterwards
by assuming a similar office in his own university.  He subsequently, at the age of forty-six,
became a professor of the Philosophical Faculty, a post he retained till his death in 1804.
The deep reverence and religious emotion which betrays itself in Kant's ethical writings was
probably due to the influence of his parents.  His father was venerable in his eyes as a man
of moral worth.  Honesty, truth and domestic peace characterised his home.  For his mother
the philosopher cherished the tenderest of recollections, and to her religious feeling, detached
as it was completely from formula and system, he probably owes the fervour with which he speaks--as
do Emerson and Carlyle--of the sublimity of the moral laws, and of the infinite dignity of
a life lived in harmony with them.  When he lost his father at the age of twenty-two, he wrote
in the family Bible: "On the 24th of March my dearest father was called away by a blessed death.
May God, who has not vouchsafed him great pleasure in this life, grant him the joy eternal!"

After a youth spent under the spell of such surroundings, we are not surprised to learn that
Kant was of a singularly grave, gentle and quiet demeanour, which in old age tended to deepen
into austerity and increased conscientiousness, were that possible, in the fulfilment of his
duties. With the simple words, "It is the time," his servant Lampe called him every morning
at five minutes to five, and never to the end, according to the testimony of his servant, was
the summons disobeyed.  In the thirty-four years of his professorship he was reported to have
been only once absent from his chair, and that owing to indisposition.

Kant lived a solitary life; he never married.  Like more than one eminent man in the past and
present, absolute want prevented his inviting the woman he loved to share his lot.  The world
has just learnt that Tennyson was engaged to his wife for twenty years, from her seventeenth
to her thirty-seventh year, owing again to stress of circumstances, and there is living now
one eminent man for whom, as for Immanuel Kant, comfort, competence, and fame have come too
late to allow of any share in the blessing and joy of home.  Such things cannot but deepen
the hold these elect spirits have and shall have upon men unto all time.

Of religion Kant conceived a noble idea, but he did not find it realised in the Churches of
his day.  Sacerdotalism, even in its mildest forms, was abhorrent to him.  During his manhood
he never entered a church door, a fact which is a source of deep pain to many of his most enthusiastic
biographers.  Once only did Kant take his place in the procession which made its way to the
cathedral on an especial day in the year, and was joined by the rector and professors of the
university, but on arriving at the door he turned back and spent the hour of service in the
retirement of his rooms.  To his free soul it was a performance, professional and sectarian,
and in consequence, something of a profanation.  His disciple Hegel must have been moved by
similar feelings when he replied to the questioning of his old housekeeper why he did not attend
Divine service, "Thinking is also a Divine service!"

Nature had an irresistible fascination for him.  He learnt that also from his revered mother,
whose joy it was to take her child into the world of Nature, where the Soul of the worlds is
so conspicuously at work, and instil into his young heart a deep and tender love for the beautiful
life around him.  Thus he couples the impressive spectacle of the holy night, revealed in the
shining of the eternal stars, with the supreme object of emotion, the moral law within the
heart, as the most awful of realities.

But not only for Nature in her sublimer aspects did he conceive so reverential a feeling, the
humbler exhibitions of beauty and wisdom were equally moving to his awakened spirit.  Once
he told his friends, whom he constantly had with him at his dinner-table, he had held a swallow
in his hands and gazed into its eyes; "and as I gazed," he said, "it was as if I had seen heaven".
The great lesson of Mind in Nature he had learnt well at his mother's knee, and he never forgot
it.  Children, so recently come out from one eternity, their souls so well attuned to the wonderment
and mystery there lies hid in things, are peculiarly susceptible to such beautiful influences.
Nature is the temple in which their tender souls should learn their first lessons in worship
and see the earliest glimpses of the Divine.

Kant lived into his eightieth year, surrounded by the homage of Europe, which made him, in
a sense, the keeper of its conscience.  His ethical treatises caused him to be consulted from
the most distant lands on questions of moral import.  It is on record that many of his correspondents
paid insufficient postage upon their letters--a fact which meant considerable loss for the
philosopher.  Indeed, so habitual was the forgetfulness of these ethical sensitives that Kant
at length refused to take their letters in.  After some thirty years of professorship in his
own university his marvellous powers began to fail; his memory served him no longer; his great
mind could think no more the thoughts sublime.  The keen senses grew dull, and the light of
his "glad blue eyes" went out. His bodily frame, which by assiduous care he had maintained
as a worthy organ of his mind, sank into weakness.  His last years, his last hours even, are
described by his well-beloved disciple and friend Wasianski with a faithful and pathetic minuteness
which, in the view of some of the great thinker's deepest admirers, might well have been less
microscopic. The spectacle of a great mind losing itself at length in the feebleness of age,
almost the imbecility of second childhood, might well, they consider, have been withdrawn from
the vulgar gaze.  "Yet," as the late Prof. Wallace most truly remarks, "for those who remember,
amid the decline of the flesh, the noble spirit which inhabited it, it is a sacred privilege
to watch the failing life and visit the sick chamber of Immanuel Kant." [1]

On the 12th of February, 1804, in his eightieth year, he passed away, the victim of no special
ailment or disease, but exhausted by the life of deep and strenuous thought upon the most profound
and sacred problems which can agitate the mind of man.  Simple and unostentatious to a degree
during his life, the great master left instructions that he was to be buried quietly in the
early morning.  But for once his wish was disregarded, and amid the mourning of his Alma Mater,
his townsfolk and the neighbourhood around, he was laid to rest in the choir of the University
Church, which during life he would never enter.  As with Kant so with Darwin, all men instinctively
feel--even the most narrow of sectarians--that the lives of such men were--I will not say religious--but
religion, and so they lay them at last within the shadow of their altars as the worthiest and
best of the race.  It shows us how deeply seated is the ethical emotion in man; it shows us
that the religion of every man at his best moments is such as Immanuel Kant described and realised
in his calm and beautiful life--a religion based on the sublime realities of the moral law.

And now, perhaps, we may say something of the thoughts of our philosopher, though at present
it cannot be more than of a fragmentary character.  If the ethical movement is to prove enduring,
the name and teaching of Immanuel Kant must be frequently before us, and numberless opportunities
afforded for an ampler account of his doctrine.  For the moment my purpose was rather to put
before my readers some idea of the man himself whose teaching is now exercising so deep an
influence on the religious tendencies of the hour.

Every time you read of the vicar of a parish changing pulpits with his Nonconformist brother;
every philanthropic meeting you hear of as addressed by clergymen of all denominations; every
garden party given by a bishop or a dean to a Dissenters' Conference; every advance you gratefully
note towards a wise and patient tolerance of theological dissensions, the sinking of sectional
differences in the interests of a higher and purer life--ascribe it all to the beneficent influence
of Immanuel Kant.  Before his day all these fraternisings would have been impossible; the ancestors
of these reconciled brethren were ready to scourge and burn each other, until Kant came and
shamed them out of their narrowness and bigotry.  Men talk no more of "mere morality," as though
it paled into positive insignificance by the side of the dogmatical majesty of articles and
creeds.  Kant has taught them "a more excellent way," and in so far as they have learnt that
one lesson, they and we are members of the one great Church--the Church of the ethically redeemed,
the Church of men to come--the idealism, the enthusiasm, of the ages to be.  Never let it be
forgotten.  We are not concerned to controvert or to destroy.  The message of Kant to the Churches
is that in all essentials we are at one with them, and the trend of thought is now setting
visibly towards the substitution of an ethical for a doctrinal basis of religion. You are powerless
to resist the times, we would urge.  Whether the old names and formulae survive or not, "the
irresistible maturing of the general mind" will make it impossible for men to acquiesce in
any religious belief not grounded on the conviction that the sole test of a man's status is
not what he believes, but what he does.  This is Kant, this is Christ, and this is the message
of the ethical Church.

But to return to the teaching of the philosopher of ethics, I must remind my readers again
that I am unable to do more than sketch the outlines of the great ethical system which he gave
to the world.  More than that will not be needed for the moment.  But before undertaking even
a synoptical account of the transcendental ethic, I think it advisable to remark that Kant's
title to philosophical immortality rests upon his constructive work as an ethicist, and not
on his critical work as a speculative thinker.  It is well known that the two philosophies
of Kant are not primâ facie harmonious, that he finds himself compelled to deny as a critic
that of which he is most certain as a moralist.  Thus the great facts of theism, immortality
and the autonomy or freedom of the will, he professes himself unable to know save as revelations
of the moral order. His mind, or pure reason, can know nothing of them; it is his will or practical
reason which discerns them as plain deductions from the overwhelming fact of the moral law.
This fact has led some critics to describe Kant as a sceptic.  Nothing could be farther from
the truth.  We might almost quote of him what Browning wrote of Voltaire:--

  Crowned by prose and verse, and wielding
        with wit's bauble learning's rod,
  He at least believes in soul and is very sure of God.

No one more so; yet as a thinker he professed himself unable to demonstrate these high truths.
In that sense Kant's famous Critique of the Pure Reason may be described as the forerunner
of the systematic agnosticism which is set forth in the First Principles of Mr. Spencer. But
there is this immense difference, that Kant was convinced of the reality of that which the
mind of man could not demonstrate.  The great facts were existent indeed, but he was powerless
to reach them with the instruments at his command.  In consequence, he laid it down as a principle
that man must ever act as though it were actually demonstrated that we were free, our innermost
being imperishable, and a supreme judge and dispenser of justice to administer the moral laws
which are the guide of life.  It would be out of place to state the arguments whereby Kant
justified his belief in a controlling mind in the universe and in the spiritual nature of man,
while avowing his inability to demonstrate those truths.  It must suffice to state here that
the truths which lie at the foundation of religion were a matter of profound conviction with
the sage of Königsberg, all the deeper perhaps because he would not claim to subject them to
an intellectual dissection or to be able to measure out heaven and earth in the exiguous terms
of human thought.

But as soon as he leaves the plane of the pure or speculative reason and rises to the level
of the practical reason or the will, then the full truth bursts upon his astonished gaze, clearer
than the meridian light. He sees no more "half shade, half shine," but the truth pours itself
"upon the new sense it now trusts with all its plenitude of power".  It is the will, not the
mind, which discloses the full revelation to Immanuel Kant, and makes him the deeply-reverent,
religious man he ever was, the convinced theist, the believer in his power to control his acts
by the independence of his will, and in the possibility, or rather the certainty, of his being
one day morally perfect--not indeed within the limits of the life which now is, but in a future
life of unlimited duration.  That which to Wordsworth was an intimation was to Kant an intuition
after the vision of the glory of the moral law had flooded his innermost soul.

And this we may, perhaps, briefly show before bringing the chapter to an end.

The fundamental principle of the Kantian system is the primacy of the will.  The key to the
mystery of man's being Kant finds, not in the marvellous faculty of intelligence, but in that
power of self-movement, that capacity for self-originated energy which we call the will.  Reason
is "regulative," he said, but not "creative" and "constitutive," like the will.  It is the
latter faculty which makes us what we are, determines our life, fixes our character, and decides
our destiny.  As you act, so you are.  This principle once conceded, the majestic system at
once takes shape.  What is it that governs the world of phenomena outside us? Physical laws,
and supreme amongst these laws, that of equilibrium or gravitation.  What is it that governs
the reason?  The laws of thought, those aboriginal rules, none of man's creation, but the essentially
necessary guides which he was bound to discover and to follow if he is to think accurately,
that is, if his thoughts are to be in conformity with fact.  And what is it which governs the
will of man?  "Do you tell me," the master would urge, "that the inert masses of the spheres
have each their own movements regulated for them, that nothing from a stone to a star is shaped
or moved without the intervention of eternal laws; that the lispings of children no less than
the meditations of a philosopher must conform to law, and that the will of man, whereby he
makes himself to be what he is, shapes his character, influences his surroundings, and fixes
his destiny--do you venture to say that that is lawless in a world where all is law?  No,"
he proclaims in words which burn conviction into his soul: "it, too, has its laws, the highest,
holiest thing in all this universe, the law of laws which confronts man wherever he goes, fills
all his sublimest thoughts, subdues his soul to the most reverent worship, and is the holiest
inspiration of his religion.  It is the moral law, the supreme concern of the will of man,
a revelation to man alone of his own unspeakable dignity, the norm or standard whereby he is
to regulate his life--this it is which is the law of his will.  As gravitation rules the stars,
so the moral law, the sanction of the eternal distinction between right and wrong, controls
the will, not compulsorily, not arbitrarily, as though it could by any possibility be otherwise,
but freely.  So sovereign is its power, so authentic are its claims, that if it had might as
it has right, it would rule the world."  It is, therefore, to use Kant's own language, a categorical
imperative, that is, an unconditional command.  "Thou canst, and therefore thou must."  By
the very manhood you possess you are bound wholly to surrender yourself in submission to what
you know to be the right for the right's sake alone. You must make it your own law, and obey
it as inflexibly as the stars keep their courses in the everlasting way.

We may see now how Kant bases his whole system upon the indestructible fact of ethical law,
the primeval intuition of the awakened spirit of man into the eternal distinction between good
and evil.  Standing on that foundation, he is able to descry the world of transcendental realities--"the
land which is very far off"--which the pure and critical reason could never behold.  But though
the eyes of the mind were holden, the intuition of the will enables him to gaze direct into
the unseen and discern freedom, soul, immortality and God as eternal facts.  For whence this
sublime law of life unless we conceive mind, not blind chance, as the arbiter of things?  Whence
this constraining power within me, exerting itself to the uttermost to win my allegiance to
the right, unless I am free to obey or disobey?  How is not the very conception of morality
entirely obliterated in the false philosophy that would fain persuade man that because he is
in the world he must needs be of it, and because the tides rise and fall with the phases of
the moon, that his actions are fixed and controlled by influences utterly beyond his power?
We have no room for the "man-machine" in the beautiful school of Immanuel Kant.

And, finally, the awful question of the future Kant solves in the light of the same sublime
principle.  "That law," he urges, "which is the essential law binding humanity must one day
be fulfilled in every one of us.  There is a moral as well as a physical evolution which you
try in vain to confine to the limits of the life which now is.  There is no argument known
to science justifying such an attempt."  Kant believes in the Eternities, because every man
born of woman is destined to be at last in absolute conformity with that law of everlasting
righteousness which is for us what the law of balance is to the infinite worlds.  All life,
that which now is and whatever is to be in the hereafter, is simply a never-ending progress
towards an ideal whose dignity is infinite.  Hence the command of Jesus, "Be ye perfect as
your heavenly Father is also perfect," would be endorsed by Kant as in strict harmony with
the philosophy which does not teach that the physical act of dissolution called death fixes
the moral state of man for ever, but that all life, whatsoever it may be and wheresoever it
may be lived, is but an approach towards a goal of infinite value, the will of man absolutely
conformed to justice, or the moral law.

As Kepler described the philosopher and the scientist as "thinking again the thoughts of God,"
even so does the Kantian ethic aspire to absolute conformity of will with that Will which is
supreme and eternal, the moral order itself personified.  This is immortality: this is everlasting
life, even as the Christian disciple and philosopher describes it: "This world passeth away
and the desire thereof, but he that doeth the Divine will endureth for ever".  The phenomenal
world is a pageant, a scene.  Only "the good will" (Kant's constant expression) in absolute
harmony with the Supreme Will is real and eternal.

[1] Philosophical Classics, p. 85.

V.

THE ETHICAL DOCTRINE OF COMPENSATION.

I suppose there is no teaching more frequently insisted upon in the Old and in the New Testament
as the truth of a judgment, now, or in the future, upon the misdeeds or sins of men.  Let criticism
prune and cut as it will, while it exhibits the deplorably low standard of morality once prevalent
among the Hebrew peoples, and therefore prevalent among their Gods, their Elohim, Adonai and
Jahveh, one thing, at least, is undeniable--that that which is recognised as immoral is reprobated
and forthwith visited with condign punishment.  Doubtless, acts which to us are wholly reprehensible
are discussed without attaching any stigma to them, and are even permitted, and sometimes suggested,
by Jahveh himself, as in the story of Judith and Holofernes.  Such ethical insensibility is
wholly natural, viewing the state of development at which the Hebrew people had arrived, and
should cause no wonderment in those who are familiar with the Deity of Christian Mediaevalism,
and the methods and practices he was supposed to favour.  But what should be carefully noted
is, that nothing is adjudged immoral but is forthwith sternly reprobated and condemned to a
fitting retribution. "The way of transgressors is hard" was a conviction with the race.  In
the same way, the ethical note rings out in the New Testament, that right and wrong are eternally
dissevered, sheep ever separated from goats; that virtue must be rewarded and vice be condemned
and punished.

Now, this teaching of the judgment to come, the bare announcement of which by Paul filled Felix,
the Roman governor, with such dire consternation, is the subject of which we propose to set
forth the philosophical and ethical explanation.  In the Bible we have the mythical setting
much as we have the mythical version of the agony of spirit undergone by Christ before he definitely
committed himself to his prophetical work.  It is for us to-day to disentangle the substantive
truth from the maze of legend with which an imperfectly developed age has surrounded it and
discover the true raison d'être of that doctrine which "the Bible Christian" confesses under
the aspect of the "Last Judgment".

Now, I take it that no educated man believes in the drama, or rather, the panorama, of the
"last judgment"; the vision of Jesus sitting in the clouds, with every human being that ever
was or shall be gathered before his throne to hear definite sentence pronounced upon them.
The mise-en-scène demands of course the presence of bodies, and I suppose it is needless to
point out the dogma of the resurrection of the body, insisted upon by all the Christian Churches,
is a blank impossibility. We may acquire other bodies in that unknown state, should we stand
in need of such appurtenances--a fact which we may wholly disbelieve--but of one thing we may
rest assured, that these identical bodies in which we die can by no possibility conceivable
to us be brought back.

I once read a highly imaginative article in a religious magazine which attempted to solve the
unsolvable by suggesting that after men's bodies had been buried in sufficient numbers, the
whole soil of our planet would consist of nothing but the substance of the bodies of the dead,
and that when that momentous epoch arrived, the Almighty would give the order for the sounding
of the final trump, and the whole solid globe would be forthwith transmuted, or rather re-transmuted,
into human bodies--in what condition it was not stated--for the countless myriads of "souls"
ready to take possession of them.  Probably, this pious romance was woven in the days before
cremation, and as the next century will not be very old before we shall be compelled to resort
to that method of disposal of the dead, at all events in our larger cities, it becomes increasingly
difficult to comprehend how men of the future, to say nothing of the past, are going to be
provided with their own bodies so as to put in an appearance at the great assize.

We may rightly wonder how men and women of the nineteenth century can still believe in the
Churches and Chapels which teach such deplorable absurdities as the revelation of God, and
how it happens that when religion appears upon the scene of their daily life, their common
sense can so totally desert them.  One need say nothing of the inadequacy of the judgment pronounced,
the summary classification of the myriads of humanity as white sheep or black goats, or the
character of the rewards and punishments allotted.  The one redeeming point in the narrative
is that whatever judgment is pronounced is decided, not on doctrinal grounds, about which no
two of Christ's followers can be got to agree, but on ethical grounds, on character manifesting
itself in public spirit and care for the unfortunate--the bruised reeds and smoking flax--of
our communities.  It would seem impossible to maintain after this final scene that creeds and
faiths have any decisive influence on our status here or hereafter.

But though now seen to be no more than a variant upon the apocalyptic tradition and literature
which represented that Jesus was to return speedily to earth and rule among his saints for
a thousand years--a delusion which apparently possessed even the trained intellect of Paul,
and subsequently led to the pseudo-Peter explaining that his fellow-Christians must not be
in too great a hurry, because "a thousand years are as one day and one day as a thousand years
in the sight of the Lord"--it has done an incalculable amount of harm in the past.  It has
shut men's eyes to the awful fact of retribution, administered here and now, and prevented
their realising any punishment other than the savage, barbarous and wholly vindictive punishment
of torturing eternally by fire.  It shuts men's minds to the operation of moral laws, to the
fact that judgment is executed instantaneously upon the commission of wrong.  It has, and it
does, to the serious detriment of moral development, lead man to put off until late in life,
sometimes to the very hour of death itself, restorative work which should have been undertaken
immediately on the recognition or conviction of misdeeds. The notion that he is not to be called
up for judgment until he is rendered incapable by death of doing any further mischief, has
been a moral obstacle in the path of man, and therefore of the race, wholly beyond the power
of calculation.  Foolish priests once thought that by the invention of the dogma of hell they
could terrorise men into morality, and so they preached their Divinity, the magnified copy
of a fiend, who would have cheerfully created humanity out of nothing and damned them everlastingly,
had not he himself, in the shape of his son, who is one in being with him, decided to appear
upon earth and atone to himself for the mischief, which presumably he could have very well
foreseen, perpetrated by man.

And what has been the effect of such teaching on humanity?  It is impossible to doubt that
it has led to results deplorably, indescribably wicked.  Whence, for instance, arose the horrors
of the mediaeval inquisition, the insensate tortures inflicted upon men like Huss and Bruno
solely for theological errors, if not from belief in this demon-deity whom the Church worshipped?
If their practices were but a shadow of the horrors he was supposed to be everlastingly inflicting
on mankind, who could raise a protest against them?  Shall man be juster than his God?  This
perverse Christian morality is responsible for the worst cruelties which have tormented the
human race since the days of ecclesiastical domination.  If the Deity is inhuman, why should
man be otherwise?  Therefore, inhuman tortures will be inflicted on prisoners.  The rack and
thumb-screw will be used to extract secrets.  Men will be immured alive within narrow walls
and allowed to perish by inches.  The Austrian prisons in the northern Italian provinces will
be so constructed that the miserable victim can neither sit nor lie down nor see the light
of day.  Floggings and scourgings will be universal, lettres de cachet an institution.  Why
not?  Where the god has no sense of justice, why should man?  Hundreds and hundreds of thousands
of victims will perish at the stake and in the flames in atrocious agony because they are wizards
or witches or have had dealings with imaginary devils.  Why not?  The god does worse than all
this.  He keeps his victims alive for the sole purpose of glutting his ire and satiating his
insatiable vengeance.  Nay, things are so ordered that the very happiness of the elect is enhanced,
not only by the knowledge, but by the sight, of the appalling, unavailing anguish of the lost,
and we have seen such a philosopher as Aquinas representing the Deity as conducting the "elect"
in troops and droves to the heavenly shores and giving them "a glimpse of hell" by way of stimulating
their enjoyment of the celestial beatitude.  Why not?  I ask again.  My only wonderment is
how we ever got rid of it.  Picture the world under the universal dominion of this foul superstition.
It reigns on the thrones of kings, in the cabinets of statesmen, it is preached in the pulpits,
taught in the schools, it is the earliest lesson that trembles on the lips of innocent children.
The most ingenious, subtly contrived, widespread and all-pervading influence is especially
created to propagate it everywhere in the shape of the Christian Church--a Divine institution,
possessed of the keys of life and death, of heaven and hell--the sole representative of the
Deity on earth.  How, we ask, in wondering gratitude, did the world ever escape the tyranny
of such superstition?  This fact alone--this deliverance--is enough to make one believe that
there is a "Power, not ourselves, which makes for righteousness," that the course of human
events is never wholly retrograde.

And, now, what is the truth about the "judgment to come"?  What is the ethical equivalent of
"hell fire"?  In the first place, we refuse to believe in a "last judgment" because we know
that judgment is not only pronounced but executed instantaneously, automatically, I would say,
on the commission of wrong.  There is no need to wait for the day of judgment or even for the
hour of death.  If a man has done wrong he sits condemned that self-same moment.  Illo nocens
se damnat quo peccat die.  There is no need of God, angel or devil, to announce the fact or
deliver judgment; the man has pronounced his own sentence, executed judgment on himself.  This
is, in essence, the ethical doctrine of compensation, that this universe is so woven, that
the nature of things is such that "things are what they are, that the consequences of things
will be what they will be," that we can no more hope to avert them by crying out for help to
man, saint or God, than we can hope to hurl back the waves that dash upon the strand at flood
tide.  Our view is that moral laws are as irresistible as physical, and admit of no more dispensation
than the everlasting order of Nature. One of our main reasons for repudiating the conception
of the miraculous is that it involves a violation of eternal order and therefore of eternal
reason, and if freely admitted in the physical, would doubtless be speedily introduced into
the moral order, to the destruction of civilised society.  We believe that this universe is
"so magically woven" that it is absolutely impossible to escape the consequences of our deeds,
and if the Buddhist doctrine of Karma represents that teaching, then we are among its most
enthusiastic adherents, because it is absolutely true to fact.

But let us look at the matter more closely.[1]

Have we ever sufficiently reflected how that "all things are double, one against the other,"
in this mysteriously governed world, that everything has its counterpart? the world appears
to be split into halves, which yet cleave to each other, as a man is haunted by his shadow.
"All things are double, one against the other."

All the woes of existence arise from our deliberate resistance to the law of oneness, to that
integration which is so conspicuous in Nature. We are incessantly seeking to take the one half
and leave the other, and straightway Nemesis overtakes us.  We want to enjoy the pleasures
of sense without attending to the inexorable requirements of mind, and such an appalling satiety
sickens our souls, that we forget ourselves in the commission of deeds unspeakably wicked;
we possibly degrade ourselves in the eyes of all men by falling even into the clutches of the
law, or we border on the verge of self-destruction in our unspeakable ennui.  We would have
the half, while Nature planned the whole, and we pay the last farthing.  The results are naturally
so appalling that it is not to be wondered that men sought to express them under the image
of a fire which will not be quenched, a worm of remorse which can never die--an immense despair
for which there is no relief.

Life is full of distressing illustrations of this ethical law.  A man who owns but the clothes
he wears one day, is a millionaire the next, and he attempts the impossible task of bisecting
life, which has been manifestly planned as a whole.  He appears to succeed for a time, but
one day men are startled to hear that he has owned up that he had chosen the wrong path, and
has determined to quit it in suicide.  A few months after, the community is compelled to witness
an almost unparalleled degradation, that of a young man born in the purple, with every advantage
that birth, position, education or matrimonial connections could give him, sentenced as a felon
for the meanest treachery, because he would halve life which was planned a whole, and forgot
the Fates, the dread Erynys, who administer the ethical law of compensation.

But it is the same in lesser as in greater things.  We forget that purity of heart and the
law of gravitation arise in the same eternal spring, that the world is a whole, that moral
and physical are grounded in one source, and we pay the penalty.

Now, this conduct never yet met with any success.  You thrust your arm into the stream to divide
the water, but it re-unites behind your hand. You attempt to live your life on one side only,
to dissever that which was made for unity, and calamity comes to crush you.  Men and women
marry for flesh or gold, they put half their whole into the contract, and their sacrilegious
bargain smites them with a curse.  It is the law of compensation, the workings of that moral
gravitation which causes all things to fit into their own places, and is to us the clearest
indication of the workings of the Divine in all this tumultuous life.

Wonderful discernment of the ethical prophet!  We cease to see God omnipresent in all things,
and our blindness ends in our destruction.

No "last judgment," then, but a first judgment, a judgment here and now, swift, sudden, irreversible
upon every man and woman who dare to take their lives by halves, to forget the seamless unity
wherewith the universe is woven.

This is that awful yet sublime doctrine of retribution which is the groundwork of the masterpieces
of the ancient Greek tragedies, the inspiration without which the world would never have known
the Agamemnon or the immortal trilogy of Sophocles.  They are linked together inexorably, as
cause and effect, and no god can dispense in this law, because the law itself is God.

Hence, there can be no such thing as "forgiveness of sin".  An act once done is irreparable.
Its consequences must endure to all time.  Our most agonising repentance cannot undo the past,
it can only avail to safeguard the future.  We cannot escape the law of compensation.  There
is no magnified man in the skies, swayed by human passions, ready, at the call and entreaty
of prayer, to obstruct the operation of natural laws.  Theories of atonement by blood shedding,
sacrifices for the forgiveness of sins, arose in the days when man believed in such a deity
as that, but we know none such now, and wise are we if we recognise--oh, how well it had been
if in our youth we all could have known--that the consequences of an act are absolutely inevitable,
that deeds once done, words once spoken, are traced ineffaceably on the tablets of universal
nature and must reverberate throughout the universe to all time!

Severe teaching, you say.  Yes, one pauses here when thoughts of hell and devils never once
made man pause.  The truth is, no one really believes the insensate teaching of the Churches
on punishment.  Even their adherents have outgrown them.  Nothing is clearer from history than
that fear of hell fire never yet made man moral.  It could not keep the Church of mediaevalism,
its priests and its bishops, aye, and its supreme pontiffs--numbers of them--even decent living
men, to say nothing of morality or virtue.  It is worse than useless now;--an insult to reason
and an outrage on religion.  But what will hold a man is the doctrine of compensation, of judgment
pronounced by himself directly his iniquity is accomplished, of sentence self-executed, unpardonable
and irremissible, now and for ever.

And, added to this, the conviction that his crimes are committed, not "against God," who can
in no wise be personally influenced or injured by man's misdeeds, being wholly destitute of
human passions and emotions, but against his fellow man, or against his sister woman.

One knows, alas! the beginning of the end to which the lost have come. If only youth had been
taught in the opening days of life, when impressions are so vivid, that there is no such article
as the creeds of the Churches falsely proclaim--"the forgiveness of sin"--that one only wrong
act may, rather must, be the starting point which will one day precipitate a catastrophe, how
many would have been saved from the nameless depths, of which we must be silent, how many spared
the anguish of an unavailing remorse!

Must this false teaching indeed go on for ever?  Will it never dawn upon our priests and ministers,
our masters and mistresses in schools, that God bears none of the burden of humanity; his heart
never breaks because a life is withering in despair?  He takes no hurt from the weltering sorrows
by which so many are overwhelmed.  It is man, it is woman, who bears the agony; the crushing
burden of wrong-doing falls on them.  Look no more then, we urge, to a phantom deity, to an
idol-god in the skies, a figment of a disordered imagination, but think on your brother man
before you dare to set mischief in motion.  When you apprehend the nearness of danger, think
of the future, think of consequences, think only of the irremissibleness of sin, which not
all the waters and baptisms, though it were of blood, through which the Churches can pass you,
will ever be able to efface.

How much knavery in actual progress in this wilderness of men in London might one not hope
to stop if this doctrine of compensation could be brought home?  How much company-promoting,
fraud, mendacity, adulteration of food, could we not render impossible, if ethical and prophetical
teaching took the place of the Church catechisms and the creeds, if men could be persuaded
that the success of their ventures--quite legitimate in the eyes of the civil and criminal
law--can only be purchased by the tears and ruin of human beings?  The dogma of endless future
punishment was apparently impotent to restrain the ultra-orthodox directors of the Liberator
Company, but I take it that no man who had been schooled in Emerson, could have sat at that
board and thanked an Almighty God for the exceptional favours he had been mercifully pleased
to bestow on their conscious frauds.  The vindictiveness of a purposeless hell has, of course,
failed ignominiously as a deterrent from crime.  We cannot conceive infinite Intelligence inflicting
an excruciating and endless punishment simply for punishment's sake.  We are superior to such
methods ourselves; we refuse to associate them with God.  What we do believe in, what we are
sure of, is that a man's sin must find him out, that he must reap as he sows, that the consequences
of his misdeeds are eternal, that--

  All on earth he has made his own
  Floating in air or pent in stone,
  Will rive the hills, the sea will swim,
  And like his shadow follow him.

[1] In what follows I have freely borrowed from the great "Essay on Compensation".

VI.

CONSCIENCE THE VOICE OF GOD AND THE VOICE OF MAN.

We have already learnt in the study of the doctrine of Compensation that the misfortunes of
life are due to man's attempt to bisect the world and life, and seize greedily on one half
to the partial or total neglect of the other.  Life having been planned a whole, inevitable
disaster overtakes the man who would behave as though it were a thing of shreds and fragments.
Now this law of what we may call the Divine unity is equally valid in the purely intellectual
order.  That, likewise, refuses to admit schisms and divisions to break in on the solidity
of its unbroken ranks.  An attempt to view life and its problems exclusively from our own standpoint,
is to fail to grasp truth; our shadow gets projected over the surface, and the light is partially
concealed, if not wholly confused.  No better illustration of this fact, I believe, could be
afforded than that supplied by conscience, the practical dictate of reason which controls the
moral life of man.

In days of old when man was nothing in his own or anybody else's eyes, in the ages when he
thought to magnify the Deity by belittling himself, an interfering agency of the Divine was
necessarily invoked on almost every conceivable occasion; "the hand of God" was seen in every
occurrence.  From the comparatively minor matters of bodily ailments up to the colossal disasters
which nature is capable of inflicting--in all the visible interference of the supra-mundane
power was discerned. Those were naturally the days of the "Divine right of kings," when all
civil power was held to have been centred in one individual by the express act of the Divinity;
those were likewise the days when the conscience of man was exclusively interpreted as the
articulate utterance of God.  But, inasmuch as man was too ignorant and wicked to rightly interpret
that supreme oracle, he was bidden to leave it in the custody of a sanctified corporation,
the Church, and to keep his thoughts and his conduct in tune with the dominant ecclesiastical
sentiment of the hour.

Now, from that extraordinary position a reaction was of course inevitable.  Man could not go
on for ever describing himself as "a worm" and an outcast, or avowing himself "a miserable
sinner" and a limb of Satan; and consequently, with an awakened sense of human dignity, inspiring
him, not with vainglory, but with an ever-deepening self-reverence, the ascription of all agency
to supernatural power began to be seriously curtailed.  "The Divine right of kings" went its
way with other archaisms into the limbo of oblivion, from which the reigning monarch in Prussia
would appear to be vainly endeavouring to rescue it, while man began to realise that the causes
of natural and human phenomena were to be sought in nature and in man.  As a consequence of
this, a new theory of conscience began to take shape, which was ultimately described by one
of the boldest of later English philosophical writers, the late Professor Clifford, as "the
voice of man commanding us to live for the right".[1]

In these definitions of conscience, as "the voice of God" and "the voice of man," we have an
instance of propositions which in logic are called contraries.  Both, therefore, cannot be
exclusively and simultaneously true, but both may be simultaneously false.  Thus, "all men
are white" and "no men are white" are contraries, but they are both false.  And this, I submit,
is the judgment to be pronounced on these two exclusive definitions of conscience.  Neither
is, exclusively speaking, true, but there is a measure of truth common to both, and that measure
it will be the purpose of the following remarks to determine.

But, before going any farther, we must get a clear idea of what we mean by conscience.  In
a general way, of course, we all know what is meant by the word: an appeal to conscience would
be intelligible by every one.  We understand it to be a faculty which decides on a definite
course of action when alternatives of good and evil are before us.  We look upon it as an instinct,
magnetic in its power, incessantly prompting us towards the fulfilment of duty, and gravely
reproaching us on its dereliction.  We recognise it as the sweetest and most troublesome of
visitants; sweetest when the peace unspeakable sinks into our souls, most troublesome when
we have been guilty of a great betrayal.  So delicate is that voice that nothing is easier
than to stifle it; so clear is it that no one by any possibility can mistake it.

Thus, in general terms, we may describe conscience.  Coming now more closely to a philosophical
analysis of the conception, we shall find therein much enlightenment for the purposes of our
present investigation.  In the first place, the word is of comparatively late origin.  It does
not occur in the Hebrew writers of the Old Testament. Its earliest appearance is in the Book
of Wisdom, the work of a Hellenistic Jew extremely well acquainted with the trend of Greek
thought in the third century B.C.  It does not occur in the Gospels, except in the story of
the sinful woman whom Christ refused to condemn--a history which, though profoundly in accord
with the sympathetic genius of Jesus, is none the less an interpolation in the eighth chapter
of the Johannine Gospel, so much so that Tischendorff excised it from his last edition of the
text of the New Testament.  St. Paul certainly uses the word once in the Epistle to the Romans,
and though known in the latter days before the advent of Christianity, we may assume that mainly
through that religion the word was popularised throughout the world.

But what is the faculty which corresponds to the word conscience?  We shall find etymology
of great assistance in giving precision to our thoughts.  The word is, of course, a derivative
from the Latin, conscientia, knowledge with, or together.  Now, scientia is the simple knowledge
of things by the reason, while conscientia is the knowledge which the reason has of itself;
it is the realisation of one's selfhood--the realisation of the ichkeit des ego, as the very
expressive German phrase has it, "the selfhood of the I".  In English philosophical language
we commonly denominate this self-realisation consciousness, a word of precisely the same etymological
origin as conscience.  If, in the next place, the reason is occupied, not with the reflex action
of self-contemplation, but with moral action or the discernment of right from wrong, then it
is called, and is, no longer consciousness, but conscience.  Putting it technically, consciousness
is a psychological expression, while conscience is ethical.

Nevertheless, it must be most carefully remembered that the two functions are performed by
one and the same reason--immaterial and indivisible in us.  Truly speaking, there is no real,
but only a conceptual, distinction between the reason of a Darwin elaborating his famous law,
realising his selfhood, and acknowledging his obligations to the eminent man--only less so
than himself--who had simultaneously lighted on the great discovery of the age--the law of
organic evolution.  As Paul says of those manifold endowments of the earliest Christians, "A
diversity of gifts and a diversity of graces, but in them all worketh the self-same spirit,"
so say we of the reason at the very heart of our being, the sole, self-sufficing explanation
of the multitudinous phenomena of our mental life.  Hence we arrive at a definition of conscience
as "the practical dictate of the reason in us prescribing obedience to the good and avoidance
of the evil".  Two elements, therefore, are discernible in this definition:  first, reason,
as such, pointing out what is good and evil; and, secondly, reason, as conscience, ordaining
that the good is to be done and the evil left undone--a distinction to be carefully borne in
mind when the problem of conflicting consciences has to be faced; how it comes, for instance,
that morality appears to differ in different countries, and even in the same individual at
different periods of his life.

But of that nothing further need be said now, but we may immediately pass on to see in what
sense conscience, thus explained, is, in the first place, to be accounted the voice of God.

Outside a philosophy avowedly atheist it seems difficult to understand how there can be any
doubt that the eternal distinction between right and wrong betokens the presence in this world
of men of a supreme power and a supreme mind.  "How comes it," let us ask with Emerson, "that
the universe is so constituted," that that which we instinctively recognise as good makes for
the individual and the general welfare, and that which we must perforce reprobate as evil works
uniformly disaster?  We recognise that things are unalterably so ordered that by no possibility
could lying, slander, malice and hatred be other than intrinsically evil, and their opposites
be other than essentially good.  But how is it that things are so ordered?  Whence these uniformities
of approbation and disapprobation?  Is there any answer conceivable but that the power responsible
for the world is a moral power?  Whence is existence itself but from the subsistent source
of all being?  Whence is life but from one ever-lasting source?  Whence is intelligence but
from the world's Soul, which is the soul of men?  And towering above being, above life and
reason, is conscience, the supreme guide, the light enlightening every man that cometh into
this world.

  Luce intellettual, piena d'amore,
    Amor di vero ben pien di letizia,
  Letizia die trascende ogni dolzore.

What is this "light intellectual," this "love of the true," so unutterably blissful as to quiet
all pain and sorrow, but the radiance of the eternal falling athwart the shadows of this lower
life?  What is this miraculous monitor--this "man within the breast," as the Stoics called
it--but the very articulate utterance of the supreme Reason bidding man to live for the right?
No great son of earth ever interpreted it otherwise.  From the days when Socrates scattered
"the sophist clan" in Athens, and forced men by the irresistible majesty of his own moral elevation
to believe in a morality which was more than a string of rules sanctioned by convention; from
the hour when he refused to escape from prison because his conscience bade him submit to die;--from
the days of the sublime martyrdom of Socrates and Jesus, the noble school of the Stoics, down
to the philosophic Titans of the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries in Germany, with the glorious
sage of Königsberg at their head, there has been but one answer to the question, What is conscience?
Conscience, they proclaimed, is the voice of God.  So surely as the maternal instinct in woman
is the voice of universal Nature, so surely is conscience the witness in us that we are indeed
"sons of God".  If that teaching of the "Over-soul" be the truth, then since the Divine is
incarnate in every man, by what other voice can we be guided than by the Divine utterance commanding
us to live by a moral law?  We are Divine by nature, by what other law of life should we live?

Or, how are we to explain the appearance of so strange a visitant in a universe which is dominated
by the "struggle for existence"?  The intellectual difficulty of atheism is so insuperable
that we hear of it no more from men of science.  I think Mr. Spencer's speculations have given
it the coup de grace.  But difficult as is the question of the origin of the cosmos, far more
so is that of conscience.  On what principles are we to explain how a world, evolving itself
mechanically, cycle after cycle, has eventually produced an element so utterly at variance
with itself, an element which puts right before might, self-surrender before the struggle for
existence, and the law of pity in place of the survival of the fittest?  Is conscience a development
of the cosmic process?  And, if so, how is such a volta face in nature explicable on purely
mechanical grounds, even if the process itself were so explicable?  And how striking a fact
that the last words Mr. Huxley[2] spoke in public should have been devoted to prove that so
opposed were the cosmic and ethical processes--in other words, so completely at variance are
the law of conscience and the law of evolution--that only by the triumph of the former over
the latter is progress possible in the world.  Again, I ask, since conscience is not the voice
of Nature, of what is conscience the voice and witness if not of one of whom it is written,
"In the beginning was Reason; in the beginning was Mind"?[3]

But there is another aspect of the question, and we must now pass on to inquire how far conscience
is also "the voice of man commanding us to live for the right".  Quite at the beginning of
this ethical movement we protested, as plainly as words would allow, our entire allegiance
to the teachings of physical science, and our readiness to abandon any doctrine of ethical
religion which is disproved by experimental research.  So convinced are we of the absolute
unity of truth, because with Plato we believe in the unity of its source in the Divine intelligence,
that to us it is inconceivable that there should be any fundamental contradiction in the orders
of the real and the ideal. Things seen and unseen, the passing and the eternal, both ultimately
take their origin in the same source, the Infinite.  No finite thing can be the ultimate explanation
of the universe, because it itself requires explanation.  Hence, whatever science has to tell
us about conscience will be enthusiastically acclaimed by us as true equally with what we learn
from the masters of the higher experience, the philosophers who break unto us the bread of life.

Now what has experimental science to say about the conscience?  It does not say that it is
the voice of God--a fact by no means calculated to disturb those who remember that physical
investigation is not concerned with such speculations.  Half the mischief and misunderstandings
which occur over these border questions, which are, so to speak, under two jurisdictions, arise
from our forgetting in what capacity and by what principles certain well-known scientific men
have made pronouncements on matters such as conscience, morality and religion.  There are two
sides to them, the physical and the hyper-physical or metaphysical. And here it may not be
amiss to offer a suggestion that one should mistrust that parrot cry so often heard from men
who speak most confidently about that which they know least, that metaphysic is synonymous
with unreality, or in plainer words, moonshine.  A very little reflection will be sufficient
to satisfy us that without the aid of conceptions higher than those of sense-experience--and
that is all the word metaphysic means--it would be absolutely impossible to formulate a single
scientific generalisation.  What is the very concept of law, or system, but a metaphysical
idea?  To cease to be metaphysical would be to cease to be rational, to have no higher or wider
conceptions than those of a dog.  Hence, like M. Jourdain, who had been talking prose all his
life without knowing it, some of our most daring anti-metaphysicians have been philosophising
by the very method they had in their ignorance so contemptuously denounced.

Therefore, when we hear from Mr. Spencer that conscience, so far from being the voice of God,
is but "the capitalised instinct of the tribe," an empirical fact established by heredity,
just like fan-tails in pigeons; when Mr. Clifford popularises this teaching in St. George's
Hall by announcing that conscience is the voice "of man bidding us to live for man," and Mr.
Leslie Stephen tells us that the Socratic conception of conscience "is part of an obsolete
form of speculation," we know precisely what judgment to pass upon their assertions.  They
are speaking, one and all, of the historical growth or natural evolution of that rational faculty
in man which they, equally with their opponents, describe as the conscience.  And keeping within
those limits they are strictly accurate in what they say.  Who is there that does not know
that time was when the inhabitants of Europe were as destitute of moral instincts, and therefore
of a conscience, as the Tonga islanders?  Who does not know that man, instead of beginning
at the top and tumbling headlong to the bottom, really began at the bottom and learnt everything
by a very severe discipline in the hardest of all schools, that of experience?  Certainly,
we are ignorant of none of those things, and therefore readily assent to Mr. Spencer's teaching
that conscience is not a fixed criterion of morality, but a faculty in a ceaseless state of
transformation, "in a perpetual state of becoming," that its dicta are, in a certain sense,
constantly changing and improving with the progress and development of the race. Certainly,
as scientists and anthropologists, we should say precisely the same thing.  We should recognise
the developed conscience in man as obedient to the law of growth equally with his physical
organisation, because we know of men now existent in whom the faculty is still in a very rudimentary
state.  Every advance in humanitarianism, in our treatment of men and animals, is evidence
to us of the illimitable capacities of moral expansion in our nature, and therefore of the
growth of conscience, or the moral sentiment.

But are we to conclude therefrom that conscience is nothing more than a product of organic
evolution?  It is a shallow philosophy, a surface system, indeed, which is content with such
an estimate, and is only possible in a school of bald empiricism which imprisons man within
the boundaries of his sense-experience, and resolves him into a string of feelings bound together,
like a rope of sand, by nothing.  The truth is, that Mr. Spencer, Mr. Bain, Mr. Mill and the
whole corps of experimental philosophers are confusing the reality with its outward manifestation
or history.  Indeed, by their principles they are constrained to do so.  Once affirm that nothing
beyond the reach of your sensory organs is trustworthy, and conscience must be, like the nervous
system, the development of a shock or a thrill.  But it has never apparently dawned upon these
thinkers that the very distinguishing note of conscience, its compulsory power, its assumption
of authority to command the obedience of the will and its capacity to torment the soul with
an overmastering remorse--to make a man say, "my sin is greater than I can bear"--is left wholly
unexplained and unaccounted for in the historical analysis with which they favour us. What
we want to know is: Whence has conscience the strange, mysterious power to influence us even
in the sanctuary of our thoughts; why does the wicked man flee when no one pursueth except
that the sleepless eye of his own outraged conscience is upon him and he cannot tolerate its
reproachful gaze?  Nowhere do we feel the inadequacy of the sense-philosophy more piercingly
than in this matter of conscience.  It has cut the world in twain and treated it as a piece
of mechanism and reduced man to the position of an automaton.

But the facts are too strong; Nature is too strong.  Every time some splendid heroism, some
complete self-surrender is made; every time some deed of moral enthusiasm thrills the pulses
of the world, or some lonely man or woman succeeds in crushing some infamous desire; every
time for the sake of the good, for the sake of the right alone, we resist "even unto blood,"
conscience is exalted and enthroned above the stars, lifted utterly out of the low and insignificant
category of physical experiences in which they would vainly endeavour to imprison it.

The commanding voice is heard throughout the ages, and men will, men must, ask: Who is it--what
is it that spoke?  They will not be put off with the reply that all they hear is an echo of
the past, reverberating throughout the race as the successive generations arise. Ah! but whence
has it power to command me, even in the sanctuary of my deepest solitude, in the loneliness
of my silent thoughts?  No ancestral traditions, no shouts of blessing or curse of multitudes
can influence me there.  I am alone in the abysmal depths of my personality, solitary as though
in a desert world, and yet the mysterious voice is heard, the solemn sense of obligation and
duty makes itself felt.  It bids me respect myself, my moral dignity, though no one be nigh;
it bids me chase the phantoms of evil from my mind.

In vain do you attempt to evade its jurisdiction by pointing to the acknowledged facts that
men form different estimates of their duties in different countries and in different ages.
Conscience is not concerned with that.  Such subordinate tasks as the formation of moral codes,
the ascertainment of the conformity or nonconformity of certain precise acts with morality
are the work of the reason.  Conscience is no theoretical instructor.  Far more than that,
it is a practical commander.  It speaks but one voice.  Obey what you know to be right, for
the right's sake alone.  And conscience has never wavered in the inculcation of that precept.
The reason of man has been constantly advancing, discovering the content of the moral law just
as it has been discovering the content of the geometrical, mathematical or musical law; but
conscience, like the polar star, has been pointing steadily in one direction, the direction
of duty, without error, without failure. "An erring conscience," says the ethical master, "is
a chimera."

We learn, thus, from the teaching of both schools that conscience is at once the voice of man,
the accumulated and concentrated moral experience of the race, but still more the voice of
the eternal Reason which is revealed to our wondering eyes in the true, the good and the beautiful.
If "this universe in its meanest province is in very deed the star-domed city of God"; if "the
glory of the One breaks through it all in every place," what are we to say of that which is
higher than the stars, more radiant than the sun, diviner than all worlds--the conscience of
man nobly conformed to the great obedience of the everlasting laws?  What are we to say of
lives such as those of Gotama, Socrates and Christ?  Nothing.  Like the psalmist of Israel,
I am struck dumb in the presence of a vision so majestical.  Deveni in altitudinem maris et
silui: "I came unto the great deeps and I held my peace".

[1] See his well-known essays, "The Ethics of Belief" and "The Ethics of Religion".

[2] Prof. J. Seth, in his Study of Ethical Principles, concludes from Mr. Huxley's Romanes
lecture that "agnosticism could scarcely have been the final resting place for such a mind".

[3] I have ventured to repeat here a portion of the argument set forth in the chapter on "Ethics
and Theism".

VII.

PRIESTS AND PROPHETS.

One of the most striking characteristics of the ecclesiastic, as opposed to the religious mind,
is its tendency to concentrate its attention upon detail to the exclusion of fundamental principles.
We are assured that the same habit distinguishes the statesman from the party man, or mere
politician.  At any rate, we have had abundant evidence during the past fifty years--evidence
which has been emphasised during the past year--that the love of detail, of all that comes
under that washing of cups and platters, of first places and salutations in the market-place,
resplendent raiment and broad phylacteries, which Jesus so summarily denounced in the official
religion of his own time, is still a mark of the ecclesiastic temper in the England of to-day.
If a man--even though that man be a pope--should question the validity of its "orders," volleys
of sacerdotal refutation are fired from the press, the whole atmosphere is electric with the
controversial charges such profanity provokes.  But let a man proclaim that there is no such
institution as "orders" at all, that true religion, that Christianity, as conceived by its
founder, is destitute of ritual, priest and sacrifice, and everything is still as a Quakers'
meeting.  How is it that men will seriously devote their energies to repelling such side attacks
as those directed against them by rival churches, while they totally neglect to satisfy an
enlightened age as to the validity of the fundamental assumption on which their entire system
reposes?  The pope and the Eastern Churches may be serious rivals in the camp ecclesiastic,
but what are our native pontiffs and priests to reply to men like Hatch, Jowett and Stanley,
to say nothing of Martineau, who roundly proclaim that "orders," as understood by them, are
nothing more nor less than a superstition?  For instance, what would the patrons of the "mass
in masquerade" answer to Stanley's direct and emphatic pronouncement: "In the beginning of
Christianity there was no such institution as the clergy; it grew naturally out of the increasing
needs of the community . . . the intellectual element in religion requires some one to express
it, and this, in some form or other, will be the clergy"?[1]  Surely if there were no "orders"
in the beginning, then a priesthood was no creation of Jesus, his apostles were no priests,
they created, therefore, no priests, and a priestly caste grew up as an intrusion in Christendom
just as it arose in the religion of the holy Buddha in India, and attempted, though unsuccessfully,
to invade the severely simple religion of Mohammed.

The view which ethical religion takes of sacerdotalism is very well known, but it is essential
to do more than merely repudiate the notion of priesthood as an integral portion of religion;
our duty is also to possess ourselves of the facts of history and criticism so as to satisfy
ourselves and others who may need such instruction, that sacerdotalism is not only not ethical,
but is anti-Christian, and that the greatest anomaly the world presents to-day is that of the
clergymen of the Eastern and Western Churches arrogating to themselves the possession of powers
which the founder of their religion and his earliest followers not only never exercised, but
of which they had not even a remote conception.

A singular interest has been added to this inquiry by the recently-revived controversy between
two of the many Churches into which Christendom is divided on the highly debatable matter of
Anglican orders.  The said controversy had been in a state of suspended animation from the
time of the Stuarts up to the Tractarian movement, when it was partially revived, and a fair
crop of literature sprang up around it.  It has been reserved, however, for our own days to
witness its complete vivification under the auspices of the High Church societies and certain
sagrestani among "the nobility and gentry" of our day.  To the credit of the female sex, we
hear of no ladies being prominently identified with the movement.  Even Oxford, once "the home
of lost causes and impossible ideals," concerns itself with these minutiae no more.  Like the
later pantheon of imperial Rome, it offers its impartial hospitality to representatives of
every form of orthodoxy and heterodoxy.  The shadowy warfare is now waged, apparently, in the
London press and magazines, in the bulls of popes and the responsions of archbishops.  Of course,
the renewed inquiry set on foot by the industry and temerity of Lords Halifax and Nelson--tanti
nominis umbra surely, in this latter case, to engage itself in such a battle--could have but
one ending, namely, the reiterated and emphasised condemnation of our national ecclesiastics
as nothing better than mere laymen, and the renewed degradation of the officiating curate to
the level of his neighbouring Nonconformist minister who celebrates "the Supper" and preaches
in his coat.

The papal representatives in this country have published a rejoinder to the official reply
of the Archbishops of Canterbury and York, which, if I may shelter myself behind the authority
of the Times[2] reviewer, does not err on the side of dignity, moderation and scholarship.
It is said to be jaunty, perky, off-hand, suggestive of "the smart evening journalist"--this
last is very serious--and, worse than all, it is an appeal, not to theologians or scholars,
nor even to thoughtful and instructed men, but "to the gallery".

Who the gallery in this particularly Divine comedy may be I really do not know.  I strongly
suspect that if the piece were put upon the boards--and everything is now dramatised, from
the trials of Satan to the Dreyfus case--the gallery would be the emptiest department of the
theatre.  And this opinion I am pleased to see confirmed by the closing remarks of the review
above noticed, which warns the Christian bishops and pastors of the present day that the comparative
merits of one set of "orders" as opposed to those of another set have "little interest and
not much meaning for nine Englishmen out of ten".

But what, I think, the average man would be interested to know is whether there be such things
as "holy orders" at all.  Very many of them are, in this matter, I believe, in the position
of those interesting Asiatics who "knew not whether there be such a thing as a Holy Ghost,"
and I think it will be abundantly easy to show that the ignorance of the ordinary man as to
the precise nature of "orders" was shared in also by our Asiatic friends whose existence is
noticed in an early chapter of the Acts of the Apostles.  We shall therefore proceed to show
the groundlessness of the entire controversy from evidence which satisfactorily establishes
that the authentic form of Christianity, as fixed by its founder and his followers for two
centuries, admits of no such thing as a priesthood in the sense contemplated by the disputants
whose wordy warfare has now, we understand, been closed for ever.

To begin, then, whence arose the idea of a priest?  What is the meaning of the word?  Etymologically,
we may take it to be identical with the Saxon word preost, which again is doubtless, though
it is not admitted on all hands, identical with the Greek presbys or elder.  A priest, then,
originally and literally, signified senior or elder, whether in the family or the State.  How
an elder came to be associated with religion was in this wise.  Every philosopher and anthropologist
has been constrained to admit the presence in man of an instinct of unity, impelling him not
merely to society or intercourse with his fellows, but to communion with a power unseen.  This
instinct, as already defined in a former chapter, is religion.  Now the initiatory development
of this aboriginal instinct was very humble, and if we wish to know what our direct ancestors
once were, we need only consult the record of anthropological research among such savages as
the Fijians or Tonga Islanders.  The shape assumed by religion amongst such people was most
probably ancestor or ghost worship.  The dead father or chieftain is still seen in the dreams
of his children or people, and the mysteriousness of the new shape and presence he assumes
excites the awe and reverence which is at the root of the religious habit.  The chief becomes
the tutelary deity or protector of his tribe, or locality over which he ruled.  Other chieftains
are added to him in course of time, and soon we have a veritable pantheon of gods, good and
evil, whom it is necessary to placate by certain offices and functions, very much as it is
necessary to covet the favour of powerful men on earth.  Whose duty shall it be to perform
such rites?  Naturally, it falls to the head of the family and the head of the State.  They
are the born officers of religious functions, the father for his home circle, the chieftain
for his clan or tribe.  Thus Livy tells us that Numa, the Roman king, was accustomed to offer
sacrifice, but that the increasing cares of State caused him to relinquish the office in favour
of specially appointed individuals who were called Flamens, and Mr. McDonald,[3] in his account
of the Blantyre negroes, informs us that during the temporary absence of a chief, it devolved
upon his wife to take his place at the sacrificial altar.  Numberless instances are supplied
in such works as Tylor's, Lubbock's, and Spencer's Ecclesiastical Institutions, which go to
show this primatial or pontifical authority resident in the chief of the State, and the transference
of its offices to subordinate people, who gradually and naturally became an official body or
caste called priests or elders, as representatives of heads of families, or of the tribe or
State.[4]  At any rate, however much interested people may be inclined to dispute the lowly
origin of religion and worship, the indisputable fact remains that such worship and sacrifice
goes on among aboriginal peoples at this very hour, and there is not one shred of evidence,
beyond a mistaken prejudice, which goes to show that our religion had any other origin than that.

We may now enter on the further inquiry whether Christianity, meaning thereby the religion
personally professed and practised by Jesus of Nazara, was a sacerdotal or sacrificial system
in the sense already explained.  Such an inquiry necessarily resolves itself into this further
one, namely, whether there is any reliable evidence that the founder of the Christian religion
was himself a priest, taught a sacerdotal doctrine, or exercised any sacerdotal functions.

Though he died a comparatively young man, if we may believe the gospel narrative, which makes
him to have lived either to thirty-one or thirty-three years, though Irenaeus emphatically
asserts that he lived to fifty years, we may most assuredly proclaim him a priest in the sense
of elder, or leader of men.  One whom schools of thought, represented by men so opposed as
Mill, Renan, Matthew Arnold, Spinoza, Goethe, Napoleon and Rousseau, conspired to honour must
have been indeed a "king of men".  But this is not what is meant by the question. By priest
we mean here what the ecclesiastic means, namely, one who is set apart by the act of God, signified
by some external rite or ceremony, whereby power is conferred to perform certain definite functions
impossible to the ordinary man.  He alone, in virtue of his consecration, can mediate between
man and the Deity, can propitiate him for the sins of men, can forgive those sins, and mechanically
communicate holiness by the adoption of a definite ceremony and the pronouncement of a precise
formula.  Nay, in virtue of his peculiar status, the priest is able to superinduce a physical
sanctity in solid and liquid substances, like bread and wine, and quite independently of his
own belief, or the belief of the bystanders, or even the recipients, cause those substances
to be no longer what to every conceivable physical test they still continue to be, but the
body and blood of a man who lived more than 1800 years ago.  In a word, a ritual may be described
as "a system of consecrated charms or spells, and the priest is the great magician who dispenses
them".[5]

What we ask, then, is precisely this: Was Jesus a priest in this sense? Unhesitatingly and
most emphatically we reply--and without any fear of serious attempt at refutation--that he
was not, and that, in consequence, the whole scheme of sacerdotal religion as prevalent in
the Roman and Oriental Christian Churches, and to a moderate extent in the Anglican Church,
is entirely baseless, grounded, not on the institution of Jesus their reputed founder, but
on an infantine superstition which the third century of Christianity took over from the Jewish
and Pagan traditions which had preceded it.  Hence the whole protracted controversy, which
has set no end of theological hair on end, about the validity of these orders and the invalidity
of those, is so much beating the air, because Christianity, as understood and instituted by
Christ, knows no place, any more than Buddhism or Mohammedanism, for priest, rite or sacrament.

Let us proceed to offer some evidence for this statement.  In the first place, the whole tenor
of Christ's life was not that of the priest, but of something entirely different; Christ was
a prophet.  What is a prophet?  We shall very imperfectly appreciate the character of the prophet
if we look upon him as nothing more than an historian "for whom God has turned time round the
other way," so that he reads the future as if it were the past.  Most extraordinary instances
of clairvoyance are brought to our notice in which things, eventually realised, turn out to
have been previously known, but the clairvoyant is not the prophet.  The prophet is the spirit
representative of the Supreme Spirit before our own.  He is the image--perfected by intercourse
with the Unseen--of "the Invisible Goodness".  He uses no rites, sacraments or symbols, for
he is all that in himself.  If his pure, lofty, ennobling life cannot impress the eternal upon
the souls of men, then assuredly no bread, wine or oil, can do it.[6]  Hence, we see, a prophet
is born, not made.  No consecration can make one any more than installing a scene painter in
the studio of a Raphael could ensure a reproduction of a Transfiguration, or the Madonna di
Foligno.  And no desecration, no excommunication from church, chapel or sanhedrin can unmake
him.  The prophet is one of those royal beings who are kings by right Divine, aye and human
too, for all fall down instinctively before him.  It is the verdict of history that all that
is most blessed we owe to the prophets--not to the priests--to Moses, Confucius, Chrishna,
Buddha, Socrates, Zoroaster and Christ.

Now, surely no one can seriously question that the life of Christ as described in the gospel
narrative is of a pronounced anti-sacerdotal type.  He was not of the priestly family, no man
laid hands upon him, he never exercised priestly functions.  His teaching so directly tended
to the disparagement of priesthood as such, that the official hierarchy of his country, quick
to perceive it, compassed his death in the interest of their self-preservation.  "What do we,
for lo! the whole world has gone after him?"  His first sermon was the announcement of a prophetic
mission.  In the synagogue of his own town, among the humble folk who had seen him grow from
boyhood to youth and manhood, he made the announcement: "The spirit of the Lord is upon me,
because the Lord hath anointed me to preach the gospel to the poor".  If he entered the stately
courts of the temple, it was to teach rather than to worship, and never to sacrifice.  At the
close of a day's teaching, he retires to the hillside of Olivet, and feels the Great Presence
in the night breeze upon his brow and in the heaven above him as deeply as within the walls
of the "Holy Place".  It is not, "Lo here, lo there!" for "the Kingdom of God is within you".
A priest would have said the Divine Presence is upon the altar, but Christ discerns it always
and everywhere.  His teaching was almost entirely delivered under the canopy of heaven--on
the mount of beatitudes, in a public street, in the market-place, from a fishing boat to crowds
upon the strand, in a corn-field, or occasionally in some private dwelling-place.  The only
invective that broke the calm of his peaceful speech was directed against the ruling sacerdotal
influence; he was emphatically a "Prophet of the Most High".

The word hiereus, or sacrificing priest, is never once applied to him in the Gospels, and only
in one epistle, that to the Hebrews, and there its appearance is not unworthy of our notice.
Christ is declared to be a hiereus, or priest, only after his removal from earth.  It is stated
that it is an office which did not, which could not have belonged to him while on earth--precisely
the point we contend.  But how is it that in this epistle he comes to be designated as a priest
at all?  It was probably due to the exigencies of controversy.  The epistle must be looked
upon as a polemical pamphlet directed against those Hebrews who refused to embrace the new
reform and derided its absence of priest, sacrifice and altar.  Conscious that Jesus left no
priesthood behind him, that his teaching was anti-sacerdotal and non-sacramental, there was
nothing for the writer but to suggest that the great prophet himself was the high priest, the
solitary member of the caste in the new gospel, and that therewith men are to be satisfied,
because more than compensated thereby for the absence of the altar and hierarchy of old.  So
we have here an unique instance of the exception which proves the rule.  Once and once only
is the founder of Christianity affirmed to be a priest, and then by an anonymous writer, in
a production which the whole Western Church for centuries refused to acknowledge as inspired,
and on examination it turns out that by the very nature of the priesthood ascribed to him,
such an institution is no longer possible on earth; it is banished for ever into invisibility,
and can have no longer any representatives amongst men.

In like manner we find no instance of any attempt on the part of Jesus to make his immediate
followers priests.  He called them "witnesses," bade them "preach" and "teach".  If he told
them to baptise, or to break bread in memory of him, we shall soon see that, in the first three
centuries of Christian history, his words were emphatically not taken to mean that no one but
they, or such as they, could perform these offices.  That which men call "the apostolic succession,"
and to which some of them apparently attach supreme importance, is nothing but a chimera, positively
unknown to Jesus or his apostles, and absolutely unintelligible to the Christian Church for
more than 200 years.  The most profound silence on the whole subject prevails during this period,
in vivid contrast with the language held on the subject by subsequent writers.  In the face
of available, and even readily accessible evidence, it is impossible to maintain that, before
the age of Cyprian, the Bishop of Carthage, who flourished about the middle of the third century,
there was any such distinction between clergy and laity as the apostolic succession theory
maintains to-day.  The very names of the clergy, such as deacon, presbyter, and bishop, are
lay terms, borrowed from civil not ecclesiastical life.  A deacon is a domestic servant; a
presbyter, an elder; and a bishop an overseer or bailiff; and in conformity with these names
there was no office or function of the Church so exclusively proper to the clergy as not to
be capable of performance also by the laity.  And if this can be shown, what follows but that
the whole conception of "holy orders" is an absolute innovation upon the original teaching
of Jesus--a corruption fruitful in disorders, or rather disasters, of the most deplorable character,
and at this very hour tending more than any other ascertainable cause to divide man from man,
and perpetuate the mischief of religious dissension?

To begin with, then, preaching was indiscriminately permitted in the apostolic times and subsequently.
This may be gathered freely from the Acts and Paul's first epistle to the Corinthians, chapter
xiv. Moreover, one of the most interesting monuments of the second century is a homily delivered
by a layman at Rome, a fragment of which had long been known as the second epistle of Clement,[7]
and the remainder of which came to light in 1875 in two forms, a Greek MS. and a Syriac translation.
Moreover, the Apostolical Constitutions, which are still later--going well into the second
century--expressly contemplate preaching by a layman.  Dr. Hatch does not hesitate to say that
the earliest positive prohibitions of lay preaching were issued solely in the interests of
ecclesiastical order, not because there was any inherent right in the priest to teach as opposed
to the layman.

Next, in regard to baptism, there need be no hesitation in admitting the capacity of the layman
to baptise, because the Church of Rome admits it to-day, nay, it admits that a Mohammedan,
or even the heathen Chinaman--if indeed he be such--could lawfully and validly perform that
function.  This, I submit, is not to be construed as an act of liberality on the Church's part.
It is simply the result of the impasse to which it would otherwise be brought by the grotesque
teaching that the Deity would condemn everlastingly the soul of an unbaptised infant.  This,
according to Augustine, being the Christian religion, naturally some loophole had to be fabricated,
because priests are not always at hand in moments of emergency, and consequently the validity
of lay baptism had necessarily to be recognised.

But there is one office which the Anglican, no less than the Roman Church, would reserve to
the priest, and that is the celebration of the Eucharistic Supper.[8]  It is abundantly clear
to historians that the root-source of the superstitious belief in orders is to be found in
the Eucharist and the theories which sprang up in the third century concerning the elements.
It cannot be doubted that previously to the age of Cyprian, the communion was held to be what
its name designates--an holy assembly, a pledge of unity symbolised by the common partaking
of bread and wine after the example of Christ.  Now, it is clear from the Ignatian epistles,
writings of the second century, whoever may have been their author, that the Christians of
those days were accustomed to hold Eucharistic meetings other than those over which a presbyter
or elder presided.  The practice is indeed reproved by the writer, but in exceeding gentle
tones.  "Break one bread," says the writer; "be careful to have only one Eucharist"; "let that
be the valid Eucharist which is celebrated by the bishop or by some one commissioned by him".

It is surely positively inconceivable that Ignatius of Antioch, or whoever the author of these
letters is, can have held the sacramental doctrine subsequently introduced and have used language
of such mild remonstrance to the Asiatic Christians he addresses.  What would the present occupant
of the See of Antioch, of Lincoln, or of Rome say to a number of Christians who assembled together
to-day, took bread and wine, and after repeating the Lord's prayer--for they did no more in
the early centuries--proceeded to partake of it?  Their holy horror is scarcely conceivable.
And yet, these lay folk would be the true Christians, not their sacerdotal denunciators.  Let
us repeat, there was no office open to the priest which was not equally open to the layman.
Merely considerations of order and procedure restricted ecclesiastical functions to a particular
body or caste of men, and consequently the theory of the essential distinction between priest
and layman is not a tenable one because it is none of Christ's making.[9]

It has been remarked that perverse conceptions of the Eucharist were responsible for the equally
corrupt teaching about orders.  This is the case.  Previously to the third century, the Eucharist
remained what it had ever been, "the breaking of bread," the commemorative meal.  Then there
came a change, and men began to read into it a sacrificial meaning and to interpret it as a
mystical repetition of the death of Christ.  From Cyprian this novel theology apparently passed
to Augustine and Ambrose in the fourth century, and thenceforth it became dominant, though
by no means universally so, until the eighth and ninth centuries.  The rise of Athanasianism
in the fourth century, and the abuse of the doctrine of incarnation by that bishop, reacted
naturally in the matter of the Eucharist.  Christ, who was proclaimed to be the solitary incarnation,
the Deity hidden behind a veil of flesh, naturally paved the way for the Eucharist as a sacrament
wherein the Deity is hid behind the veil of bread.  The one incarnation is, as it were, the
complement of the other.  Hence, a rigidly literal meaning was given to Christ's utterances
about eating his flesh and drinking his blood, and Christians were taught to believe that by
the manducation of his bodily frame his holy spirit could be incorporated, as though, for example,
a man might hope to become a poet or a sculptor by feeding upon the flesh or bones of a Shakespeare
or a Michael Angelo.  Only mind can know and receive mind, and it is really difficult to comprehend
the grossness of soul which suggests to man the idea that by feasting on the flesh and blood
of his God he may hope to become like a God.

It would be just as easy to show that in the matter of church government and discipline everything
was, in the early days, on a thoroughly democratic, or representative basis.  Power, as in
the England of to-day, is recognised to reside in the community, not exclusively in the presbyters.
St. Paul's first epistle to the Corinthians recognises this in the matter of the removal of
officers. The epistles of Clement and Polycarp recognise the same thing.  Bishops are always
elected by the people, and the net conclusion therefore is that no such thing as a hierarchy
of ordained deacons, priests and bishops was known to Christ, to Paul, or the writers of the
first two and a half centuries.  The teaching and belief of those days was nonsacerdotal and
non-sacramental, and nothing but a superstitious accretion overlaying the original truth can
account for the spectacle which vast portions of the Christian world now present, as indeed
do vast portions of the Buddhist world.  The fate reserved for both these great prophets seems
to be identical, the submergence of their pure and elevated ethical teaching beneath an accumulated
mass of traditionary and ceremonial law; but here in the West, at all events, there appears
to be a well-grounded hope that it is not altogether impossible to get back to Christ and his
pure and wholesome teaching.  Prophets have arisen in this past century who have far more influence
than many priests, and there may be "some standing here" who will witness the close of the
reign of the priest and the restoration of the dominion of the prophet.

The priests and scribes sat in the chair of Moses in the days of Christ, and that chair is
overturned.  No one knows where to look for it.  Now we have another priest who sits in Peter's
chair, a third who holds Augustine's seat, and a fourth and a fifth who can trace back their
priestly ancestry in unbroken line to some era of superstition and decay.  The same thing goes
on in India and Ceylon, and in Thibet you have the Grand Lamas, to whom successively is united,
by a sort of hypostatic union, the holy Spirit himself.  Always and everywhere the shadow of
the priest, the mystical, magical dispenser of the favours of heaven!  We look to the days
when religion shall be purified of such conceptions, when no one shall venture to stand between
a man and his conscience, or claim to possess powers unattainable by other men, or pretend
that the favour of heaven can be purchased by any other means than those indicated by the prophet
of old and no less by the conscience of mankind--a life in accordance with righteousness, that
is, a life in conformity with the moral law and the example of that supreme among the prophets
of the race--Jesus who was called the Christ.

[1] Christian Institutions, p. 193.

[2] See Times, 5th February, 1898.

[3] Quoted in Spencer's Ecclesiastical Institutions.

[4] The appointment of Aaron by Moses, the leader of the Hebrew people, is the exact counterpart
of the institution of the Flamens by Numa.

[5] Martineau, Studies of Christianity, p. 38.

[6] And, therefore, we note the inconsistency of the sacramentarian theory.  It insists on
moral goodness in the recipients and ministers of sacraments.  But if the rite works of itself,
its mechanical performance should be sufficient.  But no; goodness is needed to secure any
benefit therefrom; and this, of course, is the explanation of the alleged results of the sacraments.
The moral goodness of the recipient has already secured the blessing before any rite has been
administered.

[7] So that what had been thought to be a papal letter turns out to be a lay homily, showing
that a layman could preach as well as a pope in the second century of our era.  This suggests
the notorious fact that unordained ministers are equally, if not more, successful in awakening
ethical and religious emotion than priests and bishops.  Nay, women like Catherine of Siena
could hold Europe, its kings, and popes spell-bound, when "mere men" were powerless.  Has any
one in this generation read more powerful appeals to the religious sense than the fragments
of the sermons of Dinah Morris in Adam Bede, more thrilling descriptions of an unavailing remorse
than in the sermon on the text, "Keep innocency, and take heed to the thing which is right,
for this shall bring a man peace at the last," which is preached by the agonised minister in
The Silence of Dean Maitland?

[8] The recent papal rescript on Anglican ordination makes it the test of the comparative value
of the rival "orders".

[9] Tertullian in the De Corona distinctly declares that though "it is only from the hands
of our president we receive the Eucharist, if there be an emergency, a layman may celebrate
as well as a bishop".  I am indebted to the late Dr. Edwin Hatch for the historical evidence
above adduced as to the church practice prevalent in the earliest centuries of Christianity.
I would recommend interested readers to consult his Bampton Lectures, delivered in 1882.

VIII.

PRAYER IN THE ETHICAL CHURCH.

The most important consequence of the new faith that religion is rooted and grounded not in
doctrine but in morality, is the belief that the religious instinct grows with the growth and
advancement of the moral sense.  The old conception that everything religious was revealed
once for all 1900 years ago, that it is impious to add to, or modify, the heavenly communication
then made, we find ourselves obliged to repudiate in terms.  And, hence, we have no creed or
articles.  We never know when, owing to advancing knowledge, we may be compelled to discard
them.  The desperate straits to which the Churches and their professional apologists are reduced
in their endeavours to reconcile antiquarian statements in Scriptures and theologies with the
authenticated facts of mental and physical science, are not such as to encourage us to attempt
a definition of the Indefinable, or the comprehension of the Infinite within the exiguous limits
of human thought and speech.  We are too young by some centuries to so much as think about
the formulation of a doctrinal code.

The moral sense, it is abundantly obvious, is growing from day to day. The community herein
is the counterpart of the individual.  And hence, the moral and religious observances of to-day
may become obsolete to-morrow.  "The altar-cloths of one generation become the door-mats of
the next."  Hence, I am full of confidence that though everything may be against us now, one
thing is on our side--that is, the future.  We saw an illustration of this truth in the history
of the relations between the priest and the prophet; we shall witness a further instance of
its workings in the history of prayer.

What is the attitude of a human and ethical religion towards that characteristic manifestation
of piety which we call prayer?  Doubtless its views will be found to diverge notably from those
which were prevalent in other days when scientific knowledge was imperfect, and conceptions
of man and the Infinite even more inadequate than they admittedly are at present.  The origin
of prayer is, like the origin of all things terrestrial, extremely humble.  When primitive
man found himself face to face with the more terrible of the natural phenomena--terrors and
portents which he was wholly unable to explain--his only resource was to ascribe their appearance
to the agency of beings like himself, though, of course, immeasurably more powerful.  These
phenomena being often attended by the destruction of the results of laborious industry, and
even of human life itself, it became a matter of urgency to devise means whereby the anger
of the preternatural powers might be appeased, and a cessation of the successive scourges effected.
It was then that man began to offer up entreaty, supplication, petition and prayer to the dread
divinities in whose power it was to behave so malevolently towards man and his possessions.

That this account of the matter is not fanciful, the reports of travellers and missionaries
in savage lands make certain; and as the inhabitants thereof now are, we certainly once were
in our ancestors who dwelt in these northern islands, in the days after the cessation of the
glacial periods.  There is not one shred of scientific evidence available which would help
us to the comforting belief that, however it may be with the Matabele or the Tonga Islanders,
the ancestors of Christian England were anything different.  That, then, which is called the
instinct or habit of prayer, had its origin in the ignorance and superstition of an age which
knew nothing of the inviolable reign of law throughout the infinities of the Divine creation,
in an age whose religious conceptions were as gross as their scientific ideas were absurd.

Now, the unscientific and unphilosophical taint, which marked the earliest heavenward cries
of terrified man, has clung to the petitions which he offers up at this hour for material favours
and blessings.  At the close of a prolonged drought, the Archbishops of Canterbury and York
compose a prayer for rain, and as a drought cannot last for ever, rain does eventually come,
and the same dignitaries then order a prayer to be offered up in thanksgiving.  But does any
one really suppose that the natural order of the phenomena has been altered at the request
of the clergy by an Almighty mind?  It were preposterous, grotesque and irreverent, in the
highest degree to think so.  And the proof that it is preposterous is seen in the fact that
prayers are no longer offered up for the advent or cessation of the effects of phenomena whose
causes have been scientifically determined.  Thus, in mediaeval days, man placed bells high
in the steeples of his churches to deafen the demons who caused the storms of thunder and lightning
which destroyed his property.  At this day one may read the inscriptions on the bells which
testify to the belief of the time.  But as soon as the lightning rod was discovered by Franklin,
and its absolute ability to conduct the electric current to the soil, bells were no longer
requisitioned as antidotes to storms, and prayers and litanies ceased to be sung to petition
the Divine clemency against the effects of the weather.  In the same way an outbreak of cholera
or diphtheria once sent people in their thousands to the churches and chapels; now it sends
them to the drains, and while prayers proved but a poor prophylactic against epidemics, the
most pious credulity now places unbounded faith in a sanitary system approved by a first-class
surveyor.  Can there be any possible doubt that, when the laws of meteorology are as well known
as those which govern the tides or the thunderbolts, the archbishops will cease to order any
more prayers for the purpose of controlling the elements?

Then, there is another aspect of petitionary prayer which demands a passing notice.  It actually
represents the Supreme Being as an individual who will interfere with what are manifestly natural
laws to suit the convenience or even the whim of the votary; and worse than that, that the
course of events will be so ordered as to meet the requirements of the individual supplicant,
to the exclusion of the needs, the convenience or circumstances, of numberless other human
beings who may be seriously incommoded, possibly even wronged, if the first votary's supplications
are granted.  It is of little avail to have recourse to the mechanical theory that infinite
power is capable of so adjusting matters as to satisfy everybody.  These are words and phrases
more sonorous than satisfactory.  When, for instance, war breaks out between two Christian
powers, the Almighty is at once petitioned to crown both combatants with victory, and that
done, victory is always assumed by the conqueror to mean that the Divine blessing has been
with him to the exclusion of his adversary.  But the remarkable fact to the impartial observer
uniformly is, that victory always rests with those who have made the best preparations, conducted
the campaign in the most skilful manner, and fought with the greatest determination, or as
Napoleon curtly put it, that as far as he could see, Providence was always on the side of the
strongest battalions.

I recently heard read a lady's letter in which she poured forth her most fervent gratitude
to heaven because her husband had been elected to a certain influential position over the heads
of seventy competitors.  Unless sixty-nine other equally desirable posts were magically created
by Divine power, it seems difficult to understand, on the supposition that the election was
the arbitrary act of God, how the claims of all were satisfied in this individual instance.
The truth is that the prayer of petition ought instantly to cease as infantine, irrational,
and irreverent.  The serious man cannot bring himself to offer up vocal prayers for temporary
or spiritual benefits, which are manifestly attainable by the capacity of man's natural powers,
or which cannot be heard without a selfish indifference to the equal rights and claims of others.
And, therefore, no petitionary prayers find a place in the service of the ethical Church. 
The God whom we recognise is the "Mind who meditates in beauty and speaks only in law"; the
"beneficent Unity," the "beautiful Necessity"; the law which is not intelligent, but Intelligence.
It were as impious to pray for an infraction of the natural laws of Divine ordaining as it
were foolish to wish that the law of gravitation were suspended to gratify a passing need or
whim. In the Talmud there is a prophetic intimation of the religion which asks no favours,
but prays by living the moral life.  It foretells the day when prayer shall cease in the Jewish
Church, and thanksgiving only be henceforth heard.  This exactly expresses what we feel should
be the attitude of the reverent man in the silence of the Great Presence--his life an attestation
of his recognition of what he owes to the Being whose nature he shares.

But, it will doubtless be urged, prayers are answered even when offered for purely temporary
blessings, or at any rate, numberless men and women contend that they have been so answered
in their own experience. Members of the more emotional forms of Nonconformity are especially
emphatic in their testimony to the efficacy of prayer, though I doubt not that their more educated
ministers would hesitate to commit themselves to the belief in its more extreme forms.  Mr.
Armstrong certainly disavows it for the Unitarian body, a Church always to be held in reverence
as having done more to rationalise religion in this country and America than any other agency
we could indicate.  But what are we to say to such testimonies?  This, that the prayers have
been answered by the supplicants themselves, when even, indeed, we have not to deal with a
matter of mere coincidence.  But, I would expressly guard against the inference being drawn,
that I question the Divine Personality.  I lay down no dogmatic statements as to the efficacy
of vocal prayers.  What I do say is, that all I know of God as revealed in nature and law forbids
me to entertain the notion that the order he has seen fit to establish is to be capriciously
altered at the request of any of his creatures.  It is not irreverence, but a sense of reverence
which prohibits me from believing that the Being whose presence and power are revealed in the
least as in the greatest of the phenomena of nature, is open to arbitrarily interfere with
the established course of things because an individual or a score of individuals wish it.

But what of the alleged answers to prayers which are held to establish its efficacy?  I unhesitatingly
ascribe the results to increased activity, more resolute determination, on the part of the
natural will of the votary.  Let a man, for example, become convinced that the crisis of his
life has arrived, that a certain policy must be at once adopted, a certain post secured, or
an examination passed, and the natural bending of the energies in a given direction redoubles
his ordinary powers.  If a post has to be obtained and influence is necessary, he prosecutes
a more resolute canvass; if an examination must be passed, a degree secured, he reads with
increased application, and, as a matter of course, he succeeds.  If, in the meantime, he has
had recourse to prayer, his womankind, or possibly he himself, will ascribe the entire results
to that agency, while the results are altogether due to his own persistent efforts.  He has
answered his own prayers.  Does the most pious individual believe, if all efforts were remitted,
or no exceptional energy put forth by the individual in question, but the whole matter left
entirely "in the hands of God," as the phrase runs, that any successful results would have
ensued?  Not one.  And hence those axioms which the common-sense, even of the most credulous,
adopts as true, namely, that, "Heaven only helps those who help themselves," or, as another
pious recommendation goes, "Pray as though everything depended on God, act as though everything
depended on yourself".  What wonder, when this advice is followed out to the letter, that we
are overwhelmed with assurances that prayers have been answered, when a man is appointed to
a sinecure or has obtained a life-pension?  What one would like to ask is this: Do these credulous
people suppose that the event would have been otherwise, had the young candidate not prayed?
Do they suppose that the Deity would positively have snatched away the prize at the last moment,
and given it to another, simply because he had not been consulted in the matter?  If they do,
then we must confess our ideals of the Divine are very different from theirs.

Powers are given to man for one purpose--that he may use them--and to us it is wholly irrational
to suggest that what is given with one hand is to be taken away with the other, because the
formality of supplication is not employed when anything of moment is to be put into execution.
The notion that intelligence was put in man only to be shattered, a will given him only to
be forthwith distorted by passion or blinded by ignorance, and that "there is no health in
us" unless we abase ourselves to the dust and proclaim our utter worthlessness, is to men and
women of this time wholly inconceivable.  That nothing ethically valuable can be accomplished
except after instant prayer, or after copious outpourings of Divine grace, that the curse of
absolute sterility is upon all our attempts to conform to the dictates of the moral law, unless
God be with us in prayer, is henceforth an impossible theology.

Tell us that the man and the world are dependent at every instant of time on the sustaining
and prolonged creative act of the Infinite Being, and we are one with you, nay, we probably
go beyond you.  "He is not very far from any one of us" means more to the scientific philosopher
than to the mediaeval theologian.  But spare us the repetition of those stale legends that
man was made and unmade in the space of a few moments, and that ever since the manducation
of the forbidden fruit his powers have withered, and that there is no remedy available for
their recovery but incessant prayer and sacramental ordinances.  Our reading of history is
exactly the reverse.  With the progress of time we discern the advance of man, and with the
diminution of sacerdotalism and a mechanical religion we think we note an accelerated progress;
that in those countries in which men are nobly self-reliant, and look within instead of without
for the source of their inspiration and power, the course of moral life takes a higher turn;
that in proportion as men are true to themselves and the powers of their own being, they ascend
in the scale of moral perfection.  We think that to teach a man to look without him for assistance
is to cripple half his powers, to make him unlearn the grand gospel of self-reliance, to loosen
the fibres of his moral being, and thereby to check his individual progress.[1]

It must have been some such conviction as this which led the late Master of Balliol to say
that the longer he lived the less he prayed, but the more he thought.  Precisely; it is not
irreverence but a deepening reverence for the Divine powers within us, which shames us into
trusting them when anything great is to be done.  What god are you praying to, we ask in dismay,
when you lift up your hands and your eyes, or turn to east or west, or kneel or lie?  Is there
any god in the wastes of infinity, in a sunstar, a swarm of worlds, who is not in that miraculous
soul of yours?  Is there aught anywhere greater than a son of God?  Is a stone, a star, a heaven
studded with infinite glories, a greater place than your eternal soul?  Then look within you.
Speak with yourself, commune with your own heart, summon up the irresistible energies of your
nature and nothing shall be impossible to you.  This is "the prayer of faith" that never shall,
that never can, go unanswered, the concentration of the myriad energies of our souls to meet
an attack, to prosecute an enterprise, to overcome obstacles, aye, to make our lives sublime
with a heroism that men shall call divine. "The less I pray, but the more I think!"  Aye, it
is not prayer in the old sense, the cry of the soul that believes itself craven, weak and wanton,
because it has always been told so by blind guides; it is not this aimless outpouring of energy
directed towards a Divinity in the skies, when the very Life and Mind Divine are the endowments
of every rational creature, that has made man great; but thought, concentration, the serious,
resolute application of the powers that man does possess, the bending of the iron energies
to the accomplishment of the individual task--this it is which has "conquered kingdoms, wrought
righteousness, obtained the promises," riveted man's dominion over nature and made him what
he was intended to be--the crown and glory of the universe.

And at this point we may make a further suggestion towards explaining the genesis and the continued
maintenance of vocal prayer as a part of religious worship.  The practice would seem to be
due not merely to ignorance or disregard of the obvious law of cause and effect, by which material
phenomena are necessarily controlled, but to less worthy conceptions of the Divine Mind governing
all things.  The Deity of the Christian and Mohammedan worlds is a Being eternally dissevered
from a world which he has by an omnipotent effort evoked from nothingness--a conception now
regarded as impossible.  Consequently, while God is in his high heaven, surrounded by his court,
the world holds on its courses, and is periodically corrected by special interferences, generally
said to be due to the intervention of prayer.  Thus, the grand historical evolution, which
caused the Roman Empire to appear at the close of the three great Eastern Empires, and that
monument of human genius itself to ultimately collapse and make way for the nations which now
constitute modern Europe, in no wise strikes Augustine, or any orthodox teacher, even of to-day,
as the outcome of purely natural forces and influences--the action and reaction of powers wholly
human--but as part of a Divine scheme, which was foreordained for the purpose of founding the
Christian Church.  This, in briefest outline, is the famous argument of "The City of God,"
the first Christian attempt at a philosophy of history.  Everything mapped out by Divine ordinance,
and men moved like puppets to accomplish the scheme.  Attila the Hun appears at the gates of
Rome, in the fifth century, and threatens to sack it, and thereby delay the execution of the
plan, and prayer averts the disaster.  In all moments of danger, threatened catastrophe, public
or private, the doctrine inculcated was recurrence by prayer to the external Deity, who would
so modify things by his omnipotent power, as to reconcile the interests of all concerned. 
I do not think it can be said that such a frame of mind is distinctive of the Protestant of
to-day, certainly not of the instructed Protestant, who may acquiesce in the vicarious repetition
of certain formulas by his clergyman on Sunday morning, but would certainly not in practice
endorse the theory that Divine intervention might be called in at any moment by prayer.  But
it is the attitude of the Roman and Greek Churches, as it is of the Mohammedan religion, and
doubtless of the less educated in the sects of Nonconformity.

Now this conception of Divinity is Oriental, whence indeed our current religion arose.  It
represents the Supreme Being as an aged man clothed in flowing robes, his hair "white as wool,"
seated on a golden throne and ceaselessly adored by myriads of voices who sing day and night,
Holy, Holy, Holy, or Hallelujah.  It is the conception of a Divinity who existed an eternity
in the solitude of his own kingdom, amid silences unbroken by any voice, who suddenly comes
to the determination to create worlds and man out of nothing, and orders men to pray and to
praise him.  He is angry if they do not; he is "a jealous God," and will punish those who offend
him "to the fourth generation".  He is sorry he has made man and proceeds to destroy him, and
then subsequently regrets that decision.  In a word, the God of the Hebrew tradition, whom
the Christian Church still popularly preaches, is in reality a magnified copy of an Oriental
Sultan, whose tastes and proclivities are such as the Arabian Nights has familiarised us with--greedy
of praise, adulation and homage, cruel and vindictive to those who refuse their worship and
adoration.

Now this Orientalism is no longer tolerable in the eyes of thoughtful people.  We cannot conceive
that the Infinite Being should find pleasure in hearing all day and night how wonderful he
is, and how miraculous his works.  It is not easily intelligible how services and litanies
of "praise" can be acceptable to the Creator when they would certainly be nauseous to the best
men on earth.  Jesus openly reproved one who praised him as "the good master".  "Call no man
good," he said: "God only, he is good."  Wellington's reply to the famous individual who claimed
to have "saved the life of the saviour of Europe" is too well known to repeat.  The truth is,
that these prayers and chants are offered up not for God's sake, but for ours.  They are a
relief to the heart surcharged with religious emotion, the outcome of the vehement impulse
of the soul towards communion with the Life of its life.  Speaking reverently, prayer and praise
are like a lover's protestations, which are not an act of adulation at the shrine of his mistress,
but an irresistible unburdening of the greatness of the emotion that fills his heart.  But
no lover could speak from his soul in a public place, in the sight or hearing of other men.
Solitude, silence, "the element in which everything truly great is made," is needed above all
else, that the soul may find adequate utterance for thoughts so sublime.

And, therefore, Jesus warned man to pray in his own chamber, in secret, the lonely soul bared
in the presence of the Alone, "to the Father which seeth in secret".  Hence no sound of spoken
prayer is heard at our services.  The deed is too solemn.  Nevertheless, the whole object of
the series of acts which are done is to suggest, to create, first thought, and then emotion,
after the manner of the Hebrew psalmist, who sang "In the midst of my thoughts shall a fire
flame forth".  The hymns are chosen with the idea, not of praising the Almighty, who needs
no such praises, but of filling our souls with a sense of the unearthly beauty of the moral
life, of the life perseveringly devoted to high ideals of self-culture and human service, and
thereby lifting our souls to thoughts of that fair world of the Ideal in which such conceptions
are eternally realised.  Likewise the readings set before us the burning words of first one
and then another prophetical soul to deepen in our own the conviction of the seriousness of
life, its far-reaching responsibilities, the realisation of the boundless capacities for good
or evil which man has within him, and the utter worthlessness of all things on this earth compared
with character, integrity, the perfection of the will by conformity with the moral law.

In the midst of such influences by which we are surrounded during the hour, all too brief,
which we devote to the world of the Ideal on one day out of seven,[2] it is hoped that thoughts
will sometimes burn in many hearts, that reverence, awe, fear, regrets for the past, fervent
resolutions for the future, hope, aspiration, and love; in a word, all the sanctified emotions
of the human heart, which together melt into the supreme emotion of religion, will sometimes
arise to sternly rebuke the selfish life, shame us out of our moral lethargy, and comfort those
whose one solace is that their honour is intact, though misfortune has stricken them in mind
or body, or robbed them of the goods of earth, or the cheer and comfort of friendship and of
love.  It is hoped that the influence of what is said and done then will endure beyond the
hour of our meeting, and fill some other moments of our lives when we are, as we should be,
at seasons, alone--alone with ourselves, and therefore alone with God, in solemn communion
with the Soul who is the soul in us, and who asks for no articulate voice of prayer, but only
that our life in every word and deed should be worthy of our exalted nature. Life is prayer.
Conduct is sacrifice.  Morality is religion.

[1] See the concluding words of Emerson's essay on "Self-Reliance".

[2] The Ethical Religion Society meets weekly on Sunday mornings.

IX.

THE ETHICAL ASPECT OF DEATH.

There is a common but none the less erroneous impression amongst those who walk and worship
in the old ways, that the newer forms in which the religious sentiment expresses itself are
insensible to the more solemn aspects of life, its sins and sorrows, its disappointments and
disillusionment, and most of all to the final catastrophe which men call death.  Ours, they
would impress upon us, is a fair weather creed, good enough when all goes well, but painfully
inadequate in the storm and stress which the inevitable trials of existence inflict upon us.
Sorrow, they impressively warn us, is ever the rock upon which all such systems must split.

Now, to say nothing of the obvious reflection that what we now call the
old, that is, the orthodox ways, are in reality exceedingly new, and
that even the "chosen people," or their immediate predecessors, were
left wholly destitute by the Deity of any such comforts as are held so
indispensably necessary to a well-ordered existence--to say nothing of
this, the argument, if worth anything, would go to show that the
religion which offered most consolation was the true one; and since no
traveller ever returns from that bourne, so near and yet so far, to
advise us of the truth or falsity of these ultra-mundane comforts, we
seem compelled to hesitate more than ever before we forsake that sturdy
and plain-spoken guide called reason, whom we as confidently follow in
the region of religion as in the business of everyday life.  The
Society for Psychical Research has some remarkable evidence to offer,
apparently establishing to physical demonstration that the man
 in us does not die but lives, and
communicates with his fellows after the final fact of this earth called
death.  But, however this may be, and we are not called upon now to
offer any opinion on these matters, the so-called revelations are
wonderfully silent on those topics which sentimentarians apparently
erect into the supreme test of a religion's truth or falsity.  As far
as one may judge, the departed appear to be occupied with nothing more
sublime than filled their thoughts during this present sphere; in fact,
as is well known, they often appear to exhibit a painful declension in
moral life and to have lost immeasurably in character by their passage
from this stage of being to the unknown land beyond the grave.

Reason, therefore, being in no position to settle the rival claims of the physical delights
of the Mohammedan paradise, the comparatively insipid ideal of the Apocalypse, and "the nameless
quiet" of the Buddhist Nirvana, feels compelled to pass them all by and to hold that of the
invisible universe we are painfully ignorant, and that the only deathless reality is the will
of man conformed to the great obedience of the moral law.  It believes that the test of a system
is not what it promises but what it performs, and we may take it as an absolutely certain thing
that if any of the "systems" of our day secured palpably higher ethical results amongst its
adherents, the world would flock to that Church forthwith.  As Augustine says, "no one loves
the devil," which, being ethically interpreted, means no one wants to be bad, and if any ecclesiastical
corporation, by an appeal to history or to present and urgent visible facts, could justify
its claims to successfully strengthen man's oftentimes rebel will in the pursuit of the great
ideal, men would follow it to the world's end, such is the power of truth and goodness over
the human heart.  But the truth is, no such agency has ever been discovered.  In the sixteenth
century the Council of Trent was summoned "to reform the Church in its head and members," a
plain confession of ethical failure.  Do men suppose that Luther, or a whole synod of monks,
could have torn Europe in pieces in about a score of years, when Anglicans have been debating
auricular confession and the eastward position for the last fifty, unless the Continent had
undergone a moral débâcle?  Luther's paltry diatribes about indulgences would have left men
as cold as stone; it was the fervour of the ethical enthusiast thundering against immoralities
in high places which rent the Christian Church in twain by the most violent and widespread
schism it had ever known.

No, the test of a thing is not what it promises but what it does. Exitus acta probat.  And
if the enlightened men and women of our time are disposed less and less to rely upon creeds
as a basis of religious communion, it is because they see that whatever the future life may
have in store for mankind, they cannot better prepare for it than by living worthily in this.

But as evidence that they who follow the ethical obedience are in no wise insensible to the
sterner aspects of life, we shall now pass on to say what in our judgment should be the religious
attitude of man face to face with the inevitable certainty of death.

If we pause one moment to reflect on the physical aspect of death, it would only be to remark
that it is as natural an occurrence as birth. In fact, as is obvious to the most superficial
mind, birth and death are inextricably interwoven.  The great life of the worlds is so one,
so powerful, so omnipresent, that nothing can so utterly pass away as to give birth to nothing--no,
not even the cremated remains which are blown to the four winds.  The theory that death is
a non-natural occurrence arbitrarily inflicted by the Deity in his anger at Adam's disobedience
is no longer taught even in the nursery, because aeons upon aeons before man's advent hither
death reigned supreme over sentient existence, and the bones of the doomed are in our museums
to attest the fact.  Nay, we have recovered the ice-embedded body of the mammoth, its stomach
filled with undigested food, food it ate as far back as the glacial period, by which it was
overtaken and frozen in its ice grave 200,000 years ago.  The Roman sentinel, overwhelmed where
he stood by the lava of Vesuvius, defiant of disaster in his inflexible devotion to duty, is
not a surer proof of the natural fact of death than the mammoth that died in Alaska before
man's appearance on the earth.  The law of growth is the law of death.  Life begins, it increases,
it reaches its meridian, it begins to waver and then steadily to decline, till at length the
bodily frame dissolves, and then--

  That which drew from out the boundless deep
    Turns again home.

It is so with all things, from a fungus to a giant of the forest, from a stone to a cluster
of stars whose light takes 4000 years to reach us. It is only a question of time when our own
sun shall set in impotence and rise again no more.  All things are passing away, everything
is unstable, change is at the heart of all.  How solemn, how true the words, whose melancholy
haunts the more the memory dwells on them: "this world passeth away and the desire thereof,
but he that doeth the Divine will endureth for ever"!  As we said, the one changeless thing,
beyond the doom of sun-stars and swarms of worlds, is the will of man nobly submissive to the
Great Obedience of the Supreme Law--the Law of Justice and of Truth.  That alone can never die.

Let us turn now to the ethical and religious aspect of that which we have seen to be in itself
so natural, so inevitable.

In the first place, we conceive that it in no wise interrupts the progress of the individual
life.  Certainly the conditions under which existence maintains itself in that other state
must be far other than those which obtain here, for there man is destitute of his bodily environment.
The conditions of such a life are wholly unpicturable, wholly unimaginable, but not inconceivable.
These are high matters, like the truths of sublimest philosophy, wherein it is impious to intrude
with so inferior a faculty as imagination, and demand that an image or representation of a
bodiless existence be presented to it. What picture does man make for himself of the force
of gravitation, nay of the force which drives the crocuses out of the soil in spring?  It is
enough to know that the force is there; it is enough to know that a man's body is not his self.
Surely every one who reflects must be conscious that his body is his, just like his clothes;
and therefore not he, any more than the raiment wherewith he is covered.  Foolish, then, is
it to ask for pictures like children; let us be satisfied to know with the reason, which we
alone of all earth-born creatures possess, that the body is not we but ours, and that we are
not mere ephemerals, but are "going on and still to be".

Now these words of Tennyson exactly express our ethical teaching, that man is "ever going on
and still to be," and that death, so far from putting a stop to the eternal progress, is but
a stage, an incident in the journey, possibly--for we know so little of these matters--a very
insignificant one.  The theory commonly inculcated, certainly commonly held, is that the fact
of death ushers in a perfect transformation scene, more wonderful than anything thought of
or devised by man, nor should we be accounted irreverent did we describe the language of the
book of Revelation as pantomimic in the exuberance of its splendour. All sorrow is supposed
to cease as if by magic, the sun shines perpetually, it is eternal noon; the home of the blessed
is a wondrous city, built four-square, whose streets are of pure gold, whose rivers are of
crystal, and whose foundations are laid in precious stones. Sweetest songs of earth resound
in the heavenly courts; yea, even musical instruments are there, and life would appear to be
one prolonged religious service.  Into this celestial blessedness departed souls enter new-born,
and take their allotted places once and for ever; they never apparently move from them; they
grow no better; there is no room for further development, nor possibility of deterioration,
but a fixed and immovable moral status is, to all appearances, arbitrarily imposed upon them
for evermore.  The impression one gathers is, therefore, of a large and glorified amphitheatre,
tiers rising above tiers into infinity, seats along them, each of which is tenanted by an individual
elect spirit whose merits are precisely proportioned to its place.

Now that existence prolonged, I will not say into eternity, but into a week is the very reverse
of inspiring.  Of course, we are aware that Dean Farrar has as effectually explained away the
Orientalisms of the Christian heaven as the Paganisms of the orthodox hell; we are ready to
believe that the Apocalypse--which is held now not to be a Christian book at all, but a Jewish
composition, edited and amended by a Christian hand--sets forth only figures and types of the
great supernal blessedness.  This we know, but our difficulty is not with the form but with
the content, that is, with that which these hyperboles symbolise. It is fairly inconceivable
to us that a matter which, according to the Churches, merely concerns the body, soon to be
resolved into its component gases, should exercise so miraculous a transformation on the soul,
or the real man.  He did not die; his body did, and yet they would have us believe that that
mere physical occurrence, that catastrophe of flesh and blood, means the subsequent and eternal
stagnation of all psychical life; that men either go forthwith into scenes with which ninety
out of a hundred would be wholly unfamiliar, or are thrust headlong into a subterraneous locality
called Sheol, or the grave in Hebrew, the English equivalent of which is hell, the only difference
being that, whereas the good can grow no better, the wicked can and do grow worse.

Doubtless, I shall be reminded that these teachings do not occur explicitly in the Thirty-nine
Articles, any Church Confession, or a Papal Decree.  That may very well be so, as regards them
all, but there can be no doubt that the main assertion is accepted as dogmatically true by
all Christian Churches--namely, that a wonderful and searching change does occur at the moment
of death, whereby "the time of probation," as it is called, comes to an end, and all possibility
of further "merit before God," or, as we should say, of ethical advancement, relentlessly cut
off.  To quote a letter of Cardinal Newman's, written in 1872 to the Rev. W. Probyn-Nevins,
and published subsequently by him--in the Nineteenth Century of May, 1893--"The great truth
is that death ends our probation, and settles our state for ever, that there is no passing
over the great gulf".  Amidst much that is uncertain, for instance, as to whether real devils
are in hell, a real fire, and whether it be bright or dark, whether the appalling torments
are ever mitigated, say on certain feasts of the Christian Church, such as Christmas Day and
Easter, or whether eventually the pains ultimately die completely away and thus usher in that
"happiness in hell" in which Mr. Mivart is, or was, so deeply interested five years ago--amidst
all these highly debatable points, Newman pronounces one thing certain, that "death ends our
probation," that "there is no passing over the great gulf".

Now, whence did he learn this strange teaching?  How is he dogmatically certain of that one
thing, while all the rest is in a haze?  From stray texts, such as, "Whether the tree falleth
to the north or the south, in whatsoever place it shall fall, there shall it lie"; or, from
the parable of wise and foolish virgins, some of whom happened to be asleep, and awoke at the
critical hour to find that during the long night-watch for the bridegroom their store of oil
had become exhausted? Surely tropes and parables are a highly insecure foundation whereon to
build such a momentous teaching.  Certainly, it is gravely questionable whether any direct
statement in the Hebrew or Christian writings can be adduced to support the common notion that
bodily dissolution is a spiritual reagent, and ipso facto seals the destiny of a spiritual
essence.  Vast numbers of even Anglicans repudiate the notion in the name of theology and religion.
We repudiate it in the name of reason, which was put into us for no other purpose, we know
well, than to judge not only the statements Churches put forth, but the sacred documents on
which they build them.  We repudiate the notion in the name of that reason which shows us that
the Infinite Mind, whose light and life we share, was millions of years preparing this earth
for man's habitation, aeons of time so fashioning the course of things that a body might be
prepared in which that mind which we call soul might energise; aeons of time so ordering the
course of events that man should emerge one day from the savagedom and animalism of the past
to enter upon the path of a progress which we believe to be endless.  I say the reason which
demonstrates this to us with a certitude which not the most intolerant bigotry dares to question
to-day, tells us also that it is wholly preposterous that all that is left to man wherein to
work out his own individual moral progress is the brief span of threescore years and ten, that
after these days "few and evil," the chapter is closed, the book sealed for ever, and the status
of man inexorably and unalterably determined.

I frankly avow I would as soon believe the Buddhist Jataka as such a wholly irrational account
of the ways of God with man.  Just think of the palaeolithic man, who had no glimmering of
moral discernment; think of the cave-men whose skulls we possess in scores, that bear eloquent
testimony to their deplorable degradation--think of such creatures dying, and their mental
and moral status stereotyped for ever.  "Death ends our probation!"  A precious revelation
this!  Where and what are these men now?  When Newman visited Greece in the thirties what impressed
him, or rather oppressed him, as he stood above the glorious bay of Salamis, over which once
rode the hundreds and thousands of galleys and triremes which transported the unnumbered hosts
of Xerxes to Greece, was the awful thought that all those million men, including the proud
monarch who reviewed them from the spot on which he then stood, were "still alive".  Alive!
And where were they, and what were they doing?  I cannot conceive anything more appallingly
depressing, nay, maddening, than to believe that all that heavenly orchestration is going on
while Xerxes is possibly in an Apocalyptic hell, and his hosts either bearing him company or
wandering aimlessly about in the same stupid, stolid, unmoral, unspiritual condition in which
they were the moment they were engulfed in those blue waters. Why, Nero fiddling while Rome
was burning is a pleasant memory compared with it!

But we have not reached the end yet.  "Deep calleth unto deep," and the extreme deductions
from the perverse notion that the act of dying is the signal for the infliction of an everlasting
mental and moral sterility, finally convince us of the groundlessness of this feckless theology.
According to these deductions of which I speak, one grievous offence against Divine or ecclesiastical
law--such, for instance, as grave scandal or the omission to attend at mass--is sufficient
to condemn a man to eternal reprobation.  If it be supposed that death cuts the offender off
before he has the opportunity to make confession of his fault or otherwise express his sorrow,
we are soberly asked to believe that the horrors of Tartarus are his eternal doom.  Surely
the mediaeval authorities who formulated this precious teaching must have been bereft of the
most elementary notions of ethical law.  One act, or a dozen such acts, do not stamp the delinquent
as habitually bad, still less as one irredeemably wicked.  Habits are only generated by a constant
repetition of corresponding acts, just as good habits are formed with difficulty, and only
after persevering and resolute attention on the part of our wills.  So, also, an evil disposition
is only the outcome of a deliberate surrender of our moral nature to perverse inclinations.

Now, the hell dogma implies that the so-called "lost" are so irredeemably depraved as to be
incapable of as much as a good thought; they are described in the graphic language of Aquinas
and Suarez as "obstinated in evil," "confirmed immutably in malice"; in fact, absolutely diabolised.
And all this for missing attendance at mass on one of the Church's festivals!  "Paris vaut
bien une messe," said Henri Quatre.  It would be well worth attending a mass to escape such
a destiny!  "There must be something rotten in the state of Denmark," where such horrors go
stalking about unreproved.  As though infinite justice could be conceivably associated with
such a transaction as the branding of a man as an eternal criminal, blasting every moral sentiment
he ever possessed, arbitrarily reducing him to a condition infinitely beneath the bestial--and
all because he had broken a Church law in neglecting to attend Divine service.  Many of us
incline to believe that our own punishments, inflicted in the name of law, often tend rather
to degrade the prisoner than to improve him.  At any rate, not a man in the land but believes
that no punishment should be administered except with a view of amending what is amiss in the
culprit's character.  But contrast this moral attitude of ours with the method of procedure
deliberately ascribed to Deity, and let us ask ourselves whether the God of some men is not
worse than their devil? No such scruples, apparently, affect that supreme tribunal, but if
bodily death by accident overtake the erring man, then, forthwith, and as if by magic, the
spiritual in him is rendered fiendish, and henceforth and for ever he is fit for nothing but
that genial society and those edifying occupations which are described in the cheerful manuals
known as, A Glimpse of Hell, and Hell open to Christians.

Those who witnessed the recent revival of Hamlet--a revival which it would appear is destined
to be historic--cannot have failed to notice how the great master of song permits himself to
express the perverse conception that death is synonymous with everlasting moral stagnation.
Hamlet steals into his murderous uncle's apartment, sword in hand, but discovering the criminal
upon his knees, forbears to strike then, lest somehow his devotions should save him from his
doom.  No, he will wait until the miserable creature is off his guard, so that death may overtake
him at a moment when no prayer or cry for mercy is possible. As though a momentary act could
undo the mischief of years!  As though a man is in himself any different after years, of crime
because he utters a sudden cry for mercy!  And, as though by killing him at an opportune moment,
Hamlet could damn his soul for ever!  And it will be noted, moreover, that the ghost emphasises
the treachery of which he has been the victim, in that he was sent into eternity "unhouseled,
unaneled," as though momentary acts can make up for years wasted and misspent.  As well might
one scatter one's fortune in luxury and riotous living, and resolve to win it all back in a
moment, as misuse these glorious powers of mind and will we bear within us, turn them to evil,
steep them in iniquity, and then think to suddenly turn and by a single act bend them successfully
to the arduous service of the good. This is stern teaching, but it is the truth; and a mercy
would it be, a mercy would it have been for us all in the days of our youth, if instead of
the too frequent insistence on the doctrine of the forgiveness of sin, the doctrine of compensation
and retribution, as taught by Ralph Waldo Emerson, had been instilled into our hearts.  "Ye
shall not go forth until ye have paid the last farthing," is the teaching.  Dare to break those
solemn laws, to pervert these mysterious powers we possess, Amen, Amen, we cannot escape retribution;
we cannot go forth until we pay the last farthing.

And this last thought prepares for the statement of our view of the attitude a rational religion
takes up in the solemn presence of death. "Stoicism shall not be more exigent," said Emerson
of the new Church. We take no lax view of life and its responsibilities, but we refuse to magnify
death into the one thing worth living for or thinking about. Homo liber de nulla re minus quam
de morte cogitat.  We do not set about digging our graves, we do not carry our coffins about
with us, still less do we sleep in them--a gruesome practice which has attracted some fanatical
folk.  To us, death is a fact, not an effect, an incident as natural as birth, in no wise affecting
the real, the spiritual, man.  We therefore utterly disavow all sympathy with the groundless
assumption that a magical change comes over the psychical powers of a man at that supreme moment,
whereby he can do no more good, but may harden into a more hopeless reprobate.  The notion
that a judgment of the soul takes place, as in the hall of Osiris, of Egyptian mythology, at
the instant of dissolution, whereby the destiny of the individual is sealed for ever, we repudiate
in terms.  Man is judged, not then, but at every moment of his life.  "The moral laws vindicate
themselves" without the intervention of any external tribunal.  And, therefore, the eternal
progress of the man in us is maintained uninterruptedly across the gloomy chasm of death, under
other circumstances, no doubt, but still it is the same ceaseless approach towards the Infinite
Ideal, the same untiring journey along "the everlasting way".  All are in that "way," we may
be sure, even those whom we foolishly deem hopelessly reprobate.

But such men, the Neros, Caligulas, the Wainwrights and Palmers of all ages and nations, are
but a fractional, an infinitesimal, element in the great human family.  Sanabiles fecit nationes
super terram.  "He hath made earth's peoples to be healed;" they shall redeem themselves one
day.  The moment of awakening comes sooner or later to all; there is an unextinguished capacity
for good under the sores and scars of the most dissolute life, and we may believe that awakening
comes when the spirit enters new-born, as it were, into a world where the illusions of the
flesh, the deceptions of the sense, obtain no more.

There are no final, irredeemable failures.  The Divine in man must emerge one day; its glory
pierce through the gloom of his sin and shame, and transfigure him anew after the beautiful
and pathetic image of the holy Christ in the legend,[1] whose closing days on earth, they say,
were illumined by one supreme wonder--his face calm and blissful, glowing radiant like the
glory of a setting sun, his very raiment turned white like the driven snow.  A beauteous imagery!
But there was no external transfiguration.  It was but a type of the radiant purity within;
a witness to the "beauty of holiness".  It was an emblem of what all may be in some far-off
day, when the lowliest amongst us learns to follow the Christs, the blessed company of all
elect souls, in the way which begins and ends in the eternal righteousness.

[1] In the same way the Buddha was "transfigured".  See Doane's Bible Myths.

X.

THE ETHICAL ASPECT OF WAR.

An idealism such as that which substantially identifies religion with morality, is suitably
occupied, as occasion offers, in the discussion of those questions of public interest which
have an immediate bearing on the well-being of communities.  In this respect it departs markedly
from the attitude taken up by those Churches, which afford little or no guidance on such matters,
probably because it is felt by priests and prelates that their functions are rather of an ultra-mundane
character, and that their most important duty is to prepare humanity for the enjoyment of another
life after this unsatisfactory stage has passed. Hence the sharp line of distinction they draw
between the Church and the world, the one the kingdom of saints, the other "lying" hopelessly
"in wickedness".  Hence, again, their distinction of "holy days" and secular days, Sunday being
devoted to religious exercises, while the remaining six days are presumably to be occupied
in wholly secular enterprise.  The distinction affects our very attire.  Religious rites being
of a totally different character from the duties we accomplish during the week, there is nothing
for it but to don "our blacks," to quote the language of a current popular play, and enact
subsequently the ceremonial described as the church parade.  It is the same feeling which causes
the average Englishman to lapse into a sort of funereal solemnity at the very mention of the
word religion, or of anything allied to it.  The divorce of religion from ordinary life could
not be more plainly indicated than by such phenomena as we have noticed.

It is, of course, one of the main objects of our movement to show the falsity of this distinction
between the Church and the world, between religion and morality.  We submit that it is not
the institution of the founder of Christianity, but of his later followers.  The Church of
Christ meant the assemblage of men as men, as citizens.  The entry thereto was not by the magical
washing away of an imaginary birth-sin, but through the natural and beautiful sacrament of
human birth.  The world is the Church, and the Church is the world, and the "living stones"
out of which "the kingdom of heaven" is built here on earth are precisely the stones out of
which the civil commonwealth arises.  There is nothing secular, nothing profane, but from first
to last the life of every man, from the miraculous moment of his conception to the closing
of his eyes in bodily death, and beyond death, through the perfecting of him by an ever-increasing
approximation to the standard of all moral perfection, everything is religious, sacred, divine.
The Church is nothing but an ethical society, co-extensive with the race, and it is for the
realisation of this ideal that the ethical movement is working, to show men that religion is
morality, is life.

This preamble, then, may serve as a justification for introducing here such a subject as war.
The Christian Churches, with one single exception, that of the Quakers, vouchsafe no guidance
whatsoever on the moral aspects of this question.  On the contrary, they rather suggest that
it is a highly moral proceeding, for their ministers pray to their Deity for the success of
their country's arms, and sing their Te Deums over the mangled corpses of the vanquished. 
An archbishop in Spain offered to guarantee the harmlessness of every American bullet, and
unctuous prayers were reported in the newspapers of last spring as emanating from Transatlantic
pulpits.  Indeed, it would be difficult, if not impossible, to imagine what the supreme court
of their heaven must be, the perplexities of patron saints and angels, and ultimately of their
Deity himself, in face of the immoral mingling of bloodshed and religion which went on during
the recent Spanish-American war.  But the Churches, Catholic and Protestant alike, see none
of the impiety which is so revolting to moral men and women, who to their lasting advantage
have emancipated themselves from ecclesiastical guidance.  On the contrary, the public in America
which looks for moral inspiration to clergymen, is fed upon this sort of doggerel:--

  Strike for the Anglo-Saxon!
    Strike for the newer day!
  O strike for heart and strike for brain,
    And sweep the beast away.

  And let no feeble pity
    Your sacred arms restrain;
  This is God's mighty moment
    To make an end of Spain!

It is our purpose to endeavour to make an end of the immoral inspiration behind this profane
piffle by speaking out our mind on the subject of war as viewed from the standpoint of ethics.

By war we understand the appeal to might to decide a question of right between two or more
civilised peoples, and of war thus defined I say that it is the great surviving infamy[1] of
our unmoral past, the persistence in us of animal instincts, of the ape and tiger which should
long since have died out.  That man, in the childhood of the world, should have decided questions
of justice by an appeal to brute force is only what we should expect.  The laws of life, which
are laws of development, necessarily presuppose the imperfect before the perfect, the animal
as a preparation for the human.  As Immanuel Kant puts it in a sentence which flashes the light
over the whole panorama of existence, "the cosmic evolution of Nature is continued in the historic
development of humanity and completed in the moral perfection of the individual".  This is
the synthesis of the greatest of the masters of modern philosophy.  The non-moral cosmos makes
way for a process of moral human development, which is consummated in the perfection of each
individual man.  Here is the Alpha and Omega of all existence.

Now, warfare, or the invocation of might to settle right, was as natural an accompaniment of
earlier conditions as theft or cannibalism. But is it not obvious that with the disappearance
of other unmoral ideals of the past, we have a right to expect, and to demand, that the last
and crowning infamy of wholesale and systematised manslaughter, called war, should cease also?
The humanity which has got rid of slavery in all civilised countries, which has now through
England's instrumentality succeeded in destroying its last strongholds on the Upper Nile, will
also ultimately get rid of war.  The manhood of the race, which in this country has long since
put down the immorality of duelling as a means of settling private differences, will indubitably
assert itself elsewhere to the final overthrow of warfare as a means of deciding public disputes.
The great reform is in the air.  It is everywhere except in the pulpits of Christendom and
the "yellow press"--the jingo journalism of the world.  We all experienced the growing sense
of the unsuitability of war to our modern ideals during the earlier months of this year while
matters were reaching the acute stage between Spain and the United States.  The best Press
in this country reflected the common sentiment, that the whole proceeding is savage, barbarous,
inhuman, and therefore utterly unworthy of rational men.  I believe it is this growing horror
of legalised carnage which prevented the late President of the United States' ill-judged message
leading to any rupture between our two countries.  It was felt that Englishmen and Americans
deliberately setting about the destruction of each other's property and taking one another's
lives would amount to a scandal positively unthinkable--a fratricidal horror to be prevented
at all and any costs.  I am not sure that the same opinion was so universal on the other side,
though undoubtedly it existed amongst the best men of the country.

America has at present two difficulties to contend with.  First, she is a young nation, and
young people are fond of trying experiments. And, next, they are burdened, perhaps I should
say cursed, with the most violent, anti-cosmopolitan Press anywhere existent.  A set of fire-eaters
appear to control the New York section, of it, and in the judgment of many sober-minded Americans,
with some of whom I have myself spoken, the late war was wholly due to their ceaseless, incessant
clamour, and that, given a few months' patience, the Cuban people might have by plebiscite
been able to settle their own destiny. The starving peasants concentrated in the towns were
the alleged object of the hurry.  Long months passed before any succour reached them.  If they
were veritably starving, surely every man of them must have died long before an American army
of liberation could have been effectually landed for their relief.  The sympathies of this
country were not with Spain, for it is by her misrule, her acknowledged misgovernment of her
colonists, that all the mischief has been brought about.  One regrets to have to say it, but
Spain has been strangled in the coils of her own superstition, and progress for her ceased
to be when she elected to live by the light of ideals and principles which are henceforth impossible.
It is the frantic endeavour of France and Italy to escape Spain's doom which explains their
incessant strife between Church and State.  The enlightened Frenchman or Italian has a horror
of sacerdotalism as the beginning of the end, always and everywhere, and as the only religion
in those countries is sacerdotal, they are, alas, in their national capacity, bereft of any
religious guidance or inspiration.  We are, therefore, unable to see anything in Spain's present
position, but the working of the inevitable law of Compensation, which is sovereign over States
as over individuals, though there are many of us who believe that the avowed humanitarian objects
of the American Government might have been attained by peaceful methods, had not the country
been goaded into a fever of restlessness and impatience by that deplorable phenomenon of democratic
institutions known as the "yellow press".

At all events, the feeling universal in this country in the early spring of this year, showed
how far and fast we are travelling along the road which will lead us to the final abandonment
of warfare as unworthy of rational men.  Doubtless we are in advance of other nations in this
respect.  But that is only what history leads us to expect.  We were the first to free slaves,
abandon duelling, reform prisons and criminal law, and erect humanitarianism into a veritable
religion.  And have we not taught representative institutions to the world?  We are evidently
destined, I believe, to lead the way towards the final surrender of war.  We keep no standing
army.  We shall never again enter on a war of conquest or aggression.  Our naval armaments
and such military power as we possess are notoriously created and maintained for defensive
purposes only.  Brigandage and pillage we have most certainly been guilty of in past times,
but such a policy could not now survive the day it was mooted.  We are in the last trenches,
preparatory to finally abandoning the field.

But here it will be urged that there are circumstances which render war absolutely inevitable,
such for instance as an unjust aggression upon the territory we own, or even live upon; an
attack on the national honour, or a reckless disregard of rights sanctioned by treaty or international
usage.  Were arbitration in such cases even admissible, we may conceive the would-be aggressor
unwilling to have recourse to it, or possibly to abide by its award.  What is a government
to do then?

Now, arguments and pleas such as these are valid enough against a proposal of universal disarmament
to be compulsorily carried out in six months or a year's time, but they in no wise, I submit,
constitute an inseparable bar to the realisation of "that sweet dream," as Immanuel Kant called
it, of a "perpetual peace".  The ideal is none the less real because it cannot be at once put
into practice; and had we to wait another whole century, it would still be the duty of our
movement to stand by Kant and boldly set up the grand conception of an universal peace as the
goal for which all that is best among men is inevitably making.  Still, I trust that in our
enthusiasm for ethic and for the ideal of its master, we have not lost our heads and betaken
ourselves to Utopian impracticabilities.  No ethical man could think of fixing a limit within
which a national disarmament must take place, and the swords of the world beaten into ploughshares,
any more than he could name the date at which the millennium is to be introduced.  But this
implies no insuperable, or rather, no serious, obstacle to our belief that the ideal of universal
arbitration, through the medium of a congress of all nations, must in the future, near or distant,
be realised, because it is an ideal which is alone worthy of rational men. And, moreover, the
essential rationality of the ideal gives us a right to demand that it should be recognised
by all public men, by our legislators who represent us, the Press which aims at reflecting
the life and thought of the age, the professors and masters who have the care of our youth,
and above all by fathers and mothers to whom tender children are confided, and those men who
assume the responsibility of speaking to their generation in the sacred name of religion.

I say the ideal gives us the right to demand its recognition by men in such positions of responsibility,
and implies a corresponding obligation on their part, no less than on our own, to labour seriously
for its speedy realisation.  We are, every one of us, agreed that war is essentially a cruel,
barbarous, horribly vindictive and degrading method of serving the interests of the sublimest
thing known to man, namely, justice.  Wanton warfare, merely for the sake of fighting or killing,
or openly avowed oppression, can scarcely be acknowledged now even by the most cynical of statesmen.
The public conscience is become too sensitive for that, so that some question of justice, or
the semblance of it, must be invoked in order to justify its unspeakable barbarities.  But
what an outrage, the deliberate destruction of hundreds of thousands of innocent men--men who
in their simplicity or ignorance are positively unable to even dimly comprehend why they are
being lashed into a blind fury and goaded to the madness of steeping their hands in each other's
blood--what barbarity, what savagery to invoke as the minister, as the vindicator of justice!
Let us keep our eyes steadily fixed on this central, essential wickedness of the whole business,
that it dares to offer its polluted services in the interests of justice and thereby to profane
the holiest thing we know.

Remembering this, therefore, let us ask ourselves what help we get in our endeavours to effect
its overthrow from the recognised ministers of religion.  Why, it is notorious that what has
long been clear to philosophers like Immanuel Kant, and philanthropists among humble laymen,
has not yet dawned upon the imagination or touched the consciences of bishops or priests. 
Popes, themselves, have created military orders, "knights and commanders of Christ and the
Cross," whose profession it was to destroy life in the name of the most merciful, pitiful man
known to us Western people.  Popes have led military expeditions, conducted campaigns and crossed
swords with the most daring, though the impetuous fisherman, founder of their line, was bidden
by Christ to put up his sword into its scabbard, "for all they that take up the sword shall
perish by it".  Can any man point to one single condemnation of war as immoral, irrational,
opposed to the law of their Deity or of Christ, in all the collection of councils, bulls and
canonical legislation?  And can any man quote to us the charge of an archbishop or bishop in
the Anglican Communion or the Greek Communion wherein he has raised his voice against the barbaric
survival of war and condemned it in the name of his Saviour Jesus, who spoke of the meek, the
mourners, the merciful, the pure in heart, the hungerers and thirsters after righteousness,
or, as we say, the ethical enthusiasts, as his followers?

Why, religion, in the hands of bishops and priests, has allowed a trail of blood to be drawn
across the path of the ages.  I say nothing of religious persecution and the millions who have
gone to torture and to doom for erroneous beliefs.  I confine myself entirely, to field warfare.
During a period of 674 years, from 1141-1815, it is an historical fact that this country and
France were at war for no less than 266 years, or considerably more than one-third, and we
must remember that up to the Reformation both countries were under the direct guidance, one
might almost say the exclusive inspiration, of the Catholic Christianity of the day.  But where
does history record the act of any religious leaders of those times denouncing war as contrary
to the gospel of Christ and of reason alike?  We are able to quote numbers of despised heretics
who had grasped the truth and emphatically condemned the brutal institution.  Thus Erasmus:
"They who defend war must defend the dispositions which lead to war, and these dispositions
are absolutely forbidden by the gospel".  Wickliffe, "the morning star of the Reformation in
England," thought it "utterly unlawful," according to Priestley; and as Southey writes in his
History of Brazil: "There is but one community of Christians in the world, and that unhappily
of all communities one of the smallest, enlightened enough to understand the prohibition of
war by the Divine Master in its plain literal and undeniable sense and conscientious enough
to obey it, subduing the very instinct of nature to obedience".

These facts are noteworthy because they show that had the official churches--the Roman, Greek
and Anglican--been true to their charge and commission from their founder; had they been unworldly
enough to defy the world and denounce its barbarous practices, we might have been far nearer
Kant's "sweet dream" of universal peace.  But the churches, as churches, have done very little
for the cause of the "Prince of peace," and now the world itself has outgrown their moral standard
and looks to them for guidance and inspiration no more.  By the light of reason alone, by the
inspiration we gather from the grands esprits of the race, above all by the teaching of Immanuel
Kant in his beautiful treatise on "Perpetual Peace," we intend to do what in us lies to put
down this surviving, crowning infamy of war, the very thought of which brutalises the mind,
outrages its humanitarian instincts, and degrades the ideals whereby we desire to live.

But, surely, it will be urged, we cannot refuse to acknowledge undoubted benefits, both public
and individual, which war has conferred in the past.  It has welded nomad peoples into nations,
bred courage, devotion, loyalty, unselfishness, self-sacrifice even to death in the hearts
of those who have nobly borne their part therein.  Is not the soldier hero, the military chieftain,
the idol of all mankind?

Doubtless he is, and unquestionably through the instrumentality of war great services have
been rendered to the communities of peoples in the past and noble individual traits of character
created.  It is an axiom with us that the universe is so wondrously ordered that out of the
worst things a soul of good may and does emerge, and so goodly is creation that its very evils
become a source wherefrom good may arise.

  What was good shall be good with for evil so much good more.

Thus, for example, the young lieutenant ordered to sink a hulk across the bay of Santiago,
and his handful of companions have, by exposing themselves to imminent risk of an awful death,
deeply stirred the feelings of their fellow-countrymen and filled us all with a sense of admiration
at the heroism which can contemn danger and death in the execution of duty or the quest of
glory.  But we must ask whether humanity is in need of such exhibitions of bravery, whether
there are not other fields of danger which offer tasks equally arduous and difficult of accomplishment?
We are not insensible to the claims of military or naval heroism, but I confess I see much
more to admire in Father Damien voluntarily surrendering himself to the slow and loathsome
martyrdom of Molokai, more in the self-devotion of our "white slaves," as they must, alas!
be called, who toil all the day and a deal of the night in a heavy, noisome, almost disease-laden
atmosphere in the disgracefully crowded slums of our great cities, and all to earn a few pence
wherewith to buy just enough bread to keep body and soul together in themselves and their children.
Think of the matchbox-makers, who turn out a gross for a few halfpence, out of which they must
supply some of their own materials.  Think of the seamstresses, the shirt-makers and tailors'
assistants in the veritable dens of East London, who by slaving for fifteen hours out of twenty-four
can earn eighteenpence a day, out of which four or five shillings must be paid weekly for rent.
Think of these mean, squalid surroundings in which a life of positively ceaseless toil must
be lived, the patience and long-suffering with which it is endured, the silent martyrdom of
monotonous, unrelieved existence prolonged over long years.  Think of it, I say, and compare
it with the intoxication of the battle-field, the cavalry charge, the roar of cannon and musketry,
the rapid movements and counter-movements, the exultation which the sight of numberless men
produces, grim, deadly determination on their faces, the thought of glory, the hope of renown,
the dash of a few minutes, the stroke perhaps of a few seconds, the wild burst of untamed,
savage human nature temporarily released from the restraint of reason!  What cannot, what shall
not man under such circumstances accomplish?  Yes, we are not insensible to deeds of immortal
daring, of courage, that must live for ever; nor to the memory of Leonidas and his Spartans,
of the deathless glories of Thermopylae, of the unbroken chain of chivalric deeds from the
days of ancient Greece to "the thin red line" that broke the fiercest charge, and the handful
of Englishmen that shot away their last cartridge and then stood to die with their country's
anthem on their lips--we are not insensible to all this, but we say the day for it is past
and gone, and the heroism of the battle-field must be consecrated anew to the service of peace
and the poor.  The millions on millions we are spending on those majestic engines of destruction,
those ships of ours that bastion the brine for England, what could they not do for the moralisation
of the poor and outcast at our very doors in this city!  Why, in three years that inferno of
the East End, that foul, reeking, pestilential nest of tenements, unfit for even animal habitation,
could be swept clean away and human homes erected which, to put it on the lowest grounds, would
positively pay a dividend on the capital outlay, as has been convincingly proved over and over
again.

"How long, O Lord, how long," we exclaim with the prophet of old, shall men be consumed with
this ignoble fever, this war-madness which degrades the combatants far more than it exalts
them, which senselessly destroys valuable property, scatters ruin broadcast, paralyses industry,
robs the poor of all the bread of life, fills the land with mourning and desolation, with widows
and orphans?--war, which we learnt from wild beasts, our ancestors, which cannot therefore
determine a question of justice, which makes the wrong triumph as often as the right, which
degrades all that touch it by isolating them for months, for years perhaps, from civilised
life, which demoralises the victors, embitters the vanquished, and, by creating strife, perpetuates
the possibilities of renewed strife--war, which at this moment keeps Europe in the condition
of an armed camp, millions of men leading comparatively idle lives, with long hours on their
hands which they cannot fill, with the inevitable results, the nauseating record of filth,
disease and abominations too utterly loathsome even to think about--war, which is the curse
of the poor and unfortunate, consuming the energies of men and the material means whereby their
unhappy lot might be alleviated--war, the hard, cruel, relentless, inexorable monster of unregenerate
man's creation--we, since no pope, bishop or priest will do it--we execrate it in the name
of all we hold holiest, in the name of reason, morality and religion, and we pledge ourselves
so to act, privately and politically, as to promote such measures--a federation of all English-speaking
nations of the earth, if that will serve the purpose, or any other method equally or more serviceable--as
will finally exorcise this last of the besetting demons of humanity, and fulfil thereby the
"sweet dream" of our master and inspirer, Immanuel Kant.

[1] Since these words were written the Daily Chronicle of 10th September, 1898, quotes them
as having been used by a distinguished living English general.

XI.

THE ETHICS OF MARRIAGE.

There is probably no department of morality in which a metaphysic of ethic is more conspicuously
needed than in that which concerns marriage.  The insurrection of woman against the disabilities
to which her sex was in the past unjustly subjected, due perhaps more to custom and tradition
than to the statute law of the land, has developed in more recent times into a serious attack
on the central institution of civilised life, on that fundamental fact of Nature on which posterity
and society repose.  We have had an outbreak in literature culminating in the giddy glory of
the "hill-top novel," with its heroine "who did," and in America what is tautologically described
as the "Free-Love Society" was founded to propagate the truth of what Rousseau euphemistically
describes as mariage après la nature.  For all that, however, one seems to hear less of the
"hill-top" species, and possibly--with the problem play, without which no theatre was complete
a couple of years ago--it may be fading into the mist of the past.  It is with communities,
we may take it, as with individuals.  There are moments when, as it has been said, "every one
is an atheist, from archbishops downwards," when a sense of the purposelessness and futility
of perpetual combat seizes the most ardent.  These are the dark hours when attacks are planned
and delivered against the most sacred institutions, when people are not at their best, but
are restless, rebellious and impatient of restraint; for nations like individuals can go mad.
Then it is that the wide-awake novelist and playwright see their opportunity, and the temporary
success of the sex-play or the breezy romance is the reflection of the thoughts--none of the
best--that are for the moment flitting through men's feverish minds.  But we soon return to
saner moments; our moral sense resumes its normal sway, and sex-plays and romances fade away
into oblivion.

Now, it need not be said that the contention on behalf of the rights of woman is heartily espoused
by a movement which bases itself on the conception of reason and justice as the root facts
of existence.  There was no justice in the "subjection of woman," and we hold that those opportunities
of learning which a cultured age opens up to man should likewise be at the disposal of his
sister; that that freedom, which is the birthright of the man, to expand the energies, mental
and moral, of his being to their fullest extent and in whatever calling, should also be acknowledged
to be the right of woman.  The constitutional agitation for the recognition of her rights has
met with notable success, and it has the fullest support of the ethical Church; but we believe
that that agitation has been pushed too far by a very small and insignificant minority, and
made to cover an attack on the institution of matrimony, which her wisest friends see could
only end in the ultimate downfall of woman herself.  Such an agitation, such an attack, must
encounter the most resolute opposition from a body which derives all its idealism and inspiration
from a life motived, not by the sense, but by reason.  Its leaders in America have pronounced
decisively against any tampering with the natural sacrament of marriage, and where they detect
tendencies--as unfortunately they do in many of the States of their Union--to further loosen
its bonds, they, with all the influence at their command, endeavour to strengthen them.

Let me now proceed to justify this attitude of the ethical communion.

We do not base our action on considerations of authority such as move the Churches of Christendom.
It is not because Jesus assisted at a wedding breakfast and performed an alleged wonder; not
because the Apostle Paul calls marriage "a great mystery in Christ and the Church," but because
both Jesus and Paul and the Churches express a truth of nature itself, that the union of man
and woman is not, and cannot be, the herding of animals; that the bestowal of the body cannot
but be the outward symbol of an invisible bond which is the very soul and life of the contract.
We thus go behind all Churches and apostles and ascend to the very roots of Nature herself,
and discern in the golden glory wherewith she surrounds the ideal marriage the significance
of her intentions in its regard--that it is her true and real Sacrament, that her sons and
daughters are themselves its ministers, for they alone are kindled with the heavenly fire;
that not the Church, not the priest nor ritual celebrates it, but these twain made one by that same

  Love which moves the earth and heavens and all the stars.

That man has so regarded marriage as a sacred and sacramental fact is authenticated by history
in an abundantly available form.  No doubt, ages must have passed before he emerged from his
animalesque condition and abandoned polygynous and polygamous manners, the marriage by capture
and purchase, which were the stages which mark the historical evolution of the contract.  But
ultimately these barbaric stages passed away, and we discover in the Teutonic ancestors of
Britain that monogamy which was Nature's ideal from the first.  Just as man was potential in
the primordial slime, so was the marriage of Robert Browning a possibility in the earliest
union of scarce-emancipated man and woman.  What the institution could become, what it has
become, shows what was the intent of Nature from the beginning.  In the nobler days of Rome,
under the republic and early empire, the same lofty conception animated her best sons.  It
was the decay of reverence for the sacred bond, the era when a woman's years were told by the
number of her divorces, which called forth the solemn warnings of her moralist poets and philosophers,
and ultimately brought about the emasculation of the nation's manhood and the downfall of the
empire.  We have not the remotest doubt but that a similar contempt in modern Europe for Nature's
ordinance would involve us in the same catastrophe.  A low estimate of marriage means contempt
of woman; the contempt of woman means her degradation from her position at the side of man
as his counsellor and his friend to that of his plaything, the instrument of his pleasure;
that again means the enthronement of licence and licentiousness; that, the softening of the
brain power of the manhood of the race, leading to degeneracy, imbecility, and ultimate extinction.
We need no ecclesiastical organisation to tell us these things, nor threaten us with direst
penalties here or hereafter.  These are the penalties of nature's own aboriginal enactment.
As it was in the beginning, so it is now, and so it shall be unto all time.  No wonder St.
Paul called marriage "a great mystery"!

Now, though it be true that Nature's ideal is that which we call monogamy, it may be perfectly
true that we have not yet reached that level of morality which makes that condition universally
practicable. That wisest of teachers, Jesus of Nazara, expressly recognised this distinction
when he told the Jews of his own day that their lack of ethical enthusiasm, "their hardness
of heart," as he accurately expressed it, the emptiness of their souls of everything save narrow
nationalism and religious formalism--an emptiness by no means peculiar to them--was the sole
reason which justified a departure from Nature's great ideal.  "In the beginning it was not
so," he declared, but "Moses gave ye permission to write out a bill of divorce".  That one
exception may be necessary still, but, let it be understood, it is not the ideal, and every
one knows it, faithful and faithless alike, they whose honour is intact and they whose souls
are smirched.  It is an instinct in the human heart--no one can deny it--that love is for evermore.
Shakespeare is right, "Marriage is a world-without-end bargain," for love is felt to be eternal.
The old Roman digest interprets nature with philosophic accuracy when it describes marriage
as "Conjunctio maris et feminae et consortium omnis vitae, divini et humani juris communicatio".
"The union of man and woman and the companionship of all life, the sharing of right, human
and divine."  That is the majestic conception of matrimony as it took shape in the brain of
those Roman masters of jurisprudence to whom we owe the law which is the nerve of civilisation.
They learnt it from that ethical religion which we, too, reverently follow, from that morality
which they found in things, in themselves, in Nature's plain teaching that the union of man
and his wife was a sacramental fact and therefore indelible.

Are we asked for further evidence of this position?  We see it as a law of our rational being,
which refuses to believe that Nature makes no other provision for us than she does for the
animals; that their instinctive and impulsive association should be the norm of man's intercourse
with woman.  Nay, we see Nature herself as she advances to the higher stages of animal existence
anticipating, in a sense, that ideal which was only to be fully realised in man.  The lion,
the king of beasts, as he is called, tends towards that ideal, and the elephant is believed
to be even more strictly monogamous.  The loves of birds, of doves and pigeons, are too well
known to need more than a passing mention, and the grief they experience on the death of their
partner not unfrequently ends in a broken heart.  But how much better is man than many animals,
and what is merely instinctive in them shall not he consciously obey as his acknowledged law
of life?

We may see the truth also in Nature's ordinance, that man's offspring must be educated in order
to reach maturity; that training of a serious character is indispensably necessary to the development
of the powers latent in them.  But how is such training possible, except through the unceasing
watchfulness of the parents'?  People here and there darken counsel with the suggestion that
the State should assume such responsibilities.  Was there ever such a suggestion?  As a matter
of mere finance, we are told by the Vice-President of the Council, that the assumption of the
quite partial responsibility for the education of the children now taught in the elementary
schools of the denominational bodies of the country, would mean an addition of some millions
yearly to the rates.  The education rate is high enough in all conscience, but where the "hill-top"
theory would land us one can scarcely conjecture. So urgent is this consideration of the claim
which offspring has upon parent, so imperative the need that children should be fittingly instructed
so as to be worthy citizens of a great community, that we find writers like Karl Pearson, in
his Ethic of Free Thought,[1] consistently excepting from the operation of the free-love gospel
those unions which have resulted in the procreation of children.  Mr. Pearson being of the
school of those who deride marriage as "the tomb of love," "the source of the stupidity and
ugliness of the human race," his admissions as to the necessity of maintaining some element
of permanence in the contract, if only for the sake of children, is well worthy of our attention.
It shows how grounded in nature is that conception of the marriage tie which the Roman digest
has put before us.

We may see the truth, once again, in the acknowledged instability of the passional element
in human nature--particularly in man.  It is nothing short of amazing to see this very instability
urged as a reason why the marriage tie should be still further weakened, as though man should
deliberately subject himself to the vagaries of sense, instead of the guidance of reason. 
We hear much to-day about the "return to nature," and, soundly interpreted, that gospel sounds
like a breath of pure mountain air after the stifling atmosphere of modern convention and unreality.
Would to heaven, I say from my heart, that we were more natural, that a greater frankness and
directness marked our intercourse with one another, that the shams and pretences of so much
of our social life were made away with, that our lives were more open and free!  The grand
old Stoic maxim had it thus: Live in accordance with nature. Yes, but with what nature?  No
thinker, from Socrates to Kant, from Buddha to Hegel, ever had a doubt but that man's nature
was twofold, and that the law of reason must be supreme in him.  Let an animal live for sense;
it is its nature; but for man another law is ordained, which bids him think last of enjoyment,
and to partake only of that in obedience to the law of the mind.  The modern evangel of the
apotheosis of the unstable we understand to convey the teaching, "Live in accordance with sense,
or the feeling of the moment".  Be like the dame du monde whom Mrs. Ward has so accurately
drawn in Madame de Netteville, who did not hold herself responsible to our petty codes, and
judged that feeling was guidance enough for her.  That may be all very well for Madame de Netteville,
but how does such teaching look in the light of Kant's solemn injunction: "Act so that thy
conduct may become a law unto all men"?  Could any one seriously propose to erect feeling into
a supreme criterion whereby to judge of the conduct of life?

And, to show that the line of argument here adopted is no mere false asceticism surviving from
an undisciplined and pre-scientific age, as the solemn verbiage of so much second-rate talking
expresses it to-day, we may quote some words of David Hume, Huxley's "prince of agnostics,"
from the Essay on Polygamy and Divorce.  The least emotional of philosophers--a hard-headed
Scotsman--he makes short work of the sentimentality which is invoked now-a-days against the
natural law of marriage:--

"We need not be afraid of drawing the marriage knot . . . the closest possible.  The unity
between the persons, where it is solid and sincere, will rather gain by it; and where it is
wavering and uncertain that is the best method for fixing it.  How many frivolous quarrels
and disgusts are there, which people of common prudence endeavour to forget, when they lie
under the necessity of passing their lives together; but which would soon be inflamed into
the most deadly hatred, were they pursued to the utmost under the prospect of an easy separation!
We must consider that nothing is more dangerous than to unite two persons so closely in all
their interests and concerns, as man and wife, without rendering the union entire and total.
The least possibility of a separate interest must be the source of endless quarrels and suspicions.
The wife, not secure of her establishment, will still be driving some separate end or project;
and the husband's selfishness, being accompanied by no power, may be still more dangerous."
Thus our conception of marriage as a nature sacrament, a permanent contract in Nature's original
intention, is abundantly confirmed by the sceptical philosopher of the eighteenth century.
Whatever man may make of the contract, there stands the fact that that Nature meant it to be
enduring which whispered into the lover's heart that "love should be for evermore".

It is a far cry from the abstractions of philosophy to the realisms of French fiction, but
we could not better conclude this portion of our subject than by citing one single sentence
from Balzac, in the judgment of many the first romancer of this century, and one of the greatest
masters of the social sciences.  "Nothing," he declares, "more conclusively proves the necessity
of indissoluble marriage than the instability of passion."

But here our difficulties begin.  Though it may be abundantly clear that Nature's ideal is
Hume's and Balzac's, is it not a fact that this "high has proved too high, this heroic for
earth too hard"?  Is it not true that there are murmurs and mutterings of revolt both amongst
men and women against a burden too grievous to be borne?  Does not the fiction of the day represent
a tendency to allow an increased laxity in the interpretation of the matrimonial contract?
And where there is smoke there is fire.  What novelists write other people are thinking. Has
the time come to reconsider our position with regard to marriage and the permanent obligations
hitherto associated with it?

We answer decisively, No.  It is not the institution which is at fault, but the individuals
who embrace it.  We spoke of marriage as Nature's great sacrament, and so it is.  And as with
"the Lord's Supper" the unworthy participant is said to "eat and drink only condemnation to
himself," so is it with they who draw near to Nature's banquet and attempt, unprepared, to
partake of the deepest joys of life.  Their profanity smites them with a curse.  We hold up
our hands in no Pharisaic spirit of holy horror, but we ask the men and women of this generation
and of those classes from which these mutterings and threatenings of revolt mainly emanate--we
ask them, whether marriage, as they understand the term, can be other than a bloodless martyrdom?
If that individual who gave her name to a novel two or three seasons ago, if the young woman
known as Dodo be a type--and it was noted by the critics of the time that such was the character
of the fashionable young mondaine of the day, greedy for nothing but excitement and sensuous
existence, incapable of serious thought, rebellious against, I will not say the restraints,
but even the convenances of civilised life, with no pretension to anything remotely resembling
character or moral earnestness, a wild, gay, frittering, helpless creature, whom it were blasphemy
to think of in the same day with noble womanhood as we all have known it--if that, I say, is
the type of the young mondaine of the hour, then I have no doubt they will give the novelists
and playwrights plenty of employment in describing their self-imposed torments, the insufferable
bondage to which they are subjected.  But does any one propose to alter the moral law for them?
If mothers in modern Babylon are ready to labour day and night in attempting to catch as husbands
for their daughters men in whom one and one only qualification is asked, namely, that of wealth,
then their perdition be upon their own heads and on those of the luckless pair who are literally
speaking "crucified on a cross of gold".  If girls continue to be brought up with the preposterous
notion that marriage is the one profession open to them, and that therefore they are by no
means to risk the loss of an "engagement," no matter who the employer may be, and that the
wealthier he is the more suitable he is to be adjudged, then let us abandon all attempts at
reaching our ideal.  But let us at the same time prepare for the overthrow of the home and
the family; for the destruction of "pure religion breathing household laws," and of the stately,
dignified, domestic life, which has been the glory of every land where Nature's true ideal
has been worthily upheld.

If boys are brought up at school, or taught by the social atmosphere they breathe on first
entering into early manhood, to conceive of marriage as in no wise nobler or loftier in essence
than any of those mariages après la nature, those ephemeral associations, terminable at will;
that the only difference between them is, that the one is legal and permanent, the other voluntary
and dissoluble, then so long will the scandals of divorce and the revolt against marriage continue
to be heard.  What one complains of is the utter lack of reverence in the view which is taken
of this most solemn of all acts.  There is no idealism in the contract.  The thoughtless youth
who has grown up in what one may call the "wild oats" theory is, we suggest, utterly incapable
of appreciating the absolutely inestimable blessings which wedded love might have brought him.
How can he?  He has "wasted his substance, living riotously," and the most precious of all
the treasures he has squandered is that of his idealism.  His wife can scarcely be to him what
she might have been had he come to her as he expected her to come to him.  "The golden gates
are closed," "a glory has passed from the earth".  This is pain enough to make hearts weep,
but it is the operation of that inflexible law of Compensation, that not all the tears of sorrow,
not all the absolutions and sacrificial atonements of Churches, can undo that past, can make
that young man to be as in the days of his youth, before the experimental "knowledge of good
and evil" touched him.

Our remedy is, therefore, not to destroy the institution of Nature, but to reform the candidates
who undertake to embrace it.  An ethical religion would reprobate the sacrilegious bargains
in which bodies are exchanged for gold, and refuse to accord them the honorific title of marriage,
which is first and foremost a union of souls.  Time and again have we seen that the springs
of all things are in the invisible world, from the breath of a flower to the energy that pulsates
in the great bosom of the ocean, or governs the movements of the uttermost star.  It is so
here.  Not the transference of bodies, of titles, of wealth or station, are the sacrament.
They are merely the accessories, the outward form, the symbol of something higher and Diviner
far, of the invisible love, which is everywhere, yet manifests itself in especial manner in
these two souls, speaking even in their very countenances of an emotion supreme and irresistible.
An ethical religion, wholly based upon and identified with morality, would refuse to sanction
any marriage but that we have described, a union based upon a supreme affection between two
who had worthily prepared themselves for its consummation, and believed in the permanence of
their tie.

With regard to the modern maiden--the Dodos and their kindred swains--it would be infinitely
preferable that they did not degrade the sanctity of a natural sacrament by profanely prostituting
it to their temporal and social convenience.  Far better that they betook themselves to "the
marriage after the truth of nature" than to the great human institution of which Milton sang:--

  Hail, wedded love, mysterious law,
  True source of human offspring!

They do but defile it by their patronage, and having manifestly spoiled themselves by their
reckless lives for the entertainment of any emotion deeper than mere sensuousness, they are
bound at length to bring a noble institution into contempt, and drag it down in their own fall.
You do not believe, we would say to them, in the eternity of soul and love, and therefore the
nature sacrament is not for you.  But having presented yourselves at its sacred table, and
partaken of its rites, do not, if only for motives of mere decency, betake yourselves to the
denunciation of that of which, indeed, you were never worthy.

Week by week, at the services of the ethical Church, we see numbers of young men who doubtless
aspire one day to share in the benediction which a true marriage alone can bring them.  Their
presence is welcome as a testimony to the virility and inspiration of the ethic creed which
is strong enough to prevail over other inducements which would take them far afield.  It shows
that spirit overcomes the flesh, and that the culture of the mind is not postponed to the relaxation
and enjoyment of the body.

What the ethical religion says to all such as they is this: Live so as to be worthy of that
which you one day hope to receive at Nature's hands--a pure, good and true wife.  Somewhere,
in some corner of this earth, unknown to you, unknown to her, she is being made ready for the
hour of your espousals.  You will know her when you see her.  Wait until you do.  Remember
the requisite preparation of the body, and now forget not the preparation of the mind.

Marriage is based on friendship, that true kinsman of love, which made a poet call his friend
"O thou half of my own soul!" [2]  Your wife must be your friend.  True love, the love of which
true marriages are made, is friendship transfigured--the halo, the glory, of a supreme emotion
coming to crown that which is most enduring on this earth. Just as we say that our religion
is morality, is duty, only etherealised by viewing it as the expressed mind and will of the
Soul of all souls, the World-intelligence, so do we think of marriage as based on a union of
souls by friendship, inspired by a deep mutual respect, not for what the partners have, but
for what they are, and finally made glorious in the light of an unfading love.  Live, we would
counsel you, so as to be worthy one day of the reverence of a woman's pure and untried soul.

And our message to womanhood is not dissimilar.  Live, we would say, so that you be worthy
of the respect, of the homage of all men.  Your nature is such that virtue in you has a double
charm, wherefore you are visibly marked out as the treasury wherein the ideal is enshrined
and handed down through all the generations of men.

A nation is, ethically speaking, worth just what its women are worth, and we must therefore
rejoice, and greatly rejoice, to know that the contention which is being increasingly put forth
by women, that the men who demand their sisters' hands should themselves be arrayed in suitable
wedding garment, is convincing evidence of a strong ethical enthusiasm which is beginning to
pervade the sex, and a determination to ennoble more and more that one great sacramental ordinance
of Nature, marriage.

  All things transitory
  But as symbols are sent;
  Earth's insufficiency grows to event;
  The indescribable,
  Here it is done,
  The ever-womanly leadeth us
  Upward and on.
        --GOETHE.

[1] Pp. 431-443.

[2] "Dimidium animae meae" (Horace).

XII.

THE ETHICAL CHURCH AND POSITIVISM.

The appearance within the last hundred years of different philosophical attempts to produce
a synthesis which should combine at once a system of thought for the guidance of the mind,
and a source of enthusiasm for the inspiration of the heart, is significant of many things,
but chiefly of two.  In the first place it is evidence that the present has outgrown the past;
that the religion of medievalism is inadequate to modern needs; that

  Still the new transcends the old,
  In signs and tokens manifold.

And, next, it would appear to indicate the serious disposition of the new Age.  If we find
the thinkers of humanity uniformly tending towards a given direction, we may be sure there
is an undefined, perhaps unconscious, though none the less real, desire on the part of the
age to be led thither.  Thus, at the close of the last century, Immanuel Kant, while undermining
the ground on which the faith of old rested, attempted that new presentation of religion, as
essential and sovereign morality, with which we are so familiar.  And, within half a century
of the foundation of the new Church, we meet with another bold and comprehensive effort to
revivify religion, which had grown cold in the heart of his country, by showing that its chief
expression is to be found in that "love of the brotherhood" whereby Jesus Christ declared his
own truest followers would ever be known.  "We tire of thinking and even of acting," this foremost
of the thinkers of his age declared, but "we never tire of loving".  I need not say that these
are the words of Auguste Comte, one of the two men in this nineteenth century who had learning
enough to grasp the universal knowable, and genius enough to express it in a clearly defined
philosophic system.  His fellow and compeer, of course, is our own Herbert Spencer.

Now, no one will be able to even dimly appreciate the significance of the work of Immanuel
Kant and Auguste Comte unless he realises that the inspiration which moved them both was that
which we call religion.  As the rivers flow into the sea, so the streams of knowledge converge
at a point which marks the limits of the finite, the boundaries of the Infinite.  There never
was a system of thought yet which did not culminate in the sublimity of religion.  From the
first system of all, the immortal Aristotle's, down to Kant's, Comte's and Spencer's in our
own times, the issue is always the same: philosophy leads the way to the Boundless; it lifts
the veils of the Eternal.  And therefore Kant and Comte, each in his own way, while setting
forth their exposition of intellectual truth, endeavoured to provide a stimulus to move the
heart of man to put its plain teachings into execution.

Though at first sight there appears to be nothing but irreconcilable opposition between the
critical and positivist systems, there is, nevertheless, a fundamental unity which Comte was
quick enough to detect, for he pronounced Kant "the most positive of all metaphysicians". 
What led him to this conviction was the fact that the German philosopher had, like himself,
based his whole idealism on the sure ground of morality which cannot be overthrown.  As Spinoza
was called by Novalis "a God-intoxicated man," so Comte was described by Mill as "morality-intoxicated,"
for in the purity and elevation of his ethical conceptions he comes nearest of all to the austere
standard set up by Kant and Emerson.

Nor do the points of resemblance stop here.  In the course of this chapter it will become ever
more evident that there is no irreconcilable opposition between the ethical religion of Kant
and the Religion of Humanity of Comte, nay, that there appears to be a well-grounded hope that
the Church of the Future, which we salute from afar, and towards the building of which we are
each contributing our share, will in the main embrace as its essential features the teaching
of these two great men.  For that Church will aspire to guide men in their private and in their
public capacities, in their individual and in their social life.  The ethic of Kant, the categorical
imperative of duty, will be the inspiration of the individual; the Politique Positive of Comte
will govern him in his social and political relations, while in the supreme concern of worship,
I venture to foretell a widening of the Comtist ideal so as to admit of such conceptions as
underlie the philosophical belief of Mr. Spencer, that the world and man are but "the fugitive
product of a Power without beginning or end," whose essence is ineffable.  Thus the agnosticism
of to-day will contribute to the reverence of the future, while I firmly believe that the religion
of Humanity will come to be so interpreted as not to wholly exclude belief in an Existence
anterior to man and to all things, from whom he and all he knows aboriginally sprang, unto
whom he and all things ultimately return.  Nothing shall be lost of these words of life which
have fallen from Wisdom's lips; they are treasured now in many hearts, and some day, near or
distant, they will be one and all incorporated in some diviner gospel than any which has yet
been heard, and preached in some church, vast enough, catholic enough, for the inspiration
of the race.  Reposita est haec spes in sinu meo.

In the meantime, we must attempt something of a succinct statement of the ethical, social and
religious system with which the name of Auguste Comte is associated.

It is clear that he was early impelled to a study of the principles on which society rests
by the disorganisation into which his country had fallen, after the upheaval of the Revolution
and the disasters of the Napoleonic era which succeeded it.  It may even be the truth that
his bold and subversive teaching in religious matters was due to a profound conviction that
the virtue of the old ideals had been completely exhausted, and that if society was to be regenerated,
it must be by a radical reformation of the theoretic conceptions on which it had been held
to repose.  Certainly there was a vast deal in the contemporary history of France to confirm
Comte in his belief that Catholicism had spent its force.  At a period of crisis in a nation's
history, thinking men naturally look about them for some strong influence, for some commanding
ideal which can serve as a rallying point in times of social dispersion, and help to keep the
severing elements of the body politic together.  But what had religion done for France in the
hour of her trial?  So little, that the country had to wade through blood in order to reach
a measure of political emancipation which England had long enjoyed.  In fact, it was the corruption
of religion in the person of its official representatives, its intellectual degradation in
the eyes of the thinkers, which helped to provoke the catastrophe.  What wonder, then, that
a mind so penetrating and alert as Comte's early arrived at the conclusion that the ancien
régime in religion, no less than in politics, must be abolished if progress was to be possible
among men?

Comte, then, was essentially a social philosopher.  His work, indeed, is encyclopaedic--not
one whit less so than Spencer's--but the aim he persistently kept in view was the service of
man by the reconstruction, through philosophy and religion, of the foundations on which civilisation
rests.  It is impossible not to be impressed by the grandeur of his conception, and the consuming
energy with which he addressed himself to its realisation.  He seems to recall to us Browning's
Paracelsus, whose "vast longings" urged him forward to some surpassing achievement, to some
heroic attempt

          To save mankind,
  To make some unexampled sacrifice
  In their behalf, to wring some wonderous good
  From heaven or earth for them.

When a young man of only twenty-four years, he had already published his first work, entitled
A Plan of Scientific Works necessary to reorganise Society, thus striking the keynote of his
career.  We can feel nothing but the strongest admiration for the man who from the first determines
to subordinate knowledge, life and love, to the service of the human race.  It was Comte's
incessant teaching that the sciences were to be cultivated, not as ends in themselves, but
as means whereby to further human welfare.  He would have the astronomer and physiologist pursue
their tasks, not merely for the sake of acquiring knowledge, for the gratification of the curiosity
to know, but for the betterment of man's lot.  And for the same reason he insisted on the pre-eminence
of the sympathetic affections over the intellect.  The reason, he declared, must ever be the
servant, though not the slave, of the emotions.  Altruism, or the service of others (a word
of his own coining), must be made to prevail over egoism or selfishness.  There could not be
a nobler conception of human duty.

What was the source of the miseries which had driven the people of France to rebellion but
the selfishness of absolute monarchs, of dissolute nobles who ground their dependants to the
dust of destitution, and of a corrupt hierarchy of clergymen contemptuous of the people, hypocritical
in their conduct, and slaves of the crown?  An astounding revelation that elementary religion
should be preached again in France by a layman who had turned his back in disappointment on
all that priests and the past represented!

And what is the source of the degradation of our own cities but this same curse of selfishness
which is ready to march to opulence and luxury over the bodies of the starved and poisoned
toilers of our towns and factories, and thinks it can justify its barbarity by an off-hand
reference to Political Economy and its irrefragable laws?  "Supply and demand"--sacrosanct
enactments of man's brains--how shall they prevail over the clear dictates of the conscience
that thunder in our ears that it is murderous to grind the life out of the poor in the name
of an economical fetish?  Is not the man more than the meat, and the body more than the raiment?
How shall not man, then, be better than many economical laws?  If the laws outrage our sense
of justice, then are they false laws, because false to reason, and they must be abolished.
The unrestricted domination of the competition theory which urges men to buy in the cheapest
and sell in the dearest market, and pay the very lowest wages that poor outcasts are forced
in their destitution to accept--is that to be the permanent condition of large masses of toilers
in the towns of the richest country in the world?  Is the matchbox-maker to go on for ever
turning out a gross for 2 1/4d., providing her own paste and string?  Are wretched women to
toil from morning till night folding sheets--sheets of cheap bibles at 10s. a week and pay
lodging and keep a family out of it?  Are men and women to be decimated by consumption in the
poisoned atmosphere of some of our factories?  No commonwealth can exist on such a basis, and
if economical laws are invoked in its support, those laws are an infamy. No wonder Carlyle
fiercely denounced it all as "a wretched, unsympathetic, scraggy atheism and egoism".

Well, Auguste Comte had witnessed all this and possibly worse than this in Prance.  He knew
the institutions of his country and of his age, and he came to the deliberate conclusion that
if any progress was to be made, if this degrading egoism was to be put down, this callous insensibility
on the part of employers towards the labourers, whose slow martyrdom produces the wealth they
enjoy, the whole scheme of social philosophy would have to be reconsidered and a new foundation
provided whereon to build the commonwealth.  "You want altruism in place of egoism; sympathy
instead of selfishness," he preached.  "How are you going to obtain it?  For eighteen centuries
now you have been walking in one beaten path, following one and the same light, listening to
the same spiritual guides.  What have they taught you?  Whither have they led you?  To the
impasse which you have now reached.  Has not the time come to begin anew; to reconstruct, to
reorganise society?  And this time it must be sans dieu, sans roi, par le culte systématique
de l'Humanité."

Such is the remedy proposed by Auguste Comte for the malady of the modern world; this is his
revolutionary scheme for the establishment of society on such a basis as would conduce to progress.
It involves, as may be seen, the disavowal of the belief in God and king; the substitution
of a republic for a monarchy, and of humanity for God. Comte conceived religion as the concentration
of the three great altruistic affections, namely, of reverence towards that which is above
us; of love towards that which helps and sustains us, and benevolence towards that which needs
our co-operation.  Religion being in his judgment a supreme concern of life, though always
subordinated to the larger interest of social welfare, he was anxious to provide the new commonwealth
with an idealism which should set before man a Being able to evoke these three great emotions.
Formerly man had bestowed them on God; Comte thought he had found a more excellent way in suggesting
that they might far more appropriately and profitably be exercised on mankind.  The service
of God, therefore, being changed into the service of man, he contended that the course of things
would set steadily in a higher direction, because all the immense energy and enthusiasm which
the worship of God had been able to provoke in the past would be available in the cause of
suffering, down-trodden and persecuted humanity.  He wished to dam the stream of devotion flowing
towards the churches and God, and divert it into channels that had far greater need of it--the
unsatisfied and unprovided needs of all mankind.

Is it urged that religion apart from a belief in God is an impossibility?  Doubtless such is
the conviction of great numbers of people, and, it must be confessed, such usage of the word
is not consonant with prevalent custom.  Still the emotion which Comte experienced for Humanity
was such as no other word would adequately express.  As Mr. Mill remarks in his chapters on
the Positivist System (p. 133)--

It has been said that whoever believes in the infinite nature of duty, even if he believe in
nothing else, is religious.  Comte believes in what is meant by the infinite nature of duty,
but he refers the obligations of duty, as well as all sentiments of devotion, to a concrete
object, at once ideal and real; the human race, conceived as a continuous whole, including
the past, the present and the future. . . .  The power which may be acquired over the mind
by the idea of the general interest of the human race, both as a source of emotion and as a
motive to conduct, many have perceived; but we know not if any one before Comte realised so
fully as he has done all the majesty of which that idea is susceptible.  It ascends into the
unknown recesses of the past, embraces the manifold present, and descends into the indefinite
and unforeseeable future.  Forming a collective existence without assignable beginning or end,
it appeals to that feeling of the infinite which is deeply rooted in human nature, and which
seems necessary to the imposingness of all our highest conceptions.

However, we must now endeavour to briefly trace the steps whereby Comte arrived at what certainly
must be acknowledged a most startling conclusion.

A study of universal history, of which he must be acknowledged an absolute master, had convinced
him that all human institutions, be they beliefs, forms of society or government, scientific
conceptions, or modes of thought in general, have passed through three distinct stages. These
three stages he called the theological, metaphysical and positive.  In the first stage history
shows that man explained the origin of everything by explicit reference to wills like his own,
though, of course, invisible; and ultimately, by an appeal to one supreme Will.  Thus, a thunderstorm,
the rise and setting of the sun, the ebb and flow of tides, the succession of seasons and crops
are all explained by the agency of unseen wills, powers, or divinities.  As time advances,
progress is so far made that all minor deities are merged in the belief in one supreme Being
who created the universe and is ever responsible for its continuance in existence.

But man at length awakens to the need of a more proximate explanation of phenomena, and, by
such experiment as he is capable of, endeavours to ascertain, through their intrinsic properties
or their outward manifestations, the cause or causes of their being.  He leaves the skies and
comes to earth, and seeks to read the secret of things by examining the things in themselves.
This, Comte denominates the "metaphysical" stage, mainly, because the solutions given were
bound up with abstractions of physical realities.  Thus, if you asked Aristotle why a vegetable
grew, he would reply that it had a "nutritive soul," or principle, which enabled it to assimilate
food.  If one asked why heavy bodies fall, or why flame and smoke ascend, the answer would
be because everything tends to go to its natural place, implying, thereby, that there was some
occult power or tendency in bodies to behave in certain definite ways.  Those were the days
of the time-honoured legends about Nature "abhorring a vacuum," tolerating no "breaks," and
the wonders of her "curative force".  These phrases about abstractions were held to be adequate
explanations of any of the facts about nature or man.

At length, there came the period when men demanded a straightforward answer to plain questions,
and refused to acquiesce in the reply that opium puts us to sleep because there is a dormitive
virtue resident in it.  The powers of observation and experiment having increased, it became
possible by scientific test and analysis to satisfy the desire for a more immediate knowledge,
and thus to discover, for example, that water is water, not because it possesses the form of
aquosity, as the Scholastics would have said, but because it is chemically composed of oxygen
and hydrogen.  This last stage Comte called the "positive," and hence we perceive what he means
when he calls his entire system by that name.  It marks his conviction that those methods which
are so successful in the discovery of truth in scientific matters should be applied to the
solution of the problems of sociology and religion.  In other words, "positive" and scientific
are practically synonymous terms, the system pledging its followers to hold nothing which is
not its own evidence, to abandon all attempts to know anything which is not phenomenal, that
is, an object of sense-experience, and consequently to disavow metaphysics as practically equivalent
to the unreal.  Thus, for Comte, sociology, of which he may truthfully be described as the
founder, is as much a science as chemistry or astronomy.  It deals with its subject-matter,
man, in precisely the same way as the astronomer with the stars.  And the same is also true
of religion.

Such is the famous Law of the three States, which has always been treated by friend and foe
as the key to the Comtean philosophy.  It only concerns us now to describe the use he made
of it in abolishing the belief in God, and thus attempting to revolutionise the conception
of religion.

Closely associated with his Law of the three States is another which he calls the Law of the
Wills and Causes.  In fact, there is practically no difference between that law and the first
or theological stage through which human knowledge goes.  It may be enunciated thus: Whenever
the human mind is in ignorance of the proximate causes of a given phenomenon, it tends to ascribe
it to the agency of superior and invisible powers.  Hence, ignorance of nature, which modern
science has largely remedied, led men to ascribe to "the act of God" innumerable events, even
the appearance of Halley's comet, which we now unhesitatingly refer to subordinate agencies.
Why, then, urged Comte, should we continue to believe in even one supreme Cause, when we may
hope, with the advance of science, to give an explanation of every natural occurrence or fact?
Convinced on social grounds that belief in the Deity had been of no service to mankind, he
sought for philosophical reasons to justify his surrendering the tenet, and thus formulated
the famous law which has just been enunciated.  If that law is valid and universal in its application,
we should have to surrender all hope of Comte's co-operation with what we hold to be rational
religion.  But it is because I am so convinced that it is that very law, so finely framed and
stated by Comte, which makes it impossible to dispense with belief in a supra-mundane Power,
that I adhere to the ideal which I sketched in the beginning, that Kant and Comte will be found
to be, after Christ, the master builders of the second temple which is to be the religious
home of the ages to come.

For what does his famous law amount to?  To nothing beyond this, that we are warranted in believing
that no single fact, no individual phenomenon, of nature exists, but will be one day explained
by the all-conquering advance of physical science.  But surely his most enthusiastic adherent
will admit that when every phenomenon has been singly explained, only half the work, and that
by far the less significant part, has been done.  If the human mind is eager, and legitimately
eager, to explore the scene of nature's manifestations, much more will it be necessary to attempt
some solution of the vaster fact of their concatenation, of their miraculous combination into
that whole which we call the universe.  It is not so much the isolated phenomena which strike
the mind with such overpowering bewilderment, as the manifest fact that in their infinite diversity
and innumerable varieties, they are all subordinated to one vast end--the constitution and
the good of the whole.  Explain every sun that lines the eternal path into the Infinities,
where no telescope can penetrate--what is that to the mind that knows that the numberless series
is bound together by laws which they as unhesitatingly obey as an animal when it walks?  Hence,
by the very terms of his own law, Comte is compelled to restore to the human mind its belief
in a Power other than the world, for if our only justification for discarding that belief is
that science will explain one day the individual phenomena of the universe, it is plain that
man's science can never hope to explain the origin of the worlds themselves and the infinite
complexities of their mutual relations.  And if science cannot hope to do that, the mind of
man must, under penalty of going to disruption, assent to the belief that there is a World-Power
who is responsible for the conscious production of the universe, and therefore of ourselves.

And I am glad to be able to say that Comte never expressly excluded this belief.  On the contrary,
he asserts that if a cosmic hypothesis is to be held at all, that of an intelligent Mind is
far more probable than atheism.  Indeed of atheism he has written as caustically as the most
orthodox could wish.  He expressly contends that the theory of design is far more probable
than blind mechanism, and if he excludes theism, it is not so much for philosophical as for
social reasons. Consumed with a passion for human betterment, seeing that the "love of God"
had deplorably failed as an incentive to morality, he made the tremendous effort of endeavouring
to substitute the love of man as a stimulus towards the accomplishment of duty.  If Comte denied
God, let the Churches and ecclesiastics of France and of Europe bear the responsibility.  It
was the disastrous condition into which Europe had fallen under their guidance which led him
to despair of "God" as a rallying point for humanity.

But there is, I submit, no inherent necessity in the Positivist system to insist on the dogmatic
exclusion of such theism as we profess under the guidance of Emerson and Kant, and it is gratifying
to be able to quote so sympathetic a supporter as J. S. Mill in favour of this interpretation.
"Whoever regards all events as parts of a constant order, each one being the invariable consequent
of some antecedent condition, or combination of conditions, accepts fully the positivist mode
of thought: whether he acknowledges or not an universal antecedent on which the whole system
of nature was originally consequent, and whether that universal antecedent is conceived as
an intelligence or not." [1]

I need not say that to us who believe in Mind as the necessary antecedent to all things, the
positivist spirit, so defined, is essential truth.  We believe in the Great Being revealed
in the eternal order of the physical worlds and in the eternal order of the moral law. Our
worship of God is therefore a worship of goodness or morality, an ideal of justice, as seen
in the lives of only the elect spirits of the race, and thus "the worship of Humanity" is also
the worship of God. For where is God revealed as worshipful except in the lives of the great
and good?  And if religion be defined to be morality as taught in the lives of the holiest
servants of mankind, in what do we differ essentially from the ennobling conceptions of Auguste
Comte?  The service of man is seen to be the service of God, for we know nothing of God until
we have learnt to serve goodness and minister to our brother man.  The day will come when Comte
will be honoured in the universal Church as an apostle of true religion, because, like Kant,
he showed men that there is nothing holier or diviner on this earth than a life consciously
conformed to the obedience of august laws.  Comte, no less than his brother philosopher, is
a servant of humanity, and therefore a servant of God, and we conceive that both thinkers have
laid mankind under an immeasurable debt by showing us that that emotion of reverence which
all men instinctively feel towards a Power greater than man, cannot be worthily satisfied except
by a conscious endeavour to live as befits our rational nature, and to serve "the brethren"
out of love.

[1] Auguste Comte and Positivism, p. 15.

XIII.

THE OLD FAITH AND THE NEW

AS SEEN IN HELBECK OF BANNISDALE.

Cynical observers of the tendencies of the age tell us that, like the Athenians of Paul's days,
we are "lovers of new things".  Doubtless we are, for this century, this "wonderful century,"
as it has recently been described, is a new age or there never was one.  Hence, just as Spinoza
saw everything sub specie aeternitatis, we may very well have a tendency to see many things
sub specie novi.  New things, astonishingly new things, in every imaginable department of life
have been witnessed by men who saw the opening years of the century, and fin-de-siècle as we
are, the capacities of man are apparently as inexhaustible as ever.

It would indeed be passing strange were religion an exception to the uniform progress everywhere
in operation.  Doubtless the aspect of that supreme concern of life does change less rapidly,
but change it does and must: eppur si muove.  And it is significant, as one of the most striking
results of the beneficent movements of our time, that, in the English-speaking countries at
least, one of the most powerful, because the most far-reaching, stimuli to religious progress
has been supplied by the hand of a woman.

It has always seemed to me that Mrs. Humphry Ward's Robert Elsmere was the making of an epoch,
and when so shrewd an observer of the times, so enthusiastic an admirer of "the old ways" as
Mr. Gladstone, thought the book worth criticising and censuring, he bore eloquent testimony
to the effect it was evidently destined to produce.  Its influence has unquestionably been
great.  There are many people who owe to it their first acquaintance with modern religious
thought.  Numbers of the younger clergymen of the Establishment must have been profoundly moved
by it, because the faith of an Anglican is a comparatively elastic thing compared with the
rigidity of supernatural conceptions which distinguishes the Roman Catholic communion.  It
may even be true that these sporadic outbreaks of Ritualism, which are so seriously threatening
to "trouble Israel's peace," owe no little of their force to the far-reaching effects of the
new religious controversy.  The Newcomes of to-day, like their prototype in the novel, may
very well have come to the belief that there is no salvation from that besetting demon of reason
and "intellectual pride," but in a religion of sensuousness and externalism which Sydney Smith,
himself, of course, a clergyman, once contemptuously designated as "painted jackets and sanctified
watering-pots".  Panem et Circenses!  Bread and games! Give them fumes of incense, blare and
blaze of sounds and lights, and they may learn to forget that there ever was such a thing as
a school of biblical criticism which has turned orthodoxy into a heresy against reason by telling
the truth about the Bible.

Biblical inspiration being attenuated to almost vanishing point, there is nothing left but
to appeal to the Church--not, indeed, to the Church of to-day, lost amid the mazes and intricacies
of sects and schisms, but to that venerable fiction, "the undivided Church" of the first few
centuries of our era, and thus brand religion with the stigma of retrogression by proclaiming
it the only thing which is incapable of progress.

Not infrequently is a progressive movement attended at first by a partial reaction, and it
is not at all unlikely that Ritualistic clergymen have been terrified into an increased reliance
upon forms and rites by the disastrous effects produced upon many of their followers or fellow-churchmen
by the new controversial methods of Mrs. Humphry Ward.

Now, what is this new controversy?  It consists in the adoption of the handiest implement available
to literary genius, namely, the novel, or fictional history, and by consummate critical and
constructive skill, showing the disintegration of the old faiths and the building up of the
new in the life of some representative man or woman.  There is much more in such a novel than
appears.  First, there is the work of the scholar, of the man of research.  He is like the
miner who works underground and digs out of the hard earth that "gem of purest ray serene,"
the truth.  Then comes the artist, just as cultured as the scholar, and only less learned,
who polishes the gem and gives it its setting in pages of brilliant writing, and what is more
important still, weaves it subtly into the daily life of some human being to whom it has been
slowly and always painfully introduced.  Or, to vary the metaphor, this new controversy is
an inoculation performed by one who possesses a masterly acquaintance with the circulatory
system of the spiritual anatomy, and is enabled thereby to describe with unerring accuracy
the precise effects of the new ideal at every stage of its progress through the soul.  You
see before you the experiment of a new ideal, at first only suggested, then partially welcomed
and even loved. Then the awful struggle in which no quarter can be given on either side, and
the final victory of the truth.  Such is the new controversy, the world of truth brought down
to the world of life, the fertilising streams of knowledge turned by some strong, wise hand,
into the narrow channel of an individual existence for the purification and recreation of life.

Naturally, the distinguished authoress turned her attention first to the Anglican Church, the
most cultured and liberal of the Christian communities.  Evangelical dissent cannot at present
be said to be interesting, at any rate from the point of view we are considering to-day.  It
is destitute of the historic associations of Anglicanism, and has been, until very recently,
identified with ideals little suggestive of the intellectual or the beautiful.  It can scarcely
be said to lend itself to effective dramatic or artistic treatment.  I am by no means forgetful
of George Eliot, but every one will see at a glance that the handling of the religious question
by that incomparable genius is entirely different from that of Mrs. Ward in the books we are
noticing.  Robert Elsmere stands for a system of theology and faith. Dinah Morris speaks for
herself; out of the abundance of a pure and beautiful heart her mouth speaks words of wondrous
grace and truth.

Hence, having held up the mirror to the face of Anglicanism, our authoress has turned her attention
to that older Church, so rich in memories of the past, with so unequalled a record in the service
of humanity, and able even to-day to command the allegiance, the nominal allegiance at all
events, of more than two hundred million beings.  In Helbeck of Bannisdale we have the world
and life of Roman Catholicism displayed with a minuteness and a precision which I should have
thought scarcely possible to one not "of the household of the faith".  It is, indeed, an ideal
world, a world that belongs to the past, for the Helbecks have all but passed away.  The Time-Spirit
has been too much for them, and that beautiful old-world courtesy, that silent, shrinking piety
which was nurtured on memories of martyr-ancestors who were broken on the rack for the ancient
faith, and long years of isolation and the proud contempt of the world, is now, as some Catholics
regretfully deplore, a thing of the past.

No one knows this better than Mrs. Ward, and she has, I conceive it, purposely chosen a type
such as Helbeck, almost an impossible survival in our time, because she could not otherwise
have made Catholicism interesting.[1]  Nor could she have succeeded in pressing home her own
rooted conviction of the hopelessness of any attempt at compromise between the new spirit of
reason and life and that of the faith of saints and martyrs.  The modern Catholic, who stultifies
himself and vilifies his faith by apologetic articles in this or that secular review, in which
he attempts to show that the Church which taught the inspiration of Genesis and condemned Galileo
was all the time not untrue to the scientific conceptions of Copernicus and Darwin, is a very
poor person in the eyes of many of us; and one thing is abundantly certain, that by no possibility
could even Mrs. Ward have made him the hero of a novel.  For a Helbeck, who has reckoned up
the chances of life, and deliberately made his choice, casting in his lot wholly with an idealism
for which the modern world has absolutely no sympathy, we can and do feel a deep respect. 
But for your ambidextrous apologist or theologian, the fellow who can make words bear double
meanings, and even infallible oracles tell contradictory stories, we have nothing but contempt,
because he is a trifler with truth.

And, now, we may turn to the book.

Mrs. Humphry Ward has long taught us to expect excellence, and in Helbeck of Bannisdale we
are not disappointed.  She does not work, indeed, on so large a canvas as in Robert Elsmere,
nor do her materials allow her to be quite so interesting as in that masterpiece. At all events,
that is my individual opinion.  The atmosphere is very close throughout the book, and one has
a feeling that the windows of that old, old house of Bannisdale have not been opened for centuries.
One breathes a stifling air.  Light and freedom come alone through that delightful creation,
Laura Fountain, a creature you do not easily forget, with an instinct, rather than a reasoned
conviction, of rational truth and liberty, a being of almost wild impulse, clever, though partially
educated, but good to the heart's core.  Altogether, a winsome, lovable girl, and tragic as
was her end, one scarcely knows whether she was not happier in her fate, hurried hence on the
swift waters of the river she had grown to love, than she ever could have been in her projected
marriage with one to whom religion meant almost unmixed gloom.  Doubtless Helbeck found consolation
in it, but it was such as he was unable to allow others to share.  Noble as we instinctively
feel the man to be, tender as is the passion wherewith he envelops the object of his love,
the shadow of the Cross is ever there. Forgotten in the first sweet hours of their mutual avowal,
it soon reveals its sorrowful presence, and gradually deepens into such unutterable gloom that
the broken-hearted girl is forced to surrender first love and then life to the inexorable exigencies
of his old-world creed.

This, then, is the issue of the dramatic interest of the story, that the attempt to unite the
living with the dead ends in the destruction of the living, in the breaking of hearts, in one
case, even unto death. For the lives and loves of Helbeck and Laura must be regarded as allegories
of the eternal truths which encompass us.  It may seem a harsh, a needless thing to cloud the
closing page with such sudden and unutterable woe.  Why should not these two pass out of each
other's lives, as do numberless others who realise the mistake of their projected union?  There
is no reason whatsoever save this, that all things whatsoever are written in Helbeck of Bannisdale
are, like the history of Isaac and Ishmael, told as in an allegory.  They are symbols of the
gulf which separates the new life from the old, and they serve to convey the reasoned conviction
of the distinguished authoress that the inspiration of the "Ages of Faith" is inadequate to
the complex needs of the larger life of to-day.

These two unhappy beings illustrate that law of growth and progress which forbids the youth
to indulge in the pleasures of the child, or the man to find his recreation in the pastimes
of youth.  And as with man, so with the race.  There was a time when the world was full of
Helbecks, an age when the religion of the Cross was the highest, holiest, known.  But man,
in his maturer years, has outgrown that, just as the Cross supplanted an idealism more imperfect
than itself: and the proof of its inadequacy is seen to-day in the blaze of evidence supplied
by the slow and inevitable decay of those peoples who were once its steadiest champions.  Spain
and Portugal are being numbered among the dead.  Italy and France are making violent endeavours
to escape their doom, by restricting the liberties of the official representatives of their
legally established Church, because they instinctively feel that their dogmatics mean death
to the peoples who live by them.  Hence, the cry, le cléricalisme, voila l'enemi! in France,
and the libera chiesa in libero stato! in Italy.  The modern state, the modern man cannot live
by the old ideals: the dead would strangle the living.  And, therefore, Laura Fountain, the
modern maiden, must die.

For, look at Alan Helbeck.  He is a man who felt, who knew, himself to be an anachronism, a
man who had realised so fully the genius of his religion, that he was thoroughly uncomfortable
in the society of any who were alien to it.  He saw none of his neighbours; once only he had
been induced to attend a hunt ball.  The doctrine, Extra Ecclesiam nulla salus, he adopted
in all its rigidity.  He fulfilled Newman's ideal to the very letter: he was "anxious about
his soul".  He never gave anything else a serious thought.  To escape hell--that nameless terror
which stirs the soul of man to its very depths, as Mrs. Ward very aptly quotes from Virgil
on her title page--this was the purpose for which Helbeck of Bannisdale conceived he had been
placed here by a beneficent God.  And on the supposition that "Acheron" is a reality, Helbeck
was absolutely right.  If hell is indeed "open to Christians," and if the path to life be exceeding
strait and narrow, our bounden duty, as men of common sense, would be to "go sell all we had
and give to" orphanages, like the Squire of Bannisdale, and appease this gloomy God by a life
of austerity and utter renunciation.

Why, then, do not all Christians turn Helbecks?  Simply because for the very life of them they
cannot believe in their own inspired eschatology.  Verbally, of course, they assent to the
whole code of immoralities connected with future retribution, but "a certain obstinate rationality"
in them prevents their translating their faith into practice.  Hence, the Catholics we meet
are no more Helbecks than ourselves.  They do not believe in emptying their houses for the
sake of orphanages, fasting rigorously in Lent, abstaining from intercourse with their fellow-beings,
or going about chanting, "Outside the Church no salvation".  Quite the contrary.  But the truth
remains that Helbeck was true to the ideal, and because he was, it is possible to see a romance
and a dignity in his life, not always observable in his modern co-religionists.  Nobody has
anything to say against their "version" of Christianity, because it is, to all intents and
purposes, identical with the sane ideals supplied by modern thought.  No French or Italian
statesman would have one word to say against them, but they have a morbid dread of Helbecks.
If the Helbeck ideal were multiplied indefinitely, it requires very little foresight to pronounce
the gradual extinction of the commonwealth.  A nation of men who were simply and seriously
living so as to escape Hades would make a speedy end of the most prosperous community.

And yet this man had once lived, aye and loved.  But his love was lawless, and when all was
over, he is taken by a church dignitary in Belgium to witness the death of a bishop.  The prelate,
weak in body, but strong in faith, is vested in his pontifical robes, and makes an extraordinary
impression upon the young layman by the fervour with which he makes his final profession of
faith.  While in the exaltation of spirit produced by this solemn scene, he is induced to attend
a "retreat," or series of spiritual exercises, to be conducted by a Jesuit in a house of their
Order.  "Grace" had apparently not finally triumphed, because he was within measurable distance
of expulsion owing to the indifference of his behaviour.  However, the preacher took him seriously
in hand, and after one more stirring appeal to absolute self-surrender to the Cross, or, in
plain language, to turn his back on the common human life of men, Helbeck's conversion is finally
effected, and from that day to the close of his life at Bannisdale, his one thought was the
Cross and the safety of his soul.

He had been living this melancholy existence for a number of years, when Laura Fountain, the
daughter of a Cambridge professor, and a member of the Ethical Society there (so we are told),
broke in upon his life.  Her father, as much for pity as for love, had married as his second
wife the sister of Alan Helbeck, and during his life had apparently succeeded in teaching her
something of the gospel of reason, because Augustina practically abandoned her creed.  But
on the death of her husband, it revived, and she experienced a longing to return to her old
home.  Of course, there was joy before the angels and her brother Alan at the penitent's return.
Being absolutely dependent for her creature comforts on her step-daughter, there was nothing
for it but for Laura to accompany the invalid, and prepare to spend some of her time in the
house of a rigid professor of a religion which her father had taught her to despise.

The utmost skill is shown in the gradual transformation of their feeling, from one of pitiful
condescension on the one side and undisguised revolt on the other, to sentiments of growing
esteem and respect which ripen at length into a love which is tender and deep. The love scene
which ensues on that early summer morning when Helbeck discovers the "wild pagan" girl, as
he thought her, in a state bordering on exhaustion, after her long walk across country through
half the night, is a very beautiful and touching one, and reveals all the mastery which the
authoress commands of the language and mystery of the emotions.  The image of the infidel child
had stolen into the strong, stern man's heart, and, next to the master passion of his life,
his sombre religion, completely dominated him.  They become engaged, to the almost inexpressible
scandal of the household, from the sour old housekeeper up to Father Bowles, with his "purring
inanities"--a wonderful creation--and the courtly Father Leadham, a Jesuit and a Cambridge
"convert".  But Helbeck holds out, trusts bravely to "the intercession of saints" and the attractiveness
of Catholic worship, and thus some days of unclouded sunshine enter into his dark and troublous
life.  Like the gentleman he is, he makes no attempt at proselytism, and gives his word that
by no speech or act of others shall his future wife be molested.

They spend a few weeks at the sea, where Bannisdale and all it represents is forgotten.  Laura
has grown to love and lean upon this strong, resolute man.  She enjoys an almost unique experience
in triumphing over a life which had been believed to be inaccessible to woman's influence.
But the sunshine is soon overcast.  They are back again in that atmosphere of depression which
Bannisdale exhales, and the agony begins.  The poor girl sees the life from the inside, so
to speak, and the hopelessness of it all dawns upon her like a desolation. Never could she
bring herself to say and do the things she sees and hears about her; a voice she cannot still
seems to rise from the depths of her being, defying her to go back on her past and forget the
life and example of her father.  "You dare not, you dare not," it kept saying to her.  No,
the system would hang like a pall of death between her and her love: she could never possess
his heart.  Half of it, more than half, would be given to that ideal of gloom he worshipped
as the Cross, which he correctly interpreted as the essence of the Catholic teaching.  When,
finally, Helbeck stands by the account given of the life of the Jesuit saint, Francis Borgia,
who cheerfully surrenders his wife, disposes of his eight little children and then goes off
to Rome "to save his soul" by becoming a Jesuit, the cup is full.  Her lover tells her the
story of his own life, how he had been brought to his present ideals--a story of exceeding
great pathos, which utterly overcomes the sensitive, shrinking girl by his side--but it was
the end.  Half-hysterically she falls into his arms, and Helbeck almost believes the great
renunciation is to follow.  "His heart beat with a happiness he had never known before."  But
he was never farther from the truth.  "It would be a crime--a crime to marry him," the heart-broken
girl sobbed, when she reached the privacy of her own room.

And so she turns her back on Bannisdale.  But fate compels her to return.  Her step-mother
is dying, and Laura's presence is indispensable.  Once again the old battle is renewed 'twixt
love and creed, and in her anguish this child of the modern world resolves to force herself
to submit that she may save her love.  Father Leadham can, he must, convince her.  Has he not
convinced Protestant clergymen and other learned people?  Why not a poor, untutored girl such
as her?  But it was never to be.  She was afraid to lose her love, but there was something
in her which conquered fear, and it reasserted itself at the last.  "I told you to make me
afraid," she had once said to Helbeck in one of their sweet moments of reconciliation, "but
you can't!  There is something in me that fears nothing, not even the breaking of both our hearts."

And so, with the awful inevitableness of a Greek tragedy, the action moves towards the closing
doom.  It is sad beyond words, and we are grateful for Mrs. Ward's noble reticence.  "The tyrant
river that she loved had received her, had taken life, and then had borne her on its swirl
of waters, straight for that little creek where, once before, it had tossed a human prey upon
the beach.  There, beating against the gravelly bank, in a soft helplessness, her bright hair
tangled among the drift of branch and leaf brought down by the storm, Helbeck found her."

He carried her home upon his breast, and at the last they laid her amongst the Westmoreland
rocks and trees, in sight of the Bannisdale woods, in a sweet graveyard, high in the hills.
The country folk came in great numbers, and Helbeck, more estranged than ever now, watched
the mournful scene from afar.

Such is the tragedy of faith and love, which bequeathed to the already lonely and sorrowful
man memories so unspeakably sad, and led this new Antigone to immolate herself in so awful
a manner--"a blind witness to august things".

For us there remains but one question.  Helbeck, it is plain, can never win Laura, but can
Laura ever hope to win Helbeck?

One would have to answer with many distinctions.  In the first place, much has been done already.
The true Helbeck type is fast disappearing, buried or lost in inaccessible places like the
fells of Westmoreland, or Breton castles, far from the highway of humanity's daily life.  Had
not Mrs. Ward reminded us of him, we should have almost forgotten his existence.  The modern
spirit, of which Laura is the type, has steadily eliminated the species.

Next, though Roman Catholicism occupies a far different position from that it held in the days
when Yorkshire and Lancashire were plentifully studded with houses and homes such as Bannisdale,
it must be remembered that the successors of the sixteenth century Helbecks are only magni
nomines umbra.  To the modern Catholic, religion is less than ever a life to be lived, a distinct
type to be created; it is increasingly recognised merely as a creed to be believed.  Helbeck
of Bannisdale you could pick out of a crowd, but a congregation at the Oratory or Farm Street
differs in nothing from one at St. Peter's, Eaton Square, or the smartest Congregational chapel.
They all mingle indistinguishably in the "church parade" and are lost.

It is the victory of the "world" overcoming "faith".

The modern Catholic believes with the Church as against the world, in the importance of "orders"
or the truth of transubstantiation and infallibility, but his life is with the world.  Emphatically,
his conversation is not in heaven.  He is one of us.  He is like Nicodemus, a disciple in secret,
for various reasons, of which he is probably utterly unconscious.  His Catholicism no more
alienates him from modern life than Wallace's profound belief in phrenology puts him beyond
the pale of science.  His differences with the modern world are purely speculative, having
little or no bearing on practical life, and therefore the world is content to take Catholicism
at its own valuation.  How far this is from Helbeck one can easily divine, but Laura has brought
them leagues from that Westmoreland home of impossible ideals and all it symbolises.

At the same time, no one need look for the disappearance of that speculative system known as
modern Catholicism.  The type, the life indeed has gone, and gone for ever; but there will
always be a "crowd which no man can number," who prefer to sit and submit to being up and doing
for themselves.  Reason and authority must ever continue to be the watchwords of the two great
sections into which humanity is divided on the religious question.  They must ever be contrasted
as habits of mind, as sources whence faith arises.  But it needs no exceptional discernment
to see that the religion of the strenuous and progressive, the peoples who move the world and
make its history, cannot by any possibility known to us be a religion of undiluted authority.
As a man is, so are the gods he worships, for the gods are the ideal.  Therefore the progressive
nations who find it impossible to stand still, not to speak of looking back, will more and
more recede from even the remnant of the Helbeck ideal which remains to us to-day, and find
their inspiration in a religion which is advancing like themselves.  What! science grow, knowledge
increase, freedom advance, and religion only stagnate!  Perish the thought!  Our religion,
like our knowledge, grows from day to day, because it is only through the deepening knowledge
of the universe and of himself that man is enabled to rise to a proportionate knowledge of
That of which all things are but transitory symbols.  Creeds and systems, prisons of the infinite
spirit of man, never can they befit the age in which the ideal of progress has entered, like
an intoxication, into the soul.  "The snare is broken and we are delivered."  Woe to the man,
woe to the people, who are content to sit or stand!  Woe to them whose hope is in the dead
past, and not in their living selves!  Woe to the faith that has no better message for the
eager, palpitating generations of to-day, than a bundle of parchments from the third or fourth
century, or the impossible practices of an age when the life of the world stood still!  They
shall never inherit the earth.  The new heaven, the better land, is reserved for the strenuous
and the progressive alone, for "the kingdom of heaven suffereth violence, and the violent bear
it away".

[1] The Rev. Father Clarke, of the Jesuit Society, in the Nineteenth Century of September,
1898, refuses to recognise Helbeck as true to the Catholic type.  Certainly, he is not a modern
Roman Catholic, and probably Mrs. Ward knows this as well as her critic.  The question is,
which conforms to type, the old or the modern English Catholic?  Mr. Mivart's "liberal catholic"
criticisms of Father Clarke in the October number of the same review are good, very good, reading.

XIV.

THE RELIGION OF TENNYSON.

Prophecy and poetry are the embodiment in artistic form of the abstract conceptions of the
philosopher.  As the philosopher thinks, so the prophet preaches, so the poet sings.  Thinking,
speaking, singing, are the three acts in the ascending scale of the soul's self-manifestation.
Generally speaking, these high functions are not found in their perfection in one and the same
soul; rarely do you meet with the spirit of the philosopher, prophet and poet incarnate in
one mortal frame. Such enterprise is too great for all but the greatest, and amongst these
may possibly be classed the poet-prophet of Israel, Isaiah, the writers of some of the Vedic
hymns and Hebrew psalms, and Jesus of Nazara, whose soul was full of music, and whose thinking
and preaching will probably fill the thoughts of man throughout all time.

The significance of philosophical and prophetic teaching in religion is a frequent subject
of thought in our circles, and now the recent publication of Tennyson's life enables us to
say something of the Religio Poetae--the idealism which inspired the soul of a nineteenth century
poet.

The poet's name is not without significance and interest.  It is a Greek word signifying "maker"
or "creator"--Poiêtês.  There is a philosophy in language however much we continue to ask,
"What's in a name?"  When those wonderful Greeks wished to express the thinker's art, they
spoke of Sophia or wisdom; when they heard the first preacher who told them of their innermost
selves, they called him the Prophêtês or prophet, the man that speaketh forth as from an illimitable
deep; and when they listened to the soul of music coming from the lips of a Homer or a Sappho,
they called it by the most expressive name of all, "making" or "creation".  The poet was a
creator.  And so he is if we come to think of it.  Out of the materials supplied to him by
the thinking of other intelligences, he weaves his song of joy and beauty which holds our senses
as in a spell, and steeps our souls in ecstasy.  He is a "reed," to use an expression of Tennyson
himself, "through which all things blow to music".  He is the creator of the ideal world par
excellence; the keys of the Unseen are in his keeping.

We say that he transfigures the thoughts of other intelligences, that he turns his genius to
the rhythmic expression of the towering fantasies of the philosopher.  And he does.  Poetry
without thought would be a jingle--a word which, if we may trust the reviews, is a satisfactory
account of much of the "minor" poetry of the day.  If a man does not see somewhat deeper into
himself and things than the average human being, never among the sacred band of lyric souls
can he find a lasting place.  Philosophy is the propaedeutic of poetry.  But surely, it may
be urged, the book of nature is open to every one, and a poet's soul may sing of that without
any need of the philosopher's interpretation.  Has not some of the sublimest verse been Nature
poetry?  True, but this undoubted fact only confirms our statement. When Wordsworth interprets
nature in song, he is borrowing from a philosopher; he is reading the thoughts of an intelligence
other than his own.  He is revealing to you the innermost thoughts of that supreme Mind, who
conceived the beautiful whole, and made it to be a thought of himself.  The deepest thinker
is he who thinks his thoughts into deeds. There is a First Philosopher as there is a First
Poet or Maker, and because we are in our innermost selves of his kindred, we have the power
to think his thoughts again, and create an ideal world which shall be the counterpart of his
own.  Men may be philosophers and poets because the First Poet and First Thinker is their Parent.

This is not mysticism, still less imagination, but the soberest of realities.  In it you read
the interpretation of the indisputable fact that the world's greatest poets were men of intensely
religious feeling.  They come so near to the Supreme Poet that their sense of the Infinite
is extraordinarily developed.  It is gravely questionable whether a man can be a great poet
unless the influence of his great prototype be a power in his life; unless his religious instincts
be reverently cultivated.  A religious sense is needful to the highest flights.  Go over the
greatest names of the past and present and you will see how "the Over-soul" has been the truest
source of inspiration. The unknown singers of the Vedic hymns, Homer, Sophocles, Virgil, Dante,
Shakespeare, Milton, Goethe, Wordsworth, and in our days, Tennyson and Browning--in them all
the religious sense, the instinct of communion with the unseen world, is a distinguishing mark
and characteristic.  A name here and there may be quoted on the other side, but as far as my
memory serves me for the moment, it would appear on closer examination that such were exceptions
only in appearance.  An excess, not a defect, of reverential feeling is often the explanation
of such non-manifestation of religious emotion as we may notice.  With Goethe, they would appear
to feel the presumption of individualising, the great Soul of the worlds by even so much as
naming him.

  Who dare name him, and who confess I believe him!

There is a reverent as well as an irreverent impatience of forms associated with the Formless
and the Infinite; and because of it one never yet heard or read of a man truly great who had
not the profoundest reverence for religion.  But, however that may be, it is plain that we
are justified in speaking of a poet's religion, and in discussing the religious conceptions
which took shape in the soul of one of the two great poets of the Victorian era.

Five years ago Tennyson passed hence, "crossing the bar" on that tideless sea, still as the
silent life which left its worn-out frame to "turn again home".  So much as the great poet
desired that the world should know of his own aspirations, his hopes and fears of the great
Hereafter, has been given to us in his own sweet singing, and a memoir written by his son.
It turns out that Tennyson was no exception to his noble order.  Like all the great singers
he was a man of faith--a man penetrated to his heart's core with the sense of the indestructible
character of the religious instinct, and of man's deep need of communion with the Great Life
which is within and beyond him--the Soul of souls whom men call God.

The significance of this fact is not to be lost upon reflective minds. In an age when positive
science has made a progress which borders almost on the miraculous; when discoveries of the
innermost secrets of nature, coupled with astounding combinations of her elements and forces,
which supply us with the chemical contrivances and implements for further research surpassing
the wildest dreams of astrologers and alchemists of old, there has been an unmistakable tendency
to push the Divine agency farther and farther back in the chain of phenomenal causation, until
it would appear that it had been finally thrust out of the world altogether.  "I have swept
the heavens with my telescope," said Lalande, "and I have not found your God."  "The heavens
are telling no more the glory of God," said Auguste Comte, "but that of Herschel and Laplace."
Is it indeed so?  The past has done all in its power to make it so, and Lalande and Comte represent
the inevitable and natural reaction against the incredible puerilities, the stupid, obstinate
opposition to all science not in conformity with the Nicene and Athanasian Creeds, or the fables
incorporated in the Hebrew Cosmogony.  But that past is past indeed, and never can come back
again.  The world returns no more to discarded ideals; the conception of theology as "queen
of the sciences" is as hopelessly impossible in the civilised world as the Divine right of kings.

The result is that prophets and poets are "men of God" still, and notwithstanding Lalande and
Comte, the heavens are not so dazzling as to quench for them the glory of a Diviner revelation
which they scarce conceal.  I frankly say that I had rather believe all the fables of the Talmud
and the Koran than that the empty shadows of a vulgar superstition are all that lie beneath
the stately verse of "In Memoriam," or the "Rabbi Ben Ezra" of Browning.

The religion of Tennyson is a perfume which fills much that he writes. It is a "spirit" which
broods over many a song, but is incarnate, so to speak, in the elegy which immortalises the
tomb of his lost friend. For Tennyson, the spirit of poetry is the spirit of religion--a blowing
to music of the deepest thoughts of the philosopher.  In "Merlin and the Gleam" we may read
this as in an allegory:--

  Great the Master
  And sweet the magic,
  When o'er the valley
  In early summers,
  O'er the mountain,
  On human faces,
  And all around me
  Moving to melody
  Floated the gleam.

The spirit of poetry, which bade him follow on in spite of discouragement, touched all on which
it hovered with a mystic light, "moving him to melody".  It was the soul of religion, binding
the spirit of man to nature and to "human faces" in themselves, and to the Supreme, in whom
all is One.

But what is an allegory in the spirit of the gleam is a reality in the song of love, "passing
the love of women," which he laid as the noblest offering ever yet made at the bier of a departed
friend.  The religion of Tennyson is there, but the poem must be carefully studied if its true
inwardness is to be grasped.  Isolating a few stanzas wherein the poet, alarmed and perplexed
at the cruelties and terrors of Nature, her dark and circuitous ways, her astounding prodigality
and wastefulness, lifts up in his helplessness "lame hands of faith," and falters where once
he firmly trod, many writers have professed to see in Tennyson the expression of a reverent
agnosticism.  Such agnosticism we may all respect, for it is very different from the noisy,
clamorous thing which, aping in name the humility of greater men, insists that the sense limitations
imposed upon its own intelligence shall forthwith be erected into a dogma to be accepted as
infallible by everybody else's intelligence.  Be as reverent as Darwin in your agnosticism,
as tolerant as Comte, we would say to such men, and there is much to commend in your teaching;
but spare us the ridiculous spectacle of a handful of pamphleteers and minor essayists arraigning
the sublimest philosophy ever known to the world, and consecrated by the homage of ninety out
of every hundred thinkers who have ever approached its study, as a system erected upon a mirage--the
image of a man's own personality distorted by its projection into the infinite.  Tennyson himself
once said that "the average Englishman's god was an immeasurable clergyman, and that not a
few of them mistook their devil for their god", That may very well be, but the philosophers
of the world who have built the house of wisdom are not "average Englishmen," and to describe
their theism as the imagination of an immeasurable man--surpliced clergyman or otherwise--is
a criticism, not of the philosophers, but of their would-be critics.  Non ragionian di lor,
ma guarda e passa!

But Tennyson was a passionately convinced theist.  With that scrupulous voraciousness which,
according to those who knew him most intimately, was his leading characteristic, he surveys
nature not only with the reverent eye of a mystic, but with the exact vision of science, and
faithfully reports what he sees--so faithfully, indeed, that he was hailed by Tyndall in, the
sixties as "the poet of science".  Loving truth, "by which no man yet was ever harmed," he
does not hesitate to portray nature "red in tooth and claw with ravine shrieking against the
creed" of a moral and beneficent power.  And when no reconciliation is obvious he can but "faintly
trust the larger hope" and point hence where possibly the discords of life will be resolved
into a final harmony.

  What hope of answer or redress?
  Behind the veil, behind the veil!

But these facts, however unmistakable, are powerless to alter the main inevitable conclusion
that beneficent power does rule the cosmos, though they may modify it provisionally, until
a better insight into the workings of nature supplies us with a clue to the mystery's solution.
He is a sorry philosopher indeed who will insist that nothing whatever can be known because
everything cannot be known, that an established fact must be no fact because no explanation
of it is forthcoming.  Tennyson is not one of these thriftless people, and the "In Memoriam,"
read aright, leads one upward "upon the great world's altar-stairs that slope through darkness
up to God".

The poem is a drama of life.  It was not written at one time or one place, but over a path
of some years.  Those years and places are a symbol of the ever-changeful thoughts and moods
of man who communes much with the world concealed behind the veil of sense.  It is the vivid
portraiture of the soul, its sorrows, doubts, anxieties, and aspirations; it tells of the eclipse
as well as of the dawn and meridian of faith.  In fact, it is Tennyson's own religious life
which is the life of uncounted numbers in these latter times.  Before the supreme sad experience,
the sudden, and to him incomprehensible, death of Arthur Hallam, the poet had agnostic leanings.
He did then veritably fail and "falter" before the questions of life and death which beset
him.  His long years of comparative poverty, "the eternal want of pence," his failure to attract
any measure of attention, his long-delayed marriage as far off as ever, the res angusta domi
which made his family dependent upon him, all conspired to shut out the vision of anything
but an iron necessity controlling him and everything.  Such lives are infinitely pathetic,
and perhaps one had rather devote oneself to ministering to minds distressed like these than
to any other form of charitable enterprise.  Such souls have been wounded inexpressibly; they
are sore to the most delicate touch, and gentle indeed must be the hand, and soft the voice,
which would comfort stricken creatures like these.  To think of such afflicted spirits is to
recall the picture of the ideal servant of Jahveh, of whom Isaiah sings in words of unearthly
beauty: "A bruised reed he shall not break and a smoking flax he shall not quench," for only
by ministrations such as these can they be healed.

Strangely enough, as it would seem, it was the last and saddest experience of all, the blow
which almost crushed his life, which brought the young soul back to health and strength.  It
was the hand of death, inopportunely touching the fairest and noblest thing he ever hoped to
know, which helped him to see that--

  My own dim life should teach me this,
  That life shall live for evermore,
  Else earth is darkness at the core,
  And dust and ashes all that is.

The conception of such a life as that of his lost friend, annihilated with the vanishing of
the touch of his hand and the sound of his voice, was plainly an impossible one, and if one
remembers all the bright hopes, the extraordinarily brilliant future which, in the judgment
of all who knew him, were buried with that young life, it is impossible to marvel at the change
his death produced in the heart of his poet friend.

Now this temporary eclipse of faith is truthfully set forth in the poem, together with the
manifold reasons which weigh at times so powerfully, even with the most devout minds, suggesting
that the universe is not "righteous at heart".

It is "the heart-piercing, mind-bewildering" mystery of evil and pain which has quenched the
light in many a sincere and fervent heart.  But it is not for ever.  Two things we may remember
for our guidance amid all this weltering sea of sorrow and distress.  First, it is not all
nature.  It is only a side of it; and if it is the most obvious, it is only because it is a
breach of the order and beneficence so uniformly obtaining.  And next, the holiest hearts,
the spirits of the just made perfect on earth were not adversely influenced by it.  In spite
of it all, an elect spirit, such as Jesus of Nazara, could patiently endure a life of austerity,
and meet a death of unspeakable anguish with a calmness and resignation seldom equalled and
never surpassed.  "Father, into thy hands I commend my spirit," is a serious rebuke to those
who suffer so little and complain so loudly that the times are out of joint, the world as probably
as not the work of malignity or indifference, and that he is no God who does not stretch forth
an omnipotent hand to slay the accursed thing of evil where it stands. This is in very deed
"the crying of an infant in the night".  We forget when we utter these foolish things that
we ourselves should be among the first to fall beneath that avenging hand.

And so with Tennyson.  It was the visitation of evil in its most mournful shape--the cold hand
of death that fell upon the brow of his beloved friend--which opened his eyes.  His faith in
goodness, in beneficent purpose, was restored.  The cloud was lifted for evermore. He married.
Wedded love, mystic symbol, sacramental image of a union higher still, came at length as an
added blessing, after years of expectancy and disappointment.  "When I wedded her the peace
of God entered into my heart," he wrote.  His cup was full; "out of the abundance of the heart
the mouth speaketh," and therefore he sang that stately invocation, that sublime Magnificat
which, we may well believe with his own most intimate friends, will endure while the lips of
men frame the sounds of our English speech.

  Strong Son of God, immortal Love,
  Whom we, that have not seen Thy face,
  By faith, and faith alone, embrace,
  Believing where we cannot prove.

Thus were "the wild and wandering cries, confusions of a wasted youth" forgotten in the song
of adoration, which is in reality the epilogue of the elegiac drama.  We can almost imagine
its coming after the closing glory of the bridal hymn which sings to its last note of God:--

  That God which ever lives and loves,
  One God, one law, one element,
  And one far-off Divine event,
  To which the whole creation moves.

A wedding on earth--that of his sister--is thus for him the symbol of that love eternal which
moves all things: Amor che tutto muove, of Dante's peerless song.  That light of love once
seen anew he never lost.  As life declined it grew in intensity: brighter and more reassuring
than ever did it glow as the darkness of earth began to close round him.  It was borne in upon
him with a depth of conviction too deep for utterance that death was but a fact, like any other
in our many-sided life, that it was but a momentary occurrence, in no wise impeding that progress
of the individual spirit in that path which has been with philosophic accuracy described by
the Hebrew psalmist as "the way everlasting".  The most perfect prayer is that: "Lead me in
the ever-lasting way," for it is the destiny of man to one day reach that journey's end; to
be one day perfect; to be absolutely conformed in mind and will to that most sacred of realities--the
moral law.

It was this new vision which dawned on his soul, when the face and form of his much-loved friend
was taken away, and filled him with a profound calm as the inevitable hour drew near.

  I can no longer
  But die rejoicing,
  For through the magic
  Of Him, the Mighty,
  Who taught me in childhood
  There on the borders
  Of boundless ocean,
  And all but in Heaven,
  Hovers the gleam.

In the old days long past, when, tormented with doubts, embittered by disappointment, he would
fain be rid of his burden, the voice of the Master kept ever repeating:--

  "Follow the gleam".

And so he followed--followed it through life, over the wide earth, until the land's end was
reached.  But even then the Spirit did not forsake him.  The "gleam" still shone like a star
in the deepening sky, till it stood at length over the waters at the gates of the great bar
that led out into the Infinite.  And last of all, the "call," clear and unmistakable; and there
sure enough, waiting beyond the bar, was the "Pilot," the Master of the gleam, "ready to receive
the soul".[1]

[1] Jean Valjean's death in Les Miserables.

XV.

"THE UNKNOWN GOD."

  The God on whom I ever gaze,
  The God I never once behold;
  Above the cloud, beneath the clod,
  The Unknown God, the Unknown God."
        --WILLIAM WATSON.

One great function of poetry is to keep open the road which leads from the seen to the unseen
world, and as the last echoes of this noble poem die away, it would seem as though a door had
been opened in heaven and an unearthly vision had been revealed to our wondering eyes.  It
is as though some strange inspiration had fallen upon one suddenly, like that which the seer
in the Apocalypse felt when he said, "And immediately I was in the spirit".  The truth is we
have been led into the invisible world, we have gained with the poet "a sense of God".  The
strange, undefinable attraction of the infinite is upon us.

Perhaps we have not yet learnt how strong that fascination is; how that it is not only the
source of that inner light which we see reflected in the countenance of the philosopher and
saint, but that it is powerful to arrest the attention of men who are for ever saying that
no such reality exists, or, that even if it does, man need no more concern himself about it.
Has he not the solid earth and the realm of sense? Why should he seek what is beyond it?  O
caecas hominum mentes!  Man cannot help himself.  Well does the ethic master say, "What is
the use of affecting indifference towards that about which the mind of man never can be indifferent?"
And why not?  Because man came thence? There is that in us "which drew from out the boundless
deep".  In some incomprehensible way the infinite is in us, and we are therefore restless,
dissatisfied ultimately with all that is not it.  "The eye is not filled with sight nor the
ear with hearing," for in us there is the capacity, and therefore, in our best moments, the
yearning to see and hear something which sense can never give.  Greater than all that is here,
in silent moments, when the senses are tired and disappointment steals over us, the truth of
the insignificance of things bursts upon us.  "Man is but a reed, the feeblest thing in nature,"
says Pascal in the Pensées, "but he is a thinking reed.  The universe need not mass its forces
to accomplish his destruction.  A breath, a drop of water may destroy him.  But even though
the world should fall and crush him he would still be more noble than his destroyer because
he knows that he dies, but the advantage which the world possesses over him--of that the world
knows nothing."  And, therefore, the universe is nothing to him who is conscious that there
is that in man which made all worlds and shall unmake them--the eternal Mind, one and identical
throughout the realm of intelligence.

This is no dreaming, but an interpretation of man and nature necessitated by the undeniable
facts of life.  The finite does not exhaust man's capacities, it cannot even satisfy them.
He was made for something vaster.  He is ever seeking the boundless, the infinite. Hence the
most positive, the most scientific of philosophers, Mr. Herbert Spencer, believes that there
is one supreme emotion in man, utterly indestructible, the emotion of religion; and what is
religion but the yearning I have described for communion, not with the world, vast and entrancing
as it is; not with humanity, admirable, even worshipful in its highest estate; but with that
which transcends them and all things, the enduring reality which men call Divine?  Spencer
and Emerson are at one.  Nothing but the Infinite will ultimately satisfy man.

Such are the thoughts awakened by the music of this poet's song, which haunts one with a sense
of the mystery of the illimitable.  I do not read it as a confession of agnosticism, save in
the sense in which all philosophers are ready to admit that our knowledge of the ultimate reality
of existence is as mere ignorance compared with what we do not, and cannot, know of it.  I
read it rather as a profession of the higher theism, or, if you will, of the higher pantheism,
for it is immaterial how far we go in maintaining the Divine immanence, provided we safeguard
the sovereign fact of individuality and abstain from all confusion of the human personality
and the Divine.

