William de Cheney, already mentioned as father of Adelias de Cundi, was “Lord of Caenby and
Glentham,” and Walter de Clifford also is mentioned in the charters of Barlings Abbey as giving
to that monastery lands in Caenby and Glentham, along with the above Walter de Lacy.  The great
feature of the reign of Stephen was the large number of castles erected by lords who were almost
more powerful than their sovereign, and Adelias built her castle at Horncastle, where she resided
in great state until, on her favouring the cause of the Empress Maud, daughter of the previous
king, Henry I. (whereas Stephen was only his nephew), her lands were confiscated, and, as we
have already seen, only restored on condition that her castle was demolished. {17a}  This restoration
was, however, only for life and on her demise the manor reverted to the crown.

The manor was next granted by Henry II. to Gerbald de Escald, a Flemish noble. {17b}  This
is shewn by a record still preserved at Carlisle, dated 1274–5.  In the reign of Edward I.
an inquisition was made at Lincoln, before 12 jurors of the soke of Horncastle, among the Commissioners
being John de Haltham, Anselm de Rugthon (Roughton), Thomas de Camera (i.e. Chambers) of Horncastre,
the King’s Justices and others, when it was declared that “the Lord Henry III., the father
of King Edward who now is, once had the manor of Horncastre, and he enfeoffed Gerbald de Escald,
a knight of Flanders, thereof, for his service, viz., by doing one knight’s fee for the Lord
the King.”

Gerbald was succeeded by his grandson and heir, Gerard de Rhodes.  This is shewn by a Carlisle
document. {17c}  A dispute arose between Hugh, son of Ralph (surname not given) and Gerard
de Rhodes, concerning the manor and soke of Horncastle, the advowson of the church, &c., which
were claimed by the said Hugh; but a compromise was effected, 400 marks being paid to Hugh,
and Gerard de Rhodes left in undisputed possession.

It has been thought probable that this Ralph, father of Hugh, was Ranulph, Earl of Chester,
who was lord of the manors of Revesby and Hareby, and had other possessions in the neighbourhood.
He, it is supposed, held the manor of Horncastle, as trustee, during the minority of Gerard.
Gerard was, in due course, succeeded by his son and heir, Ralph de Rhodes, in the reign of
Henry III.  This again is proved by a Feet of Fines, {17d} which records an “agreement made
in the court of the Lord King at Westminster (3 Feb., A.D. 1224–5), between Henry del Ortiay
and Sabina his wife on the one part, and the said Ralph de Rhodes on the other part,” whereby
the former acknowledge certain lands and appurtenances in Horncastle and its soke to be the
property of the said Ralph, and he grants to them, as his tenants, certain lands; they, in
acknowledgement, “rendering him therefor, by the year, one pair of gilt spurs at Easter for
all service and exactions.”

We have now reached another stage in the tenure of this manor and find ourselves once more
at the point where the present chapter opened. Hitherto the manor had been held “in capite”
(or “in chief”) of the king by lay lords, or, in the two cases of Queen Editha and Adelias
de Condi, by a lady; but in this reign Walter Mauclerk, the third Bishop of Carlisle, purchased
the manor from Ralph de Rhodes.  He was himself a powerful Norman and held the office of Treasurer
of the Exchequer (a common combination of civil and ecclesiastical duties in those days), but
now he and his successors were bound “to do suit and service to Ralph and his heirs.”  This
purchase is proved by a Lincoln document called a “Plea Quo Warranto,” which records a case
argued before the Justices Itinerant, in the reign of Edward I., when it was stated that Ralph
de Rhodes “enfeoffed Walter Mauclerk to hold the church, manor and appurtenances in Horncastre,
to him and his heirs, of the gift of the said Ralph.” {18a} That the Bishop, although an ecclesiastic,
was bound to do service to the heirs of Ralph is shown by another document, {18b} in which
John, son of Gerard de Rhodes, a descendant of Ralph, makes a grant to certain parties of “the
homage and whole service of the Bishop of Carlisle, and his successors, for the manor (&c.)
of Horncastre, which Gerard, son of Gerard my brother, granted to me.”  This is dated the 13th
year of Edward I., 1285, whereas the actual sale of the manor took place in the reign of Henry
III., A.D. 1230, and was confirmed by the king in the same year. {18c}

We have called this another stage in the tenure of this manor and for this reason, an ecclesiastic
of high rank, with the authority of the Pope of Rome at his back, was a more powerful subject
than any lay baron, and this influence soon shewed itself, for while the lay lords of the manor
had been content with doing their service to the king, and exacting service from those holding
under them, the Bishop of Carlisle, in the first year of his tenure, obtained from the king
three charters, conferring on the town of Horncastle immunities and privileges, which had the
effect of raising the town from the status of little more than a village to that of the general
mart of the surrounding country.  The first of these charters gave the bishop, as lord of the
manor, the right of free warren throughout the soke {18d}; the second gave him licence to hold
an annual fair two days before the feast of St. Barnabas (June 11), to continue eight days;
the third empowered him to hang felons.  An additional charter was granted in the following
year empowering the bishop to hold a weekly market on Wednesday (die Mercurii), which was afterwards
changed to Saturday, on which day it is still held; also to hold another fair on the eve of
the Feast of St. Laurence (Aug. 10th), to continue seven days. {18e}

We here quote a few words of the original Carlisle charter, as shewing the style of such documents
in those days: “Henry to all Bishops, Bailiffs, Provosts, servants, &c., health.  Know that
we, by the guidance of God, and for the health of our soul, and of the souls of our ancestors
and descendants, have granted, and confirmed by this present charter, to God, and the church
of the blessed Mary of Carlisle, and to the Venerable Father, Walter, Bishop of Carlisle,”
&c.  It then goes on to specify, among other privileges, that the bishop shall have “all chattells
of felons and fugitives, all amerciaments and fines from all men and tenants of the manor and
soke; that the bishop and his successors shall be quit for ever to the king of all mercies,
fines (&c.), that no constable of the king shall have power of entry, but that the whole shall
pertain to the said bishop, except attachments touching pleas of the crown, and that all chattells,
&c., either in the king’s court, or any other, shall be the bishop’s.”  Then follow cases in
which chattells of Robert Mawe, a fugitive, were demanded by the bishop, and £24 exacted from
the township of Horncastle in lieu thereof; also 40s. from William, son of Drogo de Horncastre,
for trespass, and other fines from Ralph Ascer, bailiff. Robert de Kirkby, &c., &c.  The same
document states that the bishop has a gallows (furcæ) at Horncastle for hanging offenders within
the soke; and, in connection with this we may observe that in the south of the town is still
a point called “Hangman’s Corner.”

These extensive powers, however, would hardly seem (to use the words of the charter) to have
been “for the good of the souls” of the bishop or his successors, since they rather had the
effect of leading him to the abuse of his rights.  Accordingly, in the reign of Edward III.,
a plea was entered at Westminster, before the King’s Justices, {19a} by which John, Bishop
of Carlisle, was charged with resisting the authority of the king in the matter of the patronage
of the benefice of Horncastle.  That benefice was usually in the gift of the bishop, but the
rector, Simon de Islip, had been appointed by the king Archbishop of Canterbury and, in such
circumstances, the crown by custom presents to the vacancy.  The bishop resisted and proceeded
to appoint his own nominee, but the judgment of the court was against him.

A somewhat similar case occurred a few years later. {19b}  Thomas de Appleby, the Bishop of
Carlisle, and John de Rouseby, clerk, were “summoned to answer to the Lord the King, that they
permit him to appoint to the church of Horncastre, vacant, and belonging to the king’s gift,
by reason of the bishopric of Carlisle being recently vacant.”  It was argued that John de
Kirkby, Bishop of Carlisle, had presented Simon de Islip to that benefice, afterwards created
Archbishop of Canterbury, and that the temporalities (patronage, &c.) of the Bishopric of Carlisle
therefore (for that turn) came to the king by the death of John de Kirkby, bishop.  The said
bishop, Thomas de Appleby, and John de Rouseby brought the case before the court, but they
admitted the justice of the king’s plea and judgment was given for the king.

We have said that although Walter Mauclerk, as Bishop of Carlisle, bought this manor from Ralph
de Rhodes, he and his successors were still bound to “do suit and service” to Ralph and his
heirs, and in the brief summary with which this chapter opened we named Roger le Scrope and
Margaret his wife, with Robert Tibetot and Eva his wife, among those descendants of Ralph de
Rhodes.  We have fuller mention of them in documents which we here quote.  In a Roll of the
reign of Edward I., {19c} John, son of Gerard de Rhodes, says “Know all, present and future,
that I, John, son of Gerard, have granted, and by this charter confirmed, to the Lord Robert
Tibetot and Eva his wife (among other things) the homage and whole service of the Bishop of
Carlisle, and his successors, for the manor of Horncastre, with appurtenances, &c., which Gerard,
son of Gerard my brother, granted to me, &c., to have and to hold of the Lord the King . .
. rendering for them annually to me and my heirs £80 sterling.”  While in another Roll {20a}
of the reign of Richard II., the king states that having inspected the above he confirms the
grants, not only to the said “Robert Tybetot and his wife Eve,” but also “to our very dear
and faithful Roger le Scrope and Margaret his wife,” recognizing them, it would seem, as descendants
of the earlier grantee, Gerbald de Escald, from whom they all inherited.

Of these personages we may here say that both Tibetots and Le Scrope were of high position
and influence.  The name of Thebetot, or Tibetot, is found in the Battle Abbey Roll, as given
by the historians Stow and Holinshed; {20b} with a slight variation of name, as Tibtofts, they
were Lords of Langer, Co. Notts., and afterwards Earls of Worcester. {20c} According to the
historian, Camden, John Tibtoft was Lord-Lieutenant of Ireland under Henry VI., created by
him Earl of Worcester, but executed for treason. {20d}  His successor, John, was Lord Deputy
under Edward IV. {20e}  The last of the Tibetots, Robert, died without male issue; his three
daughters were under the guardianship of Richard le Scrope, who married the eldest daughter,
Margaret, to his son Roger.  This is the one named above in connection with Horncastle.  The
Tibetot property of Langer, Notts., thus passed to the Le Scropes, and continued in that family
down to Emanuel, created Earl of Sunderland by Charles I., AD. 1628. {20f}  Castle Combe in
Wiltshire was one of their residences, {20g} but their chief seat was Bolton in Richmondshire.
{20h}  William le Scrope was created Earl of Wiltshire by Richard II., but beheaded when that
king was dethroned and murdered, in 1399. {20i}  Richard le Scrope was Archbishop of York,
but condemned by Henry IV. for treason. {20j} The name Le Scrope also appears in the Battle
Abbey Roll of the Conqueror.  Thus in both Tibetots and Scropes Horncastle was connected with
families who played a considerable part in public life.

In the reign of Edward VI. there was a temporary change in the ownership of this manor.  Among
the Carlisle Papers is one {20k} by which that king grants permission to Robert Aldrich, Bishop
of Carlisle, to sell “to our very dear and faithful councellor, Edward Fynes, K.G., Lord Clinton
and Saye, High Admiral of England, the lordship and soke of Horncastre, with all rights, appurtenances,
&c., to hold to himself, his heirs and assigns for ever,” and that he, the said Edward, “can
give and grant to the said Robert, bishop, an annual rent of £28 6s. 8d.”  We have, however,
in this case an illustration of the instability even of royal decrees, in that on the demise
of that worthy prince, to whom the realm and Church of England owe so much, his successor,
Queen Mary, in the very next year, A.D. 1553, cancelled this sale, and a document exists at
Carlisle {21a} showing that she “granted a licence,” probably in effect compulsory, to the
same Lord Clinton and Saye, “to alienate his lordship and soke of Horncastle and to re-convey
it to Robert Aldrich, Bishop of Carlisle.”

His Lordship would, however, appear to have continued to hold the manor on lease under the
bishop, and to have acted in a somewhat high-handed manner to his spiritual superior, probably
under the influence of the change in religious sentiment between the reigns of “the bloody
Mary,” and her sister Elizabeth of glorious memory.  For again we find a document {21b} of
the reign of the latter, in which the Bishop of Carlisle complains to Sir Francis Walsingham,
the Queen’s Commissioner, of a “book of Horncastle,” which the Earl of Lincoln (the new title
of Lord Clinton and Saye) had sent to him “to be sealed,” because (he says) the earl, by the
words of the grant, had taken from him “lands and tithes of the yearly value of £28 6s. 8d.,”
the exact sum, be it observed, above specified as the rent to be paid by Lord Clinton and Saye
to the bishop, Robert Aldrich.  Of this, he asserts, “the see of Carlisle is seized and the
earl is not in legal possession by his lease now ‘in esse.’” {21c} He wages his suit “the more
boldly, because of the extraordinary charges he has been at, from the lamentable scarcity in
the country, the great multitude of poor people, and other charges before he came had made
him a poor man, and yet he must go on with it . . . the number of them which want food to keep
their lives in their bodies is so pitiful.  If the Lord Warden and he did not charge themselves
a great number would die of hunger, and some have done so,” dated Rose Castle, 26 May, 1578.

His lordship, however, did one good turn to the town of Horncastle in founding the Grammar
School, in the 13th year of the reign of Elizabeth, A.D. 1571, although (as we shall show in
our chapter on the school) this was really not strictly a foundation but a re-establishment;
as a grammar school is known to have existed in the town more than two centuries earlier.

We have one more record of Lord Clinton’s connection with the town, from which it would appear
that the Priory of Bullington, near Wragby, and Kirkstead Abbey also had property in Horncastle.
A Carlisle document {21d} shows that in the reign of Edward VI. Lord Clinton and Saye received
a grant of “lands, tenements and hereditaments in Horncastle, late in the tenure of Alexander
Rose and his assigns, and formerly of the dissolved monastery of Bollington; also two tenements,
one house, two ‘lez bark houses’ (Horncastle tanners would seem even then to have flourished),
one house called ‘le kylne howse,’ one ‘le garthing,’ 14 terrages of land in the fields of
Thornton, with appurtenances lying in Horncastle, &c., and once belonging to the monastery
of Kyrkestead.”

As in other places the Clinton family seem to have been succeeded by the Thymelbys, of these
we have several records.  An Escheator’s Inquisition of the reign of Henry VIII., {22a} taken
by Roger Hilton, at Horncastle, Oct. 5, 1512, shewed that “Richard Thymylby, Esquire, was seized
of the manor of Parish-fee, in Horncastre, held of the Bishop of Carlisle, as of his soke of
Horncastre, by fealty, and a rent of £7 by the year.”  He was also “seized of one messuage,
with appurtenances, in Horncastre, called Fool-thyng, parcel of the said manor of Parish-fee.”
{22b}  The said Richard died 3 March, 3 Henry VIII. (A.D. 1512).  This was, however, by no
means the first of this family connected with Horncastle.  Deriving their name from the parish
of Thimbleby, in the soke of Horncastle, we find the first mention of a Thymelby in that parish
in a post mortem Inquisition of the reign of Edward III., {22c} which shews that Nicholas de
Thymelby then held land in Thimbleby under the Bishop of Carlisle, A.D. 1333; but nearly a
century before that date a Lincoln document {22d} mentions one Ivo, son of Odo de Thymelby,
as holding under the Bishop in Horncastle, in the reign of Henry III., A.D. 1248.

Further, in the reign of Edward I., as is shewn by a Harleian MS., in the British Museum, {22e}
Richard de Thymelby was Dean of Horncastle; Thomas, son of the above Nicholas de Thymelby,
presented to the benefice of Ruckland in 1381, John de Thymelby presented to Tetford in 1388,
and John again to Somersby in 1394, {22f} and other members of the family presented at later
periods.  The family continued to advance in wealth and position until in the reign of Edward
VI. it was found by an Inquisition {22g} that Matthew Thymelby, of Poolham (their chief residence
in this neighbourhood), owned the manor of Thymbleby, that of Parish-fee in Horncastle and
five others, with lands in eight other parishes, and the advowsons of Ruckland, Farforth, Somersby
and Tetford. He married Anne, daughter of Sir Robert Hussey.  Other influential marriages were
those of John Thymelby, “Lord of Polum” (Poolham), to Isabel, {22h} daughter of Sir John Fflete,
Knt. (circa 1409); William (probably) to Joan, daughter of Sir Walter Tailboys (circa 1432),
{22i} a connection of the Earl of Angus; Matthew’s widow marrying Sir Robert Savile, Knt. {22j}

       [Picture: Plan of Horncastle, 1908—from the Ordnance Survey]

In connection with the marriage of William to Joan Tailboys we may mention that the base, all
that now remains, of the churchyard cross at Tetford bears on its west side the Thimbleby arms
“differenced” with those of Tailboys, the north side having the Thimbleby arms pure and simple.
{24a}

Another important marriage was that of Richard Thimbleby (A.D. 1510) to Elizabeth, daughter
and co-heir of Godfrey Hilton of Irnham Manor near Grantham, through which alliance that property
passed to the Thimblebys. It had been granted to Ralph Paganel by the Conqueror, afterwards
passed to Sir Andrew Luterel, Knt., and later to Sir Geoffrey Hilton, Knt. Richard Thimbleby
built Irnham Hall; he was succeeded by his son and heir, Sir John Thimbleby, who thus became
the head of the family, which has in later times become almost extinct.  This fine mansion,
in the Tudor style of architecture, standing in a deer park of more than 250 acres, was destroyed
by fire, Nov. 12, 1887, being then owned by W. Hervey Woodhouse, Esq., who bought it of Lord
Clifford’s son. {24b}

