Transcriber's Note.

1. The hyphenation and accent of words is not uniform throughout the book. No change has been
made in this.

2. The relative indentations of Poems, Epitaphs, and Songs are as printed in the original book.

                                 THE

                            COMPLETE WORKS

                                  OF

                            ROBERT BURNS:

                            CONTAINING HIS

                  POEMS, SONGS, AND CORRESPONDENCE.

                                 WITH

                       A NEW LIFE OF THE POET,

                                 AND

                 NOTICES, CRITICAL AND BIOGRAPHICAL,

                         BY ALLAN CUNNINGHAM.

                      ELEGANTLY ILLUSTRATED.

                               BOSTON:
                   PHILLIPS, SAMPSON, AND COMPANY.
                        NEW YORK: J.C. DERBY.
                                1855

TO ARCHIBALD HASTIE, ESQ.,

MEMBER OF PARLIAMENT FOR PAISLEY

THIS

EDITION

OF

THE WORKS AND MEMOIRS OF A GREAT POET,

IN WHOSE SENTIMENTS OF FREEDOM HE SHARES,

AND WHOSE PICTURES OF SOCIAL AND DOMESTIC LIFE HE LOVES,

IS RESPECTFULLY AND GRATEFULLY INSCRIBED

BY

ALLAN CUNNINGHAM.

DEDICATION.

TO THE

NOBLEMEN AND GENTLEMEN

OF THE

CALEDONIAN HUNT.

[On the title-page of the second or Edinburgh edition, were these words: "Poems, chiefly in
the Scottish Dialect, by Robert Burns, printed for the Author, and sold by William Creech,
1787." The motto of the Kilmarnock edition was omitted; a very numerous list of subscribers
followed: the volume was printed by the celebrated Smellie.]

MY LORDS AND GENTLEMEN:

A Scottish Bard, proud of the name, and whose highest ambition is to sing in his country's
service, where shall he so properly look for patronage as to the illustrious names of his native
land: those who bear the honours and inherit the virtues of their ancestors? The poetic genius
of my country found me, as the prophetic bard Elijah did Elisha--at the PLOUGH, and threw her
inspiring mantle over me. She bade me sing the loves, the joys, the rural scenes and rural
pleasures of my native soil, in my native tongue; I tuned my wild, artless notes as she inspired.
She whispered me to come to this ancient metropolis of Caledonia, and lay my songs under your
honoured protection: I now obey her dictates.

Though much indebted to your goodness, I do not approach you, my Lords and Gentlemen, in the
usual style of dedication, to thank you for past favours: that path is so hackneyed by prostituted
learning that honest rusticity is ashamed of it. Nor do I present this address with the venal
soul of a servile author, looking for a continuation of those favours: I was bred to the plough,
and am independent. I come to claim the common Scottish name with you, my illustrious countrymen;
and to tell the world that I glory in the title. I come to congratulate my country that the
blood of her ancient heroes still runs uncontaminated, and that from your courage, knowledge,
and public spirit, she may expect protection, wealth, and liberty. In the last place, I come
to proffer my warmest wishes to the great fountain of honour, the Monarch of the universe,
for your welfare and happiness.

When you go forth to waken the echoes, in the ancient and favourite amusement of your forefathers,
may Pleasure ever be of your party: and may social joy await your return! When harassed in
courts or camps with the jostlings of bad men and bad measures, may the honest consciousness
of injured worth attend your return to your native seats; and may domestic happiness, with
a smiling welcome, meet you at your gates! May corruption shrink at your kindling indignant
glance; and may tyranny in the ruler, and licentiousness in the people, equally find you an
inexorable foe!

I have the honour to be,

With the sincerest gratitude and highest respect,

My Lords and Gentlemen,

Your most devoted humble servant,

ROBERT BURNS.

EDINBURGH, April 4, 1787.

PREFACE.

I cannot give to my country this edition of one of its favourite poets, without stating that
I have deliberately omitted several pieces of verse ascribed to Burns by other editors, who
too hastily, and I think on insufficient testimony, admitted them among his works. If I am
unable to share in the hesitation expressed by one of them on the authorship of the stanzas
on "Pastoral Poetry," I can as little share in the feelings with which they have intruded into
the charmed circle of his poetry such compositions as "Lines on the Ruins of Lincluden College,"
"Verses on the Destruction of the Woods of Drumlanrig," "Verses written on a Marble Slab in
the Woods of Aberfeldy," and those entitled "The Tree of Liberty." These productions, with
the exception of the last, were never seen by any one even in the handwriting of Burns, and
are one and all wanting in that original vigour of language and manliness of sentiment which
distinguish his poetry. With respect to "The Tree of Liberty" in particular, a subject dear
to the heart of the Bard, can any one conversant with his genius imagine that he welcomed its
growth or celebrated its fruit with such "capon craws" as these?

    "Upo' this tree there grows sic fruit,
       Its virtues a' can tell, man;
     It raises man aboon the brute,
       It mak's him ken himsel', man.
     Gif ance the peasant taste a bit,
       He's greater than a lord, man,
     An' wi' a beggar shares a mite
       O' a' he can afford, man."

There are eleven stanzas, of which the best, compared with the "A man's a man for a' that"
of Burns, sounds like a cracked pipkin against the "heroic clang" of a Damascus blade. That
it is extant in the handwriting of the poet cannot be taken as a proof that it is his own composition,
against the internal testimony of utter want of all the marks by which we know him--the Burns-stamp,
so to speak, which is visible on all that ever came from his pen. Misled by his handwriting,
I inserted in my former edition of his works an epitaph, beginning

    "Here lies a rose, a budding rose,"

the composition of Shenstone, and which is to be found in the church-yard of Hales-Owen: as
it is not included in every edition of that poet's acknowledged works, Burns, who was an admirer
of his genius, had, it seems, copied it with his own hand, and hence my error. If I hesitated
about the exclusion of "The Tree of Liberty," and its three false brethren, I could have no
scruples regarding the fine song of "Evan Banks," claimed and justly for Miss Williams by Sir
Walter Scott, or the humorous song called "Shelah O'Neal," composed by the late Sir Alexander
Boswell. When I have stated that I have arranged the Poems, the Songs, and the Letters of Burns,
as nearly as possible in the order in which they were written; that I have omitted no piece
of either verse or prose which bore the impress of his hand, nor included any by which his
high reputation would likely be impaired, I have said all that seems necessary to be said,
save that the following letter came too late for insertion in its proper place: it is characteristic
and worth a place anywhere.

ALLAN CUNNINGHAM.

       *       *       *       *       *

TO DR. ARCHIBALD LAURIE.

Mossgiel, 13th Nov. 1786.

DEAR SIR,

I have along with this sent the two volumes of Ossian, with the remaining volume of the Songs.
Ossian I am not in such a hurry about; but I wish the Songs, with the volume of the Scotch
Poets, returned as soon as they can conveniently be dispatched. If they are left at Mr. Wilson,
the bookseller's shop, Kilmarnock, they will easily reach me.

My most respectful compliments to Mr. and Mrs. Laurie; and a Poet's warmest wishes for their
happiness to the young ladies; particularly the fair musician, whom I think much better qualified
than ever David was, or could be, to charm an evil spirit out of a Saul.

Indeed, it needs not the Feelings of a poet to be interested in the welfare of one of the sweetest
scenes of domestic peace and kindred love that ever I saw; as I think the peaceful unity of
St. Margaret's Hill can only be excelled by the harmonious concord of the Apocalyptic Zion.

I am, dear Sir, yours sincerely,

ROBERT BURNS.

TABLE OF CONTENTS.

THE LIFE OF ROBERT BURNS

Preface to the Kilmarnock Edition of 1786

Dedication to the Edinburgh Edition of 1787

       *       *       *       *       *

POEMS.

Winter. A Fragment

The Jolly Beggars. A Cantata

Death and Dr. Hornbook. A True Story

The Twa Herds; or, the Holy Tulzie

Holy Willie's Prayer

Epitaph to Holy Willie

The Inventory; in answer to a mandate by the surveyor of taxes

The Holy Fair

The Ordination

The Calf

To James Smith

The Vision

Halloween

Man was made to Mourn. A Dirge

To Ruin

To John Goudie of Kilmarnock, on the publication of his Essays

To J. Lapraik, an old Scottish Bard. First Epistle

To J. Lapraik. Second Epistle

To J. Lapraik. Third Epistle

To William Simpson, Ochiltree

Address to an illegitimate Child

Nature's Law. A Poem humbly inscribed to G.H., Esq. An Ode

The Cotter's Saturday Night

The first Psalm

The first six Verses of the ninetieth Psalm

To a Mountain Daisy

Epistle to a young Friend

To a Louse, on seeing one on a Lady's Bonnet at Church

Epistle to J. Rankine, enclosing some Poems

On a Scotch Bard, gone to the West Indies

The Farewell

Written on the blank leaf of my Poems, presented to an old Sweetheart then married

A Dedication to Gavin Hamilton, Esq.

Elegy on the Death of Robert Ruisseaux

Letter to James Tennant of Glenconner

On the Birth of a posthumous Child

To Miss Cruikshank

Willie Chalmers

Verses left in the room where he slept

To Gavin Hamilton, Esq., recommending a boy

To Mr. M'Adam, of Craigen-gillan

Answer to a Poetical Epistle sent to the Author by a Tailor

To J. Rankine. "I am a keeper of the law."

Lines written on a Bank-note

A Dream

A Bard's Epitaph

The Twa Dogs. A Tale

Lines on meeting with Lord Daer

Address to Edinburgh

Epistle to Major Logan

The Brigs of Ayr

On the Death of Robert Dundas, Esq., of Arniston, late Lord President of the Court of Session

On reading in a Newspaper the Death of John M'Leod, Esq.

To Miss Logan, with Beattie's Poems

The American War, A fragment

The Dean of Faculty. A new Ballad

To a Lady, with a Present of a Pair of Drinking-glasses

To Clarinda

Verses written under the Portrait of the Poet Fergusson

Prologue spoken by Mr. Woods, on his Benefit-night, Monday, April 16, 1787

Sketch. A Character

To Mr. Scott, of Wauchope

Epistle to William Creech

The humble Petition of Bruar-Water, to the noble Duke of Athole

On scaring some Water-fowl in Loch Turit

Written with a pencil, over the chimney-piece, in the parlour of the Inn at Kenmore, Taymouth

Written with a pencil, standing by the Fall of Fyers, near Loch Ness

To Mr. William Tytler, with the present of the Bard's picture

Written in Friars-Carse Hermitage, on the banks of Nith, June, 1780. First Copy

The same. December, 1788. Second Copy

To Captain Riddel, of Glenriddel. Extempore lines on returning a Newspaper

A Mother's Lament for the Death of her Son

First Epistle to Robert Graham, Esq., of Fintray

On the Death of Sir James Hunter Blair

Epistle to Hugh Parker

Lines, intended to be written under a Noble Earl's Picture

Elegy on the year 1788. A Sketch

Address to the Toothache

Ode. Sacred to the memory of Mrs. Oswald, of Auchencruive

Fragment inscribed to the Right Hon. C.J. Fox

On seeing a wounded Hare limp by me, which a Fellow had just shot

To Dr. Blacklock. In answer to a Letter

Delia. An Ode

To John M'Murdo, Esq.

Prologue, spoken at the Theatre, Dumfries, 1st January, 1790

Scots Prologue, for Mr. Sutherland's Benefit-night, Dumfries

Sketch. New-year's Day. To Mrs. Dunlop

To a Gentleman who had sent him a Newspaper, and offered to continue it free of expense

The Kirk's Alarm. A Satire. First Version

The Kirk's Alarm. A Ballad. Second Version

Peg Nicholson

On Captain Matthew Henderson, a gentleman who held the patent for his honours immediately from
Almighty God

The Five Carlins. A Scots Ballad

The Laddies by the Banks o' Nith

Epistle to Robert Graham, Esq., of Fintray, on the close of the disputed Election between Sir
James Johnstone, and Captain Miller, for the Dumfries district of Boroughs

On Captain Grose's Peregrination through Scotland, collecting the Antiquities of that kingdom

Written in a wrapper, enclosing a letter to Captain Grose

Tam O' Shanter. A Tale

Address of Beelzebub to the President of the Highland Society

To John Taylor

Lament of Mary Queen of Scots, on the approach of Spring

The Whistle

Elegy on Miss Burnet of Monboddo

Lament for James, Earl of Glencairn

Lines sent to Sir John Whitefoord, Bart., of Whitefoord, with the foregoing Poem

Address to the Shade of Thomson, on crowning his Bust at Ednam with bays

To Robert Graham, Esq., of Fintray

To Robert Graham, Esq., of Fintray, on receiving a favour

A Vision

To John Maxwell, of Terraughty, on his birthday

The Rights of Women, an occasional Address spoken by Miss Fontenelle, on her benefit-night,
Nov. 26, 1792

Monody on a Lady famed for her caprice

Epistle from Esopus to Maria

Poem on Pastoral Poetry

Sonnet, written on the 25th January, 1793, the birthday of the Author, on hearing a thrush
sing in a morning walk

Sonnet on the death of Robert Riddel, Esq., of Glenriddel, April, 1794

Impromptu on Mrs. Riddel's birthday

Liberty. A Fragment

Verses to a young Lady

The Vowels. A Tale

Verses to John Rankine

On Sensibility. To my dear and much-honoured friend, Mrs. Dunlop, of Dunlop

Lines sent to a Gentleman whom he had offended Address spoken by Miss Fontenelle on her Benefit-night

On seeing Miss Fontenelle in a favourite character

To Chloris

Poetical Inscription for an Altar to Independence

The Heron Ballads. Balled First

The Heron Ballads. Ballad Second

The Heron Ballads. Ballad Third

Poem addressed to Mr. Mitchell, Collector of Excise, Dumfries, 1796

To Miss Jessy Lewars, Dumfries, with Johnson's

Musical Museum

Poem on Life, addressed to Colonel de Peyster, Dumfries, 1796

       *       *       *       *       *

EPITAPHS, EPIGRAMS, FRAGMENTS, &c.

On the Author's Father

On R.A., Esq.

On a Friend

For Gavin Hamilton

On wee Johnny

On John Dove, Innkeeper, Mauchline

On a Wag in Mauchline

On a celebrated ruling Elder

On a noisy Polemic

On Miss Jean Scott

On a henpecked Country Squire

On the same

On the same

The Highland Welcome

On William Smellie

Written on a window of the Inn at Carron

The Book-worms

Lines on Stirling

The Reproof

The Reply

Lines written under the Picture of the celebrated Miss Burns

Extempore in the Court of Session

The henpecked Husband

Written at Inverary

On Elphinston's Translation of Martial's Epigrams

Inscription on the Head-stone of Fergusson

On a Schoolmaster

A Grace before Dinner

A Grace before Meat

On Wat

On Captain Francis Grose

Impromptu to Miss Ainslie

The Kirk of Lamington

The League and Covenant

Written on a pane of glass in the Inn at Moffat

Spoken on being appointed to the Excise

Lines on Mrs. Kemble

To Mr. Syme

To Mr. Syme, with a present of a dozen of porter

A Grace

Inscription on a goblet

The Invitation

The Creed of Poverty

Written in a Lady's pocket-book

The Parson's Looks

The Toad-eater

On Robert Riddel

The Toast

On a Person nicknamed the Marquis

Lines written on a window

Lines written on a window of the Globe Tavern, Dumfries

The Selkirk Grace

To Dr. Maxwell, on Jessie Staig's Recovery

Epitaph

Epitaph on William Nicol

On the Death of a Lapdog, named Echo

On a noted Coxcomb

On seeing the beautiful Seat of Lord Galloway

On the same

On the same

To the same, on the Author being threatened with his resentment

On a Country Laird

On John Bushby

The true loyal Natives

On a Suicide

Extempore, pinned on a Lady's coach

Lines to John Rankine

Jessy Lewars

The Toast

On Miss Jessy Lewars

On the recovery of Jessy Lewars

Tam the Chapman

"Here's a bottle and an honest friend"

"Tho' fickle fortune has deceived me"

To John Kennedy

To the same

"There's naethin' like the honest nappy"

On the blank leaf of a work by Hannah More, presented by Mrs. C

To the Men and Brethren of the Masonic Lodge at Tarbolton

Impromptu

Prayer for Adam Armour

       *       *       *       *       *

SONGS AND BALLADS.

Handsome Nell

Luckless Fortune

"I dream'd I lay where flowers were springing"

Tibbie, I hae seen the day

"My father was a farmer upon the Carrick border"

John Barleycorn. A Ballad

The Rigs o' Barley

Montgomery's Peggy

The Mauchline Lady

The Highland Lassie

Peggy

The rantin' Dog the Daddie o't

"My heart was ance as blithe and free"

My Nannie O

A Fragment. "One night as I did wander"

Bonnie Peggy Alison

Green grow the Rashes, O

My Jean

Robin

"Her flowing locks, the raven's wing"

"O leave novels, ye Mauchline belles"

Young Peggy

The Cure for all Care

Eliza

The Sons of Old Killie

And maun I still on Menie doat

The Farewell to the Brethren of St. James's Lodge, Tarbolton

On Cessnock Banks

Mary

The Lass of Ballochmyle

"The gloomy night is gathering fast"

"O whar did ye get that hauver meal bannock?"

The Joyful Widower

"O Whistle, and I'll come to you, my lad"

"I am my mammy's ae bairn"

The Birks of Aberfeldy

Macpherson's Farewell

Braw, braw Lads of Galla Water

"Stay, my charmer, can you leave me?"

Strathallan's Lament

My Hoggie

Her Daddie forbad, her Minnie forbad

Up in the Morning early

The young Highland Rover

Hey the dusty Miller

Duncan Davison

Theniel Menzies' bonnie Mary

The Banks of the Devon

Weary fa' you, Duncan Gray

The Ploughman

Landlady, count the Lawin

"Raving winds around her blowing"

"How long and dreary is the night"

Musing on the roaring Ocean

Blithe, blithe and merry was she

The blude red rose at Yule may blaw

O'er the Water to Charlie

A Rose-bud by my early walk

Rattlin', roarin' Willie

Where braving angry Winter's Storms

Tibbie Dunbar

Bonnie Castle Gordon

My Harry was a gallant gay

The Tailor fell through the bed, thimbles an' a'

Ay Waukin O!

Beware o' Bonnie Ann

The Gardener wi' his paidle

Blooming Nelly

The day returns, my bosom burns

My Love she's but a lassie yet

Jamie, come try me

Go fetch to me a Pint O' Wine

The Lazy Mist

O mount and go

Of a' the airts the wind can blaw

Whistle o'er the lave o't

O were I on Parnassus' Hill

"There's a youth in this city"

My heart's in the Highlands

John Anderson, my Jo

Awa, Whigs, awa

Ca' the Ewes to the Knowes

Merry hae I been teethin' a heckle

The Braes of Ballochmyle

To Mary in Heaven

Eppie Adair

The Battle of Sherriff-muir

Young Jockey was the blithest lad

O Willie brewed a peck o' maut

The braes o' Killiecrankie, O

I gaed a waefu' gate yestreen

The Banks of Nith

Tam Glen

Frae the friends and land I love

Craigie-burn Wood

Cock up your Beaver

O meikle thinks my luve o' my beauty

Gudewife, count the Lawin

There'll never be peace till Jamie comes hame

The bonnie lad that's far awa

I do confess thou art sae fair

Yon wild mossy mountains sae lofty and wide

It is na, Jean, thy bonnie face

When I think on the happy days

Whan I sleep I dream

"I murder hate by field or flood"

O gude ale comes and gude ale goes

Robin shure in hairst

Bonnie Peg

Gudeen to you, Kimmer

Ah, Chloris, since it may na be

Eppie M'Nab

Wha is that at my bower-door

What can a young lassie do wi' an auld man

Bonnie wee thing, cannie wee thing

The tither morn when I forlorn

Ae fond kiss, and then we sever

Lovely Davies

The weary Pond o' Tow

Naebody

An O for ane and twenty, Tam

O Kenmure's on and awa, Willie

The Collier Laddie

Nithsdale's Welcome Hame

As I was a-wand'ring ae Midsummer e'enin

Bessy and her Spinning-wheel

The Posie

The Country Lass

Turn again, thou fair Eliza

Ye Jacobites by name

Ye flowery banks o'bonnie Doon

Ye banks and braes o' bonnie Doon

Willie Wastle

O Lady Mary Ann

Such a parcel of rogues in a nation

The Carle of Kellyburn braes

Jockey's ta'en the parting kiss

Lady Onlie

The Chevalier's Lament

Song of Death

Flow gently, sweet Afton

Bonnie Bell

Hey ca' thro', ca' thro'

The Gallant weaver

The deuks dang o'er my Daddie

She's fair and fause

The Deil cam' fiddling thro' the town

The lovely Lass of Inverness

O my luve's like a red, red rose

Louis, what reck I by thee

Had I the wyte she bade me

Coming through the rye

Young Jamie, pride of a' the plain

Out over the Forth I look to the north

The Lass of Ecclefechan

The Cooper o' Cuddie

For the sake of somebody

I coft a stane o' haslock woo

The lass that made the bed for me

Sae far awa

I'll ay ca' in by yon town

O wat ye wha's in yon town

O May, thy morn

Lovely Polly Stewart

Bonnie laddie, Highland laddie

Anna, thy charms my bosom fire

Cassilis' Banks

To thee, lov'd Nith

Bannocks o' Barley

Hee Balou! my sweet wee Donald

Wae is my heart, and the tear's in my e'e

Here's his health in water

My Peggy's face, my Peggy's form

Gloomy December

My lady's gown, there's gairs upon 't

Amang the trees, where humming bees

The gowden locks of Anna

My ain kind dearie, O

Will ye go to the Indies, my Mary

She is a winsome wee thing

Bonny Leslie

Highland Mary

Auld Rob Morris

Duncan Gray

O poortith cauld, and restless love

Galla Water

Lord Gregory

Mary Morison

Wandering Willie. First Version

Wandering Willie. Last Version

Oh, open the door to me, oh!

Jessie

The poor and honest sodger

Meg o' the Mill

Blithe hae I been on yon hill

Logan Water

"O were my love yon lilac fair"

Bonnie Jean

Phillis the fair

Had I a cave on some wild distant shore

By Allan stream

O Whistle, and I'll come to you, my lad

Adown winding Nith I did wander

Come, let me take thee to my breast

Daintie Davie

Scots wha hae wi' Wallace bled. First Version

Scots wha hae wi' Wallace bled. Second Version

Behold the hour, the boat arrives

Thou hast left me ever, Jamie

Auld lang syne

"Where are the joys I have met in the morning"

"Deluded swain, the pleasure"

Nancy

Husband, husband, cease your strife

Wilt thou be my dearie?

But lately seen in gladsome green

"Could aught of song declare my pains"

Here's to thy health, my bonnie lass

It was a' for our rightfu' king

O steer her up and haud her gaun

O ay my wife she dang me

O wert thou in the cauld blast

The Banks of Cree

On the seas and far away

Ca' the Yowes to the Knowes

Sae flaxen were her ringlets

O saw ye my dear, my Phely?

How lang and dreary is the night

Let not woman e'er complain

The Lover's Morning Salute to his Mistress

My Chloris, mark how green the groves

Youthful Chloe, charming Chloe

Lassie wi' the lint-white locks

Farewell, thou stream, that winding flows

O Philly, happy be the day

Contented wi' little and cantie wi' mair

Canst thou leave me thus, my Katy

My Nannie's awa

O wha is she that lo'es me

Caledonia

O lay thy loof in mine, lass

The Fête Champêtre

Here's a health to them that's awa

For a' that, and a' that

Craigieburn Wood

O lassie, art thou sleeping yet

O tell na me o' wind and rain

The Dumfries Volunteers

Address to the Wood-lark

On Chloris being ill

Their groves o' sweet myrtle let foreign lands reckon

'Twas na her bonnie blue een was my ruin

How cruel are the parents

Mark yonder pomp of costly fashion

O this is no my ain lassie

Now Spring has clad the grove in green

O bonnie was yon rosy brier

Forlorn my love, no comfort near

Last May a braw wooer cam down the lang glen

Chloris

The Highland Widow's Lament

To General Dumourier

Peg-a-Ramsey

There was a bonnie lass

O Mally's meek, Mally's sweet

Hey for a lass wi' a tocher

Jessy. "Here's a health to ane I lo'e dear"

Fairest Maid on Devon banks

       *       *       *       *       *

GENERAL CORRESPONDENCE.

1781.

No. I. To William Burness. His health a little better, but tired of life. The Revelations

1783.

II. To Mr. John Murdoch. His present studies and temper of mind

III. To Mr. James Burness. His father's illness, and sad state of the country

IV. To Miss E. Love

V. To Miss E. Love

VI. To Miss E. Love

VII. To Miss E. On her refusal of his hand

VIII. To Robert Riddel, Esq. Observations on poetry and human life

1784.

IX. To Mr. James Burness. On the death of his father

X. To Mr. James Burness. Account of the Buchanites

XI. To Miss ----. With a book

1786.

XII. To Mr. John Richmond. His progress in poetic composition

XIII. To Mr. John Kennedy. The Cotter's Saturday Night

XIV. To Mr. Robert Muir. Enclosing his "Scotch Drink"

XV. To Mr. Aiken. Enclosing a stanza on the blank leaf of a book by Hannah More

XVI. To Mr. M'Whinnie, Subscriptions

XVII. To Mr. John Kennedy. Enclosing "The Gowan"

XVIII. To Mon. James Smith. His voyage to the West Indies

XIX. To Mr. John Kennedy. His poems in the press. Subscriptions

XX. To Mr. David Brice. Jean Armour's return,--printing his poems

XXI. To Mr. Robert Aiken. Distress of mind

XXII. To Mr. John Richmond. Jean Armour

XXIII. To John Ballantyne, Esq. Aiken's coldness. His marriage-lines destroyed

XXIV. To Mr. David Brice. Jean Armour. West Indies

XXV. To Mr. John Richmond. West Indies The Armours

XXVI. To Mr. Robert Muir. Enclosing "The Calf"

XXVII. To Mrs. Dunlop. Thanks for her notice. Sir William Wallace

XXVIII. To Mr. John Kennedy. Jamaica

XXIX. To Mr. James Burness. His departure uncertain

XXX. To Miss Alexander. "The Lass of Ballochmyle"

XXXI. To Mrs. Stewart, of Stair and Afton. Enclosing some songs. Miss Alexander

XXXII. Proclamation in the name of the Muses

XXXIII. To Mr. Robert Muir. Enclosing "Tam Samson." His Edinburgh expedition

XXXIV. To Dr. Mackenzie. Enclosing the verses on dining with Lord Daer

XXXV. To Gavin Hamilton, Esq. Rising fame. Patronage

XXXVI. To John Ballantyne, Esq. His patrons and patronesses. The Lounger

XXXVII. To Mr. Robert Muir. A note of thanks. Talks of sketching the history of his life

XXXVIII. To Mr. William Chalmers. A humorous sally

1787.

XXXIX. To the Earl of Eglinton. Thanks for his patronage

XL. To Gavin Hamilton, Esq. Love

XLI. To John Ballantyne, Esq. Mr. Miller's offer of a farm

XLII. To John Ballantyne, Esq. Enclosing "The Banks o' Doon." First Copy

XLIII. To Mrs. Dunlop. Dr. Moore and Lord Eglinton. His situation in Edinburgh

XLIV. To Dr. Moore. Acknowledgments for his notice

XLV. To the Rev. G. Lowrie. Reflections on his situation in life. Dr. Blacklock, Mackenzie

XLVI. To Dr. Moore. Miss Williams

XLVII. To John Ballantyne, Esq. His portrait engraving

XLVIII. To the Earl of Glencairn. Enclosing "Lines intended to be written under a noble Earl's
picture"

XLIX. To the Earl of Buchan. In reply to a letter of advice

L. To Mr. James Candlish. Still "the old man with his deeds"

LI. To ----. On Fergusson's headstone

LII. To Mrs. Dunlop. His prospects on leaving Edinburgh 341

LIII. To Mrs. Dunlop. A letter of acknowledgment for the payment of the subscription

LIV. To Mr. Sibbald. Thanks for his notice in the magazine

LV. To Dr. Moore. Acknowledging the present of his View of Society

LVI. To Mr. Dunlop. Reply to criticisms

LVII. To the Rev. Dr. Hugh Blair. On leaving Edinburgh. Thanks for his kindness

LVIII. To the Earl of Glencairn. On leaving Edinburgh

LIX. To Mr. William Dunbar. Thanking him for the present of Spenser's poems

LX. To Mr. James Johnson. Sending a song to the Scots Musical Museum

LXI. To Mr. William Creech. His tour on the Border. Epistle in verse to Creech

LXII. To Mr. Patison. Business

LXIII. To Mr. W. Nicol. A ride described in broad Scotch

LXIV. To Mr. James Smith. Unsettled in life. Jamaica

LXV. To Mr. W. Nicol. Mr. Miller, Mr. Burnside. Bought a pocket Milton

LXVI. To Mr. James Candlish. Seeking a copy of Lowe's poem of "Pompey's Ghost"

LXVII. To Robert Ainslie, Esq. His tour

LXVIII. To Mr. W. Nicol. Auchtertyre

LXIX. To Mr. Wm. Cruikshank. Auchtertyre

LXX. To Mr. James Smith. An adventure

LXXI. To Mr. John Richmond. His rambles

LXXII. To Mr. Robert Ainslie. Sets high value on his friendship

LXXIII. To the same. Nithsdale and Edinburgh

LXXIV. To Dr. Moore. Account of his own life

LXXV. To Mr. Robert Ainslie. A humorous letter

LXXVI. To Mr. Robert Muir. Stirling, Bannockburn

LXXVII. To Gavin Hamilton, Esq. Of Mr. Hamilton's own family

LXXVIII. To Mr. Walker. Bruar Water. The Athole family

LXXIX. To Mr. Gilbert Burns. Account of his Highland tour

LXXX. To Miss Margaret Chalmers. Charlotte Hamilton. Skinner. Nithsdale

LXXXI. To the same. Charlotte Hamilton, and "The Banks of the Devon"

LXXXII. To James Hoy, Esq. Mr. Nicol. Johnson's Musical Museum

LXXXIII. To Rev. John Skinner. Thanking him for his poetic compliment

LXXXIV. To James Hoy, Esq. Song by the Duke of Gordon

LXXXV. To Mr. Robert Ainslie. His friendship for him

LXXXVI. To the Earl of Glencairn. Requesting his aid in obtaining an excise appointment

LXXXVII. To James Dalrymple, Esq. Rhyme. Lord Glencairn

LXXXVIII. To Charles Hay, Esq. Enclosing his poem on the death of the Lord President Dundas

LXXXIX. To Miss M----n. Compliments

XC. To Miss Chalmers. Charlotte Hamilton

XCI. To the same. His bruised limb. The Bible. The Ochel Hills

XCII. To the same. His motto--"I dare." His own worst enemy

XCIII. To Sir John Whitefoord. Thanks for his friendship. Of poets

XCIV. To Miss Williams. Comments on her poem of the Slave Trade

XCV. To Mr. Richard Brown. Recollections of early life. Clarinda

XCVI. To Gavin Hamilton, Esq. Prayer for his health

XCVII. To Miss Chalmers. Complimentary poems. Creech

1788.

XCVIII. To Mrs. Dunlop. Lowness of spirits. Leaving Edinburgh

XCIX. To the same. Religion

C. To the Rev. John Skinner. Tullochgorum. Skinner's Latin

CI. To Mr. Richard Brown. His arrival in Glasgow

CII. To Mrs. Rose of Kilravock. Recollections of Kilravock

CIII. To Mr. Richard Brown. Friendship. The pleasures of the present

CIV. To Mr. William Cruikshank. Ellisland. Plans in life

CV. To Mr. Robert Ainslie. Ellisland. Edinburgh. Clarinda

CVI. To Mr. Richard Brown. Idleness. Farming

CVII. To Mr. Robert Muir. His offer for Ellisland. The close of life

CVIII. To Miss Chalmers. Taken Ellisland. Miss Kennedy

CIX. To Mrs. Dunlop. Coila's robe

CX. To Mr. Richard Brown. Apologies. On his way to Dumfries from Glasgow

CXI. To Mr. Robert Cleghorn. Poet and fame. The air of Captain O'Kean

CXII. To Mr. William Dunbar. Foregoing poetry and wit for farming and business

CXIII. To Miss Chalmers. Miss Kennedy. Jean Armour

CXIV. To the same. Creech's rumoured bankruptcy

CXV. To the same. His entering the Excise

CXVI. To Mrs. Dunlop. Fanning and the Excise. Thanks for the loan of Dryden and Tasso

CXVII. To Mr. James Smith. Jocularity. Jean Armour

CXVIII. To Professor Dugald Stewart. Enclosing some poetic trifles

CXIX. To Mrs. Dunlop. Dryden's Virgil. His preference of Dryden to Pope

CXX. To Mr. Robert Ainslie. His marriage.

CXXI. To Mrs. Dunlop. On the treatment of servants

CXXII. To the same. The merits of Mrs. Burns

CXXIII. To Mr. Robert Ainslie. The warfare of life. Books. Religion

CXXIV. To the same. Miers' profiles

CXXV. To the same. Of the folly of talking of one's private affairs

CXXVI. To Mr. George Lockhart. The Miss Baillies. Bruar Water

CXXVII. To Mr. Peter Hill. With the present of a cheese

CXXVIII. To Robert Graham Esq., of Fintray. The Excise

CXXIX. To Mr. William Cruikshank. Creech. Lines written in Friar's Carse Hermitage

CXXX. To Mrs. Dunlop. Lines written at Friar's Carse. Graham of Fintray

CXXXI. To the same. Mrs. Burns. Of accomplished young ladies

CXXXII. To the same. Mrs. Miller, of Dalswinton. "The Life and Age of Man."

CXXXIII. To Mr. Beugo. Ross and "The Fortunate Shepherdess."

CXXXIV. To Miss Chalmers. Recollections. Mrs. Burns. Poetry

CXXXV. To Mr. Morison. Urging expedition with his clock and other furniture for Ellisland

CXXXVI. To Mrs. Dunlop. Mr. Graham. Her criticisms

CXXXVII. To Mr. Peter Hill. Criticism on an "Address to Loch Lomond."

CXXXVIII. To the Editor of the Star. Pleading for the line of the Stuarts

CXXXIX. To Mrs. Dunlop. The present of a heifer from the Dunlops

CXL. To Mr. James Johnson. Scots Musical Museum

CXLI. To Dr. Blacklock. Poetical progress. His marriage

CXLII. To Mrs. Dunlop. Enclosing "Auld Lang Syne"

CXLIII. To Miss Davies. Enclosing the song of "Charming, lovely Davies"

CXLIV. To Mr. John Tennant. Praise of his whiskey

1789.

CXLV. To Mrs. Dunlop. Reflections suggested by the day

CXLVI. To Dr. Moore. His situation and prospects

CXLVII. To Mr. Robert Ainslie. His favourite quotations. Musical Museum

CXLVIII. To Professor Dugald Stewart. Enclosing some poems for his comments upon

CXLIX. To Bishop Geddes. His situation and prospects

CL. To Mr. James Burness. His wife and farm. Profit from his poems. Fanny Burns

CLI. To Mrs. Dunlop. Reflections. His success in song encouraged a shoal of bardlings

CLII. To the Rev. Peter Carfrae. Mr. Mylne's poem

CLIII. To Dr. Moore. Introduction. His ode to Mrs. Oswald

CLIV. To Mr. William Burns. Remembrance

CLV. To Mr. Peter Hill. Economy and frugality. Purchase of books

CLVI. To Mrs. Dunlop. Sketch inscribed to the Right Hon. C.J. Fox

CLVII. To Mr. William Burns. Asking him to make his house his home

CLVIII. To Mrs. M'Murdo. With the song of "Bonnie Jean"

CLIX. To Mr. Cunningham. With the poem of "The Wounded Hare"

CLX. To Mr. Samuel Brown. His farm. Ailsa fowling

CLXI. To Mr. Richard Brown. Kind wishes

CLXII. To Mr. James Hamilton. Sympathy

CLXIII. To William Creech, Esq. Toothache. Good wishes

CLXIV. To Mr. M'Auley. His own welfare

CLXV. To Mr. Robert Ainslie. Overwhelmed with incessant toil

CLXVI. To Mr. M'Murdo. Enclosing his newest song

CLXVII. To Mrs. Dunlop. Reflections on religion

CLXVIII. To Mr. ----. Fergusson the poet

CLXIX. To Miss Williams. Enclosing criticisms on her poems

CLXX. To Mr. John Logan. With "The Kirk's Alarm"

CLXXI. To Mrs. Dunlop. Religion. Dr. Moore's "Zeluco"

CLXXII. To Captain Riddel. "The Whistle"

CLXXIII. To the same. With some of his MS. poems

CLXXIV. To Mr. Robert Ainslie. His Excise employment

CLXXV. To Mr. Richard Brown. His Excise duties

CLXXVI. To Robert Graham, Esq., of Fintray. The Excise. Captain Grose. Dr. M'Gill

CLXXVII. To Mrs. Dunlop. Reflections on immortality

CLXXVIII. To Lady M.W. Constable. Jacobitism

CLXXIX. To Provost Maxwell. At a loss for a subject

1790.

CLXXX. To Sir John Sinclair. Account of a book-society in Nithsdale

CLXXXI. To Charles Sharpe, Esq. A letter with a fictitious signature

CLXXXII. To Mr. Gilburt Burns. His farm a ruinous affair. Players

CLXXXIII. To Mr. Sutherland. Enclosing a Prologue

CLXXXIV. To Mr. William Dunbar. Excise. His children. Another world

CLXXXV. To Mrs. Dunlop. Falconer the poet. Old Scottish songs

CLXXXVI. To Mr. Peter Hill. Mademoiselle Burns. Hurdis. Smollett and Cowper

CLXXXVII. To Mr. W. Nicol. The death of Nicol's mare Peg Nicholson

CLXXXVIII. To Mr. W. Cunningham. What strange beings we are

CLXXXIX. To Mr. Peter Hill. Orders for books. Mankind

CXC. To Mrs. Dunlop. Mackenzie and the Mirror and Lounger

CXCI. To Collector Mitchell. A county meeting

CXCII. To Dr. Moore. "Zeluco." Charlotte Smith

CXCIII. To Mr. Murdoch. William Burns

CXCIV. To Mr. M'Murdo. With the Elegy on Matthew Henderson

CXCV. To Mrs. Dunlop. His pride wounded

CXCVI. To Mr. Cunningham. Independence

CXCVII. To Dr. Anderson. "The Bee."

CXCVIII. To William Tytler, Esq. With some West-country ballads

CXCIX. To Crauford Tait, Esq. Introducing Mr. William Duncan

CC. To Crauford Tait, Esq. "The Kirk's Alarm"

CCI. To Mrs. Dunlop. On the birth of her grandchild. Tam O' Shanter

1791.

CCII. To Lady M.W. Constable. Thanks for the present of a gold snuff-box

CCIII. To Mr. William Dunbar. Not gone to Elysium. Sending a poem

CCIV. To Mr. Peter Mill. Apostrophe to Poverty

CCV. To Mr. Cunningham. Tam O' Shanter. Elegy on Miss Burnet

CCVI. To A.F. Tytler, Esq. Tam O' Shanter

CCVII. To Mrs. Dunlop. Miss Burnet. Elegy writing

CCVIII. To Rev. Arch. Alison. Thanking him for his "Essay on Taste"

CCIX. To Dr. Moore. Tam O' Shanter. Elegy on Henderson. Zeluco. Lord Glencairn

CCX. To Mr. Cunningham. Songs

CCXI. To Mr. Alex. Dalzel. The death of the Earl of Glencairn

CCXII. To Mrs. Graham, of Fintray. With "Queen Mary's Lament"

CCXIII. To the same. With his printed Poems

CCXIV. To the Rev. G. Baird. Michael Bruce

CCXV. To Mrs. Dunlop. Birth of a son

CCXVI. To the same. Apology for delay

CCXVII. To the same. Quaint invective on a pedantic critic

CCXVIII. To Mr. Cunningham. The case of Mr. Clarke of Moffat, Schoolmaster

CCXIX. To the Earl of Buchan. With the Address to the shade of Thomson

CCXX. To Mr. Thomas Sloan. Apologies. His crop sold well

CCXXI. To Lady E. Cunningham. With the Lament for the Earl of Glencairn

CCXXII. To Mr. Robert Ainslie. State of mind. His income

CCXXIII. To Col. Fullarton. With some Poems. His anxiety for Fullarton's friendship

CCXXIV. To Miss Davis. Lethargy, Indolence, and Remorse. Our wishes and our powers

CCXXV. To Mrs. Dunlop. Mrs. Henri. The Song of Death

1792.

CCXXVI. To Mrs. Dunlop. The animadversions of the Board of Excise

CCXXVII. To Mr. William Smellie. Introducing Mrs. Riddel

CCXXVIII. To Mr. W. Nicol. Ironical reply to a letter of counsel and reproof

CCXXIX. To Francis Grose, Esq. Dugald Stewart

CCXXX. To the same. Witch stories

CCXXXI. To Mr. S. Clarke. Humorous invitation to teach music to the M'Murdo family

CCXXXII. To Mrs. Dunlop. Love and Lesley Baillie

CCXXXIII. To Mr. Cunningham. Lesley Baillie

CCXXXIV. To Mr. Thomson. Promising his assistance to his collection of songs and airs

CCXXXV. To Mrs. Dunlop. Situation of Mrs. Henri

CCXXXVI. To the same. On the death of Mrs. Henri

CCXXXVII. To Mr. Thomson. Thomson's fastidiousness. "My Nannie O," &c.

CCXXXVIII. To the same. With "My wife's a winsome wee thing," and "Lesley Baillie"

CCXXXIX. To the same. With Highland Mary. The air of Katherine Ogie

CCXL. To the same. Thomson's alterations and observations

CCXLI. To the same. With "Auld Rob Morris," and "Duncan Gray"

CCXLII. To Mrs. Dunlop. Birth of a daughter. The poet Thomson's dramas

CCXLIII. To Robert Graham, Esq., of Fintray. The Excise inquiry into his political conduct

CCXLIV. To Mrs. Dunlop. Hurry of business. Excise inquiry

1793.

CCXLV. To Mr. Thomson. With "Poortith cauld" and "Galla Water"

CCXLVI. To the same. William Tytler, Peter Pindar

CCXLVII. To Mr. Cunningham. The poet's seal. David Allan

CCXLVIII. To Thomson. With "Mary Morison"

CCCXLIX. To the same. With "Wandering Willie"

CCL. To Miss Benson. Pleasure he had in meeting her

CCLI. To Patrick Miller, Esq. With the present of his printed poems

CCLII. To Mr. Thomson. Review of Scottish song. Crawfurd and Ramsay

CCLIII. To the same. Criticism. Allan Ramsay

CCLIV. To the same. "The last time I came o'er the moor"

CCLV. To John Francis Erskine, Esq. Self-justification. The Excise inquiry

CCLVI. To Mr. Robert Ainslie. Answering letters. Scholar-craft

CCLVII. To Miss Kennedy. A letter of compliment

CCLVIII. To Mr. Thomson. Frazer. "Blithe had I been on yon hill"

CCLIX. To Mr. Thomson. "Logan Water." "O gin my love were yon red rose"

CCLX. To the same. With the song of "Bonnie Jean"

CCLXI. To the same. Hurt at the idea of pecuniary recompense. Remarks on song

CCLXII. To the same. Note written in the name of Stephen Clarke

CCLXIII. To the same. With "Phillis the fair"

CCLXIV. To the same. With "Had I a cave on some wild distant shore"

CCLXV. To the same. With "Allan Water"

CCLXVI. To the same. With "O whistle, and I'll come to you, my lad," &c.

CCLXVII. To the same. With "Come, let me take thee to my breast"

CCLXVIII. To the same. With "Dainty Davie"

CCLXIX. To Miss Craik. Wretchedness of poets

CCLXX. To Lady Glencairn. Gratitude. Excise. Dramatic composition

CCLXXI. To Mr. Thomson. With "Scots wha hae wi' Wallace bled"

CCLXXII. To the same. With "Behold the hour, the boat arrive"

CCLXXIII. To the same. Crawfurd and Scottish song

CCLXXIV. To the same. Alterations in "Scots wha hae wi' Wallace bled"

CCLXXV. To the same. Further suggested alterations in "Scots wha hae" rejected.

CCLXXVI. To the same. With "Deluded swain, the pleasure," and "Raving winds around her blowing"

CCLXXVII. To the same. Erskine and Gavin Turnbull

CCLXXVIII. To John M'Murdo, Esq. Payment of a debt. "The Merry Muses"

CCLXXIX. To the same. With his printed poems

CCLXXX. To Captain ----. Anxiety for his acquaintance. "Scots wha hae wi' Wallace bled"

CCLXXXI. To Mrs. Riddel. The Dumfries Theatre

1794.

CCLXXXII. To a Lady. In favour of a player's benefit

CCLXXXIII. To the Earl of Buchan. With a copy of "Scots wha hae"

CCLXXXIV. To Captain Miller. With a copy of "Scots wha hae"

CCLXXXV. To Mrs. Riddel. Lobster-coated puppies

CCLXXXVI. To the same. The gin-horse class of the human genus

CCLXXXVII. To the same. With "Werter." Her reception of him

CCLXXXVIII. To Mrs. Riddel. Her caprice

CCLXXXIX. To the same. Her neglect and unkindness

CCXC. To John Syme, Esq. Mrs. Oswald, and "O wat ye wha's in yon town"

CCXCI. To Miss ----. Obscure allusions to a friend's death. His personal and poetic fame

CCXCII. To Mr. Cunningham. Hypochondria. Requests consolation

CCXCIII. To the Earl of Glencairn. With his printed poems

CCXCIV. To Mr. Thomson. David Allan. "The banks of Cree"

CCXCV. To David M'Culloch, Esq. Arrangements for a trip in Galloway

CCXCVI. To Mrs. Dunlop. Threatened with flying gout. Ode on Washington's birthday

CCXCVII. To Mr. James Johnson. Low spirits. The Museum. Balmerino's dirk

CCXCVIII. To Mr. Thomson. Lines written in "Thomson's Collection of songs"

CCXCIX. To the same. With "How can my poor heart be glad"

CCC. To the same. With "Ca' the yowes to the knowes"

CCCI. To the same. With "Sae flaxen were her ringlets." Epigram to Dr. Maxwell.

CCCII. To the same. The charms of Miss Lorimer. "O saw ye my dear, my Phely," &c.

CCCIII. To the same. Ritson's Scottish Songs. Love and song

CCCIV. To the same. English songs. The air of "Ye banks and braes o' bonnie Doon"

CCCV. To the same. With "O Philly, happy be the day," and "Contented wi' little"

CCCVI. To the same. With "Canst thou leave me thus, my Katy"

CCCVII. To Peter Miller, jun., Esq. Excise. Perry's offer to write for the Morning Chronicle

CCCVIII. To Mr. Samuel Clarke, jun. A political and personal quarrel. Regret

CCCIX. To Mr. Thomson. With "Now in her green mantle blithe nature arrays"

1795.

CCCX. To Mr. Thomson. With "For a' that and a' that"

CCCXI. To the same. Abuse of Ecclefechan

CCCXII. To the same. With "O stay, sweet warbling woodlark, stay," and "The groves of sweet myrtle"

CCCXIII. To the same. With "How cruel are the parents" and "Mark yonder pomp of costly fashion"

CCCXIV. To the same. Praise of David Allan's "Cotter's Saturday Night"

CCCXV. To the same. With "This is no my ain Lassie." Mrs. Riddel

CCCXVI. To Mr. Thomson. With "Forlorn, my love, no comfort near"

CCCXVII. To the same. With "Last May a braw wooer," and "Why tell thy lover"

CCCXVIII. To Mrs. Riddel. A letter from the grave

CCCXIX. To the same. A letter of compliment. "Anacharsis' Travels"

CCCXX. To Miss Louisa Fontenelle. With a Prologue for her benefit-night

CCCXXI. To Mrs. Dunlop. His family. Miss Fontenelle. Cowper's "Task"

CCCXXII. To Mr. Alexander Findlater. Excise schemes

CCCXXIII. To the Editor of the Morning Chronicle. Written for a friend. A complaint

CCCXXIV. To Mr. Heron, of Heron. With two political ballads

CCCXXV. To Mrs. Dunlop. Thomson's Collection. Acting as Supervisor of Excise

CCCXXVI. To the Right Hon. William Pitt. Address of the Scottish Distillers

CCCXXVII. To the Provost, Bailies, and Town Council of Dumfries. Request to be made a freeman
of the town

1796.

CCCXXVIII. To Mrs. Riddel. "Anarcharsis' Travels." The muses

CCCXXIX. To Mrs. Dunlop. His ill-health.

CCCXXX. To Mr. Thomson. Acknowledging his present to Mrs. Burns of a worsted shawl

CCCXXXI. To the same. Ill-health. Mrs. Hyslop. Allan's etchings. Cleghorn

CCCXXXII. To the same. "Here's a health to ane I loe dear"

CCCXXXIII. To the same. His anxiety to review his songs, asking for copies

CCCXXXIV. To Mrs. Riddel. His increasing ill-health

CCCXXXV. To Mr. Clarke, acknowledging money and requesting the loan of a further sum

CCCXXXVI. To Mr. James Johnson. The Scots Musical Museum. Request for a copy of the collection

CCCXXXVII. To Mr. Cunningham. Illness and poverty, anticipation of death

CCCXXXVIII. To Mr. Gilbert Burns. His ill-health and debts

CCCXXXIX. To Mr. James Armour. Entreating Mrs. Armour to come to her daughter's confinement

CCCXL. To Mrs. Burns. Sea-bathing affords little relief

CCCXLI. To Mrs. Dunlop. Her friendship. A farewell

CCCXLII. To Mr. Thomson. Solicits the sum of five pounds. "Fairest Maid on Devon Banks"

CCCXLIII. To Mr. James Burness. Soliciting the sum of ten pounds

CCCXLIV. To James Gracie, Esq. His rheumatism, &c. &c.--his loss of appetite

Remarks on Scottish Songs and Ballads

The Border Tour

The Highland Tour

Burns's Assignment of his Works

Glossary

LIFE

OF

ROBERT BURNS.

Robert Burns, the chief of the peasant poets of Scotland, was born in a little mud-walled cottage
on the banks of Doon, near "Alloway's auld haunted kirk," in the shire of Ayr, on the 25th
day of January, 1759. As a natural mark of the event, a sudden storm at the same moment swept
the land: the gabel-wall of the frail dwelling gave way, and the babe-bard was hurried through
a tempest of wind and sleet to the shelter of a securer hovel. He was the eldest born of three
sons and three daughters; his father, William, who in his native Kincardineshire wrote his
name Burness, was bred a gardener, and sought for work in the West; but coming from the lands
of the noble family of the Keiths, a suspicion accompanied him that he had been out--as rebellion
was softly called--in the forty-five: a suspicion fatal to his hopes of rest and bread, in
so loyal a district; and it was only when the clergyman of his native parish certified his
loyalty that he was permitted to toil. This suspicion of Jacobitism, revived by Burns himself,
when he rose into fame, seems not to have influenced either the feelings, or the tastes of
Agnes Brown, a young woman on the Doon, whom he wooed and married in December, 1757, when he
was thirty-six years old. To support her, he leased a small piece of ground, which he converted
into a nursery and garden, and to shelter her, he raised with his own hands that humble abode
where she gave birth to her eldest son.

The elder Burns was a well-informed, silent, austere man, who endured no idle gaiety, nor indecorous
language: while he relaxed somewhat the hard, stern creed of the Covenanting times, he enforced
all the work-day, as well as sabbath-day observances, which the Calvinistic kirk requires,
and scrupled at promiscuous dancing, as the staid of our own day scruple at the waltz. His
wife was of a milder mood: she was blest with a singular fortitude of temper; was as devout
of heart, as she was calm of mind; and loved, while busied in her household concerns, to sweeten
the bitterer moments of life, by chanting the songs and ballads of her country, of which her
store was great. The garden and nursery prospered so much, that he was induced to widen his
views, and by the help of his kind landlord, the laird of Doonholm, and the more questionable
aid of borrowed money, he entered upon a neighbouring farm, named Mount Oliphant, extending
to an hundred acres. This was in 1765; but the land was hungry and sterile; the seasons proved
rainy and rough; the toil was certain, the reward unsure; when to his sorrow, the laird of
Doonholm--a generous Ferguson,--died: the strict terms of the lease, as well as the rent, were
exacted by a harsh factor, and with his wife and children, he was obliged, after a losing struggle
of six years, to relinquish the farm, and seek shelter on the grounds of Lochlea, some ten
miles off, in the parish of Tarbolton. When, in after-days, men's characters were in the hands
of his eldest son, the scoundrel factor sat for that lasting portrait of insolence and wrong,
in the "Twa Dogs."

In this new farm William Burns seemed to strike root, and thrive. He was strong of body and
ardent of mind: every day brought increase of vigour to his three sons, who, though very young,
already put their hands to the plough, the reap-hook, and the flail. But it seemed that nothing
which he undertook was decreed in the end to prosper: after four seasons of prosperity a change
ensued: the farm was far from cheap; the gains under any lease were then so little, that the
loss of a few pounds was ruinous to a farmer: bad seed and wet seasons had their usual influence:
"The gloom of hermits and the moil of galley-slaves," as the poet, alluding to those days,
said, were endured to no purpose; when, to crown all, a difference arose between the landlord
and the tenant, as to the terms of the lease; and the early days of the poet, and the declining
years of his father, were harassed by disputes, in which sensitive minds are sure to suffer.

Amid these labours and disputes, the poet's father remembered the worth of religious and moral
instruction: he took part of this upon himself. A week-day in Lochlea wore the sober looks
of a Sunday: he read the Bible and explained, as intelligent peasants are accustomed to do,
the sense, when dark or difficult; he loved to discuss the spiritual meanings, and gaze on
the mystical splendours of the Revelations. He was aided in these labours, first, by the schoolmaster
of Alloway-mill, near the Doon; secondly, by John Murdoch, student of divinity, who undertook
to teach arithmetic, grammar, French, and Latin, to the boys of Lochlea, and the sons of five
neighboring farmers. Murdoch, who was an enthusiast in learning, much of a pedant, and such
a judge of genius that he thought wit should always be laughing, and poetry wear an eternal
smile, performed his task well: he found Robert to be quick in apprehension, and not afraid
to study when knowledge was the reward. He taught him to turn verse into its natural prose
order; to supply all the ellipses, and not to desist till the sense was clear and plain: he
also, in their walks, told him the names of different objects both in Latin and French; and
though his knowledge of these languages never amounted to much, he approached the grammar of
the English tongue, through the former, which was of material use to him, in his poetic compositions.

In this mood of mind Burns was unconsciously approaching the land of poesie. In addition to
the histories of the Wallace and the Bruce, he found, on the shelves of his neighbours, not
only whole bodies of divinity, and sermons without limit, but the works of some of the best
English, as well as Scottish poets, together with songs and ballads innumerable. On these he
loved to pore whenever a moment of leisure came; nor was verse his sole favourite; he desired
to drink knowledge at any fountain, and Guthrie's Grammar, Dickson on Agriculture, Addison's
Spectator, Locke on the Human Understanding, and Taylor's Scripture Doctrine of Original Sin,
were as welcome to his heart as Shakspeare, Milton, Pope, Thomson, and Young. There is a mystery
in the workings of genius: with these poets in his head and hand, we see not that he has advanced
one step in the way in which he was soon to walk, "Highland Mary" and "Tam O' Shanter" sprang
from other inspirations.

Burns lifts up the veil himself, from the studies which made him a poet. Here we have the young
poet taking lessons in the classic lore of his native land: in the school of Janet Wilson he
profited largely; her tales gave a hue, all their own, to many noble effusions. But her teaching
was at the hearth-stone: when he was in the fields, either driving a cart or walking to labour,
he had ever in his hand a collection of songs, such as any stall in the land could supply him
with; and over these he pored, ballad by ballad, and verse by verse, noting the true, tender,
and the natural sublime from affectation and fustian. "To this," he said, "I am convinced that
I owe much of my critic craft, such as it is." His mother, too, unconsciously led him in the
ways of the muse: she loved to recite or sing to him a strange, but clever ballad, called "the
Life and Age of Man:" this strain of piety and imagination was in his mind when he wrote "Man
was made to Mourn."

He found other teachers--of a tenderer nature and softer influence. This intercourse with the
fair part of the creation, was to his slumbering emotions, a voice from heaven to call them
into life and poetry.

From the school of traditionary lore and love, Burns now went to a rougher academy. Lochlea,
though not producing fine crops of corn, was considered excellent for flax; and while the cultivation
of this commodity was committed to his father and his brother Gilbert, he was sent to Irvine
at Midsummer, 1781, to learn the trade of a flax-dresser, under one Peacock, kinsman to his
mother. Some time before, he had spent a portion of a summer at a school in Kirkoswald, learning
mensuration and land-surveying, where he had mingled in scenes of sociality with smugglers,
and enjoyed the pleasure of a silent walk, under the moon, with the young and the beautiful.
At Irvine he laboured by day to acquire a knowledge of his business, and at night he associated
with the gay and the thoughtless, with whom he learnt to empty his glass, and indulge in free
discourse on topics forbidden at Lochlea. He had one small room for a lodging, for which he
gave a shilling a week: meat he seldom tasted, and his food consisted chiefly of oatmeal and
potatoes sent from his father's house. In a letter to his father, written with great purity
and simplicity of style, he thus gives a picture of himself, mental and bodily: "Honoured Sir,
I have purposely delayed writing, in the hope that I should have the pleasure of seeing you
on new years' day, but work comes so hard upon us that I do not choose to be absent on that
account. This remarkable letter was written in the twenty-second year of his age; it alludes
to the illness which seems to have been the companion of his youth, a nervous headache, brought
on by constant toil and anxiety; and it speaks of the melancholy which is the common attendant
of genius, and its sensibilities, aggravated by despair of distinction.

This disaster was followed by one more grievous: his father was well in years when he was married,
and age and a constitution injured by toil and disappointment, began to press him down, ere
his sons had grown up to man's estate. On all sides the clouds began to darken: the farm was
unprosperous: the speculations in flax failed; and the landlord of Lochlea, raising a question
upon the meaning of the lease, concerning rotation of crop, pushed the matter to a lawsuit,
alike ruinous to a poor man either in its success or its failure.

Robert Burns was now the head of his father's house. He gathered together the little that law
and misfortune had spared, and took the farm of Mossgiel, near Mauchline, containing one hundred
and eighteen acres, at a rent of ninety pounds a year: his mother and sisters took the domestic
superintendence of home, barn, and byre; and he associated his brother Gilbert in the labours
of the land. It was made a joint affair: the poet was young, willing, and vigorous, and excelled
in ploughing, sowing, reaping, mowing, and thrashing. His wages were fixed at seven pounds
per annum, and such for a time was his care and frugality, that he never exceeded this small
allowance. He purchased books on farming, held conversations with the old and the knowing;
and said unto himself, "I shall be prudent and wise, and my shadow shall increase in the land."
But it was not decreed that these resolutions were to endure, and that he was to become a mighty
agriculturist in the west. Farmer Attention, as the proverb says, is a good farmer, all the
world over, and Burns was such by fits and by starts. But he who writes an ode on the sheep
he is about to shear, a poem on the flower that he covers with the furrow, who sees visions
on his way to market, who makes rhymes on the horse he is about to yoke, and a song on the
girl who shows the whitest hands among his reapers, has small chance of leading a market, or
of being laird of the fields he rents. The dreams of Burns were of the muses, and not of rising
markets, of golden locks rather than of yellow corn: he had other faults. It is not known that
William Burns was aware before his death that his eldest son had sinned in rhyme; but we have
Gilbert's assurance, that his father went to the grave in ignorance of his son's errors of
a less venial kind--unwitting that he was soon to give a two-fold proof of both in "Rob the
Rhymer's Address to his Bastard Child"--a poem less decorous than witty.

The dress and condition of Burns when he became a poet were not at all poetical, in the minstrel
meaning of the word. His clothes, coarse and homely, were made from home-grown wool, shorn
off his own sheeps' backs, carded and spun at his own fireside, woven by the village weaver,
and, when not of natural hodden-gray, dyed a half-blue in the village vat. They were shaped
and sewed by the district tailor, who usually wrought at the rate of a groat a day and his
food; and as the wool was coarse, so also was the workmanship. The linen which he wore was
home-grown, home-hackled, home-spun, home-woven, and home-bleached, and, unless designed for
Sunday use, was of coarse, strong harn, to suit the tear and wear of barn and field. His shoes
came from rustic tanpits, for most farmers then prepared their own leather; were armed, sole
and heel, with heavy, broad-headed nails, to endure the clod and the road: as hats were then
little in use, save among small lairds or country gentry, westland heads were commonly covered
with a coarse, broad, blue bonnet, with a stopple on its flat crown, made in thousands at Kilmarnock,
and known in all lands by the name of scone bonnets. His plaid was a handsome red and white
check--for pride in poets, he said, was no sin--prepared of fine wool with more than common
care by the hands of his mother and sisters, and woven with more skill than the village weaver
was usually required to exert. His dwelling was in keeping with his dress, a low, thatched
house, with a kitchen, a bedroom and closet, with floors of kneaded clay, and ceilings of moorland
turf: a few books on a shelf, thumbed by many a thumb; a few hams drying above head in the
smoke, which was in no haste to get out at the roof--a wooden settle, some oak chairs, chaff
beds well covered with blankets, with a fire of peat and wood burning at a distance from the
gable wall, on the middle of the floor. His food was as homely as his habitation, and consisted
chiefly of oatmeal-porridge, barley-broth, and potatoes, and milk. How the muse happened to
visit him in this clay biggin, take a fancy to a clouterly peasant, and teach him strains of
consummate beauty and elegance, must ever be a matter of wonder to all those, and they are
not few, who hold that noble sentiments and heroic deeds are the exclusive portion of the gently
nursed and the far descended.

Of the earlier verses of Burns few are preserved: when composed, he put them on paper, but
the kept them to himself: though a poet at sixteen, he seems not to have made even his brother
his confidante till he became a man, and his judgment had ripened. He, however, made a little
clasped paper book his treasurer, and under the head of "Observations, Hints, Songs, and Scraps
of Poetry," we find many a wayward and impassioned verse, songs rising little above the humblest
country strain, or bursting into an elegance and a beauty worthy of the highest of minstrels.
The first words noted down are the stanzas which he composed on his fair companion of the harvest-field,
out of whose hands he loved to remove the nettle-stings and the thistles: the prettier song,
beginning "Now westlin win's and slaughtering guns," written on the lass of Kirkoswald, with
whom, instead of learning mensuration, he chose to wander under the light of the moon: a strain
better still, inspired by the charms of a neighbouring maiden, of the name of Annie Ronald;
another, of equal merit, arising out of his nocturnal adventures among the lasses of the west;
and, finally, that crowning glory of all his lyric compositions, "Green grow the rashes." This
little clasped book, however, seems not to have been made his confidante till his twenty-third
or twenty-fourth year: he probably admitted to its pages only the strains which he loved most,
or such as had taken a place in his memory: at whatever age it was commenced, he had then begun
to estimate his own character, and intimate his fortunes, for he calls himself in its pages
"a man who had little art in making money, and still less in keeping it."

We have not been told how welcome the incense of his songs rendered him to the rustic maidens
of Kyle: women are not apt to be won by the charms of verse; they have little sympathy with
dreamers on Parnassus, and allow themselves to be influenced by something more substantial
than the roses and lilies of the muse. Burns had other claims to their regard then those arising
from poetic skill: he was tall, young, good-looking, with dark, bright eyes, and words and
wit at will: he had a sarcastic sally for all lads who presumed to cross his path, and a soft,
persuasive word for all lasses on whom he fixed his fancy: nor was this all--he was adventurous
and bold in love trystes and love excursions: long, rough roads, stormy nights, flooded rivers,
and lonesome places, were no letts to him; and when the dangers or labours of the way were
braved, he was alike skilful in eluding vigilant aunts, wakerife mothers, and envious or suspicions
sisters: for rivals he had a blow as ready us he had a word, and was familiar with snug stack-yards,
broomy glens, and nooks of hawthorn and honeysuckle, where maidens love to be wooed. This rendered
him dearer to woman's heart than all the lyric effusions of his fancy; and when we add to such
allurements, a warm, flowing, and persuasive eloquence, we need not wonder that woman listened
and was won; that one of the most charming damsels of the West said, an hour with him in the
dark was worth a lifetime of light with any other body; or that the accomplished and beautiful
Duchess of Gordon declared, in a latter day, that no man ever carried her so completely off
her feet as Robert Burns.

It is one of the delusions of the poet's critics and biographers, that the sources of his inspiration
are to be found in the great classic poets of the land, with some of whom he had from his youth
been familiar: there is little or no trace of them in any of his compositions. He read and
wondered--he warmed his fancy at their flame, he corrected his own natural taste by theirs,
but he neither copied nor imitated, and there are but two or three allusions to Young and Shakspeare
in all the range of his verse. He could not but feel that he was the scholar of a different
school, and that his thirst was to be slaked at other fountains. The language in which those
great bards embodied their thoughts was unapproachable to an Ayrshire peasant; it was to him
as an almost foreign tongue: he had to think and feel in the not ungraceful or inharmonious
language of his own vale, and then, in a manner, translate it into that of Pope or of Thomson,
with the additional difficulty of finding English words to express the exact meaning of those
of Scotland, which had chiefly been retained because equivalents could not be found in the
more elegant and grammatical tongue. Such strains as those of the polished Pope or the sublimer
Milton were beyond his power, less from deficiency of genius than from lack of language: he
could, indeed, write English with ease and fluency; but when he desired to be tender or impassioned,
to persuade or subdue, he had recourse to the Scottish, and he found it sufficient.

The goddesses or the Dalilahs of the young poet's song were, like the language in which he
celebrated them, the produce of the district; not dames high and exalted, but lasses of the
barn and of the byre, who had never been in higher company than that of shepherds or ploughmen,
or danced in a politer assembly than that of their fellow-peasants, on a barn-floor, to the
sound of the district fiddle. Nor even of these did he choose the loveliest to lay out the
wealth of his verse upon: he has been accused, by his brother among others, of lavishing the
colours of his fancy on very ordinary faces. "He had always," says Gilbert, "a jealousy of
people who were richer than himself; his love, therefore, seldom settled on persons of this
description. When he selected any one, out of the sovereignty of his good pleasure, to whom
he should pay his particular attention, she was instantly invested with a sufficient stock
of charms out of the plentiful stores of his own imagination: and there was often a great dissimilitude
between his fair captivator, as she appeared to others and as she seemed when invested with
the attributes he gave her." "My heart," he himself, speaking of those days, observes, "was
completely tinder, and was eternally lighted up by some goddess or other." Yet, it must be
acknowledged that sufficient room exists for believing that Burns and his brethren of the West
had very different notions of the captivating and the beautiful; while they were moved by rosy
checks and looks of rustic health, he was moved, like a sculptor, by beauty of form or by harmony
of motion, and by expression, which lightened up ordinary features and rendered them captivating.
Such, I have been told, were several of the lasses of the West, to whom, if he did not surrender
his heart, he rendered homage: and both elegance of form and beauty of face were visible to
all in those of whom he afterwards sang--the Hamiltons and the Burnets of Edinburgh, and the
Millers and M'Murdos of the Nith.

The mind of Burns took now a wider range: he had sung of the maidens of Kyle in strains not
likely soon to die, and though not weary of the softnesses of love, he desired to try his genius
on matters of a sterner kind--what those subjects were he tells us; they were homely and at
hand, of a native nature and of Scottish growth: places celebrated in Roman story, vales made
famous in Grecian song--hills of vines and groves of myrtle had few charms for him. To fill
up with glowing verse the outline which this sketch indicates, was to raise the long-laid spirit
of national song--to waken a strain to which the whole land would yield response--a miracle
unattempted--certainly unperformed--since the days of the Gentle Shepherd. It is true that
the tongue of the muse had at no time been wholly silent; that now and then a burst of sublime
woe, like the song of "Mary, weep no more for me," and of lasting merriment and humour, like
that of "Tibbie Fowler," proved that the fire of natural poesie smouldered, if it did not blaze;
while the social strains of the unfortunate Fergusson revived in the city, if not in the field,
the memory of him who sang the "Monk and the Miller's wife." But notwithstanding these and
other productions of equal merit, Scottish poesie, it must be owned, had lost much of its original
ecstasy and fervour, and that the boldest efforts of the muse no more equalled the songs of
Dunbar, of Douglas, of Lyndsay, and of James the Fifth, than the sound of an artificial cascade
resembles the undying thunders of Corra.

To accomplish this required an acquaintance with man beyond what the forge, the change-house,
and the market-place of the village supplied; a look further than the barn-yard and the furrowed
field, and a livelier knowledge and deeper feeling of history than, probably, Burns ever possessed.
To all ready and accessible sources of knowledge he appears to have had recourse; he sought
matter for his muse in the meetings, religious as well as social, of the district--consorted
with staid matrons, grave plodding farmers--with those who preached as well as those who listened--with
sharp-tongued attorneys, who laid down the law over a Mauchline gill--with country squires,
whose wisdom was great in the game-laws, and in contested elections--and with roving smugglers,
who at that time hung, as a cloud, on all the western coast of Scotland. In the company of
farmers and fellow-peasants, he witnessed scenes which he loved to embody in verse, saw pictures
of peace and joy, now woven into the web of his song, and had a poetic impulse given to him
both by cottage devotion and cottage merriment. If he was familiar with love and all its outgoings
and incomings--had met his lass in the midnight shade, or walked with her under the moon, or
braved a stormy night and a haunted road for her sake--he was as well acquainted with the joys
which belong to social intercourse, when instruments of music speak to the feet, when the reek
of punchbowls gives a tongue to the staid and demure, and bridal festivity, and harvest-homes,
bid a whole valley lift up its voice and be glad. It is more difficult to decide what poetic
use he could make of his intercourse with that loose and lawless class of men, who, from love
of gain, broke the laws and braved the police of their country: that he found among smugglers,
as he says, "men of noble virtues, magnanimity, generosity, disinterested friendship, and modesty,"
is easier to believe than that he escaped the contamination of their sensual manners and prodigality.
The people of Kyle regarded this conduct with suspicion: they were not to be expected to know
that when Burns ranted and housed with smugglers, conversed with tinkers huddled in a kiln,
or listened to the riotous mirth of a batch of "randie gangrel bodies" as they "toomed their
powks and pawned their duds," for liquor in Poosie Nansie's, he was taking sketches for the
future entertainment and instruction of the world; they could not foresee that from all this
moral strength and poetic beauty would arise.

While meditating something better than a ballad to his mistress's eyebrow, he did not neglect
to lay out the little skill he had in cultivating the grounds of Mossgiel. The prosperity in
which he found himself in the first and second seasons, induced him to hope that good fortune
had not yet forsaken him: a genial summer and a good market seldom come together to the farmer,
but at first they came to Burns; and to show that he was worthy of them, he bought books on
agriculture, calculated rotation of crops, attended sales, held the plough with diligence,
used the scythe, the reap-hook, and the flail, with skill, and the malicious even began to
say that there was something more in him than wild sallies of wit and foolish rhymes. But the
farm lay high, the bottom was wet, and in a third season, indifferent seed and a wet harvest
robbed him at once of half his crop: he seems to have regarded this as an intimation from above,
that nothing which he undertook would prosper: and consoled himself with joyous friends and
with the society of the muse. The judgment cannot be praised which selected a farm with a wet
cold bottom, and sowed it with unsound seed; but that man who despairs because a wet season
robs him of the fruits of the field, is unfit for the warfare of life, where fortitude is as
much required as by a general on a field of battle, when the tide of success threatens to flow
against him. The poet seems to have believed, very early in life, that he was none of the elect
of Mammon; that he was too much of a genius ever to acquire wealth by steady labour, or by,
as he loved to call it, gin-horse prudence, or grubbing industry.

And yet there were hours and days in which Burns, even when the rain fell on his unhoused sheaves,
did not wholly despair of himself: he laboured, nay sometimes he slaved on his farm; and at
intervals of toil, sought to embellish his mind with such knowledge as might be useful, should
chance, the goddess who ruled his lot, drop him upon some of the higher places of the land.
He had, while he lived at Tarbolton, united with some half-dozen young men, all sons of farmers
in that neighbourhood, in forming a club, of which the object was to charm away a few evening
hours in the week with agreeable chit-chat, and the discussion of topics of economy or love.
Of this little society the poet was president, and the first question they were called on to
settle was this, "Suppose a young man bred a farmer, but without any fortune, has it in his
power to marry either of two women; the one a girl of large fortune, but neither handsome in
person, nor agreeable in conversation, but who can manage the household affairs of a farm well
enough; the other of them, a girl every way agreeable in person, conversation, and behaviour,
but without any fortune, which of them shall he choose?" This question was started by the poet,
and once every week the club were called to the consideration of matters connected with rural
life and industry: their expenses were limited to threepence a week; and till the departure
of Burns to the distant Mossgiel, the club continued to live and thrive; on his removal it
lost the spirit which gave it birth, and was heard of no more; but its aims and its usefulness
were revived in Mauchline, where the poet was induced to establish a society which only differed
from the other in spending the moderate fines arising from non-attendance, on books, instead
of liquor. Here, too, Burns was the president, and the members were chiefly the sons of husbandmen,
whom he found, he said, more natural in their manners, and more agreeable than the self-sufficient
mechanics of villages and towns, who were ready to dispute on all topics, and inclined to be
convinced on none. This club had the pleasure of subscribing for the first edition of the works
of its great associate. It has been questioned by his first biographer, whether the refinement
of mind, which follows the reading of books of eloquence and delicacy,--the mental improvement
resulting from such calm discussions as the Tarbolton and Mauchline clubs indulged in, was
not injurious to men engaged in the barn and at the plough. A well-ordered mind will be strengthened,
as well as embellished, by elegant knowledge, while over those naturally barren and ungenial
all that is refined or noble will pass as a sunny shower scuds over lumps of granite, bringing
neither warmth nor life.

In the account which the poet gives to Moore of his early poems, he says little about his exquisite
lyrics, and less about "The Death and dying Words of Poor Mailie," or her "Elegy," the first
of his poems where the inspiration of the muse is visible; but he speaks with exultation of
the fame which those indecorous sallies, "Holy Willie's Prayer" and "The Holy Tulzie" brought
from some of the clergy, and the people of Ayrshire. The west of Scotland is ever in the van,
when mutters either political or religious are agitated. Calvinism was shaken, at this time,
with a controversy among its professors, of which it is enough to say, that while one party
rigidly adhered to the word and letter of the Confession of Faith, and preached up the palmy
and wholesome days of the Covenant, the other sought to soften the harsher rules and observances
of the kirk, and to bring moderation and charity into its discipline as well as its councils.
Both believed themselves right, both were loud and hot, and personal,--bitter with a bitterness
only known in religious controversy. The poet sided with the professors of the New Light, as
the more tolerant were called, and handled the professors of the Old Light, as the other party
were named, with the most unsparing severity. For this he had sufficient cause:--he had experienced
the mercilessness of kirk-discipline, when his frailties caused him to visit the stool of repentance;
and moreover his friend Gavin Hamilton, a writer in Mauchline, had been sharply censured by
the same authorities, for daring to gallop on Sundays. Moodie, of Riccarton, and Russel, of
Kilmarnock, were the first who tasted of the poet's wrath. They, though professors of the Old
Light, had quarrelled, and, it is added, fought: "The Holy Tulzie," which recorded, gave at
the same time wings to the scandal; while for "Holy Willie," an elder of Mauchline, and an
austere and hollow pretender to righteousness, he reserved the fiercest of all his lampoons.
In "Holy Willie's Prayer," he lays a burning hand on the terrible doctrine of predestination:
this is a satire, daring, personal, and profane. Willie claims praise in the singular, acknowledges
folly in the plural, and makes heaven accountable for his sins! in a similar strain of undevout
satire, he congratulates Goudie, of Kilmarnock, on his Essays on Revealed Religion. These poems,
particularly the two latter, are the sharpest lampoons in the language.

While drudging in the cause of the New Light controversialists, Burns was not unconsciously
strengthening his hands for worthier toils: the applause which selfish divines bestowed on
his witty, but graceless effusions, could not be enough for one who knew how fleeting the fame
was which came from the heat of party disputes; nor was he insensible that songs of a beauty
unknown for a century to national poesy, had been unregarded in the hue and cry which arose
on account of "Holy Willie's Prayer" and "The Holy Tulzie." He hesitated to drink longer out
of the agitated puddle of Calvinistic controversy, he resolved to slake his thirst at the pure
well-springs of patriot feeling and domestic love; and accordingly, in the last and best of
his controversial compositions, he rose out of the lower regions of lampoon into the upper
air of true poetry. "The Holy Fair," though stained in one or two verses with personalities,
exhibits a scene glowing with character and incident and life: the aim of the poem is not so
much to satirize one or two Old Light divines, as to expose and rebuke those almost indecent
festivities, which in too many of the western parishes accompanied the administration of the
sacrament. In the earlier days of the church, when men were staid and sincere, it was, no doubt,
an impressive sight to see rank succeeding rank, of the old and the young, all calm and all
devout, seated before the tent of the preacher, in the sunny hours of June, listening to his
eloquence, or partaking of the mystic bread and wine; but in these our latter days, when discipline
is relaxed, along with the sedate and the pious come swarms of the idle and the profligate,
whom no eloquence can edify and no solemn rite affect. On these, and such as these, the poet
has poured his satire; and since this desirable reprehension the Holy Fairs, east as well as
west, have become more decorous, if not more devout.

His controversial sallies were accompanied, or followed, by a series of poems which showed
that national character and manners, as Lockhart has truly and happily said, were once more
in the hands of a national poet. These compositions are both numerous and various: they record
the poet's own experience and emotions; they exhibit the highest moral feeling, the purest
patriotic sentiments, and a deep sympathy with the fortunes, both here and hereafter of his
fellow-men; they delineate domestic manners, man's stern as well as social hours, and mingle
the serious with the joyous, the sarcastic with the solemn, the mournful with the pathetic,
the amiable with the gay, and all with an ease and unaffected force and freedom known only
to the genius of Shakspeare. In "The Twa Dogs" he seeks to reconcile the labourer to his lot,
and intimates, by examples drawn from the hall as well as the cottage, that happiness resides
in the humblest abodes, and is even partial to the clouted shoe. In "Scotch Drink" he excites
man to love his country, by precepts both heroic and social; and proves that while wine and
brandy are the tipple of slaves, whiskey and ale are the drink of the free: sentiments of a
similar kind distinguish his "Earnest Cry and Prayer to the Scotch Representatives in the House
of Commons," each of whom he exhorts by name to defend the remaining liberties and immunities
of his country. A higher tone distinguishes the "Address to the Deil:" he records all the names,
and some of them are strange ones; and all the acts, and some of them are as whimsical as they
are terrible, of this far kenned and noted personage; to these he adds some of the fiend's
doings as they stand in Scripture, together with his own experiences; and concludes by a hope,
as unexpected as merciful and relenting, that Satan may not be exposed to an eternity of torments.
"The Dream" is a humorous sally, and may be almost regarded as prophetic. The poet feigns himself
present, in slumber, at the Royal birth-day; and supposes that he addresses his majesty, on
his household matters as well as the affairs of the nation. Some of the princes, it has been
satirically hinted, behaved afterwards in such a way as if they wished that the scripture of
the Burns should be fulfilled: in this strain, he has imitated the license and equalled the
wit of some of the elder Scottish Poets.

"The Vision" is wholly serious; it exhibits the poet in one of those fits of despondency which
the dull, who have no misgivings, never know: he dwells with sarcastic bitterness on the opportunities
which, for the sake of song, he has neglected of becoming wealthy, and is drawing a sad parallel
between rags and riches, when the muse steps in and cheer his despondency, by assuring him
of undying fame. "Halloween" is a strain of a more homely kind, recording the superstitious
beliefs, and no less superstitious doings of Old Scotland, on that night, when witches and
elves and evil spirits are let loose among the children of men: it reaches far back into manners
and customs, and is a picture, curious and valuable. The tastes and feelings of husbandmen
inspired "The old Farmer's Address to his old mare Maggie," which exhibits some pleasing recollections
of his days of courtship and hours of sociality. The calm, tranquil picture of household happiness
and devotion in "the Cotter's Saturday Night," has induced Hogg, among others, to believe that
it has less than usual of the spirit of the poet, but it has all the spirit that was required;
the toil of the week has ceased, the labourer has returned to his well-ordered home--his "cozie
ingle and his clean hearth-stane,"--and with his wife and children beside him, turns his thoughts
to the praise of that God to whom he owes all: this he performs with a reverence and an awe,
at once natural, national, and poetic. "The Mouse" is a brief and happy and very moving poem:
happy, for it delineates, with wonderful truth and life, the agitation of the mouse when the
coulter broke into its abode; and moving, for the poet takes the lesson of ruin to himself,
and feels the present and dreads the future. "The Mountain Daisy," once, more properly, called
by Burns "The Gowan," resembles "The Mouse" in incident and in moral, and is equally happy,
in language and conception. "The Lament" is a dark, and all but tragic page, from the poet's
own life. "Man was made to Mourn'" takes the part of the humble and the homeless, against the
coldness and selfishness of the wealthy and the powerful, a favourite topic of meditation with
Burns. He refrained, for awhile, from making "Death and Doctor Hernbook" public; a poem which
deviates from the offensiveness of personal satire, into a strain of humour, at once airy and
original.

His epistles in verse may be reckoned amongst his happiest productions: they are written in
all moods of mind, and are, by turns, lively and sad; careless and serious;--now giving advice,
then taking it; laughing at learning, and lamenting its want; scoffing at propriety and wealth,
yet admitting, that without the one he cannot be wise, nor wanting the other, independent.
The Epistle to David Sillar is the first of these compositions: the poet has no news to tell,
and no serious question to ask: he has only to communicate his own emotions of joy, or of sorrow,
and these he relates and discusses with singular elegance as well as ease, twining, at the
same time, into the fabric of his composition, agreeable allusions to the taste and affections
of his correspondent. He seems to have rated the intellect of Sillar as the highest among his
rustic friends: he pays him more deference, and addresses him in a higher vein than he observes
to others. The Epistles to Lapraik, to Smith, and to Rankine, are in a more familiar, or social
mood, and lift the veil from the darkness of the poet's condition, and exhibit a mind of first-rate
power, groping, and that surely, its way to distinction, in spite of humility of birth, obscurity
of condition, and the coldness of the wealthy or the titled. The epistles of other poets owe
some of their fame to the rank or the reputation of those to whom they are addressed; those
of Burns are written, one and all, to nameless and undistinguished men. Sillar was a country
schoolmaster, Lapraik a moorland laird, Smith a small shop-keeper, and Rankine a farmer, who
loved a gill and a joke. Yet these men were the chief friends, the only literary associates
of the poet, during those early years, in which, with some exceptions, his finest works were
written.

Burns, while he was writing the poems, the chief of which we have named, was a labouring husbandman
on the little farm of Mossgiel, a pursuit which affords but few leisure hours for either reading
or pondering; but to him the stubble-field was musing-ground, and the walk behind the plough,
a twilight saunter on Parnassus. As, with a careful hand and a steady eye, he guided his horses,
and saw an evenly furrow turned up by the share, his thoughts were on other themes; he was
straying in haunted glens, when spirits have power--looking in fancy on the lasses "skelping
barefoot," in silks and in scarlets, to a field-preaching--walking in imagination with the
rosy widow, who on Halloween ventured to dip her left sleeve in the burn, where three lairds'
lands met--making the "bottle clunk," with joyous smugglers, on a lucky run of gin or brandy--or
if his thoughts at all approached his acts--he was moralizing on the daisy oppressed by the
furrow which his own ploughshare had turned. That his thoughts were thus wandering we have
his own testimony, with that of his brother Gilbert; and were both wanting, the certainty that
he composed the greater part of his immortal poems in two years, from the summer of 1784 to
the summer of 1786, would be evidence sufficient. The muse must have been strong within him,
when, in spite of the rains and sleets of the "ever-dropping west"--when in defiance of the
hot and sweaty brows occasioned by reaping and thrashing--declining markets, and showery harvests--the
clamour of his laird for his rent, and the tradesman for his account, he persevered in song,
and sought solace in verse, when all other solace was denied him.

The circumstances under which his principal poems were composed, have been related: the "Lament
of Mailie" found its origin in the catastrophe of a pet ewe; the "Epistle to Sillar" was confided
by the poet to his brother while they were engaged in weeding the kale-yard; the "Address to
the Deil" was suggested by the many strange portraits which belief or fear had drawn of Satan,
and was repeated by the one brother to the other, on the way with their carts to the kiln,
for lime; the "Cotter's Saturday Night" originated in the reverence with which the worship
of God was conducted in the family of the poet's father, and in the solemn tone with which
he desired his children to compose themselves for praise and prayer; "the Mouse," and its moral
companion "the Daisy," were the offspring of the incidents which they relate; and "Death and
Doctor Hornbook" was conceived at a freemason-meeting, where the hero of the piece had shown
too much of the pedant, and composed on his way home, after midnight, by the poet, while his
head was somewhat dizzy with drink. One of the most remarkable of his compositions, the "Jolly
Beggars," a drama, to which nothing in the language of either the North or South can be compared,
and which was unknown till after the death of the author, was suggested by a scene which he
saw in a low ale-house, into which, on a Saturday night, most of the sturdy beggars of the
district had met to sell their meal, pledge their superfluous rags, and drink their gains.
It may be added, that he loved to walk in solitary spots; that his chief musing-ground was
the banks of the Ayr; the season most congenial to his fancy that of winter, when the winds
were heard in the leafless woods, and the voice of the swollen streams came from vale and hill;
and that he seldom composed a whole poem at once, but satisfied with a few fervent verses,
laid the subject aside, till the muse summoned him to another exertion of fancy. In a little
back closet, still existing in the farm-house of Mossgiel, he committed most of his poems to paper.

But while the poet rose, the farmer sank. It was not the cold clayey bottom of his ground,
nor the purchase of unsound seed-corn, not the fluctuation in the markets alone, which injured
him; neither was it the taste for freemason socialities, nor a desire to join the mirth of
comrades, either of the sea or the shore: neither could it be wholly imputed to his passionate
following of the softer sex--indulgence in the "illicit rove," or giving way to his eloquence
at the feet of one whom he loved and honoured; other farmers indulged in the one, or suffered
from the other, yet were prosperous. His want of success arose from other causes; his heart
was not with his task, save by fits and starts: he felt he was designed for higher purposes
than ploughing, and harrowing, and sowing, and reaping: when the sun called on him, after a
shower, to come to the plough, or when the ripe corn invited the sickle, or the ready market
called for the measured grain, the poet was under other spells, and was slow to avail himself
of those golden moments which come but once in the season. To this may be added, a too superficial
knowledge of the art of farming, and a want of intimacy with the nature of the soil he was
called to cultivate. He could speak fluently of leas, and faughs, and fallows, of change of
seed and rotation of crops, but practical knowledge and application were required, and in these
Burns was deficient. The moderate gain which those dark days of agriculture brought to the
economical farmer, was not obtained: the close, the all but niggardly care by which he could
win and keep his crown-piece,--gold was seldom in the farmer's hand,--was either above or below
the mind of the poet, and Mossgiel, which, in the hands of an assiduous farmer, might have
made a reasonable return for labour, was unproductive, under one who had little skill, less
economy, and no taste for the task.

Other reasons for his failure have been assigned. It is to the credit of the moral sentiments
of the husbandmen of Scotland, that when one of their class forgets what virtue requires, and
dishonours, without reparation, even the humblest of the maidens, he is not allowed to go unpunished.
No proceedings take place, perhaps one hard word is not spoken; but he is regarded with loathing
by the old and the devout; he is looked on by all with cold and reproachful eyes--sorrow is
foretold as his lot, sure disaster as his fortune; and is these chance to arrive, the only
sympathy expressed is, "What better could he expect?" Something of this sort befel Burns: he
had already satisfied the kirk in the matter of "Sonsie, smirking, dear-bought Bess," his daughter,
by one of his mother's maids; and now, to use his own words, he was brought within point-blank
of the heaviest metal of the kirk by a similar folly. The fair transgressor, both for her fathers
and her own youth, had a large share of public sympathy. Jean Armour, for it is of her I speak,
was in her eighteenth year; with dark eyes, a handsome foot, and a melodious tongue, she made
her way to the poet's heart--and, as their stations in life were equal, it seemed that they
had only to be satisfied themselves to render their union easy. But her father, in addition
to being a very devout man, was a zealot of the Old Light; and Jean, dreading his resentment,
was willing, while she loved its unforgiven satirist, to love him in secret, in the hope that
the time would come when she might safely avow it: she admitted the poet, therefore, to her
company in lonesome places, and walks beneath the moon, where they both forgot themselves,
and were at last obliged to own a private marriage as a protection from kirk censure. The professors
of the Old Light rejoiced, since it brought a scoffing rhymer within reach of their hand; but
her father felt a twofold sorrow, because of the shame of a favourite daughter, and for having
committed the folly with one both loose in conduct and profane of speech. He had cause to be
angry, but his anger, through his zeal, became tyrannous: in the exercise of what he called
a father's power, he compelled his child to renounce the poet as her husband and burn the marriage-lines;
for he regarded her marriage, without the kirk's permission, with a man so utterly cast away,
as a worse crime than her folly. So blind is anger! She could renounce neither her husband
nor his offspring in a lawful way, and in spite of the destruction of the marriage lines, and
renouncing the name of wife, she was as much Mrs. Burns as marriage could make her. No one
concerned seemed to think so. Burns, who loved her tenderly, went all but mad when she renounced
him: he gave up his share of Mossgiel to his brother, and roamed, moody and idle, about the
land, with no better aim in life than a situation in one of our western sugar-isles, and a
vague hope of distinction as a poet.

How the distinction which he desired as a poet was to be obtained, was, to a poor bard in a
provincial place, a sore puzzle: there were no enterprising booksellers in the western land,
and it was not to be expected that the printers of either Kilmarnock or Paisley had money to
expend on a speculation in rhyme: it is much to the honour of his native county that the publication
which he wished for was at last made easy. The best of his poems, in his own handwriting, had
found their way into the hands of the Ballantynes, Hamiltons, Parkers, and Mackenzies, and
were much admired. Mrs. Stewart, of Stair and Afton, a lady of distinction and taste, had made,
accidentally, the acquaintance both of Burns and some of his songs, and was ready to befriend
him; and so favourable was the impression on all hands, that a subscription, sufficient to
defray the outlay of paper and print, was soon filled up--one hundred copies being subscribed
for by the Parkers alone. He soon arranged materials for a volume, and put them into the hands
of a printer in Kilmarnock, the Wee Johnnie of one of his biting epigrams. Johnnie was startled
at the unceremonious freedom of most of the pieces, and asked the poet to compose one of modest
language and moral aim, to stand at the beginning, and excuse some of those free ones which
followed: Burns, whose "Twa Dogs" was then incomplete, finished the poem at a sitting, and
put it in the van, much to his printer's satisfaction. If the "Jolly Beggars" was omitted for
any other cause than its freedom of sentiment and language, or "Death and Doctor Hornbook"
from any other feeling than that of being too personal, the causes of their exclusion have
remained a secret. It is less easy to account for the emission of many songs of high merit
which he had among his papers: perhaps he thought those which he selected were sufficient to
test the taste of the public. Before he printed the whole, he, with the consent of his brother,
altered his name from Burness to Burns, a change which, I am told, he in after years regretted.

In the summer of the year 1786, the little volume, big with the hopes and fortunes of the bard
made its appearance: it was entitled simply, "Poems, chiefly in the Scottish Dialect; by Robert
Burns;" and accompanied by a modest preface, saying, that he submitted his book to his country
with fear and with trembling, since it contained little of the art of poesie, and at the best
was but a voice given, rude, he feared, and uncouth, to the loves, the hopes, and the fears
of his own bosom. Had a summer sun risen on a winter morning, it could not have surprised the
Lowlands of Scotland more than this Kilmarnock volume surprised and delighted the people, one
and all. The milkmaid sang his songs, the ploughman repeated his poems; the old quoted both,
and ever the devout rejoiced that idle verse had at last mixed a tone of morality with its
mirth. The volume penetrated even into Nithsdale. "Keep it out of the way of your children,"
said a Cameronian divine, when he lent it to my father, "lest ye find them, as I found mine,
reading it on the Sabbath." No wonder that such a volume made its way to the hearts of a peasantry
whose taste in poetry had been the marvel of many writers: the poems were mostly on topics
with which they were familiar: the language was that of the fireside, raised above the vulgarities
of common life, by a purifying spirit of expression and the exalting fervour of inspiration:
and there was such a brilliant and graceful mixture of the elegant and the homely, the lofty
and the low, the familiar and the elevated--such a rapid succession of scenes which moved to
tenderness or tears; or to subdued mirth or open laughter--unlooked for allusions to scripture,
or touches of sarcasm and scandal--of superstitions to scare, and of humour to delight--while
through the whole was diffused, as the scent of flowers through summer air, a moral meaning--a
sentimental beauty, which sweetened and sanctified all. The poet's expectations from this little
venture were humble: he hoped as much money from it as would pay for his passage to the West
Indies, where he proposed to enter into the service of some of the Scottish settlers, and help
to manage the double mystery of sugar-making and slavery.

The hearty applause which I have recorded came chiefly from the husbandman, the shepherd, and
the mechanic: the approbation of the magnates of the west, though not less-warm, was longer
in coming. Mrs. Stewart of Stair, indeed, commended the poems and cheered their author: Dugald
Stewart received his visits with pleasure, and wondered at his vigour of conversation as much
as at his muse: the door of the house of Hamilton was open to him, where the table was ever
spread, and the hand ever ready to help: while the purses of the Ballantynes and the Parkers
were always as open to him as were the doors of their houses. Those persons must be regarded
as the real patrons of the poet: the high names of the district are not to be found among those
who helped him with purse and patronage in 1786, that year of deep distress and high distinction.
The Montgomerys came with their praise when his fame was up; the Kennedys and the Boswells
were silent: and though the Cunninghams gave effectual aid, it was when the muse was crying
with a loud voice before him, "Come all and see the man whom I delight to honour." It would
be unjust as well as ungenerous not to mention the name of Mrs. Dunlop among the poet's best
and early patrons: the distance at which she lived from Mossgiel had kept his name from her
till his poems appeared: but his works induced her to desire his acquaintance, and she became
his warmest and surest friend.

To say the truth, Burns endeavoured in every honourable way to obtain the notice of those who
had influence in the land: he copied out the best of his unpublished poems in a fair hand,
and inserting them in his printed volume, presented it to those who seemed slow to buy: he
rewarded the notice of this one with a song--the attentions of that one with a sally of encomiastic
verse: he left psalms of his own composing in the manse when he feasted with a divine: he enclosed
"Holy Willie's Prayer," with an injunction to be grave, to one who loved mirth: he sent the
"Holy Fair" to one whom he invited to drink a gill out of a mutchkin stoup, at Mauchline market;
and on accidentally meeting with Lord Daer, he immediately commemorated the event in a sally
of verse, of a strain more free and yet as flattering as ever flowed from the lips of a court
bard. While musing over the names of those on whom fortune had smiled, yet who had neglected
to smile on him, he remembered that he had met Miss Alexander, a young beauty of the west,
in the walks of Ballochmyle; and he recorded the impression which this fair vision made on
him in a song of unequalled elegance and melody. He had met her in the woods in July, on the
18th of November he sent her the song, and reminded her of the circumstance from which it arose,
in a letter which it is evident he had laboured to render polished and complimentary. The young
lady took no notice of either the song or the poet, though willing, it is said, to hear of
both now:--this seems to have been the last attempt he made on the taste or the sympathies
of the gentry of his native district: for on the very day following we find him busy in making
arrangements for his departure to Jamaica.

For this step Burns had more than sufficient reasons: the profits of his volume amounted to
little more than enough to waft him across the Atlantic: Wee Johnnie, though the edition was
all sold, refused to risk another on speculation: his friends, both Ballantynes and Parkers,
volunteered to relieve the printer's anxieties, but the poet declined their bounty, and gloomily
indented himself in a ship about to sail from Greenock, and called on his muse to take farewell
of Caledonia, in the last song he ever expected to measure in his native land. That fine lyric,
beginning "The gloomy night is gathering fast," was the offspring of these moments of regret
and sorrow. His feelings were not expressed in song alone: he remembered his mother and his
natural daughter, and made an assignment of all that pertained to him at Mossgiel--and that
was but little--and of all the advantage which a cruel, unjust, and insulting law allowed in
the proceeds of his poems, for their support and behoof. This document was publicly read in
the presence of the poet, at the market-cross of Ayr, by his friend William Chalmers, a notary
public. Even this step was to Burns one of danger: some ill-advised person had uncoupled the
merciless pack of the law at his heels, and he was obliged to shelter himself as he best could,
in woods, it is said, by day and in barns by night, till the final hour of his departure came.
That hour arrived, and his chest was on the way to the ship, when a letter was put into his
hand which seemed to light him to brighter prospects.

Among the friends whom his merits had procured him was Dr. Laurie, a district clergyman, who
had taste enough to admire the deep sensibilities as well as the humour of the poet, and the
generosity to make known both his works and his worth to the warm-hearted and amiable Blacklock,
who boldly proclaimed him a poet of the first rank, and lamented that he was not in Edinburgh
to publish another edition of his poems. Burns was ever a man of impulse: he recalled his chest
from Greenock; he relinquished the situation he had accepted on the estate of one Douglas;
took a secret leave of his mother, and, without an introduction to any one, and unknown personally
to all, save to Dugald Stewart, away he walked, through Glenap, to Edinburgh, full of new hope
and confiding in his genius. When he arrived, he scarcely knew what to do: he hesitated to
call on the professor; he refrained from making himself known, as it has been supposed he did,
to the enthusiastic Blacklock; but, sitting down in an obscure lodging, he sought out an obscure
printer, recommended by a humble comrade from Kyle, and began to negotiate for a new edition
of the Poems of the Ayrshire Ploughman. This was not the way to go about it: his barge had
well nigh been shipwrecked in the launch; and he might have lived to regret the letter which
hindered his voyage to Jamaica, had he not met by chance in the street a gentleman of the west,
of the name of Dalzell, who introduced him to the Earl of Glencairn, a nobleman whose classic
education did not hurt his taste for Scottish poetry, and who was not too proud to lend his
helping hand to a rustic stranger of such merit as Burns. Cunningham carried him to Creech,
then the Murray of Edinburgh, a shrewd man of business, who opened the poet's eyes to his true
interests: the first proposals, then all but issued, were put in the fire, and new ones printed
and diffused over the island. The subscription was headed by half the noblemen of the north:
the Caledonian Hunt, through the interest of Glencairn, took six hundred copies: duchesses
and countesses swelled the list, and such a crowding to write down names had not been witnessed
since the signing of the solemn league and covenant.

While the subscription-papers were filling and the new volume printing on a paper and in a
type worthy of such high patronage, Burns remained in Edinburgh, where, for the winter season,
he was a lion, and one of an unwonted kind. Philosophers, historians, and scholars had shaken
the elegant coteries of the city with their wit, or enlightened them with their learning, but
they were all men who had been polished by polite letters or by intercourse with high life,
and there was a sameness in their very dress as well as address, of which peers and peeresses
had become weary. They therefore welcomed this rustic candidate for the honour of giving wings
to their hours of lassitude and weariness, with a welcome more than common; and when his approach
was announced, the polished circle looked for the advent of a lout from the plough, in whose
uncouth manners and embarrassed address they might find matter both for mirth and wonder. But
they met with a barbarian who was not at all barbarous: as the poet met in Lord Daer feelings
and sentiments as natural as those of a ploughman, so they met in a ploughman manners worthy
of a lord: his air was easy and unperplexed: his address was perfectly well-bred, and elegant
in its simplicity: he felt neither eclipsed by the titled nor struck dumb before the learned
and the eloquent, but took his station with the ease and grace of one born to it. In the society
of men alone he spoke out: he spared neither his wit, his humour, nor his sarcasm--he seemed
to say to all--"I am a man, and you are no more; and why should I not act and speak like one?"--it
was remarked, however, that he had not learnt, or did not desire, to conceal his emotions--that
he commended with more rapture than was courteous, and contradicted with more bluntness than
was accounted polite. It was thus with him in the company of men: when woman approached, his
look altered, his eye beamed milder; all that was stern in his nature underwent a change, and
he received them with deference, but with a consciousness that he could win their attention
as he had won that of others, who differed, indeed, from them only in the texture of their
kirtles. This natural power of rendering himself acceptable to women had been observed and
envied by Sillar, one of the dearest of his early comrades; and it stood him in good stead
now, when he was the object to whom the Duchess of Gordon, the loveliest as well as the wittiest
of women--directed her discourse. Burns, she afterwards said, won the attention of the Edinburgh
ladies by a deferential way of address--by an ease and natural grace of manners, as new as
it was unexpected--that he told them the stories of some of his tenderest songs or liveliest
poems in a style quite magical--enriching his little narratives, which had one and all the
merit of being short, with personal incidents of humour or of pathos.

In a party, when Dr. Blair and Professor Walker were present, Burns related the circumstances
under which he had composed his melancholy song, "The gloomy night is gathering fast," in a
way even more touching than the verses: and in the company of the ruling beauties of the time,
he hesitated not to lift the veil from some of the tenderer parts of his own history, and give
them glimpses of the romance of rustic life. A lady of birth--one of his must willing listeners--used,
I am told, to say, that she should never forget the tale which he related of his affection
for Mary Campbell, his Highland Mary, as he loved to call her. She was fair, he said, and affectionate,
and as guileless as she was beautiful; and beautiful he thought her in a very high degree.
The first time he saw her was during one of his musing walks in the woods of Montgomery Castle;
and the first time he spoke to her was during the merriment of a harvest-kirn. There were others
there who admired her, but he addressed her, and had the luck to win her regard from them all.
He soon found that she was the lass whom he had long sought, but never before found--that her
good looks were surpassed by her good sense; and her good sense was equalled by her discretion
and modesty. He met her frequently: she saw by his looks that he was sincere; she put full
trust in his love, and used to wander with him among the green knowes and stream-banks till
the sun went down and the moon rose, talking, dreaming of love and the golden days which awaited
them. He was poor, and she had only her half-year's fee, for she was in the condition of a
servant; but thoughts of gear never darkened their dream: they resolved to wed, and exchanged
vows of constancy and love. They plighted their vows on the Sabbath to render them more sacred--they
made them by a burn, where they had courted, that open nature might be a witness--they made
them over an open Bible, to show that they thought of God in this mutual act--and when they
had done they both took water in their hands, and scattered it in the air, to intimate that
as the stream was pure so were their intentions. They parted when they did this, but they parted
never to meet more: she died in a burning fever, during a visit to her relations to prepare
for her marriage; and all that he had of her was a lock of her long bright hair, and her Bible,
which she exchanged for his.

Even with the tales which he related of rustic love and adventure his own story mingled; and
ladies of rank heard, for the first time, that in all that was romantic in the passion of love,
and in all that was chivalrous in sentiment, men of distinction, both by education and birth,
were at least equalled by the peasantry of the land. They listened with interest, and inclined
their feathers beside the bard, to hear how love went on in the west, and in no case it ran
quite smooth. Sometimes young hearts were kept asunder by the sordid feelings of parents, who
could not be persuaded to bestow their daughter, perhaps an only one, on a wooer who could
not count penny for penny, and number cow for cow: sometimes a mother desired her daughter
to look higher than to one of her station: for her beauty and her education entitled her to
match among the lairds, rather than the tenants; and sometimes, the devotional tastes of both
father and mother, approving of personal looks and connexions, were averse to see a daughter
bestow her hand on one, whose language in religion was indiscreet, and whose morals were suspected.
Yet, neither the vigilance of fathers, nor the suspicious care of aunts and mothers, could
succeed in keeping those asunder whose hearts were together; but in these meetings circumspection
and invention were necessary: all fears were to be lulled by the seeming carelessness of the
lass,--all perils were to be met and braved by the spirit of the lad. His home, perhaps, was
at a distance, and he had wild woods to come through, and deep streams to pass, before he could
see the signal-light, now shown and now withdrawn, at her window; he had to approach with a
quick eye and a wary foot, lest a father or a brother should see, and deter him: he had sometimes
to wish for a cloud upon the moon, whose light, welcome to him on his way in the distance,
was likely to betray him when near; and he not unfrequently reckoned a wild night of wind and
rain as a blessing, since it helped to conceal his coming, and proved to his mistress that
he was ready to brave all for her sake. Of rivals met and baffled; of half-willing and half-unconsenting
maidens, persuaded and won; of the light-hearted and the careless becoming affectionate and
tender; and the coy, the proud, and the satiric being gained by "persuasive words, and more
persuasive sighs," as dames had been gained of old, he had tales enow. The ladies listened,
and smiled at the tender narratives of the poet.

Of his appearance among the sons as well as the daughters of men, we have the account of Dugald
Stewart. "Burns," says the philosopher, "came to Edinburgh early in the winter: the attentions
which he received from all ranks and descriptions of persons, were such as would have turned
any head but his own. He retained the same simplicity of manners and appearance which had struck
me so forcibly when I first saw him in the country: his dress was suited to his station; plain
and unpretending, with sufficient attention to neatness: he always wore boots, and, when on
more than usual ceremony, buckskin breeches. From his conversation I should have pronounced
him to have been fitted to excel in whatever walk of ambition he had chosen to exert his abilities.

Such was the impression which Burns made at first on the fair, the titled, and the learned
of Edinburgh; an impression which, though lessened by intimacy and closer examination on the
part of the men, remained unimpaired, on that of the softer sex, till his dying-day. His company,
during the season of balls and festivities, continued to be courted by all who desired to be
reckoned gay or polite. Cards of invitation fell thick on him; he was not more welcome to the
plumed and jewelled groups, whom her fascinating Grace of Gordon gathered about her, than he
was to the grave divines and polished scholars, who assembled in the rooms of Stewart, or Blair,
or Robertson. The classic socialities of Tytler, afterwards Lord Woodhouslee, or the elaborate
supper-tables of the whimsical Monboddo, whose guests imagined they were entertained in the
manner of Lucullus or of Cicero, were not complete without the presence of the ploughman of
Kyle; and the feelings of the rustic poet, facing such companies, though of surprise and delight
at first, gradually subsided, he said, as he discerned, that man differed from man only in
the polish, and not in the grain. But Edinburgh offered tables and entertainers of a less orderly
and staid character than those I have named--where the glass circulated with greater rapidity;
where the wit flowed more freely; and where there were neither highbred ladies to charm conversation
within the bounds of modesty, nor serious philosophers, nor grave divines, to set a limit to
the license of speech, or the hours of enjoyment. To these companions--and these were all of
the better classes, the levities of the rustic poet's wit and humour were as welcome us were
the tenderest of his narratives to the accomplished Duchess of Gordon and the beautiful Miss
Burnet of Monboddo; they raised a social roar not at all classic, and demanded and provoked
his sallies of wild humour, or indecorous mirth, with as much delight as he had witnessed among
the lads of Kyle, when, at mill or forge, his humorous sallies abounded as the ale flowed.
In these enjoyments the rough, but learned William Nicol, and the young and amiable Robert
Ainslie shared: the name of the poet was coupled with those of profane wits, free livers, and
that class of half-idle gentlemen who hang about the courts of law, or for a season or two
wear the livery of Mars, and handle cold iron.

Edinburgh had still another class of genteel convivialists, to whom the poet was attracted
by principles as well as by pleasure; these were the relics of that once numerous body, the
Jacobites, who still loved to cherish the feelings of birth or education rather than of judgment,
and toasted the name of Stuart, when the last of the race had renounced his pretensions to
a throne, for the sake of peace and the cross. Young men then, and high names were among them,
annually met on the pretender's birth-day, and sang songs in which the white rose of Jacobitism
flourished; toasted toasts announcing adherence to the male line of the Bruce and the Stuart,
and listened to the strains of the laureate of the day, who prophesied, in drink, the dismissal
of the intrusive Hanoverian, by the right and might of the righteous and disinherited line.
Burns, who was descended from a northern race, whoso father was suspected of having drawn the
claymore in 1745, and who loved the blood of the Keith-Marishalls, under whose banners his
ancestors had marched, readily united himself to a band in whose sentiments, political and
social, he was a sharer. He was received with acclamation: the dignity of laureate was conferred
upon him, and his inauguration ode, in which he recalled the names and the deeds of the Grahams,
the Erskines, the Boyds, and the Gordons, was applauded for its fire, as well as for its sentiments.
Yet, though he ate and drank and sang with Jacobites, he was only as far as sympathy and poesie
went, of their number: his reason renounced the principles and the religion of the Stuart line;
and though he shed a tear over their fallen fortunes--though he sympathized with the brave
and honourable names that perished in their cause--though he cursed "the butcher, Cumberland,"
and the bloody spirit which commanded the heads of the good and the heroic to be stuck where
they would affright the passer-by, and pollute the air--he had no desire to see the splendid
fabric of constitutional freedom, which the united genius of all parties had raised, thrown
wantonly down. His Jacobitism influenced, not his head, but his heart, and gave a mournful
hue to many of his lyric compositions.

Meanwhile his poems were passing through the press. Burns made a few emendations of those published
in the Kilmarnock edition, and he added others which, as he expressed it, he had carded and
spun, since he passed Glenbuck. Some rather coarse lines were softened or omitted in the "Twa
Dogs;" others, from a change of his personal feelings, were made in the "Vision:" "Death and
Doctor Hornbook," excluded before, was admitted now: the "Dream" was retained, in spite of
the remonstrances of Mrs. Stewart, of Stair, and Mrs. Dunlop; and the "Brigs of Ayr," in compliment
to his patrons in his native district, and the "Address to Edinburgh," in honour of his titled
and distinguished friends in that metropolis, were printed for the first time. He was unwilling
to alter what he had once printed: his friends, classic, titled, and rustic, found him stubborn
and unpliable, in matters of criticism; yet he was generally of a complimental mood: he loaded
the robe of Coila in the "Vision," with more scenes than it could well contain, that he might
include in the landscape, all the country-seats of his friends, and he gave more than their
share of commendation to the Wallaces, out of respect to his friend Mrs. Dunlop. Of the critics
of Edinburgh he said, they spun the thread of their criticisms so fine that it was unfit for
either warp or weft; and of its scholars, he said, they were never satisfied with any Scottish
poet, unless they could trace him in Horace. One morning at Dr. Blair's breakfast-table, when
the "Holy Fair" was the subject of conversation, the reverend critic said, "Why should

    '--Moody speel the holy door
        With tidings of salvation?'

if you had said, with tidings of damnation, the satire would have been the better and the bitterer."
"Excellent!" exclaimed the poet, "the alteration is capital, and I hope you will honour me
by allowing me to say in a note at whose suggestion it was made." Professor Walker, who tells
the anecdote, adds that Blair evaded, with equal good humour and decision, this not very polite
request; nor was this the only slip which the poet made on this occasion: some one asked him
in which of the churches of Edinburgh he had received the highest gratification: he named the
High-church, but gave the preference over all preachers to Robert Walker, the colleague and
rival in eloquence of Dr. Blair himself, and that in a tone so pointed and decisive as to make
all at the table stare and look embarrassed. The poet confessed afterwards that he never reflected
on his blunder without pain and mortification. Blair probably had this in his mind, when, on
reading the poem beginning "When Guildford good our pilot stood," he exclaimed, "Ah! the politics
of Burns always smell of the smithy," meaning, that they were vulgar and common.

In April, the second or Edinburgh, edition was published: it was widely purchased, and as warmly
commended. The country had been prepared for it by the generous and discriminating criticisms
of Henry Mackenzie, published in that popular periodical, "The Lounger," where he says, "Burns
possesses the spirit as well as the fancy of a poet; that honest pride and independence of
soul, which are sometimes the muse's only dower, break forth on every occasion, in his works."
The praise of the author of the "Man of Feeling" was not more felt by Burns, than it was by
the whole island: the harp of the north had not been swept for centuries by a hand so forcible,
and at the same time so varied, that it awakened every tone, whether of joy or woe: the language
was that of rustic life; the scenes of the poems were the dusty barn, the clay-floored reeky
cottage, and the furrowed field; and the characters were cowherds, ploughmen, and mechanics.
The volume was embellished by a head of the poet from the hand of the now venerable Alexander
Nasmith; and introduced by a dedication to the noblemen and gentlemen of the Caledonian Hunt,
in a style of vehement independence, unknown hitherto in the history of subscriptions. The
whole work, verse, prose, and portrait, won public attention, and kept it: and though some
critics signified their displeasure at expressions which bordered on profanity, and at a license
of language which they pronounced impure, by far the greater number united their praise to
the all but general voice; nay, some scrupled not to call him, from his perfect ease and nature
and variety, the Scottish Shakspeare. No one rejoiced more in his success and his fame, than
the matron of Mossgiel.

Other matters than his poems and socialities claimed the attention of Burns in Edinburgh. He
had a hearty relish for the joyous genius of Allan Ramsay; he traced out his residences, and
rejoiced to think that while he stood in the shop of his own bookseller, Creech, the same floor
had been trod by the feet of his great forerunner. He visited, too, the lowly grave of the
unfortunate Robert Fergusson; and it must be recorded to the shame of the magistrates of Edinburgh,
that they allowed him to erect a headstone to his memory, and to the scandal of Scotland, that
in such a memorial he had not been anticipated. He seems not to have regarded the graves of
scholars or philosophers; and he trod the pavements where the warlike princes and nobles had
walked without any emotion. He loved, however, to see places celebrated in Scottish song, and
fields where battles for the independence of his country had been stricken; and, with money
in his pocket which his poems had produced, and with a letter from a witty but weak man, Lord
Buchan, instructing him to pull birks on the Yarrow, broom on the Cowden-knowes, and not to
neglect to admire the ruins of Drybrugh Abbey, Burns set out on a border tour, accompanied
by Robert Ainslie, of Berrywell. As the poet had talked of returning to the plough, Dr. Blair
imagined that he was on his way back to the furrowed field, and wrote him a handsome farewell,
saying he was leaving Edinburgh with a character which had survived many temptations; with
a name which would be placed with the Ramsays and the Fergussons, and with the hopes of all,
that, in a second volume, on which his fate as a poet would very much depend, he might rise
yet higher in merit and in fame. Burns, who received this communication when laying his leg
over the saddle to be gone, is said to have muttered, "Ay, but a man's first book is sometimes
like his first babe, healthier and stronger than those which follow."

On the 6th of May, 1787, Burns reached Berrywell: he recorded of the laird, that he was clear-headed,
and of Miss Ainslie, that she was amiable and handsome--of Dudgeon, the author of "The Maid
that tends the Goats," that he had penetration and modesty, and of the preacher, Bowmaker,
that he was a man of strong lungs and vigorous remark. On crossing the Tweed at Coldstream
he took off his hat, and kneeling down, repeated aloud the two last verses of the "Cotter's
Saturday Night:" on returning, he drunk tea with Brydone, the traveller, a man, he said, kind
and benevolent: he cursed one Cole as an English Hottentot, for having rooted out an ancient
garden belonging to a Romish ruin; and he wrote of Macdowal, of Caverton-mill, that by his
skill in rearing sheep, he sold his flocks, ewe and lamb, for a couple of guineas each: that
he washed his sheep before shearing--and by his turnips improved sheep-husbandry; he added,
that lands were generally let at sixteen shillings the Scottish acre; the farmers rich, and,
compared to Ayrshire, their houses magnificent. On his way to Jedburgh he visited an old gentleman
in whose house was an arm-chair, once the property of the author of "The Seasons;" he reverently
examined the relic, and could scarcely be persuaded to sit in it: he was a warm admirer of Thomson.

In Jedburgh, Burns found much to interest him: the ruins of a splendid cathedral, and of a
strong castle--and, what was still more attractive, an amiable young lady, very handsome, with
"beautiful hazel eyes, full of spirit, sparkling with delicious moisture," and looks which
betokened a high order of female mind. I am afraid my bosom has nearly as much tinder as ever.
Jed, pure be thy streams, and hallowed thy sylvan banks: sweet Isabella Lindsay, may peace
dwell in thy bosom uninterrupted, except by the tumultuous throbbings of rapturous love!" With
the freedom of Jedburgh, handsomely bestowed by the magistrates, in his pocket, Burns made
his way to Wauchope, the residence of Mrs. Scott, who had welcomed him into the world as a
poet in verses lively and graceful: he found her, he said, "a lady of sense and taste, and
of a decision peculiar to female authors." After dining with Sir Alexander Don, who, he said,
was a clever man, but far from a match for his divine lady, a sister of his patron Glencairn,
he spent an hour among the beautiful ruins of Dryburgh Abbey; glanced on the splendid remains
of Melrose; passed, unconscious of the future, over that ground on which have arisen the romantic
towers of Abbotsford; dined with certain of the Souters of Selkirk; and visited the old keep
of Thomas the Rhymer, and a dozen of the hills and streams celebrated in song. Nor did he fail
to pay his respects, after returning through Dunse, to Sir James Hall, of Dunglass, and his
lady, and was much pleased with the scenery of their romantic place. He was now joined by a
gentleman of the name of Kerr, and crossing the Tweed a second time, penetrated into England,
as far as the ancient town of Newcastle, where he smiled at a facetious Northumbrian, who at
dinner caused the beef to be eaten before the broth was served, in obedience to an ancient
injunction, lest the hungry Scotch should come and snatch it. On his way back he saw, what
proved to be prophetic of his own fortune--the roup of an unfortunate farmer's stock: he took
out his journal, and wrote with a troubled brow, "Rigid economy, and decent industry, do you
preserve me from being the principal dramatis personæ, in such a scene of horror." He extended
his tour to Carlisle, and from thence to the banks of the Nith, where he looked at the farm
of Ellisland, with the intention of trying once more his fortune at the plough, should poetry
and patronage fail him.

On his way through the West, Burns spent a few days with his mother at Mossgiel: he had left
her an unknown and an almost banished man: he returned in fame and in sunshine, admired by
all who aspired to be thought tasteful or refined. He felt offended alike with the patrician
stateliness of Edinburgh and the plebeian servility of the husbandmen of Ayrshire; and dreading
the influence of the unlucky star which had hitherto ruled his lot, he bought a pocket Milton,
he said, for the purpose of studying the intrepid independence and daring magnanimity, and
noble defiance of hardships, exhibited by Satan! In this mood he reached Edinburgh--only to
leave it again on three hurried excursions into the Highlands. The route which he took and
the sentiments which the scenes awakened, are but faintly intimated in the memoranda which
he made. His first journey seems to have been performed in ill-humour; at Stirling, his Jacobitism,
provoked at seeing the ruined palace of the Stuarts, broke out in some unloyal lines which
he had the indiscretion to write with a diamond on the window of a public inn. At Carron, where
he was refused a sight of the magnificent foundry, he avenged himself in epigram. At Inverary
he resented some real or imaginary neglect on the part of his Grace of Argyll, by a stinging
lampoon; nor can he be said to have fairly regained his serenity of temper, till he danced
his wrath away with some Highland ladies at Dumbarton.

His second excursion was made in the company of Dr. Adair, of Harrowgate: the reluctant doors
of Carron foundry were opened to him, and he expressed his wonder at the blazing furnaces and
broiling labours of the place; he removed the disloyal lines from the window of the inn at
Stirling, and he paid a two days' visit to Ramsay of Ochtertyre, a distinguished scholar, and
discussed with him future topics for the muse. From the Forth he went to the Devon, in the
county of Clackmannan, where, for the first time, he saw the beautiful Charlotte Hamilton,
the sister of his friend Gavin Hamilton, of Mauchline.

Accompanied by this charming dame, he visited an old lady, Mrs. Bruce, of Clackmannan, who,
in the belief that she had the blood of the royal Bruce in her veins, received the poet with
something of princely state, and, half in jest, conferred the honour of knighthood upon him,
with her ancestor's sword, saying, in true Jacobitical mood, that she had a better right to
do that than some folk had! In the same pleasing company he visited the famous cataract on
the Devon, called the Cauldron Lian, and the Rumbling bridge, a single arch thrown, it is said
by the devil, over the Devon, at the height of a hundred feet in the air. It was the complaint
of his companions that Burns exhibited no raptures, and poured out no unpremeditated verses
at such magnificent scenes. But he did not like to be tutored or prompted: "Look, look!" exclaimed
some one, as Carron foundry belched forth flames--"look, Burns, look! good heavens, what a
grand sight!--look!" "I would not look--look, sir, at your bidding," said the bard, turning
away, "were it into the mouth of hell!" When he visited, at a future time, the romantic Linn
of Creehope, in Nithsdale, he looked silently at its wonders, and showed none of the hoped-for
rapture. "You do not admire it, I fear," said a gentleman who accompanied him; "I could not
admire it more, sir," replied Burns, "if He who made it were to desire me to do it." There
are other reasons for the silence of Burns amid the scenes of the Devon: he was charmed into
love by the sense and the beauty of Charlotte Hamilton, and rendered her homage in that sweet
song, "The Banks of the Devon," and in a dozen letters written with more than his usual care,
elegance, and tenderness. But the lady was neither to be won by verse nor by prose: she afterwards
gave her hand to Adair, the poet's companion, and, what was less meritorious, threw his letters
into the fire. He then proceeded northward by Ochtertyre, the water of Earn, the vale of Glen
Almond, and the traditionary grave of Ossian. He looked in at princely Taymouth; mused an hour
or two among the Birks of Aberfeldy; gazed from Birnam top; paused amid the wild grandeur of
the pass of Killiecrankie, at the stone which marks the spot where a second patriot Graham
fell, and spent a day at Blair, where he experienced the graceful kindness of the Duke of Athol,
and in a strain truly elegant, petitioned him, in the name of Bruar Water, to hide the utter
nakedness of its otherwise picturesque banks, with plantations of birch and oak. Quitting Blair
he followed the course of the Spey, and passing, as he told his brother, through a wild country,
among cliffs gray with eternal snows, and glens gloomy and savage, reached Findhorn in mist
and darkness; visited Castle Cawdor, where Macbeth murdered Duncan; hastened through Inverness
to Urquhart Castle, and the Falls of Fyers, and turned southward to Kilravock, over the fatal
moor of Culloden. He admired the ladies of that classic region for their snooded ringlets,
simple elegance of dress, and expressive eyes: in Mrs. Rose, of Kilravock Castle, he found
that matronly grace and dignity which he owned he loved; and in the Duke and Duchess of Gordon
a renewal of that more than kindness with which they had welcomed him in Edinburgh. But while
he admired the palace of Fochabers, and was charmed by the condescensions of the noble proprietors,
he forgot that he had left a companion at the inn, too proud and captious to be pleased at
favours showered on others: he hastened back to the inn with an invitation and an apology:
he found the fiery pedant in a foaming rage, striding up and down the street, cursing in Scotch
and Latin the loitering postilions for not yoking the horses, and hurrying him away. All apology
and explanation was in vain, and Burns, with a vexation which he sought not to conceal, took
his seat silently beside the irascible pedagogue, and returned to the South by Broughty Castle,
the banks of Endermay and Queensferry. He parted with the Highlands in a kindly mood, and loved
to recal the scenes and the people, both in conversation and in song.

On his return to Edinburgh he had to bide the time of his bookseller and the public: the impression
of his poems, extending to two thousand eight hundred copies, was sold widely: much of the
money had to come from a distance, and Burns lingered about the northern metropolis, expecting
a settlement with Creech, and with the hope that those who dispensed his country's patronage
might remember one who then, as now, was reckoned an ornament to the land. But Creech, a parsimonious
man, was slow in his payments; the patronage of the country was swallowed up in the sink of
politics, and though noblemen smiled, and ladies of rank nodded their jewelled heads in approbation
of every new song he sung and every witty sally he uttered, they reckoned any further notice
or care superfluous: the poet, an observant man, saw all this; but hope was the cordial of
his heart, he said, and he hoped and lingered on. Too active a genius to remain idle, he addressed
himself to the twofold business of love and verse. Repulsed by the stately Beauty of the Devon,
he sought consolation in the society of one, as fair, and infinitely more witty; and as an
accident had for a time deprived him of the use of one of his legs, he gave wings to hours
of pain, by writing a series of letters to this Edinburgh enchantress, in which he signed himself
Sylvander, and addressed her under the name of Clarinda. In these compositions, which no one
can regard as serious, and which James Grahame the poet called "a romance of real Platonic
affection," amid much affectation both of language and sentiment, and a desire to say fine
and startling things, we can see the proud heart of the poet throbbing in the dread of being
neglected or forgotten by his country. The love which he offers up at the altar of wit and
beauty, seems assumed and put on, for its rapture is artificial, and its brilliancy that of
an icicle: no woman was ever wooed and won in that Malvolio way; and there is no doubt that
Mrs. M'Lehose felt as much offence as pleasure at this boisterous display of regard. In aftertimes
he loved to remember her:--when wine circulated, Mrs. Mac was his favourite toast.

During this season he began his lyric contributions to the Musical Museum of Johnson, a work
which, amid many imperfections of taste and arrangement, contains more of the true old music
and genuine old songs of Scotland, than any other collection with which I am acquainted. Burns
gathered oral airs, and fitted them with words of mirth or of woe, of tenderness or of humour,
with unexampled readiness and felicity; he eked out old fragments and sobered down licentious
strains so much in the olden spirit and feeling, that the new cannot be distinguished from
the ancient; nay, he inserted lines and half lines, with such skill and nicety, that antiquarians
are perplexed to settle which is genuine or which is simulated. Yet with all this he abated
not of the natural mirth or the racy humour of the lyric muse of Scotland: he did not like
her the less because she walked like some of the maidens of her strains, high-kilted at times,
and spoke with the freedom of innocence. In these communications we observe how little his
border-jaunt among the fountains of ancient song contributed either of sentiment or allusion,
to his lyrics; and how deeply his strains, whether of pity or of merriment, were coloured by
what he had seen, and heard, and felt in the Highlands. In truth, all that lay beyond the Forth
was an undiscovered land to him; while the lowland districts were not only familiar to his
mind and eye, but all their more romantic vales and hills and streams were already musical
in songs of such excellence as induced him to dread failure rather than hope triumph. Moreover,
the Highlands teemed with jacobitical feelings, and scenes hallowed by the blood or the sufferings
of men heroic, and perhaps misguided; and the poet, willingly yielding to an impulse which
was truly romantic, and believed by thousands to be loyal, penned his songs on Drumossie, and
Killiecrankie, as the spirit of sorrow or of bitterness prevailed. Though accompanied, during
his northern excursions, by friends whose socialities and conversation forbade deep thought,
or even serious remark, it will be seen by those who read his lyrics with care, that his wreath
is indebted for some of its fairest flowers to the Highlands.

The second winter of the poet's abode in Edinburgh had now arrived: it opened, as might have
been expected, with less rapturous welcomes and with more of frosty civility than the first.
It must be confessed, that indulgence in prolonged socialities, and in company which, though
clever, could not be called select, contributed to this; nor must it be forgotten that his
love for the sweeter part of creation was now and then carried beyond the limits of poetic
respect, and the delicacies of courtesy; tending to estrange the austere and to lessen the
admiration at first common to all. Other causes may be assigned for this wane of popularity:
he took no care to conceal his contempt for all who depended on mere scholarship for eminence,
and he had a perilous knack in sketching with a sarcastic hand the characters of the learned
and the grave. Some indeed of the high literati of the north--Home, the author of Douglas,
was one of them--spoke of the poet as a chance or an accident: and though they admitted that
he was a poet, yet he was not one of settled grandeur of soul, brightened by study. Burns was
probably aware of this; he takes occasion in some of his letters to suggest, that the hour
may be at hand when he shall be accounted by scholars as a meteor, rather than a fixed light,
and to suspect that the praise bestowed on his genius was partly owing to the humility of his
condition. From his lingering so long about Edinburgh, the nobility began to dread a second
volume by subscription, the learned to regard him as a fierce Theban, who resolved to carry
all the outworks to the temple of Fame without the labour of making regular approaches; while
a third party, and not the least numerous, looked on him with distrust, as one who hovered
between Jacobite and Jacobin; who disliked the loyal-minded, and loved to lampoon the reigning
family. Besides, the marvel of the inspired ploughman had begun to subside; the bright gloss
of novelty was worn off, and his fault lay in his unwillingness to see that he had made all
the sport which the Philistines expected, and was required to make room for some "salvage"
of the season, to paw, and roar, and shake the mane. The doors of the titled, which at first
opened spontaneous, like those in Milton's heaven, were now unclosed for him with a tardy courtesy:
he was received with measured stateliness, and seldom requested to repeat his visit. Of this
changed aspect of things he complained to a friend: but his real sorrows were mixed with those
of the fancy:--he told Mrs. Dunlop with what pangs of heart he was compelled to take shelter
in a corner, lest the rattling equipage of some gaping blockhead should mangle him in the mire.
In this land of titles and wealth such querulous sensibilities must have been frequently offended.

Burns, who had talked lightly hitherto of resuming the plough, began now to think seriously
about it, for he saw it must come to that at last. Miller, of Dalswinton, a gentleman of scientific
acquirements, and who has the merit of applying the impulse of steam to navigation, had offered
the poet the choice of his farms, on a fair estate which he had purchased on the Nith: aided
by a westland farmer, he selected Ellisland, a beautiful spot, fit alike for the steps of ploughman
or poet. The farm and the excise exhibit the poet's humble scheme of life: the money of the
one, he thought, would support the toil of the other, and in the fortunate management of both,
he looked for the rough abundance, if not the elegancies suitable to a poet's condition.

While Scotland was disgraced by sordidly allowing her brightest genius to descend to the plough
and the excise, the poet hastened his departure from a city which had witnessed both his triumph
and his shame: he bade farewell in a few well-chosen words to such of the classic literati--the
Blairs, the Stewarts, the Mackenzies, and the Tytlers--as had welcomed the rustic bard and
continued to countenance him; while in softer accents he bade adieu to the Clarindas and Chlorises
of whose charms he had sung, and, having wrung a settlement from Creech, he turned his steps
towards Mossgiel and Mauchline. He had several reasons, and all serious ones, for taking Ayrshire
in his way to the Nith: he desired to see his mother, his brothers and sisters, who had partaken
of his success, and were now raised from pining penury to comparative affluence: he desired
to see those who had aided him in his early struggles into the upper air--perhaps those, too,
who had looked coldly on, and smiled at his outward aspirations after fame or distinction;
but more than all, he desired to see one whom he once and still dearly loved, who had been
a sufferer for his sake, and whom he proposed to make mistress of his fireside and the sharer
of his fortunes. Even while whispering of love to Charlotte Hamilton, on the banks of the Devon,
or sighing out the affected sentimentalities of platonic or pastoral love in the ear of Clarinda,
his thoughts wandered to her whom he had left bleaching her webs among the daisies on Mauchline
braes--she had still his heart, and in spite of her own and her father's disclamation, she
was his wife. It was one of the delusions of this great poet, as well as of those good people,
the Armours, that the marriage had been dissolved by the destruction of the marriage-lines,
and that Robert Burns and Jean Armour were as single as though they had neither vowed nor written
themselves man and wife. Be that as it may, the time was come when all scruples and obstacles
were to be removed which stood in the way of their union: their hands were united by Gavin
Hamilton, according to law, in April, 1788: and even the Reverend Mr. Auld, so mercilessly
lampooned, smiled forgivingly as the poet satisfied a church wisely scrupulous regarding the
sacred ceremony of marriage.

Though Jean Armour was but a country lass of humble degree, she had sense and intelligence,
and personal charms sufficient not only to win and fix the attentions of the poet, but to sanction
the praise which he showered on her in song. With his young wife, a punch bowl of Scottish
marble, and an eight-day clock, both presents from Mr. Armour, now reconciled to his eminent
son-in-law, with a new plough, and a beautiful heifer, given by Mrs. Dunlop, with about four
hundred pounds in his pocket, a resolution to toil, and a hope of success, Burns made his appearance
on the banks of the Nith, and set up his staff at Ellisland. This farm, now a classic spot,
is about six miles up the river from Dumfries; it extends to upwards of a hundred acres: the
soil is kindly; the holmland portion of it loamy and rich, and it has at command fine walks
on the river side, and views of the Friar's Carse, Cowehill, and Dalswinton. For a while the
poet had to hide his head in a smoky hovel; till a house to his fancy, and offices for his
cattle and his crops were built, his accommodation was sufficiently humble; and his mind taking
its hue from his situation, infused a bitterness into the letters in which he first made known
to his western friends that he had fixed his abode in Nithsdale. "This is an undiscovered clime,"
he at another period exclaims, "it is unknown to poetry, and prose never looked on it save
in drink. I sit by the fire, and listen to the hum of the spinning-wheel: I hear, but cannot
see it, for it is hidden in the smoke which eddies round and round me before it seeks to escape
by window and door. I have no converse but with the ignorance which encloses me: No kenned
face but that of my old mare, Jenny Geddes--my life is dwindled down to mere existence."

When the poet's new house was built and plenished, and the atmosphere of his mind began to
clear, he found the land to be fruitful, and its people intelligent and wise. In Riddel, of
Friar's Carse, he found a scholar and antiquarian; in Miller, of Dalswinton, a man conversant
with science as well as with the world; in M'Murdo, of Drumlanrig, a generous and accomplished
gentleman; and in John Syme, of Ryedale, a man much after his own heart, and a lover of the
wit and socialities of polished life. Of these gentlemen Riddel, who was his neighbour, was
the favourite: a door was made in the march-fence which separated Ellisland from Friar's Carse,
that the poet might indulge in the retirement of the Carse hermitage, a little lodge in the
wood, as romantic as it was beautiful, while a pathway was cut through the dwarf oaks and birches
which fringed the river bank, to enable the poet to saunter and muse without lot or interruption.
This attention was rewarded by an inscription for the hermitage, written with elegance as well
as feeling, and which was the first fruits of his fancy in this unpoetic land. In a happier
strain he remembered Matthew Henderson: this is one of the sweetest as well as happiest of
his poetic compositions. He heard of his friend's death, and called on nature animate and inanimate,
to lament the loss of one who held the patent of his honours from God alone, and who loved
all that was pure and lovely and good. "The Whistle" is another of his Ellisland compositions:
the contest which he has recorded with such spirit and humour took place almost at his door:
the heroes were Fergusson, of Craigdarroch, Sir Robert Laurie, of Maxwelltown, and Riddel,
of the Friar's Carse: the poet was present, and drank bottle and bottle about with the best,
and when all was done he seemed much disposed, as an old servant at Friar's Carse remembered,
to take up the victor.

Burns had become fully reconciled to Nithsdale, and was on the most intimate terms with the
muse when he produced Tam O' Shanter, the crowning glory of all his poems. For this marvellous
tale we are indebted to something like accident: Francis Grose, the antiquary, happened to
visit Friar's Carse, and as he loved wine and wit, the total want of imagination was no hinderance
to his friendly intercourse with the poet: "Alloway's auld haunted kirk" was mentioned, and
Grose said he would include it in his illustrations of the antiquities of Scotland, if the
bard of the Doon would write a poem to accompany it. Burns consented, and before he left the
table, the various traditions which belonged to the ruin were passing through his mind. One
of these was of a farmer, who, on a night wild with wind and rain, on passing the old kirk
was startled by a light glimmering inside the walls; on drawing near he saw a caldron hung
over a fire, in which the heads and limbs of children were simmering: there was neither witch
nor fiend to guard it, so he unhooked the caldron, turned out the contents, and carried it
home as a trophy. A second tradition was of a man of Kyle, who, having been on a market night
detained late in Ayr, on crossing the old bridge of Doon, on his way home, saw a light streaming
through the gothic window of Alloway kirk, and on riding near, beheld a batch of the district
witches dancing merrily round their master, the devil, who kept them "louping and flinging"
to the sound of a bagpipe. He knew several of the old crones, and smiled at their gambols,
for they were dancing in their smocks: but one of them, and she happened to be young and rosy,
had on a smock shorter than those of her companions by two spans at least, which so moved the
farmer that he exclaimed, "Weel luppan, Maggie wi' the short sark!" Satan stopped his music,
the light was extinguished, and out rushed the hags after the farmer, who made at the gallop
for the bridge of Doon, knowing that they could not cross a stream: he escaped; but Maggie,
who was foremost, seized his horse's tail at the middle of the bridge, and pulled it off in
her efforts to stay him.

This poem was the work of a single day: Burns walked out to his favourite musing path, which
runs towards the old tower of the Isle, along Nithside, and was observed to walk hastily and
mutter as he went. His wife knew by these signs that he was engaged in composition, and watched
him from the window; at last wearying, and moreover wondering at the unusual length of his
meditations, she took her children with her and went to meet him; but as he seemed not to see
her, she stept aside among the broom to allow him to pass, which he did with a flushed brow
and dropping eyes, reciting these lines aloud:--

    "Now Tam!

He embellished this wild tradition from fact as well as from fancy: along the road which Tam
came on that eventful night his memory supplied circumstances which prepared him for the strange
sight at the kirk of Alloway. A poor chapman had perished, some winters before, in the snow;
a murdered child had been found by some early hunters; a tippling farmer had fallen from his
horse at the expense of his neck, beside a "meikle stane"; and a melancholy old woman had hanged
herself at the bush aboon the well, as the poem relates: all these matters the poet pressed
into the service of the muse, and used them with a skill which adorns rather than oppresses
the legend. A pert lawyer from Dumfries objected to the language as obscure: "Obscure, sir!"
said Burns; "you know not the language of that great master of your own art--the devil. If
you had a witch for your client you would not be able to manage her defence!"

He wrote few poems after his marriage, but he composed many songs: the sweet voice of Mrs.
Burns and the craving of Johnson's Museum will in some measure account for the number, but
not for their variety, which is truly wonderful. In the history of that mournful strain, "Mary
in Heaven," we read the story of many of his lyrics, for they generally sprang from his personal
feelings: no poet has put more of himself into his poetry than Burns, "Robert, though ill of
a cold," said his wife, "had been busy all day--a day of September, 1789, with the shearers
in the field, and as he had got most of the corn into the stack-yard, was in good spirits;
but when twilight came he grew sad about something, and could not rest: he wandered first up
the waterside, and then went into the stack-yard: I followed, and begged him to come into the
house, as he was ill, and the air was sharp and cold. He said, 'Ay, ay,' but did not come:
he threw himself down on some loose sheaves, and lay looking at the sky, and particularly at
a large, bright star, which shone like another moon. At last, but that was long after I had
left him, he came home--the song was already composed." To the memory of Mary Campbell he dedicated
that touching ode; and he thus intimates the continuance of his early affection for "The fair
haired lass of the west," in a letter of that time to Mrs. Dunlop. "If there is another life,
it must be only for the just, the benevolent, the amiable, and the humane. What a flattering
idea, then, is a world to come! These melancholy words gave way in their turn to others of
a nature lively and humorous: "Tam Glen," in which the thoughts flow as freely as the waters
of the Nith, on whose banks he wrote it; "Findlay," with its quiet vein of sly simplicity;
"Willie brewed a peck o' maut," the first of social, and "She's fair and fause," the first
of sarcastic songs, with "The deil's awa wi' the Exciseman," are all productions of this period--a
period which had besides its own fears and its own forebodings.

For a while Burns seemed to prosper in his farm: he held the plough with his own hand, he guided
the harrows, he distributed the seed-corn equally among the furrows, and he reaped the crop
in its season, and saw it safely covered in from the storms of winter with "thack and rape;"
his wife, too, superintended the dairy with a skill which she had brought from Kyle, and as
the harvest, for a season or two, was abundant, and the dairy yielded butter and cheese for
the market, it seemed that "the luckless star" which ruled his lot had relented, and now shone
unboding and benignly. But much more is required than toil of hand to make a successful farmer,
nor will the attention bestowed only by fits and starts, compensate for carelessness or oversight:
frugality, not in one thing but in all, is demanded, in small matters as well as in great,
while a careful mind and a vigilant eye must superintend the labours of servants, and the whole
system of in-door and out-door economy. Now, during the three years which Burns stayed in Ellisland,
he neither wrought with that constant diligence which farming demands, nor did he bestow upon
it the unremitting attention of eye and mind which such a farm required: besides his skill
in husbandry was but moderate--the rent, though of his own fixing, was too high for him and
for the times; the ground, though good, was not so excellent as he might have had on the same
estate--he employed more servants than the number of acres demanded, and spread for them a
richer board than common: when we have said this we need not add the expensive tastes induced
by poetry, to keep readers from starting, when they are told that Burns, at the close of the
third year of occupation, resigned his lease to the landlord, and bade farewell for ever to
the plough. He was not, however, quite desolate; he had for a year or more been appointed on
the excise, and had superintended a district extending to ten large parishes, with applause;
indeed, it has been assigned as the chief reason for failure in his farm, that when the plough
or the sickle summoned him to the field, he was to be found, either pursuing the defaulters
of the revenue, among the valleys of Dumfrieshire, or measuring out pastoral verse to the beauties
of the land. He retired to a house in the Bank-vennel of Dumfries, and commenced a town-life:
he commenced it with an empty pocket, for Ellisland had swallowed up all the profits of his
poems: he had now neither a barn to produce meal nor barley, a barn-yard to yield a fat hen,
a field to which he could go at Martinmas for a mart, nor a dairy to supply milk and cheese
and butter to the table--he had, in short, all to buy and little to buy with. He regarded it
as a compensation that he had no farm-rent to provide, no bankruptcies to dread, no horse to
keep, for his excise duties were now confined to Dumfries, and that the burthen of a barren
farm was removed from his mind, and his muse at liberty to renew her unsolicited strains.

But from the day of his departure from "the barren" Ellisland, the downward course of Burns
may be dated. The cold neglect of his country had driven him back indignantly to the plough,
and he hoped to gain from the furrowed field that independence which it was the duty of Scotland
to have provided: but he did not resume the plough with all the advantages he possessed when
he first forsook it: he had revelled in the luxuries of polished life--his tastes had been
rendered expensive as well as pure: he had witnessed, and he hoped for the pleasures of literary
retirement, while the hands which had led jewelled dames over scented carpets to supper tables
leaded with silver took hold of the hilts of the plough with more of reluctance than good-will.
Edinburgh, with its lords and its ladies, its delights and its hopes, spoiled him for farming.
Nor were his new labours more acceptable to his haughty spirit than those of the plough: the
excise for a century had been a word of opprobrium or of hatred in the north: the duties which
it imposed were regarded, not by peasants alone, as a serious encroachment upon the ancient
rights of the nation, and to mislead a gauger, or resist him, even to blood, was considered
by few as a fault. That the brightest genius of the nation--one whose tastes and sensibilities
were so peculiarly its own--should be, as a reward, set to look after run-rum and smuggled
tobacco, and to gauge ale-wife's barrels, was a regret and a marvel to many, and a source of
bitter merriment to Burns himself.

The duties of his situation were however performed punctually, if not with pleasure: he was
a vigilant officer; he was also a merciful and considerate one: though loving a joke, and not
at all averse to a dram, he walked among suspicious brewers, captious ale-wives, and frowning
shop-keepers as uprightly as courteously: he smoothed the ruggedest natures into acquiescence
by his gayety and humour, and yet never gave cause for a malicious remark, by allowing his
vigilance to slumber. He was brave, too, and in the capture of an armed smuggler, in which
he led the attack, showed that he neither feared water nor fire: he loved, also, to counsel
the more forward of the smugglers to abandon their dangerous calling; his sympathy for the
helpless poor induced him to give them now and then notice of his approach; he has been known
to interpret the severe laws of the excise into tenderness and mercy in behalf of the widow
and the fatherless. In all this he did but his duty to his country and his kind: and his conduct
was so regarded by a very competent and candid judge. "Let me look at the books of Burns,"
said Maxwell, of Terraughty, at the meeting of the district magistrates, "for they show that
an upright officer may be a merciful one." With a salary of some seventy pounds a year, the
chance of a few guineas annually from the future editions of his poems, and the hope of rising
at some distant day to the more lucrative situation of supervisor, Burns continued to live
in Dumfries; first in the Bank-vennel, and next in a small house in a humble street, since
called by his name.

In his earlier years the poet seems to have scattered songs as thick as a summer eve scatters
its dews; nor did he scatter them less carelessly: he appears, indeed, to have thought much
less of them than of his poems: the sweet song of Mary Morison, and others not at all inferior,
lay unregarded among his papers till accident called them out to shine and be admired. Many
of these brief but happy compositions, sometimes with his name, and oftener without, he threw
in dozens at a time into Johnson, where they were noticed only by the captious Ritson: but
now a work of higher pretence claimed a share in his skill: in September, 1792, he was requested
by George Thomson to render, for his national collection, the poetry worthy of the muses of
the north, and to take compassion on many choice airs, which had waited for a poet like the
author of the Cotter's Saturday Night, to wed them to immortal verse. To engage in such an
undertaking, Burns required small persuasion, and while Thomson asked for strains delicate
and polished, the poet characteristically stipulated that his contributions were to be without
remuneration, and the language seasoned with a sprinkling of the Scottish dialect. As his heart
was much in the matter, he began to pour out verse with a readiness and talent unknown in the
history of song: his engagement with Thomson, and his esteem for Johnson, gave birth to a series
of songs as brilliant as varied, and as naturally easy as they were gracefully original. In
looking over those very dissimilar collections it is not difficult to discover that the songs
which he wrote for the more stately work, while they are more polished and elegant than those
which he contributed to the less pretending one, are at the same time less happy in their humour
and less simple in their pathos. "What pleases me as simple and naive," says Burns to Thomson,
"disgusts you as ludicrous and low. For this reason 'Fye, gie me my coggie, sirs,' 'Fye, let
us a' to the bridal,' with several others of that cast, are to me highly pleasing, while 'Saw
ye my Father' delights me with its descriptive simple pathos:" we read in these words the reasons
of the difference between the lyrics of the two collections.

The land where the poet lived furnished ready materials for song: hills with fine woods, vales
with clear waters, and dames as lovely as any recorded in verse, were to be had in his walks
and his visits; while, for the purposes of mirth or of humour, characters, in whose faces originality
was legibly written, were as numerous in Nithsdale as he had found them in the west. He had
been reproached, while in Kyle, with seeing charms in very ordinary looks, and hanging the
garlands of the muse on unlovely altars; he was liable to no such censure in Nithsdale; he
poured out the incense of poetry only on the fair and captivating: his Jeans, his Lucys, his
Phillises, and his Jessies were ladies of such mental or personal charms as the Reynolds's
and the Lawrences of the time would have rejoiced to lay out their choicest colours on. But
he did not limit himself to the charms of those whom he could step out to the walks and admire:
his lyrics give evidence of the wandering of his thoughts to the distant or the dead--he loves
to remember Charlotte Hamilton and Mary Campbell, and think of the sighs and vows on the Devon
and the Doon, while his harpstrings were still quivering to the names of the Millers and the
M'Murdos--to the charms of the lasses with golden or with flaxen locks, in the valley where
he dwelt. Of Jean M'Murdo and her sister Phillis he loved to sing; and their beauty merited
his strains: to one who died in her bloom, Lucy Johnston, he addressed a song of great sweetness;
to Jessie Lewars, two or three songs of gratitude and praise: nor did he forget other beauties,
for the accomplished Mrs. Riddel is remembered, and the absence of fair Clarinda is lamented
in strains both impassioned and pathetic.

But the main inspirer of the latter songs of Burns was a young woman of humble birth: of a
form equal to the most exquisite proportions of sculpture, with bloom on her cheeks, and merriment
in her large bright eyes, enough to drive an amatory poet crazy. Her name was Jean Lorimer;
she was not more than seventeen when the poet made her acquaintance, and though she had got
a sort of brevet-right from an officer of the army, to use his southron name of Whelpdale,
she loved best to be addressed by her maiden designation, while the poet chose to veil her
in the numerous lyrics, to which she gave life, under the names of "Chloris," "The lass of
Craigie-burnwood," and "The lassie wi' the lintwhite locks." Though of a temper not much inclined
to conceal anything, Burns complied so tastefully with the growing demand of the age for the
exterior decencies of life, that when the scrupling dames of Caledonia sung a new song in her
praise, they were as unconscious whence its beauties came, as is the lover of art, that the
shape and gracefulness of the marble nymph which he admires, are derived from a creature who
sells the use of her charms indifferently to sculpture or to love. Fine poetry, like other
arts called fine, springs from "strange places," as the flower in the fable said, when it bloomed
on the dunghill; nor is Burns more to be blamed than was Raphael, who painted Madonnas, and
Magdalens with dishevelled hair and lifted eyes, from a loose lady, whom the pope, "Holy at
Rome--here Antichrist," charitably prescribed to the artist, while he laboured in the cause
of the church. Of the poetic use which he made of Jean Lorimer's charms, Burns gives this account
to Thomson. I assure you that to my lovely friend you are indebted for many of my best songs.
Quite the contrary. Many of the latter lyrics of Burns were more or less altered, to put them
into better harmony with the airs, and I am not the only one who has wondered that a bard so
impetuous and intractable in most matters, should have become so soft and pliable, as to make
changes which too often sacrificed the poetry for the sake of a fuller and more swelling sound.
It is true that the emphatic notes of the music must find their echo in the emphatic words
of the verse, and that words soft and liquid are fitter for ladies' lips, than words hissing
and rough; but it is also true that in changing a harsher word for one more harmonious the
sense often suffers, and that happiness of expression, and that dance of words which lyric
verse requires, lose much of their life and vigour. The poet's favourite walk in composing
his songs was on a beautiful green sward on the northern side of the Nith, opposite Lincluden:
and his favourite posture for composition at home was balancing himself on the hind legs of
his arm-chair.

While indulging in these lyrical nights, politics penetrated into Nithsdale, and disturbed
the tranquillity of that secluded region. First, there came a contest far the representation
of the Dumfries district of boroughs, between Patrick Miller, younger, of Dalswinton, and Sir
James Johnstone, of Westerhall, and some two years afterwards, a struggle for the representation
of the county of Kirkcudbright, between the interest of the Stewarts, of Galloway, and Patrick
Heron, of Kerroughtree. In the first of these the poet mingled discretion with his mirth, and
raised a hearty laugh, in which both parties joined; for this sobriety of temper, good reasons
may be assigned: Miller, the elder, of Dalswinton, had desired to oblige him in the affair
of Ellisland, and his firm and considerate friend, M'Murdo, of Drumlanrig, was chamberlain
to his Grace of Queensbury, on whoso interest Miller stood. On the other hand, his old Jacobitical
affections made him the secret well-wisher to Westerhall, for up to this time, at least till
acid disappointment and the democratic doctrine of the natural equality of man influenced him,
Burns, or as a western rhymer of his day and district worded the reproach--Rob was a Tory.
His situation, it will therefore be observed, disposed him to moderation, and accounts for
the milkiness of his Epistle to Fintray, in which he marshals the chiefs of the contending
factions, and foretells the fierceness of the strife, without pretending to foresee the event.
Neither is he more explicit, though infinitely more humorous, in his ballad of "The Five Carlins,"
in which he impersonates the five boroughs--Dumfries, Kirkcudbright, Lochmaben, Sanquhar, and
Annan, and draws their characters as shrewd and calculating dames, met in much wrath and drink
to choose a representative.

But the two or three years which elapsed between the election for the boroughs, and that for
the county adjoining, wrought a serious change in the temper as well as the opinions of the
poet. His Jacobitism, as has been said was of a poetic kind, and put on but in obedience to
old feelings, and made no part of the man: he was in his heart as democratic as the kirk of
Scotland, which educated him--he acknowledged no other superiority but the mental: "he was
disposed, too," said Professor Walker, "from constitutional temper, from education and the
accidents of life, to a jealousy of power, and a keen hostility against every system which
enabled birth and opulence to anticipate those rewards which he conceived to belong to genius
and virtue." When we add to this, a resentment of the injurious treatment of the dispensers
of public patronage, who had neglected his claims, and showered pensions and places on men
unworthy of being named with him, we have assigned causes for the change of side and the tone
of asperity and bitterness infused into "The Heron Ballads." Formerly honey was mixed with
his gall: a little praise sweetened his censure: in these election lampoons he is fierce and
even venomous:--no man has a head but what is empty, nor a heart that is not black: men descended
without reproach from lines of heroes are stigmatized as cowards, and the honest and conscientious
are reproached as miserly, mean, and dishonourable. Such is the spirit of party. "I have privately,"
thus writes the poet to Heron, "printed a good many copies of the ballads, and have sent them
among friends about the country. You have already, as your auxiliary, the sober detestation
of mankind on the heads of your opponents; find I swear by the lyre of Thalia, to muster on
your side all the votaries of honest laughter and fair, candid ridicule." The ridicule was
uncandid, and the laughter dishonest. The poet was unfortunate in his political attachments:
Miller gained the boroughs which Burns wished he might lose, and Heron lost the county which
he foretold he would gain. It must also be recorded against the good taste of the poet, that
he loved to recite "The Heron Ballads," and reckon them among his happiest compositions.

From attacking others, the poet was--in the interval between penning these election lampoons--called
on to defend himself: for this he seems to have been quite unprepared, though in those yeasty
times he might have expected it. In this letter, another, intended for the eye of the Commissioners
of the Board of Excise, was enclosed, in which he disclaimed entertaining the idea of a British
republic--a wild dream of the day--but stood by the principles of the constitution of 1688,
with the wish to see such corruptions as had crept in, amended. This last remark, it appears,
by a letter from the poet to Captain Erskine, afterwards Earl of Mar, gave great offence, for
Corbet, one of the superiors, was desired to inform him, "that his business was to act, and
not to think; and that whatever might be men or measures, it was his duty to be silent and
obedient." The intercession of Fintray, and the explanations of Burns, were so far effectual,
that his political offense was forgiven, "only I understand," said he, "that all hopes of my
getting officially forward are blasted." The records of the Excise Office exhibit no trace
of this memorable matter, and two noblemen, who were then in the government, have assured me
that this harsh proceeding received no countenance at head-quarters, and must have originated
with some ungenerous or malicious person, on whom the poet had spilt a little of the nitric
acid of his wrath.

That Burns was numbered among the republicans of Dumfries I well remember: but then those who
held different sentiments from the men in power, were all, in that loyal town, stigmatized
as democrats: that he either desired to see the constitution changed, or his country invaded
by the liberal French, who proposed to set us free with the bayonet, and then admit us to the
"fraternal embrace," no one ever believed. It is true that he spoke of premiers and peers with
contempt; that he hesitated to take off his hat in the theatre, to the air of "God save the
king;" that he refused to drink the health of Pitt, saying he preferred that of Washington--a
far greater man; that he wrote bitter words against that combination of princes, who desired
to put down freedom in France; that he said the titled spurred and the wealthy switched England
and Scotland like two hack-horses; and that all the high places of the land, instead of being
filled by genius and talent, were occupied, as were the high-places of Israel, with idols of
wood or of stone. But all this and more had been done and said before by thousands in this
land, whose love of their country was never questioned. That it was bad taste to refuse to
remove his hat when other heads were bared, and little better to refuse to pledge in company
the name of Pitt, because he preferred Washington, cannot admit of a doubt; but that he deserved
to be written down traitor, for mere matters of whim or caprice, or to be turned out of the
unenvied situation of "gauging auld wives' barrels," because he thought there were some stains
on the white robe of the constitution, seems a sort of tyranny new in the history of oppression.

But while verses, deserving as these do to become the national motto, and sentiments loyal
and generous, were overlooked and forgotten, all his rash words about freedom, and his sarcastic
sallies about thrones and kings, were treasured up to his injury, by the mean and the malicious.
His steps were watched and his words weighed; when he talked with a friend in the street, he
was supposed to utter sedition; and when ladies retired from the table, and the wine circulated
with closed doors, he was suspected of treason rather than of toasting, which he often did
with much humour, the charms of woman; even when he gave as a sentiment, "May our success be
equal to the justice of our cause," he was liable to be challenged by some gunpowder captain,
who thought that we deserved success in war, whether right or wrong. It is true that he hated
with a most cordial hatred all who presumed on their own consequence, whether arising from
wealth, titles, or commissions in the army; officers he usually called "the epauletted puppies,"
and lords he generally spoke of as "feather-headed fools," who could but strut and stare and
be no answer in kind to retort his satiric flings, his unfriends reported that it was unsafe
for young men to associate with one whose principles were democratic, and scarcely either modest
or safe for young women to listen to a poet whose notions of female virtue were so loose and
his songs so free. These sentiments prevailed so far that a gentleman on a visit from London,
told me he was dissuaded from inviting Burns to a dinner, given by way of welcome back to his
native place, because he was the associate of democrats and loose people; and when a modest
dame of Dumfries expressed, through a friend, a wish to have but the honour of speaking to
one of whose genius she was an admirer, the poet declined the interview, with a half-serious
smile, saying, "Alas! she is handsome, and you know the character publicly assigned to me."
She escaped the danger of being numbered, it is likely, with the Annas and the Chlorises of
his freer strains.

The neglect of his country, the tyranny of the Excise, and the downfall of his hopes and fortunes,
were now to bring forth their fruits--the poet's health began to decline. His drooping looks,
his neglect of his person, his solitary saunterings, his escape from the stings of reflection
into socialities, and his distempered joy in the company of beauty, all spoke, as plainly as
with a tongue, of a sinking heart and a declining body. Yet though he was sensible of sinking
health, hope did not at once desert him: he continued to pour out such tender strains, and
to show such flashes of wit and humour at the call of Thomson, as are recorded of no other
lyrist: neither did he, when in company after his own mind, hang the head, and speak mournfully,
but talked and smiled and still charmed all listeners by his witty vivacities.

On the 20th of June, 1795, he writes thus of his fortunes and condition to his friend Clarke,
"Still, still the victim of affliction; were you to see the emaciated figure who now holds
the pen to you, you would not know your old friend. Whether I shall ever get about again is
only known to HIM, the Great Unknown, whoso creature I am. I duly received your last, enclosing
the note: it came extremely in time, and I am much obliged to your punctuality. Again I must
request you to do me the same kindness. Be so very good as by return of post to enclose me
another note: I trust you can do so without inconvenience, and it will seriously oblige me.
If I must go, I leave a few friends behind me, whom I shall regret while consciousness remains.
I know I shall live in their remembrance. O, dear, dear Clarke! that I shall ever see you again
is I am afraid highly improbable." This remarkable letter proves both the declining health,
and the poverty of the poet: his digestion was so bad that he could taste neither flesh nor
fish: porridge and milk he could alone swallow, and that but in small quantities. When it is
recollected that he had no more than thirty shillings a week to keep house, and live like a
gentleman, no one need wonder that his wife had to be obliged to a generous neighbour for some
of the chief necessaries for her coming confinement, and that the poet had to beg, in extreme
need, two guinea notes from a distant friend.

His sinking state was not unobserved by his friends, and Syme and M'Murdo united with Dr. Maxwell
in persuading him, at the beginning of the summer, to seek health at the Brow-well, a few miles
east of Dumfries, where there were pleasant walks on the Solway-side, and salubrious breezes
from the sea, which it was expected would bring the health to the poet they had brought to
many. For a while, his looks brightened up, and health seemed inclined to return: his friend,
the witty and accomplished Mrs. Riddel, who was herself ailing, paid him a visit. "I was struck,"
she said, "with his appearance on entering the room: the stamp of death was impressed on his
features. At table he ate little or nothing: we had a long conversation about his present state,
and the approaching termination of all his earthly prospects. This was on the evening of the
5th of July; another lady who called to see him, found him seated at a window, gazing on the
sun, then setting brightly on the summits of the green hills of Nithsdale. "Look how lovely
the sun is," said the poet, "but he will soon have done with shining for me."

He now longed for home: his wife, whom he ever tenderly loved, was about to be confined in
child-bed: his papers were in sad confusion, and required arrangement; and he felt that desire
to die, at least, among familiar things and friendly faces, so common to our nature. He had
not long before, though much reduced in pocket, refused with scorn an offer of fifty pounds,
which a speculating bookseller made, for leave to publish his looser compositions; he had refused
an offer of the like sum yearly, from Perry of the Morning Chronicle, for poetic contributions
to his paper, lest it might embroil him with the ruling powers, and he had resented the remittance
of five pounds from Thomson, on account of his lyric contributions, and desired him to do so
no more, unless he wished to quarrel with him; but his necessities now, and they had at no
time been so great, induced him to solicit five pounds from Thomson, and ten pounds from his
cousin, James Burness, of Montrose, and to beg his friend Alexander Cunningham to intercede
with the Commissioners of Excise, to depart from their usual practice, and grant him his full
salary; "for without that," he added, "if I die not of disease, I must perish with hunger."
Thomson sent the five pounds, James Burness sent the ten, but the Commissioners of Excise refused
to be either merciful or generous. Stobie, a young expectant in the customs, was both;--he
performed the duties of the dying poet, and refused to touch the salary. The mind of Burns
was haunted with the fears of want and the terrors of a jail; nor were those fears without
foundation; one Williamson, to whom he was indebted for the cloth to make his volunteer regimentals,
threatened the one; and a feeling that he was without money for either his own illness or the
confinement of his wife, threatened the other.

Burns returned from the Brow-well, on the 18th of July: as he walked from the little carriage
which brought him up the Mill hole-brae to his own door, he trembled much, and stooped with
weakness and pain, and kept his feet with difficulty: his looks were woe-worn and ghastly,
and no one who saw him, and there were several, expected to see him again in life. It was soon
circulated through Dumfries, that Burns had returned worse from the Brow-well; that Maxwell
thought ill of him, and that, in truth, he was dying. The anxiety of all classes was great;
differences of opinion were forgotten, in sympathy for his early fate: wherever two or three
were met together their talk was of Burns, of his rare wit, matchless humour, the vivacity
of his conversation, and the kindness of his heart. To the poet himself, death, which he now
knew was at hand, brought with it no fear; his good-humour, which small matters alone ruffled,
did not forsake him, and his wit was ever ready. He was poor--he gave his pistols, which he
had used against the smugglers on the Solway, to his physician, adding with a smile, that he
had tried them and found them an honour to their maker, which was more than he could say of
the bulk of mankind! He was proud--he remembered the indifferent practice of the corps to which
he belonged, and turning to Gibson, one of his fellow-soldiers, who stood at his bedside with
wet eyes, "John," said he, and a gleam of humour passed over his face, "pray don't let the
awkward-squad fire over me." It was almost the last act of his life to copy into his Common-place
Book, the letters which contained the charge against him of the Commissioners of Excise, and
his own eloquent refutation, leaving judgment to be pronounced by the candour of posterity.

It has been injuriously said of Burns, by Coleridge, that the man sunk, but the poet was bright
to the last: he did not sink in the sense that these words imply: the man was manly to the
latest draught of breath. That he was a poet to the last, can be proved by facts, as well as
by the word of the author of Christabel. As he lay silently growing weaker and weaker, he observed
Jessie Lewars, a modest and beautiful young creature, and sister to one of his brethren of
the Excise, watching over him with moist eyes, and tending him with the care of a daughter;
he rewarded her with one of those songs which are an insurance against forgetfulness.

His thoughts as he lay wandered to Charlotte Hamilton, and he dedicated some beautiful stanzas
to her beauty and her coldness, beginning, "Fairest maid on Devon banks."

It was a sad sight to see the poet gradually sinking; his wife in hourly expectation of her
sixth confinement, and his four helpless children--a daughter, a sweet child, had died the
year before--with no one of their lineage to soothe them with kind words or minister to their
wants. Jessie Lewars, with equal prudence and attention, watched over them all: she could not
help seeing that the thoughts of the desolation which his death would bring, pressed sorely
on him, for he loved his children, and hoped much from his boys. He wrote to his father-in-law,
James Armour, at Mauchline, that he was dying, his wife nigh her confinement, and begged that
his mother-in-law would hasten to them and speak comfort. A tremor pervaded his frame; his
tongue grew parched, and he was at times delirious: on the fourth day after his return, when
his attendant, James Maclure, held his medicine to his lips, he swallowed it eagerly, rose
almost wholly up, spread out his hands, sprang forward nigh the whole length of the bed, fell
on his face, and expired. He died on the 21st of July, when nearly thirty-seven years and seven
months old.

The burial of Burns, on the 25th of July, was an impressive and mournful scene: half the people
of Nithsdale and the neighbouring parts of Galloway had crowded into Dumfries, to see their
poet "mingled with the earth," and not a few had been permitted to look at his body, laid out
for interment. It was a calm and beautiful day, and as the body was borne along the street
towards the old kirk-yard, by his brethren of the volunteers, not a sound was heard but the
measured step and the solemn music: there was no impatient crushing, no fierce elbowing--the
crowd which filled the street seemed conscious of what they were now losing for ever. Even
while this pageant was passing, the widow of the poet was taken in labour; but the infant born
in that unhappy hour soon shared his father's grave. On reaching the northern nook of the kirk-yard,
where the grave was made, the mourners halted; the coffin was divested of the mort-cloth, and
silently lowered to its resting-place, and as the first shovel-full of earth fell on the lid,
the volunteers, too agitated to be steady, justified the fears of the poet, by three ragged
volleys. He who now writes this very brief and imperfect account, was present: he thought then,
as he thinks now, that all the military array of foot and horse did not harmonize with either
the genius or the fortunes of the poet, and that the tears which he saw on many cheeks around,
as the earth was replaced, were worth all the splendour of a show which mocked with unintended
mockery the burial of the poor and neglected Burns. The dust of the bard was again disturbed,
when the body of Mrs. Burns was laid, in April, 1834, beside the remains of her husband: his
skull was dug up by the district craniologists, to satisfy their minds by measurement that
he was equal to the composition of "Tam o' Shanter," or "Mary in Heaven." This done, they placed
the skull in a leaden box, "carefully lined with the softest materials," and returned it, we
hope for ever, to the hallowed ground.

Thus lived and died Robert Burns, the chief of Scottish poets: in his person he was tall and
sinewy, and of such strength and activity, that Scott alone, of all the poets I have seen,
seemed his equal: his forehead was broad, his hair black, with an inclination to curl, his
visage uncommonly swarthy, his eyes large, dark and lustrous, and his voice deep and manly.
His sensibility was strong, his passions full to overflowing, and he loved, nay, adored, whatever
was gentle and beautiful. He had, when a lad at the plough, an eloquent word and an inspired
song for every fair face that smiled on him, and a sharp sarcasm or a fierce lampoon for every
rustic who thwarted or contradicted him. As his first inspiration came from love, he continued
through life to love on, and was as ready with the lasting incense of the muse for the ladies
of Nithsdale as for the lasses of Kyle: his earliest song was in praise of a young girl who
reaped by his side, when he was seventeen--his latest in honour of a lady by whose side he
had wandered and dreamed on the banks of the Devon. He was of a nature proud and suspicious,
and towards the close of his life seemed disposed to regard all above him in rank as men who
unworthily possessed the patrimony of genius: he desired to see the order of nature restored,
and worth and talent in precedence of the base or the dull. He had no medium in his hatred
or his love; he never spared the stupid, as if they were not to be endured because he was bright;
and on the heads of the innocent possessors of titles or wealth he was ever ready to shower
his lampoons. He loved to start doubts in religion which he knew inspiration only could solve,
and he spoke of Calvinism with a latitude of language that grieved pious listeners. He was
warm-hearted and generous to a degree, above all men, and scorned all that was selfish and
mean with a scorn quite romantic. He was a steadfast friend and a good neighbour: while he
lived at Ellisland few passed his door without being entertained at his table; and even when
in poverty, on the Millhole-brae, the poor seldom left his door but with blessings on their lips.

Of his modes of study he has himself informed us, as well as of the seasons and the places
in which he loved to muse. He composed while he strolled along the secluded banks of the Doon,
the Ayr, or the Nith: as the images crowded on his fancy his pace became quickened, and in
his highest moods he was excited even to tears. He loved the winter for its leafless trees,
its swelling floods, and its winds which swept along the gloomy sky, with frost and snow on
their wings: but he loved the autumn more--he has neglected to say why--the muse was then more
liberal of her favours, and he composed with a happy alacrity unfelt in all other seasons.
He filled his mind and heart with the materials of song--and retired from gazing on woman's
beauty, and from the excitement of her charms, to record his impressions in verse, as a painter
delineates oil his canvas the looks of those who sit to his pencil. His chief place of study
at Ellisland is still remembered: it extends along the river-bank towards the Isle: there the
neighbouring gentry love to walk and peasants to gather, and hold it sacred, as the place where
he composed Tam O' Shanter. His favourite place of study when residing in Dumfries, was the
ruins of Lincluden College, made classic by that sublime ode, "The Vision," and that level
and clovery sward contiguous to the College, on the northern side of the Nith: the latter place
was his favourite resort; it is known now by the name of Burns's musing ground, and there he
conceived many of his latter lyrics. In case of interruption he completed the verses at the
fireside, where he swung to and fro in his arm-chair till the task was done: he then submitted
the song to the ordeal of his wife's voice, which was both sweet and clear, and while she sung
he listened attentively, and altered or amended till the whole was in harmony, music and words.

The genius of Burns is of a high order: in brightness of expression and unsolicited ease and
natural vehemence of language, he stands in the first rank of poets: in choice of subjects,
in happiness of conception, and loftiness of imagination, he recedes into the second. He owes
little of his fame to his objects, for, saving the beauty of a few ladies, they were all of
an ordinary kind: he sought neither in romance nor in history for themes to the muse; he took
up topics from life around which were familiar to all, and endowed them with character, with
passion, with tenderness, with humour--elevating all that he touched into the regions of poetry
and morals. He went to no far lands for the purpose of surprising us with wonders, neither
did he go to crowns or coronets to attract the stare of the peasantry around him, by things
which to them were as a book shut and sealed: "The Daisy" grew on the lands which he ploughed;
"The Mouse" built her frail nest on his own stubble-field; "The Haggis" reeked on his own table;
"The Scotch Drink" of which he sang was the produce of a neighbouring still; "The Twa Dogs,"
which conversed so wisely and wittily, were, one of them at least, his own collies; "The Vision"
is but a picture, and a brilliant one, of his own hopes and fears; "Tam Samson" was a friend
whom he loved; "Doctor Hornbook" a neighbouring pedant; "Matthew Henderson" a social captain
on half-pay; "The Scotch Bard" who had gone to the West Indies was Burns himself; the heroine
of "The Lament" was Jean Armour; and "Tam O' Shanter" a facetious farmer of Kyle, who rode
late and loved pleasant company, nay, even "The Deil" himself, whom he had the hardihood to
address, was a being whose eldrich croon bad alarmed the devout matrons of Kyle, and had wandered,
not unseen by the bard himself, among the lonely glens of the Doon. Burns was one of the first
to teach the world that high moral poetry resided in the humblest subjects: whatever he touched
became elevated; his spirit possessed and inspired the commonest topics, and endowed them with
life and beauty.

His songs have all the beauties and but few of them the faults of his poems: they flow to the
music as readily as if both air and words came into the world together. The sentiments are
from nature, they are rarely strained or forced, and the words dance in their places and echo
the music in its pastoral sweetness, social glee, or in the tender and the moving. He seems
always to write with woman's eye upon him: he is gentle, persuasive and impassioned: he appears
to watch her looks, and pours out his praise or his complaint according to the changeful moods
of her mind. He looks on her, too, with a sculptor's as well as a poet's eye: to him who works
in marble, the diamonds, emeralds, pearls, and elaborate ornaments of gold, but load and injure
the harmony of proportion, the grace of form, and divinity of sentiment of his nymph or his
goddess--so with Burns the fashion of a lady's boddice, the lustre of her satins, or the sparkle
of her diamonds, or other finery with which wealth or taste has loaded her, are neglected us
idle frippery; while her beauty, her form, or her mind, matters which are of nature and not
of fashion, are remembered and praised. He is none of the millinery bards, who deal in scented
silks, spider-net laces, rare gems, set in rarer workmanship, and who shower diamonds and pearls
by the bushel on a lady's locks: he makes bright eyes, flushing cheeks, the magic of the tongue,
and the "pulses' maddening play" perform all. His songs are, in general, pastoral pictures:
he seldom finishes a portrait of female beauty without enclosing it in a natural frame-work
of waving woods, running streams, the melody of birds, and the lights of heaven. Those who
desire to feel Burns in all his force, must seek some summer glen, when a country girl searches
among his many songs for one which sympathizes with her own heart, and gives it full utterance,
till wood and vale is filled with the melody. It is remarkable that the most naturally elegant
and truly impassioned songs in our literature were written by a ploughman in honour of the
rustic lasses around him.

His poetry is all life and energy, and bears the impress of a warm heart and a clear understanding:
it abounds with passions and opinions--vivid pictures of rural happiness and the raptures of
successful love, all fresh from nature and observation, and not as they are seen through the
spectacles of books. The wit of the clouted shoe is there without its coarseness: there is
a prodigality of humour without licentiousness, a pathos ever natural and manly, a social joy
akin sometimes to sadness, a melancholy not unallied to mirth, and a sublime morality which
seeks to elevate and soothe. To a love of man he added an affection for the flowers of the
valley, the fowls of the air, and the beasts of the field: he perceived the tie of social sympathy
which united animated with unanimated nature, and in many of his finest poems most beautifully
he has enforced it. His thoughts are original and his style new and unborrowed: all that he
has written is distinguished by a happy carelessness, a bounding elasticity of spirit, and
a singular felicity of expression, simple yet inimitable; he is familiar yet dignified, careless,
yet correct, and concise, yet clear and full. All this and much more is embodied in the language
of humble life--a dialect reckoned barbarous by scholars, but which, coming from the lips of
inspiration, becomes classic and elevated.

The prose of this great poet has much of the original merit of his verse, but it is seldom
so natural and so sustained: it abounds with fine outflashings and with a genial warmth and
vigour, but it is defaced by false ornament and by a constant anxiety to say fine and forcible
things. He seems not to know that simplicity was as rare and as needful a beauty in prose as
in verse; he covets the pauses of Sterne and the point and antithesis of Junius, like one who
believes that to write prose well he must be ever lively, ever pointed, and ever smart. Yet
the account which he wrote of himself to Dr. Moore is one of the most spirited and natural
narratives in the language, and composed in a style remote from the strained and groped-for
witticisms and put-on sensibilities of many of his letters:--"Simple," as John Wilson says,
"we may well call it; rich in fancy, overflowing in feeling, and dashed off in every other
paragraph with the easy boldness of a great master."

PREFACE.

[The first edition, printed at Kilmarnock, July, 1786, by John Wilson, bore on the title-page
these simple words:--"Poems, chiefly in the Scottish Dialect, by Robert Burns;" the following
motto, marked "Anonymous," but evidently the poet's own composition, was more ambitious:--

    "The simple Bard, unbroke by rules of art,
    He pours the wild effusions of the heart:
    And if inspired, 'tis nature's pow'rs inspire--
    Hers all the melting thrill, and hers the kindling fire."]

The following trifles are not the production of the Poet, who, with all the advantages of learned
art, and perhaps amid the elegancies and idlenesses of upper life, looks down for a rural theme
with an eye to Theocritus or Virgil. To the author of this, these, and other celebrated names
their countrymen, are, at least in their original language, a fountain shut up, and a book
sealed. Unacquainted with the necessary requisites for commencing poet by rule, he sings the
sentiments and manners he felt and saw in himself and his rustic compeers around him in his
and their native language. Though a rhymer from his earliest years, at least from the earliest
impulse of the softer passions, it was not till very lately that the applause, perhaps the
partiality, of friendship awakened his vanity so for as to make him think anything of his worth
showing: and none of the following works were composed with a view to the press. To amuse himself
with the little creations of his own fancy, amid the toil and fatigue of a laborious life;
to transcribe the various feelings--the loves, the griefs, the hopes, the fears--in his own
breast; to find some kind of counterpoise to the struggles of a world, always an alien scene,
a task uncouth to the poetical mind--these were his motives for courting the Muses, and in
these he found poetry to be its own reward.

Now that he appears in the public character of an author, he does it with fear and trembling.
So dear is fame to the rhyming tribe, that even he, an obscure, nameless Bard, shrinks aghast
at the thought of being branded as--an impertinent blockhead, obtruding his nonsense on the
world; and, because he can make a shift to jingle a few doggerel Scotch rhymes together, looking
upon himself as a poet of no small consequence, forsooth!

It is an observation of that celebrated poet, Shenstone, whose divine elegies do honour to
our language, our nation, and our species, that "Humility has depressed many a genius to a
hermit, but never raised one to fame!" If any critic catches at the word genius the author
tells him, once for all, that he certainly looks upon himself as possessed of some poetic abilities,
otherwise his publishing in the manner he has done would be a manoeuvre below the worst character,
which, he hopes, his worst enemy will ever give him. But to the genius of a Ramsay, or the
glorious dawnings of the poor, unfortunate Fergusson, he, with equal unaffected sincerity,
declares, that even in his highest pulse of vanity, he has not the most distant pretensions.
These two justly admired Scotch poets he has often had in his eye in the following pieces,
but rather with a view to kindle at their flame, than for servile imitation.

To his Subscriber, the Author returns his most sincere thanks. Not the mercenary bow over a
counter, but the heart-throbbing gratitude of the Bard, conscious how much he owes to benevolence
and friendship for gratifying him, if he deserves it, in that dearest wish of every poetic
bosom--to be distinguished. He begs his readers, particularly the learned and the polite, who
may honour him with a perusal, that they will make every allowance for education and circumstances
of life; but if, after a fair, candid, and impartial criticism, he shall stand convicted of
dulness and nonsense, let him be done by as he would in that case do by others--let him be
condemned, without mercy, in contempt and oblivion.

THE

POETICAL WORKS

OF

ROBERT BURNS.

I.

WINTER.

A DIRGE.

[This is one of the earliest of the poet's recorded compositions: it was written before the
death of his father, and is called by Gilbert Burns, 'a juvenile production.' To walk by a
river while flooded, or through a wood on a rough winter day, and hear the storm howling among
the leafless trees, exalted the poet's thoughts. "In such a season," he said, "just after a
train of misfortunes, I composed Winter, a Dirge."]

    The wintry west extends his blast,
      And hail and rain does blaw;
    Or the stormy north sends driving forth
      The blinding sleet and snaw;
    While tumbling brown, the burn comes down,
      And roars frae bank to brae;
    And bird and beast in covert rest,
      And pass the heartless day.

    "The sweeping blast, the sky o'ercast,"[1]
      The joyless winter day
    Let others fear, to me more dear
      Than all the pride of May:
    The tempest's howl, it soothes my soul,
      My griefs it seems to join;
    The leafless trees my fancy please,
      Their fate resembles mine!
    Then all I want (O, do thou grant
      This one request of mine!)
    Since to enjoy Thou dost deny,
      Assist me to resign!

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 1: Dr. Young.]

       *       *       *       *       *

II.

THE

DEATH AND DYING WORDS

OF

POOR MAILIE,

THE AUTHOR'S ONLY PET YOWE.

AN UNCO MOURNFU' TALE.

[This tale is partly true; the poet's pet ewe got entangled in her tether, and tumbled into
a ditch; the face of ludicrous and awkward sorrow with which this was related by Hughoc, the
herd-boy, amused Burns so much, who was on his way to the plough, that he immediately composed
the poem, and repeated it to his brother Gilbert when they met in the evening; the field where
the poet held the plough, and the ditch into which poor Mailie fell, are still pointed out.]

    As Mailie, an' her lambs thegither,
    Were ae day nibbling on the tether,
    Upon her cloot she coost a hitch,
    An' owre she warsl'd in the ditch:
    There, groaning, dying, she did lie,
    When Hughoc[2] he cam doytin by.
    Wi' glowing e'en an' lifted han's,
    Poor Hughoc like a statue stan's;
    He saw her days were near-hand ended,
    But, waes my heart! he could na mend it!
    He gaped wide but naething spak--
    At length poor Mailie silence brak.

    "O thou, whose lamentable face
    Appears to mourn my woefu' case!
    My dying words attentive hear,
    An' bear them to my master dear.

      "Tell him, if e'er again he keep
    As muckle gear as buy a sheep,
    O bid him never tie them mair
    Wi' wicked strings o' hemp or hair!
    But ca' them out to park or hill,
    An' let them wander at their will;
    So may his flock increase, and grow
    To scores o' lambs, an' packs of woo'!

      "Tell him he was a master kin'
    An' ay was gude to me an' mine;
    An' now my dying charge I gie him,
    My helpless lambs, I trust them wi' him.

      "O, bid him save their harmless lives
    Frae dogs, and tods, an' butchers' knives!
    But gie them guid cow-milk their fill,
    Till they be fit to fend themsel;
    An' tent them duly, e'en an' morn,
    Wi' teats o' hay, an' ripps o' corn.

      "An' may they never learn the gaets
    Of ither vile, wanrestfu' pets!
    To sink thro' slaps, an' reave an' steal
    At stacks o' pease, or stocks o' kail.
    So may they, like their great forbears,
    For monie a year come thro' the sheers;
    So wives will gie them bits o' bread,
    An' bairns greet for them when they're dead.

      "My poor toop-lamb, my son an' heir,
    O, bid him breed him up wi' care;
    An' if he live to be a beast,
    To pit some havins in his breast!
    An' warn him what I winna name,
    To stay content wi' yowes at hame
    An' no to rin an' wear his cloots,
    Like ither menseless, graceless brutes.

      "An' niest my yowie, silly thing,
    Gude keep thee frae a tether string!
    O, may thou ne'er forgather up
    Wi' ony blastit, moorland toop,
    But ay keep mind to moop an' mell
    Wi' sheep o' credit like thysel!

      "And now, my bairns, wi' my last breath
    I lea'e my blessin wi' you baith:
    An' when you think upo' your mither,
    Mind to be kind to ane anither.

      "Now, honest Hughoc, dinna fail
    To tell my master a' my tale;
    An' bid him burn this cursed tether,
    An', for thy pains, thou'se get my blather."

    This said, poor Mailie turn'd her head,
    And clos'd her een amang the dead.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 2: A neibor herd-callan.]

       *       *       *       *       *

III.

POOR MAILIE'S ELEGY.

[Burns, when he calls on the bards of Ayr and Doon to join in the lament for Mailie, intimates
that he regards himself as a poet. Hogg calls it a very elegant morsel: but says that it resembles
too closely "The Ewie and the Crooked Horn," to be admired as original: the shepherd might
have remembered that they both resemble Sempill's "Life and death of the Piper of Kilbarchan."]

    Lament in rhyme, lament in prose,
    Wi' saut tears trickling down your nose;
    Our bardie's fate is at a close,
                         Past a' remead;
    The last sad cape-stane of his woes;
                         Poor Mailie's dead.

    It's no the loss o' warl's gear,
    That could sae bitter draw the tear,
    Or mak our bardie, dowie, wear
                         The mourning weed;
    He's lost a friend and neebor dear,
                         In Mailie dead.

    Or, if he wonders up the howe,
    Her living image in her yowe
    Comes bleating to him, owre the knowe,
                         For bits o' bread;
    An' down the briny pearls rowe
                         For Mailie dead.

    She was nae get o' moorland tips,[3]
    Wi' tawted ket, an hairy hips;
    For her forbears were brought in ships
                         Frae yont the Tweed:
    A bonnier fleesh ne'er cross'd the clips
                         Than Mailie dead.

    Wae worth the man wha first did shape
    That vile, wanchancie thing--a rape!
    It maks guid fellows girn an' gape,
                         Wi' chokin dread;
    An' Robin's bonnet wave wi' crape,
                         For Mailie dead.

    O, a' ye bards on bonnie Doon!
    An' wha on Ayr your chanters tune!
    Come, join the melancholious croon
                         O' Robin's reed!
    His heart will never get aboon!
                         His Mailie's dead!

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 3: VARIATION.

    'She was nae get o' runted rams,
    Wi' woo' like goats an' legs like trams;
    She was the flower o' Farlie lambs,
                  A famous breed!
    Now Robin, greetin, chews the hams
                  O' Mailie dead.']

       *       *       *       *       *

IV.
    While frosty winds blaw in the drift,
      Ben to the chimla lug,
    I grudge a wee the great folks' gift,
      That live sae bien an' snug:
        I tent less and want less
          Their roomy fire-side;
        But hanker and canker
          To see their cursed pride.

II.

III.

    To lie in kilns and barns at e'en
    When banes are craz'd, and bluid is thin,
      Is, doubtless, great distress!
    Yet then content could make us blest;
    Ev'n then, sometimes we'd snatch a taste
      O' truest happiness.

IV.

VI.

    Think ye, that sic as you and I,
    Wha drudge and drive thro' wet an' dry,
      Wi' never-ceasing toil;
    Think ye, are we less blest than they,
    Wha scarcely tent us in their way,
      As hardly worth their while?
    Alas! how aft, in haughty mood
      God's creatures they oppress!
    Or else, neglecting a' that's guid,
      They riot in excess!
        Baith careless and fearless
          Of either heaven or hell!
        Esteeming and deeming
          It's a' an idle tale!

VII.

VIII.

    But tent me, Davie, ace o' hearts!
    (To say aught less wad wrang the cartes,
      And flatt'ry I detest,)
    This life has joys for you and I;
    And joys that riches ne'er could buy:
      And joys the very best.
    There's a' the pleasures o' the heart,
      The lover an' the frien';
    Ye hae your Meg your dearest part,
      And I my darling Jean!
        It warms me, it charms me,
          To mention but her name:
        It heats me, it beets me,
          And sets me a' on flame!

IX.

    O, all ye pow'rs who rule above!
    O, Thou, whose very self art love!
      Thou know'st my words sincere!
    The life-blood streaming thro' my heart,
    Or my more dear immortal part,
      Is not more fondly dear!
        Thou Being, All-seeing,
          O hear my fervent pray'r!
        Still take her, and make her
          Thy most peculiar care!

X.

    All hail, ye tender feelings dear!
    The smile of love, the friendly tear,
      The sympathetic glow!
    Long since, this world's thorny ways
    Had number'd out my weary days,
      Had it not been for you!
    Fate still has blest me with a friend,
      In every care and ill;
    And oft a more endearing hand,
      A tie more tender still.
        It lightens, it brightens
          The tenebrific scene,
        To meet with, and greet with
          My Davie or my Jean!

XI.

    O, how that name inspires my style
    The words come skelpin, rank and file,
      Amaist before I ken!
    The ready measure rins as fine,
    As Phoebus and the famous Nine
      Were glowrin owre my pen.
    My spaviet Pegasus will limp,
      'Till ance he's fairly het;
    And then he'll hilch, and stilt, and jimp,
      An' rin an unco fit:
        But least then, the beast then
          Should rue this hasty ride,
        I'll light now, and dight now
          His sweaty, wizen'd hide.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 4: Ramsay.]

       *       *       *       *       *

V.

SECOND EPISTLE TO DAVIE,

A BROTHER POET.

[David Sillar, to whom these epistles are addressed, was at that time master of a country school,
and was welcome to Burns both as a scholar and a writer of verse. This epistle he prefixed
to his poems printed at Kilmarnock in the year 1789: he loved to speak of his early comrade,
and supplied Walker with some very valuable anecdotes: he died one of the magistrates of Irvine,
on the 2d of May, 1830, at the age of seventy.]

    AULD NIBOR,
    I'm three times doubly o'er your debtor,
    For your auld-farrent, frien'ly letter;
    Tho' I maun say't, I doubt ye flatter,
                          Ye speak sae fair.
    For my puir, silly, rhymin clatter
                          Some less maun sair.

    Hale be your heart, hale be your fiddle;
    Lang may your elbuck jink and diddle,
    To cheer you thro' the weary widdle
                          O' war'ly cares,
    Till bairn's bairns kindly cuddle
                          Your auld, gray hairs.

    But Davie, lad, I'm red ye're glaikit;
    I'm tauld the Muse ye hae negleckit;
    An' gif it's sae, ye sud be licket
                          Until yo fyke;
    Sic hauns as you sud ne'er be faiket,
                          Be hain't who like.

    For me, I'm on Parnassus' brink,
    Rivin' the words to gar them clink;
    Whyles daez't wi' love, whyles daez't wi' drink,
                          Wi' jads or masons;
    An' whyles, but ay owre late, I think
                          Braw sober lessons.

    Of a' the thoughtless sons o' man,
    Commen' me to the Bardie clan;
    Except it be some idle plan
                          O' rhymin' clink,
    The devil-haet, that I sud ban,
                          They ever think.

    Nae thought, nae view, nae scheme o' livin',
    Nae cares to gie us joy or grievin';
    But just the pouchie put the nieve in,
                          An' while ought's there,
    Then hiltie skiltie, we gae scrievin',
                          An' fash nae mair.

    Haud to the Muse, my dainty Davie:
    The warl' may play you monie a shavie;
    But for the Muse she'll never leave ye,
                          Tho' e'er so puir,
    Na, even tho' limpin' wi' the spavie
                          Frae door to door.

       *       *       *       *       *

VI.

ADDRESS TO THE DEIL

    "O Prince! O Chief of many throned Pow'rs,
    That led th' embattled Seraphim to war."

MILTON

[The beautiful and relenting spirit in which this fine poem finishes
moved the heart on one of the coldest of our critics.
    Ye came to Paradise incog.

       *       *       *       *       *

VII. The Auld Farmer of Kyle has the spirit of knight-errant, and loves his mare according
to the rules of chivalry; and well he might: she carried him safely home from markets, triumphantly
from wedding-brooses; she ploughed the stiffest land; faced the steepest brae, and, moreover,
bore home his bonnie bride with a consciousness of the loveliness of the load.]

    A guid New-year I wish thee, Maggie!
    Hae, there's a rip to thy auld baggie:
    Tho' thou's howe-backit, now, an' knaggie,
                      I've seen the day
    Thou could hae gaen like onie staggie
                      Out-owre the lay.

    Tho' now thou's dowie, stiff, an' crazy,
    An' thy auld hide as white's a daisy,
    I've seen thee dappl't, sleek, and glaizie,
                      A bonny gray:
    He should been tight that daur't to raize thee,
                      Ance in a day.

    Thou ance was i' the foremost rank,
    A filly, buirdly, steeve, an' swank,
    An set weel down a shapely shank,
                      As e'er tread yird;
    An' could hae flown out-owre a stank,
                      Like ony bird.

    It's now some nine-an'-twenty year,
    Sin' thou was my guid-father's Meere;
    He gied me thee, o' tocher clear,
                      An' fifty mark;
    Tho' it was sma', 'twas weel-won gear,
                      An' thou was stark.

    When first I gaed to woo my Jenny,
    Ye then was trottin wi' your minnie:
    Tho' ye was trickle, slee, an' funny,
                      Ye ne'er was donsie:
    But hamely, tawie, quiet an' cannie,
                      An' unco sonsie.

    That day ye pranc'd wi' muckle pride,
    When ye bure hame my bonnie bride:
    An' sweet an' gracefu' she did ride,
                      Wi' maiden air!
    Kyle-Stewart I could bragged wide,
                      For sic a pair.

    Tho' now ye dow but hoyte and hoble,
    An' wintle like a saumont-coble,
    That day, ye was a jinker noble,
                      For heels an' win'!
    An' ran them till they a' did wauble,
                      Far, far, behin'!

    When thou an' I were young an' skeigh,
    An' stable-meals at fairs were dreigh,
    How thou wad prance, an' snore, an' skreigh,
                      An' tak the road!
    Town's bodies ran, an' stood abeigh,
                      An' ca't thee mad.

    When thou was corn't, an' I was mellow,
    We took the road ay like a swallow:
    At Brooses thou had ne'er a fellow,
                      For pith an' speed;
    But every tail thou pay't them hollow,
                      Where'er thou gaed.

    The sma', droop-rumpl't, hunter cattle,
    Might aiblins waur't thee for a brattle;
    But sax Scotch miles thou try't their mettle,
                      An' gar't them whaizle:
    Nae whip nor spur, but just a whattle
                      O' saugh or hazle.

    Thou was a noble fittie-lan',
    As e'er in tug or tow was drawn:
    Aft thee an' I, in aught hours gaun,
                      In guid March-weather,
    Hae turn'd sax rood beside our han'
                      For days thegither.

    When frosts lay lang, an' snaws were deep,
    An' threaten'd labour back to keep,
    I gied thy cog a wee-bit heap
                      Aboon the timmer;
    I ken'd my Maggie wad na sleep
                      For that, or simmer.

    In cart or car thou never reestit;
    The steyest brae thou wad hae fac't it;
    Thou never lap, an' sten't, an' breastit,
                      Then stood to blaw;
    But just thy step a wee thing hastit,
                      Thou snoov't awa.

    My pleugh is now thy bairntime a';
    Four gallant brutes as e'er did draw;
    Forbye sax mae, I've sell't awa,
                      That thou hast nurst:
    They drew me thretteen pund an' twa,
                      The vera worst.
    An' monie an anxious day, I thought
                      We wad be beat!
    Yet here to crazy age we're brought,
                      Wi' something yet.

    And think na, my auld, trusty servan',
    That now perhaps thou's less deservin,
    An' thy auld days may end in starvin,
                      For my last fow,
    A heapit stimpart, I'll reserve ane
                      Laid by for you.

    We've worn to crazy years thegither;
    We'll toyte about wi' ane anither;
    Wi' tentie care I'll flit thy tether,
                      To some hain'd rig,
    Whare ye may nobly rax your leather,
                      Wi' sma' fatigue.

       *       *       *       *       *

VIII.

TO A HAGGIS.

[The vehement nationality of this poem is but a small part of its merit. The haggis of the
north is the minced pie of the south; both are characteristic of the people: the ingredients
which compose the former are all of Scottish growth, including the bag which contains them;
the ingredients of the latter are gathered chiefly from the four quarters of the globe: the
haggis is the triumph of poverty, the minced pie the triumph of wealth.]

    Fair fa' your honest, sonsie face,
    Great chieftain o' the pudding-race!
    Aboon them a' ye tak your place,
                      Painch, tripe, or thairm:
    Weel are ye wordy o' a grace
                      As lang's my arm.

    The groaning trencher there ye fill,
    Your hurdies like a distant hill,
    Your pin wad help to mend a mill
                      In time o' need,
    While thro' your pores the dews distil
                      Like amber bead.

    His knife see rustic-labour dight,
    An' cut you up wi' ready slight,
    Trenching your gushing entrails bright
                      Like onie ditch;
    And then, O what a glorious sight,
                      Warm-reekin, rich!

    Then horn for horn they stretch an' strive,
    Deil tak the hindmost, on they drive,
    'Till a' their weel-swall'd kytes belyve
                      Are bent like drums;
    Then auld Guidman, maist like to rive,
                      Bethankit hums.

    Is there that o'er his French ragout,
    Or olio that wad staw a sow,
    Or fricassee wad mak her spew
                      Wi' perfect sconner,
    Looks down wi' sneering, scornfu' view
                      On sic a dinner?

    Poor devil! see him owre his trash,
    As feckless as a wither'd rash,
    His spindle shank a guid whip-lash,
                      His nieve a nit;
    Thro' bloody flood or field to dash,
                      O how unfit!

    But mark the rustic, haggis-fed,
    The trembling earth resounds his tread,
    Clap in his walie nieve a blade,
                      He'll mak it whissle;
    An' legs, an' arms, an' heads will sned,
                      Like taps o' thrissle.

    Ye pow'rs wha mak mankind your care,
    And dish them out their bill o' fare,
    Auld Scotland wants nae stinking ware
                      That jaups in luggies;
    But, if ye wish her gratefu' pray'r,
                      Gie her a Haggis!

       *       *       *       *       *

IX.

A PRAYER,

UNDER THE PRESSURE OF VIOLENT ANGUISH.

["There was a certain period of my life," says Burns, "that my spirit was broke by repeated
losses and disasters, which threatened and indeed effected the ruin of my fortune. My body,
too, was attacked by the most dreadful distemper, a hypochondria or confirmed melancholy. In
this wretched state, the recollection of which makes me yet shudder, I hung my harp on the
willow-trees, except in some lucid intervals, in one of which I composed the following."]

    O Thou Great Being! what Thou art
      Surpasses me to know;
    Yet sure I am, that known to Thee
      Are all Thy works below.

    Thy creature here before Thee stands,
      All wretched and distrest;
    Yet sure those ills that wring my soul
      Obey Thy high behest.

    Sure Thou, Almighty, canst not act
      From cruelty or wrath!
    O, free my weary eyes from tears,
      Or close them fast in death!

    But if I must afflicted be,
      To suit some wise design;
    Then, man my soul with firm resolves
      To bear and not repine!

       *       *       *       *       *

X.

A PRAYER

IN THE PROSPECT OF DEATH.

[I have heard the third verse of this very moving Prayer quoted by scrupulous men as a proof
that the poet imputed his errors to the Being who had endowed him with wild and unruly passions.
The meaning is very different: Burns felt the torrent-strength of passion overpowering his
resolution, and trusted that God would be merciful to the errors of one on whom he had bestowed
such o'ermastering gifts.]

    O Thou unknown, Almighty Cause
      Of all my hope and fear?
    In whose dread presence, ere an hour
      Perhaps I must appear!

    If I have wander'd in those paths
      Of life I ought to shun;
    As something, loudly, in my breast,
      Remonstrates I have done;

    Thou know'st that Thou hast formed me,
      With passions wild and strong;
    And list'ning to their witching voice
      Has often led me wrong.

    Where human weakness has come short,
      Or frailty stept aside,
    Do Thou, All-Good! for such thou art,
      In shades of darkness hide.

    Where with intention I have err'd,
      No other plea I have,
    But, Thou art good; and goodness still
      Delighteth to forgive.

       *       *       *       *       *

XI.

STANZAS

ON THE SAME OCCASION.

[These verses the poet, in his common-place book, calls "Misgivings in the Hour of Despondency
and Prospect of Death." He elsewhere says they were composed when fainting-fits and other alarming
symptoms of a pleurisy, or some other dangerous disorder, first put nature on the alarm.]

    Why am I loth to leave this earthly scene?
      How I so found it full of pleasing charms?
    Some drops of joy with draughts of ill between:
      Some gleams of sunshine 'mid renewing storms:
    Is it departing pangs my soul alarms?
      Or Death's unlovely, dreary, dark abode?
    For guilt, for guilt, my terrors are in arms;
      I tremble to approach an angry God,
    And justly smart beneath his sin-avenging rod.

    Fain would I say, "Forgive my foul offence!"
      Fain promise never more to disobey;
    But, should my Author health again dispense,
      Again I might desert fair virtue's way:
    Again in folly's path might go astray;
      Again exalt the brute and sink the man;
    Then how should I for heavenly mercy pray,
      Who act so counter heavenly mercy's plan?
    Who sin so oft have mourn'd, yet to temptation ran?

    O Thou, great Governor of all below!
      If I may dare a lifted eye to Thee,
    Thy nod can make the tempest cease to blow,
      Or still the tumult of the raging sea:
    With that controlling pow'r assist ev'n me
      Those headlong furious passions to confine;
    For all unfit I feel my pow'rs to be,
      To rule their torrent in th' allowed line;
    O, aid me with Thy help, Omnipotence Divine!

       *       *       *       *       *

XII.

A WINTER NIGHT.

SHAKSPEARE.

["This poem," says my friend Thomas Carlyle, "is worth several homilies on mercy, for it is
the voice of Mercy herself. Burns, indeed, lives in sympathy: his soul rushes forth into all
the realms of being: nothing that has existence can be indifferent to him."]

    When biting Boreas, fell and doure,
    Sharp shivers thro' the leafless bow'r;
    When Phoebus gies a short-liv'd glow'r
                      Far south the lift,
    Dim-darkening through the flaky show'r,
                      Or whirling drift:

    Ae night the storm the steeples rocked,
    Poor labour sweet in sleep was locked,
    While burns, wi' snawy wreeths up-choked,
                      Wild-eddying swirl.
    Or through the mining outlet bocked,
                      Down headlong hurl.

    Now Phoebe, in her midnight reign,
    Dark muffled, viewed the dreary plain;
    Still crowding thoughts, a pensive train,
                      Rose in my soul,
    When on my ear this plaintive strain
                      Slow, solemn, stole:--

      "Blow, blow, ye winds, with heavier gust!
      And freeze, thou bitter-biting frost:
      Descend, ye chilly, smothering snows!
      Not all your rage, as now united, shows
        More hard unkindness, unrelenting,
        Vengeful malice unrepenting,
    Than heaven-illumined man on brother man bestows;
      See stern oppression's iron grip,
        Or mad ambition's gory hand,
    Sending, like blood-hounds from the slip,
       Woe, want, and murder o'er a land!
      Even in the peaceful rural vale,
      Truth, weeping, tells the mournful tale,
    How pamper'd luxury, flattery by her side,
      The parasite empoisoning her ear.
      With all the servile wretches in the rear,
    Looks o'er proud property, extended wide;
      And eyes the simple rustic hind,
        Whose toil upholds the glittering show,
      A creature of another kind,
      Some coarser substance, unrefin'd,
    Placed for her lordly use thus far, thus vile, below.
      Where, where is love's fond, tender throe,
      With lordly honour's lofty brow,
        The powers you proudly own?
      Is there, beneath love's noble name,
      Can harbour, dark, the selfish aim,
        To bless himself alone!
      Mark maiden innocence a prey
        To love-pretending snares,
      This boasted honour turns away,
      Shunning soft pity's rising sway,
    Regardless of the tears and unavailing prayers!
      Perhaps this hour, in misery's squalid nest,
      She strains your infant to her joyless breast,
    And with a mother's fears shrinks at the rocking blast!
      Oh ye! who, sunk in beds of down,
    Feel not a want but what yourselves create,
    Think, for a moment, on his wretched fate,
      Whom friends and fortune quite disown!
    Ill satisfied keen nature's clamorous call,
      Stretched on his straw he lays himself to sleep,
    While through the ragged roof and chinky wall,
      Chill o'er his slumbers piles the drifty heap!
        Think on the dungeon's grim confine,
        Where guilt and poor misfortune pine!
        Guilt, erring man, relenting view!
        But shall thy legal rage pursue
        The wretch, already crushed low
        By cruel fortune's undeserved blow?
      Affliction's sons are brothers in distress,
      A brother to relieve, how exquisite the bliss!"

      I heard nae mair, for Chanticleer
        Shook off the pouthery snaw,
      And hailed the morning with a cheer--
        A cottage-rousing craw!

      But deep this truth impressed my mind--
        Through all his works abroad,
      The heart benevolent and kind
        The most resembles GOD.

       *       *       *       *       *

XIII.

REMORSE.

A FRAGMENT.
    In every other circumstance, the mind
    Has this to say, 'It was no deed of mine;'
    But when to all the evil of misfortune
    This sting is added--'Blame thy foolish self!'
    Or worser far, the pangs of keen remorse;
    The torturing, gnawing consciousness of guilt,--
    Of guilt, perhaps, where we've involved others;
    The young, the innocent, who fondly lov'd us,
    Nay, more, that very love their cause of ruin!
    O burning hell! in all thy store of torments,
    There's not a keener lash!
    Lives there a man so firm, who, while his heart
    Feels all the bitter horrors of his crime,
    Can reason down its agonizing throbs;
    And, after proper purpose of amendment,
    Can firmly force his jarring thoughts to peace?
    O, happy! happy! enviable man!
    O glorious magnanimity of soul!

       *       *       *       *       *

XIV.

THE JOLLY BEGGARS.

A CANTATA.

[This inimitable poem, unknown to Currie and unheardof while the poet lived, was first given
to the world, with other characteristic pieces, by Mr. Stewart of Glasgow, in the year 1801.
Some have surmised that it is not the work of Burns; but the parentage is certain: the original
manuscript at the time of its composition, in 1785, was put into the hands of Mr. Richmond
of Mauchline, and afterwards given by Burns himself to Mr. Woodburn, factor of the laird of
Craigen-gillan; the song of "For a' that, and a' that" was inserted by the poet, with his name,
in the Musical Museum of February, 1790. Cromek admired, yet did not, from overruling advice,
print it in the Reliques, for which he was sharply censured by Sir Walter Scott, in the Quarterly
Review. The scene of the poem is in Mauchline, where Poosie Nancy had her change-house. Only
one copy in the handwriting of Burns is supposed to exist; and of it a very accurate fac-simile
has been given.]

RECITATIVO.

    When lyart leaves bestrow the yird,
    Or wavering like the bauckie-bird,
        Bedim cauld Boreas' blast;
    When hailstanes drive wi' bitter skyte
    And infant frosts begin to bite,
          In hoary cranreuch drest;
    Ae night at e'en a merry core
        O' randie, gangrel bodies,
    In Poosie-Nansie's held the splore,
        To drink their orra duddies:
          Wi' quaffing and laughing,
            They ranted an' they sang;
          Wi' jumping and thumping,
            The vera girdle rang.

    First, neist the fire, in auld red rags,
    Ane sat, weel brac'd wi' mealy bags,
        And knapsack a' in order;
    His doxy lay within his arm,
    Wi' usquebae an' blankets warm--
          She blinket on her sodger:
    An' ay he gies the tozie drab
        The tither skelpin' kiss,
    While she held up her greedy gab
        Just like an aumous dish.
          Ilk smack still, did crack still,
            Just like a cadger's whip,
          Then staggering and swaggering
            He roar'd this ditty up--

AIR.

Tune--"Soldiers' Joy."
                    Lal de daudle, &c.

    My 'prenticeship I past
    Where my leader breath'd his last,
    When the bloody die was cast
          On the heights of Abram;
    I served out my trade
    When the gallant game was play'd,
    And the Moro low was laid
          At the sound of the drum.
                    Lal de daudle, &c.

    I lastly was with Curtis,
    Among the floating batt'ries,
    And there I left for witness
          An arm and a limb;
    Yet let my country need me,
    With Elliot to head me,
    I'd clatter on my stumps
          At the sound of a drum.
                    Lal de dandle, &c.

    And now tho' I must beg,
    With a wooden arm and leg,
    And many a tatter'd rag
          Hanging over my bum
    I'm as happy with my wallet,
    My bottle and my callet,
    As when I used in scarlet
          To follow a drum.
                    Lal de daudle, &c.

    What tho' with hoary locks
    I must stand the winter shocks,
    Beneath the woods and rocks
          Oftentimes for a home,
    When the tother bag I sell,
    And the tother bottle tell,
    I could meet a troop of hell,
          At the sound of a drum.
                    Lal de daudle, &c.

RECITATIVO.

    He ended; and kebars sheuk
      Aboon the chorus roar;
    While frighted rattons backward leuk,
      And seek the benmost bore;
    A fairy fiddler frae the neuk,
      He skirl'd out--encore!
    But up arose the martial Chuck,
      And laid the loud uproar.

AIR.

Tune--"Soldier laddie."

    I once was a maid, tho' I cannot tell when,
    And still my delight is in proper young men;
    Some one of a troop of dragoons was my daddie,
    No wonder I'm fond of a sodger laddie.
                        Sing, Lal de dal, &c.

    The first of my loves was a swaggering blade,
    To rattle the thundering drum was his trade;
    His leg was so tight, and his cheek was so ruddy,
    Transported I was with my sodger laddie.
                        Sing, Lal de dal, &c.

    But the godly old chaplain left him in the lurch,
    The sword I forsook for the sake of the church;
    He ventur'd the soul, and I risk'd the body,
    'Twas then I prov'd false to my sodger laddie.
                        Sing, Lal de dal, &c.

    Full soon I grew sick of my sanctified sot,
    The regiment at large for a husband I got;
    From the gilded spontoon to the fife I was ready,
    I asked no more but a sodger laddie.
                        Sing, Lal de dal, &c.

    But the peace it reduc'd me to beg in despair,
    Till I met my old boy in a Cunningham fair;
    His rags regimental they flutter'd so gaudy,
    My heart is rejoic'd at my sodger laddie.
                        Sing, Lal de dal, &c.

    And now I have liv'd--I know not how long,
    And still I can join in a cup or a song;
    But whilst with both hands I can hold the glass steady,
    Here's to thee, my hero, my sodger laddie.
                        Sing, Lal de dal, &c.

RECITATIVO.

    Poor Merry Andrew in the neuk,
      Sat guzzling wi' a tinkler hizzie;
    They mind't na wha the chorus teuk,
      Between themselves they were sae busy:
    At length wi' drink and courting dizzy
      He stoitered up an' made a face;
    Then turn'd, an' laid a smack on Grizzie,
      Syne tun'd his pipes wi' grave grimace.

AIR.

Tune--"Auld Sir Symon."

    Sir Wisdom's a fool when he's fou,
      Sir Knave is a fool in a session;
    He's there but a 'prentice I trow,
      But I am a fool by profession.

    My grannie she bought me a beuk,
      And I held awa to the school;
    I fear I my talent misteuk,
      But what will ye hae of a fool?

    For drink I would venture my neck,
      A hizzie's the half o' my craft,
    But what could ye other expect,
      Of ane that's avowedly daft?

    I ance was ty'd up like a stirk,
      For civilly swearing and quaffing;
    I ance was abused in the kirk,
      Fer touzling a lass i' my daffin.

    Poor Andrew that tumbles for sport,
      Let naebody name wi' a jeer;
    There's ev'n I'm tauld i' the court
      A tumbler ca'd the premier.

    Observ'd ye, yon reverend lad
      Maks faces to tickle the mob;
    He rails at our mountebank squad,
      Its rivalship just i' the job.

    And now my conclusion I'll tell,
      For faith I'm confoundedly dry;
    The chiel that's a fool for himsel',
      Gude L--d! he's far dafter than I.

RECITATIVO.

    Then neist outspak a raucle carlin,
    Wha kent fu' weel to cleek the sterling,
    For monie a pursie she had hooked,
    And had in mony a well been ducked.
    Her dove had been a Highland laddie,
    But weary fa' the waefu' woodie!
    Wi' sighs and sobs she thus began
    To wail her braw John Highlandman.

AIR.

Tune--"O an ye were dead, guidman."

    A Highland lad my love was born,
    The Lalland laws he held in scorn;
    But he still was faithfu' to his clan,
    My gallant braw John Highlandman.

CHORUS.

    Sing, hey my braw John Highlandman!
    Sing, ho my braw John Highlandman!
    There's not a lad in a' the lan'
    Was match for my John Highlandman.

    With his philibeg an' tartan plaid,
    An' gude claymore down by his side,
    The ladies' hearts he did trepan,
    My gallant braw John Highlandman.
                      Sing, hey, &c.

    We ranged a' from Tweed to Spey,
    An' liv'd like lords and ladies gay;
    For a Lalland face he feared none,
    My gallant braw John Highlandman.
                      Sing, hey, &c.

    They banished him beyond the sea,
    But ere the bud was on the tree,
    Adown my cheeks the pearls ran,
    Embracing my John Highlandman.
                      Sing, hey, &c.

    But, och! they catch'd him at the last,
    And bound him in a dungeon fast;
    My curse upon them every one,
    They've hang'd my braw John Highlandman.
                      Sing, hey, &c.

    And now a widow, I must mourn,
    The pleasures that will ne'er return:
    No comfort but a hearty can,
    When I think on John Highlandman.
                      Sing, hey, &c.

RECITATIVO.

    A pigmy scraper, wi' his fiddle,
    Wha us'd at trysts and fairs to driddle,
    Her strappan limb and gausy middle
                      He reach'd na higher,
    Had hol'd his heartie like a riddle,
                      An' blawn't on fire.

    Wi' hand on hainch, an' upward e'e,
    He croon'd his gamut, one, two, three,
    Then in an Arioso key,
                      The wee Apollo
    Set off wi' Allegretto glee
                      His giga solo.

AIR.

Tune--"Whistle o'er the lave o't."

    Let me ryke up to dight that tear,
    And go wi' me and be my dear,
    And then your every care and fear
      May whistle owre the lave o't.

CHORUS.

    I am a fiddler to my trade,
    An' a' the tunes that e'er I play'd,
    The sweetest still to wife or maid,
      Was whistle owre the lave o't.

    At kirns and weddings we'se be there,
    And O! sae nicely's we will fare;
    We'll house about till Daddie Care
      Sings whistle owre the lave o't
                            I am, &c.

    Sae merrily the banes we'll byke,
    And sun oursells about the dyke,
    And at our leisure, when ye like,
      We'll whistle owre the lave o't.
                            I am, &c.

    But bless me wi' your heav'n o' charms,
    And while I kittle hair on thairms,
    Hunger, cauld, and a' sic harms,
      May whistle owre the lave o't.
                            I am, &c.

RECITATIVO.

    Her charms had struck a sturdy caird,
      As weel as poor gut-scraper;
    He taks the fiddler by the beard,
      And draws a roosty rapier--
    He swoor by a' was swearing worth,
      To speet him like a pliver,
    Unless he wad from that time forth
      Relinquish her for ever.
    But tho' his little heart did grieve
      When round the tinkler prest her,
    He feign'd to snirtle in his sleeve,
      When thus the caird address'd her:

AIR.

Tune--"Clout the Caudron."
                        I've taen the gold, &c.

    Despise that shrimp, that wither'd imp,
      Wi' a' his noise and caprin,
    And tak a share wi' those that bear
      The budget and the apron.
                        An' by that stoup, &c.

RECITATIVO.

    The caird prevail'd--th' unblushing fair
      In his embraces sunk,
    Partly wi' love o'ercome sae sair,
      An' partly she was drunk.
    Sir Violino, with an air
      That show'd a man of spunk,
    Wish'd unison between the pair,
      An' made the bottle clunk
                      To their health that night.

    But urchin Cupid shot a shaft,
      That play'd a dame a shavie,
    A sailor rak'd her fore and aft,
      Behint the chicken cavie.
    Her lord, a wight o' Homer's craft,
      Tho' limping wi' the spavie,
    He hirpl'd up and lap like daft,
      And shor'd them Dainty Davie
                      O boot that night.

    He was a care-defying blade
      As ever Bacchus listed,
    Tho' Fortune sair upon him laid,
      His heart she ever miss'd it.
    He had nae wish but--to be glad,
      Nor want but--when he thirsted;
    He hated nought but--to be sad,
      And thus the Muse suggested
                     His sang that night.

AIR

Tune--"For a' that, an' a' that."

    I am a bard of no regard
      Wi' gentle folks, an' a' that:
    But Homer-like, the glowran byke,
      Frae town to town I draw that.

CHORUS

    For a' that, an' a' that,
      An' twice as muckle's a' that;
    I've lost but ane, I've twa behin',
      I've wife enough for a' that.

    I never drank the Muses' stank,
      Castalia's burn, an' a' that;
    But there it streams, and richly reams,
      My Helicon I ca' that.
                          For a' that, &c.

    Great love I bear to a' the fair,
      Their humble slave, an' a' that;
    But lordly will, I hold it still
      A mortal sin to thraw that.
                          For a' that, &c.

    In raptures sweet, this hour we meet,
      Wi' mutual love, an a' that:
    But for how lang the flie may stang,
      Let inclination law that.
      I like the jads for a' that

CHORUS

    For a' that, an' a' that,
      An' twice as muckle's a' that;
    My dearest bluid, to do them guid,
      They're welcome till't for a' that

RECITATIVO

    So sung the bard--and Nansie's wa's
    Shook with a thunder of applause,
        Re-echo'd from each mouth:
    They toom'd their pocks, an' pawn'd their duds,
    They scarcely left to co'er their fuds,
        To quench their lowan drouth.
    Then owre again, the jovial thrang,
        The poet did request,
    To loose his pack an' wale a sang,
        A ballad o' the best;
          He rising, rejoicing,
            Between his twa Deborahs
          Looks round him, an' found them
            Impatient for the chorus.

AIR

Tune--"Jolly Mortals, fill your Glasses."

    See! the smoking bowl before us,
      Mark our jovial ragged ring!
    Round and round take up the chorus,
      And in raptures let us sing.

CHORUS.

    What is title? what is treasure?
      What is reputation's care?
    If we lead a life of pleasure,
      'Tis no matter how or where!
                      A fig, &c.

    With the ready trick and fable,
      Round we wander all the day;
    And at night, in barn or stable,
      Hug our doxies on the hay.
                      A fig, &c.

    Does the train-attended carriage
      Through the country lighter rove?
    Does the sober bed of marriage
      Witness brighter scenes of love?
                      A fig, &c.

    Life is all a variorum,
      We regard not how it goes;
    Let them cant about decorum
      Who have characters to lose.
                      A fig, &c.

    Here's to budgets, bags, and wallets!
      Here's to all the wandering train!
    Here's our ragged brats and wallets!

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 5: A peculiar sort of whiskey.]

       *       *       *       *       *

XV.

DEATH AND DR. HORNBOOK.

A TRUE STORY.

[John Wilson, raised to the unwelcome elevation of hero to this poem, was, at the time of its
composition, schoolmaster in Tarbolton: he as, it is said, a fair scholar, and a very worthy
man, but vain of his knowledge in medicine--so vain, that he advertised his merits, and offered
advice gratis. It was his misfortune to encounter Burns at a mason meeting, who, provoked by
a long and pedantic speech, from the Dominie, exclaimed, the future lampoon dawning upon him,
"Sit down, Dr. Hornbook." On his way home, the poet seated himself on the ledge of a bridge,
composed the poem, and, overcome with poesie and drink, fell asleep, and did not awaken till
the sun was shining over Galston Moors. Wilson went afterwards to Glasgow, embarked in mercantile
and matrimonial speculations, and prospered, and is still prospering.]

    Some books are lies frae end to end,
    And some great lies were never penn'd:
    Ev'n ministers, they ha'e been kenn'd,
                        In holy rapture,
    A rousing whid, at times, to vend,
                        And nail't wi' Scripture.

    But this that I am gaun to tell,
    Which lately on a night befel,
    Is just as true's the Deil's in h--ll
                        Or Dublin-city;
    That e'er he nearer comes oursel
                        'S a muckle pity.

    The Clachan yill had made me canty,
    I was na fou, but just had plenty;
    I stacher'd whyles, but yet took tent ay
                        To free the ditches;
    An' hillocks, stanes, and bushes, kenn'd ay
                        Frae ghaists an' witches.

    The rising moon began to glow'r
    The distant Cumnock hills out-owre:
    To count her horns with a' my pow'r,
                        I set mysel;
    But whether she had three or four,
                        I could na tell.

    I was come round about the hill,
    And todlin down on Willie's mill,
    Setting my staff with a' my skill,
                        To keep me sicker;
    Tho' leeward whyles, against my will,
                        I took a bicker.

    I there wi' something did forgather,
    That put me in an eerie swither;
    An awfu' scythe, out-owre ae shouther,
                        Clear-dangling, hang;
    A three-taed leister on the ither
                        Lay, large an' lang.

    Its stature seem'd lang Scotch ells twa,
    The queerest shape that e'er I saw,
    For fient a wame it had ava:
                        And then, its shanks,
    They were as thin, as sharp an' sma'
                        As cheeks o' branks.

    "Guid-een," quo' I; "Friend, hae ye been mawin,
    When ither folk are busy sawin?"
    It seem'd to mak a kind o' stan',
                        But naething spak;
    At length, says I, "Friend, where ye gaun,
                        Will ye go back?"

    It spak right howe,--"My name is Death,
    But be na fley'd."--Quoth I, "Guid faith,
    Ye're may be come to stap my breath;
                        But tent me, billie;
    I red ye weel, take care o' skaith,
                        See, there's a gully!"

    "Guidman," quo' he, "put up your whittle,
    I'm no design'd to try its mettle;
    But if I did, I wad be kittle
                        To be mislear'd,
    I wad nae mind it, no that spittle
                        Out-owre my beard."

    "Weel, weel!" says I, "a bargain be't;
    Come, gies your hand, an' sae we're gree't;
    We'll ease our shanks an' tak a seat,
                        Come, gies your news!
    This while ye hae been mony a gate
                        At mony a house.

    "Ay, ay!" quo' he, an' shook his head,
    "It's e'en a lang, lang time indeed
    Sin' I began to nick the thread,
                        An' choke the breath:
    Folk maun do something for their bread,
                        An' sae maun Death.

    "Sax thousand years are near hand fled
    Sin' I was to the butching bred,
    An' mony a scheme in vain's been laid,
                        To stap or scar me;
    Till ane Hornbook's ta'en up the trade,
                        An' faith, he'll waur me.

    "Ye ken Jock Hornbook i' the Clachan,
    Deil mak his kings-hood in a spleuchan!
    He's grown sae weel acquaint wi' Buchan[6]
                        An' ither chaps,
    The weans haud out their fingers laughin
                        And pouk my hips.

    "See, here's a scythe, and there's a dart,
    They hae pierc'd mony a gallant heart;
    But Doctor Hornbook, wi' his art
                        And cursed skill,
    Has made them baith no worth a f----t,
                        Damn'd haet they'll kill.

    "'Twas but yestreen, nae farther gaen,
    I threw a noble throw at ane;
    Wi' less, I'm sure, I've hundreds slain;
                        But-deil-ma-care,
    It just play'd dirl on the bane,
                        But did nae mair.

    "Hornbook was by, wi' ready art,
    And had sae fortified the part,
    That when I looked to my dart,
                        It was sae blunt,
    Fient haet o't wad hae pierc'd the heart
                        Of a kail-runt.

    "I drew my scythe in sic a fury,
    I near-hand cowpit wi' my hurry,
    But yet the bauld Apothecary,
                        Withstood the shock;
    I might as weel hae tried a quarry
                        O' hard whin rock.

    "Ev'n them he canna get attended,
    Although their face he ne'er had kend it,
    Just sh---- in a kail-blade, and send it,
                        As soon's he smells't,
    Baith their disease, and what will mend it,
                        At once he tells't.

    "And then a' doctor's saws and whittles,
    Of a' dimensions, shapes, an' mettles,
    A' kinds o' boxes, mugs, an' bottles,
                        He's sure to hae;
    Their Latin names as fast he rattles
                        As A B C.

    "Calces o' fossils, earths, and trees;
    True sal-marinum o' the seas;
    The farina of beans and pease,
                        He has't in plenty;
    Aqua-fortis, what you please,
                        He can content ye.

    "Forbye some new, uncommon weapons,
    Urinus spiritus of capons;
    Or mite-horn shavings, filings, scrapings,
                        Distill'd per se;
    Sal-alkali o' midge-tail clippings,
                        And mony mae."

    "Waes me for Johnny Ged's-Hole[7] now,"
    Quo' I, "If that thae news be true!
    His braw calf-ward whare gowans grew,
                        Sae white and bonie,
    Nae doubt they'll rive it wi' the plew;
                        They'll ruin Johnie!"

    The creature grain'd an eldritch laugh,
    And says, "Ye need na yoke the plough,
    Kirkyards will soon be till'd eneugh,
                        Tak ye nae fear;
    They'll a' be trench'd wi' mony a sheugh
                        In twa-three year.

    "Whare I kill'd ane a fair strae death,
    By loss o' blood or want of breath,
    This night I'm free to tak my aith,
                        That Hornbook's skill
    Has clad a score i' their last claith,
                        By drap an' pill.

    "An honest wabster to his trade,
    Whase wife's twa nieves were scarce weel bred,
    Gat tippence-worth to mend her head,
                        When it was sair;
    The wife slade cannie to her bed,
                        But ne'er spak mair

    "A countra laird had ta'en the batts,
    Or some curmurring in his guts,
    His only son for Hornbook sets,
                        An' pays him well.
    The lad, for twa guid gimmer-pets,
                        Was laird himsel.

    "A bonnie lass, ye kend her name,
    Some ill-brewn drink had hov'd her wame;
    She trusts hersel, to hide the shame,
                        In Hornbook's care;
    Horn sent her aff to her lang hame,
                        To hide it there.

    "That's just a swatch o' Hornbook's way;
    Thus goes he on from day to day,
    Thus does he poison, kill, an' slay,
                        An's weel paid for't;
    Yet stops me o' my lawfu' prey,
                        Wi' his d--mn'd dirt:

    "But, hark! I'll tell you of a plot,
    Though dinna ye be speaking o't;
    I'll nail the self-conceited sot,
                        As dead's a herrin':
    Niest time we meet, I'll wad a groat,
                        He gets his fairin'!"

    But just as he began to tell,
    The auld kirk-hammer strak' the bell
    Some wee short hour ayont the twal,
                        Which rais'd us baith:
    I took the way that pleas'd mysel',
                        And sae did Death.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 6: Buchan's Domestic Medicine.]

[Footnote 7: The grave-digger.]

       *       *       *       *       *

XVI.

THE TWA HERDS:

OR,

THE HOLY TULZIE.

[The actors in this indecent drama were Moodie, minister of Ricartoun, and Russell, helper
to the minister of Kilmarnock: though apostles of the "Old Light," they forgot their brotherhood
in the vehemence of controversy, and went, it is said, to blows. "This poem," says Burns, "with
a certain description of the clergy as well as laity, met with a roar of applause."]

    O a' ye pious godly flocks,
    Weel fed on pastures orthodox,
    Wha now will keep you frae the fox,
                      Or worrying tykes,
    Or wha will tent the waifs and crocks,
                      About the dykes?

    The twa best herds in a' the wast,
    That e'er ga'e gospel horn a blast,
    These five and twenty simmers past,
                      O! dool to tell,
    Ha'e had a bitter black out-cast
                      Atween themsel.

    O, Moodie, man, and wordy Russell,
    How could you raise so vile a bustle,
    Ye'll see how New-Light herds will whistle
                      And think it fine:
    The Lord's cause ne'er got sic a twistle
                      Sin' I ha'e min'.

    O, sirs! whae'er wad ha'e expeckit
    Your duty ye wad sae negleckit,
    Ye wha were ne'er by lairds respeckit,
                      To wear the plaid,
    But by the brutes themselves eleckit,
                      To be their guide.

    What flock wi' Moodie's flock could rank,
    Sae hale and hearty every shank,
    Nae poison'd sour Arminian stank,
                      He let them taste,
    Frae Calvin's well, ay clear they drank,--
                      O sic a feast!

    The thummart, wil'-cat, brock, and tod,
    Weel kend his voice thro' a' the wood,
    He smelt their ilka hole and road,
                      Baith out and in,
    And weel he lik'd to shed their bluid,
                      And sell their skin.

    What herd like Russell tell'd his tale,
    His voice was heard thro' muir and dale,
    He kend the Lord's sheep, ilka tail,
                      O'er a' the height,
    And saw gin they were sick or hale,
                      At the first sight.

    He fine a mangy sheep could scrub,
    Or nobly fling the gospel club,
    And New-Light herds could nicely drub,
                      Or pay their skin;
    Could shake them o'er the burning dub,
                      Or heave them in.

    Sic twa--O! do I live to see't,
    Sic famous twa should disagreet,
    An' names, like villain, hypocrite,
                      Ilk ither gi'en,
    While New-Light herds, wi' laughin' spite,
                      Say neither's liein'!

    An' ye wha tent the gospel fauld,
    There's Duncan, deep, and Peebles, shaul,
    But chiefly thou, apostle Auld,
                      We trust in thee,
    That thou wilt work them, hot and cauld,
                      Till they agree.

    Consider, Sirs, how we're beset;
    There's scarce a new herd that we get
    But comes frae mang that cursed set
                      I winna name;
    I hope frae heav'n to see them yet
                      In fiery flame.

    Dalrymple has been lang our fae,
    M'Gill has wrought us meikle wae,
    And that curs'd rascal call'd M'Quhae,
                      And baith the Shaws,
    That aft ha'e made us black and blae,
                      Wi' vengefu' paws.

    Auld Wodrow lang has hatch'd mischief,
    We thought ay death wad bring relief,
    But he has gotten, to our grief,
                      Ane to succeed him,
    A chield wha'll soundly buff our beef;
                      I meikle dread him.

    And mony a ane that I could tell,
    Wha fain would openly rebel,
    Forbye turn-coats amang oursel,
                      There's Smith for ane,
    I doubt he's but a grey-nick quill,
                      An' that ye'll fin'.

    O! a' ye flocks o'er a' the hills,
    By mosses, meadows, moors, and fells,
    Come, join your counsel and your skills
                      To cow the lairds,
    And get the brutes the powers themsels
                      To choose their herds;

    Then Orthodoxy yet may prance,
    And Learning in a woody dance,
    And that fell cur ca'd Common Sense,
                      That bites sae sair,
    Be banish'd o'er the sea to France:
                      Let him bark there.

    Then Shaw's and Dalrymple's eloquence,
    M'Gill's close nervous excellence,
    M'Quhae's pathetic manly sense,
                      And guid M'Math,
    Wi' Smith, wha thro' the heart can glance,
                      May a' pack aff.

       *       *       *       *       *

XVII.

HOLY WILLIE'S PRAYER.

    "And send the godly in a pet to pray."

POPE.

[Of this sarcastic and too daring poem many copies in manuscript were circulated while the
poet lived, but though not unknown or unfelt by Currie, it continued unpublished till printed
by Stewart with the Jolly Beggars, in 1801. Holy Willie was a small farmer, leading elder to
Auld, a name well known to all lovers of Burns; austere in speech, scrupulous in all outward
observances, and, what is known by the name of a "professing Christian." He experienced, however,
a "sore fall;" he permitted himself to be "filled fou," and in a moment when "self got in"
made free, it is said, with the money of the poor of the parish. His name was William Fisher.]

    O thou, wha in the heavens dost dwell,
    Wha, as it pleases best thysel',
    Sends ane to heaven, and ten to hell,
                      A' for thy glory,
    And no for ony gude or ill
                      They've done afore thee!

    What was I, or my generation,
    That I should get sic exaltation,
    I wha deserve sic just damnation,
                      For broken laws,
    Five thousand years 'fore my creation,
                      Thro' Adam's cause.

    When frae my mither's womb I fell,
    Thou might hae plunged me in hell,
    To gnash my gums, to weep and wail,
                      In burnin' lake,
    Whar damned devils roar and yell,
                      Chain'd to a stake.

    Yet I am here a chosen sample;
    To show thy grace is great and ample;
    I'm here a pillar in thy temple,
                      Strong as a rock,
    A guide, a buckler, an example,
                      To a' thy flock.

    But yet, O Lord! confess I must,
    At times I'm fash'd wi' fleshly lust;
    And sometimes, too, wi' warldly trust,
                      Vile self gets in;
    But thou remembers we are dust,
                      Defil'd in sin.

    O Lord! yestreen thou kens, wi' Meg--
    Thy pardon I sincerely beg,
    O! may't ne'er be a livin' plague
                      To my dishonour,
    An' I'll ne'er lift a lawless leg
                      Again upon her.

    Besides, I farther maun allow,
    Wi' Lizzie's lass, three times I trow--
    But Lord, that Friday I was fou,
                      When I came near her,
    Or else, thou kens, thy servant true
                      Wad ne'er hae steer'd her.

    Maybe thou lets this fleshly thorn,
    Beset thy servant e'en and morn,
    Lest he owre high and proud should turn,
                      'Cause he's sae gifted;
    If sae, thy han' maun e'en be borne
                      Until thou lift it.

    Lord, bless thy chosen in this place,
    For here thou hast a chosen race:
    But God confound their stubborn face,
                      And blast their name,
    Wha bring thy elders to disgrace
                      And public shame.

    Lord, mind Gawn Hamilton's deserts,
    He drinks, and swears, and plays at carts,
    Yet has sae mony takin' arts,
                      Wi' grit and sma',
    Frae God's ain priests the people's hearts
                      He steals awa.

    An' whan we chasten'd him therefore,
    Thou kens how he bred sic a splore,
    As set the warld in a roar
                      O' laughin' at us;--
    Curse thou his basket and his store,
                      Kail and potatoes.

    Lord, hear my earnest cry and pray'r,
    Against the presbyt'ry of Ayr;
    Thy strong right hand, Lord, mak it bare
                      Upo' their heads,
    Lord weigh it down, and dinna spare,
                      For their misdeeds.

    O Lord my God, that glib-tongu'd Aiken,
    My very heart and saul are quakin',
    To think how we stood groanin', shakin',
                      And swat wi' dread,
    While Auld wi' hingin lips gaed sneakin'
                      And hung his head.

    Lord, in the day of vengeance try him,
    Lord, visit them wha did employ him,
    And pass not in thy mercy by 'em,
                      Nor hear their pray'r;
    But for thy people's sake destroy 'em,
                      And dinna spare.

    But, Lord, remember me an mine,
    Wi' mercies temp'ral and divine,
    That I for gear and grace may shine,
                      Excell'd by nane,
    And a' the glory shall be thine,
                      Amen, Amen!

       *       *       *       *       *

XVIII.

EPITAPH ON HOLY WILLIE.

[We are informed by Richmond of Mauchline, that when he was clerk in Gavin Hamilton's office,
Burns came in one morning and said, "I have just composed a poem, John, and if you will write
it, I will repeat it." He repeated Holy Willie's Prayer and Epitaph; Hamilton came in at the
moment, and having read them with delight, ran laughing with them in his hand to Robert Aiken.
The end of Holy Willie was other than godly; in one of his visits to Mauchline, he drank more
than was needful, fell into a ditch on his way home, and was found dead in the morning.]

    Here Holy Willie's sair worn clay
      Takes up its last abode;
    His saul has ta'en some other way,
      I fear the left-hand road.

    Stop! there he is, as sure's a gun,
      Poor, silly body, see him;
    Nae wonder he's as black's the grun,
      Observe wha's standing wi' him.

    Your brunstane devilship I see,
      Has got him there before ye;
    But hand your nine-tail cat a wee,
      Till ance you've heard my story.

    Your pity I will not implore,
      For pity ye hae nane;
    Justice, alas! has gi'en him o'er,
      And mercy's day is gaen.

    But hear me, sir, deil as ye are,
      Look something to your credit;
    A coof like him wad stain your name,
      If it were kent ye did it.

       *       *       *       *       *

XIX.

THE INVENTORY;

IN ANSWER TO A MANDATE BY THE SURVEYOR

OF THE TAXES.

[We have heard of a poor play-actor who, by a humorous inventory of his effects, so moved the
commissioners of the income tax, that they remitted all claim on him then and forever; we know
not that this very humorous inventory of Burns had any such effect on Mr. Aiken, the surveyor
of the taxes. It is dated "Mossgiel, February 22d, 1786," and is remarkable for wit and sprightliness,
and for the information which it gives us of the poet's habits, household, and agricultural
implements.]

    Sir, as your mandate did request,
    I send you here a faithfu' list,
    O' gudes, an' gear, an' a' my graith,
    To which I'm clear to gi'e my aith.

      Imprimis, then, for carriage cattle,
    I have four brutes o' gallant mettle,
    As ever drew afore a pettle.
    My lan' afore's[8] a gude auld has been,
    An' wight, an' wilfu' a' his days been.
    My lan ahin's[9] a weel gaun fillie,
    That aft has borne me hame frae Killie,[10]
    An' your auld burro' mony a time,
    In days when riding was nae crime--
    But ance, whan in my wooing pride,
    I like a blockhead boost to ride,
    The wilfu' creature sae I pat to,
    (L--d pardon a' my sins an' that too!)
    I play'd my fillie sic a shavie,
    She's a' bedevil'd with the spavie.
    My fur ahin's[11] a wordy beast,
    As e'er in tug or tow was trac'd.
    The fourth's a Highland Donald hastie,
    A d--n'd red wud Kilburnie blastie!
    Forbye a cowt o' cowt's the wale,
    As ever ran afore a tail.
    If he be spar'd to be a beast,
    He'll draw me fifteen pun' at least.--
    Wheel carriages I ha'e but few,
    Three carts, an' twa are feckly new;
    Ae auld wheelbarrow, mair for token,
    Ae leg an' baith the trams are broken;
    I made a poker o' the spin'le,
    An' my auld mither brunt the trin'le.

      For men I've three mischievous boys,
    Run de'ils for rantin' an' for noise;
    A gaudsman ane, a thrasher t'other.
    Wee Davock hauds the nowt in fother.
    I rule them as I ought, discreetly,
    An' aften labour them completely;
    An' ay on Sundays, duly, nightly,
    I on the Questions targe them tightly;
    Till, faith, wee Davock's turn'd sae gleg,
    Tho' scarcely langer than your leg,
    He'll screed you aff Effectual calling,
    As fast as ony in the dwalling.
    I've nane in female servan' station,
    (Lord keep me ay frae a' temptation!)
    I ha'e nae wife--and that my bliss is,
    An' ye have laid nae tax on misses;
    An' then, if kirk folks dinna clutch me,
    I ken the devils darena touch me.
    Wi' weans I'm mair than weel contented,
    Heav'n sent me ane mae than I wanted.
    My sonsie smirking dear-bought Bess,
    She stares the daddy in her face,
    Enough of ought ye like but grace;
    But her, my bonnie sweet wee lady,
    I've paid enough for her already,
    An' gin ye tax her or her mither,
    B' the L--d! ye'se get them a'thegither.

      And now, remember, Mr. Aiken,
    Nae kind of license out I'm takin';
    Frae this time forth, I do declare
    I'se ne'er ride horse nor hizzie mair;
    Thro' dirt and dub for life I'll paidle,
    Ere I sae dear pay for a saddle;
    My travel a' on foot I'll shank it,
    I've sturdy bearers, Gude be thankit.
    The kirk and you may tak' you that,
    It puts but little in your pat;
    Sae dinna put me in your buke.
    Nor for my ten white shillings luke.

      This list wi' my ain hand I wrote it,
    the day and date as under noted;
    Then know all ye whom it concerns,

Subscripsi huic                 ROBERT BURNS.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 8: The fore-horse on the left-hand in the plough.]

[Footnote 9: The hindmost on the left-hand in the plough.]

[Footnote 10: Kilmarnock.]

[Footnote 11: The hindmost horse on the right-hand in the plough.]

       *       *       *       *       *

XX.

THE HOLY FAIR.

    A robe of seeming truth and trust
      Did crafty observation;
    And secret hung, with poison'd crust,
      The dirk of Defamation:
    A mask that like the gorget show'd,
      Dye-varying on the pigeon;
    And for a mantle large and broad,
      He wrapt him in Religion.

HYPOCRISY A-LA-MODE.

[The scene of this fine poem is the church-yard of Mauchline, and the subject handled so cleverly
and sharply is the laxity of manners visible in matters so solemn and terrible as the administration
of the sacrament. "This was indeed," says Lockhart, "an extraordinary performance: no partisan
of any sect could whisper that malice had formed its principal inspiration, or that its chief
attraction lay in the boldness with which individuals, entitled and accustomed to respect,
were held up to ridicule: it was acknowledged, amidst the sternest mutterings of wrath, that
national manners were once more in the hands of a national poet." "It is no doubt," says Hogg,
"a reckless piece of satire, but it is a clever one, and must have cut to the bone.

    As lightsomely I glowr'd abroad,
      To see a scene sae gay,
    Three hizzies, early at the road,
      Cam skelpin up the way;
    Twa had manteeles o' dolefu' black,
      But ane wi' lyart lining;
    The third, that gaed a-wee a-back,
      Was in the fashion shining
                      Fu' gay that day.

    The twa appear'd like sisters twin,
      In feature, form, an' claes;
    Their visage, wither'd, lang, an' thin,
      An' sour as ony slaes:
    The third cam up, hap-step-an'-lowp,
      As light as ony lambie,
    An' wi' a curchie low did stoop,
      As soon as e'er she saw me,
                      Fu' kind that day.

    Wi' bonnet aff, quoth I, "Sweet lass,
      I think ye seem to ken me;
    I'm sure I've seen that bonnie face,
      But yet I canna name ye."
    Quo' she, an' laughin' as she spak,
      An' taks me by the hands,
    "Ye, for my sake, hae gi'en the feck,
      Of a' the ten commands
                      A screed some day.

    "My name is Fun--your cronie dear,
      The nearest friend ye hae;
    An' this is Superstition here,
      An' that's Hypocrisy.
    I'm gaun to Mauchline holy fair,
      To spend an hour in daffin:
    Gin ye'll go there, yon runkl'd pair,
      We will get famous laughin'
                      At them this day."

    Quoth I, "With a' my heart I'll do't;
      I'll get my Sunday's sark on,
    An' meet you on the holy spot;
      Faith, we'se hae fine remarkin'!"
    Then I gaed hame at crowdie-time
      An' soon I made me ready;
    For roads were clad, frae side to side,
      Wi' monie a wearie body,
                      In droves that day.

    Here farmers gash, in ridin' graith
      Gaed hoddin by their cottars;
    There, swankies young, in braw braid-claith,
      Are springin' o'er the gutters.
    The lasses, skelpin barefit, thrang,
      In silks an' scarlets glitter;
    Wi' sweet-milk cheese, in monie a whang,
      An' farls bak'd wi' butter,
                      Fu' crump that day.

    When by the plate we set our nose,
      Weel heaped up wi' ha'pence,
    A greedy glowr Black Bonnet throws,
      An' we maun draw our tippence.
    Then in we go to see the show,
      On ev'ry side they're gath'rin',
    Some carrying dails, some chairs an' stools,
      An' some are busy blethrin'
                      Right loud that day.

    Here stands a shed to fend the show'rs,
      An' screen our countra gentry,
    There, racer Jess, and twa-three wh-res,
      Are blinkin' at the entry.
    Here sits a raw of titlin' jades,
      Wi' heaving breast and bare neck,
    An' there's a batch o' wabster lads,
      Blackguarding frae Kilmarnock
                      For fun this day.

    Here some are thinkin' on their sins,
      An' some upo' their claes;
    Ane curses feet that fyl'd his shins,
      Anither sighs an' prays:
    On this hand sits a chosen swatch,
      Wi' screw'd up grace-proud faces;
    On that a set o' chaps at watch,
      Thrang winkin' on the lasses
                      To chairs that day.

    O happy is that man an' blest!
      Nae wonder that it pride him!
    Wha's ain dear lass that he likes best,
      Comes clinkin' down beside him;
    Wi' arm repos'd on the chair back,
      He sweetly does compose him;
    Which, by degrees, slips round her neck,
      An's loof upon her bosom,
                      Unkenn'd that day.

    Now a' the congregation o'er
      Is silent expectation;
    For Moodie speeds the holy door,
      Wi' tidings o' damnation.
    Should Hornie, as in ancient days,
      'Mang sons o' God present him,
    The vera sight o' Moodie's face,
      To's ain het hame had sent him
                      Wi' fright that day.

    Hear how he clears the points o' faith
      Wi' ratlin' an' wi' thumpin'!
    Now meekly calm, now wild in wrath,
      He's stampin an' he's jumpin'!
    His lengthen'd chin, his turn'd-up snout,
      His eldritch squeel and gestures,
    Oh, how they fire the heart devout,
      Like cantharidian plasters,
                      On sic a day.

    In guid time comes an antidote
      Against sic poison'd nostrum;
    For Peebles, frae the water-fit,
      Ascends the holy rostrum:
    See, up he's got the word o' God,
      An' meek an' mim has view'd it,
    While Common-Sense has ta'en the road,
      An' aff, an' up the Cowgate,[12]
                      Fast, fast, that day.

    Wee Miller, neist the guard relieves,
      An' orthodoxy raibles,
    Tho' in his heart he weel believes,
      An' thinks it auld wives' fables:
    But faith! the birkie wants a manse,
      So, cannily he hums them;
    Altho' his carnal wit an' sense
      Like hafflins-ways o'ercomes him
                      At times that day.
    On this ane's dress, an' that ane's leuk,
      They're making observations;
    While some are cozie i' the neuk,
      An' formin' assignations
                      To meet some day.

    But now the Lord's ain trumpet touts,
      Till a' the hills are rairin',
    An' echoes back return the shouts:
      Black Russell is na' sparin':
    His piercing words, like Highlan' swords,
      Divide the joints and marrow;
    His talk o' Hell, where devils dwell,
      Our vera sauls does harrow[13]
                      Wi' fright that day.

    A vast, unbottom'd boundless pit,
      Fill'd fou o' lowin' brunstane,
    Wha's ragin' flame, an' scorchin' heat,
      Wad melt the hardest whunstane!
    The half asleep start up wi' fear,
      An' think they hear it roarin',
    When presently it does appear,
      'Twas but some neibor snorin'
                      Asleep that day.

    'Twad be owre lang a tale to tell
      How monie stories past,
    An' how they crowded to the yill,
      When they were a' dismist:
    How drink gaed round, in cogs an' caups,
      Amang the furms an' benches:
    An' cheese an' bread, frae women's laps,
      Was dealt about in lunches,
                      An' dawds that day.

    In comes a gaucie, gash guidwife,
      An' sits down by the fire,
    Syne draws her kebbuck an' her knife;
      The lasses they are shyer.
    The auld guidmen, about the grace,
      Frae side to side they bother,
    Till some ane by his bonnet lays,
      An' gi'es them't like a tether,
                      Fu' lang that day.

    Waesucks! for him that gets nae lass,
      Or lasses that hae naething;
    Sma' need has he to say a grace,
      Or melvie his braw claithing!
    O wives, be mindfu' ance yoursel
      How bonnie lads ye wanted,
    An' dinna, for a kebbuck-heel,
      Let lasses be affronted
                      On sic a day!

    Now Clinkumbell, wi' ratlin tow,
      Begins to jow an' croon;
    Some swagger hame, the best they dow,
      Some wait the afternoon.
    At slaps the billies halt a blink,
      Till lasses strip their shoon:
    Wi' faith an' hope, an' love an' drink,
      They're a' in famous tune
                      For crack that day.

    How monie hearts this day converts
      O' sinners and o' lasses!
    Their hearts o' stane, gin night, are gane,
      As saft as ony flesh is.
    There's some are fou o' love divine;
      There's some are fou o' brandy;
    An' monie jobs that day begin
      May end in houghmagandie
                      Some ither day.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 12: A street so called, which faces the tent in Mauchline.]

[Footnote 13: Shakespeare's Hamlet.]

       *       *       *       *       *

XXI.

THE ORDINATION.

    "For sense they little owe to frugal heav'n--
    To please the mob they hide the little giv'n."

[This sarcastic sally was written on the admission of Mr. Mackinlay, as one of the ministers
to the Laigh, or parochial Kirk of Kilmarnock, on the 6th of April, 1786. That reverend person
was an Auld Light professor, and his ordination incensed all the New Lights, hence the bitter
levity of the poem. These dissensions have long since past away: Mackinlay, a pious and kind-hearted
sincere man, lived down all the personalities of the satire, and though unwelcome at first,
he soon learned to regard them only as a proof of the powers of the poet.]

    Kilmarnock wabsters fidge an' claw,
      An' pour your creeshie nations;
    An' ye wha leather rax an' draw,
      Of a' denominations,
    Swith to the Laigh Kirk, ane an' a',
      An' there tak up your stations;
    Then aff to Begbie's in a raw,
      An' pour divine libations
                      For joy this day.

    Curst Common-Sense, that imp o' hell,
      Cam in wi' Maggie Lauder;[14]
    But Oliphant aft made her yell,
      An' Russell sair misca'd her;
    This day Mackinlay taks the flail,
      And he's the boy will blaud her!
    He'll clap a shangan on her tail,
      An' set the bairns to daud her
                      Wi' dirt this day.

    There, try his mettle on the creed,
      And bind him down wi' caution,
    That stipend is a carnal weed
      He taks but for the fashion;
    And gie him o'er the flock, to feed,
      And punish each transgression;
    Especial, rams that cross the breed,
      Gie them sufficient threshin',
                      Spare them nae day.

    Now, auld Kilmarnock, cock thy tail,
      And toss thy horns fu' canty;
    Nae mair thou'lt rowte out-owre the dale,
      Because thy pasture's scanty;
    For lapfu's large o' gospel kail
      Shall fill thy crib in plenty,
    An' runts o' grace the pick and wale,
      No gi'en by way o' dainty,
                      But ilka day.

    Nae mair by Babel's streams we'll weep,
      To think upon our Zion;
    And hing our fiddles up to sleep,
      Like baby-clouts a-dryin':
    Come, screw the pegs, wi' tunefu' cheep,
      And o'er the thairms be tryin';
    Oh, rare! to see our elbucks wheep,
      An' a' like lamb-tails flyin'
                      Fu' fast this day!

    Lang Patronage, wi' rod o' airn,
      Has shor'd the Kirk's undoin',
    As lately Fenwick, sair forfairn,
      Has proven to its ruin:
    Our patron, honest man! Glencairn,
      He saw mischief was brewin';
    And like a godly elect bairn
      He's wal'd us out a true ane,
                      And sound this day.

    Now, Robinson, harangue nae mair,
      But steek your gab for ever.
    Or try the wicked town of Ayr,
      For there they'll think you clever;
    Or, nae reflection on your lear,
      Ye may commence a shaver;
    Or to the Netherton repair,
      And turn a carpet-weaver
                      Aff-hand this day.

    Mutrie and you were just a match
      We never had sic twa drones:
    Auld Hornie did the Laigh Kirk watch,
      Just like a winkin' baudrons:
    And ay' he catch'd the tither wretch,
      To fry them in his caudrons;
    But now his honour maun detach,
      Wi' a' his brimstane squadrons,
                      Fast, fast this day.

    See, see auld Orthodoxy's faes
      She's swingein' through the city;
    Hark, how the nine-tail'd cat she plays!
      I vow it's unco pretty:
    There, Learning, with his Greekish face,
      Grunts out some Latin ditty;
    And Common Sense is gaun, she says,
      To mak to Jamie Beattie
                      Her plaint this day.

    But there's Morality himsel',
      Embracing all opinions;
    Hear, how he gies the tither yell,
      Between his twa companions;
    See, how she peels the skin an' fell.
      As ane were peelin' onions!
    Now there--they're packed aff to hell,
      And banished our dominions,
                      Henceforth this day.

    O, happy day! rejoice, rejoice!
      Come bouse about the porter!
    Morality's demure decoys
      Shall here nae mair find quarter:
    Mackinlay, Russell, are the boys,
      That Heresy can torture:
    They'll gie her on a rape a hoyse,
      And cowe her measure shorter
                      By th' head some day.

    Come, bring the tither mutchkin in,
      And here's for a conclusion,
    To every New Light[18] mother's son,
      From this time forth Confusion:
    If mair they deave us wi' their din,
      Or Patronage intrusion,
    We'll light a spunk, and ev'ry skin,
      We'll rin them aff in fusion
                      Like oil, some day.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 14: Alluding to a scoffing ballad which was made on the admission of the late reverend
and worthy Mr. Lindsay to the Laigh Kirk.]

[Footnote 15: Genesis, ix. 22.]

[Footnote 16: Numbers, xxv. 8.]

[Footnote 17: Exodus, iv. 25.]

[Footnote 18: "New Light" is a cant phrase in the West of Scotland, for those religions opinions
which Dr. Taylor of Norwich has defended.]

       *       *       *       *       *

XXII.

THE CALF.

TO THE REV. MR. JAMES STEVEN.

On his text, MALACHI, iv. 2--"And ye shall go forth, and grow up as CALVES of the stall."

[The laugh which this little poem raised against Steven was a loud one. Burns composed it during
the sermon to which it relates and repeated it to Gavin Hamilton, with whom he happened on
that day to dine. The Calf--for the name it seems stuck--came to London, where the younger
brother of Burns heard him preach in Covent Garden Chapel, in 1796.]

    Right, Sir! your text I'll prove it true,
      Though Heretics may laugh;
    For instance; there's yoursel' just now,
      God knows, an unco Calf!

    And should some patron be so kind,
      As bless you wi' a kirk,
    I doubt na, Sir, but then we'll find,
      Ye're still as great a Stirk.

    But, if the lover's raptur'd hour
      Shall ever be your lot,
    Forbid it, ev'ry heavenly power,
      You e'er should be a stot!

    Tho', when some kind, connubial dear,
      Your but-and-ben adorns,
    The like has been that you may wear
      A noble head of horns.

    And in your lug, most reverend James,
      To hear you roar and rowte,
    Few men o' sense will doubt your claims
      To rank among the nowte.

    And when ye're number'd wi' the dead,
      Below a grassy hillock,
    Wi' justice they may mark your head--
      "Here lies a famous Bullock!"

       *       *       *       *       *

XXIII.

TO JAMES SMITH.

    "Friendship! mysterious cement of the soul!
    Sweet'ner of life and solder of society!
    I owe thee much!--"

BLAIR.

[The James Smith, to whom this epistle is addressed, was at that time a small shop-keeper in
Mauchline, and the comrade or rather follower of the poet in all his merry expeditions with
"Yill-caup commentators." He was present in Poosie Nansie's when the Jolly Beggars first dawned
on the fancy of Burns: the comrades of the poet's heart were not generally very successful
in life: Smith left Mauchline, and established a calico-printing manufactory at Avon near Linlithgow,
where his friend found him in all appearance prosperous in 1788; but this was not to last;
he failed in his speculations and went to the West Indies, and died early. His wit was ready,
and his manners lively and unaffected.]

    Dear Smith, the sleest, paukie thief,
    That e'er attempted stealth or rief,
    Ye surely hae some warlock-breef
                        Owre human hearts;
    For ne'er a bosom yet was prief
                        Against your arts.

    For me, I swear by sun an' moon,
    And ev'ry star that blinks aboon,
    Ye've cost me twenty pair o' shoon
                        Just gaun to see you;
    And ev'ry ither pair that's done,
                        Mair ta'en I'm wi' you.

    That auld capricious carlin, Nature,
    To mak amends for scrimpit stature,
    She's turn'd you aff, a human creature
                        On her first plan;
    And in her freaks, on every feature
                        She's wrote, the Man.

    Just now I've ta'en the fit o' rhyme,
    My barmie noddle's working prime,
    My fancy yerkit it up sublime
                        Wi' hasty summon:
    Hae ye a leisure-moment's time
                        To hear what's comin'?

    Some rhyme a neighbour's name to lash;
    Some rhyme (vain thought!) for needfu' cash:
    Some rhyme to court the countra clash,
                        An' raise a din;
    For me, an aim I never fash;
                        I rhyme for fun.

    Then farewell hopes o' laurel-boughs,
    To garland my poetic brows!
    Henceforth I'll rove where busy ploughs
                        Are whistling thrang,
    An' teach the lanely heights an' howes
                        My rustic sang.

    I'll wander on, with tentless heed
    How never-halting moments speed,
    Till fate shall snap the brittle thread;
                        Then, all unknown,
    I'll lay me with th' inglorious dead,
                        Forgot and gone!

    But why o' death begin a tale?
    Just now we're living sound and hale,
    Then top and maintop crowd the sail,
                        Heave care o'er side!
    And large, before enjoyment's gale,
                        Let's tak the tide.

    The magic wand then let us wield;
    For, ance that five-an'-forty's speel'd,
    See crazy, weary, joyless eild,
                        Wi' wrinkl'd face,
    Comes hostin', hirplin', owre the field,
                        Wi' creepin' pace.

    When ance life's day draws near the gloamin',
    Then fareweel vacant careless roamin';
    An' fareweel cheerfu' tankards foamin',
                        An' social noise;
    An' fareweel dear, deluding woman!
                        The joy of joys!
    Cold-pausing Caution's lesson scorning,
                        We frisk away,
    Like school-boys, at th' expected warning,
                        To joy and play.

    We wander there, we wander here,
    We eye the rose upon the brier,
    Unmindful that the thorn is near,
                        Among the leaves;
    And tho' the puny wound appear,
                        Short while it grieves.

    Some, lucky, find a flow'ry spot,
    For which they never toil'd nor swat;
    They drink the sweet and eat the fat,
                        But care or pain;
    And, haply, eye the barren hut
                        With high disdain.

    And others, like your humble servan',
    Poor wights! nae rules nor roads observin';
    To right or left, eternal swervin',
                        They zig-zag on;
    'Till curst with age, obscure an' starvin',
                        They aften groan.

    Alas! what bitter toil an' straining--
    But truce with peevish, poor complaining!
    Is fortune's fickle Luna waning?
                        E'en let her gang!
    Beneath what light she has remaining,
                        Let's sing our sang.

    My pen I here fling to the door,
    And kneel, "Ye Pow'rs," and warm implore,
    "Tho' I should wander terra e'er,
                        In all her climes,
    Grant me but this, I ask no more,
                        Ay rowth o' rhymes.

    "Gie dreeping roasts to countra lairds,
    Till icicles hing frae their beards;
    Gie fine braw claes to fine life-guards,
                        And maids of honour!
    And yill an' whisky gie to cairds,
                        Until they sconner.

    "A title, Dempster merits it;
    A garter gie to Willie Pitt;
    Gie wealth to some be-ledger'd cit,
                        In cent. per cent.
    But give me real, sterling wit,
                        And I'm content.

    "While ye are pleas'd to keep me hale,
    I'll sit down o'er my scanty meal,
    Be't water-brose, or muslin-kail,
                        Wi' cheerfu' face,
    As lang's the muses dinna fail
                        To say the grace."

    An anxious e'e I never throws
    Behint my lug, or by my nose;
    I jouk beneath misfortune's blows
                        As weel's I may;
    Sworn foe to sorrow, care, and prose,
                        I rhyme away.

    O ye douce folk, that live by rule,
    Grave, tideless-blooded, calm and cool,
    Compar'd wi' you--O fool! fool! fool!
                        How much unlike!
    Your hearts are just a standing pool,
                        Your lives a dyke!

    Nae hair-brain'd, sentimental traces,
    In your unletter'd nameless faces!
    In arioso trills and graces
                        Ye never stray,
    But gravissimo, solemn basses
                        Ye hum away.

    Ye are sae grave, nae doubt ye're wise;
    Nae ferly tho' ye do despise
    The hairum-scarum, ram-stam boys,
                        The rattling squad:
    I see you upward cast your eyes--
                        Ye ken the road--

    Whilst I--but I shall haud me there--
    Wi' you I'll scarce gang ony where--
    Then, Jamie, I shall say nae mair,
                        But quat my sang,
    Content wi' you to mak a pair,
                        Whare'er I gang.

       *       *       *       *       *

XXIV.

THE VISION.

DUAN FIRST.[19]

[The Vision and the Briggs of Ayr, are said by Jeffrey to be "the only pieces by Burns which
can be classed under the head of pure fiction:" but Tam O' Shanter and twenty other of his
compositions have an equal right to be classed with works of fiction. The edition of this poem
published at Kilmarnock, differs in some particulars from the edition which followed in Edinburgh.
The maiden whose foot was so handsome as to match that of Coila, was a Bess at first, but old
affection triumphed, and Jean, for whom the honour was from the first designed, regained her
place. The robe of Coila, too, was expanded, so far indeed that she got more cloth than she
could well carry.]

    The sun had clos'd the winter day,
    The curlers quat their roaring play,
    An' hunger'd maukin ta'en her way
                      To kail-yards green,
    While faithless snaws ilk step betray
                      Whare she has been.

    There, lanely, by the ingle-cheek,
    I sat and ey'd the spewing reek,
    That fill'd, wi' hoast-provoking smeek,
                      The auld clay biggin';
    An' heard the restless rattons squeak
                      About the riggin'.

    All in this mottie, misty clime,
    I backward mused on wastet time,
    How I had spent my youthfu' prime,
                      An' done nae thing,
    But stringin' blethers up in rhyme,
                      For fools to sing.

    Had I to guid advice but harkit,
    I might, by this hae led a market,
    Or strutted in a bank an' clarkit
                      My cash-account:
    While here, half-mad, half-fed, half-sarkit,
                      Is a' th' amount.

    I started, mutt'ring, blockhead! coof!
    And heav'd on high my waukit loof,
    To swear by a' yon starry roof,
                      Or some rash aith,
    That I, henceforth, would be rhyme-proof
                      Till my last breath--

    When, click! the string the snick did draw:
    And, jee! the door gaed to the wa';
    An' by my ingle-lowe I saw,
                      Now bleezin' bright,
    A tight outlandish hizzie, braw
                      Come full in sight.

    Ye need na doubt, I held my wisht;
    The infant aith, half-form'd, was crusht;
    I glowr'd as eerie's I'd been dusht
                      In some wild glen;
    When sweet, like modest worth, she blusht,
                      And stepped ben.

    Green, slender, leaf-clad holly-boughs
    Were twisted, gracefu', round her brows,
    I took her for some Scottish Muse,
                      By that same token;
    An' come to stop those reckless vows,
                      Wou'd soon be broken.

    A "hair-brain'd, sentimental trace"
    Was strongly marked in her face;
    A wildly-witty, rustic grace
                      Shone full upon her:
    Her eye, ev'n turn'd on empty space,
                      Beam'd keen with honour.

    Down flow'd her robe, a tartan sheen,
    'Till half a leg was scrimply seen:
    And such a leg! my bonnie Jean
                      Could only peer it;
    Sae straught, sae taper, tight, and clean,
                      Nane else came near it.

    Her mantle large, of greenish hue,
    My gazing wonder chiefly drew;
    Deep lights and shades, bold-mingling, threw
                      A lustre grand;
    And seem'd to my astonish'd view,
                      A well-known land.

    Here, rivers in the sea were lost;
    There, mountains to the skies were tost:
    Here, tumbling billows mark'd the coast,
                      With surging foam;
    There, distant shone Art's lofty boast,
                      The lordly dome.

    Here, Doon pour'd down his far-fetch'd floods;
    There, well-fed Irwine stately thuds:
    Auld hermit Ayr staw thro' his woods,
                      On to the shore;
    And many a lesser torrent scuds,
                      With seeming roar.

    Low, in a sandy valley spread,
    An ancient borough rear'd her head;
    Still, as in Scottish story read,
                      She boasts a race,
    To ev'ry nobler virtue bred,
                      And polish'd grace.

    By stately tow'r, or palace fair,
    Or ruins pendent in the air,
    Bold stems of heroes, here and there,
                      I could discern;
    Some seem'd to muse, some seem'd to dare,
                      With feature stern.

    My heart did glowing transport feel,
    To see a race[20] heroic wheel,
    And brandish round the deep-dy'd steel
                      In sturdy blows;
    While back-recoiling seem'd to reel
                      Their southron foes.

    His Country's Saviour,[21] mark him well!
    Bold Richardton's[22] heroic swell;
    The chief on Sark[23] who glorious fell,
                      In high command;
    And He whom ruthless fates expel
                      His native land.

    There, where a sceptr'd Pictish shade[24]
    Stalk'd round his ashes lowly laid,
    I mark'd a martial race portray'd
                      In colours strong;
    Bold, soldier-featur'd, undismay'd
                      They strode along.

    Thro' many a wild romantic grove,[25]
    Near many a hermit-fancy'd cove,
    (Fit haunts for friendship or for love,)
                      In musing mood,
    An aged judge, I saw him rove,
                      Dispensing good.

    With deep-struck, reverential awe,[26]
    The learned sire and son I saw,
    To Nature's God and Nature's law,
                      They gave their lore,
    This, all its source and end to draw;
                      That, to adore.

    Brydone's brave ward[27] I well could spy,
    Beneath old Scotia's smiling eye;
    Who call'd on Fame, low standing by,
                      To hand him on,
    Where many a Patriot-name on high
                      And hero shone.

       *       *       *       *       *

DUAN SECOND

    With musing-deep, astonish'd stare,
    I view'd the heavenly-seeming fair;
    A whisp'ring throb did witness bear
                      Of kindred sweet,
    When with an elder sister's air
                      She did me greet.

    "All hail! My own inspired bard!
    In me thy native Muse regard!
    Nor longer mourn thy fate is hard,
                      Thus poorly low!
    I come to give thee such reward
                      As we bestow.

    "Know, the great genius of this land,
    Has many a light aërial band,
    Who, all beneath his high command,
                      Harmoniously,
    As arts or arms they understand,
                      Their labours ply.

    "They Scotia's race among them share;
    Some fire the soldier on to dare;
    Some rouse the patriot up to bare
                      Corruption's heart.
    Some teach the bard, a darling care,
                      The tuneful art.

    "'Mong swelling floods of reeking gore,
    They, ardent, kindling spirits, pour;
    Or 'mid the venal senate's roar,
                      They, sightless, stand,
    To mend the honest patriot-lore,
                      And grace the hand.

    "And when the bard, or hoary sage,
    Charm or instruct the future age,
    They bind the wild, poetic rage
                      In energy,
    Or point the inconclusive page
                      Full on the eye.

    "To lower orders are assign'd
    The humbler ranks of human-kind,
    The rustic bard, the lab'ring hind,
                      The artisan;
    All choose, as various they're inclin'd
                      The various man.

    "When yellow waves the heavy grain,
    The threat'ning storm some, strongly, rein;
    Some teach to meliorate the plain,
                      With tillage-skill;
    And some instruct the shepherd-train,
                      Blythe o'er the hill.

    "Some hint the lover's harmless wile;
    Some grace the maiden's artless smile;
    Some soothe the lab'rer's weary toil,
                      For humble gains,
    And make his cottage-scenes beguile
                      His cares and pains.

    "Some, bounded to a district-space,
    Explore at large man's infant race,
    To mark the embryotic trace
                      Of rustic bard:
    And careful note each op'ning grace,
                      A guide and guard.

    "Of these am I--Coila my name;
    And this district as mine I claim,
    Where once the Campbells, chiefs of fame,
                      Held ruling pow'r:
    I mark'd thy embryo-tuneful flame,
                      Thy natal hour.

    "With future hope, I oft would gaze,
    Fond, on thy little early ways,
    Thy rudely carroll'd, chiming phrase,
                      In uncouth rhymes,
    Fir'd at the simple, artless lays
                      Of other times.

    "I saw thee seek the sounding shore,
    Delighted with the dashing roar;
    Or when the north his fleecy store
                      Drove through the sky,
    I saw grim Nature's visage hoar
                      Struck thy young eye.

    "Or when the deep green-mantled earth
    Warm cherish'd ev'ry flow'ret's birth,
    And joy and music pouring forth
                      In ev'ry grove,
    I saw thee eye the general mirth
                      With boundless love.

    "When ripen'd fields, and azure skies,
    Called forth the reaper's rustling noise,
    I saw thee leave their evening joys,
                      And lonely stalk,
    To vent thy bosom's swelling rise
                      In pensive walk.

    "When youthful love, warm-blushing, strong,
    Keen-shivering shot thy nerves along,
    Those accents, grateful to thy tongue,
                      Th' adored Name
    I taught thee how to pour in song,
                      To soothe thy flame.

    "I taught thy manners-painting strains,
    The loves, the ways of simple swains,
    Till now, o'er all my wide domains
                      Thy fame extends;
    And some, the pride of Coila's plains,
                      Become thy friends.

    "Thou canst not learn, nor can I show,
    To paint with Thomson's landscape glow;
    Or wake the bosom-melting throe,
                      With Shenstone's art;
    Or pour, with Gray, the moving flow,
                      Warm on the heart.

    "Yet, all beneath the unrivall'd rose,
    The lowly daisy sweetly blows;
    Tho' large the forest's monarch throws
                      His army shade,
    Yet green the juicy hawthorn grows,
                      Adown the glade.

    "Then never murmur nor repine;
    Strive in thy humble sphere to shine;
    And, trust me, not Potosi's mine,
                      Nor king's regard,
    Can give a bliss o'ermatching thine,
                      A rustic bard.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 19: Duan, a term of Ossian's for the different divisions of a digressive poem. See
his "Cath-Loda," vol. ii. of Macpherson's translation.]

[Footnote 20: The Wallaces.]

[Footnote 21: Sir William Wallace.]

[Footnote 22: Adam Wallace, of Richardton, cousin to the immortal preserver of Scottish independence.]

[Footnote 23: Wallace, Laird of Craigie, who was second in command under Douglas, Earl of Ormond,
at the famous battle on the banks of Sark, fought anno 1448. That glorious victory was principally
owing to the judicious conduct and intrepid valour of the gallant laird of Craigie, who died
of his wounds after the action.]

[Footnote 24: Coilus, king of the Picts, from whom the district of Kyle is said to take its
name, lies buried, as tradition says, near the family seat of the Montgomeries of Coilsfield,
where his burial-place is still shown.]

[Footnote 25: Barskimming, the seat of the late Lord Justice-Clerk (Sir Thomas Miller of Glenlee,
afterwards President of the Court of Session.)]

[Footnote 26: Catrine, the seat of Professor Dugald Steward.]

[Footnote 27: Colonel Fullarton.]

       *       *       *       *       *

XXV.

GOLDSMITH.

[This Poem contains a lively and striking picture of some of the superstitious observances
of old Scotland: on Halloween the desire to look into futurity was once all but universal in
the north; and the charms and spells which Burns describes, form but a portion of those employed
to enable the peasantry to have a peep up the dark vista of the future. The scene is laid on
the romantic shores of Ayr, at a farmer's fireside, and the actors in the rustic drama are
the whole household, including supernumerary reapers and bandsmen about to be discharged from
the engagements of harvest. "I never can help regarding this," says James Hogg, "as rather
a trivial poem!"]

    Upon that night, when fairies light
      On Cassilis Downans[29] dance,
    Or owre the lays, in splendid blaze,
      On sprightly coursers prance;
    Or for Colean the rout is ta'en,
      Beneath the moon's pale beams;
    There, up the Cove,[30] to stray an' rove
      Amang the rocks an' streams
                      To sport that night.

    Amang the bonnie winding banks
      Where Doon rins, wimplin', clear,
    Where Bruce[31] ance rul'd the martial ranks,
      An' shook his Carrick spear,
    Some merry, friendly, countra folks,
      Together did convene,
    To burn their nits, an' pou their stocks,
      An' haud their Halloween
                      Fu' blythe that night.

    The lasses feat, an' cleanly neat,
      Mair braw than when they're fine;
    Their faces blythe, fu' sweetly kythe,
      Hearts leal, an' warm, an' kin';
    The lads sae trig, wi' wooer babs,
      Weel knotted on their garten,
    Some unco blate, an' some wi' gabs,
      Gar lasses' hearts gang startin'
                      Whiles fast at night.

    Then, first and foremost, thro' the kail,
      Their stocks[32] maun a' be sought ance;
    They steek their een, an' graip an' wale,
      For muckle anes an' straught anes.
    Poor hav'rel Will fell aff the drift,
      An' wander'd through the bow-kail,
    An' pou't, for want o' better shift,
      A runt was like a sow-tail,
                      Sae bow't that night.

    Then, straught or crooked, yird or nane,
      They roar an' cry a' throu'ther;
    The vera wee-things, todlin', rin
      Wi' stocks out-owre their shouther;
    An' gif the custoc's sweet or sour,
      Wi' joctelegs they taste them;
    Syne coziely, aboon the door,
      Wi' cannie care, they've placed them
                      To lie that night.

    The lasses staw frae mang them a'
      To pou their stalks o' corn;[33]
    But Rab slips out, an' jinks about,
      Behint the muckle thorn:
    He grippet Nelly hard an' fast;
      Loud skirl'd a' the lasses;
    But her tap-pickle maist was lost,
      When kiuttlin' in the fause-house[34]
                      Wi' him that night.

    Poor Willie, wi' his bow-kail runt,
    Was brunt wi' primsie Mallie;
    An' Mallie, nae doubt, took the drunt,
    To be compar'd to Willie;
    Mall's nit lap out wi' pridefu' fling,
    An' her ain fit it brunt it;
    While Willie lap, and swoor, by jing,
    'Twas just the way he wanted
                      To be that night.

    Nell had the fause-house in her min',
    She pits hersel an' Rob in;
    In loving bleeze they sweetly join,
    'Till white in ase they're sobbin';
    Nell's heart, was dancin' at the view,
    She whisper'd Rob to leuk for't:
    Rob, stowlins, prie'd her bonie mou',
    Fu' cozie in the neuk for't,
                      Unseen that night.

    But Merran sat behint their backs,
    Her thoughts on Andrew Bell;
    She lea'es them gashin' at their cracks,
    And slips out by hersel':
    She through the yard the nearest taks,
    An' to the kiln she goes then,
    An' darklins graipit for the bauks,
    And in the blue-clue[36] throws then,
                      Right fear't that night.
    But whether 'twas the Deil himsel',
    Or whether 'twas a bauk-en',
    Or whether it was Andrew Bell,
    She did na wait on talkin'
                      To spier that night.

    Wee Jenny to her graunie says,
    "Will ye go wi' me, graunie?

    "Ae hairst afore the Sherra-moor,
    I mind't as weel's yestreen,
    I was a gilpey then, I'm sure
    I was na past fifteen:
    The simmer had been cauld an' wat,
    An' stuff was unco green;
    An' ay a rantin' kirn we gat,
    An' just on Halloween
                      It fell that night.

    "Our stibble-rig was Rab M'Graen,
      A clever, sturdy fellow:
    He's sin gat Eppie Sim wi' wean,
      That liv'd in Achmacalla:
    He gat hemp-seed,[38] I mind it weel,
      And he made unco light o't;
    But monie a day was by himsel',
      He was sae sairly frighted
                      That vera night."

    Then up gat fechtin' Jamie Fleck,
      An' he swoor by his conscience,
    That he could saw hemp-seed a peck;
      For it was a' but nonsense;
    The auld guidman raught down the pock,
      An' out a' handfu' gied him;
    Syne bad him slip frae 'mang the folk,
      Sometime when nae ane see'd him,
                      An' try't that night.

    He marches thro' amang the stacks,
      Tho' he was something sturtin;
    The graip he for a harrow taks,
      An' haurls at his curpin;
    An' ev'ry now an' then he says,
      "Hemp-seed, I saw thee,
    An' her that is to be my lass,
      Come after me, an' draw thee
                      As fast that night."

    He whistl'd up Lord Lennox' march,
      To keep his courage cheery;
    Altho' his hair began to arch,
      He was sae fley'd an' eerie;
    'Till presently he hears a squeak,
      An' then a grane an' gruntle;
    He by his shouther gae a keek,
      An' tumbl'd wi' a wintle
                      Out-owre that night.

    He roar'd a horrid murder-shout,
      In dreadfu' desperation!
    An' young an' auld cam rinnin' out,
      An' hear the sad narration;
    He swoor 'twas hilchin Jean M'Craw,
      Or crouchie Merran Humphie,
    'Till, stop! she trotted thro' them a';
      An' wha was it but Grumphie
                      Asteer that night!

    Meg fain wad to the barn hae gaen,
      To win three wechts o' naething;[39]
    But for to meet the deil her lane,
      She pat but little faith in:
    She gies the herd a pickle nits,
      An' twa red cheekit apples,
    To watch, while for the barn she sets,
      In hopes to see Tam Kipples
                      That vera night.

    She turns the key wi' cannie thraw,
      An' owre the threshold ventures;
    But first on Sawnie gies a ca',
      Syne bauldly in she enters:
    A ratton rattled up the wa',
      An' she cried, L--d preserve her!
    An' ran thro' midden-hole an' a',
      An' pray'd wi' zeal and fervour,
                      Fu' fast that night.

    They hoy't out Will, wi sair advice;
      They hecht him some fine braw ane;
    It chanc'd the stack he faddom't thrice,[40]
      Was timmer-propt for thrawin';
    He taks a swirlie auld moss-oak,
      For some black, grousome carlin;
    An' loot a winze, an' drew a stroke,
      'Till skin in blypes cam haurlin'
                      Aff's nieves that night.

    A wanton widow Leezie was,
      As canty as a kittlin;
    But, och! that night, amang the shaws,
      She got a fearfu' settlin'!
    She thro' the whins, an' by the cairn,
      An' owre the hill gaed scrievin,
    Whare three lairds' lands met at a burn,[41]
      To dip her left sark-sleeve in,
                      Was bent that night.

    In order, on the clean hearth-stane,
      The luggies three[42] are ranged,
    And ev'ry time great care is ta'en,
      To see them duly changed:
    Auld uncle John, wha wedlock's joys
      Sin Mar's-year did desire,
    Because he gat the toom-dish thrice,
      He heav'd them on the fire
                      In wrath that night.

    Wi' merry sangs, and friendly cracks,
      I wat they did na weary;
    An' unco tales, an' funnie jokes,
      Their sports were cheap an' cheery;
    Till butter'd so'ns[43] wi' fragrant lunt,
      Set a' their gabs a-steerin';
    Syne, wi' a social glass o' strunt,
      They parted aff careerin'
                      Fu' blythe that night.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 28: Is thought to be a night when witches, devils, and other mischief-making beings
are all abroad on their baneful midnight errands: particularly those aërial people, the Fairies,
are said on that night to hold a grand anniversary.]

[Footnote 29: Certain little, romantic, rocky green hills, in the neighbourhood of the ancient
seat of the Earls of Cassilis.]

[Footnote 30: A noted cavern near Colean-house, called the Cove of Colean which, as well as
Cassilis Downans, is famed in country story for being a favourite haunt of fairies.]

[Footnote 31: The famous family of that name, the ancestors of Robert, the great deliverer
of his country, were Earls of Carrick.]

[Footnote 32: The first ceremony of Halloween is pulling each a stock, or plant of kail. They
must go out, hand-in-hand, with eyes shut, and pull the first they meet with: its being big
or little, straight or crooked, is prophetic of the size and shape of the grand object of all
their spells--the husband or wife. If any yird, or earth, stick to the root, that is tocher,
or fortune; and the taste of the custoc, that is, the heart of the stem, is indicative of the
natural temper and disposition. Lastly, the stems, or, to give them their ordinary appellation,
the runts, are placed somewhere above the head of the door; and the Christian names of the
people whom chance brings into the house are, according to the priority of placing the runts,
the names in question.]

[Footnote 33: They go to the barn-yard, and pull each at three several times, a stalk of oats.
If the third stalk wants the top-pickle, that is, the grain at the top of the stalk, the party
in question will come to the marriage-bed anything but a maid.]

[Footnote 34: When the corn is in a doubtful state, by being too green or wet, the stack-builder,
by means of old timber, &c., makes a large apartment in his stack, with an opening in the side
which is fairest exposed to the wind: this he calls a fause-house.]

[Footnote 35: Burning the nuts is a famous charm. They name the lad and lass to each particular
nut, as they lay them in the fire, and according as they burn quietly together, or start from
beside one another, the course and issue of the courtship will be.]

[Footnote 36: Whoever would, with success, try this spell, must strictly observe these directions:
Steal out, all alone, to the kiln, and, darkling, throw into the pot a clue of blue yarn; wind
it in a clue off the old one; and towards the latter end, something will hold the thread; demand
"wha hauds?" i.e. who holds? an answer will be returned from the kiln-pot, naming the Christian
and surname of your future spouse.]

[Footnote 37: Take a candle, and go alone to a looking-glass; eat an apple before it, and some
traditions say, you should comb your hair all the time; the face of your conjugal companion,
to be, will be seen in the glass, as if peeping over your shoulder.]

[Footnote 38: Steal out unperceived, and sow a handful of hemp-seed, harrowing it with anything
you can conveniently draw after you. Look over your left shoulder, and you will see the appearance
of the person invoked, in the attitude of pulling hemp. Some traditions say, "Come after me,
and shaw thee," that is, show thyself; in which case it simply appears. Others omit the harrowing,
and say, "Come after me, and harrow thee."]

[Footnote 39: This charm must likewise be performed, unperceived, and alone. You go to the
barn, and open both doors, taking them off the hinges, if possible; for there is danger that
the being about to appear may shut the doors and do you some mischief. Then take that instrument
used in winnowing the corn, which, in our country dialect, we call a wecht; and go through
all the attitudes of letting down corn against the wind. Repeat it three times; and the third
time, an apparition will pass through the barn, in at the windy door, and out at the other,
having both the figure in question, and the appearance or retinue marking the employment or
station in life.]

[Footnote 40: Take an opportunity of going unnoticed, to a bean stack, and fathom it three
times round. The last fathom of the last time, you will catch in your arms the appearance of
your future conjugal yoke-fellow.]

[Footnote 41: You go out, one or more, for this is a social spell, to a south running spring
or rivulet, where "three lairds' lands meet," and dip your left shirt-sleeve. Go to bed in
sight of a fire, and hang your wet sleeve before it to dry. Lie awake: and, some time near
midnight, an apparition having the exact figure of the grand object in question, will come
and turn the sleeve, as if to dry the other side of it.]

[Footnote 42: Take three dishes: put clean water in one, foul water in another, and leave the
third empty; blindfold a person and lead him to the hearth where the dishes are ranged; he
(or she) dips the left hand: if by chance in the clean water, the future husband or wife will
come to the bar of matrimony a maid; if in the foul, a widow; if in the empty dish, it foretells,
with equal certainty, no marriage at all. It is repeated three times, and every time the arrangement
of the dishes is altered.]

[Footnote 43: Sowens, with butter instead of milk to them, is always the Halloween supper.]

       *       *       *       *       *

XXVI.

MAN WAS MADE TO MOURN.

A DIRGE. From that truly venerable woman, long after the death of her distinguished son, Cromek,
in collecting the Reliques, obtained a copy by recitation of the older strain. Though the tone
and sentiment coincide closely with "Man was made to Mourn," I agree with Lockhart, that Burns
wrote it in obedience to his own habitual feelings.]

    When chill November's surly blast
      Made fields and forests bare,
    One ev'ning as I wandered forth
      Along the banks of Ayr,
    I spy'd a man whose aged step
      Seem'd weary, worn with care;
    His face was furrow'd o'er with years,
      And hoary was his hair.

    "Young stranger, whither wand'rest thou?"
      Began the rev'rend sage;
    "Does thirst of wealth thy step constrain,
      Or youthful pleasure's rage?
    Or haply, prest with cares and woes,
      Too soon thou hast began
    To wander forth, with me to mourn
      The miseries of man.

    "The sun that overhangs yon moors,
      Out-spreading far and wide,
    Where hundreds labour to support
      A haughty lordling's pride:
    I've seen yon weary winter-sun
      Twice forty times return,
    And ev'ry time had added proofs
      That man was made to mourn.

    "O man! while in thy early years,
      How prodigal of time!
    Misspending all thy precious hours,
      Thy glorious youthful prime!
    Alternate follies take the sway;
      Licentious passions burn;
    Which tenfold force gives nature's law,
      That man was made to mourn.

    "Look not alone on youthful prime,
      Or manhood's active might;
    Man then is useful to his kind,
      Supported in his right:
    But see him on the edge of life,
      With cares and sorrows worn;
    Then age and want--oh! ill-match'd pair!--
      Show man was made to mourn.

    "A few seem favorites of fate,
      In pleasure's lap carest:
    Yet, think not all the rich and great
      Are likewise truly blest.
    But, oh! what crowds in every land,
      All wretched and forlorn!
    Thro' weary life this lesson learn--
      That man was made to mourn.

    "If I'm design'd yon lordling's slave--
      By Nature's law design'd--
    Why was an independent wish
      E'er planted in my mind?
    If not, why am I subject to
      His cruelty or scorn?
    Or why has man the will and power
      To make his fellow mourn?

    "Yet, let not this too much, my son,
      Disturb thy youthful breast;
    This partial view of human-kind
      Is surely not the best!

    "O Death! the poor man's dearest friend--
      The kindest and the best!
    Welcome the hour, my aged limbs
      Are laid with thee at rest!
    The great, the wealthy, fear thy blow,
      From pomp and pleasure torn!
    But, oh! a blest relief to those
      That weary-laden mourn."

       *       *       *       *       *

XXVII.

TO RUIN. The fragment, To Ruin, seems to have had its origin in moments such as these.]

I.

    All hail! inexorable lord!
    At whose destruction-breathing word,
      The mightiest empires fall!
    Thy cruel, woe-delighted train,
    The ministers of grief and pain,
      A sullen welcome, all!
    With stern-resolv'd, despairing eye,
      I see each aimed dart;
    For one has cut my dearest tie,
      And quivers in my heart.
        Then low'ring and pouring,
          The storm no more I dread;
        Though thick'ning and black'ning,
          Round my devoted head.

II.

    And thou grim pow'r, by life abhorr'd,
    While life a pleasure can afford,
      Oh! hear a wretch's prayer!
    No more I shrink appall'd, afraid;
    I court, I beg thy friendly aid,
      To close this scene of care!
    When shall my soul, in silent peace,
      Resign life's joyless day;
    My weary heart its throbbings cease,
      Cold mould'ring in the clay?
        No fear more, no tear more,
          To stain my lifeless face;
        Enclasped, and grasped
          Within thy cold embrace!

       *       *       *       *       *

XXVIII.

TO

JOHN GOUDIE OF KILMARNOCK.

ON THE PUBLICATION OF HIS ESSAYS

[This burning commentary, by Burns, on the Essays of Goudie in the Macgill controversy, was
first published by Stewart, with the Jolly Beggars, in 1801; it is akin in life and spirit
to Holy Willie's Prayer; and may be cited as a sample of the wit and the force which the poet
brought to the great, but now forgotten, controversy of the West.]

    O Goudie! terror of the Whigs,
    Dread of black coats and rev'rend wigs,
    Sour Bigotry, on her last legs,
                      Girnin', looks back,
    Wishin' the ten Egyptian plagues
                      Wad seize you quick.

    Poor gapin', glowrin' Superstition,
    Waes me! she's in a sad condition:
    Fie! bring Black Jock, her state physician,
                      To see her water:
    Alas! there's ground o' great suspicion
                      She'll ne'er get better.

    Auld Orthodoxy lang did grapple,
    But now she's got an unco ripple;
    Haste, gie her name up i' the chapel,
                      Nigh unto death;
    See, how she fetches at the thrapple,
                      An' gasps for breath.

    Enthusiasm's past redemption,
    Gaen in a gallopin' consumption,
    Not a' the quacks, wi' a' their gumption,
                      Will ever mend her.
    Her feeble pulse gies strong presumption
                      Death soon will end her.

    'Tis you and Taylor[44] are the chief,
    Wha are to blame for this mischief,
    But gin the Lord's ain focks gat leave,
                      A toom tar-barrel,
    An' twa red peats wad send relief,
                      An' end the quarrel.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 44: Dr. Taylor, of Norwich.]

       *       *       *       *       *

XXIX.

TO

J. LAPRAIK.

AN OLD SCOTTISH BARD.

April 1st, 1785.

(FIRST EPISTLE.)

["The epistle to John Lapraik," says Gilbert Burns, "was produced exactly on the occasion described
by the author. Rocking is a term derived from primitive times, when our country-women employed
their spare hours in spinning on the roke or distaff. This simple instrument is a very portable
one; and well fitted to the social inclination of meeting in a neighbour's house; hence the
phrase of going a rocking, or with the roke. As the connexion the phrase had with the implement
was forgotten when the roke gave place to the spinning-wheel, the phrase came to be used by
both sexes on social occasions, and men talk of going with their rokes as well as women."]

    While briers an' woodbines budding green,
    An' paitricks scraichin' loud at e'en,
    An' morning poussie whidden seen,
                      Inspire my muse,
    This freedom in an unknown frien'
                      I pray excuse.

    On Fasten-een we had a rockin',
    To ca' the crack and weave our stockin',
    And there was muckle fun an' jokin',
                      Ye need na doubt;
    At length we had a hearty yokin'
                      At sang about.

    There was ae sang, amang the rest,
    Aboon them a' it pleas'd me best,
    That some kind husband had addrest
                      To some sweet wife;
    It thirl'd the heart-strings thro' the breast,
                      A' to the life.

    I've scarce heard aught describ'd sae weel,
    What gen'rous manly bosoms feel,
    Thought I, "Can this be Pope or Steele,
                      Or Beattie's wark?"
    They told me 'twas an odd kind chiel
                      About Muirkirk.

    It pat me fidgin-fain to hear't,
    And sae about him there I spier't,
    Then a' that ken't him round declar'd
                      He had injine,
    That, nane excell'd it, few cam near't,
                      It was sae fine.

    That, set him to a pint of ale,
    An' either douce or merry tale,
    Or rhymes an' sangs he'd made himsel',
                      Or witty catches,
    'Tween Inverness and Tiviotdale,
                      He had few matches.

    Then up I gat, an' swoor an aith,
    Tho' I should pawn my pleugh and graith,
    Or die a cadger pownie's death
                      At some dyke-back,
    A pint an' gill I'd gie them baith
                      To hear your crack.

    But, first an' foremost, I should tell,
    Amaist as soon as I could spell,
    I to the crambo-jingle fell,
                      Tho' rude an' rough,
    Yet crooning to a body's sel',
                      Does weel eneugh.
    Whene'er my Muse does on me glance,
                      I jingle at her.

    Your critic-folk may cock their nose,
    And say, "How can you e'er propose,
    You, wha ken hardly verse frae prose,
                      To mak a sang?"
    But, by your leaves, my learned foes,
                      Ye're may-be wrang.

    What's a' your jargon o' your schools,
    Your Latin names for horns an' stools;
    If honest nature made you fools,
                      What sairs your grammars?
    Ye'd better taen up spades and shools,
                      Or knappin-hammers.

    O for a spunk o' Allan's glee,
    Or Fergusson's, the bauld and slee,
    Or bright Lapraik's, my friend to be,
                      If I can hit it!
    That would be lear eneugh for me,
                      If I could get it.

    Now, sir, if ye hae friends enow,
    Tho' real friends, I b'lieve, are few,
    Yet, if your catalogue be fou,
                      I'se no insist,
    But gif ye want ae friend that's true--
                      I'm on your list.

    I winna blaw about mysel;
    As ill I like my fauts to tell;
    But friends an' folk that wish me well,
                      They sometimes roose me;
    Tho' I maun own, as monie still
                      As far abuse me.

    There's ae wee faut they whiles lay to me,
    I like the lasses--Gude forgie me!
    For monie a plack they wheedle frae me,
                      At dance or fair;
    May be some ither thing they gie me
                      They weel can spare.

    But Mauchline race, or Mauchline fair;
    I should be proud to meet you there!
    We'se gie ae night's discharge to care,
                      If we forgather,
    An' hae a swap o' rhymin'-ware
                      Wi' ane anither.

    The four-gill chap, we'se gar him clatter,
    An' kirsen him wi' reekin' water;
    Syne we'll sit down an' tak our whitter,
                      To cheer our heart;
    An' faith, we'se be acquainted better,
                      Before we part.

    Awa, ye selfish, warly race,
    Wha think that havins, sense, an' grace,
    Ev'n love an' friendship, should give place
                      To catch-the-plack!
    I dinna like to see your face,
                      Nor hear your crack.

    But ye whom social pleasure charms,
    Whose hearts the tide of kindness warms,
    Who hold your being on the terms,
                      "Each aid the others,"
    Come to my bowl, come to my arms,
                      My friends, my brothers!

    But, to conclude my lang epistle,
    As my auld pen's worn to the grissle;
    Twa lines frae you wad gar me fissle,
                      Who am, most fervent,
    While I can either sing or whissle,
                      Your friend and servant.

       *       *       *       *       *

XXX.

To

J. LAPRAIK.

(SECOND EPISTLE.)

[The John Lapraik to whom these epistles are addressed lived at Dalfram in the neighbourhood
of Muirkirk, and was a rustic worshipper of the Muse: he unluckily, however, involved himself
in that Western bubble, the Ayr Bank, and consoled himself by composing in his distress that
song which moved the heart of Burns, beginning

    "When I upon thy bosom lean."

He afterwards published a volume of verse, of a quality which proved that the inspiration in
his song of domestic sorrow was no settled power of soul.]

April 21st, 1785.

    While new-ca'd ky, rowte at the stake,
    An' pownies reek in pleugh or braik,
    This hour on e'enin's edge I take
                      To own I'm debtor,
    To honest-hearted, auld Lapraik,
                      For his kind letter.

    Forjesket sair, wi' weary legs,
    Rattlin' the corn out-owre the rigs,
    Or dealing thro' amang the naigs
                      Their ten hours' bite,
    My awkart muse sair pleads and begs,
                      I would na write.

    The tapetless ramfeezl'd hizzie,
    She's saft at best, and something lazy,
    Quo' she, "Ye ken, we've been sae busy,
                      This month' an' mair,
    That trouth, my head is grown right dizzie,
                      An' something sair."

    Her dowff excuses pat me mad:
    "Conscience," says I, "ye thowless jad!
    I'll write, an' that a hearty blaud,
                      This vera night;
    So dinna ye affront your trade,
                      But rhyme it right.

    "Shall bauld Lapraik, the king o' hearts,
    Tho' mankind were a pack o' cartes,
    Roose you sae weel for your deserts,
                      In terms sae friendly,
    Yet ye'll neglect to show your parts,
                      An' thank him kindly?"

    Sae I gat paper in a blink
    An' down gaed stumpie in the ink:
    Quoth I, "Before I sleep a wink,
                      I vow I'll close it;
    An' if ye winna mak it clink,
                      By Jove I'll prose it!"

    Sae I've begun to scrawl, but whether
    In rhyme or prose, or baith thegither,
    Or some hotch-potch that's rightly neither,
                      Let time mak proof;
    But I shall scribble down some blether
                      Just clean aff-loof.

    My worthy friend, ne'er grudge an' carp,
    Tho' fortune use you hard an' sharp;
    Come, kittle up your moorland-harp
                      Wi' gleesome touch!
    Ne'er mind how fortune waft an' warp;
                      She's but a b--tch.

    She's gien me monie a jirt an' fleg,
    Sin' I could striddle owre a rig;
    But, by the L--d, tho' I should beg
                      Wi' lyart pow,
    I'll laugh, an' sing, an' shake my leg,
                      As lang's I dow!

    Now comes the sax an' twentieth simmer,
    I've seen the bud upo' the timmer,
    Still persecuted by the limmer
                      Frae year to year;
    But yet despite the kittle kimmer,
                      I, Rob, am here.

    Do ye envy the city gent,
    Behint a kist to lie and sklent,
    Or purse-proud, big wi' cent. per cent.
                      And muckle wame,
    In some bit brugh to represent
                      A bailie's name?

    Or is't the paughty, feudal Thane,
    Wi' ruffl'd sark an' glancing cane,
    Wha thinks himsel nae sheep-shank bane,
                      But lordly stalks,
    While caps and bonnets aff are taen,
                      As by he walks!

    "O Thou wha gies us each guid gift!
    Gie me o' wit an' sense a lift,
    Then turn me, if Thou please, adrift,
                      Thro' Scotland wide;
    Wi' cits nor lairds I wadna shift,
                      In a' their pride!"

    Were this the charter of our state,
    "On pain' o' hell be rich an' great,"
    Damnation then would be our fate,
                      Beyond remead;
    But, thanks to Heav'n, that's no the gate
                      We learn our creed.

    For thus the royal mandate ran,
    When first the human race began,
    "The social, friendly, honest man,
                      Whate'er he be,
    'Tis he fulfils great Nature's plan,
                      An' none but he!"

    O mandate, glorious and divine!
    The followers o' the ragged Nine,
    Poor thoughtless devils! yet may shine
                      In glorious light,
    While sordid sons o' Mammon's line
                      Are dark as night.

    Tho' here they scrape, an' squeeze, an' growl,
    Their worthless nievfu' of a soul
    May in some future carcase howl
                      The forest's fright;
    Or in some day-detesting owl
                      May shun the light.

    Then may Lapraik and Burns arise,
    To reach their native kindred skies,
    And sing their pleasures, hopes, an' joys,
                      In some mild sphere,
    Still closer knit in friendship's ties
                      Each passing year!

       *       *       *       *       *

XXXI.

TO

J. LAPRAIK.

(THIRD EPISTLE.)

[I have heard one of our most distinguished English poets recite with a sort of ecstasy some
of the verses of these epistles, and praise the ease of the language and the happiness of the
thoughts. He averred, however, that the poet, when pinched for a word, hesitated not to coin
one, and instanced, "tapetless," "ramfeezled," and "forjesket," as intrusions in our dialect.
These words seem indeed, to some Scotchmen, strange and uncouth, but they are true words of
the west.]

Sept. 13th, 1785.

    Guid speed an' furder to you, Johnny,
    Guid health, hale han's, an' weather bonny;
    Now when ye're nickan down fu' canny
                      The staff o' bread,
    May ye ne'er want a stoup o' bran'y
                      To clear your head.

    May Boreas never thresh your rigs,
    Nor kick your rickles aff their legs,
    Sendin' the stuff o'er muirs an' haggs
                      Like drivin' wrack;
    But may the tapmast grain that wags
                      Come to the sack.

    I'm bizzie too, an' skelpin' at it,
    But bitter, daudin' showers hae wat it,
    Sae my auld stumpie pen I gat it
                      Wi' muckle wark,
    An' took my jocteleg an' whatt it,
                      Like ony clark.

    It's now twa month that I'm your debtor
    For your braw, nameless, dateless letter,
    Abusin' me for harsh ill nature
                      On holy men,
    While deil a hair yoursel' ye're better,
                      But mair profane.

    But let the kirk-folk ring their bells,
    Let's sing about our noble sel's;
    We'll cry nae jads frae heathen hills
                      To help, or roose us,
    But browster wives an' whiskey stills,
                      They are the muses.

    Your friendship, Sir, I winna quat it
    An' if ye mak' objections at it,
    Then han' in nieve some day we'll knot it,
                      An' witness take,
    An' when wi' Usquabae we've wat it
                      It winna break.

    But if the beast and branks be spar'd
    Till kye be gaun without the herd,
    An' a' the vittel in the yard,
                      An' theekit right,
    I mean your ingle-side to guard
                      Ae winter night.

    Then muse-inspirin' aqua-vitæ
    Shall make us baith sae blythe an' witty,
    Till ye forget ye're auld an' gatty,
                      An' be as canty,
    As ye were nine year less than thretty,
                      Sweet ane an' twenty!

    But stooks are cowpet wi' the blast,
    An' now the sin keeks in the west,
    Then I maun rin amang the rest
                      An' quat my chanter;
    Sae I subscribe myself in haste,
                      Yours, Rab the Ranter.

       *       *       *       *       *

XXXII.

TO

WILLIAM SIMPSON,

OCHILTREE.

[The person to whom this epistle is addressed, was schoolmaster of Ochiltree, and afterwards
of New Lanark: he was a writer of verses too, like many more of the poet's comrades;--of verses
which rose not above the barren level of mediocrity: "one of his poems," says Chambers, "was
a laughable elegy on the death of the Emperor Paul." In his verses to Burns, under the name
of a Tailor, there is nothing to laugh at, though they are intended to be laughable as well
as monitory.]

May, 1785.

    I gat your letter, winsome Willie;
    Wi' gratefu' heart I thank you brawlie;
    Tho' I maun say't, I wad be silly,
                      An' unco vain,
    Should I believe, my coaxin' billie,
                      Your flatterin' strain.

    But I'se believe ye kindly meant it,
    I sud be laith to think ye hinted
    Ironic satire, sidelins sklented
                      On my poor Musie;
    Tho' in sic phraisin' terms ye've penn'd it,
                      I scarce excuse ye.

    My senses wad be in a creel,
    Should I but dare a hope to speel,
    Wi' Allan, or wi' Gilbertfield,
                      The braes o' fame;
    Or Fergusson, the writer chiel,
                      A deathless name.

    (O Fergusson! thy glorious parts
    Ill suited law's dry, musty arts!
    My curse upon your whunstane hearts,
                      Ye Enbrugh gentry!
    The tythe o' what ye waste at cartes
                      Wad stow'd his pantry!)

    Yet when a tale comes i' my head,
    Or lasses gie my heart a screed,
    As whiles they're like to be my dead
                      (O sad disease!)
    I kittle up my rustic reed,
                      It gies me ease.

    Auld Coila, now, may fidge fu' fain,
    She's gotten poets o' her ain,
    Chiels wha their chanters winna hain,
                      But tune their lays,
    Till echoes a' resound again
                      Her weel-sung praise.

    Nae poet thought her worth his while,
    To set her name in measur'd stile;
    She lay like some unkenn'd-of isle
                      Beside New-Holland,
    Or whare wild-meeting oceans boil
                      Besouth Magellan.

    Th' Ilissus, Tiber, Thames, an' Seine,
    Glide sweet in monie a tunefu' line!
    But, Willie, set your fit to mine,
                      An' cock your crest,
    We'll gar our streams an' burnies shine
                      Up wi' the best.

    We'll sing auld Coila's plains an' fells,
    Her moor's red-brown wi' heather bells,
    Her banks an' braes, her dens an' dells,
                      Where glorious Wallace
    Aft bure the gree, as story tells,
                      Frae southron billies.

    Ev'n winter bleak has charms to me
    When winds rave thro' the naked tree;
    Or frosts on hills of Ochiltree
                      Are hoary gray:
    Or blinding drifts wild-furious flee,
                      Dark'ning the day.

    O Nature! a' thy shews an' forms
    To feeling, pensive hearts hae charms!

    The warly race may drudge an' drive,
    Hog-shouther, jundie, stretch an' strive,
    Let me fair Nature's face descrive,
                      And I, wi' pleasure,
    Shall let the busy, grumbling hive
                      Bum owre their treasure.

    Fareweel, my "rhyme-composing brither!"
    We've been owre lang unkenn'd to ither:
    Now let us lay our heads thegither,
                      In love fraternal;
    May envy wallop in a tether,
                      Black fiend, infernal!

    While Highlandmen hate tolls an' taxes;
    While moorlan' herds like guid fat braxies;
    While terra firma, on her axes
                      Diurnal turns,
    Count on a friend, in faith an' practice,
                      In Robert Burns.

POSTSCRIPT

    My memory's no worth a preen:
    I had amaist forgotten clean,
    Ye bade me write you what they mean,
                      By this New Light,
    'Bout which our herds sae aft hae been,
                      Maist like to fight.

    In days when mankind were but callans,
    At grammar, logic, an' sic talents,
    They took nae pains their speech to balance,
                      Or rules to gie,
    But spak their thoughts in plain, braid Lallans,
                      Like you or me.

    In thae auld times, they thought the moon,
    Just like a sark, or pair o' shoon,
    Wore by degrees, 'till her last roon,
                      Gaed past their viewing,
    An' shortly after she was done,
                      They gat a new one.

    This past for certain--undisputed;
    It ne'er cam i' their heads to doubt it,
    'Till chiels gat up an' wad confute it,
                      An' ca'd it wrang;
    An' muckle din there was about it,
                      Baith loud an' lang.

    Some herds, weel learn'd upo' the beuk,
    Wad threap auld folk the thing misteuk;
    For 'twas the auld moon turned a neuk,
                      An' out o' sight,
    An' backlins-comin', to the leuk,
                      She grew mair bright.

    This was deny'd, it was affirm'd;
    The herds an' hissels were alarm'd:
    The rev'rend gray-beards rav'd and storm'd
                      That beardless laddies
    Should think they better were inform'd
                      Than their auld daddies.

    Frae less to mair it gaed to sticks;
    Frae words an' aiths to clours an' nicks,
    An' monie a fallow gat his licks,
                      Wi' hearty crunt;
    An' some, to learn them for their tricks,
                      Were hang'd an' brunt.

    This game was play'd in monie lands,
    An' Auld Light caddies bure sic hands,
    That, faith, the youngsters took the sands
                      Wi' nimble shanks,
    'Till lairds forbade, by strict commands,
                      Sic bluidy pranks.

    But New Light herds gat sic a cowe,
    Folk thought them ruin'd stick-an'-stowe,
    Till now amaist on every knowe,
                      Ye'll find ane plac'd;
    An' some their New Light fair avow,
                      Just quite barefac'd.

    Nae doubt the Auld Light flocks are bleatin';
    Their zealous herds are vex'd an' sweatin':
    Mysel', I've even seen them greetin'
                      Wi' girnin' spite,
    To hear the moon sae sadly lie'd on
                      By word an' write.

    But shortly they will cowe the loons;
    Some Auld Light herds in neibor towns
    Are mind't in things they ca' balloons,
                      To tak a flight,
    An' stay ae month amang the moons
                      And see them right.

    Guid observation they will gie them:
    An' when the auld moon's gaun to lea'e them,
    The hindmost shaird, they'll fetch it wi' them,
                      Just i' their pouch,
    An' when the New Light billies see them,
                      I think they'll crouch!

    Sae, ye observe that a' this clatter
    Is naething but a "moonshine matter;"
    But tho' dull prose-folk Latin splatter
                      In logic tulzie,
    I hope we bardies ken some better
                      Than mind sic brulzie.

       *       *       *       *       *

XXXIII.

ADDRESS

TO AN

ILLEGITIMATE CHILD.

[This hasty and not very decorous effusion, was originally entitled "The Poet's Welcome; or,
Rab the Rhymer's Address to his Bastard Child." A copy, with the more softened, but less expressive
title, was published by Stewart, in 1801, and is alluded to by Burns himself, in his biographical
letter to Moore. "Bonnie Betty," the mother of the "sonsie-smirking, dear-bought Bess," of
the Inventory, lived in Largieside: to support this daughter the poet made over the copyright
of his works when he proposed to go to the West Indies. She lived to be a woman, and to marry
one John Bishop, overseer at Polkemmet, where she died in 1817. It is said she resembled Burns
quite as much as any of the rest of his children.]

    Thou's welcome, wean, mischanter fa' me,
    If ought of thee, or of thy mammy,
    Shall ever daunton me, or awe me,
                      My sweet wee lady,
    Or if I blush when thou shalt ca' me
                      Tit-ta or daddy.

    Wee image of my bonny Betty,
    I, fatherly, will kiss and daut thee,
    As dear and near my heart I set thee
                      Wi' as gude will
    As a' the priests had seen me get thee
                      That's out o' hell.

    What tho' they ca' me fornicator,
    An' tease my name in kintry clatter:
    The mair they talk I'm kent the better,
                      E'en let them clash;
    An auld wife's tongue's a feckless matter
                      To gie ane fash.

    Sweet fruit o' mony a merry dint,
    My funny toil is now a' tint,
    Sin' thou came to the warl asklent,
                      Which fools may scoff at;
    In my last plack thy part's be in't
                      The better ha'f o't.

    An' if thou be what I wad hae thee,
    An' tak the counsel I sall gie thee,
    A lovin' father I'll be to thee,
                      If thou be spar'd;
    Thro' a' thy childish years I'll e'e thee,
                      An' think't weel war'd.

    Gude grant that thou may ay inherit
    Thy mither's person, grace, an' merit,
    An' thy poor worthless daddy's spirit,
                      Without his failins;
    'Twill please me mair to hear an' see it
                      Than stocket mailens.

       *       *       *       *       *

XXXIV.

NATURE'S LAW.

A POEM HUMBLY INSCRIBED TO G. H. ESQ.

    "Great nature spoke, observant man obey'd."
Pope.

[This Poem was written by Burns at Mossgiel, and "humbly inscribed to Gavin Hamilton, Esq."
It is supposed to allude to his intercourse with Jean Armour, with the circumstances of which
he seems to have made many of his comrades acquainted. These verses were well known to many
of the admirers of the poet, but they remained in manuscript till given to the world by Sir
Harris Nicolas, in Pickering's Aldine Edition of the British Poets.]

    Let other heroes boast their scars,
      The marks of sturt and strife;
    And other poets sing of wars,
      The plagues of human life;
    Shame fa' the fun; wi' sword and gun
      To slap mankind like lumber!
    I sing his name, and nobler fame,
      Wha multiplies our number.

    Great Nature spoke with air benign,
      "Go on, ye human race!
    This lower world I you resign;
      Be fruitful and increase.
    The liquid fire of strong desire
      I've pour'd it in each bosom;
    Here, in this hand, does mankind stand,
      And there, is beauty's blossom."

    The hero of these artless strains,
      A lowly bard was he,
    Who sung his rhymes in Coila's plains
      With meikle mirth an' glee;
    Kind Nature's care had given his share,
      Large, of the flaming current;
    And all devout, he never sought
      To stem the sacred torrent.

    He felt the powerful, high behest,
      Thrill vital through and through;
    And sought a correspondent breast,
      To give obedience due:
    Propitious Powers screen'd the young flowers,
      From mildews of abortion;
    And lo! the bard, a great reward,
      Has got a double portion!

    Auld cantie Coil may count the day,
      As annual it returns,
    The third of Libra's equal sway,
      That gave another B[urns],
    With future rhymes, an' other times,
      To emulate his sire;
    To sing auld Coil in nobler style,
      With more poetic fire.

    Ye Powers of peace, and peaceful song,
      Look down with gracious eyes;
    And bless auld Coila, large and long,
      With multiplying joys:
    Lang may she stand to prop the land,
      The flow'r of ancient nations;
    And B[urns's] spring, her fame to sing,
      Thro' endless generations!

       *       *       *       *       *

XXXV.

TO THE REV. JOHN M'MATH.

[Poor M'Math was at the period of this epistle assistant to Wodrow, minister of Tarbolton:
he was a good preacher, a moderate man in matters of discipline, and an intimate of the Coilsfield
Montgomerys. His dependent condition depressed his spirits: he grew dissipated; and finally,
it is said, enlisted as a common soldier, and died in a foreign land.]

Sept. 17th, 1785.

    While at the stook the shearers cow'r
    To shun the bitter blaudin' show'r,
    Or in gulravage rinnin' scow'r
                      To pass the time,
    To you I dedicate the hour
                      In idle rhyme.

    My musie, tir'd wi' mony a sonnet
    On gown, an' ban', and douse black bonnet,
    Is grown right eerie now she's done it,
                      Lest they should blame her,
    An' rouse their holy thunder on it
                      And anathem her.

    I own 'twas rash, an' rather hardy,
    That I, a simple countra bardie,
    Shou'd meddle wi' a pack sae sturdy,
                      Wha, if they ken me,
    Can easy, wi' a single wordie,
                      Lowse hell upon me.

    There's Gaun,[45] miska't waur than a beast,
    Wha has mair honour in his breast
    Than mony scores as guid's the priest
                      Wha sae abus't him.
    An' may a bard no crack his jest
                      What way they've use't him.

    See him, the poor man's friend in need,
    The gentleman in word an' deed,
    An' shall his fame an' honour bleed
                      By worthless skellums,
    An' not a muse erect her head
                      To cowe the blellums?

    O Pope, had I thy satire's darts
    To gie the rascals their deserts,
    I'd rip their rotten, hollow hearts,
                      An' tell aloud
    Their jugglin' hocus-pocus arts
                      To cheat the crowd.

    God knows, I'm no the thing I shou'd be,
    Nor am I even the thing I cou'd be,
    But twenty times, I rather wou'd be
                      An atheist clean,
    Than under gospel colours hid be
                      Just for a screen.

    An honest man may like a glass,
    An honest man may like a lass,
    But mean revenge, an' malice fause
                      He'll still disdain,
    An' then cry zeal for gospel laws,
                      Like some we ken.

    All hail, Religion! maid divine!
    Pardon a muse sae mean as mine,
    Who in her rough imperfect line,
                      Thus daurs to name thee;
    To stigmatize false friends of thine
                      Can ne'er defame thee.

    Tho' blotch'd an' foul wi' mony a stain,
    An' far unworthy of thy train,
    With trembling voice I tune my strain
                      To join with those,
    Who boldly daur thy cause maintain
                      In spite o' foes:

    In spite o' crowds, in spite o' mobs,
    In spite of undermining jobs,
    In spite o' dark banditti stabs
                      At worth an' merit,
    By scoundrels, even wi' holy robes,
                      But hellish spirit.

    O Ayr! my dear, my native ground,
    Within thy presbyterial bound
    A candid lib'ral band is found
                      Of public teachers,
    As men, as Christians too, renown'd,
                      An' manly preachers.

    Sir, in that circle you are nam'd;
    Sir, in that circle you are fam'd;
    An' some, by whom your doctrine's blam'd,
                      (Which gies you honour,)
    Even Sir, by them your heart's esteem'd,
                      An' winning manner.

    Pardon this freedom I have ta'en,
    An' if impertinent I've been,
    Impute it not, good Sir, in ane
                      Whase heart ne'er wrang'd ye,
    But to his utmost would befriend
                      Ought that belang'd ye.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 45: Gavin Hamilton, Esq.]

       *       *       *       *       *

XXXVI.

TO A MOUSE,

ON TURNING HER UP IN HER NEST WITH THE PLOUGH,

NOVEMBER, 1785.

[This beautiful poem was imagined while the poet was holding the plough, on the farm of Mossgiel:
the field is still pointed out: and a man called Blane is still living, who says he was gaudsman
to the bard at the time, and chased the mouse with the plough-pettle, for which he was rebuked
by his young master, who inquired what harm the poor mouse had done him.

       *       *       *       *       *

XXXVII.

SCOTCH DRINK.

    "Gie him strong drink, until he wink,
      That's sinking in despair;
    An' liquor guid to fire his bluid,
      That's prest wi' grief an' care;
    There let him bouse, an' deep carouse,
      Wi' bumpers flowing o'er,
    Till he forgets his loves or debts,
      An' minds his griefs no more."

SOLOMON'S PROVERB, xxxi. 6, 7.

    Let husky wheat the haughs adorn,
    An' aits set up their awnie horn,
    An' pease an' beans, at e'en or morn,
                      Perfume the plain,
    Leeze me on thee, John Barleycorn,
                      Thou king o' grain!

    On thee aft Scotland chows her cood,
    In souple scones, the wale o' food!
    Or tumblin' in the boilin' flood
                      Wi' kail an' beef;
    But when thou pours thy strong heart's blood,
                      There thou shines chief.

    Thou clears the head o' doited Lear;
    Thou cheers the heart o' drooping Care;
    Thou strings the nerves o' Labour sair,
                      At's weary toil;
    Thou even brightens dark Despair
                      Wi' gloomy smile.

    Aft, clad in massy, siller weed,
    Wi' gentles thou erects thy head;
    Yet humbly kind in time o' need,
                      The poor man's wine,
    His wee drap parritch, or his bread,
                      Thou kitchens fine.

    Thou art the life o' public haunts;
    But thee, what were our fairs an' rants?
    Ev'n godly meetings o' the saunts,
                      By thee inspir'd,
    When gaping they besiege the tents,
                      Are doubly fir'd.

    That merry night we get the corn in,
    O sweetly then thou reams the horn in!
    Or reekin' on a new-year morning
                      In cog or dicker,
    An' just a wee drap sp'ritual burn in,
                      An' gusty sucker!

    When Vulcan gies his bellows breath,
    An' ploughmen gather wi' their graith,
    O rare! to see thee fizz an' freath
                      I' th' lugget caup!
    Then Burnewin comes on like Death
                      At ev'ry chap.

    Nae mercy, then, for airn or steel;
    The brawnie, bainie, ploughman chiel,
    Brings hard owrehip, wi' sturdy wheel,
                      The strong forehammer,
    Till block an' studdie ring an' reel
                      Wi' dinsome clamour.

    When skirlin' weanies see the light,
    Thou maks the gossips clatter bright,
    How fumblin' cuifs their dearies slight;
                      Wae worth the name!
    Nae howdie gets a social night,
                      Or plack frae them.

    When neibors anger at a plea,
    An' just as wud as wud can be,
    How easy can the barley-bree
                      Cement the quarrel!
    It's aye the cheapest lawyer's fee,
                      To taste the barrel.

    Alake! that e'er my muse has reason
    To wyte her countrymen wi' treason!
    But monie daily weet their weason
                      Wi' liquors nice,
    An' hardly, in a winter's season,
                      E'er spier her price.

    Wae worth that brandy, burning trash!
    Fell source o' monie a pain an' brash!
    Twins monie a poor, doylt, druken hash,
                      O' half his days;
    An' sends, beside, auld Scotland's cash
                      To her warst faes.

    Ye Scots, wha wish auld Scotland well,
    Ye chief, to you my tale I tell,
    Poor plackless devils like mysel',
                      It sets you ill,
    Wi' bitter, dearthfu' wines to mell,
                      Or foreign gill.

    May gravels round his blather wrench,
    An' gouts torment him inch by inch,
    Wha twists his gruntle wi' a glunch
                      O' sour disdain,
    Out owre a glass o' whiskey punch
                      Wi' honest men;

    O whiskey! soul o' plays an' pranks!
    Accept a Bardie's gratefu' thanks!
    When wanting thee, what tuneless cranks
                      Are my poor verses!
    Thou comes--they rattle i' their ranks
                      At ither's a----s!

    Thee, Ferintosh! O sadly lost!
    Scotland lament frae coast to coast!
    Now colic grips, an' barkin' hoast,
                      May kill us a';
    For loyal Forbes' charter'd boast,
                      Is ta'en awa.
    An' bake them up in brunstane pies
                      For poor d--n'd drinkers.

       *       *       *       *       *

XXXVIII.

    'Dearest of distillation! last and best!----
    ------How art thou lost!--------'

PARODY ON MILTON

["This Poem was written," says Burns, "before the act anent the Scottish distilleries, of session
1786, for which Scotland and the author return their most grateful thanks." Before the passing
of this lenient act, so sharp was the law in the North, that some distillers relinquished their
trade; the price of barley was affected, and Scotland, already exasperated at the refusal of
a militia, for which she was a petitioner, began to handle her claymore, and was perhaps only
hindered from drawing it by the act mentioned by the poet. In an early copy of the poem, he
thus alludes to Colonel Hugh Montgomery, afterwards Earl of Eglinton:--

    "Thee, sodger Hugh, my watchman stented,
    If bardies e'er are represented,
    I ken if that yere sword were wanted
                      Ye'd lend yere hand;
    But when there's aught to say anent it
                      Yere at a stand."

The poet was not sure that Montgomery would think the compliment to his ready hand an excuse
in full for the allusion to his unready tongue, and omitted the stanza.]

    Ye Irish lords, ye knights an' squires,
    Wha represent our brughs an' shires,
    An' doucely manage our affairs
                      In Parliament,
    To you a simple Bardie's prayers
                      Are humbly sent.

    Alas! my roupet Muse is hearse!
    Your honours' hearts wi' grief 'twad pierce,
    To see her sittin' on her a--e
                      Low i' the dust,
    An' scriechin' out prosaic verse,
                      An' like to brust!

    Tell them wha hae the chief direction,
    Scotland an' me's in great affliction,
    E'er sin' they laid that curst restriction
                      On aqua-vitæ;
    An' rouse them up to strong conviction,
                      An' move their pity.

    Stand forth, an' tell yon Premier youth,
    The honest, open, naked truth:
    Tell him o' mine an' Scotland's drouth,
                      His servants humble:
    The muckie devil blaw ye south,
                      If ye dissemble!

    Does ony great man glunch an' gloom?
    Speak out, an' never fash your thumb!
    Let posts an' pensions sink or soom
                      Wi' them wha grant 'em:
    If honestly they canna come,
                      Far better want 'em.

    Paint Scotland greetin' owre her thrizzle,
    Her mutchkin stoup as toom's a whissle:
    An' damn'd excisemen in a bussle,
                      Seizin' a stell,
    Triumphant crushin't like a mussel
                      Or lampit shell.

    Then on the tither hand present her,
    A blackguard smuggler, right behint her,
    An' cheek-for-chow, a chuffie vintner,
                      Colleaguing join,
    Picking her pouch as bare as winter
                      Of a' kind coin.

    Is there, that bears the name o' Scot,
    But feels his heart's bluid rising hot,
    To see his poor auld mither's pot
                      Thus dung in staves,
    An' plunder'd o' her hindmost groat
                      By gallows knaves?

    Alas! I'm but a nameless wight,
    Trode i' the mire out o' sight!
    But could I like Montgomeries fight,
                      Or gab like Boswell,
    There's some sark-necks I wad draw tight,
                      An' tie some hose well.

    God bless your honours, can ye see't,
    The kind, auld, canty carlin greet,
    An' no get warmly on your feet,
                      An' gar them hear it!
    An' tell them with a patriot heat,
                      Ye winna bear it?

    Some o' you nicely ken the laws,
    To round the period an' pause,
    An' wi' rhetorie clause on clause
                      To mak harangues:
    Then echo thro' Saint Stephen's wa's
                      Auld Scotland's wrangs.

    Dempster, a true blue Scot I'se warran';
    Thee, aith-detesting, chaste Kilkerran;[46]
    An' that glib-gabbet Highland baron,
                      The Laird o' Graham;[47]
    An' ane, a chap that's damn'd auldfarren,
                      Dundas his name.

    Erskine, a spunkie Norland billie;
    True Campbells, Frederick an' Hay;
    An' Livingstone, the bauld Sir Willie:
                      An' monie ithers,
    Whom auld Demosthenes or Tully
                      Might own for brithers.

    Arouse, my boys! exert your mettle,
    To get auld Scotland back her kettle:
    Or faith! I'll wad my new pleugh-pettle,
                      Ye'll see't or lang,
    She'll teach you, wi' a reekin' whittle,
                      Anither sang.

    This while she's been in crankous mood,
    Her lost militia fir'd her bluid;
    (Deil na they never mair do guid,
                      Play'd her that pliskie!)
    An' now she's like to rin red-wud
                      About her whiskey.

    An' L--d, if once they pit her till't,
    Her tartan petticoat she'll kilt,
    An' durk an' pistol at her belt,
                      She'll tak the streets,
    An' rin her whittle to the hilt,
                      I' th' first she meets!

    For God sake, sirs, then speak her fair,
    An' straik her cannie wi' the hair,
    An' to the muckle house repair,
                      Wi' instant speed,
    An' strive, wi' a' your wit and lear,
                      To get remead.

    Yon ill-tongu'd tinkler, Charlie Fox,
    May taunt you wi' his jeers an' mocks;
    But gie him't het, my hearty cocks!
                      E'en cowe the cadie!
    An' send him to his dicing box,
                      An' sportin' lady.

    Tell yon guid bluid o' auld Boconnock's
    I'll be his debt twa mashlum bonnocks,
    An' drink his health in auld Nanse Tinnock's[48]
                      Nine times a-week,
    If he some scheme, like tea an' winnocks,
                      Wad kindly seek.

    Could he some commutation broach,
    I'll pledge my aith in guid braid Scotch,
    He need na fear their foul reproach
                      Nor erudition,
    Yon mixtie-maxtie queer hotch-potch,
                      The Coalition.

    Auld Scotland has a raucle tongue;
    She's just a devil wi' a rung;
    An' if she promise auld or young
                      To tak their part,
    Tho' by the neck she should be strung,
                      She'll no desert.

    An' now, ye chosen Five-and-Forty,
    May still your mither's heart support ye,
    Then, though a minister grow dorty,
                      An' kick your place,
    Ye'll snap your fingers, poor an' hearty,
                      Before his face.

    God bless your honours a' your days,
    Wi' sowps o' kail and brats o' claise,
    In spite o' a' the thievish kaes,
                      That haunt St. Jamie's:
    Your humble Poet signs an' prays
                      While Rab his name is.

POSTSCRIPT.

    Let half-starv'd slaves in warmer skies
    See future wines, rich clust'ring, rise;
    Their lot auld Scotland ne'er envies,
                      But blythe and frisky,
    She eyes her freeborn, martial boys,
                      Tak aff their whiskey.

    What tho' their Phoebus kinder warms,
    While fragrance blooms and beauty charms!
    When wretches range, in famish'd swarms,
                      The scented groves,
    Or hounded forth, dishonour arms
                      In hungry droves.

    Their gun's a burden on their shouther;
    They downa bide the stink o' powther;
    Their bauldest thought's a' hank'ring swither
                      To stan' or rin,
    Till skelp--a shot--they're aff, a' throther
                      To save their skin.

    But bring a Scotsman frae his hill,
    Clap in his check a Highland gill,
    Say, such is royal George's will,
                      An' there's the foe,
    He has nae thought but how to kill
                      Twa at a blow.

    Nae could faint-hearted doubtings tease him;
    Death comes, wi' fearless eye he sees him;
    Wi' bluidy han' a welcome gies him;
                      An' when he fa's,
    His latest draught o' breathin' lea'es him
                      In faint huzzas!

    Scotland, my auld, respected mither!
    Tho' whiles ye moistify your leather,
    Till whare ye sit, on craps o' heather
                      Ye tine your dam;
    Freedom and whiskey gang thegither!--
                      Tak aff your dram!

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 46: Sir Adam Ferguson.]

[Footnote 47: The Duke of Montrose.]

[Footnote 48: A worthy old hostess of the author's in Mauchline, where he sometimes studies
politics over a glass of guid auld Scotch drink.]

       *       *       *       *       *

XXXIX.

ADDRESS TO THE UNCO GUID,

OR THE

RIGIDLY RIGHTEOUS.

    "My son, these maxims make a rule,
      And lump them ay thegither;
    The Rigid Righteous is a fool,
      The Rigid Wise anither:
    The cleanest corn that e'er was dight
      May hae some pyles o' caff in;
    So ne'er a fellow-creature slight
      For random fits o' daffin."

SOLOMON.--Eccles. ch. vii. ver. 16.

["Burns," says Hogg, in a note on this Poem, "has written more from
his own heart and his own feelings than any other poet. External
nature had few charms for him; the sublime shades and hues of heaven
and earth never excited his enthusiasm: but with the secret fountains
of passion in the human soul he was well acquainted." Burns, indeed,
was not what is called a descriptive poet: yet with what exquisite
snatches of description are some of his poems adorned, and in what
fragrant and romantic scenes he enshrines the heroes and heroines of
many of his finest songs! Who the high, exalted, virtuous dames were,
to whom the Poem refers, we are not told.
    Whase life is like a weel-gaun mill,
      Supply'd wi' store o' water,
    The heaped happer's ebbing still,
      And still the clap plays clatter.

II.

III.

    Ye see your state wi' theirs compar'd,
      And shudder at the niffer,
    But cast a moment's fair regard,
      What maks the mighty differ?
    Discount what scant occasion gave,
      That purity ye pride in,
    And (what's aft mair than a' the lave)
      Your better art o' hiding.

IV.

    Think, when your castigated pulse
      Gies now and then a wallop,
    What ragings must his veins convulse,
      That still eternal gallop:
    Wi' wind and tide fair i' your tail,
      Right on ye scud your sea-way;
    But in the teeth o' baith to sail,
      It makes an unco lee-way.

V.

    See social life and glee sit down,
      All joyous and unthinking,
    'Till, quite transmugrify'd, they're grown
    Debauchery and drinking;
    O would they stay to calculate
      Th' eternal consequences;
    Or your more dreaded hell to state,
    D--mnation of expenses!

VI.

    Ye high, exalted, virtuous dames,
      Ty'd up in godly laces,
    Before ye gie poor frailty names,
      Suppose a change o' cases;
    A dear lov'd lad, convenience snug,
      A treacherous inclination--
    But, let me whisper, i' your lug,
      Ye're aiblins nae temptation.

VII.

VIII.

       *       *       *       *       *

XL.

TAM SAMSON'S ELEGY.[49]

    "An honest man's the noblest work of God."

POPE.

[Tam Samson was a west country seedsman and sportsman, who loved a good song, a social glass,
and relished a shot so well that he expressed a wish to die and be buried in the moors. On
this hint Burns wrote the Elegy: when Tam heard o' this he waited on the poet, caused him to
recite it, and expressed displeasure at being numbered with the dead: the author, whose wit
was as ready as his rhymes, added the Per Contra in a moment, much to the delight of his friend.
At his death the four lines of Epitaph were cut on his gravestone. "This poem has always,"
says Hogg, "been a great country favourite: it abounds with happy expressions.

    'In vain the burns cam' down like waters,
                              An acre braid.'

What a picture of a flooded burn! any other poet would have given us a long description: Burns
dashes it down at once in a style so graphic no one can mistake it.

    'Perhaps upon his mouldering breast
    Some spitefu' moorfowl bigs her nest.'

Match that sentence who can."]

    Has auld Kilmarnock seen the deil?
    Or great M'Kinlay[50] thrawn his heel?
    Or Robinson[51] again grown weel,
                      To preach an' read?
    "Na, waur than a'!" cries ilka chiel,
                      Tam Samson's dead!

    Kilmarnock lang may grunt an' grane,
    An' sigh, an' sob, an' greet her lane,
    An' cleed her bairns, man, wife, an wean,
                      In mourning weed;
    To death, she's dearly paid the kane,
                      Tam Samson's dead!

    The brethren o' the mystic level
    May hing their head in woefu' bevel,
    While by their nose the tears will revel,
                      Like ony bead;
    Death's gien the lodge an unco devel,
                      Tam Samson's dead!

    When Winter muffles up his cloak,
    And binds the mire like a rock;
    When to the lochs the curlers flock,
                      Wi' gleesome speed,
    Wha will they station at the cock?
                      Tam Samson's dead!

    He was the king o' a' the core,
    To guard or draw, or wick a bore,
    Or up the rink like Jehu roar
                      In time o' need;
    But now he lags on death's hog-score,
                      Tam Samson's dead!

    Now safe the stately sawmont sail,
    And trouts be-dropp'd wi' crimson hail,
    And eels weel ken'd for souple tail,
                      And geds for greed,
    Since dark in death's fish-creel we wail
                      Tam Samson dead.

    Rejoice, ye birring patricks a';
    Ye cootie moor-cocks, crousely craw;
    Ye maukins, cock your fud fu' braw,
                      Withouten dread;
    Your mortal fae is now awa'--
                      Tam Samson's dead!

    That woefu' morn be ever mourn'd
    Saw him in shootin' graith adorn'd,
    While pointers round impatient burn'd,
                      Frae couples freed;
    But, Och! he gaed and ne'er return'd!
                      Tam Samson's dead!

    In vain auld age his body batters;
    In vain the gout his ancles fetters;
    In vain the burns cam' down like waters,
                      An acre braid!
    Now ev'ry auld wife, greetin', clatters,
                      Tam Samson's dead!

    Owre many a weary hag he limpit,
    An' ay the tither shot he thumpit,
    Till coward death behind him jumpit,
                      Wi' deadly feide;
    Now he proclaims, wi' tout o' trumpet,
                      Tam Samson's dead!

    When at his heart he felt the dagger,
    He reel'd his wonted bottle swagger,
    But yet he drew the mortal trigger
                      Wi' weel-aim'd heed;
    "L--d, five!" he cry'd, an' owre did stagger;
                      Tam Samson's dead!

    Ilk hoary hunter mourn'd a brither;
    Ilk sportsman youth bemoan'd a father;
    Yon auld grey stane, amang the heather,
                      Marks out his head,
    Whare Burns has wrote in rhyming blether
                      Tam Samson's dead!

    There low he lies, in lasting rest;
    Perhaps upon his mould'ring breast
    Some spitefu' muirfowl bigs her nest,
                      To hatch an' breed;
    Alas! nae mair he'll them molest!
                      Tam Samson's dead!

    When August winds the heather wave,
    And sportsmen wander by yon grave,
    Three volleys let his mem'ry crave
                      O' pouther an' lead,
    'Till echo answer frae her cave
                      Tam Samson's dead!

    Heav'n rest his soul, whare'er he be!
    Is th' wish o' mony mae than me;
    He had twa fauts, or may be three,
                      Yet what remead?
    Ae social, honest man want we:
                      Tam Samson's dead!

       *       *       *       *       *

EPITAPH.

       *       *       *       *       *

PER CONTRA.

    Go, Fame, an' canter like a filly
    Thro' a' the streets an' neuks o' Killie,
    Tell ev'ry social honest billie
                      To cease his grievin',
    For yet, unskaith'd by death's gleg gullie,
                      Tam Samson's livin'.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 49: When this worthy old sportsman went out last muirfowl season, he supposed it
was to be, in Ossian's phrase, "the last of his fields."]

[Footnote 50: A preacher, a great favourite with the million. Vide the Ordination, stanza II]

[Footnote 51: Another preacher, an equal favourite with the few, who was at that time ailing.
For him see also the Ordination, stanza IX.]

       *       *       *       *       *

XLI.

LAMENT,

OCCASIONED BY THE UNFORTUNATE ISSUE

OF A

FRIEND'S AMOUR.

    "Alas! how oft does goodness wound itself!
    And sweet affection prove the spring of woe."

HOME.

[The hero and heroine of this little mournful poem, were Robert Burns and Jean Armour. Hogg
and Motherwell, with an ignorance which is easier to laugh at than account for, say this Poem
was "written on the occasion of Alexander Cunningham's darling sweetheart alighting him and
marrying another:--she acted a wise part." With what care they had read the great poet whom
they jointly edited in is needless to say: and how they could read the last two lines of the
third verse and commend the lady's wisdom for slighting her lover, seems a problem which defies
definition.

II.

    A joyless view thy rays adorn
      The faintly marked distant hill:
    I joyless view thy trembling horn,
      Reflected in the gurgling rill:
    My fondly-fluttering heart, be still:
      Thou busy pow'r, Remembrance, cease!
    Ah! must the agonizing thrill
      For ever bar returning peace!

III.

    No idly-feign'd poetic pains,
      My sad, love-lorn lamentings claim;
    No shepherd's pipe--Arcadian strains;
      No fabled tortures, quaint and tame:
    The plighted faith; the mutual flame;
      The oft-attested Pow'rs above;
    The promis'd father's tender name;
      These were the pledges of my love!

IV.

    Encircled in her clasping arms,
      How have the raptur'd moments flown!
    Alas! life's path may be unsmooth!
      Her way may lie thro' rough distress!
    Then, who her pangs and pains will soothe,
      Her sorrows share, and make them less?

VI.

    Ye winged hours that o'er us past,
      Enraptur'd more, the more enjoy'd,
    Your dear remembrance in my breast,
      My fondly-treasur'd thoughts employ'd,
    That breast, how dreary now, and void,
      For her too scanty once of room!
    Ev'n ev'ry ray of hope destroy'd,
      And not a wish to gild the gloom!

VII.

    The morn that warns th' approaching day,
      Awakes me up to toil and woe:
    I see the hours in long array,
      That I must suffer, lingering slow.
    Full many a pang, and many a throe,
      Keen recollection's direful train,
    Must wring my soul, ere Phoebus, low,
      Shall kiss the distant, western main.

VIII.

    And when my nightly couch I try,
      Sore-harass'd out with care and grief,
    My toil-beat nerves, and tear-worn eye,
      Keep watchings with the nightly thief:
    Or if I slumber, fancy, chief,
      Reigns haggard-wild, in sore affright:
    Ev'n day, all-bitter, brings relief,
      From such a horror-breathing night.

IX.

    O! thou bright queen, who o'er th' expanse
      Now highest reign'st, with boundless sway!
    Oft has thy silent-marking glance
      Observ'd us, fondly-wand'ring, stray!
    The time, unheeded, sped away,
      While love's luxurious pulse beat high,
    Beneath thy silver-gleaming ray,
      To mark the mutual kindling eye.

X.

    Oh! scenes in strong remembrance set!
      Scenes never, never to return!
    Scenes, if in stupor I forget,
      Again I feel, again I burn!
    From ev'ry joy and pleasure torn,
      Life's weary vale I'll wander thro';
    And hopeless, comfortless, I'll mourn
      A faithless woman's broken vow.

       *       *       *       *       *

XLII.

DESPONDENCY.

AN ODE. He
elsewhere says, "My passions raged like so many devils till they got
vent in rhyme." That eminent painter, Fuseli, on seeing his wife in a
passion, said composedly, "Swear my love, swear heartily: you know not
how much it will ease you!"
    What sorrows yet may pierce me thro'
      Too justly I may fear!
        Still caring, despairing,
          Must be my bitter doom;
        My woes here shall close ne'er
          But with the closing tomb!

II.

    Happy, ye sons of busy life,
    Who, equal to the bustling strife,
      No other view regard!
    Ev'n when the wished end's deny'd,
    Yet while the busy means are ply'd,
      They bring their own reward:
    Whilst I, a hope-abandon'd wight,
      Unfitted with an aim,
    Meet ev'ry sad returning night
      And joyless morn the same;
        You, bustling, and justling,
          Forget each grief and pain;
        I, listless, yet restless,
          Find every prospect vain.

III.

    How blest the solitary's lot,
    Who, all-forgetting, all forgot,
      Within his humble cell,
    The cavern wild with tangling roots,
    Sits o'er his newly-gather'd fruits,
      Beside his crystal well!
    Or, haply, to his ev'ning thought,
      By unfrequented stream,
    The ways of men are distant brought,
      A faint collected dream;
        While praising, and raising
          His thoughts to heav'n on high,
        As wand'ring, meand'ring,
          He views the solemn sky.

IV.

    Than I, no lonely hermit plac'd
    Where never human footstep trac'd,
      Less fit to play the part;
    The lucky moment to improve,
    And just to stop, and just to move,
      With self-respecting art:
    But, ah! those pleasures, loves, and joys,
      Which I too keenly taste,
    The solitary can despise,
      Can want, and yet be blest!
        He needs not, he heeds not,
          Or human love or hate,
        Whilst I here, must cry here
          At perfidy ingrate!

V.

    Oh! enviable, early days,
    When dancing thoughtless pleasure's maze,
      To care, to guilt unknown!
    How ill exchang'd for riper times,
    To feel the follies, or the crimes,
      Of others, or my own!
    Ye tiny elves that guiltless sport,
      Like linnets in the bush,
    Ye little know the ills ye court,
      When manhood is your wish!
        The losses, the crosses,
          That active man engage!
        The fears all, the tears all,
          Of dim declining age!

       *       *       *       *       *

XLIII.

THE

COTTER'S SATURDAY NIGHT.

INSCRIBED TO ROBERT AIKEN, ESQ. "Robert had frequently remarked to me," says Gilbert Burns,
"that he thought there was something peculiarly venerable in the phrase, 'Let us worship God!'
used by a decent sober head of a family, introducing family worship." To this sentiment of
the author the world is indebted for the "Cotter's Saturday Night." He owed some little, however,
of the inspiration to Fergusson's "Farmer's Ingle," a poem of great merit. The calm tone and
holy composure of the Cotter's Saturday Night have been mistaken by Hogg for want of nerve
and life. "It is a dull, heavy, lifeless poem," he says, "and the only beauty it possesses,
in my estimation, is, that it is a sort of family picture of the poet's family. The worst thing
of all, it is not original, but is a decided imitation of Fergusson's beautiful pastoral, 'The
Farmer's Ingle:' I have a perfect contempt for all plagiarisms and imitations."

II.

III.

IV.

VII.

VIII.

IX.

XI.

XII.

XIII.

XIV.

XV.

XVI.

XVII.

XVIII.

XIX.

XXI.

THE FIRST PSALM.

[This version was first printed in the second edition of the poet's work. It cannot be regarded
as one of his happiest compositions: it is inferior, not indeed in ease, but in simplicity
and antique rigour of language, to the common version used in the Kirk of Scotland. Burns had
admitted "Death and Dr. Hornbook" into Creech's edition, and probably desired to balance it
with something at which the devout could not cavil.]

    The man, in life wherever plac'd,
      Hath happiness in store,
    Who walks not in the wicked's way,
      Nor learns their guilty lore!

    Nor from the seat of scornful pride
      Casts forth his eyes abroad,
    But with humility and awe
      Still walks before his GOD.

    That man shall flourish like the trees
      Which by the streamlets grow;
    The fruitful top is spread on high,
      And firm the root below.

    But he whose blossom buds in guilt
      Shall to the ground be cast,
    And, like the rootless stubble, tost
      Before the sweeping blast.

    For why? that GOD the good adore
      Hath giv'n them peace and rest,
    But hath decreed that wicked men
      Shall ne'er be truly blest.

       *       *       *       *       *

XLV.

THE FIRST SIX VERSES

OF THE

NINETIETH PSALM.

[The ninetieth Psalm is said to have been a favourite in the household of William Burns: the
version used by the Kirk, though unequal, contains beautiful verses, and possesses the same
strain of sentiment and moral reasoning as the poem of "Man was made to Mourn." These verses
first appeared in the Edinburgh edition; and they might have been spared; for in the hands
of a poet ignorant of the original language of the Psalmist, how could they be so correct in
sense and expression as in a sacred strain is not only desirable but necessary?]

    O Thou, the first, the greatest friend
      Of all the human race!
    Whose strong right hand has ever been
      Their stay and dwelling place!

    Before the mountains heav'd their heads
      Beneath Thy forming hand,
    Before this ponderous globe itself
      Arose at Thy command;

    That Pow'r which rais'd and still upholds
      This universal frame,
    From countless, unbeginning time
      Was ever still the same.

    Those mighty periods of years
      Which seem to us so vast,
    Appear no more before Thy sight
      Than yesterday that's past.

    Thou giv'st the word: Thy creature, man,
      Is to existence brought;
    Again thou say'st, "Ye sons of men,
      Return ye into nought!"

    Thou layest them, with all their cares,
      In everlasting sleep;
    As with a flood Thou tak'st them off
      With overwhelming sweep.

    They flourish like the morning flow'r,
      In beauty's pride array'd;
    But long ere night, cut down, it lies
      All wither'd and decay'd.

       *       *       *       *       *

XLVI.

TO A MOUNTAIN DAISY,

ON TURNING ONE DOWN WITH THE PLOUGH IN

APRIL, 1786.

[This was not the original title of this sweet poem: I have a copy in the handwriting of Burns
entitled "The Gowan." This more natural name he changed as he did his own, without reasonable
cause; and he changed it about the same time, for he ceased to call himself Burness and his
poem "The Gowan," in the first edition of his works. The field at Mossgiel where he turned
down the Daisy is said to be the same field where some five months before he turned up the
Mouse; but this seems likely only to those who are little acquainted with tillage--who think
that in time and place reside the chief charms of verse; and who feel not the beauty of "The
Daisy," till they seek and find the spot on which it grew.

       *       *       *       *       *

XLVII.

EPISTLE TO A YOUNG FRIEND.

MAY, 1786.

[Andrew Aikin, to whom this poem of good counsel is addressed, was one of the sons of Robert
Aiken, writer in Ayr, to whom the Cotter's Saturday Night is inscribed. He became a merchant
in Liverpool, with what success we are not informed, and died at St. Petersburgh. The poet
has been charged with a desire to teach hypocrisy rather than truth to his "Andrew dear;" but
surely to conceal one's own thoughts and discover those of others, can scarcely be called hypocritical:
it is, in fact, a version of the celebrated precept of prudence, "Thoughts close and looks
loose." Whether he profited by all the counsel showered upon him by the muse we know not: he
was much respected--his name embalmed, like that of his father, in the poetry of his friend,
is not likely soon to perish.]

I.

    I lang hae thought, my youthfu' friend,
      A something to have sent you,
    Though it should serve nae ither end
      Than just a kind memento;
    But how the subject-theme may gang,
      Let time and chance determine;
    Perhaps it may turn out a sang,
      Perhaps, turn out a sermon.

II.

    Ye'll try the world soon, my lad,
      And, Andrew dear, believe me,
    Ye'll find mankind an unco squad,
      And muckle they may grieve ye:
    For care and trouble set your thought,
      Ev'n when your end's attain'd;
    And a' your views may come to nought,
      Where ev'ry nerve is strained.

III.

    I'll no say men are villains a';
      The real, harden'd wicked,
    Wha hae nae check but human law,
      Are to a few restricked;
    But, och! mankind are unco weak,
      An' little to be trusted;
    If self the wavering balance shake,
      It's rarely right adjusted!

IV.

    Yet they wha fa' in Fortune's strife,
      Their fate we should na censure,
    For still th' important end of life
      They equally may answer;
    A man may hae an honest heart,
      Tho' poortith hourly stare him;
    A man may tak a neebor's part,
      Yet hae nae cash to spare him.

V.

    Ay free, aff han' your story tell,
      When wi' a bosom crony;
    But still keep something to yoursel'
      Ye scarcely tell to ony.
    Conceal yoursel' as weel's ye can
      Frae critical dissection;
    But keek thro' ev'ry other man,
      Wi' sharpen'd, sly inspection.

VII.

VIII.

IX.

    The great Creator to revere
      Must sure become the creature;
    But still the preaching cant forbear,
      And ev'n the rigid feature:
    Yet ne'er with wits profane to range,
      Be complaisance extended;
    An Atheist laugh's a poor exchange
      For Deity offended!

X.

    When ranting round in pleasure's ring,
      Religion may be blinded;
    Or if she gie a random sting,
      It may be little minded;
    But when on life we're tempest-driv'n,
      A conscience but a canker--
    A correspondence fix'd wi' Heav'n
      Is sure a noble anchor!

XI.

    Adieu, dear, amiable youth!
      Your heart can ne'er be wanting!
    May prudence, fortitude, and truth
      Erect your brow undaunting!
    In ploughman phrase, 'God send you speed,'
      Still daily to grow wiser:
    And may you better reck the rede
      Than ever did th' adviser!

       *       *       *       *       *

XLVIII.

TO A LOUSE,

ON SEEING ONE IN A LADY'S BONNET, AT CHURCH

[A Mauchline incident of a Mauchline lady is related in this poem, which to many of the softer
friends of the bard was anything but welcome: it appeared in the Kilmarnock copy of his Poems,
and remonstrance and persuasion were alike tried in vain to keep it out of the Edinburgh edition.

    Swith, in some beggar's haffet squattle;
    There ye may creep, and sprawl, and sprattle
    Wi' ither kindred, jumping cattle,
                      In shoals and nations;
    Whare horn nor bane ne'er daur unsettle
                      Your thick plantations.

    Now haud you there, ye're out o' sight,
    Below the fatt'rells, snug an' tight;
    Na, faith ye yet! ye'll no be right
                      'Till ye've got on it,
    The vera topmost, tow'ring height
                      O' Miss's bonnet.

    My sooth! right bauld ye set your nose out,
    As plump an' gray as onie grozet;
    O for some rank, mercurial rozet,
                      Or fell, red smeddum,
    I'd gie you sic a hearty doze o't,
                      Wad dross your droddum!

    I wad na been surpris'd to spy
    You on an auld wife's flainen toy;
    Or aiblins some bit duddie boy,
                      On's wyliecoat;
    But Miss's fine Lunardi! fie!
                      How daur ye do't?

    O, Jenny, dinna toss your head,
    An' set your beauties a' abread!
    Ye little ken what cursed speed
                      The blastie's makin'!
    Thae winks and finger-ends, I dread,
                      Are notice takin'!

       *       *       *       *       *

XLIX.

EPISTLE TO J. RANKINE,

ENCLOSING SOME POEMS.

[The person to whom these verses are addressed lived at Adamhill in Ayrshire, and merited the
praise of rough and ready-witted, which the poem bestows. The humorous dream alluded to, was
related by way of rebuke to a west country earl, who was in the habit of calling all people
of low degree "Brutes!--damned brutes." "I dreamed that I was dead," said the rustic satirist
to his superior, "and condemned for the company I kept. When I came to hell-door, where mony
of your lordship's friends gang, I chappit, and 'Wha are ye, and where d'ye come frae?' Satan
exclaimed. I just said, that my name was Rankine, and I came frae yere lordship's land. 'Awa
wi' you,' cried Satan, ye canna come here: hell's fou o' his lordship's damned brutes already.'"]

    O rough, rude, ready-witted Rankine,
    The wale o' cocks for fun an' drinkin'!
    There's monie godly folks are thinkin',
                      Your dreams[54] an' tricks
    Will send you, Korah-like, a-sinkin'
                      Straught to auld Nick's.

    Ye hae sae monie cracks an' cants,
    And in your wicked, dru'ken rants,
    Ye mak a devil o' the saunts,
                      An' fill them fou;
    And then their failings, flaws, an' wants,
                      Are a' seen through.

    Hypocrisy, in mercy spare it!
    That holy robe, O dinna tear it!
    Spare't for their sakes wha aften wear it,
                      The lads in black!
    But your curst wit, when it comes near it,
                      Rives't aff their back.

    Think, wicked sinner, wha ye're skaithing,
    It's just the blue-gown badge and claithing
    O' saunts; tak that, ye lea'e them naething
                      To ken them by,
    Frae ony unregenerate heathen,
                      Like you or I.

    I've sent you here some rhyming ware,
    A' that I bargain'd for, an' mair;
    Sae, when you hae an hour to spare,
                      I will expect
    Yon sang,[55] ye'll sen't wi cannie care,
                      And no neglect.

    Tho' faith, sma' heart hae I to sing!
    My muse dow scarcely spread her wing!
    I've play'd mysel' a bonnie spring,
                      An' danc'd my fill!
    I'd better gaen an' sair't the king,
                      At Bunker's Hill.

    'Twas ae night lately, in my fun,
    I gaed a roving wi' the gun,
    An' brought a paitrick to the grun',
                      A bonnie hen,
    And, as the twilight was begun,
                      Thought nane wad ken.

    The poor wee thing was little hurt;
    I straikit it a wee for sport,
    Ne'er thinkin' they wad fash me for't;
                      But, deil-ma-care!
    Somebody tells the poacher-court
                      The hale affair.

    Some auld us'd hands had taen a note,
    That sic a hen had got a shot;
    I was suspected for the plot;
                      I scorn'd to lie;
    So gat the whissle o' my groat,
                      An' pay't the fee.

    But, by my gun, o' guns the wale,
    An' by my pouther an' my hail,
    An' by my hen, an' by her tail,
                      I vow an' swear!
    The game shall pay o'er moor an' dale,
                      For this niest year.

    As soon's the clockin-time is by,
    An' the wee pouts begun to cry,
    L--d, I'se hae sportin' by an' by,
                      For my gowd guinea;
    Tho' I should herd the buckskin kye
                      For't, in Virginia.

    Trowth, they had muckle for to blame!
    'Twas neither broken wing nor limb,
    But twa-three draps about the wame
                      Scarce thro' the feathers;
    An' baith a yellow George to claim,
                      An' thole their blethers!

    It pits me ay as mad's a hare;
    So I can rhyme nor write nae mair;
    But pennyworths again is fair,
                      When time's expedient:
    Meanwhile I am, respected Sir,
                      Your most obedient.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 54: A certain humorous dream of his was then making a noise in the country-side.]

[Footnote 55: A song he had promised the author.]

       *       *       *       *       *

L.

ON A SCOTCH BARD,

GONE TO THE WEST INDIES.

[Burns in this Poem, as well as in others, speaks openly of his tastes and passions: his own
fortunes are dwelt on with painful minuteness, and his errors are recorded with the accuracy,
but not the seriousness of the confessional. He seems to have been fond of taking himself to
task. It was written when "Hungry ruin had him in the wind," and emigration to the West Indies
was the only refuge which he could think of, or his friends suggest, from the persecutions
of fortune.]

    A' ye wha live by sowps o' drink,
    A' ye wha live by crambo-clink,
    A' ye wha live and never think,
                      Come, mourn wi' me!
    Our billie's gien us a' a jink,
                      An' owre the sea.

    Lament him a' ye rantin' core,
    Wha dearly like a random-splore,
    Nae mair he'll join the merry roar
                      In social key;
    For now he's taen anither shore,
                      An' owre the sea!

    The bonnie lasses weel may wiss him,
    And in their dear petitions place him;
    The widows, wives, an' a' may bless him,
                      Wi' tearfu' e'e;
    For weel I wat they'll sairly miss him
                      That's owre the sea!

    O Fortune, they hae room to grumble!
    Hadst thou taen' aff some drowsy bummle
    Wha can do nought but fyke and fumble,
                      'Twad been nae plea,
    But he was gleg as onie wumble,
                      That's owre the sea!

    Auld, cantie Kyle may weepers wear,
    An' stain them wi' the saut, saut tear;
    'Twill mak her poor auld heart, I fear,
                      In flinders flee;
    He was her laureate monie a year,
                      That's owre the sea!

    He saw Misfortune's cauld nor-west
    Lang mustering up a bitter blast;
    A jillet brak his heart at last,
                      Ill may she be!
    So, took a birth afore the mast,
                      An' owre the sea.

    To tremble under fortune's cummock,
    On scarce a bellyfu' o' drummock,
    Wi' his proud, independent stomach,
                      Could ill agree;
    So, row't his hurdies in a hammock,
                      An' owre the sea.

    He ne'er was gien to great misguiding,
    Yet coin his pouches wad na bide in;
    Wi' him it ne'er was under hiding:
                      He dealt it free;
    The muse was a' that he took pride in,
                      That's owre the sea.

    Jamaica bodies, use him weel,
    An' hap him in a cozie biel;
    Ye'll find him ay a dainty chiel,
                      And fou o' glee;
    He wad na wrang'd the vera deil,
                      That's owre the sea.

    Fareweel, my rhyme-composing billie!
    Your native soil was right ill-willie;
    But may ye flourish like a lily,
                      Now bonnilie!
    I'll toast ye in my hindmost gillie,
                      Tho' owre the sea!

       *       *       *       *       *

LI.

THE FAREWELL.

    "The valiant, in himself, what can he suffer?
    Or what does he regard his single woes?
    But when, alas! he multiplies himself,
    To dearer selves, to the lov'd tender fair,
    The those whose bliss, whose beings hang upon him,
    To helpless children! then, O then! he feels
    The point of misery fest'ring in his heart,
    And weakly weeps his fortune like a coward.
    Such, such am I! undone."

THOMSON.

[In these serious stanzas, where the comic, as in the lines to the Scottish bard, are not permitted
to mingle, Burns bids farewell to all on whom his heart had any claim. He seems to have looked
on the sea as only a place of peril, and on the West Indies as a charnel-house.]

I.

    Farewell, old Scotia's bleak domains,
    Far dearer than the torrid plains
      Where rich ananas blow!
    Farewell, a mother's blessing dear!
    A brother's sigh! a sister's tear!
      My Jean's heart-rending throe!
    Farewell, my Bess! tho' thou'rt bereft
      Of my parental care,
    A faithful brother I have left,
      My part in him thou'lt share!
        Adieu too, to you too,
          My Smith, my bosom frien';
        When kindly you mind me,
          O then befriend my Jean!

II.

    What bursting anguish tears my heart!
    From thee, my Jeany, must I part!
      Thou weeping answ'rest--"No!"
    Alas! misfortune stares my face,
    And points to ruin and disgrace,
      I for thy sake must go!
    Thee, Hamilton, and Aiken dear,
      A grateful, warm adieu;
    I, with a much-indebted tear,
      Shall still remember you!
        All-hail then, the gale then,
          Wafts me from thee, dear shore!
        It rustles, and whistles
          I'll never see thee more!

       *       *       *       *       *

LII.

WRITTEN

ON THE BLANK LEAF OF A COPY OF MY POEMS, PRESENTED TO AN OLD SWEETHEART, THEN MARRIED.

[This is another of the poet's lamentations, at the prospect of "torrid climes" and the roars
of the Atlantic. To Burns, Scotland was the land of promise, the west of Scotland his paradise;
and the land of dread, Jamaica! I found these lines copied by the poet into a volume which
he presented to Dr. Geddes: they were addressed, it is thought, to the "Dear E." of his earliest
correspondence.]

    Once fondly lov'd and still remember'd dear;
      Sweet early object of my youthful vows!
    Accept this mark of friendship, warm, sincere,--
      Friendship! 'tis all cold duty now allows.

    And when you read the simple artless rhymes,
      One friendly sigh for him--he asks no more,--
    Who distant burns in flaming torrid climes,
      Or haply lies beneath th' Atlantic roar.

       *       *       *       *       *

LIII.

A DEDICATION

TO

GAVIN HAMILTON, ESQ.

[The gentleman to whom these manly lines are addressed, was of good birth, and of an open and
generous nature: he was one of the first of the gentry of the west to encourage the muse of
Coila to stretch her wings at full length. His free life, and free speech, exposed him to the
censures of that stern divine, Daddie Auld, who charged him with the sin of absenting himself
from church for three successive days; for having, without the fear of God's servant before
him, profanely said damn it, in his presence, and far having gallopped on Sunday. These charges
were contemptuously dismissed by the presbyterial court. Hamilton was the brother of the Charlotte
to whose charms, on the banks of Devon, Burns, it is said, paid the homage of a lover, as well
as of a poet. The poem had a place in the Kilmarnock edition, but not as an express dedication.]

    Expect na, Sir, in this narration,
    A fleechin', fleth'rin dedication,
    To roose you up, an' ca' you guid,
    An' sprung o' great an' noble bluid,
    Because ye're surnam'd like his Grace;
    Perhaps related to the race;
    Then when I'm tir'd--and sae are ye,
    Wi' monie a fulsome, sinfu' lie,
    Set up a face, how I stop short,
    For fear your modesty be hurt.

    This may do--maun do, Sir, wi' them wha
    Maun please the great folk for a wamefou;
    For me! sae laigh I needna bow,
    For, Lord be thankit, I can plough;
    And when I downa yoke a naig,
    Then, Lord be thankit, I can beg;
    Sae I shall say, an' that's nae flatt'rin',
    It's just sic poet, an' sic patron.

    The Poet, some guid angel help him,
    Or else, I fear some ill ane skelp him,
    He may do weel for a' he's done yet,
    But only--he's no just begun yet.

    The Patron, (Sir, ye maun forgie me,
    I winna lie, come what will o' me,)
    On ev'ry hand it will allow'd be,
    He's just--nae better than he should be.

    I readily and freely grant,
    He downa see a poor man want;
    What's no his ain, he winna tak it;
    What ance he says, he winna break it;
    Ought he can lend he'll no refus't,
    'Till aft his guidness is abus'd;
    And rascals whyles that do him wrang,
    E'en that, he does na mind it lang:
    As master, landlord, husband, father,
    He does na fail his part in either.

    That he's the poor man's friend in need,
    The gentleman in word and deed,
    It's no thro' terror of damnation;
    It's just a carnal inclination.

    Morality, thou deadly bane,
    Thy tens o' thousands thou hast slain!
    Vain is his hope, whose stay and trust is
    In moral mercy, truth and justice!

    No--stretch a point to catch a plack;
    Abuse a brother to his back;
    Steal thro' a winnock frae a whore,
    But point the rake that taks the door;
    Be to the poor like onie whunstane,
    And haud their noses to the grunstane,
    Ply ev'ry art o' legal thieving;
    No matter--stick to sound believing.

    Learn three-mile pray'rs an' half-mile graces,
    Wi' weel-spread looves, and lang wry faces;
    Grunt up a solemn, lengthen'd groan,
    And damn a' parties but your own;
    I'll warrant then, ye're nae deceiver,
    A steady, sturdy, staunch believer.

    O ye wha leave the springs o' Calvin,
    For gumlie dubs of your ain delvin'!
    Ye sons of heresy and error,
    Ye'll some day squeal in quaking terror!
    When Vengeance draws the sword in wrath,
    And in the fire throws the sheath;
    When Ruin, with his sweeping besom,
    Just frets 'till Heav'n commission gies him:
    While o'er the harp pale Mis'ry moans,
    And strikes the ever-deep'ning tones,
    Still louder shrieks, and heavier groans!

    Your pardon, Sir, for this digression.
    I maist forgat my dedication;
    But when divinity comes cross me
    My readers still are sure to lose me.

    So, Sir, ye see 'twas nae daft vapour,
    But I maturely thought it proper,
    When a' my works I did review,
    To dedicate them, Sir, to you:
    Because (ye need na tak it ill)
    I thought them something like yoursel'.

    Then patronize them wi' your favour,
    And your petitioner shall ever--
    I had amaist said, ever pray,
    But that's a word I need na say:
    For prayin' I hae little skill o't;
    I'm baith dead sweer, an' wretched ill o't;
    But I'se repeat each poor man's pray'r,
    That kens or hears about you, Sir--

    "May ne'er misfortune's gowling bark,
    Howl thro' the dwelling o' the Clerk!
    May ne'er his gen'rous, honest heart,
    For that same gen'rous spirit smart!
    May Kennedy's far-honour'd name
    Lang beet his hymeneal flame,
    Till Hamiltons, at least a dizen,
    Are frae their nuptial labours risen:
    Five bonnie lasses round their table,
    And seven braw fellows, stout an' able
    To serve their king and country weel,
    By word, or pen, or pointed steel!
    May health and peace, with mutual rays,
    Shine on the ev'ning o' his days;
    'Till his wee curlie John's-ier-oe,
    When ebbing life nae mair shall flow,
    The last, sad, mournful rites bestow."

    I will not wind a lang conclusion,
    With complimentary effusion:
    But whilst your wishes and endeavours
    Are blest with Fortune's smiles and favours,
    I am, dear Sir, with zeal most fervent,
    Your much indebted, humble servant.

    But if (which pow'rs above prevent)
    That iron-hearted carl, Want,
    Attended in his grim advances
    By sad mistakes and black mischances,
    While hopes, and joys, and pleasures fly him,
    Make you as poor a dog as I am,
    Your humble servant then no more;
    For who would humbly serve the poor!
    But by a poor man's hope in Heav'n!
    While recollection's pow'r is given,
    If, in the vale of humble life,
    The victim sad of fortune's strife,
    I, thro' the tender gushing tear,
    Should recognise my Master dear,
    If friendless, low, we meet together,
    Then Sir, your hand--my friend and brother.

       *       *       *       *       *

LIV.

ELEGY

ON

THE DEATH OF ROBERT RUISSEAUX.

[Cromek found these verses among the loose papers of Burns, and printed them in the Reliques.
They contain a portion of the character of the poet, record his habitual carelessness in worldly
affairs, and his desire to be distinguished.]

    Now Robin lies in his last lair,
    He'll gabble rhyme, nor sing nae mair,
    Cauld poverty, wi' hungry stare,
                      Nae mair shall fear him;
    Nor anxious fear, nor cankert care,
                      E'er mair come near him.

    To tell the truth, they seldom fash't him,
    Except the moment that they crush't him;
    For sune as chance or fate had hush't 'em,
                      Tho' e'er sae short,
    Then wi' a rhyme or song he lash't 'em,
                      And thought it sport.

    Tho' he was bred to kintra wark,
    And counted was baith wight and stark.
    Yet that was never Robin's mark
                      To mak a man;
    But tell him he was learned and clark,
                      Ye roos'd him than!

       *       *       *       *       *

LV.

LETTER TO JAMES TENNANT,

OF GLENCONNER.

[The west country farmer to whom this letter was sent was a social man. The poet depended on
his judgment in the choice of a farm, when he resolved to quit the harp for the plough: but
as Ellisland was his choice, his skill may be questioned.]

    Auld comrade dear, and brither sinner,
    How's a' the folk about Glenconner?
    How do you this blae eastlin wind,
    That's like to blaw a body blind?
    For me, my faculties are frozen,
    My dearest member nearly dozen'd,
    I've sent you here, by Johnie Simson,
    Twa sage philosophers to glimpse on;
    Smith, wi' his sympathetic feeling,
    An' Reid, to common sense appealing.
    Philosophers have fought and wrangled,
    An' meikle Greek and Latin mangled,
    Till wi' their logic-jargon tir'd,
    An' in the depth of science mir'd,
    To common sense they now appeal,
    What wives and wabsters see and feel.
    But, hark ye, friend! I charge you strictly
    Peruse them, an' return them quickly,
    For now I'm grown sae cursed douce
    I pray and ponder butt the house,
    My shins, my lane, I there sit roastin',
    Perusing Bunyan, Brown, an' Boston;
    Till by an' by, if I haud on,
    I'll grunt a real gospel groan:
    Already I begin to try it,
    To cast my e'en up like a pyet,
    When by the gun she tumbles o'er,
    Flutt'ring an' gasping in her gore:
    Sae shortly you shall see me bright,
    A burning and a shining light.

    My heart-warm love to guid auld Glen,
    The ace an' wale of honest men:
    When bending down wi' auld gray hairs,
    Beneath the load of years and cares,
    May He who made him still support him,
    An' views beyond the grave comfort him,
    His worthy fam'ly far and near,
    God bless them a' wi' grace and gear!

    My auld schoolfellow, preacher Willie,
    The manly tar, my mason Billie,
    An' Auchenbay, I wish him joy;
    If he's a parent, lass or boy,
    May he be dad, and Meg the mither,
    Just five-and-forty years thegither!
    An' no forgetting wabster Charlie,
    I'm tauld he offers very fairly.
    An' Lord, remember singing Sannock,
    Wi' hale breeks, saxpence, an' a bannock,
    An' next my auld acquaintance, Nancy,
    Since she is fitted to her fancy;
    An' her kind stars hae airted till her
    A good chiel wi' a pickle siller.
    My kindest, best respects I sen' it,
    To cousin Kate, an' sister Janet;
    Tell them, frae me, wi' chiels be cautious,
    For, faith, they'll aiblins fin' them fashious;
    To grant a heart is fairly civil,
    But to grant the maidenhead's the devil
    An' lastly, Jamie, for yoursel',
    May guardian angels tak a spell,
    An' steer you seven miles south o' hell:
    But first, before you see heaven's glory,
    May ye get monie a merry story,
    Monie a laugh, and monie a drink,
    And aye eneugh, o' needfu' clink.

    Now fare ye weel, an' joy be wi' you,
    For my sake this I beg it o' you.
    Assist poor Simson a' ye can,
    Ye'll fin' him just an honest man;
    Sae I conclude, and quat my chanter,
    Your's, saint or sinner,

ROB THE RANTER.

       *       *       *       *       *

LVI.

ON THE

BIRTH OF A POSTHUMOUS CHILD.

[From letters addressed by Burns to Mrs. Dunlop, it would appear that this "Sweet Flow'ret,
pledge o' meikle love," was the only son of her daughter, Mrs. Henri, who had married a French
gentleman. The mother soon followed the father to the grave: she died in the south of France,
whither she had gone in search of health.]

    Sweet flow'ret, pledge o' meikle love,
      And ward o' mony a pray'r,
    What heart o' stane wad thou na move,
      Sae helpless, sweet, and fair!

    November hirples o'er the lea,
      Chill on thy lovely form;
    And gane, alas! the shelt'ring tree,
      Should shield thee frae the storm.

    May He who gives the rain to pour,
      And wings the blast to blaw,
    Protect thee frae the driving show'r,
      The bitter frost and snaw!

    May He, the friend of woe and want,
      Who heals life's various stounds,
    Protect and guard the mother-plant,
      And heal her cruel wounds!

    But late she flourish'd, rooted fast,
      Fair on the summer-morn:
    Now feebly bends she in the blast,
      Unshelter'd and forlorn.

    Blest be thy bloom, thou lovely gem,
      Unscath'd by ruffian hand!
    And from thee many a parent stem
      Arise to deck our land!

       *       *       *       *       *

LVII.

TO MISS CRUIKSHANK,

A VERY YOUNG LADY.

WRITTEN ON THE BLANK LEAF OF A BOOK, PRESENTED

TO HER BY THE AUTHOR.

[The beauteous rose-bud of this poem was one of the daughters of Mr. Cruikshank, a master in
the High School of Edinburgh, at whose table Burns was a frequent guest during the year of
hope which he spent in the northern metropolis.]

    Beauteous rose-bud, young and gay,
    Blooming in thy early May,
    Never may'st thou, lovely flow'r,
    Chilly shrink in sleety show'r!
    Never Boreas' hoary path,
    Never Eurus' poisonous breath,
    Never baleful stellar lights,
    Taint thee with untimely blights!
    Never, never reptile thief
    Riot on thy virgin leaf!
    Nor even Sol too fiercely view
    Thy bosom blushing still with dew!

    May'st thou long, sweet crimson gem,
    Richly deck thy native stem:
    'Till some evening, sober, calm,
    Dropping dews and breathing balm,
    While all around the woodland rings,
    And ev'ry bird thy requiem sings;
    Thou, amid the dirgeful sound,
    Shed thy dying honours round,
    And resign to parent earth
    The loveliest form she e'er gave birth.

       *       *       *       *       *

LVIII.

WILLIE CHALMERS.

[Lockhart first gave this poetic curiosity to the world: he copied it from a small manuscript
volume of Poems given by Burns to Lady Harriet Don, with an explanation in these words: "W.
Chalmers, a gentleman in Ayrshire, a particular friend of mine, asked me to write a poetic
epistle to a young lady, his Dulcinea. I had seen her, but was scarcely acquainted with her,
and wrote as follows." Chalmers was a writer in Ayr. I have not heard that the lady was influenced
by this volunteer effusion: ladies are seldom rhymed into the matrimonial snare.]

I.

    Wi' braw new branks in mickle pride,
      And eke a braw new brechan,
    My Pegasus I'm got astride,
      And up Parnassus pechin;
    Whiles owre a bush wi' downward crush
      The doitie beastie stammers;
    Then up he gets and off he sets
      For sake o' Willie Chalmers.

II.

    I doubt na, lass, that weel kenn'd name
      May cost a pair o' blushes;
    I am nae stranger to your fame,
      Nor his warm urged wishes.
    Your bonnie face sae mild and sweet
      His honest heart enamours,
    And faith ye'll no be lost a whit,
      Tho' waired on Willie Chalmers.

III.

    Auld Truth hersel' might swear ye're fair,
      And Honour safely back her,
    And Modesty assume your air,
      And ne'er a ane mistak' her:
    And sic twa love-inspiring een
      Might fire even holy Palmers;
    Nae wonder then they've fatal been
      To honest Willie Chalmers.

IV.

    I doubt na fortune may you shore
      Some mim-mou'd pouthered priestie,
    Fu' lifted up wi' Hebrew lore,
      And band upon his breastie:
    But Oh! what signifies to you
      His lexicons and grammars;
    The feeling heart's the royal blue,
      And that's wi' Willie Chalmers.

V.

    Some gapin' glowrin' countra laird,
      May warstle for your favour;
    May claw his lug, and straik his beard,
      And hoast up some palaver.
    My bonnie maid, before ye wed
      Sic clumsy-witted hammers,
    Seek Heaven for help, and barefit skelp
      Awa' wi' Willie Chalmers.

VI.

    Forgive the Bard! my fond regard
      For ane that shares my bosom,
    Inspires my muse to gie 'm his dues,
      For de'il a hair I roose him.
    May powers aboon unite you soon,
      And fructify your amours,--
    And every year come in mair dear
      To you and Willie Chalmers.

       *       *       *       *       *

LIX.

LYING AT A REVEREND FRIEND'S HOUSE ON NIGHT,

THE AUTHOR LEFT THE FOLLOWING

VERSES

IN THE ROOM WHERE HE SLEPT.

[Of the origin of those verses Gilbert Burns gives the following account. "The first time Robert
heard the spinet played was at the house of Dr. Lawrie, then minister of Loudon, now in Glasgow.
Dr. Lawrie has several daughters; one of them played; the father and the mother led down the
dance; the rest of the sisters, the brother, the poet and the other guests mixed in it. It
was a delightful family scene for our poet, then lately introduced to the world; his mind was
roused to a poetic enthusiasm, and the stanzas were left in the room where he slept."]

I.

    O thou dread Power, who reign'st above!
      I know thou wilt me hear,
    When for this scene of peace and love
      I make my prayer sincere.

II.

    The hoary sire--the mortal stroke,
      Long, long, be pleased to spare;
    To bless his filial little flock
      And show what good men are.

III.

    She who her lovely offspring eyes
      With tender hopes and fears,
    O, bless her with a mother's joys,
      But spare a mother's tears!

IV.

    Their hope--their stay--their darling youth,
      In manhood's dawning blush--
    Bless him, thou GOD of love and truth,
      Up to a parent's wish!

V.

    The beauteous, seraph sister-band,
      With earnest tears I pray,
    Thous know'st the snares on ev'ry hand--
      Guide Thou their steps alway.

       *       *       *       *       *

LX.

TO GAVIN HAMILTON, ESQ.,

MAUCHLINE.

(RECOMMENDING A BOY.)

[Verse seems to have been the natural language of Burns. The Master Tootie whose skill he records,
lived in Mauchline, and dealt in cows: he was an artful and contriving person, great in bargaining
and intimate with all the professional tricks by which old cows are made to look young, and
six-pint hawkies pass for those of twelve.]

Mossgiel, May 3, 1786.

I.

    I hold it, Sir, my bounden duty,
    To warn you how that Master Tootie,
      Alias, Laird M'Gaun,
    Was here to hire yon lad away
    'Bout whom ye spak the tither day,
      An' wad ha'e done't aff han':
    But lest he learn the callan tricks,
      As, faith, I muckle doubt him,
    Like scrapin' out auld Crummie's nicks,
      An' tellin' lies about them;
        As lieve then, I'd have then,
          Your clerkship he should sair,
        If sae be, ye may be
          Not fitted otherwhere.

II.

    Altho' I say't, he's gleg enough,
    An' bout a house that's rude an' rough
      The boy might learn to swear;
    But then, wi' you, he'll be sae taught,
    An' get sic fair example straught,
      I havena ony fear.
    Ye'll catechize him every quirk,
      An' shore him weel wi' Hell;
    An' gar him follow to the kirk--
     --Ay when ye gang yoursel'.
        If ye then, maun be then
          Frae hame this comin' Friday;
        Then please Sir, to lea'e Sir,
          The orders wi' your lady.

III.

    My word of honour I hae gien,
    In Paisley John's, that night at e'n,
      To meet the Warld's worm;
    To try to get the twa to gree,
    An' name the airles[56] an' the fee,
      In legal mode an' form:
    I ken he weel a snick can draw,
      When simple bodies let him;
    An' if a Devil be at a',
      In faith he's sure to get him.
        To phrase you, an' praise you,
          Ye ken your Laureat scorns:
        The pray'r still, you share still,
          Of grateful MINSTREL BURNS.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 56: The airles--earnest money.]

       *       *       *       *       *

LXI.

TO MR. M'ADAM,

OF CRAIGEN-GILLAN.

[It seems that Burns, delighted with the praise which the Laird of Craigen-Gillan bestowed
on his verses,--probably the Jolly Beggars, then in the hands of Woodburn, his steward,--poured
out this little unpremeditated natural acknowledgment.]

    Sir, o'er a gill I gat your card,
      I trow it made me proud;
    See wha tak's notice o' the bard
      I lap and cry'd fu' loud.

    Now deil-ma-care about their jaw,
      The senseless, gawky million:
    I'll cock my nose aboon them a'--
      I'm roos'd by Craigen-Gillan!

    'Twas noble, Sir; 'twas like yoursel',
      To grant your high protection:
    A great man's smile, ye ken fu' well,
      Is ay a blest infection.

    Tho' by his[57] banes who in a tub
      Match'd Macedonian Sandy!
    On my ain legs thro' dirt and dub,
      I independent stand ay.--

    And when those legs to gude, warm kail,
      Wi' welcome canna bear me;
    A lee dyke-side, a sybow-tail,
      And barley-scone shall cheer me.

    Heaven spare you lang to kiss the breath
      O' many flow'ry simmers!
    And bless your bonnie lasses baith,
      I'm tauld they're loosome kimmers!

    And GOD bless young Dunaskin's laird,
      The blossom of our gentry!
    And may he wear an auld man's beard,
      A credit to his country.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 57: Diogenes.]

       *       *       *       *       *

LXII.

ANSWER TO A POETICAL EPISTLE

SENT TO THE AUTHOR BY A TAILOR.

[The person who in the name of a Tailor took the liberty of admonishing Burns about his errors,
is generally believed to have been William Simpson, the schoolmaster of Ochiltree: the verses
seem about the measure of his capacity, and were attributed at the time to his hand. The natural
poet took advantage of the mask in which the made poet concealed himself, and rained such a
merciless storm upon him, as would have extinguished half the Tailors in Ayrshire, and made
the amazed dominie

    "Strangely fidge and fyke."

It was first printed in 1801, by Stewart.]

    What ails ye now, ye lousie b----h,
    To thresh my back at sic a pitch?
    Losh, man! hae mercy wi' your natch,
                      Your bodkin's bauld,
    I didna suffer ha'f sae much
                      Frae Daddie Auld.

    What tho' at times when I grow crouse,
    I gie their wames a random pouse,
    Is that enough for you to souse
                      Your servant sae?
    Gae mind your seam, ye prick-the-louse,
                      An' jag-the-flae.

    King David o' poetic brief,
    Wrought 'mang the lasses sic mischief,
    As fill'd his after life wi' grief,
                      An' bluidy rants,
    An' yet he's rank'd amang the chief
                      O' lang-syne saunts.

    And maybe, Tam, for a' my cants,
    My wicked rhymes, an' druken rants,
    I'll gie auld cloven Clootie's haunts
                      An unco' slip yet,
    An' snugly sit among the saunts
                      At Davie's hip get.

    But fegs, the Session says I maun
    Gae fa' upo' anither plan,
    Than garrin lasses cowp the cran
                      Clean heels owre body,
    And sairly thole their mither's ban
                      Afore the howdy.

    This leads me on, to tell for sport,
    How I did wi' the Session sort,
    Auld Clinkum at the inner port
                      Cried three times--"Robin!
    Come hither, lad, an' answer for't,
                      Ye're blamed for jobbin'."

    Wi' pinch I pat a Sunday's face on,
    An' snoov'd away before the Session;
    I made an open fair confession--
                      I scorn'd to lee;
    An' syne Mess John, beyond expression,
                      Fell foul o' me.

       *       *       *       *       *

LXIII.

TO J. RANKINE.

[With the Laird of Adamhill's personal character the reader is already acquainted: the lady
about whose frailties the rumour alluded to was about to rise, has not been named, and it would
neither be delicate nor polite to guess.]

    I am a keeper of the law
    In some sma' points, altho' not a';
    Some people tell me gin I fa'
                      Ae way or ither.
    The breaking of ae point, though sma',
                      Breaks a' thegither

    I hae been in for't once or twice,
    And winna say o'er far for thrice,
    Yet never met with that surprise
                      That broke my rest,
    But now a rumour's like to rise,
                      A whaup's i' the nest.

       *       *       *       *       *

LXIV.

LINES

WRITTEN ON A BANK-NOTE.

[The bank-note on which these characteristic lines were endorsed, came
into the hands of the late James Gracie, banker in Dumfries: he knew
the handwriting of Burns, and kept it as a curiosity.
      I see the children of affliction
      Unaided, through thy cursed restriction
      I've seen the oppressor's cruel smile
      Amid his hapless victim's spoil:
      And for thy potence vainly wished,
      To crush the villain in the dust.
    For lack o' thee, I leave this much-lov'd shore,
    Never, perhaps, to greet old Scotland more.

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

LXV.

A DREAM.

    "Thoughts, words, and deeds, the statute blames with reason;
    But surely dreams were ne'er indicted treason."

On reading, in the public papers, the "Laureate's Ode," with the other parade of June 4th,
1786, the author was no sooner dropt asleep, than he imagined himself transported to the birth-day
levee; and, in his dreaming fancy, made the following "Address."

[The prudent friends of the poet remonstrated with him about this Poem, which they appeared
to think would injure his fortunes and stop the royal bounty to which he was thought entitled.
Mrs. Dunlop, and Mrs. Stewart, of Stair, solicited him in vain to omit it in the Edinburgh
edition of his poems. I know of no poem for which a claim of being prophetic would be so successfully
set up: it is full of point as well as of the future. The allusions require no comment.]

    Guid-mornin' to your Majesty!

    I see ye're complimented thrang,
      By many a lord an' lady;
    "God save the King!" 's a cuckoo sang
      That's unco easy said ay;
    The poets, too, a venal gang,
      Wi' rhymes weel-turn'd and ready,
    Wad gar you trow ye ne'er do wrang,
      But ay unerring steady,
                      On sic a day.

    For me, before a monarch's face,
      Ev'n there I winna flatter;
    For neither pension, post, nor place,
      Am I your humble debtor:
    So, nae reflection on your grace,
      Your kingship to bespatter;
    There's monie waur been o' the race,
      And aiblins ane been better
                      Than you this day.

    'Tis very true, my sov'reign king,
      My skill may weel be doubted:
    But facts are chiels that winna ding,
      An' downa be disputed:
    Your royal nest beneath your wing,
      Is e'en right reft an' clouted,
    And now the third part of the string,
      An' less, will gang about it
                      Than did ae day.

    Far be't frae me that I aspire
      To blame your legislation,
    Or say, ye wisdom want, or fire,
      To rule this mighty nation.
    But faith! I muckle doubt, my sire,
      Ye've trusted ministration
    To chaps, wha, in a barn or byre,
      Wad better fill'd their station
                      Than courts yon day.

    And now ye've gien auld Britain peace,
      Her broken shins to plaister;
    Your sair taxation does her fleece,
      Till she has scarce a tester;
    For me, thank God, my life's a lease,
      Nae bargain wearing faster,
    Or, faith! I fear, that, wi' the geese,
      I shortly boost to pasture
                      I' the craft some day.

    I'm no mistrusting Willie Pitt,
      When taxes he enlarges,
    (An' Will's a true guid fallow's get,
      A name not envy spairges,)
    That he intends to pay your debt,
      An' lessen a' your charges;
    But, G-d-sake! let nae saving-fit
      Abridge your bonnie barges
                      An' boats this day.

    Adieu, my Liege! may freedom geck
      Beneath your high protection;
    An' may ye rax corruption's neck,
      And gie her for dissection!
    But since I'm here, I'll no neglect,
      In loyal, true affection,
    To pay your Queen, with due respect,
      My fealty an' subjection
                      This great birth-day

    Hail, Majesty Most Excellent!
      While nobles strive to please ye,
    Will ye accept a compliment
      A simple poet gi'es ye?
    Thae bonnie bairntime, Heav'n has lent,
      Still higher may they heeze ye
    In bliss, till fate some day is sent,
      For ever to release ye
                      Frae care that day.

    For you, young potentate o' Wales,
      I tell your Highness fairly,
    Down pleasure's stream, wi' swelling sails,
      I'm tauld ye're driving rarely;
    But some day ye may gnaw your nails,
      An' curse your folly sairly,
    That e'er ye brak Diana's pales,
      Or rattl'd dice wi' Charlie,
                      By night or day.

    For you, right rev'rend Osnaburg,
      Nane sets the lawn-sleeve sweeter,
    Altho' a ribbon at your lug,
      Wad been a dress completer:
    As ye disown yon paughty dog
      That bears the keys of Peter,
    Then, swith! an' get a wife to hug,
      Or, trouth! ye'll stain the mitre
                      Some luckless day.

    Young, royal Tarry Breeks, I learn,
      Ye've lately come athwart her;
    A glorious galley,[58] stem an' stern,
      Weel rigg'd for Venus' barter;
    But first hang out, that she'll discern
      Your hymeneal charter,
    Then heave aboard your grapple airn,
      An', large upon her quarter,
                      Come full that day.

    Ye, lastly, bonnie blossoms a',
      Ye royal lasses dainty,
    Heav'n mak you guid as weel as braw,
      An' gie you lads a-plenty:
    But sneer na British Boys awa',
      For kings are unco scant ay;
    An' German gentles are but sma',
      They're better just than want ay
                      On onie day.

    God bless you a'! consider now,
      Ye're unco muckle dautet;
    But ere the course o' life be thro',
      It may be bitter sautet:
    An' I hae seen their coggie fou,
      That yet hae tarrow't at it;
    But or the day was done, I trow,
      The laggen they hae clautet
                      Fu' clean that day.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 58: Alluding to the newspaper account of a certain royal sailor's amour]

       *       *       *       *       *

LXVI.

A BARD'S EPITAPH.

    Is there a bard of rustic song,
    Who, noteless, steals the crowds among,
    That weekly this area throng,
                      O, pass not by!
    But with a frater-feeling strong,
                      Here heave a sigh.

       *       *       *       *       *

LXVII.

THE TWA DOGS.

A TALE.

[Cromek, an anxious and curious inquirer, informed me, that the Twa
Dogs was in a half-finished state, when the poet consulted John
Wilson, the printer, about the Kilmarnock edition. On looking over the
manuscripts, the printer, with a sagacity common to his profession,
said, "The Address to the Deil" and "The Holy Fair" were grand things,
but it would be as well to have a calmer and sedater strain, to put at
the front of the volume. Burns was struck with the remark, and on his
way home to Mossgiel, completed the Poem, and took it next day to
Kilmarnock, much to the satisfaction of "Wee Johnnie." On the 17th
February Burns says to John Richmond, of Mauchline, "I have completed
my Poem of the Twa Dogs, but have not shown it to the world." It is
difficult to fix the dates with anything like accuracy, to
compositions which are not struck off at one heat of the fancy. "Luath
was one of the poet's dogs, which some person had wantonly killed,"
says Gilbert Burns; "but Cæsar was merely the creature of the
imagination."
    The first I'll name, they ca'd him Cæsar,
    Was keepit for his honour's pleasure;
    His hair, his size, his mouth, his lugs,
    Show'd he was nane o' Scotland's dogs;
    But whalpit some place far abroad,
    Where sailors gang to fish for cod.

    His locked, letter'd, braw brass collar
    Show'd him the gentleman and scholar;
    But though he was o' high degree,
    The fient a pride--nae pride had he;
    But wad hae spent an hour caressin',
    Ev'n wi' a tinkler-gypsey's messin'.
    At kirk or market, mill or smiddie,
    Nae tawted tyke, though e'er sae duddie,
    But he wad stan't, as glad to see him,
    And stroan't on stanes and hillocks wi' him.

    The tither was a ploughman's collie,
    A rhyming, ranting, raving billie,
    Wha for his friend an' comrade had him,
    And in his freaks had Luath ca'd him,
    After some dog in Highland sang,[59]
    Was made lang syne--Lord know how lang.

    He was a gash an' faithful tyke,
    As ever lap a sheugh or dyke.
    His honest, sonsie, baws'nt face,
    Ay gat him friends in ilka place.
    His breast was white, his touzie back
    Weel clad wi' coat o' glossy black;
    His gaucie tail, wi' upward curl,
    Hung o'er his hurdies wi' a swirl.

    Nae doubt but they were fain o' ither,
    An' unco pack an' thick thegither;
    Wi' social nose whyles snuff'd and snowkit,
    Whyles mice and moudiewarts they howkit;
    Whyles scour'd awa in lang excursion,
    An' worry'd ither in diversion;
    Until wi' daffin weary grown,
    Upon a knowe they sat them down,
    And there began a lang digression
    About the lords o' the creation.

CÆSAR.

    I've aften wonder'd, honest Luath,
    What sort o' life poor dogs like you have;
    An' when the gentry's life I saw,
    What way poor bodies liv'd ava.

    Our laird gets in his racked rents,
    His coals, his kain, and a' his stents;
    He rises when he likes himsel';
    His flunkies answer at the bell;
    He ca's his coach, he ca's his horse;
    He draws a bonnie silken purse
    As lang's my tail, whare, through the steeks,
    The yellow letter'd Geordie keeks.

    Frae morn to e'en its nought but toiling,
    At baking, roasting, frying, boiling;
    An' though the gentry first are stechin,
    Yet even the ha' folk fill their pechan
    Wi' sauce, ragouts, and sic like trashtrie,
    That's little short o' downright wastrie.

    An' when they meet wi' sair disasters,
    Like loss o' health, or want o' masters,
    Ye maist wad think a wee touch langer
    An' they maun starve o' cauld and hunger;
    But, how it comes, I never kenn'd yet,
    They're maistly wonderfu' contented:
    An' buirdly chiels, an' clever hizzies,
    Are bred in sic a way as this is.

CÆSAR.

    But then to see how ye're negleckit,
    How huff'd, and cuff'd, and disrespeckit!
    L--d, man, our gentry care as little
    For delvers, ditchers, an' sic cattle;
    They gang as saucy by poor folk,
    As I wad by a stinking brock.

LUATH.
    Then chance an' fortune are sae guided,
    They're ay in less or mair provided;
    An' tho' fatigu'd wi' close employment,
    A blink o' rest's a sweet enjoyment.

    As bleak-fac'd Hallowmass returns,
    They get the jovial, ranting kirns,
    When rural life, o' ev'ry station,
    Unite in common recreation;
    Love blinks, Wit slaps, an' social Mirth
    Forgets there's Care upo' the earth.
    For Britain's guid!--for her destruction
    Wi' dissipation, feud, an' faction.

LUATH.

    O, would they stay aback frae courts,
    An' please themsels wi' countra sports,
    It wad for ev'ry ane be better,
    The Laird, the Tenant, an' the Cotter!

    But will ye tell me, Master Cæsar,
    Sure great folk's life's a life o' pleasure?
    Nae cauld or hunger e'er can steer them,
    The vera thought o't need na fear them.

CÆSAR.

    L--d, man, were ye but whyles whare I am,
    The gentles ye wad ne'er envy 'em.

    A country fellow at the pleugh,
    His acres till'd, he's right eneugh;
    A country girl at her wheel,
    Her dizzen's done, she's unco weel:
    But Gentlemen, an' Ladies warst,
    Wi' ev'n down want o' wark are curst.
    The men cast out in party matches,
    Then sowther a' in deep debauches;
    Ae night they're mad wi' drink and wh-ring,
    Niest day their life is past enduring.
    The Ladies arm-in-arm in clusters,
    As great and gracious a' as sisters;
    But hear their absent thoughts o' ither,
    They're a' run deils an' jads thegither.
    Whyles, o'er the wee bit cup an' platie,
    They sip the scandal potion pretty;
    Or lee-lang nights, wi' crabbit leuks
    Pore owre the devil's pictur'd beuks;
    Stake on a chance a farmer's stack-yard,
    An' cheat like onie unhang'd blackguard.

    There's some exception, man an' woman;
    But this is Gentry's life in common.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 59: Cuchullin's dog in Ossian's Fingal.]

       *       *       *       *       *

LXVIII.

LINES

ON

MEETING WITH LORD DAER.

["The first time I saw Robert Burns," says Dugald Stewart, "was on the 23rd of October, 1786,
when he dined at my house in Ayrshire, together with our common friend, John Mackenzie, surgeon
in Mauchline, to whom I am indebted for the pleasure of his acquaintance. My excellent and
much-lamented friend, the late Basil, Lord Daer, happened to arrive at Catrine the same day,
and, by the kindness and frankness of his manners, left an impression on the mind of the poet
which was never effaced. The verses which the poet wrote on the occasion are among the most
imperfect of his pieces, but a few stanzas may perhaps be a matter of curiosity, both on account
of the character to which they relate and the light which they throw on the situation and the
feelings of the writer before his work was known to the public." Basil, Lord Daer, the uncle
of the present Earl of Selkirk, was born in the year 1769, at the family seat of St. Mary's
Isle: he distinguished himself early at school, and at college excelled in literature and science;
he had a greater regard for democracy than was then reckoned consistent with his birth and
rank. He was, when Burns met him, in his twenty-third year; was very tall, something careless
in his dress, and had the taste and talent common to his distinguished family.

    I've been at druken writers' feasts,
    Nay, been bitch-fou' 'mang godly priests,
                Wi' rev'rence be it spoken:
    I've even join'd the honour'd jorum,
    When mighty squireships of the quorum
                Their hydra drouth did sloken.

    Then from his lordship I shall learn,
    Henceforth to meet with unconcern
                One rank as weel's another;
    Nae honest worthy man need care
    To meet with noble youthful Daer,
                For he but meets a brother.

       *       *       *       *       *

LXIX.

ADDRESS TO EDINBURGH. Lord
Monboddo made himself ridiculous by his speculations on human nature,
and acceptable by his kindly manners and suppers in the manner of the
ancients, where his viands were spread under ambrosial lights, and his
Falernian was wreathed with flowers. At these suppers Burns sometimes
made his appearance.
    From marking wildly-scatter'd flow'rs,
      As on the banks of Ayr I stray'd,
    And singing, lone, the ling'ring hours,
      I shelter in thy honour'd shade.

II.

    Here wealth still swells the golden tide,
      As busy Trade his labour plies;
    There Architecture's noble pride
      Bids elegance and splendour rise;
    Here Justice, from her native skies,
      High wields her balance and her rod;
    There Learning, with his eagle eyes,
      Seeks Science in her coy abode.

III.

IV.

    Thy daughters bright thy walks adorn,
      Gay as the gilded summer sky,
    Sweet as the dewy milk-white thorn,
      Dear as the raptur'd thrill of joy!
    Fair Burnet strikes th' adoring eye,
      Heav'n's beauties on my fancy shine;
    I see the Sire of Love on high,
      And own his work indeed divine!

V.

    There, watching high the least alarms,
      Thy rough, rude fortress gleams afar,
    Like some bold vet'ran, gray in arms,
      And mark'd with many a seamy scar:
    The pond'rous wall and massy bar,
      Grim-rising o'er the rugged rock,
    Have oft withstood assailing war,
      And oft repell'd th' invader's shock.

VI.

    With awe-struck thought, and pitying tears,
      I view that noble, stately dome,
    Where Scotia's kings of other years,
      Fam'd heroes! had their royal home:
    Alas, how chang'd the times to come!
      Their royal name low in the dust!
    Their hapless race wild-wand'ring roam,
      Tho' rigid law cries out, 'twas just!

VII.

    Wild beats my heart to trace your steps,
      Whose ancestors, in days of yore,
    Thro' hostile ranks and ruin'd gaps
      Old Scotia's bloody lion bore:
    Ev'n I who sing in rustic lore,
      Haply, my sires have left their shed,
    And fac'd grim danger's loudest roar,
      Bold-following where your fathers led!

VIII.

       *       *       *       *       *

LXX.

EPISTLE TO MAJOR LOGAN.

[Major Logan, of Camlarg, lived, when this hasty Poem was written, with his mother and sister
at Parkhouse, near Ayr. He was a good musician, a joyous companion, and something of a wit.
The Epistle was printed, for the first time, in my edition of Burns, in 1834, and since then
no other edition has wanted it.]

    Hail, thairm-inspirin', rattlin' Willie!
    Though fortune's road be rough an' hilly
    To every fiddling, rhyming billie,
                      We never heed,
    But tak' it like the unback'd filly,
                      Proud o' her speed.

    When idly goavan whyles we saunter
    Yirr, fancy barks, awa' we canter
    Uphill, down brae, till some mishanter,
                      Some black bog-hole,
    Arrests us, then the scathe an' banter
                      We're forced to thole.

    Come wealth, come poortith, late or soon,
    Heaven send your heart-strings ay in tune,
    And screw your temper pins aboon
                      A fifth or mair,
    The melancholious, lazy croon
                      O' cankrie care.

    May still your life from day to day
    Nae "lente largo" in the play,
    But "allegretto forte" gay
                      Harmonious flow:
    A sweeping, kindling, bauld strathspey--
                      Encore! Bravo!

    A blessing on the cheery gang
    Wha dearly like a jig or sang,
    An' never think o' right an' wrang
                      By square an' rule,
    But as the clegs o' feeling stang
                      Are wise or fool.

    My hand-waled curse keep hard in chase
    The harpy, hoodock, purse-proud race,
    Wha count on poortith as disgrace--
                      Their tuneless hearts!
    May fireside discords jar a base
                      To a' their parts!

    But come, your hand, my careless brither,
    I' th' ither warl', if there's anither,
    An' that there is I've little swither
                      About the matter;
    We check for chow shall jog thegither,
                      I'se ne'er bid better.

    We've faults and failings--granted clearly,
    We're frail backsliding mortals merely,
    Eve's bonny squad, priests wyte them sheerly
                      For our grand fa';
    But stilt, but still, I like them dearly--
                      God bless them a'!

    Ochon! for poor Castalian drinkers,
    When they fa' foul o' earthly jinkers,
    The witching curs'd delicious blinkers
                      Hae put me hyte,
    And gart me weet my waukrife winkers,
                      Wi' girnan spite.

    But by yon moon!--and that's high swearin'--
    An' every star within my hearin'!
    An' by her een wha was a dear ane!
                      I'll ne'er forget;
    I hope to gie the jads a clearin'
                      In fair play yet.

    My loss I mourn, but not repent it,
    I'll seek my pursie whare I tint it,
    Ance to the Indies I were wonted,
                      Some cantraip hour,
    By some sweet elf I'll yet be dinted,
                      Then, vive l'amour!

    Faites mes baisemains respectueuse,
    To sentimental sister Susie,
    An' honest Lucky; no to roose you,
                      Ye may be proud,
    That sic a couple fate allows ye
                      To grace your blood.

    Nae mair at present can I measure,
    An' trowth my rhymin' ware's nae treasure;
    But when in Ayr, some half-hour's leisure,
                      Be't light, be't dark,
    Sir Bard will do himself the pleasure
                      To call at Park.

ROBERT BURNS.

Mossgiel, 30th October, 1786.

       *       *       *       *       *

LXXI.

THE BRIGS OF AYR,

A POEM,

INSCRIBED TO J. BALLANTYNE, ESQ., AYR.

[Burns took the hint of this Poem from the Planestanes and Causeway of Fergusson, but all that
lends it life and feeling belongs to his own heart and his native Ayr: he wrote it for the
second edition of his poems, and in compliment to the patrons of his genius in the west. Ballantyne,
to whom the Poem is inscribed, was generous when the distresses of his farming speculations
pressed upon him: others of his friends figure in the scene: Montgomery's courage, the learning
of Dugald Stewart, and condescension and kindness of Mrs. General Stewart, of Stair, are gratefully
recorded.]

    The simple Bard, rough at the rustic plough,
    Learning his tuneful trade from ev'ry bough;
    The chanting linnet, or the mellow thrush,
    Hailing the setting sun, sweet, in the green thorn bush:
    The soaring lark, the perching red-breast shrill,
    Or deep-ton'd plovers, gray, wild-whistling o'er the hill;
    Shall he, nurst in the peasant's lowly shed,
    To hardy independence bravely bred,
    By early poverty to hardship steel'd,
    And train'd to arms in stern misfortune's field--
    Shall he be guilty of their hireling crimes,
    The servile, mercenary Swiss of rhymes?
    Or labour hard the panegyric close,
    With all the venal soul of dedicating prose?
    No! though his artless strains he rudely sings,
    And throws his hand uncouthly o'er the strings,
    He glows with all the spirit of the Bard,
    Fame, honest fame, his great, his dear reward!
    Still, if some patron's gen'rous care he trace,
    Skill'd in the secret to bestow with grace;
    When Ballantyne befriends his humble name,
    And hands the rustic stranger up to fame,
    With heart-felt throes his grateful bosom swells,
    The godlike bliss, to give, alone excels.

       *       *       *       *       *

    'Twas when the stacks get on their winter hap,
    And thack and rape secure the toil-won crap;
    Potato-bings are snugged up frae skaith
    Of coming Winter's biting, frosty breath;
    The bees, rejoicing o'er their summer toils,
    Unnumber'd buds, an' flow'rs delicious spoils,
    Seal'd up with frugal care in massive waxen piles,
    Are doom'd by man, that tyrant o'er the weak,
    The death o' devils smoor'd wi' brimstone reek
    The thundering guns are heard on ev'ry side,
    The wounded coveys, reeling, scatter wide;
    The feather'd field-mates, bound by Nature's tie,
    Sires, mothers, children, in one carnage lie:
    (What warm, poetic heart, but inly bleeds,
    And execrates man's savage, ruthless deeds!)
    Nae mair the flow'r in field or meadow springs;
    Nae mair the grove with airy concert rings,
    Except, perhaps, the robin's whistling glee,
    Proud o' the height o' some bit half-lang tree:
    The hoary morns precede the sunny days,
    Mild, calm, serene, wide spreads the noontide blaze,
    While thick the gossamer waves wanton in the rays.
    'Twas in that season, when a simple bard,
    Unknown and poor, simplicity's reward,
    Ae night, within the ancient brugh of Ayr,
    By whim inspired, or haply prest wi' care,
    He left his bed, and took his wayward rout,
    And down by Simpson's[60] wheel'd the left about:
    (Whether impell'd by all-directing Fate,
    To witness what I after shall narrate;
    Or whether, rapt in meditation high,
    He wander'd out he knew not where nor why)
    The drowsy Dungeon-clock,[61] had number'd two,
    And Wallace Tow'r[61] had sworn the fact was true:
    The tide-swol'n Firth, with sullen sounding roar,
    Through the still night dash'd hoarse along the shore.
    (That Bards are second-sighted is nae joke,
    And ken the lingo of the sp'ritual folk;
    Fays, Spunkies, Kelpies, a', they can explain them,
    And ev'n the vera deils they brawly ken them.)
    Auld Brig appear'd of ancient Pictish race,
    The very wrinkles gothic in his face:
    He seem'd as he wi' Time had warstl'd lang,
    Yet, teughly doure, he bade an unco bang.
    New Brig was buskit in a braw new coat,
    That he at Lon'on, frae ane Adams got;
    In's hand five taper staves as smooth's a bead,
    Wi' virls and whirlygigums at the head.
    The Goth was stalking round with anxious search,
    Spying the time-worn flaws in ev'ry arch;--
    It chanc'd his new-come neebor took his e'e,
    And e'en a vex'd and angry heart had he!
    Wi' thieveless sneer to see his modish mien,
    He, down the water, gies him this guid-e'en:--

AULD BRIG.

      I doubt na', frien', ye'll think ye're nae sheep-shank,
    Ance ye were streekit o'er frae bank to bank!
    But gin ye be a brig as auld as me,
    Tho' faith, that day I doubt ye'll never see;
    There'll be, if that date come, I'll wad a boddle,
    Some fewer whigmeleeries in your noddle.

NEW BRIG.
    There's men o' taste wou'd tak the Ducat-stream,[63]
    Tho' they should cast the vera sark and swim,
    Ere they would grate their feelings wi' the view
    Of sic an ugly, Gothic hulk as you.

AULD BRIG.

      Conceited gowk! puff'd up wi' windy pride!--
    This mony a year I've stood the flood an' tide;
    And tho' wi' crazy eild I'm sair forfairn,
    I'll be a Brig, when ye're a shapeless cairn!
    As yet ye little ken about the matter,
    But twa-three winters will inform ye better.
    When heavy, dark, continued a'-day rains,
    Wi' deepening deluges o'erflow the plains;
    When from the hills where springs the brawling Coil,
    Or stately Lugar's mossy fountains boil,
    Or where the Greenock winds his moorland course,
    Or haunted Garpal[64] draws his feeble source,
    Arous'd by blust'ring winds an' spotting thowes,
    In mony a torrent down the snaw-broo rowes;
    While crashing ice born on the roaring speat,
    Sweeps dams, an' mills, an' brigs, a' to the gate;
    And from Glenbuck,[65] down to the Ratton-key,[66]
    Auld Ayr is just one lengthen'd tumbling sea--
    Then down ye'll hurl, deil nor ye never rise!
    And dash the gumlie jaups up to the pouring skies.
    A lesson sadly teaching, to your cost,
    That Architecture's noble art is lost!

NEW BRIG.

      Fine Architecture, trowth, I needs must say't o't!
    The L--d be thankit that we've tint the gate o't!
    Gaunt, ghastly, ghaist-alluring edifices,
    Hanging with threat'ning jut like precipices;
    O'er-arching, mouldy, gloom-inspiring coves,
    Supporting roofs fantastic, stony groves;
    Windows and doors, in nameless sculpture drest,
    With order, symmetry, or taste unblest;
    Forms like some bedlam Statuary's dream,
    The craz'd creations of misguided whim;
    Forms might be worshipp'd on the bended knee,
    And still the second dread command be free,
    Their likeness is not found on earth, in air, or sea.
    Mansions that would disgrace the building taste
    Of any mason reptile, bird or beast;
    Fit only for a doited monkish race,
    Or frosty maids forsworn the dear embrace;
    Or cuifs of later times wha held the notion
    That sullen gloom was sterling true devotion;
    Fancies that our guid Brugh denies protection!
    And soon may they expire, unblest with resurrection!

AULD BRIG.

      O ye, my dear-remember'd ancient yealings,
    Were ye but here to share my wounded feelings!
    Ye worthy Proveses, an' mony a Bailie,
    Wha in the paths o' righteousness did toil ay;
    Ye dainty Deacons and ye douce Conveeners,
    To whom our moderns are but causey-cleaners:
    Ye godly Councils wha hae blest this town;
    Ye godly Brethren o' the sacred gown,
    Wha meekly gie your hurdies to the smiters;
    And (what would now be strange) ye godly writers;
    A' ye douce folk I've borne aboon the broo,
    Were ye but here, what would ye say or do!
    How would your spirits groan in deep vexation,
    To see each melancholy alteration;
    And, agonizing, curse the time and place
    When ye begat the base, degen'rate race!
    Nae langer rev'rend men, their country's glory,
    In plain braid Scots hold forth a plain braid story!
    Nae langer thrifty citizens an' douce,
    Meet owre a pint, or in the council-house;
    But staumrel, corky-headed, graceless gentry,
    The herryment and ruin of the country;
    Men, three parts made by tailors and by barbers,
    Wha waste your weel-hain'd gear on d--d new Brigs and Harbours!

NEW BRIG.

      Now haud you there! for faith ye've said enough,
    And muckle mair than ye can mak to through;
    As for your Priesthood, I shall say but little,
    Corbies and Clergy, are a shot right kittle:
    But under favour o' your langer beard,
    Abuse o' Magistrates might weel be spar'd:
    To liken them to your auld-warld squad,
    I must needs say, comparisons are odd.
    In Ayr, wag-wits nae mair can have a handle
    To mouth 'a citizen,' a term o' scandal;
    Nae mair the Council waddles down the street,
    In all the pomp of ignorant conceit;
    Men wha grew wise priggin' owre hops an' raisins,
    Or gather'd lib'ral views in bonds and seisins,
    If haply Knowledge, on a random tramp,
    Had shor'd them with a glimmer of his lamp,
    And would to Common-sense for once betray'd them,
    Plain, dull Stupidity stept kindly in to aid them

       *       *       *       *       *

      What farther clishmaclaver might been said,
    What bloody wars, if Spirites had blood to shed,
    No man can tell; but all before their sight,
    A fairy train appear'd in order bright:
    Adown the glitt'ring stream they featly danc'd;
    Bright to the moon their various dresses glanc'd:
    They footed owre the wat'ry glass so neat,
    The infant ice scarce bent beneath their feet:
    While arts of minstrelsy among them rung,
    And soul-ennobling bards heroic ditties sung.--
    O had M'Lauchlan,[67] thairm-inspiring Sage,
    Been there to hear this heavenly band engage,
    When thro' his dear strathspeys they bore with highland rage;
    Or when they struck old Scotia's melting airs,
    The lover's raptur'd joys or bleeding cares;
    How would his highland lug been nobler fir'd,
    And ev'n his matchless hand with finer touch inspir'd!
    No guess could tell what instrument appear'd,
    But all the soul of Music's self was heard,
    Harmonious concert rung in every part,
    While simple melody pour'd moving on the heart.

      The Genius of the stream in front appears,
    A venerable Chief advanc'd in years;
    His hoary head with water-lilies crown'd,
    His manly leg with garter tangle bound.
    Next came the loveliest pair in all the ring,
    Sweet Female Beauty hand in hand with Spring;
    Then, crown'd with flow'ry hay, came Rural Joy,
    And Summer, with his fervid-beaming eye:
    All-cheering Plenty, with her flowing horn,
    Led yellow Autumn, wreath'd with nodding corn;
    Then Winter's time-bleach'd looks did hoary show,
    By Hospitality with cloudless brow.
    Next follow'd Courage, with his martial stride,
    From where the Feal wild woody coverts hide;
    Benevolence, with mild, benignant air,
    A female form, came from the tow'rs of Stair:
    Learning and Worth in equal measures trode
    From simple Catrine, their long-lov'd abode:
    Last, white-rob'd Peace, crown'd with a hazel wreath,
    To rustic Agriculture did bequeath
    The broken iron instruments of death;
    At sight of whom our Sprites forgat their kindling wrath.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 60: A noted tavern at the auld Brig end.]

[Footnote 61: The two steeples.]

[Footnote 62: The gos-hawk or falcon.]

[Footnote 63: A noted ford, just above the Auld Brig.]

[Footnote 64: The banks of Garpal Water is one of the few places in the West of Scotland, where
those fancy-scaring beings, known by the name of Ghaists, still continue pertinaciously to
inhabit.]

[Footnote 65: The source of the river Ayr.]

[Footnote 66: A small landing-place above the large key.]

[Footnote 67: A well known performer of Scottish music on the violin.]

       *       *       *       *       *

LXXII.

[At the request of Advocate Hay, Burns composed this Poem, in the hope that it might interest
the powerful family of Dundas in his fortunes. I found it inserted in the handwriting of the
poet, in an interleaved copy of his Poems, which he presented to Dr. Geddes, accompanied by
the following surly note:--"The foregoing Poem has some tolerable lines in it, but the incurable
wound of my pride will not suffer me to correct, or even peruse it. I sent a copy of it with
my best prose letter to the son of the great man, the theme of the piece, by the hands of one
of the noblest men in God's world, Alexander Wood, surgeon: when, behold! his solicitorship
took no more notice of my Poem, or of me, than I had been a strolling fiddler who had made
free with his lady's name, for a silly new reel. Did the fellow imagine that I looked for any
dirty gratuity?" This Robert Dundas was the elder brother of that Lord Melville to whose hands,
soon after these lines were written, all the government patronage in Scotland was confided,
and who, when the name of Burns was mentioned, pushed the wine to Pitt, and said nothing. The
poem was first printed by me, in 1834.]

    Lone on the bleaky hills the straying flocks
    Shun the fierce storms among the sheltering rocks;
    Down from the rivulets, red with dashing rains,
    The gathering floods burst o'er the distant plains;
    Beneath the blasts the leafless forests groan;
    The hollow caves return a sullen moan.

    Ye hills, ye plains, ye forests and ye caves,
    Ye howling winds, and wintry swelling waves!
    Unheard, unseen, by human ear or eye,
    Sad to your sympathetic scenes I fly;
    Where to the whistling blast and waters' roar
    Pale Scotia's recent wound I may deplore.

    O heavy loss, thy country ill could bear!
    A loss these evil days can ne'er repair!
    Justice, the high vicegerent of her God,
    Her doubtful balance ey'd, and sway'd her rod;
    Hearing the tidings of the fatal blow
    She sunk, abandon'd to the wildest woe.

    Ye dark waste hills, and brown unsightly plains,
    To you I sing my grief-inspired strains:
    Ye tempests, rage! ye turbid torrents, roll!
    Ye suit the joyless tenor of my soul.
    Life's social haunts and pleasures I resign,
    Be nameless wilds and lonely wanderings mine,
    To mourn the woes my country must endure,
    That wound degenerate ages cannot cure.

       *       *       *       *       *

LXXIII.

ON READING IN A NEWSPAPER

THE DEATH OF JOHN M'LEOD, ESQ.

BROTHER TO A YOUNG LADY, A PARTICULAR FRIEND

OF THE AUTHOR'S.

[John M'Leod was of the ancient family of Raza, and brother to that Isabella M'Leod, for whom
Burns, in his correspondence, expressed great regard. The little Poem, when first printed,
consisted of six verses: I found a seventh in M'Murdo Manuscripts, the fifth in this edition,
along with an intimation in prose, that the M'Leod family had endured many unmerited misfortunes.
I observe that Sir Harris Nicolas has rejected this new verse, because, he says, it repeats
the same sentiment as the one which precedes it. I think differently, and have retained it.]

    Sad thy tale, thou idle page,
      And rueful thy alarms:
    Death tears the brother of her love
      From Isabella's arms.

    Sweetly deck'd with pearly dew
      The morning rose may blow;
    But cold successive noontide blasts
      May lay its beauties low.

    Fair on Isabella's morn
      The sun propitious smil'd;
    But, long ere noon, succeeding clouds
      Succeeding hopes beguil'd.

    Fate oft tears the bosom chords
      That nature finest strung:
    So Isabella's heart was form'd,
      And so that heart was wrung.

    Were it in the poet's power,
      Strong as he shares the grief
    That pierces Isabella's heart,
      To give that heart relief!

    Dread Omnipotence, alone,
      Can heal the wound He gave;
    Can point the brimful grief-worn eyes
      To scenes beyond the grave.

    Virtue's blossoms there shall blow,
      And fear no withering blast;
    There Isabella's spotless worth
      Shall happy be at last.

       *       *       *       *       *

LXXIV.

TO MISS LOGAN,

WITH BEATTIE'S POEMS FOR A NEW YEAR'S GIFT.

JAN. 1, 1787.

[Burns was fond of writing compliments in books, and giving them in presents among his fair
friends. Miss Logan, of Park house, was sister to Major Logan, of Camlarg, and the "sentimental
sister Susie," of the Epistle to her brother. Both these names were early dropped out of the
poet's correspondence.]

    Again the silent wheels of time
      Their annual round have driv'n,
    And you, tho' scarce in maiden prime,
      Are so much nearer Heav'n.

    No gifts have I from Indian coasts
      The infant year to hail:
    I send you more than India boasts
      In Edwin's simple tale.

    Our sex with guile and faithless love
      Is charg'd, perhaps, too true;
    But may, dear maid, each lover prove
      An Edwin still to you!

       *       *       *       *       *

LXXV.

THE AMERICAN WAR.

A FRAGMENT.

[Dr. Blair said that the politics of Burns smelt of the smithy, which, interpreted, means,
that they were unstatesman-like, and worthy of a country ale-house, and an audience of peasants.
The Poem gives us a striking picture of the humorous and familiar way in which the hinds and
husbandmen of Scotland handle national topics: the smithy is a favourite resort, during the
winter evenings, of rustic politicians; and national affairs and parish scandal are alike discussed.
Burns was in those days, and some time after, a vehement Tory: his admiration of "Chatham's
Boy," called down on him the dusty indignation of the republican Ritson.]

I.

    When Guildford good our pilot stood,
      And did our hellim thraw, man,
    Ae night, at tea, began a plea,
      Within America, man:
    Then up they gat the maskin-pat,
      And in the sea did jaw, man;
    An' did nae less in full Congress,
      Than quite refuse our law, man.

II.

    Then thro' the lakes Montgomery takes,
      I wat he was na slaw, man;
    Down Lowrie's burn he took a turn,
      And Carleton did ca', man;
    But yet, what-reck, he, at Quebec,
      Montgomery-like did fa', man,
    Wi' sword in hand, before his band,
      Amang his en'mies a', man.

III.

    Poor Tammy Gage, within a cage,
      Was kept at Boston ha', man;
    Till Willie Howe took o'er the knowe
      For Philadelphia, man;
    Wi' sword an' gun he thought a sin
      Guid Christian blood to draw, man:
    But at New York, wi' knife an' fork,
      Sir-loin he hacked sma', man.

IV.

    Burgoyne gaed up, like spur an' whip,
      Till Fraser brave did fa', man,
    Then lost his way, ae misty day,
      In Saratoga shaw, man.
    Cornwallis fought as lang's he dought,
      An' did the buckskins claw, man;
    But Clinton's glaive frae rust to save,
    He hung it to the wa', man.

V.

    Then Montague, an' Guilford, too,
      Began to fear a fa', man;
    And Sackville dour, wha stood the stoure,
      The German Chief to thraw, man;
    For Paddy Burke, like ony Turk,
      Nae mercy had at a', man;
    An' Charlie Fox threw by the box,
      An' lows'd his tinkler jaw, man.

VI.

    Then Rockingham took up the game,
      Till death did on him ca', man;
    When Shelburne meek held up his cheek,
      Conform to gospel law, man;
    Saint Stephen's boys, wi' jarring noise,
      They did his measures thraw, man,
    For North an' Fox united stocks,
      An' bore him to the wa', man.

VII.

    Then clubs an' hearts were Charlie's cartes,
      He swept the stakes awa', man,
    Till the diamond's ace, of Indian race,
      Led him a sair faux pas, man;
    The Saxon lads, wi' loud placads,
      On Chatham's boy did ca', man;
    An' Scotland drew her pipe, an' blew,
      "Up, Willie, waur them a', man!"

VIII.

    Behind the throne then Grenville's gone,
      A secret word or twa, man;
    While slee Dundas arous'd the class,
      Be-north the Roman wa', man:
    An' Chatham's wraith, in heavenly graith,
      (Inspired Bardies saw, man)
    Wi' kindling eyes cry'd "Willie, rise!
      Would I hae fear'd them a', man?"

IX.

    But, word an' blow, North, Fox, and Co.,
      Gowff'd Willie like a ba', man,
    Till Suthron raise, and coost their claise
      Behind him in a raw, man;
    An' Caledon threw by the drone,
      An' did her whittle draw, man;
    An' swoor fu' rude, thro' dirt an' blood
      To make it guid in law, man.

       *       *       *       *       *

LXXVI.

THE DEAN OF FACULTY.

A NEW BALLAD.

[The Hal and Bob of these satiric lines were Henry Erskine, and Robert Dundas: and their contention
was, as the verses intimate, for the place of Dean of the Faculty of Advocates: Erskine was
successful. It is supposed that in characterizing Dundas, the poet remembered "the incurable
wound which his pride had got" in the affair of the elegiac verses on the death of the elder
Dundas. The poem first appeared in the Reliques of Burns.]

I.

    Dire was the hate at old Harlaw,
      That Scot to Scot did carry;
    And dire the discord Langside saw,
      For beauteous, hapless Mary:
    But Scot with Scot ne'er met so hot,
      Or were more in fury seen, Sir,
    Than 'twixt Hal and Bob for the famous job--
      Who should be Faculty's Dean, Sir.--

II.

    This Hal for genius, wit, and lore,
      Among the first was number'd;
    But pious Bob, 'mid learning's store,
      Commandment tenth remember'd.--
    Yet simple Bob the victory got,
      And won his heart's desire;
    Which shows that heaven can boil the pot,
      Though the devil p--s in the fire.--

III.

    Squire Hal besides had in this case
      Pretensions rather brassy,
    For talents to deserve a place
      Are qualifications saucy;
    So, their worships of the Faculty,
      Quite sick of merit's rudeness,
    Chose one who should owe it all, d'ye see,
      To their gratis grace and goodness.--

IV.

    As once on Pisgah purg'd was the sight
      Of a son of Circumcision,
    So may be, on this Pisgah height,
      Bob's purblind, mental vision:
    Nay, Bobby's mouth may be open'd yet
      Till for eloquence you hail him,
    And swear he has the angel met
      That met the Ass of Balaam.

       *       *       *       *       *

LXXVII.

TO A LADY,

WITH A PRESENT OF A PAIR OF DRINKING-GLASSES.

[To Mrs. M'Lehose, of Edinburgh, the poet presented the drinking-glasses alluded to in the
verses: they are, it seems, still preserved, and the lady on occasions of high festival, indulges,
it is said, favourite visiters with a draught from them of "The blood of Shiraz' scorched vine."]

    Fair Empress of the Poet's soul,
      And Queen of Poetesses;
    Clarinda, take this little boon,
      This humble pair of glasses.

    And fill them high with generous juice,
      As generous as your mind;
    And pledge me in the generous toast--
      "The whole of human kind!"

    "To those who love us!"--second fill;
      But not to those whom we love;
    Lest we love those who love not us!--
      A third--"to thee and me, love!"

       *       *       *       *       *

LXXVIII.

TO CLARINDA.

[This is the lady of the drinking-glasses; the Mrs. Mac of many a toast among the poet's acquaintances.
She was, in those days, young and beautiful, and we fear a little giddy, since she indulged
in that sentimental and platonic flirtation with the poet, contained in the well-known letters
to Clarinda. The letters, after the poet's death, appeared in print without her permission:
she obtained an injunction against the publication, which still remains in force, but her anger
seems to have been less a matter of taste than of whim, for the injunction has been allowed
to slumber in the case of some editors, though it has been enforced against others.]

    Clarinda, mistress of my soul,
      The measur'd time is run!
    The wretch beneath the dreary pole
      So marks his latest sun.

    To what dark cave of frozen night
      Shall poor Sylvander hie;
    Depriv'd of thee, his life and light,
      The sun of all his joy.

    We part--but, by these precious drops
      That fill thy lovely eyes!
    No other light shall guide my steps
      Till thy bright beams arise.

    She, the fair sun of all her sex,
      Has blest my glorious day;
    And shall a glimmering planet fix
      My worship to its ray?

       *       *       *       *       *

LXXIX.

VERSES

WRITTEN UNDER THE PORTRAIT OF FERGUSSON, THE POET, IN A COPY OF THAT AUTHOR'S WORKS PRESENTED
TO A YOUNG LADY.

[Who the young lady was to whom the poet presented the portrait and Poems of the ill-fated
Fergusson, we have not been told. The verses are dated Edinburgh, March 19th, 1787.]

    Curse on ungrateful man, that can be pleas'd,
    And yet can starve the author of the pleasure!
    O thou my elder brother in misfortune,
    By far my elder brother in the muses,
    With tears I pity thy unhappy fate!
    Why is the bard unpitied by the world,
    Yet has so keen a relish of its pleasures?

       *       *       *       *       *

LXXX.

PROLOGUE

SPOKEN BY MR. WOODS ON HIS BENEFIT NIGHT,

MONDAY, 16 April, 1787.

[The Woods for whom this Prologue was written, was in those days a popular actor in Edinburgh.
He had other claims on Burns: he had been the friend as well as comrade of poor Fergusson,
and possessed some poetical talent. He died in Edinburgh, December 14th, 1802.]

    When by a generous Public's kind acclaim,
    That dearest meed is granted--honest fame;
    When here your favour is the actor's lot,
    Nor even the man in private life forgot;
    What breast so dead to heavenly virtue's glow,
    But heaves impassion'd with the grateful throe?

    Poor is the task to please a barbarous throng,
    It needs no Siddons' powers in Southerne's song;
    But here an ancient nation fam'd afar,
    For genius, learning high, as great in war--
    Hail, CALEDONIA, name for ever dear!
    Before whose sons I'm honoured to appear!
    Where every science--every nobler art--
    That can inform the mind, or mend the heart,
    Is known; as grateful nations oft have found
    Far as the rude barbarian marks the bound.
    Philosophy, no idle pedant dream,
    Here holds her search by heaven-taught Reason's beam;
    Here History paints, with elegance and force,
    The tide of Empires' fluctuating course;
    Here Douglas forms wild Shakspeare into plan,
    And Harley[68] rouses all the god in man.
    When well-form'd taste and sparkling wit unite,
    With manly lore, or female beauty bright,
    (Beauty, where faultless symmetry and grace,
    Can only charm as in the second place,)
    Witness my heart, how oft with panting fear,
    As on this night, I've met these judges here!
    But still the hope Experience taught to live,
    Equal to judge--you're candid to forgive.
    Nor hundred-headed Riot here we meet,
    With decency and law beneath his feet:
    Nor Insolence assumes fair Freedom's name;
    Like CALEDONIANS, you applaud or blame.

    O Thou dread Power! whose Empire-giving hand
    Has oft been stretch'd to shield the honour'd land!
    Strong may she glow with all her ancient fire:
    May every son be worthy of his sire;
    Firm may she rise with generous disdain
    At Tyranny's, or direr Pleasure's chain;
    Still self-dependent in her native shore,
    Bold may she brave grim Danger's loudest roar,
    Till Fate the curtain drop on worlds to be no more.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 68: The Man of Feeling, by Mackenzie.]

       *       *       *       *       *

LXXXI.

SKETCH.

[This Sketch is a portion of a long Poem which Burns proposed to call "The Poet's Progress."
He communicated the little he had done, for he was a courter of opinions, to Dugald Stewart.
It is probable that the professor's response was not favourable for we hear no more of the Poem.]

    A little, upright, pert, tart, tripping wight,
    And still his precious self his dear delight;
    Who loves his own smart shadow in the streets
    Better than e'er the fairest she he meets:
    A man of fashion, too, he made his tour,
    Learn'd vive la bagatelle, et vive l'amour:
    So travell'd monkeys their grimace improve,
    Polish their grin, nay, sigh for ladies' love.
    Much specious lore, but little understood;
    Veneering oft outshines the solid wood:
    His solid sense--by inches you must tell.
    But mete his cunning by the old Scots ell;
    His meddling vanity, a busy fiend,
    Still making work his selfish craft must mend.

       *       *       *       *       *

LXXXII.

TO MRS. SCOTT,

OF WAUCHOPE.

[The lady to whom this epistle is addressed was a painter and a poetess: her pencil sketches
are said to have been beautiful; and she had a ready skill in rhyme, as the verses addressed
to Burns fully testify. Taste and poetry belonged to her family; she was the niece of Mrs.
Cockburn, authoress of a beautiful variation of The Flowers of the Forest.]

    I mind it weel in early date,
    When I was beardless, young and blate,
      An' first could thresh the barn;
    Or hand a yokin at the pleugh;
    An' tho' forfoughten sair enough,
      Yet unco proud to learn:
    When first amang the yellow corn
      A man I reckon'd was,
    An' wi' the lave ilk merry morn
      Could rank my rig and lass,
        Still shearing, and clearing,
          The tither stooked raw,
        Wi' claivers, an' haivers,
          Wearing the day awa.

    But still the elements o' sang
    In formless jumble, right an' wrang,
      Wild floated in my brain;
    'Till on that har'st I said before,
    My partner in the merry core,
      She rous'd the forming strain:
    I see her yet, the sonsie quean,
      That lighted up her jingle,
    Her witching smile, her pauky een
      That gart my heart-strings tingle:
        I fired, inspired,
          At every kindling keek,
        But bashing and dashing
          I feared aye to speak.

    Health to the sex, ilk guid chiel says,
    Wi' merry dance in winter days,
      An' we to share in common:
    The gust o' joy, the balm of woe,
    The saul o' life, the heaven below,
      Is rapture-giving woman.
    Ye surly sumphs, who hate the name,
      Be mindfu' o' your mither:
    She, honest woman, may think shame
      That ye're connected with her.
        Ye're wae men, ye're nae men
          That slight the lovely dears;
        To shame ye, disclaim ye,
          Ilk honest birkie swears.

    For you, no bred to barn and byre,
    Wha sweetly tune the Scottish lyre,
      Thanks to you for your line:
    The marled plaid ye kindly spare,
    By me should gratefully be ware;
      'Twad please me to the nine.
    I'd be mair vauntie o' my hap,
      Douce hingin' owre my curple
    Than ony ermine ever lap,
      Or proud imperial purple.
        Fareweel then, lang heel then,
          An' plenty be your fa';
        May losses and crosses
          Ne'er at your hallan ca'.

       *       *       *       *       *

LXXXIII.

EPISTLE TO WILLIAM CREECH.

[A storm of rain detained Burns one day, during his border tour, at Selkirk, and he employed
his time in writing this characteristic epistle to Creech, his bookseller. Creech was a person
of education and taste; he was not only the most popular publisher in the north, but he was
intimate with almost all the distinguished men who, in those days, adorned Scottish literature.
But though a joyous man, a lover of sociality, and the keeper of a good table, he was close
and parsimonious, and loved to hold money to the last moment that the law allowed.]

Selkirk, 13 May, 1787.

    Auld chukie Reekie's[69] sair distrest,
    Down droops her ance weel-burnisht crest,
    Nae joy her bonnie buskit nest
                      Can yield ava,
    Her darling bird that she lo'es best,
                      Willie's awa!

    The stiffest o' them a' he bow'd;
    The bauldest o' them a' he cow'd;
    They durst nae mair than he allow'd,
                      That was a law;
    We've lost a birkie weel worth gowd,
                      Willie's awa!

    Now gawkies, tawpies, gowks, and fools,
    Frae colleges and boarding-schools,
    May sprout like simmer puddock stools
                      In glen or shaw;
    He wha could brush them down to mools,
                      Willie's awa!

    The brethren o' the Commerce-Chaumer[70]
    May mourn their loss wi' doofu' clamour;
    He was a dictionar and grammar
                      Amang them a';
    I fear they'll now mak mony a stammer,
                      Willie's awa!

    Nae mair we see his levee door
    Philosophers and poets pour,[71]
    And toothy critics by the score
                      In bloody raw!
    The adjutant o' a' the core,
                      Willie's awa!

    Now worthy Gregory's Latin face,
    Tytler's and Greenfield's modest grace;
    Mackenzie, Stewart, sic a brace
                      As Rome n'er saw;
    They a' maun meet some ither place,
                      Willie's awa!

    Poor Burns--e'en Scotch drink canna quicken,
    He cheeps like some bewilder'd chicken,
    Scar'd frae its minnie and the cleckin
                      By hoodie-craw;
    Grief's gien his heart an unco kickin',
                      Willie's awa!

    Now ev'ry sour-mou'd girnin' blellum,
    And Calvin's fock are fit to fell him;
    And self-conceited critic skellum
                      His quill may draw;
    He wha could brawlie ward their bellum,
                      Willie's awa!

    Up wimpling stately Tweed I've sped,
    And Eden scenes on crystal Jed,
    And Ettrick banks now roaring red,
                      While tempests blaw;
    But every joy and pleasure's fled,
                      Willie's awa!

    May I be slander's common speech;
    A text for infamy to preach;
    And lastly, streekit out to bleach
                      In winter snaw;
    When I forget thee! Willie Creech,
                      Tho' far awa!

    May never wicked fortune touzle him!
    May never wicked man bamboozle him!
    Until a pow as auld's Methusalem
                      He canty claw!
    Then to the blessed New Jerusalem,
                      Fleet wing awa!

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 69: Edinburgh.]

[Footnote 70: The Chamber of Commerce in Edinburgh, of which Creech was Secretary.]

[Footnote 71: Many literary gentlemen were accustomed to meet at Mr. Creech's house at breakfast.]

       *       *       *       *       *

LXXXIV.

THE

HUMBLE PETITION OF BRUAR WATER

TO THE

NOBLE DUKE OF ATHOLE.

[The Falls of Bruar in Athole are exceedingly beautiful and picturesque; and their effect,
when Burns visited them, was much impaired by want of shrubs and trees. This was in 1787: the
poet, accompanied by his future biographer, Professor Walker, went, when close on twilight,
to this romantic scene: "he threw himself," said the Professor, "on a heathy seat, and gave
himself up to a tender, abstracted, and voluptuous enthusiasm of imagination. In a few days
I received a letter from Inverness, for the poet had gone on his way, with the Petition enclosed."
His Grace of Athole obeyed the injunction: the picturesque points are now crowned with thriving
woods, and the beauty of the Falls is much increased.]

I.

    My Lord, I know your noble ear
      Woe ne'er assails in vain;
    Embolden'd thus, I beg you'll hear
      Your humble slave complain,
    How saucy Phoebus' scorching beams
      In flaming summer-pride,
    Dry-withering, waste my foamy streams,
      And drink my crystal tide.

II.

    The lightly-jumpin' glowrin' trouts,
      That thro' my waters play,
    If, in their random, wanton spouts,
      They near the margin stray;
    If, hapless chance! they linger lang,
      I'm scorching up so shallow,
    They're left the whitening stanes amang,
      In gasping death to wallow.

III.

    Last day I grat wi' spite and teen,
      As Poet Burns came by,
    That to a bard I should be seen
      Wi' half my channel dry:
    A panegyric rhyme, I ween,
      Even as I was he shor'd me;
    But had I in my glory been,
      He, kneeling, wad ador'd me.

IV.

    Here, foaming down the shelvy rocks,
      In twisting strength I rin;
    There, high my boiling torrent smokes,
      Wild-roaring o'er a linn:
    Enjoying large each spring and well,
      As Nature gave them me,
    I am, altho' I say't mysel',
      Worth gaun a mile to see.

V.

    Would then my noble master please
      To grant my highest wishes,
    He'll shade my banks wi' tow'ring trees,
      And bonnie spreading bushes.
    Delighted doubly then, my Lord,
      You'll wander on my banks,
    And listen mony a grateful bird
      Return you tuneful thanks.

VI.

    The sober laverock, warbling wild,
      Shall to the skies aspire;
    The gowdspink, music's gayest child,
      Shall sweetly join the choir:
    The blackbird strong, the lintwhite clear,
      The mavis mild and mellow;
    The robin pensive autumn cheer,
      In all her locks of yellow.

VII.

    This, too, a covert shall insure
      To shield them from the storm;
    And coward maukin sleep secure,
      Low in her grassy form:
    Here shall the shepherd make his seat,
      To weave his crown of flow'rs;
    Or find a shelt'ring safe retreat
      From prone-descending show'rs.

VIII.

    And here, by sweet, endearing stealth,
      Shall meet the loving pair,
    Despising worlds with all their wealth
      As empty idle care.
    The flow'rs shall vie in all their charms
      The hour of heav'n to grace,
    And birks extend their fragrant arms
      To screen the dear embrace.

IX.

    Here haply too, at vernal dawn,
      Some musing bard may stray,
    And eye the smoking, dewy lawn,
      And misty mountain gray;
    Or, by the reaper's nightly beam,
      Mild-chequering thro' the trees,
    Rave to my darkly-dashing stream,
      Hoarse-swelling on the breeze.

X.

    Let lofty firs, and ashes cool,
      My lowly banks o'erspread,
    And view, deep-bending in the pool,
      Their shadows' wat'ry bed!
    Let fragrant birks in woodbines drest
      My craggy cliffs adorn;
    And, for the little songster's nest,
      The close embow'ring thorn.

XI.

    So may old Scotia's darling hope,
      Your little angel band,
    Spring, like their fathers, up to prop
      Their honour'd native land!
    So may thro' Albion's farthest ken,
      To social-flowing glasses,
    The grace be--"Athole's honest men,
      And Athole's bonnie lasses?"

       *       *       *       *       *

LXXXV.

ON SCARING SOME WATER-FOWL

IN LOCH-TURIT.

[When Burns wrote these touching lines, he was staying with Sir William Murray, of Ochtertyre,
during one of his Highland tours. Loch-Turit is a wild lake among the recesses of the hills,
and was welcome from its loneliness to the heart of the poet.]

    Why, ye tenants of the lake,
    For me your wat'ry haunt forsake?
    Tell me, fellow-creatures, why
    At my presence thus you fly?

    Why disturb your social joys,
    Parent, filial, kindred ties?--
    Common friend to you and me,
    Nature's gifts to all are free:
    Peaceful keep your dimpling wave,
    Busy feed, or wanton lave:
    Or, beneath the sheltering rock,
    Bide the surging billow's shock.

    Conscious, blushing for our race,
    Soon, too soon, your fears I trace.
    Man, your proud usurping foe,
    Would be lord of all below:
    Plumes himself in Freedom's pride,
    Tyrant stern to all beside.

    The eagle, from the cliffy brow,
    Marking you his prey below,
    In his breast no pity dwells,
    Strong necessity compels:
    But man, to whom alone is giv'n
    A ray direct from pitying heav'n,
    Glories in his heart humane--
    And creatures for his pleasure slain.

    In these savage, liquid plains,
    Only known to wand'ring swains,
    Where the mossy riv'let strays,
    Far from human haunts and ways;
    All on Nature you depend,
    And life's poor season peaceful spend.

    Or, if man's superior might
    Dare invade your native right,
    On the lofty ether borne,
    Man with all his pow'rs you scorn;
    Swiftly seek, on clanging wings,
    Other lakes and other springs;
    And the foe you cannot brave,
    Scorn at least to be his slave.

       *       *       *       *       *

LXXXVI.

[The castle of Taymouth is the residence of the Earl of Breadalbane: it is a magnificent structure,
contains many fine paintings: has some splendid old trees and romantic scenery.]

    Admiring Nature in her wildest grace,
    These northern scenes with weary feet I trace;
    O'er many a winding dale and painful steep,
    Th' abodes of covey'd grouse and timid sheep,
    My savage journey, curious I pursue,
    'Till fam'd Breadalbane opens to my view.--
    The meeting cliffs each deep-sunk glen divides,
    The woods, wild scatter'd, clothe their ample sides;
    Th' outstretching lake, embosom'd 'mong the hills,
    The eye with wonder and amazement fills;
    The Tay, meand'ring sweet in infant pride,
    The palace, rising on its verdant side;
    The lawns, wood-fring'd in Nature's native taste;
    The hillocks, dropt in Nature's careless haste;
    The arches, striding o'er the new-born stream;
    The village, glittering in the noontide beam--

       *       *       *       *       *

    Poetic ardours in my bosom swell,
    Lone wand'ring by the hermit's mossy cell:
    The sweeping theatre of hanging woods;
    Th' incessant roar of headlong tumbling floods--

       *       *       *       *       *

    Here Poesy might wake her heav'n-taught lyre,
    And look through Nature with creative fire;
    Here, to the wrongs of fate half reconcil'd,
    Misfortune's lighten'd steps might wander wild;
    And Disappointment, in these lonely bounds,
    Find balm to soothe her bitter--rankling wounds:
    Here heart-struck Grief might heav'nward stretch her scan,
    And injur'd Worth forget and pardon man.

       *       *       *       *       *

LXXXVII.

WRITTEN WITH A PENCIL,

STANDING BY THE FALL OF FYERS,

NEAR LOCH-NESS

[This is one of the many fine scenes, in the Celtic Parnassus of
Ossian: but when Burns saw it, the Highland passion of the stream was
abated, for there had been no rain for some time to swell and send it
pouring down its precipices in a way worthy of the scene. The descent
of the water is about two hundred feet.
    Dim seen, through rising mists and ceaseless show'rs,
    The hoary cavern, wide surrounding, low'rs.
    Still thro' the gap the struggling river toils,
    And still below, the horrid cauldron boils--

       *       *       *       *       *

LXXXVIII.

POETICAL ADDRESS

TO MR. W. TYTLER,

WITH THE PRESENT OF THE BARD'S PICTURE.

[When these verses were written there was much stately Jacobitism about Edinburgh, and it is
likely that Tytler, who laboured to dispel the cloud of calumny which hung over the memory
of Queen Mary, had a bearing that way. Taste and talent have now descended in the Tytlers through
three generations: an uncommon event in families. The present edition of the Poem has been
completed from the original in the poet's handwriting.]

    Revered defender of beauteous Stuart,
      Of Stuart, a name once respected,
    A name, which to love, was once mark of a true heart,
      But now 'tis despis'd and neglected.

    Tho' something like moisture conglobes in my eye,
      Let no one misdeem me disloyal;
    A poor friendless wand'rer may well claim a sigh,
      Still more, if that wand'rer were royal.

    My fathers that name have rever'd on a throne,
      My fathers have fallen to right it;
    Those fathers would spurn their degenerate son,
      That name should he scoffingly slight it.

    Still in prayers for King George I most heartily join,
      The Queen and the rest of the gentry,
    Be they wise, be they foolish, is nothing of mine;
      Their title's avow'd by my country.

    But why of that epocha make such a fuss,
      That gave us th' Electoral stem?
    If bringing them over was lucky for us,
      I'm sure 'twas as lucky for them.

    But loyalty truce! we're on dangerous ground,
      Who knows how the fashions may alter?
    The doctrine, to-day, that is loyalty sound,
      To-morrow may bring us a halter.

    I send you a trifle, the head of a bard,
      A trifle scarce worthy your care;
    But accept it, good Sir, as a mark of regard,
      Sincere as a saint's dying prayer.

    Now life's chilly evening dim shades on your eye,
      And ushers the long dreary night;
    But you, like the star that athwart gilds the sky,
      Your course to the latest is bright.

       *       *       *       *       *

LXXXIX.

WRITTEN IN

FRIARS-CARSE HERMITAGE,

ON THE BANKS OF NITH.

JUNE. 1788.

[FIRST COPY.]

[The interleaved volume presented by Burns to Dr. Geddes, has enabled me to present the reader
with the rough draught of this truly beautiful Poem, the first-fruits perhaps of his intercourse
with the muses of Nithside.]

    Thou whom chance may hither lead,
    Be thou clad in russet weed,
    Be thou deck'd in silken stole,
    Grave these maxims on thy soul.
    Life is but a day at most,
    Sprung from night, in darkness lost;
    Day, how rapid in its flight--
    Day, how few must see the night;
    Hope not sunshine every hour,
    Fear not clouds will always lower.
    Happiness is but a name,
    Make content and ease thy aim.

    Ambition is a meteor gleam;
    Fame, a restless idle dream:
    Pleasures, insects on the wing
    Round Peace, the tenderest flower of Spring;
    Those that sip the dew alone,
    Make the butterflies thy own;
    Those that would the bloom devour,
    Crush the locusts--save the flower.
    For the future be prepar'd,
    Guard wherever thou canst guard;
    But, thy utmost duly done,
    Welcome what thou canst not shun.
    Follies past, give thou to air,
    Make their consequence thy care:
    Keep the name of man in mind,
    And dishonour not thy kind.
    Reverence with lowly heart
    Him whose wondrous work thou art;
    Keep His goodness still in view,
    Thy trust--and thy example, too.

    Stranger, go! Heaven be thy guide!
    Quod the Beadsman on Nithside.

       *       *       *       *       *

XC.

WRITTEN IN

FRIARS-CARSE HERMITAGE,

ON NITHSIDE.

DECEMBER, 1788.

[Of this Poem Burns thought so well that he gave away many copies in
his own handwriting: I have seen three. When corrected to his mind,
and the manuscripts showed many changes and corrections, he published
it in the new edition of his Poems as it stands in this second copy.
The little Hermitage where these lines were written, stood in a lonely
plantation belonging to the estate of Friars-Carse, and close to the
march-dyke of Ellisland; a small door in the fence, of which the poet
had the key, admitted him at pleasure, and there he found seclusion
such as he liked, with flowers and shrubs all around him. The first
twelve lines of the Poem were engraved neatly on one of the
window-panes, by the diamond pencil of the Bard.
    Fear not clouds will always lour.
    As Youth and Love with sprightly dance
    Beneath thy morning star advance,
    Pleasure with her siren air
    May delude the thoughtless pair:
    Let Prudence bless enjoyment's cup,
    Then raptur'd sip, and sip it up.

    As thy day grows warm and high,
    Life's meridian flaming nigh,
    Dost thou spurn the humble vale?
    Life's proud summits would'st thou scale?
    Check thy climbing step, elate,
    Evils lurk in felon wait:
    Dangers, eagle-pinion'd, bold,
    Soar around each cliffy hold,
    While cheerful peace, with linnet song,
    Chants the lowly dells among.

    As the shades of ev'ning close,
    Beck'ning thee to long repose;
    As life itself becomes disease,
    Seek the chimney-nook of ease.
    There ruminate, with sober thought,
    On all thou'st seen, and heard, and wrought;
    And teach the sportive younkers round,
    Saws of experience, sage and sound.
    Say, man's true genuine estimate,
    The grand criterion of his fate,
    Is not--Art thou high or low?
    Did thy fortune ebb or flow?
    Wast thou cottager or king?
    Peer or peasant?--no such thing!
    Did many talents gild thy span?
    Or frugal nature grudge thee one?
    Tell them, and press it on their mind,
    As thou thyself must shortly find,
    The smile or frown of awful Heav'n,
    To virtue or to vice is giv'n.
    Say, to be just, and kind, and wise,
    There solid self-enjoyment lies;
    That foolish, selfish, faithless ways
    Lead to the wretched, vile, and base.

    Thus, resign'd and quiet, creep
    To the bed of lasting sleep;
    Sleep, whence thou shalt ne'er awake,
    Night, where dawn shall never break,
    Till future life, future no more,
    To light and joy the good restore,
    To light and joy unknown before.

    Stranger, go! Hea'vn be thy guide!
    Quod the beadsman of Nithside.

       *       *       *       *       *

XCI.

TO CAPTAIN RIDDEL,

OF GLENRIDDEL.

EXTEMPORE LINES ON RETURNING A NEWSPAPER.

[Captain Riddel, the Laird of Friars-Carse, was Burns's neighbour, at Ellisland: he was a kind,
hospitable man, and a good antiquary. The "News and Review" which he sent to the poet contained,
I have heard, some sharp strictures on his works: Burns, with his usual strong sense, set the
proper value upon all contemporary criticism; genius, he knew, had nothing to fear from the
folly or the malice of all such nameless "chippers and hewers." He demanded trial by his peers,
and where were such to be found?]

Ellisland, Monday Evening.

    Your news and review, Sir, I've read through and through, Sir,
      With little admiring or blaming;
    The papers are barren of home-news or foreign,
      No murders or rapes worth the naming.

    Our friends, the reviewers, those chippers and hewers,
      Are judges of mortar and stone, Sir,
    But of meet or unmeet in a fabric complete,
      I'll boldly pronounce they are none, Sir.

    My goose-quill too rude is to tell all your goodness
      Bestow'd on your servant, the Poet;
    Would to God I had one like a beam of the sun,
      And then all the world, Sir, should know it!

       *       *       *       *       *

XCII.

A MOTHER'S LAMENT

FOR THE DEATH OF HER SON.

["The Mother's Lament," says the poet, in a copy of the verses now before me, "was composed
partly with a view to Mrs. Fergusson of Craigdarroch, and partly to the worthy patroness of
my early unknown muse, Mrs. Stewart, of Afton."]

    Fate gave the word, the arrow sped,
      And pierc'd my darling's heart;
    And with him all the joys are fled
      Life can to me impart.
    By cruel hands the sapling drops,
      In dust dishonour'd laid:
    So fell the pride of all my hopes,
      My age's future shade.

    The mother-linnet in the brake
      Bewails her ravish'd young;
    So I, for my lost darling's sake,
      Lament the live day long.
    Death, oft I've fear'd thy fatal blow,
      Now, fond I bare my breast,
    O, do thou kindly lay me low
      With him I love, at rest!

       *       *       *       *       *

XCIII.

FIRST EPISTLE

TO ROBERT GRAHAM, ESQ.

OF FINTRAY.

[In his manuscript copy of this Epistle the poet says "accompanying a request." What the request
was the letter which enclosed it relates. Graham was one of the leading men of the Excise in
Scotland, and had promised Burns a situation as exciseman: for this the poet had qualified
himself; and as he began to dread that farming would be unprofitable, he wrote to remind his
patron of his promise, and requested to be appointed to a division in his own neighbourhood.
He was appointed in due time: his division was extensive, and included ten parishes.]

    When Nature her great master-piece designed,
    And fram'd her last, best work, the human mind,
    Her eye intent on all the mazy plan,
    She form'd of various parts the various man.

    Then first she calls the useful many forth;
    Plain plodding industry, and sober worth:
    Thence peasants, farmers, native sons of earth,
    And merchandise' whole genus take their birth:
    Each prudent cit a warm existence finds,
    And all mechanics' many-apron'd kinds.
    Some other rarer sorts are wanted yet,
    The lead and buoy are needful to the net;
    The caput mortuum of gross desires
    Makes a material for mere knights and squires;
    The martial phosphorus is taught to flow,
    She kneads the lumpish philosophic dough,
    Then marks th' unyielding mass with grave designs,
    Law, physic, politics, and deep divines:
    Last, she sublimes th' Aurora of the poles,
    The flashing elements of female souls.

    The order'd system fair before her stood,
    Nature, well pleas'd, pronounc'd it very good;
    But ere she gave creating labour o'er,
    Half-jest, she tried one curious labour more.
    Some spumy, fiery, ignis fatuus matter,
    Such as the slightest breath of air might scatter;
    With arch alacrity and conscious glee
    (Nature may have her whim as well as we,
    Her Hogarth-art perhaps she meant to show it)
    She forms the thing, and christens it--a Poet.
    Creature, tho' oft the prey of care and sorrow,
    When blest to-day, unmindful of to-morrow.
    A being form'd t'amuse his graver friends,
    Admir'd and prais'd--and there the homage ends:
    A mortal quite unfit for fortune's strife,
    Yet oft the sport of all the ills of life;
    Prone to enjoy each pleasure riches give,
    Yet haply wanting wherewithal to live;
    Longing to wipe each tear, to heal each groan,
    Yet frequent all unheeded in his own.

    But honest Nature is not quite a Turk,
    She laugh'd at first, then felt for her poor work.
    Pitying the propless climber of mankind,
    She cast about a standard tree to find;
    And, to support his helpless woodbine state,
    Attach'd him to the generous truly great,
    A title, and the only one I claim,
    To lay strong hold for help on bounteous Graham.

    Pity the tuneful muses' hapless train,
    Weak, timid landsmen on life's stormy main!
    Their hearts no selfish stern absorbent stuff,
    That never gives--tho' humbly takes enough;
    The little fate allows, they share as soon,
    Unlike sage proverb'd wisdom's hard-wrung boon.
    The world were blest did bliss on them depend,
    Ah, that "the friendly e'er should want a friend!"
    Let prudence number o'er each sturdy son
    Who life and wisdom at one race begun,
    Who feel by reason and who give by rule,
    (Instinct's a brute, and sentiment a fool!)
    Who make poor will do wait upon I should--
    We own they're prudent, but who feels they're good?
    Ye wise ones, hence! ye hurt the social eye!
    God's image rudely etch'd on base alloy!
    But come ye who the godlike pleasure know,
    Heaven's attribute distinguished--to bestow!
    Whose arms of love would grasp the human race:
    Come thou who giv'st with all a courtier's grace;
    Friend of my life, true patron of my rhymes!
    Prop of my dearest hopes for future times.

    Why shrinks my soul half blushing, half afraid,
    Backward, abash'd to ask thy friendly aid?
    I know my need, I know thy giving hand,
    I crave thy friendship at thy kind command;
    But there are such who court the tuneful nine--
    Heavens! should the branded character be mine!
    Whose verse in manhood's pride sublimely flows,
    Yet vilest reptiles in their begging prose.
    Mark, how their lofty independent spirit
    Soars on the spurning wing of injur'd merit!
    Seek not the proofs in private life to find;
    Pity the best of words should be but wind!
    So to heaven's gates the lark's shrill song ascends,
    But grovelling on the earth the carol ends.
    In all the clam'rous cry of starving want,
    They dun benevolence with shameless front;
    Oblige them, patronize their tinsel lays,
    They persecute you all your future days!
    Ere my poor soul such deep damnation stain,
    My horny fist assume the plough again;
    The pie-bald jacket let me patch once more;
    On eighteen-pence a week I've liv'd before.
    Tho', thanks to Heaven, I dare even that last shift!
    I trust, meantime, my boon is in thy gift:
    That, plac'd by thee upon the wish'd-for height,
    Where, man and nature fairer in her sight,
    My muse may imp her wing for some sublimer flight.

       *       *       *       *       *

XCIV.

ON THE DEATH OF

SIR JAMES HUNTER BLAIR.

[I found these lines written with a pencil in one of Burns's memorandum-books: he said he had
just composed them, and pencilled them down lest they should escape from his memory. They differed
in nothing from the printed copy of the first Liverpool edition. That they are by Burns there
cannot be a doubt, though they were, I know not for what reason, excluded from several editions
of the Posthumous Works of the poet.]

    The lamp of day, with ill-presaging glare,
      Dim, cloudy, sunk beneath the western wave;
    Th' inconstant blast howl'd thro' the darkening air,
      And hollow whistled in the rocky cave.

    Lone as I wander'd by each cliff and dell,
      Once the lov'd haunts of Scotia's royal train;[72]
    Or mus'd where limpid streams once hallow'd well,[73]
      Or mould'ring ruins mark the sacred fane.[74]

    Th' increasing blast roared round the beetling rocks,
      The clouds, swift-wing'd, flew o'er the starry sky,
    The groaning trees untimely shed their locks,
      And shooting meteors caught the startled eye.

    The paly moon rose in the livid east,
      And 'mong the cliffs disclos'd a stately form,
    In weeds of woe that frantic beat her breast,
      And mix'd her wailings with the raving storm.

    Wild to my heart the filial pulses glow,
      'Twas Caledonia's trophied shield I view'd:
    Her form majestic droop'd in pensive woe,
      The lightning of her eye in tears imbued.

    Revers'd that spear, redoubtable in war,
      Reclined that banner, erst in fields unfurl'd,
    That like a deathful meteor gleam'd afar,
      And brav'd the mighty monarchs of the world.--

    "My patriot son fills an untimely grave!"
      With accents wild and lifted arms--she cried;
    "Low lies the hand that oft was stretch'd to save,
      Low lies the heart that swell'd with honest pride.

    "A weeping country joins a widow's tear,
      The helpless poor mix with the orphan's cry;
    The drooping arts surround their patron's bier,
      And grateful science heaves the heart-felt sigh!

    "I saw my sons resume their ancient fire;
      I saw fair freedom's blossoms richly blow:
    But ah! how hope is born but to expire!
      Relentless fate has laid their guardian low.

    "My patriot falls, but shall he lie unsung,
      While empty greatness saves a worthless name!
    No; every muse shall join her tuneful tongue,
      And future ages hear his growing fame.

    "And I will join a mother's tender cares,
      Thro' future times to make his virtues last;
    That distant years may boast of other Blairs!"--
      She said, and vanish'd with the sweeping blast.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 72: The King's Park, at Holyrood-house.]

[Footnote 73: St. Anthony's Well.]

[Footnote 74: St. Anthony's Chapel.]

       *       *       *       *       *

XCV.

EPISTLE TO HUGH PARKER.

[This little lively, biting epistle was addressed to one of the poet's Kilmarnock companions.
Hugh Parker was the brother of William Parker, one of the subscribers to the Edinburgh edition
of Burns's Poems: he has been dead many years: the Epistle was recovered, luckily, from his
papers, and printed for the first time in 1834.]

    In this strange land, this uncouth clime,
    A land unknown to prose or rhyme;
    Where words ne'er crost the muse's heckles,
    Nor limpet in poetic shackles:
    A land that prose did never view it,
    Except when drunk he stacher't thro' it,
    Here, ambush'd by the chimla cheek,
    Hid in an atmosphere of reek,
    I hear a wheel thrum i' the neuk,
    I hear it--for in vain I leuk.--
    The red peat gleams, a fiery kernel,
    Enhusked by a fog infernal:
    Here, for my wonted rhyming raptures,
    I sit and count my sins by chapters;
    For life and spunk like ither Christians,
    I'm dwindled down to mere existence,
    Wi' nae converse but Gallowa' bodies,
    Wi' nae kend face but Jenny Geddes.[75]
    Jenny, my Pegasean pride!
    Dowie she saunters down Nithside,
    And ay a westlin leuk she throws,
    While tears hap o'er her auld brown nose!
    Was it for this, wi' canny care,
    Thou bure the bard through many a shire?
    At howes or hillocks never stumbled,
    And late or early never grumbled?--
    O had I power like inclination,
    I'd heeze thee up a constellation,
    To canter with the Sagitarre,
    Or loup the ecliptic like a bar;
    Or turn the pole like any arrow;
    Or, when auld Phoebus bids good-morrow,
    Down the zodiac urge the race,
    And cast dirt on his godship's face;
    For I could lay my bread and kail
    He'd ne'er cast saut upo' thy tail.--
    Wi' a' this care and a' this grief,
    And sma,' sma' prospect of relief,
    And nought but peat reek i' my head,
    How can I write what ye can read?--
    Tarbolton, twenty-fourth o' June,
    Ye'll find me in a better tune;
    But till we meet and weet our whistle,
    Tak this excuse for nae epistle.

    ROBERT BURNS.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 75: His mare.]

       *       *       *       *       *

XCVI.

LINES

INTENDED TO BE WRITTEN UNDER

A NOBLE EARL'S PICTURE.

[Burns placed the portraits of Dr. Blacklock and the Earl of Glencairn, over his parlour chimney-piece
at Ellisland: beneath the head of the latter he wrote some verses, which he sent to the Earl,
and requested leave to make public. This seems to have been refused; and, as the verses were
lost for years, it was believed they were destroyed: a rough copy, however, is preserved, and
is now in the safe keeping of the Earl's name-son, Major James Glencairn Burns. James Cunningham,
Earl of Glencairn, died 20th January, 1791, aged 42 years; he was succeeded by his only and
childless brother, with whom this ancient race was closed.]

    Whose is that noble dauntless brow?
      And whose that eye of fire?
    And whose that generous princely mien,
      E'en rooted foes admire?
    Stranger! to justly show that brow,
      And mark that eye of fire,
    Would take His hand, whose vernal tints
      His other works inspire.

    Bright as a cloudless summer sun,
      With stately port he moves;
    His guardian seraph eyes with awe
      The noble ward he loves--
    Among th' illustrious Scottish sons
      That chief thou may'st discern;
    Mark Scotia's fond returning eye--
      It dwells upon Glencairn.

       *       *       *       *       *

XCVII.

ELEGY

ON THE YEAR 1788

A SKETCH.

[This Poem was first printed by Stewart, in 1801. The poet loved to indulge in such sarcastic
sallies: it is full of character, and reflects a distinct image of those yeasty times.]

    For Lords or Kings I dinna mourn,
    E'en let them die--for that they're born,
    But oh! prodigious to reflec'!
    A Towmont, Sirs, is gane to wreck!
    O Eighty-eight, in thy sma' space
    What dire events ha'e taken place!
    Of what enjoyments thou hast reft us!
    In what a pickle thou hast left us!

    The Spanish empire's tint a-head,
    An' my auld toothless Bawtie's dead;
    The tulzie's sair 'tween Pitt and Fox,
    And our guid wife's wee birdie cocks;
    The tane is game, a bluidie devil,
    But to the hen-birds unco civil:
    The tither's something dour o' treadin',
    But better stuff ne'er claw'd a midden--
    Ye ministers, come mount the pu'pit,
    An' cry till ye be hearse an' roupet,
    For Eighty-eight he wish'd you weel,
    An' gied you a' baith gear an' meal;
    E'en mony a plack, and mony a peck,
    Ye ken yoursels, for little feck!

    Ye bonnie lasses, dight your e'en,
    For some o' you ha'e tint a frien';
    In Eighty-eight, ye ken, was ta'en,
    What ye'll ne'er ha'e to gie again.

    Observe the very nowt an' sheep,
    How dowf and dowie now they creep;
    Nay, even the yirth itsel' does cry,
    For Embro' wells are grutten dry.
    O Eighty-nine, thou's but a bairn,
    An' no owre auld, I hope, to learn!
    Thou beardless boy, I pray tak' care,
    Thou now has got thy daddy's chair,
    Nae hand-cuff'd, mizl'd, hap-shackl'd Regent,
    But, like himsel' a full free agent.
    Be sure ye follow out the plan
    Nae waur than he did, honest man!
    As muckle better as ye can.

January 1, 1789.

       *       *       *       *       *

XCVIII.

ADDRESS TO THE TOOTHACHE.

["I had intended," says Burns to Creech, 30th May, 1789, "to have troubled you with a long
letter, but at present the delightful sensation of an omnipotent toothache so engrosses all
my inner man, as to put it out of my power even to write nonsense." The poetic Address to the
Toothache seems to belong to this period.]

    My curse upon thy venom'd stang,
    That shoots my tortur'd gums alang;
    And thro' my lugs gies mony a twang,
                      Wi' gnawing vengeance;
    Tearing my nerves wi' bitter pang,
                      Like racking engines!

    When fevers burn, or ague freezes,
    Rheumatics gnaw, or cholic squeezes;
    Our neighbours' sympathy may ease us,
                      Wi' pitying moan;
    But thee--thou hell o' a' diseases,
                      Ay mocks our groan!

    Adown my beard the slavers trickle!
    I kick the wee stools o'er the mickle,
    As round the fire the giglets keckle,
                      To see me loup;
    While, raving mad, I wish a heckle
                      Were in their doup.

    O' a' the num'rous human dools,
    Ill har'sts, daft bargains, cutty-stools,
    Or worthy friends rak'd i' the mools,
                      Sad sight to see!
    The tricks o' knaves, or fash o' fools,
                      Thou bears't the gree.

    Where'er that place be priests ca' hell,
    Whence a' the tones o' mis'ry yell,
    And ranked plagues their numbers tell,
                      In dreadfu' raw,
    Thou, Toothache, surely bear'st the bell
                      Amang them a'!

    O thou grim mischief-making chiel,
    That gars the notes of discord squeel,
    'Till daft mankind aft dance a reel
                      In gore a shoe-thick!--
    Gie' a' the faes o' Scotland's weal
                      A towmond's Toothache.

       *       *       *       *       *

XCIX.

ODE

SACRED TO THE MEMORY OF

MRS. OSWALD,

OF AUCHENCRUIVE.

[The origin of this harsh effusion shows under what feelings Burns sometimes wrote. He was,
he says, on his way to Ayrshire, one stormy day in January, and had made himself comfortable,
in spite of the snow-drift, over a smoking bowl, at an inn at the Sanquhar, when in wheeled
the whole funeral pageantry of Mrs. Oswald. He was obliged to mount his horse and ride for
quarters to New Cumnock, where, over a good fire, he penned, in his very ungallant indignation,
the Ode to the lady's memory. He lived to think better of the name.]

    Dweller in yon dungeon dark,
    Hangman of creation, mark!
    Who in widow-weeds appears,
    Laden with unhonoured years,
    Noosing with care a bursting purse,
    Baited with many a deadly curse?

STROPHE.

    View the wither'd beldam's face--
    Can thy keen inspection trace
    Aught of Humanity's sweet melting grace?
    Note that eye, 'tis rheum o'erflows,
    Pity's flood there never rose.
    See these hands, ne'er stretch'd to save,
    Hands that took--but never gave.
    Keeper of Mammon's iron chest,
    Lo, there she goes, unpitied and unblest
    She goes, but not to realms of everlasting rest!

ANTISTROPHE.

    Plunderer of armies, lift thine eyes,
    (Awhile forbear, ye tort'ring fiends;)
    Seest thou whose step, unwilling hither bends?
    No fallen angel, hurl'd from upper skies;
    'Tis thy trusty quondam mate,
    Doom'd to share thy fiery fate,
    She, tardy, hell-ward plies.

EPODE.

    And are they of no more avail,
    Ten thousand glitt'ring pounds a-year?
    In other worlds can Mammon fail,
    Omnipotent as he is here?
    O, bitter mock'ry of the pompous bier,
    While down the wretched vital part is driv'n!
    The cave-lodg'd beggar, with a conscience clear,
    Expires in rags, unknown, and goes to Heav'n.

       *       *       *       *       *

C.

FRAGMENT INSCRIBED

TO THE RIGHT HON. C.J. FOX.

[It was late in life before Burns began to think very highly of Fox: he had hitherto spoken
of him rather as a rattler of dice, and a frequenter of soft company, than as a statesman.
As his hopes from the Tories vanished, he began to think of the Whigs: the first did nothing,
and the latter held out hopes; and as hope, he said was the cordial of the human heart, he
continued to hope on.]

    How wisdom and folly meet, mix, and unite;
    How virtue and vice blend their black and their white;
    How genius, th' illustrious father of fiction,
    Confounds rule and law, reconciles contradiction--
    I sing: if these mortals, the critics, should bustle,
    I care not, not I--let the critics go whistle!

    But now for a patron, whose name and whose glory
    At once may illustrate and honour my story.

    Thou first of our orators, first of our wits;
    Yet whose parts and acquirements seem mere lucky hits;
    With knowledge so vast, and with judgment so strong,
    No man with the half of 'em e'er went far wrong;
    With passions so potent, and fancies so bright,
    No man with the half of 'em e'er went quite right;--
    A sorry, poor misbegot son of the muses,
    For using thy name offers fifty excuses.

      Good L--d, what is man? for as simple he looks,
    Do but try to develope his hooks and his crooks;
    With his depths and his shallows, his good and his evil,
    All in all he's a problem must puzzle the devil.

    On his one ruling passion Sir Pope hugely labours,
    That, like th' old Hebrew walking-switch, eats up its neighbours;
    Mankind are his show-box--a friend, would you know him?
    Pull the string, ruling passion the picture will show him.
    What pity, in rearing so beauteous a system,
    One trifling particular, truth, should have miss'd him;
    For spite of his fine theoretic positions,
    Mankind is a science defies definitions.

    Some sort all our qualities each to its tribe,
    And think human nature they truly describe;
    Have you found this, or t'other? there's more in the wind,
    As by one drunken fellow his comrades you'll find.

    But truce with abstraction, and truce with a muse,
    Whose rhymes you'll perhaps, Sir, ne'er deign to peruse:
    Will you leave your justings, your jars, and your quarrels,
    Contending with Billy for proud-nodding laurels.
    My much-honour'd Patron, believe your poor poet,
    Your courage much more than your prudence you show it;
    In vain with Squire Billy, for laurels you struggle,
    He'll have them by fair trade, if not, he will smuggle;
    Not cabinets even of kings would conceal 'em,
    He'd up the back-stairs, and by G--he would steal 'em.
    Then feats like Squire Billy's you ne'er can achieve 'em;
    It is not, outdo him, the task is, out-thieve him.

       *       *       *       *       *

CI.

ON SEEING

A WOUNDED HARE

LIMP BY ME,

WHICH A FELLOW HAD JUST SHOT.

[This Poem is founded on fact. A young man of the name of Thomson told me--quite unconscious
of the existence of the Poem--that while Burns lived at Ellisland--he shot at and hurt a hare,
which in the twilight was feeding on his father's wheat-bread. The poet, on observing the hare
come bleeding past him, "was in great wrath," said Thomson, "and cursed me, and said little
hindered him from throwing me into the Nith; and he was able enough to do it, though I was
both young and strong."

       *       *       *       *       *

CII.

TO DR. BLACKLOCK,

IN ANSWER TO A LETTER.

[This blind scholar, though an indifferent Poet, was an excellent and generous man: he was
foremost of the Edinburgh literati to admire the Poems of Burns, promote their fame, and advise
that the author, instead of shipping himself for Jamaica, should come to Edinburgh and publish
a new edition. The poet reverenced the name of Thomas Blacklock to the last hour of his life.--Henry
Mackenzie, the Earl of Glencairn, and the Blind Bard, were his three favourites.]

Ellisland, 21st Oct. 1789.

    Wow, but your letter made me vauntie!
    And are ye hale, and weel, and cantie?
    I kenn'd it still your wee bit jauntie
                      Wad bring ye to:
    Lord send you ay as weel's I want ye,
                      And then ye'll do.

    The ill-thief blaw the heron south!
    And never drink be near his drouth!
    He tauld mysel' by word o' mouth,
                      He'd tak my letter:
    I lippen'd to the chief in trouth,
                      And bade nae better.

    But aiblins honest Master Heron,
    Had at the time some dainty fair one,
    To ware his theologic care on,
                      And holy study;
    And tir'd o' sauls to waste his lear on
                      E'en tried the body.

    Lord help me thro' this warld o' care!
    I'm weary sick o't late and air!
    Not but I hae a richer share
                      Than mony ithers:
    But why should ae man better fare,
                      And a' men brithers?

    Come, firm Resolve, take then the van,
    Thou stalk o' carl-hemp in man!
    And let us mind, faint-heart ne'er wan
                      A lady fair:
    Wha does the utmost that he can,
                      Will whyles do mair.

    My compliments to sister Beckie;
    And eke the same to honest Lucky,
    I wat she is a dainty chuckie,
                      As e'er tread clay!
    And gratefully, my guid auld cockie,
                      I'm yours for ay,

ROBERT BURNS.

       *       *       *       *       *

CIII.

DELIA.

AN ODE.

[These verses were first printed in the Star newspaper, in May, 1789. It is said that one day
a friend read to the poet some verses from the Star, composed on the pattern of Pope's song,
by a Person of Quality. "These lines are beyond you," he added: "the muse of Kyle cannot match
the muse of London." Burns mused a moment, then recited "Delia, an Ode."]

    Fair the face of orient day,
    Fair the tints of op'ning rose,
    But fairer still my Delia dawns,
    More lovely far her beauty blows.

    Sweet the lark's wild-warbled lay,
    Sweet the tinkling rill to hear;
    But, Delia, more delightful still
    Steal thine accents on mine ear.

    The flow'r-enamoured busy bee
    The rosy banquet loves to sip;
    Sweet the streamlet's limpid lapse
    To the sun-brown'd Arab's lip;--

    But, Delia, on thy balmy lips
    Let me, no vagrant insect, rove!
    O, let me steal one liquid kiss!
    For, oh! my soul is parch'd with love.

       *       *       *       *       *

CIV.

TO JOHN M'MURDO, ESQ.

[John M'Murdo, Esq., one of the chamberlains of the Duke of Queensberry, lived at Drumlanrig:
he was a high-minded, warm-hearted man, and much the friend of the poet. These lines accompanied
a present of books: others were added soon afterwards on a pane of glass in Drumlanrig castle.

    "Blest be M'Murdo to his latest day!
    No envious cloud o'ercast his evening ray;
    No wrinkle furrowed by the hand of care,
    Nor ever sorrow add one silver hair!
    O may no son the father's honour stain,
    Nor ever daughter give the mother pain."

How fully the poet's wishes were fulfilled need not be told to any one acquainted with the family.]

    O, could I give thee India's wealth,
      As I this trifle send!
    Because thy joy in both would be
      To share them with a friend.

    But golden sands did never grace
      The Heliconian stream;
    Then take what gold could never buy--
      An honest Bard's esteem.

       *       *       *       *       *

CV.

PROLOGUE,

SPOKEN AT THE THEATRE, DUMFRIES,

1 JAN. 1790.

[This prologue was written in December, 1789, for Mr. Sutherland, who recited it with applause
in the little theatre of Dumfries, on new-year's night. Sir Harris Nicolas, however, has given
to Ellisland the benefit of a theatre! and to Burns the whole barony of Dalswinton for a farm!]

    No song nor dance I bring from yon great city
    That queens it o'er our taste--the more's the pity:
    Tho', by-the-by, abroad why will you roam?
    Good sense and taste are natives here at home:
    But not for panegyric I appear,
    I come to wish you all a good new year!
    Old Father Time deputes me here before ye,
    Not for to preach, but tell his simple story:
    The sage grave ancient cough'd, and bade me say,
    "You're one year older this important day."
    If wiser too--he hinted some suggestion,
    But 'twould be rude, you know, to ask the question;
    And with a would-be roguish leer and wink,
    He bade me on you press this one word--"think!"

      Ye sprightly youths, quite flushed with hope and spirit,
    Who think to storm the world by dint of merit,
    To you the dotard has a deal to say,
    In his sly, dry, sententious, proverb way;
    He bids you mind, amid your thoughtless rattle,
    That the first blow is ever half the battle:
    That tho' some by the skirt may try to snatch him,
    Yet by the forelock is the hold to catch him;
    That whether doing, suffering, or forbearing,
    You may do miracles by persevering.

      Last, tho' not least in love, ye youthful fair,
    Angelic forms, high Heaven's peculiar care!
    To yon old Bald-pate smooths his wrinkled brow,
    And humbly begs you'll mind the important NOW!
    To crown your happiness he asks your leave,
    And offers bliss to give and to receive.

      For our sincere, tho' haply weak endeavours,
    With grateful pride we own your many favours,
    And howsoe'er our tongues may ill reveal it,
    Believe our glowing bosoms truly feel it.

       *       *       *       *       *

CVI.

SCOTS PROLOGUE,

FOR MR. SUTHERLAND'S BENEFIT NIGHT,

DUMFRIES.

[Burns did not shine in prologues: he produced some vigorous lines, but they did not come in
harmony from his tongue, like the songs in which he recorded the loveliness of the dames of
Caledonia. Sutherland was manager of the theatre, and a writer of rhymes.--Burns said his players
were a very decent set: he had seen them an evening or two.]

      What needs this din about the town o' Lon'on,
    How this new play an' that new sang is comin'?
    Why is outlandish stuff sae meikle courted?
    Does nonsense mend like whiskey, when imported?
    Is there nae poet, burning keen for fame,
    Will try to gie us songs and plays at hame?
    For comedy abroad he need nae toil,
    A fool and knave are plants of every soil;
    Nor need he hunt as far as Rome and Greece
    To gather matter for a serious piece;
    There's themes enough in Caledonian story,
    Would show the tragic muse in a' her glory.

    Is there no daring bard will rise, and tell
    How glorious Wallace stood, how hapless fell?
    Where are the muses fled that could produce
    A drama worthy o' the name o' Bruce;
    How here, even here, he first unsheath'd the sword,
    'Gainst mighty England and her guilty lord,
    And after mony a bloody, deathless doing,
    Wrench'd his dear country from the jaws of ruin?
    O for a Shakspeare or an Otway scene,
    To draw the lovely, hapless Scottish Queen!
    Vain all th' omnipotence of female charms
    'Gainst headlong, ruthless, mad Rebellion's arms.

    She fell, but fell with spirit truly Roman,
    To glut the vengeance of a rival woman;
    A woman--tho' the phrase may seem uncivil--
    As able and as cruel as the Devil!
    One Douglas lives in Home's immortal page,
    But Douglases were heroes every age:
    And tho' your fathers, prodigal of life,
    A Douglas follow'd to the martial strife,
    Perhaps if bowls row right, and right succeeds,
    Ye yet may follow where a Douglas leads!

    As ye hae generous done, if a' the land
    Would take the muses' servants by the hand;
    Not only hear, but patronize, befriend them,
    And where ye justly can commend, commend them;
    And aiblins when they winna stand the test,
    Wink hard, and say the folks hae done their best!
    Would a' the land do this, then I'll be caution
    Ye'll soon hae poets o' the Scottish nation,
    Will gar fame blaw until her trumpet crack,
    And warsle time, on' lay him on his back!
    For us and for our stage should ony spier,
    "Whose aught thae chiels maks a' this bustle here!"
    My best leg foremost, I'll set up my brow,
    We have the honour to belong to you!
    We're your ain bairns, e'en guide us as ye like,
    But like good withers, shore before ye strike.--
    And gratefu' still I hope ye'll ever find us,
    For a' the patronage and meikle kindness
    We've got frae a' professions, sets, and ranks:
    God help us! we're but poor--ye'se get but thanks.

       *       *       *       *       *

CVII.

SKETCH.

NEW YEAR'S DAY.

TO MRS. DUNLOP.

[This is a picture of the Dunlop family: it was printed from a hasty sketch, which the poet
called extempore. The major whom it mentions, was General Andrew Dunlop, who died in 1804:
Rachel Dunlop was afterwards married to Robert Glasgow, Esq. Another of the Dunlops served
with distinction in India, where he rose to the rank of General. They were a gallant race,
and all distinguished.]

    This day, Time winds th' exhausted chain,
    To run the twelvemonth's length again:
    I see the old, bald-pated follow,
    With ardent eyes, complexion sallow,
    Adjust the unimpair'd machine,
    To wheel the equal, dull routine.

    The absent lover, minor heir,
    In vain assail him with their prayer;
    Deaf as my friend, he sees them press,
    Nor makes the hour one moment less.
    Will you (the Major's with the hounds,
    The happy tenants share his rounds;
    Coila's fair Rachel's care to-day,
    And blooming Keith's engaged with Gray)
    From housewife cares a minute borrow--
    That grandchild's cap will do to-morrow--
    And join with me a moralizing,
    This day's propitious to be wise in.

    First, what did yesternight deliver?
    "Another year is gone for ever."
    And what is this day's strong suggestion?
    "The passing moment's all we rest on!"
    Rest on--for what? what do we here?
    Or why regard the passing year?
    Will time, amus'd with proverb'd lore,
    Add to our date one minute more?
    A few days more--a few years must--
    Repose us in the silent dust.
    Then is it wise to damp our bliss?
    Yes--all such reasonings are amiss!
    The voice of nature loudly cries,
    And many a message from the skies,
    That something in us never dies:
    That on this frail, uncertain state,
    Hang matters of eternal weight:
    That future life in worlds unknown
    Must take its hue from this alone;
    Whether as heavenly glory bright,
    Or dark as misery's woeful night.--

    Since then, my honour'd, first of friends,
    On this poor being all depends,
    Let us th' important now employ,
    And live as those who never die.--

    Tho' you, with days and honours crown'd,
    Witness that filial circle round,
    (A sight, life's sorrows to repulse,
    A sight, pale envy to convulse,)
    Others now claim your chief regard;
    Yourself, you wait your bright reward.

       *       *       *       *       *

CVIII.

TO A GENTLEMAN

WHO HAD SENT HIM A NEWSPAPER, AND OFFERED TO

CONTINUE IT FREE OF EXPENSE.

[These sarcastic lines contain a too true picture of the times in which they were written.
Though great changes have taken place in court and camp, yet Austria, Russia, and Prussia keep
the tack of Poland: nobody says a word of Denmark: emasculated Italy is still singing; opera
girls are still dancing; but Chatham Will, glaikit Charlie, Daddie Burke, Royal George, and
Geordie Wales, have all passed to their account.]

    Kind Sir, I've read your paper through,
    And, faith, to me 'twas really new!
    How guess'd ye, Sir, what maist I wanted?
    This mony a day I've grain'd and gaunted,
    To ken what French mischief was brewin';
    Or what the drumlie Dutch were doin';
    That vile doup-skelper, Emperor Joseph,
    If Venus yet had got his nose off;
    Or how the collieshangie works
    Atween the Russians and the Turks:
    Or if the Swede, before he halt,
    Would play anither Charles the Twalt:
    If Denmark, any body spak o't;
    Or Poland, wha had now the tack o't;
    How cut-throat Prussian blades were hingin';
    How libbet Italy was singin';
    If Spaniard, Portuguese, or Swiss
    Were sayin' or takin' aught amiss:
    Or how our merry lads at hame,
    In Britain's court kept up the game:
    How royal George, the Lord leuk o'er him!
    Was managing St. Stephen's quorum;
    If sleekit Chatham Will was livin';
    Or glaikit Charlie got his nieve in:
    How daddie Burke the plea was cookin',
    If Warren Hastings' neck was yeukin;
    How cesses, stents, and fees were rax'd,
    Or if bare a--s yet were tax'd;
    The news o' princes, dukes, and earls,
    Pimps, sharpers, bawds, and opera girls;
    If that daft buckie, Geordie Wales,
    Was threshin' still at hizzies' tails;
    Or if he was grown oughtlins douser,
    And no a perfect kintra cooser.--
    A' this and mair I never heard of;
    And but for you I might despair'd of.
    So, gratefu', back your news I send you,
    And pray, a' guid things may attend you!

Ellisland, Monday morning, 1790.

       *       *       *       *       *

CIX.

THE KIRK'S ALARM;[76]

A SATIRE.

[FIRST VERSION.]

[The history of this Poem is curious. M'Gill, one of the ministers of Ayr, long suspected of
entertaining heterodox opinions concerning original sin and the Trinity, published "A Practical
Essay on the Death of Jesus Christ," which, in the opinion of the more rigid portion of his
brethren, inclined both to Arianism and Socinianism. This essay was denounced as heretical,
by a minister of the name Peebles, in a sermon preached November 5th, 1788, and all the west
country was in a flame. The subject was brought before the Synod, and was warmly debated till
M'Gill expressed his regret for the disquiet he had occasioned, explained away or apologized
for the challenged passages in his Essay, and declared his adherence to the Standard doctrines
of his mother church. Burns was prevailed upon to bring his satire to the aid of M'Gill, but
he appears to have done so with reluctance.]

          Orthodox, orthodox,
          Wha believe in John Knox,
    Let me sound an alarm to your conscience:
          There's a heretic blast
          Has been blawn in the wast,
    That what is no sense must be nonsense.

          Dr. Mac,[77] Dr. Mac,
          You should stretch on a rack,
    To strike evil doers wi' terror;
          To join faith and sense
          Upon ony pretence,
    Is heretic, damnable error.

          Town of Ayr, town of Ayr,
          It was mad, I declare,
    To meddle wi' mischief a-brewing;
          Provost John[78] is still deaf
          To the church's relief,
    And orator Bob[79] is its ruin.

          D'rymple mild,[80] D'rymple mild,
          Thro' your heart's like a child,
    And your life like the new driven snaw,
          Yet that winna save ye,
          Auld Satan must hav ye,
    For preaching that three's ane an' twa.

          Rumble John,[81] Rumble John,
          Mount the steps wi' a groan,
    Cry the book is wi' heresy cramm'd;
          Then lug out your ladle,
          Deal brimstone like adle,
    And roar every note of the danm'd.

          Simper James,[82] Simper James,
          Leave the fair Killie dames,
    There's a holier chase in your view;
          I'll lay on your head
          That the pack ye'll soon lead.
    For puppies like you there's but few.

          Singet Sawney,[83] Singet Sawney,
          Are ye herding the penny,
    Unconscious what evil await?
          Wi' a jump, yell, and howl,
          Alarm every soul,
    For the foul thief is just at your gate.

          Daddy Auld,[84] Daddy Auld,
          There's a tod in the fauld,
    A tod meikle waur than the clerk;
          Though yo can do little skaith,
          Ye'll be in at the death,
    And gif ye canna bite, ye may bark.

          Davie Bluster,[85] Davie Bluster,
          If for a saint ye do muster,
    The corps is no nice of recruits;
          Yet to worth let's be just,
          Royal blood ye might boast,
    If the ass was the king of the brutes.

          Jamy Goose,[86] Jamy Goose,
          Ye ha'e made but toom roose,
    In hunting the wicked lieutenant;
          But the Doctor's your mark,
          For the L--d's haly ark;
    He has cooper'd and cawd a wrang pin in't.

          Poet Willie,[87] Poet Willie,
          Fie the Doctor a volley,
    Wi' your liberty's chain and your wit;
          O'er Pegasus' side
          Ye ne'er laid astride,
    Ye but smelt, man, the place where he ----.

          Andro Gouk,[88], Andro Gouk,
          Ye may slander the book,
    And the book not the waur, let me tell ye;
          Ye are rich and look big,
          But lay by hat and wig,
    And ye'll ha'e a calf's head o' sma' value.

          Barr Steenie,[89] Barr Steenie,
          What mean ye, what mean ye?
    If ye'll meddle nae mair wi' the matter,
          Ye may ha'e some pretence
          To havins and sense,
    Wi' people wha ken ye nae better.

          Irvine side,[90] Irvine side,
          Wi' your turkey-cock pride,
    Of manhood but sum' is your share,
          Ye've the figure 'tis true,
          Even your faes will allow,
    And your friends they dae grunt you nae mair.

          Muirland Jock,[91] Muirland Jock,
          When the L--d makes a rock
    To crush Common sense for her sins,
          If ill manners were wit,
          There's no mortal so fit
    To confound the poor Doctor at ance.

          Holy Will,[92] Holy Will,
          There was wit i' your skull,
    When ye pilfer'd the alms o' the poor;
          The timmer is scant,
          When ye're ta'en for a saunt,
    Wha should swing in a rape for an hour.

          Calvin's sons, Calvin's sons,
          Seize your spir'tual guns,
    Ammunition you never can need;
          Your hearts are the stuff,
          Will be powther enough,
    And your skulls are storehouses o' lead.

          Poet Burns, Poet Burns,
          Wi' your priest-skelping turns,
    Why desert ye your auld native shire?
          Your muse is a gipsie,
          E'en tho' she were tipsie,
    She could ca' us nae waur than we are.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 76: This Poem was written a short time after the publication of M'Gill's Essay.]

[Footnote 77: Dr. M'Gill.]

[Footnote 78: John Ballantyne.]

[Footnote 79: Robert Aiken.]

[Footnote 80: Dr. Dalrymple.]

[Footnote 81: Mr. Russell.]

[Footnote 82: Mr. M'Kinlay.]

[Footnote 83: Mr. Moody, of Riccarton.]

[Footnote 84: Mr. Auld of Mauchline.]

[Footnote 85: Mr. Grant, of Ochiltree.]

[Footnote 86: Mr. Young, of Cumnock.]

[Footnote 87: Mr. Peebles, Ayr.]

[Footnote 88: Dr. Andrew Mitchell, of Monkton.]

[Footnote 89: Mr. Stephen Young, of Barr.]

[Footnote 90: Mr. George Smith, of Galston.]

[Footnote 91: Mr. John Shepherd, Muirkirk.]

[Footnote 92: Holy Willie, alias William Fisher, Elder in Mauchline.]

       *       *       *       *       *

CX.

THE KIRK'S ALARM.

A BALLAD.

[SECOND VERSION.]

[This version is from the papers of Miss Logan, of Afton. The Kirk's Alarm was first printed
by Stewart, in 1801.

II.

III.

          Town of Ayr, town of Ayr,
          It was rash I declare,
    To meddle wi' mischief a-brewing;
          Provost John is still deaf,
          To the church's relief,
    And orator Bob is its ruin,
                      Town Of Ayr,
    And orator Bob is its ruin.

IV.

V.

          Calvin's sons, Calvin's sons,
          Seize your spiritual guns,
    Ammunition ye never can need;
          Your hearts are the stuff,
          Will be powder enough,
    And your skulls are a storehouse of lead,
                      Calvin's sons,
    And your skulls are a storehouse of lead.

VI.

          Rumble John, Rumble John,
          Mount the steps with a groan,
    Cry the book is with heresy cramm'd;
          Then lug out your ladle,
          Deal brimstone like aidle,
    And roar every note o' the damn'd,
                      Rumble John,
    And roar every note o' the damn'd.

VII.

VIII.

          Singet Sawnie, Singet Sawnie,
          Are ye herding the penny,
    Unconscious what danger awaits?
          With a jump, yell, and howl,
          Alarm every soul,
    For Hannibal's just at your gates,
                      Singet Sawnie,
    For Hannibal's just at your gates.

IX.

XI.

XII.

XIV.

XV.

          Cessnockside, Cessnockside,
          Wi' your turkey-cock pride,
    O' manhood but sma' is your share;
          Ye've the figure, it's true,
          Even our faes maun allow,
    And your friends daurna say ye hae mair,
                      Cessnockside,
    And your friends daurna say ye hae mair.

XVI.

          Daddie Auld, Daddie Auld,
          There's a tod i' the fauld
    A tod meikle waur than the clerk;[93]
          Tho' ye downa do skaith,
          Ye'll be in at the death,
    And if ye canna bite ye can bark,
                      Daddie Auld,
    And if ye canna bite ye can bark.

XVII.
          Tho' your Muse is a gipsy,
          Yet were she even tipsy,
    She could ca' us nae waur than we are,
                      Poet Burns,
    She could ca' us nae waur than we are.

       *       *       *       *       *

POSTSCRIPT.

          Afton's Laird, Afton's Laird,
          When your pen can be spar'd,
    A copy o' this I bequeath,
          On the same sicker score
          I mentioned before,
    To that trusty auld worthy Clackleith,
                      Afton's Laird,
    To that trusty auld worthy Clackleith.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 93: Gavin Hamilton.]

       *       *       *       *       *

CXI.

PEG NICHOLSON.

[These hasty verses are to be found in a letter addressed to Nicol, of the High School of Edinburgh,
by the poet, giving him on account of the unlooked-for death of his mare, Peg Nicholson, the
successor of Jenny Geddes. She had suffered both in the employ of the joyous priest and the
thoughtless poet. She acquired her name from that frantic virago who attempted to murder George
the Third.]

    Peg Nicholson was a good bay mare,
      As ever trode on airn;
    But now she's floating down the Nith,
      And past the mouth o' Cairn.

    Peg Nicholson was a good bay mare,
      And rode thro' thick an' thin;
    But now she's floating down the Nith,
      And wanting even the skin.

    Peg Nicholson was a good bay mare,
      And ance she bore a priest;
    But now she's flouting down the Nith,
      For Solway fish a feast.

    Peg Nicholson was a good bay mare,
      And the priest he rode her sair;
    And much oppress'd and bruis'd she was;
      As priest-rid cattle are, &c. &c.

       *       *       *       *       *

CXII.

    "Should the poor be flattered?"

SHAKSPEARE.

    But now his radiant course is run,
      For Matthew's course was bright;
    His soul was like the glorious sun,
     A matchless heav'nly light!

[Captain Matthew Henderson, a gentleman of very agreeable manners and great propriety of character,
usually lived in Edinburgh, dined constantly at Fortune's Tavern, and was a member of the Capillaire
Club, which was composed of all who desired to be thought witty or joyous: he died in 1789:
Burns, in a note to the Poem, says, "I loved the man much, and have not flattered his memory."
Henderson seems indeed to have been universally liked. "In our travelling party," says Sir
James Campbell, of Ardkinglass, "was Matthew Henderson, then (1759) and afterwards well known
and much esteemed in the town of Edinburgh; at that time an officer in the twenty-fifth regiment
of foot, and like myself on his way to join the army; and I may say with truth, that in the
course of a long life I have never known a more estimable character, than Matthew Henderson."
Memoirs of Campbell, of Ardkinglass, p. 17.]

    O death! thou tyrant fell and bloody!
    The meikle devil wi' a woodie
    Haurl thee hame to his black smiddie,
                      O'er hurcheon hides,
    And like stock-fish come o'er his studdie
                      Wi' thy auld sides!

    He's gane! he's gane! he's frae us torn,
    The ae best fellow e'er was born!
    Thee, Matthew, Nature's sel' shall mourn
                      By wood and wild,
    Where, haply, pity strays forlorn,
                      Frae man exil'd!

    Ye hills! near neebors o' the starns,
    That proudly cock your cresting cairns!
    Ye cliffs, the haunts of sailing yearns,
                      Where echo slumbers!
    Come join, ye Nature's sturdiest bairns,
                      My wailing numbers!

    Mourn, sooty coots, and speckled teals;
    Ye fisher herons, watching eels:
    Ye duck and drake, wi' airy wheels
                      Circling the lake;
    Ye bitterns, till the quagmire reels,
                      Rair for his sake.

    Mourn, clam'ring craiks, at close o' day,
    'Mang fields o' flowering clover gay;
    And when ye wing your annual way
                      Frae our cauld shore,
    Tell thae far warlds, wha lies in clay,
                      Wham we deplore.

    Ye houlets, frae your ivy bow'r,
    In some auld tree, or eldritch tow'r,
    What time the moon, wi' silent glow'r,
                      Sets up her horn,
    Wail thro' the dreary midnight hour
                      'Till waukrife morn!

    O rivers, forests, hills, and plains!
    Oft have ye heard my canty strains:
    But now, what else for me remains
                      But tales of woe?
    And frae my een the drapping rains
                      Maun ever flow.

    Mourn him, thou sun, great source of light!
    Mourn, empress of the silent night!
    And you, ye twinkling starnies bright,
                      My Matthew mourn!
    For through your orbs he's ta'en his flight,
                      Ne'er to return.

    O, Henderson! the man--the brother!
    And art thou gone, and gone for ever?
    And hast thou crost that unknown river
                      Life's dreary bound?
    Like thee, where shall I find another,
                      The world around?

    Go to your sculptur'd tombs, ye great,
    In a' the tinsel trash o' state!
    But by thy honest turf I'll wait,
                      Thou man of worth!
    And weep the ae best fellow's fate
                      E'er lay in earth.

THE EPITAPH.

    Stop, passenger!--my story's brief,
      And truth I shall relate, man;
    I tell nae common tale o' grief--
      For Matthew was a great man.

    If thou uncommon merit hast,
      Yet spurn'd at fortune's door, man,
    A look of pity hither cast--
      For Matthew was a poor man.

    If thou a noble sodger art,
      That passest by this grave, man,
    There moulders here a gallant heart--
      For Matthew was a brave man.

    If thou on men, their works and ways,
      Canst throw uncommon light, man,
    Here lies wha weel had won thy praise--
      For Matthew was a bright man.

    If thou at friendship's sacred ca'
      Wad life itself resign, man,
    Thy sympathetic tear maun fa'--
      For Matthew was a kind man!

    If thou art staunch without a stain,
      Like the unchanging blue, man,
    This was a kinsman o' thy ain--
      For Matthew was a true man.

    If thou hast wit, and fun, and fire,
      And ne'er guid wine did fear, man,
    This was thy billie, dam and sire--
      For Matthew was a queer man.

    If ony whiggish whingin sot,
      To blame poor Matthew dare, man,
    May dool and sorrow be his lot!
      For Matthew was a rare man.

       *       *       *       *       *

CXIII.

THE FIVE CARLINS.

A SCOTS BALLAD.

Tune--Chevy Chase.

[This is a local and political Poem composed on the contest between Miller, the younger, of
Dalswinton, and Johnstone, of Westerhall, for the representation of the Dumfries and Galloway
district of Boroughs. Each town or borough speaks and acts in character: Maggy personates Dumfries;
Marjory, Lochmaben; Bess of Solway-side, Annan; Whiskey Jean, Kirkcudbright; and Black Joan,
Sanquhar. On the part of Miller, all the Whig interest of the Duke of Queensberry was exerted,
and all the Tory interest on the side of the Johnstone: the poet's heart was with the latter.
Annan and Lochmaben stood staunch by old names and old affections: after a contest, bitterer
than anything of the kind remembered, the Whig interest prevailed.]

    There were five carlins in the south,
      They fell upon a scheme,
    To send a lad to London town,
      To bring them tidings hame.

    Not only bring them tidings hame,
      But do their errands there;
    And aiblins gowd and honour baith
      Might be that laddie's share.

    There was Maggy by the banks o' Nith,
      A dame wi' pride eneugh;
    And Marjory o' the mony lochs,
      A carlin auld and teugh.

    And blinkin' Bess of Annandale,
      That dwelt near Solway-side;
    And whiskey Jean, that took her gill
      In Galloway sae wide.

    And black Joan, frae Crighton-peel,
      O' gipsey kith an' kin;--
    Five wighter carlins were na found
      The south countrie within.

    To send a lad to London town,
      They met upon a day;
    And mony a knight, and mony a laird,
      This errand fain wad gae.

    The first ane was a belted knight,
      Bred of a border band;
    And he wad gae to London town,
      Might nae man him withstand.

    And he wad do their errands weel,
      And meikle he wad say;
    And ilka ane about the court
      Wad bid to him gude-day.

    The neist cam in a sodger youth,
      And spak wi' modest grace,
    And he wad gae to London town,
      If sae their pleasure was.

    He wad na hecht them courtly gifts,
      Nor meikle speech pretend;
    But he wad hecht an honest heart,
      Wad ne'er desert his friend.

    Then wham to chuse, and wham refuse,
      At strife thir carlins fell;
    For some had gentlefolks to please,
      And some wad please themsel'.

    Then out spak mim-mou'd Meg o' Nith,
      And she spak up wi' pride,
    And she wad send the sodger youth,
      Whatever might betide.

    For the auld gudeman o' London court
      She didna care a pin;
    But she wad send the sodger youth
      To greet his eldest son.

    Then slow raise Marjory o' the Lochs
      And wrinkled was her brow;
    Her ancient weed was russet gray,
      Her auld Scotch heart was true.

    "The London court set light by me--
      I set as light by them;
    And I wilt send the sodger lad
      To shaw that court the same."

    Then up sprang Bess of Annandale,
      And swore a deadly aith,
    Says, "I will send the border-knight
      Spite o' you carlins baith.

    "For far-off fowls hae feathers fair,
      And fools o' change are fain;
    But I hae try'd this border-knight,
      I'll try him yet again."

    Then whiskey Jean spak o'er her drink,
      "Ye weel ken, kimmersa',
    The auld gudeman o' London court,
      His back's been at the wa'.

    "And mony a friend that kiss'd his caup,
      Is now a fremit wight;
    But it's ne'er be sae wi' whiskey Jean,--
      We'll send the border-knight."

    Says black Joan o' Crighton-peel,
      A carlin stoor and grim,--
    "The auld gudeman, or the young gudeman,
      For me may sink or swim.

    "For fools will prate o' right and wrang,
      While knaves laugh in their sleeve;
    But wha blaws best the horn shall win,
      I'll spier nae courtier's leave."

    So how this mighty plea may end
      There's naebody can tell:
    God grant the king, and ilka man,
      May look weel to himsel'!

       *       *       *       *       *

CXIV.

THE LADDIES BY THE BANKS O' NITH.

[This short Poem was first published by Robert Chambers. It intimates pretty strongly, how
much the poet disapproved of the change which came over the Duke of Queensberry's opinions,
when he supported the right of the Prince of Wales to assume the government, without consent
of Parliament, during the king's alarming illness, in 1788.]

    The laddies by the banks o' Nith,
      Wad trust his Grace wi' a', Jamie,
    But he'll sair them, as he sair'd the King,
      Turn tail and rin awa', Jamie.

    Up and waur them a', Jamie,
      Up and waur them a';
    The Johnstones hae the guidin' o't,
      Ye turncoat Whigs awa'.

    The day he stude his country's friend,
      Or gied her faes a claw, Jamie:
    Or frae puir man a blessin' wan,
      That day the Duke ne'er saw, Jamie.

    But wha is he, his country's boast?
      Like him there is na twa, Jamie,
    There's no a callant tents the kye,
      But kens o' Westerha', Jamie.

    To end the wark here's Whistlebirk,[94]
      Lang may his whistle blaw, Jamie;
    And Maxwell true o' sterling blue:
      And we'll be Johnstones a', Jamie.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 94: Birkwhistle: a Galloway laird, and elector.]

       *       *       *       *       *

CXV.

["I am too little a man," said Burns, in the note to Fintray, which accompanied this poem,
"to have any political attachment: I am deeply indebted to, and have the warmest veneration
for individuals of both parties: but a man who has it in his power to be the father of a country,
and who acts like his Grace of Queensberry, is a character that one cannot speak of with patience."
This Epistle was first printed in my edition of Burns in 1834: I had the use of the Macmurdo
and the Afton manuscripts for that purpose: to both families the poet was much indebted for
many acts of courtesy and kindness.]

    Fintray, my stay in worldly strife,
    Friend o' my muse, friend o' my life,
                      Are ye as idle's I am?
    Come then, wi' uncouth, kintra fleg,
    O'er Pegasus I'll fling my leg,
                      And ye shall see me try him.

    I'll sing the zeal Drumlanrig bears,
    Who left the all-important cares
                      Of princes and their darlings;
    And, bent on winning borough towns,
    Came shaking hands wi' wabster lowns,
                      And kissing barefit carlins.

    Combustion thro' our boroughs rode,
    Whistling his roaring pack abroad
                      Of mad unmuzzled lions;
    As Queensberry buff and blue unfurl'd,
    And Westerha' and Hopeton hurl'd
                      To every Whig defiance.

    But cautious Queensberry left the war,
    Th' unmanner'd dust might soil his star;
                      Besides, he hated bleeding:
    But left behind him heroes bright,
    Heroes in Cæsarean fight,
                      Or Ciceronian pleading.

    O! for a throat like huge Mons-meg,
    To muster o'er each ardent Whig
                      Beneath Drumlanrig's banner;
    Heroes and heroines commix,
    All in the field of politics,
                      To win immortal honour.

    M'Murdo[95] and his lovely spouse,
    (Th' enamour'd laurels kiss her brows!)
                      Led on the loves and graces:
    She won each gaping burgess' heart,
    While he, all-conquering, play'd his part
                      Among their wives and lasses.

    Craigdarroch[96] led a light-arm'd corps,
    Tropes, metaphors and figures pour,
                      Like Hecla streaming thunder:
    Glenriddel,[97] skill'd in rusty coins,
    Blew up each Tory's dark designs,
                      And bar'd the treason under.

    In either wing two champions fought,
    Redoubted Staig[98] who set at nought
                      The wildest savage Tory:
    And Welsh,[99] who ne'er yet flinch'd his ground,
    High-wav'd his magnum-bonum round
                      With Cyclopeian fury.

    Miller brought up th' artillery ranks,
    The many-pounders of the Banks,
                      Resistless desolation!
    While Maxwelton, that baron bold,
    'Mid Lawson's[100] port intrench'd his hold,
                      And threaten'd worse damnation.

    To these what Tory hosts oppos'd,
    With these what Tory warriors clos'd.
                      Surpasses my descriving:
    Squadrons extended long and large,
    With furious speed rush to the charge,
                      Like raging devils driving.

    What verse can sing, what prose narrate,
    The butcher deeds of bloody fate
                      Amid this mighty tulzie!
    Grim Horror grinn'd--pale Terror roar'd,
    As Murther at his thrapple shor'd,
                      And hell mix'd in the brulzie.

    As highland craigs by thunder cleft,
    When lightnings fire the stormy lift,
                      Hurl down with crashing rattle:
    As flames among a hundred woods;
    As headlong foam a hundred floods;
                      Such is the rage of battle!

    The stubborn Tories dare to die;
    As soon the rooted oaks would fly
                      Before the approaching fellers:
    The Whigs come on like Ocean's roar,
    When all his wintry billows pour
                      Against the Buchan Bullers.

    Lo, from the shades of Death's deep night,
    Departed Whigs enjoy the fight,
                      And think on former daring:
    The muffled murtherer[101] of Charles
    The Magna Charter flag unfurls,
                      All deadly gules it's bearing.

    Nor wanting ghosts of Tory fame.
    Bold Scrimgeour[102] follows gallant Graham,[103]
                      Auld Covenanters shiver.
    (Forgive, forgive, much-wrong'd Montrose!
    Now death and hell engulph thy foes,
                      Thou liv'st on high for ever!)

    Still o'er the field the combat burns,
    The Tories, Whigs, give way by turns;
                      But fate the word has spoken:
    For woman's wit and strength o' man,
    Alas! can do but what they can!
                      The Tory ranks are broken.

    O that my een were flowing burns,
    My voice a lioness that mourns
                      Her darling cubs' undoing!
    That I might greet, that I might cry,
    While Tories fall, while Tories fly,
                      And furious Whigs pursuing!

    What Whig but melts for good Sir James!
    Dear to his country by the names
                      Friend, patron, benefactor!
    Not Pulteney's wealth can Pulteney save!
    And Hopeton falls, the generous brave!
                      And Stewart,[104] bold as Hector.

    Thou, Pitt, shalt rue this overthrow;
    And Thurlow growl a curse of woe;
                      And Melville melt in wailing!
    How Fox and Sheridan rejoice!
    And Burke shall sing, O Prince, arise,
                      Thy power is all prevailing!

    For your poor friend, the Bard, afar
    He only hears and sees the war,
                      A cool spectator purely;
    So, when the storm the forests rends,
    The robin in the hedge descends,
                      And sober chirps securely.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 95: John M'Murdo, Esq., of Drumlanrig.]

[Footnote 96: Fergusson of Craigdarroch.]

[Footnote 97: Riddel of Friars-Carse.]

[Footnote 98: Provost Staig of Dumfries.]

[Footnote 99: Sheriff Welsh.]

[Footnote 100: A wine merchant in Dumfries.]

[Footnote 101: The executioner of Charles I. was masked.]

[Footnote 102: Scrimgeour, Lord Dundee.]

[Footnote 103: Graham, Marquis of Montrose.]

[Footnote 104: Stewart of Hillside.]

       *       *       *       *       *

CXVI.

ON

CAPTAIN GROSE'S

PEREGRINATIONS THROUGH SCOTLAND,

COLLECTING THE

ANTIQUITIES OF THAT KINGDOM.

[This "fine, fat, fodgel wight" was a clever man, a skilful antiquary, and fond of wit and
wine. He was well acquainted with heraldry, and was conversant with the weapons and the armor
of his own and other countries. He found his way to Friars-Carse, in the Vale of Nith, and
there, at the social "board of Glenriddel," for the first time saw Burns. The Englishman heard,
it is said, with wonder, the sarcastic sallies and eloquent bursts of the inspired Scot, who,
in his turn, surveyed with wonder the remarkable corpulence, and listened with pleasure to
the independent sentiments and humourous turns of conversation in the joyous Englishman.

    If in your bounds ye chance to light
    Upon a fine, fat, fodgel wight,
    O' stature short, but genius bright,
                      That's he, mark weel--
    And wow! he has an unco slight
                      O' cauk and keel.

    Of Eve's first fire he has a cinder;
    Auld Tubal-Cain's fire-shool and fender;
    That which distinguished the gender
                      O' Balaam's ass;
    A broom-stick o' the witch o' Endor,
                      Weel shod wi' brass.

    Now, by the pow'rs o' verse and prose!
    Thou art a dainty chiel, O Grose!--
    Whae'er o' thee shall ill suppose,
                      They sair misca' thee;
    I'd take the rascal by the nose,
                      Wad say, Shame fa' thee!

       *       *       *       *       *

CXVII.

WRITTEN IN A WRAPPER,

ENCLOSING

A LETTER TO CAPTAIN GROSE.

[Burns wrote out some antiquarian and legendary memoranda, respecting certain ruins in Kyle,
and enclosed them in a sheet of a paper to Cardonnel, a northern antiquary. As his mind teemed
with poetry he could not, as he afterwards said, let the opportunity, pass of sending a rhyming
inquiry after his fat friend, and Cardonnel spread the condoling inquiry over the North--

    "Is he slain by Highlan' bodies?

    Is he south or is he north?
                      Igo and ago,
    Or drowned in the river Forth?
                      Iram, coram, dago.

    Is he slain by Highlan' bodies?
                      Igo and ago,
    And eaten like a wether-haggis?
                      Iram, coram, dago.

    Is he to Abram's bosom gane?
                      Igo and ago,
    Or haudin' Sarah by the wame?
                      Iram, coram, dago.

    Where'er he be, the L--d be near him!
                      Igo and ago,
    As for the deil, he daur na steer him!
                      Iram, coram, dago.

    But please transmit the enclosed letter,
                      Igo and ago,
    Which will oblige your humble debtor,
                      Iram, coram, dago.

    So may he hae auld stanes in store,
                      Igo and ago,
    The very stanes that Adam bore,
                      Iram, coram, dago.

    So may ye get in glad possession,
                      Igo and ago,
    The coins o' Satan's coronation!
                      Iram, coram, dago.

       *       *       *       *       *

CXVIII.

TAM O' SHANTER.

A TALE.

    "Of brownys and of bogilis full is this buke."

GAWIN DOUGLAS

[This is a West-country legend, embellished by genius. No other Poem in our language displays
such variety of power, in the same number of lines. It was written as an inducement to Grose
to admit Alloway-Kirk into his work on the Antiquities of Scotland; and written with such ecstasy,
that the poet shed tears in the moments of composition. The walk in which it was conceived,
on the braes of Ellisland, is held in remembrance in the vale, and pointed out to poetic inquirers:
while the scene where the poem is laid--the crumbling ruins--the place where the chapman perished
in the snow--the tree on which the poor mother of Mungo ended her sorrows--the cairn where
the murdered child was found by the hunters--and the old bridge over which Maggie bore her
astonished master when all hell was in pursuit, are first-rate objects of inspection and inquiry
in the "Land of Burns." "In the inimitable tale of Tam o' Shanter," says Scott "Burns has left
us sufficient evidence of his ability to combine the ludicrous with the awful, and even the
horrible.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 105: VARIATION.

    The cricket raised its cheering cry,
    The kitten chas'd its tail in joy.]

[Footnote 106: VARIATION.

    Three lawyers' tongues turn'd inside out,
    Wi' lies seem'd like a beggar's clout;
    And priests' hearts rotten black as muck,
    Lay stinking vile, in every neuk.]

[Footnote 107: It is a well-known fact that witches, or any evil spirits, have no power to
follow a poor wight any further than the middle of the next running stream. It may be proper
likewise to mention to the benighted traveller, that when he falls in with bogles, whatever
danger there may be in his going forward, there is much more hazard in turning back.]

       *       *       *       *       *

CXIX.

ADDRESS OF BEELZEBUB

TO THE

PRESIDENT OF THE HIGHLAND SOCIETY.

[This Poem made its first appearance, as I was assured by my friend the late Thomas Pringle,
in the Scots Magazine, for February, 1818, and was printed from the original in the handwriting
of Burns. It was headed thus, "To the Right honorable the Earl of Brendalbyne, President of
the Right Honourable and Honourable the Highland Society, which met on the 23d of May last,
at the Shakspeare, Covent Garden, to concert ways and means to frustrate the designs of four
hundred Highlanders, who, as the Society were informed by Mr. M. ----, of A----s, were so audacious
as to attempt an escape from their lawful lairds and masters, whose property they were, by
emigrating from the lands of Mr. Macdonald, of Glengarry, to the wilds of Canada, in search
of that fantastic thing--LIBERTY." The Poem was communicated by Burns to his friend Rankine
of Adam Hill, in Ayrshire.]

    Long life, my Lord, an' health be yours,
    Unskaith'd by hunger'd Highland boors;
    Lord grant mae duddie desperate beggar,
    Wi' dirk, claymore, or rusty trigger,
    May twin auld Scotland o' a life
    She likes--as lambkins like a knife.
    Faith, you and A----s were right
    To keep the Highland hounds in sight;
    I doubt na! they wad bid nae better
    Than let them ance out owre the water;
    Then up among the lakes and seas
    They'll mak' what rules and laws they please;
    Some daring Hancock, or a Franklin';
    May set their Highland bluid a ranklin';
    Some Washington again may head them,
    Or some Montgomery fearless lead them,
    Till God knows what may be effected
    When by such heads and hearts directed--
    Poor dunghill sons of dirt and mire
    May to Patrician rights aspire!
    Nae sage North, now, nor sager Sackville,
    To watch and premier o'er the pack vile,
    An' whare will ye get Howes and Clintons
    To bring them to a right repentance,
    To cowe the rebel generation,
    An' save the honour o' the nation?
    They an' be d----d! what right hae they
    To meat or sleep, or light o' day?
    Far less to riches, pow'r, or freedom,
    But what your lordship likes to gie them?

    But hear, my lord! Glengarry, hear!
    Your hand's owre light on them, I fear;
    Your factors, grieves, trustees, and bailies,
    I canna' say but they do gaylies;
    They lay aside a' tender mercies,
    An' tirl the hallions to the birses;
    Yet while they're only poind't and herriet,
    They'll keep their stubborn Highland spirit;
    But smash them! crash them a' to spails!
    An' rot the dyvors i' the jails!
    The young dogs, swinge them to the labour;
    Let wark an' hunger mak' them sober!
    The hizzies, if they're aughtlins fawsont,
    Let them in Drury-lane be lesson'd!
    An' if the wives an' dirty brats
    E'en thigger at your doors an' yetts,
    Flaffan wi' duds an' grey wi' beas',
    Frightin' awa your deuks an' geese,
    Get out a horsewhip or a jowler,
    The langest thong, the fiercest growler,
    An' gar the tattered gypsies pack
    Wi' a' their bastards on their back!
    Go on, my Lord! I lang to meet you,
    An' in my house at hame to greet you;
    Wi' common lords ye shanna mingle,
    The benmost neuk beside the ingle,
    At my right han' assigned your seat
    'Tween Herod's hip an Polycrate,--
    Or if you on your station tarrow,
    Between Almagro and Pizarro,
    A seat I'm sure ye're weel deservin't;
    An' till ye come--Your humble rervant,

BEELZEBUB.

June 1st, Anno Mundi 5790.

       *       *       *       *       *

CXX.

TO

JOHN TAYLOR.

[Burns, it appears, was, in one of his excursions in revenue matters, likely to be detained
at Wanlockhead: the roads were slippery with ice, his mare kept her feet with difficulty, and
all the blacksmiths of the village were pre-engaged. To Mr. Taylor, a person of influence in
the place, the poet, in despair, addressed this little Poem, begging his interference: Taylor
spoke to a smith; the smith flew to his tools, sharpened or frosted the shoes, and it is said
lived for thirty years to boast that he had "never been well paid but ance, and that was by
a poet, who paid him in money, paid him in drink, and paid him in verse."]

    With Pegasus upon a day,
      Apollo weary flying,
    Through frosty hills the journey lay,
      On foot the way was plying,

    Poor slip-shod giddy Pegasus
      Was but a sorry walker;
    To Vulcan then Apollo goes,
      To get a frosty calker.

    Obliging Vulcan fell to work,
      Threw by his coat and bonnet,
    And did Sol's business in a crack;
      Sol paid him with a sonnet.

    Ye Vulcan's sons of Wanlockhead,
      Pity my sad disaster;
    My Pegasus is poorly shod--
      I'll pay you like my master.

ROBERT BURNS.

Ramages, 3 o'clock, (no date.)

       *       *       *       *       *

CXXI.

LAMENT

OF

MARY, QUEEN OF SCOTS,

ON THE APPROACH OF SPRING.

[The poet communicated this "Lament" to his friend, Dr. Moore, in February, 1791, but it was
composed about the close of the preceding year, at the request of Lady Winifred Maxwell Constable,
of Terreagles, the last in direct descent of the noble and ancient house of Maxwell, of Nithsdale.
Burns expressed himself more than commonly pleased with this composition; nor was he unrewarded,
for Lady Winifred gave him a valuable snuff-box, with the portrait of the unfortunate Mary
on the lid.

II.

III.

IV.

VII.

       *       *       *       *       *

CXXII.

THE WHISTLE.

["As the authentic prose history," says Burns, "of the 'Whistle' is curious, I shall here give
it. In the train of Anne of Denmark, when she came to Scotland with our James the Sixth, there
came over also a Danish gentleman of gigantic stature and great prowess, and a matchless champion
of Bacchus. He had a little ebony whistle, which at the commencement of the orgies, he laid
on the table, and whoever was the last able to blow it, everybody else being disabled by the
potency of the bottle, was to carry off the whistle as a trophy of victory. The Dane produced
credentials of his victories, without a single defeat, at the courts of Copenhagen, Stockholm,
Moscow, Warsaw, and several of the petty courts in Germany; and challenged the Scotch Bacchanalians
to the alternative of trying his prowess, or else of acknowledging their inferiority. After
man overthrows on the part of the Scots, the Dane was encountered by Sir Robert Lawrie, of
Maxwelton, ancestor of the present worthy baronet of that name; who, after three days and three
nights' hard contest, left the Scandinavian under the table,

    'And blew on the whistle his requiem shrill.'

"Sir Walter, son to Sir Robert before mentioned, afterwards lost the whistle to Walter Riddel,
of Glenriddel, who had married a sister of Sir Walter's.--On Friday, the 16th of October, 1790,
at Friars-Carse, the whistle was once more contended for, as related in the ballad, by the
present Sir Robert of Maxwelton; Robert Riddel, Esq., of Glenriddel, lineal descendant and
representative of Walter Riddel, who won the whistle, and in whose family it had continued;
and Alexander Fergusson, Esq., of Craigdarroch, likewise descended of the great Sir Robert;
which last gentleman carried off the hard-won honours of the field."

The jovial contest took place in the dining-room of Friars-Carse, in the presence of the Bard,
who drank bottle and bottle about with them, and seemed quite disposed to take up the conqueror
when the day dawned.]

    I sing of a whistle, a whistle of worth,
    I sing of a whistle, the pride of the North,
    Was brought to the court of our good Scottish king,
    And long with this whistle all Scotland shall ring.

    Old Loda,[108] still rueing the arm of Fingal,
    The god of the bottle sends down from his hall--
    "This whistle's your challenge--to Scotland get o'er,
    And drink them to hell, Sir! or ne'er see me more!"

    Old poets have sung, and old chronicles tell,
    What champions ventur'd, what champions fell;
    The son of great Loda was conqueror still,
    And blew on his whistle his requiem shrill.

    Till Robert, the Lord of the Cairn and the Scaur,
    Unmatch'd at the bottle, unconquer'd in war,
    He drank his poor godship as deep as the sea,
    No tide of the Baltic e'er drunker than he.

    Thus Robert, victorious, the trophy has gain'd;
    Which now in his house has for ages remain'd;
    Till three noble chieftains, and all of his blood,
    The jovial contest again have renew'd.

    Three joyous good fellows, with hearts clear of flaw;
    Craigdarroch, so famous for wit, worth, and law;
    And trusty Glenriddel, so skill'd in old coins;
    And gallant Sir Robert, deep-read in old wines.

    Craigdarroch began, with a tongue smooth as oil,
    Desiring Glenriddel to yield up the spoil;
    Or else he would muster the heads of the clan,
    And once more, in claret, try which was the man.

    "By the gods of the ancients!" Glenriddel replies,
    "Before I surrender so glorious a prize,
    I'll conjure the ghost of the great Rorie More,[109]
    And bumper his horn with him twenty times o'er."

    Sir Robert, a soldier, no speech would pretend,
    But he ne'er turn'd his back on his foe--or his friend,
    Said, toss down the whistle, the prize of the field,
    And, knee-deep in claret, he'd die or he'd yield.

    To the board of Glenriddel our heroes repair,
    So noted for drowning of sorrow and care;
    Bur for wine and for welcome not more known to fame
    Than the sense, wit, and taste of a sweet lovely dame.

    A bard was selected to witness the fray,
    And tell future ages the feats of the day;
    A bard who detested all sadness and spleen,
    And wish'd that Parnassus a vineyard had been.

    The dinner being over, the claret they ply,
    And ev'ry new cork is a new spring of joy;
    In the bands of old friendship and kindred so set,
    And the bands grew the tighter the more they were wet.

    Gay Pleasure ran riot as bumpers ran o'er;
    Bright Phoebus ne'er witness'd so joyous a core,
    And vow'd that to leave them he was quite forlorn,
    Till Cynthia hinted he'd find them next morn.

    Six bottles a-piece had well wore out the night,
    When gallant Sir Robert, to finish the fight,
    Turn'd o'er in one bumper a bottle of red,
    And swore 'twas the way that their ancestor did.

    Then worthy Glenriddel, so cautions and sage,
    No longer the warfare, ungodly, would wage;
    A high-ruling Elder to wallow in wine!
    He left the foul business to folks less divine.

    The gallant Sir Robert fought hard to the end;
    But who can with fate and quart-bumpers contend?
    Though fate said--a hero shall perish in light;
    So up rose bright Phoebus--and down fell the knight.

    Next up rose our bard, like a prophet in drink;--
    "Craigdarroch, thou'lt soar when creation shall sink;
    But if thou would flourish immortal in rhyme,
    Come--one bottle more--and have at the sublime!

    "Thy line, that have struggled for freedom with Bruce,
    Shall heroes and patriots ever produce:
    So thine be the laurel, and mine be the bay;
    The field thou hast won, by yon bright god of day!"

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 108: See Ossian's Carie-thura.]

[Footnote 109: See Johnson's Tour to the Hebrides]

       *       *       *       *       *

CXXIII.

ELEGY

ON

MISS BURNET,

OF MONBODDO.

[This beautiful and accomplished lady, the heavenly Burnet, as Burns loved to call her, was
daughter to the odd and the elegant, the clever and the whimsical Lord Monboddo. "In domestic
circumstances," says Robert Chambers, "Monboddo was particularly unfortunate. His wife, a very
beautiful woman, died in child-bed. His son, a promising boy, in whose education he took great
delight, was likewise snatched from his affections by a premature death; and his second daughter,
in personal loveliness one of the first women of the age, was cut off by consumption, when
only twenty-five years old." Her name was Elizabeth.]

    Life ne'er exulted in so rich a prize
    As Burnet, lovely from her native skies;
    Nor envious death so triumph'd in a blow,
    As that which laid th' accomplish'd Burnet low.

    Thy form and mind, sweet maid, can I forget?
    In richest ore the brightest jewel set!
    In thee, high Heaven above was truest shown,
    As by his noblest work, the Godhead best is known.

    In vain ye flaunt in summer's pride, ye groves;
      Thou crystal streamlet with thy flowery shore,
    Ye woodland choir that chant your idle loves,
      Ye cease to charm--Eliza is no more!

    Ye heathy wastes, immix'd with reedy fens;
      Ye mossy streams, with sedge and rushes stor'd;
    Ye rugged cliffs, o'erhanging dreary glens,
      To you I fly, ye with my soul accord.

    Princes, whose cumb'rous pride was all their worth,
      Shall venal lays their pompous exit hail?
    And thou, sweet excellence! forsake our earth,
      And not a muse in honest grief bewail?

    We saw thee shine in youth and beauty's pride,
      And virtue's light, that beams beyond the spheres;
    But like the sun eclips'd at morning tide,
      Thou left'st us darkling in a world of tears.

    The parent's heart that nestled fond in thee,
      That heart how sunk, a prey to grief and care;
    So leck'd the woodbine sweet yon aged tree;
      So from it ravish'd, leaves it bleak and bare.

       *       *       *       *       *

CXXIV.

LAMENT

FOR

JAMES, EARL OF GLENCAIRN.

[Burns lamented the death of this kind and accomplished nobleman with melancholy sincerity:
he moreover named one of his sons for him: he went into mourning when he heard of his death,
and he sung of his merits in a strain not destined soon to lose the place it has taken among
the verses which record the names of the noble and the generous. He died January 30, 1791,
in the forty-second year of his age. James Cunningham was succeeded in his title by his brother,
and with him expired, in 1796, the last of a race, whose name is intimately connected with
the History of Scotland, from the days of Malcolm Canmore.]

I.

    The wind blew hollow frae the hills,
      By fits the sun's departing beam
    Look'd on the fading yellow woods
      That wav'd o'er Lugar's winding stream:
    Beneath a craggy steep, a bard,
      Laden with years and meikle pain,
    In loud lament bewail'd his lord,
      Whom death had all untimely ta'en.

II.

    He lean'd him to an ancient aik,
      Whose trunk was mould'ring down with years;
    His locks were bleached white with time,
      His hoary cheek was wet wi' tears;
    And as he touch'd his trembling harp,
      And as he tun'd his doleful sang,
    The winds, lamenting thro' their caves,
      To echo bore the notes alang.

III.

    "Ye scattered birds that faintly sing,
      The reliques of the vernal quire!
    Ye woods that shed on a' the winds
      The honours of the aged year!
    A few short months, and glad and gay,
      Again ye'll charm the ear and e'e;
    But nocht in all revolving time
      Can gladness bring again to me.

IV.

    "I am a bending aged tree,
      That long has stood the wind and rain;
    But now has come a cruel blast,
      And my last hold of earth is gane:
    Nae leaf o' mine shall greet the spring,
      Nae simmer sun exalt my bloom;
    But I maun lie before the storm,
      And ithers plant them in my room.

V.

    "I've seen sae mony changefu' years,
      On earth I am a stranger grown;
    I wander in the ways of men,
      Alike unknowing and unknown:
    Unheard, unpitied, unrelieved,
      I bear alane my lade o' care,
    For silent, low, on beds of dust,
      Lie a' that would my sorrows share.

VI.

    "And last (the sum of a' my griefs!)
      My noble master lies in clay;
    The flow'r amang our barons bold,
      His country's pride! his country's stay--
    In weary being now I pine,
      For a' the life of life is dead,
    And hope has left my aged ken,
      On forward wing for ever fled.

VII.

    "Awake thy last sad voice, my harp!
      The voice of woe and wild despair;
    Awake! resound thy latest lay--
      Then sleep in silence evermair!
    And thou, my last, best, only friend,
      That fillest an untimely tomb,
    Accept this tribute from the bard
      Though brought from fortune's mirkest gloom.

VIII.

    "In poverty's low barren vale
      Thick mists, obscure, involve me round;
    Though oft I turn'd the wistful eye,
      Nae ray of fame was to be found:
    Thou found'st me, like the morning sun,
      That melts the fogs in limpid air,
    The friendless bard and rustic song
      Became alike thy fostering care.

IX.

    "O! why has worth so short a date?
      While villains ripen fray with time;
    Must thou, the noble, gen'rous, great,
      Fall in bold manhood's hardy prime!
    Why did I live to see that day?
      A day to me so full of woe!--
    O had I met the mortal shaft
      Which laid my benefactor low.

       *       *       *       *       *

CXXV.

[Sir John Whitefoord, a name of old standing in Ayrshire, inherited the love of his family
for literature, and interested himself early in the fame and fortunes of Burns.]

    Thou, who thy honour as thy God rever'st,
    Who, save thy mind's reproach, nought earthly fear'st,
    To thee this votive offering I impart,
    The tearful tribute of a broken heart.
    The friend thou valuedst, I, the patron, lov'd;
    His worth, his honour, all the world approv'd,
    We'll mourn till we too go as he has gone,
    And tread the dreary path to that dark world unknown.

       *       *       *       *       *

CXXVI.

ADDRESS

TO

THE SHADE OF THOMSON,

ON CROWNING HIS BUST AT EDNAM WITH BAYS.

["Lord Buchan has the pleasure to invite Mr. Burns to make one at the coronation of the bust
of Thomson, on Ednam Hill, on the 22d of September: for which day perhaps his muse may inspire
an ode suited to the occasion. Suppose Mr. Burns should, leaving the Nith, go across the country,
and meet the Tweed at the nearest point from his farm, and, wandering along the pastoral banks
of Thomson's pure parent stream, catch inspiration in the devious walk, till he finds Lord
Buchan sitting on the ruins of Dryburgh. There the Commendator will give him a hearty welcome,
and try to light his lamp at the pure flame of native genius, upon the altar of Caledonian
virtue." Such was the invitation of the Earl of Buchan to Burns. To request the poet to lay
down his sickle when his harvest was half reaped, and traverse one of the wildest and most
untrodden ways in Scotland, for the purpose of looking at the fantastic coronation of the bad
bust of on excellent poet, was worthy of Lord Buchan. The poor bard made answer, that a week's
absence in the middle of his harvest was a step he durst not venture upon--but he sent this Poem.

The poet's manuscript affords the following interesting variations:--

    "While cold-eyed Spring, a virgin coy,
      Unfolds her verdant mantle sweet,
    Or pranks the sod in frolic joy,
      A carpet for her youthful feet:

    "While Summer, with a matron's grace,
      Walks stately in the cooling shade,
    And oft delighted loves to trace
      The progress of the spiky blade:

    "While Autumn, benefactor kind,
      With age's hoary honours clad,
    Surveys, with self-approving mind,
      Each creature on his bounty fed."]

    While virgin Spring, by Eden's flood,
      Unfolds her tender mantle green,
    Or pranks the sod in frolic mood,
      Or tunes Æolian strains between:

    While Summer, with a matron grace,
      Retreats to Dryburgh's cooling shade,
    Yet oft, delighted, stops to trace
      The progress of the spiky blade:

    While Autumn, benefactor kind,
      By Tweed erects his aged head,
    And sees, with self-approving mind,
      Each creature on his bounty fed:

    While maniac Winter rages o'er
      The hills whence classic Yarrow flows,
    Rousing the turbid torrent's roar,
      Or sweeping, wild, a waste of snows:

    So long, sweet Poet of the year!
      Shall bloom that wreath thou well hast won;
    While Scotia, with exulting tear,
      Proclaims that Thomson was her son.

       *       *       *       *       *

CXXVII.

TO

ROBERT GRAHAM, ESQ.,

OF FINTRAY.

[By this Poem Burns prepared the way for his humble request to be removed to a district more
moderate in its bounds than one which extended over ten country parishes, and exposed him both
to fatigue and expense. This wish was expressed in prose, and was in due time attended to,
for Fintray was a gentleman at once kind and considerate.]

    Late crippl'd of an arm, and now a leg,
    About to beg a pass for leave to beg:
    Dull, listless, teas'd, dejected, and deprest,
    (Nature is adverse to a cripple's rest;)
    Will generous Graham list to his Poet's wail?
    (It soothes poor misery, hearkening to her tale,)
    And hear him curse the light he first survey'd,
    And doubly curse the luckless rhyming trade?
    A thing unteachable in world's skill,
    And half an idiot too, more helpless still;
    No heels to bear him from the op'ning dun;
    No claws to dig, his hated sight to shun;
    No horns, but those by luckless Hymen worn,
    And those, alas! not Amalthea's horn:
    No nerves olfact'ry, Mammon's trusty cur,
    Clad in rich dullness' comfortable fur;--
    In naked feeling, and in aching pride,
    He bears the unbroken blast from every side.

    Critics!--appall'd I venture on the name,
    Those cut-throat bandits in the paths of fame.
    Bloody dissectors, worse than ten Monroes!
    He hacks to teach, they mangle to expose.

    His heart by causeless wanton malice wrung,
    By blockheads' daring into madness stung;
    His well-won bays, than life itself more dear,
    By miscreants torn, who ne'er one sprig must wear:
    Foil'd, bleeding, tortur'd, in the unequal strife,
    The hapless poet flounders on through life;
    Till, fled each hope that once his bosom fir'd,
    And fled each muse that glorious once inspir'd,
    Low sunk in squalid, unprotected age,
    Dead, even resentment, for his injur'd page,
    He heeds or feels no more the ruthless critic's rage!

    So, by some hedge, the gen'rous steed deceas'd,
    For half-starv'd snarling curs a dainty feast:
    By toil and famine wore to skin and bone,
    Lies senseless of each tugging bitch's son.

    O dullness! portion of the truly blest!
    Calm sheltered haven of eternal rest!
    Thy sons ne'er madden in the fierce extremes
    Of fortune's polar frost, or torrid beams.
    If mantling high she fills the golden cup,
    With sober selfish ease they sip it up;
    Conscious the bounteous meed they well deserve,
    They only wonder "some folks" do not starve.
    The grave sage hern thus easy picks his frog,
    And thinks the mallard a sad worthless dog.
    When disappointment snaps the clue of hope,
    And thro' disastrous night they darkling grope,
    With deaf endurance sluggishly they bear,
    And just conclude that "fools are fortune's care."
    So, heavy, passive to the tempest's shocks,
    Strong on the sign-post stands the stupid ox.
    Already one strong hold of hope is lost,
    Glencairn, the truly noble, lies in dust;
    (Fled, like the sun eclips'd as noon appears,
    And left us darkling in a world of tears:)
    O! hear my ardent, grateful, selfish pray'r!--
    Fintray, my other stay, long bless and spare!
    Thro' a long life his hopes and wishes crown;
    And bright in cloudless skies his sun go down!
    May bliss domestic smooth his private path;
    Give energy to life; and soothe his latest breath,
    With many a filial tear circling the bed of death!

       *       *       *       *       *

CXXVIII.

TO

ROBERT GRAHAM, ESQ.,

OF FINTRAY.

ON RECEIVING A FAVOUR.

[Graham of Fintray not only obtained for the poet the appointment in Excise, which, while he
lived in Edinburgh, he desired, but he also removed him, as he wished, to a better district;
and when imputations were thrown out against his loyalty, he defended him with obstinate and
successful eloquence. Fintray did all that was done to raise Burns out of the toiling humility
of his condition, and enable him to serve the muse without fear of want.]

    I call no goddess to inspire my strains,
    A fabled muse may suit a bard that feigns;
    Friend of my life! my ardent spirit burns,
    And all the tribute of my heart returns,
    For boons accorded, goodness ever new,
    The gift still dearer, as the giver, you.

    Thou orb of day! thou other paler light!
    And all ye many sparkling stars of night;
    If aught that giver from my mind efface;
    If I that giver's bounty e'er disgrace;
    Then roll to me, along your wandering spheres,
    Only to number out a villain's years!

       *       *       *       *       *

CXXIX.

A VISION.

[This Vision of Liberty descended on Burns among the magnificent ruins of the College of Lincluden,
which stand on the junction of the Cluden and the Nith, a short mile above Dumfries. He gave
us the Vision; perhaps, he dared not in those yeasty times venture on the song, which his secret
visitant poured from her lips. The scene is chiefly copied from nature: the swellings of the
Nith, the howling of the fox on the hill, and the cry of the owl, unite at times with the natural
beauty of the spot, and give it life and voice.

    The stream, adown its hazelly path,
      Was rushing by the ruin'd wa's,
    Hasting to join the sweeping Nith,[109A]
      Whose distant roaring swells and fa's.

    The cauld blue north was streaming forth
      Her lights, wi' hissing eerie din;
    Athort the lift they start and shift,
      Like fortune's favours, tint as win.

    By heedless chance I turn'd mine eyes,
      And, by the moon-beam, shook to see
    A stern and stalwart ghaist arise,
      Attir'd as minstrels wont to be.[109B]

    Had I a statue been o' stane,
      His darin' look had daunted me;
    And on his bonnet grav'd was plain,
      The sacred posy--'Libertie!'

    And frae his harp sic strains did flow,
      Might rous'd the slumb'ring dead to hear;
    But, oh! it was a tale of woe,
      As ever met a Briton's ear.

    He sang wi' joy the former day,
      He weeping wail'd his latter times;
    But what he said it was nae play,--
      I winna ventur't in my rhymes.

[Footnote 109A: VARIATIONS.

    To join yon river on the Strath.]

[Footnote 109B: VARIATIONS.

    Now looking over firth and fauld,
      Her horn the pale-fac'd Cynthia rear'd;
    When, lo, in form of minstrel auld,
      A storm and stalwart ghaist appear'd.]

       *       *       *       *       *

CXXX.

TO

JOHN MAXWELL OF TERRAUGHTY,

ON HIS BIRTHDAY.

[John Maxwell of Terraughty and Munshes, to whom these verses are addressed, though descended
from the Earls of Nithsdale, cared little about lineage, and claimed merit only from a judgment
sound and clear--a knowledge of business which penetrated into all the concerns of life, and
a skill in handling the most difficult subjects, which was considered unrivalled. Under an
austere manner, he hid much kindness of heart, and was in a fair way of doing an act of gentleness
when giving a refusal. He loved to meet Burns: not that he either cared for or comprehended
poetry; but he was pleased with his knowledge of human nature, and with the keen and piercing
remarks in which he indulged. He was seventy-one years old when these verses were written,
and survived the poet twenty years.]

    Health to the Maxwell's vet'ran chief!
    Health, ay unsour'd by care or grief:
    Inspir'd, I turn'd Fate's sybil leaf
                      This natal morn;
    I see thy life is stuff o' prief,
                      Scarce quite half worn.

    This day thou metes three score eleven,
    And I can tell that bounteous Heaven
    (The second sight, ye ken, is given
                      To ilka Poet)
    On thee a tack o' seven times seven
                      Will yet bestow it.

    If envious buckies view wi' sorrow
    Thy lengthen'd days on this blest morrow,
    May desolation's lang teeth'd harrow,
                      Nine miles an hour,
    Rake them like Sodom and Gomorrah,
                      In brunstane stoure--

    But for thy friends, and they are mony,
    Baith honest men and lasses bonnie,
    May couthie fortune, kind and cannie,
                      In social glee,
    Wi' mornings blythe and e'enings funny
                      Bless them and thee!

    Fareweel, auld birkie! Lord be near ye,
    And then the Deil he daur na steer ye;
    Your friends ay love, your faes ay fear ye;
                      For me, shame fa' me,
    If neist my heart I dinna wear ye
                      While BURNS they ca' me!

Dumfries, 18 Feb. 1792.

       *       *       *       *       *

CXXXI.

THE RIGHTS OF WOMAN.

[Miss Fontenelle was one of the actresses whom Williamson, the manager, brought for several
seasons to Dumfries: she was young and pretty, indulged in little levities of speech, and rumour
added, perhaps maliciously, levities of action. The Rights of Man had been advocated by Paine,
the Rights of Woman by Mary Wolstonecroft, and nought was talked of, but the moral and political
regeneration of the world. The line

    "But truce with kings and truce with constitutions,"

got an uncivil twist in recitation, from some of the audience. The words were eagerly caught
up, and had some hisses bestowed on them.]

    While Europe's eye is fix'd on mighty things,
    The fate of empires and the fall of kings;
    While quacks of state must each produce his plan,
    And even children lisp the Rights of Man;
    Amid this mighty fuss just let me mention,
    The Rights of Woman merit some attention.

    First on the sexes' intermix'd connexion,
    One sacred Right of Woman is protection.
    The tender flower that lifts its head, elate,
    Helpless, must fall before the blasts of fate,
    Sunk on the earth, defac'd its lovely form,
    Unless your shelter ward th' impending storm.

    Our second Right--but needless here is caution,
    To keep that right inviolate's the fashion,
    Each man of sense has it so full before him,
    He'd die before he'd wrong it--'tis decorum.--
    There was, indeed, in far less polish'd days,
    A time, when rough, rude man had haughty ways;
    Would swagger, swear, get drunk, kick up a riot,
    Nay, even thus invade a lady's quiet.

    Now, thank our stars! these Gothic times are fled;
    Now, well-bred men--and you are all well-bred--
    Most justly think (and we are much the gainers)
    Such conduct neither spirit, wit, nor manners.

    For Right the third, our last, our best, our dearest,
    That right to fluttering female hearts the nearest,
    Which even the Rights of Kings in low prostration
    Most humbly own--'tis dear, dear admiration!
    In that blest sphere alone we live and move;
    There taste that life of life--immortal love.--
    Smiles, glances, sighs, tears, fits, flirtations, airs,
    'Gainst such an host what flinty savage dares--
    When awful Beauty joins with all her charms,
    Who is so rash as rise in rebel arms?

    But truce with kings and truce with constitutions,
    With bloody armaments and revolutions,
    Let majesty your first attention summon,
    Ah! ça ira! the majesty of woman!

       *       *       *       *       *

CXXXII.

MONODY,

ON A LADY FAMED FOR HER CAPRICE.

[The heroine Of this rough lampoon was Mrs. Riddel of Woodleigh Park: a lady young and gay,
much of a wit, and something of a poetess, and till the hour of his death the friend of Burns
himself. She pulled his displeasure on her, it is said, by smiling more sweetly than he liked
on some "epauletted coxcombs," for so he sometimes designated commissioned officers: the lady
soon laughed him out of his mood. We owe to her pen an account of her last interview with the
poet, written with great beauty and feeling.]

    How cold is that bosom which folly once fired,
      How pale is that cheek where the rouge lately glisten'd!
    How silent that tongue which the echoes oft tired,
      How dull is that ear which to flattery so listen'd!

    If sorrow and anguish their exit await,
      From friendship and dearest affection remov'd;
    How doubly severer, Maria, thy fate,
      Thou diest unwept as thou livedst unlov'd.

    Loves, Graces, and Virtues, I call not on you;
      So shy, grave, and distant, ye shed not a tear:
    But come, all ye offspring of Folly so true,
      And flowers let us cull for Maria's cold bier.

    We'll search through the garden for each silly flower,
      We'll roam through the forest for each idle weed;
    But chiefly the nettle, so typical, shower,
      For none e'er approach'd her but rued the rash deed.

    We'll sculpture the marble, we'll measure the lay;
      Here Vanity strums on her idiot lyre;
    There keen indignation shall dart on her prey,
      Which spurning Contempt shall redeem from his ire.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE EPITAPH.

    Here lies, now a prey to insulting neglect,
      What once was a butterfly, gay in life's beam:
    Want only of wisdom denied her respect,
      Want only of goodness denied her esteem

       *       *       *       *       *

CXXXIII.

EPISTLE

FROM

ESOPUS TO MARIA.

[Williamson, the actor, Colonel Macdouall, Captain Gillespie, and Mrs. Riddel, are the characters
which pass over the stage in this strange composition: it is printed from the Poet's own manuscript,
and seems a sort of outpouring of wrath and contempt, on persons who, in his eyes, gave themselves
airs beyond their condition, or their merits. The verse of the lady is held up to contempt
and laughter: the satirist celebrates her

    "Motley foundling fancies, stolen or strayed;"

and has a passing hit at her

    "Still matchless tongue that conquers all reply."]

    From those drear solitudes and frowsy cells,
    Where infamy with sad repentance dwells;
    Where turnkeys make the jealous portal fast,
    And deal from iron hands the spare repast;
    Where truant 'prentices, yet young in sin,
    Blush at the curious stranger peeping in;
    Where strumpets, relics of the drunken roar,
    Resolve to drink, nay, half to whore, no more;
    Where tiny thieves not destin'd yet to swing,
    Beat hemp for others, riper for the string:
    From these dire scenes my wretched lines I date,
    To tell Maria her Esopus' fate.

    "Alas! I feel I am no actor here!"
    'Tis real hangmen, real scourges bear!
    Prepare, Maria, for a horrid tale
    Will turn thy very rouge to deadly pale;
    Will make they hair, tho' erst from gipsy polled,
    By barber woven, and by barber sold,
    Though twisted smooth with Harry's nicest care,
    Like hoary bristles to erect and stare.
    The hero of the mimic scene, no more
    I start in Hamlet, in Othello roar;
    Or haughty Chieftain, 'mid the din of arms,
    In Highland bonnet woo Malvina's charms;
    While sans culottes stoop up the mountain high,
    And steal from me Maria's prying eye.
    Blest Highland bonnet! Once my proudest dress,
    Now prouder still, Maria's temples press.
    I see her wave thy towering plumes afar,
    And call each coxcomb to the wordy war.
    I see her face the first of Ireland's sons,[110]
    And even out-Irish his Hibernian bronze;
    The crafty colonel[111] leaves the tartan'd lines,
    For other wars, where he a hero shines;
    The hopeful youth, in Scottish senate bred,
    Who owns a Bushby's heart without the head;
    Comes, 'mid a string of coxcombs to display
    That veni, vidi, vici, is his way;
    The shrinking bard adown the alley skulks,
    And dreads a meeting worse than Woolwich hulks;
    Though there, his heresies in church and state
    Might well award him Muir and Palmer's fate:
    Still she undaunted reels and rattles on,
    And dares the public like a noontide sun.
    (What scandal call'd Maria's janty stagger
    The ricket reeling of a crooked swagger,
    Whose spleen e'en worse than Burns' venom when
    He dips in gall unmix'd his eager pen,--
    And pours his vengeance in the burning line,
    Who christen'd thus Maria's lyre divine;
    The idiot strum of vanity bemused,
    And even th' abuse of poesy abused!
    Who call'd her verse, a parish workhouse made
    For motley foundling fancies, stolen or stray'd?)

    A workhouse! ah, that sound awakes my woes,
    And pillows on the thorn my rack'd repose!
    In durance vile here must I wake and weep,
    And all my frowsy couch in sorrow steep;
    That straw where many a rogue has lain of yore,
    And vermin'd gipsies litter'd heretofore.

    Why, Lonsdale, thus thy wrath on vagrants pour?
    Must earth no rascal save thyself endure?
    Must thou alone in guilt immortal swell,
    And make a vast monopoly of hell?
    Thou know'st, the virtues cannot hate thee worse,
    The vices also, must they club their curse?
    Or must no tiny sin to others fall,
    Because thy guilt's supreme enough for all?

    Maria, send me too thy griefs and cares;
    In all of thee sure thy Esopus shares.
    As thou at all mankind the flag unfurls,
    Who on my fair one satire's vengeance hurls?
    Who calls thee, pert, affected, vain coquette,
    A wit in folly, and a fool in wit?
    Who says, that fool alone is not thy due,
    And quotes thy treacheries to prove it true?
    Our force united on thy foes we'll turn,
    And dare the war with all of woman born:
    For who can write and speak as thou and I?
    My periods that deciphering defy,
    And thy still matchless tongue that conquers all reply.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 110: Captain Gillespie.]

[Footnote 111: Col. Macdouall.]

       *       *       *       *       *

CXXXIV.

POEM

ON PASTORAL POETRY.

[Though Gilbert Burns says there is some doubt of this Poem being by his brother, and though
Robert Chambers declares that he "has scarcely a doubt that it is not by the Ayrshire Bard,"
I must print it as his, for I have no doubt on the subject. It was found among the papers of
the poet, in his own handwriting: the second, the fourth, and the concluding verses bear the
Burns' stamp, which no one has been successful in counterfeiting: they resemble the verses
of Beattie, to which Chambers has compared them, as little as the cry of the eagle resembles
the chirp of the wren.]

    Hail Poesie! thou Nymph reserv'd!
    In chase o' thee, what crowds hae swerv'd
    Frae common sense, or sunk enerv'd
                      'Mang heaps o' clavers;
    And och! o'er aft thy joes hae starv'd
                      Mid a' thy favours!

    Say, Lassie, why thy train amang,
    While loud the trump's heroic clang,
    And sock or buskin skelp alang,
                      To death or marriage;
    Scarce ane has tried the shepherd-sang
                      But wi' miscarriage?

    In Homer's craft Jock Milton thrives;
    Eschylus' pen Will Shakspeare drives;
    Wee Pope, the knurlin, 'till him rives
                      Horatian fame;
    In thy sweet sang, Barbauld, survives
                      Even Sappho's flame.

    But thee, Theocritus, wha matches?
    They're no herd's ballats, Maro's catches;
    Squire Pope but busks his skinklin patches
                      O' heathen tatters;
    I pass by hunders, nameless wretches,
                      That ape their betters.

    In this braw age o' wit and lear,
    Will nane the Shepherd's whistle mair
    Blaw sweetly in its native air
                      And rural grace;
    And wi' the far-fam'd Grecian share
                      A rival place?

    Yes! there is ane; a Scottish callan--
    There's ane; come forrit, honest Allan!
    Thou need na jouk behint the hallan,
                      A chiel sae clever;
    The teeth o' time may gnaw Tantallan,
                      But thou's for ever!

    In gowany glens thy burnie strays,
    Where bonnie lasses bleach their claes;
    Or trots by hazelly shaws and braes,
                      Wi' hawthorns gray,
    Where blackbirds join the shepherd's lays
                      At close o' day.

    Thy rural loves are nature's sel';
    Nae bombast spates o' nonsense swell;
    Nae snap conceits, but that sweet spell
                      O' witchin' love;
    That charm that can the strongest quell,
                      The sternest move.

       *       *       *       *       *

CXXXV.

[Burns was fond of a saunter in a leafless wood, when the winter storm howled among the branches.
These characteristic lines were composed on the morning of his birthday, with the Nith at his
feet, and the ruins of Lincluden at his side: he is willing to accept the unlooked-for song
of the thrush as a fortunate omen.]

    Sing on, sweet thrush, upon the leafless bough,
      Sing on, sweet bird, I listen to thy strain:
      See, aged Winter, 'mid his surly reign,
    At thy blythe carol clears his furrow'd brow.

    So, in lone Poverty's dominion drear,
      Sits meek Content with light unanxious heart,
      Welcomes the rapid moments, bids them part,
    Nor asks if they bring aught to hope or fear.

    I thank Thee, Author of this opening day!
      Thou whose bright sun now gilds yon orient skies!
      Riches denied, Thy boon was purer joys,
    What wealth could never give nor take away.

    Yet come, thou child of poverty and care,
    The mite high Heaven bestow'd, that mite with thee I'll share.

       *       *       *       *       *

CXXXVI.

[The death of Glencairn, who was his patron, and the death of Glenriddel, who was his friend,
and had, while he lived at Ellisland, been his neighbor, weighed hard on the mind of Burns,
who, about this time, began to regard his own future fortune with more of dismay than of hope.
Riddel united antiquarian pursuits with those of literature, and experienced all the vulgar
prejudices entertained by the peasantry against those who indulge in such researches. His collection
of what the rustics of the vale called "queer quairns and swine-troughs," is now scattered
or neglected: I have heard a competent judge say, that they threw light on both the public
and domestic history of Scotland.]

    No more, ye warblers of the wood--no more!
      Nor pour your descant, grating, on my soul;
      Thou young-eyed Spring, gay in thy verdant stole,
    More welcome were to me grim Winter's wildest roar.

    How can ye charm, ye flow'rs, with all your dyes?
      Ye blow upon the sod that wraps my friend:
      How can I to the tuneful strain attend?
    That strain flows round th' untimely tomb where Riddel lies.

    Yes, pour, ye warblers, pour the notes of woe!
      And soothe the Virtues weeping on this bier:
      The Man of Worth, who has not left his peer,
    Is in his "narrow house" for ever darkly low.

    Thee, Spring, again with joy shall others greet,
    Me, mem'ry of my loss will only meet.

       *       *       *       *       *

CXXXVII.

IMPROMPTU,

ON MRS. R----'S BIRTHDAY.

[By compliments such as these lines contain, Burns soothed the smart which his verses "On a
lady famed for her caprice" inflicted on the accomplished Mrs. Riddel.]

    Old Winter, with his frosty beard,
    Thus once to Jove his prayer preferr'd,--
    What have I done of all the year,
    To bear this hated doom severe?
    My cheerless suns no pleasure know;
    Night's horrid car drags, dreary, slow:
    My dismal months no joys are crowning,
    But spleeny English, hanging, drowning.

    Now, Jove, for once be mighty civil,
    To counterbalance all this evil;
    Give me, and I've no more to say,
    Give me Maria's natal day!
    That brilliant gift shall so enrich me,
    Spring, Summer, Autumn, cannot match me;
    'Tis done! says Jove; so ends my story,
    And Winter once rejoiced in glory.

       *       *       *       *       *

CXXXVIII.

LIBERTY.

A FRAGMENT.

[Fragment of verse were numerous, Dr. Currie said, among the loose
papers of the poet.
      Is this the power in freedom's war,
      That wont to bid the battle rage?
    Behold that eye which shot immortal hate,
      Crushing the despot's proudest bearing!

       *       *       *       *       *

CXXXIX.

VERSES

TO A YOUNG LADY.

[This young lady was the daughter of the poet's friend, Graham of Fintray; and the gift alluded
to was a copy of George Thomson's Select Scottish Songs: a work which owes many attractions
to the lyric genius of Burns.]

    Here, where the Scottish muse immortal lives,
      In sacred strains and tuneful numbers join'd,
    Accept the gift;--tho' humble he who gives,
      Rich is the tribute of the grateful mind.

    So may no ruffian feeling in thy breast,
      Discordant jar thy bosom-chords among;
    But peace attune thy gentle soul to rest,
      Or love ecstatic wake his seraph song.

    Or pity's notes in luxury of tears,
      As modest want the tale of woe reveals;
    While conscious virtue all the strain endears,
      And heaven-born piety her sanction seals.

       *       *       *       *       *

CXL.

THE VOWELS.

A TALE.

[Burns admired genius adorned by learning; but mere learning without genius he always regarded
as pedantry. Those critics who scrupled too much about words he called eunuchs of literature,
and to one, who taxed him with writing obscure language in questionable grammar, he said, "Thou
art but a Gretna-green match-maker between vowels and consonants!"]

    'Twas where the birch and sounding thong are ply'd,
    The noisy domicile of pedant pride;
    Where ignorance her darkening vapour throws,
    And cruelty directs the thickening blows;
    upon a time, Sir Abece the great,
    In all his pedagogic powers elate,
    His awful chair of state resolves to mount,
    And call the trembling vowels to account.--

    First enter'd A, a grave, broad, solemn wight,
    But, ah! deform'd, dishonest to the sight!
    His twisted head look'd backward on the way,
    And flagrant from the scourge he grunted, ai!

    Reluctant, E stalk'd in; with piteous race
    The justling tears ran down his honest face!
    That name! that well-worn name, and all his own,
    Pale he surrenders at the tyrant's throne!
    The pedant stifles keen the Roman sound
    Not all his mongrel diphthongs can compound;
    And next the title following close behind,
    He to the nameless, ghastly wretch assign'd.

    The cobweb'd gothic dome resounded Y!
    In sullen vengeance, I, disdain'd reply:
    The pedant swung his felon cudgel round,
    And knock'd the groaning vowel to the ground!

    In rueful apprehension enter'd O,
    The wailing minstrel of despairing woe;
    Th' Inquisitor of Spain the most expert
    Might there have learnt new mysteries of his art;
    So grim, deform'd, with horrors entering U,
    His dearest friend and brother scarcely knew!

    As trembling U stood staring all aghast,
    The pedant in his left hand clutched him fast,
    In helpless infants' tears he dipp'd his right,
    Baptiz'd him eu, and kick'd him from his sight.

       *       *       *       *       *

CXLI.

VERSES

TO JOHN RANKINE.

[With the "rough, rude, ready-witted Rankine," of Adamhill, in Ayrshire, Burns kept up a will
o'-wispish sort of a correspondence in rhyme, till the day of his death: these communications,
of which this is one, were sometimes graceless, but always witty. It is supposed, that those
lines were suggested by Falstaff's account of his ragged recruits:--

    "I'll not march through Coventry with them, that's flat!"]

    Ae day, as Death, that grusome carl,
    Was driving to the tither warl'
    A mixtie-maxtie motley squad,
    And mony a guilt-bespotted lad;
    Black gowns of each denomination,
    And thieves of every rank and station,
    From him that wears the star and garter,
    To him that wintles in a halter:
    Asham'd himsel' to see the wretches,
    He mutters, glowrin' at the bitches,
    "By G--d, I'll not be seen behint them,
    Nor 'mang the sp'ritual core present them,
    Without, at least, ae honest man,
    To grace this d--d infernal clan."
    By Adamhill a glance he threw,
    "L--d G--d!" quoth he, "I have it now,
    There's just the man I want, i' faith!"
    And quickly stoppit Rankine's breath.

       *       *       *       *       *

CXLII.

ON SENSIBILITY.

TO

MY DEAR AND MUCH HONOURED FRIEND, MRS. DUNLOP,

OF DUNLOP.

[These verses were occasioned, it is said, by some sentiments contained in a communication
from Mrs. Dunlop. That excellent lady was sorely tried with domestic afflictions for a time,
and to these he appears to allude; but he deadened the effect of his sympathy, when he printed
the stanzas in the Museum, changing the fourth line to,

    "Dearest Nancy, thou canst tell!"

and so transferring the whole to another heroine.]

    Sensibility how charming,
      Thou, my friend, canst truly tell:
    But distress with horrors arming,
      Thou host also known too well.

    Fairest flower, behold the lily,
      Blooming in the sunny ray:
    Let the blast sweep o'er the valley,
      See it prostrate on the clay.

    Hear the woodlark charm the forest,
      Telling o'er his little joys:
    Hapless bird! a prey the surest,
      To each pirate of the skies.

    Dearly bought, the hidden treasure,
      Finer feeling can bestow;
    Chords that vibrate sweetest pleasure,
      Thrill the deepest notes of woe.

       *       *       *       *       *

CXLIII.

LINES,

SENT TO A GENTLEMAN WHOM HE HAD

OFFENDED.

[The too hospitable board of Mrs. Riddel occasioned these repentant strains: they were accepted
as they were meant by the party. The poet had, it seems, not only spoken of mere titles and
rank with disrespect, but had allowed his tongue unbridled license of speech, on the claim
of political importance, and domestic equality, which Mary Wolstonecroft and her followers
patronized, at which Mrs. Riddel affected to be grievously offended.]

    The friend whom wild from wisdom's way,
      The fumes of wine infuriate send;
    (Not moony madness more astray;)
      Who but deplores that hapless friend?

    Mine was th' insensate frenzied part,
      Ah, why should I such scenes outlive
    Scenes so abhorrent to my heart!
      'Tis thine to pity and forgive.

       *       *       *       *       *

CXLIV.

ADDRESS,

SPOKEN BY MISS FONTENELLE ON HER BENEFIT

NIGHT.

[This address was spoken by Miss Fontenelle, at the Dumfries theatre, on the 4th of December,
1795.]

    Still anxious to secure your partial favour,
    And not less anxious, sure, this night than ever,
    A Prologue, Epilogue, or some such matter,
    'Twould vamp my bill, said I, if nothing better;
    So sought a Poet, roosted near the skies,
    Told him I came to feast my curious eyes;
    Said nothing like his works was ever printed;
    And last, my Prologue-business slyly hinted!
    "Ma'am, let me tell you," quoth my man of rhymes,
    "I know your bent--these are no laughing times:
    Can you--but, Miss, I own I have my fears,
    Dissolve in pause--and sentimental tears;
    With laden sighs, and solemn-rounded sentence,
    Rouse from his sluggish slumbers, fell Repentance;
    Paint Vengeance as he takes his horrid stand,
    Waving on high the desolating brand,
    Calling the storms to bear him o'er a guilty land?"

    I could no more--askance the creature eyeing,
    D'ye think, said I, this face was made for crying?
    I'll laugh, that's poz--nay more, the world shall know it;
    And so your servant: gloomy Master Poet!
    Firm as my creed, Sirs, 'tis my fix'd belief,
    That Misery's another word for Grief;
    I also think--so may I be a bride!
    That so much laughter, so much life enjoy'd.

    Thou man of crazy care and ceaseless sigh,
    Still under bleak Misfortune's blasting eye;
    Doom'd to that sorest task of man alive--
    To make three guineas do the work of five:
    Laugh in Misfortune's face--the beldam witch!
    Say, you'll be merry, tho' you can't be rich.

    Thou other man of care, the wretch in love,
    Who long with jiltish arts and airs hast strove;
    Who, us the boughs all temptingly project,
    Measur'st in desperate thought--a rope--thy neck--
    Or, where the beetling cliff o'erhangs the deep,
    Peerest to meditate the healing leap:
    Would'st thou be cur'd, thou silly, moping elf?
    Laugh at their follies--laugh e'en at thyself:
    Learn to despise those frowns now so terrific,
    And love a kinder--that's your grand specific.

    To sum up all, be merry, I advise;
    And as we're merry, may we still be wise.

       *       *       *       *       *

CXLV.

ON

SEEING MISS FONTENELLE

IN A FAVOURITE CHARACTER.

[The good looks and the natural acting of Miss Fontenelle pleased others as well as Burns.
I know not to what character in the range of her personations he alludes: she was a favourite
on the Dumfries boards.]

    Sweet naiveté of feature,
      Simple, wild, enchanting elf,
    Not to thee, but thanks to nature,
      Thou art acting but thyself.

    Wert thou awkward, stiff, affected,
      Spurning nature, torturing art;
    Loves and graces all rejected,
      Then indeed thou'dst act a part.

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

CXLVI.

TO CHLORIS.

[Chloris was a Nithsdale beauty. Love and sorrow were strongly mingled in her early history:
that she did not look so lovely in other eyes as she did in those of Burns is well known: but
he had much of the taste of an artist, and admired the elegance of her form, and the harmony
of her motion, as much as he did her blooming face and sweet voice.]

    'Tis Friendship's pledge, my young, fair friend,
      Nor thou the gift refuse,
    Nor with unwilling ear attend
      The moralizing muse.

    Since thou in all thy youth and charms,
      Must bid the world adieu,
    (A world 'gainst peace in constant arms)
      To join the friendly few.

    Since, thy gay morn of life o'ercast,
      Chill came the tempest's lower;
    (And ne'er misfortune's eastern blast
      Did nip a fairer flower.)

    Since life's gay scenes must charm no more,
      Still much is left behind;
    Still nobler wealth hast thou in store--
      The comforts of the mind!

    Thine is the self-approving glow,
      On conscious honour's part;
    And, dearest gift of heaven below,
      Thine friendship's truest heart.

    The joys refin'd of sense and taste,
      With every muse to rove:
    And doubly were the poet blest,
      These joys could he improve.

       *       *       *       *       *

CXLVII.

POETICAL INSCRIPTION

FOR AN ALTAR TO INDEPENDENCE.

[It was the fashion of the feverish times of the French Revolution to plant trees of Liberty,
and raise altars to Independence. Heron of Kerroughtree, a gentleman widely esteemed in Galloway,
was about to engage in an election contest, and these noble lines served the purpose of announcing
the candidate's sentiments on freedom.]

    Thou of an independent mind,
    With soul resolv'd, with soul resign'd;
    Prepar'd Power's proudest frown to brave,
    Who wilt not be, nor have a slave;
    Virtue alone who dost revere,
    Thy own reproach alone dost fear,
    Approach this shrine, and worship here.

       *       *       *       *       *

CXLVIII.

THE HERON BALLADS.

[BALLAD FIRST.]

[This is the first of several party ballads which Burns wrote to serve Patrick Heron, of Kerroughtree,
in two elections for the Stewartry of Kirkcudbright, in which he was opposed, first, by Gordon
of Balmaghie, and secondly, by the Hon. Montgomery Stewart. There is a personal bitterness
in these lampoons, which did not mingle with the strains in which the poet recorded the contest
between Miller and Johnstone. They are printed here as matters of poetry, and I feel sure that
none will be displeased, and some will smile.]

I.

    Whom will you send to London town,
      To Parliament and a' that?
    Or wha in a' the country round
      The best deserves to fa' that?
            For a' that, and a' that;
            Thro Galloway and a' that;
            Where is the laird or belted knight
            That best deserves to fa' that?

II.

    Wha sees Kerroughtree's open yett,
      And wha is't never saw that?
    Wha ever wi' Kerroughtree meets
      And has a doubt of a' that?
            For a' that, and a' that,
            Here's Heron yet for a' that,
            The independent patriot,
            The honest man, an' a' that.

III.

    Tho' wit and worth in either sex,
      St. Mary's Isle can shaw that;
    Wi' dukes and lords let Selkirk mix,
      And weel does Selkirk fa' that.
            For a' that, and a' that,
            Here's Heron yet for a' that!
            The independent commoner
            Shall be the man for a' that.

IV.

    But why should we to nobles jouk,
      And it's against the law that;
    For why, a lord may be a gouk,
      Wi' ribbon, star, an' a' that.
            For a' that, an' a' that,
            Here's Heron yet for a' that!
            A lord may be a lousy loun,
            Wi' ribbon, star, an' a' that.

V.

    A beardless boy comes o'er the hills,
      Wi' uncle's purse an' a' that;
    But we'll hae ane frae 'mang oursels,
      A man we ken, an' a' that.
            For a' that, an' a' that,
            Here's Heron yet for a' that!
            For we're not to be bought an' sold
            Like naigs, an' nowt, an' a' that.

VI.

    Then let us drink the Stewartry,
      Kerroughtree's laird, an' a' that,
    Our representative to be,
      For weel he's worthy a' that.
            For a' that, an' a' that,
            Here's Heron yet for a' that,
            A House of Commons such as he,
            They would be blest that saw that.

       *       *       *       *       *

CXLIX.

THE HERON BALLADS.

[BALLAD SECOND.]

[In this ballad the poet gathers together, after the manner of "Fy! let us a' to the bridal,"
all the leading electors of the Stewartry, who befriended Heron, or opposed him; and draws
their portraits in the colours of light or darkness, according to the complexion of their politics.
He is too severe in most instances, and in some he is venomous. On the Earl of Galloway's family,
and on the Murrays of Broughton and Caillie, as well as on Bushby of Tinwaldowns, he pours
his hottest satire. But words which are unjust, or undeserved, fall off their victims like
rain-drops from a wild-duck's wing. The Murrays of Broughton and Caillie have long borne, from
the vulgar, the stigma of treachery to the cause of Prince Charles Stewart: from such infamy
the family is wholly free: the traitor, Murray, was of a race now extinct; and while he was
betraying the cause in which so much noble and gallant blood was shed, Murray of Broughton
and Caillie was performing the duties of an honourable and loyal man: he was, like his great-grandson
now, representing his native district in parliament.]

THE ELECTION.

I.

    Fy, let us a' to Kirkcudbright,
      For there will be bickerin' there;
    For Murray's[112] light horse are to muster,
      And O, how the heroes will swear!
    An' there will be Murray commander,
      And Gordon[113] the battle to win;
    Like brothers they'll stand by each other,
      Sae knit in alliance an' kin.

II.

    An' there will be black-lippit Johnnie,[114]
      The tongue o' the trump to them a';
    And he get na hell for his haddin'
      The deil gets na justice ava';
    And there will Kempleton's birkie,
      A boy no sae black at the bane,
    But, as for his fine nabob fortune,
      We'll e'en let the subject alane.

III.

    An' there will be Wigton's new sheriff,
      Dame Justice fu' brawlie has sped,
    She's gotten the heart of a Bushby,
      But, Lord, what's become o' the head?
    An' there will be Cardoness,[115] Esquire,
      Sae mighty in Cardoness' eyes;
    A wight that will weather damnation,
      For the devil the prey will despise.

IV.

    An' there will be Douglasses[116] doughty,
      New christ'ning towns far and near;
    Abjuring their democrat doings,
      By kissing the ---- o' a peer;
    An' there will be Kenmure[117] sae gen'rous,
      Whose honour is proof to the storm,
    To save them from stark reprobation,
      He lent them his name to the firm.

V.

    But we winna mention Redcastle,[118]
      The body, e'en let him escape!
    He'd venture the gallows for siller,
      An' 'twere na the cost o' the rape.
    An' where is our king's lord lieutenant,
      Sae fam'd for his gratefu' return?
    The billie is gettin' his questions,
      To say in St. Stephen's the morn.

VI.

    An' there will be lads o' the gospel,
      Muirhead,[119] wha's as gude as he's true;
    An' there will be Buittle's[120] apostle,
      Wha's more o' the black than the blue;
    An' there will be folk from St. Mary's,[121]
      A house o' great merit and note,
    The deil ane but honours them highly,--
      The deil ane will gie them his vote!

VII.

    An' there will be wealthy young Richard,[122]
      Dame Fortune should hing by the neck;
    For prodigal, thriftless, bestowing,
      His merit had won him respect:
    An' there will be rich brother nabobs,
      Tho' nabobs, yet men of the first,
    An' there will be Collieston's[123] whiskers,
      An' Quintin, o' lads not the worst.

VIII.

    An' there will be stamp-office Johnnie,[124]
      Tak' tent how ye purchase a dram;
    An' there will be gay Cassencarrie,
      An' there will be gleg Colonel Tam;
    An' there will be trusty Kerroughtree,[125]
      Whose honour was ever his law,
    If the virtues were pack'd in a parcel,
      His worth might be sample for a'.

IX.

    An' can we forget the auld major,
      Wha'll ne'er be forgot in the Greys,
    Our flatt'ry we'll keep for some other,
      Him only 'tis justice to praise.
    An' there will be maiden Kilkerran,
      And also Barskimming's gude knight,
    An' there will be roarin' Birtwhistle,
      Wha luckily roars in the right.

X.

    An' there, frae the Niddisdale borders,
      Will mingle the Maxwells in droves;
    Teugh Johnnie, staunch Geordie, an' Walie,
      That griens for the fishes an' loaves;
    An' there will be Logan Mac Douall,[126]
      Sculdudd'ry an' he will be there,
    An' also the wild Scot of Galloway,
      Sodgerin', gunpowder Blair.

XI.

    Then hey the chaste interest o' Broughton,
      An' hey for the blessings 'twill bring?
    It may send Balmaghie to the Commons,
      In Sodom 'twould make him a king;
    An' hey for the sanctified M----y,
      Our land who wi' chapels has stor'd;
    He founder'd his horse among harlots,
      But gied the auld naig to the Lord.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 112: Murray, of Broughton and Caillie.]

[Footnote 113: Gordon of Balmaghie.]

[Footnote 114: Bushby, of Tinwald-Downs.]

[Footnote 115: Maxwell, of Cardoness.]

[Footnote 116: The Douglasses, of Orchardtown and Castle-Douglas.]

[Footnote 117: Gordon, afterwards Viscount Kenmore.]

[Footnote 118: Laurie, of Redcastle.]

[Footnote 119: Morehead, Minister of Urr.]

[Footnote 120: The Minister of Buittle.]

[Footnote 121: Earl of Selkirk's family.]

[Footnote 122: Oswald, of Auchuncruive.]

[Footnote 123: Copland, of Collieston and Blackwood.]

[Footnote 124: John Syme, of the Stamp-office.]

[Footnote 125: Heron, of Kerroughtree.]

[Footnote 126: Colonel Macdouall, of Logan.]

       *       *       *       *       *

CL.

THE HERON BALLADS.

[BALLAD THIRD.]

[This third and last ballad was written on the contest between Heron and Stewart, which followed
close on that with Gordon. Heron carried the election, but was unseated by the decision of
a Committee of the House of Commons: a decision which it is said he took so much to heart that
it affected his health, and shortened his life.]

AN EXCELLENT NEW SONG.

Tune.--"Buy broom besoms."

    Wha will buy my troggin,
      Fine election ware;
    Broken trade o' Broughton,
      A' in high repair.
                Buy braw troggin,
                  Frae the banks o' Dee;
                Wha wants troggin
                  Let him come to me.

    There's a noble Earl's[127]
      Fame and high renown
    For an auld sang--
      It's thought the gudes were stown.
                Buy braw troggin, &c.

    Here's the worth o' Broughton[128]
      In a needle's ee;
    Here's a reputation
      Tint by Balmaghie.
                Buy braw troggin, &c.

    Here's an honest conscience
      Might a prince adorn;
    Frae the downs o' Tinwald--[129]
      So was never worn.
                Buy braw troggin, &c.

    Here's its stuff and lining,
      Cardoness'[130] head;
    Fine for a sodger
      A' the wale o' lead.
                Buy braw troggin, &c.

    Here's a little wadset
      Buittle's[131] scrap o' truth,
    Pawn'd in a gin-shop
      Quenching holy drouth.
                Buy braw troggin, &c.

    Here's armorial bearings
      Frae the manse o' Urr;[132]
    The crest, an auld crab-apple
      Rotten at the core.
                Buy braw troggin, &c.

    Here is Satan's picture,
      Like a bizzard gled,
    Pouncing poor Redcastle,[133]
      Sprawlin' as a taed.
                Buy braw troggin, &c.

    Here's the worth and wisdom
      Collieston[134] can boast;
    By a thievish midge
      They had been nearly lost.
                Buy braw troggin, &c.

    Here is Murray's fragments
      O' the ten commands;
    Gifted by black Jock[135]
      To get them aff his hands.
                Buy braw troggin, &c.

    Saw ye e'er sic troggin?
      If to buy ye're slack,
    Hornie's turnin' chapman,
      He'll buy a' the pack.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 127: The Earl of Galloway.]

[Footnote 128: Murray, of Broughton and Caillie.]

[Footnote 129: Bushby, of Tinwald-downs.]

[Footnote 130: Maxwell, of Cardoness.]

[Footnote 131: The Minister of Buittle.]

[Footnote 132: Morehead, of Urr.]

[Footnote 133: Laurie, of Redcastle.]

[Footnote 134: Copland, of Collieston and Blackwood.]

[Footnote 135: John Bushby, of Tinwald-downs.]

       *       *       *       *       *

CLI.

    So may the auld year gang out moaning
    To see the new come laden, groaning,
    Wi' double plenty o'er the loanin
                      To thee and thine;
    Domestic peace and comforts crowning
                      The hale design.

       *       *       *       *       *

POSTSCRIPT.

       *       *       *       *       *

CLII.

TO

MISS JESSY LEWARS,

DUMFRIES.

WITH JOHNSON'S 'MUSICAL MUSEUM.'

[Miss Jessy Lewars watched over the declining days of the poet, with the affectionate reverence
of a daughter: for this she has the silent gratitude of all who admire the genius of Burns;
she has received more, the thanks of the poet himself, expressed in verses not destined soon
to die.]

    Thine be the volumes, Jessy fair,
    And with them take the Poet's prayer;
    That fate may in her fairest page,
    With every kindliest, best presage
    Of future bliss, enrol thy name:
    With native worth and spotless fame,
    And wakeful caution still aware
    Of ill--but chief, man's felon snare;
    All blameless joys on earth we find,
    And all the treasures of the mind--
    These be thy guardian and reward;
    So prays thy faithful friend, The Bard.

June 26, 1796.

       *       *       *       *       *

CLIII.

[This is supposed to be the last Poem written by the hand, or conceived by the muse of Burns.
The person to whom it is addressed was Colonel of the gentlemen Volunteers of Dumfries, in
whose ranks Burns was a private: he was a Canadian by birth, and prided himself on having defended
Detroit, against the united efforts of the French and Americans. He was rough and austere,
and thought the science of war the noblest of all sciences: he affected a taste for literature,
and wrote verses.]

    My honoured colonel, deep I feel
    Your interest in the Poet's weal;
    Ah! now sma' heart hae I to speel
                      The steep Parnassus,
    Surrounded thus by bolus, pill,
                      And potion glasses.

    O what a canty warld were it,
    Would pain and care and sickness spare it;
    And fortune favour worth and merit,
                      As they deserve!
    (And aye a rowth, roast beef and claret;
                      Syne, wha wad starve?)

    Dame Life, tho' fiction out may trick her,
    And in paste gems and frippery deck her;
    Oh! flickering, feeble, and unsicker
                      I've found her still,
    Ay wavering like the willow-wicker,
                      'Tween good and ill.

    Then that curst carmagnole, auld Satan,
    Watches, like baudrons by a rattan,
    Our sinfu' saul to get a claut on
                      Wi' felon ire;
    Syne, whip! his tail ye'll ne'er cast saut on--
                      He's aff like fire.

    Ah Nick! ah Nick! it is na fair,
    First shewing us the tempting ware,
    Bright wines and bonnie lasses rare,
                      To put us daft;
    Syne, weave, unseen, thy spider snare
                      O' hell's damn'd waft.

    Poor man, the flie, aft bizzes bye,
    And aft as chance he comes thee nigh,
    Thy auld danm'd elbow yeuks wi' joy,
                      And hellish pleasure;
    Already in thy fancy's eye,
                      Thy sicker treasure!

    Soon heels-o'er gowdie! in he gangs,
    And like a sheep head on a tangs,
    Thy girning laugh enjoys his pangs
                      And murd'ring wrestle,
    As, dangling in the wind, he hangs
                      A gibbet's tassel.

    But lest you think I am uncivil,
    To plague you with this draunting drivel,
    Abjuring a' intentions evil,
                      I quat my pen:
    The Lord preserve us frae the devil,
                      Amen! amen!

       *       *       *       *       *

EPITAPHS, EPIGRAMS, FRAGMENTS,

ETC., ETC.

I.

ON THE AUTHOR'S FATHER.

[William Burness merited his son's eulogiums: he was an example of piety, patience, and fortitude.]

    O ye whose cheek the tear of pity stains,
      Draw near with pious rev'rence and attend!
    Here lie the loving husband's dear remains,
      The tender father and the gen'rous friend.
    The pitying heart that felt for human woe;
      The dauntless heart that feared no human pride;
    The friend of man, to vice alone a foe;
      "For ev'n his failings lean'd to virtue's side."

       *       *       *       *       *

II.

ON R.A., ESQ.

[Robert Aiken, Esq., to whom "The Cotter's Saturday Night" is addressed: a kind and generous man.]

    Know thou, O stranger to the fame
    Of this much lov'd, much honour'd name!
    (For none that knew him need be told)
    A warmer heart death ne'er made cold.

       *       *       *       *       *

III.

ON A FRIEND.

       *       *       *       *       *

IV.

FOR GAVIN HAMILTON.

[These lines allude to the persecution which Hamilton endured for presuming to ride on Sunday,
and say, "damn it," in the presence of the minister of Mauchline.]

    The poor man weeps--here Gavin sleeps,
      Whom canting wretches blam'd:
    But with such as he, where'er he be,
      May I be sav'd or damn'd!

       *       *       *       *       *

V.

ON WEE JOHNNY.

HIC JACET WEE JOHNNY.

[Wee Johnny was John Wilson, printer of the Kilmarnock edition of Burns's Poems: he doubted
the success of the speculation, and the poet punished him in these lines, which he printed
unaware of their meaning.]

    Whoe'er thou art, O reader, know,
      That death has murder'd Johnny!
    An' here his body lies fu' low--
      For saul he ne'er had ony.

       *       *       *       *       *

VI.

ON JOHN DOVE,

INNKEEPER, MAUCHLINE.

[John Dove kept the Whitefoord Arms in Mauchline: his religion is made to consist of a comparative
appreciation of the liquors he kept.]

    Here lies Johnny Pidgeon;
    What was his religion?
      Wha e'er desires to ken,
    To some other warl'
    Maun follow the carl,
      For here Johnny Pidgeon had nane!

    Strong ale was ablution--
    Small beer, persecution,
      A dram was memento mori;
    But a full flowing bowl
    Was the saving his soul,
      And port was celestial glory.

       *       *       *       *       *

VII.

ON A WAG IN MAUCHLINE.

[This laborious and useful wag was the "Dear Smith, thou sleest pawkie thief," of one of the
poet's finest epistles: he died in the West Indies.]

    Lament him, Mauchline husbands a',
      He aften did assist ye;
    For had ye staid whole weeks awa,
      Your wives they ne'er had missed ye.
    Ye Mauchline bairns, as on ye press
      To school in bands thegither,
    O tread ye lightly on his grass,--
      Perhaps he was your father.

       *       *       *       *       *

VIII.

ON A CELEBRATED RULING ELDER.

[Souter Hood obtained the distinction of this Epigram by his impertinent inquiries into what
he called the moral delinquencies of Burns.]

    Here souter Hood in death does sleep;--
      To h--ll, if he's gane thither,
    Satan, gie him thy gear to keep,
      He'll haud it weel thegither.

       *       *       *       *       *

IX.

ON A NOISY POLEMIC.

[This noisy polemic was a mason of the name of James Humphrey: he astonished Cromek by an eloquent
dissertation on free grace, effectual-calling, and predestination.]

    Below thir stanes lie Jamie's banes:
      O Death, it's my opinion,
    Thou ne'er took such a blethrin' b--ch
      Into thy dark dominion!

       *       *       *       *       *

X.

ON MISS JEAN SCOTT.

[The heroine of these complimentary lines lived in Ayr, and cheered the poet with her sweet
voice, as well as her sweet looks.]

    Oh! had each Scot of ancient times,
      Been Jeany Scott, as thou art,
    The bravest heart on English ground
      Had yielded like a coward!

       *       *       *       *       *

XI.

ON A HENPECKED COUNTRY SQUIRE.

[Though satisfied with the severe satire of these lines, the poet made a second attempt.]

    As father Adam first was fool'd,
      A case that's still too common,
    Here lies a man a woman rul'd,
      The devil rul'd the woman.

       *       *       *       *       *

XII.

ON THE SAME.

[The second attempt did not in Burns's fancy exhaust this fruitful subject: he tried his hand
again.]

    O Death, hadst thou but spared his life,
      Whom we this day lament,
    We freely wad exchang'd the wife,
      And a' been weel content!

    Ev'n as he is, cauld in his graff,
      The swap we yet will do't;
    Take thou the carlin's carcase aff,
      Thou'se get the soul to boot.

       *       *       *       *       *

XIII.

ON THE SAME.

[In these lines he bade farewell to the sordid dame, who lived, it is said, in Netherplace,
near Mauchline.]

    One Queen Artemisia, as old stories tell,
    When depriv'd of her husband she loved so well,
    In respect for the love and affection he'd show'd her,
    She reduc'd him to dust and she drank up the powder.
    But Queen Netherplace, of a diff'rent complexion,
    When call'd on to order the fun'ral direction,
    Would have eat her dear lord, on a slender pretence,
    Not to show her respect, but to save the expense.

       *       *       *       *       *

XIV.

THE HIGHLAND WELCOME.

[Burns took farewell of the hospitalities of the Scottish Highlands in these happy lines.]

    When Death's dark stream I ferry o'er,
      A time that surely shall come;
    In Heaven itself I'll ask no more
      Than just a Highland welcome.

       *       *       *       *       *

XV.

ON WILLIAM SMELLIE.

       *       *       *       *       *

XVI.

VERSES

WRITTEN ON A WINDOW OF THE INN AT CARRON.

[These lines were written on receiving what the poet considered an uncivil refusal to look
at the works of the celebrated Carron foundry.]

    We came na here to view your warks
      In hopes to be mair wise,
    But only, lest we gang to hell,
      It may be nae surprise:

    For whan we tirl'd at your door,
      Your porter dought na hear us;
    Sae may, shou'd we to hell's yetts come
      Your billy Satan sair us!

       *       *       *       *       *

XVII.

THE BOOK-WORMS.

       *       *       *       *       *

XVIII.

LINES ON STIRLING.

[On visiting Stirling, Burns was stung at beholding nothing but desolation in the palaces of
our princes and our halls of legislation, and vented his indignation in those unloyal lines:
some one has said that they were written by his companion, Nicol, but this wants confirmation.]

    Here Stuarts once in glory reign'd,
    And laws for Scotland's weal ordain'd;
    But now unroof'd their palace stands,
    Their sceptre's sway'd by other hands;
    The injured Stuart line is gone,
    A race outlandish fills their throne;
    An idiot race, to honour lost;
    Who know them best despise them most.

       *       *       *       *       *

XIX.

THE REPROOF.

[The imprudence of making the lines written at Stirling public was hinted to Burns by a friend;
he said, "Oh, but I mean to reprove myself for it," which he did in these words.]

    Rash mortal, and slanderous Poet, thy name
    Shall no longer appear in the records of fame;
    Dost not know that old Mansfield, who writes like the Bible,
    Says the more 'tis a truth, Sir, the more 'tis a libel?

       *       *       *       *       *

XX.

THE REPLY.

[The minister of Gladsmuir wrote a censure on the Stirling lines, intimating, as a priest,
that Burns's race was nigh run, and as a prophet, that oblivion awaited his muse. The poet
replied to the expostulation.]

    Like Esop's lion, Burns says, sore I feel
    All others' scorn--but damn that ass's heel.

       *       *       *       *       *

XXI.

LINES

WRITTEN UNDER THE PICTURE OF THE CELEBRATED MISS BURNS.

[The Miss Burns of these lines was well known in those days to the bucks of the Scottish metropolis:
there is still a letter by the poet, claiming from the magistrates of Edinburgh a liberal interpretation
of the laws of social morality, in belief of his fair namesake.]

    Cease, ye prudes, your envious railings,
      Lovely Burns has charms--confess:
    True it is, she had one failing--
      Had a woman ever less?

       *       *       *       *       *

XXII.

EXTEMPORE IN THE COURT OF SESSION.

[These portraits are strongly coloured with the partialities of the poet: Dundas had offended
his pride, Erskine had pleased his vanity; and as he felt he spoke.]

LORD ADVOCATE.

MR. ERSKINE.

    Collected Harry stood awee,
      Then open'd out his arm, man:
    His lordship sat wi' rueful e'e,
      And ey'd the gathering storm, man;
    Like wind-driv'n hail it did assail,
      Or torrents owre a linn, man;
    The Bench sae wise lift up their eyes,
      Half-wauken'd wi' the din, man.

       *       *       *       *       *

XXIII.

THE HENPECKED HUSBAND.

[A lady who expressed herself with incivility about her husband's potations with Burns, was
rewarded by these sharp lines.]

    Curs'd be the man, the poorest wretch in life,
    The crouching vassal to the tyrant wife!
    Who has no will but by her high permission;
    Who has not sixpence but in her possession;
    Who must to her his dear friend's secret tell;
    Who dreads a curtain lecture worse than hell!
    Were such the wife had fallen to my part,
    I'd break her spirit, or I'd break her heart;
    I'd charm her with the magic of a switch,
    I'd kiss her maids, and kick the perverse b----h.

       *       *       *       *       *

XXIV.

WRITTEN AT INVERARY.

[Neglected at the inn of Inverary, on account of the presence of some northern chiefs, and
overlooked by his Grace of Argyll, the poet let loose his wrath and his rhyme: tradition speaks
of a pursuit which took place on the part of the Campbell, when he was told of his mistake,
and of a resolution not to be soothed on the part of the bard.]

    Whoe'er he be that sojourns here,
      I pity much his case,
    Unless he's come to wait upon
      The Lord their God, his Grace.

    There's naething here but Highland pride
      And Highland cauld and hunger;
    If Providence has sent me here,
      T'was surely in his anger.

       *       *       *       *       *

XXV.

ON ELPHINSTON'S TRANSLATIONS.

OF

MARTIAL'S EPIGRAMS.

[Burns thus relates the origin of this sally:--"Stopping at a merchant's shop in Edinburgh,
a friend of mine one day put Elphinston's Translation of Martial into my hand, and desired
my opinion of it.

       *       *       *       *       *

XXVI.

INSCRIPTION.

ON THE HEADSTONE OF FERGUSSON.

[Some social friends, whose good feelings were better than their taste, have ornamented with
supplemental iron work the headstone which Burns erected, with this inscription to the memory
of his brother bard, Fergusson.]

                     Here lies
               ROBERT FERGUSSON, Poet.

       *       *       *       *       *

XXVII.

ON A SCHOOLMASTER.

[The Willie Michie of this epigram was, it is said, schoolmaster of the parish of Cleish, in
Fifeshire: he met Burns during his first visit to Edinburgh.]

    Here lie Willie Michie's banes;
      O, Satan! when ye tak' him,
    Gi' him the schoolin' o' your weans,
      For clever de'ils he'll mak' them.

       *       *       *       *       *

XXVIII.

A GRACE BEFORE DINNER.

[This was an extempore grace, pronounced by the poet at a dinner-table, in Dumfries: he was
ever ready to contribute the small change of rhyme, for either the use or amusement of a company.]

    O thou, who kindly dost provide
      For every creature's want!
    We bless thee, God of Nature wide,
      For all thy goodness lent:
    And if it please thee, Heavenly Guide,
      May never worse be sent;
    But, whether granted or denied,
      Lord bless us with content!
                                 Amen.

       *       *       *       *       *

XXIX.

A GRACE BEFORE MEAT.

[Pronounced, tradition says, at the table of Mrs. Riddel, of Woodleigh-Park.]

    O thou in whom we live and move,
      Who mad'st the sea and shore,
    Thy goodness constantly we prove,
      And grateful would adore.
    And if it please thee, Power above,
      Still grant us with such store,
    The friend we trust, the fair we love,
      And we desire no more.

       *       *       *       *       *

XXX.

ON WAT.

[The name of the object of this fierce epigram might be found, but in gratifying curiosity,
some pain would be inflicted.]

    Sic a reptile was Wat,
      Sic a miscreant slave,
    That the very worms damn'd him
      When laid in his grave.
    "In his flesh there's a famine,"
      A starv'd reptile cries;
    "An' his heart is rank poison,"
      Another replies.

       *       *       *       *       *

XXXI.

ON CAPTAIN FRANCIS GROSE.

[This was a festive sally: it is said that Grose, who was very fat, though he joined in the
laugh, did not relish it.]

    The devil got notice that Grose was a-dying,
    So whip! at the summons, old Satan came flying;
    But when he approach'd where poor Francis lay moaning,
    And saw each bed-post with its burden a-groaning,
    Astonish'd! confounded! cry'd Satan, "By ----,
    I'll want him, ere I take such a damnable load!"

       *       *       *       *       *

XXXII.

IMPROMPTU,

TO MISS AINSLIE.

[These lines were occasioned by a sermon on sin, to which the poet and Miss Ainslie of Berrywell
had listened, during his visit to the border.]

    Fair maid, you need not take the hint,
      Nor idle texts pursue:--
    'Twas guilty sinners that he meant,
      Not angels such as you!

       *       *       *       *       *

XXXIII.

THE KIRK OF LAMINGTON.

[One rough, cold day, Burns listened to a sermon, so little to his liking, in the kirk of Lamington,
in Clydesdale, that he left this protest on the seat where he sat.]

    As cauld a wind as ever blew,
    As caulder kirk, and in't but few;
    As cauld a minister's e'er spak,
    Ye'se a' be het ere I come back.

       *       *       *       *       *

XXXIV.

THE LEAGUE AND COVENANT.

[In answer to a gentleman, who called the solemn League and Covenant ridiculous and fanatical.]

    The solemn League and Covenant
      Cost Scotland blood--cost Scotland tears;
    But it sealed freedom's sacred cause--
      If thou'rt a slave, indulge thy sneers.

       *       *       *       *       *

XXXV.

WRITTEN ON A PANE OF GLASS,

IN THE INN AT MOFFAT.

[A friend asked the poet why God made Miss Davies so little, and a lady who was with her, so
large: before the ladies, who had just passed the window, were out of sight, the following
answer was recorded on a pane of glass.]

    Ask why God made the gem so small,
      And why so huge the granite?
    Because God meant mankind should set
      The higher value on it.

       *       *       *       *       *

XXXVI.

SPOKEN,

ON BEING APPOINTED TO THE EXCISE.

       *       *       *       *       *

XXXVII.

LINES ON MRS. KEMBLE.

[The poet wrote these lines in Mrs. Riddel's box in the Dumfries Theatre, in the winter of
1794: he was much moved by Mrs. Kemble's noble and pathetic acting.]

    Kemble, thou cur'st my unbelief
      Of Moses and his rod;
    At Yarico's sweet notes of grief
      The rock with tears had flow'd.

       *       *       *       *       *

XXXVIII.

TO MR. SYME.

[John Syme, of Ryedale, a rhymer, a wit, and a gentleman of education and intelligence, was,
while Burns resided in Dumfries, his chief companion: he was bred to the law.]

    No more of your guests, be they titled or not,
      And cook'ry the first in the nation;
    Who is proof to thy personal converse and wit,
      Is proof to all other temptation.

       *       *       *       *       *

XXXIX.

TO MR. SYME.

WITH A PRESENT OF A DOZEN OF PORTER.

[The tavern where these lines were written was kept by a wandering mortal of the name of Smith;
who, having visited in some capacity or other the Holy Land, put on his sign, "John Smith,
from Jerusalem." He was commonly known by the name of Jerusalem John.]

    O, had the malt thy strength of mind,
      Or hops the flavour of thy wit,
    'Twere drink for first of human kind,
      A gift that e'en for Syme were fit.

Jerusalem Tavern, Dumfries.

       *       *       *       *       *

XL.

A GRACE.

[This Grace was spoken at the table of Ryedale, where to the best cookery was added the richest
wine, as well as the rarest wit: Hyslop was a distiller.]

    Lord, we thank and thee adore,
      For temp'ral gifts we little merit;
    At present we will ask no more,
      Let William Hyslop give the spirit.

       *       *       *       *       *

XLI.

INSCRIPTION ON A GOBLET.

[Written on a dinner-goblet by the hand of Burns. Syme, exasperated at having his set of crystal
defaced, threw the goblet under the grate: it was taken up by his clerk, and it is still preserved
as a curiosity.]

    There's death in the cup--sae beware!
      Nay, more--there is danger in touching;
    But wha can avoid the fell snare?
      The man and his wine's sae bewitching!

       *       *       *       *       *

XLII.

THE INVITATION.

[Burns had a happy knack in acknowledging civilities. These lines were written with a pencil
on the paper in which Mrs. Hyslop, of Lochrutton, enclosed an invitation to dinner.]

    The King's most humble servant I,
      Can scarcely spare a minute;
    But I am yours at dinner-time,
      Or else the devil's in it.

       *       *       *       *       *

XLIII.

THE CREED OF POVERTY.

[When the commissioners of Excise told Burns that he was to act, and not to think; he took
out his pencil and wrote "The Creed of Poverty."]

    In politics if thou would'st mix,
      And mean thy fortunes be;
    Bear this in mind--be deaf and blind;
      Let great folks hear and see.

       *       *       *       *       *

XLIV.

WRITTEN IN A LADY'S POCKET-BOOK.

[That Burns loved liberty and sympathized with those who were warring in its cause, these lines,
and hundreds more, sufficiently testify.]

    Grant me, indulgent Heav'n, that I may live
    To see the miscreants feel the pains they give,
    Deal Freedom's sacred treasures free as air,
    Till slave and despot be but things which were.

       *       *       *       *       *

XLV.

THE PARSON'S LOOKS.

[Some sarcastic person said, in Burns's hearing, that there was falsehood in the Reverend Dr.
Burnside's looks: the poet mused for a moment, and replied in lines which have less of truth
than point.]

    That there is falsehood in his looks
      I must and will deny;
    They say their master is a knave--
      And sure they do not lie.

       *       *       *       *       *

XLVI.

THE TOAD-EATER.

[This reproof was administered extempore to one of the guests at the table of Maxwell, of Terraughty,
whose whole talk was of Dukes with whom he had dined, and of earls with whom he had supped.]

    What of earls with whom you have supt,
      And of dukes that you dined with yestreen?
    Lord! a louse, Sir, is still but a louse,
      Though it crawl on the curl of a queen.

       *       *       *       *       *

XLVII.

ON ROBERT RIDDEL.

[I copied these lines from a pane of glass in the Friars-Carse Hermitage, on which they had
been traced with the diamond of Burns.]

    To Riddel, much-lamented man,
      This ivied cot was dear;
    Reader, dost value matchless worth?
      This ivied cot revere.

       *       *       *       *       *

XLVIII.

THE TOAST.

[Burns being called on for a song, by his brother volunteers, on a festive occasion, gave the
following Toast.]

    Instead of a song, boys, I'll give you a toast--
    Here's the memory of those on the twelfth that we lost!--
    That we lost, did I say? nay, by Heav'n, that we found;
    For their fame it shall last while the world goes round.
    The next in succession, I'll give you--the King!
    Whoe'er would betray him, on high may he swing;
    And here's the grand fabric, our free Constitution,
    As built on the base of the great Revolution;
    And longer with politics not to be cramm'd,
    Be Anarchy curs'd, and be Tyranny damn'd;
    And who would to Liberty e'er prove disloyal,
    May his son be a hangman, and he his first trial.

       *       *       *       *       *

XLIX.

ON A PERSON NICKNAMED

THE MARQUIS.

[In a moment when vanity prevailed against prudence, this person, who kept a respectable public-house
in Dumfries, desired Burns, to write his epitaph.]

    Here lies a mock Marquis, whose titles were shamm'd;
    If ever he rise, it will be to be damn'd.

       *       *       *       *       *

L.

LINES

WRITTEN ON A WINDOW.

[Burns traced these words with a diamond, on the window of the King's Arms Tavern, Dumfries,
as a reply, or reproof, to one who had been witty on excisemen.]

    Ye men of wit and wealth, why all this sneering
    'Gainst poor Excisemen? give the cause a hearing;
    What are you, landlords' rent-rolls? teasing ledgers:
    What premiers--what? even monarchs' mighty gaugers:
    Nay, what are priests, those seeming godly wise men?
    What are they, pray, but spiritual Excisemen?

       *       *       *       *       *

LI.

LINES

WRITTEN ON A WINDOW OF THE GLOBE TAVERN, DUMFRIES.

[The Globe Tavern was Burne's favourite "Howff," as he called it. It had other attractions
than good liquor; there lived "Anna, with the golden locks."]

    The greybeard, old Wisdom, may boast of his treasures,
      Give me with gay Folly to live;
    I grant him his calm-blooded, time-settled pleasures,
      But Folly has raptures to give.

       *       *       *       *       *

LII.

THE SELKIRK GRACE.

       *       *       *       *       *

LIII.

TO DR. MAXWELL,

ON JESSIE STAIG'S RECOVERY.

[Maxwell was a skilful physician; and Jessie Staig, the Provost's oldest daughter, was a young
lady of great beauty: she died early.]

    Maxwell, if merit here you crave
      That merit I deny,
    You save fair Jessie from the grave--
      An angel could not die.

       *       *       *       *       *

LIV.

EPITAPH.

[These lines were traced by the hand of Burns on a goblet belonging to Gabriel Richardson,
brewer, in Dumfries: it is carefully preserved in the family.]

    Here brewer Gabriel's fire's extinct,
      And empty all his barrels:
    He's blest--if, as he brew'd, he drink--
      In upright virtuous morals.

       *       *       *       *       *

LV.

EPITAPH

ON WILLIAM NICOL.

[Nicol was a scholar, of ready and rough wit, who loved a joke and a gill.]

    Ye maggots, feast on Nicol's brain,
      For few sic feasts ye've gotten;
    And fix your claws in Nicol's heart,
      For deil a bit o't's rotten.

       *       *       *       *       *

LVI.

ON THE DEATH OF A LAP-DOG,

NAMED ECHO.

[When visiting with Syme at Kenmore Castle, Burns wrote this Epitaph, rather reluctantly, it
is said, at the request of the lady of the house, in honour of her lap dog.]

    In wood and wild, ye warbling throng,
      Your heavy loss deplore;
    Now half extinct your powers of song,
      Sweet Echo is no more.

    Ye jarring, screeching things around,
      Scream your discordant joys;
    Now half your din of tuneless sound
      With Echo silent lies.

       *       *       *       *       *

LVII.

ON A NOTED COXCOMB.

[Neither Ayr, Edinburgh, nor Dumfries have contested the honour of producing the person on
whom these lines were written:--coxcombs are the growth of all districts.]

    Light lay the earth on Willy's breast,
      His chicken-heart so tender;
    But build a castle on his head,
      His skull will prop it under.

       *       *       *       *       *

LVIII.

ON SEEING THE BEAUTIFUL SEAT OF

LORD GALLOWAY.

[This, and the three succeeding Epigrams, are hasty squibs thrown amid the tumult of a contested
election, and must not be taken as the fixed and deliberate sentiments of the poet, regarding
an ancient and noble house.]

    What dost thou in that mansion fair?--
      Flit, Galloway, and find
    Some narrow, dirty, dungeon cave,
      The picture of thy mind!

       *       *       *       *       *

LIX.

ON THE SAME.

    No Stewart art thou, Galloway,
      The Stewarts all were brave;
    Besides, the Stewarts were but fools,
      Not one of them a knave.

       *       *       *       *       *

LX.

ON THE SAME.

    Bright ran thy line, O Galloway,
      Thro' many a far-fam'd sire!
    So ran the far-fam'd Roman way,
      So ended in a mire.

       *       *       *       *       *

LXI.

TO THE SAME,

ON THE AUTHOR BEING THREATENED WITH HIS

RESENTMENT.

    Spare me thy vengeance, Galloway,
      In quiet let me live:
    I ask no kindness at thy hand,
      For thou hast none to give.

       *       *       *       *       *

LXII.

ON A COUNTRY LAIRD.

[Mr. Maxwell, of Cardoness, afterwards Sir David, exposed himself to the rhyming wrath of Burns,
by his activity in the contested elections of Heron.]

    Bless Jesus Christ, O Cardoness,
      With grateful lifted eyes,
    Who said that not the soul alone
      But body too, must rise:
    For had he said, "the soul alone
      From death I will deliver;"
    Alas! alas! O Cardoness,
      Then thou hadst slept for ever.

       *       *       *       *       *

LXIII.

ON JOHN BUSHBY.

[Burns, in his harshest lampoons, always admitted the talents of Bushby: the peasantry, who
hate all clever attorneys, loved to handle his character with unsparing severity.]

    Here lies John Bushby, honest man!
    Cheat him, Devil, gin ye can.

       *       *       *       *       *

LXIV.

THE TRUE LOYAL NATIVES.

[At a dinner-party, where politics ran high, lines signed by men who called themselves the
true loyal natives of Dumfries, were handed to Burns: he took a pencil, and at once wrote this
reply.]

    Ye true "Loyal Natives," attend to my song,
    In uproar and riot rejoice the night long;
    From envy or hatred your corps is exempt,
    But where is your shield from the darts of contempt?

       *       *       *       *       *

LXV.

ON A SUICIDE.

[Burns was observed by my friend, Dr. Copland Hutchinson, to fix, one morning, a bit of paper
on the grave of a person who had committed suicide: on the paper these lines were pencilled.]

    Earth'd up here lies an imp o' hell,
      Planted by Satan's dibble--
    Poor silly wretch, he's damn'd himsel'
      To save the Lord the trouble.

       *       *       *       *       *

LXVI.

EXTEMPORE

PINNED ON A LADY'S COUCH.

["Printed," says Sir Harris Nicolas, "from a copy in Burns's handwriting," a slight alteration
in the last line is made from an oral version.]

    If you rattle along like your mistress's tongue,
      Your speed will outrival the dart:
    But, a fly for your load, you'll break down on the road
      If your stuff has the rot, like her heart.

       *       *       *       *       *

LXVII.

LINES

TO JOHN RANKINE.

[These lines were said to have been written by the poet to Rankine, of Adamhill, with orders
to forward them when he died.]

    He who of Rankine sang lies stiff and dead,
    And a green grassy hillock hides his head;
    Alas! alas! a devilish change indeed.

       *       *       *       *       *

LXVIII.

JESSY LEWARS.

[Written on the blank side of a list of wild beasts, exhibiting in Dumfries. "Now," said the
poet, who was then very ill, "it is fit to be presented to a lady."]

    Talk not to me of savages
      From Afric's burning sun,
    No savage e'er could rend my heart
      As, Jessy, thou hast done.
    But Jessy's lovely hand in mine,
      A mutual faith to plight,
    Not even to view the heavenly choir
      Would be so blest a sight.

       *       *       *       *       *

LXIX.

THE TOAST.

[One day, when Burns was ill and seemed in slumber, he observed Jessy Lewars moving about the
house with a light step lest she should disturb him. He took a crystal goblet containing wine-and-water
for moistening his lips, wrote these words upon it with a diamond, and presented it to her.]

    Fill me with the rosy-wine,
    Call a toast--a toast divine;
    Give the Poet's darling flame,
    Lovely Jessy be the name;
    Then thou mayest freely boast,
    Thou hast given a peerless toast.

       *       *       *       *       *

LXX.

ON MISS JESSY LEWARS.

[The constancy of her attendance on the poet's sick-bed and anxiety of mind brought a slight
illness upon Jessy Lewars. "You must not die yet," said the poet: "give me that goblet, and
I shall prepare you for the worst." He traced these lines with his diamond, and said, "That
will be a companion to 'The Toast.'"]

    Say, sages, what's the charm on earth
      Can turn Death's dart aside?
    It is not purity and worth,
      Else Jessy had not died.

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

LXXI.

ON THE

RECOVERY OF JESSY LEWARS.

[A little repose brought health to the young lady. "I knew you would not die," observed the
poet, with a smile: "there is a poetic reason for your recovery;" he wrote, and with a feeble
hand, the following lines.]

    But rarely seen since Nature's birth,
      The natives of the sky;
    Yet still one seraph's left on earth,
      For Jessy did not die.

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

LXXII.

TAM, THE CHAPMAN.

[Tam, the chapman, is said by the late William Cobbett, who knew him, to have been a Thomas
Kennedy, a native of Ayrshire, agent to a mercantile house in the west of Scotland. Sir Harris
Nicolas confounds him with the Kennedy to whom Burns addressed several letters and verses,
which I printed in my edition of the poet in 1834: it is perhaps enough to say that the name
of the one was Thomas and the name of the other John.]

    As Tam the Chapman on a day,
    Wi' Death forgather'd by the way,
    Weel pleas'd he greets a wight so famous,
    And Death was nae less pleas'd wi' Thomas,
    Wha cheerfully lays down the pack,
    And there blaws up a hearty crack;
    His social, friendly, honest heart,
    Sae tickled Death they could na part:
    Sac after viewing knives and garters,
    Death takes him hame to gie him quarters.

       *       *       *       *       *

LXXIII.

[These lines seem to owe their origin to the precept of Mickle.

    "The present moment is our ain,
    The next we never saw."]

    Here's a bottle and an honest friend!
      What wad you wish for mair, man?
    Wha kens before his life may end,
      What his share may be o' care, man?
    Then catch the moments as they fly,
      And use them as ye ought, man?
    Believe me, happiness is shy,
      And comes not ay when sought, man.

       *       *       *       *       *

LXXIV.

[The sentiment which these lines express, was one familiar to Burns, in the early, as well
as concluding days of his life.]

    Though fickle Fortune has deceived me,
      She promis'd fair and perform'd but ill;
    Of mistress, friends, and wealth bereav'd me,
      Yet I bear a heart shall support me still.--

    I'll act with prudence as far's I'm able,
      But if success I must never find,
    Then come misfortune, I bid thee welcome,
      I'll meet thee with an undaunted mind.

       *       *       *       *       *

LXXV.

TO JOHN KENNEDY.

[The John Kennedy to whom these verses and the succeeding lines were addressed, lived, in 1796,
at Dumfries-house, and his taste was so much esteemed by the poet, that he submitted his "Cotter's
Saturday Night" and the "Mountain Daisy" to his judgment: he seems to have been of a social
disposition.]

    Now, Kennedy, if foot or horse
    E'er bring you in by Mauchline Cross,
    L--d, man, there's lasses there wad force
                      A hermit's fancy.
    And down the gate in faith they're worse
                      And mair unchancy.

    But as I'm sayin', please step to Dow's,
    And taste sic gear as Johnnie brews,
    Till some bit callan bring me news
                      That ye are there,
    And if we dinna hae a bouze
                      I'se ne'er drink mair.

    It's no I like to sit an' swallow,
    Then like a swine to puke and wallow,
    But gie me just a true good fellow,
                      Wi' right ingine,
    And spunkie ance to make us mellow,
                      And then we'll shine.

    Now if ye're ane o' warl's folk,
    Wha rate the wearer by the cloak,
    An' sklent on poverty their joke
                      Wi' bitter sneer,
    Wi' you nae friendship I will troke,
                      Nor cheap nor dear.

    But if, as I'm informed weel,
    Ye hate as ill's the very deil
    The flinty heart that canna feel--
                      Come, Sir, here's tae you!
    Hae, there's my haun, I wiss you weel,
                      And gude be wi' you.

ROBERT BURNESS.

Mossgiel, 3 March, 1786.

       *       *       *       *       *

LXXVI.

TO JOHN KENNEDY.

R. B.

Kilmarnock, August, 1786

       *       *       *       *       *

LXXVII.

[Cromek found these characteristic lines among the poet's papers.]

    There's naethin like the honest nappy!
    Whaur'll ye e'er see men sae happy,
    Or women, sonsie, saft an' sappy,
                      'Tween morn an' morn
    As them wha like to taste the drappie
                      In glass or horn?

    I've seen me daezt upon a time;
    I scarce could wink or see a styme;
    Just ae hauf muchkin does me prime,
                      Ought less is little,
    Then back I rattle on the rhyme,
                      As gleg's a whittle.

       *       *       *       *       *

LXXVIII.

ON THE BLANK LEAF

OF A

WORK BY HANNAH MORE.

PRESENTED BY MRS C----.

    Thou flattering work of friendship kind,
    Still may thy pages call to mind
        The dear, the beauteous donor;
    Though sweetly female every part,
    Yet such a head, and more the heart,
        Does both the sexes honour.
    She showed her taste refined and just,
        When she selected thee,
    Yet deviating, own I must,
        For so approving me!
          But kind still, I'll mind still
            The giver in the gift;
          I'll bless her, and wiss her
            A Friend above the Lift.

Mossgiel, April, 1786.

       *       *       *       *       *

LXXIX.

TO THE MEN AND BRETHREN

OF THE

MASONIC LODGE AT TARBOLTON.

    Within your dear mansion may wayward contention
      Or withering envy ne'er enter:
    May secrecy round be the mystical bound,
      And brotherly love be the centre.

Edinburgh, 23 August, 1787.

       *       *       *       *       *

LXXX.

IMPROMPTU.

[The tumbler on which these verses are inscribed by the diamond of Burns, found its way to
the hands of Sir Walter Scott, and is now among the treasures of Abbotsford.]

    You're welcome, Willie Stewart,
    You're welcome, Willie Stewart;
    There's ne'er a flower that blooms in May,
    That's half sae welcome's thou art.

    Come bumpers high, express your joy,
      The bowl we maun renew it;
    The tappit-hen, gae bring her ben,
      To welcome Willie Stewart.

    My foes be strang, and friends be slack,
      Ilk action may he rue it,
    May woman on him turn her back,
      That wrongs thee, Willie Stewart.

       *       *       *       *       *

LXXXI.

PRAYER FOR ADAM ARMOUR.

[The origin of this prayer is curious. In 1785, the maid-servant of an innkeeper at Mauchline,
having been caught in what old ballad-makers delicately call "the deed of shame," Adam Armour,
the brother of the poet's bonnie Jean, with one or two more of his comrades, executed a rustic
act of justice upon her, by parading her perforce through the village, placed on a rough, unpruned
piece of wood: an unpleasant ceremony, vulgarly called "Riding the Stang." This was resented
by Geordie and Nanse, the girl's master and mistress; law was restored to, and as Adam had
to hide till the matter was settled, he durst not venture home till late on the Saturday nights.
In one of these home-comings he met Burns who laughed when he heard the story, and said, "You
have need of some one to pray for you." "No one can do that better than yourself," was the
reply, and this humorous intercession was made on the instant, and, as it is said, "clean off
loof." From Adam Armour I obtained the verses, and when he wrote them out, he told the story
in which the prayer originated.]

    Lord, pity me, for I am little,
    An elf of mischief and of mettle,
    That can like ony wabster's shuttle,
                      Jink there or here,
    Though scarce as lang's a gude kale-whittle,
                      I'm unco queer.

    Lord pity now our waefu' case,
    For Geordie's Jurr we're in disgrace,
    Because we stang'd her through the place,
                      'Mang hundreds laughin',
    For which we daurna show our face
                      Within the clachan.

    And now we're dern'd in glens and hallows,
    And hunted as was William Wallace,
    By constables, those blackguard fellows,
                      And bailies baith,
    O Lord, preserve us frae the gallows!
                      That cursed death.

    Auld, grim, black-bearded Geordie's sel',
    O shake him ewre the mouth o' hell,
    And let him hing and roar and yell,
                      Wi' hideous din,
    And if he offers to rebel
                      Just heave him in.

    When Death comes in wi' glimmering blink,
    And tips auld drunken Nanse the wink'
    Gaur Satan gie her a--e a clink
                      Behint his yett,
    And fill her up wi' brimstone drink,
                      Red reeking het!

    There's Jockie and the hav'rel Jenny,
    Some devil seize them in a hurry,
    And waft them in th' infernal wherry,
                      Straught through the lake,
    And gie their hides a noble curry,
                      Wi' oil of aik.

    As for the lass, lascivious body,
    She's had mischief enough already,
    Weel stang'd by market, mill, and smiddie,
                      She's suffer'd sair;
    But may she wintle in a widdie,
                      If she wh--re mair.

       *       *       *       *       *

SONGS AND BALLADS.

I.

HANDSOME NELL.

Tune.--"I am a man unmarried."

["This composition," says Burns in his "Common-place Book," "was the first of my performances,
and done at an early period in life, when my heart glowed with honest, warm simplicity; unacquainted
and uncorrupted with the ways of a wicked world. The subject of it was a young girl who really
deserved all the praises I have bestowed on her."]

I.

    O once I lov'd a bonnie lass,
      Ay, and I love her still;
    And whilst that honour warms my breast,
      I'll love my handsome Nell.

II.

    As bonnie lasses I hae seen,
      And mony full as braw;
    But for a modest gracefu' mien
      The like I never saw.

III.

    A bonnie lass, I will confess,
      Is pleasant to the e'e,
    But without some better qualities
      She's no a lass for me.

IV.

    But Nelly's looks are blithe and sweet,
      And what is best of a',
    Her reputation is complete,
      And fair without a flaw.

V.

    She dresses ay sae clean and neat,
      Both decent and genteel:
    And then there's something in her gait
      Gars ony dress look weel.

VII.

LUCKLESS FORTUNE.

I DREAM'D I LAY.

[These melancholy verses were written when the poet was some seventeen years old: his early
days were typical of his latter.]

I.

    I dream'd I lay where flowers were springing
      Gaily in the sunny beam;
    List'ning to the wild birds singing,
      By a falling crystal stream:
    Straight the sky grew black and daring;
      Thro' the woods the whirlwinds rave;
    Trees with aged arms were warring.
      O'er the swelling drumlie wave.

II.

    Such was my life's deceitful morning,
      Such the pleasure I enjoy'd:
    But lang or noon, loud tempests storming,
      A' my flowery bliss destroy'd.
    Tho' fickle fortune has deceiv'd me,
      She promis'd fair, and perform'd but ill;
    Of mony a joy and hope bereav'd me,
      I bear a heart shall support me still.

       *       *       *       *       *

IV.

TIBBIE, I HAE SEEN THE DAY.

Tune--"Invercald's Reel."

[The Tibbie who "spak na, but gaed by like stoure," was, it is said, the daughter of a man
who was laird of three acres of peatmoss, and thought it became her to put on airs in consequence.]

CHORUS.

    O Tibbie, I hae seen the day,
      Ye wad na been sae shy;
    For lack o' gear ye lightly me,
      But, trowth, I care na by.

I.

    Yestreen I met you on the moor,
    Ye spak na, but gaed by like stoure;
    Ye geck at me because I'm poor,
      But fient a hair care I.

II.

    I doubt na, lass, but ye may think,
    Because ye hae the name o' clink,
    That ye can please me at a wink,
      Whene'er ye like to try.

III.

    But sorrow tak him that's sae mean,
    Altho' his pouch o' coin were clean,
    Wha follows ony saucy quean,
      That looks sae proud and high.

IV.

    Altho' a lad were e'er sae smart,
    If that he want the yellow dirt,
    Ye'll cast your head anither airt,
      And answer him fu' dry.

V.

    But if he hae the name o' gear,
    Ye'll fasten to him like a brier,
    Tho' hardly he, for sense or lear,
      Be better than the kye.

VI.

    But, Tibbie, lass, tak my advice,
    Your daddie's gear maks you sae nice;
    The deil a ane wad spier your price,
      Were ye as poor as I.

VII.

    There lives a lass in yonder park,
    I would nae gie her in her sark,
    For thee, wi' a' thy thousan' mark;
      Ye need na look sae high.

       *       *       *       *       *

V.

MY FATHER WAS A FARMER.

Tune--"The Weaver and his Shuttle, O."

    Then out into the world
      My course I did determine, O;
    Tho' to be rich was not my wish,
      yet to be great was charming, O:
    My talents they were not the worst,
      Nor yet my education, O;
    Resolv'd was I, at least to try,
      To mend my situation, O.

III.

    In many a way, and vain essay,
      I courted fortune's favour, O;
    Some cause unseen still stept between,
      To frustrate each endeavour, O:
    Sometimes by foes I was o'erpower'd,
      Sometimes by friends forsaken, O,
    And when my hope was at the top,
      I still was worst mistaken, O.

IV.

    Then sore harass'd, and tir'd at last,
      With fortune's vain delusion, O,
    I dropt my schemes, like idle dreams,
      And came to this conclusion, O:
    The past was bad, and the future hid;
      Its good or ill untried, O;
    But the present hour, was in my pow'r
      And so I would enjoy it, O.

V.

    No help, nor hope, nor view had I,
      Nor person to befriend me, O;
    So I must toil, and sweat and broil,
      And labour to sustain me, O:
    To plough and sow, to reap and mow,
      My father bred me early, O;
    For one, he said, to labour bred,
      Was a match for fortune fairly, O.

VI.

    Thus all obscure, unknown, and poor,
      Thro' life I'm doom'd to wander, O,
    Till down my weary bones I lay,
      In everlasting slumber, O.
    No view nor care, but shun whate'er
      Might breed me pain or sorrow, O:
    I live to-day as well's I may,
      Regardless of to-morrow, O.

VII.

    But cheerful still, I am as well,
      As a monarch in a palace, O,
    Tho' Fortune's frown still hunts me down,
      With all her wonted malice, O:
    I make indeed my daily bread,
      But ne'er can make it farther, O;
    But, as daily bread is all I need,
      I do not much regard her, O.

VIII.

    When sometimes by my labour
      I earn a little money, O,
    Some unforeseen misfortune
      Comes gen'rally upon me, O:
    Mischance, mistake, or by neglect,
      Or my goodnatur'd folly, O;
    But come what will, I've sworn it still,
      I'll ne'er be melancholy, O.

IX.

    All you who follow wealth and power,
      With unremitting ardour, O,
    The more in this you look for bliss,
      You leave your view the farther, O:
    Had you the wealth Potosi boasts,
      Or nations to adorn you, O,
    A cheerful honest-hearted clown
      I will prefer before you, O.

       *       *       *       *       *

VI.

JOHN BARLEYCORN:

A BALLAD.

[Composed on the plan of an old song, of which David Laing has given an authentic version in
his very curious volume of Metrical Tales.]

I.

    There were three kings into the east,
      Three kings both great and high;
    And they hae sworn a solemn oath
      John Barleycorn should die.

II.

    They took a plough and plough'd him down,
      Put clods upon his head;
    And they ha'e sworn a solemn oath
      John Barleycorn was dead.

III.

    But the cheerful spring came kindly on,
      And show'rs began to fall;
    John Barleycorn got up again,
      And sore surpris'd them all.

IV.

    The sultry suns of summer came,
      And he grew thick and strong;
    His head weel arm'd wi' pointed spears
      That no one should him wrong.

V.

    The sober autumn enter'd mild,
      When he grew wan and pale;
    His beading joints and drooping head
      Show'd he began to fail.

VI.

    His colour sicken'd more and more,
      He faded into age;
    And then his enemies began
      To show their deadly rage.

VII.

    They've ta'en a weapon, long and sharp,
      And cut him by the knee;
    Then ty'd him fast upon a cart,
      Like a rogue for forgerie.

VIII.

    They laid him down upon his back,
      And cudgell'd him full sore;
    They hung him up before the storm.
      And turn'd him o'er and o'er.

IX.

X.

    They laid him out upon the floor,
      To work him farther woe;
    And still, as signs of life appear'd,
      They toss'd him to and fro.

XI.

XII.

    And they ha'e ta'en his very heart's blood,
      And drank it round and round;
    And still the more and more they drank,
      Their joy did more abound.

XIII.

    John Barleycorn was a hero bold,
      Of noble enterprise;
    For if you do but taste his blood,
      'Twill make your courage rise.

XIV.

    'Twill make a man forget his woe;
      'Twill heighten all his joy:
    'Twill make the widow's heart to sing,
      Tho' the tear were in her eye.

XV.

    Then let us toast John Barleycorn,
      Each man a glass in hand;
    And may his great posterity
      Ne'er fail in old Scotland!

       *       *       *       *       *

VII.

THE RIGS O' BARLEY.

Tune--"Corn rigs are bonnie."

[Two young women of the west, Anne Ronald and Anne Blair, have each, by the district traditions,
been claimed as the heroine of this early song.]

I.

    It was upon a Lammas night,
      When corn rigs are bonnie,
    Beneath the moon's unclouded light,
      I held awa to Annie:
    The time flew by wi' tentless heed,
      'Till 'tween the late and early,
    Wi' sma' persuasion she agreed,
      To see me through the barley.

II.

    The sky was blue, the wind was still,
      The moon was shining clearly;
    I set her down wi' right good will,
      Amang the rigs o' barley:
    I ken't her heart was a' my ain;
      I lov'd her most sincerely;
    I kiss'd her owre and owre again,
      Amang the rigs o' barley.

III.

    I lock'd her in my fond embrace!
      Her heart was beating rarely:
    My blessings on that happy place.
      Amang the rigs o' barley!
    But by the moon and stars so bright.
      That shone that hour so clearly?
    She ay shall bless that happy night,
      Amang the rigs o' barley!

IV.

    I hae been blithe wi' comrades dear;
      I hae been merry drinkin';
    I hae been joyfu' gath'rin' gear;
      I hae been happy thinkin':
    But a' the pleasures e'er I saw,
      Tho' three times doubled fairly,
    That happy night was worth them a',
      Amang the rigs o' barley.

CHORUS.

    Corn rigs, an' barley rigs,
      An' corn rigs are bonnie:
    I'll ne'er forget that happy night,
      Amang the rigs wi' Annie.

       *       *       *       *       *

VIII.

MONTGOMERY'S PEGGY.

Tune--"Galla-Water."

["My Montgomery's Peggy," says Burns, "was my deity for six or eight months: she had been bred
in a style of life rather elegant: it cost me some heart-aches to get rid of the affair." The
young lady listened to the eloquence of the poet, poured out in many an interview, and then
quietly told him that she stood unalterably engaged to another.]

I.

    Altho' my bed were in yon muir,
      Amang the heather, in my plaidie,
    Yet happy, happy would I be,
      Had I my dear Montgomery's Peggy.

II.

    When o'er the hill beat surly storms,
      And winter nights were dark and rainy;
    I'd seek some dell, and in my arms
      I'd shelter dear Montgomery's Peggy.

III.

    Were I a baron proud and high,
      And horse and servants waiting ready,
    Then a' 'twad gie o' joy to me,
      The sharin't with Montgomery's Peggy.

       *       *       *       *       *

IX.

THE MAUCHLINE LADY.

Tune--"I had a horse, I had nae mair."

[The Mauchline lady who won the poet's heart was Jean Armour: she loved to relate how the bard
made her acquaintance: his dog run across some linen webs which she was bleaching among Mauchline
gowans, and he apologized so handsomely that she took another look at him. To this interview
the world owes some of our most impassioned strains.]

    When first I came to Stewart Kyle,
      My mind it was nae steady;
    Where'er I gaed, where'er I rade,
      A mistress still I had ay:
    But when I came roun' by Mauchline town,
      Not dreadin' any body,
    My heart was caught before I thought,
      And by a Mauchline lady.

       *       *       *       *       *

X.

THE HIGHLAND LASSIE.

Tune--"The deuks dang o'er my daddy!"

["The Highland Lassie" was Mary Campbell, whose too early death the poet sung in strains that
will endure while the language lasts. "She was," says Burns, "a warm-hearted, charming young
creature as ever blessed a man with generous love."]

I.

    Nae gentle dames, tho' e'er sae fair,
    Shall ever be my muse's care:
    Their titles a' are empty show;
    Gie me my Highland lassie, O.
        Within the glen sae bushy, O,
        Aboon the plains sae rushy, O,
        I set me down wi' right good-will,
        To sing my Highland lassie, O.

II.

    Oh, were yon hills and valleys mine,
    Yon palace and yon gardens fine,
    The world then the love should know
    I bear my Highland lassie, O.

III.

    But fickle fortune frowns on me,
    And I maun cross the raging sea;
    But while my crimson currents flow,
    I'll love my Highland lassie, O.

IV.

    Altho' thro' foreign climes I range,
    I know her heart will never change,
    For her bosom burns with honour's glow,
    My faithful Highland lassie, O.

V.

    For her I'll dare the billows' roar,
    For her I'll trace a distant shore,
    That Indian wealth may lustre throw
    Around my Highland lassie, O.

VI.

    She has my heart, she has my hand,
    by sacred truth and honour's band!
    'Till the mortal stroke shall lay me low,
    I'm thine, my Highland lassie, O.
        Farewell the glen sae bushy, O!
        Farewell the plain sae rushy, O!
        To other lands I now must go,
        To sing my Highland lassie, O.

       *       *       *       *       *

XI.

PEGGY.

[The heroine of this song is said to have been "Montgomery's Peggy."]

Tune--"I had a horse, I had nae mair."

II.

    The partridge loves the fruitful fells;
      The plover loves the mountains;
    The woodcock haunts the lonely dells;
      The soaring hern the fountains;
    Thro' lofty groves the cushat roves
      The path of man to shun it;
    The hazel bush o'erhangs the thrush,
      The spreading thorn the linnet.

III.

    Thus ev'ry kind their pleasure find,
      The savage and the tender;
    Some social join, and leagues combine;
      Some solitary wander:
    Avaunt, away! the cruel sway,
      Tyrannic man's dominion;
    The sportsman's joy, the murd'ring cry,
      The flutt'ring, gory pinion.

IV.

    But Peggy, dear, the ev'ning's clear,
      Thick flies the skimming swallow;
    The sky is blue, the fields in view,
      All fading-green and yellow:
    Come, let us stray our gladsome way,
      And view the charms of nature;
    The rustling corn, the fruited thorn,
      And every happy creature.

       *       *       *       *       *

XII.

THE RANTIN' DOG, THE DADDIE O'T.

Tune--"East nook o' Fife."

[The heroine of this humorous ditty was the mother of "Sonsie, smirking, dear-bought Bess,"
a person whom the poet regarded, as he says, both for her form and her grace.]

I.

    O wha my babie-clouts will buy?
    O wha will tent me when I cry?
    Wha will kiss me where I lie?--
      The rantin' dog, the daddie o't.

II.

    O wha will own he did the fau't?
    O wha will buy the groanin' maut?
    O wha will tell me how to ca't?
      The rantin' dog, the daddie o't.

III.

    When I mount the creepie chair,
    Wha will sit beside me there?
    Gie me Rob, I'll seek nae mair,
      The rantin' dog, the daddie o't.

IV.

    Wha will crack to me my lane?
    Wha will make me fidgin' fain?
    Wha will kiss me o'er again?--
      The rantin' dog, the daddie o't.

       *       *       *       *       *

XIII.

MY HEART WAS ANCE.

Tune--"To the weavers gin ye go."

["The chorus of this song," says Burns, in his note to the Museum, "is old, the rest is mine."
The "bonnie, westlin weaver lad" is said to have been one of the rivals of the poet in the
affection of a west landlady.]

I.

    My heart was ance as blythe and free
      As simmer days were lang,
    But a bonnie, westlin weaver lad
      Has gart me change my sang.
        To the weavers gin ye go, fair maids,
          To the weavers gin ye go;
        I rede you right gang ne'er at night,
          To the weavers gin ye go.

II.

    My mither sent me to the town,
      To warp a plaiden wab;
    But the weary, weary warpin o't
      Has gart me sigh and sab.

III.

    A bonnie westlin weaver lad,
      Sat working at his loom;
    He took my heart as wi' a net,
      In every knot and thrum.

IV.

    I sat beside my warpin-wheel,
      And ay I ca'd it roun';
    But every shot and every knock,
      My heart it gae a stoun.

V.

    The moon was sinking in the west
      Wi' visage pale and wan,
    As my bonnie westlin weaver lad
      Convoy'd me thro' the glen.

VI.

    But what was said, or what was done,
      Shame fa' me gin I tell;
    But, oh! I fear the kintra soon
      Will ken as weel's mysel.

       *       *       *       *       *

XIV.

NANNIE.

Tune--"My Nannie, O."

[Agnes Fleming, servant at Calcothill, inspired this fine song: she died at an advanced age,
and was more remarkable for the beauty of her form than face. When questioned about the love
of Burns, she smiled and said, "Aye, atweel he made a great wark about me."]

I.

    Behind yon hills, where Lugar flows,
      'Mang moors an' mosses many, O,
    The wintry sun the day has closed,
      And I'll awa to Nannie, O.

II.

    My Nannie's charming, sweet, an' young;
      Nae artfu' wiles to win ye, O:
    May ill befa' the flattering tongue
      That wad beguile my Nannie, O.

IV.

    Her face is fair, her heart is true,
      As spotless as she's bonnie, O:
    The op'ning gowan, wat wi' dew,
      Nae purer is than Nannie, O.

V.

    A country lad is my degree,
      An' few there be that ken me, O;
    But what care I how few they be?
      I'm welcome ay to Nannie, O.

VI.

    My riches a's my penny-fee,
      An' I maun guide it cannie, O;
    But warl's gear ne'er troubles me,
      My thoughts are a' my Nannie, O.

VII.

    Our auld guidman delights to view
      His sheep an' kye thrive bonnie, O;
    But I'm as blythe that hauds his pleugh,
      An' has nae care but Nannie, O.

VIII.

    Come weel, come woe, I care na by,
      I'll tak what Heav'n will sen' me, O:
    Nae ither care in life have I,
      But live, an' love my Nannie, O.

       *       *       *       *       *

XV.

A FRAGMENT.

Tune--"John Anderson my jo."

[This verse, written early, and probably intended for the starting verse of a song, was found
among the papers of the poet.]

    One night as I did wander,
      When corn begins to shoot,
    I sat me down to ponder,
      Upon an auld tree root:
    Auld Ayr ran by before me,
      And bicker'd to the seas;
    A cushat crooded o'er me,
      That echoed thro' the braes.

       *       *       *       *       *

XVI.

BONNIE PEGGY ALISON.

Tune--"Braes o' Balquihidder."

[On those whom Burns loved, he poured out songs without limit. Peggy Alison is said, by a western
tradition, to be Montgomery's Peggy, but this seems doubtful.]

CHORUS.

    I'll kiss thee yet, yet,
      An' I'll kiss thee o'er again;
    An' I'll kiss thee yet, yet,
      My bonnie Peggy Alison!

I.

    Ilk care and fear, when thou art near,
      I ever mair defy them, O;
    Young kings upon their hansel throne
      Are no sae blest as I am, O!

II.

       *       *       *       *       *

XVII.

THERE'S NOUGHT BUT CARE.

Tune--"Green grow the rashes."

["Man was made when nature was but an apprentice; but woman is the last and most perfect work
of nature," says an old writer, in a rare old book: a passage which expresses the sentiment
of Burns; yet it is all but certain, that the Ploughman Bard was unacquainted with "Cupid's
Whirlygig," where these words are to be found.]

CHORUS.

    The warly race may riches chase,
      An' riches still may fly them, O;
    An' tho' at last they catch them fast,
      Their hearts can ne'er enjoy them, O.

III.

    But gie me a canny hour at e'en,
      My arms about my dearie, O;
    An' warly cares, an' warly men,
      May a' gae tapsalteerie, O.

IV.

MY JEAN!

Tune--"The Northern Lass."

[The lady on whom this passionate verse was written was Jean Armour.]

    Though cruel fate should bid us part,
      Far as the pole and line,
    Her dear idea round my heart,
      Should tenderly entwine.
    Though mountains rise, and deserts howl,
      And oceans roar between;
    Yet, dearer than my deathless soul,
      I still would love my Jean

       *       *       *       *       *

XIX.

ROBIN.

Tune--"Daintie Davie."

II.

III.

    He'll hae misfortunes great and sma',
    But ay a heart aboon them a';
    He'll be a credit to us a',
      We'll a' be proud o' Robin.

V.

    But sure as three times three mak nine,
    I see by ilka score and line,
    This chap will dearly like our kin',
      So leeze me on thee, Robin.

       *       *       *       *       *

XX.

HER FLOWING LOCKS.

Tune--(unknown.)

[One day--it is tradition that speaks--Burns had his foot in the stirrup to return from Ayr
to Mauchline, when a young lady of great beauty rode up to the inn, and ordered refreshments
for her servants; he made these lines at the moment, to keep, he said, so much beauty in his
memory.]

    Her flowing locks, the raven's wing,
    Adown her neck and bosom hing;
    How sweet unto that breast to cling,
      And round that neck entwine her!
    Her lips are roses wat wi' dew,
    O, what a feast her bonnie mou'!
    Her cheeks a mair celestial hue,
      A crimson still diviner.

       *       *       *       *       *

XXI.

O LEAVE NOVELS.

Tune--" Mauchline belles."

[Who these Mauchline belles were the bard in other verse informs us:--

    "Miss Miller is fine, Miss Markland's divine,
      Miss Smith, she has wit, and Miss Betty is braw;
    There's beauty and fortune to get with Miss Morton,
      But Armour's the jewel for me o' them a'."]

I.

    O leave novels, ye Mauchline belles,
      Ye're safer at your spinning-wheel;
    Such witching books are baited hooks
      For rakish rooks, like Rob Mossgiel.

II.

    Your fine Tom Jones and Grandisons,
      They make your youthful fancies reel;
    They heat your brains, and fire your veins,
      And then you're prey for Rob Mossgiel.

III.

    Beware a tongue that's smoothly hung,
      A heart that warmly seems to feel;
    That feeling heart but acts a part--
      'Tis rakish art in Rob Mossgiel.

IV.

    The frank address, the soft caress,
      Are worse than poison'd darts of steel;
    The frank address and politesse
      Are all finesse in Rob Mossgiel.

       *       *       *       *       *

XXII.

YOUNG PEGGY.

Tune--"Last time I cam o'er the muir."

[In these verses Burns, it is said, bade farewell to one on whom he had, according to his own
account, wasted eights months of courtship. We hear no more of Montgomery's Peggy.]

I.

    Young Peggy blooms our bonniest lass,
      Her blush is like the morning,
    The rosy dawn, the springing grass,
      With early gems adorning:
    Her eyes outshone the radiant beams
      That gild the passing shower,
    And glitter o'er the crystal streams,
      And cheer each fresh'ning flower.

II.

    Her lips, more than the cherries bright,
      A richer dye has graced them;
    They charm th' admiring gazer's sight,
      And sweetly tempt to taste them:
    Her smile is, as the evening mild,
      When feather'd tribes are courting,
    And little lambkins wanton wild,
      In playful bands disporting.

III.

    Were fortune lovely Peggy's foe,
      Such sweetness would relent her,
    As blooming spring unbends the brow
      Of surly, savage winter.
    Detraction's eye no aim can gain,
      Her winning powers to lessen;
    And fretful envy grins in vain
      The poison'd tooth to fasten.

IV.

    Ye powers of honour, love, and truth,
      From every ill defend her;
    Inspire the highly-favour'd youth,
      The destinies intend her:
    Still fan the sweet connubial flame
      Responsive in each bosom,
    And bless the dear parental name
      With many a filial blossom.

       *       *       *       *       *

XXIII.

THE CURE FOR ALL CARE.

Tune--"Prepare, my dear brethren, to the tavern let's fly."

[Tarbolton Lodge, of which the poet was a member, was noted for its socialities. Masonic lyrics
are all of a dark and mystic order; and those of Burns are scarcely an exception.]

I.

    No churchman am I for to rail and to write,
    No statesman nor soldier to plot or to fight,
    No sly man of business, contriving to snare--
    For a big-bellied bottle's the whole of my care.

II.

    The peer I don't envy, I give him his bow;
    I scorn not the peasant, tho' ever so low;
    But a club of good fellows, like those that are here,
    And a bottle like this, are my glory and care.

III.

    Here passes the squire on his brother--his horse;
    There centum per centum, the cit with his purse;
    But see you The Crown, how it waves in the air!
    There a big-bellied bottle still eases my care.

IV.

    The wife of my bosom, alas! she did die;
    For sweet consolation to church I did fly;
    I found that old Solomon proved it fair,
    That a big-bellied bottle's a cure for all care.

V.

    I once was persuaded a venture to make;
    A letter inform'd me that all was to wreck;--
    But the pursy old landlord just waddled up stairs,
    With a glorious bottle that ended my cares.

VI.

    "Life's cares they are comforts,"[136]--a maxim laid down
    By the bard, what d'ye call him, that wore the black gown;
    And faith I agree with th' old prig to a hair;
    For a big-bellied bottle's a heav'n of care.

VII.

ADDED IN A MASON LODGE.

    Then fill up a bumper and make it o'erflow.
    The honours masonic prepare for to throw;
    May every true brother of the compass and square
    Have a big-bellied bottle when harass'd with care!

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 136: Young's Night Thoughts.]

       *       *       *       *       *

XXIV.

ELIZA.

Tune--"Gilderoy."

[My late excellent friend, John Galt, informed me that the Eliza of this song was his relative,
and that her name was Elizabeth Barbour.]

I.

    From thee, Eliza, I must go,
      And from my native shore;
    The cruel Fates between us throw
      A boundless ocean's roar:
    But boundless oceans roaring wide
      Between my love and me,
    They never, never can divide
      My heart and soul from thee!

II.

    Farewell, farewell, Eliza dear,
      The maid that I adore!
    A boding voice is in mine ear,
      We part to meet no more!
    The latest throb that leaves my heart,
      While death stands victor by,
    That throb, Eliza, is thy part,
      And thine that latest sigh!

       *       *       *       *       *

XXV.

THE SONS OF OLD KILLIE.

Tune--"Shawnboy."

["This song, wrote by Mr. Burns, was sung by him in the Kilmarnock-Kilwinning Lodge, in 1786,
and given by him to Mr. Parker, who was Master of the Lodge." These interesting words are on
the original, in the poet's handwriting, in the possession of Mr. Gabriel Neil, of Glasgow.]

I.

    Ye sons of old Killie, assembled by Willie,
      To follow the noble vocation;
    Your thrifty old mother has scarce such another
      To sit in that honoured station.
    I've little to say, but only to pray,
      As praying's the ton of your fashion;
    A prayer from the muse you well may excuse,
      'Tis seldom her favourite passion.

II.

       *       *       *       *       *

XXVI.

MENIE.

Tune.--"Johnny's grey breeks."

[Of the lady who inspired this song no one has given any account: It first appeared in the
second edition of the poet's works, and as the chorus was written by an Edinburgh gentleman,
it has been surmised that the song was a matter of friendship rather than of the heart.]

I.

    Again rejoicing nature sees
      Her robe assume its vernal hues,
    Her leafy locks wave in the breeze,
      All freshly steep'd in morning dews.
        And maun I still on Menie doat,
          And bear the scorn that's in her e'e?
        For it's jet, jet black, an' it's like a hawk,
          An' it winna let a body be.

II.

    In vain to me the cowslips blaw,
      In vain to me the vi'lets spring;
    In vain to me, in glen or shaw,
      The mavis and the lintwhite sing.

III.

    The merry plough-boy cheers his team,
      Wi' joy the tentie seedsman stalks;
    But life to me's a weary dream,
      A dream of ane that never wauks.

IV.

    The wanton coot the water skims,
      Amang the reeds the ducklings cry,
    The stately swan majestic swims,
      And every thing is blest but I.

V.

    The sheep-herd steeks his faulding slap,
      And owre the moorland whistles shrill;
    Wi' wild, unequal, wand'ring step,
      I meet him on the dewy hill.

VI.

    And when the lark, 'tween light and dark,
      Blythe waukens by the daisy's side,
    And mounts and sings on flittering wings,
      A woe-worn ghaist I hameward glide.

VII.

    Come, Winter, with thine angry howl,
      And raging bend the naked tree:
    Thy gloom will sooth my cheerless soul,
      When nature all is sad like me!

       *       *       *       *       *

XXVII.

THE FAREWELL

TO THE

BRETHREN OF ST. JAMES'S LODGE,

TARBOLTON.

Tune--"Good-night, and joy be wi' you a'."

[Burns, it is said, sung this song in the St. James's Lodge of Tarbolton, when his chest was
on the way to Greenock: men are yet living who had the honour of hearing him--the concluding
verse affected the whole lodge.]

I.

    Adieu! a heart-warm, fond adieu!
      Dear brothers of the mystic tie!
    Ye favour'd, ye enlighten'd few,
      Companions of my social joy!
    Tho' I to foreign lands must hie,
      Pursuing Fortune's slidd'ry ba',
    With melting heart, and brimful eye,
      I'll mind you still, tho' far awa'.

II.
    Strong mem'ry on my heart shall write
      Those happy scenes when far awa'.

III.

    May freedom, harmony, and love
      Unite you in the grand design,
    Beneath th' Omniscient Eye above,
      The glorious architect divine!
    That you may keep th' unerring line,
      Still rising by the plummet's law,
    Till order bright completely shine,
      Shall be my pray'r when far awa'.

IV.

    And you farewell! whose merits claim,
      Justly, that highest badge to wear!
    Heav'n bless your honour'd, noble name,
      To masonry and Scotia dear!
    A last request permit me here,
      When yearly ye assemble a',
    One round--I ask it with a tear,--
      To him, the Bard that's far awa'.

       *       *       *       *       *

XXVIII.

ON CESSNOCK BANKS.

Tune--"If he be a butcher neat and trim."

[There are many variations of this song, which was first printed by Cromek from the oral communication
of a Glasgow Lady, on whose charms, the poet, in early life, composed it.]

I.

    On Cessnock banks a lassie dwells;
      Could I describe her shape and mien;
    Our lasses a' she far excels,
      An she has twa sparkling roguish een.

II.

    She's sweeter than the morning dawn
      When rising Phoebus first is seen,
    And dew-drops twinkle o'er the lawn;
      An' she has twa sparkling roguish een

III.

    She's stately like yon youthful ash,
      That grows the cowslip braes between,
    And drinks the stream with vigour fresh;
      An' she has twa sparkling roguish een.

IV.

    She's spotless like the flow'ring thorn,
      With flow'rs so white and leaves so green,
    When purest in the dewy morn;
      An' she has twa sparkling roguish een.

V.

    Her looks are like the vernal May,
      When evening Phoebus shines serene,
    While birds rejoice on every spray--
      An' she has twa sparkling roguish een.

VII.

    Her forehead's like the show'ry bow,
      When gleaming sunbeams intervene,
    And gild the distant mountain's brow;
      An' she has twa sparkling roguish een.

VIII.

IX.

XI.

    Her teeth are like a flock of sheep,
      With fleeces newly washen clean,
    That slowly mount the rising steep;
      An' she has twa glancin' roguish een.

XII.

    Her breath is like the fragrant breeze
      That gently stirs the blossom'd bean,
    When Phoebus sinks behind the seas;
      An' she has twa sparkling roguish een.

XIII.

    Her voice is like the ev'ning thrush
      That sings on Cessnock banks unseen,
    While his mate sits nestling in the bush;
      An' she has twa sparkling roguish een.

XIV.

    But it's not her air, her form, her face,
      Tho' matching beauty's fabled queen,
    'Tis the mind that shines in ev'ry grace,
      An' chiefly in her roguish een.

       *       *       *       *       *

XXIX.

MARY!

Tune--"Blue Bonnets."

II.

       *       *       *       *       *

XXX.

THE LASS OF BALLOCHMYLE.

Tune--"Miss Forbes's Farewell to Banff."

[Miss Alexander, of Ballochmyle, as the poet tells her in a letter, dated November, 1786, inspired
this popular song. He chanced to meet her in one of his favourite walks on the banks of the
Ayr, and the fine scene and the lovely lady set the muse to work. Miss Alexander, perhaps unaccustomed
to this forward wooing of the muse, allowed the offering to remain unnoticed for a time: it
is now in a costly frame, and hung in her chamber--as it deserves to be.]

I.

    'Twas even--the dewy fields were green,
      On every blade the pearls hang,
    The zephyr wanton'd round the bean,
      And bore its fragrant sweets alang:
    In ev'ry glen the mavis sang,
      All nature listening seem'd the while,
    Except where greenwood echoes rang
      Amang the braes o' Ballochmyle!

II.

    With careless step I onward stray'd,
      My heart rejoic'd in nature's joy,
    When musing in a lonely glade,
      A maiden fair I chanc'd to spy;
    Her look was like the morning's eye,
      Her air like nature's vernal smile,
    Perfection whisper'd passing by,
      Behold the lass o' Ballochmyle!

III.

    Fair is the morn in flow'ry May,
      And sweet is night in autumn mild
    When roving thro' the garden gay,
      Or wand'ring in the lonely wild;
    But woman, nature's darling child!
      There all her charms she does compile;
    Even there her other works are foil'd
      By the bonnie lass o' Ballochmyle.

IV.

    O, had she been a country maid,
      And I the happy country swain,
    Tho' shelter'd in the lowest shed
      That ever rose on Scotland's plain,
    Thro' weary winter's wind and rain,
      With joy, with rapture, I would toil;
    And nightly to my bosom strain
      The bonnie lass of Ballochmyle.

V.

    Then pride might climb the slippery steep,
      Where fame and honours lofty shine:
    And thirst of gold might tempt the deep
      Or downward seek the Indian mine;
    Give me the cot below the pine,
      To tend the flocks, or till the soil,
    And ev'ry day have joys divine
      With the bonnie lass o' Ballochmyle.

       *       *       *       *       *

XXXI.

THE GLOOMY NIGHT.

Tune--"Roslin Castle."

II.

    The Autumn mourns her rip'ning corn,
    By early Winter's ravage torn;
    Across her placid, azure sky,
    She sees the scowling tempest fly:
    Chill runs my blood to hear it rave--
    I think upon the stormy wave,
    Where many a danger I must dare,
    Far from the bonnie banks of Ayr.

III.

    'Tis not the surging billow's roar,
    'Tis not that fatal deadly shore;
    Tho' death in ev'ry shape appear,
    The wretched have no more to fear!
    But round my heart the ties are bound,
    That heart transpierc'd with many a wound;
    These bleed afresh, those ties I tear,
    To leave the bonnie banks of Ayr.

IV.

    Farewell old Coila's hills and dales,
    Her heathy moors and winding vales;
    The scenes where wretched fancy roves,
    Pursuing past, unhappy loves!
    Farewell, my friends! farewell, my foes!
    My peace with these, my love with those--
    The bursting tears my heart declare;
    Farewell, the bonnie banks of Ayr!

       *       *       *       *       *

XXXII.

O WHAR DID YE GET

Tune--"Bonnie Dundee."

[This is one of the first songs which Burns communicated to Johnson's Musical Museum: the starting
verse is partly old and partly new: the second is wholly by his hand.]

I.

    O, whar did ye get that hauver meal bannock?
      O silly blind body, O dinna ye see?
    I gat it frae a young brisk sodger laddie,
      Between Saint Johnston and bonnie Dundee.
    O gin I saw the laddie that gae me't!
      Aft has he doudl'd me up on his knee;
    May Heaven protect my bonnie Scots laddie,
      And send him safe hame to his babie and me!

II.

    My blessin's upon thy sweet wee lippie,
      My blessin's upon thy bonnie e'e brie!
    Thy smiles are sae like my blythe sodger laddie,
      Thou's ay the dearer and dearer to me!
    But I'll big a bower on yon bonnie banks,
      Where Tay rins wimplin' by sae clear;
    And I'll cleed thee in the tartan sae fine,
      And mak thee a man like thy daddie dear.

       *       *       *       *       *

XXXIII.

THE JOYFUL WIDOWER.

Tune--"Maggy Lauder."

[Most of this song is by Burns: his fancy was fierce with images of matrimonial joy or infelicity,
and he had them ever ready at the call of the muse. It was first printed in the Musical Museum.]

I.

    I married with a scolding wife
      The fourteenth of November;
    She made me weary of my life,
      By one unruly member.
    Long did I bear the heavy yoke,
      And many griefs attended;
    But to my comfort be it spoke,
      Now, now her life is ended.

II.

    We liv'd full one-and-twenty years
      A man and wife together;
    At length from me her course she steer'd,
      And gone I know not whither:
    Would I could guess, I do profess,
      I speak, and do not flatter,
    Of all the woman in the world,
      I never could come at her.

III.

    Her body is bestowed well,
      A handsome grave does hide her;
    But sure her soul is not in hell,
      The deil would ne'er abide her.
    I rather think she is aloft,
      And imitating thunder;
    For why,--methinks I hear her voice
      Tearing the clouds asunder.

       *       *       *       *       *

XXXIV.

COME DOWN THE BACK STAIRS.

Tune--"Whistle, and I'll come to you, my lad."

[The air of this song was composed by John Bruce, a Dumfries fiddler. Burns gave another and
happier version to the work of Thomson: this was written for the Museum of Johnson, where it
was first published.]

CHORUS.

    Come down the back stairs
      When ye come to court me;
    Come down the back stairs
      When ye come to court me;
    Come down the back stairs,
      And let naebody see,
    And come as ye were na
      Coming to me.

       *       *       *       *       *

XXXV.

I AM MY MAMMY'S AE BAIRN.

Tune--"I'm o'er young to marry yet."

[The title, and part of the chorus only of this song, are old; the rest is by Burns, and was
written for Johnson.]

I.

    I am my mammy's ae bairn,
      Wi' unco folk I weary, Sir;
    And lying in a man's bed,
      I'm fley'd it make me eerie, Sir.
          I'm o'er young to marry yet;
            I'm o'er young to marry yet;
          I'm o'er young--'twad be a sin
            To tak' me frae my mammy yet.

II.

    Hallowmas is come and gane,
      The nights are lang in winter, Sir;
    And you an' I in ae bed,
      In trouth, I dare na venture, Sir.

III.

       *       *       *       *       *

XXXVI.

BONNIE LASSIE, WILL YE GO.

Tune--"The birks of Aberfeldy."

[An old strain, called "The Birks of Abergeldie," was the forerunner of this sweet song: it
was written, the poet says, standing under the Falls of Aberfeldy, near Moness, in Perthshire,
during one of the tours which he made to the north, in the year 1787.]

CHORUS.

I.

    Now simmer blinks on flowery braes,
    And o'er the crystal streamlet plays;
    Come let us spend the lightsome days
      In the birks of Aberfeldy.

II.

    The little birdies blithely sing,
    While o'er their heads the hazels hing,
    Or lightly flit on wanton wing
      In the birks of Aberfeldy.

III.

IV.

V.

    Let Fortune's gifts at random flee,
    They ne'er shall draw a wish frae me,
    Supremely blest wi' love and thee,
      In the birks of Aberfeldy.

       *       *       *       *       *

XXXVII.

MACPHERSON'S FAREWELL.

Tune--"M'Pherson's Rant."

[This vehement and daring song had its origin in an older and inferior strain, recording the
feelings of a noted freebooter when brought to "justify his deeds on the gallows-tree" at Inverness.]

I.

    Farewell, ye dungeons dark and strong,
      The wretch's destinie!
    Macpherson's time will not be long
      On yonder gallows-tree.
          Sae rantingly, sae wantonly,
            Sae dauntingly gaed he;
          He play'd a spring, and danc'd it round,
            Below the gallows-tree.

II.

    Oh, what is death but parting breath?
      On many a bloody plain
    I've dar'd his face, and in this place
      I scorn him yet again!

III.

    Untie these bands from off my hands,
      And bring to me my sword;
    And there's no a man in all Scotland,
      But I'll brave him at a word.

IV.

    I've liv'd a life of sturt and strife;
      I die by treacherie:
    It burns my heart I must depart,
      And not avenged be.

V.

    Now farewell light--thou sunshine bright,
      And all beneath the sky!
    May coward shame distain his name,
      The wretch that dares not die!

       *       *       *       *       *

XXXVIII.

BRAW LADS OF GALLA WATER.

Tune--"Galla Water."

[Burns found this song in the collection of Herd; added the first verse, made other but not
material emendations, and published it in Johnson: in 1793 he wrote another version for Thomson.]

CHORUS.

    Braw, braw lads of Galla Water;
      O braw lads of Galla Water:
    I'll kilt my coats aboon my knee,
      And follow my love thro' the water.

I.

    Sae fair her hair, sae brent her brow,
      Sae bonny blue her een, my dearie;
    Sae white her teeth, sae sweet her mou',
      The mair I kiss she's ay my dearie.

II.

III.

    Down amang the broom, the broom,
      Down amang the broom, my dearie,
    The lassie lost a silken snood,
      That cost her mony a blirt and bleary.

       *       *       *       *       *

XXXIX.

STAY, MY CHARMER.

Tune-"An Gille dubh ciar dhubh."

[The air of this song was picked up by the poet in one of his northern tours: his Highland
excursions coloured many of his lyric compositions.]

I.

    Stay, my charmer, can you leave me?
    Cruel, cruel, to deceive me!
    Well you know how much you grieve me;
      Cruel charmer, can you go?
      Cruel charmer, can you go?

II.

       *       *       *       *       *

XL.

THICKEST NIGHT, O'ERHANG MY DWELLING.

Tune--"Strathallan's Lament."

[The Viscount Strathallan, whom this song commemorates, was William Drummond: he was slain
at the carnage of Culloden. It was long believed that he escaped to France and died in exile.]

I.

    Thickest night, surround my dwelling!
      Howling tempests, o'er me rave!
    Turbid torrents, wintry swelling,
      Roaring by my lonely cave!

II.

    Crystal streamlets gently flowing,
      Busy haunts of base mankind,
    Western breezes softly blowing,
      Suit not my distracted mind.

III.

    In the cause of Right engaged,
      Wrongs injurious to redress,
    Honour's war we strongly waged,
      But the heavens denied success.

IV.

    Ruin's wheel has driven o'er us,
      Not a hope that dare attend,
    The wild world is all before us--
      But a world without a friend.

       *       *       *       *       *

XLI.

MY HOGGIE.

Tune--"What will I do gin my Hoggie die?"
    The lee-lang night we watch'd the fauld,
      Me and my faithfu' doggie;
    We heard nought but the roaring linn,
      Amang the braes sae scroggie;
    But the houlet cry'd frae the castle wa',
      The blitter frae the boggie,
    The tod reply'd upon the hill,
      I trembled for my Hoggie.
    When day did daw, and cocks did craw,
      The morning it was foggie;
    An' unco tyke lap o'er the dyke,
      And maist has kill'd my Hoggie.

       *       *       *       *       *

XLII.

HER DADDIE FORBAD.

Tune--"Jumpin' John."

[This is one of the old songs which Ritson accuses Burns of amending for the Museum: little
of it, however, is his, save a touch here and there--but they are Burns's touches.]

I.

    Her daddie forbad, her minnie forbad;
      Forbidden she wadna be:
    She wadna trow't, the browst she brew'd
      Wad taste sae bitterlie.

II.

       *       *       *       *       *

XLIII

UP IN THE MORNING EARLY

Tune--"Cold blows the wind."

["The chorus of this song," says the poet, in his notes on the Scottish Lyrics, "is old, the
two stanzas are mine." The air is ancient, and was a favourite of Mary Stuart, the queen of
William the Third.]

CHORUS.

    Up in the morning's no for me,
      Up in the morning early;
    When a' the hills are cover'd wi' snaw,
      I'm sure it's winter fairly.

I.

    Cauld blaws the wind frae east to west,
      The drift is driving sairly;
    Sae loud and shill I hear the blast,
      I'm sure it's winter fairly.

II.

    The birds sit chittering in the thorn,
      A' day they fare but sparely;
    And lang's the night frae e'en to morn--
      I'm sure it's winter fairly.

       *       *       *       *       *

XLIV.

THE

YOUNG HIGHLAND ROVER.

Tune--"Morag."

[The Young Highland Rover of this strain is supposed by some to be the Chevalier, and with
more probability by others, to be a Gordon, as the song was composed in consequence of the
poet's visit to "bonnie Castle-Gordon," in September, 1787.]

I.

    Loud blaw the frosty breezes,
      The snaws the mountains cover;
    Like winter on me seizes,
      Since my young Highland rover
      Far wanders nations over.
    Where'er he go, where'er he stray.
      May Heaven be his warden:
    Return him safe to fair Strathspey,
      And bonnie Castle-Gordon!

II.

    The trees now naked groaning,
      Shall Soon wi' leaves be hinging.
    The birdies dowie moaning,
      Shall a' be blithely singing,
      And every flower be springing.
    Sae I'll rejoice the lee-lang day
      When by his mighty Warden
    My youth's returned to fair Strathspey,
      And bonnie Castle-Gordon.

       *       *       *       *       *

XLV.

HEY, THE DUSTY MILLER

Tune--"The Dusty Miller."

[The Dusty Miller is an old strain, modified for the Museum by Burns: it is a happy specimen
of his taste and skill in making the new look like the old.]

I.

    Hey, the dusty miller,
      And his dusty coat;
    He will win a shilling,
      Or he spend a groat.
          Dusty was the coat,
            Dusty was the colour,
          Dusty was the kiss
            That I got frae the miller.

II.

    Hey, the dusty miller,
      And his dusty sack;
    Leeze me on the calling
      Fills the dusty peck.
          Fills the dusty peck,
            Brings the dusty siller;
          I wad gie my coatie
            For the dusty miller.

       *       *       *       *       *

XLVI.

THERE WAS A LASS.

Tune--"Duncan Davison."

[There are several other versions of Duncan Davison, which it is more delicate to allude to
than to quote: this one is in the Museum.]

I.

    There was a lass, they ca'd her Meg,
      And she held o'er the moors to spin;
    There was a lad that follow'd her,
      They ca'd him Duncan Davison.
    The moor was driegh, and Meg was skiegh,
      Her favour Duncan could na win;
    For wi' the roke she wad him knock.
      And ay she shook the temper-pin.

II.

    As o'er the moor they lightly foor,
      A burn was clear, a glen was green,
    Upon the banks they eas'd-their shanks,
      And ay she set the wheel between:
    But Duncan swore a haly aith,
      That Meg should be a bride the morn,
    Then Meg took up her spinnin' graith,
      And flang them a' out o'er the burn.

III.

    We'll big a house,--a wee, wee house,
      And we will live like king and queen,
    Sae blythe and merry we will be
      When ye set by the wheel at e'en.

       *       *       *       *       *

XLVII.

THENIEL MENZIES' BONNIE MARY.

Tune.--"The Ruffian's Rant."

[Burns, it is believed, wrote this song during his first Highland tour, when he danced among
the northern dames, to the tune of "Bab at the Bowster," till the morning sun rose and reproved
them from the top of Ben Lomond.]

I.

    In coming by the brig o' Dye,
      At Darlet we a blink did tarry;
    As day was dawin in the sky,
      We drank a health to bonnie Mary.
          Theniel Menzies' bonnie Mary;
            Theniel Menzies' bonnie Mary;
          Charlie Gregor tint his plaidie,
            Kissin' Theniel's bonnie Mary.

II.

    Her een sae bright, her brow sae white,
      Her haffet locks as brown's a berry;
    And ay, they dimpl't wi' a smile,
      The rosy checks o' bonnie Mary.

III.

       *       *       *       *       *

XLVIII.

THE BANKS OF THE DEVON.

Tune.--"Bhannerach dhon na chri."

[These verses were composed on a charming young lady, Charlotte Hamilton, sister to the poet's
friend, Gavin Hamilton of Mauchline, residing, when the song was written, at Harvieston, on
the banks of the Devon, in the county of Clackmannan.]

I.

    How pleasant the banks of the clear winding Devon,
      With green spreading bushes, and flowers blooming fair!
    But the bonniest flower on the banks of the Devon
      Was once a sweet bud on the braes of the Ayr.
    Mild be the sun on this sweet blushing flower,
      In the gay rosy morn, as it bathes in the dew;
    And gentle the fall of the soft vernal shower,
      That steals on the evening each leaf to renew.

II.

    O spare the dear blossom, ye orient breezes,
      With chill hoary wing, as ye usher the dawn;
    And far be thou distant, thou reptile that seizes
      The verdure and pride of the garden and lawn!
    Let Bourbon exult in his gay gilded Lilies,
      And England, triumphant, display her proud Rose:
    A fairer than either adorns the green valleys,
      Where Devon, sweet Devon, meandering flows.

       *       *       *       *       *

XLIX.

WEARY FA' YOU, DUNCAN GRAY.

Tune--"Duncan Gray."

[The original Duncan Gray, out of which the present strain was extracted for Johnson, had no
right to be called a lad of grace: another version, and in a happier mood, was written for
Thomson.]

I.

    Weary fa' you, Duncan Gray--
      Ha, ha, the girdin o't!
    Wae gae by you, Duncan Gray--
      Ha, ha, the girdin o't!
    When a' the lave gae to their play,
    Then I maun sit the lee lang day,
    And jog the cradle wi' my tae,
      And a' for the girdin o't!

II.

    Bonnie was the Lammas moon--
      Ha, ha, the girdin o't!
    Glowrin' a' the hills aboon--
      Ha, ha, the girdin o't!
    The girdin brak, the beast cam down,
    I tint my curch, and baith my shoon;
    Ah! Duncan, ye're an unco loon--
      Wae on the bad girdin o't!

III.

    But, Duncan, gin ye'll keep your aith--
      Ha, ha, the girdin o't!
    I'se bless you wi' my hindmost breath--
      Ha, ha, the girdin o't!
    Duncan, gin ye'll keep your aith,
    The beast again can bear us baith,
    And auld Mess John will mend the skaith,
      And clout the bad girdin o't.

       *       *       *       *       *

L.

THE PLOUGHMAN.

Tune--"Up wi' the ploughman."

[The old words, of which these in the Museum are an altered and amended version, are in the
collection of Herd.]

I.

    The ploughman he's a bonnie lad,
      His mind is ever true, jo,
    His garters knit below his knee,
      His bonnet it is blue, jo.

II.

    My ploughman he comes hame at e'en,
      He's aften wat and weary;
    Cast off the wat, put on the dry,
      And gae to bed, my dearie!

III.

    I will wash my ploughman's hose,
      And I will dress his o'erlay;
    I will mak my ploughman's bed,
      And cheer him late and early.

IV.

    I hae been east, I hae been west,
      I hae been at Saint Johnston;
    The bonniest sight that e'er I saw
      Was the ploughman laddie dancin'.

V.

    Snaw-white stockins on his legs,
      And siller buckles glancin';
    A gude blue bonnet on his head--
      And O, but he was handsome!

VI.

    Commend me to the barn-yard,
      And the corn-mou, man;
    I never gat my coggie fou,
      Till I met wi' the ploughman.

       *       *       *       *       *

LI.

LANDLADY, COUNT THE LAWIN.

Tune--"Hey tutti, taiti."

[Of this song, the first and second verses are by Burns: the closing verse belongs to a strain
threatening Britain with an invasion from the iron-handed Charles XII. of Sweden, to avenge
his own wrongs and restore the line of the Stuarts.]

I.

    Landlady, count the lawin,
    The day is near the dawin;
    Ye're a' blind drunk, boys,
      And I'm but jolly fou,
          Hey tutti, taiti,
          How tutti, taiti--
          Wha's fou now?

II.

    Cog an' ye were ay fou,
    Cog an' ye were ay fou,
    I wad sit and sing to you
      If ye were ay fou.

III.

    Weel may ye a' be!
    Ill may we never see!
    God bless the king,
      And the companie!
          Hey tutti, taiti,
          How tutti, taiti--
          Wha's fou now?

       *       *       *       *       *

LII.

RAVING WINDS AROUND HER BLOWING.

Tune--"Macgregor of Rura's Lament."

II.

       *       *       *       *       *

LIII.

HOW LONG AND DREARY IS THE NIGHT.

To a Gaelic air.

[Composed for the Museum: the air of this affecting strain is true Highland: Burns, though
not a musician, had a fine natural taste in the matter of national melodies.]

I.

    How long and dreary is the night
      When I am frae my dearie!
    I sleepless lie frae e'en to morn,
      Tho' I were ne'er sae weary.

II.
    And now what lands between us lie,
      How can I be but eerie!

III.
    It was na sae ye glinted by,
      When I was wi' my dearie.

       *       *       *       *       *

LIV.

MUSING ON THE ROARING OCEAN.

Tune--"Druimion dubh."

[The air of this song is from the Highlands: the verses were written in compliment to the feelings
of Mrs. M'Lauchlan, whose husband was an officer serving in the East Indies.]

I.

    Musing on the roaring ocean,
      Which divides my love and me;
    Wearying heaven in warm devotion,
      For his weal where'er he be.

II.

    Hope and fear's alternate billow
      Yielding late to nature's law,
    Whisp'ring spirits round my pillow
      Talk of him that's far awa.

III.

    Ye whom sorrow never wounded,
      Ye who never shed a tear,
    Care-untroubled, joy-surrounded,
      Gaudy day to you is dear.

IV.

    Gentle night, do thou befriend me;
      Downy sleep, the curtain draw;
    Spirits kind, again attend me,
      Talk of him that's far awa!

       *       *       *       *       *

LV.

BLITHE WAS SHE.

Tune--"Andro and his cutty gun."

[The heroine of this song, Euphemia Murray, of Lintrose was justly called the "Flower of Strathmore:"
she is now widow of Lord Methven, one of the Scottish judges, and mother of a fine family.
The song was written at Ochtertyre, in June 1787.]

CHORUS.

    Blithe, blithe and merry was she,
      Blithe was she but and ben:
    Blithe by the banks of Ern,
      And blithe in Glenturit glen.

I.

    By Auchtertyre grows the aik,
      On Yarrow banks the birken shaw;
    But Phemie was a bonnier lass
      Than braes of Yarrow ever saw.

II.

    Her looks were like a flow'r in May,
      Her smile was like a simmer morn;
    She tripped by the banks of Ern,
      As light's a bird upon a thorn.

III.

    Her bonnie face it was as meek
      As any lamb upon a lea;
    The evening sun was ne'er sae sweet,
      As was the blink o' Phemie's ee.

IV.

    The Highland hills I've wander'd wide,
      And o'er the Lowlands I hae been;
    But Phemie was the blithest lass
      That ever trod the dewy green.

       *       *       *       *       *

LVI.

THE BLUDE RED ROSE AT YULE MAY BLAW.

Tune--"To daunton me."

[The Jacobite strain of "To daunton me," must have been in the mind of the poet when he wrote
this pithy lyric for the Museum.]

I.

    The blude red rose at Yule may blaw,
    The simmer lilies bloom in snaw,
    The frost may freeze the deepest sea;
    But an auld man shall never daunton me.
        To daunton me, and me so young,
        Wi' his fause heart and flatt'ring tongue.
        That is the thing you ne'er shall see;
        For an auld man shall never daunton me.

II.

    For a' his meal and a' his maut,
    For a' his fresh beef and his saut,
    For a' his gold and white monie,
    An auld man shall never daunton me.

III.

    His gear may buy him kye and yowes,
    His gear may buy him glens and knowes;
    But me he shall not buy nor fee,
    For an auld man shall never daunton me.

IV.

    He hirples twa fauld as he dow,
    Wi' his teethless gab and Ma auld beld pow,
    And the rain rains down frae his red bleer'd ee--
    That auld man shall never daunton me.

       *       *       *       *       *

LVII.

COME BOAT ME O'ER TO CHARLIE.

Tune--"O'er the water to Charlie."

[The second stanza of this song, and nearly all the third, are by Burns.

II.

    I lo'e weel my Charlie's name,
      Tho' some there be abhor him:
    But O, to see auld Nick gaun hame,
      And Charlie's faes before him!

III.

       *       *       *       *       *

LVIII.

A ROSE-BUD BY MY EARLY WALK.

Tune--"The Rose-bud."

[The "Rose-bud" of these sweet verses was Miss Jean Cruikshank, afterwards Mrs. Henderson,
daughter of William Cruikshank, of St. James's Square, one of the masters of the High School
of Edinburgh: she is also the subject of a poem equally sweet.]

I.

    A rose-bud by my early walk,
    Adown a corn-enclosed bawk,
    Sae gently bent its thorny stalk,
      All on a dewy morning.
    Ere twice the shades o' dawn are fled,
    In a' its crimson glory spread,
    And drooping rich the dewy head,
      It scents the early morning.

II.

    Within the bush, her covert nest
    A little linnet fondly prest,
    The dew sat chilly on her breast
      Sae early in the morning.
    She soon shall see her tender brood,
    The pride, the pleasure o' the wood,
    Amang the fresh green leaves bedew'd,
      Awake the early morning.

III.

    So thou, dear bird, young Jeany fair,
    On trembling string or vocal air,
    Shall sweetly pay the tender care
      That tends thy early morning.
    So thou, sweet rose-bud, young and gay,
    Shalt beauteous blaze upon the day,
    And bless the parent's evening ray
      That watch'd thy early morning.

       *       *       *       *       *

LIX.

RATTLIN', ROARIN' WILLIE.

Tune--"Rattlin', roarin' Willie."

["The hero of this chant," says Burns "was one of the worthiest fellows in the world--William
Dunbar, Esq., Write to the Signet, Edinburgh, and Colonel of the Crochallan corps--a club of
wits, who took that title at the time of raising the fencible regiments."]

I.

    O rattlin', roarin' Willie,
      O, he held to the fair,
    An' for to sell his fiddle,
      An' buy some other ware;
    But parting wi' his fiddle,
      The saut tear blint his ee;
    And rattlin', roarin' Willie,
      Ye're welcome hame to me!

II.

    O Willie, come sell your fiddle,
      O sell your fiddle sae fine;
    O Willie, come sell your fiddle,
      And buy a pint o' wine!
    If I should sell my fiddle,
      The warl' would think I was mad;
    For mony a rantin' day
      My fiddle and I hae had.

III.

BRAVING ANGRY WINTER'S STORMS.

Tune--"Neil Gow's Lamentations for Abercairny."

["This song," says the poet, "I composed on one of the most accomplished of women, Miss Peggy
Chalmers that was, now Mrs. Lewis Hay, of Forbes and Co.'s bank, Edinburgh." She now lives
at Pau, in the south of France.]

I.

    Where, braving angry winter's storms,
      The lofty Ochels rise,
    Far in their shade my Peggy's charms
      First blest my wondering eyes;
    As one who by some savage stream,
      A lonely gem surveys,
    Astonish'd, doubly marks its beam,
      With art's most polish'd blaze.

II.

    Blest be the wild, sequester'd shade,
      And blest the day and hour,
    Where Peggy's charms I first survey'd,
      When first I felt their power!
    The tyrant Death, with grim control,
      May seize my fleeting breath;
    But tearing Peggy from my soul
      Must be a stronger death.

       *       *       *       *       *

LXI.

TIBBIE DUNBAR.

Tune--"Johnny M'Gill."

[We owe the air of this song to one Johnny M'Gill, a fiddler of Girvan, who bestowed his own
name on it: and the song itself partly to Burns and partly to some unknown minstrel. They are
both in the Museum.]

I.

    O, Wilt thou go wi' me,
      Sweet Tibbie Dunbar?

II.

    I care na thy daddie,
      His lands and his money,
    I care na thy kindred,
      Sae high and sae lordly:
    But say thou wilt hae me
      For better for waur--
    And come in thy coatie,
      Sweet Tibbie Dunbar!

       *       *       *       *       *

LXII.

STREAMS THAT GLIDE IN ORIENT PLAINS.

Tune--"Morag."

[We owe these verses to the too brief visit which the poet, in 1787, made to Gordon Castle:
he was hurried away, much against his will, by his moody and obstinate friend William Nicol.]

I.

    Streams that glide in orient plains,
    Never bound by winter's chains;
      Glowing here on golden sands,
    There commix'd with foulest stains
      From tyranny's empurpled bands;
    These, their richly gleaming waves,
    I leave to tyrants and their slaves;
    Give me the stream that sweetly laves
      The banks by Castle-Gordon.

II.

    Spicy forests, ever gay,
    Shading from the burning ray,
      Hapless wretches sold to toil,
      Or the ruthless native's way,
        Bent on slaughter, blood, and spoil:
    Woods that ever verdant wave,
    I leave the tyrant and the slave,
    Give me the groves that lofty brave
      The storms by Castle-Gordon.

III.

    Wildly here without control,
    Nature reigns and rules the whole;
      In that sober pensive mood,
    Dearest to the feeling soul,
      She plants the forest, pours the flood;
    Life's poor day I'll musing rave,
    And find at night a sheltering cave,
    Where waters flow and wild woods wave,
        By bonnie Castle-Gordon.

       *       *       *       *       *

LXIII.

MY HARRY WAS A GALLANT GAY.

Tune--"Highland's Lament."

["The chorus," says Burns, "I picked up from an old woman in Dumblane: the rest of the song
is mine." He composed it for Johnson: the tone is Jacobitical.]

I.

    My Harry was a gallant gay,
      Fu' stately strode he on the plain:
    But now he's banish'd far away,
      I'll never see him back again,
          O for him back again!
            O for him back again!
          I wad gie a' Knockhaspie's land
            For Highland Harry back again.

II.

    When a' the lave gae to their bed,
      I wander dowie up the glen;
    I set me down and greet my fill,
      And ay I wish him back again.

III.

    O were some villains hangit high.
      And ilka body had their ain!

       *       *       *       *       *

LXIV.

THE TAILOR.

    Tune--"The Tailor fell thro' the bed, thimbles an' a'."

[The second and fourth verses are by Burns, the rest is very old, the air is also very old,
and is played at trade festivals and processions by the Corporation of Tailors.]

I.

    The Tailor fell thro' the bed, thimbles an' a',
    The Tailor fell thro' the bed, thimbles an' a';
    The blankets were thin, and the sheets they were sma',
    The Tailor fell thro' the bed, thimbles an' a'.

II.

    The sleepy bit lassie, she dreaded nae ill,
    The sleepy bit lassie, she dreaded nae ill;
    The weather was cauld, and the lassie lay still,
    She thought that a tailor could do her nae ill.

III.

    Gie me the groat again, canny young man;
    Gie me the groat again, canny young man;
    The day it is short, and the night it is lang,
    The dearest siller that ever I wan!

IV.

    There's somebody weary wi' lying her lane;
    There's somebody weary wi' lying her lane;
    There's some that are dowie, I trow would be fain
    To see the bit tailor come skippin' again.

       *       *       *       *       *

LXV.

SIMMER'S A PLEASANT TIME.

Tune--"Ay waukin o'."

[Tytler and Ritson unite in considering the air of these words as one of our most ancient melodies.
The first verse of the song is from the hand of Burns; the rest had the benefit of his emendations:
it is to be found in the Museum.]

I.

    Simmer's a pleasant time,
      Flow'rs of ev'ry colour;
    The water rins o'er the heugh,
      And I long for my true lover.
          Ay waukin O,
            Waukin still and wearie:
          Sleep I can get nane
            For thinking on my dearie.

II.

    When I sleep I dream,
      When I wauk I'm eerie;
    Sleep I can get nane
      For thinking on my dearie.

III.

    Lanely night comes on,
      A' the lave are sleeping;
    I think on my bonnie lad
      And I bleer my een with greetin'.

       *       *       *       *       *

LXVI.

BEWARE O' BONNIE ANN.

Tune--"Ye gallants bright."

[Burns wrote this song in honour of Ann Masterton, daughter of Allan Masterton, author of the
air of Strathallan's Lament: she is now Mrs. Derbishire, and resides in London.]

I.

    Ye gallants bright, I red ye right,
      Beware o' bonnie Ann;
    Her comely face sae fu' o' grace,
      Your heart she will trepan.
    Her een sae bright, like stars by night,
      Her skin is like the swan;
    Sae jimply lac'd her genty waist,
      That sweetly ye might span.

II.

    Youth, grace, and love attendant move,
      And pleasure leads the van:
    In a' their charms, and conquering arms,
      They wait on bonnie Ann.
    The captive bands may chain the hands,
      But love enclaves the man;
    Ye Gallants braw, I red you a',
      Beware of bonnie Ann!

       *       *       *       *       *

LXVII.

WHEN ROSY MAY.

Tune--"The gardener wi' his paidle."

[The air of this song is played annually at the precession of the Gardeners: the title only
is old; the rest is the work of Burns. Every trade had, in other days, an air of its own, and
songs to correspond; but toil and sweat came in harder measures, and drove melodies out of
working-men's heads.]

I.

    When rosy May comes in wi' flowers,
    To deck her gay green-spreading bowers,
    Then busy, busy are his hours--
      The gard'ner wi' his paidle
    The crystal waters gently fa';
    The merry birds are lovers a';
    The scented breezes round him blaw--
      The gard'ner wi' his paidle.

II.

    When purple morning starts the hare
    To steal upon her early fare,
    Then thro' the dews he maun repair--
      The gard'ner wi' his paidle.
    When day, expiring in the west,
    The curtain draws of nature's rest,
    He flies to her arms he lo'es best--
      The gard'ner wi' his paidle.

       *       *       *       *       *

LXVIII.

BLOOMING NELLY.

Tune--"On a bank of flowers."

[One of the lyrics of Allan Ramsay's collection seems to have been in the mind of Burns when
he wrote this: the words and air are in the Museum.]

I.

    On a bank of flowers, in a summer day,
      For summer lightly drest,
    The youthful blooming Nelly lay,
      With love and sleep opprest;
    When Willie wand'ring thro' the wood,
      Who for her favour oft had sued,
    He gaz'd, he wish'd, he fear'd, he blush'd,
      And trembled where he stood.

II.

    Her closed eyes like weapons sheath'd,
      Were seal'd in soft repose;
    Her lips still as she fragrant breath'd,
      It richer dy'd the rose.
    The springing lilies sweetly prest,
      Wild--wanton, kiss'd her rival breast;
    He gaz'd, he wish'd, he fear'd, he blush'd--
      His bosom ill at rest.

III.

    Her robes light waving in the breeze
      Her tender limbs embrace;
    Her lovely form, her native ease,
      All harmony and grace:
    Tumultuous tides his pulses roll,
      A faltering, ardent kiss he stole;
    He gaz'd, he wish'd, he fear'd, he blush'd,
      And sigh'd his very soul.

IV.

    As flies the partridge from the brake,
      On fear-inspired wings,
    So Nelly, starting, half awake,
      Away affrighted springs:
    But Willie follow'd, as he should,
      He overtook her in a wood;
    He vow'd, he pray'd, he found the maid
      Forgiving all and good.

       *       *       *       *       *

LXIX.

THE DAY RETURNS.

Tune--"Seventh of November."
    Than a' the pride that loads the tide,
      And crosses o'er the sultry line;
    Than kingly robes, than crowns and globes,
      Heaven gave me more--it made thee mine!

II.

       *       *       *       *       *

LXX.

MY LOVE SHE'S BUT A LASSIE YET.

Tune--"Lady Bandinscoth's Reel."

[These verses had their origin in an olden strain, equally lively and less delicate: some of
the old lines keep their place: the title is old. Both words and all are in the Musical Museum.]

I.

    My love she's but a lassie yet,
      My love she's but a lassie yet,
    We'll let her stand a year or twa,
      Shell no be half so saucy yet.
    I rue the day I sought her, O;
      I rue the day I sought her, O;
    Wha gets her needs na say he's woo'd,
      But he may say he's bought her, O!

II.

    Come, draw a drap o' the best o't yet;
      Come, draw a drap o' the best o't yet;
    Gae seek for pleasure where ye will,
      But here I never miss'd it yet.
    We're a' dry wi' drinking o't;
      We're a' dry wi' drinking o't;
    The minister kiss'd the fiddler's wife,
      An' could na preach for thinkin' o't.

       *       *       *       *       *

LXXI.

JAMIE, COME TRY ME.

Tune--"Jamy, come try me."

[Burns in these verses caught up the starting note of an old song, of which little more than
the starting words deserve to be remembered: the word and air are in the Musical Museum.]

CHORUS.

    Jamie, come try me,
    Jamie, come try me;
    If thou would win my love,
    Jamie, come try me.

I.

    If thou should ask my love,
      Could I deny thee?
    If thou would win my love,
      Jamie, come try me.

II.

    If thou should kiss me, love,
      Wha could espy thee?
    If thou wad be my love,
      Jamie, come try me.
        Jamie, come try me,
        Jamie, come try me;
        If thou would win my love,
        Jamie, come try me.

       *       *       *       *       *

LXXII.

MY BONNIE MARY.

Tune--"Go fetch to me a pint o' wine."

[Concerning this fine song, Burns in his notes says, "This air is Oswald's: the first half-stanza
of the song is old, the rest is mine."

II.

       *       *       *       *       *

LXXIII.

THE LAZY MIST.

Tune--"The lazy mist."

[All that Burns says about the authorship of The Lazy Mist, is, "This song is mine." The air,
which is by Oswald, together with the words, is in the Musical Museum.]

I.

    The lazy mist hangs from the brow of the hill,
    Concealing the course of the dark winding rill;
    How languid the scenes, late so sprightly, appear!
    As Autumn to Winter resigns the pale year.
    The forests are leafless, the meadows are brown,
    And all the gay foppery of summer is flown:
    Apart let me wander, apart let me muse,
    How quick Time is flying, how keen Fate pursues!

II.

    How long have I liv'd, but how much liv'd in vain!
    How little of life's scanty span may remain!
    What aspects, old Time, in his progress, has worn!
    What ties cruel Fate in my bosom has torn!
    How foolish, or worse, till our summit is gain'd!
    And downward, how weaken'd, how darken'd, how pain'd!
    Life is not worth having with all it can give--
    For something beyond it poor man sure must live.

       *       *       *       *       *

LXXIV.

THE CAPTAIN'S LADY.

Tune--"O mount and go."

[Part of this song belongs to an old maritime strain, with the same title: it was communicated,
along with many other songs, made or amended by Burns, to the Musical Museum.]

CHORUS.

    O mount and go,
      Mount and make you ready;
    O mount and go,
      And be the Captain's Lady.

I.

    When the drums do beat,
      And the cannons rattle,
    Thou shall sit in state,
      And see thy love in battle.

II.

    When the vanquish'd foe
      Sues for peace and quiet,
    To the shades we'll go,
      And in love enjoy it.
          O mount and go,
            Mount and make you ready;
          O mount and go,
            And be the Captain's Lady.

       *       *       *       *       *

LXXV.

OF A' THE AIRTS THE WIND CAN BLAW

Tune--"Miss Admiral Gordon's Strathspey."

[Bums wrote this charming song in honour of Joan Armour: he archly says in his notes, "P.S.
it was during the honeymoon."

II.

III.

    O blaw, ye westlin winds, blaw saft
      Among the leafy trees,
    Wi' balmy gale, frae hill and dale
      Bring hame the laden bees;
    And bring the lassie back to me
      That's aye sae neat and clean;
    Ae smile o' her wad banish care,
      Sae charming is my Jean.

IV.

    What sighs and vows amang the knowes
      Hae passed atween us twa!
    How fond to meet, how wae to part,
      That night she gaed awa!
    The powers aboon can only ken,
      To whom the heart is seen,
    That nane can be sae dear to me
      As my sweet lovely Jean!

       *       *       *       *       *

LXXVI.

FIRST WHEN MAGGY WAS MY CARE.

Tune--"Whistle o'er the lave o't."

[The air of this song was composed by John Bruce, of Dumfries, musician: the words, though
originating in an olden strain, are wholly by Burns, and right bitter ones they are. The words
and air are in the Museum.]

I.

    First when Maggy was my care,
    Heaven, I thought, was in her air;
    Now we're married--spier nae mair--
      Whistle o'er the lave o't.--
    Meg was meek, and Meg was mild,
    Bonnie Meg was nature's child;
    Wiser men than me's beguil'd--
      Whistle o'er the lave o't.

II.

    How we live, my Meg and me,
    How we love, and how we 'gree,
    I care na by how few may see;
      Whistle o'er the lave o't.--
    Wha I wish were maggot's meat,
    Dish'd up in her winding sheet,
    I could write--but Meg maun see't--
      Whistle o'er the lave o't.

       *       *       *       *       *

LXXVII.

O WERE I ON PARNASSUS HILL.

Tune--"My love is lost to me."

[The poet welcomed with this exquisite song his wife to Nithsdale: the air is one of Oswald's.]

I.

    O, were I on Parnassus' hill!
    Or had of Helicon my fill;
    That I might catch poetic skill,
      To sing how dear I love thee.
    But Nith maun be my Muse's well;
    My Muse maun be thy bonnie sel':
    On Corsincon I'll glow'r and spell,
      And write how dear I love thee.

II.

    Then come, sweet Muse, inspire my lay!
    For a' the lee-lang simmer's day
    I coudna sing, I coudna say,
      How much, how dear, I love thee.
    I see thee dancing o'er the green,
    Thy waist sae jimp, thy limbs sae clean,
    Thy tempting lips, thy roguish een--
      By heaven and earth I love thee!

III.

    By night, by day, a-field, at hame,
    The thoughts o' thee my breast inflame;
    And aye I muse and sing thy name--
      I only live to love thee.
    Tho' I were doom'd to wander on
    Beyond the sea, beyond the sun,
    Till my last weary sand was run;
      Till then--and then I love thee.

       *       *       *       *       *

LXXVIII.

THERE'S A YOUTH IN THIS CITY.

To a Gaelic Air.

["This air," says Burns, "is claimed by Neil Gow, who calls it a Lament for his Brother. The
first half-stanza of the song is old: the rest is mine." They are both in the Museum.]

I.

          There's a youth in this city,
          It were a great pity
    That he frae our lasses shou'd wander awa:
          For he's bonnie an' braw,
          Weel-favour'd an' a',
    And his hair has a natural buckle an' a'.
          His coat is the hue
          Of his bonnet sae blue;
    His feck it is white as the new-driven snaw;
          His hose they are blae,
          And his shoon like the slae.
    And his clear siller buckles they dazzle us a'.

II.

          For beauty and fortune
          The laddie's been courtin';
    Weel-featured, weel-tocher'd, weel-mounted and braw;
          But chiefly the siller,
          That gars him gang till her,
    The pennie's the jewel that beautifies a'.
          There's Meg wi' the mailen
          That fain wad a haen him;
    And Susie, whose daddy was laird o' the ha';
          There's lang-tocher'd Nancy
          Maist fetters his fancy--
    But the laddie's dear sel' he lo'es dearest of a'.

       *       *       *       *       *

LXXIX.

MY HEART'S IN THE HIGHLANDS.

Tune--"Failte na Miosg."

[The words and the air are in the Museum, to which they were contributed by Burns. He says,
in his notes on that collection, "The first half-stanza of this song is old; the rest mine."

II.

       *       *       *       *       *

LXXX.

JOHN ANDERSON.

Tune--"John Anderson, my jo."

[Soon after the death of Burns, the very handsome Miscellanies of Brash and Reid, of Glasgow,
contained what was called an improved John Anderson, from the pen of the Ayrshire bard; but,
save the second stanza, none of the new matter looked like his hand.

II.

       *       *       *       *       *

LXXXI.

OUR THRISSLES FLOURISHED FRESH AND FAIR.

Tune--"Awa Whigs, awa."

[Burns trimmed up this old Jacobite ditty for the Museum, and added some of the bitterest bits:
the second and fourth verses are wholly his.]

CHORUS.

    Awa Whigs, awa!
      Awa Whigs, awa!
    Ye're but a pack o' traitor louns,
      Ye'll do nae good at a'.

I

    Our thrissles flourish'd fresh and fair,
      And bonnie bloom'd our roses;
    But Whigs came like a frost in June,
      And wither'd a' our posies.

II.

    Our ancient crown's fa'n in the dust--
      Deil blin' them wi' the stoure o't;
    And write their names in his black beuk,
      Wha gae the Whigs the power o't.

III.

    Our sad decay in Church and State
      Surpasses my descriving:
    The Whigs came o'er us for a curse,
      And we hae done wi' thriving.

IV.

    Grim vengeance lang ha's taen a nap,
      But we may see him wauken;
    Gude help the day when royal heads
      Are hunted like a maukin.

       *       *       *       *       *

LXXXII.

CA' THE EWES.

Tune--"Ca' the ewes to the knowes."

[Most of this sweet pastoral is of other days: Burns made several emendations, and added the
concluding verse.

I.

    As I gaed down the water-side,
    There I met my shepherd lad,
    He row'd me sweetly in his plaid,
      An' he ca'd me his dearie.

II.

    Will ye gang down the water-side,
    And see the waves sae sweetly glide,
    Beneath the hazels spreading wide?
      The moon it shines fu' clearly.

III.

    I was bred up at nae sic school,
    My shepherd lad, to play the fool,
    And a' the day to sit in dool,
      And naebody to see me.

IV.

    Ye sall get gowns and ribbons meet,
    Cauf-leather shoon upon your feet,
    And in my arms ye'se lie and sleep,
      And ye shall be my dearie.

V.

    If ye'll but stand to what ye've said,
    I'se gang wi' you, my shepherd lad,
    And ye may rowe me in your plaid,
      And I shall be your dearie.

       *       *       *       *       *

LXXXIII.

MERRY HAE I BEEN TEETHIN' A HECKLE.

Tune--"Lord Breadalbone's March."

[Part of this song is old: Sir Harris Nicolas says it does not appear to be in the Museum:
let him look again.]

I.

    O merry hae I been teethin' a heckle,
      And merry hae I been shapin' a spoon;
    O merry hae I been cloutin a kettle,
      And kissin' my Katie when a' was done.
    O a' the lang day I ca' at my hammer,
      An' a' the lang day I whistle and sing,
    A' the lang night I cuddle my kimmer,
      An' a' the lang night as happy's a king.

II.

    Bitter in dool I lickit my winnins,
      O' marrying Bess to gie her a slave:
    Blest be the hour she cool'd in her linens,
      And blythe be the bird that sings on her grave.
    Come to my arms, my Katie, my Katie,
      An' come to my arms and kiss me again!
    Drunken or sober, here's to thee, Katie!
      And blest be the day I did it again.

       *       *       *       *       *

LXXXIV.

THE BRAES O' BALLOCHMYLE.

Tune--"The Braes o' Ballochmyle."

[Mary Whitefoord, eldest daughter of Sir John Whitefoord, was the heroine of this song: it
was written when that ancient family left their ancient inheritance. It is in the Museum, with
an air by Allan Masterton.]

I.

    The Catrine woods were yellow seen,
      The flowers decay'd on Catrine lea,
    Nae lav'rock sang on hillock green,
      But nature sicken'd on the e'e.
    Thro' faded groves Maria sang,
      Hersel' in beauty's bloom the while,
    And ay the wild-wood echoes rang,
      Fareweel the Braes o' Ballochmyle!

II.

    Low in your wintry beds, ye flowers,
      Again ye'll nourish fresh and fair;
    Ye birdies dumb, in withering bowers,
      Again ye'll charm the vocal air.
    But here, alas! for me nae mair
      Shall birdie charm, or floweret smile;
    Fareweel the bonnie banks of Ayr,
      Fareweel, fareweel! sweet Ballochmyle!

       *       *       *       *       *

LXXXV.

TO MARY IN HEAVEN.

Tune--"Death of Captain Cook."

[This sublime and affecting Ode was composed by Burns in one of his fits of melancholy, on
the anniversary of Highland Mary's death. All the day he had been thoughtful, and at evening
he went out, threw himself down by the side of one of his corn-ricks, and with his eyes fixed
on "a bright, particular star," was found by his wife, who with difficulty brought him in from
the chill midnight air. The song was already composed, and he had only to commit it to paper.

II.

    That sacred hour can I forget,
      Can I forget the hallow'd grove,
    Where by the winding Ayr we met,
      To live one day of parting love!
    Eternity cannot efface
      Those records dear of transports past;
    Thy image at our last embrace;
      Ah! little thought we 'twas our last!

III.

    Ayr, gurgling, kiss'd his pebbled shore,
      O'erhung with wild woods, thick'ning green;
    The fragrant birch, and hawthorn, hoar,
      Twin'd am'rous round the raptured scene;
    The flow'rs sprang wanton to be prest,
      The birds sang love on every spray--
    Till too, too soon, the glowing west
      Proclaim'd the speed of winged day.

IV.

       *       *       *       *       *

LXXXVI.

EPPIE ADAIR.

Tune--"My Eppie."

["This song," says Sir Harris Nicolas, "which has been ascribed to Burns by some of his editors,
is in the Musical Museum without any name." It is partly an old strain, corrected by Burns:
he communicated it to the Museum.]

I.

    An' O! my Eppie,
    My jewel, my Eppie!
    Wha wadna be happy
      Wi' Eppie Adair?
    By love, and by beauty,
    By law, and by duty,
    I swear to be true to
      My Eppie Adair!

II.
    A' pleasure exile me,
    Dishonour defile me,
    If e'er I beguile thee,
      My Eppie Adair!

       *       *       *       *       *

LXXXVII.

THE BATTLE OF SHERIFF-MUIR.

Tune--"Cameronian Rant."

[One Barclay, a dissenting clergyman in Edinburgh, wrote a rhyming dialogue between two rustics,
on the battle of Sheriff-muir: Burns was in nowise pleased with the way in which the reverend
rhymer handled the Highland clans, and wrote this modified and improved version.]

I.

      "O cam ye here the fight to shun,
      Or herd the sheep wi' me, man?
    Or were ye at the Sherra-muir,
      And did the battle see, man?"
    I saw the battle, sair and tough,
    And reekin' red ran mony a sheugh.
    My heart, for fear, gaed sough for sough,
    To hear the thuds, and see the cluds,
    O' clans frae woods, in tartan duds,
      Wha glaum'd at kingdoms three, man.

II.

    The red-coat lads, wi' black cockades,
      To meet them were na slaw, man;
    They rush'd and push'd, and blude outgush'd,
      And mony a bouk did fa', man:
    The great Argyll led on his files,
    I wat they glanc'd for twenty miles:
    They hough'd the clans like nine-pin kyles,
    They hack'd and hash'd, while broad-swords clash'd,
    And thro' they dash'd, and hew'd, and smash'd,
      'Till fey men died awa, man.

III.

    But had you seen the philibegs,
      And skyrin tartan trews, man;
    When in the teeth they dar'd our Whigs
      And covenant true blues, man;
    In lines extended lang and large,
    When bayonets opposed the targe,
    And thousands hasten'd to the charge,
    Wi' Highland wrath they frae the sheath,
    Drew blades o' death, 'till, out o' breath,
      They fled like frighted doos, man.

IV.

    "O how deil, Tam, can that be true?
      The chase gaed frae the north, man;
    I saw myself, they did pursue
      The horsemen back to Forth, man;
    And at Dumblane, in my ain sight,
    They took the brig wi' a' their might,
    And straught to Stirling winged their flight;
    But, cursed lot! the gates were shut;
    And mony a huntit, poor red-coat,
      For fear amaist did swarf, man!"

V.

    My sister Kate cam up the gate
      Wi' crowdie unto me, man;
    She swore she saw some rebels run
      Frae Perth unto Dundee, man:
    Their left-hand general had nae skill,
    The Angus lads had nae good-will
    That day their neebors' blood to spill;
    For fear, by foes, that they should lose
    Their cogs o' brose--they scar'd at blows.
      And so it goes, you see, man.

VI.

    They've lost some gallant gentlemen,
      Amang the Highland clans, man!
    I fear my Lord Panmure is slain,
      Or fallen in Whiggish hands, man:
    Now wad ye sing this double fight,
    Some fell for wrang, and some for right;
    And mony bade the world guid-night;
    Then ye may tell, how pell and mell,
    By red claymores, and muskets' knell,
    Wi' dying yell, the Tories fell,
      And Whigs to hell did flee, man.

       *       *       *       *       *

LXXXVIII.

YOUNG JOCKEY.

Tune--"Young Jockey."

[With the exception of three or four lines, this song, though marked in the Museum as an old
song with additions, is the work of Burns. He often seems to have sat down to amend or modify
old verses, and found it easier to make verses wholly new.]

I.

    Young Jockey was the blythest lad
      In a' our town or here awa:
    Fu' blythe he whistled at the gaud,
      Fu' lightly danced he in the ha'.
    He roosed my een, sae bonnie blue,
      He roos'd my waist sae genty sma',
    And ay my heart came to my mou'
      When ne'er a body heard or saw.

II.

    My Jockey toils upon the plain,
      Thro' wind and weet, thro' frost and snaw;
    And o'er the lea I leuk fu' fain,
      When Jockey's owsen hameward ca'.
    An' ay the night comes round again,
      When in his arms he takes me a',
    An' ay he vows he'll be my ain,
      As lang's he has a breath to draw.

       *       *       *       *       *

LXXXIX.

O WILLIE BREW'D.

Tune--"Willie brew'd a peck o' maut."

[The scene of this song is Laggan, in Nithsdale, a small estate which Nicol bought by the advice
of the poet. It was composed in memory of the house-heating. "We had such a joyous meeting,"
says Burns, "that Masterton and I agreed, each in our own way, to celebrate the business."
The Willie who made the browst was, therefore, William Nicol; the Allan who composed the air,
Allan Masterton; and he who wrote this choicest of convivial songs, Robert Burns.]

I.

    O, Willie brew'd a peck o' maut,
      And Rob and Allan came to see:
    Three blither hearts, that lee-lang night
      Ye wad na find in Christendie.
          We are na fou, we're no that fou,
            But just a drappie in our e'e;
          The cock may craw, the day may daw,
            And aye we'll taste the barley bree.

II.

    Here are we met, three merry boys,
      Three merry boys, I trow, are we;
    And mony a night we've merry been,
      And mony mae we hope to be!

III.

IV.

    Wha first shall rise to gang awa',
      A cuckold, coward loon is he!
    Wha last beside his chair shall fa',
      He is the king amang us three!

       *       *       *       *       *

XC.

WHARE HAE YE BEEN.

Tune--"Killiecrankie."

["This song," says Sir Harris Nicolas, "is in the Museum without Burns's name." It was composed
by Burns on the battle of Killiecrankie, and sent in his own handwriting to Johnson; he puts
it in the mouth of a Whig.]

I.

    Whare hae ye been sae braw, lad?
      Whare hae ye been sae brankie, O?
    O, whare hae ye been sae braw, lad?
      Cam ye by Killiecrankie, O?
    An' ye had been whare I hae been,
      Ye wad na been so cantie, O;
    An' ye had seen what I hae seen,
      On the braes o' Killiecrankie, O.

II.

    I fought at land, I fought at sea;
      At hame I fought my auntie, O;
    But I met the Devil an' Dundee,
      On the braes o' Killiecrankie, O.
    The bauld Pitcur fell in a furr,
      An' Clavers got a clankie, O;
    Or I had fed on Athole gled,
      On the braes o' Killiecrankie, O.

       *       *       *       *       *

XCI.

I GAED A WAEFU' GATE YESTREEN.

Air--"The blue-eyed lass."

[This blue-eyed lass was Jean Jeffry, daughter to the minister of Lochmaben: she was then a
rosy girl of seventeen, with winning manners and laughing blue eyes.

II.

    She talk'd, she smil'd, my heart she wyl'd;
      She charm'd my soul--I wist na how:
    And ay the stound, the deadly wound,
      Cam frae her een sae bonnie blue.
    But spare to speak, and spare to speed;
      She'll aiblins listen to my vow:
    Should she refuse, I'll lay my dead
      To her twa een sae bonnie blue.

       *       *       *       *       *

XCII.

THE BANKS OF NITH.

Tune--"Robie donna Gorach."

[The command which the Comyns held on the Nith was lost to the Douglasses: the Nithsdale power,
on the downfall of that proud name, was divided; part went to the Charteris's and the better
portion to the Maxwells: the Johnstones afterwards came in for a share, and now the Scots prevail.]

I.

    The Thames flows proudly to the sea,
      Where royal cities stately stand;
    But sweeter flows the Nith, to me,
      Where Comyns ance had high command:
    When shall I see that honour'd land,
      That winding stream I love so dear!
    Must wayward Fortune's adverse hand
      For ever, ever keep me here?

II.

    How lovely, Nith, thy fruitful vales,
      Where spreading hawthorns gaily bloom!
    How sweetly wind thy sloping dales,
      Where lambkins wanton thro' the broom!
    Tho' wandering now, must be my doom,
      Far from thy bonnie banks and braes,
    May there my latest hours consume,
      Amang the friends of early days!

       *       *       *       *       *

XCIII.

MY HEART IS A-BREAKING, DEAR TITTIE.

Tune--"Tam Glen."

[Tam Glen is the title of an old Scottish song, and older air: of the former all that remains
is a portion of the chorus. Burns when he wrote it sent it to the Museum.]

I.

    My heart is a-breaking, dear Tittie!
      Some counsel unto me come len',
    To anger them a' is a pity,
      But what will I do wi' Tam Glen?

II.

    I'm thinking wi' sic a braw fellow,
      In poortith I might make a fen';
    What care I in riches to wallow,
      If I maunna marry Tam Glen?

III.

    There's Lowrie the laird o' Dumeller,
      "Gude day to you, brute!" he comes ben:
    He brags and he blaws o' his siller,
      But when will he dance like Tam Glen?

IV.

V.

    My daddie says, gin I'll forsake him,
      He'll gie me guid hunder marks ten:
    But, if it's ordain'd I maun take him,
      O wha will I get but Tam Glen?

VI.

    Yestreen at the Valentine's dealing,
      My heart to my mou' gied a sten;
    For thrice I drew ane without failing,
      And thrice it was written--Tam Glen.

VII.

    The last Halloween I was waukin
      My droukit sark-sleeve, as ye ken;
    His likeness cam up the house staukin,
      And the very grey breeks o' Tam Glen!

VIII.

    Come counsel, dear Tittie! don't tarry--
      I'll gie you my bonnie black hen,
    Gif ye will advise me to marry
      The lad that I lo'e dearly, Tam Glen.

       *       *       *       *       *

XCIV.

FRAE THE FRIENDS AND LAND I LOVE.

Air--"Carron Side."

[Burns says, "I added the four last lines, by way of giving a turn to the theme of the poem,
such as it is." The rest of the song is supposed to be from the same hand: the lines are not
to be found in earlier collections.]

I.

    Frae the friends and land I love,
      Driv'n by fortune's felly spite,
    Frae my best belov'd I rove,
      Never mair to taste delight;
    Never mair maun hope to find,
      Ease frae toil, relief frae care:
    When remembrance wracks the mind,
      Pleasures but unveil despair.

II.

    Brightest climes shall mirk appear,
      Desert ilka blooming shore,
    Till the Fates, nae mair severe,
      Friendship, love, and peace restore;
    Till Revenge, wi' laurell'd head,
      Bring our banish'd hame again;
    And ilka loyal bonnie lad
      Cross the seas and win his ain.

       *       *       *       *       *

XCV.

SWEET CLOSES THE EVENING.

Tune--"Craigie-burn-wood."

[This is one of several fine songs in honour of Jean Lorimer, of Kemmis-hall, Kirkmahoe, who
for some time lived on the banks of the Craigie-burn, near Moffat. It was composed in aid of
the eloquence of a Mr. Gillespie, who was in love with her: but it did not prevail, for she
married an officer of the name of Whelpdale, lived with him for a month or so: reasons arose
on both sides which rendered separation necessary; she then took up her residence in Dumfries,
where she had many opportunities of seeing the poet. She lived till lately.]

CHORUS.

    Beyond thee, dearie, beyond thee, dearie,
      And O, to be lying beyond thee;
    O sweetly, soundly, weel may he sleep
      That's laid in the bed beyond thee!

I.

    Sweet closes the evening on Craigie-burn-wood,
      And blithely awaukens the morrow;
    But the pride of the spring in the Craigie-burn-wood
      Can yield to me nothing but sorrow.

II.

    I see the spreading leaves and flowers,
      I hear the wild birds singing;
    But pleasure they hae nane for me,
      While care my heart is wringing.

III.

    I canna tell, I maunna tell,
      I darena for your anger;
    But secret love will break my heart,
      If I conceal it langer.

IV.

    I see thee gracefu', straight, and tall,
      I see thee sweet and bonnie;
    But oh! what will my torments be,
      If thou refuse thy Johnnie!

V.

    To see thee in anither's arms,
      In love to lie and languish,
    'Twad be my dead, that will be seen,
      My heart wad burst wi' anguish.

VI.

    But, Jeanie, say thou wilt be mine,
      Say, thou lo'es nane before me;
    And a' my days o' life to come
      I'll gratefully adore thee.

       *       *       *       *       *

XCVI.

COCK UP YOUR BEAVER.

Tune--"Cock up your beaver."

["Printed," says Sir Harris Nicolas, "in the Musical Museum, but not with Burns's name." It
is an old song, eked out and amended by the poet: all the last verse, save the last line, is
his; several of the lines too of the first verse, have felt his amending hand: he communicated
it to the Museum.]

I.

    When first my brave Johnnie lad
      Came to this town,
    He had a blue bonnet
      That wanted the crown;
    But now he has gotten
      A hat and a feather,--
    Hey, brave Johnnie lad,
      Cock up your beaver!

II.

    Cock up your beaver,
      And cock it fu' sprush,
    We'll over the border
      And gie them a brush;
    There's somebody there
      We'll teach better behaviour--
    Hey, brave Johnnie lad,
      Cock up your beaver!

       *       *       *       *       *

XCVII.

MEIKLE THINKS MY LUVE.

Tune--"My tocher's the jewel."

[These verses were written by Burns for the Museum, to an air by Oswald: but he wished them
to be sung to a tune called "Lord Elcho's favourite," of which he was an admirer.]

I.

    O Meikle thinks my luve o' my beauty,
      And meikle thinks my luve o' my kin;
    But little thinks my luve I ken brawlie
      My tocher's the jewel has charms for him.
    It's a' for the apple he'll nourish the tree;
      It's a' for the hiney he'll cherish the bee;
    My laddie's sae meikle in luve wi' the siller,
      He canna hae lure to spare for me.

II.

    Your proffer o' luve's an airl-penny,
      My tocher's the bargain ye wad buy;
    But an ye be crafty, I am cunnin',
      Sae ye wi' anither your fortune maun try.
    Ye're like to the timmer o' yon rotten tree,
      Ye'll slip frae me like a knotless thread,
    And ye'll crack your credit wi' mae nor me.

       *       *       *       *       *

XCVIII.

GANE IS THE DAY.

Tune--"Gudewife count the lawin."

[The air as well as words of this song were furnished to the Museum by Burns. "The chorus,"
he says, "is part of an old song."]

I.

    Gane is the day, and mirk's the night,
    But we'll ne'er stray for fau't o' light,
    For ale and brandy's stars and moon,
    And blude-red wine's the rising sun.
        Then gudewife count the lawin,
          The lawin, the lawin;
        Then gudewife count the lawin,
          And bring a coggie mair!

II.

    There's wealth and ease for gentlemen,
    And simple folk maun fight and fen;
    But here we're a' in ae accord,
    For ilka man that's drunk's a lord.

III.

    My coggie is a haly pool,
    That heals the wounds o' care and dool;
    And pleasure is a wanton trout,
    An' ye drink but deep ye'll find him out.

       *       *       *       *       *

XCIX.

THERE'LL NEVER BE PEACE.

Tune--"There art few gude fellows when Willie's awa."

[The bard was in one of his Jacobitical moods when he wrote this song.
The air is a well known one, called "There's few gude fellows when
Willie's awa."
    The church is in ruins, the state is in jars;
    Delusions, oppressions, and murderous wars:
    We darena weel say't, though we ken wha's to blame,
    There'll never be peace till Jamie comes hame!

II.

    My seven braw sons for Jamie drew sword,
    And now I greet round their green beds in the yerd.
    It brak the sweet heart of my faithfu' auld dame--
    There'll never be peace till Jamie comes hame.
    Now life is a burthen that bows me down,
    Since I tint my bairns, and he tint his crown;
    But till my last moments my words are the same--
    There'll never be peace till Jamie comes hame!

       *       *       *       *       *

C.

HOW CAN I BE BLYTHE AND GLAD?

Tune--"The bonnie lad that's far awa."

[This lamentation was written, it is said, in allusion to the sufferings of Jean Armour, when
her correspondence with Burns was discovered by her family.]

I.

    O how can I be blythe and glad,
      Or how can I gang brisk and braw,
    When the bonnie lad that I lo'e best
      Is o'er the hills and far awa?
    When the bonnie lad that I lo'e best
      Is o'er the hills and far awa.

II.

    It's no the frosty winter wind,
      It's no the driving drift and snaw;
    But ay the tear comes in my e'e,
      To think on him that's far awa.
    But ay the tear comes in my e'e,
      To think on him that's far awa.

III.

    My father pat me frae his door,
      My friends they line disown'd me a',
    But I hae ane will tak' my part,
      The bonnie lad that's far awa.
    But I hae ane will tak' my part,
      The bonnie lad that's far awa.

IV.

    A pair o' gloves he gae to me,
      And silken snoods he gae me twa;
    And I will wear them for his sake,
      The bonnie lad that's far awa.
    And I will wear them for his sake,
      The bonnie lad that's far awa.

V.

    O weary Winter soon will pass,
      And spring will cleed the birken shaw;
    And my young babie will be born,
      And he'll be hame that's far awa.
    And my young babie will be born,
      And he'll be hame that's far awa.

       *       *       *       *       *

CI.

I DO CONFESS THOU ART SAE FAIR.

Tune--"I do confess thou art sae fair."

["I do think," says Burns, in allusion to this song, "that I have improved the simplicity of
the sentiments by giving them a Scottish dress." The original song is of great elegance and
beauty: it was written by Sir Robert Aytoun, secretary to Anne of Denmark, Queen of James I.]

I.

    I do confess thou art sae fair,
      I wad been o'er the lugs in love,
    Had I na found the slightest prayer
      That lips could speak thy heart could muve.
    I do confess thee sweet, but find
      Thou art sae thriftless o' thy sweets,
    Thy favours are the silly wind,
      That kisses ilka thing it meets.

II.

    See yonder rose-bud, rich in dew,
      Amang its native briers sae coy;
    How sune it tines its scent and hue
      When pou'd and worn a common toy!
    Sic fate, ere lang, shall thee betide,
      Tho' thou may gaily bloom awhile;
    Yet sune thou shalt be thrown aside
      Like ony common weed and vile.

       *       *       *       *       *

CII.

YON WILD MOSSY MOUNTAINS.

Tune--"Yon wild mossy mountains."

["This song alludes to a part of my private history, which is of no consequence to the world
to know." These are the words of Burns: he sent the song to the Musical Museum; the heroine
is supposed to be the "Nannie," who dwelt near the Lugar.]

I.

    Yon wild mossy mountains sae lofty and wide,
    That nurse in their bosom the youth o' the Clyde,
    Where the grouse lead their coveys thro' the heather to feed,
    And the shepherd tents his flock as he pipes on his reed.

II.

    Not Gowrie's rich valleys, nor Forth's sunny shores,
    To me hae the charms o' yon wild, mossy moors;
    For there, by a lanely and sequester'd stream,
    Resides a sweet lassie, my thought and my dream.

III.

    Amang thae wild mountains shall still be my path,
    Ilk stream foaming down its ain green, narrow strath;
    For there, wi' my lassie, the day lang I rove,
    While o'er us unheeded flee the swift hours o' love.

IV.

    She is not the fairest, altho' she is fair;
    O' nice education but sma' is her share;
    Her parentage humble as humble can be;
    But I lo'e the dear lassie because she lo'es me.

V.

    To beauty what man but maun yield him a prize,
    In her armour of glances, and blushes, and sighs?
    And when wit and refinement hae polish'd her darts,
    They dazzle our een as they flee to our hearts.

VI.

    But kindness, sweet kindness, in the fond sparkling e'e,
    Has lustre outshining the diamond to me:
    And the heart beating love as I'm clasp'd in her arms,
    O, these are my lassie's all-conquering charms!

       *       *       *       *       *

CIII.

IT IS NA, JEAN, THY BONNIE FACE.

Tune--"The Maid's Complaint."

[Burns found this song in English attire, bestowed a Scottish dress upon it, and published
it in the Museum, together with the air by Oswald, which is one of his best.]

I.

    It is na, Jean, thy bonnie face,
      Nor shape that I admire,
    Altho' thy beauty and thy grace
      Might weel awake desire.
    Something in ilka part o' thee,
      To praise, to love, I find;
    But dear as is thy form to me,
      Still dearer is thy mind.

II.

    Nae mair ungen'rous wish I hae,
      Nor stronger in my breast,
    Than, if I canna mak thee sae,
      at least to see thee blest.
    Content am I, if heaven shall give
      But happiness to thee:
    And as wi' thee I'd wish to live,
      For thee I'd bear to die.

       *       *       *       *       *

CIV.

WHEN I THINK ON THE HAPPY DAYS.

II.

       *       *       *       *       *

CV.

WHAN I SLEEP I DREAM.

[This presents another version of song LXV. Variations are to a poet what changes are in the
thoughts of a painter, and speak of fertility of sentiment in both.]

I.

    Whan I sleep I dream,
      Whan I wauk I'm eerie,
    Sleep I canna get,
      For thinkin' o' my dearie.

II.

    Lanely night comes on,
      A' the house are sleeping,
    I think on the bonnie lad
      That has my heart a keeping.
        Ay waukin O, waukin ay and wearie,
          Sleep I canna get, for thinkin' o' my dearie.

III.

    Lanely nights come on,
      A' the house are sleeping,
    I think on my bonnie lad,
      An' I blear my een wi' greetin'!
        Ay waukin, &c.

       *       *       *       *       *

CVI.

I MURDER HATE.

[These verses are to be found in a volume which may be alluded to without being named, in which
many of Burns's strains, some looser than these, are to be found.]

I.

    I murder hate by field or flood,
      Tho' glory's name may screen us:
    In wars at hame I'll spend my blood,
      Life-giving wars of Venus.

II.

    The deities that I adore
      Are social Peace and Plenty,
    I'm better pleas'd to make one more,
      Than be the death of twenty.

       *       *       *       *       *

CVII.

O GUDE ALE COMES.

[These verses are in the museum; the first two are old, the concluding one is by Burns.]

I.

    O gude ale comes, and gude ale goes,
    Gude ale gars me sell my hose,
    Sell my hose, and pawn my shoon,
    Gude ale keeps my heart aboon.

II.

    I had sax owsen in a pleugh,
    They drew a' weel eneugh,
    I sell'd them a' just ane by ane;
    Gude ale keeps my heart aboon.

III.

    Gude ale hands me bare and busy,
    Gars me moop wi' the servant hizzie,
    Stand i' the stool when I hae done,
    Gude ale keeps my heart aboon.
        O gude ale comes, &c.

       *       *       *       *       *

CVIII.

ROBIN SHURE IN HAIRST.

[This is an old chaunt, out of which Burns brushed some loose expressions, added the third
and fourth verses, and sent it to the Museum.]

I.

    Robin shure in hairst,
      I shure wi' him,
    Fient a heuk had I,
      Yet I stack by him.

II.

    I gaed up to Dunse,
      To warp a wab o' plaiden,
    At his daddie's yett,
      Wha met me but Robin.

III.

    Was na Robin bauld,
      Tho' I was a cotter,
    Play'd me sic a trick,
      And me the eller's dochter?
          Robin share in hairst, &c.

IV.

    Robin promis'd me
      A' my winter vittle;
    Fient haet he had but three
      Goose feathers and a whittle.
          Robin share in hairst, &c.

       *       *       *       *       *

CIX.

BONNIE PEG.

[A fourth verse makes the moon a witness to the endearments of these lovers; but that planet
sees more indiscreet matters than it is right to describe.]

I.

    As I came in by our gate end,
      As day was waxin' weary,
    O wha came tripping down the street,
      But Bonnie Peg my dearie!

II.

    Her air sae sweet, and shape complete,
      Wi' nae proportion wanting;
    The Queen of Love did never move
      Wi' motion mair enchanting.

III.

    Wi' linked hands, we took the sands
      A-down yon winding river;
    And, oh! that hour and broomy bower,
      Can I forget it ever?

       *       *       *       *       *

CX.

GUDEEN TO YOU, KIMMER.

[This song in other days was a controversial one, and continued some sarcastic allusions to
Mother Rome and her brood of seven sacraments, five of whom were illegitimate. Burns changed
the meaning, and published his altered version in the Museum.]

I.

    Gudeen to you, Kimmer,
      And how do ye do?
    Hiccup, quo' Kimmer,
      The better that I'm fou.
        We're a' noddin, nid nid noddin,
        We're a' noddin, at our house at hame.

II.

    Kate sits i' the neuk,
      Suppin hen broo;
    Deil tak Kate
      An' she be na noddin too!
        We're a' noddin, &c.

III.

    How's a' wi' you, Kimmer,
      And how do ye fare?
    A pint o' the best o't,
      And twa pints mair.
        We're a' noddin, &c.

IV.

    How's a' wi' you, Kimmer,
      And how do ye thrive;
    How many bairns hae ye?
      Quo' Kimmer, I hae five.
        We're a' noddin, &c.

V.

    Are they a' Johnie's?
      Eh! atweel no:
    Twa o' them were gotten
      When Johnie was awa.
        We're a noddin, &c.

VI.

    Cats like milk,
      And dogs like broo;
    Lads like lasses weel,
      And lasses lads too.
        We're a' noddin, &c.

       *       *       *       *       *

CXI.

AH, CHLORIS, SINCE IT MAY NA BE.

Tune--"Major Graham."

[Sir Harris Nicolas found these lines on Chloris among the papers of Burns, and printed them
in his late edition of the poet's works.]

I.

    Ah, Chloris, since it may na be,
      That thou of love wilt hear;
    If from the lover thou maun flee,
      Yet let the friend be dear.

II.

    Altho' I love my Chloris mair
      Than ever tongue could tell;
    My passion I will ne'er declare,
      I'll say, I wish thee well.

III.

    Tho' a' my daily care thou art,
      And a' my nightly dream,
    I'll hide the struggle in my heart,
      And say it is esteem.

       *       *       *       *       *

CXII.

O SAW YE MY DEARIE.

Tune--"Eppie Macnab."

["Published in the Museum," says Sir Harris Nicolas, "without any name." Burns corrected some
lines in the old song, which had more wit, he said, than decency, and added others, and sent
his amended version to Johnson.]

I.

    O saw ye my dearie, my Eppie M'Nab?
    O saw ye my dearie, my Eppie M'Nab?
    She's down in the yard, she's kissin' the laird,
    She winna come hame to her ain Jock Rab.
    O come thy ways to me, my Eppie M'Nab!
    O come thy ways to me, my Eppie M'Nab!
    Whate'er thou hast done, be it late, be it soon,
    Thou's welcome again to thy ain Jock Rab.

II.

    What says she, my dearie, my Eppie M'Nab?
    What says she, my dearie, my Eppie M'Nab?
    She lets thee to wit, that she has thee forgot,
    And for ever disowns thee, her ain Jock Rab.
    O had I ne'er seen thee, my Eppie M'Nab!
    O had I ne'er seen thee, my Eppie M'Nab!
    As light as the air, and fause as thou's fair,
    Thou's broken the heart o' thy ain Jock Rab.

       *       *       *       *       *

CXIII.

WHA IS THAT AT MY BOWER-DOOR.

Tune--"Lass an I come near thee."

[The "Auld man and the Widow," in Ramsay's collection is said, by Gilbert Burns, to have suggested
this song to his brother: it first appeared in the Museum.]

I.

    Wha is that at my bower door?
      O, wha is it but Findlay?
    Then gae your gate, ye'se nae be here!--
      Indeed, maun I, quo' Findlay.
    What mak ye sae like a thief?
      O come and see, quo' Findlay;
    Before the morn ye'll work mischief;
      Indeed will I, quo' Findlay.

II.

    Gif I rise and let you in?
      Let me in, quo' Findlay;
    Ye'll keep me waukin wi' your din;
      Indeed will I, quo' Findlay.
    In my bower if you should stay?
      Let me stay, quo' Findlay;
    I fear ye'll bide till break o' day;
      Indeed will I, quo' Findlay.

III.

    Here this night if ye remain;--
      I'll remain, quo' Findlay;
    I dread ye'll learn the gate again;
      Indeed will I, quo' Findlay.
    What may pass within this bower,--
      Let it pass, quo' Findlay;
    Ye maun conceal till your last hour;
      Indeed will I, quo' Findlay!

       *       *       *       *       *

CXIV.

WHAT CAN A YOUNG LASSIE.

Tune--"What can a young lassie do wi' an auld man."
    Bad luck on the pennie that tempted my minnie
      To sell her poor Jenny for siller an' lan'!

II.

    He's always compleenin' frae mornin' to e'enin',
      He hosts and he hirples the weary day lang;
    He's doyl't and he's dozin', his bluid it is frozen,
      O, dreary's the night wi' a crazy auld man!

III.

    He hums and he hankers, he frets and he cankers,
      I never can please him, do a' that I can;
    He's peevish and jealous of a' the young fellows:
      O, dool on the day I met wi' an auld man!

IV.

    My auld auntie Katie upon me takes pity,
      I'll do my endeavour to follow her plan;
    I'll cross him, and wrack him, until I heart-break him,
      And then his auld brass will buy me a new pan.

       *       *       *       *       *

CXV.

THE BONNIE WEE THING.

Tune--"Bonnie wee thing."

["Composed," says the poet, "on my little idol, the charming, lovely Davies."]

I.

    Bonnie wee thing, cannie wee thing,
      Lovely wee thing, wert thou mine,
    I wad wear thee in my bosom,
      Lest my jewel I should tine.
    Wishfully I look and languish
      In that bonnie face o' thine;
    And my heart it stounds wi' anguish,
      Lest my wee thing be na mine.

II.

    Wit, and grace, and love, and beauty
      In ae constellation shine;
    To adore thee is my duty,
      Goddess o' this soul o' mine!

       *       *       *       *       *

CXVI.

THE TITHER MOON.

To a Highland Air.

["The tune of this song," says Burns, "is originally from the Highlands. I have heard a Gaelic
song to it, which was not by any means a lady's song." "It occurs," says Sir Harris Nicolas,
"in the Museum, without the name of Burns." It was sent in the poet's own handwriting to Johnson,
and is believed to be his composition.]

I.

          The tither morn,
          When I forlorn,
    Aneath an oak sat moaning,
          I did na trow
          I'd see my Jo,
    Beside me, gain the gloaming.
          But he sae trig,
          Lap o'er the rig.
    And dawtingly did cheer me,
          When I, what reck,
          Did least expec',
    To see my lad so near me.

II.

          His bonnet he,
          A thought ajee,
    Cock'd sprush when first he clasp'd me;
          And I, I wat,
          Wi' fainness grat,
    While in his grips be press'd me.
          Deil tak' the war!
          I late and air
    Hae wish'd since Jock departed;
          But now as glad
          I'm wi' my lad,
    As short syne broken-hearted.

III.

          Fu' aft at e'en
          Wi' dancing keen,
    When a' were blythe and merry,
          I car'd na by,
          Sae sad was I
    In absence o' my dearie.
          But praise be blest,
          My mind's at rest,
    I'm happy wi' my Johnny:
          At kirk and fair,
          I'se ay be there,
    And be as canty's ony.

       *       *       *       *       *

CXVII.

AE FOND KISS.

Tune--"Rory Dall's Port."

[Believed to relate to the poet's parting with Clarinda. "These exquisitely affecting stanzas,"
says Scott, "contain the essence of a thousand love-tales."

II.

III.
    Ae fond kiss, and then we sever;
    Ae farewell, alas! for ever!

       *       *       *       *       *

CXVIII.

LOVELY DAVIES.

Tune--"Miss Muir."

[Written for the Museum, in honour of the witty, the handsome, the lovely, and unfortunate
Miss Davies.]

I.

    O how shall I, unskilfu', try
      The poet's occupation,
    The tunefu' powers, in happy hours,
      That whispers inspiration?
    Even they maun dare an effort mair,
      Than aught they ever gave us,
    Or they rehearse, in equal verse,
      The charms o' lovely Davies.
    Each eye it cheers, when she appears,
      Like Phoebus in the morning.
    When past the shower, and ev'ry flower
      The garden is adorning.
    As the wretch looks o'er Siberia's shore,
      When winter-bound the wave is;
    Sae droops our heart when we maun part
      Frae charming lovely Davies.

II.

    Her smile's a gift, frae 'boon the lift,
      That maks us mair than princes;
    A scepter'd hand, a king's command,
      Is in her darting glances:
    The man in arms, 'gainst female charms,
      Even he her willing slave is;
    He hugs his chain, and owns the reign
      Of conquering, lovely Davies.
    My muse to dream of such a theme,
      Her feeble pow'rs surrender:
    The eagle's gaze alone surveys
      The sun's meridian splendour:
    I wad in vain essay the strain,
      The deed too daring brave is!
    I'll drap the lyre, and mute admire
      The charms o' lovely Davies.

       *       *       *       *       *

CXIX.

THE WEARY PUND O' TOW.

Tune--"The weary Pund o' Tow."

["This song," says Sir Harris Nicolas, "is in the Musical Museum; but it is not attributed
to Burns. Mr. Allan Cunningham does not state upon what authority he has assigned it to Burns."
The critical knight might have, if he had pleased, stated similar objections to many songs
which he took without scruple from my edition, where they were claimed for Burns, for the first
time, and on good authority. I, however, as it happens, did not claim the song wholly for the
poet: I said "the idea of the song is old, and perhaps some of the words." It was sent by Burns
to the Museum, and in his own handwriting.]

I.

    The weary pund, the weary pund,
      The weary pund o' tow:
    I think my wife will end her life
      Before she spin her tow.
    I bought my wife a stane o' lint
      As gude as e'er did grow;
    And a' that she has made o' that,
      Is ae poor pund o' tow.

II.

    There sat a bottle in a bole,
      Beyont the ingle low,
    And ay she took the tither souk,
      To drouk the stowrie tow.

III.

    Quoth I, for shame, ye dirty dame,
      Gae spin your tap o' tow!
    She took the rock, and wi' a knock
      She brak it o'er my pow.

IV.

    At last her feet--I sang to see't--
      Gaed foremost o'er the knowe;
    And or I wad anither jad,
      I'll wallop in a tow.

       *       *       *       *       *

CXX.

NAEBODY.

Tune--"Naebody."

[Burns had built his house at Ellisland, sowed his first crop, the woman he loved was at his
side, and hope was high; no wonder that he indulged in this independent strain.]

I.

    I hae a wife o' my ain--
      I'll partake wi' naebody;
    I'll tak cuckold frae nane,
      I'll gie cuckold to naebody.
    I hae a penny to spend,
      There--thanks to naebody;
    I hae naething to lend,
      I'll borrow frae naebody.

II.

    I am naebody's lord--
      I'll be slave to naebody;
    I hae a guid braid sword,
      I'll tak dunts frae naebody.

       *       *       *       *       *

CXXI.

O, FOR ANE-AND-TWENTY, TAM!

Tune--"The Moudiewort."

[In his memoranda on this song in the Museum, Burns says simply, "This song is mine." The air
for a century before had to bear the burthen of very ordinary words.]

CHORUS.

    An O, for ane-and-twenty, Tam,
      An' hey, sweet ane-and-twenty, Tam,
    I'll learn my kin a rattlin' sang,
      An I saw ane-and-twenty, Tam.

I.

    They snool me sair, and haud me down,
      And gar me look like bluntie, Tam!
    But three short years will soon wheel roun'--
      And then comes ane-and-twenty, Tam.

II.

    A gleib o' lan', a claut o' gear,
      Was left me by my auntie, Tam,
    At kith or kin I need na spier,
      An I saw ane-and-twenty, Tam.

III.

    They'll hae me wed a wealthy coof,
      Tho' I mysel' hae plenty, Tam;
    But hear'st thou, laddie--there's my loof--
      I'm thine at ane-and-twenty, Tam.

       *       *       *       *       *

CXXII.

O KENMURE'S ON AND AWA.

Tune--"O Kenmure's on and awa, Willie."

[The second and third, and concluding verses of this Jacobite strain, were written by Burns:
the whole was sent in his own handwriting to the Museum.]

I.

    O Kenmure's on and awa, Willie!
      O Kenmure's on and awa!
    And Kenmure's lord's the bravest lord,
      That ever Galloway saw.

II.

    Success to Kenmure's band, Willie!
      Success to Kenmure's band;
    There's no a heart that fears a Whig,
      That rides by Kenmure's hand.

III.

    Here's Kenmure's health in wine, Willie!
      Here's Kenmure's health in wine;
    There ne'er was a coward o' Kenmure's blude,
      Nor yet o' Gordon's line.

IV.

    O Kenmure's lads are men, Willie!
      O Kenmure's lads are men;
    Their hearts and swords are metal true--
      And that their faes shall ken.

V.

    They'll live or die wi' fame, Willie!
      They'll live or die wi' fame;
    But soon wi' sounding victorie,
      May Kenmure's lord come hame.

VI.

    Here's him that's far awa, Willie,
      Here's him that's far awa;
    And here's the flower that I love best--
      The rose that's like the snaw!

       *       *       *       *       *

CXXIII.

MY COLLIER LADDIE.

Tune--"The Collier Laddie."

[The Collier Laddie was communicated by Burns, and in his handwriting, to the Museum: it is
chiefly his own composition, though coloured by an older strain.]

I.

    Where live ye, my bonnie lass?
      An' tell me what they ca' ye;
    My name, she says, is Mistress Jean,
      And I follow the Collier Laddie.
    My name she says, is Mistress Jean,
      And I follow the Collier Laddie.

II.

    See you not yon hills and dales,
      The sun shines on sae brawlie!
    They a' are mine, and they shall be thine,
      Gin ye'll leave your Collier Laddie.

III.

    Ye shall gang in gay attire,
      Weel buskit up sae gaudy;
    And ane to wait on every hand,
      Gin ye'll leave your Collier Laddie.

IV.

    Tho' ye had a' the sun shines on,
      And the earth conceals sae lowly;
    I wad turn my back on you and it a',
      And embrace my Collier Laddie.
    I wad turn my back on you and it a',
      And embrace my Collier Laddie.

V.

    I can win my five pennies a day,
      And spen't at night fu' brawlie;
    And make my bed in the Collier's neuk,
      And lie down wi' my Collier Laddie.

VI.

    Luve for luve is the bargain for me,
      Tho' the wee cot-house should haud me;
    And the world before me to win my bread,
      And fair fa' my Collier Laddie.
    And the world before me to win my bread,
      And fair fa' my Collier Laddie.

       *       *       *       *       *

CXXIV.

NITHSDALE'S WELCOME HAME.

[These verses were written by Burns for the Museum: the Maxwells of Terreagles are the lineal
descendants of the Earls of Nithsdale.]

I.

    The noble Maxwells and their powers
      Are coming o'er the border,
    And they'll gae bigg Terreagle's towers,
      An' set them a' in order.
    And they declare Terreagles fair,
      For their abode they chuse it;
    There's no a heart in a' the land,
      But's lighter at the news o't.

II.

    Tho' stars in skies may disappear,
      And angry tempests gather;
    The happy hour may soon be near
      That brings us pleasant weather:
    The weary night o' care and grief
      May hae a joyful morrow;
    So dawning day has brought relief--
      Fareweel our night o' sorrow!

       *       *       *       *       *

CXXV.

AS I WAS A-WAND'RING.

Tune--"Rinn Meudial mo Mhealladh."

[The original song in the Gaelic language was translated for Burns by an Inverness-shire lady;
he turned it into verse, and sent it to the Museum.]

I.

    As I was a-wand'ring ae midsummer e'enin',
      The pipers and youngsters were making their game;
    Amang them I spied my faithless fause lover,
      Which bled a' the wound o' my dolour again.
    Weel, since he has left me, may pleasure gae wi' him;
      I may be distress'd, but I winna complain;
    I flatter my fancy I may get anither,
      My heart it shall never be broken for ane.

II.

    I could na get sleeping till dawin for greetin',
      The tears trickled down like the hail and the rain:
    Had I na got greetin', my heart wad a broken,
      For, oh! luve forsaken's a tormenting pain.

III.

    Although he has left me for greed o' the siller,
      I dinna envy him the gains he can win;
    I rather wad bear a' the lade o' my sorrow
      Than ever hae acted sae faithless to him.

       *       *       *       *       *

CXXVI.

BESS AND HER SPINNING-WHEEL.

Tune--"The sweet lass that lo'es me."

[There are several variations of this song, but they neither affect the sentiment, nor afford
matter for quotation.]

I.

    O leeze me on my spinning-wheel,
    O leeze me on the rock and reel;
    Frae tap to tae that cleeds me bien,
    And haps me fiel and warm at e'en!
    I'll set me down and sing and spin,
    While laigh descends the simmer sun,
    Blest wi' content, and milk and meal--
    O leeze me on my spinning-wheel!

II.

    On ilka hand the burnies trot,
    And meet below my theekit cot;
    The scented birk and hawthorn white,
    Across the pool their arms unite,
    Alike to screen the birdie's nest,
    And little fishes' caller rest:
    The sun blinks kindly in the biel',
    Where blithe I turn my spinning-wheel.

III.

    On lofty aiks the cushats wail,
    And Echo cons the doolfu' tale;
    The lintwhites in the hazel braes,
    Delighted, rival ither's lays:
    The craik amang the clover hay,
    The paitrick whirrin o'er the ley,
    The swallow jinkin round my shiel,
    Amuse me at my spinning-wheel.

IV.

    Wi' sma' to sell, and less to buy,
    Aboon distress, below envy,
    O wha wad leave this humble state,
    For a' the pride of a' the great?
    Amid their flaring, idle toys,
    Amid their cumbrous, dinsome joys,
    Can they the peace and pleasure feel
    Of Bessy at her spinning-wheel?

       *       *       *       *       *

CXXVII.

O LUVE WILL VENTURE IN.

Tune--"The Posie."

["The Posie is my composition," says Burns, in a letter to Thomson. "The air was taken down
from Mrs. Burns's voice."

II.

III.

IV.

VII.

       *       *       *       *       *

CXXVIII.

COUNTRY LASSIE.

Tune--"The Country Lass."

[A manuscript copy before me, in the poet's handwriting, presents two or three immaterial variations
of this dramatic song.]

I.

    In simmer, when the hay was mawn,
      And corn wav'd green in ilka field,
    While claver blooms white o'er the lea,
      And roses blaw in ilka bield;
    Blithe Bessie in the milking shiel,
      Says--I'll be wed, come o't what will;
    Out spak a dame in wrinkled eild--
      O' guid advisement comes nae ill.

II.

    It's ye hae wooers mony ane,
      And, lassie, ye're but young ye ken;
    Then wait a wee, and cannie wale,
      A routhie butt, a routhie ben:
    There's Johnie o' the Buskie-glen,
      Fu' is his burn, fu' is his byre;
    Tak this frae me, my bonnie hen,
      It's plenty beets the luver's fire.

III.

    For Johnie o' the Buskie-glen,
      I dinna care a single flie;
    He lo'es sae weel his craps and kye,
      He has nae luve to spare for me:
    But blithe's the blink o' Robie's e'e,
      And weel I wat he lo'es me dear:
    Ae blink o' him I wad nae gie
      For Buskie-glen and a' his gear.

IV.

V.

    O, gear will buy me rigs o' land,
      And gear will buy me sheep and kye;
    But the tender heart o' leesome luve,
      The gowd and siller canna buy;
    We may be poor--Robie and I,
      Light is the burden luve lays on;
    Content and luve brings peace and joy--
      What mair hae queens upon a throne?

       *       *       *       *       *

CXXIX.

FAIR ELIZA.

A Gaelic Air.

[The name of the heroine of this song was at first Rabina: but Johnson, the publisher, alarmed
at admitting something new into verse, caused Eliza to be substituted; which was a positive
fraud; for Rabina was a real lady, and a lovely one, and Eliza one of air.]

I.

    Turn again, thou fair Eliza,
      Ae kind blink before we part,
    Rue on thy despairing lover!
      Canst thou break his faithfu' heart?
    Turn again, thou fair Eliza;
      If to love thy heart denies,
    For pity hide the cruel sentence
      Under friendship's kind disguise!

II.

    Thee, dear maid, hae I offended?
      The offence is loving thee:
    Canst thou wreck his peace for ever,
      Wha for time wad gladly die?
    While the life beats in my bosom,
      Thou shalt mix in ilka throe;
    Turn again, thou lovely maiden.
      Ae sweet smile on me bestow.

III.

    Not the bee upon the blossom,
      In the pride o' sunny noon;
    Not the little sporting fairy,
      All beneath the simmer moon;
    Not the poet, in the moment
      Fancy lightens in his e'e,
    Kens the pleasure, feels the rapture,
      That thy presence gies to me.

       *       *       *       *       *

CXXX.

YE JACOBITES BY NAME.

Tune--"Ye Jacobites by name."

["Ye Jacobites by name," appeared for the first time in the Museum: it was sent in the handwriting
of Burns.]

I.

    Ye Jacobites by name, give and ear, give an ear;
      Ye Jacobites by name, give an ear;
        Ye Jacobites by name,
          Your fautes I will proclaim,
            Your doctrines I maun blame--
              You shall hear.

II.

    What is right, and what is wrang, by the law, by the law?
      What is right and what is wrang, by the law?
        What is right and what is wrang?
          A short sword, and a lang,
            A weak arm, and a strang
              For to draw.

III.

    What makes heroic strife, fam'd afar, fam'd afar?
      What makes heroic strife, fam'd afar?
        What makes heroic strife?
          To whet th' assassin's knife,
            Or hunt a parent's life
              Wi' bluidie war.

IV.

    Then let your schemes alone, in the state, in the state;
      Then let your schemes alone in the state;
        Then let your schemes alone,
          Adore the rising sun,
            And leave a man undone
              To his fate.

       *       *       *       *       *

CXXXI.

THE BANKS OF DOON.

II.

III.

IV.

    Aft hae I rov'd by bonnie Doon,
      To see the woodbine twine,
    And ilka bird sang o' its love;
      And sae did I o' mine.

V.

    Wi' lightsome heart I pu'd a rose,
      Frae aff its thorny tree:
    And my fause luver staw the rose,
      But left the thorn wi' me.

       *       *       *       *       *

CXXXII.

THE BANKS O' DOON.

[SECOND VERSION.]

Tune--"Caledonian Hunt's Delight."
    Thou'lt break my heart, thou warbling bird,
      That wantons thro' the flowering thorn:
    Thou minds me o' departed joys,
      Departed--never to return!

II.
    Wi' lightsome heart I pu'd a rose,
      Fu' sweet upon its thorny tree;
    And my fause luver stole my rose,
      But, ah! he left the thorn wi' me.

       *       *       *       *       *

CXXXIII.

WILLIE WASTLE.

Tune--"The eight men of Moidart."

[The person who is raised to the disagreeable elevation of heroine of this song, was, it is
said, a farmer's wife of the old school of domestic care and uncleanness, who lived nigh the
poet, at Ellisland.]

I.

    Willie Wastle dwalt on Tweed,
      The spot they call'd it Linkum-doddie.
    Willie was a wabster guid,
      Cou'd stown a clue wi' onie bodie;
    He had a wife was dour and din,
      O Tinkler Madgie was her mither;
    Sic a wife as Willie had,
      I wad nae gie a button for her.

II.

    She has an e'e--she has but ane,
      The cat has twa the very colour;
    Five rusty teeth, forbye a stump,
      A clapper-tongue wad deave a miller:
    A whiskin' beard about her mou',
      Her nose and chin they threaten ither--
    Sic a wife as Willie had,
      I wad nae gie a button for her.

III.

IV.

       *       *       *       *       *

CXXXIV.

LADY MARY ANN.

Tune--"Craigtown's growing."

[The poet sent this song to the Museum, in his own handwriting: yet part of it is believed
to be old; how much cannot be well known, with such skill has he made his interpolations and
changes.]

I.

    O, Lady Mary Ann
      Looks o'er the castle wa',
    She saw three bonnie boys
      Playing at the ba';
    The youngest he was
      The flower amang them a'--
    My bonnie laddie's young,
      But he's growin' yet.

II.

    O father! O father!
      An' ye think it fit,
    We'll send him a year
      To the college yet:
    We'll sew a green ribbon
      Round about his hat,
    And that will let them ken
      He's to marry yet.

III.

    Lady Mary Ann
      Was a flower i' the dew,
    Sweet was its smell,
      And bonnie was its hue;
    And the langer it blossom'd
      The sweeter it grew;
    For the lily in the bud
      Will be bonnier yet.

IV.

    Young Charlie Cochran
      Was the sprout of an aik;
    Bonnie and bloomin'
      And straught was its make:
    The sun took delight
      To shine for its sake,
    And it will be the brag
      O' the forest yet.

V.

    The simmer is gane,
      When the leaves they were green,
    And the days are awa,
      That we hae seen;
    But far better days
      I trust will come again,
    For my bonnie laddie's young,
      But he's growin' yet.

       *       *       *       *       *

CXXXV.

SUCH A PARCEL OF ROGUES IN A NATION.

Tune.--"A parcel of rogues in a nation."

[This song was written by Burns in a moment of honest indignation at the northern scoundrels
who sold to those of the south the independence of Scotland, at the time of the Union.]

I.

    Fareweel to a' our Scottish fame,
      Fareweel our ancient glory,
    Fareweel even to the Scottish name,
      Sae fam'd in martial story.
    Now Sark rins o'er the Solway sands,
      And Tweed rins to the ocean,
    To mark where England's province stands--
      Such a parcel of rogues in a nation.

II.

    What force or guile could not subdue,
      Thro' many warlike ages,
    Is wrought now by a coward few
      For hireling traitor's wages.
    The English steel we could disdain;
      Secure in valour's station;
    But English gold has been our bane--
      Such a parcel of rogues in a nation.

III.

    O would, or I had seen the day
      That treason thus could sell us,
    My auld gray head had lien in clay,
      Wi' Bruce and loyal Wallace!
    But pith and power, till my last hour,
      I'll mak' this declaration;
    We've bought and sold for English gold--
      Such a parcel of rogues in a nation.

       *       *       *       *       *

CXXXVI.

THE CARLE OF KELLYBURN BRAES.

Tune--"Kellyburn Braes."

[Of this song Mrs. Burns said to Cromek, when running her finger over the long list of lyrics
which her husband had written or amended for the Museum, "Robert gae this one a terrible brushing."
A considerable portion of the old still remains.]

I.

    There lived a carle on Kellyburn braes,
      (Hey, and the rue grows bonnie wi' thyme),
    And he had a wife was the plague o' his days;
      And the thyme it is wither'd, and rue is in prime.

II.

    Ae day as the carle gaed up the lang glen,
      (Hey, and the rue grows bonnie wi' thyme),
    He met wi' the devil; says, "How do yow fen?"
      And the thyme it is wither'd, and rue is in prime.

III.

    "I've got a bad wife, sir; that's a' my complaint;
      (Hey, and the rue grows bonnie wi' thyme),
    For, saving your presence, to her ye're a saint;
      And the thyme it is wither'd, and rue is in prime."

IV.

    "It's neither your stot nor your staig I shall crave,
      (Hey, and the rue grows bonnie wi' thyme),
    But gie me your wife, man, for her I must have,
      And the thyme it is wither'd, and rue is in prime."

V.

    "O welcome, most kindly," the blythe carle said,
      (Hey, and the rue grows bonnie wi' thyme),
    "But if ye can match her, ye're waur nor ye're ca'd,
      And the thyme it is wither'd, and rue is in prime."

VI.

    The devil has got the auld wife on his back;
      (Hey, and the rue grows bonnie wi' thyme),
    And, like a poor pedlar, he's carried his pack;
      And the thyme it is wither'd, and rue is in prime.

VII.

    He's carried her hame to his ain hallan-door;
      (Hey, and the rue grows bonnie wi' thyme).
    Syne bade her gae in, for a b--h and a w--e,
      And the thyme it is wither'd, and rue is in prime.

VIII.

    Then straight he makes fifty, the pick o' his band,
      (Hey, and the rue grows bonnie wi' thyme),
    Turn out on her guard in the clap of a hand;
      And the thyme it is wither'd, and rue is in prime.

IX.

    The carlin gaed thro' them like ony wud bear,
      (Hey, and the rue grows bonnie wi' thyme),
    Whate'er she gat hands on cam near her nae mair;
      And the thyme it is wither'd, and rue is in prime.

X.

    A reekit wee devil looks over the wa';
      (Hey, and the rue grows bonnie wi' thyme),
    "O, help, master, help, or she'll ruin us a',
      And the thyme it is wither'd, and rue is in prime."

XI.

    The devil he swore by the edge o' his knife,
      (Hey, and the rue grows bonnie wi' thyme),
    He pitied the man that was tied to a wife;
      And the thyme it is wither'd, and rue is in prime.

XII.

    The devil he swore by the kirk and the bell,
      (Hey, and the rue grows bonnie wi' thyme),
    He was not in wedlock, thank heav'n, but in hell;
      And the thyme it is wither'd, and rue is in prime.

XIII.

    Then Satan has travelled again wi' his pack;
      (Hey, and the rue grows bonnie wi' thyme),
    And to her auld husband he's carried her back:
      And the thyme it is wither'd, and rue is in prime.

XIV.

       *       *       *       *       *

CXXXVII.

JOCKEY'S TA'EN THE PARTING KISS.

Tune--"Jockey's ta'en the parting kiss."

[Burns, when he sent this song to the Museum, said nothing of its origin: and he is silent
about it in his memoranda.]

I.

    Jockey's ta'en the parting kiss,
      O'er the mountains he is gane;
    And with him is a' my bliss,
      Nought but griefs with me remain.
    Spare my luve, ye winds that blaw,
      Plashy sleets and beating rain!
    Spare my luve, thou feathery snaw,
      Drifting o'er the frozen plain.

II.

       *       *       *       *       *

CXXXVIII.

LADY ONLIE.

Tune--"The Ruffian's Rant."

[Communicated to the Museum in the handwriting of Burns: part, but not much, is believed to
be old.]

I.

    A' the lads o' Thornie-bank,
      When they gae to the shore o' Bucky,
    They'll step in an' tak' a pint
      Wi' Lady Onlie, honest Lucky!
        Lady Onlie, honest Lucky!
          Brews good ale at shore o' Bucky;
        I wish her sale for her gude ale,
          The best on a' the shore o' Bucky.

II.

       *       *       *       *       *

CXXXIX.

THE CHEVALIER'S LAMENT.

Tune--"Captain O'Kean."

["Composed," says Burns to M'Murdo, "at the desire of a friend who had an equal enthusiasm
for the air and subject." The friend alluded to is supposed to be Robert Cleghorn: he loved
the air much, and he was much of a Jacobite.]

I.

    The small birds rejoice in the green leaves returning,
      The murmuring streamlet winds clear thro' the vale;
    The hawthorn trees blow in the dew of the morning,
      And wild scatter'd cowslips bedeck the green dale:
    But what can give pleasure, or what can seem fair,
      While the lingering moments are number'd by care?
    No flow'rs gaily springing, nor birds sweetly singing,
      Can soothe the sad bosom of joyless despair.

II.

    The deed that I dared, could it merit their malice,
      A king and a father to place on his throne?
    His right are these hills, and his right are these valleys,
      Where the wild beasts find shelter, but I can find none;
    But 'tis not my sufferings thus wretched, forlorn:
      My brave gallant friends! 'tis your ruin I mourn;
    Your deeds proved so loyal in hot-bloody trial--
      Alas! I can make you no sweeter return!

       *       *       *       *       *

CXL.

SONG OF DEATH.

Air--"Oran an Aoig."

["I have just finished the following song," says Burns to Mrs. Dunlop, "which to a lady, the
descendant of Wallace, and herself the mother of several soldiers, needs neither preface nor
apology."]

Scene--A field of battle. Time of the day, evening. The wounded and dying of the victorious
army are supposed to join in the following song:

I.

    Farewell, thou fair day, thou green earth, and ye skies,
      Now gay with the bright setting sun;
    Farewell loves and friendships, ye dear tender ties--
      Our race of existence is run!

II.

    Thou grim king of terrors, thou life's gloomy foe!
      Go frighten the coward and slave;
    Go, teach them to tremble, fell tyrant! but know,
      No terrors hast thou to the brave!

III.

    Thou strik'st the dull peasant--he sinks in the dark,
      Nor saves e'en the wreck of a name;
    Thou strik'st the young hero--a glorious mark!
      He falls in the blaze of his fame!

IV.

    In the field of proud honour--our swords in our hands,
      Our king and our country to save--
    While victory shines on life's last ebbing sands,
      Oh! who would not die with the brave!

       *       *       *       *       *

CXLI.

FLOW GENTLY, SWEET AFTON.

Tune--"Afton Water."

II.

    Thou stock-dove, whose echo resounds thro' the glen;
    Ye wild whistling blackbirds in yon thorny den;
    Thou green-crested lapwing, thy screaming forbear--
    I charge you disturb not my slumbering fair.

III.

    How lofty, sweet Afton! thy neighbouring hills,
    Far mark'd with the courses of clear, winding rills;
    There daily I wander as noon rises high,
    My flocks and my Mary's sweet cot in my eye.

IV.

    How pleasant thy banks and green valleys below,
    Where wild in the woodlands the primroses blow!
    There, oft as mild evening weeps over the lea,
    The sweet-scented birk shades my Mary and me.

V.

    Thy crystal stream, Afton, how lovely it glides,
    And winds by the cot where my Mary resides;
    How wanton thy waters her snowy feet lave,
    As gathering sweet flow'rets she stems thy clear wave.

       *       *       *       *       *

CXLII.

THE SMILING SPRING.

Tune--"The Bonnie Bell."

["Bonnie Bell," was first printed in the Museum: who the heroine was the poet has neglected
to tell us, and it is a pity.]

I.

    The smiling Spring comes in rejoicing,
      And surly Winter grimly flies;
    Now crystal clear are the falling waters,
      And bonnie blue are the sunny skies;
    Fresh o'er the mountains breaks forth the morning,
      The ev'ning gilds the ocean's swell;
    All creatures joy in the sun's returning,
      And I rejoice in my bonnie Bell.

II.

    The flowery Spring leads sunny Summer,
      And yellow Autumn presses near,
    Then in his turn comes gloomy Winter,
      Till smiling Spring again appear.
    Thus Seasons dancing, life advancing,
      Old Time and Nature their changes tell,
    But never ranging, still unchanging,
      I adore my bonnie Bell.

       *       *       *       *       *

CXLIII.

THE CARLES OF DYSART.

Tune--"Hey ca' thro'."

[Communicated to the Museum by Burns in his own handwriting: part of it is his composition,
and some believe the whole.]

I.

    Up wi' the carles o' Dysart,
      And the lads o' Buckhaven,
    And the kimmers o' Largo,
      And the lasses o' Leven.

II.

    We hae tales to tell,
      And we hae sangs to sing;
    We hae pennies to spend,
      And we hae pints to bring.

III.

    We'll live a' our days,
      And them that come behin',
    Let them do the like,
      And spend the gear they win.

       *       *       *       *       *

CXLIV.

THE GALLANT WEAVER.

Tune--"The Weavers' March."

[Sent by the poet to the Museum. Neither tradition nor criticism has noticed it, but the song
is popular among the looms, in the west of Scotland.]

I.

    Where Cart rins rowin to the sea,
    By mony a flow'r and spreading tree,
    There lives a lad, the lad for me,
        He is a gallant weaver.
    Oh, I had wooers aught or nine,
    They gied me rings and ribbons fine;
    And I was fear'd my heart would tine,
        And I gied it to the weaver.

II.

    My daddie sign'd my tocher-band,
    To gie the lad that has the land;
    But to my heart I'll add my hand,
        And gie it to the weaver.
    While birds rejoice in leafy bowers;
    While bees delight in op'ning flowers;
    While corn grows green in simmer showers,
        I'll love my gallant weaver.

       *       *       *       *       *

CXLV.

THE BAIRNS GAT OUT.

Tune--"The deuks dang o'er my daddie."

[Burns found some of the sentiments and a few of the words of this song in a strain, rather
rough and home-spun, of Scotland's elder day. He communicated it to the Museum.]

I.

    The bairns gat out wi' an unco shout,
      The deuks dang o'er my daddie, O!
    The fien'-ma-care, quo' the feirrie auld wife,
      He was but a paidlin body, O!
    He paidles out, an' he paidles in,
      An' he paidles late an' early, O!
    This seven lang years I hae lien by his side,
      An' he is but a fusionless carlie, O!

II.

    O, hand your tongue, my feirrie auld wife,
      O, haud your tongue, now Nansie, O!
    I've seen the day, and sae hae ye,
      Ye wadna been sae donsie, O!
    I've seen the day ye butter'd my brose,
      And cuddled me late and early, O!
    But downa do's come o'er me now,
      And, oh! I feel it sairly, O!

       *       *       *       *       *

CXLVI.

SHE'S FAIR AND FAUSE.

Tune--"She's fair and fause."

[One of the happiest as well as the most sarcastic of the songs of the North: the air is almost
as happy as the words.]

I.

    She's fair and fause that causes my smart,
      I lo'ed her meikle and lang;
    She's broken her vow, she's broken my heart,
      And I may e'en gae hang.
    A coof cam in wi' routh o' gear,
    And I hae tint my dearest dear;
    But woman is but warld's gear,
      Sae let the bonnie lass gang.

II.

    Whae'er ye be that woman love,
      To this be never blind,
    Nae ferlie 'tis tho' fickle she prove,
      A woman has't by kind.
    O woman, lovely woman fair!
    An angel form's fa'n to thy share,
    'Twad been o'er meikle to gien thee mair--
      I mean an angel mind.

       *       *       *       *       *

CXLVII.

THE EXCISEMAN.

Tune--"The Deil cam' fiddling through the town."

[Composed and sung by the poet at a festive meeting of the excisemen of the Dumfries district.]

I.

    The deil cam' fiddling through the town,
      And danced awa wi' the Exciseman,
    And ilka wife cries--"Auld Mahoun,
      I wish you luck o' the prize, man!"
        The deil's awa, the deil's awa,
          The deil's awa wi' the Exciseman;
        He's danc'd awa, he's danc'd awa,
          He's danc'd awa wi' the Exciseman!

II.

    We'll mak our maut, we'll brew our drink,
      We'll dance, and sing, and rejoice, man;
    And mony braw thanks to the meikle black deil
      That danc'd awa wi' the Exciseman.

III.

    There's threesome reels, there's foursome reels,
      There's hornpipes and strathspeys, man;
    But the ae best dance e'er cam to the land
      Was--the deil's awa wi' the Exciseman.

       *       *       *       *       *

CXLVIII.

THE LOVELY LASS OF INVERNESS.

Tune--"Lass of Inverness."

[As Burns passed slowly over the moor of Culloden, in one of his Highland tours, the lament
of the Lass of Inverness, it is said, rose on his fancy: the first four lines are partly old.]

I.

    The lovely lass o' Inverness,
      Nae joy nor pleasure can she see;
    For e'en and morn, she cries, alas!
      And ay the saut tear blin's her e'e:
    Drumossie moor--Drumossie day--
      A waefu' day it was to me!
    For there I lost my father dear,
      My father dear, and brethren three.

II.

    Their winding sheet the bluidy clay,
      Their graves are growing green to see:
    And by them lies the dearest lad
      That ever blest a woman's e'e!
    Now wae to thee, thou cruel lord,
      A bluidy man I trow thou be;
    For mony a heart thou host made sair,
      That ne'er did wrong to thine or thee.

       *       *       *       *       *

CXLIX.

A RED, RED ROSE.

Tune--"Graham's Strathspey."

II.

III.

IV.

       *       *       *       *       *

CL.

LOUIS, WHAT RECK I BY THEE. Tune--"Louis, what reck I by thee."

[The Jeannie of this very short, but very clever song, is Mrs. Burns. Her name has no chance
of passing from the earth if impassioned verse can preserve it.]

I.

    Louis, what reck I by thee,
      Or Geordie on his ocean?
    Dyvor, beggar loons to me--
      I reign in Jeannie's bosom.

II.

    Let her crown my love her law,
      And in her breast enthrone me.
    Kings and nations--swith, awa!
      Reif randies, I disown ye!

       *       *       *       *       *

CLI.

HAD I THE WYTE.

Tune--"Had I the wyte she bade me."

[Burns in evoking this song out of the old verses did not cast wholly out the spirit of ancient
license in which our minstrels indulged. He sent it to the Museum.]

I.

    Had I the wyte, had I the wyte,
      Had I the wyte she bade me;
    She watch'd me by the hie-gate side.
      And up the loan she shaw'd me;
    And when I wadna venture in,
      A coward loon she ca'd me;
    Had kirk and state been in the gate,
      I lighted when she bade me.

II.

    Sae craftilie she took me ben,
      And bade me make nae clatter;
    "For our ramgunshoch glum gudeman
      Is out and owre the water:"
    Whae'er shall say I wanted grace
      When I did kiss and dawte her,
    Let him be planted in my place,
      Syne say I was the fautor.

III.

    Could I for shame, could I for shame,
      Could I for shame refused her?
    And wadna manhood been to blame,
      Had I unkindly used her?
    He claw'd her wi' the ripplin-kame,
      And blue and bluidy bruised her;
    When sic a husband was frae hame,
      What wife but had excused her?

IV.

    I dighted ay her een sae blue,
      And bann'd the cruel randy;
    And weel I wat her willing mou',
      Was e'en like sugar-candy.
    A gloamin-shot it was I wot,
      I lighted on the Monday;
    But I cam through the Tysday's dew,
      To wanton Willie's brandy.

       *       *       *       *       *

CLII.

COMING THROUGH THE RYE.

Tune--"Coming through the rye."

[The poet in this song removed some of the coarse chaff, from the old chant, and fitted it
for the Museum, when it was first printed.]

I.

    Coming through the rye, poor body,
      Coming through the rye,
    She draiglet a' her petticoatie,
      Coming through the rye.
    Jenny's a' wat, poor body,
      Jenny's seldom dry;
    She draiglet a' her petticoatie,
      Coming through the rye.

II.

    Gin a body meet a body--
      Coming through the rye,
    Gin a body kiss a body--
      Need a body cry?

III.

    Gin a body meet a body
      Coming through the glen,
    Gin a body kiss a body--
      Need the world ken?

       *       *       *       *       *

CLIII.

YOUNG JAMIE, PRIDE OF A' THE PLAIN.

Tune--"The carlin o' the glen."

[Sent to the Museum by Burns in his own handwriting: part only is thought to be his]

I.

    Young Jamie, pride of a' the plain,
    Sae gallant and sae gay a swain;
    Thro' a' our lasses he did rove,
    And reign'd resistless king of love:
    But now wi' sighs and starting tears,
    He strays amang the woods and briers;
    Or in the glens and rocky caves
    His sad complaining dowie raves.

II.

    I wha sae late did range and rove,
    And chang'd with every moon my love,
    I little thought the time was near,
    Repentance I should buy sae dear:
    The slighted maids my torment see,
    And laugh at a' the pangs I dree;
    While she, my cruel, scornfu' fair,
    Forbids me e'er to see her mair!

       *       *       *       *       *

CLIV.

OUT OVER THE FORTH.

Tune--"Charlie Gordon's welcome hame."

[In one of his letters to Cunningham, dated 11th March 1791, Burns quoted the four last lines
of this tender and gentle lyric, and inquires how he likes them.]

I.

    Out over the Forth I look to the north,
      But what is the north and its Highlands to me?
    The south nor the east gie ease to my breast,
      The far foreign land, or the wild rolling sea.

II.

    But I look to the west, when I gae to rest,
      That happy my dreams and my slumbers may be;
    For far in the west lives he I Io'e best,
      The lad that is dear to my babie and me.

       *       *       *       *       *

CLV.

THE LASS OF ECCLEFECHAN.

Tune--"Jacky Latin."

[Burns in one of his professional visits to Ecclefechan was amused with a rough old district
song, which some one sung: he rendered, at a leisure moment, the language more delicate and
the sentiments less warm, and sent it to the Museum.]

I.

    Gat ye me, O gat ye me,
      O gat ye me wi' naething?
    Rock and reel, and spinnin' wheel,
      A mickle quarter basin.
    Bye attour, my gutcher has
      A hich house and a laigh ane,
    A' for bye, my bonnie sel',
      The toss of Ecclefechan.

II.

    O haud your tongue now, Luckie Laing,
      O hand your tongue and jauner;
    I held the gate till you I met,
      Syne I began to wander:
    I tint my whistle and my sang,
      I tint my peace and pleasure:
    But your green graff, now, Luckie Laing,
      Wad airt me to my treasure.

       *       *       *       *       *

CLVI.

THE COOPER O' CUDDIE.

Tune--"Bab at the bowster."

[The wit of this song is better than its delicacy: it is printed in the Museum, with the name
of Burns attached.]

I.

    The cooper o' Cuddie cam' here awa,
    And ca'd the girrs out owre us a'--
    And our gudewife has gotten a ca'
      That anger'd the silly gude-man, O.
    We'll hide the cooper behind the door;
    Behind the door, behind the door;
    We'll hide the cooper behind the door,
      And cover him under a mawn, O.

II.

    He sought them out, he sought them in,
    Wi', deil hae her! and, deil hae him!
    But the body was sae doited and blin',
      He wist na where he was gaun, O.

III.

SOMEBODY.

Tune--"For the sake of somebody."

[Burns seems to have borrowed two or three lines of this lyric from Ramsay: he sent it to the
Museum.]

I.

    My heart is sair--I dare na tell--
      My heart is sair for somebody;
    I could wake a winter night
      For the sake o' somebody.
        Oh-hon! for somebody!
        Oh-hey! for somebody!
    I could range the world around,
      For the sake o' somebody!

II.

    Ye powers that smile on virtuous love,
      O, sweetly smile on somebody!
    Frae ilka danger keep him free,
      And send me safe my somebody.
        Oh-hon! for somebody!
        Oh-hey! for somebody!
    I wad do--what wad I not?
      For the sake o' somebody!

       *       *       *       *       *

CLVIII.

THE CARDIN' O'T.

Tune--"Salt-fish and dumplings."

["This song," says Sir Harris Nicolas, "is in the Musical Museum, but not with Burns's name
to it." It was given by Burns to Johnson in his own handwriting.]

I.

    I coft a stane o' haslock woo',
      To make a wat to Johnny o't;
    For Johnny is my only jo,
      I lo'e him best of ony yet.
          The cardin' o't, the spinnin' o't,
            The warpin' o't, the winnin' o't;
          When ilka ell cost me a groat,
            The tailor staw the lynin o't.

II.

    For though his locks be lyart gray,
      And tho' his brow be beld aboon;
    Yet I hae seen him on a day,
      The pride of a' the parishen.

WHEN JANUAR' WIND.

Tune--"The lass that made the bed for me."

[Burns found an old, clever, but not very decorous strain, recording an adventure which Charles
the Second, while under Presbyterian rule in Scotland, had with a young lady of the house of
Port Letham, and exercising his taste and skill upon it, produced the present--still too free
song, for the Museum.]

I.

    When Januar' wind was blawing cauld,
      As to the north I took my way,
    The mirksome night did me enfauld,
      I knew na where to lodge till day.

II.

    By my good luck a maid I met,
      Just in the middle o' my care;
    And kindly she did me invite
      To walk into a chamber fair.

III.

    I bow'd fu' low unto this maid,
      And thank'd her for her courtesie;
    I bow'd fu' low unto this maid,
      And bade her mak a bed to me.

IV.

    She made the bed baith large and wide,
      Wi' twa white hands she spread it down;
    She put the cup to her rosy lips,
      And drank, "Young man, now sleep ye soun'."

V.

    She snatch'd the candle in her hand,
      And frae my chamber went wi' speed;
    But I call'd her quickly back again
      To lay some mair below my head.

VI.

    A cod she laid below my head,
      And served me wi' due respect;
    And to salute her wi' a kiss,
      I put my arms about her neck.

VII.

    "Haud aff your hands, young man," she says,
      "And dinna sae uncivil be:
    If ye hae onto love for me,
      O wrang na my virginitie!"

VIII.

    Her hair was like the links o' gowd,
      Her teeth were like the ivorie;
    Her cheeks like lilies dipt in wine,
      The lass that made the bed to me.

IX.

    Her bosom was the driven snaw,
      Twa drifted heaps sae fair to see;
    Her limbs the polish'd marble stane,
      The lass that made the bed to me.

X.

    I kiss'd her owre and owre again,
      And ay she wist na what to say;
    I laid her between me and the wa'--
      The lassie thought na lang till day.

XI.

    Upon the morrow when we rose,
      I thank'd her for her courtesie;
    But aye she blush'd, and aye she sigh'd,
      And said, "Alas! ye've ruin'd me."

XII.

    I clasp'd her waist, and kiss'd her syne,
      While the tear stood twinklin' in her e'e;
    I said, "My lassie, dinna cry,
      For ye ay shall mak the bed to me."

XIII.

    She took her mither's Holland sheets,
      And made them a' in sarks to me:
    Blythe and merry may she be,
      The lass that made the bed to me.

XIV.

    The bonnie lass made the bed to me,
      The braw lass made the bed to me:
    I'll ne'er forget till the day I die,
      The lass that made the bed to me!

       *       *       *       *       *

CLX.

SAE FAR AWA.

Tune--"Dalkeith Maiden Bridge."

[This song was sent to the Museum by Burns, in his own handwriting.]

I.

    O, sad and heavy should I part,
      But for her sake sae far awa;
    Unknowing what my way may thwart,
      My native land sae far awa.
    Thou that of a' things Maker art,
      That form'd this fair sae far awa,
    Gie body strength, then I'll ne'er start
      At this my way sae far awa.

II.

    How true is love to pure desert,
      So love to her, sae far awa:
    And nocht can heal my bosom's smart,
      While, oh! she is sae far awa.
    Nane other love, nane other dart,
      I feel but hers, sae far awa;
    But fairer never touch'd a heart
      Than hers, the fair sae far awa.

       *       *       *       *       *

CLXI.

I'LL AY CA' IN BY YON TOWN.

Tune--"I'll gae nae mair to yon town."

[Jean Armour inspired this very sweet song. Sir Harris Nicolas says it is printed in Cromek's
Reliques: it was first printed in the Museum.]

I.

    I'll ay ca' in by yon town,
      And by yon garden green, again;
    I'll ay ca' in by yon town,
      And see my bonnie Jean again.
    There's nane sall ken, there's nane sall guess,
      What brings me back the gate again;
    But she my fairest faithfu' lass,
      And stownlins we sall meet again.

II.

    She'll wander by the aiken tree,
      When trystin-time draws near again;
    And when her lovely form I see,
      O haith, she's doubly dear again!

       *       *       *       *       *

CLXII.

O, WAT YE WHA'S IN YON TOWN.

Tune--"I'll ay ca' in by yon town."

[The beautiful Lucy Johnstone, married to Oswald, of Auchencruive, was the heroine of this
song: it was not, however, composed expressly in honour of her charms. "As I was a good deal
pleased," he says in a letter to Syme, "with my performance, I, in my first fervour, thought
of sending it to Mrs. Oswald." He sent it to the Museum, perhaps also to the lady.]

CHORUS.

    O, wat ye wha's in yon town,
      Ye see the e'enin sun upon?
    The fairest dame's in yon town,
      That e'enin sun is shining on.

I.

    Now haply down yon gay green shaw,
      She wanders by yon spreading tree;
    How blest ye flow'rs that round her blaw,
      Ye catch the glances o' her e'e!

II.

    How blest ye birds that round her sing,
      And welcome in the blooming year!
    And doubly welcome be the spring,
      The season to my Lucy dear.

III.

    The sun blinks blithe on yon town,
      And on yon bonnie braes of Ayr;
    But my delight in yon town,
      And dearest bliss, is Lucy fair.

IV.

    Without my love, not a' the charms
      O' Paradise could yield me joy;
    But gie me Lucy in my arms,
      And welcome Lapland's dreary sky!

V.

    My cave wad be a lover's bower,
      Tho' raging winter rent the air;
    And she a lovely little flower,
      That I wad tent and shelter there.

VI.

    O sweet is she in yon town,
      Yon sinkin sun's gane down upon;
    A fairer than's in you town
      His setting beam ne'er shone upon.

VII.

    If angry fate is sworn my foe,
      And suffering I am doom'd to bear;
    I careless quit aught else below,
      But spare me--spare me, Lucy dear!

VIII.

    For while life's dearest blood is warm,
      Ae thought frae her shall ne'er depart,
    And she--as fairest is her form!
      She has the truest, kindest heart!

       *       *       *       *       *

CLXIII.

O MAY, THY MORN.

Tune--"May, thy morn."

[Our lyrical legends assign the inspiration of this strain to the accomplished Clarinda. It
has been omitted by Chambers in his "People's Edition" of Burns.]

I.

    O May, thy morn was ne'er sae sweet
      As the mirk night o' December;
    For sparkling was the rosy wine,
      And private was the chamber:
    And dear was she I dare na name,
      But I will ay remember.
    And dear was she I dare na name,
      But I will ay remember.

II.

    And here's to them, that, like oursel,
      Can push about the jorum;
    And here's to them that wish us weel,
      May a' that's guid watch o'er them,
    And here's to them we dare na tell,
      The dearest o' the quorum.
    Ami here's to them we dare na tell,
      The dearest o' the quorum!

       *       *       *       *       *

CLXIV.

LOVELY POLLY STEWART.

Tune--"Ye're welcome, Charlie Stewart."

[The poet's eye was on Polly Stewart, but his mind seems to have been with Charlie Stewart,
and the Jacobite ballads, when he penned these words;--they are in the Museum.]

I.

    O lovely Polly Stewart!
      O charming Polly Stewart!
    There's not a flower that blooms in May
      That's half so fair as thou art.
    The flower it blaws, it fades and fa's,
      And art can ne'er renew it;
    But worth and truth eternal youth
      Will give to Polly Stewart.

II.

    May he whose arms shall fauld thy charms
      Possess a leal and true heart;
    To him be given to ken the heaven
      He grasps in Polly Stewart.
    O lovely Polly Stewart!
      O charming Polly Stewart!
    There's ne'er a flower that blooms in May
      That's half so sweet as thou art.

       *       *       *       *       *

CLXV.

THE HIGHLAND LADDIE.

Tune--"If thou'lt play me fair play."

[A long and wearisome ditty, called "The Highland Lad and Lowland Lassie," which Burns compressed
into these stanzas, for Johnson's Museum.]

I.

    The bonniest lad that e'er I saw,
      Bonnie laddie, Highland laddie,
    Wore a plaid, and was fu' braw,
      Bonnie Highland laddie.
    On his head a bonnet blue,
      Bonnie laddie, Highland laddie;
    His royal heart was firm and true,
      Bonnie Highland laddie.

II.

    Trumpets sound, and cannons roar,
      Bonnie lassie; Lowland lassie;
    And a' the hills wi' echoes roar,
      Bonnie Lowland lassie.
    Glory, honour, now invite,
      Bonnie lassie, Lowland lassie,
    For freedom and my king to fight,
      Bonnie Lowland lassie.

III.

    The sun a backward course shall take,
      Bonnie laddie, Highland laddie,
    Ere aught thy manly courage shake,
      Bonnie Highland laddie.
    Go, for yourself procure renown,
      Bonnie laddie, Highland laddie;
    And for your lawful king, his crown,
      Bonnie Highland laddie.

       *       *       *       *       *

CLXVI.

ANNA, THY CHARMS.

Tune--"Bonnie Mary."

[The heroine of this short, sweet song is unknown: it was inserted in the third edition of
his Poems.]

    Anna, thy charms my bosom fire,
      And waste my soul with care;
    But ah! how bootless to admire,
      When fated to despair!
    Yet in thy presence, lovely fair,
      To hope may be forgiv'n;
    For sure 'twere impious to despair,
      So much in sight of Heav'n.

       *       *       *       *       *

CLXVII.

CASSILLIS' BANKS.

Tune--[unknown.]

[It is supposed that "Highland Mary," who lived sometime on Cassillis's banks, is the heroine
of these verses.]

I.

    Now bank an' brae are claith'd in green,
      An' scattered cowslips sweetly spring;
    By Girvan's fairy-haunted stream,
      The birdies flit on wanton wing.
    To Cassillis' banks when e'ening fa's,
      There wi' my Mary let me flee,
    There catch her ilka glance of love,
      The bonnie blink o' Mary's e'e!

II.

    The chield wha boasts o' warld's walth
      Is aften laird o' meikle care;
    But Mary she is a' my ain--
      Ah! fortune canna gie me mair.
    Then let me range by Cassillis' banks,
      Wi' her, the lassie dear to me,
    And catch her ilka glance o' love,
      The bonnie blink o' Mary's e'e!

       *       *       *       *       *

CLXVIII.

TO THEE, LOVED NITH.

Tune--[unknown.]

[There are several variations extant of these verses, and among others one which transfers
the praise from the Nith to the Dee: but to the Dee, if the poet spoke in his own person, no
such influences could belong.]

I.

    To thee, lov'd Nith, thy gladsome plains,
      Where late wi' careless thought I rang'd,
    Though prest wi' care and sunk in woe,
      To thee I bring a heart unchang'd.

II.

    I love thee, Nith, thy banks and braes,
      Tho' mem'ry there my bosom tear;
    For there he rov'd that brake my heart,
      Yet to that heart, ah! still how dear!

       *       *       *       *       *

CLXIX.

BANNOCKS O' BARLEY.

Tune--"The Killogie."

["This song is in the Museum," says Sir Harris Nicolas, "but without Burns's name." Burns took
up an old song, and letting some of the old words stand, infused a Jacobite spirit into it,
wrote it out, and sent it to the Museum.]

I.

    Bannocks o' bear meal,
      Bannocks o' barley;
    Here's to the Highlandman's
      Bannocks o' barley.
    Wha in a brulzie
      Will first cry a parley?
    Never the lads wi'
      The bannocks o' barley.

II.

    Bannocks o' bear meal,
      Bannocks o' barley;
    Here's to the lads wi'
      The bannocks o' barley.
    Wha in his wae-days
      Were loyal to Charlie?
    Wha but the lads wi'
      The bannocks o' barley?

       *       *       *       *       *

CLXX.

HEE BALOU.

Tune--"The Highland Balou."

["Published in the Musical Museum," says Sir Harris Nicolas, "but without the name of the author."
It is an old strain, eked out and amended by Burns, and sent to the Museum in his own handwriting.]

I.

    Hee balou! my sweet wee Donald,
    Picture o' the great Clanronald;
    Brawlie kens our wanton chief
    Wha got my young Highland thief.

II.

    Leeze me on thy bonnie craigie,
    An' thou live, thou'll steal a naigie:
    Travel the country thro' and thro',
    And bring hame a Carlisle cow.

III.

    Thro' the Lawlands, o'er the border,
    Weel, my babie, may thou furder:
    Herry the louns o' the laigh countree,
    Syne to the Highlands hame to me.

       *       *       *       *       *

CLXXI.

WAE IS MY HEART.

Tune--"Wae is my heart."

[Composed, it is said, at the request of Clarke, the musician, who felt, or imagined he felt,
some pangs of heart for one of the loveliest young ladies in Nithsdale, Phillis M'Murdo.]

I.

    Wae is my heart, and the tear's in my e'e;
    Lang, lang, joy's been a stranger to me;
    Forsaken and friendless, my burden I bear,
    And the sweet voice of pity ne'er sounds in my ear.

II.

    Love, thou hast pleasures, and deep hae I loved;
    Love, thou hast sorrows, and sair hae I proved;
    But this bruised heart that now bleeds in my breast,
    I can feel by its throbbings will soon be at rest.

III.

    O, if I were happy, where happy I hae been,
    Down by yon stream, and yon bonnie castle green;
    For there he is wand'ring, and musing on me,
    Wha wad soon dry the tear frae his Phillis's e'e.

       *       *       *       *       *

CLXXII.

HERE'S HIS HEALTH IN WATER.

Tune--"The job of journey-work."

[Burns took the hint of this song from an older and less decorous strain, and wrote these words,
it has been said, in humorous allusion to the condition in which Jean Armour found herself
before marriage; as if Burns could be capable of anything so insulting. The words are in the
Museum.]

    Altho' my back be at the wa',
      An' tho' he be the fautor;
    Altho' my back be at the wa',
      Yet here's his health in water!
    O! wae gae by his wanton sides,
      Sae brawlie he could flatter;
    Till for his sake I'm slighted sair,
      And dree the kintra clatter.
    But tho' my back be at the wa',
      And tho' he be the fautor;
    But tho' my back be at the wa',
      Yet here's his health in water!

       *       *       *       *       *

CLXXIII.

MY PEGGY'S FACE.

Tune--"My Peggy's Face."

[Composed in honour of Miss Margaret Chalmers, afterwards Mrs. Lewis Hay, one of the wisest,
and, it is said, the wittiest of all the poet's lady correspondents. Burns, in the note in
which he communicated it to Johnson, said he had a strong private reason for wishing it to
appear in the second volume of the Museum.]

I.

    My Peggy's face, my Peggy's form,
    The frost of hermit age might warm;
    My Peggy's worth, my Peggy's mind,
    Might charm the first of human kind.
    I love my Peggy's angel air,
    Her face so truly, heav'nly fair,
    Her native grace so void of art,
    But I adore my Peggy's heart.

II.

    The lily's hue, the rose's dye,
    The kindling lustre of an eye;
    Who but owns their magic sway?
    Who but knows they all decay!
    The tender thrill, the pitying tear,
    The gen'rous purpose, nobly dear,
    The gentle look, that rage disarms--
    These are all immortal charms.

       *       *       *       *       *

CLXXIV.

GLOOMY DECEMBER.

Tune--"Wandering Willie."

[These verses were, it is said, inspired by Clarinda, and must be taken as a record of his
feelings at parting with one dear to him in the last moment of existence--the Mrs. Mac of many
a toast, both in serious and festive hours.]

I.

    Ance mair I hail thee, thou gloomy December!
      Ance mair I hail thee wi' sorrow and care:
    Sad was the parting thou makes me remember,
      Parting wi' Nancy, oh! ne'er to meet mair.
    Fond lovers' parting is sweet painful pleasure,
      Hope beaming mild on the soft parting hour;
    But the dire feeling, O farewell for ever!
      Is anguish unmingled, and agony pure.

II.

    Wild as the winter now tearing the forest,
      'Till the last leaf o' the summer is flown,
    Such is the tempest has shaken my bosom,
      Since my last hope and last comfort is gone!

       *       *       *       *       *

CLXXV.

MY LADY'S GOWN, THERE'S GAIRS UPON'T.

Tune--"Gregg's Pipes."

[Most of this song is from the pen of Burns: he corrected the improprieties, and infused some
of his own lyric genius into the old strain, and printed the result in the Museum.]

I.

    My lady's gown, there's gairs upon't,
    And gowden flowers sae rare upon't;
    But Jenny's jimps and jirkinet,
    My lord thinks meikle mair upon't.
    My lord a-hunting he is gane,
    But hounds or hawks wi' him are nane;
    By Colin's cottage lies his game,
    If Colin's Jenny be at hame.

II.

    My lady's white, my lady's red,
    And kith and kin o' Cassillis' blude;
    But her ten-pund lands o' tocher guid
    Were a' the charms his lordship lo'ed.

III.

    Out o'er yon muir, out o'er yon moss,
    Whare gor-cocks thro' the heather pass,
    There wons auld Colin's bonnie lass,
    A lily in a wilderness.

IV.

    Sae sweetly move her genty limbs,
    Like music notes o' lovers' hymns:
    The diamond dew is her een sae blue,
    Where laughing love sae wanton swims.

V.

    My lady's dink, my lady's drest,
    The flower and fancy o' the west;
    But the lassie that a man lo'es best,
    O that's the lass to make him blest.

AMANG THE TREES.

Tune--"The King of France, he rade a race."

[Burns wrote these verses in scorn of those, and they are many, who prefer

    "The capon craws and queer ha ha's!"

of emasculated Italy to the original and delicious airs, Highland and Lowland, of old Caledonia:
the song is a fragment--the more's the pity.]

I.

    Amang the trees, where humming bees
      At buds and flowers were hinging, O,
    Auld Caledon drew out her drone,
      And to her pipe was singing, O;
    'Twas pibroch, sang, strathspey, or reels,
      She dirl'd them aff fu' clearly, O,
    When there cam a yell o' foreign squeels,
      That dang her tapsalteerie, O.

II.

    Their capon craws and queer ha ha's,
      They made our lugs grow eerie, O;
    The hungry bike did scrape and pike,
      'Till we were wae and weary, O;
    But a royal ghaist wha ance was cas'd
      A prisoner aughteen year awa,
    He fir'd a fiddler in the north
      That dang them tapsalteerie, O.

       *       *       *       *       *

CLXXVII.

THE GOWDEN LOCKS OF ANNA.

Tune--"Banks of Banna."

["Anne with the golden locks," one of the attendant maidens in Burns's Howff, in Dumfries,
was very fair and very tractable, and, as may be surmised from the song, had other pretty ways
to render herself agreeable to the customers than the serving of wine. Burns recommended this
song to Thomson; and one of his editors makes him say, "I think this is one of the best love-songs
I ever composed," but these are not the words of Burns; this contradiction is made openly,
lest it should be thought that the bard had the bad taste to prefer this strain to dozens of
others more simple, more impassioned, and more natural.]

I.

    Yestreen I had a pint o' wine,
      A place where body saw na';
    Yestreen lay on this breast o' mine
      The gowden locks of Anna.
    The hungry Jew in wilderness
      Rejoicing o'er his manna,
    Was naething to my hinny bliss
      Upon the lips of Anna.

II.

    Ye monarchs tak the east and west,
      Frae Indus to Savannah!
    Gie me within my straining grasp
      The melting form of Anna.
    There I'll despise imperial charms,
      An empress or sultana,
    While dying raptures in her arms
      I give and take with Anna!

III.

    Awa, thou flaunting god o' day!
      Awa, thou pale Diana!
    Ilk star gae hide thy twinkling ray,
      When I'm to meet my Anna.
    Come, in thy raven plumage, night!
      Sun, moon, and stars withdrawn a';
    And bring an angel pen to write
      My transports wi' my Anna!

IV.

    The kirk an' state may join and tell--
      To do sic things I maunna:
    The kirk and state may gang to hell,
      And I'll gae to my Anna.
    She is the sunshine of my e'e,
      To live but her I canna:
    Had I on earth but wishes three,
      The first should be my Anna.

       *       *       *       *       *

CLXXVIII.

MY AIN KIND DEARIE O.

[This is the first song composed by Burns for the national collection of Thomson: it was written
in October, 1792. "On reading over the Lea-rig," he says, "I immediately set about trying my
hand on it, and, after all, I could make nothing more of it than the following."

    In mirkest glen, at midnight hour,
      I'd rove, and ne'er be eerie, O;
    If thro' that glen I gaed to thee,
      My ain kind dearie O!
    Altho' the night were ne'er sae wild,
      And I were ne'er sae wearie, O,
    I'd meet thee on the lea-rig,
      My ain kind dearie O!

III.

    The hunter lo'es the morning sun,
      To rouse the mountain deer, my jo;
    At noon the fisher seeks the glen,
      Alang the burn to steer, my jo;
    Gie me the hour o' gloamin gray,
      It maks my heart sae cheery, O,
    To meet thee on the lea-ring,
      My ain kind dearie O!

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 137: For "scented birks," in some copies, "birken buds."]

       *       *       *       *       *

CLXXIX.

TO MARY CAMPBELL.

["In my very early years," says Burns to Thomson "when I was thinking of going to the West
Indies, I took the following farewell of a dear girl. The heroine of this early composition
was Highland Mary.]

I.

    Will ye go to the Indies, my Mary,
      And leave old Scotia's shore?
    Will ye go to the Indies, my Mary,
      Across th' Atlantic's roar?

II.

    O sweet grows the lime and the orange,
      And the apple on the pine;
    But a' the charms o' the Indies
      Can never equal thine.

III.

    I hae sworn by the Heavens to my Mary,
      I hae sworn by the Heavens to be true;
    And sae may the Heavens forget me
      When I forget my vow!

IV.

    O plight me your faith, my Mary,
      And plight me your lily white hand;
    O plight me your faith, my Mary,
      Before I leave Scotia's strand.

V.

    We hae plighted our troth, my Mary,
      In mutual affection to join;
    And curst be the cause that shall part us!
      The hour and the moment o' time!

       *       *       *       *       *

CLXXX.

THE WINSOME WEE THING.

[These words were written for Thomson: or rather made extempore.

II.

    I never saw a fairer,
    I never lo'ed a dearer;
    And niest my heart I'll wear her,
      For fear my jewel tine.

III.

IV.

    The warld's wrack we share o't,
    The warstle and the care o't;
    Wi' her I'll blythely bear it,
      And think my lot divine.

       *       *       *       *       *

CLXXXI.

BONNIE LESLEY. This lady was soon afterwards married to Mr. Cuming, of Logie.]

I.

    O saw ye bonnie Lesley
      As she ga'ed o'er the border?
    She's gane, like Alexander,
      To spread her conquests farther.

II.

    To see her is to love her,
      And love but her for ever;
    For Nature made her what she is,
      And never made anither!

III.

    Thou art a queen, fair Lesley,
      Thy subjects we, before thee:
    Thou art divine, fair Lesley,
      The hearts o' men adore thee.

IV.

V.

    The powers aboon will tent thee;
      Misfortune sha' na steer thee:
    Thou'rt like themselves so lovely,
      That ill they'll ne'er let near thee.

       *       *       *       *       *

CLXXXII.

HIGHLAND MARY.

Tune--"Katherine Ogie."

[Mary Campbell, of whose worth and beauty Burns has sung with such deep feeling, was the daughter
of a mariner, who lived in Greenock. She became acquainted with the poet while on service at
the castle of Montgomery, and their strolls in the woods and their roaming trysts only served
to deepen and settle their affections. Their love had much of the solemn as well as of the
romantic: on the day of their separation they plighted their mutual faith by the exchange of
Bibles: they stood with a running-stream between them, and lifting up water in their hands
vowed love while woods grew and waters ran. The Bible which the poet gave was elegantly bound:
'Ye shall not swear by my name falsely,' was written in the bold Mauchline hand of Burns, and
underneath was his name, and his mark as a freemason. They parted to meet no more: Mary Campbell
was carried off suddenly by a burning fever, and the first intimation which the poet had of
her fate, was when, it is said, he visited her friends to meet her on her return from Cowal,
whither she had gone to make arrangements for her marriage. The Bible is in the keeping of
her relations: we have seen a lock of her hair; it was very long and very bright, and of a
hue deeper than the flaxen.

II.

III.

IV.

       *       *       *       *       *

CLXXXIII.

AULD ROB MORRIS.

[The starting lines of this song are from one of no little merit in Ramsey's collection: the
old strain is sarcastic; the new strain is tender: it was written for Thomson.]

I.

    There's auld Rob Morris that wons in yon glen,
    He's the king o' guid fellows and wale of auld men;
    He has gowd in his coffers, he has owsen and kine,
    And ae bonnie lassie, his darling and mine.

II.

    She's fresh as the morning, the fairest in May;
    She's sweet as the ev'ning amang the new hay;
    As blythe and as artless as the lamb on the lea,
    And dear to my heart as the light to my e'e.

III.

    But oh! she's an heiress,--auld Robin's a laird,
    And my daddie has nought but a cot-house and yard;
    A wooer like me mamma hope to come speed;
    The wounds I must hide that will soon be my dead.

IV.

    The day comes to me, but delight brings me nane;
    The night comes to me, but my rest it is gane:
    I wander my lane like a night-troubled ghaist,
    And I sigh as my heart it wad burst in my breast.

V.

    O had she but been of a lower degree,
    I then might hae hop'd she wad smil'd upon me!
    O, how past descriving had then been my bliss,
    As now my distraction no words can express!

       *       *       *       *       *

CLXXXIV.

DUNCAN GRAY.

[This Duncan Gray of Burns, has nothing in common with the wild old song of that name, save
the first line, and a part of the third, neither has it any share in the sentiments of an earlier
strain, with the same title, by the same hand. It was written for the work of Thomson.]

I.

    Duncan Gray cam here to woo,
      Ha, ha, the wooing o't;
    On blythe yule night when we were fou,
      Ha, ha, the wooing o't.
    Maggie coost her head fu' high,
    Look'd asklent and unco skeigh,
    Gart poor Duncan stand abeigh;
      Ha, ha, the wooing o't.

II.

    Duncan fleech'd, and Duncan pray'd,
      Ha, ha, the wooing o't;
    Meg was deaf as Ailsa Craig,
      Ha, ha, the wooing o't.
    Duncan sigh'd baith out and in,
    Grat his een baith bleer't and blin',
    Spak o' lowpin o'er a linn;
      Ha, ha, the wooing o't.

III.

    Time and chance are but a tide,
      Ha, ha, the wooing o't;
    Slighted love is sair to bide,
      Ha, ha, the wooing o't.
    Shall I, like a fool, quoth he,
    For a haughty hizzie die?
    She may gae to--France for me!
      Ha, ha, the wooing o't.

IV.

    How it comes let doctors tell,
      Ha, ha, the wooing o't;
    Meg grew sick--as he grew heal,
      Ha, ha, the wooing o't.
    Something in her bosom wrings,
    For relief a sigh she brings:
    And O, her een, they spak sic things!
      Ha, ha, the wooing o't.

V.

    Duncan was a lad o' grace.
      Ha, ha, the wooing o't;
    Maggie's was a piteous case,
      Ha, ha, the wooing o't.
    Duncan could na be her death,
    Swelling pity smoor'd his wrath;
    Now they're crouse and canty baith,
      Ha, ha, the wooing o't.

       *       *       *       *       *

CLXXXV.

O POORTITH CAULD.

Tune--"I had a horse."
          O why should fate sic pleasure have,
            Life's dearest bands untwining?
          Or why sae sweet a flower as love
            Depend on fortune's shining?

II.

    Her een sae bonnie blue betray
      How she repays my passion;
    But prudence is her o'erword ay,
      She talks of rank and fashion.

IV.

    O wha can prudence think upon,
      And sic a lassie by him?
    O wha can prudence think upon,
      And sae in love as I am?

V.

    How blest the humble cotter's fate![138]
      He wooes his simple dearie;
    The silly bogles, wealth and state,
      Can never make them eerie.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 138: "The wild-wood Indian's Fate," in the original MS.]

       *       *       *       *       *

CLXXXVI.

GALLA WATER.

["Galla Water" is an improved version of an earlier song by Burns: but both songs owe some
of their attractions to an older strain, which the exquisite air has made popular over the
world. It was written for Thomson.]

I.

    There's braw, braw lads on Yarrow braes,
      That wander thro' the blooming heather;
    But Yarrow braes nor Ettrick shaws
      Can match the lads o' Galla Water.

II.

    But there is ane, a secret ane,
      Aboon them a' I lo'e him better;
    And I'll be his, and he'll be mine,
      The bonnie lad o' Galla Water.

III.

    Altho' his daddie was nae laird,
      And tho' I hae nae meikle tocher;
    Yet rich in kindest, truest love,
      We'll tent our flocks by Galla Water.

IV.

    It ne'er was wealth, it ne'er was wealth,
      That coft contentment, peace, or pleasure;
    The bands and bliss o' mutual love,
      O that's the chiefest warld's treasure!

       *       *       *       *       *

CLXXXVII.

LORD GREGORY.

[Dr. Wolcot wrote a Lord Gregory for Thomson's collection, in imitation of which Burns wrote
his, and the Englishman complained, with an oath, that the Scotchman sought to rob him of the
merit of his composition. Wolcot's song was, indeed, written first, but they are both but imitations
of that most exquisite old ballad, "Fair Annie of Lochryan," which neither Wolcot nor Burns
valued as it deserved: it far surpasses both their songs.]

I.

    O mirk, mirk is this midnight hour,
      And loud the tempest's roar;
    A waefu' wanderer seeks thy tow'r,
      Lord Gregory, ope thy door!

II.

    An exile frae her father's ha',
      And a' for loving thee;
    At least some pity on me shaw,
      If love it may na be.

III.

    Lord Gregory, mind'st thou not the grove
      By bonnie Irwin-side,
    Where first I own'd that virgin-love
      I lang, lang had denied?

IV.

    How often didst thou pledge and vow
      Thou wad for ay be mine;
    And my fond heart, itsel' sae true,
      It ne'er mistrusted thine.

V.

    Hard is thy heart, Lord Gregory,
      And flinty is thy breast--
    Thou dart of heaven that flashest by,
      O wilt thou give me rest!

VI.

    Ye mustering thunders from above,
      Your willing victim see!
    But spare and pardon my fause love,
      His wrangs to heaven and me!

       *       *       *       *       *

CLXXXVIII.

MARY MORISON.

Tune--"Bide ye yet."

["The song prefixed," observes Burns to Thomson, "is one of my juvenile works. I leave it in
your hands. I do not think it very remarkable either for its merits or its demerits." The song
is supposed to have been written on one of a family of Morisons at Mauchline.]

I.

    O Mary, at thy window be,
      It is the wish'd, the trysted hour!
    Those smiles and glances let me see
      That make the miser's treasure poor:
    How blithely wad I bide the stoure,
      A weary slave frae sun to sun;
    Could I the rich reward secure,
      The lovely Mary Morison!

II.

III.

       *       *       *       *       *

CLXXXIX.

WANDERING WILLIE.

[FIRST VERSION.]

[The idea of this song is taken from verses of the same name published by Herd: the heroine
is supposed to have been the accomplished Mrs. Riddel. Erskine and Thomson sat in judgment
upon it, and, like true critics, squeezed much of the natural and original spirit out of it.
Burns approved of their alterations; but he approved, no doubt, in bitterness of spirit.]

I.

    Here awa, there awa, wandering Willie,
      Now tired with wandering, haud awa hame;
    Come to my bosom, my ae only dearie,
      And tell me thou bring'st me my Willie the same.

II.

    Loud blew the cauld winter winds at our parting;
      It was na the blast brought the tear in my e'e;
    Now welcome the simmer, and welcome my Willie,
      The simmer to nature, my Willie to me.

III.

    Ye hurricanes, rest in the cave o' your slumbers!
      O how your wild horrors a lover alarms!
    Awaken, ye breezes, row gently, ye billows,
      And waft my dear laddie ance mair to my arms.

IV.

    But if he's forgotten his faithfulest Nannie,
      O still flow between us, thou wide roaring main;
    May I never see it, may I never trow it,
      But, dying, believe that my Willie's my ain.

       *       *       *       *       *

CXC.

WANDERING WILLIE.

[LAST VERSION.]

[This is the "Wandering Willie" as altered by Erskine and Thomson, and approved by Burns, after
rejecting several of their emendations.

II.

    Winter winds blew loud and cauld at our parting,
      Fears for my Willie brought tears in my e'e;
    Welcome now simmer, and welcome my Willie,
      The simmer to nature, my Willie to me.

III.

    Rest, ye wild storms, in the cave of your slumbers,
      How your dread howling a lover alarms!

       *       *       *       *       *

CXCI.

OPEN THE DOOR TO ME, OH!

[Written for Thomson's collection: the first version which he wrote was not happy in its harmony:
Burns altered and corrected it as it now stands, and then said, "I do not know if this song
be really mended."]

I.

    Oh, open the door, some pity to show,
      Oh, open the door to me, Oh![139]
    Tho' thou has been false, I'll ever prove true,
      Oh, open the door to me, Oh!

II.

    Cauld is the blast upon my pale cheek,
      But caulder thy love for me, Oh!
    The frost that freezes the life at my heart,
      Is nought to my pains frae thee, Oh!

III.

    The wan moon is setting behind the white wave,
      And time is setting with me, Oh!
    False friends, false love, farewell! for mair
      I'll ne'er trouble them, nor thee, Oh!

IV.

    She has open'd the door, she has open'd it wide;
      She sees his pale corse on the plain, Oh!
    My true love! she cried, and sank down by his side,
      Never to rise again, Oh!

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 139: This second line was originally--"If love it may na be, Oh!"]

       *       *       *       *       *

CXCII.

JESSIE.

Tune--"Bonnie Dundee."

[Jessie Staig, the eldest daughter of the provost of Dumfries, was the heroine of this song.
She became a wife and a mother, but died early in life: she is still affectionately remembered
in her native place.]

I.

    True hearted was he, the sad swain o' the Yarrow,
      And fair are the maids on the banks o' the Ayr,
    But by the sweet side o' the Nith's winding river,
      Are lovers as faithful, and maidens as fair:
    To equal young Jessie seek Scotland all over;
      To equal young Jessie you seek it in vain;
    Grace, beauty, and elegance fetter her lover,
      And maidenly modesty fixes the chain.

II.

    O, fresh is the rose in the gay, dewy morning,
      And sweet is the lily at evening close;
    But in the fair presence o' lovely young Jessie
      Unseen is the lily, unheeded the rose.
    Love sits in her smile, a wizard ensnaring;
      Enthron'd in her een he delivers his law:
    And still to her charms she alone is a stranger--
      Her modest demeanour's the jewel of a'!

       *       *       *       *       *

CXCIII.

THE POOR AND HONEST SODGER.

Air--"The Mill, Mill, O."

II.

    A leal, light heart was in my breast,
    My hand unstain'd wi' plunder;
    And for fair Scotia, hame again,
      I cheery on did wander.
    I thought upon the banks o' Coil,
      I thought upon my Nancy,
    I thought upon the witching smile
      That caught my youthful fancy.

III.

    At length I reach'd the bonny glen,
      Where early life I sported;
    I pass'd the mill, and trysting thorn,
      Where Nancy aft I courted:
    Wha spied I but my ain dear maid,
      Down by her mother's dwelling!
    And turn'd me round to hide the flood
      That in my een was swelling.

IV.

    Wi' alter'd voice, quoth I, sweet lass,
      Sweet as yon hawthorn's blossom,
    O! happy, happy, may he be
      That's dearest to thy bosom!
    My purse is light, I've far to gang,
      And fain wud be thy lodger;
    I've serv'd my king and country lang--
      Take pity on a sodger.

V.

    Sae wistfully she gaz'd on me,
      And lovelier was then ever;
    Quo' she, a sodger ance I lo'd,
      Forget him shall I never:
    Our humble cot, and hamely fare,
      Ye freely shall partake it,
    That gallant badge--the dear cockade--
      Ye're welcome for the sake o't.

VI.

    She gaz'd--she redden'd like a rose--
      Syne pale like onie lily;
    She sank within my arms, and cried,
      Art thou my ain dear Willie?
    By him who made yon sun and sky--
      By whom true love's regarded,
    I am the man: and thus may still
      True lovers be rewarded!

VII.

    The wars are o'er, and I'm come hame,
      And find thee still true-hearted;
    Tho' poor in gear, we're rich in love,
      And mair we'se ne'er be parted.
    Quo' she, my grandsire left me gowd,
      A mailen plenish'd fairly;
    And come, my faithful sodger lad,
      Thou'rt welcome to it dearly!

VIII.

    For gold the merchant ploughs the main,
      The farmer ploughs the manor;
    But glory is the sodger's prize,
      The sodger's wealth is honour;
    The brave poor sodger ne'er despise,
      Nor count him as a stranger;
    Remember he's his country's stay,
      In day and hour of danger.

       *       *       *       *       *

CXCIV.

MEG O' THE MILL.

Air--"Hey! bonnie lass, will you lie in a barrack?"

["Do you know a fine air," Burns asks Thomson, April, 1973, "called 'Jackie Hume's Lament?'
I have a song of considerable merit to that air: I'll enclose you both song and tune, as I
have them ready to send to the Museum." It is probable that Thomson liked these verses too
well to let them go willingly from his hands: Burns touched up the old song with the same starting
line, but a less delicate conclusion, and published it in the Museum.]

I.

    O ken ye what Meg o' the Mill has gotten?
    An' ken ye what Meg o' the Mill has gotten?
    She has gotten a coof wi' a claute o' siller,
    And broken the heart o' the barley Miller.

II.

    The Miller was strappin, the Miller was ruddy;
    A heart like a lord and a hue like a lady:
    The Laird was a widdiefu', bleerit knurl;
    She's left the guid-fellow and ta'en the churl.

III.

    The Miller he hecht her a heart leal and loving;
    The Laird did address her wi' matter mair moving,
    A fine pacing horse wi' a clear chained bridle,
    A whip by her side and a bonnie side-saddle.

IV.

    O wae on the siller, it is sae prevailing;
    And wae on the love that is fixed on a mailen'
    A tocher's nae word in a true lover's parle,
    But gie me my love, and a fig for the warl!

       *       *       *       *       *

CXCV.

BLYTHE HAE I BEEN.

Tune--"Liggeram Cosh." The heroine was Miss Lesley Baillie.]

I.

    Blythe hae I been on yon hill
      As the lambs before me;
    Careless ilka thought and free
      As the breeze flew o'er me.
    Now nae langer sport and play,
      Mirth or sang can please me;
    Lesley is sae fair and coy,
      Care and anguish seize me.

II.

    Heavy, heavy is the task,
      Hopeless love declaring:
    Trembling, I dow nocht but glow'r,
      Sighing, dumb, despairing!
    If she winna ease the thraws
      In my bosom swelling,
    Underneath the grass-green sod
      Soon maun be my dwelling.

       *       *       *       *       *

CXCVI.

LOGAN WATER. The poet had in mind, too, during this poetic fit, the beautiful song of Logan-braes,
by my friend John Mayne, a Nithsdale poet.]

I.

    O Logan, sweetly didst thou glide,
    That day I was my Willie's bride!
    And years synsyne hae o'er us run
    Like Logan to the simmer sun.

II.

    Again the merry month o' May
    Has made our hills and valleys gay;
    The birds rejoice in leafy bowers,
    The bees hum round the breathing flowers;
    Blythe Morning lifts his rosy eye,
    And Evening's tears are tears of joy:
    My soul, delightless, a' surveys,
    While Willie's far frae Logan braes.

III.

    Within yon milk-white hawthorn bush,
    Amang her nestlings sits the thrush;
    Her faithfu' mate will share her toil,
    Or wi' his song her cares beguile:
    But I, wi' my sweet nurslings here,
    Nae mate to help, nae mate to cheer,
    Pass widow'd nights and joyless days,
    While Willie's far frae Logan braes.

IV.

    O wae upon you, men o' state,
    That brethren rouse to deadly hate!
    As ye make mony a fond heart mourn,
    Sae may it on your heads return!
    How can your flinty hearts enjoy
    The widow's tears, the orphan's cry?[140]
    But soon may peace bring happy days
    And Willie hame to Logan braes!

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 140: Originally--

    "Ye mind na, 'mid your cruel joys,
    The widow's tears, the orphan's cries."]

       *       *       *       *       *

CXCVII.

THE RED, RED ROSE.

Air--"Hughie Graham."

[There are snatches of old song so exquisitely fine that, like fractured crystal, they cannot
be mended or eked out, without showing where the hand of the restorer has been.

II.

       *       *       *       *       *

CXCVIII.

BONNIE JEAN.

[Jean M'Murdo, the heroine of this song, the eldest daughter of John M'Murdo of Drumlanrig,
was, both in merit and look, very worthy of so sweet a strain, and justified the poet from
the charge made against him in the West, that his beauties were not other men's beauties. In
the M'Murdo manuscript, in Burns's handwriting, there is a well-merited compliment which has
slipt out of the printed copy in Thomson:--

    "Thy handsome foot thou shalt na set
    In barn or byre to trouble thee."]

I.

    There was a lass, and she was fair,
      At kirk and market to be seen,
    When a' the fairest maids were met,
      The fairest maid was bonnie Jean.

II.

    And aye she wrought her mammie's wark,
      And ay she sang so merrilie:
    The blithest bird upon the bush
      Had ne'er a lighter heart than she.

III.

    But hawks will rob the tender joys
      That bless the little lintwhite's nest;
    And frost will blight the fairest flowers,
      And love will break the soundest rest.

IV.

    Young Robie was the brawest lad,
      The flower and pride of a' the glen;
    And he had owsen, sheep, and kye,
      And wanton naigies nine or ten.

V.

    He gaed wi' Jeanie to the tryste,
      He danc'd wi' Jeanie on the down;
    And, lang ere witless Jeanie wist,
      Her heart was tint, her peace was stown.

VI.

    As in the bosom o' the stream,
      The moon-beam dwells at dewy e'en;
    So trembling, pure, was tender love
      Within the breast o' bonnie Jean.

VII.

    And now she works her mammie's wark,
      And ay she sighs wi' care and pain;
    Yet wist na what her ail might be,
      Or what wad mak her weel again.

VIII.

    But did na Jeanie's heart loup light,
      And did na joy blink in her e'e,
    As Robie tauld a tale of love,
      Ae e'enin' on the lily lea?

IX.

    The sun was sinking in the west,
      The birds sung sweet in ilka grove;
    His cheek to hers he fondly prest,
      And whisper'd thus his tale o' love:

X.

    O Jeanie fair, I lo'e thee dear;
      O canst thou think to fancy me!
    Or wilt thou leave thy mammie's cot,
      And learn to tent the farms wi' me?

XI.

    At barn or byre thou shalt na drudge,
      Or naething else to trouble thee;
    But stray amang the heather-bells,
      And tent the waving corn wi' me.

XII.

    Now what could artless Jeanie do?
      She had nae will to say him na:
    At length she blush'd a sweet consent,
      And love was ay between them twa.

       *       *       *       *       *

CXCIX.

PHILLIS THE FAIR.

Tune--"Robin Adair."

[The ladies of the M'Murdo family were graceful and beautiful, and lucky in finding a poet
capable of recording their charms in lasting strains. The heroine of this song was Phyllis
M'Murdo; a favourite of the poet. The verses were composed at the request of Clarke, the musician,
who believed himself in love with his "charming pupil." She laughed at the presumptuous fiddler.]

I.

    While larks with little wing
      Fann'd the pure air,
    Tasting the breathing spring,
      Forth I did fare:
    Gay the sun's golden eye
    Peep'd o'er the mountains high;
    Such thy morn! did I cry,
      Phillis the fair.

II.

    In each bird's careless song,
      Glad I did share;
    While yon wild flowers among,
      Chance led me there:
    Sweet to the opening day,
    Rosebuds bent the dewy spray;
    Such thy bloom! did I say,
      Phillis the fair.

III.

    Down in a shady walk
      Doves cooing were,
    I mark'd the cruel hawk,
      Caught in a snare:
    So kind may fortune be,
    Such make his destiny!
    He who would injure thee,
      Phillis the fair.

       *       *       *       *       *

CC.

HAD I A CAVE.

Tune--"Robin Adair."

[Alexander Cunningham, on whose unfortunate love-adventure Burns composed this song for Thomson,
was a jeweller in Edinburgh, well connected, and of agreeable and polished manners.

II.

    Falsest of womankind, canst thou declare,
      All thy fond plighted vows--fleeting as air!
        To thy new lover hie,
          Laugh o'er thy perjury,
            Then in thy bosom try
              What peace is there!

       *       *       *       *       *

CCI.

BY ALLAN STREAM.

["Bravo! say I," exclaimed Burns, when he wrote these verses for Thomson. "It is a good song.
Should you think so too, not else, you can set the music to it, and let the other follow as
English verses. Autumn is my propitious season; I make more verses in it than all the year
else." The old song of "O my love Annie's very bonnie," helped the muse of Burns with this lyric.]

I.

    By Allan stream I chanced to rove
      While Phoebus sank beyond Benledi;
    The winds were whispering through the grove,
      The yellow corn was waving ready;
    I listened to a lover's sang,
      And thought on youthfu' pleasures mony:
    And aye the wild wood echoes rang--
      O dearly do I lo'e thee, Annie!

II.

    O happy be the woodbine bower,
      Nae nightly bogle make it eerie;
    Nor ever sorrow stain the hour,
      The place and time I met my dearie!
    Her head upon my throbbing breast,
      She, sinking, said, "I'm thine for ever?"
    While mony a kiss the seal imprest,
      The sacred vow,--we ne'er should sever.

III.

    The haunt o' Spring's the primrose brae,
      The Simmer joys the flocks to follow;
    How cheery, thro' her shortening day,
      Is Autumn, in her weeds o' yellow!
    But can they melt the glowing heart,
      Or chain the soul in speechless pleasure,
    Or thro' each nerve the rapture dart,
      Like meeting her, our bosom's treasure?

       *       *       *       *       *

CCII.

O WHISTLE, AND I'LL COME TO YOU.

[In one of the variations of this song the name of the heroine is
Jeanie: the song itself owes some of the sentiments as well as words
to an old favourite Nithsdale chant of the same name. "Is Whistle, and
I'll come to you, my lad," Burns inquires of Thomson, "one of your
airs? I admire it much, and yesterday I set the following verses to
it."
    But warily tent, when you come to court me,
    And come na unless the back-yett be a-jee;
    Syne up the back-stile and let naebody see,
    And come as ye were na comin' to me.
    And come as ye were na comin' to me.

II.

    At kirk, or at market, whene'er ye meet me,
    Gang by me as tho' that ye car'd na a flie;
    But steal me a blink o' your bonnie black e'e,
    Yet look as ye were na lookin' at me.
    Yet look as ye were na lookin' at me.

III.

    Ay vow and protest that ye care na for me,
    And whiles ye may lightly my beauty a wee;
    But court na anither, tho' jokin' ye be,
    For fear that she wyle your fancy frae me.
    For fear that she wyle your fancy frae me.

IV.

       *       *       *       *       *

CCIII.

ADOWN WINDING NITH.

["Mr. Clarke," says Burns to Thompson, "begs you to give Miss Phillis a corner in your book,
as she is a particular flame of his. She is a Miss Phillis M'Murdo, sister to 'Bonnie Jean;'
they are both pupils of his." This lady afterwards became Mrs. Norman Lockhart, of Carnwath.]

I.

    Adown winding Nith I did wander,
      To mark the sweet flowers as they spring;
    Adown winding Nith I did wander,
      Of Phillis to muse and to sing.
    Awa wi' your belles and your beauties,
      They never wi' her can compare:
    Whaever has met wi' my Phillis,
      Has met wi' the queen o' the fair.

II.

    The daisy amus'd my fond fancy,
      So artless, so simple, so wild;
    Thou emblem, said I, o' my Phillis,
      For she is simplicity's child.

III.

    The rose-bud's the blush o' my charmer,
      Her sweet balmy lip when 'tis prest:
    How fair and how pure is the lily,
      But fairer and purer her breast.

IV.

    Yon knot of gay flowers in the arbour,
      They ne'er wi' my Phillis can vie:
    Her breath is the breath o' the woodbine,
      Its dew-drop o' diamond, her eye.

V.

    Her voice is the song of the morning,
      That wakes thro' the green-spreading grove,
    When Phoebus peeps over the mountains,
      On music, and pleasure, and love.

VI.

    But beauty how frail and how fleeting,
      The bloom of a fine summer's day!
    While worth in the mind o' my Phillis
      Will flourish without a decay.

       *       *       *       *       *

CCIV.

COME, LET ME TAKE THEE.

Air--"Cauld Kail."

[Burns composed this lyric in August, 1793, and tradition says it was
produced by the charms of Jean Lorimer.
    I ask for dearest life alone,
      That I may live to love her.

II.

       *       *       *       *       *

CCV.

DAINTY DAVIE.

[From the old song of "Daintie Davie" Burns has borrowed only the
title and the measure. The ancient strain records how the Rev. David
Williamson, to escape the pursuit of the dragoons, in the time of the
persecution, was hid, by the devout Lady of Cherrytrees, in the same
bed with her ailing daughter. The divine lived to have six wives
beside the daughter of the Lady of Cherrytrees, and other children
besides the one which his hiding from the dragoons produced.
        Meet me on the warlock knowe,
          Dainty Davie, dainty Davie,
        There I'll spend the day wi' you,
          My ain dear dainty Davie.

II.

III.

    When day, expiring in the west,
    The curtain draws o' nature's rest,
    I flee to his arms I lo'e best,
      And that's my ain dear Davie.

       *       *       *       *       *

CCVI.

BRUCE TO HIS MEN AT BANNOCKBURN.

[FIRST VERSION.]

Tune--"Hey, tuttie taitie."

[Syme of Ryedale states that this fine ode was composed during a storm of rain and fire, among
the wilds of Glenken in Galloway: the poet himself gives an account much less romantic.

II.

III.

IV.

       *       *       *       *       *

CCVII.

BANNOCKBURN.

ROBERT BRUCE'S ADDRESS TO HIS ARMY.

[SECOND VERSION.]

[Thomson acknowledged the charm which this martial and national ode had for him, but he disliked
the air, and proposed to substitute that of Lewis Gordon in its place. But Lewis Gordon required
a couple of syllables more in every fourth line, which loaded the verse with expletives, and
weakened the simple energy of the original: Burns consented to the proper alterations, after
a slight resistance; but when Thomson, having succeeded in this, proposed a change in the expression,
no warrior of Bruce's day ever resisted more sternly the march of a Southron over the border.
"The only line," says the musician, "which I dislike in the whole song is,

    'Welcome to your gory bed:'

gory presents a disagreeable image to the mind, and a prudent general would avoid saying anything
to his soldiers which might tend to make death more frightful than it is." "My ode," replied
Burns, "pleases me so much that I cannot alter it: your proposed alterations would, in my opinion,
make it tame." Thomson cries out, like the timid wife of Coriolanus, "Oh, God, no blood!" while
Burns exclaims, like that Roman's heroic mother, "Yes, blood! it becomes a soldier more than
gilt his trophy."

II.

III.

IV.

       *       *       *       *       *

CCVIII.

BEHOLD THE HOUR.

Tune--"Oran-gaoil."

["The following song I have composed for the Highland air that you tell me in your last you
have resolved to give a place to in your book. I have this moment finished the song, so you
have it glowing from the mint." These are the words of Burns to Thomson: he might have added
that the song was written on the meditated voyage of Clarinda to the West Indies, to join her
husband.]

I.

    Behold the hour, the boat arrive;
      Thou goest, thou darling of my heart!
    Sever'd from thee can I survive?
      But fate has will'd, and we must part.
    I'll often greet this surging swell,
      Yon distant isle will often hail:
    "E'en here I took the last farewell;
      There, latest mark'd her vanish'd sail."

II.

    Along the solitary shore
      While flitting sea-fowl round me cry,
    Across the rolling, dashing roar,
      I'll westward turn my wistful eye:
    Happy, thou Indian grove, I'll say,
      Where now my Nancy's path may be!
    While thro' thy sweets she loves to stray,
      O tell me, does she muse on me?

       *       *       *       *       *

CCIX.

THOU HAST LEFT ME EVER.

Tune--"Fee him, father." To the poet's intercourse with musicians we owe some fine songs.]

I.

    Thou hast left me ever, Jamie!
      Thou hast left me ever;
    Thou hast left me ever, Jamie!
      Thou hast left me ever.
    Aften hast thou vow'd that death
      Only should us sever;
    Now thou's left thy lass for ay--
      I maun see thee never, Jamie,
        I'll see thee never!

II.

    Thou hast me forsaken, Jamie!

       *       *       *       *       *

CCX.

AULD LANG SYNE.

II.

III.

IV.

    And here's a hand, my trusty fiere,
      And gie's a hand o' thine;
    And we'll take a right guid willie-waught,
      For auld lang syne.

       *       *       *       *       *

CCXI.

FAIR JEANY.

Tune--"Saw ye my father?"

[In September, 1793, this song, as well as several others, was
communicated to Thomson by Burns.
    Where is the peace that awaited my wand'ring,
      At evening the wild woods among?

II.

    No more a-winding the course of yon river,
      And marking sweet flow'rets so fair:
    No more I trace the light footsteps of pleasure,
      But sorrow and sad sighing care.

III.

    Is it that summer's forsaken our valleys,
      And grim, surly winter is near?
    No, no, the bees' humming round the gay roses,
      Proclaim it the pride of the year.

IV.

    Fain would I hide, what I fear to discover,
      Yet long, long too well have I known,
    All that has caused this wreck in my bosom,
      Is Jeany, fair Jeany alone.

V.

    Time cannot aid me, my griefs are immortal,
      Nor hope dare a comfort bestow:
    Come then, enamour'd and fond of my anguish,
      Enjoyment I'll seek in my woe.

       *       *       *       *       *

CCXII.

DELUDED SWAIN, THE PLEASURE.

[To the air of the "Collier's dochter," Burns bids Thomson add the following old Bacchanal:
it is slightly altered from a rather stiff original.]

I.

    Deluded swain, the pleasure
      The fickle fair can give thee,
    Is but a fairy treasure--
      Thy hopes will soon deceive thee.

II.

    The billows on the ocean,
      The breezes idly roaming,
    The clouds uncertain motion--
      They are but types of woman.

III.

    O! art thou not ashamed
      To doat upon a feature?
    If man thou wouldst be named,
      Despise the silly creature.

IV.

    Go find an honest fellow;
      Good claret set before thee:
    Hold on till thou art mellow,
      And then to bed in glory.

       *       *       *       *       *

CCXIII.

NANCY.

[This song was inspired by the charms of Clarinda. In one of the poet's manuscripts the song
commences thus:

    Thine am I, my lovely Kate,
      Well thou mayest discover
    Every pulse along my veins
      Tell the ardent lover.

This change was tried out of compliment, it is believed, to Mrs. Thomson; but Nancy ran more
smoothly on the even road of lyrical verse than Kate.]

I.

    Thine am I, my faithful fair,
      Thine, my lovely Nancy;
    Ev'ry pulse along my veins,
      Ev'ry roving fancy.

II.

    To thy bosom lay my heart,
      There to throb and languish:
    Tho' despair had wrung its core,
      That would heal its anguish.

III.

    Take away those rosy lips,
      Rich with balmy treasure:
    Turn away thine eyes of love,
      Lest I die with pleasure.

IV.

    What is life when wanting love?
      Night without a morning:
    Love's the cloudless summer sun,
      Nature gay adorning.

       *       *       *       *       *

CCXIV.

HUSBAND, HUSBAND.

Tune--"Jo Janet."

["My Jo Janet," in the collection of Allan Ramsay, was in the poet's eye when he composed this
song, as surely as the matrimonial bickerings recorded by the old minstrels were in his mind.
He desires Thomson briefly to tell him how he likes these verses: the response of the musician
was, "Inimitable."]

I.

    Husband, husband, cease your strife,
      Nor longer idly rave, sir;
    Tho' I am your wedded wife,
      Yet I am not your slave, sir.
    "One of two must still obey,
      Nancy, Nancy;
    Is it man or woman, say,
      My spouse, Nancy?"

II.

    If 'tis still the lordly word,
      Service and obedience;
    I'll desert my sov'reign lord,
      And so, good bye, allegiance!
    "Sad will I be, so bereft,
      Nancy, Nancy;
    Yet I'll try to make a shift,
      My spouse, Nancy."

III.

    My poor heart then break it must,
      My last hour I'm near it:
    When you lay me in the dust,
      Think, think, how you will bear it.
    "I will hope and trust in heaven,
      Nancy, Nancy;
    Strength to bear it will be given,
      My spouse, Nancy."

IV.

    Well, sir, from the silent dead,
      Still I'll try to daunt you;
    Ever round your midnight bed
      Horrid sprites shall haunt you.
    "I'll wed another, like my dear
      Nancy, Nancy;
    Then all hell will fly for fear,
      My spouse, Nancy."

       *       *       *       *       *

CCXV.

WILT THOU BE MY DEARIE.

Air--"The Sutor's Dochter."

[Composed, it is said, in honour of Janet Miller, of Dalswinton, mother to the present Earl
of Marr, and then, and long after, one of the loveliest women in the south of Scotland.]

I.

    Wilt thou be my dearie?
    When sorrow wrings thy gentle heart,
    Wilt thou let me cheer thee?
    By the treasure of my soul,
    That's the love I bear thee!
    I swear and vow that only thou
    Shall ever be my dearie.
    Only thou, I swear and vow,
    Shall ever be my dearie.

II.

    Lassie, say thou lo'es me;
    Or if thou wilt no be my ain,
    Say na thou'lt refuse me:
    If it winna, canna be,
    Thou, for thine may choose me,
    Let me, lassie, quickly die,
    Trusting that thou lo'es me.
    Lassie, let me quickly die,
    Trusting that thou lo'es me.

       *       *       *       *       *

CCXVI.

BUT LATELY SEEN.

Tune--"The winter of life."

[This song was written for Johnson's Museum, in 1794: the air is East Indian: it was brought
from Hindostan by a particular friend of the poet. Thomson set the words to the air of Gil
Morrice: they are elsewhere set to the tune of the Death of the Linnet.]

I.

    But lately seen in gladsome green,
      The woods rejoiced the day;
    Thro' gentle showers and laughing flowers,
      In double pride were gay:
    But now our joys are fled
      On winter blasts awa!
    Yet maiden May, in rich array,
      Again shall bring them a'.

II.

    But my white pow, nae kindly thowe
      Shall melt the snaws of age;
    My trunk of eild, but buss or bield,
      Sinks in Time's wintry rage.
    Oh! age has weary days,
      And nights o' sleepless pain!
    Thou golden time o' youthfu' prime,
      Why comes thou not again?

       *       *       *       *       *

CCXVII.

TO MARY.

Tune--"Could aught of song."

[These verses, inspired partly by Hamilton's very tender and elegant song,

    "Ah! the poor shepherd's mournful fate,"

and some unrecorded "Mary" of the poet's heart, is in the latter volumes of Johnson. "It is
inserted in Johnson's Museum," says Sir Harris Nicolas, "with the name of Burns attached."
He might have added that it was sent by Burns, written with his own hand.]

I.

    Could aught of song declare my pains,
      Could artful numbers move thee,
    The muse should tell, in labour'd strains,
      O Mary, how I love thee!
    They who but feign a wounded heart
      May teach the lyre to languish;
    But what avails the pride of art,
      When wastes the soul with anguish?

II.

    Then let the sudden bursting sigh
      The heart-felt pang discover;
    And in the keen, yet tender eye,
      O read th' imploring lover.
    For well I know thy gentle mind
      Disdains art's gay disguising;
    Beyond what Fancy e'er refin'd,
      The voice of nature prizing.

       *       *       *       *       *

CCXVIII.

HERE'S TO THY HEALTH, MY BONNIE LASS.

Tune--"Laggan Burn."

["This song is in the Musical Museum, with Burns's name to it," says Sir Harris Nicolas. It
is a song of the poet's early days, which he trimmed up, and sent to Johnson.]

I.

    Here's to thy health, my bonnie lass,
      Gude night, and joy be wi' thee;
    I'll come na mair to thy bower-door,
      To tell thee that I lo'e thee.
    O dinna think, my pretty pink,
      But I can live without thee:
    I vow and swear I dinna care
      How lang ye look about ye.

II.

    Thou'rt ay sae free informing me
      Thou hast na mind to marry;
    I'll be as free informing thee
      Nae time hae I to tarry.
    I ken thy friends try ilka means,
      Frae wedlock to delay thee;
    Depending on some higher chance--
      But fortune may betray thee.

III.

    I ken they scorn my low estate,
      But that does never grieve me;
    But I'm as free as any he,
      Sma' siller will relieve me.
    I count my health my greatest wealth,
      Sae long as I'll enjoy it:
    I'll fear na scant, I'll bode nae want,
      As lang's I get employment.

IV.

    But far off fowls hae feathers fair,
      And ay until ye try them:
    Tho' they seem fair, still have a care,
      They may prove waur than I am.
    But at twal at night, when the moon shines bright,
      My dear, I'll come and see thee;
    For the man that lo'es his mistress weel,
      Nae travel makes him weary.

       *       *       *       *       *

CCXIX.

THE FAREWELL.

Tune--"It was a' for our rightfu' king."

["It seems very doubtful," says Sir Harris Nicolas, "how much, even if any part of this song
was written by Burns: it occurs in the Musical Museum, but not with his name." Burns, it is
believed, rather pruned and beautified an old Scottish lyric, than composed this strain entirely.
Johnson received it from him in his own handwriting.]

I.

    It was a' for our rightfu' king,
      We left fair Scotland's strand;
    It was a' for our rightfu' king
      We e'er saw Irish land,
                      My dear;
      We e'er saw Irish land.

II.

    Now a' is done that men can do,
      And a' is done in vain;
    My love and native land farewell,
      For I maun cross the main,
                      My dear;
      For I maun cross the main.

III.

    He turn'd him right, and round about
      Upon the Irish shore;
    And gae his bridle-reins a shake,
      With adieu for evermore,
                      My dear;
      With adieu for evermore.

IV.

       *       *       *       *       *

CCXX.

O STEER HER UP.

Tune--"O steer her up, and haud her gaun."

[Burns, in composing these verses, took the introductory lines of an older lyric, eked them
out in his own way, and sent them to the Museum.]

I.

    O steer her up and haud her gaun--
      Her mother's at the mill, jo;
    And gin she winna take a man,
      E'en let her take her will, jo:
    First shore her wi' a kindly kiss,
      And ca' another gill, jo,
    And gin she take the thing amiss,
      E'en let her flyte her fill, jo.

II.

    O steer her up, and be na blate,
      An' gin she take it ill, jo,
    Then lea'e the lassie till her fate,
      And time nae longer spill, jo:
    Ne'er break your heart for ae rebute,
      But think upon it still, jo,
    That gin the lassie winna do't,
      Ye'll fin' anither will, jo.

       *       *       *       *       *

CCXXI.

O AY MY WIFE SHE DANG ME.

Tune--"My wife she dang me."

[Other verses to the same air, belonging to the olden times, are still remembered in Scotland:
but they are only sung when the wine is in, and the sense of delicacy out. This song is in
the Museum.]

I.

    O ay my wife she dang me,
      And aft my wife did bang me,
    If ye gie a woman a' her will,
      Gude faith, she'll soon o'er-gang ye.

II.

    Some sairie comfort still at last,
      When a' their days are done, man;
    My pains o' hell on earth are past,
      I'm sure o' bliss aboon, man.

       *       *       *       *       *

CCXXII.

OH, WERT THOU IN THE CAULD BLAST.

Tune--"Lass o' Livistone."

[Tradition says this song was composed in honour of Jessie Lewars, the Jessie of the poet's
death-bed strains.

II.

       *       *       *       *       *

CCXXIII.

HERE IS THE GLEN.

Tune--"Banks of Cree."

[Of the origin of this song the poet gives the following account.

II.

    'Tis not Maria's whispering call;
      'Tis but the balmy-breathing gale,
    Mix'd with some warbler's dying fall,
      The dewy star of eve to hail.

III.

    It is Maria's voice I hear!
      So calls the woodlark in the grove,
    His little, faithful mate to cheer,
      At once 'tis music--and 'tis love.

IV.

    And art thou come? and art thou true?
      O welcome, dear to love and me!
    And let us all our vows renew
      Along the flow'ry banks of Cree.

       *       *       *       *       *

CCXXIV.

ON THE SEAS AND FAR AWAY.

Tune--"O'er the hills," &c.

["The last evening," 29th of August, 1794, "as I was straying out," says Burns, "and thinking
of 'O'er the hills and far away,' I spun the following stanzas for it. I was pleased with several
lines at first, but I own now that it appears rather a flimsy business. I give you leave to
abuse this song, but do it in the spirit of Christian meekness."]

I.

    How can my poor heart be glad,
    When absent from my sailor lad?
    How can I the thought forego,
    He's on the seas to meet the foe?
    Let me wander, let me rove,
    Still my heart is with my love:
    Nightly dreams, and thoughts by day,
    Are with him that's far away.
        On the seas and far away,
        On stormy seas and far away;
        Nightly dreams, and thoughts by day,
        Are ay with him that's far away.

II.

    When in summer's noon I faint,
    As weary flocks around me pant,
    Haply in this scorching sun
    My sailor's thund'ring at his gun:
    Bullets, spare my only joy!
    Bullets, spare my darling boy!
    Fate, do with me what you may--
    Spare but him that's far away!

III.

    At the starless midnight hour,
    When winter rules with boundless power:
    As the storms the forests tear,
    And thunders rend the howling air,
    Listening to the doubling roar,
    Surging on the rocky shore,
    All I can--I weep and pray,
    For his weal that's far away.

IV.

    Peace, thy olive wand extend,
    And bid wild war his ravage end,
    Man with brother man to meet,
    And as a brother kindly greet:
    Then may heaven with prosp'rous gales,
    Fill my sailor's welcome sails,
    To my arms their charge convey--
    My dear lad that's far away.

       *       *       *       *       *

CCXXV.

CA' THE YOWES.

[Burns formed this song upon an old lyric, an amended version of which he had previously communicated
to the Museum: he was fond of musing in the shadow of Lincluden towers, and on the banks of
Cluden Water.]

I.

    Ca' the yowes to the knowes,
    Ca' them whare the heather growes,
    Ca' them whare the burnie rowes--
      My bonnie dearie!
    Hark the mavis' evening sang
    Sounding Cluden's woods amang!
    Then a faulding let us gang,
      My bonnie dearie.

II.

III.

IV.

       *       *       *       *       *

CCXXVI.

SHE SAYS SHE LOVES ME BEST OF A'.

Tune--"Onagh's Waterfall."

[The lady of the flaxen ringlets has already been noticed: she is described in this song with
the accuracy of a painter, and more than the usual elegance of one: it is needless to add her
name, or to say how fine her form and how resistless her smiles.]

I.

    Sae flaxen were her ringlets,
      Her eyebrows of a darker hue,
    Bewitchingly o'er-arching
      Twa laughin' een o' bonnie blue.
    Her smiling sae wyling,
      Wad make a wretch forget his woe;
    What pleasure, what treasure,
      Unto these rosy lips to grow:
    Such was my Chloris' bonnie face,
      When first her bonnie face I saw;
    And ay my Chloris' dearest charm,
      She says she lo'es me best of a'.

II.

    Like harmony her motion;
      Her pretty ankle is a spy,
    Betraying fair proportion,
      Wad mak a saint forget the sky.
    Sae warming, sae charming,
      Her faultless form and gracefu' air;
    Ilk feature--auld Nature
      Declar'd that she could do nae mair:
    Hers are the willing chains o' love,
      By conquering beauty's sovereign law;
    And ay my Chloris' dearest charm,
      She says she lo'es me best of a'.

III.

    Let others love the city,
      And gaudy show at sunny noon;
    Gie me the lonely valley,
      The dewy eve, and rising moon;
    Fair beaming, and streaming,
      Her silver light the boughs amang;
    While falling, recalling,
      The amorous thrush concludes his sang;
    There, dearest Chloris, wilt thou rove
      By wimpling burn and leafy shaw,
    And hear my vows o' truth and love,
      And say thou lo'es me best of a'?

       *       *       *       *       *

CCXXVII.

SAW YE MY PHELY.

[QUASI DICAT PHILLIS.]

Tune--"When she came ben she bobbit."

[The despairing swain in this song was Stephen Clarke, musician, and the young lady whom he
persuaded Burns to accuse of inconstancy and coldness was Phillis M'Murdo.]

I.

    O saw ye my dear, my Phely?
    O saw ye my dear, my Phely?
    She's down i' the grove, she's wi' a new love!
      She winna come hame to her Willy.

II.

    What says she, my dearest, my Phely?
    What says she, my dearest, my Phely?
    She lets thee to wit that she has thee forgot,
      And for ever disowns thee, her Willy.

III.

    O had I ne'er seen thee, my Phely!
    O had I ne'er seen thee, my Phely!

       *       *       *       *       *

CCXXVIII.

HOW LANG AND DREARY IS THE NIGHT.

Tune--"Cauld Kail in Aberdeen."

[On comparing this lyric, corrected for Thomson, with that in the Museum, it will be seen that
the former has more of elegance and order: the latter quite as much nature and truth: but there
is less of the new than of the old in both.]

I.

    How lang and dreary is the night,
      When I am frae my dearie;
    I restless lie frae e'en to morn,
      Though I were ne'er sae weary.
        For oh! her lanely nights are lang;
          And oh! her dreams are eerie;
        And oh, her widow'd heart is sair,
          That's absent frae her dearie.

II.

    When I think on the lightsome days
      I spent wi' thee my dearie;
    And now what seas between us roar--
      How can I be but eerie?

III.

    How slow ye move, ye heavy hours;
      The joyless day how dreary!
    It was na sae ye glinted by,
      When I was wi' my dearie.

       *       *       *       *       *

CCXXIX.

LET NOT WOMAN E'ER COMPLAIN.

Tune--"Duncan Gray."

["These English songs," thus complains the poet, in the letter which conveyed this lyric to
Thomson, "gravel me to death: I have not that command of the language that I have of my native
tongue. I have been at 'Duncan Gray,' to dress it in English, but all I can do is deplorably
stupid. For instance:"]

I.

    Let not woman e'er complain
      Of inconstancy in love;
    Let not woman e'er complain
      Fickle man is apt to rove:
    Look abroad through nature's range,
    Nature's mighty law is change;
    Ladies, would it not be strange,
      Man should then a monster prove?

II.

    Mark the winds, and mark the skies;
      Ocean's ebb, and ocean's flow:
    Sun find moon but set to rise,
      Round and round the seasons go:
    Why then ask of silly man
    To oppose great nature's plan?
    We'll be constant while we can--
      You can be no more, you know.

       *       *       *       *       *

CCXXX.

THE LOVER'S MORNING SALUTE TO HIS MISTRESS.

Tune--"Deil tak the Wars."

[Burns has, in one of his letters, partly intimated that this morning salutation to Chloris
was occasioned by sitting till the dawn at the punch-bowl, and walking past her window on his
way home.]

I.

    Sleep'st thou, or wak'st thou, fairest creature?
        Rosy Morn now lifts his eye,
    Numbering ilka bud which nature
        Waters wi' the tears o' joy:
        Now through the leafy woods,
        And by the reeking floods,
    Wild nature's tenants freely, gladly stray;
        The lintwhite in his bower
        Chants o'er the breathing flower;
        The lav'rock to the sky
        Ascends wi' sangs o' joy,
    While the sun and thou arise to bless the day.

II.
        When absent frae my fair,
        The murky shades o' care
    With starless gloom o'ercast my sullen sky;
        But when, in beauty's light,
        She meets my ravish'd sight,
        When thro' my very heart
        Her beaming glories dart--
    'Tis then I wake to life, to light, and joy.

       *       *       *       *       *

CCXXXI.

CHLORIS.

Air--"My lodging is on the cold ground."

[The origin of this song is thus told by Burns to Thomson. The poetic elevation of Chloris
is great: she lived, when her charms faded, in want, and died all but destitute.]

I.

    My Chloris, mark how green the groves,
      The primrose banks how fair:
    The balmy gales awake the flowers,
      And wave thy flaxen hair.

II.

    The lav'rock shuns the palace gay,
      And o'er the cottage sings;
    For nature smiles as sweet, I ween,
      To shepherds as to kings

III.

    Let minstrels sweep the skilfu' string
      In lordly lighted ha':
    The shepherd stops his simple reed,
      Blythe, in the birken shaw.

IV.

    The princely revel may survey
      Our rustic dance wi' scorn;
    But are their hearts as light as ours,
      Beneath the milk-white thorn?

V.

    The shepherd, in the flow'ry glen,
      In shepherd's phrase will woo:
    The courtier tells a finer tale--
      But is his heart as true?

VI.

    These wild-wood flowers I've pu'd, to deck
      That spotless breast o' thine:
    The courtier's gems may witness love--
      But 'tis na love like mine.

       *       *       *       *       *

CCXXXII.

CHLOE.

Air--"Daintie Davie."

[Burns, despairing to fit some of the airs with such verses of original manufacture as Thomson
required, for the English part of his collection, took the liberty of bestowing a Southron
dress on some genuine Caledonian lyrics. The origin of this song may be found in Ramsay's miscellany:
the bombast is abated, and the whole much improved.]

I.

    It was the charming month of May,
    When all the flow'rs were fresh and gay,
    One morning, by the break of day,
      The youthful charming Chloe
    From peaceful slumber she arose,
    Girt on her mantle and her hose,
    And o'er the flowery mead she goes,
      The youthful charming Chloe.
        Lovely was she by the dawn,
          Youthful Chloe, charming Chloe,
        Tripping o'er the pearly lawn,
          The youthful charming Chloe.

II.

       *       *       *       *       *

CCXXXIII.

LASSIE WI' THE LINT-WHITE LOCKS.

Tune--"Rothemurche's Rant."
        Wilt thou be my dearie, O?
    Now nature cleeds the flowery lea,
    And a' is young and sweet like thee;
    O wilt thou share its joy wi' me,
      And say thoul't be my dearie, O?

II.

    And when the welcome simmer shower
    Has cheer'd ilk drooping little flower,
    We'll to the breathing woodbine bower
      At sultry noon, my dearie, O.

III.

    When Cynthia lights wi' silver ray,
    The weary shearer's hameward way;
    Thro' yellow waving fields we'll stray,
      And talk o' love my dearie, O.

IV.
          Wilt thou be my dearie, O?

       *       *       *       *       *

CCXXXIV.

FAREWELL, THOU STREAM.

Air--"Nancy's to the greenwood gane."

[This song was written in November, 1794: Thomson pronounced it excellent.]

I.

    Farewell, thou stream that winding flows
      Around Eliza's dwelling!
    O mem'ry! spare the cruel throes
      Within my bosom swelling:
    Condemn'd to drag a hopeless chain,
      And yet in secret languish,
    To feel a fire in ev'ry vein,
      Nor dare disclose my anguish.

II.

    Love's veriest wretch, unseen, unknown,
      I fain my griefs would cover;
    The bursting sigh, th' unweeting groan,
      Betray the hapless lover.
    I know thou doom'st me to despair,
      Nor wilt, nor canst relieve me;
    But oh, Eliza, hear one prayer--
      For pity's sake forgive me!

III.

    The music of thy voice I heard,
      Nor wist while it enslav'd me;
    I saw thine eyes, yet nothing fear'd,
      'Till fears no more had sav'd me:
    The unwary sailor thus aghast,
      The wheeling torrent viewing;
    'Mid circling horrors sinks at last
      In overwhelming ruin.

       *       *       *       *       *

CCXXXV.

O PHILLY, HAPPY BE THAT DAY.

Tune-"The Sow's Tail."

["This morning" (19th November, 1794), "though a keen blowing frost," Burns writes to Thomson,
"in my walk before breakfast I finished my duet: whether I have uniformly succeeded, I will
not say: but here it is for you, though it is not an hour old."]

HE.

    O Philly, happy be that day,
    When roving through the gather'd hay,
    My youthfu' heart was stown away,
      And by thy charms, my Philly.

SHE.

    O Willy, ay I bless the grove
    Where first I own'd my maiden love,
    Whilst thou didst pledge the powers above,
      To be my ain dear Willy.

HE.

    As songsters of the early year
    Are ilka day mair sweet to hear,
    So ilka day to me mair dear
      And charming is my Philly.

SHE.

    As on the brier the budding rose
    Still richer breathes and fairer blows,
    So in my tender bosom grows
      The love I bear my Willy.

HE.

    The milder sun and bluer sky
    That crown my harvest cares wi' joy,
    Were ne'er sae welcome to my eye
      As is a sight o' Philly.

SHE.

    The little swallow's wanton wing,
    Tho' wafting o'er the flowery spring,
    Did ne'er to me sic tidings bring,
      As meeting o' my Willy.

HE.

    The bee that thro' the sunny hour
    Sips nectar in the opening flower,
    Compar'd wi' my delight is poor,
      Upon the lips o' Philly.

SHE.

    The woodbine in the dewy weet
    When evening shades in silence meet,
    Is nocht sae fragrant or sae sweet
      As is a kiss o' Willy.

HE.

    Let Fortune's wheel at random rin,
    And fools may tyne, and knaves may win
    My thoughts are a' bound up in ane,
      And that's my ain dear Philly.

SHE.

    What's a' joys that gowd can gie?
    I care nae wealth a single flie;
    The lad I love's the lad for me,
      And that's my ain dear Willy.

       *       *       *       *       *

CCXXXVI.

CONTENTED WI' LITTLE.

Tune--"Lumps o' Pudding."

[Burns was an admirer of many songs which the more critical and fastidious regarded as rude
and homely. "Todlin Hame" he called an unequalled composition for wit and humour, and "Andro
wi' his cutty Gun," the work of a master.

II.

III.

    A towmond o' trouble, should that be my fa',
    A night o' guid fellowship sowthers it a':
    When at the blithe end o' our journey at last,
    Wha the deil ever thinks o' the road he has past?

IV.

       *       *       *       *       *

CCXXXVII.

CANST THOU LEAVE ME THUS.

Tune--"Roy's Wife."

[When Burns transcribed the following song for Thomson, on the 20th of November, 1794, he added,
"Well! I think this, to be done in two or three turns across my room, and with two or three
pinches of Irish blackguard, is not so far amiss. You see I am resolved to have my quantum
of applause from somebody." The poet in this song complains of the coldness of Mrs. Riddel:
the lady replied in a strain equally tender and forgiving.]

I.

        Canst thou leave me thus, my Katy?
        Canst thou leave me thus, my Katy?
        Well thou know'st my aching heart--
        And canst thou leave me thus for pity?
    In this thy plighted, fond regard,
      Thus cruelly to part, my Katy?
    Is this thy faithful swain's reward--
      An aching, broken heart, my Katy!

II.

    Farewell! and ne'er such sorrows tear
      That fickle heart of thine, my Katy!
    Thou may'st find those will love thee dear--
      But not a love like mine, my Katy!

       *       *       *       *       *

CCXXXVIII.

MY NANNIE'S AWA.

Tune--"There'll never be peace."

[Clarinda, tradition avers, was the inspirer of this song, which the poet composed in December,
1794, for the work of Thomson.

II.

III.

IV.

       *       *       *       *       *

CCXXXIX.

O WHA IS SHE THAT LOVES ME.

Tune--"Morag."

["This song," says Sir Harris Nicolas, "is said, in Thomson's collection, to have been written
for that work by Burns: but it is not included in Mr. Cunningham's edition." If sir Harris
would be so good as to look at page 245; vol. V., of Cunningham's edition of Burns, he will
find the song; and if he will look at page 28, and page 193 of vol. III., of his own edition,
he will find that he has not committed the error of which he accuses his fellow-editor, for
he has inserted the same song twice. The same may be said of the song to Chloris, which Sir
Harris has printed at page 312, vol. II,. and at page 189, vol. III., and of "Ae day a braw
wooer came down the lang glen," which appears both at page 224 of vol. II., and at page 183
of vol, III.]

I.

    O wha is she that lo'es me,
      And has my heart a-keeping?
    O sweet is she that lo'es me,
      As dews of simmer weeping,
      In tears the rosebuds steeping!
          O that's the lassie of my heart,
            My lassie ever dearer;
          O that's the queen of womankind,
            And ne'er a ane to peer her.

II.

    If thou shalt meet a lassie
      In grace and beauty charming,
    That e'en thy chosen lassie,
      Erewhile thy breast sae warming
      Had ne'er sic powers alarming.

III.

    If thou hadst heard her talking,
      And thy attentions plighted,
    That ilka body talking,
      But her by thee is slighted,
      And thou art all delighted.

IV.

       *       *       *       *       *

CCXL.

CALEDONIA.

Tune--"Caledonian Hunt's Delight."

[There is both knowledge of history and elegance of allegory in this singular lyric: it was
first printed by Currie.]

I.

    There was once a day--but old Time then was young--
      That brave Caledonia, the chief of her line,
    From some of your northern deities sprung,
      (Who knows not that brave Caledonia's divine?)
    From Tweed to the Orcades was her domain,
      To hunt, or to pasture, or do what she would:
    Her heav'nly relations there fixed her reign,
      And pledg'd her their godheads to warrant it good.

II.

    A lambkin in peace, but a lion in war,
      The pride of her kindred the heroine grew;
    Her grandsire, old Odin, triumphantly swore
      "Whoe'er shall provoke thee, th' encounter shall rue!"
    With tillage or pasture at times she would sport,
      To feed her fair flocks by her green rustling corn;
    But chiefly the woods were her fav'rite resort,
      Her darling amusement, the hounds and the horn.

III.

    Long quiet she reign'd; till thitherward steers
      A flight of bold eagles from Adria's strand:
    Repeated, successive, for many long years,
      They darken'd the air, and they plunder'd the land:
    Their pounces were murder, and terror their cry,
      They'd conquer'd and ruin'd a world beside;
    She took to her hills, and her arrows let fly--
      The daring invaders they fled or they died.

IV.

    The fell harpy-raven took wing from the north,
      The scourge of the seas, and the dread of the shore;
    The wild Scandinavian boar issu'd forth
      To wanton in carnage, and wallow in gore;
    O'er countries and kingdoms their fury prevail'd,
      No arts could appease them, no arms could repel;
    But brave Caledonia in vain they assail'd,
      As Largs well can witness, and Loncartie tell.

V.

    The Cameleon-savage disturbed her repose,
      With tumult, disquiet, rebellion, and strife;
    Provok'd beyond bearing, at last she arose,
      And robb'd him at once of his hope and his life:
    The Anglian lion, the terror of France,
      Oft prowling, ensanguin'd the Tweed's silver flood:
    But, taught by the bright Caledonian lance,
      He learned to fear in his own native wood.

VI.

    Thus bold, independent, unconquer'd, and free,
      Her bright course of glory for ever shall run:
    For brave Caledonia immortal must be;
      I'll prove it from Euclid as clear as the sun:
    Rectangle-triangle, the figure we'll choose,
      The upright is Chance, and old Time is the base;
    But brave Caledonia's the hypothenuse;
      Then ergo, she'll match them, and match them always.

       *       *       *       *       *

CCXLI.

O LAY THY LOOF IN MINE, LASS.

Tune--"Cordwainer's March."

[The air to which these verses were written, is commonly played at the Saturnalia of the shoemakers
on King Crispin's day. Burns sent it to the Museum.]

I.

    O lay thy loof in mine, lass,
    In mine, lass, in mine, lass;
    And swear on thy white hand, lass,
      That thou wilt be my ain.
    A slave to love's unbounded sway,
    He aft has wrought me meikle wae;
    But now he is my deadly fae,
      Unless thou be my ain.

II.

    There's monie a lass has broke my rest,
    That for a blink I hae lo'ed best;
    But thou art queen within my breast,
      For ever to remain.

       *       *       *       *       *

CCXLII.

THE FETE CHAMPETRE.

Tune--"Killiecrankie."

[Written to introduce the name of Cunninghame, of Enterkin, to the public. Tents were erected
on the banks of Ayr, decorated with shrubs, and strewn with flowers, most of the names of note
in the district were invited, and a splendid entertainment took place; but no dissolution of
parliament followed as was expected, and the Lord of Enterkin, who was desirous of a seat among
the "Commons," poured out his wine in vain.]

I.

    O wha will to Saint Stephen's house,
      To do our errands there, man?
    O wha will to Saint Stephen's house,
      O' th' merry lads of Ayr, man?
    Or will we send a man-o'-law?
      Or will we send a sodger?
    Or him wha led o'er Scotland a'
      The meikle Ursa-Major?

II.

    Come, will ye court a noble lord,
      Or buy a score o' lairds, man?
    For worth and honour pawn their word,
      Their vote shall be Glencaird's, man?
    Ane gies them coin, ane gies them wine,
      Anither gies them clatter;
    Anbank, wha guess'd the ladies' taste,
      He gies a Fête Champêtre.

III.

    When Love and Beauty heard the news,
      The gay green-woods amang, man;
    Where gathering flowers and busking bowers,
      They heard the blackbird's sang, man;
    A vow, they seal'd it with a kiss,
      Sir Politicks to fetter,
    As theirs alone, the patent-bliss
      To hold a Fête Champêtre.

IV.

    Then mounted Mirth, on gleesome wing,
      O'er hill and dale she flew, man;
    Ilk wimpling burn, ilk crystal spring,
      Ilk glen and shaw she knew, man:
    She summon'd every social sprite
      That sports by wood or water,
    On th' bonny banks of Ayr to meet,
      And keep this Fête Champêtre.

V.

    Cauld Boreas, wi' his boisterous crew,
      Were bound to stakes like kye, man;
    And Cynthia's car, o' silver fu',
      Clamb up the starry sky, man:
    Reflected beams dwell in the streams,
      Or down the current shatter;
    The western breeze steals thro' the trees,
      To view this Fête Champêtre.

VI.

    How many a robe sae gaily floats!
      What sparkling jewels glance, man!
    To Harmony's enchanting notes,
      As moves the mazy dance, man.
    The echoing wood, the winding flood,
      Like Paradise did glitter,
    When angels met, at Adam's yett,
      To hold their Fête Champêtre.

VII.

    When Politics came there, to mix
      And make his ether-stane, man!
    He circled round the magic ground,
      But entrance found he nane, man:
    He blush'd for shame, he quat his name,
      Forswore it, every letter,
    Wi' humble prayer to join and share
      This festive Fête Champêtre.

       *       *       *       *       *

CCXLIII.

HERE'S A HEALTH.

Tune--"Here's a health to them that's awa."

[The Charlie of this song was Charles Fox; Tammie was Lord Erskine; and M'Leod, the maiden
name of the Countess of Loudon, was then, as now, a name of influence both in the Highlands
and Lowlands. The buff and blue of the Whigs had triumphed over the white rose of Jacobitism
in the heart of Burns, when he wrote these verses.]

I.

    Here's a health to them that's awa,
    Here's a health to them that's awa;
    And wha winna wish guid luck to our cause,
    May never guid luck be their fa'!
    It's guid to be merry and wise,
    It's guid to be honest and true,
    It's good to support Caldonia's cause,
    And bide by the buff and the blue.

II.

    Here's a health to them that's awa,
    Here's a health to them that's awa,
    Here's a health to Charlie the chief of the clan,
    Altho' that his band be sma'.
    May liberty meet wi' success!
    May prudence protect her frae evil!
    May tyrants and tyranny tine in the mist,
    And wander their way to the devil!

III.

    Here's a health to them that's awa,
    Here's a health to them that's awa;
    Here's a health to Tammie, the Norland laddie,
    That lives at the lug o' the law!
    Here's freedom to him that wad read,
    Here's freedom to him that wad write!
    There's nane ever fear'd that the truth should be heard,
    But they wham the truth wad indite.

IV.

    Here's a health to them that's awa,
    Here's a health to them that's awa,
    Here's Chieftain M'Leod, a chieftain worth gowd,
    Tho' bred amang mountains o' snaw!

       *       *       *       *       *

CCXLIV.

IS THERE, FOR HONEST POVERTY.

Tune--"For a' that, and a' that."

[In this noble lyric Burns has vindicated the natural right of his species. He modestly says
to Thomson, "I do not give you this song for your book, but merely by way of vive la bagatelle;
for the piece is really not poetry, but will be allowed to be two or three pretty good prose
thoughts inverted into rhyme."

II.

III.

IV.

       *       *       *       *       *

CCXLV.

CRAIGIE-BURN WOOD.

[Craigie-burn Wood was written for George Thomson: the heroine was Jean Lorimer. How often
the blooming looks and elegant forms of very indifferent characters lend a lasting lustre to
painting and poetry.]

I.

    Sweet fa's the eve on Craigie-burn,
      And blithe awakes the morrow;
    But a' the pride o' spring's return
      Can yield me nocht but sorrow.

II.

    I see the flowers and spreading trees
      I hear the wild birds singing;
    But what a weary wight can please,
      And care his bosom wringing?

III.

    If thou refuse to pity me,
      If thou shall love anither,
    When yon green leaves fade frae the tree,
      Around my grave they'll wither.

       *       *       *       *       *

CCXLVI.

O LASSIE, ART THOU SLEEPING YET.

Tune--"Let me in this ae night."

[The thoughts of Burns, it is said, wandered to the fair Mrs. Riddel, of Woodleigh Park, while
he composed this song for Thomson. The idea is taken from an old lyric, of more spirit than
decorum.]

I.

    O Lassie, art thou sleeping yet,
    Or art thou waking, I would wit?
    For love has bound me hand and foot,
      And I would fain be in, jo.
        O let me in this ae night,
          This ae, ae, ae night;
        For pity's sake this ae night,
          O rise and let me in, jo!

II.

    Thou hear'st the winter wind and weet!
    Nae star blinks thro' the driving sleet:
    Tak pity on my weary feet,
      And shield me frae the rain, jo.

III.

       *       *       *       *       *

CCXLVII.

O TELL NA ME O' WIND AND RAIN.

[The poet's thoughts, as rendered in the lady's answer, are, at all events, not borrowed from
the sentiments expressed by Mrs. Riddel, alluded to in song CCXXXVII.; there she is tender
and forgiving: here she in stern and cold.]

I.

    O tell na me o' wind and rain,
    Upbraid na me wi' cauld disdain!
    Gae back the gate ye cam again,
      I winna let you in, jo.
        I tell you now this ae night,
          This ae, ae, ae night,
        And ance for a' this ae night,
          I winna let you in, jo!

II.

    The snellest blast, at mirkest hours,
    That round the pathless wand'rer pours,
    Is nocht to what poor she endures,
      That's trusted faithless man, jo.

III.

    The sweetest flower that deck'd the mead,
    Now trodden like the vilest weed:
    Let simple maid the lesson read,
      The weird may be her ain, jo.

IV.

       *       *       *       *       *

CCXLVIII.

THE DUMFRIES VOLUNTEERS.

Tune--"Push about the jorum."

[This national song was composed in April, 1795. The poet had been at a public meeting, where
he was less joyous than usual: as something had been expected from him, he made these verses,
when he went home, and sent them, with his compliments, to Mr. Jackson, editor of the Dumfries
Journal. The original, through the kindness of my friend, James Milligan, Esq., is now before me.]

I.

    Does haughty Gaul invasion threat,
      Then let the loons beware, Sir,
    There's wooden walls upon our seas,
      And volunteers on shore, Sir.
    The Nith shall run to Corsincon,
      And Criffel sink in Solway,
    Ere we permit a foreign foe
      On British ground to rally!

II.

    O let us not, like snarling tykes,
      In wrangling be divided;
    Till slap come in an unco loon
      And wi' a rung decide it.
    Be Britain still to Britain true,
      Amang oursels united;
    For never but by British hands
      Maun British wrangs be righted!

III.

IV.

    The wretch that wad a tyrant own,
      And the wretch his true-born brother,
    Who would set the mob aboon the throne,
      May they be damned together!
    Who will not sing, "God save the King,"
      Shall hang as high's the steeple;
    But while we sing, "God save the King,"
      We'll ne'er forget the people.

       *       *       *       *       *

CCXLIX.

ADDRESS TO THE WOOD-LARK.

Tune--"Where'll bonnie Ann lie."

[The old song to the same air is yet remembered: but the humour is richer than the delicacy;
the same may be said of many of the fine hearty lyrics of the elder days of Caledonia.

II.

III.

    Say, was thy little mate unkind,
    And heard thee as the careless wind?
    Oh, nocht but love and sorrow join'd,
      Sic notes o' woe could wauken.

IV.

    Thou tells o' never-ending care;
    O' speechless grief and dark despair:
    For pity's sake, sweet bird, nae mair!
      Or my poor heart is broken!

       *       *       *       *       *

CCL.

ON CHLORIS BEING ILL.

Tune--"Ay wakin', O."

[An old and once popular lyric suggested this brief and happy song for Thomson: some of the
verses deserve to be held in remembrance.

    Ay waking, oh,
      Waking ay and weary;
    Sleep I canna get
      For thinking o' my dearie.]

I.

    Long, long the night,
      Heavy comes the morrow,
    While my soul's delight
      Is on her bed of sorrow.

    Can I cease to care?
      Can I cease to languish?
    While my darling fair
      Is on the couch of anguish?

II.

    Every hope is fled,
      Every fear is terror;
    Slumber even I dread,
      Every dream is horror.

III.

    Hear me, Pow'rs divine!
      Oh, in pity hear me!
    Take aught else of mine,
      But my Chloris spare me!

       *       *       *       *       *

CCLI.

CALEDONIA.

Tune--"Humours of Glen."

II.

    Tho' rich is the breeze in their gay sunny valleys,
      And cauld CALEDONIA'S blast on the wave;
    Their sweet-scented woodlands that skirt the proud palace,
      What are they?--The haunt of the tyrant and slave!
    The slave's spicy forests, and gold-bubbling fountains,
      The brave Caledonian views wi' disdain;
    He wanders as free as the winds of his mountains,
      Save love's willing fetters, the chains o' his Jean.

       *       *       *       *       *

CCLII.

'TWAS NA HER BONNIE BLUE EEN.

Tune--"Laddie, lie near me."

[Though the lady who inspired these verses is called Mary by the poet, such, says tradition,
was not her name: yet tradition, even in this, wavers, when it avers one while that Mrs. Riddel,
and at another time that Jean Lorimer was the heroine.]

I.

    'Twas na her bonnie blue een was my ruin;
    Fair tho' she be, that was ne'er my undoing:
    'Twas the dear smile when naebody did mind us,
    'Twas the bewitching, sweet stown glance o' kindness.

II.

    Sair do I fear that to hope is denied me,
    Sair do I fear that despair maun abide me!
    But tho' fell fortune should fate us to sever,
    Queen shall she be in my bosom for ever.

III.

    Mary, I'm thine wi' a passion sincerest,
    And thou hast plighted me love o' the dearest!
    And thou'rt the angel that never can alter--
    Sooner the sun in his motion would falter.

       *       *       *       *       *

CCLIII.

HOW CRUEL ARE THE PARENTS.

Tune--"John Anderson, my jo." Yet there is less than the poet's usual inspiration in this lyric,
for it is altered from an English one.]

I.

    How cruel are the parents
      Who riches only prize,
    And, to the wealthy booby,
      Poor woman sacrifice!
    Meanwhile the hapless daughter
      Has but a choice of strife;
    To shun a tyrant father's hate,
      Become a wretched wife.

II.

    The ravening hawk pursuing,
      The trembling dove thus flies,
    To shun impelling ruin
      Awhile her pinions tries:
    Till of escape despairing,
      No shelter or retreat,
    She trusts the ruthless falconer,
      And drops beneath his feet!

       *       *       *       *       *

CCLIV.

MARK YONDER POMP.

Tune--"Deil tak the wars."

[Burns tells Thomson, in the letter enclosing this song, that he is in a high fit of poetizing,
provided he is not cured by the strait-waistcoat of criticism. "You see," said he, "how I answer
your orders; your tailor could not be more punctual." This strain in honour of Chloris is original
in conception, but wants the fine lyrical flow of some of his other compositions.]

I.

    Mark yonder pomp of costly fashion
      Round the wealthy, titled bride:
    But when compar'd with real passion,
      Poor is all that princely pride.
        What are the showy treasures?
        What are the noisy pleasures?
    The gay gaudy glare of vanity and art:
        The polish'd jewel's blaze
        May draw the wond'ring gaze,
        And courtly grandeur bright
        The fancy may delight,
    But never, never can come near the heart.

II.

    But did you see my dearest Chloris
      In simplicity's array;
    Lovely as yonder sweet opening flower is,
      Shrinking from the gaze of day;
        O then the heart alarming,
        And all resistless charming,
    In Love's delightful fetters she chains the willing soul!
        Ambition would disown
        The world's imperial crown,
        Even Avarice would deny
        His worship'd deity,
    And feel thro' every vein Love's raptures roll.

       *       *       *       *       *

CCLV.

THIS IS NO MY AIN LASSIE.

Tune--"This is no my ain house."

[Though composed to the order of Thomson, and therefore less likely to be the offspring of
unsolicited inspiration, this is one of the happiest modern songs. When the poet wrote it,
he seems to have been beside the "fair dame at whose shrine," he said, "I, the priest of the
Nine, offer up the incense of Parnassus."]

I.

        O this is no my ain lassie,
          Fair tho' the lassie be;
        O weel ken I my ain lassie,
          Kind love is in her e'e.
    I see a form, I see a face,
    Ye weel may wi' the fairest place:
    It wants, to me, the witching grace,
      The kind love that's in her e'e.

II.

    She's bonnie, blooming, straight, and tall,
    And lang has had my heart in thrall;
    And ay it charms my very saul,
      The kind love that's in her e'e.

III.

    A thief sae pawkie is my Jean,
    To steal a blink, by a' unseen;
    But gleg as light are lovers' een,
      When kind love is in the e'e.

IV.

NOW SPRING HAS CLAD THE

GROVE IN GREEN.

TO MR. CUNNINGHAM.

[Composed in reference to a love disappointment of the poet's friend, Alexander Cunningham,
which also occasioned the song beginning,

    "Had I a cave on some wild distant shore."]

I.

    Now spring has clad the grove in green,
      And strew'd the lea wi' flowers:
    The furrow'd waving corn is seen
      Rejoice in fostering showers;
    While ilka thing in nature join
      Their sorrows to forego,
    O why thus all alone are mine
      The weary steps of woe?

II.

    The trout within yon wimpling burn
      Glides swift, a silver dart,
    And safe beneath the shady thorn
      Defies the angler's art:
    My life was ance that careless stream,
      That wanton trout was I;
    But love, wi' unrelenting beam,
      Has scorch'd my fountains dry.

III.

    The little flow'ret's peaceful lot,
      In yonder cliff that grows,
    Which, save the linnet's flight, I wot,
      Nae ruder visit knows,
    Was mine; till love has o'er me past,
      And blighted a' my bloom,
    And now beneath the with'ring blast
      My youth and joy consume.

IV.

    The waken'd lav'rock warbling springs
      And climbs the early sky,
    Winnowing blythe her dewy wings
      In morning's rosy eye;
    As little reckt I sorrow's power,
      Until the flow'ry snare
    O' witching love, in luckless hour,
      Made me the thrall o' care.

V.

    O had my fate been Greenland snows,
      Or Afric's burning zone,
    Wi' man and nature leagu'd my foes,
      So Peggy ne'er I'd known!
    The wretch whase doom is, "hope nae mair."
      What tongue his woes can tell!
    Within whase bosom, save despair,
      Nae kinder spirits dwell.

       *       *       *       *       *

CCLVII.

O BONNIE WAS YON ROSY BRIER.

[To Jean Lorimer, the heroine of this song, Burns presented a copy of the last edition of his
poems, that of 1793, with a dedicatory inscription, in which he moralizes upon her youth, her
beauty, and steadfast friendship, and signs himself Coila.]

I.

    O Bonnie was yon rosy brier,
      That blooms sae far frae haunt o' man,
    And bonnie she, and ah, how dear!
      It shaded frae the e'enin sun.

II.

    Yon rosebuds in the morning dew
      How pure, amang the leaves sae green:
    But purer was the lover's vow
      They witness'd in their shade yestreen.

III.

    All in its rude and prickly bower,
      That crimson rose, how sweet and fair!
    But love is far a sweeter flower
      Amid life's thorny path o' care.

IV.

    The pathless wild, and wimpling burn,
      Wi' Chloris in my arms, be mine;
    And I the world, nor wish, nor scorn,
      Its joys and griefs alike resign.

       *       *       *       *       *

CCLVIII.

FORLORN, MY LOVE, NO COMFORT

NEAR.

Tune--"Let me in this ae night."

["How do you like the foregoing?" Burns asks Thomson, after having copies this song for his
collection.

III.

    Cold, alter'd friendship's cruel part,
    To poison Fortune's ruthless dart,
    Let me not break thy faithful heart,
      And say that fate is mine, love.

IV.

    But dreary tho' the moments fleet,
    O let me think we yet shall meet!

       *       *       *       *       *

CCLIX.

LAST MAY A BRAW WOOER.

Tune--"The Lothian Lassie."

["Gateslack," says Burns to Thomson, "is the name of a particular place, a kind of passage
among the Lowther Hills, on the confines of Dumfrieshire: Dalgarnock, is also the name of a
romantic spot near the Nith, where are still a ruined church and burial-ground."

II.

    He spak o' the darts in my bonnie black een,
      And vow'd for my love, he was dying;
    I said he might die when he liked for Jean,
      The Lord forgie me for lying, for lying,
      The Lord forgie me for lying!

III.

    A weel-stocked mailen--himsel' for the laird--
      And marriage aff-hand, were his proffers:
    I never loot on that I kenn'd it, or car'd,
      But thought I may hae waur offers, waur offers,
      But thought I might hae waur offers.

IV.

    But what wad ye think? In a fortnight or less--
      The deil tak his taste to gae near her!
    He up the Gateslack to my black cousin Bess,
      Guess ye how, the jad! I could bear her, could bear her,
      Guess ye how, the jad! I could bear her.

V.

    But a' the niest week as I fretted wi' care,
      I gaed to the tryste o' Dalgarnock,
    And wha but my fine fickle lover was there!
      I glowr'd as I'd seen a warlock, a warlock,
      I glowr'd as I'd seen a warlock.

VI.

    But owre my left shouther I gae him a blink,
      Lest neebors might say I was saucy;
    My wooer he caper'd as he'd been in drink,
      And vow'd I was his dear lassie, dear lassie,
      And vow'd I was his dear lassie.

VII.

    I spier'd for my cousin fu' couthy and sweet,
      Gin she had recovered her hearin',
    And how my auld shoon suited her shauchled feet,
      But, heavens! how he fell a swearin', a swearin',
      But, heavens! how he fell a swearin'.

VIII.

    He begged, for Gudesake, I wad be his wife,
      Or else I wad kill him wi' sorrow;
    So, e'en to preserve the poor body in life,
      I think I maun wed him to-morrow, to-morrow,
      I think I maun wed him to morrow.

       *       *       *       *       *

CCLX.

CHLORIS.

Tune--"Caledonian Hunt's Delight."

["I am at present," says Burns to Thomson, when he communicated these verses, "quite occupied
with the charming sensations of the toothache, so have not a word to spare--such is the peculiarity
of the rhythm of this air, that I find it impossible to make another stanza to suit it." This
is the last of his strains in honour of Chloris.]

I.

    Why, why tell thy lover,
      Bliss he never must enjoy:
    Why, why undeceive him,
      And give all his hopes the lie?

II.

    O why, while fancy raptured, slumbers,
      Chloris, Chloris all the theme,
    Why, why wouldst thou, cruel,
      Wake thy lover from his dream?

       *       *       *       *       *

CCLXI.

THE HIGHLAND WIDOW'S LAMENT.

[This song is said to be Burns's version of a Gaelic lament for the ruin which followed the
rebellion of the year 1745: he sent it to the Museum.]

I.

    Oh! I am come to the low countrie,
      Och-on, och-on, och-rie!
    Without a penny in my purse,
      To buy a meal to me.

II.

    It was na sae in the Highland hills,
      Och-on, och-on, och-rie!
    Nae woman in the country wide
      Sae happy was as me.

III.

    For then I had a score o' kye,
      Och-on, och-on, och-rie!
    Feeding on yon hills so high,
      And giving milk to me.

IV.

    And there I had three score o' yowes,
      Och-on, och-on, och-rie!
    Skipping on yon bonnie knowes,
      And casting woo' to me.

V.

    I was the happiest of a' the clan,
      Sair, sair, may I repine;
    For Donald was the brawest lad,
      And Donald he was mine.

VI.

    Till Charlie Stewart cam' at last,
      Sae far to set us free;
    My Donald's arm was wanted then,
      For Scotland and for me.

VII.

    Their waefu' fate what need I tell,
      Right to the wrang did yield:
    My Donald and his country fell
      Upon Culloden's field.

VIII.

    Oh! I am come to the low countrie,
      Och-on, och-on, och-rie!
    Nae woman in the world wide
      Sae wretched now as me.

       *       *       *       *       *

CCLXII.

TO GENERAL DUMOURIER.

PARODY ON ROBIN ADAIR.

[Burns wrote this "Welcome" on the unexpected defection of General Dumourier.]

I.

    You're welcome to despots, Dumourier;
    You're welcome to despots, Dumourier;
        How does Dampiere do?
        Aye, and Bournonville, too?
    Why did they not come along with you, Dumourier?

II.

    I will fight France with you, Dumourier;
    I will fight France with you, Dumourier;
        I will fight France with you,
        I will take my chance with you;
    By my soul I'll dance a dance with you, Dumourier.

III.

    Then let us fight about, Dumourier;
    Then let us fight about, Dumourier;
        Then let us fight about,
        Till freedom's spark is out,
    Then we'll be damn'd, no doubt, Dumourier.

       *       *       *       *       *

CCLXIII.

PEG-A-RAMSEY.

Tune--"Cauld is the e'enin blast."

[Most of this song is old: Burns gave it a brushing for the Museum.]

I.

    Cauld is the e'enin' blast
      O' Boreas o'er the pool,
    And dawin' it is dreary
      When birks are bare at Yule.

II.

    O bitter blaws the e'enin' blast
      When bitter bites the frost,
    And in the mirk and dreary drift
      The hills and glens are lost.

III.

    Ne'er sae murky blew the night
      That drifted o'er the hill,
    But a bonnie Peg-a-Ramsey
      Gat grist to her mill.

       *       *       *       *       *

CCLXIV.

THERE WAS A BONNIE LASS.

[A snatch of an old strain, trimmed up a little for the Museum.]

I.

      There was a bonnie lass,
      And a bonnie, bonnie lass,
    And she lo'ed her bonnie laddie dear;
      Till war's loud alarms
      Tore her laddie frae her arms,
    Wi' mony a sigh and tear.

II.

      Over sea, over shore,
      Where the cannons loudly roar,
    He still was a stranger to fear;
      And nocht could him quell,
      Or his bosom assail,
    But the bonnie lass he lo'ed sae dear.

       *       *       *       *       *

CCLXV.

O MALLY'S MEEK, MALLY'S SWEET.

[Burns, it is said, composed these verses, on meeting a country girl,
with her shoes and stockings in her lap, walking homewards from a
Dumfries fair. He was struck with her beauty, and as beautifully has
he recorded it.
    As I was walking up the street,
      A barefit maid I chanc'd to meet;
    But O the road was very hard
      For that fair maiden's tender feet.

II.

    It were mair meet that those fine feet
      Were weel lac'd up in silken shoon,
    And 'twere more fit that she should sit,
      Within yon chariot gilt aboon.

III.

       *       *       *       *       *

CCLXVI.

HEY FOR A LASS WI' A TOCHER.

Tune--"Balinamona Ora."

[Communicated to Thomson, 17th of February, 1796, to be printed as part of the poet's contribution
to the Irish melodies: he calls it "a kind of rhapsody."]

I.

    Awa wi' your witchcraft o' beauty's alarms,
    The slender bit beauty you grasp in your arms:
    O, gie me the lass that has acres o' charms,
    O, gie me the lass wi' the weel-stockit farms.

II.

    Your beauty's a flower, in the morning that blows,
    And withers the faster, the faster it grows;
    But the rapturous charm o' the bonnie green knowes,
    Ilk spring they're new deckit wi' bonnie white yowes.

III.

    And e'en when this beauty your bosom has blest,
    The brightest o' beauty may cloy when possest;
    But the sweet yellow darlings wi' Geordie imprest,
    The langer ye hae them--the mair they're carest.

       *       *       *       *       *

CCLXVII.

JESSY.

Tune--"Here's a health to them that's awa."

[Written in honour of Miss Jessie Lewars, now Mrs. Thomson.

II.

III.

    I mourn through the gay, gaudy day,
      As, hopeless, I muse on thy charms:
    But welcome the dream o' sweet slumber,
      For then I am lockt in thy arms--Jessy!

IV.

       *       *       *       *       *

CCLXVIII.

FAIREST MAID ON DEVON BANKS.

Tune--"Rothemurche."
    Full well thou know'st I love thee, dear!
    Could'st thou to malice lend an ear!
    O! did not love exclaim "Forbear,
      Nor use a faithful lover so."

II.

    Then come, thou fairest of the fair,
    Those wonted smiles, O let me share;
    And by thy beauteous self I swear,
      No love but thine my heart shall know.

       *       *       *       *       *

GENERAL CORRESPONDENCE.

I.

TO WILLIAM BURNESS.

[This was written by Burns in his twenty-third year, when learning flax-dressing in Irvine,
and is the earliest of his letters which has reached us.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 141: Pope. Essay on Man]

       *       *       *       *       *

II.

TO MR. JOHN MURDOCH,

SCHOOLMASTER,

STABLES-INN BUILDINGS, LONDON. My father continued till the last year of his life to correspond
with his nephew, and it was afterwards kept up by my brother. Extracts from some of my brother's
letters to his cousin are introduced, for the purpose of exhibiting the poet before he had
attracted the notice of the public, and in his domestic family relations afterwards.--GILBERT
BURNS.]

       *       *       *       *       *

IV.

TO MISS E.

[The name of the lady to whom this and the three succeeding letters were addressed, seems to
have been known to Dr. Currie, who introduced them in his first edition, but excluded them
from his second. They were restored by Gilbert Burns, without naming the lady.]

Lochlea, 1783.

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

V.

TO MISS E.

Lochlea, 1783.

R. B.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 144: Pope. Eloisa to Abelard.]

       *       *       *       *       *

VI.

TO MISS E.

Lochlea, 1783.

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

VII.

TO MISS E.

Lochlea, 1783.

TO ROBERT RIDDEL, ESQ.

OF GLENRIDDEL

[These memoranda throw much light on the early days of Burns, and on the history of his mind
and compositions. Robert Riddel, of the Friars-Carse, to whom these fragments were sent, was
a good man as well as a distinguished antiquary.]

MY DEAR SIR,

On rummaging over some old papers I lighted on a MS. of my early years, in which I had determined
to write myself out; as I was placed by fortune among a class of men to whom my ideas would
have been nonsense. I had meant that the book should have lain by me, in the fond hope that
some time or other, even after I was no more, my thoughts would fall into the hands of somebody
capable of appreciating their value. It sets off thus:--

"OBSERVATIONS, HINTS, SONGS, SCRAPS OF POETRY, &c., by ROBERT BURNESS: a man who had little
art in making money, and still less in keeping it; but was, however, a man of some sense, a
great deal of honesty, and unbounded good-will to every creature, rational and irrational.--As
he was but little indebted to scholastic education, and bred at a plough-tail, his performances
must be strongly tinctured with his unpolished, rustic way of life; but as I believe they are
really his own, it may be some entertainment to a curious observer of human nature to see how
a ploughman thinks, and feels, under the pressure of love, ambition, anxiety, grief, with the
like cares and passions, which, however diversified by the modes and manners of life, operate
pretty much alike, I believe, on all the species."

     "There are numbers in the world who do not want sense to
     make a figure, so much as an opinion of their own abilities
     to put them upon recording their observations, and allowing
     them the same importance which they do to those which appear
     in print."--SHENSTONE.

       *       *       *       *       *

April, 1783.

Notwithstanding all that has been said against love, respecting the folly and weakness it lends
a young inexperienced mind into; still I think it in a great measure deserves the highest encomiums
that have been passed upon it. If anything on earth deserves the name of rapture or transport,
it is the feelings of green eighteen in the company of the mistress of his heart, when she
repays him with an equal return of affection.

       *       *       *       *       *

August.

There is certainly some connexion between love and music, and poetry; and therefore, I have
always thought it a fine touch of nature, that passage in a modern love-composition:

    "As towards her cot she jogged along,
      Her name was frequent in his song." The
performance is indeed, very puerile and silly; but I am always pleased
with it, as it recalls to my mind those happy days when my heart was
yet honest, and my tongue was sincere. The subject of it was a young
girl who really deserved all the praises I have bestowed on her. I not
only had this opinion of her then--but I actually think so still, now
that the spell is long since broken, and the enchantment at an end.

    O once I lov'd a bonnie lass.[145]

Lest my works should be thought below criticism: or meet with a critic, who, perhaps, will
not look on them with so candid and favourable an eye, I am determined to criticise them myself.

The first distich of the first stanza is quite too much in the flimsy strain of our ordinary
street ballads: and, on the other hand, the second distich is too much in the other extreme.
The expression is a little awkward, and the sentiment too serious. Stanza the second I am well
pleased with; and I think it conveys a fine idea of that amiable part of the sex--the agreeables;
or what in our Scotch dialect we call a sweet sonsie lass. The third stanza has a little of
the flimsy turn in it; and the third line has rather too serious a cast. The fourth stanza
is a very indifferent one; the first line, is, indeed, all in the strain of the second stanza,
but the rest is most expletive. The thoughts in the fifth stanza come finely up to my favourite
idea--a sweet sonsie lass: the last line, however, halts a little. The same sentiments are
kept up with equal spirit and tenderness in the sixth stanza, but the second and fourth lines
ending with short syllables hurt the whole.

       *       *       *       *       *

September.

I entirely agree with that judicious philosopher, Mr. Smith, in his excellent Theory of Moral
Sentiments, that remorse is the most painful sentiment that can embitter the human bosom. Any
ordinary pitch of fortitude may bear up tolerably well under those calamities, in the procurement
of which we ourselves have had no hand; but when our own follies, or crimes, have made us miserable
and wretched, to bear up with manly firmness, and at the same time have a proper penitent sense
of our misconduct, is a glorious effort of self-command.

       *       *       *       *       *

March, 1784.

I have often observed, in the course of my experience of human life, that every man, even the
worst, has something good about him; though very often nothing else than a happy temperament
of constitution inclining him to this or that virtue. For this reason no man can say in what
degree any other person, besides himself, can be, with strict justice, called wicked. Let any,
of the strictest character for regularity of conduct among us, examine impartially how many
vices he has never been guilty of, not from any care or vigilance, but for want of opportunity,
or some accidental circumstance intervening; how many of the weaknesses of mankind he has escaped,
because he was out of the line of such temptation; and, what often, if not always, weighs more
than all the rest, how much he is indebted to the world's good opinion, because the world does
not know all: I say, any man who can thus think, will scan the failings, nay, the faults and
crimes, of mankind around him, with a brother's eye.

       *       *       *       *       *

April.

As I am what the men of the world, if they knew such a man, would call a whimsical mortal,
I have various sources of pleasure and enjoyment, which are, in a manner, peculiar to myself,
or some here and there such other out-of-the-way person. Such is the peculiar pleasure I take
in the season of winter, more than the rest of the year. This, I believe, may be partly owing
to my misfortunes giving my mind a melancholy cast: but there is something even in the--

    "Mighty tempest, and the hoary waste
    Abrupt and deep, stretch'd o'er the buried earth,"--

which raises the mind to a serious sublimity, favourable to everything great and noble. In
one of these seasons, just after a train of misfortunes, I composed the following:--

    The wintry west extends his blast.[146]

Shenstone finely observes, that love-verses, writ without any real passion, are the most nauseous
of all conceits; and I have often thought that no man can be a proper critic of love-composition,
except he himself, in one or more instances, have been a warm votary of this passion. As I
have been all along a miserable dupe to love, and have been led into a thousand weaknesses
and follies by it, for that reason I put the more confidence in my critical skill, in distinguishing
foppery and conceit from real passion and nature. Whether the following song will stand the
test, I will not pretend to say, because it is my own; only I can say it was, at the time,
genuine from the heart:--

    Behind yon hills, where Lugar flows.[147]

       *       *       *       *       *

March, 1784.

The following song is a wild rhapsody, miserably deficient in versification; but as the sentiments
are the genuine feelings of my heart, for that reason I have a particular pleasure in conning
it over.

    My father was a farmer
      Upon the Carrick border, O.[149]

       *       *       *       *       *

April.

I think the whole species of young men may be naturally enough divided into two grand classes,
which I shall call the grave and the merry; though, by the by, these terms do not with propriety
enough express my ideas. The grave I shall cast into the usual division of those who are goaded
on by the love of money, and those whose darling wish is to make a figure in the world. The
merry are the men of pleasure of all denominations; the jovial lads, who have too much fire
and spirit to have any settled rule of action; but, without much deliberation, follow the strong
impulses of nature: the thoughtless, the careless, the indolent--in particular he who, with
a happy sweetness of natural temper, and a cheerful vacancy of thought, steals through life--generally,
indeed, in poverty and obscurity; but poverty and obscurity are only evils to him who can sit
gravely down and make a repining comparison between his own situation and that of others; and
lastly, to grace the quorum, such are, generally, those whose heads are capable of all the
towerings of genius, and whose hearts are warmed with all the delicacy of feeling.

       *       *       *       *       *

August.

The foregoing was to have been an elaborate dissertation on the various species of men; but
as I cannot please myself in the arrangement of my ideas, I must wait till farther experience
and nicer observation throw more light on the subject.--In the mean time I shall set down the
following fragment, which, as it is the genuine language of my heart, will enable anybody to
determine which of the classes I belong to:

    There's nought but care on ev'ry han',
      In ev'ry hour that passes, O.[150]

As the grand end of human life is to cultivate an intercourse with that BEING to whom we owe
life, with every enjoyment that renders life delightful; and to maintain an integritive conduct
towards our fellow-creatures; that so, by forming piety and virtue into habit, we may be fit
members for that society of the pious and the good, which reason and revelation teach us to
expect beyond the grave, I do not see that the turn of mind, and pursuits of such a one as
the above verses describe--one who spends the hours and thoughts which the vocations of the
day can spare with Ossian, Shakspeare, Thomson, Shenstone, Sterne, &c.; or, as the maggot takes
him, a gun, a fiddle, or a song to make or mend; and at all times some heart's-dear bonnie
lass in view--I say I do not see that the turn of mind and pursuits of such an one are in the
least more inimical to the sacred interests of piety and virtue, than the even lawful, bustling
and straining after the world's riches and honours: and I do not see but he may gain heaven
as well--which, by the by, is no mean consideration--who steals through the vale of life, amusing
himself with every little flower that fortune throws in his way, as he, who straining straight
forward, and perhaps spattering all about him, gains some of life's little eminencies, where,
after all, he can only see and be seen a little more conspicuously than what, in the pride
of his heart, he is apt to term the poor, indolent devil he has left behind him.

       *       *       *       *       *

August.

A Prayer, when fainting fits, and other alarming symptoms of a pleurisy or some other dangerous
disorder, which indeed still threatens me, first put nature on the alarm:--

    O thou unknown, Almighty Cause
      Of all my hope and fear![151]

       *       *       *       *       *

August.

Misgivings in the hour of despondency and prospect of death:--

    Why am I loth to leave this earthly scene.[152]

       *       *       *       *       *

EGOTISMS FROM MY OWN SENSATIONS.

May.

       *       *       *       *       *

August.

       *       *       *       *       *

September.

There is a great irregularity in the old Scotch songs, a redundancy of syllables with respect
to that exactness of accent and measure that the English poetry requires, but which glides
in, most melodiously, with the respective tunes to which they are set. For instance, the fine
old song of "The Mill, Mill, O,"[153] to give it a plain prosaic reading, it halts prodigiously
out of measure; on the other hand, the song set to the same tune in Bremner's collection of
Scotch songs, which begins "To Fanny fair could I impart," &c., it is most exact measure, and
yet, let them both be sung before a real critic, one above the biases of prejudice, but a thorough
judge of nature,--how flat and spiritless will the last appear, how trite, and lamely methodical,
compared with the wild warbling cadence, the heart-moving melody of the first!--This is particularly
the case with all those airs which end with a hypermetrical syllable. There is a degree of
wild irregularity in many of the compositions and fragments which are daily sung to them by
my compeers, the common people--a certain happy arrangement of old Scotch syllables, and yet,
very frequently, nothing, not even like rhyme or sameness of jingle, at the ends of the lines.
This has made me sometimes imagine that perhaps it might be possible for a Scotch poet, with
a nice judicious ear, to set compositions to many of our most favourite airs, particularly
that class of them mentioned above, independent of rhyme altogether.

       *       *       *       *       *

There is a noble sublimity, a heart-melting tenderness, in some of our ancient ballads, which
show them to be the work of a masterly hand: and it has often given me many a heart-ache to
reflect that such glorious old bards--bards who very probably owed all their talents to native
genius, yet have described the exploits of heroes, the pangs of disappointment, and the meltings
of love, with such fine strokes of nature--that their very names (O how mortifying to a bard's
vanity!) are now "buried among the wreck of things which were."

O ye illustrious names unknown! who could feel so strongly and describe so well: the last,
the meanest of the muses' train--one who, though far inferior to your flights, yet eyes your
path, and with trembling wing would sometimes soar after you--a poor rustic bard unknown, pays
this sympathetic pang to your memory! Some of you tell us, with all the charms of verse, that
you have been unfortunate in the world--unfortunate in love: he, too, has felt the loss of
his little fortune, the loss of friends, and, worse than all, the loss of the woman he adored.
Like you, all his consolation was his muse: she taught him in rustic measures to complain.
Happy could he have done it with your strength of imagination and flow of verse! May the turf
lie lightly on your bones! and may you now enjoy that solace and rest which this world rarely
gives to the heart tuned to all the feelings of poesy and love!

       *       *       *       *       *

September.

The following fragment is done something in imitation of the manner of a noble old Scottish
piece, called M'Millan's Peggy, and sings to the tune of Galla Water.--My Montgomery's Peggy
was my deity for six or eight months. She had been bred (though, as the world says, without
any just pretence for it) in a style of life rather elegant; but, as Vanbrugh says in one of
his comedies, my "d----d star found me out" there too: for though I began the affair merely
in a gaitié de coeur, or, to tell the truth, which will scarcely be believed, a vanity of showing
my parts in courtship, particularly my abilities at a billet-doux, which I always piqued myself
upon, made me lay siege to her; and when, as I always do in my foolish gallantries, I had fettered
myself into a very warm affection for her, she told me one day, in a flag of truce, that her
fortress had been for some time before the rightful property of another; but, with the greatest
friendship and politeness, she offered me every allegiance except actual possession. I found
out afterwards that what she told me of a pre-engagement was really true; but it cost me some
heart-aches to get rid of the affair.

I have even tried to imitate in this extempore thing that irregularity in the rhymes, which,
when judiciously done, has such a fine effect on the ear.

    "Altho' my bed were in yon muir."[154]

       *       *       *       *       *

September.

There is another fragment in imitation of an old Scotch song, well known among the country
ingle-sides.--I cannot tell the name, neither of the song nor the tune, but they are in fine
unison with one another.--By the way, these old Scottish airs are so nobly sentimental, that
when one would compose to them, to "south the tune," as our Scotch phrase is, over and over,
is the readiest way to catch the inspiration, and raise the bard into that glorious enthusiasm
so strongly characteristic of our old Scotch poetry.

The above was an extempore, under the pressure of a heavy train of misfortunes, which, indeed,
threatened to undo me altogether. It was just at the close of that dreadful period mentioned
already, and though the weather has brightened up a little with me, yet there has always been
since a tempest brewing round me in the grim sky of futurity, which I pretty plainly see will
some time or other, perhaps ere long, overwhelm me, and drive me into some doleful dell, to
pine in solitary, squalid wretchedness.--However, as I hope my poor country muse, who, all
rustic, awkward, and unpolished as she is, has more charms for me than any other of the pleasures
of life beside--as I hope she will not then desert me, I may even then learn to be, if not
happy, at least easy, and south a sang to soothe my misery.

       *       *       *       *       *

October, 1785.

If ever any young man, in the vestibule of the world, chance to throw his eye over these pages,
let him pay a warm attention to the following observations, as I assure him they are the fruit
of a poor devil's dear-bought experience.--I have literally, like that great poet and great
gallant, and by consequence, that great fool, Solomon, "turned my eyes to behold madness and
folly." Nay, I have, with all the ardour of a lively, fanciful, and whimsical imagination,
accompanied with a warm, feeling, poetic heart, shaken hands with their intoxicating friendship.

In the first place, let my pupil, as he tenders his own peace, keep up a regular, warm intercourse
with the Deity. * * * *

This is all worth quoting in my MSS., and more than all.

R. B.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 145: See Songs and Ballads, No. I.]

[Footnote 146: See Winter. A Dirge. Poem I.]

[Footnote 147: Song XIV.]

[Footnote 148: Poem IX.]

[Footnote 149: Song V]

[Footnote 150: Song XVII.]

[Footnote 151: Poem X.]

[Footnote 152: Poem XI.]

[Footnote 153: "The Mill, Mill, O," is by Allan Ramsay.]

[Footnote 154: Song VIII.]

[Footnote 155: Alluding to the misfortunes he feelingly laments before this verse. (This is
the author's note.)]

[Footnote 156: Song II.]

       *       *       *       *       *

IX.

TO MR. JAMES BURNESS,

MONTROSE.

[Mrs. Buchan, the forerunner in extravagance and absurdity of Joanna Southcote, after attempting
to fix her tent among the hills of the west and the vales of the Nith, finally set up her staff
at Auchengibbert-Hill, in Galloway, where she lectured her followers, and held out hopes of
their reaching the stars, even in this life. She died early: one or two of her people, as she
called them, survived till within these half-dozen years.]

Mossgiel, August, 1784.

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

XI.

TO MISS ----.

[This has generally been printed among the early letters of Burns. Cromek thinks that the person
addressed was the "Peggy" of the Common-place Book.

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

XII.

TO MR. JOHN RICHMOND,

OF EDINBURGH. If you would act your part as a friend, I am sure neither good nor bad fortune
should strange of alter me. Excuse haste, as I got yours but yesterday.

I am, my dear Sir,

Yours,

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

XIII.

TO MR. JOHN KENNEDY,

DUMFRIES HOUSE.

[Who the John Kennedy was to whom Burns addressed this note, enclosing "The Cotter's Saturday
night," it is now, perhaps, vain to inquire: the Kennedy to whom Mr. Cobbett introduces us
was a Thomas--perhaps a relation.]

Mossgiel, 3d March, 1786.

SIR,

I have done myself the pleasure of complying with your request in sending you my Cottager.--If
you have a leisure minute, I should be glad you would copy it, and return me either the original
or the transcript, as I have not a copy of it by me, and I have a friend who wishes to see it.

    "Now, Kennedy, if foot or horse."[157]

ROBT. BURNESS.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 157: Poem LXXV.]

       *       *       *       *       *

XIV.

TO MR. ROBERT MUIR,

KILMARNOCK.

[The Muirs--there were two brothers--were kind and generous patrons of the poet.

I here enclose you my "Scotch Drink," and "may the ---- follow with a blessing for your edification."
BURNESS.

       *       *       *       *       *

XV.

TO MR. AIKEN.

[Robert Aiken, the gentleman to whom the "Cotter's Saturday Night" is inscribed, is also introduced
in the "Brigs of Ayr." This is the last letter to which Burns seems to have subscribed his
name in the spelling of his ancestors.]

Mossgiel, 3d April, 1786.

DEAR SIR,

I received your kind letter with double pleasure, on account of the second flattering instance
of Mrs. C.'s notice and approbation, I assure you I

    "Turn out the burnt o' my shin,"

as the famous Ramsay, of jingling memory, says, at such a patroness. Present her my most grateful
acknowledgment in your very best manner of telling truth. I have inscribed the following stanza
on the blank leaf of Miss More's Work:--[158]

My proposals for publishing I am just going to send to press. I expect to hear from you by
the first opportunity.

I am ever, dear Sir,

Yours,

ROBT. BURNESS.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 158: See Poem LXXVIII.]

       *       *       *       *       *

XVI.

TO MR. M'WHINNIE,

WRITER, AYR.

       *       *       *       *       *

XVII.

TO MR. JOHN KENNEDY.

["The small piece," the very last of his productions, which the poet enclosed in this letter,
was "The Mountain Daisy," called in the manuscript more properly "The Gowan."]

Mossgiel, 20th April, 1786.

SIR,

By some neglect in Mr. Hamilton, I did not hear of your kind request for a subscription paper
'till this day. I will not attempt any acknowledgment for this, nor the manner in which I see
your name in Mr. Hamilton's subscription list. Allow me only to say, Sir, I feel the weight
of the debt.

I have here likewise enclosed a small piece, the very latest of my productions. I am a good
deal pleased with some sentiments myself, as they are just the native querulous feelings of
a heart, which, as the elegantly melting Gray says, "melancholy has marked for her own."

Our race comes on a-pace; that much-expected scene of revelry and mirth; but to me it brings
no joy equal to that meeting with which your last flattered the expectation of,

Sir,

Your indebted humble servant,

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

XVIII.

TO MON. JAMES SMITH,

MAUCHLINE.

[James Smith, of whom Burns said he was small of stature, but large of soul, kept at that time
a draper's shop in Mauchline, and was comrade to the poet in many a wild adventure.]

Monday Morning, Mossgiel, 1786.

MY DEAR SIR,

I went to Dr. Douglas yesterday, fully resolved to take the opportunity of Captain Smith: but
I found the Doctor with a Mr. and Mrs. White, both Jamaicans, and they have deranged my plans
altogether. They assure him that to send me from Savannah la Mar to Port Antonio will cost
my master, Charles Douglas, upwards of fifty pounds; besides running the risk of throwing myself
into a pleuritic fever, in consequence of hard travelling in the sun. On these accounts, he
refuses sending me with Smith, but a vessel sails from Greenock the first of September, right
for the place of my destination. The Captain of her is an intimate friend of Mr. Gavin Hamilton's,
and as good a fellow as heart could wish: with him I am destined to go. Where I shall shelter,
I know not, but I hope to weather the storm. Perish the drop of blood of mine that fears them!
I know their worst, and am prepared to meet it;--

    "I'll laugh an' sing, an' shake my leg,
                As lang's I dow."

On Thursday morning, if you can muster as much self-denial as to be out of bed about seven
o'clock, I shall see you, as I ride through to Cumnock. After all, Heaven bless the sex! I
feel there is still happiness for me among them:

    "O woman, lovely woman! Heaven design'd you
    To temper man!--we had been brutes without you."[159]

R. B.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 159: Otway. Venice Preserved.]

       *       *       *       *       *

XIX.

TO MR. JOHN KENNEDY.

[Burns was busy in a two-fold sense at present: he was seeking patrons in every quarter for
his contemplated volume, and was composing for it some of his most exquisite poetry.]

Mossgiel, 16 May, 1796.

DEAR SIR,

I have sent you the above hasty copy as I promised. In about three or four weeks I shall probably
set the press a-going. I am much hurried at present, otherwise your diligence, so very friendly
in my subscription, should have a more lengthened acknowledgment from,

Dear Sir,

Your obliged servant,

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

XX.

TO MR. DAVID BRICE.

[David Brice was a shoemaker, and shared with Smith the confidence of the poet in his love
affairs. He was working in Glasgow when this letter was written.]

Mossgiel, June 12, 1786.

TO MR. ROBERT AIKEN.

[This letter was written under great distress of mind. That separation which Burns records
in "The Lament," had, unhappily, taken place between him and Jean Armour, and it would appear,
that for a time at least a coldness ensued between the poet and the patron, occasioned, it
is conjectured, by that fruitful subject of sorrow and disquiet. * * * *

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

XXII.

TO JOHN RICHMOND,

EDINBURGH.

[The minister who took upon him to pronounce Burns a single man, as he intimates in this letter,
was the Rev. Mr. Auld, of Mauchline: that the law of the land and the law of the church were
at variance on the subject no one can deny.]

Mossgiel, 9th July, 1786. The Lord stand with the righteous: amen, amen.

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

XXIII.

TO JOHN BALLANTYNE,

OF AYR.

[There is a plain account in this letter of the destruction of the lines of marriage which
united, as far as a civil contract in a manner civil can, the poet and Jean Armour.

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

XXIV.

TO MR. DAVID BRICE.

SHOEMAKER, GLASGOW.

[The letters of Burns at the sad period of his life are full of his private sorrows. Had Jean
Armour been left to the guidance of her own heart, the story of her early years would have
been brighter.]

Mossgiel, 17th July, 1786.

I have been so throng printing my Poems, that I could scarcely find as much time as to write
to you. Poor Armour is come back again to Mauchline, and I went to call for her, and her mother
forbade me the house, nor did she herself express much sorrow for what she has done. I have
already appeared publicly in church, and was indulged in the liberty of standing in my own
seat. I do this to get a certificate as a bachelor, which Mr. Auld has promised me. I am now
fixed to go for the West Indies in October. Jean and her friends insisted much that she should
stand along with me in the kirk, but the minister would not allow it, which bred a great trouble
I assure you, and I am blamed as the cause of it, though I am sure I am innocent; but I am
very much pleased, for all that, not to have had her company. I have no news to tell you that
I remember. I am really happy to hear of your welfare, and that you are so well in Glasgow.
I must certainly see you before I leave the country. I shall expect to hear from you soon, and am,

Dear Brice,

Yours,--R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

XXV.

TO MR. JOHN RICHMOND.

[When this letter was written the poet was skulking from place to place: the merciless pack
of the law had been uncoupled at his heels.

TO MR. ROBERT MUIR,

KILMARNOCK.

[Burns never tried to conceal either his joys or his sorrows: he sent copies of his favorite
pieces, and intimations of much that befel him to his chief friends and comrades--this brief
note was made to carry double.]

Mossgiel, Friday noon.

MY FRIEND, MY BROTHER,

Warm recollection of an absent friend presses so hard upon my heart, that I send him the prefixed
bagatelle (the Calf), pleased with the thought that it will greet the man of my bosom, and
be a kind of distant language of friendship.

You will have heard that poor Armour has repaid me double. A very fine boy and a girl have
awakened a thought and feelings that thrill, some with tender pressure and some with foreboding
anguish, through my soul.

The poem was nearly an extemporaneous production, on a wager with Mr. Hamilton, that I would
not produce a poem on the subject in a given time.

If you think it worth while, read it to Charles and Mr. W. Parker, and if they choose a copy
of it, it is at their service, as they are men whose friendship I shall be proud to claim,
both in this world and that which is to come.

I believe all hopes of staying at home will be abortive, but more of this when, in the latter
part of next week, you shall be troubled with a visit from,

My dear Sir,

Your most devoted,

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

XXVII.

TO MRS. DUNLOP,

OF DUNLOP.

R. B.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 160: Thomson.]

       *       *       *       *       *

XXVIII.

TO MR. JOHN KENNEDY.

[It is a curious chapter in the life of Burns to count the number of letters which he wrote,
the number of fine poems he composed, and the number of places which he visited in the unhappy
summer and autumn of 1786.]

Kilmarnock, August, 1786.

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

XXIX.

TO MR. JAMES BURNESS,

MONTROSE.

TO MISS ALEXANDER.

[This letter, Robert Chambers says, concluded with requesting Miss Alexander to allow the poet
to print the song which it enclosed, in a second edition of his Poems. Her neglect in not replying
to this request is a very good poetic reason for his wrath. Many of Burns's letters have been
printed, it is right to say, from the rough drafts found among the poet's papers at his death.
This is one.]

Mossgiel, 18th Nov. 1786.

TO MRS. STEWART,

OF STAIR AND AFTON.

[Mrs. Stewart, of Stair and Afton, was the first person of note in the West who had the taste
to see and feel the genius of Burns.

R. B.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 161: Miss Alexander.]

       *       *       *       *       *

XXXII.

IN THE NAME OF THE NINE. AMEN.

[The song or ballad which one of the "Deil's yeld Nowte" was commanded to burn, was "Holy Willie's
Prayer," it is believed. Currie interprets the "Deil's yeld Nowte," to mean old bachelors,
which, if right, points to some other of his compositions, for purgation by fire.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 162: His birth-day.]

       *       *       *       *       *

XXXIII.

TO MR. ROBERT MUIR.

[The expedition to Edinburgh, to which this short letter alludes, was undertaken, it is needless
to say, in consequence of a warm and generous commendation of the genius of Burns written by
Dr. Blacklock, to the Rev. Mr. Lawrie, and communicated by Gavin Hamilton to the poet, when
he was on the wing for the West Indies.]

Mossgiel, 18th Nov., 1786.

MY DEAR SIR,

Enclosed you have "Tam Samson," as I intend to print him. I am thinking for my Edinburgh expedition
on Monday or Tuesday, come se'ennight, for pos. I will see you on Tuesday first.

I am ever,

Your much indebted,

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

XXXIV.

TO DR. MACKENZIE,

MAUCHLINE;

ENCLOSING THE VERSES ON DINING WITH LORD DAER.

[To the kind and venerable Dr. Mackenzie, the poet was indebted for some valuable friendships,
and his biographers for some valuable information respecting the early days of Burns.]

Wednesday Morning.

TO GAVIN HAMILTON, ESQ.,

MAUCHLINE.

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

XXXVI.

TO JOHN BALLANTYNE, ESQ.,

BANKER, AYR.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 163: Lady Betty Cunningham.]

[Footnote 164: The paper here alluded to, was written by Mr. Mackenzie, the celebrated author
of "The Man of Feeling."]

       *       *       *       *       *

XXXVII.

TO MR. ROBERT MUIR.

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

XXXVIII.

TO MR. WILLIAM CHALMERS,

WRITER, AYR.

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

XXXIX.

TO THE EARL OF EGLINTOUN.

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

XL.

TO MR. GAVIN HAMILTON.

[This letter was first published by Hubert Chambers, who considered it as closing the enquiry,
"was Burns a married man?" No doubt Burns thought himself unmarried, and the Rev. Mr. Auld
was of the same opinion, since he offered him a certificate that he was single: but no opinion
of priest or lawyer, including the disclamation of Jean Armour, and the belief of Burns, could
have, in my opinion, barred the claim of the children to full legitimacy, according to the
law of Scotland.]

Edinburgh, Jan. 7, 1787.

To tell the truth among friends, I feel a miserable blank in my heart,
with the want of her, and I don't think I shall ever meet with so
delicious an armful again.
        For a' that and a' that,
        And twice as muckle's a' that.

       *       *       *       *       *

I have met with a very pretty girl, a Lothian farmer's daughter, whom I have almost persuaded
to accompany me to the west country, should I ever return to settle there. By the bye, a Lothian
farmer is about an Ayrshire squire of the lower kind; and I had a most delicious ride from
Leith to her house yesternight, in a hackney-coach with her brother and two sisters, and brother's
wife. We had dined altogether at a common friend's house in Leith, and danced, drank, and sang
till late enough. The night was dark, the claret had been good, and I thirsty. * * * * *

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

XLI.

TO JOHN BALLANTYNE, ESQ.

[This letter contains the first intimation that the poet desired to resume the labours of the
farmer.

I have to-day corrected my 152d page. My best good wishes to Mr. Aiken.

I am ever,

Dear Sir,

Your much indebted humble servant,

R. B.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 165: See Blair's Grave. This was a favourite quotation with Burns.]

       *       *       *       *       *

XLII.

TO JOHN BALLANTYNE.

[I have not hesitated to insert all letters which show what Burns was musing on as a poet,
or planning as a man.]

January ----, 1787.

TO MRS. DUNLOP. You will see I have mentioned some others of the name.

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

XLIV.

TO DR. MOORE.

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

XLV.

TO THE REV. G. LAURIE,

NEWMILLS, NEAR KILMARNOCK.

TO DR. MOORE.

[In the answer to this letter, Dr. Moore says that the poet was a great favourite in his family,
and that his youngest son, at Winchester school, had translated part of "Halloween" into Latin
verse, for the benefit of his comrades.]

Edinburgh, 15th February, 1787.

SIR,

Pardon my seeming neglect in delaying so long to acknowledge the honour you have done me, in
your kind notice of me, January 23d. Not many months ago I knew no other employment than following
the plough, nor could boast anything higher than a distant acquaintance with a country clergyman.
Mere greatness never embarrasses me; I have nothing to ask from the great, and I do not fear
their judgment: but genius, polished by learning, and at its proper point of elevation in the
eye of the world, this of late I frequently meet with, and tremble at its approach. I scorn
the affectation of seeming modesty to cover self-conceit. That I have some merit I do not deny;
but I see with frequent wringings of heart, that the novelty of my character, and the honest
national prejudice of my countrymen, have borne me to a height altogether untenable to my abilities.

For the honour Miss Williams has done me, please, Sir, return her in my name my most grateful
thanks. I have more than once thought of paying her in kind, but have hitherto quitted the
idea in hopeless despondency. I had never before heard of her; but the other day I got her
poems, which for several reasons, some belonging to the head, and others the offspring of the
heart, give me a great deal of pleasure. I have little pretensions to critic lore; there are,
I think, two characteristic features in her poetry--the unfettered wild flight of native genius,
and the querulous sombre tenderness of "time-settled sorrow."

I only know what pleases me, often without being able to tell why.

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

XLVII.

TO JOHN BALLANTYNE, ESQ.

[The picture from which Beugo engraved the portrait alluded to in this letter, was painted
by the now venerable Alexander Nasmyth--the eldest of living British artists:--it is, with
the exception of a profile by Miers, the only portrait for which we are quite sure that the
poet sat.]

Edinburgh, Feb. 24th, 1787.

MY HONOURED FRIEND,

I will soon be with you now, in guid black prent;--in a week or ten days at farthest. I am
obliged, against my own wish, to print subscribers' names; so if any of my Ayr friends have
subscription bills, they must be sent in to Creech directly. I am getting my phiz done by an
eminent engraver, and if it can be ready in time, I will appear in my book, looking like all
other fools to my title-page.

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

XLVIII.

TO THE EARL OF GLENCAIRN.

[The Earl of Glencairn seems to have refused, from motives of delicacy, the request of the
poet: the verses, long lost, were at last found, and are now, through the kindness of my friend,
Major James Glencairn Burns, printed with the rest of his eminent father's works.]

Edinburgh, 1787

MY LORD,

I wanted to purchase a profile of your lordship, which I was told was to be got in town; but
I am truly sorry to see that a blundering painter has spoiled a "human face divine." The enclosed
stanzas I intended to have written below a picture or profile of your lordship, could I have
been so happy as to procure one with anything of a likeness.

As I will soon return to my shades, I wanted to have something like a material object for my
gratitude; I wanted to have it in my power to say to a friend, there is my noble patron, my
generous benefactor. Allow me, my lord, to publish these verses. I conjure your lordship, by
the honest throe of gratitude, by the generous wish of benevolence, by all the powers and feelings
which compose the magnanimous mind, do not deny me this petition. I owe much to your lordship:
and, what has not in some other instances always been the case with me, the weight of the obligation
is a pleasing load. I trust I have a heart as independent as your lordship's, than which I
can say nothing more; and I would not be beholden to favours that would crucify my feelings.
Your dignified character in life, and manner of supporting that character, are flattering to
my pride; and I would be jealous of the purity of my grateful attachment, where I was under
the patronage of one of the much favoured sons of fortune.

Almost every poet has celebrated his patrons, particularly when they were names dear to fame,
and illustrious in their country; allow me, then, my lord, if you think the verses have intrinsic
merit, to tell the world how much I have the honour to be,

Your lordship's highly indebted,

And ever grateful humble servant,

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

XLIX.

TO THE EARL OF BUCHAN.

R. B.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 167: Imitated from Pope's Eloisa to Abelard.]

       *       *       *       *       *

L.

TO MR. JAMES CANDLISH.

TO ----.

[The name of the friend to whom this letter was addressed is still unknown, though known to
Dr. Currie. The Esculapian Club of Edinburgh have, since the death of Burns, added some iron-work,
with an inscription in honour of the Ayrshire poet to the original headstone.

       *       *       *       *       *

    Session-house, within the Kirk of Canongate, the
    twenty-second day of February, one thousand seven hundred
    eighty-seven years.

Sederunt of the Managers of the Kirk and Kirk-Yard funds of Canongate.

Which day, the treasurer to the said funds produced a letter from Mr. Robert Burns, of date
the 6th current, which was read and appointed to be engrossed in their sederunt book, and of
which letter the tenor follows:--

"To the honourable baillies of Canongate, Edinburgh.--Gentlemen, I am sorry to be told that
the remains of Robert Fergusson, the so justly celebrated poet, a man whose talents for ages
to come will do honour to our Caledonian name, lie in your church-yard among the ignoble dead,
unnoticed and unknown.

"Some memorial to direct the steps of the lovers of Scottish song, when they wish to shed a
tear over the 'narrow house' of the bard who is no more, is surely a tribute due to Fergusson's
memory: a tribute I wish to have the honour of paying.

"I petition you then, gentlemen, to permit me to lay a simple stone over his revered ashes,
to remain an unalienable property to his deathless fame. I have the honour to be, gentlemen,
your very humble servant (sic subscribitur),

ROBERT BURNS."

Thereafter the said managers, in consideration of the laudable and disinterested motion of
Mr. Burns, and the propriety of his request, did, and hereby do, unanimously, grant power and
liberty to the said Robert Burns to erect a headstone at the grave of the said Robert Fergusson,
and to keep up and preserve the same to his memory in all time coming. Extracted forth of the
records of the managers, by

WILLIAM SPROTT, Clerk.

       *       *       *       *       *

LII.

TO MRS. DUNLOP.

R. B.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 168: Blair's Grave.]

       *       *       *       *       *

LIII.

TO MRS. DUNLOP.

R. B.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 169: From Othello.]

[Footnote 170: Adam Smith.]

       *       *       *       *       *

LIV.

TO MR. SIBBALD,

BOOKSELLER IN EDINBURGH.

[This letter first appeared in that very valuable work, Nicholl's Illustrations of Literature.]

Lawn Market.

SIR,

So little am I acquainted with the words and manners of the more public and polished walks
of life, that I often feel myself much embarrassed how to express the feelings of my heart,
particularly gratitude:--

        "Rude am I in my speech,
    And little therefore shall I grace my cause
    In speaking for myself--"

The warmth with which you have befriended an obscure man and a young author in the last three
magazines--I can only say, Sir, I feel the weight of the obligation, I wish I could express
my sense of it. In the mean time accept of the conscious acknowledgment from,

Sir,

Your obliged servant,

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

LV.

TO DR. MOORE.

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

LVI.

TO MRS. DUNLOP.

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

LVII.

TO THE REV. DR. HUGH BLAIR.

[The answer of Dr. Blair to this letter contains the following passage: "Your situation, as
you say, was indeed very singular: and in being brought out all at once from the shades of
deepest privacy to so great a share of public notice and observation, you had to stand a severe
trial. I am happy you have stood it so well, and, as far as I have known or heard, though in
the midst of many temptations, without reproach to your character or behaviour."]

Lawn-market, Edinburgh, 3d May, 1787.

REVEREND AND MUCH-RESPECTED SIR,

I leave Edinburgh to-morrow morning, but could not go without troubling you with half a line,
sincerely to thank you for the kindness, patronage, and friendship you have shown me. I often
felt the embarrassment of my singular situation; drawn forth from the veriest shades of life
to the glare of remark; and honoured by the notice of those illustrious names of my country
whose works, while they are applauded to the end of time, will ever instruct and mend the heart.
However the meteor-like novelty of my appearance in the world might attract notice, and honour
me with the acquaintance of the permanent lights of genius and literature, those who are truly
benefactors of the immortal nature of man, I knew very well that my utmost merit was far unequal
to the task of preserving that character when once the novelty was over; I have made up my
mind that abuse, or almost even neglect, will not surprise me in my quarters.

I have sent you a proof impression of Beugo's work[171] for me, done on Indian paper, as a
trifling but sincere testimony with what heart-warm gratitude I am, &c.

R. B.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 171: The portrait of the poet after Nasmyth.]

       *       *       *       *       *

LVIII.

TO THE EARL OF GLENCAIRN.

[The poet addressed the following letter to the Earl of Glencairn, when he commenced his journey
to the Border. It was first printed in the third edition of Lockhart's Life of Burns; an eloquent
and manly work.]

MY LORD,

I go away to-morrow morning early, and allow me to vent the fulness of my heart, in thanking
your lordship for all that patronage, that benevolence and that friendship with which you have
honoured me. With brimful eyes, I pray that you may find in that great Being, whose image you
so nobly bear, that friend which I have found in you. My gratitude is not selfish design--that
I disdain--it is not dodging after the heels of greatness--that is an offering you disdain.
It is a feeling of the same kind with my devotion.

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

LIX.

TO MR. WILLIAM DUNBAR.

[William Dunbar, Colonel of the Crochallan Fencibles. The name has a martial sound, but the
corps which he commanded was club of wits, whose courage was exercised on "paitricks, teals,
moorpowts, and plovers."]

Lawn-market, Monday morning.

DEAR SIR,

In justice to Spenser, I must acknowledge that there is scarcely a poet in the language could
have been a more agreeable present to me; and in justice to you, allow me to say, Sir, that
I have not met with a man in Edinburgh to whom I would so willingly have been indebted for
the gift. The tattered rhymes I herewith present you, and the handsome volumes of Spenser for
which I am so much indebted to your goodness, may perhaps be not in proportion to one another;
but be that as it may, my gift, though far less valuable, is as sincere a mark of esteem as yours.

The time is approaching when I shall return to my shades; and I am afraid my numerous Edinburgh
friendships are of so tender a construction, that they will not bear carriage with me. Yours
is one of the few that I could wish of a more robust constitution. It is indeed very probable
that when I leave this city, we part never more to meet in this sublunary sphere; but I have
a strong fancy that in some future eccentric planet, the comet of happier systems than any
with which astronomy is yet acquainted, you and I, among the harum scarum sons of imagination
and whim, with a hearty shake of a hand, a metaphor and a laugh, shall recognise old acquaintance:

    "Where wit may sparkle all its rays,
      Uncurs'd with caution's fears;
    That pleasure, basking in the blaze,
      Rejoice for endless years."

I have the honour to be, with the warmest sincerity, dear Sir, &c.

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

LX.

TO JAMES JOHNSON.

[James Johnson was an engraver in Edinburgh, and proprietor of the Musical Museum; a truly
national work, for which Burns wrote or amended many songs.]

Lawn-market, Friday noon, 3 May, 1787.

DEAR SIR,

I have sent you a song never before known, for your collection; the air by M'Gibbon, but I
know not the author of the words, as I got it from Dr. Blacklock.

Farewell, my dear Sir! I wished to have seen you, but I have been dreadfully throng, as I march
to-morrow. Had my acquaintance with you been a little older, I would have asked the favour
of your correspondence, as I have met with few people whose company and conversation gives
me so much pleasure, because I have met with few whose sentiments are so congenial to my own.

When Dunbar and you meet, tell him that I left Edinburgh with the idea of him hanging somewhere
about my heart.

Keep the original of the song till we meet again, whenever that may be.

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

LXI.

TO WILLIAM CREECH, ESQ.

EDINBURGH.

[This characteristic letter was written during the poet's border tour: he narrowly escaped
a soaking with whiskey, as well as with water; for according to the Ettrick Shepherd, "a couple
of Yarrow lads, lovers of poesy and punch, awaited his coming to Selkirk, but would not believe
that the parson-looking, black-avised man, who rode up to the inn, more like a drouket craw
than a poet, could be Burns, and so went disappointed away."]

Selkirk, 13th May, 1787.

MY HONOURED FRIEND,

The enclosed I have just wrote, nearly extempore, in a solitary inn in Selkirk, after a miserable
wet day's riding. I have been over most of East Lothian, Berwick, Roxburgh, and Selkirk-shires;
and next week I begin a tour through the north of England. Yesterday I dined with Lady Harriet,
sister to my noble patron,[172] Quem Deus conservet!

TO MR. PATISON,

BOOKSELLER, PAISLEY.

[This letter has a business air about it: the name of Patison is nowhere else to be found in
the poet's correspondence.]

Berrywell, near Dunse, May 17th, 1787.

DEAR SIR,

I am sorry I was out of Edinburgh, making a slight pilgrimage to the classic scenes of this
country, when I was favoured with yours of the 11th instant, enclosing an order of the Paisley
banking company on the royal bank, for twenty-two pounds seven shillings sterling, payment
in full, after carriage deducted, for ninety copies of my book I sent you. According to your
motions, I see you will have left Scotland before this reaches you, otherwise I would send
you "Holy Willie" with all my heart. I was so hurried that I absolutely forgot several things
I ought to have minded, among the rest sending books to Mr. Cowan; but any order of yours will
be answered at Creech's shop. You will please remember that non-subscribers pay six shillings,
this is Creech's profit; but those who have subscribed, though their names have been neglected
in the printed list, which is very incorrect, are supplied at subscription price. I was not
at Glasgow, nor do I intend for London; and I think Mrs. Fame is very idle to tell so many
lies on a poor poet. When you or Mr. Cowan write for copies, if you should want any direct
to Mr. Hill, at Mr. Creech's shop, and I write to Mr. Hill by this post, to answer either of
your orders. Hill is Mr. Creech's first clerk, and Creech himself is presently in London. I
suppose I shall have the pleasure, against your return to Paisley, of assuring you how much
I am, dear Sir, your obliged humble servant,

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

LXIII.

TO W. NICOL, ESQ.,

MASTER OF THE HIGH SCHOOL, EDINBURGH.

[Jenny Geddes was a zealous old woman, who threw the stool on which she sat, at the Dean of
Edinburgh's head, when, in 1637, he attempted to introduce a Scottish Liturgy, and cried as
she threw, "Villain, wilt thou say the mass at my lug!" They play'd me sik a deevil o' a shavie
that I daur say if my harigals were turn'd out, ye wad see twa nicks i' the heart o' me like
the mark o' a kail-whittle in a castock.

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

LXIV.

TO MR. JAMES SMITH,

AT MILLER AND SMITH'S OFFICE, LINLITHGOW.

[Burns, it seems by this letter, had still a belief that he would be obliged to try his fortune
in the West Indies: he soon saw how hollow all the hopes were, which had been formed by his
friends of "pension, post or place," in his native land.]

Mauchline, 11th June, 1787.

MY EVER DEAR SIR,

I date this from Mauchline, where I arrived on Friday even last. I slept at John Dow's, and
called for my daughter. Mr. Hamilton and your family; your mother, sister, and brother; my
quondam Eliza, &c., all well. If anything had been wanting to disgust me completely at Armour's
family, their mean, servile compliance would have done it.

I cannot settle to my mind.--Farming, the only thing of which I know anything, and heaven above
knows but little do I understand of that, I cannot, dare not risk on farms as they are. If
I do not fix I will go for Jamaica. Should I stay in an unsettled state at home, I would only
dissipate my little fortune, and ruin what I intend shall compensate my little ones, for the
stigma I have brought on their names.

I shall write you more at large soon; as this letter costs you no postage, if it be worth reading
you cannot complain of your pennyworth.

I am ever, my dear Sir,

Yours,

R. B.

P.S. The cloot has unfortunately broke, but I have provided a fine buffalo-horn, on which I
am going to affix the same cipher which you will remember was on the lid of the cloot.

       *       *       *       *       *

LXV.

TO WILLIAM NICOL, ESQ.

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

LXVI.

TO MR. JAMES CANDLISH.

[Candlish was a classic scholar, but had a love for the songs of Scotland, as well as for the
poetry of Greece and Rome.]

Edinburgh, 1787.

MY DEAR FRIEND,

If once I were gone from this scene of hurry and dissipation, I promise myself the pleasure
of that correspondence being renewed which has been so long broken. At present I have time
for nothing. Dissipation and business engross every moment. I am engaged in assisting an honest
Scotch enthusiast,[174] a friend of mine, who is an engraver, and has taken it into his head
to publish a collection of all our songs set to music, of which the words and music are done
by Scotsmen. This, you will easily guess, is an undertaking exactly to my taste. I have collected,
begged, borrowed, and stolen, all the songs I could meet with. Pompey's Ghost, words and music,
I beg from you immediately, to go into his second number: the first is already published. I
shall show you the first number when I see you in Glasgow, which will be in a fortnight or
less. Do be so kind as to send me the song in a day or two; you cannot imagine how much it
will oblige me.

Direct to me at Mr. W. Cruikshank's, St. James's Square, New Town, Edinburgh.

R. B.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 174: Johnson, the publisher and proprietor of the Musical Museum.]

       *       *       *       *       *

LXVII.

TO ROBERT AINSLIE, ESQ.

["Burns had a memory stored with the finest poetical passages, which he was in the habit of
quoting most aptly in his correspondence with his friends: and he delighted also in repeating
them in the company of those friends who enjoyed them."

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

LXVIII.

TO WILLIAM NICOL, ESQ.

[This visit to Auchtertyre produced that sweet lyric, beginning "Blythe, blythe and merry was
she;" and the lady who inspired it was at his side, when he wrote this letter.]

Auchtertyre, Monday, June, 1787.

MY DEAR SIR,

I find myself very comfortable here, neither oppressed by ceremony nor mortified by neglect.
Lady Augusta is a most engaging woman, and very happy in her family, which makes one's outgoings
and incomings very agreeable. I called at Mr. Ramsay's of Auchtertyre as I came up the country,
and am so delighted with him that I shall certainly accept of his invitation to spend a day
or two with him as I return. I leave this place on Wednesday or Thursday.

Make my kind compliments to Mr. and Mrs. Cruikshank and Mrs. Nicol, if she is returned.

I am ever, dear Sir,

Your deeply indebted,

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

LXIX.

TO WILLIAM CRUIKSHANK, ESQ.

ST. JAMES'S SQUARE, EDINBURGH.

[At the house of William Cruikshank, one of the masters of the High School, in Edinburgh, Burns
passed many agreeable hours.]

Auchtertyre, Monday morning.

I have nothing, my dear Sir, to write to you but that I feel myself exceedingly comfortably
situated in this good family: just notice enough to make me easy but not to embarrass me. I
was storm-staid two days at the foot of the Ochillhills, with Mr. Trait of Herveyston and Mr.
Johnston of Alva, but was so well pleased that I shall certainly spend a day on the banks of
the Devon as I return. I leave this place I suppose on Wednesday, and shall devote a day to
Mr. Ramsay at Auchtertyre, near Stirling: a man to whose worth I cannot do justice. My respectful
kind compliments to Mrs. Cruikshank, and my dear little Jeanie, and if you see Mr. Masterton,
please remember me to him.

I am ever,

My dear Sir, &c.

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

LXX.

TO MR. JAMES SMITH.

LINLITHGOW.

TO MR. JOHN RICHMOND.

I am ever, my dear friend, yours,

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

LXXII.

TO ROBERT AINSLIE, ESQ.

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

LXXIII.

TO ROBERT AINSLIE, ESQ.

[The "savage hospitality," of which Burns complains in this letter, was at that time an evil
fashion in Scotland: the bottle was made to circulate rapidly, and every glass was drunk "clean
caup out."]

Mauchline, July, 1787.

TO DR. MOORE.

[Dr. Moore was one of the first to point out the beauty of the lyric compositions of Burns.
"'Green grow the Rashes,' and of the two songs," says he, "which follow, beginning 'Again rejoicing
nature sees,' and 'The gloomy night is gathering fast;' the latter is exquisite. By the way,
I imagine you have a peculiar talent for such compositions which you ought to indulge: no kind
of poetry demands more delicacy or higher polishing."

POPE. This was an unlucky affair. Whether I have profited, time will show.

       *       *       *       *       *

My most respectful compliments to Miss Williams. Her very elegant and friendly letter I cannot
answer at present, as my presence is requisite in Edinburgh, and I set out to-morrow.

R. B.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 175: Idiot for idiotic.]

[Footnote 176: Paradise Lost, b. iv]

[Footnote 177: "Rob the Rhymer's Welcome to his Bastard Child."--See Poem XXXIII.]

       *       *       *       *       *

LXXV.

TO ROBERT AINSLIE, ESQ.,

BERRYWELL DUNSE.

[This characteristic letter was first published by Sir Harris Nichols; others, still more characteristic,
addressed to the same gentleman, are abroad: how they escaped from private keeping is a sort
of a riddle.]

Edinburgh, 23d August, 1787.

    "As I gaed up to Dunse
      To warp a pickle yarn,
    Robin, silly body,
      He gat me wi' bairn."

From henceforth, my dear Sir, I am determined to set off with my letters like the periodical
writers, viz. prefix a kind of text, quoted from some classic of undoubted authority, such
as the author of the immortal piece, of which my text is part. What I have to say on my text
is exhausted in a letter which I wrote you the other day, before I had the pleasure of receiving
yours from Inverkeithing; and sure never was anything more lucky, as I have but the time to
write this, that Mr. Nicol, on the opposite side of the table, takes to correct a proof-sheet
of a thesis. They are gabbling Latin so loud that I cannot hear what my own soul is saying
in my own skull, so I must just give you a matter-of-fact sentence or two, and end, if time
permit, with a verse de rei generatione. To-morrow I leave Edinburgh in a chaise; Nicol thinks
it more comfortable than horseback, to which I say, Amen; so Jenny Geddes goes home to Ayrshire,
to use a phrase of my mother's, wi' her finger in her mouth.

Now for a modest verse of classical authority:

    The cats like kitchen;
      The dogs like broo;
    The lasses like the lads weel,
      And th' auld wives too.

CHORUS.

    And we're a' noddin,
      Nid, nid, noddin,
    We're a' noddin fou at e'en.

If this does not please you, let me hear from you; if you write any time before the 1st of
September, direct to Inverness, to be left at the post-office till called for; the next week
at Aberdeen, the next at Edinburgh.

The sheet is done, and I shall just conclude with assuring you that

I am, and ever with pride shall be,

My dear Sir, &c.

R. B.

Call your boy what you think proper, only interject Burns. What do you say to a Scripture name?
Zimri Burns Ainslie, or Architophel, &c., look your Bible for these two heroes, if you do this,
I will repay the compliment.

       *       *       *       *       *

LXXVI.

TO MR. ROBERT MUIR.

TO GAVIN HAMILTON, ESQ.

TO MR. WALKER,

BLAIR OF ATHOLE.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 178: The Humble Petition of Bruar-water]

       *       *       *       *       *

LXXIX.

TO MR. GILBERT BURNS.

[The letters of Robert to Gilbert are neither many nor important: the latter was a calm, considerate,
sensible man, with nothing poetic in his composition: he died lately, much and widely respected.]

Edinburgh, 17th September, 1787. Farewell.

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

LXXX.

TO MISS MARGARET CHALMERS.

R. B.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 179: Of the Scots Musical Museum]

       *       *       *       *       *

LXXXI.

TO MISS MARGARET CHALMERS.

[That fine song, "The Banks of the Devon," dedicated to the charms of Charlotte Hamilton, was
enclosed in the following letter.]

Without date.

I have been at Dumfries, and at one visit more shall be decided about a farm in that country.
I am rather hopeless in it; but as my brother is an excellent farmer, and is, besides, an exceedingly
prudent, sober man (qualities which are only a younger brother's fortune in our family), I
am determined, if my Dumfries business fail me, to return into partnership with him, and at
our leisure take another farm in the neighbourhood.

I assure you I look for high compliments from you and Charlotte on this very sage instance
of my unfathomable, incomprehensible wisdom. Talking of Charlotte, I must tell her that I have,
to the best of my power, paid her a poetic compliment, now completed. The air is admirable:
true old Highland. It was the tune of a Gaelic song, which an Inverness lady sung me when I
was there; and I was so charmed with it that I begged her to write me a set of it from her
singing; for it had never been set before. I am fixed that it shall go in Johnson's next number;
so Charlotte and you need not spend your precious time in contradicting me. I won't say the
poetry is first-rate; though I am convinced it is very well; and, what is not always the case
with compliments to ladies, it is not only sincere, but just.

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

LXXXII.

TO JAMES HOY, ESQ.

GORDON CASTLE

[James Hoy, librarian of Gordon Castle, was, it is said, the gentleman whom his grace of Gordon
sent with a message inviting in vain that "obstinate son of Latin prose," Nicol, to stop and
enjoy himself.]

Edinburgh, 20th October, 1787.

SIR,

I will defend my conduct in giving you this trouble, on the best of Christian principles--"Whatsoever
ye would that men should do unto you, do ye even so unto them."--I shall certainly, among my
legacies, leave my latest curse to that unlucky predicament which hurried--tore me away from
Castle Gordon. May that obstinate son of Latin prose [Nicol] be curst to Scotch mile periods,
and damned to seven league paragraphs; while Declension and Conjugation, Gender, Number, and
Time, under the ragged banners of Dissonance and Disarrangement, eternally rank against him
in hostile array.

Allow me, Sir, to strengthen the small claim I have to your acquaintance, by the following
request. An engraver, James Johnson, in Edinburgh, has, not from mercenary views, but from
an honest, Scotch enthusiasm, set about collecting all our native songs and setting them to
music; particularly those that have never been set before. Clarke, the well known musician,
presides over the musical arrangement, and Drs. Beattie and Blacklock, Mr. Tytler, of Woodhouselee,
and your humble servant to the utmost of his small power, assist in collecting the old poetry,
or sometimes for a fine air make a stanza, when it has no words. The brats, too tedious to
mention, claim a parental pang from my bardship. I suppose it will appear in Johnson's second
number--the first was published before my acquaintance with him. My request is--"Cauld Kail
in Aberdeen," is one intended for this number, and I beg a copy of his Grace of Gordon's words
to it, which you were so kind as to repeat to me. You may be sure we won't prefix the author's
name, except you like, though I look on it as no small merit to this work that the names of
many of the authors of our old Scotch songs, names almost forgotten, will be inserted.

I do not well know where to write to you--I rather write at you; but if you will be so obliging,
immediately on receipt of this, as to write me a few lines, I shall perhaps pay you in kind,
though not in quality. Johnson's terms are:--each number a handsome pocket volume, to consist
at least of a hundred Scotch songs, with basses for the harpsichord, &c. The price to subscribers
5s.; to non-subscribers 6s. He will have three numbers I conjecture.

My direction for two or three weeks will be at Mr. William Cruikshank's, St. James's-square,
New-town, Edinburgh.

I am,

Sir,

Your's to command,

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

LXXXIII.

TO REV. JOHN SKINNER.

TO JAMES HOY, ESQ.

AT GORDON CASTLE, FOCHABERS.

TO MR. ROBERT AINSLIE,

EDINBURGH.

["I set you down," says Burns, elsewhere, to Ainslie, "as the staff of my old age, when all
my other friends, after a decent show of pity, will have forgot me."]

Edinburgh, Sunday Morning,

Nov. 23, 1787.

I Beg, my dear Sir, you would not make any appointment to take us to Mr. Ainslie's to-night.
On looking over my engagements, constitution, present state of my health, some little vexatious
soul concerns, &c., I find I can't sup abroad to-night. I shall be in to-day till one o'clock
if you have a leisure hour.

You will think it romantic when I tell you, that I find the idea of your friendship almost
necessary to my existence.--You assume a proper length of face in my bitter hours of blue-devilism,
and you laugh fully up to my highest wishes at my good things.--I don't know upon the whole,
if you are one of the first fellows in God's world, but you are so to me. I tell you this just
now in the conviction that some inequalities in my temper and manner may perhaps sometimes
make you suspect that I am not so warmly as I ought to be your friend.

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

LXXXVI.

TO THE EARL OF GLENCAIRN.

TO JAMES DALRYMPLE, ESQ.

ORANGEFIELD.

[James Dalrymple, Esq., of Orangefield, was a gentleman of birth and poetic tastes--he interested
himself in the fortunes of Burns.]

Edinburgh, 1787.

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

LXXXVIII.

TO CHARLES HAY. ESQ.,

ADVOCATE.

[The verses enclosed were written on the death of the Lord President Dundas, at the suggestion
of Charles Hay, Esq., advocate, afterwards a judge, under the title of Lord Newton.]

SIR,

The enclosed poem was written in consequence of your suggestion, last time I had the pleasure
of seeing you. It cost me an hour or two of next morning's sleep, but did not please me; so
it lay by, an ill-digested effort, till the other day that I gave it a critic brush. These
kind of subjects are much hackneyed; and, besides, the wailings of the rhyming tribe over the
ashes of the great are cursedly suspicious, and out of all character for sincerity. These ideas
damped my muse's fire; however, I have done the best I could, and, at all events, it gives
me an opportunity of declaring that I have the honour to be, Sir, your obliged humble servant,

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

LXXXIX.

TO MISS M----N.

[This letter appeared for the first time in the "Letters to Clarinda," a little work which
was speedily suppressed--it is, on the whole, a sort of Corydon and Phillis affair, with here
and there expressions too graphic, and passages over-warm. Who the lady was is not known--or
known only to one.]

Saturday Noon, No. 2, St. James's Square,

New Town, Edinburgh

Here have I sat, my 'dear Madam, in the stony altitude of perplexed study for fifteen vexatious
minutes, my head askew, bending over the intended card; my fixed eye insensible to the very
light of day poured around; my pendulous goose-feather, loaded with ink, hanging over the future
letter, all for the important purpose of writing a complimentary card to accompany your trinket.

Compliment is such a miserable Greenland expression, lies at such a chilly polar distance from
the torrid zone of my constitution, that I cannot, for the very soul of me, use it to any person
for whom I have the twentieth part of the esteem every one must have for you who knows you.

As I leave town in three or four days, I can give myself the pleasure of calling on you only
for a minute. Tuesday evening, some time about seven or after, I shall wait on you for your
farewell commands.

The hinge of your box I put into the hands of the proper connoisseur. The broken glass, likewise,
went under review; but deliberative wisdom thought it would too much endanger the whole fabric.

I am, dear Madam,

With all sincerity of enthusiasm,

Your very obedient servant,

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

XC.

TO MISS CHALMERS.

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

XCI.

TO MISS CHALMERS.

I enclose you a proof copy of the "Banks of the Devon," which present with my best wishes to
Charlotte. The "Ochel-hills" you shall probably have next week for yourself. None of your fine
speeches!

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

XCII.

TO MISS CHALMERS.

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

XCIII.

TO SIR JOHN WHITEFOORD.

[The Whitefoords of Whitefoord, interested themselves in all matters connected with literature:
the power of the family, unluckily for Burns, was not equal to their taste.]

Edinburgh, December, 1787.

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

XCIV.

TO MISS WILLIAMS,

ON READING HER POEM OF THE SLAVE-TRADE.

[The name and merits of Miss Williams are widely known; nor is it a small honour to her muse
that her tender song of "Evan Banks" was imputed to Burns by Cromek: other editors since have
continued to include it in his works, though Sir Walter Scott named the true author.]

Edinburgh, Dec. 1787.

I know very little of scientific criticism, so all I can pretend to in that intricate art is
merely to note, as I read along, what passages strike me as being uncommonly beautiful, and
where the expression seems to be perplexed or faulty.

The poem opens finely. There are none of these idle prefatory lines which one may skip over
before one comes to the subject. Verses 9th and 10th in particular,

          "Where ocean's unseen bound
    Leaves a drear world of waters round,"

are truly beautiful. The simile of the hurricane is likewise fine; and, indeed, beautiful as
the poem is, almost all the similes rise decidedly above it. From verse 31st to verse 50th
is a pretty eulogy on Britain. Verse 36th, "That foul drama deep with wrong," is nobly expressive.
Verse 46th, I am afraid, is rather unworthy of the rest; "to dare to feel" is an idea that
I do not altogether like. The contrast of valour and mercy, from the 36th verse to the 50th,
is admirable.

Either my apprehension is dull, or there is something a little confused in the apostrophe to
Mr. Pitt. Verse 55th is the antecedent to verses 57th and 58th, but in verse 58th the connexion
seems ungrammatical:--

    "Powers. . . . . . . . . . . . . .
    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
    With no gradation mark'd their flight,
    But rose at once to glory's height."

Ris'n should be the word instead of rose. Try it in prose. Powers,--their flight marked by
no gradations, but [the same powers] risen at once to the height of glory. Likewise, verse
53d, "For this," is evidently meant to lead on the sense of the verses 59th, 60th, 61st, and
62d: but let us try how the thread of connexion runs,--

    "For this . . . . . . . . . .
    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
    The deeds of mercy, that embrace
    A distant sphere, an alien race,
    Shall virtue's lips record and claim
    The fairest honours of thy name."

I beg pardon if I misapprehended the matter, but this appears to me the only imperfect passage
in the poem. The comparison of the sunbeam is fine.

The compliment to the Duke of Richmond is, I hope, as just as it is certainly elegant The thought,

    "Virtue . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
    Sends from her unsullied source,
    The gems of thought their purest force,"

is exceeding beautiful. The idea, from verse 81st to the 85th, that the "blest decree" is like
the beams of morning ushering in the glorious day of liberty, ought not to pass unnoticed or
unapplauded. From verse 85th to verse 108th, is an animated contrast between the unfeeling
selfishness of the oppressor on the one hand, and the misery of the captive on the other. Verse
88th might perhaps be amended thus: "Nor ever quit her narrow maze." We are said to pass a
bound, but we quit, a maze. Verse 100th is exquisitely beautiful:--

    "They, whom wasted blessings tire."

Verse 110th is I doubt a clashing of metaphors: "to load a span" is, I am afraid, an unwarrantable
expression. In verse 114th, "Cast the universe in shade," is a fine idea. From the 115th verse
to the 142d is a striking description of the wrongs of the poor African. Verse 120th, "The
load of unremitted pain," is a remarkable, strong expression. The address to the advocates
for abolishing the slave-trade, from verse 143d to verse 208th, is animated with the true life
of genius. The picture of oppression:--

    "While she links her impious chain,
    And calculates the price of pain;
    Weighs agony in sordid scales,
    And marks if death or life prevails,"--

is nobly executed.

What a tender idea is in verse 108th! Indeed, that whole description of home may vie with Thomson's
description of home, somewhere in the beginning of his Autumn. I do not remember to have seen
a stronger expression of misery than is contained in these verses:--

    "Condemned, severe extreme, to live
    When all is fled that life can give"

The comparison of our distant joys to distant objects is equally original and striking.

The character and manners of the dealer in the infernal traffic is a well done though a horrid
picture. I am not sure how far introducing the sailor was right; for though the sailor's common
characteristic is generosity, yet, in this case, he is certainly not only an unconcerned witness,
but, in some degree, an efficient agent in the business. Verse 224th is a nervous ... expressive--"The
heart convulsive anguish breaks." The description of the captive wretch when he arrives in
the West Indies, is carried on with equal spirit. The thought that the oppressor's sorrow on
seeing the slave pine, is like the butcher's regret when his destined lamb dies a natural death,
is exceedingly fine.

I am got so much into the cant of criticism, that I begin to be afraid lest I have nothing
except the cant of it; and instead of elucidating my author, am only benighting myself. For
this reason, I will not pretend to go through the whole poem. Some few remaining beautiful
lines, however, I cannot pass over. Verse 280th is the strongest description of selfishness
I ever saw. The comparison of verses 285th and 286th is new and fine; and the line, "Your arms
to penury you lend," is excellent. In verse 317th, "like" should certainly be "as" or "so;"
for instance--

    "His sway the hardened bosom leads
    To cruelty's remorseless deeds:
    As (or, so) the blue lightning when it springs
    With fury on its livid wings,
    Darts on the goal with rapid force,
    Nor heeds that ruin marks its course."

If you insert the word "like" where I have placed "as," you must alter "darts" to "darting,"
and "heeds" to "heeding" in order to make it grammar. A tempest is a favourite subject with
the poets, but I do not remember anything even in Thomson's Winter superior to your verses
from the 347th to the 351st. Indeed, the last simile, beginning with "Fancy may dress," &c.,
and ending with the 350th verse, is, in my opinion, the most beautiful passage in the poem;
it would do honour to the greatest names that ever graced our profession.

I will not beg your pardon, Madam, for these strictures, as my conscience tells me, that for
once in my life I have acted up to the duties of a Christian, in doing as I would be done by.

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

XCV.

TO MR. RICHARD BROWN,

IRVINE.

[Richard Brown was the "hapless son of misfortune," alluded to by Burns in his biographical
letter to Dr. Moore: by fortitude and prudence he retrieved his fortunes, and lived much respected
in Greenock, to a good old age.

Adieu!

R. B.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 180: See song 186, in Johnson's Musical Museum. Burns altered the two last lines,
and added a stanza:

    Why urge the only one request
      You know I will deny!

TO GAVIN HAMILTON.

[The Hamiltons of the West continue to love the memory of Burns: the old arm-chair in which
the bard sat, when he visited Nanse Tinnocks, was lately presented to the mason Lodge of Mauchline,
by Dr. Hamilton, the "wee curly Johnie" of the Dedication.]

[Edinburgh, Dec. 1787.]

MY DEAR SIR,

It is indeed with the highest pleasure that I congratulate you on the return of days of ease
and nights of pleasure, after the horrid hours of misery in which I saw you suffering existence
when last in Ayrshire; I seldom pray for any body, "I'm baith dead-sweer and wretched ill o't;"
but most fervently do I beseech the Power that directs the world, that you may live long and
be happy, but live no longer than you are happy. It is needless for me to advise you to have
a reverend care of your health. I know you will make it a point never at one time to drink
more than a pint of wine (I mean an English pint), and that you will never be witness to more
than one bowl of punch at a time, and that cold drams you will never more taste; and, above
all things, I am convinced, that after drinking perhaps boiling punch, you will never mount
your horse and gallop home in a chill late hour. Above all things, as I understand you are
in habits of intimacy with that Boanerges of gospel powers, Father Auld, be earnest with him
that he will wrestle in prayer for you, that you may see the vanity of vanities in trusting
to, or even practising the casual moral works of charity, humanity, generosity, and forgiveness
of things, which you practised so flagrantly that it was evident you delighted in them, neglecting,
or perhaps profanely despising, the wholesome doctrine of faith without works, the only anchor
of salvation. A hymn of thanksgiving would, in my opinion, be highly becoming from you at present,
and in my zeal for your well-being, I earnestly press on you to be diligent in chanting over
the two enclosed pieces of sacred poesy. My best compliments to Mrs. Hamilton and Miss Kennedy.

Yours in the L--d,

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

XCVII.

TO MISS CHALMERS.

[The blank which takes the place of the name of the "Gentleman in mind and manners," of this
letter, cannot now be filled up, nor is it much matter: the acquaintance of such a man as the
poet describes few or none would desire.]

Edinburgh, Dec. 1787.

MY DEAR MADAM,

I just now have read yours. The poetic compliments I pay cannot be misunderstood. They are
neither of them so particular as to point you out to the world at large; and the circle of
your acquaintances will allow all I have said. Besides, I have complimented you chiefly, almost
solely, on your mental charms. Shall I be plain with you? I will; so look to it. Personal attractions,
Madam, you have much above par; wit, understanding, and worth, you possess in the first class.
This is a cursed flat way of telling you these truths, but let me hear no more of your sheepish
timidity. I know the world a little. I know what they will say of my poems; by second sight
I suppose; for I am seldom out in my conjectures; and you may believe me, my dear Madam, I
would not run any risk of hurting you by any ill-judged compliment. I wish to show to the world,
the odds between a poet's friends and those of simple prosemen. More for your information,
both the pieces go in. One of them, "Where braving angry winter's storms," is already set--the
tune is Neil Gow's Lamentation for Abercarny; the other is to be set to an old Highland air
in Daniel Dow's collection of ancient Scots music; the name is "Ha a Chaillich air mo Dheith."
My treacherous memory has forgot every circumstance about Les Incas, only I think you mentioned
them as being in Creech's possession. I shall ask him about it. I am afraid the song of "Somebody"
will come too late--as I shall, for certain, leave town in a week for Ayrshire, and from that
to Dumfries, but there my hopes are slender. I leave my direction in town, so anything, wherever
I am, will reach me.

I saw yours to ----; it is not too severe, nor did he take it amiss. On the contrary, like
a whipt spaniel, he talks of being with you in the Christmas days. Mr. ---- has given him the
invitation, and he is determined to accept of it. O selfishness! he owns, in his sober moments,
that from his own volatility of inclination, the circumstances in which he is situated, and
his knowledge of his father's disposition;--the whole affair is chimerical--yet he will gratify
an idle penchant at the enormous, cruel expense, of perhaps ruining the peace of the very woman
for whom he professes the generous passion of love! He is a gentleman in his mind and manners--tant
pis! He is a volatile school-boy--the heir of a man's fortune who well knows the value of two
times two!

Perdition seize them and their fortunes, before they should make the amiable, the lovely ----,
the derided object of their purse-proud contempt!

I am doubly happy to hear of Mrs. ----'s recovery, because I really thought all was over with
her. There are days of pleasure yet awaiting her:

    "As I came in by Glenap,
    I met with an aged woman:
    She bad me cheer up my heart,
    For the best o' my days was comin'."

This day will decide my affairs with Creech. Things are, like myself, not what they ought to
be; yet better than what they appear to be.

Farewell! remember me to Charlotte.

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

XCVIII.

TO MRS. DUNLOP.

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

XCIX.

TO MRS. DUNLOP.

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

C.

TO THE REV. JOHN SKINNER.

TO RICHARD BROWN.

[The letters of Burns to Brown, and Smith, and Richmond, and others of his west-country friends,
written when he was in the first flush of fame, show that he did not forget humble men, who
anticipated the public in perceiving his merit.]

Edinburgh, February 15th, 1788.

MY DEAR FRIEND,

I received yours with the greatest pleasure. I shall arrive at Glasgow on Monday evening; and
beg, if possible, you will meet me on Tuesday. I shall wait you Tuesday all day. I shall be
found at Davies', Black Bull inn. I am hurried, as if hunted by fifty devils, else I should
go to Greenock: but if you cannot possibly come, write me, if possible, to Glasgow, on Monday;
or direct to me at Mossgiel by Mauchline; and name a day and place in Ayrshire, within a fortnight
from this date, where I may meet you. I only stay a fortnight in Ayrshire, and return to Edinburgh.
I am ever, my dearest friend, yours,

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

CII.

TO MRS. ROSE, OF KILRAVOCK.

TO RICHARD BROWN. Give my best compliments to Mrs. B., and believe me to be,

My dear Sir,

Yours most truly,

R. B.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 182: Mickle.]

       *       *       *       *       *

CIV.

TO MR. WILLIAM CRUIKSHANK.

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

CVI.

TO RICHARD BROWN.

Yours,--R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

CVII.

TO MR. MUIR.

R. B.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 183: Blair's Grave.]

       *       *       *       *       *

CVIII.

TO MRS. DUNLOP.

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

CIX.

TO MISS CHALMERS.

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

CX.

TO RICHARD BROWN.

[The excitement referred to in this letter arose from the dilatory and reluctant movements
of Creech, who was so slow in settling his accounts that the poet suspected his solvency.]

Glasgow, 26th March, 1788.

I am monstrously to blame, my dear Sir, in not writing to you, and sending you the Directory.
I have been getting my tack extended, as I have taken a farm; and I have been racking shop
accounts with Mr. Creech, both of which, together with watching, fatigue, and a load of care
almost too heavy for my shoulders, have in some degree actually fevered me. I really forgot
the Directory yesterday, which vexed me; but I was convulsed with rage a great part of the
day. I have to thank you for the ingenious, friendly, and elegant epistle from your friend
Mr. Crawford. I shall certainly write to him, but not now. This is merely a card to you, as
I am posting to Dumfries-shire, where many perplexing arrangements await me. I am vexed about
the Directory; but, my dear Sir, forgive me: these eight days I have been positively crazed.
My compliments to Mrs. B. I shall write to you at Grenada.--I am ever, my dearest friend,

Yours,--R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

CXI.

TO MR. ROBERT CLEGHORN.

[Cleghorn was a farmer, a social man, and much of a musician. The poet wrote the Chevalier's
Lament to please the jacobitical taste of his friend; and the musician gave him advice in farming
which he neglected to follow:--"Farmer Attention," says Cleghorn, "is a good farmer everywhere."]

Mauchline, 31st March, 1788.

Yesterday, my dear Sir, as I was riding through a track of melancholy, joyless muirs, between
Galloway and Ayrshire, it being Sunday, I turned my thoughts to psalms, and hymns, and spiritual
songs; and your favourite air, "Captain O'Kean," coming at length into my head, I tried these
words to it. You will see that the first part of the tune must be repeated.

I am tolerably pleased with these verses, but as I have only a sketch of the tune, I leave
it with you to try if they suit the measure of the music.

I am so harassed with care and anxiety, about this farming project of mine, that my muse has
degenerated into the veriest prose-wench that ever picked cinders, or followed a tinker. When
I am fairly got into the routine of business, I shall trouble you with a longer epistle; perhaps
with some queries respecting farming; at present, the world sits such a load on my mind, that
it has effaced almost every trace of the poet in me.

My very best compliments and good wishes to Mrs. Cleghorn.

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

CXII.

TO MR. WILLIAM DUNBAR,

EDINBURGH. Any sober intelligence from my sequestered walks of life; any droll original; any
passing reward, important forsooth, because it is mine; any little poetic effort, however embryoth;
these, my dear Sir, are all you have to expect from me. When I talk of poetic efforts, I must
have it always understood, that I appeal from your wit and taste to your friendship and good
nature. The first would be my favourite tribunal, where I defied censure; but the last, where
I declined justice.

TO MISS CHALMERS.

[The sacrifice referred to by the poet, was his resolution to unite his fortune with Jean Armour.]

Mauchline, 7th April, 1788.

I am indebted to you and Miss Nimmo for letting me know Miss Kennedy. Strange! how apt we are
to indulge prejudices in our judgments of one another! Even I, who pique myself on my skill
in marking characters--because I am too proud of my character as a man, to be dazzled in my
judgment for glaring wealth; and too proud of my situation as a poor man to be biased against
squalid poverty--I was unacquainted with Miss K.'s very uncommon worth.

I am going on a good deal progressive in mon grand bût, the sober science of life. I have lately
made some sacrifices, for which, were I vivâ voce with you to paint the situation and recount
the circumstances, you should applaud me.

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

CXIV.

TO MISS CHALMERS.

[The hint alluded to, was a whisper of the insolvency of Creech; but the bailie was firm as
the Bass.]

No date.

Now for that wayward, unfortunate thing, myself. I have broke measures with Creech, and last
week I wrote him a frosty, keen letter. He replied in terms of chastisement, and promised me
upon his honour that I should have the account on Monday; but this is Tuesday, and yet I have
not heard a word from him. God have mercy on me! a poor d--mned, incautious, duped, unfortunate
fool! I had lately "a hair-breadth 'scape in th' imminent deadly breach" of love too. Thank
my stars, I got off heart-whole, "waur fleyd than hurt."--Interruption. You must not desert
me! Your friendship I think I can count on, though I should date my letters from a marching
regiment. Early in life, and all my life I reckoned on a recruiting drum as my forlorn hope.
Seriously though, life at present presents me with but a melancholy path: but--my limb will
soon be sound, and I shall struggle on.

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

CXV.

TO MISS CHALMERS.

[Although Burns gladly grasped at a situation in the Excise, he wrote many apologies to his
friends, for the acceptance of a place, which, though humble enough, was the only one that
offered.]

Edinburgh, Sunday.

To-morrow, my dear madam, I leave Edinburgh. I have altered all my plans of future life. A
farm that I could live in, I could not find; and, indeed, after the necessary support my brother
and the rest of the family required, I could not venture on farming in that style suitable
to my feelings. You will condemn me for the next step I have taken. I have entered into the
Excise. I stay in the west about three weeks, and then return to Edinburgh, for six weeks'
instructions: afterwards, for I get employ instantly, I go où il plait à Dieu,--et mon Roi.
I was not likely to get anything to do. I wanted un bût, which is a dangerous, an unhappy situation.

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

CXVI.

TO MRS. DUNLOP.

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

CXVII.

TO MR. JAMES SMITH,

AVON PRINTFIELD, LINLITHGOW.

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

CXVIII.

TO PROFESSOR DUGALD STEWART.

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

CXIX.

TO MRS. DUNLOP.

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

CXX.

TO MR. ROBERT AINSLIE.

[I have heard the gentleman say, to whom this brief letter is addressed, how much he was pleased
with the intimation, that the poet had reunited himself with Jean Armour, for he know his heart
was with her.]

Mauchline, May 26, 1788.

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

CXXI.

TO MRS. DUNLOP.

[This letter, on the hiring season, is well worth the consideration of all masters, and all
servants.

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

CXXII.

TO MRS. DUNLOP,

AT MR DUNLOP'S, HADDINGTON.

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

CXXIII.

TO ROBERT AINSLIE, ESQ. As it is I look to the Excise scheme as a certainty of maintenance!--luxury
to what either Mrs. Burns or I were born to.

Adieu.

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

CXXIV.

TO ROBERT AINSLIE, ESQ.

[The kindness of Field, the profilist, has not only indulged me with a look at the original,
from which the profile alluded to in the letter was taken, but has put me in possession of
a capital copy.]

Mauchline, 23d June, 1788.

This letter, my dear Sir, is only a business scrap. Mr. Miers, profile painter in your town,
has executed a profile of Dr. Blacklock for me: do me the favour to call for it, and sit to
him yourself for me, which put in the same size as the doctor's. The account of both profiles
will be fifteen shillings, which I have given to James Connell, our Mauchline carrier, to pay
you when you give him the parcel. You must not, my friend, refuse to sit. The time is short:
when I sat to Mr. Miers, I am sure he did not exceed two minutes. I propose hanging Lord Glencairn,
the Doctor, and you in trio over my new chimney-piece that is to be.

Adieu.

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

CXXV.

TO ROBERT AINSLIE, ESQ.

["There is a degree of folly," says Burns in this letter, "in talking unnecessarily of one's
private affairs."

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

CXXVI.

TO MR. GEORGE LOCKHART,

MERCHANT, GLASGOW.

[Burns, more than any poet of the age, loved to write out copies of his favourite poems, and
present them to his friends: he sent "The Falls of Bruar" to Mr. Lockhart.]

Mauchline, 18th July, 1788.

MY DEAR SIR,

I am just going for Nithsdale, else I would certainly have transcribed some of my rhyming things
for you. The Miss Baillies I have seen in Edinburgh. "Fair and lovely are thy works, Lord God
Almighty! Who would not praise thee for these thy gifts in thy goodness to the sons of men!"
It needed not your fine taste to admire them. I declare, one day I had the honour of dining
at Mr. Baillie's, I was almost in the predicament of the children of Israel, when they could
not look on Moses' face for the glory that shone in it when he descended from Mount Sinai.

I did once write a poetic address from the Falls of Bruar to his Grace of Athole, when I was
in the Highlands. When you return to Scotland, let me know, and I will send such of my pieces
as please myself best. I return to Mauchline in about ten days.

My compliments to Mr. Purdon. I am in truth, but at present in haste,

Yours,--R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

CXXVII.

TO MR. PETER HILL.

R. B.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 184: Printer of the Edinburgh Evening Courant.]

[Footnote 185: A club of choice spirits.]

       *       *       *       *       *

CXXVIII.

TO ROBERT GRAHAM, ESQ.,

OF FINTRAY.

[The filial and fraternal claims alluded to in this letter were satisfied with about three
hundred pounds, two hundred of which went to his brother Gilbert--a sum which made a sad inroad
on the money arising from the second edition of his Poems.]

SIR,

When I had the honour of being introduced to you at Athole-house, I did not think so soon of
asking a favour of you.

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

CXXIX.

TO WILLIAM CRUIKSHANK.

[The verses which this letter conveyed to Cruikshank were the lines written in Friars-Carse
Hermitage: "the first-fruits," says the poet, elsewhere, "of my intercourse with the Nithsdale
muse."]

Ellisland, August, 1788.

I have not room, my dear friend, to answer all the particulars of your last kind letter. I
shall be in Edinburgh on some business very soon; and as I shall be two days, or perhaps three,
in town, we shall discuss matters vivâ voce. My knee, I believe, will never be entirely well;
and an unlucky fall this winter has made it still worse. I well remember the circumstance you
allude to, respecting Creech's opinion of Mr. Nicol; but, as the first gentleman owes me still
about fifty pounds, I dare not meddle in the affair.

It gave me a very heavy heart to read such accounts of the consequence of your quarrel with
that puritanic, rotten-hearted, hell-commissioned scoundrel A----. If, notwithstanding your
unprecedented industry in public, and your irreproachable conduct in private life, he still
has you so much in his power, what ruin may he not bring on some others I could name?

Many and happy returns of seasons to you, with your dearest and worthiest friend, and the lovely
little pledge of your happy union. May the great Author of life, and of every enjoyment that
can render life delightful, make her that comfortable blessing to you both, which you so ardently
wish for, and which, allow me to say, you so well deserve! Glance over the foregoing verses,
and let me have your blots.

Adieu.

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

CXXX.

TO MRS. DUNLOP.
    But come *  *  *  *  *  *

Here the muse left me.

R. B.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 186: See Poems LXXXIX and XC]

       *       *       *       *       *

CXXXI.

TO MRS. DUNLOP.

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

CXXXII.

TO MRS. DUNLOP.

[Mrs. Miller, of Dalswinton, was a lady of beauty and talent: she wrote verses with skill and
taste.

R. B.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 187: See Song LII.]

       *       *       *       *       *

CXXXIII.

TO MR. BEUGO,

ENGRAVER, EDINBURGH.

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

CXXXIV.

TO MISS CHALMERS,

EDINBURGH.

TO MR. MORISON,

MAUCHLINE.

TO MRS. DUNLOP,

OF DUNLOP.

R. B.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 190: Poem XCII.]

       *       *       *       *       *

CXXXVII.

TO MR. PETER HILL.

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

CXXXVIII.

TO THE EDITOR OF "THE STAR."

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

CXXXIX.

TO MRS. DUNLOP,

AT MOREHAM MAINS.

R. B.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 191: Heifer.]

       *       *       *       *       *

CXL.

TO MR. JAMES JOHNSON,

ENGRAVER.

[James Johnson, though not an ungenerous man, meanly refused to give a copy of the Musical
Museum to Burns, who desired to bestow it on one to whom his family was deeply indebted. This
was in the last year of the poet's life, and after the Museum had been brightened by so much
of his lyric verse.]

Mauchline, November 15th, 1788.

MY DEAR SIR,

I have sent you two more songs. If you have got any tunes, or anything to correct, please send
them by return of the carrier.

I can easily see, my dear friend, that you will very probably have four volumes. Perhaps you
may not find your account lucratively in this business; but you are a patriot for the music
of your country; and I am certain posterity will look on themselves as highly indebted to your
public spirit. Be not in a hurry; let us go on correctly, and your name shall be immortal.

I am preparing a flaming preface for your third volume. I see every day new musical publications
advertised; but what are they? Gaudy, hunted butterflies of a day, and then vanish for ever:
but your work will outlive the momentary neglects of idle fashion, and defy the teeth of time.

Have you never a fair goddess that leads you a wild-goose chase of amorous devotion? Let me
know a few of her qualities, such as whether she be rather black, or fair; plump, or thin;
short, or tall, &c.; and choose your air, and I shall task my muse to celebrate her.

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

CXLI.

TO DR. BLACKLOCK.

[Blacklock, though blind, was a cheerful and good man.

TO MRS. DUNLOP. I shall give you the verses on the other sheet, as I suppose Mr. Ker will save
you the postage. Now I am on my hobby-horse, I cannot help inserting two other old stanzas,
which please me mightily:--

    "Go fetch to me a pint of wine."[193]

R. B.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 192: See Song CCX.]

[Footnote 193: See Song LXXII.]

       *       *       *       *       *

CXLIII.

TO MISS DAVIES.

[The Laird of Glenriddel informed "the charming, lovely Davies" that Burns was composing a
song in her praise. The poet acted on this, and sent the song, enclosed in this characteristic
letter.]

December, 1788.

MADAM,

I understand my very worthy neighbour, Mr. Riddel, has informed you that I have made you the
subject of some verses. There is something so provoking in the idea of being the burthen of
a ballad, that I do not think Job or Moses, though such patterns of patience and meekness,
could have resisted the curiosity to know what that ballad was: so my worthy friend has done
me a mischief, which I dare say he never intended; and reduced me to the unfortunate alternative
of leaving your curiosity ungratified, or else disgusting you with foolish verses, the unfinished
production of a random moment, and never meant to have met your ear. I have heard or read somewhere
of a gentleman who had some genius, much eccentricity, and very considerable dexterity with
his pencil. In the accidental group of life into which one is thrown, wherever this gentleman
met with a character in a more than ordinary degree congenial to his heart, he used to steal
a sketch of the face, merely, he said, as a nota bene, to point out the agreeable recollection
to his memory. What this gentleman's pencil was to him, my muse is to me; and the verses I
do myself the honour to send you are a memento exactly of the same kind that he indulged in.

It may be more owing to the fastidiousness of my caprice than the delicacy of my taste; but
I am so often tired, disgusted and hurt with insipidity, affectation, and pride of mankind,
that when I meet with a person "after my own heart," I positively feel what an orthodox Protestant
would call a species of idolatry, which acts on my fancy like inspiration; and I can no more
desist rhyming on the impulse, than an Æolian harp can refuse its tones to the streaming air.
A distich or two would be the consequence, though the object which hit my fancy were gray-bearded-age;
but where my theme is youth and beauty, a young lady whose personal charms, wit, and sentiment
are equally striking and unaffected--by heavens! though I had lived three score years a married
man, and three score years before I was a married man, my imagination would hallow the very
idea: and I am truly sorry that the inclosed stanzas have done such poor justice to such a subject.

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

CXLIV.

TO MR. JOHN TENNANT.

[The mill of John Currie stood on a small stream which fed the loch of Friar's Carse--near
the house of the dame of whom he sang, "Sic a wife as Willie had."]

December 22, 1788.

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

CXLV.

TO MRS. DUNLOP.

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

CXLVI.

TO DR. MOORE.

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

CXLVII.

TO MR. ROBERT AINSLIE. NIGHT THOUGHTS.

THOMSON.

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

CXLVIII.

TO PROFESSOR DUGALD STEWART.

[The iron justice to which the poet alludes, in this letter, was exercised by Dr. Gregory,
on the poem of the "Wounded Hare."]

Ellisland, 20th Jan, 1789.

TO BISHOP GEDDES.

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

CL.

TO MR. JAMES BURNESS.

TO MRS. DUNLOP.

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

CLII.

TO THE REV. PETER CARFRAE.

[Mylne was a worthy and a modest man: he died of an inflammatory fever in the prime of life.]

1789.

REV. SIR,

I do not recollect that I have ever felt a severer pang of shame, than on looking at the date
of your obliging letter which accompanied Mr. Mylne's poem.

I am much to blame: the honour Mr. Mylne has done me, greatly enhanced in its value by the
endearing, though melancholy circumstance, of its being the last production of his muse, deserved
a better return.

I have, as you hint, thought of sending a copy of the poem to some periodical publication;
but, on second thoughts, I am afraid, that in the present case, it would be an improper step.
My success, perhaps as much accidental as merited, has brought an inundation of nonsense under
the name of Scottish poetry. Subscription-bills for Scottish poems have so dunned, and daily
do dun the public, that the very name is in danger of contempt. For these reasons, if publishing
any of Mr. Mylne's poems in a magazine, &c., be at all prudent, in my opinion it certainly
should not be a Scottish poem. The profits of the labours of a man of genius are, I hope, as
honourable as any profits whatever; and Mr. Mylne's relations are most justly entitled to that
honest harvest, which fate has denied himself to reap. But let the friends of Mr. Mylne's fame
(among whom I crave the honour of ranking myself) always keep in eye his respectability as
a man and as a poet, and take no measure that, before the world knows anything about him, would
risk his name and character being classed with the fools of the times.

I have, Sir, some experience of publishing; and the way in which I would proceed with Mr. Mylne's
poem is this:--I would publish, in two or three English and Scottish public papers, any one
of his English poems which should, by private judges, be thought the most excellent, and mention
it, at the same time, as one of the productions of a Lothian farmer, of respectable character,
lately deceased, whose poems his friends had it in idea to publish, soon, by subscription,
for the sake of his numerous family:--not in pity to that family, but in justice to what his
friends think the poetic merits of the deceased; and to secure, in the most effectual manner,
to those tender connexions, whose right it is, the pecuniary reward of those merits.

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

CLIII.

TO DR. MOORE.

[Edward Nielson, whom Burns here introduces to Dr. Moore, was minister of Kirkbean, on the
Solway-side.

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

CLIV.

TO MR. WILLIAM BURNS.

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

CLV.

TO MR. HILL.

TO MRS. DUNLOP

[Some lines which extend, but fail to finish the sketch contained in this letter, will be found
elsewhere in this publication.]

Ellisland, 4th April, 1789.

I no sooner hit on any poetic plan or fancy, but I wish to send it to you: and if knowing and
reading these give half the pleasure to you, that communicating them to you gives to me, I
am satisfied.

I have a poetic whim in my head, which I at present dedicate, or rather inscribe to the Right
Hon. Charles James Fox; but how long that fancy may hold, I cannot say. A few of the first
lines, I have just rough-sketched as follows:

SKETCH.

On the 20th current I hope to have the honour of assuring you in person, how sincerely I am--

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

CLVII.

TO MR. WILLIAM BURNS,

SADLER,

CARE OF MR. WRIGHT, CARRIER, LONGTOWN.

["Never to despair" was a favourite saying with Burns: and "firm resolve," he held, with Young,
to be "the column of true majesty in man."]

Isle, 15th April, 1789.

MY DEAR WILLIAM,

I am extremely sorry at the misfortune of your legs; I beg you will never let any worldly concern
interfere with the more serious matter, the safety of your life and limbs. I have not time
in these hurried days to write you anything other than a mere how d'ye letter. I will only
repeat my favourite quotation:--

    "What proves the hero truly great
    Is never, never to despair."

My house shall be your welcome home; and as I know your prudence (would to God you had resolution
equal to your prudence!) if anywhere at a distance from friends, you should need money, you
know my direction by post.

The enclosed is from Gilbert, brought by your sister Nanny. It was unluckily forgot. Yours
to Gilbert goes by post.--I heard from them yesterday, they are all well.

Adieu.

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

CLVIII.

TO MRS. M'MURDO,

DRUMLANRIG.

TO MR. CUNNINGHAM.

[Honest Jamie Thomson, who shot the hare because she browsed with her companions on his father's
"wheat-braird," had no idea he was pulling down such a burst of indignation on his head as
this letter with the poem which it enclosed expresses.]

Ellisland, 4th May, 1789.

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

CLX.

TO MR. SAMUEL BROWN.

[Samuel Brown was brother to the poet's mother: he seems to have been a joyous sort of person,
who loved a joke, and understood double meanings.]

Mossgiel, 4th May, 1789.

TO RICHARD BROWN.

TO MR. JAMES HAMILTON.

[James Hamilton, grocer, in Glasgow, interested himself early in the fortunes of the poet.]

Ellisland, 26th May, 1789.

DEAR SIR,

I send you by John Glover, carrier, the account for Mr. Turnbull, as I suppose you know his
address.

I would fain offer, my dear Sir, a word of sympathy with your misfortunes; but it is a tender
string, and I know not how to touch it. It is easy to flourish a set of high-flown sentiments
on the subjects that would give great satisfaction to--a breast quite at ease; but as ONE observes,
who was very seldom mistaken in the theory of life, "The heart knoweth its own sorrows, and
a stranger intermeddleth not therewith."

Among some distressful emergencies that I have experienced in life, I ever laid this down as
my foundation of comfort--That he who has lived the life of an honest man, has by no means
lived in vain!

With every wish for your welfare and future success,

I am, my dear Sir,

Sincerely yours,

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

CLXIII.

TO WILLIAM CREECH, ESQ.

[The poetic address to the "venomed stang" of the toothache seems to have come into existence
about this time.]

Ellisland, 30th May, 1789.

SIR,

I had intended to have troubled you with a long letter, but at present the delightful sensations
of an omnipotent toothache so engross all my inner man, as to put it out of my power even to
write nonsense. However, as in duty bound, I approach my bookseller with an offering in my
hand--a few poetic clinches, and a song:--To expect any other kind of offering from the Rhyming
Tribe would be to know them much less than you do. I do not pretend that there is much merit
in these morceaux, but I have two reasons for sending them; primo, they are mostly ill-natured,
so are in unison with my present feelings, while fifty troops of infernal spirits are driving
post from ear to ear along my jaw-bones; and secondly, they are so short, that you cannot leave
off in the middle, and so hurt my pride in the idea that you found any work of mine too heavy
to get through.

I have a request to beg of you, and I not only beg of you, but conjure you, by all your wishes
and by all your hopes, that the muse will spare the satiric wink in the moment of your foibles;
that she will warble the song of rapture round your hymeneal couch; and that she will shed
on your turf the honest tear of elegiac gratitude! Grant my request as speedily as possible--send
me by the very first fly or coach for this place three copies of the last edition of my poems,
which place to my account.

Now may the good things of prose, and the good things of verse, come among thy hands, until
they be filled with the good things of this life, prayeth

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

CLXIV.

TO MR. M'AULEY.

[The poet made the acquaintance of Mr. M'Auley, of Dumbarton, in one of his northern tours,--he
was introduced by his friend Kennedy.]

Ellisland, 4th June, 1789.

DEAR SIR,

Though I am not without my fears respecting my fate, at that grand, universal inquest of right
and wrong, commonly called The Last Day, yet I trust there is one sin, which that arch-vagabond,
Satan, who I understand is to be king's evidence, cannot throw in my teeth, I mean ingratitude.
There is a certain pretty large quantum of kindness for which I remain, and from inability,
I fear, must still remain, your debtor; but though unable to repay the debt, I assure you,
Sir, I shall ever warmly remember the obligation. It gives me the sincerest pleasure to hear
by my old acquaintance, Mr. Kennedy, that you are, in immortal Allan's language, "Hale, and
weel, and living;" and that your charming family are well, and promising to be an amiable and
respectable addition to the company of performers, whom the Great Manager of the Drama of Man
is bringing into action for the succeeding age.

With respect to my welfare, a subject in which you once warmly and effectively interested yourself,
I am here in my old way, holding my plough, marking the growth of my corn, or the health of
my dairy; and at times sauntering by the delightful windings of the Nith, on the margin of
which I have built my humble domicile, praying for seasonable weather, or holding an intrigue
with the muses; the only gipsies with whom I have now any intercourse. As I am entered into
the holy state of matrimony, I trust my face is turned completely Zion-ward; and as it is a
rule with all honest fellows to repeat no grievances, I hope that the little poetic licenses
of former days will of course fall under the oblivious influence of some good-natured statute
of celestial prescription. In my family devotion, which, like a good Presbyterian, I occasionally
give to my household folks, I am extremely fond of that psalm, "Let not the errors of my youth,"
&c., and that other, "Lo, children are God's heritage," &c., in which last Mrs. Burns, who
by the bye has a glorious "wood-note wild" at either old song or psalmody, joins me with the
pathos of Handel's Messiah.

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

CLXV.

TO MR. ROBERT AINSLIE.

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

CLXVI.

TO MR. M'MURDO.

[John M'Murdo has been already mentioned as one of Burns's firmest friends: his table at Drumlanrig
was always spread at the poet's coming: nor was it uncheered by the presence of the lady of
the house and her daughters.]

Ellisland, 19th June, 1789.

SIR,

A poet and a beggar are, in so many points of view, alike, that one might take them for the
same individual character under different designations; were it not that though, with a trifling
poetic license, most poets may be styled beggars, yet the converse of the proposition does
not hold, that every beggar is a poet. In one particular, however, they remarkably agree; if
you help either the one or the other to a mug of ale, or the picking of a bone, they will very
willingly repay you with a song. This occurs to me at present, as I have just despatched a
well-lined rib of John Kirkpatrick's Highlander; a bargain for which I am indebted to you,
in the style of our ballad printers, "Five excellent new songs." The enclosed is nearly my
newest song, and one that has cost me some pains, though that is but an equivocal mark of its
excellence. Two or three others, which I have by me, shall do themselves the honour to wait
on your after leisure: petitioners for admittance into favour must not harass the condescension
of their benefactor.

You see, Sir, what it is to patronize a poet. 'Tis like being a magistrate in a petty borough;
you do them the favour to preside in their council for one year, and your name bears the prefatory
stigma of Bailie for life.

With, not the compliments, but the best wishes, the sincerest prayers of the season for you,
that you may see many and happy years with Mrs. M'Murdo, and your family; two blessings by
the bye, to which your rank does not, by any means, entitle you; a loving wife and fine family
being almost the only good things of this life to which the farm-house and cottage have an
exclusive right,

I have the honour to be,

Sir,

Your much indebted and very humble servant,

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

CLXVII.

TO MRS. DUNLOP.

[The devil, the pope, and the Pretender darkened the sermons, for more than a century, of many
sound divines in the north.

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

CLXVIII.

TO MR. ----.

That you have done well in quitting your laborious concern in * * * *, I do not doubt; the
weighty reasons you mention, were, I hope, very, and deservedly indeed, weighty ones, and your
health is a matter of the last importance; but whether the remaining proprietors of the paper
have also done well, is what I much doubt. The * * * *, so far as I was a reader, exhibited
such a brilliancy of point, such an elegance of paragraph, and such a variety of intelligence,
that I can hardly conceive it possible to continue a daily paper in the same degree of excellence:
but if there was a man who had abilities equal to the task, that man's assistance the proprietors
have lost.

Adieu my dear sir! So soon as your present views and schemes are concentered in an aim, I shall
be glad to hear from you; as your welfare and happiness is by no means a subject indifferent to

Yours,

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

CLXIX.

TO MISS WILLIAMS.

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

CLXX.

TO MR. JOHN LOGAN.

TO MRS. DUNLOP.

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

CLXXII.

TO CAPTAIN RIDDEL,

CARSE.

    Wha first shall rise to gang awa,
      A cuckold coward loun is he:
    Wha last beside his chair shall fa',
      He is the king amang us three.

TO CAPTAIN RIDDEL.

[Robert Riddel kept one of those present pests of society--an album--into which Burns copied
the Lines on the Hermitage, and the Wounded Hare.]

Ellisland, 1789.

SIR,

I wish from my inmost soul it were in my power to give you a more substantial gratification
and return for all the goodness to the poet, than transcribing a few of his idle rhymes.--However,
"an old song," though to a proverb an instance of insignificance, is generally the only coin
a poet has to pay with.

If my poems which I have transcribed, and mean still to transcribe into your book, were equal
to the grateful respect and high esteem I bear for the gentleman to whom I present them, they
would be the finest poems in the language.--As they are, they will at least be a testimony
with what sincerity I have the honour to be,

Sir,

Your devoted humble Servant,

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

CLXXIV.

TO MR. ROBERT AINSLIE.

[The ignominy of a poet becoming a gauger seems ever to have been present to the mind of Burns--but
those moving things ca'd wives and weans have a strong influence on the actions of man.]

Ellisland, 1st Nov. 1789. For the ignominy of the profession, I have the encouragement which
I once heard a recruiting sergeant give to a numerous, if not a respectable audience, in the
streets of Kilmarnock.--"Gentlemen, for your further and better encouragement, I can assure
you that our regiment is the most blackguard corps under the crown, and consequently with us
an honest fellow has the surest chance for preferment."

TO MR. RICHARD BROWN.

TO R. GRAHAM, ESQ.

Sir J. J. does "what man can do," but yet I doubt his fate.

       *       *       *       *       *

CLXXVII.

TO MRS. DUNLOP.

[Burns was often a prey to lowness of spirits: at this some dull men have marvelled; but the
dull have no misgivings: they go blindly and stupidly on, like a horse in a mill, and have
none of the sorrows or joys which genius is heir to.]

Ellisland, 13th December, 1789.

R. B.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 194: Blair's Grave.]

       *       *       *       *       *

CLXXVIII.

TO LADY W[INIFRED] M[AXWELL] CONSTABLE.

TO PROVOST MAXWELL,

OF LOCHMABEN.

[Of Lochmaben, the "Marjory of the mony Lochs" of the election ballads, Maxwell was at this
time provost, a post more of honour than of labour.]

Ellisland, 20th December, 1789.

DEAR PROVOST,

As my friend Mr. Graham goes for your good town to-morrow, I cannot resist the temptation to
send you a few lines, and as I have nothing to say I have chosen this sheet of foolscap, and
begun as you see at the top of the first page, because I have ever observed, that when once
people have fairly set out they know not where to stop. Now that my first sentence is concluded,
I have nothing to do but to pray heaven to help me on to another. Shall I write you on Politics
or Religion, two master subjects for your sayers of nothing. Of the first I dare say by this
time you are nearly surfeited: and for the last, whatever they may talk of it, who make it
a kind of company concern, I never could endure it beyond a soliloquy.

Well, to make the matter short, I shall betake myself to a subject ever fruitful of themes;
a subject the turtle-feast of the sons of Satan, and the delicious secret sugar-plum of the
babes of grace--a subject sparkling with all the jewels that wit can find in the mines of genius:
and pregnant with all the stores of learning from Moses and Confucius to Franklin and Priestley--in
short, may it please your Lordship, I intend to write * * *

[Here the Poet inserted a song which can only be sung at times when the punch-bowl has done
its duty and wild wit is set free.]

If at any time you expect a field-day in your town, a day when Dukes, Earls, and Knights pay
their court to weavers, tailors, and cobblers, I should like to know of it two or three days
beforehand. It is not that I care three skips of a cur dog for the politics, but I should like
to see such an exhibition of human nature. If you meet with that worthy old veteran in religion
and good-fellowship, Mr. Jeffrey, or any of his amiable family, I beg you will give them my
best compliments.

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

CLXXX.

TO SIR JOHN SINCLAIR.

[Of the Monkland Book-Club alluded to in this letter, the clergyman had omitted all mention
in his account of the Parish of Dunscore, published in Sir John Sinclair's work: some of the
books which the poet introduced were stigmatized as vain and frivolous.]

1790.

SIR,

The following circumstance has, I believe, been committed in the statistical account, transmitted
to you of the parish of Dunscore, in Nithsdale. I beg leave to send it to you because it is
new, and may be useful. How far it is deserving of a place in your patriotic publication, you
are the best judge.

To store the minds of the lower classes with useful knowledge, is certainly of very great importance,
both to them as individuals and to society at large. Giving them a turn for reading and reflection,
is giving them a source of innocent and laudable amusement: and besides, raises them to a more
dignified degree in the scale of rationality. Impressed with this idea, a gentleman in this
parish, Robert Riddel, Esq., of Glenriddel, set on foot a species of circulating library, on
a plan so simple as to be practicable in any corner of the country; and so useful, as to deserve
the notice of every country gentleman, who thinks the improvement of that part of his own species,
whom chance has thrown into the humble walks of the peasant and the artisan, a matter worthy
of his attention.

Mr. Riddel got a number of his own tenants, and farming neighbors, to form themselves into
a society for the purpose of having a library among themselves. They entered into a legal engagement
to abide by it for three years; with a saving clause or two in case of a removal to a distance,
or death. Each member, at his entry, paid five shillings; and at each of their meetings, which
were held every fourth Saturday, sixpence more. With their entry-money, and the credit which
they took on the faith of their future funds, they laid in a tolerable stock of books at the
commencement. What authors they were to purchase, was always decided by the majority. At every
meeting, all the books, under certain fines and forfeitures, by way of penalty, were to be
produced; and the members had their choice of the volumes in rotation. He whose name stood
for that night first on the list, had his choice of what volume he pleased in the whole collection;
the second had his choice after the first; the third after the second, and so on to the last.
At next meeting, he who had been first on the list at the preceding meeting, was last at this;
he who had been second was first; and so on through the whole three years. At the expiration
of the engagement the books were sold by auction, but only among the members themselves; each
man had his share of the common stock, in money or in books, as he chose to be a purchaser or not.

At the breaking up of this little society, which was formed under Mr. Riddel's patronage, what
with benefactions of books from him, and what with their own purchases, they had collected
together upwards of one hundred and fifty volumes. It will easily be guessed, that a good deal
of trash would be bought. Among the books, however, of this little library, were, Blair's Sermons,
Robertson's History of Scotland, Hume's History of the Stewarts, The Spectator, Idler, Adventurer,
Mirror, Lounger, Observer, Man of Feeling, Man of the World, Chrysal, Don Quixote, Joseph Andrews,
&c. A peasant who can read, and enjoy such books, is certainly a much superior being to his
neighbour, who perhaps stalks besides his team, very little removed, except in shape, from
the brutes he drives.

Wishing your patriotic exertions their so much merited success,

I am, Sir,

Your humble servant,

A PEASANT.

       *       *       *       *       *

CLXXXI.

TO CHARLES SHARPE, ESQ.,

OF HODDAM.

[The family of Hoddam is of old standing in Nithsdale.

       *       *       *       *       *

CLXXXII.

TO MR. GILBERT BURNS.
    Good sense and taste are natives here at home.

I can no more.--If once I was clear of this cursed farm, I should respire more at ease.

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

CLXXXIII.

TO MR. SUTHERLAND,

PLAYER.

ENCLOSING A PROLOGUE.

[When the farm failed, the poet sought pleasure in the playhouse: he tried to retire from his
own harassing reflections, into a world created by other minds.]

Monday Morning.

I was much disappointed, my dear Sir, in wanting your most agreeable company yesterday. However,
I heartily pray for good weather next Sunday; and whatever aërial Being has the guidance of
the elements, may take any other half-dozen of Sundays he pleases, and clothe them with

    "Vapours and clouds, and storms,
    Until he terrify himself
    At combustion of his own raising."

I shall see you on Wednesday forenoon. In the greatest hurry,

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

CLXXXIV.

Feb. 2.

TO MRS. DUNLOP. 1833, vol. iii. p. 304.]

[Footnote 196: The bard's second son, Francis.]

       *       *       *       *       *

CLXXXVI.

TO MR. PETER HILL,

BOOKSELLER, EDINBURGH.

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

CLXXXVII.

TO MR. W. NICOL.

[The poet has recorded this unlooked-for death of the Dominie's mare in some hasty verses,
which are not much superior to the subject.]

Ellisland, Feb. 9th, 1790.

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

CLXXXVIII.

TO MR. CUNNINGHAM.

[Burns looks back with something of regret to the days of rich dinners and flowing wine-cups
which he experienced in Edinburgh. Satire on Women.]

       *       *       *       *       *

CLXXXIX.

TO MR. PETER HILL.

Adieu!

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

CXC.

TO MRS. DUNLOP.

TO COLLECTOR MITCHELL.

[Collector Mitchell was a kind and considerate gentle man: to his grandson, Mr. John Campbell,
surgeon, in Aberdeen, I owe this characteristic letter.]

Ellisland, 1790.

SIR,

I shall not fail to wait on Captain Riddel to-night--I wish and pray that the goddess of justice
herself would appear to-morrow among our hon. gentlemen, merely to give them a word in their
ear that mercy to the thief is injustice to the honest man. For my part I have galloped over
my ten parishes these four days, until this moment that I am just alighted, or rather, that
my poor jackass-skeleton of a horse has let me down; for the miserable devil has been on his
knees half a score of times within the last twenty miles, telling me in his own way, 'Behold,
am not I thy faithful jade of a horse, on which thou hast ridden these many years!'

In short, Sir, I have broke my horse's wind, and almost broke my own neck, besides some injuries
in a part that shall be nameless, owing to a hard-hearted stone for a saddle. I find that every
offender has so many great men to espouse his cause, that I shall not be surprised if I am
committed to the strong hold of the law to-morrow for insolence to the dear friends of the
gentlemen of the country.

I have the honour to be, Sir,

Your obliged and obedient humble

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

CXCII.

TO DR. MOORE.

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

CXCIII.

TO MR. MURDOCH,

TEACHER OF FRENCH, LONDON.

TO MR. M'MURDO.

[This hasty note was accompanied by the splendid elegy on Matthew Henderson, and no one could
better feel than M'Murdo, to whom it is addressed, the difference between the music of verse
and the clangour of politics.]

Ellisland, 2d August, 1790.

SIR,

Now that you are over with the sirens of Flattery, the harpies of Corruption, and the furies
of Ambition, these infernal deities, that on all sides, and in all parties, preside over the
villanous business of politics, permit a rustic muse of your acquaintance to do her best to
soothe you with a song.--

You knew Henderson--I have not flattered his memory.

I have the honour to be, Sir,

Your obliged humble servant,

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

CXCV.

TO MRS. DUNLOP.

[Inquiries have been made in vain after the name of Burns's ci-devant friend, who had so deeply
wounded his feelings.]

8th August, 1790.

DEAR MADAM,

After a long day's toil, plague, and care, I sit down to write to you. Ask me not why I have
delayed it so long! It was owing to hurry, indolence, and fifty other things; in short to anything--but
forgetfulness of la plus aimable de son sexe. By the bye, you are indebted your best courtesy
to me for this last compliment; as I pay it from my sincere conviction of its truth--a quality
rather rare in compliments of these grinning, bowing, scraping times.

Well, I hope writing to you will ease a little my troubled soul. Sorely has it been bruised
to-day! A ci-devant friend of mine, and an intimate acquaintance of yours, has given my feelings
a wound that I perceive will gangrene dangerously ere it cure. He has wounded my pride!

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

CXCVI.

TO MR. CUNNINGHAM.

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

CXCVII.

TO DR. ANDERSON.

[The gentleman to whom this imperfect note is addressed was Dr. James Anderson, a well-known
agricultural and miscellaneous writer, and the editor of a weekly miscellany called the Bee.]

SIR,

I am much indebted to my worthy friend, Dr. Blacklock, for introducing me to a gentleman of
Dr. Anderson's celebrity; but when you do me the honour to ask my assistance in your proposed
publication, alas, Sir! you might as well think to cheapen a little honesty at the sign of
an advocate's wig, or humility under the Geneva band. I am a miserable hurried devil, worn
to the marrow in the friction of holding the noses of the poor publicans to the grindstone
of the excise! and, like Milton's Satan, for private reasons, am forced

    "To do what yet though damn'd I would abhor."

--and, except a couplet or two of honest execration  *  *  *  *

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

CXCVIII.

TO WILLIAM TYTLER, ESQ.,

OF WOODHOUSELEE.

[William Tytler was the "revered defender of the beauteous Stuart"--a man of genius and a gentleman.]

Lawn Market, August, 1790.

SIR,

Enclosed I have sent you a sample of the old pieces that are still to be found among our peasantry
in the west. I had once a great many of these fragments, and some of these here, entire; but
as I had no idea then that anybody cared for them, I have forgotten them. I invariably hold
it sacrilege to add anything of my own to help out with the shattered wrecks of these venerable
old compositions; but they have many various readings. If you have not seen these before, I
know they will flatter your true old-style Caledonian feelings; at any rate I am truly happy
to have an opportunity of assuring you how sincerely I am, revered Sir,

Your gratefully indebted humble servant,

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

CXCIX.

TO CRAUFORD TAIT, ESQ.,

EDINBURGH.

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

CC.

TO ----.

[This letter contained the Kirk's Alarm, a satire written to help the cause of Dr. M'Gill,
who recanted his heresy rather than be removed from his kirk.]

Ellisland, 1790.

DEAR SIR,

Whether in the way of my trade I can be of any service to the Rev. Doctor, is I fear very doubtful.
Good God, Sir! to such a shield, humour is the peck of a sparrow, and satire the pop-gun of
a school-boy. Creation-disgracing scelerats such as they, God only can mend, and the devil
only can punish. In the comprehending way of Caligula, I wish they all had but one neck. I
feel impotent as a child to the ardour of my wishes! O for a withering curse to blast the germins
of their wicked machinations! O for a poisonous tornado, winged from the torrid zone of Tartarus,
to sweep the spreading crop of their villainous contrivances to the lowest hell!

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

CCI.

TO MRS. DUNLOP.

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

CCII.

TO LADY W. M. CONSTABLE.

[The present alluded to was a gold snuff-box, with a portrait of Queen Mary on the lid.]

Ellisland, 11th January, 1791.

MY LADY,

Nothing less than the unlucky accident of having lately broken my right arm, could have prevented
me, the moment I received your ladyship's elegant present by Mrs. Miller, from returning you
my warmest and most grateful acknowledgments. I assure your ladyship, I shall set it apart--the
symbols of religion shall only be more sacred. In the moment of poetic composition, the box
shall be my inspiring genius. When I would breathe the comprehensive wish of benevolence for
the happiness of others, I shall recollect your ladyship; when I would interest my fancy in
the distresses incident to humanity, I shall remember the unfortunate Mary.

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

CCIII.

TO WILLIAM DUNBAR, W.S.

[This letter was in answer to one from Dunbar, in which the witty colonel of the Crochallan
Fencibles supposed the poet had been translated to Elysium to sing to the immortals, as his
voice had not been beard of late on earth.]

Ellisland, 17th January, 1791.

TO MR. PETER HILL.

[The poet's eloquent apostrophe to poverty has no little feeling in it: he beheld the money
which his poems brought melt silently away, and he looked to the future with more fear than hope.]

Ellisland, 17th January, 1791.

Well! divines may say of it what they please; but execration is to the mind what phlebotomy
is to the body: the vital sluices of both are wonderfully relieved by their respective evacuations.

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

CCV.

TO MR. CUNNINGHAM.

[To Alexander Cunningham the poet generally communicated his favourite compositions.]

Ellisland, 23d January, 1791.

Many happy returns of the season to you, my dear friend! As many of the good things of this
life, as is consistent with the usual mixture of good and evil in the cup of being!

I have just finished a poem (Tam o' Shanter) which you will receive enclosed. It is my first
essay in the way of tales.

I have these several months been hammering at an elegy on the amiable and accomplished Miss
Burnet. I have got, and can get, no farther than the following fragment, on which please give
me your strictures. In all kinds of poetic composition, I set great store by your opinion;
but in sentimental verses, in the poetry of the heart, no Roman Catholic ever set more value
on the infallibility of the Holy Father than I do on yours.

I mean the introductory couplets as text verses.

ELEGY

ON THE LATE MISS BURNET, OF MONBODDO.

Let me hear from you soon.

Adieu!

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

CCVI.

TO A.F. TYTLER, ESQ.

["I have seldom in my life," says Lord Woodhouselee, "tasted a higher enjoyment from any work
of genius than I received from Tam o' Shanter."]

Ellisland, February, 1791.

SIR,

Nothing less than the unfortunate accident I have met with, could have prevented my grateful
acknowledgments for your letter. His own favourite poem, and that an essay in the walk of the
muses entirely new to him, where consequently his hopes and fears were on the most anxious
alarm for his success in the attempt; to have that poem so much applauded by one of the first
judges, was the most delicious vibration that ever thrilled along the heart-strings of a poor
poet. However, Providence, to keep up the proper proportion of evil with the good, which it
seems is necessary in this sublunary state, thought proper to check my exultation by a very
serious misfortune. A day or two after I received your letter, my horse came down with me and
broke my right arm. As this is the first service my arm has done me since its disaster, I find
myself unable to do more than just in general terms thank you for this additional instance
of your patronage and friendship. As to the faults you detected in the piece, they are truly
there: one of them, the hit at the lawyer and priest, I shall cut out; as to the falling off
in the catastrophe, for the reason you justly adduce, it cannot easily be remedied. Your approbation,
Sir, has given me such additional spirits to persevere in this species of poetic composition,
that I am already revolving two or three stories in my fancy. If I can bring these floating
ideas to bear any kind of embodied form, it will give me additional opportunity of assuring
you how much I have the honour to be, &c.

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

CCVII.

TO MRS. DUNLOP.

TO THE REV. ARCH. ALISON.

I enclose you some poetic bagatelles of my late composition. The one in print[198] is my first
essay in the way of telling a tale.

I am, Sir, &c.

R. B.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 198: Tam O' Shanter]

       *       *       *       *       *

CCIX.

TO DR. MOORE.

[Moore admired but moderately the beautiful ballad on Queen Mary, and the Elegy on Captain
Matthew Henderson: Tam o' Shanter he thought full of poetical beauties.--He again regrets that
he writes in the language of Scotland.]

Ellisland, 20th February, 1791.

I do not know, Sir, whether you are a subscriber to Grose's Antiquities of Scotland. * * *

       *       *       *       *       *

CCX.

TO MR. CUNNINGHAM.

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

CCXI.

TO MR. ALEXANDER DALZEL,

FACTOR, FINDLAYSTON.

[Cromek says that Alexander Dalzel introduced the poetry of Burns to the notice of the Earl
of Glencairn, who carried the Kilmarnock edition with him to Edinburgh, and begged that the
poet would let him know what his views in the world were, that he might further them.]

Ellisland, 19th March, 1791.

MY DEAR SIR,

I have taken the liberty to frank this letter to you, as it encloses an idle poem of mine,
which I send you; and God knows you may perhaps pay dear enough for it if you read it through.
Not that this is my own opinion; but the author, by the time he has composed and corrected
his work, has quite pored away all his powers of critical discrimination.

I can easily guess from my own heart, what you have felt on a late most melancholy event. God
knows what I have suffered, at the loss of my best friend, my first and dearest patron and
benefactor; the man to whom I owe all that I am and have! I am gone into mourning for him,
and with more sincerity of grief than I fear some will, who by nature's ties ought to feel
on the occasion.

I will be exceedingly obliged to you, indeed, to let me know the news of the noble family,
how the poor mother and the two sisters support their loss. I had a packet of poetic bagatelles
ready to send to Lady Betty, when I saw the fatal tidings in the newspaper. I see by the same
channel that the honoured REMAINS of my noble patron, are designed to be brought to the family
burial-place. Dare I trouble you to let me know privately before the day of interment, that
I may cross the country, and steal among the crowd, to pay a tear to the last sight of my ever
revered benefactor? It will oblige me beyond expression.

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

CCXII.

TO MRS. GRAHAM,

OF FINTRAY.

[Mrs. Graham, of Fintray, felt both as a lady and a Scottish one, the tender Lament of the
fair and unfortunate princess, which this letter contained.]

Ellisland, 1791.

MADAM,

Whether it is that the story of our Mary Queen of Scots has a peculiar effect on the feelings
of a poet, or whether I have, in the enclosed ballad, succeeded beyond my usual poetic success,
I know not; but it has pleased me beyond any effort of my muse for a good while past; on that
account I enclose it particularly to you. It is true, the purity of my motives may be suspected.
I am already deeply indebted to Mr. Graham's goodness; and what, in the usual ways of men,
is of infinitely greater importance, Mr. G. can do me service of the utmost importance in time
to come. I was born a poor dog; and however I may occasionally pick a better bone than I used
to do, I know I must live and die poor: but I will indulge the flattering faith that my poetry
will considerably outlive my poverty; and without any fustian affectation of spirit, I can
promise and affirm, that it must be no ordinary craving of the latter shall ever make me do
anything injurious to the honest fame of the former. Whatever may be my failings, for failings
are a part of human nature, may they ever be those of a generous heart, and an independent
mind! It is no fault of mine that I was born to dependence; nor is it Mr. Graham's chiefest
praise that he can command influence; but it is his merit to bestow, not only with the kindness
of a brother, but with the politeness of a gentleman; and I trust it shall be mine, to receive
with thankfulness, and remember with undiminished gratitude.

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

CCXIII.

TO MRS. GRAHAM,

OF FINTRAY.

[The following letter was written on the blank leaf of a new edition of his poems, presented
by the poet, to one whom he regarded, and justly, as a patroness.]

It is probable, Madam, that this page may be read, when the hand that now writes it shall be
mouldering in the dust: may it then bear witness, that I present you these volumes as a tribute
of gratitude, on my part ardent and sincere, as your and Mr. Graham's goodness to me has been
generous and noble! May every child of yours, in the hour of need, find such a friend as I
shall teach every child of mine, that their father found in you.

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

CCXIV.

TO THE REV. G. BAIRD.

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

CCXV.

TO MRS. DUNLOP.

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

CCXVI.

TO ----.

[That his works found their way to the newspapers, need have occasioned no surprise: the poet
gave copies of his favorite pieces freely to his friends, as soon as they were written: who,
in their turn, spread their fame among their acquaintances.]

Ellisland, 1791.

DEAR SIR,

I am exceedingly to blame in not writing you long ago; but the truth is, that I am the most
indolent of all human beings; and when I matriculate in the herald's office, I intend that
my supporters shall be two sloths, my crest a slow-worm, and the motto, "Deil tak the foremost."
So much by way of apology for not thanking you sooner for your kind execution of my commission.

I would have sent you the poem; but somehow or other it found its way into the public papers,
where you must have seen it.

I am ever, dear Sir,

Yours sincerely,

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

CCXVII.

TO ----.

[This singular letter was sent by Burns, it is believed, to a critic, who had taken him to
task about obscure language, and imperfect grammar.]

Ellisland, 1791.

Thou eunuch of language: thou Englishman, who never was south the Tweed: thou servile echo
of fashionable barbarisms: thou quack, vending the nostrums of empirical elocution: thou marriage-maker
between vowels and consonants, on the Gretna-green of caprice: thou cobler, botching the flimsy
socks of bombast oratory: thou blacksmith, hammering the rivets of absurdity: thou butcher,
imbruing thy hands in the bowels of orthography: thou arch-heretic in pronunciation: thou pitch-pipe
of affected emphasis: thou carpenter, mortising the awkward joints of jarring sentences: thou
squeaking dissonance of cadence: thou pimp of gender: thou Lion Herald to silly etymology:
thou antipode of grammar: thou executioner of construction: thou brood of the speech-distracting
builders of the Tower of Babel; thou lingual confusion worse confounded: thou scape-gallows
from the land of syntax: thou scavenger of mood and tense: thou murderous accoucheur of infant
learning; thou ignis fatuus, misleading the steps of benighted ignorance: thou pickle-herring
in the puppet-show of nonsense: thou faithful recorder of barbarous idiom: thou persecutor
of syllabication: thou baleful meteor, foretelling and facilitating the rapid approach of Nox
and Erebus.

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

CCXVIII.

TO MR. CUNNINGHAM.

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

CCXIX.

TO THE EARL OF BUCHAN.

[Lord Buchan printed this letter in his Essay on the Life of Thomson, in 1792. His lordship
invited Burns to leave his corn unreaped, walk from Ellisland to Dryburgh, and help him to
crown Thomson's bust with bays, on Ednam Hill, on the 22d of September.]

Ellisland, August 29th, 1791.

MY LORD,

Language sinks under the ardour of my feelings when I would thank your lordship for the honour
you have done me in inviting me to make one at the coronation of the bust of Thomson. In my
first enthusiasm in reading the card you did me the honour to write me, I overlooked every
obstacle, and determined to go; but I fear it will not be in my power. A week or two's absence,
in the very middle of my harvest, is what I much doubt I dare not venture on. I once already
made a pilgrimage up the whole course of the Tweed, and fondly would I take the same delightful
journey down the windings of that delightful stream.

Your lordship hints at an ode for the occasion: but who would write after Collins? I read over
his verses to the memory of Thomson, and despaired.--I got indeed to the length of three or
four stanzas, in the way of address to the shade of the bard, on crowning his bust. I shall
trouble your lordship with the subjoined copy of them, which, I am afraid, will be but too
convincing a proof how unequal I am to the task. However, it affords me an opportunity of approaching
your lordship, and declaring how sincerely and gratefully I have the honour to be, &c.,

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

CCXX.

TO MR. THOMAS SLOAN.

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

CCXXI.

TO LADY E. CUNNINGHAM.

[The poem enclosed was the Lament for James, Earl of Glencairn: it is probable that the Earl's
sister liked the verses, for they were printed soon afterwards.]

MY LADY,

I would, as usual, have availed myself of the privilege your goodness has allowed me, of sending
you anything I compose in my poetical way; but as I had resolved, so soon as the shock of my
irreparable loss would allow me, to pay a tribute to my late benefactor, I determined to make
that the first piece I should do myself the honour of sending you. Had the wing of my fancy
been equal to the ardour of my heart, the enclosed had been much more worthy your perusal:
as it is, I beg leave to lay it at your ladyship's feet. As all the world knows my obligations
to the late Earl of Glencairn, I would wish to show as openly that my heart glows, and will
ever glow, with the most grateful sense and remembrance of his lordship's goodness. The sables
I did myself the honour to wear to his lordship's memory, were not the "mockery of woe." Nor
shall my gratitude perish with me!--if among my children I shall have a son that has a heart,
he shall hand it down to his child as a family honour, and a family debt, that my dearest existence
I owe to the noble house of Glencairn!

I was about to say, my lady, that if you think the poem may venture to see the light, I would,
in some way or other, give it to the world.

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

CCXXII.

TO MR. AINSLIE. My present income, down money, is 70l. per annum.

I have one or two good fellows here whom you would be glad to know.

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

CCXXIII.

TO COL. FULLARTON.

OF FULLARTON.

[This letter was first published in the Edinburgh Chronicle.]

Ellisland, 1791.

SIR,

I have just this minute got the frank, and next minute must send it to post, else I purposed
to have sent you two or three other bagatelles, that might have amused a vacant hour about
as well as "Six excellent new songs," or, the Aberdeen 'Prognostication for the year to come.'
I shall probably trouble you soon with another packet. About the gloomy month of November,
when 'the people of England hang and drown themselves,' anything generally is better than one's
own thought.

Fond as I may be of my own productions, it is not for their sake that I am so anxious to send
you them. I am ambitious, covetously ambitious of being known to a gentleman whom I am proud
to call my countryman; a gentleman who was a foreign ambassador as soon as he was a man, and
a leader of armies as soon as he was a soldier, and that with an eclat unknown to the usual
minions of a court, men who, with all the adventitious advantages of princely connexions and
princely fortune, must yet, like the caterpillar, labour a whole lifetime before they reach
the wished height, there to roost a stupid chrysalis, and doze out the remaining glimmering
existence of old age.

If the gentleman who accompanied you when you did me the honour of calling on me, is with you,
I beg to be respectfully remembered to him.

I have the honour to be,

Sir,

Your highly obliged, and most devoted

Humble servant,

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

CCXXIV.

TO MISS DAVIES.

[This accomplished lady was the youngest daughter of Dr. Davies, of Tenby, in Pembrokeshire:
she was related to the Riddels of Friar's Carse, and one of her sisters married Captain Adam
Gordon, of the noble family of Kenmure.

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

CCXXV.

TO MRS. DUNLOP.

[Burns, says Cromek, acknowledged that a refined and accomplished woman was a being all but
new to him till he went to Edinburgh, and received letters from Mrs. Dunlop.]

Ellisland, 17th December, 1791.

Many thanks to you, Madam, for your good news respecting the little floweret and the mother-plant.
I hope my poetic prayers have been heard, and will be answered up to the warmest sincerity
of their fullest extent; and then Mrs. Henri will find her little darling the representative
of his late parent, in everything but his abridged existence.

The circumstance that gave rise to the foregoing verses was, looking over with a musical friend
M'Donald's collection of Highland airs, I was struck with one, an Isle of Skye tune, entitled
"Oran and Aoig, or, The Song of Death," to the measure of which I have adapted my stanzas.
I have of late composed two or three other little pieces, which, ere yon full-orbed moon, whose
broad impudent face now stares at old mother earth all night, shall have shrunk into a modest
crescent, just peeping forth at dewy dawn, I shall find an hour to transcribe for you. A Dieu
je vous commende.

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

CCXXVI.

TO MRS. DUNLOP.

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

CCXXVII.

TO MR. WILLIAM SMELLIE,

PRINTER.

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

CCXXVIII.

TO MR. W. NICOL.

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

CCXXIX.

TO FRANCIS GROSE, ESQ., F.S.A.

[Captain Grose was introduced to Burns, by his brother Antiquary, of Friar's Carse: he was
collecting materials for his work on the Antiquities of Scotland.]

Dumfries, 1792.

SIR,

I believe among all our Scots Literati you have not met with Professor Dugald Stewart, who
fills the moral philosophy chair in the University of Edinburgh. To say that he is a man of
the first parts, and what is more, a man of the first worth, to a gentleman of your general
acquaintance, and who so much enjoys the luxury of unencumbered freedom and undisturbed privacy,
is not perhaps recommendation enough:--but when I inform you that Mr. Stewart's principal characteristic
is your favourite feature; that sterling independence of mind, which, though every man's right,
so few men have the courage to claim, and fewer still, the magnanimity to support:--when I
tell you that, unseduced by splendour, and undisgusted by wretchedness, he appreciates the
merits of the various actors in the great drama of life, merely as they perform their parts--in
short, he is a man after your own heart, and I comply with his earnest request in letting you
know that he wishes above all things to meet with you. His house, Catrine, is within less than
a mile of Sorn Castle, which you proposed visiting; or if you could transmit him the enclosed,
he would with the greatest pleasure meet you anywhere in the neighbourhood. I write to Ayrshire
to inform Mr. Stewart that I have acquitted myself of my promise. Should your time and spirits
permit your meeting with Mr. Stewart, 'tis well; if not, I hope you will forgive this liberty,
and I have at least an opportunity of assuring you with what truth and respect,

I am, Sir,

Your great admirer,

And very humble servant,

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

CCXXX.

I am, &c.,

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

CCXXXI.

TO MR. S. CLARKE,

EDINBURGH.

[This introduction of Clarke, the musician, to the M'Murdo's of Drumlanrig, brought to two
of the ladies the choicest honours of the muse.]

July 1, 1792.

Mr. Burns begs leave to present his most respectful compliments to Mr. Clarke.--Mr. B. some
time ago did himself the honour of writing to Mr. C. respecting coming out to the country,
to give a little musical instruction in a highly respectable family, where Mr. C. may have
his own terms, and may be as happy as indolence, the devil, and the gout will permit him. Mr.
B. knows well how Mr. C. is engaged with another family; but cannot Mr. C. find two or three
weeks to spare to each of them? Mr. B. is deeply impressed with, and awfully conscious of,
the high importance of Mr. C.'s time, whether in the winged moments of symphonious exhibition,
at the keys of harmony, while listening seraphs cease their own less delightful strains; or
in the drowsy arms of slumb'rous repose, in the arms of his dearly beloved elbowchair, where
the frowsy, but potent power of indolence, circumfuses her vapours round, and sheds her dews
on the head of her darling son. But half a line conveying half a meaning from Mr. C. would
make Mr. B. the happiest of mortals.

       *       *       *       *       *

CCXXXII.

TO MRS. DUNLOP.

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

CCXXXIII.

TO MR. CUNNINGHAM.

But of all nonsense, religious nonsense is the most nonsensical; so enough, and more than enough
of it. Amen!

       *       *       *       *       *

CCXXXIV.

TO MR. THOMSON.

[George Thomson, of Edinburgh, principal clerk to the trustees for the encouraging the manufactures
of Scotland, projected a work, entitled, "A select Collection of Original Scottish Airs, for
the Voice, to which are added introductory and concluding Symphonies and Accompaniments for
the Pianoforte and Violin, by Pleyel and Kozeluch, with select and characteristic Verses, by
the most admired Scottish Poets." But more of this in the further prosecution of the business,
if I am called on for my strictures and amendments--I say amendments, for I will not alter
except where I myself, at least, think that I amend. Chloris," &c., by Sir Charles Sedley--Burns
has attributed it to Sir Peter Halket, of Pitferran.]

       *       *       *       *       *

CCXXXV.

TO MRS. DUNLOP.

[One of the daughters of Mrs. Dunlop was married to M. Henri, a French gentleman, who died
in 1790, at Loudon Castle, in Ayrshire.

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

CCXXXVI.

TO MRS. DUNLOP.

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

CCXXXVII.

TO MR. THOMSON.

R. B.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 200: Song CLXXVII]

[Footnote 201: It is something worse in the Edinburgh edition--"Behind yon hills where Stinchar
flows."--Poems, p 322.]

[Footnote 202: Song CLXXIX.]

       *       *       *       *       *

CCXXXVIII.

TO MR. THOMSON.

TO MR. THOMSON.

[The story of Mary Campbell's love is related in the notes on the songs which the poet wrote
in her honour. Thomson says, in his answer, "I have heard the sad story of your Mary; you always
seem inspired when you write of her."]

14th November, 1792.

Song CLXXXII]

       *       *       *       *       *

CCXL.

TO MR. THOMSON.

[The poet approved of several emendations proposed by Thomson, whose wish was to make the words
flow more readily with the music: he refused, however, to adopt others, where he thought too
much of the sense was sacrificed.]

Dumfries, 1st December, 1792.

Your alterations of my "Nannie, O!" are perfectly right. So are those of "My wife's a winsome
wee thing." Your alteration of the second stanza is a positive improvement. Now, my dear Sir,
with the freedom which characterizes our correspondence, I must not, cannot alter "Bonnie Lesley."
You are right; the word "Alexander" makes the line a little uncouth, but I think the thought
is pretty. Of Alexander, beyond all other heroes, it may be said, in the sublime language of
Scripture, that "he went forth conquering and to conquer."

    For nature made her what she is,
    And never made anither. (Such a person as she is.)

This is, in my opinion, more poetical than "Ne'er made sic anither." However, it is immaterial:
make it either way. "Caledonie," I agree with you, is not so good a word as could be wished,
though it is sanctioned in three or four instances by Allan Ramsay; but I cannot help it. In
short, that species of stanza is the most difficult that I have ever tried.

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

CCXLI.

TO MR. THOMSON.

[Duncan Gray, which this letter contained, became a favourite as soon as it was published,
and the same may be said of Auld Rob Morris.]

4th December, 1792.

The foregoing ["Auld Rob Morris," and "Duncan Gray,"[206]] I submit, my dear Sir, to your better
judgment. Acquit them or condemn them, as seemeth good in your sight. "Duncan Gray" is that
kind of light-horse gallop of an air, which precludes sentiment. The ludicrous is its ruling
feature.

R. B.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 206: Songs CLXXXIII. and CLXXXIV.]

       *       *       *       *       *

CCXLII.

TO MRS. DUNLOP.
    Or what need he regard his single woes?" &c.

As I am got in the way of quotations, I shall give you another from the same piece, peculiarly,
alas! too peculiarly apposite, my dear Madam, to your present frame of mind:

    "Who so unworthy but may proudly deck him
    With his fair-weather virtue, that exults
    Glad o'er the summer main! the tempest comes,
    The rough winds rage aloud; when from the helm,
    This virtue shrinks, and in a corner lies
    Lamenting--Heavens! if privileged from trial,
    How cheap a thing were virtue?" I must still give
you another quotation, which I am almost sure I have given you before,
but I cannot resist the temptation. The subject is religion--speaking
of its importance to mankind, the author says,

    "'Tis this, my friend, that streaks our morning bright."

I shall have the honour of receiving your criticisms in person at Dunlop.

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

CCXLIII.

TO R. GRAHAM, ESQ.,

FINTRAY.

[Graham stood by the bard in the hour of peril recorded in this letter: and the Board of Excise
had the generosity to permit him to eat its "bitter bread" for the remainder of his life.]

December, 1792.

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

CCXLIV.

TO MRS. DUNLOP.

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

CCXLV.

TO MR. THOMSON.

[The songs to which the poet alludes were "Poortith Cauld," and "Galla Water."]

Jan. 1793.

Many returns of the season to you, my dear Sir. How comes on your publication?--will these
two foregoing [Songs CLXXXV. and CLXXXVI.] be of any service to you? I should like to know
what songs you print to each tune, besides the verses to which it is set. In short, I would
wish to give you my opinion on all the poetry you publish. You know it is my trade, and a man
in the way of his trade may suggest useful hints that escape men of much superior parts and
endowments in other things.

If you meet with my dear and much-valued Cunningham, greet him, in my name, with the compliments
of the season.

Yours, &c.,

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

CCXLVI.

TO MR. THOMSON. Song CLXXXVII.]

My most respectful compliments to the honourable gentleman who favoured me with a postscript
in your last. He shall hear from me and receive his MSS. soon.

Yours,

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

CCXLVII.

TO MR. CUNNINGHAM.

[The seal, with the coat-of-arms which the poet invented, is still in the family, and regarded
as a relique.]

3d March, 1793.

Since I wrote to you the last lugubrious sheet, I have not had time to write you further. Apropos,
do you know the much admired old Highland air called "The Sutor's Dochter?" It is a first-rate
favourite of mine, and I have written what I reckon one of my best songs to it. I will send
it to you as it was sung with great applause in some fashionable circles by Major Roberston,
of Lude, who was here with his corps.

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

CCXLVIII.

TO MR. THOMSON. I have always looked on myself as the prince of indolent correspondence, and
valued myself accordingly; and I will not, cannot, bear rivalship from you, nor anybody else.

R. B.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 207: Song CLXXXVIII.]

       *       *       *       *       *

CCXLIX.

TO MR. THOMSON.

[For the "Wandering Willie" of this communication Thomson offered several corrections.]

March, 1793.

I leave it to you, my dear Sir, to determine whether the above, or the old "Thro' the lang
muir I have followed my Willie," be the best.

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

CCL.

TO MISS BENSON.

Miss Hamilton tells me that she is sending a packet to you, and I beg leave to send you the
enclosed sonnet, though, to tell you the real truth, the sonnet is a mere pretence, that I
may have the opportunity of declaring with how much respectful esteem I have the honour to be, &c.

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

CCLI.

TO PATRICK MILLER, ESQ.,

OF DALSWINTON.

[The time to which Burns alludes was the period of his occupation of Ellisland.]

Dumfries, April, 1793.

SIR,

My poems having just come out in another edition, will you do me the honour to accept of a
copy? A mark of my gratitude to you, as a gentleman to whose goodness I have been much indebted;
of my respect for you, as a patriot who, in a venal, sliding age, stands forth the champion
of the liberties of my country; and of my veneration for you, as a man, whose benevolence of
heart does honour to human nature.

There was a time, Sir, when I was your dependent: this language then would have been like the
vile incense of flattery--I could not have used it. Now that connexion is at an end, do me
the honour to accept this honest tribute of respect from, Sir,

Your much indebted humble servant,

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

CCLII.

TO MR. THOMSON.

Yours, &c.

R. B.

Let me know just how you like these random hints.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 208: Burns here calls himself the "Voice of Coila," in imitation of Ossian, who denominates
himself the "Voice of Cona."--CURRIE.]

[Footnote 209: By Thomson, not the musician, but the poet.]

[Footnote 210: This song is not old; its author, the late John Mayne, long outlived Burns]

[Footnote 211: By Crawfurd.]

[Footnote 212: By Ramsay.]

[Footnote 213: The author, John Tait, a writer to the Signet and some time Judge of the police-court
in Edinburgh, assented to this, and altered the line to,

    "And sweetly the wood-pigeon cooed from the tree."]

[Footnote 214: Song CXXXIX.]

[Footnote 215: Song LXXX.]

[Footnote 216: Song CLXXVII.]

[Footnote 217:

    "How sweet this lone vale, and how soothing to feeling,
    Yon nightingale's notes which in melody meet."

The song has found its way into several collections.]

       *       *       *       *       *

CCLIII.

TO MR. THOMSON.

[The letter to which this is in part an answer, Currie says, contains many observations on
Scottish songs, and on the manner of adapting the words to the music, which at Mr. Thomson's
desire are suppressed.]

April, 1793.

I have yours, my dear Sir, this moment. I shall answer it and your former letter, in my desultory
way of saying whatever comes uppermost.

The business of many of our tunes wanting, at the beginning, what fiddlers call a starting-note,
is often a rub to us poor rhymers.

    "There's braw, braw lads on Yarrow braes,
    That wander through the blooming heather,"

you may alter to

    "Braw, braw lads on Yarrow braes,
    Ye wander," &c.

My song, "Here awa, there awa," as amended by Mr. Erskine, I entirely approve of, and return you.

Give me leave to criticise your taste in the only thing in which it is, in my opinion, reprehensible.
You know I ought to know something of my own trade. Of pathos, sentiment, and point, you are
a complete judge; but there is a quality more necessary than either in a song, and which is
the very essence of a ballad--I mean simplicity: now, if I mistake not, this last feature you
are a little apt to sacrifice to the foregoing.

Ramsay, as every other poet, has not been always equally happy in his pieces; still I cannot
approve of taking such liberties with an author as Mr. Walker proposes doing with "The last
time I came o'er the moor." Let a poet, if he choose, take up the idea of another, and work
it into a piece of his own; but to mangle the works of the poor bard, whose tuneful tongue
is now mute for ever, in the dark and narrow house--by Heaven, 'twould be sacrilege! I grant
that Mr. W.'s version is an improvement; but I know Mr. W. well, and esteem him much; let him
mend the song, as the Highlander mended his gun--he gave it a new stock, a new lock, and a
new barrel.

I do not, by this, object to leaving out improper stanzas, where that can be done without spoiling
the whole. One stanza in "The lass o' Patie's mill" must be left out: the song will be nothing
worse for it. I am not sure if we can take the same liberty with "Corn rigs are bonnie." Perhaps
it might want the last stanza, and be the better for it. "Cauld kail in Aberdeen," you must
leave with me yet awhile. I have vowed to have a song to that air, on the lady whom I attempted
to celebrate in the verses, "Poortith cauld and restless love." At any rate, my other song,
"Green grow the rashes," will never suit. That song is current in Scotland under the old title,
and to the merry old tune of that name, which, of course, would mar the progress of your song
to celebrity. Your book will be the standard of Scots songs for the future: let this idea ever
keep your judgment on the alarm.

I send a song on a celebrated toast in this country, to suit "Bonnie Dundee." I send you also
a ballad to the "Mill, mill, O!"[218]

"The last time I came o'er the moor," I would fain attempt to make a Scots song for, and let
Ramsay's be the English set. You shall hear from me soon. When you go to London on this business,
can you come by Dumfries? I have still several MS. Scots airs by me, which I have picked up,
mostly from the singing of country lasses. They please me vastly; but your learned lugs would
perhaps be displeased with the very feature for which I like them. I call them simple; you
would pronounce them silly.

R. B.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 218: Songs CXCII. and CXCIII.]

[Footnote 219: Song CXCIV.]

[Footnote 220: Song CXCVIII.]

       *       *       *       *       *

CCLIV.

TO MR. THOMSON.

[Thomson, it would appear by his answer to this letter, was at issue with Burns on the subject-matter
of simplicity: the former seems to have desired a sort of diplomatic and varnished style: the
latter felt that elegance and simplicity were "sisters twin."]

April, 1793.

MY DEAR SIR,

I had scarcely put my last letter into the post-office, when I took up the subject of "The
last time I came o'er the moor," and ere I slept drew the outlines of the foregoing.[221] How
I have succeeded, I leave on this, as on every other occasion, to you to decide.

R. B.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 221: Song CCXXXIV.]

       *       *       *       *       *

CCLV.

TO JOHN FRANCIS ERSKINE, ESQ.,

OF M A R.

[This remarkable letter has been of late the subject of some controversy: Mr. Findlater, who
happened then to be in the Excise, is vehement in defence of the "honourable board," and is
certain that Burns has misrepresented the conduct of his very generous masters.

TO ROBERT AINSLIE, ESQ.

["Up tails a', by the light o' the moon," was the name of a Scottish air, to which the devil
danced with the witches of Fife, on Magus Moor, as reported by a warlock, in that credible
work, "Satan's Invisible World discovered."]

April 26, 1793.

I am d--mnably out of humour, my dear Ainslie, and that is the reason, why I take up the pen
to you: 'tis the nearest way (probatum est) to recover my spirits again.

I received your last, and was much entertained with it; but I will not at this time, nor at
any other time, answer it.--Answer a letter? I never could answer a letter in my life!--I have
written many a letter in return for letters I have received; but then--they were original matter--spurt-away!
zig here, zag there; as if the devil that, my Grannie (an old woman indeed) often told me,
rode on will-o'-wisp, or, in her more classic phrase, SPUNKIE, were looking over my elbow.--Happy
thought that idea has engendered in my head! SPUNKIE--thou shalt henceforth be my symbol signature,
and tutelary genius! Like thee, hap-step-and-lowp, here-awa-there-awa, higglety-pigglety, pell-mell,
hither-and-yon, ram-stam, happy-go-lucky, up-tails-a'-by-the-light-o'-the-moon,--has been,
is, and shall be, my progress through the mosses and moors of this vile, bleak, barren wilderness
of a life of ours.

Come then, my guardian spirit, like thee may I skip away, amusing myself by and at my own light:
and if any opaque-souled lubber of mankind complain that my elfine, lambent, glim merous wanderings
have misled his stupid steps over precipices, or into bogs, let the thickheaded blunderbuss
recollect, that he is not Spunkie:--that

    "SPUNKIE'S wanderings could not copied be:
    Amid these perils none durst walk but he."--

       *       *       *       *       *

I have no doubt but scholar-craft may be caught, as a Scotchman catches the itch,--by friction.
How else can you account for it, that born blockheads, by mere dint of handling books, grow
so wise that even they themselves are equally convinced of and surprised at their own parts?
I once carried this philosophy to that degree that in a knot of country folks who had a library
amongst them, and who, to the honour of their good sense, made me factotum in the business;
one of our members, a little, wise-looking, squat, upright, jabbering body of a tailor, I advised
him, instead of turning over the leaves, to bind the book on his back.--Johnnie took the hint;
and as our meetings were every fourth Saturday, and Pricklouse having a good Scots mile to
walk in coming, and, of course, another in returning, Bodkin was sure to lay his hand on some
heavy quarto, or ponderous folio, with, and under which, wrapt up in his gray plaid, he grew
wise, as he grew weary, all the way home. He carried this so far, that an old musty Hebrew
concordance, which we had in a present from a neighbouring priest, by mere dint of applying
it, as doctors do a blistering plaster, between his shoulders, Stitch, in a dozen pilgrimages,
acquired as much rational theology as the said priest had done by forty years perusal of the pages.

Tell me, and tell me truly, what you think of this theory.

Yours,

SPUNKIE.

       *       *       *       *       *

CCLVII.

TO MISS KENNEDY.

TO MR. THOMSON.

    Blythe hae I been on yon hill.[223]

I should wish to hear how this pleases you.

    'And eyes again with pleasure beam'd
      That had been blear'd with mourning.'

Though better suited to the music, these lines are inferior to the original."--CURRIE.]

[Footnote 223: Song CXV.]

       *       *       *       *       *

CCLIX.

TO MR. THOMSON.

TO MR. THOMSON.

[Thomson, in his reply to the preceding letter, laments that anything should untune the feelings
of the poet, and begs his acceptance of five pounds, as a small mark of his gratitude for his
beautiful songs.]

July 2d, 1793.

MY DEAR SIR,

I have just finished the following ballad, and, as I do think it in my best style, I send it
you. Mr. Clarke, who wrote down the air from Mrs. Burns's wood-note wild, is very fond of it,
and has given it a celebrity by teaching it to some young ladies of the first fashion here.
If you do not like the air enough to give it a place in your collection, please return it.
The song you may keep, as I remember it.

    There was a lass, and she was fair.[227]

I have some thoughts of inserting in your index, or in my notes, the names of the fair ones,
the themes of my songs. I do not mean the name at full; but dashes or asterisms, so as ingenuity
may find them out.

The heroine of the foregoing is Miss M'Murdo, daughter to Mr. M'Murdo, of Drumlanrig, one of
your subscribers. I have not painted her in the rank which she holds in life, but in the dress
and character of a cottager.

R. B.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 227: Song CXCVIII.]

       *       *       *       *       *

CCLXI.

TO MR. THOMSON. Mr. Pinkerton, in his, what he calls, ancient ballads (many of them notorious,
though beautiful enough, forgeries), has the best set. It is full of his own interpolations--but
no matter.

In my next I will suggest to your consideration a few songs which may have escaped your hurried
notice. In the meantime allow me to congratulate you now, as a brother of the quill. You have
committed your character and fame, which will now be tried, for ages to come, by the illustrious
jury of the SONS AND DAUGHTERS OF TASTE--all whom poesy can please or music charm.

Being a bard of nature, I have some pretensions to second sight; and I am warranted by the
spirit to foretell and affirm, that your great-grand-child will hold up your volumes, and say,
with honest pride, "This so much admired selection was the work of my ancestor!"

R. B.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 228: Miss Rutherford, of Fernilee in Selkirkshire, by marriage Mrs. Patrick Cockburn,
of Ormiston. She died in 1794, at an advanced age.]

       *       *       *       *       *

CCLXII.

TO MR. THOMSON.

[Stephen Clarke, whose name is at this strange note, was a musician and composer; he was a
clever man, and had a high opinion of his own powers.]

August, 1793.

MY DEAR THOMSON,

I hold the pen for our friend Clarke, who at present is studying the music of the spheres at
my elbow. The Georgium Sidus he thinks is rather out of tune; so, until he rectify that matter,
he cannot stoop to terrestrial affairs.

He sends you six of the rondeau subjects, and if more are wanted, he says you shall have them.

       *       *       *       *       *

Confound your long stairs!

S. CLARKE.

       *       *       *       *       *

CCLXIII.

TO MR. THOMSON.

["Phillis the Fair" endured much at the hands of both Burns and Clarke. The young lady had
reason to complain, when the poet volunteered to sing the imaginary love of that fantastic
fiddler.]

August, 1793.

Your objection, my dear Sir, to the passages in my song of "Logan Water," is right in one instance;
but it is difficult to mend it: if I can, I will. The other passage you object to does not
appear in the same light to me.

I have tried my hand on "Robin Adair," and, you will probably think, with little success; but
it is such a cursed, cramp, out-of-the-way measure, that I despair of doing anything better to it.

    While larks with little wing.[229]

So much for namby-pamby. I may, after all, try my hand on it in Scots verse. There I always
find myself most at home.

I have just put the last hand to the song I meant for "Cauld kail in Aberdeen." If it suits
you to insert it, I shall be pleased, as the heroine is a favourite of mine; if not, I shall
also be pleased; because I wish, and will be glad, to see you act decidedly on the business.
'Tis a tribute as a man of taste, and as an editor, which you owe yourself.

R. B.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 229: Song CXCIX.]

       *       *       *       *       *

CCLXIV.

TO MR. THOMSON.

[The infusion of Highland airs and north country subjects into the music and songs of Scotland,
has invigorated both: Burns, who had a fine ear as well as a fine taste, was familiar with
all, either Highland or Lowland.]

August, 1793.

That crinkum-crankum tune, "Robin Adair," has run so in my head, and I succeeded so ill in
my last attempt, that I have ventured, in this morning's walk, one essay more. You, my dear
Sir, will remember an unfortunate part of our worthy friend Cunningham's story, which happened
about three years ago. That struck my fancy, and I endeavoured to do the idea justice as follows:

    Had I a cave on some wild distant shore.[230]

By the way, I have met with a musical Highlander in Breadalbane's Fencibles, which are quartered
here, who assures me that he well remembers his mother singing Gaelic songs to both "Robin
Adair," and "Grammachree." They certainly have more of the Scotch than Irish taste in them.

This man comes from the vicinity of Inverness: so it could not be any intercourse with Ireland
that could bring them; except, what I shrewdly suspect to be the case, the wandering minstrels,
harpers, and pipers, used to go frequently errant through the wilds both of Scotland and Ireland,
and so some favourite airs might be common to both. A case in point--they have lately, in Ireland,
published an Irish air, as they say, called "Caun du delish." The fact is, in a publication
of Corri's, a great while ago, you will find the same air, called a Highland one, with a Gaelic
song set to it. Its name there, I think, is "Oran Gaoil," and a fine air it is. Do ask honest
Allan or the Rev. Gaelic parson, about these matters.

R. B.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 230: Song CC.]

       *       *       *       *       *

CCLXV.

TO MR. THOMSON.

[While Burns composed songs, Thomson got some of the happiest embodied by David Allan, the
painter, whose illustrations of the Gentle Shepherd had been favourably received. But save
when an old man was admitted to the scene, his designs may be regarded as failures: his maidens
were coarse and his old wives rigwiddie carlins.]

August, 1793.

MY DEAR SIR,

"Let me in this ae night" I will reconsider. I am glad that you are pleased with my song, "Had
I a cave," &c., as I liked it myself.

I walked out yesterday evening with a volume of the Museum in my hand, when turning up "Allan
Water," "What numbers shall the muse repeat," &c., as the words appeared to me rather unworthy
of so fine an air, and recollecting that it is on your list, I sat and raved under the shade
of an old thorn, till I wrote one to suit the measure. I may be wrong; but I think it not in
my worst style. You must know, that in Ramsay's Tea-table, where the modern song first appeared,
the ancient name of the tune, Allan says, is "Allan Water," or "My love Annie's very bonnie."
This last has certainly been a line of the original song; so I took up the idea, and, as you
will see, have introduced the line in its place, which I presume it formerly occupied; though
I likewise give you a choosing line, if it should not hit the cut of your fancy:

    By Allan stream I chanced to rove.[231]

Bravo! say I; it is a good song. Should you think so too (not else) you can set the music to
it, and let the other follow as English verses.

R. B.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 231: Song CCI.]

       *       *       *       *       *

CCLXVI.

TO MR. THOMSON.

[Phillis, or Philadelphia M'Murdo, in whose honour Burns composed the song beginning "Adown
winding Nith I did wander," and several others, died September 5th, 1825.]

August, 1793.

Is "Whistle, and I'll come to you, my lad," one of your airs? I admire it much; and yesterday
I set the following verses to it. Urbani, whom I have met with here, begged them of me, as
he admires the air much; but as I understand that he looks with rather an evil eye on your
work, I did not choose to comply. However, if the song does not suit your taste I may possibly
send it him. The set of the air which I had in my eye, is in Johnson's Museum.

    O whistle, and I'll come to you, my lad.[232]

Another favourite air of mine is, "The muckin' o' Geordie's byre." When sung slow, with expression,
I have wished that it had had better poetry; that I have endeavoured to supply as follows:

    Adown winding Nith I did wander.[233]

Mr. Clarke begs you to give Miss Phillis a corner in your book, as she is a particular flame
of his, and out of compliment to him I have made the song. She is a Miss Phillis M'Murdo, sister
to "Bonnie Jean." They are both pupils of his. You shall hear from me, the very first grist
I get from my rhyming-mill.

R. B.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 232: Song CCII.]

[Footnote 233: Song CCIII.]

       *       *       *       *       *

CCLXVII.

TO MR. THOMSON.

[Burns was fond of expressive words: "Gloaming, the twilight," says Currie, "is a beautiful
poetic word, which ought to be adopted in England."

    Come, let me take thee to my breast.[234]

If you think the above will suit your idea of your favourite air, I shall be highly pleased.
"The last time I came o'er the moor" I cannot meddle with, as to mending it; and the musical
world have been so long accustomed to Ramsay's words, that a different song, though positively
superior, would not be so well received. I am not fond of choruses to songs, so I have not
made one for the foregoing.

R. B.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 234: Song CCIV.]

       *       *       *       *       *

CCLXVIII.

TO MR. THOMSON.

["Cauld kail in Aberdeen, and castocks in Strabogie," are words which have no connexion with
the sentiment of the song which Burns wrote for the air.]

August, 1793.

SONG.

    Now rosy May comes in wi' flowers.[235]

So much for Davie. The chorus, you know, is to the low part of the tune. See Clarke's set of
it in the Museum.

N.B. In the Museum they have drawled out the tune to twelve lines of poetry, which is ----
nonsense. Four lines of song, and four of chorus, is the way.[236]

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 235: Song CCV.]

[Footnote 236: See Song LXVII.]

       *       *       *       *       *

CCLXIX.

TO MISS CRAIK.

[Miss Helen Craik of Arbigland, had merit both as a poetess and novelist: her ballads may be
compared with those of Hector M'Neil: her novels had a seasoning of satire in them.]

Dumfries, August, 1793.

MADAM,

Some rather unlooked-for accidents have prevented my doing myself the honour of a second visit
to Arbigland, as I was so hospitably invited, and so positively meant to have done.--However,
I still hope to have that pleasure before the busy months of harvest begin.

I enclose you two of my late pieces, as some kind of return for the pleasure I have received
in perusing a certain MS. volume of poems in the possession of Captain Riddel. To repay one
with an old song, is a proverb, whose force, you, Madam, I know, will not allow. What is said
of illustrious descent is, I believe, equally true of a talent for poetry, none ever despised
it who had pretensions to it. The fates and characters of the rhyming tribe often employ my
thoughts when I am disposed to be melancholy. To you, Madam, I need not recount the fairy pleasures
the muse bestows to counterbalance this catalogue of evils. Bewitching poetry is like bewitching
woman; she has in all ages been accused of misleading mankind from the councils of wisdom and
the paths of prudence, involving them in difficulties, baiting them with poverty, branding
them with infamy, and plunging them in the whirling vortex of ruin; yet, where is the man but
must own that all our happiness on earth is not worthy the name--that even the holy hermit's
solitary prospect of paradisiacal bliss is but the glitter of a northern sun rising over a
frozen region, compared with the many pleasures, the nameless raptures that we owe to the lovely
queen of the heart of man!

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

CCLXX.

TO LADY GLENCAIRN.

[Burns, as the concluding paragraph of this letter proves, continued to the last years of his
life to think of the composition of a Scottish drama, which Sir Walter Scott laments he did
not write, instead of pouring out multitudes of lyrics for Johnson and Thomson.]

MY LADY,

The honour you have done your poor poet, in writing him so very obliging a letter, and the
pleasure the enclosed beautiful verses have given him, came very seasonably to his aid, amid
the cheerless gloom and sinking despondency of diseased nerves and December weather. As to
forgetting the family of Glencairn, Heaven is my witness with what sincerity I could use those
old verses which please me more in their rude simplicity than the most elegant lines I ever saw.

    "If thee, Jerusalem, I forget,
      Skill part from my right hand.

    My tongue to my mouth's roof let cleave,
      If I do thee forget,
    Jerusalem, and thee above
      My chief joy do not set."--

When I am tempted to do anything improper, I dare not, because I look on myself as accountable
to your ladyship and family. Now and then, when I have the honour to be called to the tables
of the great, if I happen to meet with any mortification from the stately stupidity of self-sufficient
squires, or the luxurious insolence of upstart nabobs, I get above the creatures by calling
to remembrance that I am patronized by the noble house of Glencairn; and at gala-times, such
as new-year's day, a christening, or the kirn-night, when my punch-bowl is brought from its
dusty corner and filled up in honour of the occasion, I begin with,--The Countess of Glencairn!
My good woman with the enthusiasm of a grateful heart, next cries, My Lord! and so the toast
goes on until I end with Lady Harriet's little angel! whose epithalamium I have pledged myself
to write.

When I received your ladyship's letter, I was just in the act of transcribing for you some
verses I have lately composed; and meant to have sent them my first leisure hour, and acquainted
you with my late change of life. I mentioned to my lord my fears concerning my farm. Those
fears were indeed too true; it is a bargain would have ruined me, but for the lucky circumstance
of my having an excise commission.

People may talk as they please, of the ignominy of the excise; 50l. a year will support my
wife and children, and keep me independent of the world; and I would much rather have it said
that my profession borrowed credit from me, than that I borrowed credit from my profession.
Another advantage I have in this business, is the knowledge it gives me of the various shades
of human character, consequently assisting me vastly in my poetic pursuits. I had the most
ardent enthusiasm for the muses when nobody knew me, but myself, and that ardour is by no means
cooled now that my lord Glencairn's goodness has introduced me to all the world. Not that I
am in haste for the press. I have no idea of publishing, else I certainly had consulted my
noble generous patron; but after acting the part of an honest man, and supporting my family,
my whole wishes and views are directed to poetic pursuits. I am aware that though I were to
give performances to the world superior to my former works, still if they were of the same
kind with those, the comparative reception they would meet with would mortify me. I have turned
my thoughts on the drama. I do not mean the stately buskin of the tragic muse.

       *       *       *       *       *

Does not your ladyship think that an Edinburgh theatre would be more amused with affectation,
folly, and whim of true Scottish growth, than manners which by far the greatest part of the
audience can only know at second hand?

I have the honour to be,

Your ladyship's ever devoted

And grateful humble servant,

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

CCLXXI.

TO MR. THOMSON.

[Peter Pindar, the name under which it was the pleasure of that bitter but vulgar satirist,
Dr. Wolcot, to write, was a man of little lyrical talent.

TO MR. THOMSON.

[This letter contains further proof of the love of Burns for the airs of the Highlands.]

Sept. 1793.

I dare say, my dear Sir, that you will begin to think my correspondence is persecution. No
matter, I can't help it; a ballad is my hobby-horse, which, though otherwise a simple sort
of harmless idiotical beast enough, has yet this blessed headstrong property, that when once
it has fairly made off with a hapless wight, it gets so enamoured with the tinkle-gingle, tinkle-gingle
of its own bells, that it is sure to run poor pilgarlick, the bedlam jockey, quite beyond any
useful point or post in the common race of men. If it suit you, well!--If not, 'tis also well!

    Behold the hour, the boat arrive!

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

CCLXXIII.

TO MR. THOMSON.

[This is another of the sagacious letters on Scottish song, which poets and musicians would
do well to read and consider.]

Sept. 1793. If it will not suit as I proposed, we will lay two of the stanzas together, and
then make the chorus follow, exactly as Lucky Nancy in the Museum.

R. B.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 239: Mr. Thomson's list of songs for his publication.]

[Footnote 240: This is an alteration of one of Crawford's songs.]

[Footnote 241: His Christian name was William.]

[Footnote 242: Song CXCV.]

[Footnote 243: Song CCIX.]

[Footnote 244: By William Julius Mickle.]

[Footnote 245: The song here alluded to is one which the poet afterwards sent in an entire form:--

    "Where are the joys I hae met in the morning."]

[Footnote 246: Song CCX.]

[Footnote 247: A curious and rare book, which Leyden afterwards edited.]

       *       *       *       *       *

CCLXXIV.

TO MR. THOMSON.

[Burns listened too readily to the suggestion of Thomson, to alter "Bruce's Address to his
troops at Bannockburn:" whatever may be the merits of the air of "Louis Gordon," the sublime
simplicity of the words was injured by the alteration: it is now sung as originally written,
by all singers of taste.]

September, 1793.

I am happy, my dear Sir, that my ode pleases you so much. Your idea, "honour's bed," is, though
a beautiful, a hackneyed idea; so, if you please, we will let the line stand as it is. I have
altered the song as follows:--[248]

N. B. I have borrowed the last stanza from the common stall edition of Wallace--

    "A false usurper sinks in every foe,
    And liberty returns with every blow."

A couplet worthy of Homer. Yesterday you had enough of my correspondence. The post goes, and
my head aches miserably. One comfort! I suffer so much, just now, in this world, for last night's
joviality, that I shall escape scot-free for it in the world to come. Amen.

R. B.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 248: Song CCVII.]

       *       *       *       *       *

CCLXXV.

TO MR. THOMSON.

[The poet's good sense rose at last in arms against the criticisms of the musician, and he
refused to lessen the dignity of his war-ode by any more alterations.]

September, 1793.

"Who shall decide when doctors disagree?"

The old verses have merit, though unequal, and are popular: my advice is to set the air to
the old words, and let mine follow as English verses. Here they are:--

    Where are the joys I have met in the morning?[249]

Adieu, my dear Sir! the post goes, so I shall defer some other remarks until more leisure.

R. B.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 249: Song CCXI.]

       *       *       *       *       *

CCLXXVI.

TO MR. THOMSON.

[For "Fy! let us a' to the bridal," and "Fy! gie me my coggie, Sirs," and "There's nae luck
about the house," Burns puts in a word of praise, from a feeling that Thomson's taste would
induce him to exclude the first--one of our most original songs--from his collection.]

September, 1793.

I have been turning over some volumes of songs, to find verses whose measures would suit the
airs for which you have allotted me to find English songs.

For "Muirland Willie," you have, in Ramsay's Tea-Table, an excellent song beginning, "Ah, why
those tears in Nelly's eyes?" As for "The Collier's Dochter," take the following old bacchanal:--

    "Deluded swain, the pleasure, &c."[250]

The faulty line in Logan-Water, I mend thus:

    How can your flinty hearts enjoy
    The widow's tears, the orphan's cry?

The song otherwise will pass. As to "M'Gregoira Rua-Ruth," you will see a song of mine to it,
with a set of the air superior to yours, in the Museum, vol. ii. p. 181. The song begins,

    Raving winds around her blowing.[251]

Your Irish airs are pretty, but they are rank Irish. If they were like the "Banks of Banna,"
for instance, though really Irish, yet in the Scottish taste, you might adopt them. Since you
are so fond of Irish music, what say you to twenty-five of them in an additional number? We
could easily find this quantity of charming airs; I will take care that you shall not want
songs; and I assure you that you would find it the most saleable of the whole. If you do not
approve of "Roy's wife," for the music's sake, we shall not insert it. "Deil tak the wars"
is a charming song; so is, "Saw ye my Peggy?" "There's nae luck about the house" well deserves
a place. I cannot say that "O'er the hills and far awa" strikes me as equal to your selection.
"This is no my ain house," is a great favourite air of mine; and if you will send me your set
of it, I will task my muse to her highest effort. What is your opinion of "I hae laid a herrin'
in saut?" I like it much. Your jacobite airs are pretty, and there are many others of the same
kind pretty; but you have not room for them. You cannot, I think, insert "Fy! let's a' to the
bridal," to any other words than its own.

What pleases me, as simple and naive, disgusts you as ludicrous and low. For this reason, "Fy!
gie me my coggie, Sirs," "Fy let's a' to the bridal," with several others of that cast, are
to me highly pleasing; while "Saw ye my father, or saw ye my mother?" delights me with its
descriptive simple pathos. Thus my song, "Ken ye what Meg o' the mill has gotten?" pleases
myself so much, that I cannot try my hand at another song to the air, so I shall not attempt
it. I know you will laugh at all this: but "ilka man wears his belt his ain gait."

R. B.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 250: Song CCXII.]

[Footnote 251: Song LII.]

       *       *       *       *       *

CCLXXVII.

TO MR. THOMSON.

[Of the Hon. Andrew Erskine an account was communicated in a letter to Burns by Thomson, which
the writer has withheld.

I am pleased that you are reconciled to the air of the "Quaker's wife;" though, by the bye,
an old Highland gentleman, and a deep antiquarian, tells me it is a Gaelic air, and known by
the name of "Leiger m' choss." The following verses, I hope, will please you, as an English
song to the air.

    Thine am I, my faithful fair:[253]

Your objection to the English song I proposed for "John Anderson my jo," is certainly just.
The following is by an old acquaintance of mine, and I think has merit. The song was never
in print, which I think is so much in your favour. The more original good poetry your collection
contains, it certainly has so much the more merit.

SONG.--BY GAVIN TURNBULL.[254]

    Oh, condescend, dear charming maid,
      My wretched state to view;
    A tender swain, to love betray'd,
      And sad despair, by you.

    While here, all melancholy,
      My passion I deplore,
    Yet, urg'd by stern, resistless fate,
      I love thee more and more.

    I heard of love, and with disdain
      The urchin's power denied.
    I laugh'd at every lover's pain,
      And mock'd them when they sigh'd.

    But how my state is alter'd!
      Those happy days are o'er;
    For all thy unrelenting hate,
      I love thee more and more.

    Oh, yield, illustrious beauty, yield!
      No longer let me mourn;
    And though victorious in the field,
      Thy captive do not scorn.

    Let generous pity warm thee,
      My wonted peace restore;
    And grateful I shall bless thee still,
      And love thee more and more.

The following address of Turnbull's to the Nightingale will suit as an English song to the
air "There was a lass, and she was fair." By the bye, Turnbull has a great many songs in MS.,
which I can command, if you like his manner. Possibly, as he is an old friend of mine, I may
be prejudiced in his favour; but I like some of his pieces very much.

THE NIGHTINGALE.

    Thou sweetest minstrel of the grove,
      That ever tried the plaintive strain,
    Awake thy tender tale of love,
      And soothe a poor forsaken swain.

    For though the muses deign to aid
      And teach him smoothly to complain,
    Yet Delia, charming, cruel maid,
      Is deaf to her forsaken swain.

    All day, with fashion's gaudy sons,
      In sport she wanders o'er the plain:
    Their tales approves, and still she shuns
      The notes of her forsaken swain.

    When evening shades obscure the sky,
      And bring the solemn hours again,
    Begin, sweet bird, thy melody,
      And soothe a poor forsaken swain.

I shall just transcribe another of Turnbull's, which would go charmingly to "Lewie Gordon."

LAURA.

    Let me wander where I will,
    By shady wood, or winding rill;
    Where the sweetest May-born flowers
    Paint the meadows, deck the bowers;
    Where the linnet's early song
    Echoes sweet the woods among:
    Let me wander where I will,
    Laura haunts my fancy still.

    If at rosy dawn I choose
    To indulge the smiling muse;
    If I court some cool retreat,
    To avoid the noontide heat;
    If beneath the moon's pale ray,
    Thro' unfrequented wilds I stray;
    Let me wander where I will,
    Laura haunts my fancy still.

    When at night the drowsy god
    Waves his sleep-compelling rod,
    And to fancy's wakeful eyes
    Bids celestial visions rise,
    While with boundless joy I rove
    Thro' the fairy land of love;
    Let me wander where I will,
    Laura haunts my fancy still.

The rest of your letter I shall answer at some other opportunity.

R. B.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 252: "The honorable Andrew Erskine, whose melancholy death Mr. Thomson had communicated
in an excellent letter, which he has suppressed."--CURRIE.]

[Footnote 253: Song CCXIII.]

[Footnote 254: Gavin Turnbull was author of a now forgotten volume, published at Glasgow, in
1788, under the title of "Poetical Essays."]

       *       *       *       *       *

CCLXXVIII.

TO JOHN M'MURDO, ESQ.,

WITH A PARCEL.

[The collection of songs alluded to in this letter, are only known to the curious in loose
lore: they were printed by an obscure bookseller, but not before death had secured him from
the indignation of Burns.]

Dumfries, [December, 1793.]

SIR,

'Tis said that we take the greatest liberties with our greatest friends, and I pay myself a
very high compliment in the manner in which I am going to apply the remark. I have owed you
money longer than ever I owed it to any man. Here is Kerr's account, and here are the six guineas;
and now I don't owe a shilling to man--or woman either. But for these d----d dirty, dog's-ear'd
little pages,[255] I had done myself the honour to have waited on you long ago. Independent
of the obligations your hospitality has laid me under, the consciousness of your superiority
in the rank of man and gentleman, of itself was fully as much as I could ever make head against;
but to owe you money too, was more than I could face.

I think I once mentioned something to you of a collection of Scots songs I have for some years
been making: I send you a perusal of what I have got together. I could not conveniently spare
them above five or six days, and five or six glances of them will probably more than suffice
you. When you are tired of them, please leave them with Mr. Clint, of the King's Arms. There
is not another copy of the collection in the world; and I should be sorry that any unfortunate
negligence should deprive me of what has cost me a good deal of pains.

I have the honour to be, &c.

R. B.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 255: Scottish Bank notes.]

       *       *       *       *       *

CCLXXIX.

TO JOHN M'MURDO, ESQ.,

DRUMLANRIG.

[These words, thrown into the form of a note, are copied from a blank leaf of the poet's works,
published in two volumes, small octavo, in 1793.]

Dumfries, 1793.

Will Mr. M'Murdo do me the favour to accept of these volumes; a trifling but sincere mark of
the very high respect I bear for his worth as a man, his manners as a gentleman, and his kindness
as a friend. However inferior now, or afterwards, I may rank as a poet; one honest virtue to
which few poets can pretend, I trust I shall ever claim as mine:--to no man, whatever his station
in life, or his power to serve me, have I ever paid a compliment at the expense of TRUTH.

THE AUTHOR.

       *       *       *       *       *

CCLXXX.

TO CAPTAIN ----.

[This excellent letter, obtained from Stewart of Dalguise, is copied from my kind friend Chambers's
collection of Scottish songs.]

Dumfries, 5th December, 1793.

SIR,

Heated as I was with wine yesternight, I was perhaps rather seemingly impertinent in my anxious
wish to be honoured with your acquaintance. You will forgive it: it was the impulse of heart-felt
respect. "He is the father of the Scottish county reform, and is a man who does honour to the
business, at the same time that the business does honour to him," said my worthy friend Glenriddel
to somebody by me who was talking of your coming to this county with your corps. "Then," I
said, "I have a woman's longing to take him by the hand, and say to him, 'Sir, I honour you
as a man to whom the interests of humanity are dear, and as a patriot to whom the rights of
your country are sacred.'"

In times like these, Sir, when our commoners are barely able by the glimmer of their own twilight
understandings to scrawl a frank, and when lords are what gentlemen would be ashamed to be,
to whom shall a sinking country call for help? To the independent country gentleman. To him
who has too deep a stake in his country not to be in earnest for her welfare; and who in the
honest pride of a man can view with equal contempt the insolence of office and the allurements
of corruption.

I mentioned to you a Scots ode or song I had lately composed, and which I think has some merit.
Allow me to enclose it. When I fall in with you at the theatre, I shall be glad to have your
opinion of it. Accept it, Sir, as a very humble but most sincere tribute of respect from a
man, who, dear as he prizes poetic fame, yet holds dearer an independent mind.

I have the honour to be,

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

CCLXXXI.

TO MRS. RIDDEL,

Who was about to bespeak a Play one evening at the Dumfries Theatre.

[This clever lady, whom Burns so happily applies the words of Thomson, died in the year 1820,
at Hampton Court.]

I am thinking to send my "Address" to some periodical publication, but it has not yet got your
sanction, so pray look at it.

As to the Tuesday's play, let me beg of you, my dear madam, to give us, "The Wonder, a Woman
keeps a Secret!" to which please add, "The Spoilt Child"--you will highly oblige me by so doing.

Ah, what an enviable creature you are! There now, this cursed, gloomy, blue-devil day, you
are going to a party of choice spirits--

                  "To play the shapes
    Of frolic fancy, and incessant form
    Those rapid pictures, assembled train
    Of fleet ideas, never join'd before,
    Where lively wit excites to gay surprise;
    Or folly-painting humour, grave himself,
    Calls laughter forth, deep-shaking every nerve."

THOMSON.

But as you rejoice with them that do rejoice, do also remember to weep with them that weep,
and pity your melancholy friend.

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

CCLXXXII.

TO A LADY.

IN FAVOUR OF A PLAYER'S BENEFIT.

[The name of the lady to whom this letter is addressed, has not transpired.]

Dumfries, 1794.

MADAM,

You were so very good as to promise me to honour my friend with your presence on his benefit
night. That night is fixed for Friday first: the play a most interesting one! "The Way to Keep
Him." I have the pleasure to know Mr. G. well. His merit as an actor is generally acknowledged.
He has genius and worth which would do honour to patronage: he is a poor and modest man; claims
which from their very silence have the more forcible power on the generous heart. Alas, for
pity! that from the indolence of those who have the good things of this life in their gift,
too often does brazen-fronted importunity snatch that boon, the rightful due of retiring, humble
want! Of all the qualities we assign to the author and director of nature, by far the most
enviable is--to be able "to wipe away all tears from all eyes." O what insignificant, sordid
wretches are they, however chance may have loaded them with wealth, who go to their graves,
to their magnificent mausoleums, with hardly the consciousness of having made one poor honest
heart happy!

But I crave your pardon, Madam; I came to beg, not to preach.

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

CCLXXXIII.

TO THE EARL OF BUCHAN,

With a Copy of Bruce's Address to his Troops at Bannockburn.

[This fantastic Earl of Buchan died a few years ago: when he was put into the family burial-ground,
at Dryburgh, his head was laid the wrong way, which Sir Walter Scott said was little matter,
as it had never been quite right in his lifetime.]

Dumfries, 12th January, 1794.

MY LORD,

Will your lordship allow me to present you with the enclosed little composition of mine, as
a small tribute of gratitude for the acquaintance with which you have been pleased to honour
me? Independent of my enthusiasm as a Scotsman, I have rarely met with anything in history
which interests my feelings as a man, equal with the story of Bannockburn. On the one hand,
a cruel, but able usurper, leading on the finest army in Europe to extinguish the last spark
of freedom among a greatly-daring and greatly-injured people; on the other hand, the desperate
relics of a gallant nation, devoting themselves to rescue their bleeding country, or perish
with her.

Liberty! thou art a prize truly and indeed invaluable! for never canst thou be too dearly bought!

If my little ode has the honour of your lordship's approbation, it will gratify my highest
ambition.

I have the honour to be, &c.

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

CCLXXXIV.

TO CAPTAIN MILLER,

DALSWINTON.

[Captain Miller, of Dalswinton, sat in the House of Commons for the Dumfries district of boroughs.
Dalswinton has passed from the family to my friend James M'Alpine Leny, Esq.]

DEAR SIR,

The following ode is on a subject which I know you by no means regard with indifference.

ADDISON.

It does me so much good to meet with a man whose honest bosom glows with the generous enthusiasm,
the heroic daring of liberty, that I could not forbear sending you a composition of my own
on the subject, which I really think is in my best manner.

I have the honour to be,

Dear Sir, &c.

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

CCLXXXV.

TO MRS. RIDDEL.

TO MRS. RIDDEL.

TO MRS. RIDDEL.

[The bard often offended and often appeased this whimsical but very clever lady.]

I have this moment got the song from Syme, and I am sorry to see that he has spoilt it a good
deal. It shall be a lesson to me how I lend him anything again.

I have sent you "Werter," truly happy to have any the smallest opportunity of obliging you.

'Tis true, Madam, I saw you once since I was at Woodlea; and that once froze the very life-blood
of my heart. Your reception of me was such, that a wretch meeting the eye of his judge, about
to pronounce sentence of death on him could only have envied my feelings and situation. But
I hate the theme, and never more shall write or speak on it.

One thing I shall proudly say, that I can pay Mrs. R. a higher tribute of esteem, and appreciate
her amiable worth more truly, than any man whom I have seen approach her.

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

CCLXXXVIII.

TO MRS. RIDDEL.

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

CCLXXXIX.

TO MRS. RIDDEL.

TO JOHN SYME, ESQ.

[John Syme, of the stamp-office, was the companion as well as comrade in arms, of Burns: he
was a well-informed gentleman, loved witty company, and sinned in rhyme now and then: his epigrams
were often happy.]

You know that among other high dignities, you have the honour to be my supreme court of critical
judicature, from which there is no appeal. I enclose you a song which I composed since I saw
you, and I am going to give you the history of it. Do you know that among much that I admire
in the characters and manners of those great folks whom I have now the honour to call my acquaintances,
the Oswald family, there is nothing charms me more than Mr. Oswald's unconcealable attachment
to that incomparable woman. Did you ever, my dear Syme, meet with a man who owed more to the
Divine Giver of all good things than Mr. O.? A fine fortune; a pleasing exterior; self-evident
amiable dispositions, and an ingenuous upright mind, and that informed, too, much beyond the
usual run of young fellows of his rank and fortune: and to all this, such a woman!--but of
her I shall say nothing at all, in despair of saying anything adequate: in my song I have endeavoured
to do justice to what would be his feelings, on seeing, in the scene I have drawn, the habitation
of his Lucy. As I am a good deal pleased with my performance, I, in my first fervour, thought
of sending it to Mrs. Oswald, but on second thoughts, perhaps what I offer as the honest incense
of genuine respect, might, from the well-known character of poverty and poetry, be construed
into some modification or other of that servility which my soul abhors.

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

CCXCI.

TO MISS ----.

[Burns, on other occasions than this, recalled both his letters and verses: it is to be regretted
that he did not recall more of both.]

Dumfries, 1794.

MADAM,

Nothing short of a kind of absolute necessity could have made me trouble you with this letter.
Except my ardent and just esteem for your sense, taste, and worth, every sentiment arising
in my breast, as I put pen to paper to you, is painful. The scenes I have passed with the friend
of my soul and his amiable connexions! the wrench at my heart to think that he is gone, for
ever gone from me, never more to meet in the wanderings of a weary world! and the cutting reflection
of all, that I had most unfortunately, though most undeservedly, lost the confidence of that
soul of worth, ere it took its flight!

These, Madam, are sensations of no ordinary anguish.--However, you also may be offended with
some imputed improprieties of mine; sensibility you know I possess, and sincerity none will
deny me.

To oppose those prejudices which have been raised against me, is not the business of this letter.
Indeed it is a warfare I know not how to wage. The powers of positive vice I can in some degree
calculate, and against direct malevolence I can be on my guard; but who can estimate the fatuity
of giddy caprice, or ward off the unthinking mischief of precipitate folly?

I have a favour to request of you, Madam, and of your sister Mrs. ----, through your means.
You know that, at the wish of my late friend, I made a collection of all my trifles in verse
which I had ever written. They are many of them local, some of them puerile and silly, and
all of them unfit for the public eye. As I have some little fame at stake, a fame that I trust
may live when the hate of those who "watch for my halting," and the contumelious sneer of those
whom accident has made my superiors, will, with themselves, be gone to the regions of oblivion;
I am uneasy now for the fate of those manuscripts--Will Mrs. ---- have the goodness to destroy
them, or return them to me? As a pledge of friendship they were bestowed; and that circumstance
indeed was all their merit. Most unhappily for me, that merit they no longer possess; and I
hope that Mrs. ---- 's goodness, which I well know, and ever will revere, will not refuse this
favour to a man whom she once held in some degree of estimation.

With the sincerest esteem,

I have the honour to be,

Madam, &c.

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

CCXCII.

TO MR. CUNNINGHAM.

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

CCXCIII.

TO THE EARL OF GLENCAIRN.

[The original letter is in the possession of the Hon. Mrs. Halland, of Poynings: it is undated,
but from a memorandum on the back it appears to have been written in May, 1794.]

May, 1794.

MY LORD,

When you cast your eye on the name at the bottom of this letter, and on the title-page of the
book I do myself the honour to send your lordship, a more pleasurable feeling than my vanity
tells me that it must be a name not entirely unknown to you. The generous patronage of your
late illustrious brother found me in the lowest obscurity: he introduced my rustic muse to
the partiality of my country; and to him I owe all. My sense of his goodness, and the anguish
of my soul at losing my truly noble protector and friend, I have endeavoured to express in
a poem to his memory, which I have now published. This edition is just from the press; and
in my gratitude to the dead, and my respect for the living (fame belies you, my lord, if you
possess not the same dignity of man, which was your noble brother's characteristic feature),
I had destined a copy for the Earl of Glencairn. I learnt just now that you are in town:--allow
me to present it you.

I know, my lord, such is the vile, venal contagion which pervades the world of letters, that
professions of respect from an author, particularly from a poet, to a lord, are more than suspicious.
I claim my by-past conduct, and my feelings at this moment, as exceptions to the too just conclusion.
Exalted as are the honours of your lordship's name, and unnoted as is the obscurity of mine;
with the uprightness of an honest man, I come before your lordship with an offering, however
humble, 'tis all I have to give, of my grateful respect; and to beg of you, my lord,--'tis
all I have to ask of you,--that you will do me the honour to accept of it.

I have the honour to be,

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

CCXCIV.

TO MR. THOMSON.

TO DAVID M'CULLOCH, ESQ.

[The endorsement on the back of the original letter shows in what far lands it has travelled:--"Given
by David M'Culloch, Penang, 1810. A. Fraser." "Received 15th December, 1823, in Calcutta, from
Captain Frazer's widow, by me, Thomas Rankine." "Transmitted to Archibald Hastie, Esq., London,
March 27th, 1824, from Bombay."]

Dumfries, 21st June, 1794.

MY DEAR SIR,

My long-projected journey through your country is at last fixed: and on Wednesday next, if
you have nothing of more importance to do, take a saunter down to Gatehouse about two or three
o'clock, I shall be happy to take a draught of M'Kune's best with you. Collector Syme will
be at Glens about that time, and will meet us about dish-of-tea hour. Syme goes also to Kerroughtree,
and let me remind you of your kind promise to accompany me there; I will need all the friends
I can muster, for I am indeed ill at ease whenever I approach your honourables and right honourables.

Yours sincerely,

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

CCXCVI.

TO MRS. DUNLOP.
    One quenched in darkness like the sinking star,
      And one the palsied arm of tottering, powerless age.

You will probably have another scrawl from me in a stage or two.

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

CCXCVII.

TO MR. JAMES JOHNSON. In the mean time, at your leisure, give a copy of the Museum to my worthy
friend, Sir.

Thank you for the copies of my Volunteer Ballad.--Our friend Clarke has done indeed well! 'tis
chaste and beautiful. I have not met with anything that has pleased me so much. You know I
am no connoisseur: but that I am an amateur--will be allowed me.

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

CCXCVIII.

TO MR. THOMSON.

[The blank in this letter could be filled up without writing treason: but nothing has been
omitted of an original nature.]

July, 1794.

Is there no news yet of Pleyel? Or is your work to be at a dead stop, until the allies set
our modern Orpheus at liberty from the savage thraldom of democrat discords? Alas the day!
And woe is me! That auspicious period, pregnant with the happiness of millions. * * * *

I have presented a copy of your songs to the daughter of a much-valued and much-honoured friend
of mine, Mr. Graham of Fintray. I wrote on the blank side of the title-page the following address
to the young lady:

    Here, where the Scottish muse immortal lives, &c.[257]

R. B.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 257: Song CCXXIX.]

       *       *       *       *       *

CCXCIX.

TO MR. THOMSON.

[Thomson says to Burns, "You have anticipated my opinion of 'O'er the seas and far away.'"
Yet some of the verses are original and touching.]

30th August, 1794.

The last evening, as I was straying out, and thinking of "O'er the hills and far away," I spun
the following stanza for it; but whether my spinning will deserve to be laid up in store, like
the precious thread of the silk-worm, or brushed to the devil, like the vile manufacture of
the spider, I leave, my dear Sir, to your usual candid criticism. I was pleased with several
lines in it at first, but I own that now it appears rather a flimsy business.

This is just a hasty sketch, until I see whether it be worth a critique. We have many sailor
songs, but as far as I at present recollect, they are mostly the effusions of the jovial sailor,
not the wailings of his love-lorn mistress. I must here make one sweet exception--"Sweet Annie
frae the sea-beach came." Now for the song:--

    How can my poor heart be glad.[258]

I give you leave to abuse this song, but do it in the spirit of Christian meekness.

R. B.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 258: Song CCXXIV.]

       *       *       *       *       *

CCC.

TO MR. THOMSON.

[The stream on the banks of which this song is supposed to be sung, is known by three names,
Cairn, Dalgonar, and Cluden.

R. B.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 259: Song CCXXV.]

       *       *       *       *       *

CCCI.

TO MR. THOMSON.

[Dr. Maxwell, whose skill called forth the praises of the poet, had the honour of being named
by Burke in the House of Commons: he shared in the French revolution, and narrowly escaped
the guillotine, like many other true friends of liberty.]

Sept. 1794.

Do you know a blackguard Irish song called "Onagh's Waterfall?" The air is charming, and I
have often regretted the want of decent verses to it. It is too much, at least for my humble
rustic muse, to expect that every effort of hers shall have merit; still I think that it is
better to have mediocre verses to a favourite air, than none at all. On this principle I have
all along proceeded in the Scots Musical Museum; and as that publication is at its last volume,
I intend the following song, to the air above mentioned, for that work.

If it does not suit you as an editor, you may be pleased to have verses to it that you can
sing in the company of ladies.

    Sae flaxen were her ringlets.[260]

Not to compare small things with great, my taste in music is like the mighty Frederick of Prussia's
taste in painting: we are told that he frequently admired what the connoisseurs decried, and
always without any hypocrisy confessed his admiration. I am sensible that my taste in music
must be inelegant and vulgar, because people of undisputed and cultivated taste can find no
merit in my favourite tunes. Still, because I am cheaply pleased, is that any reason why I
should deny myself that pleasure? Many of our strathspeys, ancient and modern, give me most
exquisite enjoyment, where you and other judges would probably be showing disgust. For instance,
I am just now making verses for "Rothemurche's rant," an air which puts me in raptures; and,
in fact, unless I be pleased with the tune, I never can make verses to it. Here I have Clarke
on my side, who is a judge that I will pit against any of you. "Rothemurche," he says, "is
an air both original and beautiful;" and, on his recommendation, I have taken the first part
of the tune for a chorus, and the fourth or last part for the song. I am but two stanzas deep
in the work, and possibly you may think, and justly, that the poetry is as little worth your
attention as the music.

[Here follow two stanzas of the song, beginning "Lassie wi' the lint-white locks." Song CCXXXIII.]

I have begun anew, "Let me in this ae night." Do you think that we ought to retain the old
chorus? I think we must retain both the old chorus and the first stanza of the old song. I
do not altogether like the third line of the first stanza, but cannot alter it to please myself.
I am just three stanzas deep in it. Would you have the denouement to be successful or otherwise?--should
she "let him in" or not?

Did you not once propose "The sow's tail to Geordie" as an air for your work? I am quite delighted
with it; but I acknowledge that is no mark of its real excellence. I once set about verses
for it, which I meant to be in the alternate way of a lover and his mistress chanting together.
I have not the pleasure of knowing Mrs. Thomson's Christian name, and yours, I am afraid, is
rather burlesque for sentiment, else I had meant to have made you the hero and heroine of the
little piece.

How do you like the following epigram which I wrote the other day on a lovely young girl's
recovery from a fever? Doctor Maxwell was the physician who seemingly saved her from the grave;
and to him I address the following:

TO DR. MAXWELL,

ON MISS JESSIE STAIG'S RECOVERY.

    Maxwell, if merit here you crave,
      That merit I deny:
    You save fair Jessy from the grave?--
      An angel could not die!

God grant you patience with this stupid epistle!

R. B.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 260: Song CCXXVI.]

       *       *       *       *       *

CCCII.

TO MR. THOMSON.

    How long and dreary is the night, &c.[262]

Tell me how you like this. I differ from your idea of the expression of the tune. There is,
to me, a great deal of tenderness in it. You cannot, in my opinion, dispense with a bass to
your addenda airs.

I enclose you a musical curiosity, an East Indian air, which you would swear was a Scottish
one. I know the authenticity of it, as the gentleman who brought it over is a particular acquaintance
of mine. Do preserve me the copy I send you, as it is the only one I have. Clarke has set a
bass to it, and I intend putting it into the Musical Museum. Here follow the verses I intend
for it.

VARIATION.

        When frae my Chloris parted,
        Sad, cheerless, broken-hearted,
    The night's gloomy shades, cloudy, dark, o'ercast my sky.
        But when she charms my sight,
        In pride of beauty's light;
        When through my very heart
        Her beaming glories dart;
    'Tis then, 'tis then I wake to life and joy!

R. B.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 261: Song CCXXVII.]

[Footnote 262: Song CCXXVIII.]

[Footnote 263: Mr. Ritson, whose collection of Scottish songs was published this year.]

[Footnote 264: Song CCXXIX.]

[Footnote 265: Song CCXXX.]

[Footnote 266: Song CCXVI.]

       *       *       *       *       *

CCCIII.

TO MR. THOMSON.

Despairing of my own powers to give you variety enough in English songs, I have been turning
over old collections, to pick out songs, of which the measure is something similar to what
I want; and, with a little alteration, so as to suit the rhythm of the air exactly, to give
you them for your work. Where the songs have hitherto been but little noticed, nor have ever
been set to music, I think the shift a fair one. A song, which, under the same first verse,
you will find in Ramsay's Tea-table Miscellany, I have cut down for an English dress to your
"Dainty Davie," as follows:--

    It was the charming month of May.[268]

You may think meanly of this, but take a look at the bombast original, and you will be surprised
that I have made so much of it. I have finished my song to "Rothemurche's rant," and you have
Clarke to consult as to the set of the air for singing.

    Lassie wi' the lint-white locks, &c.[269]

This piece has at least the merit of being a regular pastoral: the vernal morn, the summer
noon, the autumnal evening, and the winter night, are regularly rounded. If you like it, well;
if not, I will insert it in the Museum.

R. B.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 267: Song CCXXXI.]

[Footnote 268: Song CCXXXII.]

[Footnote 269: Song CCXXXIII.]

       *       *       *       *       *

CCCIV.

TO MR. THOMSON.

I thank you for admitting "Craigieburn-wood;" and I shall take care to furnish you with a new
chorus. In fact, the chorus was not my work, but a part of some old verses to the air. If I
can catch myself in a more than ordinarily propitious moment, I shall write a new "Craigieburn-wood"
altogether. My heart is much in the theme.

R. B.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 270: Song CCXXXIV.]

       *       *       *       *       *

CCCV.

TO MR. THOMSON.

[Willy and Phely, in one of the lyrics which this letter contained, carry on the pleasant bandying
of praise till compliments grow scarce, and the lovers are reduced to silence.]

19th November, 1794.

You see, my dear Sir, what a punctual correspondent I am; though, indeed, you may thank yourself
for the tedium of my letters, as you have so flattered me on my horsemanship with my favourite
hobby, and have praised the grace of his ambling so much, that I am scarcely ever off his back.
For instance, this morning, though a keen blowing frost, in my walk before breakfast, I finished
my duet, which you were pleased to praise so much. Whether I have uniformly succeeded, I will
not say; but here it is for you, though it is not an hour old.

    O Philly, happy be the day.[271]

Tell me honestly how you like it, and point out whatever you think faulty.

I am much pleased with your idea of singing our songs in alternate stanzas, and regret that
you did not hint it to me sooner. In those that remain, I shall have it in my eye. I remember
your objections to the name Philly, but it is the common abbreviation of Phillis. Sally, the
only other name that suits, has to my ear a vulgarity about it, which unfits it, for anything
except burlesque. The legion of Scottish poetasters of the day, whom your brother editor, Mr.
Ritson, ranks with me as my coevals, have always mistaken vulgarity for simplicity; whereas,
simplicity is as much eloignée from vulgarity on the one hand, as from affected point and puerile
conceit on the other.

I agree with you as to the air, "Craigieburn-wood," that a chorus would, in some degree, spoil
the effect, and shall certainly have none in my projected song to it. It is not, however, a
case in point with "Rothemurche;" there, as in "Roy's Wife of Aldivalloch," a chorus goes,
to my taste, well enough. As to the chorus going first, that is the case with "Roy's Wife,"
as well as "Rothemurche." In fact, in the first part of both tunes, the rhythm is so peculiar
and irregular, and on that irregularity depends so much of their beauty, that we must e'en
take them with all their wildness, and humour the verse accordingly. Leaving out the starting
note in both tunes, has, I think, an effect that no regularity could counterbalance the want of.

     Try,         {Oh Roy's wife of Aldivalloch.

Does not the lameness of the prefixed syllable strike you? In the last case, with the true
furor of genius, you strike at once into the wild originality of the air; whereas, in the first
insipid method, it is like the grating screw of the pins before the fiddle is brought into
tune. This is my taste; if I am wrong, I beg pardon of the cognoscenti.

"The Caledonian Hunt" is so charming, that it would make any subject in a song go down; but
pathos is certainly its native tongue. Scottish bacchanalians we certainly want, though the
few we have are excellent. For instance, "Todlin hame," is, for wit and humour, an unparalleled
composition; And "Andrew and his cutty gun" is the work of a master. It has given me many a
heart-ache. Apropos to bacchanalian songs in Scottish, I composed one yesterday, for an air
I like much--"Lumps o' pudding."

Contented wi' little and cantie wi' mair.[272]

If you do not relish this air, I will send it to Johnson.

R. B.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 271: Song CCXXXV.]

[Footnote 272: Song CCXXXVI.]

       *       *       *       *       *

CCCVI.

TO MR. THOMSON.

[The instrument which the poet got from the braes of Athol, seems of an order as rude and incapable
of fine sounds as the whistles which school-boys make in spring from the smaller boughs of
the plane-tree.]

Since yesterday's penmanship, I have framed a couple of English stanzas, by way of an English
song to "Roy's Wife." You will allow me, that in this instance my English corresponds in sentiment
with the Scottish.

    Canst thou leave me thus, my Katy?[273]

Well! I think this, to be done in two or three turns across my room, and with two or three
pinches of Irish blackguard, is not so far amiss. You see I am determined to have my quantum
of applause from somebody.

R. B.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 273: Song CCXXXVII.]

       *       *       *       *       *

CCCVII.

TO PETER MILLER, JUN., ESQ.,

OF DALSWINTON.

TO MR. SAMUEL CLARKE, JUN.,

DUMFRIES.

[Political animosities troubled society during the days of Burns, as much at least as they
disturb it now--this letter is an instance of it.]

Sunday Morning.

DEAR SIR,

I was, I know, drunk last night, but I am sober this morning. From the expressions Capt. ----
made use of to me, had I had no-body's welfare to care for but my own, we should certainly
have come, according to the manners of the world, to the necessity of murdering one another
about the business. The words were such as, generally, I believe, end in a brace of pistols;
but I am still pleased to think that I did not ruin the peace and welfare of a wife and a family
of children in a drunken squabble. Farther, you know that the report of certain political opinions
being mine, has already once before brought me to the brink of destruction. I dread lest last
night's business may be misrepresented in the same way.--You, I beg, will take care to prevent
it. I tax your wish for Mr. Burns' welfare with the task of waiting as soon as possible, on
every gentleman who was present, and state this to him, and, as you please, show him this letter.
What, after all, was the obnoxious toast? "May our success in the present war be equal to the
justice of our cause."--A toast that the most outrageous frenzy of loyalty cannot object to.
I request and beg that this morning you will wait on the parties present at the foolish dispute.
I shall only add, that I am truly sorry that a man who stood so high in my estimation as Mr.
----, should use me in the manner in which I conceive he has done.

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

CCCIX.

TO MR. THOMSON.

[Burns allowed for the songs which Wolcot wrote for Thomson a degree of lyric merit which the
world has refused to sanction.]

December, 1794.

It is, I assure you, the pride of my heart to do anything to forward or add to the value of
your book; and as I agree with you that the jacobite song in the Museum to "There'll never
be peace till Jamie comes hame," would not so well consort with Peter Pindar's excellent love-song
to that air, I have just framed for you the following:--

    Now in her green mantle, &c.[274]

How does this please you? As to the point of time for the expression, in your proposed print
from my "Sodger's Return," it must certainly be at--"She gaz'd." The interesting dubiety and
suspense taking possession of her countenance, and the gushing fondness, with a mixture of
roguish playfulness, in his, strike me as things of which a master will make a great deal.
In great haste, but in great truth, yours,

R. B.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 274: Song CCXXXVIII.]

       *       *       *       *       *

CCCX.

TO MR. THOMSON. How will the following do for "Craigieburn-wood?"--

    Sweet fa's the eve on Craigieburn.[276]

Farewell! God bless you!

R. B.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 275: Song CCLXIV.]

[Footnote 276: Song CCXLV.]

       *       *       *       *       *

CCCXI.

TO MR. THOMSON.

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

CCCXII.

TO MR. THOMSON.

[The song of Caledonia, in honour of Mrs. Burns, was accompanied by two others in honour of
the poet's mistress: the muse was high in song, and used few words in the letter which enclosed
them.]

May, 1795.

    O stay, sweet warbling woodlark, stay![277]

Let me know, your very first leisure, how you like this song.

    Long, long the night.[278]

How do you like the foregoing? The Irish air, "Humours of Glen," is a great favourite of mine,
and as, except the silly stuff in the "Poor Soldier," there are not any decent verses for it,
I have written for it as follows:--

    Their groves o' sweet myrtle let foreign lands reckon.[279]

Let me hear from you.

R. B.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 277: Song CCXLIX.]

[Footnote 278: Song CCL.]

[Footnote 279: Song CCLI.]

       *       *       *       *       *

CCCXIII.

TO MR. THOMSON.

[The poet calls for praise in this letter, a species of coin which is always ready.]

      How cruel are the parents.[280]

    Mark yonder pomp of costly fashion.[281]

Well, this is not amiss. You see how I answer your orders--your tailor could not be more punctual.

R. B.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 280: Song CCLIII.]

[Footnote 281: Song CCLIV.]

       *       *       *       *       *

CCCXIV.

TO MR. THOMSON.

[Thomson at this time sent the drawing to Burns in which David Allan sought to embody the "Cotter's
Saturday Night:" it displays at once the talent and want of taste of the ingenious artist.]

May, 1795.

Ten thousand thanks for your elegant present--though I am ashamed of the value of it, being
bestowed on a man who has not, by any means, merited such an instance of kindness. I have shown
it to two or three judges of the first abilities here, and they all agree with me in classing
it as a first-rate production. My phiz is sae kenspeckle, that the very joiner's apprentice,
whom Mrs. Burns employed to break up the parcel (I was out of town that day) knew it at once.
My most grateful compliments to Allan, who has honoured my rustic music so much with his masterly
pencil. One strange coincidence is, that the little one who is making the felonious attempt
on the cat's tail, is the most striking likeness of an ill-deedie, d--n'd, wee, rumblegairie
urchin of mine, whom from that propensity to witty wickedness, and man-fu' mischief, which,
even at twa days auld, I foresaw would form the striking features of his disposition, I named
Willie Nicol, after a certain friend of mine, who is one of the masters of a grammar-school
in a city which shall be nameless.

Give the enclosed epigram to my much-valued friend Cunningham, and tell him, that on Wednesday
I go to visit a friend of his, to whom his friendly partiality in speaking of me in a manner
introduced me--I mean a well-known military and literary character, Colonel Dirom.

You do not tell me how you liked my two last songs. Are they condemned?

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

CCCXV.

TO MR. THOMSON.

[In allusion to the preceding letter, Thomson says to Burns, "You really make me blush when
you tell me you have not merited the drawing from me." The "For a' that and a' that," which
went with this letter, was, it is believed, the composition of Mrs. Riddel.]

In "Whistle, and I'll come to ye, my lad," the iteration of that line is tiresome to my ear.

In fact, a fair dame, at whose shrine I, the priest of the Nine, offer up the incense of Parnassus--a
dame whom the Graces have attired in witchcraft, and whom the Loves have armed with lightning--a
fair one, herself the heroine of the song, insists on the amendment, and dispute her commands
if you dare?

    This is no my ain lassie,[282] &c.

Do you know that you have roused the torpidity of Clarke at last? He has requested me to write
three or four songs for him, which he is to set to music himself. The enclosed sheet contains
two songs for him, which please to present to my valued friend Cunningham.

I enclose the sheet open, both for your inspection, and that you may copy the song "Oh bonnie
was yon rosy brier." I do not know whether I am right, but that song pleases me; and as it
is extremely probable that Clarke's newly-roused celestial spark will be soon smothered in
the fogs of indolence, if you like the song, it may go as Scottish verses to the air of "I
wish my love was in a mire;" and poor Erskine's English lines may follow.

I enclose you a "For a' that and a' that," which was never in print: it is a much superior
song to mine. I have been told that it was composed by a lady, and some lines written on the
blank leaf of a copy of the last edition of my poems, presented to the lady whom, in so many
fictitious reveries of passion, but with the most ardent sentiments of real friendship, I have
so often sung under the name of Chloris:--

To Chloris.[283]

    Une bagatelle de l'amitié.

COILA.

R. B.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 282: Song CCLV.]

[Footnote 283: Poems, No. CXLVI.]

       *       *       *       *       *

CCCXVI.

TO MR. THOMSON.

[In the double service of poesy and music the poet had to sing of pangs which he never endured,
from beauties to whom he had never spoken.]

    FORLORN my love, no comfort near, &c.[284]

How do you like the foregoing? I have written it within this hour: so much for the speed of
my Pegasus; but what say you to his bottom?

R. B.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 284: Song CCLVIII.]

       *       *       *       *       *

CCCXVII.

TO MR. THOMSON.

I am at present quite occupied with the charming sensations of the toothache, so have not a
word to spare.

R. B.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 285: Song CCLIX.]

[Footnote 286: Song CCLX.]

       *       *       *       *       *

CCCXVIII.

TO MRS. RIDDEL.

Supposes himself to be writing from the dead to the living.

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

CCCXIX.

TO MRS. RIDDEL.

[Mrs. Riddel, it is said, possessed many more of the poet's letters than are printed--she sometimes
read them to friends who could feel their wit, and, like herself, make allowance for their
freedom.]

Dumfries, 1795.

Mr. Burns's compliments to Mrs. Riddel--is much obliged to her for her polite attention in
sending him the book. Owing to Mr. B.'s being at present acting as supervisor of excise, a
department that occupies his every hour of the day, he has not that time to spare which is
necessary for any belle-lettre pursuit; but, as he will, in a week or two, again return to
his wonted leisure, he will then pay that attention to Mrs. R.'s beautiful song, "To thee,
loved Nith"--which it so well deserves. When "Anacharsis' Travels" come to hand, which Mrs.
Riddel mentioned as her gift to the public library, Mr. B. will thank her for a reading of
it previous to her sending it to the library, as it is a book Mr. B. has never seen: he wishes
to have a longer perusal of them than the regulations of the library allow.

Friday Eve.

P.S. Mr. Burns will be much obliged to Mrs. Riddel if she will favour him with a perusal of
any of her poetical pieces which he may not have seen.

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

CCCXX.

TO MISS LOUISA FONTENELLE.

[That Miss Fontenelle, as an actress, did not deserve the high praise which Burns bestows may
be guessed: the lines to which he alludes were recited by the lady on her benefit-night, and
are printed among his Poems.]

Dumfries, December, 1795.

MADAM,

In such a bad world as ours, those who add to the scanty sum of our pleasures, are positively
our benefactors. To you, Madam, on our humble Dumfries boards, I have been more indebted for
entertainment than ever I was in prouder theatres. Your charms as a woman would insure applause
to the most indifferent actress, and your theatrical talents would insure admiration to the
plainest figure. This, Madam, is not the unmeaning or insidious compliment of the frivolous
or interested; I pay it from the same honest impulse that the sublime of nature excites my
admiration, or her beauties give me delight.

Will the foregoing lines be of any service to you in your approaching benefit-night? If they
will I shall be prouder of my muse than ever. They are nearly extempore: I know they have no
great merit; but though they should add but little to the entertainment of the evening, they
give me the happiness of an opportunity to declare how much I have the honour to be, &c.

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

CCCXXI.

TO MRS. DUNLOP.

We have had a brilliant theatre here this season; only, as all other business does, it experiences
a stagnation of trade from the epidemical complaint of the country, want of cash. I mentioned
our theatre merely to lug in an occasional Address which I wrote for the benefit-night of one
of the actresses, and which is as follows:--

ADDRESS,

SPOKEN BY MISS FONTENELLE ON HER BENEFIT-NIGHT, DEC. 4, 1795, AT THE THEATRE, DUMFRIES.

I have lately collected, for a friend's perusal, all my letters; I mean those which I first
sketched, in a rough draught, and afterwards wrote out fair. On looking over some old musty
papers, which, from time to time, I had parcelled by, as trash that were scarce worth preserving,
and which yet at the same time I did not care to destroy; I discovered many of these rude sketches,
and have written, and am writing them out, in a bound MS. for my friend's library. As I wrote
always to you the rhapsody of the moment, I cannot find a single scroll to you, except one
about the commencement of our acquaintance. If there were any possible conveyance, I would
send you a perusal of my book.

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

CCCXXII.

TO MR. ALEXANDER FINDLATER,

SUPERVISOR OF EXCISE, DUMFRIES.

[The person to whom this letter is addressed, is the same who lately denied that Burns was
harshly used by the Board of Excise: but those, and they are many, who believe what the poet
wrote to Erskine, of Mar, cannot agree with Mr. Findlater.]

SIR,

Enclosed are the two schemes. I would not have troubled you with the collector's one, but for
suspicion lest it be not right. Mr. Erskine promised me to make it right, if you will have
the goodness to show him how. As I have no copy of the scheme for myself, and the alterations
being very considerable from what it was formerly, I hope that I shall have access to this
scheme I send you, when I come to face up my new books. So much for schemes.--And that no scheme
to betray a FRIEND, or mislead a STRANGER; to seduce a YOUNG GIRL, or rob a HEN-ROOST; to subvert
LIBERTY, or bribe an EXCISEMAN; to disturb the GENERAL ASSEMBLY, or annoy a GOSSIPPING; to
overthrow the credit of ORTHODOXY, or the authority of OLD SONGS; to oppose your wishes, or
frustrate my hopes--MAY PROSPER--is the sincere wish and prayer of

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

CCCXXIII.

TO THE EDITOR OF THE MORNING CHRONICLE.

[Cromek says, when a neighbour complained that his copy of the Morning Chronicle was not regularly
delivered to him from the post-office, the poet wrote the following indignant letter to Perry
on a leaf of his excise-book, but before it went to the post he reflected and recalled it.]

Dumfries, 1795.

SIR,

You will see by your subscribers' list, that I have been about nine months of that number.

I am sorry to inform you, that in that time, seven or eight of your papers either have never
been sent to me, or else have never reached me. To be deprived of any one number of the first
newspaper in Great Britain for information, ability, and independence, is what I can ill brook
and bear; but to be deprived of that most admirable oration of the Marquis of Lansdowne, when
he made the great though ineffectual attempt (in the language of the poet, I fear too true),
"to save a SINKING STATE"--this was a loss that I neither can nor will forgive you.--That paper,
Sir, never reached me; but I demand it of you. I am a BRITON; and must be interested in the
cause of LIBERTY:--I am a MAN; and the RIGHTS of HUMAN NATURE cannot be indifferent to me.
However, do not let me mislead you: I am not a man in that situation of life, which, as your
subscriber, can be of any consequence to you, in the eyes of those to whom SITUATION OF LIFE
ALONE is the criterion of MAN.--I am but a plain tradesman, in this distant, obscure country
town: but that humble domicile in which I shelter my wife and children is the CASTELLUM of
a BRITON; and that scanty, hard-earned income which supports them is as truly my property,
as the most magnificent fortune, of the most PUISSANT MEMBER of your HOUSE of NOBLES.

These, Sir, are my sentiments; and to them I subscribe my name: and were I a man of ability
and consequence enough to address the PUBLIC, with that name should they appear.

I am, &c.

       *       *       *       *       *

CCCXXIV.

TO MR. HERON,

OF HERON.

[Of Patrick Heron, of Kerroughtree, something has been said in the notes on the Ballads which
bear his name.]

Dumfries, 1794, or 1795.

SIR,

I enclose you some copies of a couple of political ballads; one of which, I believe, you have
never seen. Would to Heaven I could make you master of as many votes in the Stewartry--but--

              "Who does the utmost that he can,
    Does well, acts nobly, angels could no more."

In order to bring my humble efforts to bear with more effect on the foe, I have privately printed
a good many copies of both ballads, and have sent them among friends all about the country.

To pillory on Parnassus the rank reprobation of character, the utter dereliction of all principle,
in a profligate junto which has not only outraged virtue, but violated common decency; which,
spurning even hypocrisy as paltry iniquity below their daring;--to unmask their flagitiousness
to the broadest day--to deliver such over to their merited fate, is surely not merely innocent,
but laudable; is not only propriety, but virtue.

I am extremely obliged to you for your kind mention of my interests in a letter which Mr. Syme
showed me. At present my situation in life must be in a great measure stationary, at least
for two or three years. The statement is this--I am on the supervisors' list, and as we come
on there by precedency, in two or three years I shall be at the head of that list, and be appointed
of course. Then, a FRIEND might be of service to me in getting me into a place of the kingdom
which I would like. A supervisor's income varies from about a hundred and twenty to two hundred
a year; but the business is an incessant drudgery, and would be nearly a complete bar to every
species of literary pursuit. The moment I am appointed supervisor, in the common routine, I
may be nominated on the collector's list; and this is always a business purely of political
patronage. A collector-ship varies much, from better than two hundred a year to near a thousand.
They also come forward by precedency on the list; and have, besides a handsome income, a life
of complete leisure. A life of literary leisure with a decent competency, is the summit of
my wishes. It would be the prudish affectation of silly pride in me to say that I do not need,
or would not be indebted to a political friend; at the same time, Sir, I by no means lay my
affairs before you thus, to hook my dependent situation on your benevolence. If, in my progress
of life, an opening should occur where the good offices of a gentleman of your public character
and political consequence might bring me forward, I shall petition your goodness with the same
frankness as I now do myself the honour to subscribe myself

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

CCCXXV.

TO MRS. DUNLOP,

IN LONDON.

[In the correspondence of the poet with Mrs. Dunlop he rarely mentions Thomson's Collection
of Songs, though his heart was set much upon it: in the Dunlop library there are many letters
from the poet, it is said, which have not been published.]

Dumfries, 20th December, 1795.

I have been prodigiously disappointed in this London journey of yours. In the first place,
when your last to me reached Dumfries, I was in the country, and did not return until too late
to answer your letter; in the next place, I thought you would certainly take this route; and
now I know not what is become of you, or whether this may reach you at all. God grant that
it may find you and yours in prospering health and good spirits!

January 12th.

You will have seen our worthy and ingenious friend, the Doctor, long ere this. I hope he is
well, and beg to be remembered to him. I have just been reading over again, I dare say for
the hundred and fiftieth time, his View of Society and Manners; and still I read it with delight.
His humour is perfectly original--it is neither the humour of Addison, nor Swift, nor Sterne,
nor of anybody but Dr. Moore. By the bye, you have deprived me of Zeluco, remember that, when
you are disposed to rake up the sins of my neglect from among the ashes of my laziness.

He has paid me a pretty compliment, by quoting me in his last publication.[287]

       *       *       *       *       *

R. B.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 287: Edward.]

       *       *       *       *       *

CCCXXVI.

ADDRESS OF THE SCOTCH DISTILLERS

TO THE RIGHT HON. WILLIAM PITT.

[This ironical letter to the prime minister was found among the papers of Burns.]

SIR,

While pursy burgesses crowd your gate, sweating under the weight of heavy addresses, permit
us, the quondam distillers in that part of Great Britain called Scotland, to approach you,
not with venal approbation, but with fraternal condolence; not as what you are just now, or
for some time have been; but as what, in all probability, you will shortly be.--We shall have
the merit of not deserting our friends in the day of their calamity, and you will have the
satisfaction of perusing at least one honest address. You are well acquainted with the dissection
of human nature; nor do you need the assistance of a fellow-creature's bosom to inform you,
that man is always a selfish, often a perfidious being.--This assertion, however the hasty
conclusions of superficial observation may doubt of it, or the raw inexperience of youth may
deny it, those who make the fatal experiment we have done, will feel.--You are a statesman,
and consequently are not ignorant of the traffic of these corporation compliments--The little
great man who drives the borough to market, and the very great man who buys the borough in
that market, they two do the whole business; and you well know they, likewise, have their price.
With that sullen disdain which you can so well assume, rise, illustrious Sir, and spurn these
hireling efforts of venal stupidity. At best they are the compliments of a man's friends on
the morning of his execution: they take a decent farewell, resign you to your fate, and hurry
away from your approaching hour.

If fame say true, and omens be not very much mistaken, you are about to make your exit from
that world where the sun of gladness gilds the paths of prosperous man: permit us, great Sir,
with the sympathy of fellow-feeling to hail your passage to the realms of ruin.

Whether the sentiment proceed from the selfishness or cowardice of mankind is immaterial; but
to point out to a child of misfortune those who are still more unhappy, is to give him some
degree of positive enjoyment. In this light, Sir, our downfall may be again useful to you:--though
not exactly in the same way, it is not perhaps the first time it has gratified your feelings.
It is true, the triumph of your evil star is exceedingly despiteful.--At an age when others
are the votaries of pleasure, or underlings in business, you had attained the highest wish
of a British statesman; and with the ordinary date of human life, what a prospect was before
you! Deeply rooted in Royal favour, you overshadowed the land. The birds of passage, which
follow ministerial sunshine through every clime of political faith and manners, flocked to
your branches; and the beasts of the field (the lordly possessors of hills and valleys) crowded
under your shade. A blow from an unthought-of quarter, one of those terrible accidents which
peculiarly mark the hand of Omnipotence, overset your career, and laid all your fancied honours
in the dust. But turn your eyes, Sir, to the tragic scenes of our fate:--an ancient nation,
that for many ages had gallantly maintained the unequal struggle for independence with her
much more powerful neighbour, at last agrees to a union which should ever after make them one
people. In consideration of certain circumstances, it was covenanted that the former should
enjoy a stipulated alleviation in her share of the public burdens, particularly in that branch
of the revenue called the Excise. This just privilege has of late given great umbrage to some
interested, powerful individuals of the more potent part of the empire, and they have spared
no wicked pains, under insidious pretexts, to subvert what they dared not openly to attack,
from the dread which they yet entertained of the spirit of their ancient enemies.

In this conspiracy we fell; nor did we alone suffer, our country was deeply wounded. A number
of (we will say) respectable individuals, largely engaged in trade, where we were not only
useful, but absolutely necessary to our country in her dearest interests; we, with all that
was near and dear to us, were sacrificed without remorse, to the infernal deity of political
expediency! We fell to gratify the wishes of dark envy, and the views of unprincipled ambition!
Your foes, Sir, were avowed; were too brave to take an ungenerous advantage; you fell in the
face of day.--On the contrary, our enemies, to complete our overthrow, contrived to make their
guilt appear the villany of a nation.--Your downfall only drags with you your private friends
and partisans: in our misery are more or less involved the most numerous and most valuable
part of the community--all those who immediately depend on the cultivation of the soil, from
the landlord of a province, down to his lowest hind.

Allow us, Sir, yet further, just to hint at another rich vein of comfort in the dreary regions
of adversity;--the gratulations of an approving conscience. In a certain great assembly, of
which you are a distinguished member, panegyrics on your private virtues have so often wounded
your delicacy, that we shall not distress you with anything on the subject. There is, however,
one part of your public conduct which our feelings will not permit us to pass in silence: our
gratitude must trespass on your modesty; we mean, worthy Sir, your whole behaviour to the Scots
Distillers.--In evil hours, when obtrusive recollection presses bitterly on the sense, let
that, Sir, come like an healing angel, and speak the peace to your soul which the world can
neither give nor take away.

We have the honour to be,

Sir,

Your sympathizing fellow-sufferers,

And grateful humble servants,

JOHN BARLEYCORN--Præses.

       *       *       *       *       *

CCCXXVII.

TO THE HON. PROVOST, BAILIES, AND

TOWN COUNCIL OF DUMFRIES.

TO MRS. RIDDEL.

[Mrs. Riddel was, like Burns, a well-wisher to the great cause of human liberty, and lamented
with him the excesses of the French Revolution.]

Dumfries, 20th January, 1796.

I cannot express my gratitude to you, for allowing me a longer perusal of "Anacharsis." In
fact, I never met with a book that bewitched me so much; and I, as a member of the library,
must warmly feel the obligation you have laid us under. Indeed to me the obligation is stronger
than to any other individual of our society; as "Anacharsis" is an indispensable desideratum
to a son of the muses.

The health you wished me in your morning's card, is, I think, flown from me for ever. I have
not been able to leave my bed to-day till about an hour ago. These wickedly unlucky advertisements
I lent (I did wrong) to a friend, and I am ill able to go in quest of him.

The muses have not quite forsaken me. The following detached stanza I intend to interweave
in some disastrous tale of a shepherd.

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

CCCXXIX.

TO MRS. DUNLOP.

    "When pleasure fascinates the mental sight,
      Affliction purifies the visual ray,
    Religion hails the drear, the untried night,
      And shuts, for ever shuts! life's doubtful day."

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

CCCXXX.

TO MR. THOMSON.

[Cromek informed me, on the authority of Mrs. Burns, that the "handsome, elegant present" mentioned
in this letter, was a common worsted shawl.]

February, 1796.

Many thanks, my dear Sir, for your handsome, elegant present to Mrs. Burns, and for my remaining
volume of P. Pindar. Peter is a delightful fellow, and a first favourite of mine. I am much
pleased with your idea of publishing a collection of our songs in octavo, with etchings. I
am extremely willing to lend every assistance in my power. The Irish airs I shall cheerfully
undertake the task of finding verses for.

I have already, you know, equipt three with words, and the other day I strung up a kind of
rhapsody to another Hibernian melody, which I admire much.

    Awa' wi' your witchcraft o' beauty's alarms.[288]

If this will do, you have now four of my Irish engagement. In my by-past songs I dislike one
thing, the name Chloris--I meant it as the fictitious name of a certain lady: but, on second
thoughts, it is a high incongruity to have a Greek appellation to a Scottish pastoral ballad.
Of this, and some things else, in my next: I have more amendments to propose. What you once
mentioned of "flaxen locks" is just: they cannot enter into an elegant description of beauty.
Of this also again--God bless you![289]

R. B.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 288: Song CCLXVI.]

[Footnote 289: Our poet never explained what name he would have substituted for Chloris.--Mr.
Thomson.]

       *       *       *       *       *

CCCXXXI.

TO MR. THOMSON. Happy I am to think that he yet has a well-grounded hope of health and enjoyment
in this world. As for me--but that is a sad subject.

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

CCCXXXII.

TO MR. THOMSON.

[The genius of the poet triumphed over pain and want,--his last songs are as tender and as
true as any of his early compositions.]

MY DEAR SIR,

I once mentioned to you an air which I have long admired--"Here's a health to them that's awa,
hiney," but I forget if you took any notice of it. I have just been trying to suit it with
verses, and I beg leave to recommend the air to your attention once more. I have only begun it.

[Here follow the first three stanzas of the song, beginning,

    Here's a health to ane I loe dear;[290]

the fourth was found among the poet's MSS. after his death.]

R. B.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 290: Song CCLXVII.]

       *       *       *       *       *

CCCXXXIII.

TO MR. THOMSON.

[John Lewars, whom the poet introduces to Thomson, was a brother gauger, and a kind, warm-hearted
gentleman; Jessie Lewars was his sister, and at this time but in her teens.]

This will be delivered by Mr. Lewars, a young fellow of uncommon merit. As he will be a day
or two in town, you will have leisure, if you choose, to write me by him: and if you have a
spare half-hour to spend with him, I shall place your kindness to my account. I have no copies
of the songs I have sent you, and I have taken a fancy to review them all, and possibly may
mend some of them; so when you have complete leisure, I will thank you for either the originals
or copies.[291] I had rather be the author of five well-written songs than of ten otherwise.
I have great hopes that the genial influence of the approaching summer will set me to rights,
but as yet I cannot boast of returning health. I have now reason to believe that my complaint
is a flying gout--a sad business!

Do let me know how Cleghorn is, and remember me to him.

This should have been delivered to you a month ago. I am still very poorly, but should like
much to hear from you.

R. B.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 291: "It is needless to say that this revisal Burns did not live to perform."--Currie.]

       *       *       *       *       *

CCCXXXIV.

TO MRS. RIDDEL,

Who had desired him to go to the Birth-Day Assembly on that day to show his loyalty.

[This is the last letter which the poet wrote to this accomplished lady.]

Dumfries, 4th June, 1796.

I am in such miserable health as to be utterly incapable of showing my loyalty in any way.
Rackt as I am with rheumatisms, I meet every face with a greeting like that of Balak to Balaam--"Come,
curse me Jacob; and come, defy me Israel!" So say I--Come, curse me that east wind; and come,
defy me the north! Would you have me in such circumstances copy you out a love-song?

I may perhaps see you on Saturday, but I will not be at the ball.--Why should I? "man delights
not me, nor woman either!" Can you supply me with the song, "Let us all be unhappy together?"--do
if you can, and oblige, le pauvre miserable

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

CCCXXXV.

TO MR. CLARKE,

SCHOOLMASTER, FORFAR.

[Who will say, after reading the following distressing letter, lately come to light, that Burns
did not die in great poverty.]

Dumfries, 26th June, 1796. Alas, Clarke! Adieu, dear Clarke. That I shall ever see you again,
is, I am afraid, highly improbable.

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

CCCXXXVI.

TO MR. JAMES JOHNSON,

EDINBURGH.

["In this humble and delicate manner did poor Burns ask for a copy of a work of which he was
principally the founder, and to which he had contributed gratuitously not less than one hundred
and eighty-four original, altered, and collected songs! The editor has seen one hundred and
eighty transcribed by his own hand, for the 'Museum.'"--CROMEK. Will it be believed that this
"humble request" of Burns was not complied with! The work was intended as a present to Jessie
Lewars.]

Dumfries, 4th July, 1796.

How are you, my dear friend, and how comes on your fifth volume? In the meantime let us finish
what we have so well begun.

Let me hear from you as soon as convenient.--Your work is a great one; and now that it is finished,
I see, if we were to begin again, two or three things that might be mended; yet I will venture
to prophesy, that to future ages your publication will be the text-book and standard of Scottish
song and music.

The gentleman, Mr. Lewars, a particular friend of mine, will bring out any proofs (if they
are ready) or any message you may have. I am extremely anxious for your work, as indeed I am
for everything concerning you, and your welfare.

Farewell,

R. B.

P. S. You should have had this when Mr. Lewars called on you, but his saddle-bags miscarried.

       *       *       *       *       *

CCCXXXVII.

TO MR. CUNNINGHAM.

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

CCCXXXVIII.

TO MR. GILBERT BURNS.

[This letter contained heavy news for Gilbert Burns: the loss of a brother whom he dearly loved
and admired, was not all, though the worst.]

10th July, 1796.

Yours,

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

CCCXXXIX.

TO MR. JAMES ARMOUR,

MASON, MAUCHLINE.

[The original letter is now in a safe sanctuary, the hands of the poet's son, Major James Glencairn
Burns.]

July 10th [1796.]

For Heaven's sake, and as you value the we[l]fare of your daughter and my wife, do, my dearest
Sir, write to Fife, to Mrs. Armour to come if possible. My wife thinks she can yet reckon upon
a fortnight. The medical people order me, as I value my existence, to fly to sea-bathing and
country-quarters, so it is ten thousand chances to one that I shall not be within a dozen miles
of her when her hour comes. What a situation for her, poor girl, without a single friend by
her on such a serious moment.

I have now been a week at salt-water, and though I think I have got some good by it, yet I
have some secret fears that this business will be dangerous if not fatal.

Your most affectionate son,

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

CCCXL.

TO MRS. BURNS.

TO MRS. DUNLOP.

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

CCCXLII.

TO MR. THOMSON.

[Thomson instantly complied with the dying poet's request, and transmitted the exact sum which
he requested, viz. five pounds, by return of post: he was afraid of offending the pride of
Burns, otherwise he would, he says, have sent a larger sum.

    Fairest maid on Devon's banks.[292]

R. B.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 292: Song CCLXVIII.]

       *       *       *       *       *

CCCXLIII.

TO MR. JAMES BURNESS,

WRITER, MONTROSE.

[The good, the warm-hearted James Burness sent his cousin ten pounds on the 29th of July--he
sent five pounds afterwards to the family, and offered to take one of the boys, and educate
him in his own profession of a writer. If I had it settled, I would be, I think, quite well
in a manner. How shall I use the language to you, O do not disappoint me! but strong necessity's
curst command.

I have been thinking over and over my brother's affairs, and I fear I must cut him up; but
on this I will correspond at another time, particularly as I shall [require] your advice.

Forgive me for once more mentioning by return of post;--save me from the horrors of a jail!

My compliments to my friend James, and to all the rest. I do not know what I have written.
The subject is so horrible I dare not look it over again.

Farewell.

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

CCCXLIV.

TO JAMES GRACIE, ESQ.

[James Gracie was, for some time, a banker in Dumfries: his eldest son, a fine, high-spirited
youth, fell by a rifle-ball in America, when leading the troops to the attack on Washington.]

Brow, Wednesday Morning, 16th July, 1796.

MY DEAR SIR,

It would [be] doing high injustice to this place not to acknowledge that my rheumatisms have
derived great benefits from it already; but alas! my loss of appetite still continues. I shall
not need your kind offer this week, and I return to town the beginning of next week, it not
being a tide-week. I am detaining a man in a burning hurry.

So God bless you.

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

REMARKS

ON

SCOTTISH SONGS AND BALLADS.

       *       *       *       *       *

[The following Strictures on Scottish Song exist in the handwriting of Burns, in the interleaved
copy of Johnson's Musical Museum, which the poet presented to Captain Riddel, of Friars Carse;
on the death of Mrs. Riddel, these precious volumes passed into the hands of her niece, Eliza
Bayley, of Manchester, who kindly permitted Mr. Cromek to transcribe and publish them in the
Reliques.]

       *       *       *       *       *

THE HIGHLAND QUEEN.

This Highland Queen, music and poetry, was composed by Mr. M'Vicar, purser of the Solebay man-of-war.--This
I had from Dr. Blacklock.

       *       *       *       *       *

BESS THE GAWKIE.

This song shows that the Scottish muses did not all leave us when we lost Ramsay and Oswald,
as I have good reason to believe that the verses and music are both posterior to the days of
these two gentlemen. It is a beautiful song, and in the genuine Scots taste. We have few pastoral
compositions, I mean the pastoral of nature, that are equal to this.

       *       *       *       *       *

OH, OPEN THE DOOR, LORD GREGORY.

It is somewhat singular, that in Lanark, Renfrew, Ayr, Wigton, Kirkudbright, and Dumfries-shires,
there is scarcely an old song or tune which, from the title, &c., can be guessed to belong
to, or be the production of these countries. This, I conjecture, is one of these very few;
as the ballad, which is a long one, is called, both by tradition and in printed collections,
"The Lass of Lochroyan," which I take to be Lochroyan, in Galloway.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE BANKS OF THE TWEED.

This song is one of the many attempts that English composers have made to imitate the Scottish
manner, and which I shall, in these strictures, beg leave to distinguish by the appellation
of Anglo-Scottish productions. The music is pretty good, but the verses are just above contempt.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE BEDS OF SWEET ROSES.

This song, as far as I know, for the first time appears here in print.--When I was a boy, it
was a very popular song in Ayrshire. I remember to have heard those fanatics, the Buchanites,
sing some of their nonsensical rhymes, which they dignify with the name of hymns, to this air.

       *       *       *       *       *

ROSLIN CASTLE.

These beautiful verses were the production of a Richard Hewit, a young man that Dr. Blacklock,
to whom I am indebted for the anecdote, kept for some years as amanuensis. I do not know who
is the author of the second song to the tune. Tytler, in his amusing history of Scots music,
gives the air to Oswald; but in Oswald's own collection of Scots tunes, where he affixes an
asterisk to those he himself composed, he does not make the least claim to the tune.

       *       *       *       *       *

SAW YE JOHNNIE CUMMIN? QUO' SHE.

This song, for genuine humour in the verses, and lively originality in the air, is unparalleled.
I take it to be very old.

       *       *       *       *       *

CLOUT THE CALDRON.

A tradition is mentioned in the "Bee," that the second Bishop Chisholm, of Dunblane, used to
say, that if he were going to be hanged, nothing would soothe his mind so much by the way as
to hear "Clout the Caldron" played.

I have met with another tradition, that the old song to this tune,

    "Hae ye onie pots or pans,
    Or onie broken chanlers,"

was composed on one of the Kenmure family, in the cavalier times; and alluded to an amour he
had, while under hiding, in the disguise of an itinerant tinker. The air is also known by the
name of

    "The blacksmith and his apron,"

which from the rhythm, seems to have been a line of some old song to the tune.

       *       *       *       *       *

SAW YE MY PEGGY.

This charming song is much older, and indeed superior to Ramsay's verses, "The Toast," as he
calls them. There is another set of the words, much older still, and which I take to be the
original one, but though it has a very great deal of merit, it is not quite ladies' reading.

The original words, for they can scarcely be called verses, seem to be as follows; a song familiar
from the cradle to every Scottish ear.

    "Saw ye my Maggie,
    Saw ye my Maggie,
    Saw ye my Maggie
        Linkin o'er the lea?

    High kilted was she,
    High kilted was she,
    High kilted was she,
        Her coat aboon her knee.

    What mark has your Maggie,
    What mark has your Maggie,
    What mark has your Maggie,
            That ane may ken her be?"

Though it by no means follows that the silliest verses to an air must, for that reason, be
the original song; yet I take this ballad, of which I have quoted part, to be old verses. The
two songs in Ramsay, one of them evidently his own, are never to be met with in the fire-side
circle of our peasantry; while that which I take to be the old song, is in every shepherd's
mouth. Ramsay, I suppose, had thought the old verses unworthy of a place in his collection.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE FLOWERS OF EDINBURGH.

This song is one of the many effusions of Scots Jacobitism.--The title "Flowers of Edinburgh,"
has no manner of connexion with the present verses, so I suspect there has been an older set
of words, of which the title is all that remains.

By the bye, it is singular enough that the Scottish muses were all Jacobites.--I have paid
more attention to every description of Scots songs than perhaps anybody living has done, and
I do not recollect one single stanza, or even the title of the most trifling Scots air, which
has the least panegyrical reference to the families of Nassau or Brunswick; while there are
hundreds satirizing them.--This may be thought no panegyric on the Scots Poets, but I mean
it as such. For myself, I would always take it as a compliment to have it said, that my heart
ran before my head,--and surely the gallant though unfortunate house of Stewart, the kings
of our fathers for so many heroic ages, is a theme  *  *  *  *  *  *

       *       *       *       *       *

JAMIE GAY.

Jamie Gay is another and a tolerable Anglo-Scottish piece.

       *       *       *       *       *

MY DEAR JOCKIE.

Another Anglo-Scottish production.

       *       *       *       *       *

FYE, GAE RUB HER O'ER WI' STRAE.

It is self-evident that the first four lines of this song are part of a song more ancient than
Ramsay's beautiful verses which are annexed to them. As music is the language of nature; and
poetry, particularly songs, are always less or more localized (if I may be allowed the verb)
by some of the modifications of time and place, this is the reason why so many of our Scots
airs have outlived their original, and perhaps many subsequent sets of verses; except a single
name or phrase, or sometimes one or two lines, simply to distinguish the tunes by.

To this day among people who know nothing of Ramsay's verses, the following is the song, and
all the song that ever I heard:

    "Gin ye meet a bonnie lassie,
      Gie her a kiss and let her gae;
    But gin ye meet a dirty hizzie,
      Fye, gae rub her o'er wi' strae.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE LASS O' LIVISTON.

The old song, in three eight-line stanzas, is well known, and has merit as to wit and humour;
but it is rather unfit for insertion.--It begins,

    "The Bonnie lass o' Liviston,
      Her name ye ken, her name ye ken,
    And she has written in her contract
      To lie her lane, to lie her lane."
                  &c. &c.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE LAST TIME I CAME O'ER THE MOOR.

Ramsay found the first line of this song, which had been preserved as the title of the charming
air, and then composed the rest of the verses to suit that line. This has always a finer effect
than composing English words, or words with an idea foreign to the spirit of the old title.
Where old titles of songs convey any idea at all, it will generally be found to be quite in
the spirit of the air.

       *       *       *       *       *

JOCKIE'S GRAY BREEKS.

Though this has certainly every evidence of being a Scottish air, yet there is a well-known
tune and song in the north of Ireland, called "The Weaver and his Shuttle O," which, though
sung much quicker, is every note the very tune.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE HAPPY MARRIAGE.

Another, but very pretty Anglo-Scottish piece.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE LASS OF PATIE'S MILL.

In Sinclair's Statistical Account of Scotland, this song is localized (a verb I must use for
want of another to express my idea) somewhere in the north of Scotland, and likewise is claimed
by Ayrshire.--The following anecdote I had from the present Sir William Cunningham, of Robertland,
who had it from the last John, Earl of Loudon. The then Earl of Loudon, and father to Earl
John before mentioned, had Ramsay at Loudon, and one day walking together by the banks of Irvine
water, near New-Mills, at a place called Patie's Mill, they were struck with the appearance
of a beautiful country girl. His lordship observed that she would be a fine theme for a song.--Allan
lagged behind in returning to Loudon Castle, and at dinner produced this identical song.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE TURNIMSPIKE.

There is a stanza of this excellent song for local humour, omitted in this set.--Where I have
placed the asterisms.

    "They tak the horse then by te head,
       And tere tey mak her stan', man;
    Me tell tem, me hae seen te day,
       Tey no had sic comman', man."

       *       *       *       *       *

HIGHLAND LADDIE.

As this was a favourite theme with our later Scottish muses, there are several airs and songs
of that name. That which I take to be the oldest, is to be found in the "Musical Museum," beginning,
"I hae been at Crookieden." One reason for my thinking so is, that Oswald has it in his collection,
by the name of "The Auld Highland Laddie." It is also known by the name of "Jinglan Johnie,"
which is a well-known song of four or five stanzas, and seems to be an earlier song than Jacobite
times. As a proof of this, it is little known to the peasantry by the name of "Highland Laddie;"
while everybody knows "Jinglan Johnie." The song begins

    "Jinglan John, the meickle man,
      He met wi' a lass was blythe and bonie."

Another "Highland Laddie" is also in the "Museum," vol. v., which I take to be Ramsay's original,
as he has borrowed the chorus--"O my bonie Highland lad," &c. It consists of three stanzas,
besides the chorus; and has humour in its composition--it is an excellent, but somewhat licentious
song.--It begins

    "As I cam o'er Cairney mount,
    And down among the blooming heather."

This air, and the common "Highland Laddie," seem only to be different sets.

Another "Highland Laddie," also in the "Museum," vol. v., is the tune of several Jacobite fragments.
One of these old songs to it, only exists, as far as I know, in these four lines--

    "Where hae ye been a' day,
      Bonie laddie, Highland laddie?
    Down the back o' Bell's brae,
      Courtin Maggie, courtin Maggie."

Another of this name is Dr. Arne's beautiful air, called the new "Highland Laddie."

       *       *       *       *       *

THE GENTLE SWAIN.

To sing such a beautiful air to such execrable verses, is downright prostitution of common
sense! The Scots verses indeed are tolerable.

       *       *       *       *       *

HE STOLE MY TENDER HEART AWAY.

This is an Anglo-Scottish production, but by no means a bad one.

       *       *       *       *       *

FAIREST OF THE FAIR.

It is too barefaced to take Dr. Percy's charming song, and by means of transposing a few English
words into Scots, to offer to pass it for a Scots song.--I was not acquainted with the editor
until the first volume was nearly finished, else, had I known in time, I would have prevented
such an impudent absurdity.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE BLAITHRIE O'T.

The following is a set of this song, which was the earliest song I remember to have got by
heart. When a child, an old woman sung it to me, and I picked it up, every word, at first hearing.

    "O Willy, weel I mind, I lent you my hand
    To sing you a song which you did me command;
    But my memory's so bad I had almost forgot
    That you called it the gear and the blaithrie o't.--

    I'll not sing about confusion, delusion or pride,
    I'll sing about a laddie was for a virtuous bride;
    For virtue is an ornament that time will never rot,
    And preferable to gear and the blaithrie o't.--

    Tho' my lassie hae nae scarlets or silks to put on,
    We envy not the greatest that sits upon the throne;
    I wad rather hae my lassie, tho' she cam in her smock,
    Than a princess wi' the gear and the blaithrie o't.--

    Tho' we hae nae horses or menzies at command,
    We will toil on our foot, and we'll work wi' our hand;
    And when wearied without rest, we'll find it sweet in any spot,
    And we'll value not the gear and the blaithrie o't.--

    If we hae ony babies, we'll count them as lent;
    Hae we less, hae we mair, we will ay be content;
    For they say they hae mair pleasure that wins bu groat,
    Than the miser wi' his gear and the blaithrie o't--

    I'll not meddle wi' th' affairs of the kirk or the queen;
    They're nae matters for a sang, let them sink, let them swim;
    On your kirk I'll ne'er encroach, but I'll hold it stil remote,
    Sae tak this for the gear and the blaithrie o't."

       *       *       *       *       *

MAY EVE, OR KATE OF ABERDEEN.

"Kate of Aberdeen" is, I believe, the work of poor Cunningham the player; of whom the following
anecdote, though told before, deserves a recital. A fat dignitary of the church coming past
Cunningham one Sunday, as the poor poet was busy plying a fishing-rod in some stream near Durham,
his native country, his reverence reprimanded Cunningham very severely for such an occupation
on such a day. The poor poet, with that inoffensive gentleness of manners which was his peculiar
characteristic, replied, that he hoped God and his reverence would forgive his seeming profanity
of that sacred day, "as he had no dinner to eat, but what lay at the bottom of that pool!"
This, Mr. Woods, the player, who knew Cunningham well, and esteemed him much, assured me was true.

       *       *       *       *       *

TWEED SIDE.

In Ramsay's Tea-table Miscellany, he tells us that about thirty of the songs in that publication
were the works of some young gentlemen of his acquaintance; which songs are marked with the
letters D. C. &c.--Old Mr. Tytler of Woodhouselee, the worthy and able defender of the beauteous
Queen of Scots, told me that the songs marked C, in the Tea-table, were the composition of
a Mr. Crawfurd, of the house of Achnames, who was afterwards unfortunately drowned coming from
France.--As Tytler was most intimately acquainted with Allan Ramsay, I think the anecdote may
be depended on. Of consequence, the beautiful song of Tweed Side is Mr. Crawfurd's, and indeed
does great honour to his poetical talents. He was a Robert Crawfurd; the Mary he celebrates
was a Mary Stewart, of the Castle-Milk family, afterwards married to a Mr. John Ritchie.

I have seen a song, calling itself the original Tweed Side, and said to have been composed
by a Lord Yester. It consisted of two stanzas, of which I still recollect the first--

    "When Maggy and I was acquaint,
      I carried my noddle fu' hie;
    Nae lintwhite on a' the green plain,
      Nor gowdspink sae happy as me:
    But I saw her sae fair and I lo'ed:
      I woo'd, but I came nae great speed;
    So now I maun wander abroad,
      And lay my banes far frae the Tweed."--

       *       *       *       *       *

THE POSY.

It appears evident to me that Oswald composed his Roslin Castle on the modulation of this air.--In
the second part of Oswald's, in the three first bars, he has either hit on a wonderful similarity
to, or else he has entirely borrowed the three first bars of the old air; and the close of
both tunes is almost exactly the same. The old verses to which it was sung, when I took down
the notes from a country girl's voice, had no great merit.--The following is a specimen:

    "There was a pretty May, and a milkin she went;
      Wi' her red rosy cheeks, and her coal black hair;
    And she has met a young man a comin o'er the bent,
      With a double and adieu to thee, fair May.

    O where are ye goin, my ain pretty May,
      Wi' thy red rosy cheeks, and thy coal black hair?
    Unto the yowes a milkin, kind sir, she says,
      With a double and adieu to thee, fair May.

       *       *       *       *       *

MARY'S DREAM.

The Mary here alluded to is generally supposed to be Miss Mary Macghie, daughter to the Laird
of Airds, in Galloway. The poet was a Mr. John Lowe, who likewise wrote another beautiful song,
called Pompey's Ghost.--I have seen a poetic epistle from him in North America, where he now
is, or lately was, to a lady in Scotland.--By the strain of the verses, it appeared that they
allude to some love affair.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE MAID THAT TENDS THE GOATS.

BY MR. DUDGEON.

This Dudgeon is a respectable farmer's son in Berwickshire.

       *       *       *       *       *

I WISH MY LOVE WERE IN A MIRE.

I never heard more of the words of this old song than the title.

       *       *       *       *       *

ALLAN WATER.

This Allan Water, which the composer of the music has honoured with the name of the air, I
have been told is Allan Water, in Strathallan.

       *       *       *       *       *

THERE'S NAE LUCK ABOUT THE HOUSE.

This is one of the most beautiful songs in the Scots, or any other language.--The two lines,

    "And will I see his face again!
      And will I hear him speak!"

as well as the two preceding ones, are unequalled almost by anything I ever heard or read:
and the lines,

    "The present moment is our ain,
    The neist we never saw,"--

are worthy of the first poet. It is long posterior to Ramsay's days. About the year 1771, or
72, it came first on the streets as a ballad; and I suppose the composition of the song was
not much anterior to that period.

       *       *       *       *       *

TARRY WOO.

This is a very pretty song; but I fancy that the first half stanza, as well as the tune itself,
are much older than the rest of the words.

       *       *       *       *       *

GRAMACHREE.

The song of Gramachree was composed by a Mr. Poe, a counsellor at law in Dublin. This anecdote
I had from a gentleman who knew the lady, the "Molly," who is the subject of the song, and
to whom Mr. Poe sent the first manuscript of his most beautiful verses. I do not remember any
single line that has more true pathos than

    "How can she break that honest heart that wears her in its core!"

But as the song is Irish, it had nothing to do in this collection.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE COLLIER'S BONNIE LASSIE.

The first half stanza is much older than the days of Ramsay.--The old words began thus:

    "The collier has a dochter, and, O, she's wonder bonnie!
      A laird he was that sought her, rich baith in lands and money.
    She wad na hae a laird, nor wad she be a lady,
      But she wad hae a collier, the colour o' her daddie."

       *       *       *       *       *

MY AIN KIND DEARIE-O.

The old words of this song are omitted here, though much more beautiful than these inserted;
which were mostly composed by poor Fergusson, in one of his merry humours.

Mr. Robertson, in his statistical account of the parish of Selkirk, says, that Mary Scott,
the Flower of Yarrow, was descended from the Dryhope, and married into the Harden family. Her
daughter was married to a predecessor of the present Sir Francis Elliot, of Stobbs, and of
the late Lord Heathfield.

There is a circumstance in their contract of marriage that merits attention, and it strongly
marks the predatory spirit of the times. The father-in-law agrees to keep his daughter for
some time after the marriage; for which the son-in-law binds himself to give him the profits
of the first Michaelmas moon!

       *       *       *       *       *

DOWN THE BURN, DAVIE.

I have been informed, that the tune of "Down the burn, Davie," was the composition of David
Maigh, keeper of the blood slough hounds, belonging to the Laird of Riddel, in Tweeddale.

       *       *       *       *       *

BLINK O'ER THE BURN, SWEET BETTIE.

The old words, all that I remember, are,--

    "Blink over the burn, sweet Betty,
      It is a cauld winter night:
    It rains, it hails, it thunders,
      The moon, she gies nae light:
    It's a' for the sake o' sweet Betty,
      That ever I tint my way;
    Sweet, let me lie beyond thee
      Until it be break o' day.--

    O, Betty will bake my bread,
      And Betty will brew my ale,
    And Betty will be my love,
      When I come over the dale:
    Blink over the burn, sweet Betty,
      Blink over the burn to me,
    And while I hae life, dear lassie,
      My ain sweet Betty thou's be."

       *       *       *       *       *

THE BLITHSOME BRIDAL.

I find the "Blithsome Bridal" in James Watson's collection of Scots poems, printed at Edinburgh,
in 1706. This collection, the publisher says, is the first of its nature which has been published
in our own native Scots dialect--it is now extremely scarce.

       *       *       *       *       *

JOHN HAY'S BONNIE LASSIE.

John Hay's "Bonnie Lassie" was daughter of John Hay, Earl or Marquis of Tweeddale, and late
Countess Dowager of Roxburgh.--She died at Broomlands, near Kelso, some time between the years
1720 and 1740.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE BONIE BRUCKET LASSIE.

The two first lines of this song are all of it that is old. The rest of the song, as well as
those songs in the Museum marked T., are the works of an obscure, tippling, but extraordinary
body of the name of Tytler, commonly known by the name of Balloon Tytler, from his having projected
a balloon; a mortal, who, though he drudges about Edinburgh as a common printer, with leaky
shoes, a sky-lighted hat, and knee-buckles as unlike as George-by-the-grace-of-God, and Solomon-the-son-of-David;
yet that same unknown drunken mortal is author and compiler of three-fourths of Elliot's pompous
Encyclopedia Britannica, which he composed at half a guinea a week!

       *       *       *       *       *

SAE MERRY AS WE TWA HA'E BEEN.

This song is beautiful.--The chorus in particular is truly pathetic. I never could learn anything
of its author.

CHORUS.

    "Sae merry as we twa ha'e been,
      Sae merry as we twa ha'e been;
    My heart is like for to break,
      When I think on the days we ha'e seen."

       *       *       *       *       *

THE BANKS OF FORTH.

This air is Oswald's.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE BUSH ABOON TRAQUAIR.

This is another beautiful song of Mr. Crawfurd's composition. In the neighbourhood of Traquair,
tradition still shows the old "Bush;" which, when I saw it, in the year 1787, was composed
of eight or nine ragged birches. The Earl of Traquair has planted a clump of trees near by,
which he calls "The New Bush."

       *       *       *       *       *

CROMLET'S LILT.

The following interesting account of this plaintive dirge was communicated to Mr. Riddel by
Alexander Fraser Tytler, Esq., of Woodhouselee.

"In the latter end of the sixteenth century, the Chisolms were proprietors of the estate of
Cromlecks (now possessed by the Drummonds). The eldest son of that family was very much attached
to a daughter of Sterling of Ardoch, commonly known by the name of Fair Helen of Ardoch.

"At that time the opportunities of meeting betwixt the sexes were more rare, consequently more
sought after than now; and the Scottish ladies, far from priding themselves on extensive literature,
were thought sufficiently book-learned if they could make out the Scriptures in their mother-tongue.
Writing was entirely out of the line of female education. At that period the most of our young
men of family sought a fortune, or found a grave, in France. Cromlus, when he went abroad to
the war, was obliged to leave the management of his correspondence with his mistress to a lay-brother
of the monastery of Dumblain, in the immediate neighbourhood of Cromleck, and near Ardoch.
This man, unfortunately, was deeply sensible of Helen's charms. He artfully prepossessed her
with stories to the disadvantage of Cromlus; and, by misinterpreting or keeping up the letters
and messages intrusted to his care, he entirely irritated both. All connexion was broken off
betwixt them; Helen was inconsolable, and Cromlus has left behind him, in the ballad called
'Cromlet's Lilt,' a proof of the elegance of his genius, as well as the steadiness of his love.

"When the artful monk thought time had sufficiently softened Helen's sorrow, he proposed himself
as a lover: Helen was obdurate: but at last, overcome by the persuasions of her brother, with
whom she lived, and who, having a family of thirty-one children, was probably very well pleased
to get her off his hands--she submitted, rather than consented to the ceremony; but there her
compliance ended; and, when forcibly put into bed, she started quite frantic from it, screaming
out, that after three gentle taps on the wainscot, at the bed-head, she heard Cromlus's voice,
crying, 'Helen, Helen, mind me!' Cromlus soon after coming home, the treachery of the confidant
was discovered,--her marriage disannulled,--and Helen became Lady Cromlecks."

N. B. Marg. Murray, mother to these thirty-one children, was daughter to Murray of Strewn,
one of the seventeen sons of Tullybardine, and whose youngest son, commonly called the Tutor
of Ardoch, died in the year 1715, aged 111 years.

       *       *       *       *       *

MY DEARIE, IF THOU DIE.

Another beautiful song of Crawfurd's.

       *       *       *       *       *

SHE ROSE AND LOOT ME IN.

The old set of this song, which is still to be found in printed collections, is much prettier
than this; but somebody, I believe it was Ramsay, took it into his head to clear it of some
seeming indelicacies, and made it at once more chaste and more dull.

       *       *       *       *       *

GO TO THE EWE-BUGHTS, MARION.

I am not sure if this old and charming air be of the South, as is commonly said, or of the
North of Scotland. There is a song, apparently as ancient us "Ewe-bughts, Marion," which sings
to the same tune, and is evidently of the North.--It begins thus:

    "The Lord o' Gordon had three dochters,
      Mary, Marget, and Jean,
    They wad na stay at bonie Castle Gordon,
      But awa to Aberdeen."

       *       *       *       *       *

LEWIS GORDON.

This air is a proof how one of our Scots tunes comes to be composed out of another. I have
one of the earliest copies of the song, and it has prefixed,

    "Tune of Tarry Woo."--

Of which tune a different set has insensibly varied into a different air.--To a Scots critic,
the pathos of the line,

    "'Tho' his back be at the wa',"

--must be very striking. It needs not a Jacobite prejudice to be affected with this song.

The supposed author of "Lewis Gordon" was a Mr. Geddes, priest, at Shenval, in the Ainzie.

       *       *       *       *       *

O HONE A RIE.

Dr. Blacklock informed me that this song was composed on the infamous massacre of Glencoe.

       *       *       *       *       *

I'LL NEVER LEAVE THEE.

This is another of Crawfurd's songs, but I do not think in his happiest manner.--What an absurdity,
to join such names as Adonis and Mary together!

       *       *       *       *       *

CORN RIGS ARE BONIE.

All the old words that ever I could meet to this air were the following, which seem to have
been an old chorus:

    "O corn rigs and rye rigs,
      O corn rigs are bonie;
    And where'er you meet a bonie lass,
      Preen up her cockernony."

       *       *       *       *       *

THE MUCKING OF GEORDIE'S BYRE.

The chorus of this song is old; the rest is the work of Balloon Tytler.

       *       *       *       *       *

BIDE YE YET.

There is a beautiful song to this tune, beginning,

    "Alas, my son, you little know,"--

which is the composition of Miss Jenny Graham, of Dumfries.

       *       *       *       *       *

WAUKIN O' THE FAULD.

There are two stanzas still sung to this tune, which I take to be the original song whence
Ramsay composed his beautiful song of that name in the Gentle Shepherd.--It begins

    "O will ye speak at our town,
    As ye come frae the fauld."

I regret that, as in many of our old songs, the delicacy of this old fragment is not equal
to its wit and humour.

       *       *       *       *       *

TRANENT-MUIR.

"Tranent-Muir," was composed by a Mr. Skirving, a very worthy respectable farmer near Haddington.
I have heard the anecdote often, that Lieut. Smith, whom he mentions in the ninth stanza, came
to Haddington after the publication of the song, and sent a challenge to Skirving to meet him
at Haddington, and answer for the unworthy manner in which he had noticed him in his song.
"Gang away back," said the honest farmer, "and tell Mr. Smith that I hae nae leisure to come
to Haddington; but tell him to come here, and I'll tak a look o' him, and if I think I'm fit
to fecht him, I'll fecht him; and if no, I'll do as he did--I'll rin awa."--

       *       *       *       *       *

TO THE WEAVERS GIN YE GO.

The chorus of this song is old, the rest of it is mine. Here, once for all, let me apologize
for many silly compositions of mine in this work. Many beautiful airs wanted words; in the
hurry of other avocations, if I could string a parcel of rhymes together anything near tolerable,
I was fain to let them pass. He must be an excellent poet indeed whose every performance is
excellent.

       *       *       *       *       *

POLWARTH ON THE GREEN.

The author of "Polwarth on the Green" is Capt. John Drummond M'Gregor, of the family of Bochaldie.

       *       *       *       *       *

STREPHON AND LYDIA.

The following account of this song I had from Dr. Blacklock.

The Strephon and Lydia mentioned in the song were perhaps the loveliest couple of their time.
The gentleman was commonly known by the name of Beau Gibson. The lady was the "Gentle Jean,"
celebrated somewhere in Hamilton of Bangour's poems.--Having frequently met at public places,
they had formed a reciprocal attachment, which their friends thought dangerous, as their resources
were by no means adequate to their tastes and habits of life. To elude the bad consequences
of such a connexion, Strephon was sent abroad with a commission, and perished in Admiral Vernon's
expedition to Carthagena.

The author of this song was William Wallace, Esq. of Cairnhill, in Ayrshire.

       *       *       *       *       *

I'M O'ER YOUNG TO MARRY YET.

The chorus of this song is old. The rest of it, such as it is, is mine.

       *       *       *       *       *

M'PHERSON'S FAREWELL.

M'Pherson, a daring robber, in the beginning of this century, was condemned to be hanged at
the assizes of Inverness. He is said, when under sentence of death, to have composed this tune,
which he called his own lament or farewell.

Gow has published a variation of this fine tune as his own composition, which he calls "The
Princess Augusta."

       *       *       *       *       *

MY JO, JANET.

Johnson, the publisher, with a foolish delicacy, refused to insert the last stanza of this
humorous ballad.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE SHEPHERD'S COMPLAINT.

The words by a Mr. R. Scott, from the town or neighbourhood of Biggar.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE BIRKS OF ABERFELDY.

I composed these stanzas standing under the falls of Aberfeldy, at or near Moness.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE HIGHLAND LASSIE O.

This was a composition of mine in very early life, before I was known at all in the world.
After a pretty long tract of the most ardent reciprocal attachment, we met by appointment on
the second Sunday of May, in a sequestered spot by the banks of Ayr, where we spent the day
in taking a farewell before she should embark for the West Highlands, to arrange matters among
her friends for our projected change of life. At the close of autumn following she crossed
the sea to meet me at Greenock, where she had scarce landed when she was seized with a malignant
fever, which hurried my dear girl to the grave in a few days, before I could even hear of her
last illness.

       *       *       *       *       *

FIFE, AND A' THE LANDS ABOUT IT.

This song is Dr. Blacklock's. He, as well as I, often gave Johnson verses, trifling enough
perhaps, but they served as a vehicle to the music.

       *       *       *       *       *

WERE NA MY HEART LIGHT I WAD DIE.

Lord Hailes, in the notes to his collection of ancient Scots poems, says that this song was
the composition of a Lady Grissel Baillie, daughter of the first Earl of Marchmont, and wife
of George Baillie, of Jerviswood.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE YOUNG MAN'S DREAM.

This song is the composition of Balloon Tytler.

       *       *       *       *       *

STRATHALLAN'S LAMENT.

This air in the composition of one of the worthiest and best-hearted men living--Allan Masterton,
schoolmaster in Edinburgh. As he and I were both sprouts of Jacobitism we agreed to dedicate
the words and air to that cause.

To tell the matter-of-fact, except when my passions were heated by some accidental cause, my
Jacobitism was merely by way of vive la bagatelle.

       *       *       *       *       *

UP IN THE MORNING EARLY.

The chorus of this is old; the two stanzas are mine.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE TEARS OF SCOTLAND.

Dr. Blacklock told me that Smollet, who was at the bottom a great Jacobite, composed these
beautiful and pathetic verses on the infamous depredations of the Duke of Cumberland after
the battle of Culloden.

       *       *       *       *       *

WHAT WILL I DO GIN MY HOGGIE DIE.

Dr. Walker, who was minister at Moffat in 1772, and is now (1791) Professor of Natural History
in the University of Edinburgh, told the following anecdote concerning this air.--He said,
that some gentlemen, riding a few years ago through Liddesdale, stopped at a hamlet consisting
of a few houses, called Moss Platt, when they were struck with this tune, which an old woman,
spinning on a rock at her door, was singing. All she could tell concerning it was, that she
was taught it when a child, and it was called "What will I do gin my Hoggie die?" No person,
except a few females at Moss Platt, knew this fine old tune, which in all probability would
have been lost had not one of the gentlemen, who happened to have a flute with him, taken it down.

       *       *       *       *       *

I DREAM'D I LAY WHERE FLOWERS WERE SPRINGING.

These two stanzas I composed when I was seventeen, and are among the oldest of my printed pieces.

       *       *       *       *       *

AH! THE POOR SHEPHERD'S MOURNFUL FATE.

Tune--"Gallashiels."

The old title, "Sour Plums o' Gallashiels," probably was the beginning of a song to this air,
which is now lost.

The tune of Gallashiels was composed about the beginning of the present century by the Laird
of Gallashiel's piper.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE BANKS OF THE DEVON.

These verses were composed on a charming girl, a Miss Charlotte Hamilton, who is now married
to James M'Kitrick Adair, Esq., physician. She is sister to my worthy friend Gavin Hamilton,
of Mauchline, and was born on the banks of the Ayr, but was, at the time I wrote these lines,
residing at Herveyston, in Clackmannanshire, on the romantic banks of the little river Devon.
I first heard the air from a lady in Inverness, and got the notes taken down for this work.

       *       *       *       *       *

MILL, MILL O.

The original, or at least a song evidently prior to Ramsay's is still extant.--It runs thus,

CHORUS.

    "The mill, mill O, and the kill, kill O,
      And the coggin o' Peggy's wheel, O,
    The sack and the sieve, and a' she did leave,
      And danc'd the miller's reel O.--

    As I came down yon waterside,
      And by yon shellin-hill O,
    There I spied a bonie bonie lass,
      And a lass that I lov'd right well O."

       *       *       *       *       *

WE RAN AND THEY RAN.

The author of "We ran and they ran"--was a Rev. Mr. Murdoch M'Lennan, minister at Crathie,
Dee-side.

       *       *       *       *       *

WALY, WALY.

In the west country I have heard a different edition of the second stanza.--Instead of the
four lines, beginning with, "When cockle-shells, &c.," the other way ran thus:--

    "O wherefore need I busk my head,
      Or wherefore need I kame my hair,
    Sin my fause luve has me forsook,
      And sys, he'll never luve me mair."

       *       *       *       *       *

DUNCAN GRAY.

Dr. Blacklock informed me that he had often heard the tradition, that this air was composed
by a carman in Glasgow.

       *       *       *       *       *

DUMBARTON DRUMS.

This is the last of the West-Highland airs; and from it over the whole tract of country to
the confines of Tweedside, there is hardly a tune or song that one can say has taken its origin
from any place or transaction in that part of Scotland.--The oldest Ayrshire reel, is Stewarton
Lasses, which was made by the father of the present Sir Walter Montgomery Cunningham, alias
Lord Lysle; since which period there has indeed been local music in that country in great plenty.--Johnie
Faa is the only old song which I could ever trace as belonging to the extensive county of Ayr.

       *       *       *       *       *

CAULD KAIL IN ABERDEEN.

This song is by the Duke of Gordon.--The old verses are,

    "There's cauld kail in Aberdeen,
      And castocks in Strathbogie;
    When ilka lad maun hae his lass,
      Then fye, gie me my coggie.

CHORUS.

    My coggie, Sirs, my coggie, Sirs,
      I cannot want my coggie;
    I wadna gie my three-girr'd cap
      For e'er a quene on Bogie.--

    There's Johnie Smith has got a wife,
      That scrimps him o' his coggie,
    If she were mine, upon my life
      I wad douk her in a bogie."

       *       *       *       *       *

FOR LAKE OF GOLD.

The country girls in Ayrshire, instead of the line--

    "She me forsook for a great duke,"

say

    "For Athole's duke she me forsook;"

which I take to be the original reading.

These were composed by the late Dr. Austin, physician at Edinburgh.--He had courted a lady,
to whom he was shortly to have been married; but the Duke of Athole having seen her, became
so much in love with her, that he made proposals of marriage, which were accepted of, and she
jilted the doctor.

       *       *       *       *       *

HERE'S A HEALTH TO MY TRUE LOVE, &c.

This song is Dr. Blacklock's. He told me that tradition gives the air to our James IV. of Scotland.

       *       *       *       *       *

HEY TUTTI TAITI.

I Have met the tradition universally over Scotland, and particularly about Stirling, in the
neighbourhood of the scene, that this air was Robert Bruce's march at the battle of Bannockburn.

       *       *       *       *       *

RAVING WINDS AROUND HER BLOWING.

I Composed these verses on Miss Isabella M'Leod, of Raza, alluding to her feelings on the death
of her sister, and the still more melancholy death of her sister's husband, the late Earl of
Loudon; who shot himself out of sheer heart-break at some mortifications he suffered, owing
to the deranged state of his finances.

       *       *       *       *       *

TAK YOUR AULD CLOAK ABOUT YE.

A part of this old song, according to the English set of it, is quoted in Shakspeare.

       *       *       *       *       *

YE GODS, WAS STREPHON'S PICTURE BLEST?

Tune--"Fourteenth of October."

The title of this air shows that it alludes to the famous king Crispian, the patron of the
honourable corporation of shoemakers.--St. Crispian's day falls on the fourteenth of October
old style, as the old proverb tells:

    "On the fourteenth of October
    Was ne'er a sutor sober."

       *       *       *       *       *

SINCE ROBB'D OF ALL THAT CHARM'D MY VIEWS.

The old name of this air is, "the Blossom o' the Raspberry." The song is Dr. Blacklock's.

       *       *       *       *       *

YOUNG DAMON.

This air is by Oswald.

       *       *       *       *       *

KIRK WAD LET ME BE.

Tradition in the western parts of Scotland tells that this old song, of which there are still
three stanzas extant, once saved a covenanting clergyman out of a scrape. It was a little prior
to the revolution, a period when being a Scots covenanter was being a felon, that one of their
clergy, who was at that very time hunted by the merciless soldiery, fell in, by accident, with
a party of the military. The soldiers were not exactly acquainted with the person of the reverend
gentleman of whom they were in search; but from suspicious circumstances, they fancied that
they had got one of that cloth and opprobrious persuasion among them in the person of this
stranger. "Mass John" to extricate himself, assumed a freedom of manners, very unlike the gloomy
strictness of his sect; and among other convivial exhibitions, sung (and some traditions say,
composed on the spur of the occasion) "Kirk wad let me be," with such effect, that the soldiers
swore he was a d----d honest fellow, and that it was impossible he could belong to those hellish
conventicles; and so gave him his liberty.

The first stanza of this song, a little altered, is a favourite kind of dramatic interlude
acted at country weddings, in the south-west parts of the kingdom. A young fellow is dressed
up like an old beggar; a peruke, commonly made of carded tow, represents hoary locks; an old
bonnet; a ragged plaid, or surtout, bound with a straw rope for a girdle; a pair of old shoes,
with straw ropes twisted round his ankles, as is done by shepherds in snowy weather: his face
they disguise as like wretched old age as they can: in this plight he is brought into the wedding-house,
frequently to the astonishment of strangers, who are not in the secret, and begins to sing--

    "O, I am a silly auld man,
      My name it is auld Glenae," &c.

He is asked to drink, and by and bye to dance, which after some uncouth excuses he is prevailed
on to do, the fiddler playing the tune, which here is commonly called "Auld Glenae;" in short
he is all the time so plied with liquor that he is understood to get intoxicated, and with
all the ridiculous gesticulations of an old drunken beggar, he dances and staggers until he
falls on the floor; yet still in all his riot, nay, in his rolling and tumbling on the floor,
with some or other drunken motion of his body, he beats time to the music, till at last he
is supposed to be carried out dead drunk.

       *       *       *       *       *

MUSING ON THE ROARING OCEAN.

I composed these verses out of compliment to a Mrs. M'Lachlan, whose husband is an officer
in the East Indies.

       *       *       *       *       *

BLYTHE WAS SHE.

I composed these verses while I stayed at Ochtertyre with Sir William Murray.--The lady, who
was also at Ochtertyre at the same time, was the well-known toast, Miss Euphemia Murray, of
Lentrose; she was called, and very justly, "The Flower of Strathmore."

       *       *       *       *       *

JOHNNIE FAA, OR THE GYPSIE LADDIE.

The people in Ayrshire begin this song--

    "The gypsies cam to my Lord Cassilis' yett."--

They have a great many more stanzas in this song than I ever yet saw in any printed copy.--The
castle is still remaining at Maybole, where his lordship shut up his wayward spouse, and kept
her for life.

       *       *       *       *       *

TO DAUNTON ME.

The two following old stanzas to this tune have some merit:

    "To daunton me, to daunton me,
    O ken ye what it is that'll daunton me?--
    There's eighty-eight and eighty-nine,
    And a' that I hae borne sinsyne,
    There's cess and press and Presbytrie,
    I think it will do meikle for to daunton me.

    But to wanton me, to wanton me,
    O ken ye what it is that wad wanton me--
    To see gude corn upon the rigs,
    And banishment amang the Whigs,
    And right restor'd where right sud be,
    I think it would do meikle for to wanton me."

       *       *       *       *       *

THE BONNIE LASS MADE THE BED TO ME.

"The Bonnie Lass made the Bed to me," was composed on an amour of Charles II. when skulking
in the North, about Aberdeen, in the time of the usurpation. He formed une petite affaire with
a daughter of the house of Portletham, who was the "lass that made the bed to him:"--two verses
of it are,

    "I kiss'd her lips sae rosy red,
      While the tear stood blinkin in her e'e;
    I said, My lassie, dinna cry,
      For ye ay shall make the bed to me.

       *       *       *       *       *

ABSENCE.

A song in the manner of Shenstone.

This song and air are both by Dr. Blacklock.

       *       *       *       *       *

I HAD A HORSE AND I HAD NAE MAIR.

This story is founded on fact. A John Hunter, ancestor to a very respectable farming family,
who live in a place in the parish, I think, of Galston, called Bar-mill, was the luckless hero
that "had a horse and had nae mair."--For some little youthful follies he found it necessary
to make a retreat to the West-Highlands, where "he feed himself to a Highland Laird," for that
is the expression of all the oral editions of the song I ever heard.--The present Mr. Hunter,
who told me the anecdote, is the great-grandchild of our hero.

       *       *       *       *       *

UP AND WARN A' WILLIE.

This edition of the song I got from Tom Niel, of facetious fame, in Edinburgh. The expression
"Up and warn a' Willie," alludes to the Crantara, or warning of a Highland clan to arms. Not
understanding this, the Lowlanders in the west and south say, "Up and waur them a'," &c.

       *       *       *       *       *

A ROSE-BUD BY MY EARLY WALK.

This song I composed on Miss Jenny Cruikshank, only child of my worthy friend Mr. William Cruikshank,
of the High-School, Edinburgh. This air is by a David Sillar, quondam merchant, and now schoolmaster
in Irvine. He is the Davie to whom I address my printed poetical epistle in the measure of
the Cherry and the Slae.

       *       *       *       *       *

AULD ROB MORRIS.

It is remark-worthy that the song of "Holy and Fairly," in all the old editions of it, is called
"The Drunken Wife o' Galloway," which localizes it to that country.

       *       *       *       *       *

RATTLIN, ROARIN WILLIE.

       *       *       *       *       *

WHERE BRAVING ANGRY WINTER STORMS.

       *       *       *       *       *

TIBBIE, I HAE SEEN THE DAY.

This song I composed about the age of seventeen.

       *       *       *       *       *

NANCY'S GHOST.

This song is by Dr. Blacklock.

       *       *       *       *       *

TUNE YOUR FIDDLES, ETC.

This song was composed by the Rev. John Skinner, nonjuror clergyman at Linshart, near Peterhead.
He is likewise author of "Tullochgorum," "Ewie wi' the crooked Horn," "John o' Badenyond,"
&c., and what is of still more consequence, he is one of the worthiest of mankind. He is the
author of an ecclesiastical history of Scotland. The air is by Mr. Marshall, butler to the
Duke of Gordon; the first composer of strathspeys of the age. I have been told by somebody,
who had it of Marshall himself, that he took the idea of his three most celebrated pieces,
"The Marquis of Huntley's Reel," his "Farewell," and "Miss Admiral Gordon's Reel," from the
old air, "The German Lairdie."

       *       *       *       *       *

GILL MORICE.

This plaintive ballad ought to have been called Child Maurice, and not Gil Maurice. In its
present dress, it has gained immortal honour from Mr. Home's taking from it the ground-work
of his fine tragedy of Douglas. But I am of opinion that the present ballad is a modern composition;
perhaps not much above the age of the middle of the last century; at least I should be glad
to see or hear of a copy of the present words prior to 1650. That it was taken from an old
ballad, called "Child Maurice," now lost, I am inclined to believe; but the present one may
be classed with "Hardyknute," "Kenneth," "Duncan, the Laird of Woodhouselie," "Lord Livingston,"
"Binnorie," "The Death of Monteith," and many other modern productions, which have been swallowed
by many readers as ancient fragments of old poems. This beautiful plaintive tune was composed
by Mr. M'Gibbon, the selector of a collection of Scots tunes. R. B.

In addition to the observations on Gil Morice, I add, that of the songs which Captain Riddel
mentions, "Kenneth" and "Duncan" are juvenile compositions of Mr. M'Kenzie, "The Man of Feeling."--M'Kenzie's
father showed them in MS. to Dr. Blacklock, as the productions of his son, from which the Doctor
rightly prognosticated that the young poet would make, in his more advanced years, a respectable
figure in the world of letters.

This I had from Blacklock.

       *       *       *       *       *

TIBBIE DUNBAR.

This tune is said to be the composition of John M'Gill, fiddler, in Girvan. He called it after
his own name.

       *       *       *       *       *

WHEN I UPON THY BOSOM LEAN.

This song was the work of a very worthy facetious old fellow, John Lapraik, late of Dalfram,
near Muirkirk; which little property he was obliged to sell in consequence of some connexion
as security for some persons concerned in that villanous bubble THE AYR BANK. He has often
told me that he composed this song one day when his wife had been fretting o'er their misfortunes.

       *       *       *       *       *

MY HARRY WAS A GALLANT GAY.

Tune--"Highlander's Lament."

The oldest title I ever heard to this air, was, "The Highland Watch's Farewell to Ireland."
The chorus I picked up from an old woman in Dumblane; the rest of the song is mine.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE HIGHLAND CHARACTER.

This tune was the composition of Gen. Reid, and called by him "The Highland, or 42d Regiment's
March." The words are by Sir Harry Erskine.

       *       *       *       *       *

LEADER-HAUGHS AND YARROW.

There is in several collections, the old song of "Leader-Haughs and Yarrow." It seems to have
been the work of one of our itinerant minstrels, as he calls himself, at the conclusion of
his song, "Minstrel Burn."

       *       *       *       *       *

THE TAILOR FELL THRO' THE BED, THIMBLE AN' A'.

This air is the march of the corporation of tailors. The second and fourth stanzas are mine.

       *       *       *       *       *

BEWARE O' BONNIE ANN.

I composed this song out of compliment to Miss Ann Masterton, the daughter of my friend Allan
Masterton, the author of the air of Strathallan's Lament, and two or three others in this work.

       *       *       *       *       *

THIS IS NO MINE AIN HOUSE.

The first half stanza is old, the rest is Ramsay's. The old words are--

    "This is no mine ain house,
      My ain house, my ain house;
    This is no mine ain house,
      I ken by the biggin o't.

    Bread and cheese are my door-cheeks,
      My door-cheeks, my door-cheeks;
    Bread and cheese are my door-cheeks,
      And pancakes the riggin o't.

    This is no my ain wean;
      My ain wean, my ain wean;
    This is no my ain wean,
      I ken by the greetie o't.

    I'll tak the curchie aff my head,
      Aff my head, aff my head;
    I'll tak the curchie aff my head,
      And row't about the feetie o't."

The tune is an old Highland air, called "Shuan truish willighan."

       *       *       *       *       *

LADDIE, LIE NEAR ME.

This song is by Blacklock.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE GARDENER AND HIS PAIDLE.

This air is the "Gardener's March." The title of the song only is old; the rest is mine.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE DAY RETURNS, MY BOSOM BURNS.

Tune.--"Seventh of November."

I composed this song out of compliment to one of the happiest and worthiest married couples
in the world, Robert Riddel, Esq., of Glenriddel, and his lady. At their fire-side I have enjoyed
more pleasant evenings than at all the houses of fashionable people in this country put together;
and to their kindness and hospitality I am indebted for many of the happiest hours of my life.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE GABERLUNZIE MAN.

The "Gaberlunzie Man" is supposed to commemorate an intrigue of James the Fifth. Mr. Callander,
of Craigforth, published some years ago an edition of "Christ's Kirk on the Green," and the
"Gaberlunzie Man," with notes critical and historical. James the Fifth is said to have been
fond of Gosford, in Aberlady parish, and that it was suspected by his contemporaries, that
in his frequent excursions to that part of the country, he had other purposes in view besides
golfing and archery. Three favourite ladies, Sandilands, Weir, and Oliphant (one of them resided
at Gosford, and the others in the neighbourhood), were occasionally visited by their royal
and gallant admirer, which gave rise to the following advice to his majesty, from Sir David
Lindsay, of the Mount, Lord Lyon.

    "Sow not your seed on Sandylands,
      spend not your strength in Weir,
    And ride not on an Elephant,
      For gawing o' your gear."

       *       *       *       *       *

MY BONNIE MARY.

This air is Oswald's; the first half stanza of the song is old, the rest mine.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE BLACK EAGLE.

This song is by Dr. Fordyce, whose merits as a prose writer are well known.

       *       *       *       *       *

JAMIE, COME TRY ME.

This air is Oswald's; the song mine.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE LAZY MIST.

This song is mine.

       *       *       *       *       *

JOHNIE COPE.

This satirical song was composed to commemorate General Cope's defeat at Preston Pans, in 1745,
when he marched against the Clans.

The air was the tune of an old song, of which I have heard some verses, but now only remember
the title, which was,

    "Will ye go the coals in the morning."

       *       *       *       *       *

I LOVE MY JEAN.

This air is by Marshall; the song I composed out of compliment to Mrs. Burns.

N.B. It was during the honeymoon.

       *       *       *       *       *

CEASE, CEASE, MY DEAR FRIEND, TO EXPLORE.

The song is by Dr. Blacklock; I believe, but am not quite certain, that the air is his too.

       *       *       *       *       *

AULD ROBIN GRAY.

This air was formerly called, "The bridegroom greets when the sun gangs down." The words are
by Lady Ann Lindsay, of the Balcarras family.

       *       *       *       *       *

DONALD AND FLORA.

This is one of those fine Gaelic tunes, preserved from time immemorial in the Hebrides; they
seem to be the ground-work of many of our finest Scots pastoral tunes. The words of this song
were written to commemorate the unfortunate expedition of General Burgoyne in America, in 1777.

       *       *       *       *       *

O WERE I ON PARNASSUS' HILL.

This air is Oswald's; the song I made out of compliment to Mrs. Burns.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE CAPTIVE ROBIN.

This air is called "Robie donna Gorach."

       *       *       *       *       *

THERE'S A YOUTH IN THIS CITY.

       *       *       *       *       *

MY HEART'S IN THE HIGHLANDS.

The first half-stanza of this song is old; the rest is mine.

       *       *       *       *       *

CA' THE EWES AND THE KNOWES.

This beautiful song is in true old Scotch taste, yet I do not know that either air or words
were in print before.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE BRIDAL O'T.

This song is the work of a Mr. Alexander Ross, late schoolmaster at Lochlee; and author of
a beautiful Scots poem, called "The Fortunate Shepherdess."

    "They say that Jockey 'll speed weel o't,
      They say that Jockey 'll speed weel o't,
    For he grows brawer ilka day,
      I hope we'll hae a bridal o't:
    For yesternight nae farder gane,
      The backhouse at the side wa' o't,
    He there wi' Meg was mirden seen,
      I hope we'll hae a bridal o't.

    An' we had but a bridal o't,
      An' we had but a bridal o't,
    We'd leave the rest unto gude luck,
      Altho' there should betide ill o't:
    For bridal days are merry times,
      And young folks like the coming o't,
    And scribblers they bang up their rhymes,
      And pipers they the bumming o't.

    The lasses like a bridal o't,
      The lasses like a bridal o't,
    Their braws maun be in rank and file,
      Altho' that they should guide ill o't:
    The boddom o' the kist is then
      Turn'd up into the inmost o't,
    The end that held the kecks sae clean,
      Is now become the teemest o't.

    The bangster at the threshing o't.
      The bangster at the threshing o't,
    Afore it comes is fidgin-fain,
      And ilka day's a clashing o't:
    He'll sell his jerkin for a groat,
      His linder for anither o't,
    And e'er he want to clear his shot,
      His sark'll pay the tither o't

    The pipers and the fiddlers o't,
      The pipers and the fiddlers o't,
    Can smell a bridal unco' far,
      And like to be the middlers o't;
    Fan[293] thick and threefold they convene,
      Ilk ane envies the tither o't,
    And wishes nane but him alane
      May ever see anither o't.

    Fan they hae done wi' eating o't,
      Fan they hae done wi' eating o't,
    For dancing they gae to the green,
      And aiblins to the beating o't:
    He dances best that dances fast,
      And loups at ilka reesing o't,
    And claps his hands frae hough to hough,
      And furls about the feezings o't."

       *       *       *       *       *

TODLEN HAME.

This is perhaps the first bottle song that ever was composed.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE BRAES O' BALLOCHMYLE.

This air is the composition of my friend Allan Masterton, in Edinburgh. I composed the verses
on the amiable and excellent family of Whitefoords leaving Ballochmyle, when Sir John's misfortunes
had obliged him to sell the estate.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE RANTIN' DOG, THE DADDIE O'T.

I composed this song pretty early in life, and sent it to a young girl, a very particular acquaintance
of mine, who was at that time under a cloud.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE SHEPHERD'S PREFERENCE.

This song is Dr. Blacklock's.--I don't know how it came by the name, but the oldest appellation
of the air was, "Whistle and I'll come to you, my lad."

It has little affinity to the tune commonly known by that name.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE BONIE BANKS OF AYR.

I composed this song as I conveyed my chest so far on the road to Greenock, where I was to
embark in a few days for Jamaica.

I meant it as my farewell dirge to my native land.

       *       *       *       *       *

JOHN O' BADENYON.

This excellent song is the composition of my worthy friend, old Skinner, at Linshart.

    "When first I cam to be a man
      Of twenty years or so,
    I thought myself a handsome youth,
      And fain the world would know;
    In best attire I stept abroad,
      With spirits brisk and gay,
    And here and there and everywhere,
      Was like a morn in May;
    No care had I nor fear of want,
      But rambled up and down,
    And for a beau I might have pass'd
      In country or in town;
    I still was pleas'd where'er I went,
      And when I was alone,
    I tun'd my pipe and pleas'd myself
      Wi' John o' Badenyon.

    Now in the days of youthful prime
      A mistress I must find,
    For love, I heard, gave one an air
      And ev'n improved the mind:
    On Phillis fair above the rest
      Kind fortune fixt my eyes,
    Her piercing beauty struck my heart,
      And she became my choice;
    To Cupid now with hearty prayer
      I offer'd many a vow;
    And danc'd, and sung, and sigh'd, and swore,
      As other lovers do;
    But, when at last I breath'd my flame,
      I found her cold as stone;
    I left the jilt, and tun'd my pipe
      To John o' Badenyon.

    When love had thus my heart beguil'd
      With foolish hopes and vain,
    To friendship's port I steer'd my course,
      And laugh'd at lover's pain
    A friend I got by lucky chance
      'Twas something like divine,
    An honest friend's a precious gift,
      And such a gift was mine:
    And now, whatever might betide,
      A happy man was I,
    In any strait I knew to whom
      I freely might apply;
    A strait soon came: my friend I try'd;
      He heard, and spurn'd my moan;
    I hy'd me home, and tun'd my pipe
      To John o' Badenyon.

    Methought I should be wiser next,
      And would a patriot turn,
    Began to doat on Johnny Wilks,
      And cry up Parson Horne.
    Their manly spirit I admir'd,
      And prais'd their noble zeal,
    Who had with flaming tongue and pen
      Maintain'd the public weal;
    But e'er a month or two had past,
      I found myself betray'd,
    'Twas self and party after all,
      For a' the stir they made;
    At last I saw the factious knaves
      Insult the very throne,
    I curs'd them a', and tun'd my pipe
      To John o' Badenyon."

       *       *       *       *       *

A WAUKRIFE MINNIE.

I picked up this old song and tune from a country girl in Nithsdale.--I never met with it elsewhere
in Scotland.

    "Whare are you gaun, my bonie lass,
      Whare are you gaun, my hinnie,
    She answer'd me right saucilie,
      An errand for my minnie.

    O whare live ye, my bonnie lass,
      O whare live ye, my hinnie,
    By yon burn-side, gin ye maun ken,
      In a wee house wi' my minnie.

    But I foor up the glen at e'en,
      To see my bonie lassie;
    And lang before the gray morn cam,
      She was na hauf sa sacie.

    O weary fa' the waukrife cock,
      And the foumart lay his crawin!
    He wauken'd the auld wife frae her sleep,
      A wee blink or the dawin.

    An angry wife I wat she raise,
      And o'er the bed she brought her;
    And wi' a mickle hazle rung
      She made her a weel pay'd dochter.

    O fare thee weel, my bonie lass!
      O fare thee weel, my hinnie!
    Thou art a gay and a bonie lass,
      But thou hast a waukrife minnie."

       *       *       *       *       *

TULLOCHGORUM.

This first of songs, is the master-piece of my old friend Skinner. He was passing the day,
at the town of Cullen, I think it was, in a friend's house whose name was Montgomery. Mrs.
Montgomery observing, en passant, that the beautiful reel of Tullochgorum wanted words, she
begged them of Mr. Skinner, who gratified her wishes, and the wishes of every Scottish song,
in this most excellent ballad.

These particulars I had from the author's son, Bishop Skinner, at Aberdeen.

       *       *       *       *       *

FOR A' THAT AND A' THAT.

This song is mine, all except the chorus.

       *       *       *       *       *

AULD LANG SYNE.

Ramsay here, as usual with him, has taken the idea of the song, and the first line, from the
old fragment which may be seen in the "Museum," vol. v.

       *       *       *       *       *

WILLIE BREW'D A PECK O' MAUT.

This air is Masterton's; the song mine.--The occasion of it was this:--Mr. W. Nicol, of the
High-School, Edinburgh, during the autumn vacation being at Moffat, honest Allan, who was at
that time on a visit to Dalswinton, and I, went to pay Nicol a visit.--We had such a joyous
meeting that Mr. Masterton and I agreed, each in our own way, that we should celebrate the
business.

       *       *       *       *       *

KILLIECRANKIE.

The battle of Killiecrankie was the last stand made by the clans for James, after his abdication.
Here the gallant Lord Dundee fell in the moment of victory, and with him fell the hopes of
the party. General Mackay, when he found the Highlanders did not pursue his flying army, said,
"Dundee must be killed, or he never would have overlooked this advantage." A great stone marks
the spot where Dundee fell.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE EWIE WI' THE CROOKED HORN.

Another excellent song of old Skinner's.

       *       *       *       *       *

CRAIGIE-BURN WOOD.

It is remarkable of this air that it is the confine of that country where the greatest part
of our Lowland music (so far as from the title, words, &c., we can localize it) has been composed.
From Craigie-burn, near Moffat, until one reaches the West Highlands, we have scarcely one
slow air of any antiquity.

The song was composed on a passion which a Mr. Gillespie, a particular friend of mine, had
for a Miss Lorimer, afterwards a Mrs. Whelpdale. This young lady was born at Craigie-burn Wood.--The
chorus is part of an old foolish ballad.

       *       *       *       *       *

FRAE THE FRIENDS AND LAND I LOVE.

I added the four last lines, by way of giving a turn to the theme of the poem, such as it is.

       *       *       *       *       *

HUGHIE GRAHAM

There are several editions of this ballad.--This, here inserted, is from oral tradition in
Ayrshire, where, when I was a boy, it was a popular song.--It originally had a simple old tune,
which I have forgotten.

    "Our lords are to the mountains gane,
      A hunting o' the fallow deer,
    And they have gripet Hughie Graham,
      For stealing o' the bishop's mare.

    And they have tied him hand and foot,
      And led him up, thro' Stirling town;
    The lads and lasses met him there,
      Cried, Hughie Graham, thou art a loun.

    O lowse my right hand free, he says,
      And put my braid sword in the same;
    He's no in Stirling town this day,
      Dare tell the tale to Hughie Graham.

    Up then bespake the brave Whitefoord,
      As he sat by the bishop's knee,
    Five hundred white stots I'll gie you,
      If ye'll let Hughie Graham gae free.

    O haud your tongue, the bishop says,
      And wi' your pleading let me be;
    For tho' ten Grahams were in his coat,
      Hughie Graham this day shall die.

    Up then bespake the fair Whitefoord,
      As she sat by the bishop's knee;
    Five hundred white pence I'll gie you,
      If ye'll gie Hughie Graham to me.

    O haud your tongue now, lady fair,
      And wi' your pleading let it be;
    Altho' ten Grahams were in his coat,
      It's for my honour he maun die.

    They've ta'en him to the gallows knowe,
      He looked to the gallows tree,
    Yet never colour left his cheek,
      Nor ever did he blink his e'e

    At length he looked around about,
      To see whatever he could spy:
    And there he saw his auld father,
      And he was weeping bitterly.

    O haud your tongue, my father dear,
      And wi' your weeping let it be;
    Thy weeping's sairer on my heart,
      Than a' that they can do to me.

    And ye may gie my brother John
      My sword that's bent in the middle clear;
    And let him come at twelve o'clock,
      And see me pay the bishop's mare.

    And ye may gie my brother James
      My sword that's bent in the middle brown;
    And bid him come at four o'clock,
      And see his brother Hugh cut down.

    Remember me to Maggy my wife,
      The neist time ye gang o'er the moor,
    Tell her she staw the bishop's mare,
      Tell her she was the bishop's whore.

    And ye may tell my kith and kin,
      I never did disgrace their blood;
    And when they meet the bishop's cloak,
      To mak it shorter by the hood."

       *       *       *       *       *

A SOUTHLAND JENNY.

This is a popular Ayrshire song, though the notes were never taken down before. It, as well
as many of the ballad tunes in this collection, was written from Mrs. Burns's voice.

       *       *       *       *       *

MY TOCHER'S THE JEWEL.

This tune is claimed by Nathaniel Gow.--It is notoriously taken from "The muckin o' Gordie's
byre."--It is also to be found long prior to Nathaniel Gow's era, in Aird's Selection of Airs
and Marches, the first edition under the name of "The Highway to Edinburgh."

       *       *       *       *       *

THEN, GUID WIFE, COUNT THE LAWIN'.

The chorus of this is part of an old song, no stanza of which I recollect.

       *       *       *       *       *

THERE'LL NEVER BE PEACE TILL JAMIE COMES HAME.

This tune is sometimes called "There's few gude fellows when Willie's awa."--But I never have
been able to meet with anything else of the song than the title.

       *       *       *       *       *

I DO CONFESS THOU ART SAE FAIR.

This song is altered from a poem by Sir Robert Ayton, private secretary to Mary and Ann, Queens
of Scotland.--The poem is to be found in James Watson's Collection of Scots Poems, the earliest
collection printed in Scotland. I think that I have improved the simplicity of the sentiments,
by giving them a Scots dress.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE SODGER LADDIE.

The first verse of this is old; the rest is by Ramsay. The tune seems to be the same with a
slow air, called "Jackey Hume's Lament"--or, "The Hollin Buss"--or "Ken ye what Meg o' the
Mill has gotten?"

       *       *       *       *       *

WHERE WAD BONNIE ANNIE LIE.

The old name of this tune is,--

"Whare'll our gudeman lie."

A silly old stanza of it runs thus--

    "O whare'll our gudeman lie,
      Gudeman lie, gudeman lie,
    O whare'll our gudeman lie,
      Till he shute o'er the simmer?

    Up amang the hen-bawks,
      The hen-bawks, the hen-bawks,
    Up amang the hen-bawks,
      Amang the rotten timmer."

       *       *       *       *       *

GALLOWAY TAM.

I have seen an interlude (acted at a wedding) to this tune, called "The Wooing of the Maiden."
These entertainments are now much worn out in this part of Scotland. Two are still retained
in Nithsdale, viz. "Silly Pure Auld Glenae," and this one, "The Wooing of the Maiden."

       *       *       *       *       *

AS I CAM DOWN BY YON CASTLE WA.

This is a very popular Ayrshire song.

       *       *       *       *       *

LORD RONALD MY SON.

This air, a very favourite one in Ayrshire, is evidently the original of Lochaber. In this
manner most of our finest more modern airs have had their origin. Some early minstrel, or musical
shepherd, composed the simple, artless original air; which being picked up by the more learned
musician, took the improved form it bears.

       *       *       *       *       *

O'ER THE MOOR AMANG THE HEATHER.

This song is the composition of a Jean Glover, a girl who was not only a whore, but also a
thief; and in one or other character has visited most of the Correction Houses in the West.
She was born I believe in Kilmarnock,--I took the song down from her singing, as she was strolling
through the country, with a sleight-of-hand blackguard.

       *       *       *       *       *

TO THE ROSE-BUD.

This song is the composition of a ---- Johnson, a joiner in the neighbourhood of Belfast. The
tune is by Oswald, altered, evidently, from "Jockie's Gray Breeks."

       *       *       *       *       *

YON WILD MOSSY MOUNTAINS.

This tune is by Oswald. The song alludes to a part of my private history, which it is of no
consequence to the world to know.

       *       *       *       *       *

IT IS NA, JEAN, THY BONNIE FACE.

These were originally English verses:--I gave them the Scots dress.

       *       *       *       *       *

EPPIE M'NAB.

The old song with this title has more wit than decency.

       *       *       *       *       *

WHA IS THAT AT MY BOWER DOOR.

This tune is also known by the name of "Lass an I come near thee." The words are mine.

       *       *       *       *       *

THOU ART GANE AWA.

This time is the same with "Haud awa frae me, Donald."

       *       *       *       *       *

THE TEARS I SHED MUST EVER FALL.

This song of genius was composed by a Miss Cranston. It wanted four lines, to make all the
stanzas suit the music, which I added, and are the four first of the last stanza.

    "No cold approach, no alter'd mien,
      Just what would make suspicion start;
    No pause the dire extremes between,
      He made me blest--and broke my heart!"

       *       *       *       *       *

THE BONIE WEE THING.

Composed on my little idol "the charming, lovely Davies."

       *       *       *       *       *

THE TITHER MORN.

This tune is originally from the Highlands. I have heard a Gaelic song to it, which I was told
was very clever, but not by any means a lady's song.

       *       *       *       *       *

A MOTHER'S LAMENT FOR THE DEATH OF HER SON.

This most beautiful tune is, I think, the happiest composition of that bard-born genius, John
Riddel, of the family of Glencarnock, at Ayr. The words were composed to commemorate the much-lamented
and premature death of James Ferguson, Esq., jun. of Craigdarroch.

       *       *       *       *       *

DAINTIE DAVIE.

This song, tradition says, and the composition itself confirms it, was composed on the Rev.
David Williamson's begetting the daughter of Lady Cherrytrees with child, while a party of
dragoons were searching her house to apprehend him for being an adherent to the solemn league
and covenant. The pious woman had put a lady's night-cap on him, and had laid him a-bed with
her own daughter, and passed him to the soldiery as a lady, her daughter's bed-fellow. A mutilated
stanza or two are to be found in Herd's collection, but the original song consists of five
or six stanzas, and were their delicacy equal to their wit and humour, they would merit a place
in any collection. The first stanza is

    "Being pursued by the dragoons,
    Within my bed he was laid down;
    And weel I wat he was worth his room,
      For he was my Daintie Davie."

Ramsay's song, "Luckie Nansy," though he calls it an old song with additions, seems to be all
his own except the chorus:

    "I was a telling you,
      Luckie Nansy, Luckie Nansy
    Auld springs wad ding the new,
      But ye wad never trow me."

Which I should conjecture to be part of a song prior to the affair of Williamson.

       *       *       *       *       *

BOB O' DUMBLANE.

RAMSAY, as usual, has modernized this song. The original, which I learned on the spot, from
my old hostess in the principal inn there, is--

    "Lassie, lend me your braw hemp heckle,
      And I'll lend you my thripplin-kame;
    My heckle is broken, it canna be gotten,
      And we'll gae dance the bob o' Dumblane.

    Twa gaed to the wood, to the wood, to the wood.
      Twa gaed to the wood--three came hame;
    An' it be na weel bobbit, weel bobbit, weel bobbit
      An' it be na weel bobbit, we'll bob it again."

I insert this song to introduce the following anecdote, which I have heard well authenticated.
In the evening of the day of the battle of Dumblane, (Sheriff Muir,) when the action was over,
a Scots officer in Argyll's army, observed to His Grace, that he was afraid the rebels would
give out to the world that they had gotten the victory.--"Weel, weel," returned his Grace,
alluding to the foregoing ballad, "if they think it be nae weel bobbit, we'll bob it again."

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 293: Fan, when--the dialect of Angus.]

       *       *       *       *       *

THE BORDER TOUR.

Left Edinburgh (May 6, 1787)--Lammermuir-hills miserably dreary, but at times very picturesque.
Lanton-edge, a glorious view of the Merse--Reach Berrywell--old Mr. Ainslie an uncommon character;--his
hobbies, agriculture, natural philosophy, and politics.--In the first he is unexceptionably
the clearest-headed, best-informed man I ever met with; in the other two, very intelligent:--As
a man of business he has uncommon merit, and by fairly deserving it has made a very decent
independence. Mrs. Ainslie, an excellent, sensible, cheerful, amiable old woman--Miss Ainslie--her
person a little embonpoint, but handsome; her face, particularly her eyes, full of sweetness
and good humour--she unites three qualities rarely to be found together; keen, solid penetration;
sly, witty observation and remark; and the gentlest, most unaffected female modesty--Douglas,
a clever, fine, promising young fellow.--The family-meeting with their brother; my compagnon
de voyage, very charming; particularly the sister. The whole family remarkably attached to
their menials--Mrs. A. full of stories of the sagacity and sense of the little girl in the
kitchen.--Mr. A. high in the praises of an African, his house-servant--all his people old in
his service--Douglas's old nurse came to Berrywell yesterday to remind them of its being his
birthday.

A Mr. Dudgeon, a poet at times,[294] a worthy remarkable character--natural penetration, a
great deal of information, some genius, and extreme modesty.

Sunday.--Went to church at Dunse[295]--Dr. Howmaker a man of strong lungs and pretty judicious
remark; but ill skilled in propriety, and altogether unconscious of his want of it.

Monday.--Coldstream--went over to England--Cornhill--glorious river Tweed--clear and majestic--fine
bridge. Dine at Coldstream with Mr. Ainslie and Mr. Foreman--beat Mr. F---- in a dispute about
Voltaire. Tea at Lenel House with Mr. Brydone--Mr. Brydone a most excellent heart, kind, joyous,
and benevolent; but a good deal of the French indiscriminate complaisance--from his situation
past and present, an admirer of everything that bears a splendid title, or that possesses a
large estate--Mrs. Brydone a most elegant woman in her person and manners; the tones of her
voice remarkably sweet--my reception extremely flattering--sleep at Coldstream.

Tuesday.--Breakfast at Kelso--charming situation of Kelso--fine bridge over the Tweed--enchanting
views and prospects on both sides of the river, particularly the Scotch side; introduced to
Mr. Scott of the Royal Bank--an excellent, modest fellow--fine situation of it--ruins of Roxburgh
Castle--a holly-bush, growing where James II. of Scotland was accidentally killed by the bursting
of a cannon. A small old religious ruin, and a fine old garden planted by the religious, rooted
out and destroyed by an English hottentot, a maitre d'hotel of the duke's, a Mr. Cole--climate
and soil of Berwickshire, and even Roxburghshire, superior to Ayrshire--bad roads. Turnip and
sheep husbandry, their great improvements--Mr. M'Dowal, at Caverton Mill, a friend of Mr. Ainslie's,
with whom I dined to-day, sold his sheep, ewe and lamb together, at two guineas a piece--wash
their sheep before shearing--seven or eight pounds of washen wool in a fleece--low markets,
consequently low rents--fine lands not above sixteen shillings a Scotch acre--magnificence
of farmers and farm-houses--come up Teviot and up Jed to Jedburgh to lie, and so wish myself
a good night.

Wednesday.--Breakfast with Mr. ---- in Jedburgh--a squabble between Mrs. ----, a crazed, talkative
slattern, and a sister of hers, an old maid, respecting a relief minister--Miss gives Madam
the lie; and Madam, by way of revenge, upbraids her that she laid snares to entangle the said
minister, then a widower, in the net of matrimony--go about two miles out of Jedburgh to a
roup of parks--meet a polite, soldier-like gentleman, a Captain Rutherford, who had been many
years through the wilds of America, a prisoner among the Indians--charming, romantic situation
of Jedburgh, with gardens, orchards, &c., intermingled among the houses--fine old ruins--a
once magnificent cathedral, and strong castle. All the towns here have the appearance of old,
rude grandeur, but the people extremely idle--Jed a fine romantic little river.

Dine with Capt. Rutherford--the Captain a polite fellow, fond of money in his farming way;
showed a particular respect to my bardship--his lady exactly a proper matrimonial second part
for him. Miss Rutherford a beautiful girl, but too far gone woman to expose so much of a fine
swelling bosom--her face very fine.

Return to Jedburgh--walk up Jed with some ladies to be shown Love-lane and Blackburn, two fairy
scenes. Introduced to Mr. Potts, writer, a very clever fellow; and Mr. Somerville, the clergyman
of the place, a man and a gentleman, but sadly addicted to punning.--The walking party of ladies,
Mrs. ---- and Miss ---- her sister, before mentioned.--N.B. These two appear still more comfortably
ugly and stupid, and bore me most shockingly. Two Miss ----, tolerably agreeable. Miss Hope,
a tolerably pretty girl, fond of laughing and fun. Shake myself loose, after several unsuccessful
efforts, of Mrs. ---- and Miss ----, and somehow or other, get hold of Miss Lindsay's arm.
Miss seems very well pleased with my bardship's distinguishing her, and after some slight qualms,
which I could easily mark, she sets the titter round at defiance, and kindly allows me to keep
my hold; and when parted by the ceremony of my introduction to Mr. Somerville, she met me half,
to resume my situation.--Nota Bene--The poet within a point and a half of being d--mnably in
love--I am afraid my bosom is still nearly as much tinder as ever.

The old cross-grained, whiggish, ugly, slanderous Miss ----, with all the poisonous spleen
of a disappointed, ancient maid, stops me very unseasonably to ease her bursting breast, by
falling abusively foul on the Miss Lindsays, particularly on my Dulcinea;--I hardly refrain
from cursing her to her face for daring to mouth her calumnious slander on one of the finest
pieces of the workmanship of Almighty Excellence! Sup at Mr. ----'s; vexed that the Miss Lindsays
are not of the supper-party, as they only are wanting. Mrs. ---- and Miss ----still improve
infernally on my hands.

Set out next morning for Wauchope, the seat of my correspondent, Mrs. Scott--breakfast by the
way with Dr. Elliot, an agreeable, good-hearted, climate-beaten old veteran, in the medical
line; now retired to a romantic, but rather moorish place, on the banks of the Roole--he accompanies
us almost to Wauchope--we traverse the country to the top of Bochester, the scene of an old
encampment, and Woolee Hill.

Wauchope--Mr. Scott exactly the figure and face commonly given to Sancho Panca--very shrewd
in his farming matters, and not unfrequently stumbles on what may be called a strong thing
rather than a good thing. Mrs. Scott all the sense, taste, intrepidity of face, and bold, critical
decision, which usually distinguish female authors.--Sup with Mr. Potts--agreeable party.--Breakfast
next morning with Mr. Somerville--the bruit of Miss Lindsay and my bardship, by means of the
invention and malice of Miss ----. Mr. Somerville sends to Dr. Lindsay, begging him and family
to breakfast if convenient, but at all events to send Miss Lindsay; accordingly Miss Lindsay
only comes.--I find Miss Lindsay would soon play the devil with me--I met with some little
flattering attentions from her. Mrs. Somerville an excellent, motherly, agreeable woman, and
a fine family.--Mr. Ainslie, and Mrs. S----, junrs., with Mr. ----, Miss Lindsay, and myself,
go to see Esther, a very remarkable woman for reciting poetry of all kinds, and sometimes making
Scotch doggerel herself--she can repeat by heart almost everything she has ever read, particularly
Pope's Homer from end to end--has studied Euclid by herself, and in short, is a woman of very
extraordinary abilities.--On conversing with her I find her fully equal to the character given
of her.[296]--She is very much flattered that I send for her, and that she sees a poet who
has put out a book, as she says.--She is, among other things, a great florist--and is rather
past the meridian of once celebrated beauty.

I walk in Esther's garden with Miss Lindsay, and after some little chit-chat of the tender
kind, I presented her with a proof print of my Nob, which she accepted with something more
tinder than gratitude. She told me many little stories which Miss ---- had retailed concerning
her and me, with prolonging pleasure--God bless her! Was waited on by the magistrates, and
presented with the freedom of the burgh. That love-kindling eye must beam on another, not on
me; that graceful form must bless another's arms; not mine!

Kelso. Dine with the farmers' club--all gentlemen, talking of high matters--each of them keeps
a hunter from thirty to fifty pounds value, and attends the fox-huntings in the country--go
out with Mr. Ker, one of the club, and a friend of Mr. Ainslie's, to lie--Mr. Ker a most gentlemanly,
clever, handsome fellow, a widower with some fine children--his mind and manner astonishingly
like my dear old friend Robert Muir, in Kilmarnock--everything in Mr. Ker's most elegant--he
offers to accompany me in my English tour. Dine with Sir Alexander Don--a pretty clever fellow,
but far from being a match for his divine lady.--A very wet day * * *--Sleep at Stodrig again;
and set out for Melrose--visit Dryburgh, a fine old ruined abbey--still bad weather--cross
Leader, and come up Tweed to Melrose--dine there, and visit that far-famed, glorious ruin--come
to Selkirk, up Ettrick; the whole country hereabout, both on Tweed and Ettrick, remarkably stony.

Monday.--Come to Inverleithing, a famous shaw, and in the vicinity of the palace of Traquair,
where having dined, and drank some Galloway-whey, I hero remain till to-morrow--saw Elibanks
and Elibraes, on the other side of the Tweed.

Tuesday.--Drank tea yesternight at Pirn, with Mr. Horseburgh.--Breakfasted to-day with Mr.
Ballantyne of Hollowlee--Proposal for a four-horse team to consist of Mr. Scott of Wauchope,
Fittieland: Logan of Logan, Fittiefurr: Ballantyne of Hollowlee, Forewynd: Horsburgh of Horsburgh.--Dine
at a country inn, kept by a miller, in Earlston, the birth-place and residence of the celebrated
Thomas a Rhymer--saw the ruins of his castle--come to Berrywell.

Wednesday.--Dine at Dunse with the farmers' club-company--impossible to do them justice--Rev.
Mr. Smith a famous punster, and Mr. Meikle a celebrated mechanic, and inventor of the threshing-mills.

Thursday, breakfast at Berrywell, and walk into Dunse to see a famous knife made by a cutler
there, and to be presented to an Italian prince.--A pleasant ride with my friend Mr. Robert
Ainslie, and his sister, to Mr. Thomson's, a man who has newly commenced farmer, and has married
a Miss Patty Grieve, formerly a flame of Mr. Robert Ainslie's.--Company--Miss Jacky Grieve,
an amiable sister of Mrs. Thomson's, and Mr. Hood, an honest, worthy, facetious farmer, in
the neighbourhood.

Friday.--Ride to Berwick--An idle town, rudely picturesque.--Meet Lord Errol in walking round
the walls.--His lordship's flattering notice of me.--Dine with Mr. Clunzie, merchant--nothing
particular in company or conversation--Come up a bold shore, and over a wild country to Eyemouth--sup
and sleep at Mr. Grieve's.

Saturday.--Spend the day at Mr. Grieve's--made a royal arch mason of St. Abb's Lodge,[297]--Mr.
William Grieve, the oldest brother, a joyous, warm-hearted, jolly, clever fellow--takes a hearty
glass, and sings a good song.--Mr. Robert, his brother, and partner in trade, a good fellow,
but says little. Take a sail after dinner. Fishing of all kinds pays tithes at Eyemouth.

Sunday.--A Mr. Robinson, brewer at Ednam, sets out with us to Dunbar.

The Miss Grieves very good girls.--My bardship's heart got a brush from Miss Betsey.

Mr. William Grieve's attachment to the family-circle, so fond, that when he is out, which by
the bye is often the case, he cannot go to bed till he see if all his sisters are sleeping
well ---- Pass the famous Abbey of Coldingham, and Pease-bridge.--Call at Mr. Sheriff's where
Mr. A. and I dine.--Mr. S. talkative and conceited. I talk of love to Nancy the whole evening,
while her brother escorts home some companions like himself.--Sir James Hall of Dunglass, having
heard of my being in the neighbourhood, comes to Mr. Sheriff's to breakfast--takes me to see
his fine scenery on the stream of Dunglass--Dunglass the most romantic, sweet place I over
saw--Sir James and his lady a pleasant happy couple.--He points out a walk for which he has
an uncommon respect, as it was made by an aunt of his, to whom he owes much.

Miss ---- will accompany me to Dunbar, by way of making a parade of me as a sweetheart of hers,
among her relations. She mounts an old cart-horse, as huge and as lean as a house; a rusty
old side-saddle without girth, or stirrup, but fastened on with an old pillion-girth--herself
as fine as hands could make her, in cream-coloured riding clothes, hat and feather, &c.--I,
ashamed of my situation, ride like the devil, and almost shake her to pieces on old Jolly--get
rid of her by refusing to call at her uncle's with her.

Past through the most glorious corn-country I ever saw, till I reach Dunbar, a neat little
town.--Dine with Provost Fall, an eminent merchant, and most respectable character, but undescribable,
as he exhibits no marked traits. Mrs. Fall, a genius in painting; fully more clever in the
fine arts and sciences than my friend Lady Wauchope, without her consummate assurance of her
own abilities.--Call with Mr. Robinson (who, by the bye, I find to be a worthy, much respected
man, very modest; warm, social heart, which with less good sense than his would be perhaps
with the children of prim precision and pride, rather inimical to that respect which is man's
due from man) with him I call on Miss Clarke, a maiden in the Scotch phrase, "Guid enough,
but no brent new:" a clever woman, with tolerable pretensions to remark and wit; while time
had blown the blushing bud of bashful modesty into the flower of easy confidence. She wanted
to see what sort of raree show an author was; and to let him know, that though Dunbar was but
a little town, yet it was not destitute of people of parts.

Breakfast next morning at Skateraw, at Mr. Lee's, a farmer of great note.--Mr. Lee, an excellent,
hospitable, social fellow, rather oldish; warm-hearted and chatty--a most judicious, sensible
farmer. Mr. Lee detains me till next morning.--Company at dinner.--My Rev. acquaintance Dr.
Bowmaker, a reverend, rattling old fellow.--Two sea lieutenants; a cousin of the landlord's,
a fellow whose looks are of that kind which deceived me in a gentleman at Kelso, and has often
deceived me: a goodly handsome figure and face, which incline one to give them credit for parts
which they have not. Mr. Clarke, a much cleverer fellow, but whose looks a little cloudy, and
his appearance rather ungainly, with an every-day observer may prejudice the opinion against
him.--Dr. Brown, a medical young gentleman from Dunbar, a fellow whose face and manners are
open and engaging.--Leave Skateraw for Dunse next day, along with collector ----, a lad of
slender abilities and bashfully diffident to an extreme.

Found Miss Ainslie, the amiable, the sensible, the good-humoured, the sweet Miss Ainslie, all
alone at Berrywell.--Heavenly powers, who know the weakness of human hearts, support mine!
What happiness must I see only to remind me that I cannot enjoy it!

Lammer-muir Hills, from East Lothian to Dunse, very wild.--Dine with the farmer's club at Kelso.
Sir John Hume and Mr. Lumsden there, but nothing worth remembrance when the following circumstance
is considered--I walk into Dunse before dinner, and out to Berrywell in the evening with Miss
Ainslie--how well-bred, how frank, how good she is! Charming Rachael! may thy bosom never be
wrung by the evils of this life of sorrows, or by the villany of this world's sons!

Thursday.--Mr. Ker and I set out to dine at Mr. Hood's on our way to England.

I am taken extremely ill with strong feverish symptoms, and take a servant of Mr. Hood's to
watch me all night--embittering remorse scares my fancy at the gloomy forebodings of death.--I
am determined to live for the future in such a manner as not to be scared at the approach of
death--I am sure I could meet him with indifference, but for "The something beyond the grave."--Mr.
Hood agrees to accompany us to England if we will wait till Sunday.

Friday.--I go with Mr. Hood to see a roup of an unfortunate farmer's stock--rigid economy,
and decent industry, do you preserve me from being the principal dramatis persona in such a
scene of horror.

Meet my good old friend Mr. Ainslie, who calls on Mr. Hood in the evening to take farewell
of my bardship. This day I feel myself warm with sentiments of gratitude to the Great Preserver
of men, who has kindly restored me to health and strength once more.

A pleasant walk with my young friend Douglas Ainslie, a sweet, modest, clever young fellow.

Sunday, 27th May.--Cross Tweed, and traverse the moors through a wild country till I reach
Alnwick--Alnwick Castle a seat of the Duke of Northumberland, furnished in a most princely
manner.--A Mr. Wilkin, agent of His Grace's, shows us the house and policies. Mr. Wilkin, a
discreet, sensible, ingenious man.

Monday.--Come, still through by-ways, to Warkworth, where we dine.--Hermitage and old castle.
Warkworth situated very picturesque, with Coquet Island, a small rocky spot, the seat of an
old monastery, facing it a little in the sea; and the small but romantic river Coquet, running
through it.--Sleep at Morpeth, a pleasant enough little town, and on next day to Newcastle.--Meet
with a very agreeable, sensible fellow, a Mr. Chattox, who shows us a great many civilities,
and who dines and sups with us.

Wednesday.--Left Newcastle early in the morning, and rode over a fine country to Hexham to
breakfast--from Hexham to Wardrue, the celebrated Spa, where we slept.

Thursday--Reach Longtown to dine, and part there with my good friends Messrs. Hood and Ker--A
hiring day in Longtown--I am uncommonly happy to see so many young folks enjoying life.--I
come to Carlisle.--(Meet a strange enough romantic adventure by the way, in falling in with
a girl and her married sister--the girl, after some overtures of gallantry on my side, sees
me a little cut with the bottle, and offers to take me in for a Gretna-Green affair.--I, not
being such a gull, as she imagines, make an appointment with her, by way of vive la bagatelle,
to hold a conference on it when we reach town.--I meet her in town and give her a brush of
caressing, and a bottle of cider; but finding herself un peu trompé in her man she sheers off.)
Next day I meet my good friend, Mr. Mitchell, and walk with him round the town and its environs,
and through his printing-works, &c.--four or five hundred people employed, many of them women
and children.--Dine with Mr. Mitchell, and leave Carlisle.--Come by the coast to Annan.--Overtaken
on the way by a curious old fish of a shoemaker, and miner, from Cumberland mines.

[Here the manuscript abruptly terminates.]

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 294: The author of that fine song, "The Maid that tends the Goats."]

[Footnote 295: "During the discourse Burns produced a neat impromptu, conveying an elegant
compliment to Miss Ainslie. Dr. B. had selected a text of Scripture that contained a heavy
denunciation against obstinate sinners. In the course of the sermon Burns observed the young
lady turning over the leaves of her Bible, with much earnestness, in search of the text. He
took out a slip of paper, and with a pencil wrote the following lines on it, which he immediately
presented to her.

Cromek.]

[Footnote 296: "This extraordinary woman then moved in a very humble walk of life:--the wife
of a common working gardener. She is still living, and, if I am rightly informed, her time
is principally occupied in her attentions to a little day-school, which not being sufficient
for her subsistence, she is obliged to solicit the charily of her benevolent neighbours. 'Ah,
who would love the lyre!'"--CROMEK.]

[Footnote 297: The entry made on this occasion in the Lodge-books of St Abb's is honorable to

     "The brethren of the mystic level."

"Eyemouth, 19th May, 1787.

"At a general encampment held this day, the following brethren were made royal arch masons,
viz. Robert Burns, from the Lodge of St. James's, Tarbolton, Ayrshire, and Robert Ainslie,
from the Lodge of St. Luke's, Edinburgh by James Carmichael, Wm. Grieve, Daniel Dow, John Clay,
Robert Grieve, &c. &c. Robert Ainslie paid one guinea admission dues; but on account of R.
Burns's remarkable poetical genius, the encampment unanimously agreed to admit him gratis,
and considered themselves honoured by having a man of such shining abilities for one of their
companions."

Extracted from the Minute Book of the Lodge by THOMAS BOWBILL]

       *       *       *       *       *

THE HIGHLAND TOUR.

25th August, 1787.

I leave Edinburgh for a northern tour, in company with my good friend Mr. Nicol, whose originality
of humour promises me much entertainment.--Linlithgow--a fertile improved country--West Lothian.
The old royal palace a tolerably fine, but melancholy ruin--sweetly situated on a small elevation,
by the brink of a loch. Shown the room where the beautiful, injured Mary Queen of Scots was
born--a pretty good old Gothic church. The infamous stool of repentance standing, in the old
Romish way, on a lofty situation.

What a poor pimping business is a Presbyterian place of worship; dirty, narrow, and squalid;
stuck in a corner of old popish grandeur such as Linlithgow, and much more, Melrose! Ceremony
and show, if judiciously thrown in, absolutely necessary for the bulk of mankind, both in religious
and civil matters.--Dine.--Go to my friend Smith's at Avon printfield--find nobody but Mrs.
Miller, an agreeable, sensible, modest, good body; as useful, but not so ornamental as Fielding's
Miss Western--not rigidly polite à la Français, but easy, hospitable, and housewifely.

An old lady from Paisley, a Mrs. Lawson, whom I promised to call for in Paisley--like old lady
W----, and still more like Mrs. C----, her conversation is pregnant with strong sense and just
remark, but like them, a certain air of self-importance and a duresse in the eye, seem to indicate,
as the Ayrshire wife observed of her cow, that "she had a mind o' her ain."

Pleasant view of Dunfermline and the rest of the fertile coast of Fife, as we go down to that
dirty, ugly place, Borrowstones--see a horse-race and call on a friend of Mr. Nicol's, a Bailie
Cowan, of whom I know too little to attempt his portrait--Come through the rich carse of Falkirk
to pass the night. Falkirk nothing remarkable except the tomb of Sir John the Graham, over
which, in the succession of time, four stones have been placed.--Camelon, the ancient metropolis
of the Picts, now a small village in the neighbourhood of Falkirk.--Cross the grand canal to
Carron.--Come past Larbert and admire a fine monument of cast-iron erected by Mr. Bruce, the
African traveller, to his wife.

Pass Dunipace, a place laid out with fine taste--a charming amphitheatre bounded by Denny village,
and pleasant seats down the way to Dunnipace.--The Carron running down the bosom of the whole
makes it one of the most charming little prospects I have seen.

Dine at Auchinbowie--Mr. Monro an excellent, worthy old man--Miss Monro an amiable, sensible,
sweet young woman, much resembling Mrs. Grierson. Come to Bannockburn--Shown the old house
where James III. finished so tragically his unfortunate life. The field of Bannockburn--the
hole where glorious Bruce set his standard. Here no Scot can pass uninterested.--I fancy to
myself that I see my gallant, heroic countrymen coming o'er the hill and down upon the plunderers
of their country, the murderers of their fathers; noble revenge, and just hate, glowing in
every vein, striding more and more eagerly as they approach the oppressive, insulting, blood-thirsty
foe! I see them meet in gloriously triumphant congratulation on the victorious field, exulting
in their heroic royal leader, and rescued liberty and independence! Come to Stirling.--Monday
go to Harvieston. Go to see Caudron linn, and Rumbling brig, and Diel's mill. Return in the
evening. Supper--Messrs. Doig, the schoolmaster; Bell; and Captain Forrester of the castle--Doig
a queerish figure, and something of a pedant--Bell a joyous fellow, who sings a good song.--Forrester
a merry, swearing kind of man, with a dash of the sodger.

Tuesday Morning.--Breakfast with Captain Forrester--Ochel Hills--Devon River--Forth and Tieth--Allan
River--Strathallan, a fine country, but little improved--Cross Earn to Crieff--Dine and go
to Arbruchil--cold reception at Arbruchil--a most romantically pleasant ride up Earn, by Auchtertyre
and Comrie to Arbruchil--Sup at Crieff.

Wednesday Morning.--Leave Crieff--Glen Amond--Amond river--Ossian's grave--Loch Fruoch--Glenquaich--Landlord
and landlady remarkable characters--Taymouth described in rhyme--Meet the Hon. Charles Townshend.

Thursday.--Come down Tay to Dunkeld--Glenlyon House--Lyon River--Druid's Temple--three circles
of stones--the outer-most sunk--the second has thirteen stones remaining--the innermost has
eight--two large detached ones like a gate, to the south-east--Say prayers in it--Pass Taybridge--Aberfeldy--described
in rhyme--Castle Menzies--Inver--Dr. Stewart--sup.

Ride up Tummel River to Blair--Fascally a beautiful romantic nest--wild grandeur of the pass
of Gilliecrankie--visit the gallant Lord Dundee's stone.

Blair--Sup with the Duchess--easy and happy from the manners of the family--confirmed in my
good opinion of my friend Walker.

Saturday.--Visit the scenes round Blair--fine, but spoiled with bad taste--Tilt and Gairie
rivers--Falls on the Tilt--Heather seat--Ride in company with Sir William Murray and Mr. Walker,
to Loch Tummel--meanderings of the Rannach, which runs through quondam Struan Robertson's estate
from Loch Rannach to Loch Tummel--Dine at Blair--Company--General Murray--Captain Murray, an
honest tar--Sir William Murray, an honest, worthy man, but tormented with the hypochondria--Mrs.
Graham, belle et aimable--Miss Catchcart--Mrs. Murray, a painter--Mrs. King--Duchess and fine
family, the Marquis, Lords James, Edward, and Robert--Ladies Charlotte, Emilia, and children
dance--Sup--Mr. Graham of Fintray.

Come up the Garrie--Falls of Bruar--Daldecairoch--Dalwhinnie--Dine--Snow on the hills 17 feet
deep--No corn from Loch-Gairie to Dalwhinnie--Cross the Spey, and come down the stream to Pitnin--Straths
rich--les environs picturesque--Craigow hill--Ruthven of Badenoch--Barracks--wild and magnificent--Rothemurche
on the other side, and Glenmore--Grant of Rothemurche's poetry--told me by the Duke of Gordon--Strathspey,
rich and romantic--Breakfast at Aviemore, a wild spot--dine at Sir James Grant's--Lady Grant,
a sweet, pleasant body--come through mist and darkness to Dulsie, to lie.

Tuesday.--Findhorn river--rocky banks--come on to Castle Cawdor, where Macbeth murdered King
Duncan--saw the bed in which King Duncan was stabbed--dine at Kilravock--Mrs. Rose, sen., a
true chieftain's wife--Fort George--Inverness.

Wednesday.--Loch Ness--Braes of Ness--General's hut--Falls of Fyers--Urquhart Castle and Strath.

Thursday.--Come over Culloden Muir--reflections on the field of battle--breakfast at Kilravock--old
Mrs. Rose, sterling sense, warm heart, strong passions, and honest pride, all in an uncommon
degree--Mrs. Rose, jun., a little milder than the mother--this perhaps owing to her being younger--Mr.
Grant, minister at Calder, resembles Mr. Scott at Inverleithing--Mrs. Rose and Mrs. Grant accompany
us to Kildrummie--two young ladies--Miss Rose, who sung two Gaelic songs, beautiful and lovely--Miss
Sophia Brodie, most agreeable and amiable--both of them gentle, mild; the sweetest creatures
on earth, and happiness be with them!--Dine at Nairn--fall in with a pleasant enough gentleman,
Dr. Stewart, who had been long abroad with his father in the forty-five; and Mr. Falconer,
a spare, irascible, warm-hearted Norland, and a nonjuror--Brodie-house to lie.

Friday--Forres--famous stone at Forres--Mr. Brodie tells me that the muir where Shakspeare
lays Macbeth's witch-meeting is still haunted--that the country folks won't pass it by night.

Come to Cullen to lie--hitherto the country is sadly poor and unimproven.

Come to Aberdeen--meet with Mr. Chalmers, printer, a facetious fellow--Mr. Ross a fine fellow,
like Professor Tytler,--Mr. Marshal one of the poetæ minores--Mr. Sheriffs, author of "Jamie
and Bess," a little decrepid body with some abilities--Bishop Skinner, a nonjuror, son of the
author of "Tullochgorum," a man whose mild, venerable manner is the most marked of any in so
young a man--Professor Gordon, a good-natured, jolly-looking professor--Aberdeen, a lazy town--near
Stonhive, the coast a good deal romantic--meet my relations--Robert Burns, writer, in Stonhive,
one of those who love fun, a gill, and a punning joke, and have not a bad heart--his wife a
sweet hospitable body, without any affectation of what is called town-breeding.

Tuesday.--Breakfast with Mr. Burns--lie at Lawrence Kirk--Album library--Mrs. ---- a jolly,
frank, sensible, love-inspiring widow--Howe of the Mearns, a rich, cultivated, but still unenclosed
country.

Wednesday.--Cross North Esk river and a rich country to Craigow.

       *       *       *       *       *

Go to Montrose, that finely-situated handsome town--breakfast at Muthie, and sail along that
wild rocky coast, and see the famous caverns, particularly the Gariepot--land and dine at Arbroath--stately
ruins of Arbroath Abbey--come to Dundee through a fertile country--Dundee a low-lying, but
pleasant town--old Steeple--Tayfrith--Broughty Castle, a finely situated ruin, jutting into
the Tay.

Friday.--Breakfast with the Miss Scotts--Miss Bess Scott like Mrs. Greenfield--my bardship
almost in love with her--come through the rich harvests and fine hedge-rows of the Carse of
Gowrie, along the romantic margin of the Grampian hills, to Perth--fine, fruitful, hilly, woody
country round Perth.

Saturday Morning.--Leave Perth--come up Strathearn to Endermay--fine, fruitful, cultivated
Strath--the scene of "Bessy Bell, and Mary Gray," near Perth--fine scenery on the banks of
the May--Mrs. Belcher, gawcie, frank, affable, fond of rural sports, hunting, &c.--Lie at Kinross--reflections
in a fit of the colic.

Sunday.--Pass through a cold, barren country to Queensferry--dine--cross the ferry and on to
Edinburgh.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 298: Another northern bard has sketched this eminent musician--

    "The blythe Strathspey springs up, reminding some
    Of nights when Gow's old arm, (nor old the tale,)
    Unceasing, save when reeking cans went round,
    Made heart and heel leap light as bounding roe.
    Alas! no more shall we behold that look
    So venerable, yet so blent with mirth,
    And festive joy sedate; that ancient garb
    Unvaried,--tartan hose, and bonnet blue!
    No more shall Beauty's partial eye draw forth
    The full intoxication of his strain.
    Mellifluous, strong, exuberantly rich!
    No more, amid the pauses of the dance,
    Shall he repeat those measures, that in days
    Of other years, could soothe a falling prince,
    And light his visage with a transient smile
    Of melancholy joy,--like autumn sun
    Gilding a sear tree with a passing beam!
    Or play to sportive children on the green
    Dancing at gloamin hour; or willing cheer
    With strains unbought, the shepherd's bridal day."

British Georgics, p. 81]

       *       *       *       *       *

THE POET'S ASSIGNMENT OF HIS WORKS.

Know all men by these presents that I Robert Burns of Mossgiel: whereas I intend to leave Scotland
and go abroad, and having acknowledged myself the father of a child named Elizabeth, begot
upon Elizabeth Paton in Largieside: and whereas Gilbert Burns in Mossgiel, my brother, has
become bound, and hereby binds and obliges himself to aliment, clothe, and educate my said
natural child in a suitable manner as if she was his own, in case her mother chuse to part
with her, and that until she arrive at the age of fifteen years. Therefore, and to enable the
said Gilbert Burns to make good his said engagement, wit ye me to have assigned, disponed,
conveyed and made over to, and in favours of, the said Gilbert Burns, his heirs, executors,
and assignees, who are always to be bound in like manner, with, himself, all and sundry goods,
gear, corns, cattle, horses, nolt, sheep, household furniture, and all other moveable effects
of whatever kind that I shall leave behind me on my departure from this Kingdom, after allowing
for my part of the conjunct debts due by the said Gilbert Burns and me as joint tacksmen of
the farm of Mossgiel. And particularly without prejudice of the foresaid generality, the profits
that may arise from the publication of my poems presently in the press. And also, I hereby
dispone and convey to him in trust for behoof of my said natural daughter, the copyright of
said poems in so far as I can dispose of the same by law, after she arrives at the above age
of fifteen years complete. Surrogating and substituting the said Gilbert Burns my brother and
his foresaids in my full right, title, room and place of the whole premises, with power to
him to intromit with, and dispose upon the same at pleasure, and in general to do every other
thing in the premises that I could have done myself before granting hereof, but always with
and under the conditions before expressed. And I oblige myself to warrant this disposition
and assignation from my own proper fact and deed allenarly. Consenting to the registration
hereof in the books of Council and Session, or any other Judges books competent, therein to
remain for preservation and constitute.

Proculars, &c. In witness whereof I have wrote and signed these presents, consisting of this
and the preceding page, on stamped paper, with my own hand, at the Mossgiel, the twenty-second
day of July, one thousand seven hundred and eighty-six years.

(Signed) ROBERT BURNS.

       *       *       *       *       *

Upon the twenty-fourth day of July, one thousand seven hundred and eighty-six years, I, William
Chalmer, Notary Publick, past to the Mercat Cross of Ayr head Burgh of the Sheriffdome thereof,
and thereat I made due and lawful intimation of the foregoing disposition and assignation to
his Majesties lieges, that they might not pretend ignorance thereof by reading the same over
in presence of a number of people assembled. Whereupon William Crooks, writer, in Ayr, as attorney
for the before designed Gilbert Burns, protested that the same was lawfully intimated, and
asked and took instruments in my hands. These things were done betwixt the hours of ten and
eleven forenoon, before and in presence of William M'Cubbin, and William Eaton, apprentices
to the Sheriff Clerk of Ayr, witnesses to the premises.

(Signed)

WILLIAM CHALMER, N.P.

WILLIAM M'CUBBIN, Witness.

WILLIAM EATON, Witness.

       *       *       *       *       *

GLOSSARY.

"The ch and gh have always the guttural sound. The sound of the English diphthong oo is commonly
spelled ou. The French u, a sound which often occurs in the Scottish language, is marked oo
or ui. The a, in genuine Scottish words, except when forming a diphthong, or followed by an
e mute after a single consonant, sounds generally like the broad English a in wall. The Scottish
diphthong ae always, and ea very often, sound like the French e masculine. The Scottish diphthong
ey sounds like the Latin ei."

A.

A', all.

Aback, away, aloof, backwards.

Abeigh, at a shy distance.

Aboon, above, up.

Abread, abroad, in sight, to publish.

Abreed, in breadth.

Ae, one.

Aff, off.

Aff-loof, off-hand, extempore, without premeditation.

Afore, before.

Aft, oft.

Aften, often.

Agley, off the right line, wrong, awry.

Aiblins, perhaps.

Ain, own.

Airn, iron, a tool of that metal, a mason's chisel.

Airles, earnest money.

Airl-penny, a silver penny given as erles or hiring money.

Airt, quarter of the heaven, point of the compass.

Agee, on one side.

Attour, moreover, beyond, besides.

Aith, an oath.

Aits, oats.

Aiver, an old horse.

Aizle, a hot cinder, an ember of wood.

Alake, alas.

Alane, alone.

Akwart, awkward, athwart.

Amaist, almost.

Amang, among.

An', and, if.

Ance, once

Ane, one.

Anent, over-against, concerning, about.

Anither, another.

Ase, ashes of wood, remains of a hearth fire.

Asteer, abroad, stirring in a lively manner.

Aqueesh, between.

Aught, possession, as "in a' my aught," in all my possession.

Auld, old.

Auld-farran', auld farrant, sagacious, prudent, cunning.

Ava, at all.

Awa, away, begone.

Awfu', awful.

Auld-shoon, old shoes literally, a discarded lover metaphorically.

Aumos, gift to a beggar.

Aumos-dish, a beggar's dish in which the aumos is received.

Awn, the beard of barley, oats, &c.

Awnie, bearded.

Ayont, beyond.

B.

Ba', ball.

Babie-clouts, child's first clothes.

Backets, ash-boards, as pieces of backet for removing ashes.

Backlins, comin', coming back, returning.

Back-yett, private gate.

Baide, endured, did stay.

Baggie, the belly.

Bairn, a child.

Bairn-time, a family of children, a brood.

Baith, both.

Ballets, Ballants, ballads.

Ban, to swear.

Bane, bone.

Bang, to beat, to strive, to excel.

Bannock, flat, round, soft cake.

Bardie, diminutive of bard.

Barefit, barefooted.

Barley-bree, barley-broo, blood of barley, malt liquor.

Barmie, of, or like barm, yeasty.

Batch, a crew, a gang.

Batts, botts.

Bauckie-bird, the bat.

Baudrons, a cat.

Bauld, bold.

Baws'nt, having a white stripe down the face.

Be, to let be, to give over, to cease.

Beets, boots.

Bear, barley.

Bearded-bear, barley with its bristly head.

Beastie, diminutive of beast.

Beet, beek, to add fuel to a fire, to bask.

Beld, bald.

Belyve, by and by, presently, quickly.

Ben, into the spence or parlour.

Benmost-bore, the remotest hole, the innermost recess.

Bethankit, grace after meat.

Beuk, a book.

Bicker, a kind of wooden dish, a short rapid race.

Bickering, careering, hurrying with quarrelsome intent.

Birnie, birnie ground is where thick heath has been burnt, leaving
          the birns, or unconsumed stalks, standing up sharp and stubley.

Bie, or bield, shelter, a sheltered place, the sunny nook of a wood.

Bien, wealthy, plentiful.

Big, to build.

Biggin, building, a house.

Biggit, built.

Bill, a bull.

Billie, a brother, a young fellow, a companion.

Bing, a heap of grain, potatoes, &c.

Birdie-cocks, young cocks, still belonging to the brood.

Birk, birch.

Birkie, a clever, a forward conceited fellow.

Birring, the noise of partridges when they rise.

Birses, bristles.

Bit, crisis, nick of time, place.

Bizz, a bustle, to buzz.

Black's the grun', as black as the ground.

Blastie, a shrivelled dwarf, a term of contempt, full of mischief.

Blastit, blasted.

Blate, bashful, sheepish.

Blather, bladder.

Blaud, a flat piece of anything, to slap.

Blaudin-shower, a heavy driving rain; a blauding signifies a beating.

Blaw, to blow, to boast; "blaw i' my lug," to flatter.

Bleerit, bedimmed, eyes hurt with weeping.

Bleer my een, dim my eyes.

Bleezing, bleeze, blazing, flame.

Blellum, idle talking fellow.

Blether, to talk idly.

Bleth'rin, talking idly.

Blink, a little while, a smiling look, to look kindly, to shine by fits.

Blinker, a term of contempt: it means, too, a lively engaging girl.

Blinkin', smirking, smiling with the eyes, looking lovingly.

Blirt and blearie, out-burst of grief, with wet eyes.

Blue-gown, one of those beggars who get annually, on the king's
             birth-day, a blue cloak or gown with a badge.

Bluid, blood.

Blype, a shred, a large piece.

Bobbit, the obeisance made by a lady.

Bock, to vomit, to gush intermittently.

Bocked, gushed, vomited.

Bodle, a copper coin of the value of two pennies Scots.

Bogie, a small morass.

Bonnie, or bonny, handsome, beautiful.

Bonnock, a kind of thick cake of bread, a small jannock or loaf made
           of oatmeal. See Bannock.

Boord, a board.

Bore, a hole in the wall, a cranny.

Boortree, the shrub elder, planted much of old in hedges of barn-yards
            and gardens.

Boost, behoved, must needs, wilfulness.

Botch, blotch, an angry tumour.

Bousing, drinking, making merry with liquor.

Bowk, body.

Bow-kail, cabbage.

Bow-hought, out-kneed, crooked at the knee joint.

Bowt, bowlt, bended, crooked.

Brackens, fern.

Brae, a declivity, a precipice, the slope of a hill.

Braid, broad.

Braik, an instrument for rough-dressing flax.

Brainge, to run rashly forward, to churn violently.

Braing't, "the horse braing't," plunged end fretted in the harness.

Brak, broke, became insolvent.

Branks, a kind of wooden curb for horses.

Brankie, gaudy.

Brash, a sudden illness.

Brats, coarse clothes, rags, &c.

Brattle, a short race, hurry, fury.

Braw, fine, handsome.

Brawlys, or brawlie, very well, finely, heartily, bravely.

Braxies, diseased sheep.

Breastie, diminutive of breast.

Breastit, did spring up or forward; the act of mounting a horse.

Brechame, a horse-collar.

Breckens, fern.

Breef, an invulnerable or irresistible spell.

Breeks, breeches.

Brent, bright, clear; "a brent brow," a brow high and smooth.

Brewin', brewing, gathering.

Bree, juice, liquid.

Brig, a bridge.

Brunstane, brimstone.

Brisket, the breast, the bosom.

Brither, a brother.

Brock, a badger.

Brogue, a hum, a trick.

Broo, broth, liquid, water.

Broose, broth, a race at country weddings; he who first reaches the
          bridegroom's house on returning from church wins the broose.

Browst, ale, as much malt liquor as is brewed at a time.

Brugh, a burgh.

Bruilsie, a broil, combustion.

Brunt, did burn, burnt.

Brust, to burst, burst.

Buchan-bullers, the boiling of the sea among the rocks on the coast
                  of Buchan.

Buckskin, an inhabitant of Virginia.

Buff our beef, thrash us soundly, give us a beating behind and before.

Buff and blue, the colours of the Whigs.

Buirdly, stout made, broad built.

Bum-clock, the humming beetle that flies in the summer evenings.

Bummin, humming as bees, buzzing.

Bummle, to blunder, a drone, an idle fellow.

Bummler, a blunderer, one whose noise is greater than his work.

Bunker, a window-seat.

Bure, did bear.

Burn, burnie, water, a rivulet, a small stream which is heard as it
                  runs.

Burniewin', burn this wind, the blacksmith.

Burr-thistle, the thistle of Scotland.

Buskit, dressed.

Buskit-nest, an ornamented residence.

Busle, a bustle.

But, bot, without.

But and ben, the country kitchen and parlour.

By himself, lunatic, distracted, beside himself.

Byke, a bee-hive, a wild bee-nest.

Byre, a cow-house, a sheep-pen.

C.

Ca', to call, to name, to drive.

Ca't, called, driven, calved.

Cadger, a carrier.

Cadie or caddie, a person, a young fellow, a public messenger.

Caff, chaff.

Caird, a tinker, a maker of horn spoons and teller of fortunes.

Cairn, a loose heap of stones, a rustic monument.

Calf-ward, a small enclosure for calves.

Calimanco, a certain kind of cotton cloth worn by ladies.

Callan, a boy.

Caller, fresh.

Callet, a loose woman, a follower of a camp.

Cannie, gentle, mild, dexterous.

Cannilie, dexterously, gently.

Cantie, or canty, cheerful, merry.

Cantraip, a charm, a spell.

Cap-stane, cape-stone, topmost stone of the building.

Car, a rustic cart with or without wheels.

Careerin', moving cheerfully.

Castock, the stalk of a cabbage.

Carl, an old man.

Carl-hemp, the male stalk of hemp, easily known by its superior strength
             and stature, and being without seed.

Carlin, a stout old woman.

Cartes, cards.

Caudron, a cauldron.

Cauk and keel, chalk and red clay.

Cauld, cold.

Caup, a wooden drinking vessel, a cup.

Cavie, a hen-coop.

Chanter, drone of a bagpipe.

Chap, a person, a fellow.

Chaup, a stroke, a blow.

Cheek for chow, close and united, brotherly, side by side.

Cheekit, cheeked.

Cheep, a chirp, to chirp.

Chiel, or cheal, a young fellow.

Chimla, or chimlie, a fire-grate, fire-place.

Chimla-lug, the fire-side.

Chirps, cries of a young bird.

Chittering, shivering, trembling.

Chockin, choking.

Chow, to chew; a quid of tobacco.

Chuckie, a brood-hen.

Chuffie, fat-faced.

Clachan, a small village about a church, a hamlet.

Claise, or claes, clothes.

Claith, cloth.

Claithing, clothing.

Clavers and havers, agreeable nonsense, to talk foolishly.

Clapper-claps, the clapper of a mill; it is now silenced.

Clap-clack, clapper of a mill.

Clartie, dirty, filthy.

Clarkit, wrote.

Clash, an idle tale.

Clatter, to tell little idle stories, an idle story.

Claught, snatched at, laid hold of.

Claut, to clean, to scrape.

Clauted, scraped.

Claw, to scratch.

Cleed, to clothe.

Cleek, hook, snatch.

Cleekin, a brood of chickens, or ducks.

Clegs, the gad flies.

Clinkin, "clinking down," sitting down hastily.

Clinkumbell, the church bell; he who rings it; a sort of beadle.

Clips, wool-shears.

Clishmaclaver, idle conversation.

Clock, to hatch, a beetle.

Clockin, hatching.

Cloot, the hoof of a cow, sheep, &c.

Clootie, a familiar name for the devil.

Clour, a bump, or swelling, after a blow.

Cloutin, repairing with cloth.

Cluds, clouds.

Clunk, the sound in setting down an empty bottle.

Coaxin, wheedling.

Coble, a fishing-boat.

Cod, a pillow.

Coft, bought.

Cog, and coggie, a wooden dish.

Coila, from Kyle, a district in Ayrshire, so called, saith tradition,
         from Coil, or Coilus, a Pictish monarch.

Collie, a general, and sometimes a particular name for country curs.

Collie-shangie, a quarrel among dogs, an Irish row.

Commaun, command.

Convoyed, accompanied lovingly.

Cool'd in her linens, cool'd in her death-shift.

Cood, the cud.

Coof, a blockhead, a ninny.

Cookit, appeared and disappeared by fits.

Cooser, a stallion.

Coost, did cast.

Coot, the ankle, a species of water-fowl.

Corbies, blood crows.

Cootie, a wooden dish, rough-legged.

Core, corps, party, clan.

Corn't, fed with oats.

Cotter, the inhabitant of a cot-house, or cottage.

Couthie, kind, loving.

Cove, a cave.

Cowe, to terrify, to keep under, to lop.

Cowp, to barter, to tumble over.

Cowp the cran, to tumble a full bucket or basket.

Cowpit, tumbled.

Cowrin, cowering.

Cowte, a colt.

Cosie, snug.

Crabbit, crabbed, fretful.

Creuks, a disease of horses.

Crack, conversation, to converse, to boast.

Crackin', cracked, conversing, conversed.

Craft, or croft, a field near a house, in old husbandry.

Craig, craigie, neck.

Craiks, cries or calls incessantly, a bird, the corn-rail.

Crambo-clink, or crambo-jingle, rhymes, doggerel verses.

Crank, the noise of an ungreased wheel--metaphorically inharmonious
         verse.

Crankous, fretful, captious.

Cranreuch, the hoar-frost, called in Nithsdale "frost-rhyme."

Crap, a crop, to crop.

Craw, a crow of a cock, a rook.

Creel, a basket, to have one's wits in a creel, to be crazed, to be
         fascinated.

Creshie, greasy.

Crood, or Croud, to coo as a dove.

Croon, a hollow and continued moan; to make a noise like the low roar
         of a bull; to hum a tune.

Crooning, humming.

Crouchie, crook-backed.

Crouse, cheerful, courageous.

Crously, cheerfully, courageously.

Crowdie, a composition of oatmeal, boiled water and butter; sometimes
           made from the broth of beef, mutton, &c. &c.

Crowdie time, breakfast time.

Crowlin, crawling, a deformed creeping thing.

Crummie's nicks, marks on the horns of a cow.

Crummock, Crummet, a cow with crooked horns.

Crummock driddle, walk slowly, leaning on a staff with a crooked head.

Crump-crumpin, hard and brittle, spoken of bread; frozen snow yielding
                 to the foot.

Crunt, a blow on the head with a cudgel.

Cuddle, to clasp and caress.

Cummock, a short staff, with a crooked head.

Curch, a covering for the head, a kerchief.

Curchie, a curtesy, female obeisance.

Curler, a player at a game on the ice, practised in Scotland, called
          curling.

Curlie, curled, whose hair falls naturally in ringlets.

Curling, a well-known game on the ice.

Curmurring, murmuring, a slight rumbling noise.

Curpin, the crupper, the rump.

Curple, the rear.

Cushat, the dove, or wood-pigeon.

Cutty, short, a spoon broken in the middle.

Cutty Stool, or, Creepie Chair, the seat of shame, stool of repentance.

D.

Daddie, a father.

Daffin, merriment, foolishness.

Daft, merry, giddy, foolish; Daft-buckie, mad fish.

Daimen, rare, now and then; Daimen icker, an ear of corn occasionally.

Dainty, pleasant, good-humored, agreeable, rare.

Dandered, wandered.

Darklins, darkling, without light.

Daud, to thrash, to abuse; Daudin-showers, rain urged by wind.

Daur, to dare; Daurt, dared.

Daurg, or Daurk, a day's labour.

Daur, daurna, dare, dare not.

Davoc, diminutive of Davie, as Davie is of David.

Dawd, a large piece.

Dawin, dawning of the day.

Dawtit, dawtet, fondled, caressed.

Dearies, diminutive of dears, sweethearts.

Dearthfu', dear, expensive.

Deave, to deafen.

Deil-ma-care, no matter for all that.

Deleerit, delirious.

Descrive, to describe, to perceive.

Deuks, ducks.

Dight, to wipe, to clean corn from chaff.

Ding, to worst, to push, to surpass, to excel.

Dink, neat, lady-like.

Dinna, do not.

Dirl, a slight tremulous stroke or pain, a tremulous motion.

Distain, stain.

Dizzen, a dozen.

Dochter, daughter.

Doited, stupefied, silly from age.

Dolt, stupefied, crazed; also a fool.

Donsie, unlucky, affectedly neat and trim, pettish.

Doodle, to dandle.

Dool, sorrow, to lament, to mourn.

Doos, doves, pigeons.

Dorty, saucy, nice.

Douse, or douce, sober, wise, prudent.

Doucely, soberly, prudently.

Dought, was or were able.

Doup, backside.

Doup-skelper, one that strikes the tail.

Dour and din, sullen and sallow

Douser, more prudent.

Dow, am or are able, can.

Dowff, pithless, wanting force.

Dowie, worn with grief, fatigue, &c., half asleep.

Downa, am or are not able, cannot.

Doylt, wearied, exhausted.

Dozen, stupified, the effects of age, to dozen, to benumb.

Drab, a young female beggar; to spot, to stain.

Drap, a drop, to drop.

Drapping, dropping.

Draunting, drawling, speaking with a sectarian tone.

Dreep, to ooze, to drop.

Dreigh, tedious, long about it, lingering.

Dribble, drizzling, trickling.

Driddle, the motion of one who tries to dance but moves the middle only.

Drift, a drove, a flight of fowls, snow moved by the wind.

Droddum, the breech.

Drone, part of a bagpipe, the chanter.

Droop rumpl't, that droops at the crupper.

Droukit, wet.

Drouth, thirst, drought.

Drucken, drunken.

Drumly, muddy.

Drummock or Drammock, meal and water mixed, raw.

Drunt, pet, sour humour.

Dub, a small pond, a hollow filled with rain water.

Duds, rags, clothes.

Duddie, ragged.

Dung-dang, worsted, pushed, stricken.

Dunted, throbbed, beaten.

Dush-dunsh, to push, or butt as a ram.

Dusht, overcome with superstitious fear, to drop down suddenly.

Dyvor, bankrupt, or about to become one.

E.

E'e, the eye.

Een, the eyes, the evening.

Eebree, the eyebrow.

Eenin', the evening.

Eerie, frighted, haunted, dreading spirits.

Eild, old age.

Elbuck, the elbow.

Eldritch, ghastly, frightful, elvish.

En', end.

Enbrugh, Edinburgh.

Eneugh, and aneuch, enough.

Especial, especially.

Ether-stone, stone formed by adders, an adder bead.

Ettle, to try, attempt, aim.

Eydent, diligent.

F.

Fa', fall, lot, to fall, fate.

Fa' that, to enjoy, to try, to inherit.

Faddom't, fathomed, measured with the extended arms.

Faes, foes.

Faem, foam of the sea.

Faiket, forgiven or excused, abated, a demand.

Fainness, gladness, overcome with joy.

Fairin', fairing, a present brought from a fair.

Fallow, fellow.

Fand, did find.

Farl, a cake of bread; third part of a cake.

Fash, trouble, care, to trouble, to care for.

Fasheous, troublesome.

Fasht, troubled.

Fasten e'en, Fasten's even.

Faught, fight.

Faugh, a single furrow, out of lea, fallow.

Fauld, and Fald, a fold for sheep, to fold.

Faut, fault.

Fawsont, decent, seemly.

Feal, loyal, steadfast.

Fearfu', fearful, frightful.

Fear't, affrighted.

Feat, neat, spruce, clever.

Fecht, to fight.

Fechtin', fighting.

Feck and fek, number, quantity.

Fecket, an under-waistcoat.

Feckfu', large, brawny, stout.

Feckless, puny, weak, silly.

Feckly, mostly.

Feg, a fig.

Fegs, faith, an exclamation.

Feide, feud, enmity.

Fell, keen, biting; the flesh immediately under the skin; level moor.

Felly, relentless.

Fend, Fen, to make a shift, contrive to live.

Ferlie or ferley, to wonder, a wonder, a term of contempt.

Fetch, to pull by fits.

Fetch't, pull'd intermittently.

Fey, strange; one marked for death, predestined.

Fidge, to fidget, fidgeting.

Fidgin-fain, tickled with pleasure.

Fient, fiend, a petty oath.

Fien ma care, the devil may care.

Fier, sound, healthy; a brother, a friend.

Fierrie, bustle, activity.

Fissle, to make a rustling noise, to fidget, bustle, fuss.

Fit, foot.

Fittie-lan, the nearer horse of the hindmost pair in the plough.

Fizz, to make a hissing noise, fuss, disturbance.

Flaffen, the motion of rags in the wind; of wings.

Flainen, flannel.

Flandrekins, foreign generals, soldiers of Flanders.

Flang, threw with violence.

Fleech, to supplicate in a flattering manner.

Fleechin, supplicating.

Fleesh, a fleece.

Fleg, a kick, a random blow, a fight.

Flether, to decoy by fair words.

Flethrin, flethers, flattering--smooth wheedling words.

Fley, to scare, to frighten.

Flichter, flichtering, to flutter as young nestlings do when their
                           dam approaches.

Flinders, shreds, broken pieces.

Flingin-tree, a piece of timber hung by way of partition between
                two horses in a stable; a flail.

Flisk, flisky, to fret at the yoke.

Flisket, fretted.

Flitter, to vibrate like the wings of small birds.

Flittering, fluttering, vibrating, moving tremulously from place to
              place.

Flunkie, a servant in livery.

Flyte, flyting, scold: flyting, scolding.

Foor, hastened.

Foord, a ford.

Forbears, forefathers.

Forbye, besides.

Forfairn, distressed, worn out, jaded, forlorn, destitute.

Forgather, to meet, to encounter with.

Forgie, to forgive.

Forinawed, worn out.

Forjesket, jaded with fatigue.

Fou', full, drunk.

Foughten, forfoughten, troubled, fatigued.

Foul-thief, the devil, the arch-fiend.

Fouth, plenty, enough, or more than enough.

Fow, a measure, a bushel: also a pitchfork.

Frae, from.

Freath, froth, the frothing of ale in the tankard.

Frien', friend.

Frosty-calker, the heels and front of a horse-shoe, turned sharply up
                 for riding on an icy road.

Fu', full.

Fud, the scut or tail of the hare, coney, &c.

Fuff, to blow intermittently.

Fu-hant, full-handed; said of one well to live in the world.

Funnie, full of merriment.

Fur-ahin, the hindmost horse on the right hand when ploughing.

Furder, further, succeed.

Furm, a form, a bench.

Fusionless, spiritless, without sap or soul.

Fyke, trifling cares, to be in a fuss about trifles.

Fyte, to soil, to dirty.

Fylt, soiled, dirtied.

G.

Gab, the mouth, to speak boldly or pertly.

Gaberlunzie, wallet-man, or tinker.

Gae, to go; gaed, went; gane or gaen, gone; gaun, going.

Gaet or gate, way, manner, road.

Gairs, parts of a lady's gown.

Gang, to go, to walk.

Gangrel, a wandering person.

Gar, to make, to force to; gar't, forced to.

Garten, a garter.

Gash, wise, sagacious, talkative, to converse.

Gatty, failing in body.

Gaucy, jolly, large, plump.

Gaud and gad, a rod or goad.

Gaudsman, one who drives the horses at the plough.

Gaun, going.

Gaunted, yawned, longed.

Gawkie, a thoughtless person, and something weak.

Gaylies, gylie, pretty well.

Gear, riches, goods of any kind.

Geck, to toss the head in wantonness or scorn.

Ged, a pike.

Gentles, great folks.

Genty, elegant.

Geordie, George, a guinea, called Geordie from the head of King George.

Get and geat, a child, a young one.

Ghaist, ghaistis, a ghost.

Gie, to give; gied, gave; gien, given.

Giftie, diminutive of gift.

Giglets, laughing maidens.

Gillie, gillock, diminutive of gill.

Gilpey, a half-grown, half-informed boy or girl, a romping lad, a hoyden.

Gimmer, an ewe two years old, a contemptuous term for a woman.

Gin, if, against.

Gipsey, a young girl.

Girdle, a round iron plate on which oat-cake is fired.

Girn, to grin, to twist the features in rage, agony, &c.; grinning.

Gizz, a periwig, the face.

Glaikit, inattentive, foolish.

Glaive, a sword.

Glaizie, glittering, smooth, like glass.

Glaumed, grasped, snatched at eagerly.

Girran, a poutherie girran, a little vigorous animal; a horse rather
          old, but yet active when heated.

Gled, a hawk.

Gleg, sharp, ready.

Gley, a squint, to squint; a-gley, off at the side, wrong.

Gleyde, an old horse.

Glib-gabbit, that speaks smoothly and readily.

Glieb o' lan', a portion of ground. The ground belonging to a manse is
                 called "the glieb," or portion.

Glint, glintin', to peep.

Glinted by, went brightly past.

Gloamin, the twilight.

Gloamin-shot, twilight musing; a shot in the twilight.

Glowr, to stare, to look; a stare, a look.

Glowran, amazed, looking suspiciously, gazing.

Glum, displeased.

Gor-cocks, the red-game, red-cock, or moor-cock.

Gowan, the flower of the daisy, dandelion, hawkweed, &c.

Gowany, covered with daisies.

Goavan, walking as if blind, or without an aim.

Gowd, gold.

Gowl, to howl.

Gowff, a fool; the game of golf, to strike, as the bat does the ball
         at golf.

Gowk, term of contempt, the cuckoo.

Grane or grain, a groan, to groan; graining, groaning.

Graip, a pronged instrument for cleaning cowhouses.

Graith, accoutrements, furniture, dress.

Grannie, grandmother.

Grape, to grope; grapet, groped.

Great, grit, intimate, familiar.

Gree, to agree; to bear the gree, to be decidedly victor; gree't,
        agreed.

Green-graff, green grave,

Gruesome, loathsomely, grim.

Greet, to shed tears, to weep; greetin', weeping.

Grey-neck-quill, a quill unfit for a pen.

Griens, longs, desires.

Grieves, stewards.

Grippit, seized.

Groanin-Maut, drink for the cummers at a lying-in.

Groat, to get the whistle of one's groat; to play a losing game, to
         feel the consequences of one's folly.

Groset, a gooseberry.

Grumph, a grunt, to grunt.

Grumphie, Grumphin, a sow; the snorting of an angry pig.

Grun', ground.

Grunstone, a grindstone.

Gruntle, the phiz, the snout, a grunting noise.

Grunzie, a mouth which pokes out like that of a pig.

Grushie, thick, of thriving growth.

Gude, guid, guids, the Supreme Being, good, goods.

Gude auld-has-been, was once excellent.

Guid-mornin', good-morrow.

Guid-e'en, good evening.

Guidfather and guidmother, father-in-law, and mother-in-law.

Guidman and guidwife, the master and mistress of the house;
                          young guidman, a man newly married.

Gully or Gullie, a large knife.

Gulravage, joyous mischief.

Gumlie, muddy.

Gumption, discernment, knowledge, talent.

Gusty, gustfu', tasteful.

Gut-scraper, a fiddler.

Gutcher, grandsire.

H.

Ha', hall.

Ha' Bible, the great Bible that lies in the hall.

Haddin', house, home, dwelling-place, a possession.

Hae, to have, to accept.

Haen, had, (the participle of hae); haven.

Haet, fient haet, a petty oath of negation; nothing.

Haffet, the temple, the side of the head.

Hafflins, nearly half, partly, not fully grown.

Hag, a gulf in mosses and moors, moss-ground.

Haggis, a kind of pudding, boiled in the stomach of a cow, or sheep.

Hain, to spare, to save, to lay out at interest.

Hain'd, spared; hain'd gear, hoarded money.

Hairst, harvest

Haith, petty oath.

Haivers, nonsense, speaking without thought.

Hal', or hald, an abiding place.

Hale, or haill, whole, tight, healthy.

Hallan, a particular partition-wall in a cottage, or more properly a
          seat of turf at the outside.

Hallowmass, Hallow-eve, 31st October.

Haly, holy; "haly-pool," holy well with healing properties.

Hame, home.

Hammered, the noise of feet like the din of hammers.

Han's breed, hand's breadth.

Hanks, thread as it comes from the measuring reel, quantities, &c.

Hansel-throne, throne when first occupied by a king.

Hap, an outer garment, mantle, plaid, &c.; to wrap, to cover, to hap.

Harigals, heart, liver, and lights of an animal.

Hap-shackled, when a fore and hind foot of a ram are fastened together
                to prevent leaping he is said to be hap-shackled. A wife
                is called "the kirk's hap-shackle."

Happer, a hopper, the hopper of a mill.

Happing, hopping.

Hap-step-an'-loup, hop, step, and leap.

Harkit, hearkened.

Harn, very coarse linen.

Hash, a fellow who knows not how to act with propriety.

Hastit, hastened.

Haud, to hold.

Haughs, low-lying, rich land, valleys.

Haurl, to drag, to pull violently.

Haurlin, tearing off, pulling roughly.

Haver-meal, oatmeal.

Haveril, a half-witted person, half-witted, one who habitually talks
           in a foolish or incoherent manner.

Havins, good manners, decorum, good sense.

Hawkie, a cow, properly one with a white face.

Heapit, heaped.

Healsome healthful, wholesome.

Hearse, hoarse.

Heather, heath.

Hech, oh strange! an exclamation during heavy work.

Hecht, promised, to foretell something that is to be got or given,
         foretold, the thing foretold, offered.

Heckle, a board in which are fixed a number of sharp steel prongs
          upright for dressing hemp, flax, &c.

Hee balou, words used to soothe a child.

Heels-owre-gowdie, topsy-turvy, turned the bottom upwards.

Heeze, to elevate, to rise, to lift.

Hellim, the rudder or helm.

Herd, to tend flocks, one who tends flocks.

Herrin', a herring.

Herry, to plunder; most properly to plunder birds' nests.

Herryment, plundering, devastation.

Hersel-hirsel, a flock of sheep, also a herd of cattle of any sort.

Het, hot, heated.

Heugh, a crag, a ravine; coal-heugh, a coal-pit, lowin heugh,
         a blazing pit.

Hilch, hilchin', to halt, halting.

Hiney, honey.

Hing, to hang.

Hirple, to walk crazily, to walk lamely, to creep.

Histie, dry, chapt, barren.

Hitcht, a loop, made a knot.

Hizzie, huzzy, a young girl.

Hoddin, the motion of a husbandman riding on a cart-horse, humble.

Hoddin-gray, woollen cloth of a coarse quality, made by mingling one
               black fleece with a dozen white ones.

Hoggie, a two-year-old sheep.

Hog-score, a distance line in curling drawn across the rink. When a
             stone fails to cross it, a cry is raised of "A hog, a hog!"
             and it is removed.

Hog-shouther, a kind of horse-play by justling with the shoulder; to
                justle.

Hoodie-craw, a blood crow, corbie.

Hool, outer skin or case, a nutshell, a pea-husk.

Hoolie, slowly, leisurely.

Hoord, a hoard, to hoard.

Hoordit, hoarded.

Horn, a spoon made of horn.

Hornie, one of the many names of the devil.

Host, or hoast, to cough.

Hostin, coughing.

Hotch'd, turned  topsy-turvy, blended, ruined, moved.

Houghmagandie, loose behaviour.

Howlet, an owl.

Housie, diminutive of house.

Hove, hoved, to heave, to swell.

Howdie, a midwife.

Howe, hollow, a hollow or dell.

Howebackit, sunk in the back, spoken of a horse.

Howff, a house of resort.

Howk, to dig.

Howkit, digged.

Howkin', digging deep.

Hoy, hoy't, to urge, urged.

Hoyse, a pull upwards. "Hoyse a creel," to raise a basket; hence
         "hoisting creels."

Hoyte, to amble crazily.

Hughoc, diminutive of Hughie, as Hughie is of Hugh.

Hums and hankers, mumbles and seeks to do what he cannot perform.

Hunkers, kneeling and falling back on the hams.

Hurcheon, a hedgehog.

Hurdies, the loins, the crupper.

Hushion, a cushion, also a stocking wanting the foot.

Huchyalled, to move with a hilch.

I.

Icker, an ear of corn.

Ieroe, a great grandchild.

Ilk, or ilka, each, every.

Ill-deedie, mischievous.

Ill-willie, ill-natured, malicious, niggardly.

Ingine, genius, ingenuity.

Ingle, fire, fire-place.

Ingle-low, light from the fire, flame from the hearth.

I rede ye, I advise ye, I warn ye.

I'se, I shall or will.

Ither, other, one another.

J.

Jad, jade; also a familiar term among country folks for a giddy young
       girl.

Jauk, to dally, to trifle.

Jaukin', trifling, dallying.

Jauner, talking, and not always to the purpose.

Jaup, a jerk of water; to jerk, as agitated water.

Jaw, coarse raillery, to pour out, to shut, to jerk as water.

Jillet, a jilt, a giddy girl.

Jimp, to jump, slender in the waist, handsome.

Jink, to dodge, to turn a corner; a sudden turning, a corner.

Jink an' diddle, moving to music, motion of a fiddler's elbow.
                   Starting here and there with a tremulous movement.

Jinker, that turns quickly, a gay sprightly girl.

Jinkin', dodging, the quick motion of the bow on the fiddle.

Jirt, a jerk, the emission of water, to squirt.

Jocteleg, a kind of knife.

Jouk, to stoop, to bow the head, to conceal.

Jow, to jow, a verb, which includes both the swinging motion and
                 pealing sound of a large bell; also the undulation of
                 water.

Jundie, to justle, a push with the elbow.

K.

Kae, a daw.

Kail, colewort, a kind of broth.

Kailrunt, the stem of colewort.

Kain, fowls, &c., paid as rent by a farmer.

Kebars, rafters.

Kebbuck, a cheese.

Keckle, joyous cry; to cackle as a hen.

Keek, a keek, to peep.

Kelpies, a sort of mischievous water-spirit, said to haunt fords and
           ferries at night, especially in storms.

Ken, to know; ken'd or ken't, knew.

Kennin, a small matter.

Ket-Ketty, matted, a fleece of wool.

Kiaught, carking, anxiety, to be in a flutter.

Kilt, to truss up the clothes.

Kimmer, a young girl, a gossip.

Kin', kindred.

Kin', kind.

King's-hood, a certain part of the entrails of an ox.

Kintra, kintrie, country.

Kirn, the harvest supper, a churn.

Kirsen, to christen, to baptize.

Kist, a shop-counter.

Kitchen, anything that eats with bread, to serve for soup, gravy.

Kittle, to tickle, ticklish.

Kittling, a young cat. The ace of diamonds is called among rustics
            the kittlin's e'e.

Knaggie, like knags, or points of rocks.

Knappin-hammer, a hammer for breaking stones; knap, to strike or break.

Knurlin, crooked but strong, knotty.

Knowe, a small, round hillock, a knoll.

Kuittle, to cuddle; kuitlin, cuddling, fondling.

Kye, cows.

Kyle, a district in Ayrshire.

Kyte, the belly.

Kythe, to discover, to show one's self.

L.

Labour, thrash.

Laddie, diminutive of lad.

Laggen, the angle between the side and the bottom of a wooden dish.

Laigh, low.

Lairing, lairie, wading, and sinking in snow, mud &c., miry.

Laith, loath, impure.

Laithfu', bashful, sheepish, abstemious.

Lallans, Scottish dialect, Lowlands.

Lambie, diminutive of lamb.

Lammas moon, harvest-moon.

Lampit, kind of shell-fish, a limpet.

Lan', land, estate.

Lan'-afore, foremost horse in the plough.

Lan'-ahin, hindmost horse in the  plough.

Lane, lone; my lane, thy tune, &c., myself alone.

Lanely, lonely.

Lang, long; to think lang, to long, to weary.

Lap, did leap.

Late and air, late and early.

Lave, the rest, the remainder, the others.

Laverock, the lark.

Lawlan', lowland.

Lay my dead, attribute my death.

Leal, loyal, true, faithful.

Lear, learning, lore.

Lee-lang, live-long.

Leesome luve, happy, gladsome love.

Leeze me, a phrase of congratulatory endearment; I am happy in thee or
            proud of thee.

Leister, a three-pronged and barbed dart for striking fish.

Leugh, did laugh.

Leuk, a look, to look.

Libbet, castrated.

Lick, licket, beat, thrashen.

Lift, sky, firmament.

Lightly, sneeringly, to sneer at, to undervalue.

Lilt, a ballad, a tune, to sing.

Limmer, a kept mistress, a strumpet.

Limp't, limped, hobbled.

Link, to trip along; linkin, tripping along.

Linn, a waterfall, a cascade.

Lint, flax; lint i' the bell, flax in flower.

Lint-white, a linnet, flaxen.

Loan, the place of milking.

Loaning, lane.

Loof, the palm of the hand.

Loot, did let.

Looves, the plural of loof.

Losh man! rustic exclamation modified from Lord man.

Loun, a follow, a ragamuffin, a woman of easy virtue.

Loup, leap, startled with pain.

Louper-like, lan-louper, a stranger of a suspected character.

Lowe, a flame.

Lowin', flaming; lowin-drouth, burning desire for drink.

Lowrie, abbreviation of Lawrence.

Lowse, to loose.

Lowsed, unbound, loosed.

Lug, the ear.

Lug of the law, at the judgment-seat.

Lugget, having a handle.

Luggie, a small wooden dish with a handle.

Lum, the chimney; lum-head, chimney-top.

Lunch, a large piece of cheese, flesh, &c.

Lunt, a column of smoke, to smoke, to walk quickly.

Lyart, of a mixed colour, gray.

M.

Mae, and mair, more.

Maggot's-meat, food for the worms.

Mahoun, Satan.

Mailen, a farm.

Maist, most, almost.

Maistly, mostly, for the greater part.

Mak', to make; makin', making.

Mally, Molly, Mary.

Mang, among.

Manse, the house of the parish minister is called "the Manse."

Manteele, a mantle.

Mark, marks. This and several other nouns which in English require
        an s to form the plural, are in Scotch, like the words sheep,
        deer, the same in both numbers.

Mark, merk, a Scottish coin, value thirteen shillings and four-pence.

Marled, party-coloured.

Mar's year, the year 1715. Called Mar's year from the rebellion of
              Erskine, Earl of Mar.

Martial chuck, the soldier's camp-comrade, female companion.

Mashlum, mixed corn.

Mask, to mash, as malt, &c., to infuse.

Maskin-pot, teapot.

Maukin, a hare.

Maun, mauna, must, must not.

Maut, malt.

Mavis, the thrush.

Maw, to mow.

Mawin, mowing; maun, mowed; maw'd, mowed.

Mawn, a small basket, without a handle.

Meere, a mare.

Melancholious, mournful.

Melder, a load of corn, &c., sent to the mill to be ground.

Mell, to be intimate, to meddle, also a mallet for pounding barley in
        a stone trough.

Melvie, to soil with meal.

Men', to mend.

Mense, good manners, decorum.

Menseless, ill-bred, impudent.

Merle, the blackbird.

Messin, a small dog.

Middin, a dunghill.

Middin-creels, dung-baskets, panniers in which horses carry manure.

Midden-hole, a gutter at the bottom  of a dunghill.

Milkin-shiel a place where cows or ewes are brought to be milked.

Mim, prim, affectedly meek.

Mim-mou'd, gentle-mouthed.

Min', to remember.

Minawae, minuet.

Mind't, mind it, resolved, intending, remembered.

Minnie, mother, dam.

Mirk, dark.

Misca', to abuse, to call names; misca'd, abused.

Mischanter, accident.

Misleard, mischievous, unmannerly.

Misteuk, mistook.

Mither, mother.

Mixtie-maxtie, confusedly mixed, mish-mash.

Moistify, moistified, to moisten, to soak; moistened, soaked.

Mons-Meg, a large piece of ordnance, to be seen at the Castle of
            Edinburgh, composed of iron bars welded together and then
            hooped.

Mools, earth.

Mony, or monie, many.

Moop, to nibble as a sheep.

Moorlan, of or belonging to moors.

Morn, the next day, to-morrow.

Mou, the mouth.

Moudiwort, a mole.

Mousie, diminutive of mouse.

Muckle, or mickle, great, big, much.

Muses-stank, muses-rill, a stank, slow-flowing water.

Musie, diminutive of muse.

Muslin-kail, broth, composed simply of water, shelled barley, and
               greens; thin poor broth.

Mutchkin, an English pint.

Mysel, myself.

N.

Na', no, not, nor.

Nae, or na, no, not any.

Naething, or naithing, nothing.

Naig, a horse, a nag.

Nane, none.

Nappy, ale, to be tipsy.

Negleckit, neglected.

Neebor, a neighbour.

Neuk, nook.

Neist, next.

Nieve, neif, the fist

Nievefu', handful.

Niffer, an exchange, to barter.

Niger, a negro.

Nine-tailed cat, a hangman's whip.

Nit, a nut.

Norland, of or belonging to the north.

Notic't, noticed.

Nowte, black cattle.

O.

O', of.

O'ergang, overbearingness, to treat with indignity, literally to tread.

O'erlay, an upper cravat.

Ony, or onie, any.

Or, is often used for ere, before.

Orra-duddies, superfluous rags, old clothes.

O't, of it.

Ourie, drooping, shivering.

Oursel, oursels, ourselves.

Outlers, outliers; cattle unhoused.

Ower, owre, over.

Owre-hip, striking with a forehammer by bringing it with a swing over
            the hip.

Owsen, oxen.

Oxtered, carried or supported under the arm.

P.

Pack, intimate, familiar: twelve stone of wool.

Paidle, paidlen, to walk with difficulty, as if in water.

Painch, paunch.

Paitrick, partridge.

Pang, to cram.

Parle, courtship.

Parishen, parish.

Parritch, oatmeal pudding, a well-known Scotch drink.

Pat, did put, a pot.

Pattle, or pettle, a small spades to clean the plough.

Paughty, proud, haughty.

Pauky, cunning, sly.

Pay't, paid, beat.

Peat-reek, the smoke of burning turf, a bitter exhalation, whisky.

Pech, to fetch the breath shortly, as in an asthma.

Pechan, the crop, the stomach.

Pechin, respiring with difficulty.

Pennie, riches.

Pet, a domesticated sheep, &c., a favourite.

Pettle, to cherish.

Philabeg, the kilt.

Phraise, fair speeches, flattery, to flatter.

Phraisin, flattering.

Pibroch, a martial air.

Pickle, a small quantity, one grain of corn.

Pigmy-scraper, little fiddler; a term of contempt for a bad player.

Pint-stomp, a two-quart measure.

Pine, pain, uneasiness.

Pingle, a small pan for warming children's sops.

Plack, an old Scotch coin, the third part of an English penny.

Plackless, pennyless, without money.

Plaidie, diminutive of plaid.

Platie, diminutive of plate.

Plew, or pleugh, a plough.

Pliskie, a trick.

Plumrose, primrose.

Pock, a meal-bag.

Poind, to seize on cattle, or take the goods as the laws of Scotland
         allow, for rent, &c.

Poorteth, poverty.

Posie, a nosegay, a garland.

Pou, pou'd, to pull, pulled.

Pouk, to pluck.

Poussie, a hare or cat.

Pouse, to pluck with the hand.

Pout, a polt, a chick.

Pou't, did pull.

Poutherey, fiery, active.

Pouthery, like powder.

Pow, the head, the skull.

Pownie, a little horse, a pony.

Powther, or pouther, gunpowder.

Preclair, supereminent.

Preen, a pin.

Prent, printing, print.

Prie, to taste; prie'd, tasted.

Prief, proof.

Prig, to cheapen, to dispute; priggin, cheapening.

Primsie, demure, precise.

Propone, to lay down, to propose.

Pund, pund o' tow, pound, pound weight of the refuse of flax.

Pyet, a magpie.

Pyle, a pyle, o' caff, a single grain of chaff.

Pystle, epistle.

Q.

Quat, quit

Quak, the cry of a duck.

Quech, a drinking-cup made of wood with two handles.

Quey, a cow from one to two years old, a heifer.

Quines, queans.

Quakin, quaking.

R.

Ragweed, herb-ragwort.

Raible, to rattle, nonsense.

Rair, to roar.

Raize, to madden, to inflame.

Ramfeezled, fatigued, overpowered.

Rampin', raging.

Ramstam, thoughtless, forward.

Randie, a scolding sturdy beggar, a shrew.

Rantin', joyous.

Raploch, properly a coarse cloth, but used for coarse.

Rarely, excellently, very well.

Rash, a rush; rash-buss, a bush of rushes.

Ratton, a rat.

Raucle, rash, stout, fearless, reckless.

Raught, reached.

Raw, a row.

Rax, to stretch.

Ream, cream, to cream.

Reamin', brimful, frothing.

Reave, take by force.

Rebute, to repulse, rebuke.

Reck, to heed.

Rede, counsel, to counsel, to discourse.

Red-peats, burning turfs.

Red-wat-shod, walking in blood over the shoe-tops.

Red-wud, stark mad.

Ree, half drunk, fuddled; a ree yaud, a wild horse.

Reek, smoke.

Reekin', smoking.

Reekit, smoked, smoky.

Reestit, stood restive; stunted, withered.

Remead, remedy.

Requite, requited.

Restricked, restricted.

Rew, to smile, look affectionately, tenderly.

Rickles, shocks of corn, stooks.

Riddle, instrument for purifying corn.

Rief-randies, men who take the property of others, accompanied by
                violence and rude words.

Rig, a ridge.

Rin, to run, to melt; rinnin', running.

Rink, the course of the stones, a term in curling on ice.

Rip, a handful of unthreshed corn.

Ripples, pains in the back and loins, sounds which usher in death.

Ripplin-kame, instrument  for dressing flax.

Riskit, a noise like the tearing of roots.

Rockin', a denomination for a friendly visit. In former times young
           women met with their distaffs during the winter evenings, to
           sing, and spin, and be merry; these were called "rockings."

Roke, distaff.

Rood, stands likewise for the plural, roods.

Roon, a shred, the selvage of woollen cloth.

Roose, to praise, to commend.

Roun', round, in the circle of neighbourhood.

Roupet, hoarse, as with a cold.

Row, to roll, to rap, to roll as water.

Row't, rolled, wrapped.

Rowte, to low, to bellow.

Rowth, plenty.

Rowtin', lowing.

Rozet, rosin.

Rumble-gumption, rough commonsense.

Run-deils, downright devils.

Rung, a cudgel.

Runt, the stem of colewort or cabbage.

Runkled, wrinkled.

Ruth, a woman's name, the book so called, sorrow.

Ryke, reach.

S.

Sae, so.

Saft, soft.

Sair, to serve, a sore; sairie, sorrowful.

Sairly, sorely.

Sair't, served.

Sark, a shirt.

Sarkit, provided in shirts.

Saugh, willow.

Saugh-woodies, withies, made of willows, now supplanted by ropes
                          and chains.

Saul, soul.

Saumont, salmon.

Saunt, sauntet, saint; to varnish.

Saut, salt.

Saw, to sow.

Sawin', sowing.

Sax, six.

Scaud, to scald.

Scauld, to scold.

Scaur, apt to be scared; a precipitous bank of earth which the stream
         has washed red.

Scawl, scold.

Scone, a kind of bread.

Sconner, a loathing, to loath.

Scraich and Scriegh, to scream, as a hen or partridge.

Screed, to tear, a rent; screeding, tearing.

Scrieve, scrieven, to glide softly, gleesomely along.

Scrimp, to scant.

Scrimpet, scant, scanty.

Scroggie, covered with underwood, bushy.

Sculdudrey, fornication.

Seizin', seizing.

Sel, self; a body's sel', one's self alone.

Sell't, did sell.

Sen', to send.

Servan', servant.

Settlin', settling; to get a settlin', to be frightened into quietness.

Sets, sets off, goes away.

Shachlet-feet, ill-shaped.

Shair'd, a shred, a shard.

Shangan, a stick cleft at one end for pulling the tail of a dog, &c.,
           by way of mischief, or to frighten him away.

Shank-it, walk it; shanks, legs.

Shaul, shallow.

Shaver, a humorous wag, a barber.

Shavie, to do an ill turn.

Shaw, to show; a small wood in a hollow place.

Sheep-shank, to think one's self nae sheep-shank, to be conceited.

Sherra-muir, Sheriff-Muir, the famous battle of, 1715.

Sheugh, a ditch, a trench, a sluice.

Shiel, shealing, a shepherd's cottage.

Shill, shrill.

Shog, a shock, a push off at one side.

Shoo, ill to please, ill to fit.

Shool, a shovel.

Shoon, shoes.

Shore, to offer, to threaten.

Shor'd, half offered and threatened.

Shouther, the shoulder.

Shot, one traverse of the shuttle from side to side of the web.

Sic, such.

Sicker, sure, steady.

Sidelins, sideling, slanting.

Silken-snood, a fillet of silk, a token of virginity.

Siller, silver, money, white.

Sin, a son.

Sinsyne, since then.

Skaith, to damage, to injure, injury.

Skeigh, proud, nice, saucy, mettled.

Skeigh, shy, maiden coyness.

Skellum, to strike, to slap; to walk with a smart tripping step, a
           smart stroke.

Skelpi-limmer, a technical term in female scolding.

Skelpin, skelpit, striking, walking rapidly, literally striking the
                    ground.

Skinklin, thin, gauzy, scaltery.

Skirling, shrieking, crying.

Skirl, to cry, to shriek shrilly.

Skirl't, shrieked.

Sklent, slant, to run aslant, to deviate from truth.

Sklented, ran, or hit, in an oblique direction.

Skouth, vent, free action.

Skreigh, a scream, to scream, the first cry uttered by a child.

Skyte, a worthless fellow, to slide rapidly off.

Skyrin, party-coloured, the checks of the tartan.

Slae, sloe.

Slade, did slide.

Slap, a gate, a breach in a fence.

Slaw, slow.

Slee, sleest, sly, slyest.

Sleekit, sleek, sly.

Sliddery, slippery.

Slip-shod, smooth shod.

Sloken, quench, slake.

Slype, to fall over, as a wet furrow from the plough.

Slypet-o'er, fell over with a slow reluctant motion.

Sma', small.

Smeddum, dust, powder, mettle, sense, sagacity.

Smiddy, smithy.

Smirking, good-natured, winking.

Smoor, smoored, to smother, smothered.

Smoutie, smutty, obscene; smoutie phiz, sooty aspect.

Smytrie, a numerous collection of small individuals.

Snapper, mistake.

Snash, abuse, Billingsgate, impertinence.

Snaw, snow, to snow.

Snaw-broo, melted snow.

Snawie, snowy.

Snap, to lop, to cut off.

Sned-besoms, to cut brooms.

Sneeshin, snuff.

Sneeshin-mill, a snuff-box.

Snell and snelly, bitter, biting; snellest, bitterest.

Snick-drawing, trick, contriving.

Snick, the latchet of a door.

Snirt, snirtle, concealed laughter, to breathe the nostrils in a
                  displeased manner.

Snool, one whose spirit is broken with oppressive slavery; to submit
         tamely, to sneak.

Snoove, to go smoothly and constantly, to sneak.

Snowk, snowkit, to scent or snuff as a dog, scented, snuffed.

Sodger, a soldier.

Sonsie, having sweet engaging looks, lucky, jolly.

Soom, to swim.

Souk, to suck, to drink long and enduringly.

Souple, flexible, swift.

Soupled, suppled.

Souther, to solder.

Souter, a shoemaker.

Sowens, the fine flour remaining among the seeds, of oatmeal made
          into an agreeable pudding.

Sowp, a spoonful, a small quantity of anything liquid.

Sowth, to try over a tune with a low whistle.

Spae, to prophesy, to divine.

Spails, chips, splinters.

Spaul, a limb.

Spairge, to clash, to soil, as with mire.

Spates, sudden floods.

Spaviet, having the spavin.

Speat, a sweeping torrent after rain or thaw.

Speel, to climb.

Spence, the parlour of a farmhouse or cottage.

Spier, to ask, to inquire; spiert, inquired.

Spinnin-graith, wheel and roke and lint.

Splatter, to splutter, a splutter.

Spleughan, a tobacco-pouch.

Splore, a frolic, noise, riot.

Sprachled, scrambled.

Sprattle, to scramble.

Spreckled, spotted, speckled.

Spring, a quick air in music, a Scottish reel.

Sprit, spret, a tough-rooted plant something like rushes, jointed-leaved
                rush.

Sprittie, full of spirits.

Spunk, fire, mettle, wit, spark.

Spunkie, mettlesome, fiery; will o' the wisp, or ignis fatuus; the devil.

Spurtle, a stick used in making oatmeal pudding or porridge, a notable
           Scottish dish.

Squad, a crew or party, a squadron.

Squatter, to flutter in water, as a wild-duck, &c.

Squattle, to sprawl in the act of hiding.

Squeel, a scream, a screech, to scream.

Stacher, to stagger.

Stack, a rick of corn, hay, peats.

Staggie, a stag.

Staig, a two year-old horse.

Stalwart, stately, strong.

Stang, sting, stung.

Stan't, to stand; stan't, did stand.

Stane, stone.

Stank, did stink, a pool of standing water, slow-moving water.

Stap, stop, stave.

Stark, stout, potent.

Startle, to run as cattle stung by the gadfly.

Staukin, stalking, walking disdainfully, walking without an aim.

Staumrel, a blockhead, half-witted.

Staw, did steal, to surfeit.

Stech, to cram the belly.

Stechin, cramming.

Steek, to shut, a stitch.

Steer, to molest, to stir.

Steeve, firm, compacted.

Stell, a still.

Sten, to rear as a horse, to leap suddenly.

Stravagin, wandering without an aim.

Stents, tribute, dues of any kind.

Stey, steep; styest, steepest.

Stibble, stubble; stubble-rig, the reaper in harvest who takes
                                   the lead.

Stick-an'-stow, totally, altogether.

Stilt-stilts, a crutch; to limp, to halt; poles for crossing a river.

Stimpart, the eighth part of a Winchester bushel.

Stirk, a cow or bullock a year old.

Stock, a plant of colewort, cabbages.

Stockin', stocking; throwing the stockin', when the bride and
              bridegroom are put into bed, the former throws a stocking
              at random among the company, and the person whom it falls
              on is the next that will be married.

Stook, stooked, a shock of corn, made into shocks.

Stot, a young bull or ox.

Stound, sudden pang of the heart.

Stoup, or stowp, a kind of high narrow jug or dish with a handle
                     for holding liquids.

Stowre, dust, more particularly dust in motion; stowrie, dusty.

Stownlins, by stealth.

Stown, stolen.

Stoyte, the walking of a drunken man.

Straek, did strike.

Strae, straw; to die a fair strae death, to die in bed.

Straik, to stroke; straiket, stroked.

Strappen, tall, handsome, vigorous.

Strath, low alluvial land, a holm.

Straught, straight.

Streek, stretched, to stretch.

Striddle, to straddle.

Stroan, to spout, to piss.

Stroup, the spout.

Studdie, the anvil.

Stumpie, diminutive of stump; a grub pen.

Strunt, spirituous liquor of any kind; to walk sturdily, to be affronted.

Stuff, corn or pulse of any kind.

Sturt, trouble; to molest.

Startin, frighted.

Styme, a glimmer.

Sucker, sugar.

Sud, should.

Sugh, the continued rushing noise of wind or water.

Sumph, a pluckless fellow, with little heart or soul.

Suthron, Southern, an old name of the English.

Swaird, sword.

Swall'd, swelled.

Swank, stately, jolly.

Swankie, or swanker, a tight strapping young fellow or girl.

Swap, an exchange, to barter.

Swarfed, swooned.

Swat, did sweat.

Swatch, a sample.

Swats, drink, good ale, new ale or wort.

Sweer, lazy, averse; dead-sweer, extremely averse.

Swoor, swore, did swear.

Swinge, beat, to whip.

Swinke, to labour hard.

Swirlie, knaggy, full of knots.

Swirl, a curve, an eddying blast or pool, a knot in the wood.

Swith, get away.

Swither, to hesitate in choice, an irresolute wavering in choice.

Syebow, a thick-necked onion.

Syne, since, ago, then.

T.

Tackets, broad-headed nails for the heels of shoes.

Tae, a toe, three-taed, having three prongs.

Tak, to take; takin, taking.

Tangle, a sea-weed used as salad.

Tap, the top.

Tapetless, heedless, foolish.

Targe, targe them tightly, cross-question them severely.

Tarrow, to murmur at one's allowance.

Tarry-breeks, a sailor.

Tassie, a small measure for liquor.

Tauld, or tald, told.

Taupie, a foolish, thoughtless young person.

Tauted, or tautie, matted together (spoken of hair and wool).

Tawie, that allows itself peaceably to be handled (spoken of a cow,
         horse, &c.)

Teat, a small quantity.

Teethless bawtie, toothless cur.

Teethless gab, a mouth wanting the teeth, an expression of scorn.

Ten-hours-bite, a slight feed to the horse while in the yoke in the
                  forenoon.

Tent, a field pulpit, heed, caution; to take heed.

Tentie, heedful, cautious.

Tentless, heedless, careless.

Teugh, tough.

Thack, thatch; thack an' rape, clothing and necessaries.

Thae, these.

Thairms, small guts, fiddle-strings.

Thankit, thanked.

Theekit, thatched.

Thegither, together.

Themsel', themselves.

Thick, intimate, familiar.

Thigger, crowding, make a noise; a seeker of alms.

Thir, these.

Thirl, to thrill.

Thirled, thrilled, vibrated.

Thole, to suffer, to endure.

Thowe, a thaw, to thaw.

Thowless, slack, lazy.

Thrang, throng, busy, a crowd.

Thrapple, throat, windpipe.

Thraw, to sprain, to twist, to contradict.

Thrawin', twisting, &c.

Thrawn, sprained, twisted, contradicted, contradiction.

Threap, to maintain by dint of assertion.

Threshin', threshing; threshin'-tree, a flail.

Threteen, thirteen.

Thristle, thistle.

Through, to go on with, to make out.

Throuther, pell-mell, confusedly (through-ither).

Thrum, sound of a spinning-wheel in motion, the thread remaining at the
         end of a web.

Thud, to make a loud intermittent noise.

Thummart, foumart, polecat

Thumpit, thumped.

Thysel', thyself.

Till't, to it.

Timmer, timber.

Tine, to lose; tint, lost.

Tinkler, a tinker.

Tip, a ram.

Tippence, twopence, money.

Tirl, to make a slight noise, to uncover.

Tirlin', tirlet, uncovering.

Tither, the other.

Tittle, to whisper, to prate idly.

Tittlin, whispering.

Tocher, marriage portion; tocher bands, marriage bonds.

Tod, a fox. "Tod i' the fauld," fox in the fold.

Toddle, to totter, like the walk of a child; todlen-dow, toddling dove.

Too-fa', "Too fa' o' the nicht," when twilight darkens into night; a
            building added, a lean-to.

Toom, empty.

Toomed, emptied.

Toop, a ram.

Toss, a toast.

Tosie, warm and ruddy with warmth, good-looking, intoxicating.

Toun, a hamlet, a farmhouse.

Tout, the blast of a horn or trumpet, to blow a horn or trumpet.

Touzles, touzling, romping, ruffling the clothes.

Tow, a rope.

Towmond, a twelvemonth.

Towzie, rough, shaggy.

Toy, a very old fashion of female head-dress.

Toyte, to totter like old age.

Trams, barrow-trams, the handles of a barrow.

Transmugrified, transmigrated, metamorphosed.

Trashtrie, trash, rubbish.

Trickie, full of tricks.

Trig, spruce, neat.

Trimly, cleverly, excellently, in a seemly manner.

Trinle, trintle, the wheel of a barrow, to roll.

Trinklin, trickling.

Troggers, troggin', wandering merchants, goods to truck or dispose of.

Trow, to believe, to trust to.

Trowth, truth, a petty oath.

Trysts, appointments, love meetings, cattle shows.

Tumbler-wheels, wheels of a kind of low cart.

Tug, raw hide, of which in old time plough-traces were frequently made.

Tug or tow, either in leather or rope.

Tulzie, a quarrel, to quarrel, to fight.

Twa, two; twa-fald, twofold.

Twa-three, a few.

Twad, it would.

Twal, twelve; twalpennie worth, a small quantity, a pennyworth.
                      --N.B. One penny English is 12d. Scotch.

Twa faul, twofold.

Twin, to part.

Twistle, twisting, the art of making a rope.

Tyke, a dog.

Tysday, Tuesday.

U.

Unback'd filly, a young mare hitherto unsaddled.

Unco, strange, uncouth, very, very great, prodigious.

Uncos, news.

Unfauld, unfold.

Unkenn'd, unknown.

Unsicker, uncertain, wavering, insecure.

Unskaithed, undamaged, unhurt.

Upo', upon.

V.

Vap'rin, vapouring.

Vauntie, joyous, delight which cannot contain itself.

Vera, very.

Virl, a ring round a column, &c.

Vogie, vain.

W.

Wa', wall; wa's, walls.

Wabster, a weaver.

Wad, would, to bet, a bet, a pledge.

Wadna, would not.

Wadset, land on which money is lent, a mortgage.

Wae, woe; waefu', sorrowful, wailing.

Waefu'-woodie, hangman's rope.

Waesucks! Wae's me!, Alas! O the pity!

Wa' flower, wall-flower.

Waft, woof; the cross thread that goes from the shuttle through the web.

Waifs an' crocks, stray sheep and old ewes past breeding.

Wair, to lay out, to expend.

Wale, choice, to choose.

Wal'd, chose, chosen.

Walie, ample, large, jolly, also an exclamation of distress.

Wame, the belly.

Wamefu', a bellyful.

Wanchansie, unlucky.

Wanrest, wanrestfu', restless, unrestful.

Wark, work.

Wark-lume, a tool to work with.

Warld's-worm, a miser.

Warle, or warld, world.

Warlock, a wizard; warlock-knowe, a knoll where warlocks once held
                                      tryste.

Warly, worldly, eager in amassing wealth.

Warran', a warrant, to warrant.

Warsle, wrestle.

Warsl'd, or warst'led, wrestled.

Wastrie, prodigality.

Wat, wet; I wat--I wot--I know.

Wat, a man's upper dress; a sort of mantle.

Water-brose, brose made of meal and water simply, without the addition
               of milk, butter, &c.

Wattle, a twig, a wand.

Wauble, to swing, to reel.

Waukin, waking, watching.

Waukit, thickened as fullers do cloth.

Waukrife, not apt to sleep.

Waur, worse, to worst.

Waur't, worsted.

Wean, a child.

Weary-widdle, toilsome contest of life.

Weason, weasand, windpipe.

Weaven' the stocking, to knit stockings.

Weeder-clips, instrument for removing weeds.

Wee, little; wee things, little ones, wee bits, a small matter.

Weel, well; weelfare, welfare.

Weet, rain, wetness; to wet.

We'se, we shall.

Wha, who.

Whaizle, to wheeze.

Whalpit, whelped.

Whang, a leathorn thing, a piece of cheese, bread, &c.

Whare, where; whare'er, wherever.

Wheep, to fly nimbly, to jerk, penny-wheep, small-beer.

Whase, wha's, whose--who is.

What reck, nevertheless.

Whid, the motion of a hare running but not frightened.--a lie.

Whidden, running as a hare or coney.

Whigmeleeries, whims, fancies, crotchets.

Whilk, which.

Whingin', crying, complaining, fretting.

Whirligigums, useless ornaments, trifling appendages.

Whissle, a whistle, to whistle.

Whisht, silence; to hold one's whisht, to be silent.

Whisk, whisket, to sweep, to lash.

Whiskin' beard, a beard like the whiskers of a cat.

Whiskit, lashed, the motion of a horse's tail removing flies.

Whitter, a hearty draught of liquor.

Whittle, a knife.

Whunstane, a whinstone.

Wi', with.

Wick, to strike a stone in an oblique direction, a term in curling.

Widdifu, twisted like a withy, one who merits hanging.

Wiel, a small whirlpool.

Wifie-wifikie, a diminutive or endearing name for wife.

Wight, stout, enduring.

Willyart-glower, a bewildered dismayed stare.

Wimple-womplet, to meander, meandered, to enfold.

Wimplin, waving, meandering.

Win', to wind, to winnow.

Winnin'-thread, putting thread into hanks.

Win't, winded as a bottom of yarn.

Win', wind.

Win, live.

Winna, will not.

Winnock, a window.

Winsome, hearty, vaunted, gay.

Wintle, a staggering motion, to stagger, to reel.

Wiss, to wish.

Withouten, without.

Wizened, hide-bound, dried, shrunk.

Winze, a curse or imprecation.

Wonner, a wonder, a contemptuous appellation.

Woo', wool.

Woo, to court, to make love to.

Widdie, a rope, more properly one of withs or willows.

Woer-bobs, the garter knitted below the knee with a couple of loops.

Wordy, worthy.

Worset, worsted.

Wrack, to tease, to vex.

Wud, wild, mad; wud-mad, distracted.

Wumble, a wimble.

Wraith, a spirit, a ghost, an apparition  exactly like a living person,
          whose appearance is said to forbode the person's approaching
          death; also wrath.

Wrang, wrong, to wrong.

Wreeth, a drifted heap of snow.

Wyliecoat, a flannel vest.

Wyte, blame, to blame.

Y.

Ye, this pronoun is frequently used for thou.

Yearns, longs much.

Yealings, born in the same year, coevals.

Year, is used both for singular and plural, years.

Yell, barren, that gives no milk.

Yerk, to lash, to jerk.

Yerket, jerked, lashed.

Yestreen, yesternight.

Yett, a gate.

Yeuk's, itches.

Yill, ale.

Yird, yirded, earth, earthed, buried.

Yokin', yoking.

Yont, ayont, beyond.

Yirr, lively.

Yowe, an ewe.

Yowie, diminutive of yowe.

Yule, Christmas.

THE END.

