"Hallo! That's a lie," shouted the man with another strange wild laugh. "You've taken a mouthful
out of my flask; not taken it, certainly, but it went over your tongue all the same. Where
do you come from? The beast ain't your'n."

"Mr Neal's," answered I.

"See it is by the brand. But what brings you here from Mr Neal's? It's a good seventy mile
to his plantation, right across the prairie. Ain't stole the horse, have you?"

"Lost my way--four days--eaten nothing."

These words were all I could articulate. I was too weak to talk.

"Four days without eatin'," cried the man, with a laugh like the sharpening of a saw, "and
that in a Texas prairie, and with islands on all sides of you! Ha! I see how it is. You're
a gentleman--that's plain enough. I was a sort of one myself once. You thought our Texas prairies
was like the prairies in the States. Ha, ha! And so you didn't know how to help yourself. Did
you see no bees in the air, no strawberries on the earth?"

"Bees? Strawberries?" repeated I.

"Yes, bees, which live in the hollow trees. Out of twenty trees there's sure to be one full
of honey. So you saw no bees, eh? Perhaps you don't know the creturs when you see 'em. Ain't
altogether so big as wild-geese or turkeys. But you must know what strawberries are, and that
they don't grow upon the trees."

All this was spoken in the same sneering savage manner as before, with the speaker's head half
turned over his shoulder, while his features were distorted into a contemptuous grin.

"And if I had seen the bees, how was I to get at the honey without an axe?"

"How did you lose yourself?"

"My mustang--ran away"--

"I see. And you after him. You'd have done better to let him run. But what d'ye mean to do now?"

"I am weak--sick to death. I wish to get to the nearest house--an inn--anywhere where men are."

"Where men are," repeated the stranger, with his scornful smile. "Where men are," he muttered
again, taking a few steps on one side.

I was hardly able to turn my head, but there was something strange in the man's movement that
alarmed me; and, making a violent effort, I changed my position sufficiently to get him in
sight again. He had drawn a long knife from his girdle, which he clutched in one hand, while
he ran the fore finger of the other along its edge. I now for the first time got a full view
of his face, and the impression it made upon me was any thing but favourable. His countenance
was the wildest I had ever seen; his bloodshot eyes rolled like balls of fire in their sockets;
while his movements and manner were indicative of a violent inward struggle. He did not stand
still for three seconds together, but paced backwards and forwards with hurried irregular steps,
casting wild glances over his shoulder, his fingers playing all the while with the knife, with
the rapid and objectless movements of a maniac.

I felt convinced that I was the cause of the struggle visibly going on within him, that my
life or death was what he was deciding upon. But in the state I then was, death had no terror
for me. The image of my mother, sisters, and father, passed before my eyes. I gave one thought
to my peaceful happy home, and then looked upwards and prayed.

The man had walked off to some distance. I turned myself a little more round, and, as I did
so, I caught sight of the sane magnificent phenomenon which I had met with on the second day
of my wanderings. The colossal live oak rose in all its silvery splendour, at the distance
of a couple of miles. Whilst I was gazing at it, and reflecting on the strange ill luck that
had made me pass within so short a distance of the river without finding it, I saw my new acquaintance
approach a neighbouring cluster of trees, amongst which he disappeared.

After a short time I again perceived him coming towards me with a slow and staggering step.
As he drew near, I had an opportunity of examining his whole appearance. He was very tall and
lean, but large-boned, and apparently of great strength. His face, which had not been shaved
for several weeks, was so tanned by sun and weather, that he might have been taken for an Indian,
had not the beard proved his claim to white blood. But his eyes were what most struck me. There
was something so frightfully wild in their expression, a look of terror and desperation, like
that of a man whom all the furies of hell were hunting and persecuting. His hair hung in long
ragged locks over his forehead, cheeks, and neck, and round his head was bound a handkerchief,
on which were several stains of a brownish black colour. Spots of the same kind were visible
upon his leathern jacket, breeches, and mocassins; they were evidently blood stains. His hunting
knife, which was nearly two feet long, with a rude wooden handle, was now replaced in his girdle,
but in its stead he held a Kentucky rifle in his hand.

Although I did my utmost to assume an indifferent countenance, my features doubtless expressed
something of the repugnance and horror with which the man inspired me. He looked loweringly
at me for a moment from under his shaggy eyebrows.

"You don't seem to like the company you've got into," said he. "Do I look so very desperate,
then? Is it written so plainly on my face?"

"What should there be written upon your face?"

"What? What? Fools and children ask them questions."

"I will ask you none; but as a Christian, as my countryman, I beseech you"----

"Christian!" interrupted he, with a hollow laugh. "Countryman!" He struck the but of his rifle
hard upon the ground. "That is my countryman--my only friend!" he continued, as he examined
the flint and lock of his weapon. "That releases from all troubles; that's a true friend. Pooh!
perhaps it'll release you too--put you to rest."

These last words were uttered aside, and musingly.

"Put him to rest, as well as---- Pooh! One more or less--Perhaps it would drive away that cursed
spectre."

All this seemed to be spoken to his rifle.

"Will you swear not to betray me?" cried he to me. "Else, one touch"----

As he spoke, he brought the gun to his shoulder, the muzzle pointed full at my breast.

I felt no fear. I am sure my pulse did not give a throb the more for this menace. So deadly
weak and helpless as I lay, it was unnecessary to shoot me. The slightest blow from the but
of the rifle would have driven the last faint spark of life out of my exhausted body. I looked
calmly, indifferently even, into the muzzle of the piece.

"If you can answer it to your God, to your and my judge and creator, do your will."

My words, which from faintness I could scarcely render audible, had, nevertheless, a sudden
and startling effect upon the man. He trembled from head to foot, let the but of his gun fall
heavily to the ground, and gazed at me with open mouth and staring eyes.

"This one, too, comes with his God!" muttered he. "God! and your and my creator--and--judge."

He seemed hardly able to articulate these words, which were uttered by gasps and efforts, as
though something had been choking him.

"His and my--judge"--groaned he again. "Can there be a God, a creator and judge?"

As he stood thus muttering to himself, his eyes suddenly became fixed, and his features horribly
distorted.

"Do it not!" cried he, in a shrill tone of horror, that rang through my head. "It will bring
no blessin' with it. I am a dead man! God be merciful to me! My poor wife, my poor children!"

The rifle fell from his hands, and he smote his breast and forehead in a paroxysm of the wildest
fury. It was frightful to behold the conscience-stricken wretch, stamping madly about, and
casting glances of terror behind him, as though demons had been hunting him down. The foam
flew from his mouth, and I expected each moment to see him fall to the ground in a fit of epilepsy.
Gradually, however, he became more tranquil.

"D'ye see nothin' in my face?" said he in a hoarse whisper, suddenly pausing close to where I lay.

"What should I see?"

He came yet nearer.

"Look well at me--through me, if you can. D'ye see nothin' now?"

"I see nothing," replied I.

"Ah! I understand, you can see nothin'. Ain't in a spyin' humour, I calkilate. No, no, that
you ain't. After four days and nights fastin', one loses the fancy for many things. I've tried
it for two days myself. So, you are weak and faint, eh? But I needn't ask that, I reckon. You
look bad enough. Take another drop of whisky; it'll strengthen you. But wait till I mix it."

As he spoke, he stepped down to the edge of the river, and scooping up the water in the hollow
of his hand, filled his flask with it. Then returning to me, he poured a little into my mouth.

Even the bloodthirsty Indian appears less of a savage when engaged in a compassionate act,
and the wild desperado I had fallen in with, seemed softened and humanized by the service he
was rendering me. His voice sounded less harsh; his manner was calmer and milder.

"You wish to go to an inn?"

"For Heaven's sake, yes. These four days I have tasted nothing but a bit of tobacco."

"Can you spare a bit of that?"

"All I have."

I handed him my cigar case, and the roll of dulcissimus. He snatched the latter from me, and
bit into it with the furious eagerness of a wolf.

"Ah, the right sort this!" muttered he to himself. "Ah, young man, or old man--you're an old
man, ain't you? How old are you?"

"Two-and-twenty."

He shook his head doubtingly.

"Can hardly believe that. But four days in the prairie, and nothin' to eat. Well, it may be
so. But, stranger, if I had had this bit of tobacco only ten days ago--A bit of tobacco is
worth a deal sometimes. It might have saved a man's life!"

Again he groaned, and his accents became wild and unnatural.

"I say, stranger!" cried he in a threatening tone. "I say! D'ye see yonder live oak? D'ye see
it? It's the Patriarch, and a finer and mightier one you won't find in the prairies, I reckon.
D'ye see it?"

"I do see it."

"Ah! you see it," cried he fiercely. "And what is it to you? What have you to do with the Patriarch,
or with what lies under it? I reckon you had best not be too curious that way. If you dare
take a step under that tree."--He swore an oath too horrible to be repeated.

"There's a spectre there," cried he; "a spectre that would fright you to death. Better keep away."

"I will keep away," replied I. "I never thought of going near it. All I want is to get to the
nearest plantation or inn."

"Ah! true, man--the next inn. I'll show you the way to it. I will."

"You will save my life by so doing," said I, "and I shall be ever grateful to you as my deliverer."

"Deliverer!" repeated he, with a wild laugh. "Pooh! If you knew what sort of a deliverer--Pooh!
What's the use of savin' a life, when--yet I will--I will save yours, perhaps the cursed spectre
will leave me then. Will you not? Will you not?" cried he, suddenly changing his scornful mocking
tones to those of entreaty and supplication, and turning his face in the direction of the live
oak. Again his wildness of manner returned, and his eyes became fixed, as he gazed for some
moments at the gigantic tree. Then darting away, he disappeared among the trees, whence he
had fetched his rifle, and presently emerged again, leading a ready saddled horse with him.
He called to me to mount mine, but seeing that I was unable even to rise from the ground, he
stepped up to me, and with the greatest ease lifted me into the saddle with one hand, so light
had I become during my long fast. Then taking the end of my lasso, he got upon his own horse
and set off, leading my mustang after him.

We rode on for some time without exchanging a word. My guide kept up a sort of muttered soliloquy;
but as I was full ten paces in his rear, I could distinguish nothing of what he said. At times
he would raise his rifle to his shoulder then lower it again, and speak to it, sometimes caressingly,
sometimes in anger. More than once he turned his head, and cast keen searching glances at me,
as though to see whether I were watching him or not.

We had ridden more than an hour, and the strength which the whisky had given me was fast failing,
so that I expected each moment to fall from my horse, when suddenly I caught sight of a kind
of rude hedge, and almost immediately afterwards the wall of a small blockhouse became visible.
A faint cry of joy escaped me, and I endeavoured, but in vain, to give my horse the spur. My
guide turned round, fixed his wild eyes upon me, and spoke in a threatening tone.

"You are impatient, man! impatient, I see. You think now, perhaps"----

"I am dying," was all I could utter. In fact, my senses were leaving me from exhaustion, and
I really thought my last hour was come.

"Pooh! dyin'! One don't die so easy. And yet--d----n!--it might be true."

He sprang off his horse, and was just in time to catch me in his arms as I fell from the saddle.
A few drops of whisky, however, restored me to consciousness. My guide replaced me upon my
mustang, and after passing through a potato ground, a field of Indian corn, and a small grove
of peach-trees, we found ourselves at the door of the blockhouse.

I was so utterly helpless, that my strange companion was obliged to lift me off my horse, and
carry me into the dwelling. He sat me down upon a bench, passive and powerless as an infant.
Strange to say, however, I was never better able to observe all that passed around me, than
during the few hours of bodily debility that succeeded my immersion in the Jacinto. A blow
with a reed would have knocked me off my seat, but my mental faculties, instead of participating
in this weakness, seemed sharpened to an unusual degree of acuteness.

The blockhouse in which we now were, was of the poorest possible description; a mere log hut,
consisting of one room, that served as kitchen, sitting-room, and bedchamber. The door of rough
planks swung heavily upon two hooks that fitted into iron rings, and formed a clumsy substitute
for hinges; a wooden latch and heavy bar served to secure it; windows, properly speaking, there
were none, but in their stead a few holes covered with dirty oiled paper; the floor was of
clay, stamped hard and dry in the middle of the hut, but out of which, at the sides of the
room, a crop of rank grass was growing, a foot or more high. In one corner stood a clumsy bedstead,
in another a sort of table or counter, on which were half a dozen drinking glasses of various
sizes and patterns. The table consisted of four thick posts, firmly planted in the ground,
and on which were nailed three boards that had apparently belonged to some chest or case, for
they were partly painted, and there was a date, and the three first letters of a word upon
one of them. A shelf fixed against the side of the hut supported an earthen pot or two, and
three or four bottles, uncorked, and apparently empty; and from some wooden pegs wedged in
between the logs, hung suspended a few articles of wearing apparel of no very cleanly aspect.

Pacing up and down the hut with a kind of stealthy cat-like pace, was an individual, whose
unprepossessing exterior was in good keeping with the wretched appearance of this Texian shebeen
house. He was an undersized, stooping figure, red-haired, large mouthed, and possessed of small,
reddish, pig's eyes, which he seemed totally unable to raise from the ground, and the lowering,
hang-dog expression of which, corresponded fully with the treacherous, panther-like stealthiness
of his step and movements. Without greeting us either by word or look, this personage dived
into a dark corner of his tenement, brought out a full bottle, and placing it on the table
beside the glasses, resumed the monotonous sort of exercise in which he had been indulging
on our entrance.

My guide and deliverer said nothing while the tavern-keeper was getting out the bottle, although
he seemed to watch all his movements with a keen and suspicious eye. He now filled a large
glass of spirits, and tossed it off at a single draught. When he had done this, he spoke for
the first time.

"Johnny!"

Johnny made no answer.

"This gentleman has eaten nothing for four days."

"Indeed," replied Johnny, without looking up, or intermitting his sneaking, restless walk from
one corner of the room to the other.

"I said four days, d'ye hear? Four days. Bring him tea immediately, strong tea, and then make
some good beef soup. The tea must be ready directly, the soup in an hour at farthest, d'ye
understand? And then I want some whisky for myself, and a beefsteak and potatoes. Now, tell
all that to your Sambo."

Johnny did not seem to hear, but continued his walk, creeping along with noiseless step, and
each time that he turned, giving a sort of spring like a cat or a panther.

"I've money, Johnny," said my guide. "Money, man, d'ye hear?" And so saying, he produced a
tolerably full purse.

For the first time Johnny raised his head, gave an indefinable sort of glance at the purse,
and then springing forward, fixed his small, cunning eyes upon those of my guide, while a smile
of strange meaning spread over his repulsive features.

The two men stood for the space of a minute, staring at each other, without uttering a word.
An infernal grin distended Johnny's coarse mouth from ear to ear. My guide seemed to gasp for
breath.

"I've money," cried he at last, striking the but of his rifle violently on the ground. "D'ye
understand, Johnny? Money; and a rifle too, if needs be."

He stepped to the table and filled another glass of raw spirits, which disappeared like the
preceding one. While he drank, Johnny stole out of the room so softly that my companion was
only made aware of his departure by the noise of the wooden latch. He then came up to me, took
me in his arms without saying a word, and, carrying me to the bed, laid me gently down upon it.

"You make yourself at home," snarled Johnny, who just then came in again.

"Always do that, I reckon, when I'm in a tavern," answered my guide, quietly pouring out and
swallowing another glassful. "The gentleman shall have your bed to-day. You and Sambo may sleep
in the pigsty. You have none though, I believe?"

"Bob!" screamed Johnny furiously.

"That's my name--Bob Rock."

"For the present," hissed Johnny, with a sneer.

"The same as yours is Johnny Down," replied Bob in the same tone. "Pooh! Johnny, guess we know
one another?"

"Rayther calkilate we do," replied Johnny through his teeth.

"And have done many a day," laughed Bob. "You're the famous Bob from Sodoma in Georgia?"

"Sodoma in Alabama, Johnny. Sodoma lies in Alabama," said Bob, filling another glass. "Don't
you know that yet, you who were above a year in Columbus, doin' all sorts of dirty work?"

"Better hold your tongue, Bob," said Johnny, with a dangerous look at me.

"Pooh! Don't mind him, he won't talk, I'll answer for it. He's lost the taste for chatterin'
in the Jacinto prairie. But Sodoma," continued Bob, "is in Alabama, man! Columbus in Georgia!
They are parted by the Chatahoochie. Ah! that was a jolly life we led on the Chatahoochie.
But nothin' lasts in this world, as my old schoolmaster used to say. Pooh! They've druv the
Injuns a step further over the Mississippi now. But it was a glorious life--warn't it?"

Again he filled his glass and drank.

The information I gathered from this conversation as to the previous life and habits of these
two men, had nothing in it very satisfactory or reassuring for me. In the whole of the south-western
states there was no place that could boast of being the resort of so many outlaws and bad characters
as the town of Sodoma. It is situated, or was situated, at least, a few years previously to
the time I speak of, in Alabama, on Indian ground, and was the harbour of refuge for all the
murderers and outcasts from the western and south-western parts of the Union. Here, under Indian
government, they found shelter and security; and frightful were the crimes and cruelties perpetrated
at this place. Scarcely a day passed without an assassination, not secretly committed but in
broad sunlight. Bands of these wretches, armed with knives and rifles, used to cross the Chatahoochie,
and make inroads into Columbus; break into houses, rob, murder, ill-treat women, and then return
in triumph to their dens, laden with booty, and laughing at the laws. It was useless to think
of pursuing them, or of obtaining justice, for they were on Indian territory; and many of the
chiefs were in league with them. At length General Jackson and the government took it up. The
Indians were driven over the Mississippi, the outlaws and murderers fled, Sodoma itself disappeared;
and, released from its troublesome neighbours, Columbus is now as flourishing a state as any
in the west.

The recollections of their former life and exploits seemed highly interesting to the two comrades;
and their communications became more and more confidential. Johnny filled himself a glass,
and the conversation soon increased in animation. I could understand little of what they said,
for they spoke a sort of thieves' jargon. After a time, their voices sounded as a confused
hum in my ears, the objects in the room became gradually less distinct, and I fell asleep.

I was roused, not very gently, by a mulatto woman, who poured a spoonful of tea into my mouth
before I had well opened my eyes. She at first did not appear to be attending to me with any
great degree of good-will; but by the time she had given me half a dozen spoonsful her womanly
sympathies began to be awakened, and her manner became kinder. The tea did me an infinite deal
of good, and seemed to infuse new life into my veins. I finished the cup, and the mulatto laid
me down again on my pillow with far more gentleness than she had lifted me up.

"Gor! Gor!" cried she, "what poor young man! Berry weak. Him soon better. One hour, massa,
good soup."

"Soup! What do you want with soup?" grumbled Johnny.

"Him take soup. I cook it," screamed the woman.

"Worse for you if she don't, Johnny," said Bob.

Johnny muttered something in reply, but I did not distinguish what it was, for my eyes closed,
and I again fell asleep.

It seemed to me as if I had not been five minutes slumbering when the mulatto returned with
the soup. The tea had revived me, but this gave me strength; and when I had taken it I was
able to sit up in my bed.

While the woman was feeding me, Bob was eating his beefsteak. It was a piece of meat that might
have sufficed for six persons, but the man seemed as hungry as if he had eaten nothing for
three days. He cut off wedges half as big as his fist, swallowed them with ravenous eagerness,
and, instead of bread, bit into some unpeeled potatoes. All this was washed down with glass
after glass of raw spirits, which had the effect of wakening him up, and infusing a certain
degree of cheerfulness into his strange humour. He still spoke more to himself than to Johnny,
but his recollections seemed agreeable; he nodded self-approvingly, and sometimes laughed aloud.
At last he began to abuse Johnny for being, as he said, such a sneaking, cowardly fellow--such
a treacherous, false-hearted gallows-bird.

"It's true," said he, "I am gallows-bird enough myself, but then I'm open, and no man can say
I'm a-fear'd; but Johnny, Johnny, who"----

I do not know what he was about to say, for Johnny sprang towards him, and placed both hands
over his mouth, receiving in return a blow that knocked him as far as the door, through which
he retreated, cursing and grumbling.

I soon fell asleep again, and whilst in that state I had a confused sort of consciousness of
various noises in the room, loud words, blows, and shouting. Wearied as I was, however, I believe
no noise would have fully roused me, although hunger at last did.

When I opened my eyes I saw the mulatto woman sitting by my bed, and keeping off the mosquitoes.
She brought me the remainder of the soup, and promised, if I would sleep a couple of hours
more, to bring me a beefsteak. Before the two hours had elapsed I awoke, hungrier than ever.
After I had eaten all the beefsteak the woman would allow me, which was a very moderate quantity,
she brought me a beer-glass full of the most delicious punch I ever tasted. I asked her where
she had got the rum and lemons, and she told me that it was she who had bought them, as well
as a stock of coffee and tea; that Johnny was her partner, but that he had done nothing but
build the house, and badly built it was. She then began to abuse Johnny, and said he was a
gambler; and, worse still, that he had had plenty of money once, but had lost it all; that
she had first known him in Lower Natchez, but he had been obliged to run away from there in
the night to save his neck. Bob was no better, she said; on the contrary--and here she made
the gesture of cutting a man's throat--he was a very bad fellow, she added. He had got drunk
after his dinner, knocked Johnny down, and broken every thing. He was now lying asleep outside
the door; and Johnny had hidden himself somewhere.

How long she continued speaking I know not, for I again fell into a deep sleep, which this
time lasted six or seven hours.

I was awakened by a strong grasp laid upon my arm, which made me cry out, more, however, from
surprise than pain. Bob stood by my bedside; the traces of the preceding night's debauch plainly
written on his haggard countenance. His bloodshot eyes were inflamed and swollen, and rolled
with even more than their usual wildness; his mouth was open, and the jaws stiff and fixed;
he looked as if he had just come from committing some frightful deed. I could fancy the first
murderer to have worn such an aspect when gazing on the body of his slaughtered brother. I
shrank back, horror-struck at his appearance.

"In God's name, man, what do you want?"

He made no answer.

"You are in a fever. You've the ague!"

"Ay, a fever," groaned he, shivering as he spoke; "a fever, but not the one you mean; a fever,
young man, such as God keep you from ever having."

His whole frame shuddered while he uttered these words. There was a short pause.

"Curious that," continued he; "I've served more than one in the same way, but never thought
of it afterwards--was forgotten in less than no time. Got to pay the whole score at once, I
suppose. Can't rest a minute. In the open prairie it's the worst; there stands the old man,
so plain, with his silver beard, and the spectre just behind him."

His eyes rolled, he clenched his fists, and, striking his forehead furiously, rushed out of
the hut.

In a few minutes he returned, apparently more composed, and walked straight up to my bed.

"Stranger, you must do me a service," said he abruptly.

"Ten rather than one," replied I; "any thing that is in my power. Do I not owe you my life?"

"You're a gentleman, I see, and a Christian. You must come with me to the squire--the Alcalde."

"To the Alcalde, man! What must I go there for?"

"You'll see and hear when you get there; I've something to tell him--something for his own ear."

He drew a deep breath, and remained silent for a short time, gazing anxiously on all sides of him.

"Something," whispered he, "that nobody else must hear."

"But there's Johnny there. Why not take him?"

"Johnny!" cried he, with a scornful laugh; "Johnny! who's ten times worse than I am, bad as
I be; and bad I am to be sure, but yet open and above board, always, till this time; but Johnny!
he'd sell his own mother. He's a cowardly, sneakin', treacherous hound, is Johnny."

It was unnecessary to tell me this, for Johnny's character was written plainly enough upon
his countenance.

"But why do you want me to go to the Alcalde?"

"Why does one want people before the judge? He's a judge, man; a Mexican one certainly, but
chosen by us Americans; and an American himself, as you and I are."

"And how soon must I go?"

"Directly. I can't bear it any longer. It leaves me no peace. Not an hour's rest have I had
for the last eight days. When I go out into the prairie, the spectre stands before me and beckons
me on, and if I try to go another way, he comes behind me and drives me before him under the
Patriarch. I see him just as plainly as when he was alive, only paler and sadder. It seems
as if I could touch him with my hand. Even the bottle is no use now; neither rum, nor whisky,
nor brandy, rid me of him; it don't, by the 'tarnel.--Curious that! I got drunk yesterday--thought
to get rid of him; but he came in the night and drove me out. I was obliged to go. Wouldn't
let me sleep; was forced to go under the Patriarch."

"Under the Patriarch? the live oak?" cried I, in astonishment.--"Were you there in the night?"

"Ay, that was I," replied he, in the same horribly confidential tone; "and the spirit threatened
me, and said I will leave you no peace, Bob, till you go to the Alcalde and tell him"----

"Then I will go with you to the Alcalde, and that immediately," said I, raising myself up in
bed. I could not help pitying the poor fellow from my very soul.

"Where are you going?" croaked Johnny, who at this moment glided into the room. "Not a step
shall you stir till you've paid."

"Johnny," said Bob, seizing his less powerful companion by the shoulders, lifting him up like
a child, and then setting him down again with such force, that his knees cracked and bent under
him;--"Johnny, this gentlemen is my guest, d'ye understand? And here is the reckonin', and
mind yourself, Johnny--mind yourself, that's all."

Johnny crept into a corner like a flogged hound; the mulatto woman, however, did not seem disposed
to be so easily intimidated. Sticking her arms in her sides, she waddled boldly forward.

"You not take him 'way, Massa Bob?", screamed she. "Him stop here. Him berry weak--not able
for ride--not able for stand on him foot."

This was true enough. Strong as I had felt in bed, I could hardly stand upright when I got
out of it.

For a moment Bob seemed undecided, but only for one moment; then, stepping up to the mulatto,
he lifted her, fat and heavy as she was, in the same manner as he had done her partner, at
least a foot from the ground, and carried her screaming and struggling to the door, which he
kicked open. Then setting her down outside, "Silence!" roared he, "and some good strong tea
instead of your cursed chatter, and a fresh beefsteak instead of your stinking carcass. That
will strengthen the gentleman; so be quick about it, you old brown-skinned beast, you!"

I had slept in my clothes, and my toilet was consequently soon made, by the help of a bowl
of water and towel, which Bob made Johnny bring, and then ordered him to go and get our horses
ready.

A hearty breakfast of tea, butter, Indian corn bread, and steaks, increased my strength so
much, that I was able to mount my mustang. I had still pains in all my limbs, but we rode slowly;
the morning was bright, the air fresh and elastic, and I felt myself getting gradually better.
Our path led through the prairie; the river fringed with wood, on the one hand; the vast ocean
of grass, sprinkled with innumerable islands of trees, on the other. We saw abundance of game,
which sprang up under the very feet of our horses; but although Bob had his rifle, he made
no use of it. He muttered continually to himself, and seemed to be arranging what he should
say to the judge; for I heard him talking of things which I would just as soon not have listened
to, if I could have helped it. I was heartily glad when we at length reached the plantation
of the Alcalde.

It seemed a very considerable one, and the size and appearance of the framework house bespoke
comfort and every luxury. The building was surrounded by a group of China trees, which I should
have thought about ten years of age, but which I afterwards learned had not been planted half
that time, although they were already large enough to afford a very agreeable shade. Right
in front of the house rose a live oak, inferior in size to the one in the prairie, but still
of immense age and great beauty. To the left was some two hundred acres of cotton fields, extending
to the bank of the Jacinto, which at this spot made a sharp turn, and winding round the plantation,
enclosed it on three sides. Before the house lay the prairie, with its archipelago of islands,
and herds of grazing cattle and mustangs; to the right, more cotton fields; and in rear of
the dwelling, the negro cottages and out-buildings. There was a Sabbath-like stillness pervading
the whole scene, which seemed to strike even Bob. He paused as though in deep thought, and
allowed his hand to rest for a moment on the handle of the lattice door. Then with a sudden
and resolute jerk, bespeaking an equally sudden resolution, he pushed open the gate, and we
entered a garden planted with orange, banana, and citron trees, the path through which was
enclosed between palisades, and led to a sort of front court, with another lattice-work door,
beside which hung a bell. Upon ringing this, a negro appeared.

The black seemed to know Bob very well, for he nodded to him as to an old acquaintance, and
said the squire wanted him, and had asked after him several times. He then led the way to a
large parlour, very handsomely furnished for Texas, and in which we found the squire, or more
properly speaking, the Alcalde, sitting smoking his cigar. He had just breakfasted, and the
plates and dishes were still upon the table. He did not appear to be much given to compliments
or ceremony, or to partake at all of the Yankee failing of curiosity, for he answered our salutation
with a laconic "good-morning," and scarcely even looked at us. At the very first glance, it
was easy to see that he came from Tennessee or Virginia, the only provinces in which one finds
men of his gigantic mould. Even sitting, his head rose above those of the negro servants in
waiting. Nor was his height alone remarkable; he had the true West-Virginian build; the enormous
chest and shoulders, and herculean limbs, the massive features and sharp grey eyes; altogether
an exterior well calculated to impose on the rough backwoodsmen with whom he had to deal.

I was tired with my ride, and took a chair. The squire apparently did not deem me worthy of
notice, or else he reserved me for a later scrutiny; but he fixed a long, searching look upon
Bob, who remained standing, with his head sunk on his breast.

The judge at last broke silence.

"So here you are again, Bob. It's long since we've seen you, and I thought you had clean forgotten
us. Well, Bob, we shouldn't have broke our hearts, I reckon; for I hate gamblers--ay, that
I do--worse than skunks. It's a vile thing is play, and has ruined many a man in this world,
and the next. It's ruined you too, Bob."

Bob said nothing.

"You'd have been mighty useful here last week; there was plenty for you to do. My step-daughter
arrived; but as you weren't to be found, we had to send to Joel to shoot us a buck and a couple
of dozen snipes. Ah, Bob! one might still make a good citizen of you, if you'd only leave off
that cursed play!"

Bob still remained silent.

"Now go into the kitchen and get some breakfast."

Bob neither answered nor moved.

"D'ye hear? Go into the kitchen and get something to eat. And, Ptoly"--added he to the negro--"tell
Veny to give him a pint of rum."

"Don't want yer rum--ain't thirsty"--growled Bob.

"Very like, very like," said the judge sharply. "Reckon you've taken too much already. Look
as if you could swallow a wild cat, claws and all. And you," added he, turning to me--"What
the devil are you at, Ptoly? Don't you see the man wants his breakfast? Where's the coffee?
Or would you rather have tea?"

"Thank you, Alcalde, I have breakfasted already."

"Don't look as if. Ain't sick, are you? Where do you come from? What's happened to you? What
are you doing with Bob?"

He looked keenly and searchingly at me, and then again at Bob. My appearance was certainly
not very prepossessing, unshaven as I was, and with my clothes and linen soiled and torn. He
was evidently considering what could be the motive of our visit, and what had brought me into
Bob's society. The result of his physiognomical observations did not appear very favourable
either to me or my companion. I hastened to explain.

"You shall hear how it was, judge. I am indebted to Bob for my life."

"Your life! Indebted to Bob for your life!" repeated the judge, shaking his head incredulously.

I related how I had lost my way in the prairie; been carried into the Jacinto by my horse;
and how I should inevitably have been drowned but for Bob's aid.

"Indeed!" said the judge, when I had done speaking. "So, Bob saved your life! Well, I am glad
of it, Bob, very glad of it. Ah! if you could only keep away from that Johnny. I tell you,
Bob, Johnny will be the ruin of you. Better keep out of his way."

"It's too late," answered Bob.

"Don't know why it should be. Never too late to leave a debauched, sinful life; never, man!"

"Calkilate it is, though," replied Bob sullenly.

"You calculate it is?" said the judge, fixing his eyes on him. "And why do you calculate that?
Take a glass--Ptoly, a glass--and tell me, man, why should it be too late?"

"I ain't thirsty, squire," said Bob.

"Don't talk to me of your thirst; rum's not for thirst, but to strengthen the heart and nerves,
to drive away the blue devils. And a good thing it is, taken in moderation."

As he spoke he filled himself a glass, and drank half of it off. Bob shook his head.

"No rum for me, squire. I take no pleasure in it. I've something on my mind too heavy for rum
to wash away."

"And what is that, Bob? Come, let's hear what you've got to say. Or perhaps, you'd rather speak
to me alone. It's Sunday to-day, and no business ought to be done; but for once, and for you,
we'll make an exception."

"I brought the gentleman with me on purpose to witness what I had to say," answered Bob, taking
a cigar out of a box that stood on the table, and lighting it. He smoked a whiff or two, looked
thoughtfully at the judge, and then threw the cigar through the open window.

"It don't relish, squire; nothin' does now."

"Ah, Bob! if you'd leave off play and drink! They're your ruin; worse than ague or fever."

"It's no use," continued Bob, as if he did not hear the judge's remark; "it must out. I fo't
agin it, and thought to drive it away, but it can't be done. I've put a bit of lead into several
before now, but this one"----

"What's that?" cried the judge, chucking his cigar away, and looking sternly at Bob. "What's
up now? What are you saying about a bit of lead? None of your Sodoma and Lower Natchez tricks,
I hope? They won't do here. Don't understand such jokes."

"Pooh! they don't understand them a bit more in Natchez. If they did, I shouldn't be in Texas."

