III. Another blunder is made by Bracciolini with regard to the Italians and Romans, whom he
looks upon as blood relations, fellow countrymen, and possessors of a common capital in the
City of Rome. The Italians were not of the same descent as the Romans; and when they were all
brought under subjection to Rome in the first half of the third century before the Christian
aera, they beheld themselves inhabitants of towns, some of which were "municipia", (having
their own laws and magistracy, enjoying the privilege of voting in the comitia and soliciting
for public offices in Rome), others "coloni," (conquered places ruled over by poor Romans sent
to keep the inhabitants in subjection, having the jus Romanum, Latinum or Italicum, and ceasing
to be citizens of Rome); but in either set of towns the freedom and the sacred rites, the laws
of race and of government, the oaths and the guardianship of the Romans did not prevail; in
fact, the Italians had not the private rights of the Romans, and, therefore, in the language
of Livy, "they were not Roman citizens":--"non eos esse cives Romanos" (XXXIV. 42). Even the
privileges they enjoyed, such as immunity from the tribute raised in the Roman provinces, they
participated with other people, to whom the privilege had been accorded at various periods;--for
example,--the inhabitants of Laodicaea in Syria and of Beyroot in Phoenicia in the time of
Augustus;--of Tyre in the time of Severus;--of Antioch and the colony of Emissa in Upper Syria
in the time of Antonine, and of the colonies in Mauritania in the time of Titus. Tacitus, therefore,
as a Roman citizen, could not, by any possibility, have spoken of Rome being the "capital"
of Italy, and the Italians and Romans being people of the "same blood," as the author of the
Annals does when he writes: "non adeo aegram Italiam ut senatum suppeditare urbi suae nequiret;
suffecisse olim indigenas consanguineis populis" (XI. 23).

Nobody can understand those last five words; they have not been understood by the editors,
from Justus Lipsius and John Frederic Gronovius to Ernesti and Heinsius: they are capable of
more than one interpretation on account of the brevity and obscurity of the expression: I take
it that Bracciolini meant to imply that "in the ancient days the natives of Italy were quite
on a par with their 'brethren' in Rome," referring to the time when Romans, Latins, Etruscans
and Sabines stood on the same level; and in order to make out that Italians are still in the
same position, he adds: "there is no regretting what was anciently done in the State," "nec
poenitere veteris reipublicae."

An Italian of the fifteenth century, and a Florentine like Bracciolini, was glad to think,
and proud to say, nay, ready to believe, and to perpetuate the belief, that Italy and Rome
were identical, and the people consanguineous. We see how that pleasing delusion is still cherished
fondly by the living countrymen of Bracciolini: General Garibaldi, to wit, as well as the late
Joseph Mazzini, always looked upon the City of Rome as the "natural" capital of the Kingdom
of Italy; and we can easily believe, with what joy, pride, and confidence in its veracity the
gallant general or the devoted patriot, or any other Italian warrior or politician, would have
written, as Bracciolini wrote, the passage that we have quoted from the eleventh book of the
Annals.

IV. Nor is this the only time when Bracciolini does not maintain the character he assumes of
an ancient Roman. Narcissus, addressing Claudius in the eleventh book of the Annals says: "he
did not now mean to charge him"--that is, Silius, "with adulteries": "nec nunc adulteria objecturum"
(XI. 30). The language used seems to be very good language. A Roman historian, though, would
have written, "nec tunc": he could not have fallen into the error of failing to define time
in reference to himself when ascribing words to persons, any more than he could have failed
to vary the grammar to the accusative and infinitive. This elementary principle in Latin composition
is known, (as Lord Macaulay would have said,) "to every schoolboy." It was, certainly, well
known to such an accomplished "grammaticus" as Bracciolini; and for the very simple reason
that he adheres to it on all other occasions. His neglect of it in this instance is as strong
a proof as any that can be advanced, of his forgery: it makes that forgery the more obvious,
his slip not being accidental, but intentional: it is a deliberate violation of a rule that
must never be infringed; but as a countryman will sometimes run after a jack-a-lantern, till
running after it he finds himself in a burying-ground, so Bracciolini suffered himself to be
misled by his literary will-o'-the wisp,--alliteration: therefore he preferred writing "nec
nunc," instead of "nec tunc;" he therefore did that which was fatal to the work that he wanted
to palm off upon the world as the composition of a Roman, because a Roman would not have done
this, because he could not have done it. Definition of time in reference to himself was a necessity
of expression; he could not have sacrificed it for alliteration or any other trick of composition,
because he would not have dreamt of changing the time in ascribing words to persons. A modern,
on the other hand, would think that a mere trifle; left to himself, he would prefer it; he
would also know that his readers, being moderns like himself, would very much admire his composition
for the alliteration, whilst finding definition of time in reference to the position of the
speaker, much more agreeable to their ears, from their being accustomed to native historians
who wrote in the vernacular so defining time in all passages of the kind spontaneously, without
art or affectation, and not, as the ancient Romans, stiffly adopting the harsh, unnatural fashion
of defining it in reference to the position of the writer.

V. Our word "box" (apart from three technical meanings, one in botany, and two in mechanics),
has six different significations for things that have nothing in common with each other;--"a
slap on the chaps"; "a coffer or case for holding any materials"; "seats in a theatre"; "a
Christmas present"; "the case for the mariner's compass," and "the seat on a coach for the
driver." The Roman word, too, "locus," has just the same half-dozen meanings for things as
unconnected;--"a passage"; "a country"; "an argument"; "a place"; "a sentence," and "a seat."
In five instances "box" is a primitive noun; when it means "a blow on the cheek with the palm
of the hand," it is a verbal substantive. Exactly the same number of curiosities distinguished
"locus." In five instances it was masculine; when it signified "a seat in a theatre" it was
neuter; this was familiar to every Roman with a lettered education: unfortunately it slipped
the memory of Bracciolini when he wrote: An. XV. 32: "equitum Romanorum locos sedilibus plebis
anteposuit apud Circum." Tacitus would have written "loca."

VI. This brings me again to consider the Latin of Tacitus; no reasonable objection can be found
with it; severely captious critics who carp at trifles, and look at language microscopically,
point out errors; but they are not so great as the mistakes sometimes made by Cicero and Caesar,
Sallust and Livy. As a specimen of the objections we may give the following: a critic has been
bold enough to say that in the phrase "refractis palatiis foribus, ruere intus" (Hist. I. 35),
Tacitus uses the adverb for in a place instead of the adverb for to a place. "Intus" means
"into" or "within," just as well as "in," as may be seen from numerous instances in Cicero,
Caesar, Ovid, Plautus, and other writers of inferior reputation in prose and poetry. The phrase
then is: "having broken open the palace doors, to rush within." Where is the mistake?

Another objection raised is that Tacitus wrongly writes "quantum" as the corresponding adverb
to "tanto," "quantumque hebes ad sustinendum laborem miles, tanto ad discordias promptior"
(Hist. II. 99). It was a common custom among the Romans to use "quantum," if they preferred
it, to "quanto," and to follow it with "tanto": at any rate it occurs in Livy twice, if not
oftener: quantum augebatur, tanto majore (V. 10);--quantum laxaverat, tanto magis (XXXII. 5).
The objections to the grammar of Tacitus are, as a rule, all on a par with these two; it is
not, however, without some pleasurable feeling that one comes across charges made against him
of using incorrect forms of speech, were it only from perceiving how extremely happy the fault-finders
seem to be in having such an opportunity of gratifying their natural malice.

VII. Vossius, the Canon of Canterbury in the seventeenth century, adopts an entirely different
tone in his agreeable treatise on the Roman historians--"De Historicis Latinis." Commenting
on the statement made by Alciati and Emilio Ferretti that Tacitus wrote bad Latin, he bursts
into an exclamation that may be considered rather uncourteous when applied to His Eminence
a Cardinal and to an eminent Jurisconsult, that they were both silly and absurd: "they say,"
exclaims Gerardus Johannes, "that he did not write Latin properly: how silly is this! how absurd!"--"aiunt,
eum non Latine satis scribere: quam, hoc insubidum! quam insulsum!" (I. 30). Perhaps Vossius
was of opinion that if Tacitus wrote incorrectly, it must be upon the principle alleged by
Quintilian that "one kind of expression is grammatical, another kind Latin," "aliud esse grammatice,
aliud Latine loqui" (I. 16) after the accommodating fashion of that kind gentleman of etymology
and syntax, Valerius Probus, who in Aulus Gellius (XIII. 20. 1), said "has urbes" or "has urbis"
was the more correct according to metrical convenience when writing verses, or sonorous utterance
when delivering a set oration, which (without being Romans), we can easily understand, when
some of our poets rhyme "clear" to "idea," and a Clerkenwell Green orator prefers "obstropalous"
to "obstreperous." On some such grounds alone can excuse be found for some anomalous expressions
in the Annals; they are irreconcilable to the common rules of grammar; and what may seem strange
to the reader, though to me it is quite natural, the very same improprieties that occur in
the Annals of words and phrases not according with the established principles of writing occur
also in the acknowledged works of Bracciolini.

VIII. (a). When the Romans used the disjunctive particle, "nec," in the first branch of a negative
sentence, the same word (or its equivalent "neque,") was used in the subsequent branch of the
proposition. To couple "aut" with "nec" was a wrong correlative. The rule was so absolute that
I know but of one Roman writer who infringed it; and that was because he was a poet,--Ovid:

    "Nec piget, aut unquam stulte elegisse videbor."
    Her. XVI. 167.

    "Nec plus Atrides animi Menelaus habebit
    Quam Paris; aut armis anteferendus erit."
    Ib. 355-6.

It will be seen that the error, which is committed twice, occurs in the same poem, the XVIth
Heroic, or The Epistle of Helen to Paris, and under the same circumstance of pressure,--the
want of a word that began with a vowel,--because a word beginning with a consonant could not,
of course, follow the last foot of a dactyle ending with a consonant;--therefore Ovid took
refuge in what is called "poetical license," which is a gentle term for expressing departure
from syntax. Ovid never again committed the offence, quite sufficient to convince us that it
went against his grain to have so written in his XVIth Heroic; he knew that it was not elegant;
it was not, in fact, correct, nor in his style; and he would not have done it but that he was
cramped by verse. But why, uncramped by verse, the author of the Annals should have written:
"hortatur miles, ut hostem vagum, neque paci aut proelio paratum," instead of "neque proelia,"
is difficult to determine, except that he was desirous of imitating Bracciolini, who writes
in the letter to his friend Niccoli from which we have already quoted (Ep. II. 7): "muta igitur
propositum, et huc veni, neque te terreat longitudo itineris, aut hiemis asperitas." The imitation
is, besides, so very close that we find in both cases "neque" is preferred in the first clause
to the more usual form of "nec."

VIII. (An. XIII. 39). // (Ep. I. 1).

There is the altogether peculiar use of "pariter" in the sense of equality of association or
time--"gloriaeque pariter et praedae consulerent," just as in Bracciolini's Treatise "De Miseria
Humanae Conditionis" (Pog. Op. p. 121): "Victis postmodum pariter victoribus imperarunt." Three
things ought to be noticed: first, "pariter" is the equivalent of "simul"; secondly, it is
placed between the connected words; and, thirdly, the phrase ends with a four-syllabled verb--"imperarunt,"--"consulerent."
That this is not only Bracciolini's individual phraseology, but his stereotyped cast of expression,
is at once seen in the extraordinary sameness of the three things occurring when he again uses
it in the Annals: "vox pariter et spiritus raperentur" (An. XIII. 16).

IX. The composition of any writer can be easily detected from examining his affinities of language
as displayed not only in his use of words, but in his construction of sentences and combination
of words.

Nobody can read Tacitus, and not come to the conclusion that if any man ever wrote harmoniously,
it is he; but any one reading the Annals must come to the very opposite conclusion, that Bracciolini
is the very prince of rugged writers. By varying the accents, Tacitus manages to please the
ear even when ending sentences with ugly polysyllabic words, as (taking the instances from
the opening of his work): "suspectis sollicitis, adoptanti placebat" (I. 14); "deterius interpretantibus
tristior, habebatur" (ib.); "Lusitaniam, specie legationis, seposuit" (I. 13). This is the
unmusical way in which Bracciolini ends sentences with long words (taking the instances, also,
from the commencement of the forgery): "victores longinquam militiam aspernabantur" (An. XI.
10):--"potissimum exaequaebantur officia ceremoniarum" (An. XI. 11):--"Claudio dolore, injuriae
credebatur" (An. XII. 11). Almost the same ring and ruggedness are to be found in:--"marmorea
tabula epigramma referente" (Ruin. Urb. Rom. Descript. Op. Pog. p. 136); --"magistratus, officia,
imperia deferuntur" (Mis. Hum. Cond. I. Op. Pog. p. 102); "homines amplissimam materiam suppeditarunt"
(De Nobil. Op. Pogg. p. 77).

X. Tacitus avoids, as much as the genius of his native tongue will permit, two words following
each other with the same terminations; Bracciolini is not only much given to this, but very
partial to a reduplication of sounds, as if the jingle, instead of being most disagreeable,
was excessively pleasant to the ear, as in his Letter describing the trial and death of Jerome
of Prague (Ep. I. 2): --"rerum plurimarum scientiam, eloquentiam"; and in the Annals (XI. 38)
"odii, gaudii, irae, tristitiae."

Bracciolini is fond of using prefixes that have no meaning, as in his Funeral Oration on the
death of his friend Niccoli: "moneta obsignari est coepta concipiebant" (Op. Pog. p. 278),
where he uses "obsignari" for "signari," "ob" being without meaning: so in the Annals: "testamentum
Acerroniae requiri, bonaque obsignari jubet" (XIV. 6).

Another peculiarity of Bracciolini's is (for alliterative purposes) the playing upon a single
letter that is repeated again and again at the beginning, in the middle, and, if the letter
will allow it, at the end of words. "P" will not permit of being used in Latin at the end of
words; but we find Bracciolini thus playing with it in the very first of his letters:--"projicit
eam personam sibi acceptiorem, cum illam multi petant porrectis manibus, atque ipse," &c. (Ep.
I. 1). But "m" does admit of being used at the end of words, and thus we find him, with a friskiness
that the staid Tacitus would have in vain essayed to imitate, frolicking with it as a juggler
with balls; for the rapidity of the repetition can be compared only to the rapidity of conveyance
displayed by a conjuror when he receives into and passes out of his hands a number of balls
with which he is playing: "mox, ut omitteret maritum, emercatur, suum matrimonium promittens"
(An. XIII. 44).

I. We have pointed out in the preceding chapter some of the more glaring errors committed by
Bracciolini in style and syntax, customs and history, not with the view of showing that Niccoli
made any mistake when he recommended him to take the task in hand of forging the Annals; for
in no way did Niccoli overrate the merit of his friend. The Latin of Bracciolini, though not
equal in its elegance to that of his splendid successor, Poliziano, was, nevertheless, superior
to the Latin of any of his great contemporaries, none of whom, besides, had his versatility
and varied attainments nor his wisdom and philosophy. The world now knows, as his Florentine
friend then knew, that he had the requisite splendour of genius to undertake the daring task
of writing history as eminently as Tacitus, that is, with as powerful a conception, and as
superior an expression: he had already written nobly, sensibly, purely and simply; he had acquired
in the Court of Rome, and, what we may call, the Court of the Royal Prelate, Beaufort, the
necessary experience of public affairs and leading individuals, which fitted him to pass sovereign
judgment on great men and public events, and he was gifted with the acuteness, the understanding
and the prudence to lay down lessons of instruction for mankind.

We have seen with what modesty he approached the immortal production that was fated to lift
the name of Tacitus, where it was not before, above even those of Herodotus, Thucydides and
Xenophon, Caesar, Sallust and Livy: yet he hesitated, questioning much whether he could clothe
himself in the garb of an authoritative ancient speaking in lofty tones to the whole world
and to all mankind. He had, too, to take as his model a writer who had not his fluency, and
who is never great but when concise. This is the case with himself in the Annals, from his
striving to do what his prototype did; with this exception, that when he is great he is never
natural. In imitating this conciseness, he is the happiest instance of a writer illustrating
the Horatian adage of "striving to be brief, and becoming obscure":

   "Brevis esse laboro,
    Obscurus fio."
    De Arte Poet. 25-6:

ever and anon he falls into a graceless obscurity from compressing into a few words what he
ought to have said in a more expanded form: his great fault is that he outdoes Tacitus in conciseness:
hence he keeps his reader in ignorance of things which would have been known if he had only
more fully disclosed them.

