LAVENGRO The Scholar--The Gypsy--The Priest

By GEORGE BORROW WITH NOTES AND AN INTRODUCTION BY F. HINDES GROOME

VOLUME II

WITH A FRONTISPIECE

LONDON METHUEN & CO 36 ESSEX STREET, W.C. MDCCCCI

{Picture of Norwich Cathedral: p0.jpg}

 CHAPTER XLIX

Singular Personage--A Large Sum--Papa of Rome--We are Christians--Degenerate Armenians--Roots
of Ararat--Regular Features.

The Armenian!  I frequently saw this individual, availing myself of the permission which he
had given me to call upon him.  A truly singular personage was he, with his love of amassing
money, and his nationality so strong as to be akin to poetry.  Many an Armenian I have subsequently
known fond of money-getting, and not destitute of national spirit; but never another who, in
the midst of his schemes of lucre, was at all times willing to enter into a conversation on
the structure of the Haik language, or who ever offered me money to render into English the
fables of Z--- in the hope of astonishing the stock-jobbers of the Exchange with the wisdom
of the Haik Esop.

But he was fond of money, very fond.  Within a little time I had won his confidence to such
a degree that he informed me that the grand wish of his heart was to be possessed of two hundred
thousand pounds.

"I think you might satisfy yourself with the half," said I.  "One hundred thousand pounds is
a large sum."

"You are mistaken," said the Armenian, "a hundred thousand pounds is nothing.  My father left
me that or more at his death.  No, I shall never be satisfied with less than two."

"And what will you do with your riches," said I, "when you have obtained them?  Will you sit
down and muse upon them, or will you deposit them in a cellar, and go down once a day to stare
at them?  I have heard say that the fulfilment of one's wishes is invariably the precursor
of extreme misery, and forsooth I can scarcely conceive a more horrible state of existence
than to be without a hope or wish."

"It is bad enough, I dare say," said the Armenian; "it will, however, be time enough to think
of disposing of the money when I have procured it.  I still fall short by a vast sum of the
two hundred thousand pounds."

I had occasionally much conversation with him on the state and prospects of his nation, especially
of that part of it which still continued in the original country of the Haiks--Ararat and its
confines, which, it appeared, he had frequently visited.  He informed me that since the death
of the last Haik monarch, which occurred in the eleventh century, Armenia had been governed
both temporally and spiritually by certain personages called patriarchs; their temporal authority,
however, was much circumscribed by the Persian and Turk, especially the former, of whom the
Armenian spoke with much hatred, whilst their spiritual authority had at various times been
considerably undermined by the emissaries of the Papa of Rome, as the Armenian called him.

"The Papa of Rome sent his emissaries at an early period amongst us," said the Armenian, "seducing
the minds of weak-headed people, persuading them that the hillocks of Rome are higher than
the ridges of Ararat; that the Roman Papa has more to say in heaven than the Armenian patriarch,
and that puny Latin is a better language than nervous and sonorous Haik."

"They are both dialects," said I, "of the language of Mr. Petulengro, one of whose race I believe
to have been the original founder of Rome; but, with respect to religion, what are the chief
points of your faith? you are Christians, I believe."

"Yes," said the Armenian, "we are Christians in our way; we believe in God, the Holy Spirit,
and Saviour, though we are not prepared to admit that the last Personage is not only Himself,
but the other two.  We believe. . . " and then the Armenian told me of several things which
the Haiks believed or disbelieved.  "But what we find most hard of all to believe," said he,
"is that the man of the mole hills is entitled to our allegiance, he not being a Haik, or understanding
the Haik language."

"But, by your own confession," said I, "he has introduced a schism in your nation, and has
amongst you many that believe in him."

"It is true," said the Armenian, "that even on the confines of Ararat there are a great number
who consider that mountain to be lower than the hillocks of Rome; but the greater number of
degenerate Armenians are to be found amongst those who have wandered to the West; most of the
Haik Churches of the West consider Rome to be higher than Ararat--most of the Armenians of
this place hold that dogma; I, however, have always stood firm in the contrary opinion."  On
one occasion, when we had been conversing on the subject, the Armenian, who had been observing
my countenance for some time with much attention, remarked, "Perhaps, after all, you are right,
and you might employ your time to better advantage.  Literature is a fine thing, especially
Haik literature, but neither that nor any other would be likely to serve as a foundation to
a man's fortune: and to make a fortune should be the principal aim of every one's life; therefore
listen to me.  Accept a seat at the desk opposite to my Moldavian clerk, and receive the rudiments
of a merchant's education.  You shall be instructed in the Armenian way of doing business--I
think you would make an excellent merchant."

"Why do you think so?"

"Because you have something of the Armenian look."

"I understand you," said I; "you mean to say that I squint!"

"Not exactly," said the Armenian, "but there is certainly a kind of irregularity in your features.
One eye appears to me larger than the other--never mind, but rather rejoice; in that irregularity
consists your strength.  All people with regular features are fools; it is very hard for them,
you'll say, but there is no help: all we can do, who are not in such a predicament, is to pity
those who are.  Well! will you accept my offer?  No! you are a singular individual; but I must
not forget my own concerns.  I must now go forth, having an appointment by which I hope to
make money."

CHAPTER L

Wish Fulfilled--Extraordinary Figure--Bueno--Noah--The Two Faces--I Don't Blame Him--Too Fond
of Money--Were I an Armenian.

The fulfilment of the Armenian's grand wish was nearer at hand than either he or I had anticipated.
Partly owing to the success of a bold speculation, in which he had some time previously engaged,
and partly owing to the bequest of a large sum of money by one of his nation who died at this
period in Paris, he found himself in the possession of a fortune somewhat exceeding two hundred
thousand pounds; this fact he communicated to me one evening about an hour after the close
of 'Change; the hour at which I generally called, and at which I mostly found him at home.

"Well," said I, "and what do you intend to do next?"

"I scarcely know," said the Armenian.  "I was thinking of that when you came in.  I don't see
anything that I can do, save going on in my former course.  After all, I was perhaps too moderate
in making the possession of two hundred thousand pounds the summit of my ambition; there are
many individuals in this town who possess three times that sum, and are not yet satisfied.
No, I think I can do no better than pursue the old career; who knows but I may make the two
hundred thousand three or four?--there is already a surplus, which is an encouragement; however,
we will consider the matter over a goblet of wine; I have observed of late that you have become
partial to my Cyprus."

And it came to pass that, as we were seated over the Cyprus wine, we heard a knock at the door.
"Adelante!" cried the Armenian; whereupon the door opened, and in walked a somewhat extraordinary
figure--a man in a long loose tunic of a stuff striped with black and yellow; breeches of plush
velvet, silk stockings, and shoes with silver buckles.  On his head he wore a high-peaked hat;
he was tall, had a hooked nose, and in age was about fifty.

"Welcome, Rabbi Manasseh," said the Armenian.  "I know your knock--you are welcome; sit down."

"I am welcome," said Manasseh, sitting down; "he! he! he! you know my knock--I bring you money--bueno!"

There was something very peculiar in the sound of that bueno--I never forgot it.

Thereupon a conversation ensued between Rabbi Manasseh and the Armenian, in a language which
I knew to be Spanish, though a peculiar dialect.  It related to a mercantile transaction. 
The Rabbi sighed heavily as he delivered to the other a considerable sum of money.

"It is right," said the Armenian, handing a receipt.  "It is right; and I am quite satisfied."

"You are satisfied--you have taken money.  Bueno, I have nothing to say against your being
satisfied."

"Come, Rabbi," said the Armenian, "do not despond; it may be your turn next to take money;
in the meantime, can't you be persuaded to taste my Cyprus?"

"He! he! he! senor, you know I do not love wine.  I love Noah when he is himself; but, as Janus,
I love him not.  But you are merry; bueno, you have a right to be so."

"Excuse me," said I; "but does Noah ever appear as Janus?"

"He! he! he!" said the Rabbi, "he only appeared as Janus once--una vez quando estuvo borracho;
which means--"

"I understand," said I; "when he was . . . " and I drew the side of my right hand sharply across
my left wrist.

"Are you one of our people?" said the Rabbi.

"No," said I, "I am one of the Goyim; but I am only half enlightened.  Why should Noah be Janus
when he was in that state?"

"He! he! he! you must know that in Lasan akhades wine is janin."

"In Armenian, kini," said I; "in Welsh, gwin; Latin, vinum; but do you think that Janus and
janin are one?"

"Do I think?  Don't the commentators say so?  Does not Master Leo Abarbenel say so, in his
'Dialogues of Divine Love'?"

"But," said I, "I always thought that Janus was a god of the ancient Romans, who stood in a
temple open in time of war, and shut in time of peace; he was represented with two faces, which--which--"

"He! he! he!" said the Rabbi, rising from his seat; "he had two faces, had he?  And what did
those two faces typify?  You do not know; no, nor did the Romans who carved him with two faces
know why they did so; for they were only half enlightened, like you and the rest of the Goyim.
Yet they were right in carving him with two faces looking from each other--they were right,
though they knew not why; there was a tradition among them that the Janinoso had two faces,
but they knew not that one was for the world which was gone, and the other for the world before
him--for the drowned world, and for the present, as Master Leo Abarbenel says in his 'Dialogues
of Divine Love.'  He! he! he!" continued the Rabbi, who had by this time advanced to the door,
and, turning round, waved the two forefingers of his right hand in our faces; "the Goyims and
Epicouraiyim are clever men, they know how to make money better than we of Israel.  My good
friend there is a clever man, I bring him money, he never brought me any; bueno, I do not blame
him, he knows much, very much; but one thing there is my friend does not know, nor any of the
Epicureans, he does not know the sacred thing--he has never received the gift of interpretation
which God alone gives to the seed--he has his gift, I have mine--he is satisfied, I don't blame
him, bueno."

And, with this last word in his mouth, he departed.

"Is that man a native of Spain?" I demanded.

"Not a native of Spain," said the Armenian, "though he is one of those who call themselves
Spanish Jews, and who are to be found scattered throughout Europe, speaking the Spanish language
transmitted to them by their ancestors, who were expelled from Spain in the time of Ferdinand
and Isabella."

"The Jews are a singular people," said I.

"A race of cowards and dastards," said the Armenian, "without a home or country; servants to
servants; persecuted and despised by all."

"And what are the Haiks?" I demanded.

"Very different from the Jews," replied the Armenian; "the Haiks have a home--a country, and
can occasionally use a good sword; though it is true they are not what they might be."

"Then it is a shame that they do not become so," said I; "but they are too fond of money. 
There is yourself, with two hundred thousand pounds in your pocket, craving for more, whilst
you might be turning your wealth to the service of your country."

"In what manner?" said the Armenian.

"I have heard you say that the grand oppressor of your country is the Persian; why not attempt
to free your country from his oppression?--you have two hundred thousand pounds, and money
is the sinew of war."

"Would you, then, have me attack the Persian?"

"I scarcely know what to say; fighting is a rough trade, and I am by no means certain that
you are calculated for the scratch.  It is not every one who has been brought up in the school
of Mr. Petulengro and Tawno Chikno.  All I can say is, that if I were an Armenian, and had
two hundred thousand pounds to back me, I would attack the Persian."

"Hem!" said the Armenian.

CHAPTER LI

The One Half-Crown--Merit in Patience--Cementer of Friendship--Dreadful Perplexity--The Usual
Guttural--Armenian Letters--Much Indebted to You--Pure Helplessness--Dumb People.

One morning on getting up I discovered that my whole worldly wealth was reduced to one half-crown--throughout
that day I walked about in considerable distress of mind; it was now requisite that I should
come to a speedy decision with respect to what I was to do; I had not many alternatives, and,
before I had retired to rest on the night of the day in question, I had determined that I could
do no better than accept the first proposal of the Armenian, and translate under his superintendence
the Haik Esop into English.

I reflected, for I made a virtue of necessity, that, after all, such an employment would be
an honest and honourable one; honest, inasmuch as by engaging in it I should do harm to nobody;
honourable, inasmuch as it was a literary task, which not every one was capable of executing.
It was not every one of the booksellers' writers of London who was competent to translate the
Haik Esop.  I determined to accept the offer of the Armenian.

Once or twice the thought of what I might have to undergo in the translation from certain peculiarities
of the Armenian's temper almost unsettled me; but a mechanical diving of my hand into my pocket,
and the feeling of the solitary half-crown, confirmed me; after all, this was a life of trial
and tribulation, and I had read somewhere or other that there was much merit in patience, so
I determined to hold fast in my resolution of accepting the offer of the Armenian.

But all of a sudden I remembered that the Armenian appeared to have altered his intentions
towards me: he appeared no longer desirous that I should render the Haik Esop into English
for the benefit of the stock- jobbers on Exchange, but rather that I should acquire the rudiments
of doing business in the Armenian fashion, and accumulate a fortune, which would enable me
to make a figure upon 'Change with the best of the stock- jobbers.  "Well," thought I, withdrawing
my hand from my pocket, whither it had again mechanically dived, "after all, what would the
world, what would this city be, without commerce?  I believe the world, and particularly this
city, would cut a very poor figure without commerce; and then there is something poetical in
the idea of doing business after the Armenian fashion, dealing with dark-faced Lascars and
Rabbins of the Sephardim.  Yes, should the Armenian insist upon it, I will accept a seat at
the desk, opposite the Moldavian clerk.  I do not like the idea of cuffs similar to those the
Armenian bestowed upon the Moldavian clerk; whatever merit there may be in patience, I do not
think that my estimation of the merit of patience would be sufficient to induce me to remain
quietly sitting under the infliction of cuffs.  I think I should, in the event of his cuffing
me, knock the Armenian down.  Well, I think I have heard it said somewhere, that a knock-down
blow is a great cementer of friendship; I think I have heard of two people being better friends
than ever after the one had received from the other a knock-down blow."

That night I dreamed I had acquired a colossal fortune, some four hundred thousand pounds,
by the Armenian way of doing business, but suddenly awoke in dreadful perplexity as to how
I should dispose of it.

About nine o'clock next morning I set off to the house of the Armenian; I had never called
upon him so early before, and certainly never with a heart beating with so much eagerness;
but the situation of my affairs had become very critical, and I thought that I ought to lose
no time in informing the Armenian that I was at length perfectly willing either to translate
the Haik Esop under his superintendence, or to accept a seat at the desk opposite to the Moldavian
clerk, and acquire the secrets of Armenian commerce.  With a quick step I entered the counting-room,
where, notwithstanding the earliness of the hour, I found the clerk, busied as usual at his desk.

He had always appeared to me a singular being, this same Moldavian clerk. A person of fewer
words could scarcely be conceived: provided his master were at home, he would, on my inquiring,
nod his head; and, provided he were not, he would invariably reply with the monosyllable, no,
delivered in a strange guttural tone.  On the present occasion, being full of eagerness and
impatience, I was about to pass by him to the apartment above, without my usual inquiry, when
he lifted his head from the ledger in which he was writing, and, laying down his pen, motioned
to me with his forefinger, as if to arrest my progress; whereupon I stopped, and, with a palpitating
heart, demanded whether the master of the house was at home.  The Moldavian clerk replied with
his usual guttural, and, opening his desk, ensconced his head therein.

"It does not much matter," said I, "I suppose I shall find him at home after 'Change; it does
not much matter, I can return."

I was turning away with the intention of leaving the room; at this moment, however, the head
of the Moldavian clerk became visible, and I observed a letter in his hand, which he had inserted
in the desk at the same time with his head; this he extended towards me, making at the same
time a side-long motion with his head, as much as to say that it contained something which
interested me.

I took the letter, and the Moldavian clerk forthwith resumed his occupation.  The back of the
letter bore my name, written in Armenian characters; with a trembling hand I broke the seal,
and, unfolding the letter, I beheld several lines also written in the letters of Mesroub, the
Cadmus of the Armenians.

I stared at the lines, and at first could not make out a syllable of their meaning; at last,
however, by continued staring, I discovered that, though the letters were Armenian, the words
were English; in about ten minutes I had contrived to decipher the sense of the letter; it
ran somewhat in this style:--

   "MY DEAR FRIEND,--The words which you uttered in our last conversation
   have made a profound impression upon me; I have thought them over day
   and night, and have come to the conclusion that it is my bounden duty
   to attack the Persians.  When these lines are delivered to you, I
   shall be on the route to Ararat.  A mercantile speculation will be to
   the world the ostensible motive of my journey, and it is singular
   enough that one which offers considerable prospect of advantage has
   just presented itself on the confines of Persia.  Think not, however,
   that motives of lucre would have been sufficiently powerful to tempt
   me to the East at the present moment.  I may speculate, it is true,
   but I should scarcely have undertaken the journey but for your pungent
   words inciting me to attack the Persians.  Doubt not that I will
   attack them on the first opportunity.  I thank you heartily for
   putting me in mind of my duty.  I have hitherto, to use your own
   words, been too fond of money-getting, like all my countrymen.  I am
   much indebted to you; farewell! and may every prosperity await you."

For some time after I had deciphered the epistle, I stood as if rooted to the floor.  I felt
stunned--my last hope was gone; presently a feeling arose in my mind--a feeling of self-reproach.
Whom had I to blame but myself for the departure of the Armenian?  Would he have ever thought
of attacking the Persians had I not put the idea into his head? he had told me in his epistle
that he was indebted to me for the idea.  But for that, he might at the present moment have
been in London, increasing his fortune by his usual methods, and I might be commencing under
his auspices the translation of the Haik Esop, with the promise, no doubt, of a considerable
remuneration for my trouble; or I might be taking a seat opposite the Moldavian clerk, and
imbibing the first rudiments of doing business after the Armenian fashion, with the comfortable
hope of realising, in a short time, a fortune of three or four hundred thousand pounds; but
the Armenian was now gone, and farewell to the fine hopes I had founded upon him the day before.
What was I to do?  I looked wildly around, till my eyes rested on the Moldavian clerk, who
was writing away in his ledger with particular vehemence.  Not knowing well what to do or to
say, I thought I might as well ask the Moldavian clerk when the Armenian had departed, and
when he thought that he would return.  It is true it mattered little to me when he departed,
seeing that he was gone, and it was evident that he would not be back soon; but I knew not
what to do, and in pure helplessness thought I might as well ask; so I went up to the Moldavian
clerk, and asked him when the Armenian had departed, and whether he had been gone two days
or three?  Whereupon the Moldavian clerk, looking up from his ledger, made certain signs, which
I could by no means understand.  I stood astonished, but, presently recovering myself, inquired
when he considered it probable that the master would return, and whether he thought it would
be two months or--my tongue faltered--two years; whereupon the Moldavian clerk made more signs
than before, and yet more unintelligible; as I persisted, however, he flung down his pen, and,
putting his thumb into his mouth, moved it rapidly, causing the nail to sound against the lower
jaw; whereupon I saw that he was dumb, and hurried away, for I had always entertained a horror
of dumb people, having once heard my mother say, when I was a child, that dumb people were
half demoniacs, or little better.

CHAPTER LII

Kind of Stupor--Peace of God--Divine Hand--Farewell, Child--The Fair--Massive Edifice--Battered
Tars--Lost! Lost!--Good Day, Gentlemen.

Leaving the house of the Armenian, I strolled about for some time; almost mechanically my feet
conducted me to London Bridge, to the booth in which stood the stall of the old apple-woman;
the sound of her voice aroused me, as I sat in a kind of stupor on the stone bench beside her;
she was inquiring what was the matter with me.

At first, I believe, I answered her very incoherently, for I observed alarm beginning to depict
itself upon her countenance.  Rousing myself, however, I in my turn put a few questions to
her upon her present condition and prospects.  The old woman's countenance cleared up instantly;
she informed me that she had never been more comfortable in her life; that her trade, her honest
trade--laying an emphasis on the word honest--had increased of late wonderfully; that her health
was better, and, above all, that she felt no fear and horror "here," laying her hand on her breast.

On my asking her whether she still heard voices in the night, she told me that she frequently
did; but that the present were mild voices, sweet voices, encouraging voices, very different
from the former ones; that a voice, only the night previous, had cried out about "the peace
of God," in particularly sweet accents; a sentence which she remembered to have read in her
early youth in the primer, but which she had clean forgotten till the voice the night before
brought it to her recollection.

After a pause, the old woman said to me, "I believe, dear, that it is the blessed book you
brought me which has wrought this goodly change.  How glad I am now that I can read; but oh
what a difference between the book you brought to me and the one you took away.  I believe
the one you brought is written by the finger of God, and the other by--"

"Don't abuse the book," said I, "it is an excellent book for those who can understand it; it
was not exactly suited to you, and perhaps it had been better that you had never read it--and
yet, who knows?  Peradventure, if you had not read that book, you would not have been fitted
for the perusal of the one which you say is written by the finger of God;" and, pressing my
hand to my head, I fell into a deep fit of musing.  "What, after all," thought I, "if there
should be more order and system in the working of the moral world than I have thought?  Does
there not seem in the present instance to be something like the working of a Divine hand? 
I could not conceive why this woman, better educated than her mother, should have been, as
she certainly was, a worse character than her mother.  Yet perhaps this woman may be better
and happier than her mother ever was; perhaps she is so already--perhaps this world is not
a wild, lying dream, as I have occasionally supposed it to be."

But the thought of my own situation did not permit me to abandon myself much longer to these
musings.  I started up.  "Where are you going, child?" said the woman, anxiously.  "I scarcely
know," said I; "anywhere."  "Then stay here, child," said she; "I have much to say to you."
"No," said I, "I shall be better moving about;" and I was moving away, when it suddenly occurred
to me that I might never see this woman again; and turning round I offered her my hand, and
bade her good bye. "Farewell, child," said the old woman, "and God bless you!"  I then moved
along the bridge until I reached the Southwark side, and, still holding on my course, my mind
again became quickly abstracted from all surrounding objects.

At length I found myself in a street or road, with terraces on either side, and seemingly of
interminable length, leading, as it would appear, to the south-east.  I was walking at a great
rate--there were likewise a great number of people, also walking at a great rate; also carts
and carriages driving at a great rate; and all--men, carts, and carriages--going in the selfsame
direction, namely, to the south-east.  I stopped for a moment and deliberated whether or not
I should proceed. What business had I in that direction?  I could not say that I had any particular
business in that direction, but what could I do were I to turn back? only walk about well-known
streets; and, if I must walk, why not continue in the direction in which I was to see whither
the road and its terraces led: I was here in a terra incognita, and an unknown place had always
some interest for me; moreover, I had a desire to know whither all this crowd was going, and
for what purpose.  I thought they could not be going far, as crowds seldom go far, especially
at such a rate; so I walked on more lustily than before, passing group after group of the crowd,
and almost vying in speed with some of the carriages, especially the hackney-coaches; and,
by dint of walking at this rate, the terraces and houses becoming somewhat less frequent as
I advanced, I reached in about three-quarters of an hour a kind of low dingy town, in the neighbourhood
of the river; the streets were swarming with people, and I concluded, from the number of wild-beast
shows, caravans, gingerbread stalls, and the like, that a fair was being held.  Now, as I had
always been partial to fairs, I felt glad that I had fallen in with the crowd which had conducted
me to the present one, and, casting away as much as I was able all gloomy thoughts, I did my
best to enter into the diversions of the fair; staring at the wonderful representations of
animals on canvas hung up before the shows of wild beasts, which, by the bye, are frequently
found much more worthy of admiration than the real beasts themselves; listening to the jokes
of the merry-andrews from the platforms in front of the temporary theatres, or admiring the
splendid tinsel dresses of the performers who thronged the stages in the intervals of the entertainments;
and in this manner, occasionally gazing and occasionally listening, I passed through the town
till I came in front of a large edifice looking full upon the majestic bosom of the Thames.

It was a massive stone edifice, built in an antique style, and black with age, with a broad
esplanade between it and the river, on which, mixed with a few people from the fair, I observed
moving about a great many individuals in quaint dresses of blue, with strange three-cornered
hats on their heads; most of them were mutilated; this had a wooden leg--this wanted an arm;
some had but one eye; and as I gazed upon the edifice, and the singular-looking individuals
who moved before it, I guessed where I was.  "I am at ---," {22} said I; "these individuals
are battered tars of Old England, and this edifice, once the favourite abode of Glorious Elizabeth,
is the refuge which a grateful country has allotted to them. Here they can rest their weary
bodies; at their ease talk over the actions in which they have been injured; and, with the
tear of enthusiasm flowing from their eyes, boast how they have trod the deck of fame with
Rodney, or Nelson, or others whose names stand emblazoned in the naval annals of their country."

Turning to the right, I entered a park or wood consisting of enormous trees, occupying the
foot, sides, and top of a hill which rose behind the town; there were multitudes of people
among the trees, diverting themselves in various ways.  Coming to the top of the hill, I was
presently stopped by a lofty wall, along which I walked, till, coming to a small gate, I passed
through, and found myself on an extensive green plain, on one side bounded in part by the wall
of the park, and on the others, in the distance, by extensive ranges of houses; to the south-east
was a lofty eminence, partially clothed with wood.  The plain exhibited an animated scene,
a kind of continuation of the fair below; there were multitudes of people upon it, many tents,
and shows; there was also horse- racing, and much noise and shouting, the sun shining brightly
overhead. After gazing at the horse-racing for a little time, feeling myself somewhat tired,
I went up to one of the tents, and laid myself down on the grass.  There was much noise in
the tent.  "Who will stand me?" said a voice with a slight tendency to lisp.  "Will you, my
lord?"  "Yes," said another voice.  Then there was a sound as of a piece of money banging on
a table.  "Lost! lost! lost!" cried several voices; and then the banging down of the money,
and the "Lost! lost! lost!" were frequently repeated; at last the second voice exclaimed, "I
will try no more; you have cheated me."  "Never cheated any one in my life, my lord--all fair--all
chance.  Them that finds, wins--them that can't finds, loses.  Any one else try?  Who'll try?
Will you, my lord?" and then it appeared that some other lord tried, for I heard more money
flung down.  Then again the cry of "Lost! lost!"--then again the sound of money, and so on.
Once or twice, but not more, I heard "Won! won!" but the predominant cry was "Lost! lost!"
At last there was a considerable hubbub, and the words "Cheat!" "Rogue!" and "You filched away
the pea!" were used freely by more voices than one, to which the voice with the tendency to
lisp replied, "Never filched a pea in my life; would scorn it.  Always glad when folks wins;
but, as those here don't appear to be civil, nor to wish to play any more, I shall take myself
off with my table; so, good day, gentlemen."

CHAPTER LIII

Singular Table--No Money--Out of Employ--My Bonnet--We of the Thimble--Good Wages--Wisely Resolved--Strangest
Way in the World--Fat Gentleman--Not Such Another--First Edition--Not Very Easy--Won't Close--Avella
Gorgio--Alarmed Look.

Presently a man emerged from the tent, bearing before him a rather singular table; it appeared
to be of white deal, was exceedingly small at the top, and with very long legs.  At a few yards
from the entrance he paused, and looked round, as if to decide on the direction which he should
take; presently, his eye glancing on me as I lay upon the ground, he started, and appeared
for a moment inclined to make off as quick as possible, table and all.  In a moment, however,
he seemed to recover assurance, and, coming up to the place where I was, the long legs of the
table projecting before him, he cried, "Glad to see you here, my lord."

"Thank you," said I, "it's a fine day."

"Very fine, my lord; will your lordship play?  Them that finds, wins--them that don't finds,
loses."

"Play at what?" said I.

"Only at the thimble and pea, my lord."

"I never heard of such a game."

"Didn't you?  Well, I'll soon teach you," said he, placing the table down.  "All you have to
do is to put a sovereign down on my table, and to find the pea, which I put under one of my
thimbles.  If you find it,--and it is easy enough to find it,--I give you a sovereign besides
your own: for them that finds, wins."

"And them that don't finds, loses," said I; "no, I don't wish to play."

"Why not, my lord?"

"Why, in the first place, I have no money."

"Oh, you have no money, that of course alters the case.  If you have no money, you can't play.
Well, I suppose I must be seeing after my customers," said he, glancing over the plain.

"Good day," said I.

"Good day," said the man slowly, but without moving, and as if in reflection.  After a moment
or two, looking at me inquiringly, he added, "Out of employ?"

"Yes," said I, "out of employ."

The man measured me with his eye as I lay on the ground.  At length he said, "May I speak a
word or two to you, my lord?"

"As many as you please," said I.

"Then just come a little out of hearing, a little further on the grass, if you please, my lord."

"Why do you call me my lord?" said I, as I arose and followed him.

"We of the thimble always calls our customers lords," said the man; "but I won't call you such
a foolish name any more; come along."

The man walked along the plain till he came to the side of a dry pit, when, looking round to
see that no one was nigh, he laid his table on the grass, and, sitting down with his legs over
the side of the pit, he motioned me to do the same.  "So you are in want of employ," said he,
after I had sat down beside him.

"Yes," said I, "I am very much in want of employ."

"I think I can find you some."

"What kind?" said I.

"Why," said the man, "I think you would do to be my bonnet."

"Bonnet!" said I; "what is that?"

"Don't you know?  However, no wonder, as you had never heard of the thimble and pea game, but
I will tell you.  We of the game are very much exposed; folks when they have lost their money,
as those who play with us mostly do, sometimes uses rough language, calls us cheats, and sometimes
knocks our hats over our eyes; and what's more, with a kick under our table, cause the top
deals to fly off; this is the third table I have used this day, the other two being broken
by uncivil customers: so we of the game generally like to have gentlemen go about with us to
take our part, and encourage us, though pretending to know nothing about us; for example, when
the customer says, 'I'm cheated,' the bonnet must say, 'No, you a'n't, it is all right;' or,
when my hat is knocked over my eyes, the bonnet must square, and say, 'I never saw the man
before in all my life, but I won't see him ill-used;' and so, when they kicks at the table,
the bonnet must say, 'I won't see the table ill-used, such a nice table, too; besides, I want
to play myself;' and then I would say to the bonnet, 'Thank you, my lord, them that finds,
wins;' and then the bonnet plays, and I lets the bonnet win."

"In a word," said I, "the bonnet means the man who covers you, even as the real bonnet covers
the head." {27a}

"Just so," said the man; "I see you are awake, and would soon make a first-rate bonnet."

"Bonnet," said I, musingly; "bonnet; it is metaphorical."

"Is it?" said the man.

"Yes," said I, "like the cant words--"

"Bonnet is cant," said the man; "we of the thimble, as well as all clyfakers and the like,
understand cant, as, of course, must every bonnet; so, if you are employed by me, you had better
learn it as soon as you can, that we may discourse together without being understood by every
one.  Besides covering his principal, a bonnet must have his eyes about him, for the trade
of the pea, though a strictly honest one, is not altogether lawful; so it is the duty of the
bonnet, if he sees the constable coming, to say, 'The Gorgio's welling.'" {27b}

"That is not cant," said I, "that is the language of the Rommany Chals." {27c}

"Do you know those people?" said the man.

"Perfectly," said I, "and their language too."

"I wish I did," said the man; "I would give ten pounds and more to know the language of the
Rommany Chals.  There's some of it in the language of the pea and thimble; how it came there
I don't know, but so it is.  I wish I knew it, but it is difficult.  You'll make a capital
bonnet; shall we close?"

"What would the wages be?" I demanded.

"Why, to a first-rate bonnet, as I think you would prove, I could afford to give from forty
to fifty shillings a week."

"Is it possible?" said I.

"Good wages, a'n't they?" said the man.

"First-rate," said I; "bonneting is more profitable than reviewing."

"Anan?" said the man.

"Or translating; I don't think the Armenian would have paid me at that rate for translating
his Esop."

"Who is he?" said the man.

"Esop?"

"No, I know what that is, Esop's cant for a hunchback; but t'other?"

"You should know," said I.

"Never saw the man in all my life."

"Yes, you have," said I, "and felt him too; don't you remember the individual from whom you
took the pocket-book?"

"Oh, that was he?  Well, the less said about that matter the better; I have left off that trade,
and taken to this, which is a much better. Between ourselves, I am not sorry that I did not
carry off that pocket- book; if I had, it might have encouraged me in the trade, in which,
had I remained, I might have been lagged, sent abroad, as I had been already imprisoned; so
I determined to leave it off at all hazards, though I was hard up, not having a penny in the
world."

"And wisely resolved," said I; "it was a bad and dangerous trade; I wonder you should ever
have embraced it."

"It is all very well talking," said the man, "but there is a reason for everything; I am the
son of a Jewess, by a military officer,"--and then the man told me his story.  I shall not
repeat the man's story, it was a poor one, a vile one; at last he observed, "So that affair
which you know of determined me to leave the filching trade, and take up with a more honest
and safe one; so at last I thought of the pea and thimble, but I wanted funds, especially to
pay for lessons at the hands of a master, for I knew little about it."

"Well," said I, "how did you get over that difficulty?"

"Why," said the man, "I thought I should never have got over it.  What funds could I raise?
I had nothing to sell; the few clothes I had I wanted, for we of the thimble must always appear
decent, or nobody would come near us.  I was at my wits' end; at last I got over my difficulty
in the strangest way in the world."

"What was that?"

"By an old thing which I had picked up some time before--a book."

"A book?" said I.

"Yes, which I had taken out of your lordship's pocket one day as you were walking the streets
in a great hurry.  I thought it was a pocket-book at first, full of bank-notes, perhaps," continued
he, laughing.  "It was well for me, however, that it was not, for I should have soon spent
the notes; as it was, I had flung the old thing down with an oath, as soon as I brought it
home.  When I was so hard up, however, after the affair with that friend of yours, I took it
up one day, and thought I might make something by it to support myself a day with.  Chance
or something else led me into a grand shop; there was a man there who seemed to be the master,
talking to a jolly, portly old gentleman, who seemed to be a country squire.  Well, I went
up to the first, and offered it for sale; he took the book, opened it at the title-page, and
then all of a sudden his eyes glistened, and he showed it to the fat, jolly gentleman, and
his eyes glistened too, and I heard him say 'How singular!' and then the two talked together
in a speech I didn't understand--I rather thought it was French, at any rate it wasn't cant;
and presently the first asked me what I would take for the book.  Now I am not altogether a
fool, nor am I blind, and I had narrowly marked all that passed, and it came into my head that
now was the time for making a man of myself, at any rate I could lose nothing by a little confidence;
so I looked the man boldly in the face, and said, 'I will have five guineas for that book,
there a'n't such another in the whole world.'  'Nonsense,' said the first man, 'there are plenty
of them, there have been nearly fifty editions, to my knowledge; I will give you five shillings.'
'No,' said I, 'I'll not take it, for I don't like to be cheated, so give me my book again;'
and I attempted to take it away from the fat gentleman's hand.  'Stop,' said the younger man,
'are you sure that you won't take less?'  'Not a farthing,' said I; which was not altogether
true, but I said so.  'Well,' said the fat gentleman, 'I will give you what you ask;' and sure
enough he presently gave me the money; so I made a bow, and was leaving the shop, when it came
into my head that there was something odd in all this, and, as I had got the money in my pocket,
I turned back, and, making another bow, said, 'May I be so bold as to ask why you gave me all
this money for that 'ere dirty book?  When I came into the shop, I should have been glad to
get a shilling for it; but I saw you wanted it, and asked five guineas.'  Then they looked
at one another, and smiled, and shrugged up their shoulders.  Then the first man, looking at
me, said, 'Friend, you have been a little too sharp for us; however, we can afford to forgive
you, as my friend here has long been in quest of this particular book; there are plenty of
editions, as I told you, and a common copy is not worth five shillings; but this is a first
edition, and a copy of the first edition is worth its weight in gold.'"

"So, after all, they outwitted you," I observed.

"Clearly," said the man; "I might have got double the price, had I known the value; but I don't
care, much good may it do them, it has done me plenty.  By means of it I have got into an honest,
respectable trade, in which there's little danger and plenty of profit, and got out of one
which would have got me lagged, sooner or later."

"But," said I, "you ought to remember that the thing was not yours; you took it from me, who
had been requested by a poor old apple-woman to exchange it for a Bible."

"Well," said the man, "did she ever get her Bible?"

"Yes," said I, "she got her Bible."

"Then she has no cause to complain; and, as for you, chance or something else has sent you
to me, that I may make you reasonable amends for any loss you may have had.  Here am I ready
to make you my bonnet, with forty or fifty shillings a week, which you say yourself are capital
wages."

"I find no fault with the wages," said I, "but I don't like the employ."

"Not like bonneting," said the man; "ah, I see, you would like to be principal; well, a time
may come--those long white fingers of yours would just serve for the business."

"Is it a difficult one?" I demanded.

"Why, it is not very easy: two things are needful--natural talent, and constant practice; but
I'll show you a point or two connected with the game;" and, placing his table between his knees
as he sat over the side of the pit, he produced three thimbles, and a small brown pellet, something
resembling a pea.  He moved the thimbles and pellet about, now placing it to all appearance
under one, and now under another.  "Under which is it now?" he said at last.  "Under that,"
said I, pointing to the lowermost of the thimbles, which, as they stood, formed a kind of triangle.
"No," said he, "it is not, but lift it up;" and, when I lifted up the thimble, the pellet,
in truth, was not under it.  "It was under none of them," said he, "it was pressed by my little
finger against my palm;" and then he showed me how he did the trick, and asked me if the game
was not a funny one; and, on my answering in the affirmative, he said, "I am glad you like
it; come along and let us win some money."

Thereupon, getting up, he placed the table before him, and was moving away; observing, however,
that I did not stir, he asked me what I was staying for.  "Merely for my own pleasure," said
I; "I like sitting here very well."  "Then you won't close?" said the man.  "By no means,"
I replied; "your proposal does not suit me."  "You may be principal in time," said the man.
"That makes no difference," said I; and, sitting with my legs over the pit, I forthwith began
to decline an Armenian noun. "That a'n't cant," said the man; "no, nor Gypsy, either.  Well,
if you won't close, another will; I can't lose any more time;" and forthwith he departed.

And after I had declined four Armenian nouns, of different declensions, I rose from the side
of the pit, and wandered about amongst the various groups of people scattered over the green.
Presently I came to where the man of the thimbles was standing, with the table before him,
and many people about him.  "Them who finds, wins, and them who can't finds, loses," he cried.
Various individuals tried to find the pellet, but all were unsuccessful, till at last considerable
dissatisfaction was expressed, and the terms rogue and cheat were lavished upon him.  "Never
cheated anybody in all my life," he cried; and, observing me at hand, "didn't I play fair,
my lord?" he inquired.  But I made no answer. Presently some more played, and he permitted
one or two to win, and the eagerness to play with him became greater.  After I had looked on
for some time, I was moving away: just then I perceived a short, thick personage, with a staff
in his hand, advancing in a great hurry; whereupon, with a sudden impulse, I exclaimed--

   "Shoon thimble-engro;
   Avella Gorgio." {33}

The man, who was in the midst of his pea and thimble process, no sooner heard the last word
of the distich, than he turned an alarmed look in the direction of where I stood; then, glancing
around, and perceiving the constable, he slipped forthwith his pellet and thimbles into his
pocket, and, lifting up his table, he cried to the people about him, "Make way!" and with a
motion with his head to me, as if to follow him, he darted off with a swiftness which the short,
pursy constable could by no means rival; and whither he went, or what became of him, I know
not, inasmuch as I turned away in another direction.

CHAPTER LIV

Mr. Petulengro--Rommany Rye--Lil Writers--One's Own Horn--Lawfully earnt Money--The Wooded
Hill--A Great Favourite--The Shop Window--Much Wanted. {36}

"How much money have you got in your pocket, brother?" said Mr. Petulengro.

After a little more conversation, Mr. Petulengro arose, and motioned me to follow him.  "Only
eighteenpence in the world, brother!" said he, as we walked together.

"Nothing more, I assure you.  How came you to ask me how much money I had?"

"Because there was something in your look, brother, something very much resembling that which
a person showeth who does not carry much money in his pocket.  I was looking at my own face
this morning in my wife's looking-glass--I did not look as you do, brother."

"I believe your sole motive for inquiring," said I, "was to have an opportunity of venting
a foolish boast, and to let me know that you were in possession of fifty pounds."

"What is the use of having money unless you let people know you have it?" said Mr. Petulengro.
"It is not every one can read faces, brother; and, unless you knew I had money, how could you
ask me to lend you any?"

"I am not going to ask you to lend me any."

"Then you may have it without asking; as I said before, I have fifty pounds, all lawfully earnt
money, got by fighting in the ring--I will lend you that, brother."

"You are very kind," said I; "but I will not take it."

"Then the half of it?"

"Nor the half of it; but it is getting towards evening, I must go back to the Great City."

"And what will you do in the Boro Foros?" {38}

"I know not," said I.

"Earn money?"

"If I can."

"And if you can't?"

"Starve!"

"You look ill, brother," said Mr. Petulengro.

"I do not feel well; the Great City does not agree with me.  Should I be so fortunate as to
earn some money, I would leave the Big City, and take to the woods and fields."

"You may do that, brother," said Mr. Petulengro, "whether you have money or not.  Our tents
and horses are on the other side of yonder wooded hill; come and stay with us; we shall all
be glad of your company, but more especially myself and my wife Pakomovna."

"What hill is that?" I demanded.

And then Mr. Petulengro told me the name of the hill.  "We shall stay on t'other side of the
hill a fortnight," he continued; "and, as you are fond of lil writing, you may employ yourself
profitably whilst there.  You can write the lil of him whose dook {39a} gallops down that hill
every night, even as the living man was wont to do long ago."

"Who was he?" I demanded.

"Jemmy Abershaw," {39b} said Mr. Petulengro; "one of those whom we call Boro drom engroes,
and the Gorgios highwaymen.  I once heard a rye say that the life of that man would fetch much
money; so come to the other side of the hill, and write the lil in the tent of Jasper and his
wife Pakomovna."

At first I felt inclined to accept the invitation of Mr. Petulengro; a little consideration,
however, determined me to decline it.  I had always been on excellent terms with Mr. Petulengro,
but I reflected that people might be excellent friends when they met occasionally in the street,
or on the heath, or in the wood; but that these very people when living together in a house,
to say nothing of a tent, might quarrel.  I reflected, moreover, that Mr. Petulengro had a
wife.  I had always, it is true, been a great favourite with Mrs. Petulengro, who had frequently
been loud in her commendation of the young rye, as she called me, and his turn of conversation;
but this was at a time when I stood in need of nothing, lived under my parents' roof, and only
visited at the tents to divert and to be diverted.  The times were altered, and I was by no
means certain that Mrs. Petulengro, when she should discover that I was in need both of shelter
and subsistence, might not alter her opinion both with respect to the individual and what he
said--stigmatising my conversation as saucy discourse, and myself as a scurvy companion; and
that she might bring over her husband to her own way of thinking, provided, indeed, he should
need any conducting.  I therefore, though without declaring my reasons, declined the offer
of Mr. Petulengro, and presently, after shaking him by the hand, bent again my course towards
the Great City.

I crossed the river at a bridge considerably above that hight of London; for, not being acquainted
with the way, I missed the turning which should have brought me to the latter.  Suddenly I
found myself in a street of which I had some recollection, and mechanically stopped before
the window of a shop at which various publications were exposed; it was that of the bookseller
to whom I had last applied in the hope of selling my ballads or Ab Gwilym, and who had given
me hopes that, in the event of my writing a decent novel, or a tale, he would prove a purchaser.
As I stood listlessly looking at the window, and the publications which it contained, I observed
a paper affixed to the glass by wafers with something written upon it.  I drew yet nearer for
the purpose of inspecting it; the writing was in a fair round hand--"A Novel or Tale is much
wanted," was what was written.

CHAPTER LV

Bread and Water--Fair Play--Fashionable Life--Colonel B-----Joseph Sell--The Kindly Glow--Easiest
Manner Imaginable.

"I must do something," said I, as I sat that night in my lonely apartment, with some bread
and a pitcher of water before me.

Thereupon taking some of the bread, and eating it, I considered what I was to do.  "I have
no idea what I am to do," said I, as I stretched my hand towards the pitcher, "unless"--and
here I took a considerable draught--"I write a tale or a novel . . . That bookseller," I continued,
speaking to myself, "is certainly much in need of a tale or a novel, otherwise he would not
advertise for one.  Suppose I write one; I appear to have no other chance of extricating myself
from my present difficulties; surely it was Fate that conducted me to his window."

"I will do it," said I, as I struck my hand against the table; "I will do it."  Suddenly a
heavy cloud of despondency came over me.  Could I do it? Had I the imagination requisite to
write a tale or a novel?  "Yes, yes," said I, as I struck my hand again against the table,
"I can manage it; give me fair play, and I can accomplish anything."

But should I have fair play?  I must have something to maintain myself with whilst I wrote
my tale, and I had but eighteenpence in the world. Would that maintain me whilst I wrote my
tale?  Yes, I thought it would, provided I ate bread, which did not cost much, and drank water,
which cost nothing; it was poor diet, it was true, but better men than myself had written on
bread and water; had not the big man told me so? or something to that effect, months before?

It was true there was my lodging to pay for; but up to the present time I owed nothing, and
perhaps, by the time that the people of the house asked me for money, I should have written
a tale or a novel, which would bring me in money; I had paper, pens, and ink, and, let me not
forget them, I had candles in my closet, all paid for, to light me during my night work. Enough,
I would go doggedly to work upon my tale or novel.

But what was the tale or novel to be about?  Was it to be a tale of fashionable life, about
Sir Harry Somebody, and the Countess Something? But I knew nothing about fashionable people,
and cared less; therefore how should I attempt to describe fashionable life?  What should the
tale consist of?  The life and adventures of some one.  Good--but of whom?  Did not Mr. Petulengro
mention one Jemmy Abershaw?  Yes.  Did he not tell me that the life and adventures of Jemmy
Abershaw would bring in much money to the writer?  Yes, but I knew nothing of that worthy.
I heard, it is true, from Mr. Petulengro, that when alive he committed robberies on the hill
on the side of which Mr. Petulengro had pitched his tents, and that his ghost still haunted
the hill at midnight; but those were scant materials out of which to write the man's life.
It is probable, indeed, that Mr. Petulengro would be able to supply me with further materials
if I should apply to him, but I was in a hurry, and could not afford the time which it would
be necessary to spend in passing to and from Mr. Petulengro, and consulting him.  Moreover,
my pride revolted at the idea of being beholden to Mr. Petulengro for the materials of the
history.  No, I would not write the history of Abershaw.  Whose then--Harry Simms? Alas, the
life of Harry Simms had been already much better written by himself than I could hope to do
it; and, after all, Harry Simms, like Jemmy Abershaw, was merely a robber.  Both, though bold
and extraordinary men, were merely highwaymen.  I questioned whether I could compose a tale
likely to excite any particular interest out of the exploits of a mere robber.  I want a character
for my hero, thought I, something higher than a mere robber; some one like--like Colonel B---.
By the way, why should I not write the life and adventures of Colonel B--- of Londonderry,
in Ireland?

A truly singular man was this same Colonel B--- {43a} of Londonderry, in Ireland; a personage
of most strange and incredible feats and daring, who had been a partisan soldier, a bravo--who,
assisted by certain discontented troopers, nearly succeeded in stealing the crown and regalia
from the Tower of London; who attempted to hang the Duke of Ormond, at Tyburn; {43b} and whose
strange, eventful career did not terminate even with his life, his dead body, on the circulation
of an unfounded report that he did not come to his death by fair means, having been exhumed
by the mob of his native place, where he had retired to die, and carried in the coffin through
the streets.

Of his life I had inserted an account in the "Newgate Lives and Trials"; it was bare and meagre,
and written in the stiff, awkward style of the seventeenth century; it had, however, strongly
captivated my imagination, and I now thought that out of it something better could be made;
that, if I added to the adventures, and purified the style, I might fashion out of it a very
decent tale or novel.  On a sudden, however, the proverb of mending old garments with new cloth
occurred to me.  "I am afraid," said I, "any new adventures which I can invent will not fadge
well with the old tale; one will but spoil the other."  I had better have nothing to do with
Colonel B---, thought I, but boldly and independently sit down and write the "Life of Joseph Sell."

This Joseph Sell, dear reader, was a fictitious personage who had just come into my head. 
I had never even heard of the name, but just at that moment it happened to come into my head;
I would write an entirely fictitious narrative, called the "Life and Adventures of Joseph Sell,
the Great traveller."

I had better begin at once, thought I; and removing the bread and the jug, which latter was
now empty, I seized pen and paper, and forthwith essayed to write the "Life of Joseph Sell,"
but soon discovered that it is much easier to resolve upon a thing than to achieve it, or even
to commence it; for the life of me I did not know how to begin, and, after trying in vain to
write a line, I thought it would be as well to go to bed, and defer my projected undertaking
till the morrow.

So I went to bed, but not to sleep.  During the greater part of the night I lay awake, musing
upon the work which I had determined to execute.  For a long time my brain was dry and unproductive;
I could form no plan which appeared feasible.  At length I felt within my brain a kindly glow;
it was the commencement of inspiration; in a few minutes I had formed my plan; I then began
to imagine the scenes and the incidents.  Scenes and incidents flitted before my mind's eye
so plentifully, that I knew not how to dispose of them; I was in a regular embarrassment. 
At length I got out of the difficulty in the easiest manner imaginable, namely, by consigning
to the depths of oblivion all the feebler and less stimulant scenes and incidents, and retaining
the better and more impressive ones. Before morning I had sketched the whole work on the tablets
of my mind, and then resigned myself to sleep in the pleasing conviction that the most difficult
part of my undertaking was achieved.

CHAPTER LVI

Considerably Sobered--Power of Writing--The Tempter--Hungry Talent--Work Concluded.

Rather late in the morning I awoke; for a few minutes I lay still, perfectly still; my imagination
was considerably sobered; the scenes and situations which had pleased me so much over night
appeared to me in a far less captivating guise that morning.  I felt languid and almost hopeless--the
thought, however, of my situation soon roused me--I must make an effort to improve the posture
of my affairs; there was no time to be lost; so I sprang out of bed, breakfasted on bread and
water, and then sat down doggedly to write the "Life of Joseph Sell."

It was a great thing to have formed my plan, and to have arranged the scenes in my head, as
I had done on the preceding night.  The chief thing requisite at present was the mere mechanical
act of committing them to paper.  This I did not find at first so easy as I could wish--I wanted
mechanical skill; but I persevered, and before evening I had written ten pages.  I partook
of some bread and water; and, before I went to bed that night, I had completed fifteen pages
of my "Life of Joseph Sell."

The next day I resumed my task--I found my power of writing considerably increased; my pen
hurried rapidly over the paper--my brain was in a wonderfully teeming state; many scenes and
visions which I had not thought of before were evolved, and, as fast as evolved, written down;
they seemed to be more pat to my purpose, and more natural to my history, than many others
which I had imagined before, and which I made now give place to these newer creations: by about
midnight I had added thirty fresh pages to my "Life and Adventures of Joseph Sell."

The third day arose--it was dark and dreary out of doors, and I passed it drearily enough within;
my brain appeared to have lost much of its former glow, and my pen much of its power; I, however,
toiled on, but at midnight had only added seven pages to my history of Joseph Sell.

On the fourth day the sun shone brightly--I arose, and, having breakfasted as usual, I fell
to work.  My brain was this day wonderfully prolific, and my pen never before or since glided
so rapidly over the paper; towards night I began to feel strangely about the back part of my
head, and my whole system was extraordinarily affected.  I likewise occasionally saw double--a
tempter now seemed to be at work within me.

"You had better leave off now for a short space," said the tempter, "and go out and drink a
pint of beer; you have still one shilling left--if you go on at this rate, you will go mad--go
out and spend sixpence, you can afford it, more than half your work is done."  I was about
to obey the suggestion of the tempter, when the idea struck me that, if I did not complete
the work whilst the fit was on me, I should never complete it; so I held on.  I am almost afraid
to state how many pages I wrote that day of the "Life of Joseph Sell."

From this time I proceeded in a somewhat more leisurely manner; but, as I drew nearer and nearer
to the completion of my task, dreadful fears and despondencies came over me--It will be too
late, thought I; by the time I have finished the work, the bookseller will have been supplied
with a tale or a novel.  Is it probable that, in a town like this, where talent is so abundant--hungry
talent too, a bookseller can advertise for a tale or a novel, without being supplied with half
a dozen in twenty-four hours?  I may as well fling down my pen--I am writing to no purpose.
And these thoughts came over my mind so often, that at last, in utter despair, I flung down
the pen.  Whereupon the tempter within me said--"And, now you have flung down the pen, you
may as well fling yourself out of the window; what remains for you to do?"  Why to take it
up again, thought I to myself, for I did not like the latter suggestion at all--and then forthwith
I resumed the pen, and wrote with greater vigour than before, from about six o'clock in the
evening until I could hardly see, when I rested for a while, when the tempter within me again
said, or appeared to say--"All you have been writing is stuff, it will never do--a drug--a
mere drug;" and methought these last words were uttered in the gruff tones of the big publisher.
"A thing merely to be sneezed at," a voice like that of Taggart added; and then I seemed to
hear a sternutation,--as I probably did, for, recovering from a kind of swoon, I found myself
shivering with cold.  The next day I brought my work to a conclusion.

But the task of revision still remained; for an hour or two I shrank from it, and remained
gazing stupidly at the pile of paper which I had written over.  I was all but exhausted, and
I dreaded, on inspecting the sheets, to find them full of absurdities which I had paid no regard
to in the furor of composition.  But the task, however trying to my nerves, must be got over;
at last, in a kind of desperation, I entered upon it.  It was far from an easy one; there were,
however, fewer errors and absurdities than I had anticipated.  About twelve o'clock at night
I had got over the task of revision.  "To-morrow, for the bookseller," said I, as my head sank
on the pillow.  "Oh me!"

CHAPTER LVII

Nervous Look--The Bookseller's Wife--The Last Stake--Terms--God Forbid!--Will You Come to Tea?--A
Light Heart.

On arriving at the bookseller's shop, I cast a nervous look at the window, for the purpose
of observing whether the paper had been removed or not.  To my great delight the paper was
in its place; with a beating heart I entered, there was nobody in the shop; as I stood at the
counter, however, deliberating whether or not I should call out, the door of what seemed to
be a back-parlour opened and out came a well dressed lady-like female, of about thirty, with
a good-looking and intelligent countenance. "What is your business, young man?" said she to
me, after I had made her a polite bow.  "I wish to speak to the gentleman of the house," said
I. "My husband is not within at present," she replied; "what is your business?"  "I have merely
brought something to show him," said I, "but I will call again."  "If you are the young gentleman
who has been here before," said the lady, "with poems and ballads, as, indeed, I know you are,"
she added, smiling, "for I have seen you through the glass door, I am afraid it will be useless;
that is," she added, with another smile, "if you bring us nothing else."  "I have not brought
you poems and ballads now," said I, "but something widely different; I saw your advertisement
for a tale or a novel, and have written something which I think will suit; and here it is,"
I added, showing the roll of paper which I held in my hand.  "Well," said the bookseller's
wife, "you may leave it, though I cannot promise you much chance of its being accepted. My
husband has already had several offered to him; however, you may leave it; give it me.  Are
you afraid to entrust it to me?" she demanded somewhat hastily, observing that I hesitated.
"Excuse me," said I, "but it is all I have to depend upon in the world; I am chiefly apprehensive
that it will not be read."  "On that point I can reassure you," said the good lady, smiling,
and there was now something sweet in her smile.  "I give you my word that it shall be read;
come again to-morrow morning at eleven, when, if not approved, it shall be returned to you."

I returned to my lodging, and forthwith betook myself to bed, notwithstanding the earliness
of the hour.  I felt tolerably tranquil; I had now cast my last stake, and was prepared to
abide by the result. Whatever that result might be, I could have nothing to reproach myself
with; I had strained all the energies which nature had given me in order to rescue myself from
the difficulties which surrounded me.  I presently sank into a sleep, which endured during
the remainder of the day, and the whole of the succeeding night.  I awoke about nine on the
morrow, and spent my last threepence on a breakfast somewhat more luxurious than the immediately
preceding ones, for one penny of the sum was expended on the purchase of milk.

At the appointed hour I repaired to the house of the bookseller; the bookseller was in his
shop.  "Ah," said he, as soon as I entered, "I am glad to see you."  There was an unwonted
heartiness in the bookseller's tones, an unwonted benignity in his face.  "So," said he, after
a pause, "you have taken my advice, written a book of adventure; nothing like taking the advice,
young man, of your superiors in age.  Well, I think your book will do, and so does my wife,
for whose judgment I have a great regard; as well I may, as she is the daughter of a first-rate
novelist, deceased.  I think I shall venture on sending your book to the press." "But," said
I, "we have not yet agreed upon terms."  "Terms, terms," said the bookseller; "ahem! well,
there is nothing like coming to terms at once.  I will print the book, and give you half the
profit when the edition is sold."  "That will not do," said I; "I intend shortly to leave London:
I must have something at once."  "Ah, I see," said the bookseller, "in distress; frequently
the case with authors, especially young ones.  Well, I don't care if I purchase it of you,
but you must be moderate; the public are very fastidious, and the speculation may prove a losing
one after all.  Let me see, will five . . . hem"--he stopped.  I looked the bookseller in the
face; there was something peculiar in it. Suddenly it appeared to me as if the voice of him
of the thimble sounded in my ear, "Now is your time, ask enough, never such another chance
of establishing yourself; respectable trade, pea and thimble."  "Well," said I at last, "I
have no objection to take the offer which you were about to make, though I really think five-and-twenty
guineas to be scarcely enough, everything considered."  "Five-and-twenty guineas!" said the
bookseller; "are you--what was I going to say--I never meant to offer half as much--I mean
a quarter; I was going to say five guineas--I mean pounds; I will, however, make it guineas."
"That will not do," said I; "but, as I find we shall not deal, return me my manuscript, that
I may carry it to some one else."  The bookseller looked blank.  "Dear me," said he, "I should
never have supposed that you would have made any objection to such an offer; I am quite sure
that you would have been glad to take five pounds for either of the two huge manuscripts of
songs and ballads that you brought me on a former occasion."  "Well," said I, "if you will
engage to publish either of those two manuscripts, you shall have the present one for five
pounds."  "God forbid that I should make any such bargain," said the bookseller; "I would publish
neither on any account; but, with respect to this last book, I have really an inclination to
print it, both for your sake and mine; suppose we say ten pounds."  "No," said I, "ten pounds
will not do; pray restore me my manuscript."  "Stay," said the bookseller, "my wife is in the
next room, I will go and consult her."  Thereupon he went into his back room, where I heard
him conversing with his wife in a low tone; in about ten minutes he returned.  "Young gentleman,"
said he, "perhaps you will take tea with us this evening, when we will talk further over the
matter."

That evening I went and took tea with the bookseller and his wife, both of whom, particularly
the latter, overwhelmed me with civility.  It was not long before I learned that the work had
been already sent to the press, and was intended to stand at the head of a series of entertaining
narratives, from which my friends promised themselves considerable profit.  The subject of
terms was again brought forward.  I stood firm to my first demand for a long time; when, however,
the bookseller's wife complimented me on my production in the highest terms, and said that
she discovered therein the germs of genius, which she made no doubt would some day prove ornamental
to my native land, I consented to drop my demand to twenty pounds, stipulating, however, that
I should not be troubled with the correction of the work.

Before I departed, I received the twenty pounds, and departed with a light heart to my lodgings.

CHAPTER LVIII

Indisposition--A Resolution--Poor Equivalents--The Piece of Gold--Flashing Eyes--How Beautiful!--Bon
Jour, Monsieur.

I had long ago determined to leave London as soon as the means should be in my power, and,
now that they were, I determined to leave the Great City; yet I felt some reluctance to go.
I would fain have pursued the career of original authorship which had just opened itself to
me, and have written other tales of adventure.  The bookseller had given me encouragement enough
to do so; he had assured me that he should be always happy to deal with me for an article (that
was the word) similar to the one I had brought him, provided my terms were moderate; and the
bookseller's wife, by her complimentary language, had given me yet more encouragement.

But whither should I bend my course?  Once or twice I thought of walking home to the old town,
stay some time with my mother and my brother, and enjoy the pleasant walks in the neighbourhood;
but, though I wished very much to see my mother and my brother, and felt much disposed to enjoy
the said pleasant walks, the old town was not exactly the place to which I wished to go at
this present juncture.  I was afraid that people would ask, Where are your Northern Ballads?
Where are your alliterative translations from Ab Gwilym--of which you were always talking,
and with which you promised to astonish the world?  Now, in the event of such interrogations,
what could I answer?  It is true I had compiled Newgate Lives and Trials, and had written the
life of Joseph Sell, but I was afraid that the people of the old town would scarcely consider
these as equivalents for the Northern Ballads and the songs of Ab Gwilym.  I would go forth
and wander in any direction but that of the old town.

But how one's sensibility on any particular point diminishes with time; at present I enter
the old town perfectly indifferent as to what the people may be thinking on the subject of
the songs and ballads.  With respect to the people themselves, whether, like my sensibility,
their curiosity has altogether evaporated, or whether, which is at least equally probable,
they never entertained any, one thing is certain, that never in a single instance have they
troubled me with any remarks on the subject of the songs and ballads.

As it was my intention to travel on foot, with a bundle and a stick, I despatched my trunk
containing some few clothes and books to the old town.  My preparations were soon made; in
about three days I was in readiness to start.

Before departing, however, I bethought me of my old friend the apple-woman of London Bridge.
Apprehensive that she might be labouring under the difficulties of poverty, I sent her a piece
of gold by the hands of a young maiden in the house in which I lived.  The latter punctually
executed her commission, but brought me back the piece of gold.  The old woman would not take
it; she did not want it, she said. "Tell the poor thin lad," she added, "to keep it for himself,
he wants it more than I."

Rather late one afternoon I departed from my lodging, with my stick in one hand and a small
bundle in the other, shaping my course to the south- west: when I first arrived, somewhat more
than a year before, I had entered the city by the north-east.  As I was not going home, I determined
to take my departure in the direction the very opposite to home.

Just as I was about to cross the street called the Haymarket, at the lower part, a cabriolet,
drawn by a magnificent animal, came dashing along at a furious rate; it stopped close by the
curb-stone where I was, a sudden pull of the reins nearly bringing the spirited animal upon
its haunches.  The Jehu who had accomplished this feat was Francis Ardry.  A small beautiful
female, with flashing eyes, dressed in the extremity of fashion, sat beside him.

"Holloa, friend," said Francis Ardry, "whither bound?"

"I do not know," said I; "all I can say, is, that I am about to leave London."

"And the means?" said Francis Ardry.

"I have them," said I, with a cheerful smile.

"Qui est celui-ci?" demanded the small female, impatiently.

"C'est . . . mon ami le plus intime; so you were about to leave London without telling me a
word," said Francis Ardry, somewhat angrily.

"I intended to have written to you," said I: "what a splendid mare that is."

"Is she not?" said Francis Ardry, who was holding in the mare with difficulty; "she cost a
hundred guineas."

"Qu'est-ce qu'il dit?" demanded his companion.

"Il dit que le jument est bien beau."

"Allons, mon ami, il est tard," said the beauty, with a scornful toss of her head; "allons!"

"Encore un moment," said Francis Ardry; "and when shall I see you again?"

"I scarcely know," I replied: "I never saw a more splendid turn-out."

"Qu'est-ce qu'il dit?" said the lady again.

"Il dit que tout l'equipage est en assez bon gout."

"Allons, c'est un ours," said the lady; "le cheval meme en a peur," added she, as the mare
reared up on high.

"Can you find nothing else to admire but the mare and the equipage?" said Francis Ardry, reproachfully,
after he had with some difficulty brought the mare to order.

Lifting my hand, in which I held my stick, I took off my hat.  "How beautiful!" said I, looking
the lady full in the face.

"Comment?" said the lady, inquiringly.

"Il dit que vous etes belle comme un ange," said Francis Ardry, emphatically.

"Mais, a la bonne heure! arretez, mon ami," said the lady to Francis Ardry, who was about to
drive off; "je voudrais bien causer un moment avec lui; arretez, il est delicieux.--Est-ce
bien ainsi que vous traitez vos amis?" said she, passionately, as Francis Ardry lifted up his
whip.  "Bon jour, Monsieur, bon jour," said she, thrusting her head from the side and looking
back, as Francis Ardry drove off at the rate of thirteen miles an hour.

CHAPTER LIX

The Milestone--The Meditation--Want to Get Up?--The Off-hand Leader--Sixteen Shillings--The
Near-hand Wheeler--All Right.

In about two hours I had cleared the Great City, and got beyond the suburban villages, or rather
towns, in the direction in which I was travelling; I was in a broad and excellent road, leading
I knew not whither.  I now slackened my pace, which had hitherto been great. Presently, coming
to a milestone on which was graven nine miles, I rested against it, and looking round towards
the vast city, which had long ceased to be visible, I fell into a train of meditation.

I thought of all my ways and doings since the day of my first arrival in that vast city--I
had worked and toiled, and, though I had accomplished nothing at all commensurate with the
hopes which I had entertained previous to my arrival, I had achieved my own living, preserved
my independence, and become indebted to no one.  I was now quitting it, poor in purse, it is
true, but not wholly empty; rather ailing it may be, but not broken in health; and, with hope
within my bosom, had I not cause upon the whole to be thankful?  Perhaps there were some who,
arriving at the same time under not more favourable circumstances, had accomplished much more,
and whose future was far more hopeful--Good!  But there might be others who, in spite of all
their efforts, had been either trodden down in the press, never more to be heard of, or were
quitting that mighty town broken in purse, broken in health, and, oh! with not one dear hope
to cheer them.  Had I not, upon the whole, abundant cause to be grateful?  Truly, yes!

My meditation over, I left the milestone and proceeded on my way in the same direction as before
until the night began to close in.  I had always been a good pedestrian; but now, whether owing
to indisposition or to not having for some time past been much in the habit of taking such
lengthy walks, I began to feel not a little weary.  Just as I was thinking of putting up for
the night at the next inn or public-house I should arrive at, I heard what sounded like a coach
coming up rapidly behind me. Induced, perhaps, by the weariness which I felt, I stopped and
looked wistfully in the direction of the sound; presently up came a coach, seemingly a mail,
drawn by four bounding horses--there was no one upon it but the coachman and the guard; when
nearly parallel with me it stopped. "Want to get up?" sounded a voice, in the true coachman-like
tone--half querulous, half authoritative.  I hesitated; I was tired, it is true, but I had
left London bound on a pedestrian excursion, and I did not much like the idea of having recourse
to a coach after accomplishing so very inconsiderable a distance.  "Come, we can't be staying
here all night," said the voice, more sharply than before.  "I can ride a little way, and get
down whenever I like," thought I; and springing forward I clambered up the coach, and was going
to sit down upon the box, next the coachman. "No, no," said the coachman, who was a man about
thirty, with a hooked nose and red face, dressed in a fashionably cut great-coat, with a fashionable
black castor on his head.  "No, no, keep behind--the box a'n't for the like of you," said he,
as he drove off; "the box is for lords, or gentlemen at least."  I made no answer.  "D--- that
off-hand leader," said the coachman, as the right-hand front horse made a desperate start at
something he saw in the road; and, half rising, he with great dexterity hit with his long whip
the off-hand leader a cut on the off cheek.  "These seem to be fine horses," said I.  The coachman
made no answer.  "Nearly thoroughbred," I continued; the coachman drew his breath, with a kind
of hissing sound, through his teeth.  "Come, young fellow, none of your chaff.  Don't you think,
because you ride on my mail, I'm going to talk to you about 'orses.  I talk to nobody about
'orses except lords."  "Well," said I, "I have been called a lord in my time."  "It must have
been by a thimble-rigger, then," said the coachman, bending back, and half turning his face
round with a broad leer.  "You have hit the mark wonderfully," said I.  "You coachmen, whatever
else you may be, are certainly no fools."  "We a'n't, a'n't we?" said the coachman.  "There
you are right; and, to show you that you are, I'll now trouble you for your fare.  If you have
been amongst the thimble-riggers you must be tolerably well cleared out.  Where are you going?--to
---?  I think I have seen you there.  The fare is sixteen shillings.  Come, tip us the blunt;
them that has no money can't ride on my mail."

Sixteen shillings was a large sum, and to pay it would make a considerable inroad on my slender
finances; I thought, at first, that I would say I did not want to go so far; but then the fellow
would ask at once where I wanted to go, and I was ashamed to acknowledge my utter ignorance
of the road.  I determined, therefore, to pay the fare, with a tacit determination not to mount
a coach in future without knowing whither I was going.  So I paid the man the money, who, turning
round, shouted to the guard--"All right, Jem; got fare to ---;" {63} and forthwith whipped
on his horses, especially the off-hand leader, for whom he seemed to entertain a particular
spite, to greater speed than before--the horses flew.

A young moon gave a feeble light, partially illuminating a line of road which, appearing by
no means interesting, I the less regretted having paid my money for the privilege of being
hurried along it in the flying vehicle.  We frequently changed horses; and at last my friend
the coachman was replaced by another, the very image of himself--hawk nose, red face, with
narrow-rimmed hat and fashionable benjamin.  After he had driven about fifty yards, the new
coachman fell to whipping one of the horses.  "D--- this near-hand wheeler," said he, "the
brute has got a corn."  "Whipping him won't cure him of his corn," said I.  "Who told you to
speak?" said the driver, with an oath; "mind your own business; 'tisn't from the like of you
I am to learn to drive 'orses."  Presently I fell into a broken kind of slumber.  In an hour
or two I was aroused by a rough voice--"Got to ---, young man; get down if you please."  I
opened my eyes--there was a dim and indistinct light, like that which precedes dawn; the coach
was standing still in something like a street; just below me stood the guard.  "Do you mean
to get down," said he, "or will you keep us here till morning? other fares want to get up."
Scarcely knowing what I did, I took my bundle and stick and descended, whilst two people mounted.
"All right, John," said the guard to the coachman, springing up behind; whereupon off whisked
the coach, one or two individuals who were standing by disappeared, and I was left alone.

CHAPTER LX

The Still Hour--A Thrill--The Wondrous Circle--The Shepherd--Heaps and Barrows--What do you
Mean?--Milk of the Plains--Hengist Spared it--No Presents.

After standing still a minute or two, considering what I should do, I moved down what appeared
to be the street of a small straggling town; presently I passed by a church, which rose indistinctly
on my right hand; anon there was the rustling of foliage and the rushing of waters.  I reached
a bridge, beneath which a small stream {65} was running in the direction of the south.  I stopped
and leaned over the parapet, for I have always loved to look upon streams, especially at the
still hours. "What stream is this, I wonder?" said I, as I looked down from the parapet into
the water, which whirled and gurgled below.

And after I had remained with my face on the ground for some time, I arose, placed my hat on
my head, and, taking up my stick and bundle, wandered round the wondrous circle, examining
each individual stone, from the greatest to the least; and then, entering by the great door,
seated myself upon an immense broad stone, one side of which was supported by several small
ones, and the other slanted upon the earth; and there, in deep meditation, I sat for an hour
or two, till the sun shone in my face above the tall stones of the eastern side.

And as I still sat there, I heard the noise of bells, and presently a large number of sheep
came browsing past the circle of stones; two or three entered, and grazed upon what they could
find, and soon a man also entered the circle at the northern side.

"Early here, sir," said the man, who was tall, and dressed in a dark green slop, and had all
the appearance of a shepherd; "a traveller, I suppose?"

"Yes," said I, "I am a traveller.  Are these sheep yours?"

"They are, sir; that is, they are my master's.  A strange place this, sir," said he, looking
at the stones; "ever here before?"

"Never in body, frequently in mind."

"Heard of the stones, I suppose; no wonder--all the people of the plain talk of them."

"What do the people of the plain say of them?"

"Why, they say--How did they ever come here?"

"Do they not suppose them to have been brought?"

"Who should have brought them?"

"I have read that they were brought by many thousand men."

"Where from?"

"Ireland."

"How did they bring them?"

"I don't know."

"And what did they bring them for?"

"To form a temple, perhaps."

"What is that?"

"A place to worship God in."

"A strange place to worship God in."

"Why?"

"It has no roof."

"Yes it has."

"Where?" said the man, looking up.

"What do you see above you?"

"The sky."

"Well?"

"Well!"

"Have you anything to say?"

"How did these stones come here?"

"Are there other stones like these on the plains?" said I.

"None; and yet there are plenty of strange things on these downs."

"What are they?"

"Strange heaps, and barrows, and great walls of earth built on the tops of hills."

"Do the people of the plain wonder how they came there?"

"They do not."

"Why?"

"They were raised by hands."

"And these stones?"

"How did they ever come here?"

"I wonder whether they are here?" said I.

"These stones?"

"Yes."

"So sure as the world," said the man; "and, as the world, they will stand as long."

"I wonder whether there is a world."

"What do you mean?"

"An earth, and sea, moon and stars, sheep and men."

"Do you doubt it?"

"Sometimes."

"I never heard it doubted before."

"It is impossible there should be a world."

"It a'n't possible there shouldn't be a world."

"Just so."  At this moment a fine ewe, attended by a lamb, rushed into the circle and fondled
the knees of the shepherd.  "I suppose you would not care to have some milk," said the man.

"Why do you suppose so?"

"Because, so be, there be no sheep, no milk, you know; and what there ben't is not worth having."

"You could not have argued better," said I; "that is, supposing you have argued; with respect
to the milk you may do as you please."

"Be still, Nanny," said the man; and producing a tin vessel from his scrip, he milked the ewe
into it.  "Here is milk of the plains, master," said the man, as he handed the vessel to me.

"Where are those barrows and great walls of earth you were speaking of?" said I, after I had
drank some of the milk; "are there any near where we are?"

"Not within many miles; the nearest is yonder away," said the shepherd, pointing to the south-east.
"It's a grand place, that, but not like this; quite different, and from it you have a sight
of the finest spire in the world."

"I must go to it," said I, and I drank the remainder of the milk; "yonder, you say."

"Yes, yonder; but you cannot get to it in that direction, the river lies between."

"What river?"

"The Avon."

"Avon is British," said I.

"Yes," said the man, "we are all British here."

"No, we are not," said I.

"What are we then?"

"English."

"A'n't they one?"

"No."

"Who were the British?"

"The men who are supposed to have worshipped God in this place, and who raised these stones."

"Where are they now?"

"Our forefathers slaughtered them, spilled their blood all about, especially in this neighbourhood,
destroyed their pleasant places, and left not, to use their own words, one stone upon another."

"Yes, they did," said the shepherd, looking aloft at the transverse stone.

"And it is well for them they did; whenever that stone, which English hands never raised, is
by English hands thrown down, woe, woe, woe to the English race; spare it, English!  Hengist
spared it!--Here is sixpence."

"I won't have it," said the man.

"Why not?"

"You talk so prettily about these stones; you seem to know all about them."

"I never receive presents; with respect to the stones, I say with yourself, How did they ever
come here?"

"How did they ever come here?" said the shepherd.

CHAPTER LXI

The River--Arid Downs--A Prospect.

Leaving the shepherd, I bent my way in the direction pointed out by him as that in which the
most remarkable of the strange remains of which he had spoken lay.  I proceeded rapidly, making
my way over the downs covered with coarse grass and fern; with respect to the river of which
he had spoken, I reflected that, either by wading or swimming, I could easily transfer myself
and what I bore to the opposite side.  On arriving at its banks, I found it a beautiful stream,
but shallow, with here and there a deep place, where the water ran dark and still.

Always fond of the pure lymph, I undressed, and plunged into one of these gulfs, from which
I emerged, my whole frame in a glow, and tingling with delicious sensations.  After conveying
my clothes and scanty baggage to the farther side, I dressed, and then with hurried steps bent
my course in the direction of some lofty ground; I at length found myself on a high road, leading
over wide and arid downs; following the road for some miles without seeing anything remarkable,
I supposed at length that I had taken the wrong path, and wended on slowly and disconsolately
for some time, till, having nearly surmounted a steep hill, I knew at once, from certain appearances,
that I was near the object of my search.  Turning to the right near the brow of the hill, I
proceeded along a path which brought me to a causeway leading over a deep ravine, and connecting
the hill with another which had once formed part of it, for the ravine was evidently the work
of art.  I passed over the causeway, and found myself in a kind of gateway which admitted me
into a square space of many acres, surrounded on all sides by mounds or ramparts of earth.
{72a}  Though I had never been in such a place before, I knew that I stood within the precincts
of what had been a Roman encampment, and one probably of the largest size, for many thousand
warriors might have found room to perform their evolutions in that space, in which corn was
now growing, the green ears waving in the morning wind.

After I had gazed about the space for a time, standing in the gateway formed by the mounds,
I clambered up the mound to the left hand, and on the top of that mound I found myself at a
great altitude; beneath, at the distance of a mile, was a fair old city, situated amongst verdant
meadows, watered with streams, and from the heart of that old city, from amidst mighty trees,
I beheld towering to the sky the finest spire in the world.

And after I had looked from the Roman rampart for a long time, I hurried away, and, retracing
my steps along the causeway, regained the road, and, passing over the brow of the hill, descended
to the city of the spire. {72b}

CHAPTER LXII

The Hostelry--Life Uncertain--Open Countenance--The Grand Point--Thank You, Master--A Hard
Mother--Poor Dear!--Considerable Odds--The Better Country--English Fashion--Landlord-looking
Person.

And in the old city I remained two days, passing my time as I best could--inspecting the curiosities
of the place, eating and drinking when I felt so disposed, which I frequently did, the digestive
organs having assumed a tone to which for many months they had been strangers--enjoying at
night balmy sleep in a large bed in a dusky room, at the end of a corridor, in a certain hostelry
in which I had taken up my quarters--receiving from the people of the hostelry such civility
and condescension as people who travel on foot with bundle and stick, but who nevertheless
are perceived to be not altogether destitute of coin, are in the habit of receiving.  On the
third day, on a fine sunny afternoon, I departed from the city of the spire.

As I was passing through one of the suburbs, I saw, all on a sudden, a respectable-looking
female fall down in a fit; several persons hastened to her assistance.  "She is dead," said
one.  "No, she is not," said another.  "I am afraid she is," said a third.  "Life is very uncertain,"
said a fourth.  "It is Mrs. ---," said a fifth; "let us carry her to her own house."  Not being
able to render any assistance, I left the poor female in the hands of her townsfolk, and proceeded
on my way.  I had chosen a road in the direction of the north-west, it led over downs where
corn was growing, but where neither tree nor hedge was to be seen; two or three hours' walking
brought me to a beautiful valley, abounding with trees of various kinds, with a delightful
village at its farthest extremity; passing through it I ascended a lofty acclivity, on the
top of which I sat down on a bank, and, taking off my hat, permitted a breeze, which swept
coolly and refreshingly over the downs, to dry my hair, dripping from the effects of exercise
and the heat of the day.

And as I sat there, gazing now at the blue heavens, now at the downs before me, a man came
along the road in the direction in which I had hitherto been proceeding: just opposite to me
he stopped, and, looking at me, cried--"Am I right for London, master?"

He was dressed like a sailor, and appeared to be between twenty-five and thirty years of age--he
had an open manly countenance, and there was a bold and fearless expression in his eye.

"Yes," said I, in reply to his question; "this is one of the ways to London.  Do you come from
far?"

"From ---," said the man, naming a well-known seaport.

"Is this the direct road to London from that place?" I demanded.

"No," said the man; "but I had to visit two or three other places on certain commissions I
was entrusted with; amongst others to ---, where I had to take a small sum of money.  I am
rather tired, master; and, if you please, I will sit down beside you."

"You have as much right to sit down here as I have," said I, "the road is free for every one;
as for sitting down beside me, you have the look of an honest man, and I have no objection
to your company."

"Why, as for being honest, master," said the man, laughing and sitting down by me, "I haven't
much to say--many is the wild thing I have done when I was younger; however, what is done,
is done.  To learn, one must live, master; and I have lived long enough to learn the grand
point of wisdom."

"What is that?" said I.

"That honesty is the best policy, master."

"You appear to be a sailor," said I, looking at his dress.

"I was not bred a sailor," said the man, "though, when my foot is on the salt water, I can
play the part--and play it well too.  I am now from a long voyage."

"From America?" said I.

"Farther than that," said the man.

"Have you any objection to tell me?" said I.

"From New South Wales," said the man, looking me full in the face.

"Dear me," said I.

"Why do you say 'Dear me'?" said the man.

"It is a very long way off," said I.

"Was that your reason for saying so?" said the man.

"Not exactly," said I.

"No," said the man, with something of a bitter smile; "it was something else that made you
say so; you were thinking of the convicts."

"Well," said I, "what then?--you are no convict."

"How do you know?"

"You do not look like one."

"Thank you, master," said the man, cheerfully; "and, to a certain extent, you are right--bygones
are bygones--I am no longer what I was, nor ever will be again; the truth, however, is the
truth--a convict I have been--a convict at Sydney Cove."

"And you have served out the period for which you were sentenced, and are now returned?"

"As to serving out my sentence," replied the man, "I can't say that I did; I was sentenced
for fourteen years, and I was in Sydney Cove little more than half that time.  The truth is
that I did the Government a service.  There was a conspiracy amongst some of the convicts to
murder and destroy--I overheard and informed the Government; mind one thing, however, I was
not concerned in it; those who got it up were no comrades of mine, but a bloody gang of villains.
Well, the Government, in consideration of the service I had done them, remitted the remainder
of my sentence; and some kind gentlemen interested themselves about me, gave me good books
and good advice, and, being satisfied with my conduct, procured me employ in an exploring expedition,
by which I earned money. In fact, the being sent to Sydney was the best thing that ever happened
to me in all my life."

"And you have now returned to your native country.  Longing to see home brought you from New
South Wales."

"There you are mistaken," said the man.  "Wish to see England again would never have brought
me so far; for, to tell you the truth, master, England was a hard mother to me, as she has
proved to many.  No, a wish to see another kind of mother--a poor old woman whose son I am--has
brought me back."

"You have a mother, then?" said I.  "Does she reside in London?"

"She used to live in London," said the man; "but I am afraid she is long since dead."

"How did she support herself?" said I.

"Support herself! with difficulty enough; she used to keep a small stall on London Bridge,
where she sold fruit; I am afraid she is dead, and that she died perhaps in misery.  She was
a poor sinful creature; but I loved her, and she loved me.  I came all the way back merely
for the chance of seeing her."

"Did you ever write to her," said I, "or cause others to write to her?"

"I wrote to her myself," said the man, "about two years ago; but I never received an answer.
I learned to write very tolerably over there, by the assistance of the good people I spoke
of.  As for reading, I could do that very well before I went--my poor mother taught me to read,
out of a book that she was very fond of; a strange book it was, I remember.  Poor dear!--what
I would give only to know that she is alive."

"Life is very uncertain," said I.

"That is true," said the man, with a sigh.

"We are here one moment, and gone the next," I continued.  "As I passed through the streets
of a neighbouring town, I saw a respectable woman drop down, and people said she was dead.
Who knows but that she too had a son coming to see her from a distance, at that very time."

"Who knows, indeed," said the man.  "Ah, I am afraid my mother is dead. Well, God's will be done."

"However," said I, "I should not wonder at your finding your mother alive."

"You wouldn't?" said the man, looking at me wistfully.

"I should not wonder at all," said I; "indeed, something within me seems to tell me you will;
I should not much mind betting five shillings to five pence that you will see your mother within
a week.  Now, friend, five shillings to five pence--"

"Is very considerable odds," said the man, rubbing his hands; "sure you must have good reason
to hope, when you are willing to give such odds."

"After all," said I, "it not unfrequently happens that those who lay the long odds lose.  Let
us hope, however.  What do you mean to do in the event of finding your mother alive?"

"I scarcely know," said the man; "I have frequently thought that if I found my mother alive
I would attempt to persuade her to accompany me to the country which I have left--it is a better
country for a man--that is a free man--to live in than this; however, let me first find my
mother--if I could only find my mother--"

"Farewell," said I, rising.  "Go your way, and God go with you--I will go mine."  "I have but
one thing to ask you," said the man.  "What is that?" I inquired.  "That you would drink with
me before we part--you have done me so much good."  "How should we drink?" said I; "we are
on the top of a hill where there is nothing to drink."  "But there is a village below," said
the man; "do let us drink before we part."  "I have been through that village already," said
I, "and I do not like turning back."  "Ah," said the man, sorrowfully, "you will not drink
with me because I told you I was--"  "You are quite mistaken," said I, "I would as soon drink
with a convict as with a judge.  I am by no means certain that, under the same circumstances,
the judge would be one whit better than the convict.  Come along!  I will go back to oblige
you.  I have an odd sixpence in my pocket, which I will change, that I may drink with you."
So we went down the hill together to the village through which I had already passed, where,
finding a public-house, we drank together in true English fashion, after which we parted, the
sailor-looking man going his way and I mine.

After walking about a dozen miles, I came to a town, where I rested for the night.  The next
morning I set out again in the direction of the north-west.  I continued journeying for four
days, my daily journeys varying from twenty to twenty-five miles.  During this time nothing
occurred to me worthy of any especial notice.  The weather was brilliant, and I rapidly improved
both in strength and spirits.  On the fifth day, about two o'clock, I arrived at a small town.
Feeling hungry, I entered a decent-looking inn--within a kind of bar I saw a huge, fat, landlord-
looking person, with a very pretty, smartly-dressed maiden.  Addressing myself to the fat man,
"House!" said I, "House!  Can I have dinner, House?"

CHAPTER LXIII

Primitive Habits--Rosy-faced Damsel--A Pleasant Moment--Suit of Black--The Furtive Glance--The
Mighty Round--Degenerate Times--The Newspaper--The Evil Chance--I Congratulate You.

Then, having set my dress to rights, and combed my hair with a pocket- comb, I followed Jenny,
who conducted me back through the long passage, and showed me into a neat sanded parlour on
the ground floor.

I sat down by a window which looked out upon the dusty street; presently in came the handmaid,
and commenced laying the tablecloth.  "Shall I spread the table for one, sir," said she, "or
do you expect anybody to dine with you?"

"I can't say that I expect anybody," said I, laughing inwardly to myself; "however, if you
please you can lay for two, so that if any acquaintance of mine should chance to step in, he
may find a knife and fork ready for him."

So I sat by the window, sometimes looking out upon the dusty street, and now glancing at certain
old-fashioned prints which adorned the wall over against me.  I fell into a kind of doze, from
which I was almost instantly awakened by the opening of the door.  Dinner, thought I; and I
sat upright in my chair.  No, a man of the middle age, and rather above the middle height,
dressed in a plain suit of black, made his appearance, and sat down in a chair at some distance
from me, but near to the table, and appeared to be lost in thought.

"The weather is very warm, sir," said I.

"Very," said the stranger, laconically, looking at me for the first time.

"Would you like to see the newspaper?" said I, taking up one which lay upon the window seat.

"I never read newspapers," said the stranger, "nor, indeed . . . " Whatever it might be that
he had intended to say he left unfinished. Suddenly he walked to the mantelpiece at the farther
end of the room, before which he placed himself with his back towards me.  There he remained
motionless for some time; at length, raising his hand, he touched the corner of the mantelpiece
with his finger, advanced towards the chair which he had left, and again seated himself.

"Have you come far?" said he, suddenly looking towards me, and speaking in a frank and open
manner, which denoted a wish to enter into conversation.  "You do not seem to be of this place."

"I come from some distance," said I; "indeed, I am walking for exercise, which I find as necessary
to the mind as the body.  I believe that by exercise people would escape much mental misery."

Scarcely had I uttered these words when the stranger laid his hand, with seeming carelessness,
upon the table, near one of the glasses; after a moment or two he touched the glass with his
finger as if inadvertently, then, glancing furtively at me, he withdrew his hand and looked
towards the window.

"Are you from these parts?" said I at last, with apparent carelessness.

"From this vicinity," replied the stranger.  "You think, then, that it is as easy to walk off
the bad humours of the mind as of the body?"

"I, at least, am walking in that hope," said I.

"I wish you may be successful," said the stranger; and here he touched one of the forks which
lay on the table near him.

Here the door, which was slightly ajar, was suddenly pushed open with some fracas, and in came
the stout landlord, supporting with some difficulty an immense dish, in which was a mighty
round mass of smoking meat garnished all round with vegetables; so high was the mass that it
probably obstructed his view, for it was not until he had placed it upon the table that he
appeared to observe the stranger; he almost started, and quite out of breath exclaimed, "God
bless me, your honour; is your honour the acquaintance that the young gentleman was expecting?"

"Is the young gentleman expecting an acquaintance?" said the stranger.

There is nothing like putting a good face upon these matters, thought I to myself; and, getting
up, I bowed to the unknown.  "Sir," said I, "when I told Jenny that she might lay the tablecloth
for two, so that in the event of any acquaintance dropping in he might find a knife and fork
ready for him, I was merely jocular, being an entire stranger in these parts, and expecting
no one.  Fortune, however, it would seem has been unexpectedly kind to me; I flatter myself,
sir, that since you have been in this room I have had the honour of making your acquaintance;
and in the strength of that hope I humbly entreat you to honour me with your company to dinner,
provided you have not already dined."

The stranger laughed outright.

"Sir," I continued, "the round of beef is a noble one, and seems exceedingly well boiled, and
the landlord was just right when he said I should have such a dinner as is not seen every day.
A round of beef, at any rate such a round of beef as this, is seldom seen smoking upon the
table in these degenerate times.  Allow me, sir," said I, observing that the stranger was about
to speak, "allow me another remark.  I think I saw you just now touch the fork, I venture to
hail it as an omen that you will presently seize it, and apply it to its proper purpose, and
its companion the knife also."

The stranger changed colour, and gazed upon me in silence.

"Do, sir," here put in the landlord; "do, sir, accept the young gentleman's invitation.  Your
honour has of late been looking poorly, and the young gentleman is a funny young gentleman,
and a clever young gentleman; and I think it will do your honour good to have a dinner's chat
with the young gentleman."

"It is not my dinner hour," said the stranger; "I dine considerably later; taking anything
now would only discompose me; I shall, however, be most happy to sit down with the young gentleman;
reach me that paper, and, when the young gentleman has satisfied his appetite, we may perhaps
have a little chat together."

The landlord handed the stranger the newspaper, and, bowing, retired with his maid Jenny. 
I helped myself to a portion of the smoking round, and commenced eating with no little appetite.
The stranger appeared to be soon engrossed with the newspaper.  We continued thus a considerable
time--the one reading and the other dining.  Chancing suddenly to cast my eyes upon the stranger,
I saw his brow contract; he gave a slight stamp with his foot, and flung the newspaper to the
ground, then stooping down he picked it up, first moving his forefinger along the floor, seemingly
slightly scratching it with his nail.

"Do you hope, sir," said I, "by that ceremony with the finger to preserve yourself from the
evil chance?"

The stranger started; then, after looking at me for some time in silence, he said, "Is it possible
that you--?"

"Ay, ay," said I, helping myself to some more of the round, "I have touched myself in my younger
days, both for the evil chance and the good. Can't say, though, that I ever trusted much in
the ceremony." {87}

The stranger made no reply, but appeared to be in deep thought; nothing farther passed between
us until I had concluded the dinner, when I said to him, "I shall now be most happy, sir, to
have the pleasure of your conversation over a pint of wine."

The stranger rose; "No, my young friend," said he, smiling, "that would scarce be fair.  It
is my turn now--pray do me the favour to go home with me, and accept what hospitality my poor
roof can offer; to tell you the truth, I wish to have some particular discourse with you which
would hardly be possible in this place.  As for wine, I can give you some much better than
you can get here: the landlord is an excellent fellow, but he is an innkeeper after all.  I
am going out for a moment, and will send him in, so that you may settle your account; I trust
you will not refuse me, I only live about two miles from here."

I looked in the face of the stranger--it was a fine intelligent face, with a cast of melancholy
in it.  "Sir," said I, "I would go with you though you lived four miles instead of two."

"Who is that gentleman?" said I to the landlord, after I had settled his bill; "I am going
home with him."

"I wish I were going too," said the fat landlord, laying his hand upon his stomach.  "Young
gentleman, I shall be a loser by his honour's taking you away; but, after all, the truth is
the truth--there are few gentlemen in these parts like his honour, either for learning or welcoming
his friends.  Young gentleman, I congratulate you." {88}

CHAPTER LXIV

New Acquaintance--Old French Style--The Portrait--Taciturnity--The Evergreen Tree--The Dark
Hour--The Flash--Ancestors--A Fortunate Man--A Posthumous Child--Antagonist Ideas--The Hawks--Flaws--The
Pony--Irresistible Impulse--Favourable Crisis--The Topmost Branch--Twenty Feet--Heartily Ashamed.

I found the stranger awaiting me at the door of the inn.  "Like yourself, I am fond of walking,"
said he, "and when any little business calls me to this place I generally come on foot."

We were soon out of the town, and in a very beautiful country.  After proceeding some distance
on the high road, we turned off, and were presently in one of those mazes of lanes for which
England is famous; the stranger at first seemed inclined to be taciturn; a few observations,
however, which I made appeared to rouse him, and he soon exhibited not only considerable powers
of conversation, but stores of information which surprised me.  So pleased did I become with
my new acquaintance, that I soon ceased to pay the slightest attention either to place or distance.
At length the stranger was silent, and I perceived that we had arrived at a handsome iron gate
and a lodge; the stranger having rung a bell, the gate was opened by an old man, and we proceeded
along a gravel path, which in about five minutes brought us to a large brick house, built something
in the old French style, having a spacious lawn before it, and immediately in front a pond
in which were golden fish, and in the middle a stone swan discharging quantities of water from
its bill.  We ascended a spacious flight of steps to the door, which was at once flung open,
and two servants with powdered hair, and in livery of blue plush, came out and stood one on
either side as we passed the threshold.  We entered a large hall, and the stranger, taking
me by the hand, welcomed me to his poor home, as he called it, and then gave orders to another
servant, but out of livery, to show me to an apartment, and give me whatever assistance I might
require in my toilet.  Notwithstanding the plea as to primitive habits which I had lately made
to my other host in the town, I offered no objection to this arrangement, but followed the
bowing domestic to a spacious and airy chamber, where he rendered me all those little nameless
offices which the somewhat neglected state of my dress required.  When everything had been
completed to my perfect satisfaction, he told me that if I pleased he would conduct me to the
library, where dinner would be speedily served.

In the library I found a table laid for two; my host was not there, having as I supposed not
been quite so speedy with his toilette as his guest.  Left alone, I looked round the apartment
with inquiring eyes; it was long and tolerably lofty, the walls from the top to the bottom
were lined with cases containing books of all sizes and bindings; there was a globe or two,
a couch, and an easy chair.  Statues and busts there were none, and only one painting, a portrait,
that of my host, but not him of the mansion.  Over the mantelpiece, the features staringly
like, but so ridiculously exaggerated that they scarcely resembled those of a human being,
daubed evidently by the hand of the commonest sign-artist, hung a half-length portrait of him
of round of beef celebrity--my sturdy host of the town.

I had been in the library about ten minutes, amusing myself as I best could, when my friend
entered; he seemed to have resumed his taciturnity--scarce a word escaped his lips till dinner
was served, when he said, smiling, "I suppose it would be merely a compliment to ask you to
partake?"

"I don't know," said I, seating myself; "your first course consists of troutlets, I am fond
of troutlets, and I always like to be companionable."

The dinner was excellent, though I did but little justice to it from the circumstance of having
already dined; the stranger also, though without my excuse, partook but slightly of the good
cheer; he still continued taciturn, and appeared lost in thought, and every attempt which I
made to induce him to converse was signally unsuccessful.

And now dinner was removed, and we sat over our wine, and I remember that the wine was good,
and fully justified the encomiums of my host of the town.  Over the wine I made sure that my
entertainer would have loosened the chain which seemed to tie his tongue--but no!  I endeavoured
to tempt him by various topics, and talked of geometry and the use of the globes, of the heavenly
sphere, and the star Jupiter, which I said I had heard was a very large star, also of the evergreen
tree, which, according to Olaus, stood of old before the heathen temple of Upsal, and which
I affirmed was a yew--but no, nothing that I said could induce my entertainer to relax his
taciturnity.

It grew dark, and I became uncomfortable; "I must presently be going," I at last exclaimed.

At these words he gave a sudden start; "Going," said he, "are you not my guest, and an honoured
one?"

"You know best," said I; "but I was apprehensive I was an intruder; to several of my questions
you have returned no answer."

"Ten thousand pardons!" he exclaimed, seizing me by the hand; "but you cannot go now, I have
much to talk to you about--there is one thing in particular--"

"If it be the evergreen tree at Upsal," said I, interrupting him, "I hold it to have been a
yew--what else?  The evergreens of the south, as the old bishop observes, will not grow in
the north, and a pine was unfitted for such a locality, being a vulgar tree.  What else could
it have been but the yew--the sacred yew which our ancestors were in the habit of planting
in their churchyards?  Moreover, I affirm it to have been the yew for the honour of the tree;
for I love the yew, and had I home and land, I would have one growing before my front windows."

"You would do right, the yew is indeed a venerable tree, but it is not about the yew."

"The star Jupiter, perhaps?"

"Nor the star Jupiter, nor its moons; an observation which escaped you at the inn has made
a considerable impression upon me."

"But I really must take my departure," said I; "the dark hour is at hand."

And as I uttered these latter words the stranger touched rapidly something which lay near him--I
forget what it was.  It was the first action of the kind which I had observed on his part since
we sat down to table.

"You allude to the evil chance," said I; "but it is getting both dark and late."

"I believe we are going to have a storm," said my friend, "but I really hope that you will
give me your company for a day or two; I have, as I said before, much to talk to you about."

"Well," said I, "I shall be most happy to be your guest for this night; I am ignorant of the
country, and it is not pleasant to travel unknown paths by night--dear me, what a flash of
lightning!"

It had become very dark; suddenly a blaze of sheet lightning illumed the room.  By the momentary
light I distinctly saw my host touch another object upon the table.

"Will you allow me to ask you a question or two?" said he at last.

"As many as you please," said I; "but shall we not have lights?"

"Not unless you particularly wish it," said my entertainer; "I rather like the dark, and though
a storm is evidently at hand, neither thunder nor lightning has any terrors for me.  It is
other things I quake at--I should rather say ideas.  Now permit me to ask you . . ."

And then my entertainer asked me various questions, to all of which I answered unreservedly;
he was then silent for some time, at last he exclaimed, "I should wish to tell you the history
of my life--though not an adventurous one, I think it contains some things which will interest
you."

Without waiting for my reply he began.  Amidst darkness and gloom, occasionally broken by flashes
of lightning, the stranger related to me, as we sat at table in the library, his truly touching
history.

"Before proceeding to relate the events of my life, it will not be amiss to give you some account
of my ancestors.  My great-grandfather on the male side was a silk mercer, in Cheapside, who,
when he died, left his son, who was his only child, a fortune of one hundred thousand pounds,
and a splendid business; the son, however, had no inclination for trade, the summit of his
ambition was to be a country gentleman, to found a family, and to pass the remainder of his
days in rural ease and dignity, and all this he managed to accomplish; he disposed of his business,
purchased a beautiful and extensive estate for four score thousand pounds, built upon it the
mansion to which I had the honour of welcoming you to-day, married the daughter of a neighbouring
squire, who brought him a fortune of five thousand pounds, became a magistrate, and only wanted
a son and heir to make him completely happy; this blessing, it is true, was for a long time
denied him; it came, however, at last, as is usual, when least expected.  His lady was brought
to bed of my father, and then who so happy a man as my grandsire; he gave away two thousand
pounds in charities, and in the joy of his heart made a speech at the next quarter sessions;
the rest of his life was spent in ease, tranquillity, and rural dignity; he died of apoplexy
on the day that my father came of age; perhaps it would be difficult to mention a man who in
all respects was so fortunate as my grandfather: his death was sudden it is true, but I am
not one of those who pray to be delivered from a sudden death.

"I should not call my father a fortunate man; it is true that he had the advantage of a first-rate
education; that he made the grand tour with a private tutor, as was the fashion at that time;
that he came to a splendid fortune on the very day that he came of age; that for many years
he tasted all the diversions of the capital; that, at last determined to settle, he married
the sister of a baronet, an amiable and accomplished lady, with a large fortune; that he had
the best stud of hunters in the county, on which, during the season, he followed the fox gallantly;
had he been a fortunate man he would never have cursed his fate, as he was frequently known
to do; ten months after his marriage his horse fell upon him, and so injured him, that he expired
in a few days in great agony.  My grandfather was, indeed, a fortunate man; when he died he
was followed to the grave by the tears of the poor--my father was not.

"Two remarkable circumstances are connected with my birth--I am a posthumous child, and came
into the world some weeks before the usual time, the shock which my mother experienced at my
father's death having brought on the pangs of premature labour; both my mother's life and my
own were at first despaired of; we both, however, survived the crisis.  My mother loved me
with the most passionate fondness, and I was brought up in this house under her own eye--I
was never sent to school.

"I have already told you that mine is not a tale of adventure; my life has not been one of
action, but of wild imaginings and strange sensations; I was born with excessive sensibility,
and that has been my bane.  I have not been a fortunate man.

"No one is fortunate unless he is happy, and it is impossible for a being constructed like
myself to be happy for an hour, or even enjoy peace and tranquillity; most of our pleasures
and pains are the effects of imagination, and wherever the sensibility is great, the imagination
is great also.  No sooner has my imagination raised up an image of pleasure, than it is sure
to conjure up one of distress and gloom; these two antagonist ideas instantly commence a struggle
in my mind, and the gloomy one generally, I may say invariably, prevails.  How is it possible
that I should be a happy man?

"It has invariably been so with me from the earliest period that I can remember; the first
playthings that were given me caused me for a few minutes excessive pleasure: they were pretty
and glittering; presently, however, I became anxious and perplexed, I wished to know their
history, how they were made, and what of--were the materials precious; I was not satisfied
with their outward appearance.  In less than an hour I had broken the playthings in an attempt
to discover what they were made of.

"When I was eight years of age my uncle the baronet, who was also my godfather, sent me a pair
of Norway hawks, with directions for managing them; he was a great fowler.  Oh, how rejoiced
was I with the present which had been made me, my joy lasted for at least five minutes; I would
let them breed, I would have a house of hawks; yes, that I would--but--and here came the unpleasant
idea--suppose they were to fly away, how very annoying!  Ah, but, said hope, there's little
fear of that; feed them well and they will never fly away, or if they do they will come back,
my uncle says so; so sunshine triumphed for a little time.  Then the strangest of all doubts
came into my head; I doubted the legality of my tenure of these hawks; how did I come by them?
why, my uncle gave them to me; but how did they come into his possession? what right had he
to them? after all, they might not be his to give.--I passed a sleepless night. The next morning
I found that the man who brought the hawks had not departed.  'How came my uncle by these hawks?'
I anxiously inquired. 'They were sent to him from Norway, master, with another pair.'  'And
who sent them?'  'That I don't know, master, but I suppose his honour can tell you.'  I was
even thinking of scrawling a letter to my uncle to make inquiry on this point, but shame restrained
me, and I likewise reflected that it would be impossible for him to give my mind entire satisfaction;
it is true he could tell who sent him the hawks, but how was he to know how the hawks came
into the possession of those who sent them to him, and by what right they possessed them or
the parents of the hawks?  In a word, I wanted a clear valid title, as lawyers would say, to
my hawks, and I believe no title would have satisfied me that did not extend up to the time
of the first hawk, that is, prior to Adam; and, could I have obtained such a title, I make
no doubt that, young as I was, I should have suspected that it was full of flaws.

"I was now disgusted with the hawks, and no wonder, seeing all the disquietude they had caused
me; I soon totally neglected the poor birds, and they would have starved had not some of the
servants taken compassion upon them and fed them.  My uncle, soon hearing of my neglect, was
angry, and took the birds away; he was a very good-natured man, however, and soon sent me a
fine pony; at first I was charmed with the pony; soon, however, the same kind of thoughts arose
which had disgusted me on a former occasion.  How did my uncle become possessed of the pony?
This question I asked him the first time I saw him.  Oh, he had bought it of a Gypsy, that
I might learn to ride upon it.  A Gypsy; I had heard that Gypsies were great thieves, and I
instantly began to fear that the Gypsy had stolen the pony, and it is probable that for this
apprehension I had better grounds than for many others.  I instantly ceased to set any value
upon the pony, but for that reason, perhaps, I turned it to some account; I mounted it, and
rode it about, which I don't think I should have done had I looked upon it as a secure possession.
Had I looked upon my title as secure, I should have prized it so much, that I should scarcely
have mounted it for fear of injuring the animal; but now, caring not a straw for it, I rode
it most unmercifully, and soon became a capital rider. This was very selfish in me, and I tell
the fact with shame.  I was punished, however, as I deserved; the pony had a spirit of its
own, and, moreover, it had belonged to Gypsies; once, as I was riding it furiously over the
lawn, applying both whip and spur, it suddenly lifted up its heels, and flung me at least five
yards over its head.  I received some desperate contusions, and was taken up for dead; it was
many months before I perfectly recovered.

"But it is time for me to come to the touching part of my story.  There was one thing that
I loved better than the choicest gift which could be bestowed upon me, better than life itself--my
mother;--at length she became unwell, and the thought that I might possibly lose her now rushed
into my mind for the first time; it was terrible, and caused me unspeakable misery, I may say
horror.  My mother became worse, and I was not allowed to enter her apartment, lest by my frantic
exclamations of grief I might aggravate her disorder.  I rested neither day nor night, but
roamed about the house like one distracted.  Suddenly I found myself doing that which even
at the time struck me as being highly singular; I found myself touching particular objects
that were near me, and to which my fingers seemed to be attracted by an irresistible impulse.
It was now the table or the chair that I was compelled to touch; now the bell-rope; now the
handle of the door; now I would touch the wall, and the next moment stooping down, I would
place the point of my finger upon the floor: and so I continued to do day after day; frequently
I would struggle to resist the impulse, but invariably in vain.  I have even rushed away from
the object, but I was sure to return, the impulse was too strong to be resisted: I quickly
hurried back, compelled by the feeling within me to touch the object.  Now I need not tell
you that what impelled me to these actions was the desire to prevent my mother's death; whenever
I touched any particular object, it was with the view of baffling the evil chance, as you would
call it--in this instance my mother's death.

"A favourable crisis occurred in my mother's complaint, and she recovered; this crisis took
place about six o'clock in the morning; almost simultaneously with it there happened to myself
a rather remarkable circumstance connected with the nervous feeling which was rioting in my
system.  I was lying in bed in a kind of uneasy doze, the only kind of rest which my anxiety,
on account of my mother, permitted me at this time to take, when all at once I sprang up as
if electrified, the mysterious impulse was upon me, and it urged me to go without delay, and
climb a stately elm behind the house, and touch the topmost branch; otherwise--you know the
rest--the evil chance would prevail.  Accustomed for some time as I had been, under this impulse,
to perform extravagant actions, I confess to you that the difficulty and peril of such a feat
startled me; I reasoned against the feeling, and strove more strenuously than I had ever done
before; I even made a solemn vow not to give way to the temptation, but I believe nothing less
than chains, and those strong ones, could have restrained me.  The demoniac influence, for
I can call it nothing else, at length prevailed; it compelled me to rise, to dress myself,
to descend the stairs, to unbolt the door, and to go forth; it drove me to the foot of the
tree, and it compelled me to climb the trunk; this was a tremendous task, and I only accomplished
it after repeated falls and trials.  When I had got amongst the branches, I rested for a time,
and then set about accomplishing the remainder of the ascent; this for some time was not so
difficult, for I was now amongst the branches; as I approached the top, however, the difficulty
became greater, and likewise the danger; but I was a light boy, and almost as nimble as a squirrel,
and, moreover, the nervous feeling was within me, impelling me upward.  It was only by means
of a spring, however, that I was enabled to touch the top of the tree; I sprang, touched the
top of the tree, and fell a distance of at least twenty feet, amongst the branches; had I fallen
to the bottom I must have been killed, but I fell into the middle of the tree, and presently
found myself astride upon one of the boughs; scratched and bruised all over, I reached the
ground, and regained my chamber unobserved; I flung myself on my bed quite exhausted; presently
they came to tell me that my mother was better--they found me in the state which I have described,
and in a fever besides.  The favourable crisis must have occurred just about the time that
I performed the magic touch; it certainly was a curious coincidence, yet I was not weak enough,
even though a child, to suppose that I had baffled the evil chance by my daring feat.

"Indeed, all the time that I was performing these strange feats, I knew them to be highly absurd,
yet the impulse to perform them was irresistible--a mysterious dread hanging over me till I
had given way to it; even at that early period I frequently used to reason within myself as
to what could be the cause of my propensity to touch, but of course I could come to no satisfactory
conclusion respecting it; being heartily ashamed of the practice, I never spoke of it to any
one, and was at all times highly solicitous that no one should observe my weakness."

CHAPTER LXV

Maternal Anxiety--The Baronet--Little Zest--Country Life--Mr. Speaker!--The Craving--Spirited
Address--An Author.

After a short pause my host resumed his narration.  "Though I was never sent to school, my
education was not neglected on that account; I had tutors in various branches of knowledge,
under whom I made a tolerable progress; by the time I was eighteen I was able to read most
of the Greek and Latin authors with facility; I was likewise, to a certain degree, a mathematician.
I cannot say that I took much pleasure in my studies; my chief aim in endeavouring to accomplish
my tasks was to give pleasure to my beloved parent, who watched my progress with anxiety truly
maternal. My life at this period may be summed up in a few words; I pursued my studies, roamed
about the woods, walked the green lanes occasionally, cast my fly in a trout stream, and sometimes,
but not often, rode a-hunting with my uncle.  A considerable part of my time was devoted to
my mother, conversing with her and reading to her; youthful companions I had none, and as to
my mother, she lived in the greatest retirement, devoting herself to the superintendence of
my education, and the practice of acts of charity; nothing could be more innocent than this
mode of life, and some people say that in innocence there is happiness, yet I can't say that
I was happy.  A continual dread overshadowed my mind, it was the dread of my mother's death.
Her constitution had never been strong, and it had been considerably shaken by her last illness;
this I knew, and this I saw--for the eyes of fear are marvellously keen.  Well, things went
on in this way till I had come of age; my tutors were then dismissed, and my uncle the baronet
took me in hand, telling my mother that it was high time for him to exert his authority; that
I must see something of the world, for that, if I remained much longer with her, I should be
ruined.  'You must consign him to me,' said he, 'and I will introduce him to the world.'  My
mother sighed and consented; so my uncle the baronet introduced me to the world, took me to
horse-races and to London, and endeavoured to make a man of me according to his idea of the
term, and in part succeeded.  I became moderately dissipated--I say moderately, for dissipation
had but little zest for me.

"In this manner four years passed over.  It happened that I was in London in the height of
the season with my uncle, at his house; one morning he summoned me into the parlour, he was
standing before the fire, and looked very serious.  'I have had a letter,' said he; 'your mother
is very ill.' I staggered, and touched the nearest object to me; nothing was said for two or
three minutes, and then my uncle put his lips to my ear and whispered something.  I fell down
senseless.  My mother was . . . I remember nothing for a long time--for two years I was out
of my mind; at the end of this time I recovered, or partly so.  My uncle the baronet was very
kind to me; he advised me to travel, he offered to go with me.  I told him he was very kind,
but I would rather go by myself.  So I went abroad, and saw, amongst other things, Rome and
the Pyramids.  By frequent change of scene my mind became not happy, but tolerably tranquil.
I continued abroad some years, when, becoming tired of travelling, I came home, found my uncle
the baronet alive, hearty, and unmarried, as he still is.  He received me very kindly, took
me to Newmarket, and said that he hoped by this time I was become quite a man of the world;
by his advice I took a house in town, in which I lived during the season.  In summer I strolled
from one watering-place to another; and, in order to pass the time, I became very dissipated.

"At last I became as tired of dissipation as I had previously been of travelling, and I determined
to retire to the country, and live on my paternal estate; this resolution I was not slow in
putting into effect; I sold my house in town, repaired and refurnished my country house, and,
for at least ten years, lived a regular country life; I gave dinner parties, prosecuted poachers,
was charitable to the poor, and now and then went into my library; during this time I was seldom
or never visited by the magic impulse, the reason being, that there was nothing in the wide
world for which I cared sufficiently to move a finger to preserve it.  When the ten years,
however, were nearly ended, I started out of bed one morning in a fit of horror, exclaiming,
'Mercy, mercy! what will become of me?  I am afraid I shall go mad.  I have lived thirty-five
years and upwards without doing anything; shall I pass through life in this manner?  Horror!'
And then in rapid succession I touched three different objects.

"I dressed myself and went down, determining to set about something; but what was I to do?--there
was the difficulty.  I ate no breakfast, but walked about the room in a state of distraction;
at last I thought that the easiest way to do something was to get into Parliament, there would
be no difficulty in that.  I had plenty of money, and could buy a seat; but what was I to do
in Parliament?  Speak, of course--but could I speak? 'I'll try at once,' said I, and forthwith
I rushed into the largest dining-room, and, locking the door, I commenced speaking; 'Mr. Speaker,'
said I, and then I went on speaking for about ten minutes as I best could, and then I left
off, for I was talking nonsense.  No, I was not formed for Parliament; I could do nothing there.
What--what was I to do?

"Many, many times I thought this question over, but was unable to solve it; a fear now stole
over me that I was unfit for anything in the world, save the lazy life of vegetation which
I had for many years been leading; yet, if that were the case, thought I, why the craving within
me to distinguish myself?  Surely it does not occur fortuitously, but is intended to rouse
and call into exercise certain latent powers that I possess? and then with infinite eagerness
I set about attempting to discover these latent powers.  I tried an infinity of pursuits, botany
and geology amongst the rest, but in vain; I was fitted for none of them. I became very sorrowful
and despondent, and at one time I had almost resolved to plunge again into the whirlpool of
dissipation; it was a dreadful resource, it was true, but what better could I do?

"But I was not doomed to return to the dissipation of the world.  One morning a young nobleman,
who had for some time past showed a wish to cultivate my acquaintance, came to me in a considerable
hurry.  'I am come to beg an important favour of you,' said he; 'one of the county memberships
is vacant--I intend to become a candidate; what I want immediately is a spirited address to
the electors.  I have been endeavouring to frame one all the morning, but in vain; I have,
therefore, recourse to you as a person of infinite genius; pray, my dear friend, concoct me
one by the morning.'  'What you require of me,' I replied, 'is impossible; I have not the gift
of words; did I possess it I would stand for the county myself, but I can't speak.  Only the
other day I attempted to make a speech, but left off suddenly, utterly ashamed, although I
was quite alone, of the nonsense I was uttering.'  'It is not a speech that I want,' said my
friend, 'I can talk for three hours without hesitating, but I want an address to circulate
through the county, and I find myself utterly incompetent to put one together; do oblige me
by writing one for me, I know you can; and, if at any time you want a person to speak for you,
you may command me not for three but for six hours.  Good morning; to-morrow I will breakfast
with you.'  In the morning he came again.  'Well,' said he, 'what success?'  'Very poor,' said
I; 'but judge for yourself;' and I put into his hand a manuscript of several pages.  My friend
read it through with considerable attention.  'I congratulate you,' said he, 'and likewise
myself; I was not mistaken in my opinion of you; the address is too long by at least two-thirds,
or I should rather say, that it is longer by two-thirds than addresses generally are; but it
will do--I will not curtail it of a word.  I shall win my election.'  And in truth he did win
his election; and it was not only his own but the general opinion that he owed it to the address.

"But, however that might be, I had, by writing the address, at last discovered what had so
long eluded my search--what I was able to do.  I, who had neither the nerve nor the command
of speech necessary to constitute the orator--who had not the power of patient research required
by those who would investigate the secrets of nature, had, nevertheless, a ready pen and teeming
imagination.  This discovery decided my fate--from that moment I became an author."

CHAPTER LXVI

Trepidations--Subtle Principle--Perverse Imagination--Are they Mine?--Another Book--How Hard!--Agricultural
Dinner--Incomprehensible Actions--Inmost Bosom--Give it Up--Chance Resemblance--Rascally Newspaper.

"An author," said I, addressing my host; "is it possible that I am under the roof of an author?"

"Yes," said my host, sighing, "my name is so and so, and I am the author of so and so; it is
more than probable that you have heard both of my name and works.  I will not detain you much
longer with my history; the night is advancing, and the storm appears to be upon the increase.
My life since the period of my becoming an author may be summed briefly as an almost uninterrupted
series of doubts, anxieties, and trepidations.  I see clearly that it is not good to love anything
immoderately in this world, but it has been my misfortune to love immoderately everything on
which I have set my heart.  This is not good, I repeat--but where is the remedy?  The ancients
were always in the habit of saying, 'Practise moderation,' but the ancients appear to have
considered only one portion of the subject.  It is very possible to practise moderation in
some things, in drink and the like--to restrain the appetites--but can a man restrain the affections
of his mind, and tell them, so far you shall go, and no farther?  Alas, no! for the mind is
a subtle principle, and cannot be confined.  The winds may be imprisoned; Homer says that Odysseus
carried certain winds in his ship, confined in leathern bags, but Homer never speaks of confining
the affections.  It were but right that those who exhort us against inordinate affections,
and setting our hearts too much upon the world and its vanities, would tell us how to avoid
doing so.

"I need scarcely tell you, that no sooner did I become an author, than I gave myself up immoderately
to my vocation.  It became my idol, and, as a necessary consequence, it has proved a source
of misery and disquietude to me, instead of pleasure and blessing.  I had trouble enough in
writing my first work, and I was not long in discovering that it was one thing to write a stirring
and spirited address to a set of county electors, and another widely different to produce a
work at all calculated to make an impression upon the great world.  I felt, however, that I
was in my proper sphere, and by dint of unwearied diligence and exertion I succeeded in evolving
from the depths of my agitated breast a work which, though it did not exactly please me, I
thought would serve to make an experiment upon the public; so I laid it before the public,
and the reception which it met with was far beyond my wildest expectations.  The public were
delighted with it, but what were my feelings?  Anything, alas! but those of delight.  No sooner
did the public express its satisfaction at the result of my endeavours, than my perverse imagination
began to conceive a thousand chimerical doubts; forthwith I sat down to analyse it; and my
worst enemy, and all people have their enemies, especially authors--my worst enemy could not
have discovered or sought to discover a tenth part of the faults which I, the author and creator
of the unfortunate production, found or sought to find in it.  It has been said that love makes
us blind to the faults of the loved object--common love does, perhaps--the love of a father
to his child, or that of a lover to his mistress, but not the inordinate love of an author
to his works, at least not the love which one like myself bears to his works: to be brief,
I discovered a thousand faults in my work, which neither public nor critics discovered.  However,
I was beginning to get over this misery, and to forgive my work all its imperfections, when--and
I shake when I mention it--the same kind of idea which perplexed me with regard to the hawks
and the Gypsy pony rushed into my mind, and I forthwith commenced touching the objects around
me, in order to baffle the evil chance, as you call it; it was neither more nor less than a
doubt of the legality of my claim to the thoughts, expressions, and situations contained in
the book; that is, to all that constituted the book.  How did I get them?  How did they come
into my mind?  Did I invent them?  Did they originate with myself?  Are they my own, or are
they some other body's?  You see into what difficulty I had got; I won't trouble you by relating
all that I endured at that time, but will merely say that after eating my own heart, as the
Italians say, and touching every object that came in my way for six months, I at length flung
my book, I mean the copy of it which I possessed, into the fire, and began another.

"But it was all in vain; I laboured at this other, finished it, and gave it to the world; and
no sooner had I done so, than the same thought was busy in my brain, poisoning all the pleasure
which I should otherwise have derived from my work.  How did I get all the matter which composed
it?  Out of my own mind, unquestionably; but how did it come there--was it the indigenous growth
of the mind?  And then I would sit down and ponder over the various scenes and adventures in
my book, endeavouring to ascertain how I came originally to devise them, and by dint of reflecting
I remembered that to a single word in conversation, or some simple accident in a street, or
on a road, I was indebted for some of the happiest portions of my work; they were but tiny
seeds, it is true, which in the soil of my imagination had subsequently become stately trees,
but I reflected that without them no stately trees would have been produced, and that, consequently,
only a part in the merit of these compositions which charmed the world--for they did charm
the world--was due to myself. Thus, a dead fly was in my phial, poisoning all the pleasure
which I should otherwise have derived from the result of my brain sweat.  'How hard!' I would
exclaim, looking up to the sky, 'how hard!  But there is one circumstance to which I cannot
help alluding here, as it serves to show what miseries this love of originality must needs
bring upon an author.  I am constantly discovering that, however original I may wish to be,
I am continually producing the same things which other people say or write.  Whenever, after
producing something which gives me perfect satisfaction, and which has cost me perhaps days
and nights of brooding, I chance to take up a book for the sake of a little relaxation, a book
which I never saw before, I am sure to find in it something more or less resembling some part
of what I have been just composing.  You will easily conceive the distress which then comes
over me; 'tis then that I am almost tempted to execrate the chance which, by discovering my
latent powers, induced me to adopt a profession of such anxiety and misery.

"For some time past I have given up reading almost entirely, owing to the dread which I entertain
of lighting upon something similar to what I myself have written.  I scarcely ever transgress
without having almost instant reason to repent.  To-day, when I took up the newspaper, I saw
in a speech of the Duke of Rhododendron, at an agricultural dinner, the very same ideas, and
almost the same expressions which I had put into the mouth of an imaginary personage of mine,
on a widely different occasion; you saw how I dashed the newspaper down--you saw how I touched
the floor; the touch was to baffle the evil chance, to prevent the critics detecting any similarity
between the speech of the Duke of Rhododendron at the agricultural dinner, and the speech of
my personage.  My sensibility on the subject of my writings is so great, that sometimes a chance
word is sufficient to unman me, I apply it to them in a superstitious sense; for example, when
you said some time ago that the dark hour was coming on, I applied it to my works--it appeared
to bode them evil fortune; you saw how I touched, it was to baffle the evil chance; but I do
not confine myself to touching when the fear of the evil chance is upon me.  To baffle it I
occasionally perform actions which must appear highly incomprehensible; I have been known,
when riding in company with other people, to leave the direct road, and make a long circuit
by a miry lane to the place to which we were going.  I have also been seen attempting to ride
across a morass, where I had no business whatever, and in which my horse finally sank up to
its saddle-girths, and was only extricated by the help of a multitude of hands.  I have, of
course, frequently been asked the reason of such conduct, to which I have invariably returned
no answer, for I scorn duplicity; whereupon people have looked mysteriously, and sometimes
put their fingers to their foreheads.  'And yet it can't be,' I once heard an old gentleman
say; 'don't we know what he is capable of?' and the old man was right; I merely did these things
to avoid the evil chance, impelled by the strange feeling within me; and this evil chance is
invariably connected with my writings, the only things at present which render life valuable
to me.  If I touch various objects, and ride into miry places, it is to baffle any mischance
befalling me as an author, to prevent my books getting into disrepute; in nine cases out of
ten to prevent any expressions, thoughts, or situations in any work which I am writing from
resembling the thoughts, expressions, and situations of other authors, for my great wish, as
I told you before, is to be original.

"I have now related my history, and have revealed to you the secrets of my inmost bosom.  I
should certainly not have spoken so unreservedly as I have done, had I not discovered in you
a kindred spirit.  I have long wished for an opportunity of discoursing on the point which
forms the peculiar feature of my history with a being who could understand me; and truly it
was a lucky chance which brought you to these parts; you who seem to be acquainted with all
things strange and singular, and who are as well acquainted with the subject of the magic touch
as with all that relates to the star Jupiter, or the mysterious tree at Upsal."

Such was the story which my host related to me in the library, amidst the darkness, occasionally
broken by flashes of lightning.  Both of us remained silent for some time after it was concluded.

"It is a singular story," said I, at last, "though I confess that I was prepared for some part
of it.  Will you permit me to ask you a question?"

"Certainly," said my host.

"Did you never speak in public?" said I.

"Never."

"And when you made this speech of yours in the dining-room, commencing with Mr. Speaker, no
one was present?"

"None in the world, I double-locked the door; {114} what do you mean?"  In short--"

"I understand you," said I; "notwithstanding your troubles and anxieties you find life very
tolerable; has your originality ever been called in question?"

"On the contrary, every one declares that originality constitutes the most remarkable feature
of my writings; the man has some faults, they say, but want of originality is certainly not
one of them.  He is quite different from others--a certain newspaper, it is true, the ---,
I think, once insinuated that in a certain work of mine I had taken a hint or two from the
writings of a couple of authors which it mentioned; it happened, however, that I had never
even read one syllable of the writings of either, and of one of them had never even heard the
name; so much for the discrimination of the ---.  By the bye, what a rascally newspaper that is!"

"A very rascally newspaper," said I.

CHAPTER LXVII

Disturbed Slumbers--The Bed-Post--Two Wizards--What can I Do?--Real Library--The Rev. Mr. Platitude--Toleration
to Dissenters--Paradox--Sword of St. Peter--Enemy to Humbug--High Principles--False Concord--The
Damsel--What Religion?--Farther Conversation--That would never Do!--May you Prosper.

During the greater part of that night my slumbers were disturbed by strange dreams.  Amongst
other things, I fancied that I was my host; my head appeared to be teeming with wild thoughts
and imaginations, out of which I was endeavouring to frame a book.  And now the book was finished
and given to the world, and the world shouted; and all eyes were turned upon me, and I shrank
from the eyes of the world.  And, when I got into retired places, I touched various objects
in order to baffle the evil chance.  In short, during the whole night, I was acting over the
story which I had heard before I went to bed.

At about eight o'clock I awoke.  The storm had long since passed away, and the morning was
bright and shining; my couch was so soft and luxurious that I felt loth to quit it, so I lay
some time, my eyes wandering about the magnificent room to which fortune had conducted me in
so singular a manner; at last I heaved a sigh; I was thinking of my own homeless condition,
and imagining where I should find myself on the following morning.  Unwilling, however, to
indulge in melancholy thoughts, I sprang out of bed and proceeded to dress myself, and, whilst
dressing, I felt an irresistible inclination to touch the bedpost.

I finished dressing and left the room, feeling compelled, however, as I left it, to touch the
lintel of the door.  Is it possible, thought I, that from what I have lately heard the long-forgotten
influence should have possessed me again? but I will not give way to it; so I hurried downstairs,
resisting as I went a certain inclination which I occasionally felt to touch the rail of the
banister.  I was presently upon the gravel walk before the house: it was indeed a glorious
morning. I stood for some time observing the golden fish disporting in the waters of the pond,
and then strolled about amongst the noble trees of the park; the beauty and freshness of the
morning--for the air had been considerably cooled by the late storm--soon enabled me to cast
away the gloomy ideas which had previously taken possession of my mind, and, after a stroll
of about half an hour, I returned towards the house in high spirits.  It is true that once
I felt very much inclined to go and touch the leaves of a flowery shrub which I saw at some
distance, and had even moved two or three paces towards it; but, bethinking myself, I manfully
resisted the temptation.  "Begone!" I exclaimed, "ye sorceries, in which I formerly trusted--begone
for ever vagaries which I had almost forgotten; good luck is not to be obtained, or bad averted,
by magic touches; besides, two wizards in one parish would be too much, in all conscience."

I returned to the house, and entered the library; breakfast was laid on the table, and my friend
was standing before the portrait which I have already said hung above the mantelpiece; so intently
was he occupied in gazing at it that he did not hear me enter, nor was aware of my presence
till I advanced close to him and spoke, when he turned round and shook me by the hand.

"What can possibly have induced you to hang up that portrait in your library? it is a staring
likeness, it is true, but it appears to me a wretched daub."

"Daub as you call it," said my friend, smiling, "I would not part with it for the best piece
of Raphael.  For many a happy thought I am indebted to that picture--it is my principal source
of inspiration; when my imagination flags, as of course it occasionally does, I stare upon
those features, and forthwith strange ideas of fun and drollery begin to flow into my mind;
these I round, amplify, or combine into goodly creations, and bring forth as I find an opportunity.
It is true that I am occasionally tormented by the thought that, by doing this, I am committing
plagiarism; though, in that case, all thoughts must be plagiarisms, all that we think being
the result of what we hear, see, or feel.  What can I do?  I must derive my thoughts from some
source or other; and, after all, it is better to plagiarise from the features of my landlord
than from the works of Butler and Cervantes.  My works, as you are aware, are of a serio-comic
character.  My neighbours are of opinion that I am a great reader, and so I am, but only of
those features--my real library is that picture."

"But how did you obtain it?" said I.

"Some years ago a travelling painter came into this neighbourhood, and my jolly host, at the
request of his wife, consented to sit for his portrait; she highly admired the picture, but
she soon died, and then my fat friend, who is of an affectionate disposition, said he could
not bear the sight of it, as it put him in mind of his poor wife.  I purchased it of him for
five pounds--I would not take five thousand for it; when you called that picture a daub, you
did not see all the poetry of it."

We sat down to breakfast; my entertainer appeared to be in much better spirits than on the
preceding day; I did not observe him touch once; ere breakfast was over a servant entered--"The
Reverend Mr. Platitude, sir," said he.

A shade of dissatisfaction came over the countenance of my host.  "What does the silly pestilent
fellow mean by coming here?" said he, half to himself; "let him come in," said he to the servant.

The servant went out, and in a moment reappeared, introducing the Reverend Mr. Platitude. 
The Reverend Mr. Platitude, having what is vulgarly called a game leg, came shambling into
the room; he was about thirty years of age, and about five feet three inches high; his face
was of the colour of pepper, and nearly as rugged as a nutmeg grater; his hair was black; with
his eyes he squinted, and grinned with his lips, which were very much apart, disclosing two
very irregular rows of teeth; he was dressed in the true Levitical fashion, in a suit of spotless
black, and a neckerchief of spotless white.

The Reverend Mr. Platitude advanced winking and grinning to my entertainer, who received him
politely but with evident coldness; nothing daunted, however, the Reverend Mr. Platitude took
a seat by the table, and, being asked to take a cup of coffee, winked, grinned, and consented.

In company I am occasionally subject to fits of what is generally called absence; my mind takes
flight and returns to former scenes, or presses forward into the future.  One of these fits
of absence came over me at this time--I looked at the Reverend Mr. Platitude for a moment,
heard a word or two that proceeded from his mouth, and saying to myself, "You are no man for
me," fell into a fit of musing--into the same train of thought as in the morning, no very pleasant
one--I was thinking of the future.

I continued in my reverie for some time, and probably should have continued longer, had I not
been suddenly aroused by the voice of Mr. Platitude raised to a very high key.  "Yes, my dear
sir," said he, "it is but too true; I have it on good authority--a gone Church--a lost Church--a
ruined Church--a demolished Church is the Church of England.  Toleration to Dissenters! oh,
monstrous!"

"I suppose," said my host, "that the repeal of the Test Acts will be merely a precursor of
the emancipation of the Papists?"

"Of the Catholics," said the Reverend Mr. Platitude.  "Ahem.  There was a time, as I believe
you are aware, my dear sir, when I was as much opposed to the emancipation of the Catholics
as it was possible for any one to be; but I was prejudiced, my dear sir, labouring under a
cloud of most unfortunate prejudice; but I thank my Maker I am so no longer.  I have travelled,
as you are aware.  It is only by travelling that one can rub off prejudices; I think you will
agree with me there.  I am speaking to a traveller.  I left behind all my prejudices in Italy.
The Catholics are at least our fellow-Christians.  I thank Heaven that I am no longer an enemy
to Catholic emancipation."

"And yet you would not tolerate Dissenters?"

"Dissenters, my dear sir; I hope you would not class such a set as the Dissenters with Catholics?"

"Perhaps it would be unjust," said my host, "though to which of the two parties is another
thing; but permit me to ask you a question: Does it not smack somewhat of paradox to talk of
Catholics, whilst you admit there are Dissenters?  If there are Dissenters, how should there
be Catholics?"

"It is not my fault that there are Dissenters," said the Reverend Mr. Platitude; "if I had
my will I would neither admit there were any, nor permit any to be." {121}

"Of course you would admit there were such as long as they existed; but how would you get rid
of them?"

"I would have the Church exert its authority."

"What do you mean by exerting its authority?"

"I would not have the Church bear the sword in vain."

"What, the sword of St. Peter?  You remember what the Founder of the religion which you profess
said about the sword, 'He who striketh with it . . . '  I think those who have called themselves
the Church have had enough of the sword.  Two can play with the sword, Mr. Platitude.  The
Church of Rome tried the sword with the Lutherans: how did it fare with the Church of Rome?
The Church of England tried the sword, Mr. Platitude, with the Puritans: how did it fare with
Laud and Charles?"

"Oh, as for the Church of England," said Mr. Platitude, "I have little to say.  Thank God,
I left all my Church of England prejudices in Italy.  Had the Church of England known its true
interests, it would long ago have sought a reconciliation with its illustrious mother.  If
the Church of England had not been in some degree a schismatic church, it would not have fared
so ill at the time of which you are speaking; the rest of the Church would have come to its
assistance.  The Irish would have helped it, so would the French, so would the Portuguese.
Disunion has always been the bane of the Church."

Once more I fell into a reverie.  My mind now reverted to the past; methought I was in a small
comfortable room wainscoted with oak; I was seated on one side of a fireplace, close by a table
on which were wine and fruit; on the other side of the fire sat a man in a plain suit of brown,
with the hair combed back from his somewhat high forehead; he had a pipe in his mouth, which
for some time he smoked gravely and placidly, without saying a word; at length, after drawing
at the pipe for some time rather vigorously, he removed it from his mouth, and, emitting an
accumulated cloud of smoke, he exclaimed in a slow and measured tone, "As I was telling you
just now, my good chap, I have always been an enemy to humbug."

When I awoke from my reverie the Reverend Mr. Platitude was quitting the apartment.

"Who is that person?" said I to my entertainer, as the door closed behind him.

"Who is he?" said my host; "why, the Rev. Mr. Platitude."

"Does he reside in this neighbourhood?"

"He holds a living about three miles from here; his history, as far as I am acquainted with
it, is as follows.  His father was a respectable tanner in the neighbouring town, who, wishing
to make his son a gentleman, sent him to college.  Having never been at college myself, I cannot
say whether he took the wisest course; I believe it is more easy to unmake than to make a gentleman;
I have known many gentlemanly youths go to college, and return anything but what they went.
Young Mr. Platitude did not go to college a gentleman, but neither did he return one; he went
to college an ass, and returned a prig; to his original folly was superadded a vast quantity
of conceit.  He told his father that he had adopted high principles, and was determined to
discountenance everything low and mean; advised him to eschew trade, and to purchase him a
living.  The old man retired from business, purchased his son a living, and shortly after died,
leaving him what remained of his fortune.  The first thing the Reverend Mr. Platitude did,
after his father's decease, was to send his mother and sister into Wales to live upon a small
annuity, assigning as a reason that he was averse to anything low, and that they talked ungrammatically.
Wishing to shine in the pulpit, he now preached high sermons, as he called them, interspersed
with scraps of learning.  His sermons did not, however, procure him much popularity; on the
contrary, his church soon became nearly deserted, the greater part of his flock going over
to certain Dissenting preachers, who had shortly before made their appearance in the neighbourhood.
Mr. Platitude was filled with wrath, and abused Dissenters in most unmeasured terms.  Coming
in contact with some of the preachers at a public meeting, he was rash enough to enter into
argument with them.  Poor Platitude! he had better have been quiet, he appeared like a child,
a very infant, in their grasp; he attempted to take shelter under his college learning, but
found, to his dismay, that his opponents knew more Greek and Latin than himself. These illiterate
boors, as he had supposed them, caught him at once in a false concord, and Mr. Platitude had
to slink home overwhelmed with shame.  To avenge himself he applied to the ecclesiastical court,
but was told that the Dissenters could not be put down by the present ecclesiastical law. 
He found the Church of England, to use his own expression, a poor, powerless, restricted Church.
He now thought to improve his consequence by marriage, and made up to a rich and beautiful
young lady in the neighbourhood; the damsel measured him from head to foot with a pair of very
sharp eyes, dropped a curtsey, and refused him. Mr. Platitude, finding England a very stupid
place, determined to travel; he went to Italy; how he passed his time there he knows best,
to other people it is a matter of little importance.  At the end of two years he returned with
a real or assumed contempt for everything English, and especially for the Church to which he
belongs, and out of which he is supported.  He forthwith gave out that he had left behind him
all his Church of England prejudices, and, as a proof thereof, spoke against sacerdotal wedlock
and the toleration of schismatics.  In an evil hour for myself he was introduced to me by a
clergyman of my acquaintance, and from that time I have been pestered, as I was this morning,
at least once a week.

"Of what religion are you?" said I to my host.

"That of the Vicar of Wakefield--good, quiet, Church of England, which would live and let live,
practises charity, and rails at no one; where the priest is the husband of one wife, takes
care of his family and his parish--such is the religion for me, though I confess I have hitherto
thought too little of religious matters.  When, however, I have completed this plaguy work
on which I am engaged, I hope to be able to devote more attention to them."

After some farther conversation, the subjects being, if I remember right, college education,
priggism, church authority, tomfoolery, and the like, I rose and said to my host, "I must now
leave you."

"Whither are you going?"

"I do not know."

"Stay here, then--you shall be welcome as many days, months, and years as you please to stay."

"Do you think I would hang upon another man?  No, not if he were Emperor of all the Chinas.
I will now make my preparations, and then bid you farewell."

I retired to my apartment and collected the handful of things which I carried with me on my
travels.

"I will walk a little way with you," said my friend on my return.

He walked with me to the park gate; neither of us said anything by the way.  When we had come
upon the road, I said, "Farewell now; I will not permit you to give yourself any farther trouble
on my account.  Receive my best thanks for your kindness; before we part, however, I should
wish to ask you a question.  Do you think you shall ever grow tired of authorship?"

"I have my fears," said my friend, advancing his hand to one of the iron bars of the gate.

"Don't touch," said I, "it is a bad habit.  I have but one word to add: should you ever grow
tired of authorship follow your first idea of getting into Parliament; you have words enough
at command; perhaps you want manner and method; but, in that case, you must apply to a teacher,
you must take lessons of a master of elocution."

"That would never do!" said my host; "I know myself too well to think of applying for assistance
to any one.  Were I to become a parliamentary orator, I should wish to be an original one,
even if not above mediocrity.  What pleasure should I take in any speech I might make, however
original as to thought, provided the gestures I employed and the very modulation of my voice
were not my own?  Take lessons, indeed! why, the fellow who taught me, the professor, might
be standing in the gallery whilst I spoke; and, at the best parts of my speech, might say to
himself, 'That gesture is mine--that modulation is mine.'  I could not bear the thought of
such a thing."

"Farewell," said I, "and may you prosper.  I have nothing more to say."

I departed.  At the distance of twenty yards I turned round suddenly; my friend was just withdrawing
his finger from the bar of the gate.

"He has been touching," said I, as I proceeded on my way; "I wonder what was the evil chance
he wished to baffle."

CHAPTER LXVIII

Elastic Step--Disconsolate Party--Not the Season--Mend your Draught--Good Ale--Crotchet--Hammer
and Tongs--Schoolmaster--True Eden Life--Flaming Tinman--Twice my Size--Hard at Work--My Poor
Wife--Grey Moll--A Bible--Half and Half--What to Do--Half Inclined--In No Time--On One Condition--Don't
Stare--Like the Wind.

After walking some time, I found myself on the great road, at the same spot where I had turned
aside the day before with my new-made acquaintance, in the direction of his house.  I now continued
my journey as before, towards the north.  The weather, though beautiful, was much cooler than
it had been for some time past; I walked at a great rate, with a springing and elastic step.
In about two hours I came to where a kind of cottage stood a little way back from the road,
with a huge oak before it, under the shade of which stood a little pony and a cart, which seemed
to contain various articles.  I was going past--when I saw scrawled over the door of the cottage,
"Good beer sold here;" upon which, feeling myself all of a sudden very thirsty, I determined
to go in and taste the beverage.

I entered a well-sanded kitchen, and seated myself on a bench, on one side of a long white
table; the other side, which was nearest to the wall, was occupied by a party, or rather family,
consisting of a grimy- looking man, somewhat under the middle size, dressed in faded velveteens,
and wearing a leather apron--a rather pretty-looking woman, but sun-burnt, and meanly dressed,
and two ragged children, a boy and girl, about four or five years old.  The man sat with his
eyes fixed upon the table, supporting his chin with both his hands; the woman, who was next
him, sat quite still, save that occasionally she turned a glance upon her husband with eyes
that appeared to have been lately crying.  The children had none of the vivacity so general
at their age.  A more disconsolate family I had never seen; a mug, which, when filled, might
contain half a pint, stood empty before them; a very disconsolate party indeed.

"House!" said I; "House!" and then as nobody appeared, I cried again as loud as I could, "House!
do you hear me, House!"

"What's your pleasure, young man?" said an elderly woman, who now made her appearance from
a side apartment.

"To taste your ale," said I.

"How much?" said the woman, stretching out her hand towards the empty mug upon the table.

"The largest measure-full in your house," said I, putting back her hand gently.  "This is not
the season for half-pint mugs."

"As you will, young man," said the landlady; and presently brought in an earthen pitcher which
might contain about three pints, and which foamed and frothed withal.

"Will this pay for it?" said I, putting down sixpence.

"I have to return you a penny," said the landlady, putting her hand into her pocket.

"I want no change," said I, flourishing my hand with an air.

"As you please, young gentleman," said the landlady, and then making a kind of curtsey, she
again retired to the side apartment.

"Here is your health, sir," said I to the grimy-looking man, as I raised the pitcher to my lips.

The tinker, for such I supposed him to be, without altering his posture, raised his eyes, looked
at me for a moment, gave a slight nod, and then once more fixed his eyes upon the table.  I
took a draught of the ale, which I found excellent.  "Won't you drink?" said I, holding the
pitcher to the tinker.

The man again lifted up his eyes, looked at me, and then at the pitcher, and then at me again.
I thought at one time that he was about to shake his head in sign of refusal, but no, he looked
once more at the pitcher, and the temptation was too strong.  Slowly removing his head from
his arms, he took the pitcher, sighed, nodded, and drank a tolerable quantity, and then set
the pitcher down before me upon the table.

"You had better mend your draught," said I to the tinker, "it is a sad heart that never rejoices."

"That's true," said the tinker, and again raising the pitcher to his lips, he mended his draught
as I had bidden him, drinking a larger quantity than before.

"Pass it to your wife," said I.

The poor woman took the pitcher from the man's hand; before, however, raising it to her lips,
she looked at the children.  True mother's heart, thought I to myself, and taking the half-pint
mug, I made her fill it, and then held it to the children, causing each to take a draught.
The woman wiped her eyes with the corner of her gown, before she raised the pitcher and drank
to my health.

In about five minutes none of the family looked half so disconsolate as before, and the tinker
and I were in deep discourse.

"Well," said the tinker, after we had discoursed some time, "I little thought, when I first
saw you, that you were of my own trade."

Myself.  Nor am I, at least not exactly.  There is not much difference, 'tis true, between
a tinker and a smith.

Tinker.  You are a whitesmith then?

Myself.  Not I, I'd scorn to be anything so mean; no, friend, black's the colour; I am a brother
of the horse-shoe.  Success to the hammer and tongs.

Tinker.  Well, I shouldn't have thought you had been a blacksmith by your hands.

Myself.  I have seen them, however, as black as yours.  The truth is, I have not worked for
many a day.

Tinker.  Where did you serve first?

Myself.  In Ireland.

Tinker.  That's a good way off, isn't it?

Myself.  Not very far; over those mountains to the left, and the run of salt water that lies
behind them, there's Ireland.

Tinker.  It's a fine thing to be a scholar.

Myself.  Not half so fine as to be a tinker.

Tinker.  How you talk!

Myself.  Nothing but the truth; what can be better than to be one's own master?

Suddenly the tinker had covered his face with his hands, and begun to sob and moan like a man
in the deepest distress; the breast of his wife was heaved with emotion; even the children
were agitated, the youngest began to roar.

Myself.  What's the matter with you; what are you all crying about?

Tinker (uncovering his face).  Lord, why to hear you talk; isn't that enough to make anybody
cry--even the poor babes?  Yes, you said right, 'tis life in the Garden of Eden--the tinker's;
I see so now that I'm about to give it up.

Myself.  Give it up! you must not think of such a thing.

Tinker.  No, I can't bear to think of it, and yet I must; what's to be done?  How hard to be
frightened to death, to be driven off the roads!

Myself.  Who has driven you off the roads?

Tinker.  Who! the Flaming Tinman.

Myself.  Who is he?

Tinker.  The biggest rogue in England, and the cruellest, or he wouldn't have served me as
he has done--I'll tell you all about it.  I was born upon the roads, and so was my father before
me, and my mother too; and I worked with them as long as they lived, as a dutiful child, for
I have nothing to reproach myself with on their account; and when my father died I took up
the business, and went his beat, and supported my mother for the little time she lived; and
when she died I married this young woman, who was not born upon the roads, but was a small
tradesman's daughter, at Gloster.  She had a kindness for me, and, notwithstanding her friends
were against the match, she married the poor tinker, and came to live with him upon the roads.
Well, young man, for six or seven years I was the happiest fellow breathing, living just the
life you described just now--respected by everybody in this beat; when in an evil hour comes
this Black Jack, this Flaming Tinman, into these parts, driven as they say out of Yorkshire--for
no good you may be sure.  Now there is no beat will support two tinkers, as you doubtless know;
mine was a good one, but it would not support the flying tinker and myself, though if it would
have supported twenty it would have been all the same to the flying villain, who'll brook no
one but himself; so he presently finds me out, and offers to fight me for the beat.  Now, being
bred upon the roads, I can fight a little, that is with anything like my match, but I was not
going to fight him, who happens to be twice my size, and so I told him; whereupon he knocks
me down, and would have done me farther mischief had not some men been nigh and prevented him;
so he threatened to cut my throat, and went his way.  Well, I did not like such usage at all,
and was woundily frightened, and tried to keep as much out of his way as possible, going anywhere
but where I thought I was likely to meet him; and sure enough for several months I contrived
to keep out of his way.  At last somebody told me that he was gone back to Yorkshire, whereupon
I was glad at heart, and ventured to show myself, going here and there as I did before.  Well,
young man, it was yesterday that I and mine set ourselves down in a lane, about five miles
from here, and lighted our fire, and had our dinner, and after dinner I sat down to mend three
kettles and a frying pan which the people in the neighbourhood had given me to mend--for, as
I told you before, I have a good connection, owing to my honesty.  Well, as I sat there hard
at work, happy as the day's long, and thinking of anything but what was to happen, who should
come up but this Black Jack, this king of the tinkers, rattling along in his cart, with his
wife, that they call Grey Moll, by his side--for the villain has got a wife, and a maid-servant
too; the last I never saw, but they that has, says that she is as big as a house, and young,
and well to look at, which can't be all said of Moll, who, though she's big enough in all conscience,
is neither young nor handsome.  Well, no sooner does he see me and mine, than, giving the reins
to Grey Moll, he springs out of his cart, and comes straight at me; not a word did he say,
but on he comes straight at me like a wild bull.  I am a quiet man, young fellow, but I saw
now that quietness would be of no use, so I sprang up upon my legs, and being bred upon the
roads, and able to fight a little, I squared as he came running in upon me, and had a round
or two with him.  Lord bless you, young man, it was like a fly fighting with an elephant--one
of those big beasts the show-folks carry about.  I had not a chance with the fellow, he knocked
me here, he knocked me there, knocked me into the hedge, and knocked me out again.  I was at
my last shifts, and my poor wife saw it.  Now my poor wife, though she is as gentle as a pigeon,
has yet a spirit of her own, and though she wasn't bred upon the roads, can scratch a little;
so when she saw me at my last shifts, she flew at the villain--she couldn't bear to see her
partner murdered--and scratched the villain's face.  Lord bless you, young man, she had better
have been quiet: Grey Moll no sooner saw what she was about, than springing out of the cart,
where she had sat all along perfectly quiet, save a little whooping and screeching to encourage
her blade:--Grey Moll, I say (my flesh creeps when I think of it--for I am a kind husband,
and love my poor wife)--

Myself.  Take another draught of the ale; you look frightened, and it will do you good.  Stout
liquor makes stout heart, as the man says in the play.

Tinker.  That's true, young man; here's to you--where was I?  Grey Moll no sooner saw what
my wife was about, than springing out of the cart, she flew at my poor wife, clawed off her
bonnet in a moment, and seized hold of her hair.  Lord bless you, young man, my poor wife,
in the hands of Grey Moll, was nothing better than a pigeon in the claws of a buzzard hawk,
or I in the hands of the Flaming Tinman, which when I saw, my heart was fit to burst, and I
determined to give up everything--everything to save my poor wife out of Grey Moll's claws.
"Hold!" I shouted.  "Hold, both of you--Jack, Moll.  Hold, both of you, for God's sake, and
I'll do what you will: give up trade, and business, connection, bread, and everything, never
more travel the roads, and go down on my knees to you in the bargain."  Well, this had some
effect; Moll let go my wife, and the Blazing Tinman stopped for a moment; it was only for a
moment, however, that he left off--all of a sudden he hit me a blow which sent me against a
tree; and what did the villain then? why the flying villain seized me by the throat, and almost
throttled me, roaring--what do you think, young man, that the flaming villain roared out?

Myself.  I really don't know--something horrible, I suppose.

Tinker.  Horrible, indeed; you may well say horrible, young man; neither more nor less than
the Bible--"A Bible, a Bible!" roared the Blazing Tinman; and he pressed my throat so hard
against the tree that my senses began to dwaul away--a Bible, a Bible, still ringing in my
ears. Now, young man, my poor wife is a Christian woman, and, though she travels the roads,
carries a Bible with her at the bottom of her sack, with which sometimes she teaches the children
to read--it was the only thing she brought with her from the place of her kith and kin, save
her own body and the clothes on her back; so my poor wife, half distracted, runs to her sack,
pulls out the Bible, and puts it into the hand of the Blazing Tinman, who then thrusts the
end of it into my mouth with such fury that it made my lips bleed, and broke short one of my
teeth which happened to be decayed.  "Swear," said he, "swear, you mumping villain, take your
Bible oath that you will quit and give up the beat altogether, or I'll"--and then the hard
hearted villain made me swear by the Bible, and my own damnation, half-throttled as I was,
to--to--I can't go on--

Myself.  Take another draught--stout liquor--

Tinker.  I can't, young man, my heart's too full, and what's more, the pitcher is empty.

Myself.  And so he swore you, I suppose, on the Bible, to quit the roads?

Tinker.  You are right, he did so, the Gypsy villain.

Myself.  Gypsy!  Is he a Gypsy?

Tinker.  Not exactly; what they call a half and half.  His father was a Gypsy, and his mother,
like mine, one who walked the roads.

Myself.  Is he of the Smiths--the Petulengres?

Tinker.  I say, young man, you know a thing or two; one would think, to hear you talk, you
had been bred upon the roads.  I thought none but those bred upon the roads knew anything of
that name--Petulengres!  No, not he, he fights the Petulengres whenever he meets them; he likes
nobody but himself, and wants to be king of the roads.  I believe he is a Boss, {139} or a
--- at any rate he's a bad one, as I know to my cost.

Myself.  And what are you going to do?

Tinker.  Do! you may well ask that; I don't know what to do.  My poor wife and I have been
talking of that all the morning, over that half-pint mug of beer; we can't determine on what's
to be done.  All we know is, that we must quit the roads.  The villain swore that the next
time he saw us on the roads he'd cut all our throats, and seize our horse and bit of a cart
that are now standing out there under the tree.

Myself.  And what do you mean to do with your horse and cart?

Tinker.  Another question!  What shall we do with our cart and pony? they are of no use to
us now.  Stay on the roads I will not, both for my oath's sake and my own.  If we had a trifle
of money, we were thinking of going to Bristol, where I might get up a little business, but
we have none; our last three farthings we spent about the mug of beer.

Myself.  But why don't you sell your horse and cart?

Tinker.  Sell them, and who would buy them, unless some one who wished to set up in my line;
but there's no beat, and what's the use of the horse and cart and the few tools without the beat?

Myself.  I'm half inclined to buy your cart and pony, and your beat too.

Tinker.  You!  How came you to think of such a thing?

Myself.  Why, like yourself, I hardly know what to do.  I want a home and work.  Would you
have me go to Chester and work there now?  I don't like the thoughts of it.  If I go to Chester
and work there, I can't be my own man; I must work under a master, and perhaps he and I should
quarrel, and when I quarrel I am apt to hit folks, and those that hit folks are sometimes sent
to prison; I don't like the thought either of going to Chester or to Chester prison.  What
do you think I could earn at Chester?

Tinker.  A matter of eleven shillings a week, if anybody would employ you, which I don't think
they would with those hands of yours.  But whether they would or not, if you are of a quarrelsome
nature, you must not go to Chester; you would be in the castle in no time.  I don't know how
to advise you.  As for selling you my stock, I'd see you farther first, for your own sake.

Myself.  Why?

Tinker.  Why! you would get your head knocked off.  Suppose you were to meet him?

Myself.

"I'll hear of no such thing," said the tinker; "I have drunk at the young man's expense, and
though he says he's quarrelsome, I would not wish to sit in pleasanter company.  A pretty fellow
I should be, now, if I were to let him follow his own will.  If he once sets up on my beat,
he's a lost man, his ribs will be stove in, and his head knocked off his shoulders.  There,
you are crying, but you shan't have your will though; I won't be the young man's destruction
. . . If, indeed, I thought he could manage the tinker--but he never can; he says he can hit,
but it's no use hitting the tinker;--crying still! you are enough to drive one mad.  I say,
young man, I believe you understand a thing or two; just now you were talking of knowing hard
words and names--I don't wish to send you to your mischief--you say you know hard words and
names; let us see. Only on one condition I'll sell you the pony and things; as for the beat
it's gone, isn't mine--sworn away by my own mouth.  Tell me what's my name; if you can't, may I--"

Myself.

I paid Slingsby five pounds ten shillings for his stock in trade, cart, and pony--purchased
sundry provisions of the landlady, also a waggoner's frock, which had belonged to a certain
son of hers, deceased, gave my little animal a feed of corn, and prepared to depart.

"God bless you, young man," said Slingsby, shaking me by the hand, "you are the best friend
I've had for many a day: I have but one thing to tell you, Don't cross that fellow's path if
you can help it; and stay--should the pony refuse to go, just touch him so, and he'll fly like
the wind."

CHAPTER LXIX

Effects of Corn--One Night Longer--The Hoofs--A Stumble--Are You Hurt?--What a Difference!--Drowsy--Maze
of Bushes--Housekeeping--Sticks and Furze--The Drift-way--Account of Stock--Anvil and Bellows--Twenty
Years.

It was two or three hours past noon when I took my departure from the place of the last adventure,
walking by the side of my little cart; the pony, invigorated by the corn, to which he was probably
not much accustomed, proceeded right gallantly; so far from having to hasten him forward by
the particular application which the tinker had pointed out to me, I had rather to repress
his eagerness, being, though an excellent pedestrian, not unfrequently left behind.  The country
through which I passed was beautiful and interesting, but solitary: few habitations appeared.
As it was quite a matter of indifference to me in what direction I went, the whole world being
before me, I allowed the pony to decide upon the matter; it was not long before he left the
high road, being probably no friend to public places.  I followed him I knew not whither, but,
from subsequent observation, have reason to suppose that our course was in a north-west direction.
At length night came upon us, and a cold wind sprang up, which was succeeded by a drizzling rain.

I had originally intended to pass the night in the cart, or to pitch my little tent on some
convenient spot by the road's side; but, owing to the alteration in the weather, I thought
that it would be advisable to take up my quarters in any hedge alehouse at which I might arrive.
To tell the truth, I was not very sorry to have an excuse to pass the night once more beneath
a roof.  I had determined to live quite independent, but I had never before passed a night
by myself abroad, and felt a little apprehensive at the idea; I hoped, however, on the morrow,
to be a little more prepared for the step, so I determined for one night--only for one night
longer--to sleep like a Christian; but human determinations are not always put into effect,
such a thing as opportunity is frequently wanting, such was the case here.  I went on for a
considerable time, in expectation of coming to some rustic hostelry, but nothing of the kind
presented itself to my eyes; the country in which I now was seemed almost uninhabited, not
a house of any kind was to be seen--at least I saw none--though it is true houses might be
near without my seeing them, owing to the darkness of the night, for neither moon nor star
was abroad. I heard, occasionally, the bark of dogs; but the sound appeared to come from an
immense distance.  The rain still fell, and the ground beneath my feet was wet and miry; in
short, it was a night in which even a tramper by profession would feel more comfortable in
being housed than abroad.  I followed in the rear of the cart, the pony still proceeding at
a sturdy pace, till methought I heard other hoofs than those of my own nag; I listened for
a moment, and distinctly heard the sound of hoofs approaching at a great rate, and evidently
from the quarter towards which I and my little caravan were moving.  We were in a dark lane--so
dark that it was impossible for me to see my own hand.  Apprehensive that some accident might
occur, I ran forward, and, seizing the pony by the bridle, drew him as near as I could to the
hedge.  On came the hoofs--trot, trot, trot; and evidently more than those of one horse; their
speed as they advanced appeared to slacken--it was only, however, for a moment.  I heard a
voice cry, "Push on,--this is a desperate robbing place,--never mind the dark;" and the hoofs
came on quicker than before.  "Stop!" said I, at the top of my voice; "stop! or . . . "  Before
I could finish what I was about to say there was a stumble, a heavy fall, a cry, and a groan,
and putting out my foot I felt what I conjectured to be the head of a horse stretched upon
the road.  "Lord have mercy upon us! what's the matter?" exclaimed a voice.  "Spare my life,"
cried another voice, apparently from the ground; "only spare my life, and take all I have!"
"Where are you, Master Wise?" cried the other voice.  "Help! here, Master Bat," cried the voice
from the ground, "help me up or I shall be murdered."  "Why, what's the matter?" said Bat.
"Some one has knocked me down, and is robbing me," said the voice from the ground.  "Help!
murder!" cried Bat; and, regardless of the entreaties of the man on the ground that he would
stay and help him up, he urged his horse forward and galloped away as fast as he could.  I
remained for some time quiet, listening to various groans and exclamations uttered by the person
on the ground; at length I said, "Holloa! are you hurt?"  "Spare my life, and take all I have!"
said the voice from the ground.  "Have they not done robbing you yet?" said I; "when they have
finished let me know, and I will come and help you."  "Who is that?" said the voice; "pray
come and help me, and do me no mischief."  "You were saying that some one was robbing you,"
said I; "don't think I shall come till he is gone away." "Then you ben't he?" said the voice.
"Ar'n't you robbed?" said I.  "Can't say I be," said the voice; "not yet at any rate; but who
are you?  I don't know you."  "A traveller whom you and your partner were going to run over
in this dark lane; you almost frightened me out of my senses." "Frightened!" said the voice,
in a louder tone; "frightened! oh!" and thereupon I heard somebody getting upon his legs. 
This accomplished, the individual proceeded to attend to his horse, and with a little difficulty
raised him upon his legs also.  "Ar'n't you hurt?" said I.  "Hurt!" said the voice; "not I;
don't think it, whatever the horse may be.  I tell you what, my fellow, I thought you were
a robber; and now I find you are not, I have a good mind--"  "To do what?"  "To serve you out;
ar'n't you ashamed--?"  "At what?" said I; "not to have robbed you?  Shall I set about it now?"
"Ha, ha!" said the man, dropping the bullying tone which he had assumed; "you are joking--robbing!
who talks of robbing?  I wonder how my horse's knees are; not much hurt, I think--only mired."
The man, whoever he was, then got upon his horse; and, after moving him about a little, said,
"Good night, friend; where are you?"  "Here I am," said I, "just behind you."  "You are, are
you?  Take that."  I know not what he did, but probably pricking his horse with the spur the
animal kicked out violently; one of his heels struck me on the shoulder, but luckily missed
my face; I fell back with the violence of the blow, whilst the fellow scampered off at a great
rate.  Stopping at some distance, he loaded me with abuse, and then, continuing his way at
a rapid trot, I heard no more of him.

"What a difference!" said I, getting up; "last night I was feted in the hall of a rich genius,
and to-night I am knocked down and mired in a dark lane by the heel of Master Wise's horse--I
wonder who gave him that name? And yet he was wise enough to wreak his revenge upon me, and
I was not wise enough to keep out of his way.  Well, I am not much hurt, so it is of little
consequence."

I now bethought me that, as I had a carriage of my own, I might as well make use of it; I therefore
got into the cart, and, taking the reins in my hand, gave an encouraging cry to the pony, whereupon
the sturdy little animal started again at as brisk a pace as if he had not already come many
a long mile.  I lay half reclining in the cart, holding the reins lazily, and allowing the
animal to go just where he pleased, often wondering where he would conduct me.  At length I
felt drowsy, and my head sank upon my breast; I soon aroused myself, but it was only to doze
again; this occurred several times.  Opening my eyes after a doze somewhat longer than the
others, I found that the drizzling rain had ceased, a corner of the moon was apparent in the
heavens, casting a faint light; I looked around for a moment or two, but my eyes and brain
were heavy with slumber, and I could scarcely distinguish where we were.  I had a kind of dim
consciousness that we were traversing an unenclosed country--perhaps a heath; I thought, however,
that I saw certain large black objects looming in the distance, which I had a confused idea
might be woods or plantations; the pony still moved at his usual pace.  I did not find the
jolting of the cart at all disagreeable, on the contrary, it had quite a somniferous effect
upon me.  Again my eyes closed; I opened them once more, but with less perception in them than
before, looked forward, and, muttering something about woodlands, I placed myself in an easier
posture than I had hitherto done, and fairly fell asleep.

How long I continued in that state I am unable to say, but I believe for a considerable time;
I was suddenly awakened by the ceasing of the jolting to which I had become accustomed, and
of which I was perfectly sensible in my sleep.  I started up and looked around me, the moon
was still shining, and the face of the heaven was studded with stars; I found myself amidst
a maze of bushes of various kinds, but principally hazel and holly, through which was a path
or drift-way with grass growing on either side, upon which the pony was already diligently
browsing.  I conjectured that this place had been one of the haunts of his former master, and,
on dismounting and looking about, was strengthened in that opinion by finding a spot under
an ash tree which, from its burnt and blackened appearance, seemed to have been frequently
used as a fireplace. I will take up my quarters here, thought I; it is an excellent spot for
me to commence my new profession in; I was quite right to trust myself to the guidance of the
pony.  Unharnessing the animal without delay, I permitted him to browse at free will on the
grass, convinced that he would not wander far from a place to which he was so much attached;
I then pitched the little tent close beside the ash tree to which I have alluded, and conveyed
two or three articles into it, and instantly felt that I had commenced housekeeping for the
first time in my life. Housekeeping, however, without a fire is a very sorry affair, something
like the housekeeping of children in their toy houses; of this I was the more sensible from
feeling very cold and shivering, owing to my late exposure to the rain, and sleeping in the
night air.  Collecting, therefore, all the dry sticks and furze I could find, I placed them
upon the fireplace, adding certain chips and a billet which I found in the cart, it having
apparently been the habit of Slingsby to carry with him a small store of fuel.  Having then
struck a spark in a tinder-box and lighted a match, I set fire to the combustible heap, and
was not slow in raising a cheerful blaze; I then drew my cart near the fire, and, seating myself
on one of the shafts, hung over the warmth with feelings of intense pleasure and satisfaction.
Having continued in this posture for a considerable time, I turned my eyes to the heaven in
the direction of a particular star; I, however, could not find the star, nor indeed many of
the starry train, the greater number having fled, from which circumstance, and from the appearance
of the sky, I concluded that morning was nigh.  About this time I again began to feel drowsy;
I therefore arose, and having prepared for myself a kind of couch in the tent, I flung myself
upon it and went to sleep.

I will not say that I was awakened in the morning by the carolling of birds, as I perhaps might
if I were writing a novel; I awoke because, to use vulgar language, I had slept my sleep out,
not because the birds were carolling around me in numbers, as they had probably been for hours
without my hearing them.  I got up and left my tent; the morning was yet more bright than that
of the preceding day.  Impelled by curiosity, I walked about endeavouring to ascertain to what
place chance, or rather the pony, had brought me; following the drift-way for some time, amidst
bushes and stunted trees, I came to a grove of dark pines, through which it appeared to lead;
I tracked it a few hundred yards, but seeing nothing but trees, and the way being wet and sloughy,
owing to the recent rain, I returned on my steps, and, pursuing the path in another direction,
came to a sandy road leading over a common, doubtless the one I had traversed the preceding
night.  My curiosity satisfied, I returned to my little encampment, and on the way beheld a
small footpath on the left winding through the bushes, which had before escaped my observation.
Having reached my tent and cart, I breakfasted on some of the provisions which I had procured
the day before, and then proceeded to take a regular account of the stock formerly possessed
by Slingsby the tinker, but now become my own by right of lawful purchase.

Besides the pony, the cart, and the tent, I found I was possessed of a mattress stuffed with
straw on which to lie, and a blanket to cover me, the last quite clean and nearly new; then
there was a frying pan and a kettle, the first for cooking any food which required cooking,
and the second for heating any water which I might wish to heat.  I likewise found an earthen
teapot and two or three cups; of the first I should rather say I found the remains, it being
broken in three parts, no doubt since it came into my possession, which would have precluded
the possibility of my asking anybody to tea for the present, should anybody visit me, even
supposing I had tea and sugar, which was not the case.  I then overhauled what might more strictly
be called the stock in trade; this consisted of various tools, an iron ladle, a chafing pan
and small bellows, sundry pans and kettles, the latter being of tin, with the exception of
one which was of copper, all in a state of considerable dilapidation--if I may use the term;
of these first Slingsby had spoken in particular, advising me to mend them as soon as possible,
and to endeavour to sell them, in order that I might have the satisfaction of receiving some
return upon the outlay which I had made.  There was likewise a small quantity of block tin,
sheet tin, and solder.  "This Slingsby," said I, "is certainly a very honest man, he has sold
me more than my money's worth; I believe, however, there is something more in the cart."  Thereupon
I rummaged the farther end of the cart, and, amidst a quantity of straw, I found a small anvil
and bellows of that kind which are used in forges, and two hammers such as smiths use, one
great, and the other small.

The sight of these last articles caused me no little surprise, as no word which had escaped
from the mouth of Slingsby had given me reason to suppose that he had ever followed the occupation
of a smith; yet, if he had not, how did he come by them?  I sat down upon the shaft, and pondered
the question deliberately in my mind; at length I concluded that he had come by them by one
of those numerous casualties which occur upon the roads, of which I, being a young hand upon
the roads, must have a very imperfect conception; honestly, of course--for I scouted the idea
that Slingsby would have stolen this blacksmith's gear--for I had the highest opinion of his
honesty, which opinion I still retain at the present day, which is upwards of twenty years
from the time of which I am speaking, during the whole of which period I have neither seen
the poor fellow, nor received any intelligence of him.

CHAPTER LXX

New Profession--Beautiful Night--Jupiter--Sharp and Shrill--The Rommany Chi--All Alone--Three-and-Sixpence--What
is Rommany?--Be Civil--Parraco Tute--Slight Start--She will be Grateful--The Rustling.

I passed the greater part of the day in endeavouring to teach myself the mysteries of my new
profession.  I cannot say that I was very successful, but the time passed agreeably, and was
therefore not ill spent.  Towards evening I flung my work aside, took some refreshment, and
afterwards a walk.

This time I turned up the small footpath, of which I have already spoken. It led in a zigzag
manner through thickets of hazel, elder, and sweet briar; after following its windings for
somewhat better than a furlong, I heard a gentle sound of water, and presently came to a small
rill, which ran directly across the path.  I was rejoiced at the sight, for I had already experienced
the want of water, which I yet knew must be nigh at hand, as I was in a place to all appearance
occasionally frequented by wandering people, who I was aware never take up their quarters in
places where water is difficult to be obtained.  Forthwith I stretched myself on the ground,
and took a long and delicious draught of the crystal stream, and then, seating myself in a
bush, I continued for some time gazing on the water as it purled tinkling away in its channel
through an opening in the hazels, and should have probably continued much longer had not the
thought that I had left my property unprotected compelled me to rise and return to my encampment.

Night came on, and a beautiful night it was; up rose the moon, and innumerable stars decked
the firmament of heaven.  I sat on the shaft, my eyes turned upwards.  I had found it: there
it was twinkling millions of miles above me, mightiest star of the system to which we belong:
of all stars, the one which has most interest for me--the star Jupiter.

Why have I always taken an interest in thee, O Jupiter?  I know nothing about thee, save what
every child knows, that thou art a big star, whose only light is derived from moons.  And is
not that knowledge enough to make me feel an interest in thee?  Ay, truly, I never look at
thee without wondering what is going on in thee; what is life in Jupiter?  That there is life
in Jupiter who can doubt?  There is life in our own little star, therefore there must be life
in Jupiter, which is not a little star.  But how different must life be in Jupiter from what
it is in our own little star!  Life here is life beneath the dear sun--life in Jupiter is life
beneath moons--four moons--no single moon is able to illumine that vast bulk.  All know what
life is in our own little star; it is anything but a routine of happiness here, where the dear
sun rises to us every day: then how sad and moping must life be in mighty Jupiter, on which
no sun ever shines, and which is never lighted save by pale moon- beams!  The thought that
there is more sadness and melancholy in Jupiter than in this world of ours, where, alas! there
is but too much, has always made me take a melancholy interest in that huge distant star.

Two or three days passed by in much the same manner as the first.  During the morning I worked
upon my kettles, and employed the remaining part of the day as I best could.  The whole of
this time I only saw two individuals, rustics, who passed by my encampment without vouchsafing
me a glance; they probably considered themselves my superiors, as perhaps they were.

One very brilliant morning, as I sat at work in very good spirits, for by this time I had actually
mended in a very creditable way, as I imagined, two kettles and a frying pan, I heard a voice
which seemed to proceed from the path leading to the rivulet; at first it sounded from a considerable
distance, but drew nearer by degrees.  I soon remarked that the tones were exceedingly sharp
and shrill, with yet something of childhood in them.  Once or twice I distinguished certain
words in the song which the voice was singing; the words were--but no, I thought again I was
probably mistaken--and then the voice ceased for a time; presently I heard it again, close
to the entrance of the footpath; in another moment I heard it in the lane or glade in which
stood my tent, where it abruptly stopped, but not before I had heard the very words which I
at first thought I had distinguished.

I turned my head; at the entrance of the footpath, which might be about thirty yards from the
place where I was sitting, I perceived the figure of a young girl; her face was turned towards
me, and she appeared to be scanning me and my encampment; after a little time she looked in
the other direction, only for a moment, however; probably observing nothing in that quarter,
she again looked towards me, and almost immediately stepped forward; and, as she advanced,
sang the song which I had heard in the wood, the first words of which were those which I have
already alluded to.

   "The Rommany chi
   And the Rommany chal
   Shall jaw tasaulor
   To drab the bawlor
   And dook the gry
   Of the farming rye." {156}

A very pretty song, thought I, falling again hard to work upon my kettle; a very pretty song,
which bodes the farmers much good.  Let them look to their cattle.

"All alone here, brother?" said a voice close by me, in sharp but not disagreeable tones.

I made no answer, but continued my work, click, click, with the gravity which became one of
my profession.  I allowed at least half a minute to elapse before I even lifted up my eyes.

A girl of about thirteen was standing before me; her features were very pretty, but with a
peculiar expression; her complexion was a clear olive, and her jet black hair hung back upon
her shoulders.  She was rather scantily dressed, and her arms and feet were bare; round her
neck, however, was a handsome string of corals, with ornaments of gold; in her hand she held
a bulrush.

"All alone here, brother?" said the girl, as I looked up; "all alone here, in the lane; where
are your wife and children?"

"Why do you call me brother?" said I; "I am no brother of yours.  Do you take me for one of
your people?  I am no Gypsy; not I, indeed!"

"Don't be afraid, brother, you are no Roman--Roman, indeed! you are not handsome enough to
be a Roman; not black enough, tinker though you be.  If I called you brother, it was because
I didn't know what else to call you. Marry, come up, brother, I should be sorry to have you
for a brother."

"Then you don't like me?"

"Neither like you, nor dislike you, brother; what will you have for that kekaubi?"

"What's the use of talking to me in that un-Christian way; what do you mean, young gentlewoman?"

"Lord, brother, what a fool you are! every tinker knows what a kekaubi is.  I was asking you
what you would have for that kettle."

"Three-and-sixpence, young gentlewoman; isn't it well mended?"

"Well mended!  I could have done it better myself; three-and-sixpence! it's only fit to be
played at football with."

"I will take no less for it, young gentlewoman; it has caused me a world of trouble."

"I never saw a worse mended kettle.  I say, brother, your hair is white."

"'Tis nature; your hair is black; nature, nothing but nature."

"I am young, brother; my hair is black--that's nature: you are young, brother; your hair is
white--that's not nature."

"I can't help it if it be not, but it is nature after all; did you never see grey hair on the
young?"

"Never!  I have heard it is true of a grey lad, and a bad one he was.  Oh, so bad."

"Sit down on the grass, and tell me all about it, sister; do to oblige me, pretty sister."

"Hey, brother, you don't speak as you did--you don't speak like a Gorgio, you speak like one
of us, you call me sister."

"As you call me brother; I am not an uncivil person after all, sister."

"I say, brother, tell me one thing, and look me in the face--there--do you speak Rommany?"

"Rommany!  Rommany! what is Rommany?"

"What is Rommany? our language to be sure; tell me, brother, only one thing, you don't speak
Rommany?"

"You say it."

"I don't say it, I wish to know.  Do you speak Rommany?"

"Do you mean thieves' slang--cant? no, I don't speak cant, I don't like it, I only know a few
words; they call a sixpence a tanner, don't they?"

"I don't know," said the girl, sitting down on the ground, "I was almost thinking--well, never
mind, you don't know Rommany.  I say, brother, I think I should like to have the kekaubi."

"I thought you said it was badly mended?"

"Yes, yes, brother, but--"

"I thought you said it was only fit to be played at football with?"

"Yes, yes, brother, but--"

"What will you give for it?"

"Brother, I am the poor person's child, I will give you sixpence for the kekaubi."

"Poor person's child; how came you by that necklace?"

"Be civil, brother; am I to have the kekaubi?"

"Not for sixpence; isn't the kettle nicely mended?"

"I never saw a nicer mended kettle, brother; am I to have the kekaubi, brother?"

"You like me then?"

"I don't dislike you--I dislike no one; there's only one, and him I don't dislike, him I hate."

"Who is he?"

"I scarcely know, I never saw him, but 'tis no affair of yours, you don't speak Rommany; you
will let me have the kekaubi, pretty brother?"

"You may have it, but not for sixpence, I'll give it to you."

"Parraco tute, that is, I thank you, brother; the rikkeni [pretty] kekaubi is now mine.  Oh,
rare!  I thank you kindly, brother."

"Good bye, brother, I must be going."

"Good bye, sister; why do you sing that wicked song?"

"Wicked song, hey, brother! you don't understand the song!"

"Ha, ha! Gypsy daughter," said I, starting up and clapping my hands, "I don't understand Rommany,
don't I?  You shall see; here's the answer to your gillie--

   'The Rommany chi
   And the Rommany chal
   Love luripen
   And dukkeripen,
   And hokkeripen,
   And every pen
   But lachipen
   And tatchipen.'" {160}

The girl, who had given a slight start when I began, remained for some time after I had concluded
the song, standing motionless as a statue, with the kettle in her hand.  At length she came
towards me, and stared me full in the face.  "Grey, tall, and talks Rommany," said she to herself.
In her countenance there was an expression which I had not seen before--an expression which
struck me as being composed of fear, curiosity, and the deepest hate.  It was momentary, however,
and was succeeded by one smiling, frank, and open.  "Ha, ha, brother," said she, "well, I like
you all the better for talking Rommany; it is a sweet language, isn't it? especially as you
sing it.  How did you pick it up? But you picked it up upon the roads, no doubt?  Ha, it was
funny in you to pretend not to know it, and you so flush with it all the time; it was not kind
in you, however, to frighten the poor person's child so by screaming out, but it was kind in
you to give the rikkeni kekaubi to the child of the poor person.  She will be grateful to you;
she will bring you her little dog to show you, her pretty juggal; {161} the poor person's child
will come and see you again; you are not going away to- day, I hope, or to-morrow, pretty brother,
grey-haired brother--you are not going away to-morrow, I hope?"

"Nor the next day," said I, "only to take a stroll to see if I can sell a kettle; good bye,
little sister, Rommany sister, dingy sister."

"Good bye, tall brother," said the girl, as she departed, singing--

   "The Rommany chi," etc.

"There's something about that girl that I don't understand," said I to myself; "something mysterious.
However, it is nothing to me, she knows not who I am, and if she did, what then?"

Late that evening as I sat on the shaft of my cart in deep meditation, with my arms folded,
I thought I heard a rustling in the bushes over against me.  I turned my eyes in that direction,
but saw nothing.  "Some bird," said I; "an owl, perhaps;" and once more I fell into meditation;
my mind wandered from one thing to another--musing now on the structure of the Roman tongue--now
on the rise and fall of the Persian power--and now on the powers vested in recorders at quarter
sessions.  I was thinking what a fine thing it must be to be a recorder of the peace, when,
lifting up my eyes, I saw right opposite, not a culprit at the bar, but, staring at me through
a gap in the bush, a face wild and strange, half covered with grey hair; I only saw it a moment,
the next it had disappeared.

CHAPTER LXXI

Friend of Slingsby--All Quiet--Danger--The Two Cakes--Children in the Wood--Don't be Angry--In
Deep Thought--Temples Throbbing--Deadly Sick--Another Blow--No Answer--How Old are You?--Play
and Sacrament--Heavy Heart--Song of Poison--Drow of Gypsies--The Dog--Ely's Church--Get up,
Bebee--The Vehicle--Can You Speak?--The Oil.

The next day, at an early hour, I harnessed my little pony, and, putting my things in my cart,
I went on my projected stroll.  Crossing the moor, I arrived in about an hour at a small village,
from which, after a short stay, I proceeded to another, and from thence to a third.  I found
that the name of Slingsby was well known in these parts.

"If you are a friend of Slingsby you must be an honest lad," said an ancient crone; "you shall
never want for work whilst I can give it you. Here, take my kettle, the bottom came out this
morning, and lend me that of yours till you bring it back.  I'm not afraid to trust you--not
I. Don't hurry yourself, young man; if you don't come back for a fortnight I shan't have the
worse opinion of you."

I returned to my quarters at evening, tired, but rejoiced at heart; I had work before me for
several days, having collected various kekaubies which required mending, in place of those
which I left behind--those which I had been employed upon during the last few days.  I found
all quiet in the lane or glade, and, unharnessing my little horse, I once more pitched my tent
in the old spot beneath the ash, lighted my fire, ate my frugal meal, and then, after looking
for some time at the heavenly bodies, and more particularly at the star Jupiter, I entered
my tent, lay down upon my pallet, and went to sleep.

Nothing occurred on the following day which requires any particular notice, nor indeed on the
one succeeding that.  It was about noon on the third day that I sat beneath the shade of the
ash tree; I was not at work, for the weather was particularly hot, and I felt but little inclination
to make any exertion.

"Are you sure," said I, taking the cake, "that this is the one I chose?"

"Quite sure, brother; but if you like you can have mine; there's no difference, however--shall
I eat?"

"Yes, sister, eat."

"See, brother, I do; now, brother, eat, pretty brother, grey-haired brother."

"I am not hungry."

"Not hungry! well, what then--what has being hungry to do with the matter?  It is my grandbebee's
cake which was sent because you were kind to the poor person's child; eat, brother, eat, and
we shall be like the children in the wood that the Gorgios speak of."

"The children in the wood had nothing to eat."

"Yes, they had hips and haws; we have better.  Eat, brother."

"See, sister, I do," and I ate a piece of the cake.

"Well, brother, how do you like it?" said the girl, looking fixedly at me.

"It is very rich and sweet, and yet there is something strange about it; I don't think I shall
eat any more."

"Fie, brother, fie, to find fault with the poor person's cake; see, I have nearly eaten mine."

"That's a pretty little dog."

"Is it not, brother? that's my juggal, my little sister, as I call her."

"Come here, juggal," said I to the animal.

"What do you want with my juggal?" said the girl.

"Only to give her a piece of cake," said I, offering the dog a piece which I had just broken off.

"What do you mean?" said the girl, snatching the dog away; "my grandbebee's cake is not for dogs."

"Why, I just now saw you give the animal a piece of yours."

"You lie, brother, you saw no such thing; but I see how it is, you wish to affront the poor
person's child.  I shall go to my house."

"Keep still, and don't be angry; see, I have eaten the piece which I offered the dog.  I meant
no offence.  It is a sweet cake after all."

"Isn't it, brother?  I am glad you like it.  Offence! brother, no offence at all!  I am so
glad you like my grandbebee's cake, but she will be wanting me at home.  Eat one piece more
of grandbebee's {167} cake and I will go."

"I am not hungry, I will put the rest by."

"One piece more before I go, handsome brother, grey-haired brother."

"I will not eat any more, I have already eaten more than I wished to oblige you; if you must
go, good day to you."

The girl rose upon her feet, looked hard at me, then at the remainder of the cake which I held
in my hand, and then at me again, and then stood for a moment or two, as if in deep thought;
presently an air of satisfaction came over her countenance, she smiled and said, "Well, brother,
well, do as you please, I merely wished you to eat because you have been so kind to the poor
person's child.  She loves you so, that she could have wished to have seen you eat it all;
good bye, brother, I dare say when I am gone you will eat some more of it, and if you don't,
I dare say you have eaten enough to--to--show your love for us.  After all, it was a poor person's
cake, a Rommany manricli, {168} and all you Gorgios are somewhat gorgious.  Farewell, brother,
pretty brother, grey-haired brother.  Come, juggal."

I remained under the ash tree seated on the grass for a minute or two, and endeavoured to resume
the occupation in which I had been engaged before I fell asleep, but I felt no inclination
for labour.  I then thought I would sleep again, and once more reclined against the tree, and
slumbered for some little time, but my sleep was more agitated than before.  Something appeared
to bear heavy on my breast, I struggled in my sleep, fell on the grass, and awoke; my temples
were throbbing, there was a burning in my eyes, and my mouth felt parched; the oppression about
the chest which I had felt in my sleep still continued.  "I must shake off these feelings,"
said I, "and get upon my legs."  I walked rapidly up and down upon the green sward; at length,
feeling my thirst increase, I directed my steps down the narrow path to the spring which ran
amidst the bushes; arriving there, I knelt down and drank of the water, but on lifting up my
head I felt thirstier than before; again I drank, but with the like result; I was about to
drink for the third time, when I felt a dreadful qualm which instantly robbed me of nearly
all my strength.  What can be the matter with me, thought I; but I suppose I have made myself
ill by drinking cold water.  I got up and made the best of my way back to my tent; before I
reached it the qualm had seized me again, and I was deadly sick.  I flung myself on my pallet,
qualm succeeded qualm, but in the intervals my mouth was dry and burning, and I felt a frantic
desire to drink, but no water was at hand, and to reach the spring once more was impossible;
the qualms continued, deadly pains shot through my whole frame; I could bear my agonies no
longer, and I fell into a trance or swoon.  How long I continued therein I know not; on recovering,
however, I felt somewhat better, and attempted to lift my head off my couch; the next moment,
however, the qualms and pains returned, if possible, with greater violence than before.  I
am dying, thought I, like a dog, without any help; and then methought I heard a sound at a
distance like people singing, and then once more I relapsed into my swoon.

I revived just as a heavy blow sounded upon the canvas of the tent.  I started, but my condition
did not permit me to rise; again the same kind of blow sounded upon the canvas; I thought for
a moment of crying out and requesting assistance, but an inexplicable something chained my
tongue, and now I heard a whisper on the outside of the tent.  "He does not move, bebee," said
a voice which I knew.  "I should not wonder if it has done for him already; however, strike
again with your ran;" {169} and then there was another blow, after which another voice cried
aloud in a strange tone, "Is the gentleman of the house asleep, or is he taking his dinner?"
I remained quite silent and motionless, and in another moment the voice continued, "What, no
answer? what can the gentleman of the house be about that he makes no answer? perhaps the gentleman
of the house may be darning his stockings?"  Thereupon a face peered into the door of the tent,
at the farther extremity of which I was stretched.  It was that of a woman, but owing to the
posture in which she stood, with her back to the light, and partly owing to a large straw bonnet,
I could distinguish but very little of the features of her countenance.  I had, however, recognised
her voice; it was that of my old acquaintance, Mrs. Herne.  "Ho, ho, sir!" said she, "here
you are.  Come here, Leonora," said she to the Gypsy girl, who pressed in at the other side
of the door; "here is the gentleman, not asleep, but only stretched out after dinner. Sit down
on your ham, child, at the door, I shall do the same.  There--you have seen me before, sir,
have you not?"

"The gentleman makes no answer, bebee; perhaps he does not know you."

"I have known him of old, Leonora," said Mrs. Herne; "and, to tell you the truth, though I
spoke to him just now, I expected no answer."

"It's a way he has, bebee, {170} I suppose?"

"Yes, child, it's a way he has."

"Take off your bonnet, bebee, perhaps he cannot see your face."

"I do not think that will be of much use, child; however, I will take off my bonnet--there--and
shake out my hair--there--you have seen this hair before, sir, and this face--"

"No answer, bebee."

"Though the one was not quite so grey, nor the other so wrinkled."

"How came they so, bebee?"

"All along of this Gorgio, child."

"The gentleman in the house you mean, bebee."

"Yes, child, the gentleman in the house.  God grant that I may preserve my temper.  Do you
know, sir, my name?  My name is Herne, which signifies a hairy individual, though neither grey-haired
nor wrinkled.  It is not the nature of the Hernes to be grey or wrinkled, even when they are
old, and I am not old."

"How old are you, bebee?"

"Sixty-five years, child--an inconsiderable number.  My mother was a hundred and one--a considerable
age--when she died, yet she had not one grey hair, and not more than six wrinkles--an inconsiderable
number."

"She had no griefs, bebee?"

"Plenty, child, but not like mine."

"Not quite so hard to bear, bebee?"

"No, child, my head wanders when I think of them.  After the death of my husband, who came
to his end untimeously, I went to live with a daughter of mine, married out among certain Romans
who walk about the eastern counties, and with whom for some time I found a home and pleasant
society, for they lived right Romanly, which gave my heart considerable satisfaction, who am
a Roman born, and hope to die so.  When I say right Romanly, I mean that they kept to themselves,
and were not much given to blabbing about their private matters in promiscuous company.  Well,
things went on in this way for some time, when one day my son-in-law brings home a young Gorgio
of singular and outrageous ugliness, and, without much preamble, says to me and mine, 'This
is my pal, a'n't he a beauty? fall down and worship him.'  'Hold,' said I, 'I for one will
never consent to such foolishness.'"

"That was right, bebee, I think I should have done the same."

"I think you would, child; but what was the profit of it?  The whole party makes an almighty
of this Gorgio, lets him into their ways, says prayers of his making, till things come to such
a pass that my own daughter says to me, 'I shall buy myself a veil and fan, and treat myself
to a play and sacrament.'  'Don't,' says I; says she, 'I should like for once in my life to
be courtesied to as a Christian gentlewoman.'"

"Very foolish of her, bebee."

"Wasn't it, child?  Where was I?  At the fan and sacrament; with a heavy heart I put seven
score miles between us, came back to the hairy ones, and found them over-given to gorgious
companions; said I, 'Foolish manners is catching; all this comes of that there Gorgio.'  Answers
the child Leonora, 'Take comfort, bebee, I hate the Gorgios as much as you do.'"

"And I say so again, bebee, as much or more."

"Time flows on, I engage in many matters, in most miscarry.  Am sent to prison; says I to myself,
I am become foolish.  Am turned out of prison, and go back to the hairy ones, who receive me
not over courteously; says I, for their unkindness, and my own foolishness, all the thanks
to that Gorgio.  Answers to me the child, 'I wish I could set eyes upon him, bebee.'"

"I did so, bebee; go on."

"'How shall I know him, bebee?' says the child.  'Young and grey, tall, and speaks Romanly.'
Runs to me the child, and says, 'I've found him, bebee.'  'Where, child?' says I.  'Come with
me, bebee,' says the child. 'That's he,' says I, as I looked at my gentleman through the hedge."

"He has heard it Romanly already, bebee; 'twas by that I found him out, as I told you."

"Halloo, sir, are you sleeping? you have taken drows; the gentleman makes no answer.  God give
me patience!"

"And what if he doesn't, bebee; isn't he poisoned like a hog?  Gentleman, indeed! why call
him gentleman? if he ever was one he's broke, and is now a tinker, a worker of blue metal."

"That's his way, child,--to-day a tinker, to-morrow something else; and as for being drabbed,
{174a} I don't know what to say about it."

"Not drabbed! what do you mean, bebee? but look there, bebee; ha, ha! look at the gentleman's
motions."

"He is sick, child, sure enough.  Ho, ho! sir, you have taken drows; what, another throe! writhe,
sir, writhe, the hog died by the drow of Gypsies; I saw him stretched at evening.  That's yourself,
sir.  There is no hope, sir, no help, you have taken drow; shall I tell you your fortune, sir,
your dukkerin?  God bless you, pretty gentleman, much trouble will you have to suffer, and
much water to cross; but never mind, pretty gentleman, you shall be fortunate at the end, and
those who hate shall take off their hats to you."

"Hey, bebee!" cried the girl; "what is this? what do you mean? you have blessed the Gorgio!"

"Blessed him! no, sure; what did I say?  Oh, I remember, I'm mad; well, I can't help it, I
said what the dukkerin dook {174b} told me; woe's me, he'll get up yet."

"Nonsense, bebee!  Look at his motions, he's drabbed, spite of dukkerin."

"Don't say so, child; he's sick, 'tis true, but don't laugh at dukkerin, only folks do that
that know no better.  I, for one, will never laugh at the dukkerin dook.  Sick again; I wish
he was gone."

"He'll soon be gone, bebee; let's leave him.  He's as good as gone; look there, he's dead."

"No, he's not, he'll get up--I feel it; can't we hasten him?"

"Hasten him! yes, to be sure; set the dog upon him.  Here, juggal, look in there, my dog."

The dog made its appearance at the door of the tent, and began to bark and tear up the ground.

"At him, juggal, at him; he wished to poison, to drab you.  Halloo!"

The dog barked violently, and seemed about to spring at my face, but retreated.

"The dog won't fly at him, child; he flashed at the dog with his eye, and scared him.  He'll
get up."

"Nonsense, bebee! you make me angry; how should he get up?"

"The dook tells me so, and, what's more, I had a dream.  I thought I was at York, standing
amidst a crowd to see a man hung, and the crowd shouted 'There he comes!' and I looked, and,
lo! it was the tinker; before I could cry with joy I was whisked away, and I found myself in
Ely's big church, which was chock full of people to hear the dean preach, and all eyes were
turned to the big pulpit; and presently I heard them say, 'There he mounts!' and I looked up
to the big pulpit, and, lo! the tinker was in the pulpit, and he raised his arm and began to
preach.  Anon, I found myself at York again, just as the drop fell, and I looked up, and I
saw not the tinker, but my own self hanging in the air."

"You are going mad, bebee; if you want to hasten him, take your stick and poke him in the eye."

"That will be of no use, child, the dukkerin tells me so; but I will try what I can do.  Halloo,
tinker! you must introduce yourself into a quiet family, and raise confusion--must you?  You
must steal its language, and, what was never done before, write it down Christianly--must you?
Take that--and that;" and she stabbed violently with her stick towards the end of the tent.

"That's right, bebee, you struck his face; now once more, and let it be in the eye.  Stay,
what's that? get up, bebee."

"What's the matter, child?"

"Some one is coming; come away."

"Let me make sure of him, child; he'll be up yet."  And thereupon Mrs. Herne, rising, leaned
forward into the tent, and, supporting herself against the pole, took aim in the direction
of the farther end.  "I will thrust out his eye," said she; and, lunging with her stick, she
would probably have accomplished her purpose had not at that moment the pole of the tent given
way, whereupon she fell to the ground, the canvas falling upon her and her intended victim.

"Here's a pretty affair, bebee," screamed the girl.

"He'll get up yet," said Mrs. Herne, from beneath the canvas.

"Get up!--get up yourself; where are you? where is your . . .  Here, there, bebee, here's the
door; there, make haste; they are coming."

"He'll get up yet," said Mrs. Herne, recovering her breath, "the dook tells me so."

"Never mind him or the dook; he is drabbed; come away, or we shall be grabbed--both of us."

"One more blow, I know where his head lies."

"You are mad, bebee; leave the fellow--Gorgio avella." {177}

And thereupon the females hurried away.

A vehicle of some kind was evidently drawing nigh; in a little time it came alongside of the
place where lay the fallen tent, and stopped suddenly.  There was a silence for a moment, and
then a parley ensued between two voices, one of which was that of a woman.  It was not in English,
but in a deep guttural tongue.

"Peth yw hono sydd yn gorwedd yna ar y ddaear?" said a masculine voice.

"Yn wirionedd--I do not know what it can be," said the female voice, in the same tongue.

"Here is a cart, and there are tools; but what is that on the ground?"

"Something moves beneath it; and what was that--a groan?"

"Shall I get down?"

"Of course, Peter, some one may want your help."

"Then I will get down, though I do not like this place, it is frequented by Egyptians, and
I do not like their yellow faces, nor their clibberty clabber, as Master Ellis Wyn says.  Now
I am down.  It is a tent, Winifred, and see, here is a boy beneath it.  Merciful father! what
a face!"

A middle-aged man, with a strongly marked and serious countenance, dressed in sober-coloured
habiliments, had lifted up the stifling folds of the tent, and was bending over me.  "Can you
speak, my lad?" said he in English; "what is the matter with you? if you could but tell me,
I could perhaps help you . . . "  "What is that you say?  I can't hear you. I will kneel down;"
and he flung himself on the ground, and placed his ear close to my mouth.  "Now speak if you
can.  Hey! what! no, sure, God forbid!" then starting up, he cried to a female who sat in the
cart, anxiously looking on--"Gwenwyn! gwenwyn! yw y gwas wedi ei gwenwynaw.  The oil!  Winifred,
the oil!"

CHAPTER LXXII

Desired Effect--The Three Oaks--Winifred--Things of Time--With God's Will--The Preacher--Creature
Comforts--Croesaw--Welsh and English--Mayor of Chester.

The oil, which the strangers compelled me to take, produced the desired effect, though, during
at least two hours, it was very doubtful whether or not my life would be saved.  At the end
of that period the man said, that with the blessing of God, he would answer for my life.  He
then demanded whether I thought I could bear to be removed from the place in which we were,
"for I like it not," he continued, "as something within me tells me that it is not good for
any of us to be here."  I told him, as well as I was able, that I, too, should be glad to leave
the place; whereupon, after collecting my things, he harnessed my pony, and, with the assistance
of the woman, he contrived to place me in the cart; he then gave me a draught out of a small
phial, and we set forward at a slow pace, the man walking by the side of the cart in which
I lay.  It is probable that the draught consisted of a strong opiate, for after swallowing
it I fell into a deep slumber; on my awaking, I found that the shadows of night had enveloped
the earth--we were still moving on. Shortly, however, after descending a declivity, we turned
into a lane, at the entrance of which was a gate.  This lane conducted to a meadow, through
the middle of which ran a small brook; it stood between two rising grounds; that on the left,
which was on the farther side of the water, was covered with wood, whilst the one on the right,
which was not so high, was crowned with the white walls of what appeared to be a farmhouse.

Advancing along the meadow, we presently came to a place where grew three immense oaks, almost
on the side of the brook, over which they flung their arms, so as to shade it as with a canopy;
the ground beneath was bare of grass, and nearly as hard and smooth as the floor of a barn.
Having led his own cart on one side of the midmost tree, and my own on the other, the stranger
said to me, "This is the spot where my wife and myself generally tarry in the summer season,
when we come into these parts.  We are about to pass the night here.  I suppose you will have
no objection to do the same?  Indeed, I do not see what else you could do under present circumstances."
After receiving my answer, in which I, of course, expressed my readiness to assent to his proposal,
he proceeded to unharness his horse, and, feeling myself much better, I got down, and began
to make the necessary preparations for passing the night beneath the oak.

Whilst thus engaged, I felt myself touched on the shoulder, and, looking round, perceived the
woman, whom the stranger called Winifred, standing close to me.  The moon was shining brightly
upon her, and I observed that she was very good looking, with a composed, yet cheerful expression
of countenance; her dress was plain and primitive, very much resembling that of a Quaker. 
She held a straw bonnet in her hand.  "I am glad to see thee moving about, young man," said
she, in a soft, placid tone; "I could scarcely have expected it.  Thou must be wondrous strong;
many, after what thou hast suffered, would not have stood on their feet for weeks and months.
What do I say?--Peter, my husband, who is skilled in medicine, just now told me that not one
in five hundred would have survived what thou hast this day undergone; but allow me to ask
thee one thing, Hast thou returned thanks to God for thy deliverance?"  I made no answer, and
the woman, after a pause, said, "Excuse me, young man, but do you know anything of God?"  "Very
little," I replied, "but I should say He must be a wondrous strong Person, if He made all those
big bright things up above there, to say nothing of the ground on which we stand, which bears
beings like these oaks, each of which is fifty times as strong as myself, and will live twenty
times as long."  The woman was silent for some moments, and then said, "I scarcely know in
what spirit thy words are uttered.  If thou art serious, however, I would caution thee against
supposing that the power of God is more manifested in these trees, or even in those bright
stars above us, than in thyself--they are things of time, but thou art a being destined to
an eternity; it depends upon thyself whether thy eternity shall be one of joy or sorrow."

Here she was interrupted by the man, who exclaimed from the other side of the tree, "Winifred,
it is getting late, you had better go up to the house on the hill to inform our friends of
our arrival, or they will have retired for the night."  "True," said Winifred, and forthwith
wended her way to the house in question, returning shortly with another woman, whom the man,
speaking in the same language which I had heard him first use, greeted by the name of Mary;
the woman replied in the same tongue, but almost immediately said, in English, "We hoped to
have heard you speak to- night, Peter, but we cannot expect that now, seeing that it is so
late, owing to your having been detained by the way, as Winifred tells me; nothing remains
for you to do now but to sup--to-morrow, with God's will, we shall hear you."  "And to-night,
also, with God's will, provided you be so disposed.  Let those of your family come hither."
"They will be hither presently," said Mary, "for knowing that thou art arrived, they will,
of course, come and bid thee welcome."  And scarcely had she spoke, when I beheld a party of
people descending the moonlit side of the hill. They soon arrived at the place where we were;
they might amount in all to twelve individuals.  The principal person was a tall, athletic
man, of about forty, dressed like a plain country farmer; this was, I soon found, the husband
of Mary; the rest of the group consisted of the children of these two, and their domestic servants.
One after another they all shook Peter by the hand, men and women, boys and girls, and expressed
their joy at seeing him.  After which, he said, "Now, friends, if you please, I will speak
a few words to you."  A stool was then brought him from the cart, which he stepped on, and
the people arranging themselves round him, some standing, some seated on the ground, he forthwith
began to address them in a clear, distinct voice; and the subject of his discourse was the
necessity, in all human beings, of a change of heart.

The preacher was better than his promise, for, instead of speaking a few words, he preached
for at least three-quarters of an hour; none of the audience, however, showed the slightest
symptom of weariness; on the contrary, the hope of each individual appeared to hang upon the
words which proceeded from his mouth.  At the conclusion of the sermon or discourse, the whole
assembly again shook Peter by the hand, and returned to their house, the mistress of the family
saying, as she departed, "I shall soon be back, Peter, I go but to make arrangements for the
supper of thyself and company;" and, in effect, she presently returned, attended by a young
woman, who bore a tray in her hands.  "Set it down, Jessy," said the mistress to the girl,
"and then betake thyself to thy rest; I shall remain here for a little time to talk with my
friends."  The girl departed, and the preacher and the two females placed themselves on the
ground about the tray.  The man gave thanks, and himself and his wife appeared to be about
to eat, when the latter suddenly placed her hand upon his arm, and said something to him in
a low voice, whereupon he exclaimed, "Ay, truly, we were both forgetful;" and then getting
up, he came towards me, who stood a little way off, leaning against the wheel of my cart; and,
taking me by the hand, he said, "Pardon us, young man, we were both so engaged in our own creature-comforts,
that we forgot thee, but it is not too late to repair our fault; wilt thou not join us, and
taste our bread and milk?"  "I cannot eat," I replied, "but I think I could drink a little
milk;" whereupon he led me to the rest, and seating me by his side, he poured some milk into
a horn cup, saying, "'Croesaw.' That," added he, with a smile, "is Welsh for welcome."

The fare upon the tray was of the simplest description, consisting of bread, cheese, milk,
and curds.  My two friends partook with a good appetite.  "Mary," said the preacher, addressing
himself to the woman of the house, "every time I come to visit thee, I find thee less inclined
to speak Welsh.  I suppose, in a little time, thou wilt entirely have forgotten it; hast thou
taught it to any of thy children?"  "The two eldest understand a few words," said the woman,
"but my husband does not wish them to learn it; he says sometimes, jocularly, that though it
pleased him to marry a Welsh wife, it does not please him to have Welsh children.  Who, I have
heard him say, would be a Welshman, if he could be an Englishman?"  "I for one," said the preacher,
somewhat hastily; "not to be king of all England would I give up my birthright as a Welshman.
Your husband is an excellent person, Mary, but I am afraid he is somewhat prejudiced."  "You
do him justice, Peter, in saying that he is an excellent person," said the woman; "as to being
prejudiced, I scarcely know what to say, but he thinks that two languages in the same kingdom
are almost as bad as two kings."  "That's no bad observation," said the preacher, "and it is
generally the case; yet, thank God, the Welsh and English go on very well, side by side, and
I hope will do so till the Almighty calls all men to their long account."  "They jog on very
well now," said the woman; "but I have heard my husband say that it was not always so, and
that the Welsh, in old times, were a violent and ferocious people, for that once they hanged
the mayor of Chester."  "Ha, ha!" said the preacher, and his eyes flashed in the moonlight;
"he told you that, did he?"  "Yes," said Mary; "once, when the mayor of Chester, with some
of his people, was present at one of the fairs over the border, a quarrel arose between the
Welsh and the English, and the Welsh beat the English, and hanged the mayor."  "Your husband
is a clever man," said Peter, "and knows a great deal; did he tell you the name of the leader
of the Welsh? No! then I will: the leader of the Welsh on that occasion was ---.  He was a
powerful chieftain, and there was an old feud between him and the men of Chester.  Afterwards,
when two hundred of the men of Chester invaded his country to take revenge for their mayor,
he enticed them into a tower, set fire to it, and burnt them all.  That --- was a very fine,
noble--God forgive me, what was I about to say!--a very bad, violent man; but, Mary, this is
very carnal and unprofitable conversation, and in holding it we set a very bad example to the
young man here--let us change the subject."

They then began to talk on religious matters.  At length Mary departed to her abode, and the
preacher and his wife retired to their tilted cart.

"Poor fellow, he seems to be almost brutally ignorant," said Peter, addressing his wife in
their native language, after they had bidden me farewell for the night.

"I am afraid he is," said Winifred, "yet my heart warms to the poor lad, he seems so forlorn."

CHAPTER LXXIII

Morning Hymn--Much Alone--John Bunyan--Beholden to Nobody--Sixty-five--Sober Greeting--Early
Sabbaths--Finny Brood--The Porch--No Fortune-telling--The Master's Niece--Doing Good--Two or
Three Things--Groans and Voices--Pechod Ysprydd Glan.

I slept soundly during that night, partly owing to the influence of the opiate.  Early in the
morning I was awakened by the voices of Peter and his wife, who were singing a morning hymn
in their own language.  Both subsequently prayed long and fervently.  I lay still till their
devotions were completed, and then left my tent.  "Good morning," said Peter, "how dost thou
feel?"  "Much better," said I, "than I could have expected."  "I am glad of it," said Peter.
"Art thou hungry? yonder comes our breakfast," pointing to the same young woman I had seen
the preceding night, who was again descending the hill bearing the tray upon her head.

"What dost thou intend to do, young man, this day?" said Peter, when we had about half finished
breakfast.  "Do," said I; "as I do other days, what I can."  "And dost thou pass this day as
thou dost other days?" said Peter.  "Why not?" said I; "what is there in this day different
from the rest? it seems to be of the same colour as yesterday."  "Art thou aware," said the
wife, interposing, "what day it is? that it is Sabbath? that it is Sunday?"  "No," said I,
"I did not know that it was Sunday."  "And how did that happen?" said Winifred, with a sigh.
"To tell you the truth," said I, "I live very much alone, and pay very little heed to the passing
of time."  "And yet of what infinite importance is time," said Winifred. "Art thou not aware
that every year brings thee nearer to thy end?"  "I do not think," said I, "that I am so near
my end as I was yesterday." "Yes, thou art," said the woman; "thou wast not doomed to die yesterday;
an invisible hand was watching over thee yesterday; but thy day will come, therefore improve
the time; be grateful that thou wast saved yesterday; and, oh! reflect on one thing; if thou
hadst died yesterday, where wouldst thou have been now?"  "Cast into the earth, perhaps," said
I.  "I have heard Mr. Petulengro say that to be cast into the earth is the natural end of man."
"Who is Mr. Petulengro?" said Peter, interrupting his wife, as she was about to speak.  "Master
of the horse- shoe," said I; "and, according to his own account, king of Egypt."  "I understand,"
said Peter, "head of some family of wandering Egyptians--they are a race utterly godless. 
Art thou of them?--but no, thou art not, thou hast not their yellow blood.  I suppose thou
belongest to the family of wandering artisans called ---.  I do not like you the worse for
belonging to them.  A mighty speaker of old sprang up from amidst that family."  "Who was he?"
said I.  "John Bunyan," {188} replied Peter, reverently, "and the mention of his name reminds
me that I have to preach this day; wilt thou go and hear? the distance is not great, only half
a mile."  "No," said I, "I will not go and hear."  "Wherefore?" said Peter. "I belong to the
Church," said I, "and not to the congregations."  "Oh! the pride of that Church," said Peter,
addressing his wife in their own tongue, "exemplified even in the lowest and most ignorant
of its members."  "Then thou, doubtless, meanest to go to church," said Peter, again addressing
me; "there is a church on the other side of that wooded hill."

"Then thou intendest to remain here?" said Peter, looking fixedly at me. "If I do not intrude,"
said I; "but if I do, I will wander away; I wish to be beholden to nobody--perhaps you wish
me to go?"  "On the contrary," said Peter, "I wish you to stay.  I begin to see something in
thee which has much interest for me; but we must now bid thee farewell for the rest of the
day, the time is drawing nigh for us to repair to the place of preaching; before we leave thee
alone, however, I should wish to ask thee a question--Didst thou seek thy own destruction yesterday,
and didst thou wilfully take that poison?"  "No," said I; "had I known there had been poison
in the cake I certainly should not have taken it."  "And who gave it thee?" said Peter.  "An
enemy of mine," I replied.  "Who is thy enemy?"  "An Egyptian sorceress and poison-monger."
"Thy enemy is a female.  I fear thou hadst given her cause to hate thee--of what did she complain?"
"That I had stolen the tongue out of her head."  "I do not understand thee--is she young?"
"About sixty-five."

Here Winifred interposed.  "Thou didst call her just now by hard names, young man," said she;
"I trust thou dost bear no malice against her?" "No," said I, "I bear no malice against her."
"Thou art not wishing to deliver her into the hand of what is called justice?"  "By no means,"
said I; "I have lived long enough upon the roads not to cry out for the constable when my finger
is broken.  I consider this poisoning as an accident of the roads; one of those to which those
who travel are occasionally subject."  "In short, thou forgivest thine adversary?"  "Both now
and for ever," said I.  "Truly," said Winifred, "the spirit which the young man displayeth
pleases me much; I should be loth that he left us yet.  I have no doubt that, with the blessing
of God, and a little of thy exhortation, he will turn out a true Christian before he leaveth
us."  "My exhortation!" said Peter, and a dark shade passed over his countenance; "thou forgettest
what I am--I--I--but I am forgetting myself; the Lord's will be done; and now put away the
things, for I perceive that our friends are coming to attend us to the place of meeting."

Again the family which I had seen the night before descended the hill from their abode.  They
were now dressed in their Sunday's best.  The master of the house led the way.  They presently
joined us, when a quiet sober greeting ensued on each side.  After a little time Peter shook
me by the hand and bade me farewell till the evening; Winifred did the same, adding, that she
hoped I should be visited by sweet and holy thoughts. The whole party then moved off in the
direction by which we had come the preceding night, Peter and the master leading the way, followed
by Winifred and the mistress of the family.  As I gazed on their departing forms, I felt almost
inclined to follow them to their place of worship.  I did not stir, however, but remained leaning
against my oak with my hands behind me.

And after a time I sat me down at the foot of the oak with my face turned towards the water,
and, folding my hands, I fell into deep meditation.  I thought on the early Sabbaths of my
life, and the manner in which I was wont to pass them.  How carefully I said my prayers when
I got up on the Sabbath morn, and how carefully I combed my hair and brushed my clothes in
order that I might do credit to the Sabbath day.  I thought of the old church at pretty D---,
the dignified rector, and yet more dignified clerk.  I thought of England's grand Liturgy,
and Tate and Brady's sonorous minstrelsy.  I thought of the Holy Book, portions of which I
was in the habit of reading between service.  I thought, too, of the evening walk which I sometimes
took in fine weather like the present, with my mother and brother--a quiet sober walk, during
which I would not break into a run, even to chase a butterfly, or yet more a honey-bee, being
fully convinced of the dread importance of the day which God had hallowed.  And how glad I
was when I had got over the Sabbath day without having done anything to profane it.  And how
soundly I slept on the Sabbath night after the toil of being very good throughout the day.

And when I had mused on those times a long while, I sighed and said to myself, I am much altered
since then; am I altered for the better?  And then I looked at my hands and my apparel, and
sighed again.  I was not wont of yore to appear thus on the Sabbath day.

For a long time I continued in a state of deep meditation, till at last I lifted up my eyes
to the sun, which, as usual during that glorious summer, was shining in unclouded majesty;
and then I lowered them to the sparkling water, in which hundreds of the finny brood were disporting
themselves, and then I thought what a fine thing it was to be a fish on such a fine summer
day, and I wished myself a fish, or at least amongst the fishes; and then I looked at my hands
again, and then, bending over the water, I looked at my face in the crystal mirror, and started
when I saw it, for it looked squalid and miserable.

Forthwith I started up, and said to myself, I should like to bathe and cleanse myself from
the squalor produced by my late hard life and by Mrs. Herne's drow.  I wonder if there is any
harm in bathing on the Sabbath day.  I will ask Winifred when she comes home; in the meantime
I will bathe, provided I can find a fitting place.

But the brook, though a very delightful place for fish to disport in, was shallow, and by no
means adapted for the recreation of so large a being as myself; it was, moreover, exposed,
though I saw nobody at hand, nor heard a single human voice or sound.  Following the winding
of the brook I left the meadow, and, passing through two or three thickets, came to a place
where between lofty banks the water ran deep and dark, and there I bathed, imbibing new tone
and vigour into my languid and exhausted frame.

Having put on my clothes, I returned by the way I had come to my vehicle beneath the oak tree.
From thence, for want of something better to do, I strolled up the hill, on the top of which
stood the farmhouse; it was a large and commodious building built principally of stone, and
seeming of some antiquity, with a porch, on either side of which was an oaken bench. On the
right was seated a young woman with a book in her hand, the same who had brought the tray to
my friends and myself.

"Good day," said I, "pretty damsel, sitting in the farm porch."

"Good day," said the girl, looking at me for a moment, and then fixing her eyes on her book.

"That's a nice book you are reading," said I.

The girl looked at me with surprise.  "How do you know what book it is?" said she.

"How do I know--never mind; but a nice book it is--no love, no fortune- telling in it."

The girl looked at me half offended.  "Fortune-telling!" said she, "I should think not.  But
you know nothing about it;" and she bent her head once more over the book.

"I tell you what, young person," said I, "I know all about that book; what will you wager that
I do not?"

"I never wager," said the girl.

"Shall I tell you the name of it," said I, "O daughter of the dairy?"

The girl half started.  "I should never have thought," said she, half timidly, "that you could
have guessed it."

"I did not guess it," said I, "I knew it; and meet and proper it is that you should read it."

"Why so?" said the girl.

"Can the daughter of the dairy read a more fitting book than the 'Dairyman's Daughter'?"

"Where do you come from?" said the girl.

"Out of the water," said I.  "Don't start, I have been bathing; are you fond of the water?"

"No," said the girl, heaving a sigh; "I am not fond of the water, that is, of the sea;" and
here she sighed again.

"The sea is a wide gulf," said I, "and frequently separates hearts."

The girl sobbed.

"Why are you alone here?" said I.

"I take my turn with the rest," said the girl, "to keep at home on Sunday."

"And you are--" said I.

"The master's niece!" said the girl.  "How came you to know it?  But why did you not go with
the rest and with your friends?"

"Who are those you call my friends?" said I.

"Peter and his wife."

"And who are they?" said I.

"Do you not know?" said the girl; "you came with them."

"They found me ill by the way," said I; "and they relieved me: I know nothing about them."

"I thought you knew everything," said the girl.

"There are two or three things which I do not know, and this is one of them.  Who are they?"

"Did you never hear of the great Welsh preacher, Peter Williams?"

"Never," said I.

"Well," said the girl, "this is he, and Winifred is his wife, and a nice person she is.  Some
people say, indeed, that she is as good a preacher as her husband, though of that matter I
can say nothing, having never heard her preach.  They frequently come here, for the mistress
is a Welsh woman, and an old friend of both, and then they take up their abode in the cart
beneath the old oaks down there by the stream."

"And what is their reason for doing so?" said I; "would it not be more comfortable to sleep
beneath a roof?"

"I know not their reasons," said the girl, "but so it is; they never sleep beneath a roof unless
the weather is very severe.  I once heard the mistress say that Peter had something heavy upon
his mind; perhaps that is the cause.  If he is unhappy, all I can say is, that I wish him otherwise,
for he is a good man and a kind--"

"Thank you," said I, "I will now depart."

"Hem!" said the girl, "I was wishing--"

"What? to ask me a question?"

"Not exactly; but you seem to know everything; you mentioned, I think, fortune-telling."

"Do you wish me to tell your fortune?"

"By no means; but I have a friend at a distance at sea, and I should wish to know--"

"When he will come back?  I have told you already there are two or three things which I do
not know--this is another of them.  However, I should not be surprised if he were to come back
some of these days; I would if I were in his place.  In the meantime be patient, attend to
the dairy, and read the 'Dairyman's Daughter' when you have nothing better to do."

It was late in the evening when the party of the morning returned.  The farmer and his family
repaired at once to their abode, and my two friends joined me beneath the tree.  Peter sat
down at the foot of the oak, and said nothing.  Supper was brought by a servant, not the damsel
of the porch.  We sat round the tray, Peter said grace, but scarcely anything else; he appeared
sad and dejected, his wife looked anxiously upon him.  I was as silent as my friends; after
a little time we retired to our separate places of rest.

About midnight I was awakened by a noise; I started up and listened; it appeared to me that
I heard voices and groans.  In a moment I had issued from my tent--all was silent--but the
next moment I again heard groans and voices; they proceeded from the tilted cart where Peter
and his wife lay; I drew near, again there was a pause, and then I heard the voice of Peter,
in an accent of extreme anguish, exclaim, "Pechod Ysprydd Glan--O pechod Ysprydd Glan!" and
then he uttered a deep groan.  Anon, I heard the voice of Winifred, and never shall I forget
the sweetness and gentleness of the tones of her voice in the stillness of that night.  I did
not understand all she said--she spoke in her native language, and I was some way apart; she
appeared to endeavour to console her husband, but he seemed to refuse all comfort, and, with
many groans, repeated--"Pechod Ysprydd Glan--O pechod Ysprydd Glan!"  I felt I had no right
to pry into their afflictions, and retired.

Now "pechod Ysprydd Glan," interpreted, is the sin against the Holy Ghost.

CHAPTER LXXIV

The Following Day--Pride--Thriving Trade--Tylwyth Teg--Ellis Wyn--Sleeping Bard--Incalculable
Good--Fearful Agony--The Tale.

Peter and his wife did not proceed on any expedition during the following day.  The former
strolled gloomily about the fields, and the latter passed many hours in the farmhouse.  Towards
evening, without saying a word to either, I departed with my vehicle, and finding my way to
a small town at some distance, I laid in a store of various articles, with which I returned.
It was night, and my two friends were seated beneath the oak; they had just completed their
frugal supper.  "We waited for thee some time," said Winifred, "but, finding that thou didst
not come, we began without thee; but sit down, I pray thee, there is still enough for thee."
"I will sit down," said I, "but I require no supper, for I have eaten where I have been:" nothing
more particular occurred at the time. Next morning the kind pair invited me to share their
breakfast.  "I will not share your breakfast," said I.  "Wherefore not?" said Winifred, anxiously.
"Because," said I, "it is not proper that I be beholden to you for meat and drink."  "But we
are beholden to other people," said Winifred.  "Yes," said I, "but you preach to them, and
give them ghostly advice, which considerably alters the matter; not that I would receive anything
from them, if I preached to them six times a day."  "Thou art not fond of receiving favours,
then, young man?" said Winifred.  "I am not," said I.  "And of conferring favours?"  "Nothing
affords me greater pleasure," said I, "than to confer favours."  "What a disposition!" said
Winifred, holding up her hands; "and this is pride, genuine pride--that feeling which the world
agrees to call so noble.  Oh, how mean a thing is pride! never before did I see all the meanness
of what is called pride!"

"But how wilt thou live, friend?" said Peter; "dost thou not intend to eat?"  "When I went
out last night," said I, "I laid in a provision." "Thou hast laid in a provision!" said Peter;
"pray let us see it.  Really, friend," said he, after I had produced it, "thou must drive a
thriving trade; here are provisions enough to last three people for several days. Here are
butter and eggs, here is tea, here is sugar, and there is a flitch.  I hope thou wilt let us
partake of some of thy fare."  "I should be very happy if you would," said I.  "Doubt not but
we shall," said Peter; "Winifred shall have some of thy flitch cooked for dinner.  In the meantime,
sit down, young man, and breakfast at our expense--we will dine at thine."

On the evening of that day, Peter and myself sat alone beneath the oak. We fell into conversation;
Peter was at first melancholy, but he soon became more cheerful, fluent, and entertaining.
I spoke but little; but I observed that sometimes what I said surprised the good Methodist.
We had been silent some time.  At length, lifting up my eyes to the broad and leafy canopy
of the trees, I said, having nothing better to remark, "What a noble tree!  I wonder if the
fairies ever dance beneath it?"

"Fairies!" said Peter, "fairies! how came you, young man, to know anything about the fair family?"

"I am an Englishman," said I, "and of course know something about fairies; England was once
a famous place for them."

"Was once, I grant you," said Peter, "but is so no longer.  I have travelled for years about
England, and never heard them mentioned before; the belief in them has died away, and even
their name seems to be forgotten.  If you had said you were a Welshman, I should not have been
surprised.  The Welsh have much to say of the Tylwyth Teg, or fair family, and many believe
in them."

"And do you believe in them?" said I.

"I scarcely know what to say.  Wise and good men have been of opinion that they are nothing
but devils, who, under the form of pretty and amiable spirits, would fain allure poor human
beings; I see nothing irrational in the supposition."

"Do you believe in devils then?"

"Do I believe in devils, young man!" said Peter, and his frame was shaken as if by convulsions.
"If I do not believe in devils, why am I here at the present moment?"

"You know best," said I; "but I don't believe that fairies are devils, and I don't wish to
hear them insulted.  What learned men have said they are devils?"

"Many have said it, young man, and, amongst others, Master Ellis Wyn, in that wonderful book
of his, the 'Bardd Cwsg.'"

"The 'Bardd Cwsg,'" said I; "what kind of book is that?  I have never heard of that book before."

"Heard of it before!  I suppose not; how should you have heard of it before!  By the bye, can
you read?"

"Very tolerably," said I; "so there are fairies in this book.  What do you call it--the 'Bardd
Cwsg'?"

"Yes, the 'Bardd Cwsg.'  You pronounce Welsh very fairly; have you ever been in Wales?"

"Never," said I.

"Not been in Wales; then, of course, you don't understand Welsh; but we were talking of the
'Bardd Cwsg,'--yes, there are fairies in the 'Bardd Cwsg,'--the author of it, Master Ellis
Wyn, {201} was carried away in his sleep by them over mountains and valleys, rivers and great
waters, incurring mighty perils at their hands, till he was rescued from them by an angel of
the Most High, who subsequently showed him many wonderful things."

"I beg your pardon," said I, "but what were those wonderful things?"

"I see, young man," said Peter, smiling, "that you are not without curiosity; but I can easily
pardon any one for being curious about the wonders contained in the book of Master Ellis Wyn.
The angel showed him the course of this world, its pomps and vanities, its cruelty and its
pride, its crimes and deceits.  On another occasion, the angel showed him Death in his nether
palace, surrounded by his grisly ministers, and by those who are continually falling victims
to his power.  And, on a third occasion, the state of the condemned in their place of everlasting
torment."

"But this was all in his sleep," said I, "was it not?"

"Yes," said Peter, "in his sleep; and on that account the book is called 'Gweledigaethau y
Bardd Cwsg,' or, Visions of the Sleeping Bard."

"I do not care for wonders which occur in sleep," said I.  "I prefer real ones; and perhaps,
notwithstanding what he says, the man had no visions at all--they are probably of his own invention."

"They are substantially true, young man," said Peter; "like the dreams of Bunyan, they are
founded on three tremendous facts, Sin, Death, and Hell; and like his they have done incalculable
good, at least in my own country, in the language of which they are written.  Many a guilty
conscience has the 'Bardd Cwsg' aroused with its dreadful sights, its strong sighs, its puffs
of smoke from the pit, and its showers of sparks from the mouth of the yet lower gulf of--Unknown--were
it not for the 'Bardd Cwsg' perhaps I might not be here."

"I would sooner hear your own tale," said I, "than all the visions of the 'Bardd Cwsg.'"

Peter shook, bent his form nearly double, and covered his face with his hands.  I sat still
and motionless, with my eyes fixed upon him. Presently Winifred descended the hill, and joined
us.  "What is the matter?" said she, looking at her husband, who still remained in the posture
I have described.  He made no answer; whereupon, laying her hand gently on his shoulder, she
said, in the peculiar soft and tender tone which I had heard her use on a former occasion,
"Take comfort, Peter; what has happened now to afflict thee?"  Peter removed his hands from
his face.  "The old pain, the old pain," said he; "I was talking with this young man, and he
would fain know what brought me here, he would fain hear my tale, Winifred--my sin: O pechod
Ysprydd Glan!  O pechod Ysprydd Glan!" and the poor man fell into a more fearful agony than
before.  Tears trickled down Winifred's face, I saw them trickling by the moonlight, as she
gazed upon the writhing form of her afflicted husband.  I arose from my seat; "I am the cause
of all this," said I, "by my folly and imprudence, and it is thus I have returned your kindness
and hospitality; I will depart from you and wander my way."  I was retiring, but Peter sprang
up and detained me.  "Go not," said he, "you were not in fault; if there be any fault in the
case it was mine; if I suffer, I am but paying the penalty of my own iniquity;" he then paused,
and appeared to be considering: at length he said, "Many things which thou hast seen and heard
connected with me require explanation; thou wishest to know my tale, I will tell it thee, but
not now, not to-night; I am too much shaken."

Two evenings later, when we were again seated beneath the oak, Peter took the hand of his wife
in his own, and then, in tones broken and almost inarticulate, commenced telling me his tale--the
tale of the Pechod Ysprydd Glan.

CHAPTER LXXV

Taking a Cup--Getting to Heaven--After Breakfast--Wooden Gallery--Mechanical Habit--Reserved
and Gloomy--Last Words--A Long Time--From the Clouds--Ray of Hope--Momentary Chill--Pleasing
Anticipation.

"I was born in the heart of North Wales, the son of a respectable farmer, and am the youngest
of seven brothers.

"My father was a member of the Church of England, and was what is generally called a serious
man.  He went to church regularly, and read the Bible every Sunday evening; in his moments
of leisure he was fond of holding religious discourse both with his family and his neighbours.

"One autumn afternoon, on a week day, my father sat with one of his neighbours taking a cup
of ale by the oak table in our stone kitchen.  I sat near them, and listened to their discourse.
I was at that time seven years of age.  They were talking of religious matters.  'It is a hard
matter to get to heaven,' said my father.  'Exceedingly so,' said the other.  'However, I don't
despond, none need despair of getting to heaven, save those who have committed the sin against
the Holy Ghost.'

"'Ah!' said my father, 'thank God I never committed that--how awful must be the state of a
person who has committed the sin against the Holy Ghost.  I can scarcely think of it without
my hair standing on end;' and then my father and his friend began talking of the nature of
the sin against the Holy Ghost, and I heard them say what it was, as I sat with greedy ears
listening to their discourse.

"I lay awake the greater part of the night musing upon what I had heard. I kept wondering to
myself what must be the state of a person who had committed the sin against the Holy Ghost,
and how he must feel.  Once or twice I felt a strong inclination to commit it, a strange kind
of fear, however, prevented me; at last I determined not to commit it, and, having said my
prayers, I fell asleep.

"When I awoke in the morning the first thing I thought of was the mysterious sin, and a voice
within me seemed to say, 'Commit it'; and I felt a strong temptation to do so, even stronger
than in the night.  I was just about to yield, when the same dread, of which I have already
spoken, came over me, and, springing out of bed, I went down on my knees. I slept in a small
room alone, to which I ascended by a wooden stair, open to the sky.  I have often thought since
that it is not a good thing for children to sleep alone.

"After breakfast I went to school, and endeavoured to employ myself upon my tasks, but all
in vain; I could think of nothing but the sin against the Holy Ghost; my eyes, instead of being
fixed upon my book, wandered in vacancy.  My master observed my inattention, and chid me. 
The time came for saying my task, and I had not acquired it.  My master reproached me, and,
yet more, he beat me; I felt shame and anger, and I went home with a full determination to
commit the sin against the Holy Ghost.

"But when I got home my father ordered me to do something connected with the farm, so that
I was compelled to exert myself; I was occupied till night, and was so busy that I almost forgot
the sin and my late resolution.  My work completed, I took my supper, and went to my room;
I began my prayers, and, when they were ended, I thought of the sin, but the temptation was
slight, I felt very tired, and was presently asleep.

"Thus, you see, I had plenty of time allotted me by a gracious and kind God to reflect on what
I was about to do.  He did not permit the enemy of souls to take me by surprise, and to hurry
me at once into the commission of that which was to be my ruin here and hereafter.  Whatever
I did was of my own free will, after I had had time to reflect.  Thus God is justified; He
had no hand in my destruction, but, on the contrary, He did all that was compatible with justice
to prevent it.  I hasten to the fatal moment.  Awaking in the night, I determined that nothing
should prevent my committing the sin.  Arising from my bed, I went out upon the wooden gallery;
and having stood for a few moments looking at the stars, with which the heavens were thickly
strewn, I laid myself down, and supporting my face with my hand, I murmured out words of horror,
words not to be repeated, and in this manner I committed the sin against the Holy Ghost.

"When the words were uttered I sat up upon the topmost step of the gallery; for some time I
felt stunned in somewhat the same manner as I once subsequently felt after being stung by an
adder.  I soon arose, however, and retired to my bed, where, notwithstanding what I had done,
I was not slow in falling asleep.

"I awoke several times during the night, each time with the dim idea that something strange
and monstrous had occurred, but I presently fell asleep again; in the morning I awoke with
the same vague feeling, but presently recollection returned, and I remembered that I had committed
the sin against the Holy Ghost.  I lay musing for some time on what I had done, and I felt
rather stunned, as before; at last I arose and got out of bed, dressed myself, and then went
down on my knees, and was about to pray from the force of mechanical habit; before I said a
word, however, I recollected myself, and got up again.  What was the use of praying? I thought;
I had committed the sin against the Holy Ghost.

"I went to school, but sat stupefied.  I was again chidden, again beaten by my master.  I felt
no anger this time, and scarcely heeded the strokes.  I looked, however, at my master's face,
and thought to myself, You are beating me for being idle, as you suppose; poor man, what would
you do if you knew I had committed the sin against the Holy Ghost?

"Days and weeks passed by.  I had once been cheerful, and fond of the society of children of
my own age; but I was now reserved and gloomy.  It seemed to me that a gulf separated me from
all my fellow-creatures.  I used to look at my brothers and schoolfellows, and think how different
I was from them; they had not done what I had.  I seemed, in my own eyes, a lone monstrous
being, and yet, strange to say, I felt a kind of pride in being so.  I was unhappy, but I frequently
thought to myself, I have done what no one else would dare to do; there was something grand
in the idea; I had yet to learn the horror of my condition.

"Time passed on, and I began to think less of what I had done; I began once more to take pleasure
in my childish sports; I was active, and excelled at football and the like all the lads of
my age.  I likewise began, what I had never done before, to take pleasure in the exercises
of the school.  I made great progress in Welsh and English grammar, and learnt to construe
Latin.  My master no longer chid or beat me, but one day told my father that he had no doubt
that one day I should be an honour to Wales.

"Shortly after this my father fell sick; the progress of the disorder was rapid; feeling his
end approaching, he called his children before him. After tenderly embracing us, he said, 'God
bless you, my children; I am going from you, but take comfort, I trust that we shall all meet
again in heaven.'

"As he uttered these last words, horror took entire possession of me. Meet my father in heaven,--how
could I ever hope to meet him there?  I looked wildly at my brethren and at my mother; they
were all bathed in tears, but how I envied them.  They might hope to meet my father in heaven,
but how different were they from me, they had never committed the unpardonable sin.

"In a few days my father died; he left his family in comfortable circumstances, at least such
as would be considered so in Wales, where the wants of the people are few.  My elder brother
carried on the farm for the benefit of my mother and us all.  In course of time my brothers
were put out to various trades.  I still remained at school, but without being a source of
expense to my relations, as I was by this time able to assist my master in the business of
the school.

"I was diligent both in self-improvement and in the instruction of others; nevertheless, a
horrible weight pressed upon my breast; I knew I was a lost being; that for me there was no
hope; that, though all others might be saved, I must of necessity be lost: I had committed
the unpardonable sin, for which I was doomed to eternal punishment, in the flaming gulf, as
soon as life was over!--and how long could I hope to live? perhaps fifty years; at the end
of which I must go to my place; and then I would count the months and the days, nay, even the
hours which yet intervened between me and my doom.  Sometimes I would comfort myself with the
idea that a long time would elapse before my time would be out; but then again I thought that,
however long the term might be, it must be out at last; and then I would fall into an agony,
during which I would almost wish that the term were out, and that I were in my place; the horrors
of which I thought could scarcely be worse than what I then endured.

"There was one thought about this time which caused me unutterable grief and shame, perhaps
more shame than grief.  It was that my father, who was gone to heaven, and was there daily
holding communion with his God, was by this time aware of my crime.  I imagined him looking
down from the clouds upon his wretched son, with a countenance of inexpressible horror. When
this idea was upon me, I would often rush to some secret place to hide myself; to some thicket,
where I would cast myself on the ground, and thrust my head into a thick bush, in order to
escape from the horror- struck glance of my father above in the clouds; and there I would continue
groaning till the agony had, in some degree, passed away.

"The wretchedness of my state increasing daily, it at last became apparent to the master of
the school, who questioned me earnestly and affectionately.  I, however, gave him no satisfactory
answer, being apprehensive that, if I unbosomed myself, I should become as much an object of
horror to him as I had long been to myself.  At length he suspected that I was unsettled in
my intellects; and, fearing probably the ill effect of my presence upon his scholars, he advised
me to go home; which I was glad to do, as I felt myself every day becoming less qualified for
the duties of the office which I had undertaken.

"So I returned home to my mother and my brother, who received me with the greatest kindness
and affection.  I now determined to devote myself to husbandry, and assist my brother in the
business of the farm.  I was still, however, very much distressed.  One fine morning, however,
as I was at work in the field, and the birds were carolling around me, a ray of hope began
to break upon my poor dark soul.  I looked at the earth and looked at the sky, and felt as
I had not done for many a year; presently a delicious feeling stole over me.  I was beginning
to enjoy existence.  I shall never forget that hour.  I flung myself on the soil, and kissed
it; then, springing up with a sudden impulse, I rushed into the depths of a neighbouring wood,
and, falling upon my knees, did what I had not done for a long, long time--prayed to God.

"A change, an entire change, seemed to have come over me.  I was no longer gloomy and despairing,
but gay and happy.  My slumbers were light and easy; not disturbed, as before, by frightful
dreams.  I arose with the lark, and like him uttered a cheerful song of praise to God, frequently
and earnestly, and was particularly cautious not to do anything which I considered might cause
His displeasure.

"At church I was constant, and when there listened with deepest attention to every word which
proceeded from the mouth of the minister.  In a little time it appeared to me that I had become
a good, very good young man.  At times the recollection of the sin would return, and I would
feel a momentary chill; but the thought quickly vanished, and I again felt happy and secure.

"One Sunday morning, after I had said my prayers, I felt particularly joyous.  I thought of
the innocent and virtuous life I was leading; and when the recollection of the sin intruded
for a moment, I said, 'I am sure God will never utterly cast away so good a creature as myself.'
I went to church, and was as usual attentive.  The subject of the sermon was on the duty of
searching the Scriptures: all I knew of them was from the Liturgy.  I now, however, determined
to read them, and perfect the good work which I had begun.  My father's Bible was upon the
shelf, and on that evening I took it with me to my chamber.  I placed it on the table, and
sat down.  My heart was filled with pleasing anticipation.  I opened the book at random, and
began to read; the first passage on which my eyes lighted was the following:--

"'He who committeth the sin against the Holy Ghost shall not be forgiven, either in this world
or the next.'"

Here Peter was seized with convulsive tremors.  Winifred sobbed violently.  I got up, and went
away.  Returning in about a quarter of an hour, I found him more calm; he motioned me to sit
down; and, after a short pause, continued his narration.

CHAPTER LXXVI

Hasty Farewell--Lofty Rock--Wrestlings of Jacob--No Rest--Ways of Providence--Two Females--Foot
of the Cross--Enemy of Souls--Perplexed--Lucky Hour--Valetudinarian--Methodists--Fervent in
Prayer--You Saxons--Weak Creatures--Very Agreeable--Almost Happy--Kindness and Solicitude.

"Where was I, young man?  Oh, I remember, at the fatal passage which removed all hope.  I will
not dwell on what I felt.  I closed my eyes, and wished that I might be dreaming; but it was
no dream, but a terrific reality: I will not dwell on that period, I should only shock you.
I could not bear my feelings; so, bidding my friends a hasty farewell, I abandoned myself to
horror and despair, and ran wild through Wales, climbing mountains and wading streams.

"Climbing mountains and wading streams, I ran wild about, I was burnt by the sun, drenched
by the rain, and had frequently at night no other covering than the sky, or the humid roof
of some cave; but nothing seemed to affect my constitution; probably the fire which burned
within me counteracted what I suffered from without.  During the space of three years I scarcely
knew what befell me; my life was a dream--a wild, horrible dream; more than once I believe
I was in the hands of robbers, and once in the hands of Gypsies.  I liked the last description
of people least of all; I could not abide their yellow faces, or their ceaseless clabber. 
Escaping from these beings, whose countenances and godless discourse brought to my mind the
demons of the deep Unknown, I still ran wild through Wales, I know not how long.  On one occasion,
coming in some degree to my recollection, I felt myself quite unable to bear the horrors of
my situation; looking round, I found myself near the sea; instantly the idea came into my head
that I would cast myself into it, and thus anticipate my final doom.  I hesitated a moment,
but a voice within me seemed to tell me that I could do no better; the sea was near, and I
could not swim, so I determined to fling myself into the sea.  As I was running along at great
speed, in the direction of a lofty rock, which beetled over the waters, I suddenly felt myself
seized by the coat.  I strove to tear myself away, but in vain; looking round, I perceived
a venerable hale old man, who had hold of me.  'Let me go!' said I, fiercely.  'I will not
let thee go,' said the old man, and now instead of with one, he grappled me with both hands.
'In whose name dost thou detain me?' said I, scarcely knowing what I said.  'In the name of
my Master, who made thee and yonder sea; and has said to the sea, so far shalt thou come, and
no farther, and to thee, thou shalt do no murder.' 'Has not a man a right to do what he pleases
with his own?' said I.  'He has,' said the old man, 'but thy life is not thy own; thou art
accountable for it to thy God.  Nay, I will not let thee go,' he continued, as I again struggled;
'if thou struggle with me the whole day I will not let thee go, as Charles Wesley says, in
his "Wrestlings of Jacob"; and see, it is of no use struggling, for I am, in the strength of
my Master, stronger than thou;' and, indeed, all of a sudden I had become very weak and exhausted;
whereupon the old man, beholding my situation, took me by the arm and led me gently to a neighbouring
town, which stood behind a hill, and which I had not before observed; presently he opened the
door of a respectable-looking house, which stood beside a large building having the appearance
of a chapel, and conducted me into a small room, with a great many books in it.  Having caused
me to sit down, he stood looking at me for some time, occasionally heaving a sigh.  I was,
indeed, haggard and forlorn.  'Who art thou?' he said at last.  'A miserable man,' I replied.
'What makes thee miserable?' said the old man.  'A hideous crime,' I replied.  'I can find
no rest; like Cain I wander here and there.'  The old man turned pale.  'Hast thou taken another's
life?' said he; 'if so, I advise thee to surrender thyself to the magistrate; thou canst do
no better; thy doing so will be the best proof of thy repentance; and though there be no hope
for thee in this world there may be much in the next.'  'No,' said I, 'I have never taken another's
life.'  'What then, another's goods?  If so, restore them seven- fold, if possible: or, if
it be not in thy power, and thy conscience accuse thee, surrender thyself to the magistrate,
and make the only satisfaction thou art able.'  'I have taken no one's goods,' said I.  'Of
what art thou guilty, then?' said he.  'Art thou a drunkard? a profligate?'  'Alas, no,' said
I; 'I am neither of these; would that I were no worse.'

"Thereupon the old man looked steadfastly at me for some time; then, after appearing to reflect,
he said, 'Young man, I have a great desire to know your name.'  'What matters it to you what
is my name?' said I; 'you know nothing of me.'  'Perhaps you are mistaken,' said the old man,
looking kindly at me; 'but at all events tell me your name.'  I hesitated a moment, and then
told him who I was, whereupon he exclaimed with much emotion, 'I thought so; how wonderful
are the ways of Providence.  I have heard of thee, young man, and know thy mother well.  Only
a month ago, when upon a journey, I experienced much kindness from her.  She was speaking to
me of her lost child, with tears; she told me that you were one of the best of sons, but that
some strange idea appeared to have occupied your mind.  Despair not, my son.  If thou hast
been afflicted, I doubt not but that thy affliction will eventually turn out to thy benefit;
I doubt not but that thou wilt be preserved, as an example of the great mercy of God.  I will
now kneel down and pray for thee, my son.'

"He knelt down, and prayed long and fervently.  I remained standing for some time; at length
I knelt down likewise.  I scarcely knew what he was saying, but when he concluded I said 'Amen.'

"And when we had risen from our knees, the old man left me for a short time, and on his return
led me into another room, where were two females; one was an elderly person, the wife of the
old man,--the other was a young woman of very prepossessing appearance (hang not down thy head,
Winifred), who I soon found was a distant relation of the old man,--both received me with great
kindness, the old man having doubtless previously told them who I was.

"I staid several days in the good man's house.  I had still the greater portion of a small
sum which I happened to have about me when I departed on my dolorous wandering, and with this
I purchased clothes, and altered my appearance considerably.  On the evening of the second
day, my friend said, 'I am going to preach, perhaps you will come and hear me.'  I consented,
and we all went, not to a church, but to the large building next the house,--for the old man,
though a clergyman, was not of the established persuasion,--and there the old man mounted a
pulpit, and began to preach.  'Come unto Me, all ye that labour and are heavy laden,' etc.
etc., was his text.  His sermon was long, but I still bear the greater portion of it in my mind.

"The substance of it was that Jesus was at all times ready to take upon Himself the burden
of our sins, provided we came to Him with a humble and contrite spirit, and begged His help.
This doctrine was new to me; I had often been at church, but had never heard it preached before,
at least so distinctly.  When he said that all men might be saved, I shook, for I expected
he would add, all except those who had committed the mysterious sin; but no, all men were to
be saved who with a humble and contrite spirit would come to Jesus, cast themselves at the
foot of His cross, and accept pardon through the merits of His blood-shedding alone.  'Therefore,
my friends,' said he, in conclusion, 'despair not--however guilty you may be, despair not--however
desperate your condition may seem,' said he, fixing his eyes upon me, 'despair not.  There
is nothing more foolish and more wicked than despair; overweening confidence is not more foolish
than despair; both are the favourite weapons of the enemy of souls.'

"This discourse gave rise in my mind to no slight perplexity.  I had read in the Scriptures
that he who committeth a certain sin shall never be forgiven, and that there is no hope for
him either in this world or the next.  And here was a man, a good man certainly, and one who,
of necessity, was thoroughly acquainted with the Scriptures, who told me that any one might
be forgiven, however wicked, who would only trust in Christ and in the merits of His blood-shedding.
Did I believe in Christ? Ay, truly.  Was I willing to be saved by Christ?  Ay, truly.  Did
I trust in Christ?  I trusted that Christ would save every one but myself.  And why not myself?
simply because the Scriptures had told me that he who has committed the sin against the Holy
Ghost can never be saved, and I had committed the sin against the Holy Ghost,--perhaps the
only one who ever had committed it.  How could I hope?  The Scriptures could not lie, and yet
here was this good old man, profoundly versed in the Scriptures, who bade me hope; would he
lie?  No.  But did the old man know my case?  Ah, no, he did not know my case! but yet he had
bid me hope, whatever I had done, provided I would go to Jesus.  But how could I think of going
to Jesus, when the Scriptures told me plainly that all would be useless?  I was perplexed,
and yet a ray of hope began to dawn in my soul.  I thought of consulting the good man, but
I was afraid he would drive away the small glimmer.  I was afraid he would say, 'Oh yes, every
one is to be saved, except a wretch like you; I was not aware before that there was anything
so horrible,--begone!'  Once or twice the old man questioned me on the subject of my misery,
but I evaded him; once, indeed, when he looked particularly benevolent, I think I should have
unbosomed myself to him, but we were interrupted.  He never pressed me much; perhaps he was
delicate in probing my mind, as we were then of different persuasions. Hence he advised me
to seek the advice of some powerful minister in my own Church; there were many such in it, he said.

"I staid several days in the family, during which time I more than once heard my venerable
friend preach; each time he preached, he exhorted his hearers not to despair.  The whole family
were kind to me; his wife frequently discoursed with me, and also the young person to whom
I have already alluded.  It appeared to me that the latter took a peculiar interest in my fate.

"At last my friend said to me, 'It is now time thou shouldest return to thy mother and thy
brother.'  So I arose, and departed to my mother and my brother; and at my departure my old
friend gave me his blessing, and his wife and the young person shed tears, the last especially.
And when my mother saw me, she shed tears, and fell on my neck and kissed me, and my brother
took me by the hand and bade me welcome; and when our first emotions were subsided, my mother
said, 'I trust thou art come in a lucky hour.  A few weeks ago my cousin (whose favourite thou
always wast) died and left thee his heir--left thee the goodly farm in which he lived.  I trust,
my son, that thou wilt now settle, and be a comfort to me in my old days.'  And I answered,
'I will, if so please the Lord;' and I said to myself, 'God grant that this bequest be a token
of the Lord's favour.'

"And in a few days I departed to take possession of my farm; it was about twenty miles from
my mother's house, in a beautiful but rather wild district; I arrived at the fall of the leaf.
All day long I busied myself with my farm, and thus kept my mind employed.  At night, however,
I felt rather solitary, and I frequently wished for a companion.  Each night and morning I
prayed fervently unto the Lord; for His hand had been very heavy upon me, and I feared Him.

"There was one thing connected with my new abode, which gave me considerable uneasiness--the
want of spiritual instruction.  There was a church, indeed, close at hand, in which service
was occasionally performed, but in so hurried and heartless a manner that I derived little
benefit from it.  The clergyman to whom the benefice belonged was a valetudinarian, who passed
his time in London, or at some watering-place, entrusting the care of his flock to the curate
of a distant parish, who gave himself very little trouble about the matter.  Now I wanted every
Sunday to hear from the pulpit words of consolation and encouragement, similar to those which
I had heard uttered from the pulpit by my good and venerable friend, but I was debarred from
this privilege.  At length, one day being in conversation with one of my labourers, a staid
and serious man, I spoke to him of the matter which lay heavy upon my mind; whereupon, looking
me wistfully in the face, he said, 'Master, the want of religious instruction in my church
was what drove me to the Methodists.'  'The Methodists,' said I; 'are there any in these parts?'
'There is a chapel,' said he, 'only half a mile distant, at which there are two services every
Sunday, and other two during the week.'  Now it happened that my venerable friend was of the
Methodist persuasion, and when I heard the poor man talk in this manner, I said to him, 'May
I go with you next Sunday?'  'Why not?' said he; so I went with the labourer on the ensuing
Sabbath to the meeting of the Methodists.

"I liked the preaching which I heard at the chapel very well, though it was not quite so comfortable
as that of my old friend, the preacher being in some respects a different kind of man.  It,
however, did me good, and I went again, and continued to do so, though I did not become a regular
member of the body at that time.

"I had now the benefit of religious instruction, and also to a certain extent of religious
fellowship, for the preacher and various members of his flock frequently came to see me.  They
were honest plain men, not exactly of the description which I wished for, but still good sort
of people, and I was glad to see them.  Once on a time, when some of them were with me, one
of them inquired whether I was fervent in prayer.  'Very fervent,' said I.  'And do you read
the Scriptures often?' said he.  'No,' said I.  'Why not?' said he.  'Because I am afraid to
see there my own condemnation.'  They looked at each other, and said nothing at the time. On
leaving me, however, they all advised me to read the Scriptures with fervency and prayer.

"As I had told these honest people, I shrank from searching the Scriptures; the remembrance
of the fatal passage was still too vivid in my mind to permit me.  I did not wish to see my
condemnation repeated, but I was very fervent in prayer, and almost hoped that God would yet
forgive me by virtue of the blood-shedding of the Lamb.  Time passed on, my affairs prospered,
and I enjoyed a certain portion of tranquillity. Occasionally, when I had nothing else to do,
I renewed my studies.  Many is the book I read, especially in my native language, for I was
always fond of my native language, and proud of being a Welshman.  Amongst the books I read
were the odes of the great Ab Gwilym, whom thou, friend, hast never heard of; no, nor any of
thy countrymen, for you are an ignorant race, you Saxons, at least with respect to all that
relates to Wales and Welshmen.  I likewise read the book of Master Ellis Wyn.  The latter work
possessed a singular fascination for me, on account of its wonderful delineations of the torments
of the nether world.

"But man does not love to be alone; indeed, the Scripture says that it is not good for man
to be alone.  I occupied my body with the pursuits of husbandry, and I improved my mind with
the perusal of good and wise books; but, as I have already said, I frequently sighed for a
companion with whom I could exchange ideas, and who could take an interest in my pursuits;
the want of such a one I more particularly felt in the long winter evenings.  It was then that
the image of the young person whom I had seen in the house of the preacher frequently rose
up distinctly before my mind's eye, decked with quiet graces--hang not down your head, Winifred--and
I thought that of all the women in the world I should wish her to be my partner, and then I
considered whether it would be possible to obtain her.  I am ready to acknowledge, friend,
that it was both selfish and wicked in me to wish to fetter any human being to a lost creature
like myself, conscious of having committed a crime for which the Scriptures told me there is
no pardon.  I had, indeed, a long struggle as to whether I should make the attempt or not--selfishness,
however, prevailed.  I will not detain your attention with relating all that occurred at this
period--suffice it to say that I made my suit and was successful; it is true that the old man,
who was her guardian, hesitated, and asked several questions respecting my state of mind. 
I am afraid that I partly deceived him, perhaps he partly deceived himself; he was pleased
that I had adopted his profession--we are all weak creatures. With respect to the young person,
she did not ask many questions; and I soon found that I had won her heart.  To be brief, I
married her; and here she is, the truest wife that ever man had, and the kindest.  Kind I may
well call her, seeing that she shrinks not from me, who so cruelly deceived her, in not telling
her at first what I was.  I married her, friend; and brought her home to my little possession,
where we passed our time very agreeably.  Our affairs prospered, our garners were full, and
there was coin in our purse.  I worked in the field; Winifred busied herself with the dairy.
At night I frequently read books to her, books of my own country, friend; I likewise read to
her songs of my own, holy songs and carols which she admired, and which yourself would perhaps
admire, could you understand them; but I repeat, you Saxons are an ignorant people with respect
to us, and a perverse, inasmuch as you despise Welsh without understanding it.  Every night
I prayed fervently, and my wife admired my gift of prayer.

"One night, after I had been reading to my wife a portion of Ellis Wyn, my wife said, 'This
is a wonderful book, and containing much true and pleasant doctrine; but how is it that you,
who are so fond of good books, and good things in general, never read the Bible?  You read
me the book of Master Ellis Wyn, you read me sweet songs of your own composition, you edify
me with your gift of prayer, but yet you never read the Bible.'  And when I heard her mention
the Bible I shook, for I thought of my own condemnation.  However, I dearly loved my wife,
and as she pressed me, I commenced on that very night reading the Bible.  All went on smoothly
for a long time; for months and months I did not find the fatal passage, so that I almost thought
that I had imagined it.  My affairs prospered much the while, so that I was almost happy,--taking
pleasure in everything around me,--in my wife, in my farm, my books and compositions, and the
Welsh language; till one night, as I was reading the Bible, feeling particularly comfortable,
a thought having just come into my head that I would print some of my compositions, and purchase
a particular field of a neighbour--O God--God!  I came to the fatal passage.

"Friend, friend, what shall I say?  I rushed out.  My wife followed me, asking me what was
the matter.  I could only answer with groans--for three days and three nights I did little
else than groan.  Oh, the kindness and solicitude of my wife!  'What is the matter, husband,
dear husband?' she was continually saying.  I became at last more calm.  My wife still persisted
in asking me the cause of my late paroxysm.  It is hard to keep a secret from a wife, especially
such a wife as mine, so I told my wife the tale, as we sat one night--it was a mid-winter night--over
the dying brands of our hearth, after the family had retired to rest, her hand locked in mine,
even as it is now.

"I thought she would have shrunk from me with horror; but she did not; her hand, it is true,
trembled once or twice; but that was all.  At last she gave mine a gentle pressure; and, looking
up in my face, she said--what do you think my wife said, young man?"

"It is impossible for me to guess," said I.

"'Let us go to rest, my love; your fears are all groundless.'"

CHAPTER LXXVII

Getting Late--Seven Years Old--Chastening--Go Forth--London Bridge--Same Eyes--Common Occurrence--Very
Sleepy.

"And so I still say," said Winifred, sobbing.  "Let us retire to rest, dear husband; your fears
are groundless.  I had hoped long since that your affliction would have passed away, and I
still hope that it eventually will; so take heart, Peter, and let us retire to rest, for it
is getting late."

"Rest!" said Peter; "there is no rest for the wicked!"

"We are all wicked," said Winifred; "but you are afraid of a shadow.  How often have I told
you that the sin of your heart is not the sin against the Holy Ghost: the sin of your heart
is its natural pride, of which you are scarcely aware, to keep down which God in His mercy
permitted you to be terrified with the idea of having committed a sin which you never committed."

"Then you will still maintain," said Peter, "that I never committed the sin against the Holy
Spirit?"

"I will," said Winifred; "you never committed it.  How should a child seven years old commit
a sin like that?"

"Have I not read my own condemnation?" said Peter.  "Did not the first words which I read in
the Holy Scripture condemn me?  'He who committeth the sin against the Holy Ghost shall never
enter into the kingdom of God.'"

"You never committed it," said Winifred.

"But the words! the words! the words!" said Peter.

"The words are true words," said Winifred, sobbing; "but they were not meant for you, but for
those who have broken their profession, who, having embraced the cross, have receded from their
Master."

"And what sayst thou to the effect which the words produced upon me?" said Peter.  "Did they
not cause me to run wild through Wales for years, like Merddin Wyllt of yore; thinkest thou
that I opened the book at that particular passage by chance?"

"No," said Winifred, "not by chance; it was the hand of God directed you, doubtless for some
wise purpose.  You had become satisfied with yourself. The Lord wished to rouse thee from thy
state of carnal security, and therefore directed your eyes to that fearful passage."

"Does the Lord then carry out His designs by means of guile?" said Peter, with a groan.  "Is
not the Lord true?  Would the Lord impress upon me that I had committed a sin of which I am
guiltless?  Hush, Winifred! hush! thou knowest that I have committed the sin."

"Thou hast not committed it," said Winifred, sobbing yet more violently. "Were they my last
words, I would persist that thou hast not committed it, though, perhaps, thou wouldst, but
for this chastening; it was not to convince thee that thou hast committed the sin, but rather
to prevent thee from committing it, that the Lord brought that passage before thy eyes.  He
is not to blame, if thou art wilfully blind to the truth and wisdom of His ways."

"I see thou wouldst comfort me," said Peter, "as thou hast often before attempted to do.  I
would fain ask the young man his opinion."

"I have not yet heard the whole of your history," said I.

"My story is nearly told," said Peter; "a few words will complete it.  My wife endeavoured
to console and reassure me, using the arguments which you have just heard her use, and many
others, but in vain.  Peace nor comfort came to my breast.  I was rapidly falling into the
depths of despair; when one day Winifred said to me, 'I see thou wilt be lost, if we remain
here.  One resource only remains.  Thou must go forth, my husband, into the wide world, and
to comfort thee I will go with thee.' 'And what can I do in the wide world?' said I, despondingly.
'Much,' replied Winifred, 'if you will but exert yourself; much good canst thou do with the
blessing of God.'  Many things of the same kind she said to me; and at last I arose from the
earth to which God had smitten me, and disposed of my property in the best way I could, and
went into the world. We did all the good we were able, visiting the sick, ministering to the
sick, and praying with the sick.  At last I became celebrated as the possessor of a great gift
of prayer.  And people urged me to preach, and Winifred urged me too, and at last I consented,
and I preached. I--I--outcast Peter, became the preacher Peter Williams.  I, the lost one,
attempted to show others the right road.  And in this way I have gone on for thirteen years,
preaching and teaching, visiting the sick, and ministering to them, with Winifred by my side
heartening me on. Occasionally I am visited with fits of indescribable agony, generally on
the night before the Sabbath; for I then ask myself, how dare I, the outcast, attempt to preach
the word of God?  Young man, my tale is told; you seem in thought!"

"I am thinking of London Bridge," said I.

"Of London Bridge!" said Peter and his wife.

"Yes," said I, "of London Bridge.  I am indebted for much wisdom to London Bridge; it was there
that I completed my studies.  But to the point.  I was once reading on London Bridge a book
which an ancient gentlewoman, who kept the bridge, was in the habit of lending me; and there
I found written, 'Each one carries in his breast the recollection of some sin which presses
heavy upon him.  O! if men could but look into each other's hearts, what blackness would they
find there!'"

"That's true," said Peter.  "What is the name of the book?"

"'The Life of Blessed Mary Flanders.'"

"Some popish saint, I suppose," said Peter.

"As much of a saint, I dare say," said I, "as most popish ones; but you interrupted me.  One
part of your narrative brought the passage which I have quoted into my mind.  You said that
after you had committed this same sin of yours you were in the habit, at school, of looking
upon your schoolfellows with a kind of gloomy superiority, considering yourself a lone monstrous
being who had committed a sin far above the daring of any of them.  Are you sure that many
others of your schoolfellows were not looking upon you and the others with much the same eyes
with which you were looking upon them?"

"How!" said Peter, "dost thou think that they had divined my secret?"

"Not they," said I; "they were, I dare say, thinking too much of themselves and of their own
concerns to have divined any secrets of yours.  All I mean to say is, they had probably secrets
of their own, and who knows that the secret sin of more than one of them was not the very sin
which caused you so much misery?"

"God bless thee, young man," said Winifred.

CHAPTER LXXVIII

Low and Calm--Much Better--Blessed Effect--No Answer--Such a Sermon.

Before I sank to rest I heard Winifred and her husband conversing in the place where I had
left them; both their voices were low and calm.  I soon fell asleep, and slumbered for some
time.  On my awakening I again heard them conversing, but they were now in their cart; still
the voices of both were calm.  I heard no passionate bursts of wild despair on the part of
the man.  Methought I occasionally heard the word Pechod proceeding from the lips of each,
but with no particular emphasis.  I supposed they were talking of the innate sin of both their
hearts.

"I wish that man were happy," said I to myself, "were it only for his wife's sake, and yet
he deserves to be happy for his own."

The next day Peter was very cheerful, more cheerful than I had ever seen him.  At breakfast
his conversation was animated, and he smiled repeatedly.  I looked at him with the greatest
interest, and the eyes of his wife were almost constantly fixed upon him.  A shade of gloom
would occasionally come over his countenance, but it almost instantly disappeared; perhaps
it proceeded more from habit than anything else. After breakfast he took his Welsh Bible and
sat down beneath a tree.  His eyes were soon fixed intently on the volume; now and then he
would call his wife, show her some passage, and appeared to consult with her.  The day passed
quickly and comfortably.

"Your husband seems much better," said I, at evening-fall, to Winifred, as we chanced to be alone.

"He does," said Winifred; "and that on the day of the week when he was wont to appear most
melancholy, for to-morrow is the Sabbath.  He now no longer looks forward to the Sabbath with
dread, but appears to reckon on it.  What a happy change! and to think that this change should
have been produced by a few words, seemingly careless ones, proceeding from the mouth of one
who is almost a stranger to him.  Truly, it is wonderful."

"To whom do you allude," said I, "and to what words?"

"To yourself, and to the words which came from your lips last night, after you had heard my
poor husband's history.  Those strange words, drawn out with so much seeming indifference,
have produced in my husband the blessed effect which you have observed.  They have altered
the current of his ideas.  He no longer thinks himself the only being in the world doomed to
destruction,--the only being capable of committing the never-to-be-forgiven sin.  Your supposition
that that which harrowed his soul is of frequent occurrence amongst children, has tranquillised
him; the mist which hung over his mind has cleared away, and he begins to see the groundlessness
of his apprehensions.  The Lord has permitted him to be chastened for a season, but his lamp
will only burn the brighter for what he has undergone."

Sunday came, fine and glorious as the last.  Again my friends and myself breakfasted together--again
the good family of the house on the hill above, headed by the respectable master, descended
to the meadow.  Peter and his wife were ready to receive them.  Again Peter placed himself
at the side of the honest farmer, and Winifred by the side of her friend. "Wilt thou not come?"
said Peter, looking towards me with a face in which there was much emotion.  "Wilt thou not
come?" said Winifred, with a face beaming with kindness.  But I made no answer, and presently
the party moved away, in the same manner in which it had moved on the preceding Sabbath, and
I was again left alone.

The hours of the Sabbath passed slowly away.  I sat gazing at the sky, the trees, and the water.
At last I strolled up to the house and sat down in the porch.  It was empty; there was no modest
maiden there, as on the preceding Sabbath.  The damsel of the book had accompanied the rest.
I had seen her in the procession, and the house appeared quite deserted. The owners had probably
left it to my custody, so I sat down in the porch, quite alone.  The hours of the Sabbath passed
heavily away.

At last evening came, and with it the party of the morning.  I was now at my place beneath
the oak.  I went forward to meet them.  Peter and his wife received me with a calm and quiet
greeting, and passed forward.  The rest of the party had broke into groups.  There was a kind
of excitement amongst them, and much eager whispering.  I went to one of the groups; the young
girl of whom I have spoken more than once, was speaking: "Such a sermon," said she, "it has
never been our lot to hear; Peter never before spoke as he has done this day--he was always
a powerful preacher, but oh, the unction of the discourse of this morning, and yet more of
that of the afternoon, which was the continuation of it!"  "What was the subject?" said I,
interrupting her.  "Ah! you should have been there, young man, to have heard it; it would have
made a lasting impression upon you.  I was bathed in tears all the time; those who heard it
will never forget the preaching of the good Peter Williams on the Power, Providence, and Goodness
of God."

CHAPTER LXXIX

Deep Interest--Goodly Country--Two Mansions--Welshman's Candle--Beautiful Universe--Godly Discourse--Fine
Church--Points of Doctrine--Strange Adventures--Paltry Cause--Roman Pontiff--Evil Spirit.

On the morrow I said to my friends, "I am about to depart; farewell!" "Depart!" said Peter
and his wife, simultaneously; "whither wouldst thou go?"  "I can't stay here all my days,"
I replied.  "Of course not," said Peter; "but we had no idea of losing thee so soon: we had
almost hoped that thou wouldst join us, become one of us.  We are under infinite obligations
to thee."  "You mean I am under infinite obligations to you," said I.  "Did you not save my
life?"  "Perhaps so, under God," said Peter; "and what hast thou not done for me?  Art thou
aware that, under God, thou hast preserved my soul from despair?  But, independent of that,
we like thy company, and feel a deep interest in thee, and would fain teach thee the way that
is right.  Hearken, to-morrow we go into Wales; go with us."  "I have no wish to go into Wales,"
said I.  "Why not?" said Peter, with animation.

"I dare say it is a very fine country," said I, "but I have no wish to go there just now; my
destiny seems to point in another direction, to say nothing of my trade."  "Thou dost right
to say nothing of thy trade," said Peter, smiling, "for thou seemest to care nothing about
it; which has led Winifred and myself to suspect that thou art not altogether what thou seemest;
but, setting that aside, we should be most happy if thou wouldst go with us into Wales."  "I
cannot promise to go with you into Wales," said I; "but, as you depart to-morrow, I will stay
with you through the day, and on the morrow accompany you part of the way."  "Do," said Peter:
"I have many people to see to-day, and so has Winifred; but we will both endeavour to have
some serious discourse with thee, which, perhaps, will turn to thy profit in the end."

In the course of the day the good Peter came to me, as I was seated beneath the oak, and, placing
himself by me, commenced addressing me in the following manner:--

"I have no doubt, my young friend, that you are willing to admit, that the most important thing
which a human being possesses is his soul; it is of infinitely more importance than the body,
which is a frail substance, and cannot last for many years; but not so the soul, which, by
its nature, is imperishable.  To one of two mansions the soul is destined to depart, after
its separation from the body, to heaven or hell; to the halls of eternal bliss, where God and
His holy angels dwell, or to the place of endless misery, inhabited by Satan and his grisly
companions.  My friend, if the joys of heaven are great, unutterably great, so are the torments
of hell unutterably so.  I wish not to speak of them, I wish not to terrify your imagination
with the torments of hell: indeed, I like not to think of them; but it is necessary to speak
of them sometimes, and to think of them sometimes, lest you should sink into a state of carnal
security.  Authors, friend, and learned men, are not altogether agreed as to the particulars
of hell.  They all agree, however, in considering it a place of exceeding horror.  Master Ellis
Wyn, who by the bye was a churchman, calls it, amongst other things, a place of strong sighs,
and of flaming sparks.  Master Rees Pritchard, {238} who was not only a churchman, but Vicar
of Llandovery, and flourished about two hundred years ago--I wish many like him flourished
now--speaking of hell, in his collection of sweet hymns, called the 'Welshman's Candle,' observes,

"'The pool is continually blazing; it is very deep, without any known bottom, and the walls
are so high, that there is neither hope nor possibility of escaping over them.'

"But, as I told you just now, I have no great pleasure in talking of hell.  No, friend, no;
I would sooner talk of the other place, and of the goodness and hospitality of God amongst
His saints above."

And then the excellent man began to dilate upon the joys of heaven, and the goodness and hospitality
of God in the mansions above; explaining to me, in the clearest way, how I might get there.

And when he had finished what he had to say, he left me, whereupon Winifred drew nigh, and
sitting down by me, began to address me.  "I do not think," said she, "from what I have observed
of thee, that thou wouldst wish to be ungrateful, and yet, is not thy whole life a series of
ingratitude, and to whom?--to thy Maker.  Has He not endowed thee with a goodly and healthy
form; and senses which enable thee to enjoy the delights of His beautiful universe--the work
of His hands?  Canst thou not enjoy, even to rapture, the brightness of the sun, the perfume
of the meads, and the song of the dear birds, which inhabit among the trees? Yes, thou canst;
for I have seen thee, and observed thee doing so.  Yet, during the whole time that I have known
thee, I have not heard proceed from thy lips one single word of praise or thanksgiving to . . ."

And in this manner the admirable woman proceeded for a considerable time, and to all her discourse
I listened with attention; and when she had concluded, I took her hand and said, "I thank you,"
and that was all.

On the next day everything was ready for our departure.  The good family of the house came
to bid us farewell.  There were shaking of hands, and kisses, as on the night of our arrival.

And as I stood somewhat apart, the young girl of whom I have spoken so often, came up to me,
and holding out her hand, said, "Farewell, young man, wherever thou goest."  Then, after looking
around her, she said, "It was all true you told me.  Yesterday I received a letter from him
thou wottest of, he is coming soon.  God bless you, young man; who would have thought thou
knewest so much!"

So, after we had taken our farewell of the good family, we departed, proceeding in the direction
of Wales.  Peter was very cheerful, and enlivened the way with godly discourse and spiritual
hymns, some of which were in the Welsh language.  At length I said, "It is a pity that you
did not continue in the Church; you have a turn for psalmody, and I have heard of a man becoming
a bishop by means of a less qualification."

"Very probably," said Peter; "more the pity.  But I have told you the reason of my forsaking
it.  Frequently, when I went to the church door, I found it barred, and the priest absent;
what was I to do?  My heart was bursting for want of some religious help and comfort; what
could I do? as good Master Rees Pritchard observes in his 'Candle for Welshmen.'

"'It is a doleful thing to see little children burning on the hot coals for want of help; but
yet more doleful to see a flock of souls falling into the burning lake for want of a priest.'"

"The Church of England is a fine church," said I; "I would not advise any one to speak ill
of the Church of England before me."

"I have nothing to say against the Church," said Peter; "all I wish is that it would fling
itself a little more open, and that its priests would a little more bestir themselves; in a
word, that it would shoulder the cross and become a missionary church."

"It is too proud for that," said Winifred.

"You are much more of a Methodist," said I, "than your husband.  But tell me," said I, addressing
myself to Peter, "do you not differ from the Church in some points of doctrine?  I, of course,
as a true member of the Church, am quite ignorant of the peculiar opinions of wandering sectaries."

"Oh, the pride of that Church!" said Winifred, half to herself; "wandering sectaries!"

"We differ in no points of doctrine," said Peter; "we believe all the Church believes, though
we are not so fond of vain and superfluous ceremonies, snow-white neckcloths and surplices,
as the Church is.  We likewise think that there is no harm in a sermon by the road-side, or
in holding free discourse with a beggar beneath a hedge, or a tinker," he added, smiling; "it
was those superfluous ceremonies, those surplices and white neckcloths, and, above all, the
necessity of strictly regulating his words and conversation, which drove John Wesley out of
the Church, and sent him wandering up and down as you see me, poor Welsh Peter, do."

Nothing farther passed for some time; we were now drawing near the hills: at last I said, "You
must have met with a great many strange adventures since you took up this course of life?"

"Many," said Peter, "it has been my lot to meet with; but none more strange than one which
occurred to me only a few weeks ago.  You were asking me, not long since, whether I believed
in devils?  Ay, truly, young man; and I believe that the abyss and the yet deeper Unknown do
not contain them all; some walk about upon the green earth.  So it happened, some weeks ago,
that I was exercising my ministry about forty miles from here.  I was alone, Winifred being
slightly indisposed, staying for a few days at the house of an acquaintance; I had finished
afternoon's worship--the people had dispersed, and I was sitting solitary by my cart under
some green trees in a quiet retired place; suddenly a voice said to me, 'Good evening, Pastor';
I looked up, and before me stood a man, at least the appearance of a man, dressed in a black
suit of rather a singular fashion.  He was about my own age, or somewhat older.  As I looked
upon him, it appeared to me that I had seen him twice before whilst preaching.  I replied to
his salutation, and perceiving that he looked somewhat fatigued, I took out a stool from the
cart, and asked him to sit down.  We began to discourse; I at first supposed that he might
be one of ourselves, some wandering minister; but I was soon undeceived. Neither his language
nor his ideas were those of any one of our body.  He spoke on all kinds of matters with much
fluency; till at last he mentioned my preaching, complimenting me on my powers.  I replied,
as well I might, that I could claim no merit of my own, and that if I spoke with any effect,
it was only by the grace of God.  As I uttered these last words, a horrible kind of sneer came
over his countenance, which made me shudder, for there was something diabolical in it.  I said
little more, but listened attentively to his discourse.  At last he said that I was engaged
in a paltry cause, quite unworthy of one of my powers.  'How can that be,' said I, 'even if
I possessed all the powers in the world, seeing that I am engaged in the cause of our Lord Jesus?'

"The same kind of sneer again came on his countenance, but he almost instantly observed, that
if I chose to forsake this same miserable cause, from which nothing but contempt and privation
were to be expected, he would enlist me into another, from which I might expect both profit
and renown.  An idea now came into my head, and I told him firmly, that if he wished me to
forsake my present profession and become a member of the Church of England, I must absolutely
decline; that I had no ill-will against that Church, but I thought I could do most good in
my present position, which I would not forsake to be Archbishop of Canterbury. Thereupon he
burst into a strange laughter, and went away, repeating to himself, 'Church of England!  Archbishop
of Canterbury!'  A few days after, when I was once more in a solitary place, he again appeared
before me, and asked me whether I had thought over his words, and whether I was willing to
enlist under the banners of his master, adding, that he was eager to secure me, as he conceived
that I might be highly useful to the cause.  I then asked him who his master was; he hesitated
for a moment, and then answered, 'The Roman Pontiff.'  'If it be he,' said I, 'I can have nothing
to do with him, I will serve no one who is an enemy of Christ.'  Thereupon he drew near to
me, and told me not to talk so much like a simpleton; that as for Christ, it was probable that
no such person ever existed, but that if he ever did, he was the greatest impostor the world
ever saw.  How long he continued in this way I know not, for I now considered that an evil
spirit was before me, and shrank within myself, shivering in every limb; when I recovered myself
and looked about me, he was gone.  Two days after, he again stood before me, in the same place,
and about the same hour, renewing his propositions, and speaking more horribly than before.
I made him no answer; whereupon he continued; but suddenly hearing a noise behind him, he looked
round and beheld Winifred, who had returned to me on the morning of that day.  'Who are you?'
said he, fiercely.  'This man's wife,' said she, calmly fixing her eyes upon him.  'Begone
from him, unhappy one, thou temptest him in vain.'  He made no answer, but stood as if transfixed:
at length recovering himself, he departed, muttering 'Wife! wife!  If the fool has a wife,
he will never do for us.'"

CHAPTER LXXX

The Border--Thank You Both--Pipe and Fiddle--Taliesin.

We were now drawing very near the hills, and Peter said, "If you are to go into Wales, you
must presently decide, for we are close upon the border."

"Which is the border?" said I.

"Yon small brook," said Peter, "into which the man on horseback who is coming towards us is
now entering."

"I see it," said I, "and the man; he stops in the middle of it, as if to water his steed."

We proceeded till we had nearly reached the brook.  "Well," said Peter, "will you go into Wales?"

"What should I do in Wales?" I demanded.

"Do!" said Peter, smiling; "learn Welsh."

I stopped my little pony.  "Then I need not go into Wales; I already know Welsh."

"Know Welsh!" said Peter, staring at me.

"Know Welsh!" said Winifred, stopping her cart.

"How and when did you learn it?" said Peter.

"From books, in my boyhood."

"Read Welsh!" said Peter; "is it possible?"

"Read Welsh!" said Winifred; "is it possible?"

"Well, I hope you will come with us," said Peter.

"Come with us, young man," said Winifred; "let me, on the other side of the brook, welcome
you into Wales."

"Thank you both," said I, "but I will not come."

"Wherefore?" exclaimed both, simultaneously.

"Because it is neither fit nor proper that I cross into Wales at this time, and in this manner.
When I go into Wales, I should wish to go in a new suit of superfine black, with hat and beaver,
{246} mounted on a powerful steed, black and glossy, like that which bore Greduv to the fight
of Catraeth.  I should wish, moreover, to see the Welshmen assembled on the border ready to
welcome me with pipe and fiddle, and much whooping and shouting, and to attend me to Wrexham,
or even as far as Machynllaith, where I should wish to be invited to a dinner at which all
the bards should be present, and to be seated at the right hand of the president, who, when
the cloth was removed, should arise, and, amidst cries of silence, exclaim--'Brethren and Welshmen,
allow me to propose the health of my most respectable friend the translator of the odes of
the great Ab Gwilym, the pride and glory of Wales.'"

"How!" said Peter, "hast thou translated the works of the mighty Dafydd?"

"With notes critical, historical, and explanatory."

"Come with us, friend," said Peter.  "I cannot promise such a dinner as thou wishest, but neither
pipe nor fiddle shall be wanting."

"Come with us, young man," said Winifred, "even as thou art, and the daughters of Wales shall
bid thee welcome."  Peter came running after me: "One moment, young man,--who and what are you?"

"I must answer in the words of Taliesin," said I; "none can say with positiveness whether I
be fish or flesh, least of all myself.  God bless you both!"

"Take this," said Peter, and he thrust his Welsh Bible into my hand.

CHAPTER LXXXI

At a Funeral--Two Days Ago--Very Coolly--Roman Woman--Well and Hearty--Somewhat Dreary--Plum
Pudding--Roman Fashion--Quite Different--The Dark Lane--Beyond the Time--Fine Fellow--Such
a Struggle--Like a Wild Cat--Fair Play--Pleasant Enough Spot--No Gloves.

So I turned back with Mr. Petulengro.  We travelled for some time in silence; at last we fell
into discourse.  "You have been in Wales, Mr. Petulengro?"

"Ay, truly, brother."

"What have you been doing there?"

"Assisting at a funeral."

"At whose funeral?"

"Mrs. Herne's, brother."

"Is she dead, then?"

"As a nail, brother."

"How did she die?"

"By hanging, brother."

"I am lost in astonishment," said I; whereupon Mr. Petulengro, lifting his sinister leg over
the neck of his steed, and adjusting himself sideways in the saddle, replied, with great deliberation,
"Two days ago, I happened to be at a fair not very far from here; I was all alone by myself,
for our party were upwards of forty miles off, when who should come up but a chap that I knew,
a relation, or rather, a connection of mine--one of those Hernes.  'Ar'n't you going to the
funeral?' said he; and then, brother, there passed between him and me, in the way of questioning
and answering, much the same as has just now passed between I and you; but when he mentioned
hanging, I thought I could do no less than ask who hanged her, which you forgot to do.  'Who
hanged her?' said I; and then the man told me that she had done it herself,--been her own hinjiri;
{249a} and then I thought to myself what a sin and shame it would be if I did not go to the
funeral, seeing that she was my own mother-in-law.  I would have brought my wife, and, indeed,
the whole of our party, but there was no time for that; they were too far off, and the dead
was to be buried early the next morning; so I went with the man, and he led me into Wales,
where his party had lately retired, and when there, through many wild and desolate places to
their encampment, and there I found the Hernes, and the dead body--the last laid out on a mattress,
in a tent, dressed Romaneskoenaes {249b} in a red cloak, and big bonnet of black beaver.  I
must say for the Hernes that they took the matter very coolly; some were eating, others drinking,
and some were talking about their small affairs; there was one, however, who did not take the
matter so coolly, but took on enough for the whole family, sitting beside the dead woman, tearing
her hair, and refusing to take either meat or drink; it was the child Leonora.  I arrived at
night-fall, and the burying was not to take place till the morning, which I was rather sorry
for, as I am not very fond of them Hernes, who are not very fond of anybody.  They never asked
me to eat or drink, notwithstanding I had married into the family; one of them, however, came
up and offered to fight me for five shillings; had it not been for them I should have come
back as empty as I went--he didn't stand up five minutes.  Brother, I passed the night as well
as I could, beneath a tree, for the tents were full, and not over clean; I slept little, and
had my eyes about me, for I knew the kind of people I was among.

"Early in the morning the funeral took place.  The body was placed not in a coffin but on a
bier, and carried not to a churchyard but to a deep dell close by; and there it was buried
beneath a rock, dressed just as I have told you; and this was done by the bidding of Leonora,
who had heard her bebee say that she wished to be buried, not in gorgious fashion, but like
a Roman woman of the old blood, the kosko puro rati, {250a} brother. When it was over, and
we had got back to the encampment, I prepared to be going.  Before mounting my gry, {250b}
however, I bethought me to ask what could have induced the dead woman to make away with herself--a
thing so uncommon amongst Rommanies; whereupon one squinted with his eyes, a second spirted
saliver into the air, and a third said that he neither knew nor cared; she was a good riddance,
having more than once been nearly the ruin of them all, from the quantity of brimstone she
carried about her.  One, however, I suppose rather ashamed of the way in which they had treated
me, said at last, that if I wanted to know all about the matter, none could tell me better
than the child, who was in all her secrets, and was not a little like her; so I looked about
for the child, but could find her nowhere.  At last the same man told me that he shouldn't
wonder if I found her at the grave; so I went back to the grave, and sure enough there I found
the child Leonora, seated on the ground above the body, crying and taking on; so I spoke kindly
to her, and said, 'How came all this, Leonora? tell me all about it.'  It was a long time before
I could get any answer; at last she opened her mouth and spoke, and these were the words she
said, 'It was all along of your Pal;' {251} and then she told me all about the matter--how
Mrs. Herne could not abide you, which I knew before; and that she had sworn your destruction,
which I did not know before.  And then she told me how she found you living in the wood by
yourself, and how you were enticed to eat a poisoned cake; and she told me many other things
that you wot of, and she told me what perhaps you don't wot, namely, that finding you had been
removed, she, the child, had tracked you a long way, and found you at last well and hearty,
and no ways affected by the poison, and heard you, as she stood concealed, disputing about
religion with a Welsh Methody. Well, brother, she told me all this; and, moreover, that when
Mrs. Herne heard of it, she said that a dream of hers had come to pass.  I don't know what
it was, but something about herself, a tinker, and a dean; and then she added, that it was
all up with her, and that she must take a long journey.  Well, brother, that same night Leonora,
waking from her sleep in the tent where Mrs. Herne and she were wont to sleep, missed her bebee,
{252a} and, becoming alarmed, went in search of her, and at last found her hanging from a branch;
and when the child had got so far, she took on violently, and I could not get another word
from her; so I left her, and here I am."

"And I am glad to see you, Mr. Petulengro; but this is sad news which you tell me about Mrs.
Herne."

"Somewhat dreary, brother; yet, perhaps, after all, it is a good thing that she is removed;
she carried so much Devil's tinder about with her, as the man said."

"I am sorry for her," said I; "more especially as I am the cause of her death--though the innocent
one."

"She could not bide you, brother, that's certain; but that is no reason"--said Mr. Petulengro,
balancing himself upon the saddle--"that is no reason why she should prepare drow to take away
your essence of life; and, when disappointed, to hang herself upon a tree: if she was dissatisfied
with you, she might have flown at you, and scratched your face; or, if she did not judge herself
your match, she might have put down five shillings for a turn up between you and some one she
thought could beat you--myself, for example, and so the matter might have ended comfortably;
but she was always too fond of covert ways, drows, and brimstones.  This is not the first poisoning
affair she has been engaged in."

"You allude to drabbing bawlor." {252b}

"Bah!" said Mr. Petulengro; "there's no harm in that.  No, no! she has cast drows {253a} in
her time for other guess things than bawlor; both Gorgios and Romans have tasted of them, and
died.  Did you never hear of the poisoned plum pudding?"

"Never."

"Then I will tell you about it.  It happened about six years ago, a few months after she had
quitted us--she had gone first amongst her own people, as she called them; but there was another
small party of Romans, with whom she soon became very intimate.  It so happened that this small
party got into trouble; whether it was about a horse or an ass, or passing bad money, no matter
to you and me, who had no hand in the business; three or four of them were taken and lodged
in --- Castle, and amongst them was a woman; but the sherengro, or principal man of the party,
and who it seems had most hand in the affair, was still at large. All of a sudden a rumour
was spread abroad that the woman was about to play false, and to 'peach the rest.  Said the
principal man, when he heard it, 'If she does, I am nashkado.' {253b}  Mrs. Herne was then
on a visit to the party, and when she heard the principal man take on so, she said, 'But I
suppose you know what to do?'  'I do not,' said he.  'Then hir mi devlis,' said she, 'you are
a fool.  But leave the matter to me, I know how to dispose of her in Roman fashion.'  Why she
wanted to interfere in the matter, brother, I don't know, unless it was from pure brimstoneness
of disposition--she had no hand in the matter which had brought the party into trouble--she
was only on a visit, and it had happened before she came; but she was always ready to give
dangerous advice.  Well, brother, the principal man listened to what she had to say, and let
her do what she would; and she made a pudding, a very nice one, no doubt--for, besides plums,
she put in drows and all the Roman condiments that she knew of; and she gave it to the principal
man, and the principal man put it into a basket and directed it to the woman in --- Castle,
and the woman in the castle took it and--"

"Ate of it," said I; "just like my case!"

"Quite different, brother; she took it, it is true, but instead of giving way to her appetite,
as you might have done, she put it before the rest whom she was going to impeach; perhaps she
wished to see how they liked it before she tasted it herself; and all the rest were poisoned,
and one died, and there was a precious outcry, and the woman cried loudest of all; and she
said, 'It was my death was sought for; I know the man, and I'll be revenged.'  And then the
Poknees {254a} spoke to her and said, 'Where can we find him?' and she said, 'I am awake to
his motions; three weeks from hence, the night before the full moon, at such and such an hour,
he will pass down such a lane with such a man.'"

"Well," said I, "and what did the Poknees do?"

"Do, brother! sent for a plastramengro {254b} from Bow Street, quite secretly, and told him
what the woman had said; and the night before the full moon, the plastramengro went to the
place which the juwa {255a}had pointed out, all alone, brother; and in order that he might
not be too late, he went two hours before his time.  I know the place well, brother, where
the plastramengro placed himself behind a thick holly tree, at the end of a lane, where a gate
leads into various fields, through which there is a path for carts and horses.  The lane is
called the dark lane by the Gorgios, being much shaded by trees.  So the plastramengro placed
himself in the dark lane behind the holly tree; it was a cold February night, dreary though;
the wind blew in gusts, and the moon had not yet risen, and the plastramengro waited behind
the tree till he was tired, and thought he might as well sit down; so he sat down, and was
not long in falling to sleep, and there he slept for some hours; and when he awoke the moon
had risen, and was shining bright, so that there was a kind of moonlight even in the dark lane;
and the plastramengro pulled out his watch, and contrived to make out that it was just two
hours beyond the time when the men should have passed by.  Brother, I do not know what the
plastramengro thought of himself, but I know, brother, what I should have thought of myself
in his situation.  I should have thought, brother, that I was a drowsy scoppelo, {255b} and
that I had let the fellow pass by whilst I was sleeping behind a bush.  As it turned out, however,
his going to sleep did no harm, but quite the contrary: just as he was going away, he heard
a gate slam in the direction of the fields, and then he heard the low stumping of horses, as
if on soft ground, for the path in those fields is generally soft, and at that time it had
been lately ploughed up.  Well, brother, presently he saw two men on horseback coming towards
the lane through the field behind the gate; the man who rode foremost was a tall big fellow,
the very man he was in quest of; the other was a smaller chap, not so small either, but a light,
wiry fellow, and a proper master of his hands when he sees occasion for using them. Well, brother,
the foremost man came to the gate, reached at the hank, undid it, and rode through, holding
it open for the other.  Before, however, the other could follow into the lane, out bolted the
plastramengro from behind the tree, kicked the gate to with his foot, and, seizing the big
man on horseback, 'You are my prisoner,' said he.  I am of opinion, brother, that the plastramengro,
notwithstanding he went to sleep, must have been a regular fine fellow."

"I am entirely of your opinion," said I, "but what happened then?"

"Why, brother, the Rommany chal, after he had somewhat recovered from his surprise, for it
is rather uncomfortable to be laid hold of at night-time, and told you are a prisoner; more
especially when you happen to have two or three things on your mind which, if proved against
you, would carry you to the nashky. {256}  The Rommany chal, I say, clubbed his whip, and aimed
a blow at the plastramengro, which, if it had hit him on the skull, as was intended, would
very likely have cracked it.  The plastramengro, however, received it partly on his staff,
so that it did him no particular damage.  Whereupon, seeing what kind of customer he had to
deal with, he dropped his staff and seized the chal with both his hands, who forthwith spurred
his horse, hoping, by doing so, either to break away from him, or fling him down; but it would
not do--the plastramengro held on like a bulldog, so that the Rommany chal, {257a} to escape
being hauled to the ground, suddenly flung himself off the saddle, and then happened in that
lane, close by the gate, such a struggle between those two--the chal and the runner--as I suppose
will never happen again.  But you must have heard of it; every one has heard of it; every one
has heard of the fight between the Bow Street engro {257b} and the Rommany chal."

"I never heard of it till now."

"All England rung of it, brother.  There never was a better match than between those two. 
The runner was somewhat the stronger of the two--all these engroes are strong fellows--and
a great deal cooler, for all of that sort are wondrous cool people--he had, however, to do
with one who knew full well how to take his own part.  Sometimes he was beneath the engro's
legs, and sometimes he was upon his shoulders.  What the engro found the most difficult, was
to get a firm hold of the chal, for no sooner did he seize the chal by any part of his wearing
apparel, than the chal either tore himself away, or contrived to slip out of it; so that in
a little time the chal was three parts naked; and as for holding him by the body, it was out
of the question, for he was as slippery as an eel.  At last the engro seized the chal by the
Belcher's handkerchief, which he wore in a knot round his neck, and do whatever the chal could,
he could not free himself; and when the engro saw that, it gave him fresh heart, no doubt:
'It's of no use,' said he; 'you had better give in; hold out your hands for the darbies, or
I will throttle you.'"

"And what did the other fellow do, who came with the chal?" said I.

"I sat still on my horse, brother."

"You!" said I.  "Were you the man?"

"I was he, brother."

"And why did you not help your comrade?"

"I have fought in the ring, brother."

"And what had fighting in the ring to do with fighting in the lane?"

"You mean not fighting.  A great deal, brother; it taught me to prize fair play.  When I fought
Staffordshire Dick, t'other side of London, I was alone, brother.  Not a Rommany chal to back
me, and he had all his brother pals about him; but they gave me fair play, brother; and I beat
Staffordshire Dick, which I couldn't have done had they put one finger on his side the scale;
for he was as good a man as myself, or nearly so. Now, brother, had I but bent a finger in
favour of the Rommany chal, the plastramengro would never have come alive out of the lane;
but I did not, for I thought to myself fair play is a precious stone; so you see, brother--"

"That you are quite right, Mr. Petulengro, I see that clearly; and now, pray proceed with your
narration; it is both moral and entertaining."

But Mr. Petulengro did not proceed with his narration, neither did he proceed upon his way;
he had stopped his horse, and his eyes were intently fixed on a broad strip of grass beneath
some lofty trees, on the left side of the road.  It was a pleasant enough spot, and seemed
to invite wayfaring people, such as we were, to rest from the fatigues of the road, and the
heat and vehemence of the sun.  After examining it for a considerable time, Mr. Petulengro
said, "I say, brother, that would be a nice place for a tussle!"

"I dare say it would," said I, "if two people were inclined to fight."

"The ground is smooth," said Mr. Petulengro; "without holes or ruts, and the trees cast much
shade.  I don't think, brother, that we could find a better place," said Mr. Petulengro, springing
from his horse.

"But you and I don't want to fight!"

"Speak for yourself, brother," said Mr. Petulengro.  "However, I will tell you how the matter
stands.  Now, if I and my pal have a tussle, he gives me satisfaction; and, if he knocks my
eyes out, which I know you can't do, it makes no difference at all, he gives me satisfaction;
and he who says to the contrary, knows nothing of Gypsy law, and is a dinelo {259} into the
bargain."

"But we have no gloves!"

"Gloves!" said Mr. Petulengro, contemptuously, "gloves!  I tell you what, brother, I always
thought you were a better hand at the gloves than the naked fist; and, to tell you the truth,
besides taking satisfaction for Mrs. Herne's death, I wish to see what you can do with your
mawleys; {260} so now is your time, brother, and this is your place, grass and shade, no ruts
or holes; come on, brother, or I shall think you what I should not like to call you."

CHAPTER LXXXII

Offence and Defence--I'm Satisfied--Fond of Solitude--Possession of Property--Chal Devlehi--Winding
Path.  I was determined to make a horse-shoe, and a good one, in spite of every obstacle--ay,
in spite of dukkerin.  After having first well pared the hoofs with my churi, {270a} I applied
each petul hot, glowing hot, to the pindro.  What should I do? rouse up my forge and fashion
a horse- shoe? Have you with us, indeed! after what's past! no, nor nothing belonging to you.
Fetch down your mailla {294c} go-cart and live here with your chabo."

"I have nothing farther to say," said I, "than that the roots of Ararat are occasionally found
to be deeper than those of Rome." It is true, there was one fellow whom I once met, who . .
. but it is a long story, and the affair happened abroad."

"I neither like the word nor the sound," said Belle.  Of a master, etc.  Repeat--"

"Who is Mumbo Jumbo?" said I.

"Ah!" said the postillion, "I see there may be a thing or two I know better than yourself.
Mumbo Jumbo is a god of the black coast, to which people go for ivory and gold."

"Were you ever there?" I demanded.

"No," said the postillion, "but I heard plenty of Mumbo Jumbo when I was a boy."

"I wish you would tell us something about yourself.  I believe that your own real history would
prove quite as entertaining, if not more, than that which you imagined about us."

"I am rather tired," said the postillion, "and my leg is rather troublesome.  I should be glad
to try to sleep upon one of your blankets. However, as you wish to hear something about me,
I shall be happy to oblige you; but your fire is rather low, and this place is chilly."

Thereupon I arose, and put fresh charcoal on the pan; then taking it outside the tent, with
a kind of fan which I had fashioned, I fanned the coals into a red glow, and continued doing
so until the greater part of the noxious gas, which the coals are in the habit of exhaling,
was exhausted.  I then brought it into the tent and reseated myself, scattering over the coals
a small portion of sugar.  "No bad smell," said the postillion; "but upon the whole I think
I like the smell of tobacco better; and with your permission I will once more light my pipe."

Thereupon he relighted his pipe; and, after taking two or three whiffs, began in the following
manner.

CHAPTER XCVIII

An Exordium--Fine Ships--High Barbary Captains--Free-born Englishmen--Monstrous Figure--Swashbuckler--The
Grand Coaches--The Footmen--A Travelling Expedition--Black Jack--Nelson's Cannon--Pharaoh's
Butler--A Diligence--Two Passengers--Sharking Priest--Virgilio--Lessons in Italian--Two Opinions--Holy
Mary--Priestly Confederates--Methodist Chapel--Veturini--Some of Our Party--Like a Sepulchre--All
for Themselves.

"I am a poor postillion, as you see; yet, as I have seen a thing or two, and heard a thing
or two of what is going on in the world, perhaps what I have to tell you connected with myself
may not prove altogether uninteresting.  Now, my friends, this manner of opening a story is
what the man who taught rhetoric would call a hex--hex--"

"Exordium," said I.

"Just so," said the postillion; "I treated you to a per--per--peroration some time ago, so
that I have contrived to put the cart before the horse, as the Irish orators frequently do
in the honourable House, in whose speeches, especially those who have taken lessons in rhetoric,
the per--per--what's the word?--frequently goes before the exordium.

"I was born in the neighbouring county; my father was land-steward to a squire of about a thousand
a year.  My father had two sons, of whom I am the youngest by some years.  My elder brother
was of a spirited, roving disposition, and for fear that he should turn out what is generally
termed ungain, my father determined to send him to sea: so once upon a time, when my brother
was about fifteen, he took him to the great sea- port of the county, where he apprenticed him
to a captain of one of the ships which trade to the high Barbary coast.  Fine ships they were,
I have heard say, more than thirty in number, and all belonging to a wonderful great gentleman,
who had once been a parish boy, but had contrived to make an immense fortune by trading to
that coast for gold- dust, ivory, and other strange articles; and for doing so, I mean for
making a fortune, had been made a knight baronet.  So my brother went to the high Barbary shore,
on board the fine vessel, and in about a year returned and came to visit us; he repeated the
voyage several times, always coming to see his parents on his return.  Strange stories he used
to tell us of what he had been witness to on the high Barbary coast, both off shore and on.
He said that the fine vessel in which he sailed was nothing better than a painted hell; that
the captain was a veritable fiend, whose grand delight was in tormenting his men, especially
when they were sick, as they frequently were, there being always fever on the high Barbary
coast; and that though the captain was occasionally sick himself, his being so made no difference,
or rather it did make a difference, though for the worse, he being when sick always more inveterate
and malignant than at other times.  He said that once, when he himself was sick, his captain
had pitched his face all over, which exploit was much applauded by the other high Barbary captains--all
of whom, from what my brother said, appeared to be of much the same disposition as my brother's
captain, taking wonderful delight in tormenting the crews, and doing all manner of terrible
things.  My brother frequently said that nothing whatever prevented him from running away from
his ship, and never returning, but the hope he entertained of one day being captain himself,
and able to torment people in his turn, which he solemnly vowed he would do, as a kind of compensation
for what he himself had undergone.  And if things were going on in a strange way off the high
Barbary shore amongst those who came there to trade, they were going on in a way yet stranger
with the people who lived upon it.

"Oh, the strange ways of the black men who lived on that shore, of which my brother used to
tell us at home!--selling their sons, daughters, and servants for slaves, and the prisoners
taken in battle, to the Spanish captains, to be carried to Havannah, and when there, sold at
a profit, the idea of which, my brother said, went to the hearts of our own captains, who used
to say what a hard thing it was that free-born Englishmen could not have a hand in the traffic,
seeing that it was forbidden by the laws of their country; talking fondly of the good old times
when their forefathers used to carry slaves to Jamaica and Barbadoes, realising immense profit,
besides the pleasure of hearing their shrieks on the voyage; and then the superstitions of
the blacks, which my brother used to talk of; their sharks' teeth, their wisps of fowls' feathers,
their half-baked pots full of burnt bones, of which they used to make what they called fetish,
and bow down to, and ask favours of, and then, perhaps, abuse and strike, provided the senseless
rubbish did not give them what they asked for; and then, above all, Mumbo Jumbo, the grand
fetish master, who lived somewhere in the woods, and who used to come out every now and then
with his fetish companions; a monstrous figure, all wound round with leaves and branches, so
as to be quite indistinguishable, and, seating himself on the high seat in the villages, receive
homage from the people, and also gifts and offerings, the most valuable of which were pretty
damsels, and then betake himself back again, with his followers, into the woods.  Oh, the tales
that my brother used to tell us of the high Barbary shore!  Poor fellow! what became of him
I can't say; the last time he came back from a voyage, he told us that his captain, as soon
as he had brought his vessel to port and settled with his owner, drowned himself off the quay,
in a fit of the horrors, which it seems high Barbary captains, after a certain number of years,
are much subject to.  After staying about a month with us, he went to sea again, with another
captain; and, bad as the old one had been, it appears the new one was worse, for, unable to
bear his treatment, my brother left his ship off the high Barbary shore, and ran away up the
country.  Some of his comrades, whom we afterwards saw, said that there were various reports
about him on the shore; one that he had taken on with Mumbo Jumbo, and was serving him in his
house in the woods, in the capacity of swashbuckler, or life-guardsman; another, that he was
gone in quest of a mighty city in the heart of the negro country; another, that in swimming
a stream he had been devoured by an alligator.  Now, these two last reports were bad enough;
the idea of their flesh and blood being bit asunder by a ravenous fish, was sad enough to my
poor parents; and not very comfortable was the thought of his sweltering over the hot sands
in quest of the negro city; but the idea of their son, their eldest child, serving Mumbo Jumbo
as swashbuckler, was worst of all, and caused my poor parents to shed many a scalding tear.

"I stayed at home with my parents until I was about eighteen, assisting my father in various
ways.  I then went to live at the squire's, partly as groom, partly as footman.  After living
in the country some time, I attended the family in a trip of six weeks, which they made to
London. Whilst there, happening to have some words with an old ill-tempered coachman, who had
been for a great many years in the family, my master advised me to leave, offering to recommend
me to a family of his acquaintance who were in need of a footman.  I was glad to accept his
offer, and in a few days went to my new place.  My new master was one of the great gentry,
a baronet in Parliament, and possessed of an estate of about twenty thousand a year; his family
consisted of his lady, a son, a fine young man, just coming of age, and two very sweet amiable
daughters. I liked this place much better than my first, there was so much more pleasant noise
and bustle--so much more grand company, and so many more opportunities of improving myself.
Oh, how I liked to see the grand coaches drive up to the door, with the grand company! and
though, amidst that company, there were some who did not look very grand, there were others,
and not a few, who did.  Some of the ladies quite captivated me; there was the Marchioness
of in particular.  This young lady puts me much in mind of her; it is true, the Marchioness,
as I saw her then, was about fifteen years older than this young gentlewoman is now, and not
so tall by some inches, but she had the very same hair, and much the same neck and shoulders--no
offence, I hope?  And then some of the young gentlemen, with their cool, haughty, care-for-nothing
looks, struck me as being very fine fellows.  There was one in particular, whom I frequently
used to stare at, not altogether unlike some one I have seen hereabouts--he had a slight cast
in his eye, and . . . but I won't enter into every particular.  And then the footmen!  Oh,
how those footmen helped to improve me with their conversation!  Many of them could converse
much more glibly than their masters, and appeared to have much better taste. At any rate, they
seldom approved of what their masters did.  I remember being once with one in the gallery of
the play-house, when something of Shakespeare's was being performed: some one in the first
tier of boxes was applauding very loudly.  'That's my fool of a governor,' said he; 'he is
weak enough to like Shakespeare--I don't;--he's so confoundedly low, but he won't last long--going
down.  Shakespeare culminated--I think that was the word--culminated some time ago.'

"And then the professor of elocution, of whom my governors used to take lessons, and of which
lessons I had my share, by listening behind the door; but for that professor of elocution I
should not be able to round my periods--an expression of his--in the manner I do.

"After I had been three years at this place, my mistress died.  Her death, however, made no
great alteration in my way of living, the family spending their winters in London, and their
summers at their old seat in S--- as before.  At last, the young ladies, who had not yet got
husbands, which was strange enough, seeing, as I told you before, they were very amiable, proposed
to our governor a travelling expedition abroad.  The old baronet consented, though young master
was much against it, saying they would all be much better at home.  As the girls persisted,
however, he at last withdrew his opposition, and even promised to follow them as soon as his
parliamentary duties would permit; for he was just got into Parliament, and, like most other
young members, thought that nothing could be done in the House without him.  So the old gentleman
and the two young ladies set off, taking me with them, and a couple of ladies' maids to wait
upon them.  First of all, we went to Paris, where we continued three months, the old baronet
and the ladies going to see the various sights of the city and the neighbourhood, and I attending
them.  They soon got tired of sightseeing, and of Paris too; and so did I.  However, they still
continued there, in order, I believe, that the young ladies might lay in a store of French
finery.  I should have passed my idle time at Paris, of which I had plenty after the sight-seeing
was over, very unpleasantly, but for Black Jack.  Eh! did you never hear of Black Jack? Ah!
if you had ever been an English servant in Paris, you would have known Black Jack; not an English
gentleman's servant who has been at Paris for this last ten years but knows Black Jack and
his ordinary.  A strange fellow he was--of what country no one could exactly say--for as for
judging from speech, that was impossible, Jack speaking all languages equally ill.  Some said
he came direct from Satan's kitchen, and that when he gives up keeping ordinary, he will return
there again, though the generally-received opinion at Paris was, that he was at one time butler
to King Pharaoh; and that, after lying asleep for four thousand years in a place called the
Kattycombs, he was awaked by the sound of Nelson's cannon at the battle of the Nile, and going
to the shore, took on with the admiral, and became, in course of time, ship steward; and that
after Nelson's death he was captured by the French, on board one of whose vessels he served
in a somewhat similar capacity till the peace, when he came to Paris, and set up an ordinary
for servants, sticking the name of Katcomb over the door, in allusion to the place where he
had his long sleep.  But, whatever his origin was, Jack kept his own counsel, and appeared
to care nothing for what people said about him, or called him. Yes, I forgot, there was one
name he would not be called, and that was 'Portuguese.'  I once saw Black Jack knock down a
coachman, six foot high, who called him black-faced Portuguese.  'Any name but dat, you shab,'
said Black Jack, who was a little round fellow, of about five feet two; 'I would not stand
to be called Portuguese by Nelson himself.'  Jack was rather fond of talking about Nelson,
and hearing people talk about him, so that it is not improbable that he may have sailed with
him; and with respect to his having been King Pharaoh's butler, all I have to say is, I am
not disposed to give the downright lie to the report.  Jack was always ready to do a kind turn
to a poor servant out of place, and has often been known to assist such as were in prison,
which charitable disposition he perhaps acquired from having lost a good place himself, having
seen the inside of a prison, and known the want of a meal's victuals, all which trials King
Pharaoh's butler underwent, so he may have been that butler; at any rate, I have known positive
conclusions come to on no better premises, if indeed as good.  As for the story of his coming
direct from Satan's kitchen, I place no confidence in it at all, as Black Jack had nothing
of Satan about him but blackness, on which account he was called Black Jack.  Nor am I disposed
to give credit to a report that his hatred of the Portuguese arose from some ill treatment
which he had once experienced when on shore, at Lisbon, from certain gentlewomen of the place,
but rather conclude that it arose from an opinion he entertained that the Portuguese never
paid their debts, one of the ambassadors of that nation, whose house he had served, having
left Paris several thousand francs in his debt.  This is all that I have to say about Black
Jack, without whose funny jokes, and good ordinary, I should have passed my time in Paris in
a very disconsolate manner.

"After we had been at Paris between two and three months, we left it in the direction of Italy,
which country the family had a great desire to see.  After travelling a great many days in
a thing which, though called a diligence, did not exhibit much diligence, we came to a great
big town, seated around a nasty salt-water bason, connected by a narrow passage with the sea.
Here we were to embark; and so we did as soon as possible, glad enough to get away--at least
I was, and so I make no doubt were the rest, for such a place for bad smells I never was in.
It seems all the drains and sewers of the place run into that same salt bason, voiding into
it all their impurities, which, not being able to escape into the sea in any considerable quantity,
owing to the narrowness of the entrance, there accumulate, filling the whole atmosphere with
these same outrageous scents, on which account the town is a famous lodging-house of the plague.
The ship in which we embarked was bound for a place in Italy called Naples, where we were to
stay some time.  The voyage was rather a lazy one, the ship not being moved by steam; for at
the time of which I am speaking, some five years ago, steam-ships were not so plentiful as
now.  There were only two passengers in the grand cabin, where my governor and his daughters
were, an Italian lady and a priest.  Of the lady I have not much to say; she appeared to be
a quiet, respectable person enough, and after our arrival at Naples I neither saw nor heard
anything more of her; but of the priest I shall have a good deal to say in the sequel (that,
by the bye, is a word I learnt from the professor of rhetoric), and it would have been well
for our family had they never met him.

"On the third day of the voyage the priest came to me, who was rather unwell with seasickness,
which he, of course, felt nothing of--that kind of people being never affected like others.
He was a finish-looking man of about forty-five, but had something strange in his eyes, which
I have since thought denoted that all was not right in a certain place called the heart.  After
a few words of condolence, in a broken kind of English, he asked me various questions about
our family; and I, won by his seeming kindness, told him all I knew about them--of which communicativeness
I afterwards very much repented.  As soon as he had got out of me all he desired, he left me;
and I observed that during the rest of the voyage he was wonderfully attentive to our governor,
and yet more to the young ladies.  Both, however, kept him rather at a distance; the young
ladies were reserved, and once or twice I heard our governor cursing him between his teeth
for a sharking priest.  The priest, however, was not disconcerted, and continued his attentions,
which in a little time produced an effect, so that, by the time we landed at Naples, our great
folks had conceived a kind of liking for the man, and when they took their leave invited him
to visit them, which he promised to do.  We hired a grand house or palace at Naples; it belonged
to a poor kind of prince, who was glad enough to let it to our governor, and also his servants
and carriages; and glad enough were the poor servants, for they got from us what they never
got from the prince--plenty of meat and money; and glad enough, I make no doubt, were the horses
for the provender we gave them; and I dare say the coaches were not sorry to be cleaned and
furbished up. Well, we went out and came in; going to see the sights, and returning. Amongst
other things we saw was the burning mountain, and the tomb of a certain sorcerer called Virgilio,
who made witch rhymes, by which he could raise the dead.  Plenty of people came to see us,
both English and Italians, and amongst the rest the priest.  He did not come amongst the first,
but allowed us to settle and become a little quiet before he showed himself; and after a day
or two he paid us another visit, then another, till at last his visits were daily.

"I did not like that Jack Priest; so I kept my eye upon all his motions. Lord! how that Jack
Priest did curry favour with our governor and the two young ladies; and he curried, and curried,
till he had got himself into favour with the governor, and more especially with the two young
ladies, of whom their father was doatingly fond.  At last the ladies took lessons in Italian
of the priest, a language in which he was said to be a grand proficient, and of which they
had hitherto known but very little; and from that time his influence over them, and consequently
over the old governor, increased, till the tables were turned, and he no longer curried favour
with them, but they with him--yes, as true as my leg aches, the young ladies curried, and the
old governor curried favour with that same priest; when he was with them, they seemed almost
to hang on his lips, that is, the young ladies; and as for the old governor, he never contradicted
him, and when the fellow was absent, which, by the bye, was not often, it was, 'Father so-and-so
said this, and Father so- and-so said that; Father so-and-so thinks we should do so-and-so,
or that we should not do so-and-so.'  I at first thought that he must have given them something,
some philtre or the like; but one of the English maid- servants, who had a kind of respect
for me, and who saw much more behind the scenes than I did, informed me that he was continually
instilling strange notions into their heads, striving, by every possible method, to make them
despise the religion of their own land, and take up that of the foreign country in which they
were.  And sure enough, in a little time, the girls had altogether left off going to an English
chapel, and were continually visiting places of Italian worship.  The old governor, it is true,
still went to his church, but he appeared to be hesitating between two opinions; and once,
when he was at dinner, he said to two or three English friends, that since he had become better
acquainted with it, he had conceived a much more favourable opinion of the Catholic religion
than he had previously entertained.  In a word, the priest ruled the house, and everything
was done according to his will and pleasure; by degrees he persuaded the young ladies to drop
their English acquaintances, whose place he supplied with Italians, chiefly females.  My poor
old governor would not have had a person to speak to--for he never could learn the language--but
for two or three Englishmen who used to come occasionally and take a bottle with him in a summer-house,
whose company he could not be persuaded to resign, notwithstanding the entreaties of his daughters,
instigated by the priest, whose grand endeavour seemed to be to render the minds of all three
foolish, for his own ends.  And if he was busy above stairs with the governor, there was another
busy below with us poor English servants, a kind of subordinate priest, a low Italian; as he
could speak no language but his own, he was continually jabbering to us in that, and by hearing
him the maids and myself contrived to pick up a good deal of the language, so that we understood
most that was said, and could speak it very fairly; and the themes of his jabber were the beauty
and virtues of one whom he called Holy Mary, and the power and grandeur of one whom he called
the Holy Father; and he told us that we should shortly have an opportunity of seeing the Holy
Father, who could do anything he liked with Holy Mary: in the meantime we had plenty of opportunities
of seeing Holy Mary, for in every church, chapel, and convent to which we were taken, there
was an image of Holy Mary, who, if the images were dressed at all in her fashion, must have
been very fond of short petticoats and tinsel, and who, if those said figures at all resembled
her in face, could scarcely have been half as handsome as either of my two fellow-servants,
not to speak of the young ladies.

"Now it happened that one of the female servants was much taken with what she saw and heard,
and gave herself up entirely to the will of the subordinate, who had quite as much dominion
over her as his superior had over the ladies; the other maid, however, the one who had a kind
of respect for me, was not so easily besotted; she used to laugh at what she saw, and at what
the fellow told her, and from her I learnt that amongst other things intended by these priestly
confederates was robbery; she said that the poor old governor had already been persuaded by
his daughters to put more than a thousand pounds into the superior priest's hands for purposes
of charity and religion, as was said, and that the subordinate one had already inveigled her
fellow-servant out of every penny which she had saved from her wages, and had endeavoured likewise
to obtain what money she herself had, but in vain.  With respect to myself, the fellow shortly
after made an attempt towards obtaining a hundred crowns, of which, by some means, he knew
me to be in possession, telling me what a meritorious thing it was to give one's superfluities
for the purposes of religion.  'That is true,' said I, 'and if, after my return to my native
country, I find I have anything which I don't want myself, I will employ it in helping to build
a Methodist chapel.'

"By the time that the three months were expired for which we had hired the palace of the needy
Prince, the old governor began to talk of returning to England, at least of leaving Italy.
I believe he had become frightened at the calls which were continually being made upon him
for money; for after all, you know, if there is a sensitive part of a man's wearing apparel,
it is his breeches pocket; but the young ladies could not think of leaving dear Italy and the
dear priest; and then they had seen nothing of the country, they had only seen Naples; before
leaving dear Italia they must see more of the country and the cities; above all, they must
see a place which they called the Eternal City, or some similar nonsensical name; and they
persisted so that the poor governor permitted them, as usual, to have their way; and it was
decided what route they should take--that is, the priest was kind enough to decide for them,
and was also kind enough to promise to go with them part of the route, as far as a place where
there was a wonderful figure of Holy Mary, which the priest said it was highly necessary for
them to see before visiting the Eternal City: so we left Naples in hired carriages, driven
by fellows they call veturini, cheating drunken dogs I remember they were.  Besides our own
family there was the priest and his subordinate, and a couple of hired lackeys.  We were several
days upon the journey, travelling through a very wild country, which the ladies pretended to
be delighted with, and which the governor cursed on account of the badness of the roads; and
when we came to any particularly wild spot we used to stop, in order to enjoy the scenery,
as the ladies said; and then we would spread a horse- cloth on the ground, and eat bread and
cheese, and drink wine of the country.  And some of the holes and corners in which we bivouacked,
as the ladies called it, were something like this place where we are now, so that when I came
down here it put me in mind of them.  At last we arrived at the place where was the holy image.

"We went to the house or chapel in which the holy image was kept--a frightful ugly black figure
of Holy Mary, dressed in her usual way; and after we had stared at the figure, and some of
our party had bowed down to it, we were shown a great many things which were called holy relics,
which consisted of thumb-nails, and fore-nails, and toe-nails, and hair and teeth, and a feather
or two, and a mighty thigh-bone, but whether of a man or a camel, I can't say; all of which
things, I was told, if properly touched and handled, had mighty power to cure all kinds of
disorders.  And as we went from the holy house, we saw a man in a state of great excitement:
he was foaming at the mouth, and cursing the holy image and all its household, because, after
he had worshipped it and made offerings to it, and besought it to assist him in a game of chance
which he was about to play, it had left him in the lurch, allowing him to lose all his money.
And when I thought of all the rubbish I had seen, and the purposes which it was applied to,
in conjunction with the rage of the losing gamester at the deaf and dumb image, I could not
help comparing the whole with what my poor brother used to tell me of the superstitious practices
of the blacks on the high Barbary shore, and their occasional rage and fury at the things they
worshipped; and I said to myself, if all this here doesn't smell of fetish may I smell fetid.

"At this place the priest left us, returning to Naples with his subordinate, on some particular
business I suppose.  It was, however, agreed that he should visit us at the Holy City.  We
did not go direct to the Holy City, but bent our course to two or three other cities which
the family were desirous of seeing; but as nothing occurred to us in these places of any particular
interest, I shall take the liberty of passing them by in silence.  At length we arrived at
the Eternal City: an immense city it was, looking as if it had stood for a long time, and would
stand for a long time still; compared with it, London would look like a mere assemblage of
bee-skeps; however, give me the bee-skeps with their merry hum and bustle, and life and honey,
rather than that huge town, which looked like a sepulchre, where there was no life, no busy
hum, no bees, but a scanty sallow population, intermixed with black priests, white priests,
grey priests; and though I don't say there was no honey in the place, for I believe there was,
I am ready to take my Bible oath that it was not made there, and that the priests kept it all
for themselves."

CHAPTER XCIX

A Cloister--Half English--New Acquaintance--Mixed Liquors--Turning Papist--Purposes of Charity--Foreign
Religion--Melancholy--Elbowing and Pushing--Outlandish Sight--The Figure--I Don't Care for
You--Merry Andrews--One Good--Religion of My Country--Fellow of Spirit--A Dispute--The Next
Morning--Female Doll--Proper Dignity--Fetish Country.

"The day after our arrival," continued the postillion, "I was sent, under the guidance of a
lackey of the place, with a letter, which the priest, when he left, had given us for a friend
of his in the Eternal City.  We went to a large house, and on ringing were admitted by a porter
into a cloister, where I saw some ill-looking, shabby young fellows walking about, who spoke
English to one another.  To one of these the porter delivered the letter, and the young fellow
going away, presently returned and told me to follow him; he led me into a large room, where,
behind a table, on which were various papers, and a thing which they call, in that country,
a crucifix, sat a man in a kind of priestly dress.  The lad having opened the door for me,
shut it behind me, and went away.  The man behind the table was so engaged in reading the letter
which I had brought, that at first he took no notice of me; he had red hair, a kind of half-English
countenance, and was seemingly about five-and-thirty. After a little time he laid the letter
down, appeared to consider a moment, and then opened his mouth with a strange laugh, not a
loud laugh, for I heard nothing but a kind of hissing deep down the throat; all of a sudden,
however, perceiving me, he gave a slight start, but instantly recovering himself, he inquired
in English concerning the health of the family, and where we lived: on my delivering him a
card, he bade me inform my master and the ladies that in the course of the day he would do
himself the honour of waiting upon them.  He then arose and opened the door for me to depart."
The man was perfectly civil and courteous, but I did not like that strange laugh of his, after
having read the letter.  He was as good as his word, and that same day paid us a visit.  It
was now arranged that we should pass the winter in Rome--to my great annoyance, for I wished
to return to my native land, being heartily tired of everything connected with Italy.  I was
not, however, without hope that our young master would shortly arrive, when I trusted that
matters, as far as the family were concerned, would be put on a better footing.  In a few days
our new acquaintance, who, it seems, was a mongrel Englishman, had procured a house for our
accommodation; it was large enough, but not near so pleasant as that we had at Naples, which
was light and airy, with a large garden.  This was a dark, gloomy structure in a narrow street,
with a frowning church beside it; it was not far from the place where our new friend lived,
and its being so was probably the reason why he selected it.  It was furnished partly with
articles which we bought, and partly with those which we hired.  We lived something in the
same way as at Naples; but though I did not much like Naples, I yet liked it better than this
place, which was so gloomy.  Our new acquaintance made himself as agreeable as he could, conducting
the ladies to churches and convents, and frequently passing the afternoon drinking with the
governor, who was fond of a glass of brandy and water and a cigar, as the new acquaintance
also was--no, I remember, he was fond of gin and water, and did not smoke.  I don't think he
had so much influence over the young ladies as the other priest, which was, perhaps, owing
to his not being so good-looking; but I am sure he had more influence with the governor, owing,
doubtless, to his bearing him company in drinking mixed liquors, which the other priest did not do.

"He was a strange fellow, that same new acquaintance of ours, and unlike all the priests I
saw in that country, and I saw plenty of various nations:--they were always upon their guard,
and had their features and voice modulated; but this man was subject to fits of absence, during
which he would frequently mutter to himself; then, though he was perfectly civil to everybody,
as far as words went, I observed that he entertained a thorough contempt for most people, especially
for those whom he was making dupes.  I have observed him whilst drinking with our governor,
when the old man's head was turned, look at him with an air which seemed to say, 'What a thundering
old fool you are!' and at our young ladies, when their backs were turned, with a glance which
said distinctly enough, 'You precious pair of ninny-hammers!' and then his laugh--he had two
kinds of laughs--one which you could hear, and another which you could only see.  I have seen
him laugh at our governor and the young ladies, when their heads were turned away, but I heard
no sound.  My mother had a sandy cat, which sometimes used to open its mouth wide with a mew
which nobody could hear, and the silent laugh of that red-haired priest used to put me wonderfully
in mind of the silent mew of my mother's sandy-red cat.  And then the other laugh, which you
could hear; what a strange laugh that was, never loud, yes, I have heard it tolerably loud.
He once passed near me, after having taken leave of a silly English fellow--a limping parson
of the name of Platitude, who, they said, was thinking of turning Papist, and was much in his
company; I was standing behind the pillar of a piazza, and as he passed he was laughing heartily.
Oh, he was a strange fellow, that same red-haired acquaintance of ours!

"After we had been at Rome about six weeks, our old friend the priest of Naples arrived, but
without his subordinate, for whose services he now perhaps thought that he had no occasion.
I believe he found matters in our family wearing almost as favourable an aspect as he could
desire: with what he had previously taught them and shown them at Naples and elsewhere, and
with what the red-haired confederate had taught them and shown them at Rome, the poor young
ladies had become quite hand-maids of superstition, so that they, especially the youngest,
were prepared to bow down to anything, and kiss anything, however vile and ugly, provided a
priest commanded them; and as for the old governor, what with the influence which his daughters
exerted, and what with the ascendency which the red-haired man had obtained over him, he dared
not say his purse, far less his soul, was his own.  Only think of an Englishman not being master
of his own purse!  My acquaintance, the lady's maid, assured me that, to her certain knowledge,
he had disbursed to the red-haired man, for purposes of charity, as it was said, at least one
thousand pounds during the five weeks we had been at Rome.  She also told me that things would
shortly be brought to a conclusion--and so indeed they were, though in a different manner from
what she and I and some other people imagined; that there was to be a grand festival, and a
mass, at which we were to be present, after which the family were to be presented to the Holy
Father, for so those two priestly sharks had managed it; and then . . . she said she was certain
that the two ladies, and perhaps the old governor, would forsake the religion of their native
land, taking up with that of these foreign regions, for so my fellow-servant expressed it,
and that perhaps attempts might be made to induce us poor English servants to take up with
the foreign religion, that is herself and me, for as for our fellow-servant, the other maid,
she wanted no inducing, being disposed body and soul to go over to it.  Whereupon, I swore
with an oath that nothing should induce me to take up with the foreign religion; and the poor
maid, my fellow-servant, bursting into tears, said that for her part she would sooner die than
have anything to do with it; thereupon we shook hands and agreed to stand by and countenance
one another: and moreover, provided our governors were fools enough to go over to the religion
of these here foreigners, we would not wait to be asked to do the like, but leave them at once,
and make the best of our way home, even if we were forced to beg on the road.

"At last the day of the grand festival came, and we were all to go to the big church to hear
the mass.  Now it happened that for some time past I had been much afflicted with melancholy,
especially when I got up of a morning, produced by the strange manner in which I saw things
going on in our family; and to dispel it in some degree, I had been in the habit of taking
a dram before breakfast.  On the morning in question, feeling particularly low-spirited when
I thought of the foolish step our governor would probably take before evening, I took two drams
before breakfast; and after breakfast, feeling my melancholy still continuing, I took another,
which produced a slight effect upon my head, though I am convinced nobody observed it.

"Away we drove to the big church; it was a dark, misty day, I remember, and very cold, so that
if anybody had noticed my being slightly in liquor, I could have excused myself by saying that
I had merely taken a glass to fortify my constitution against the weather; and of one thing
I am certain, which is, that such an excuse would have stood me in stead with our governor,
who looked, I thought, as if he had taken one too; but I may be mistaken, and why should I
notice him, seeing that he took no notice of me: so away we drove to the big church, to which
all the population of the place appeared to be moving.

"On arriving there we dismounted, and the two priests, who were with us, led the family in,
whilst I followed at a little distance, but quickly lost them amidst the throng of people.
I made my way, however, though in what direction I knew not, except it was one in which everybody
seemed striving, and by dint of elbowing and pushing I at last got to a place which looked
like the aisle of a cathedral, where the people stood in two rows, a space between being kept
open by certain strangely-dressed men who moved up and down with rods in their hands; all were
looking to the upper end of this place or aisle; and at the upper end, separated from the people
by palings like those of an altar, sat in magnificent-looking stalls, on the right and the
left, various wonderful-looking individuals in scarlet dresses.  At the farther end was what
appeared to be an altar, on the left hand was a pulpit, and on the right a stall higher than
any of the rest, where was a figure whom I could scarcely see.

"I can't pretend to describe what I saw exactly, for my head, which was at first rather flurried,
had become more so from the efforts which I had made to get through the crowd; also from certain
singing, which proceeded from I know not where; and, above all, from the bursts of an organ,
which were occasionally so loud that I thought the roof, which was painted with wondrous colours,
would come toppling down on those below.  So there stood I--a poor English servant--in that
outlandish place, in the midst of that foreign crowd, looking at that outlandish sight, hearing
those outlandish sounds, and occasionally glancing at our party, which, by this time, I distinguished
at the opposite side to where I stood, but much nearer the place where the red figures sat.
Yes, there stood our poor governor, and the sweet young ladies, and I thought they never looked
so handsome before; and close by them were the sharking priests, and not far from them was
that idiotical parson Platitude, winking and grinning, and occasionally lifting up his hands
as if in ecstasy at what he saw and heard, so that he drew upon himself the notice of the congregation.

"And now an individual mounted the pulpit, and began to preach in a language which I did not
understand, but which I believe to be Latin, addressing himself seemingly to the figure in
the stall; and when he had ceased, there was more singing, more organ-playing, and then two
men in robes brought forth two things which they held up; and then the people bowed their heads,
and our poor governor bowed his head, and the sweet young ladies bowed their heads, and the
sharking priests, whilst the idiotical parson Platitude tried to fling himself down; and then
there were various evolutions withinside the pale, and the scarlet figures got up and sat down;
and this kind of thing continued for some time.  At length the figure which I had seen in the
principal stall came forth and advanced towards the people; an awful figure he was, a huge
old man with a sugar-loaf hat, with a sulphur-coloured dress, and holding a crook in his hand
like that of a shepherd; and as he advanced the people fell on their knees, our poor old governor
amongst them; the sweet young ladies, the sharking priests, the idiotical parson Platitude,
all fell on their knees, and somebody or other tried to pull me on my knees; but by this time
I had become outrageous; all that my poor brother used to tell me of the superstitions of the
high Barbary shore rushed into my mind, and I thought they were acting them over here; above
all, the idea that the sweet young ladies, to say nothing of my poor old governor, were, after
the conclusion of all this mummery, going to deliver themselves up body and soul into the power
of that horrid-looking old man, maddened me, and, rushing forward into the open space, I confronted
the horrible-looking old figure with the sugar-loaf hat, the sulphur-coloured garments, and
shepherd's crook, and shaking my fist at his nose, I bellowed out in English--

"'I don't care for you, old Mumbo Jumbo, though you have fetish!'

"I can scarcely tell you what occurred for some time.  I have a dim recollection that hands
were laid upon me, and that I struck out violently left and right.  On coming to myself, I
was seated on a stone bench in a large room, something like a guard-room, in the custody of
certain fellows dressed like Merry Andrews; they were bluff, good-looking, wholesome fellows,
very different from the sallow Italians; they were looking at me attentively, and occasionally
talking to each other in a language which sounded very like the cracking of walnuts in the
mouth, very different from cooing Italian.  At last one of them asked me in Italian what had
ailed me, to which I replied, in an incoherent manner, something about Mumbo Jumbo; whereupon
the fellow, one of the bluffest of the lot, a jovial, rosy-faced rascal, lifted up his right
hand, placing it in such a manner that the lips were between the forefinger and thumb, then
lifting up his right foot and drawing back his head, he sucked in his breath with a hissing
sound, as if to imitate one drinking a hearty draught, and then slapped me on the shoulder,
saying something which sounded like goot wine, goot companion, whereupon they all laughed,
exclaiming, ya, ya, goot companion.  And now hurried into the room our poor old governor, with
the red-haired priest.  The first asked what could have induced me to behave in such a manner
in such a place, to which I replied that I was not going to bow down to Mumbo Jumbo, whatever
other people might do.  Whereupon my master said he believed I was mad, and the priest said
he believed I was drunk; to which I answered that I was neither so mad nor drunk but I could
distinguish how the wind lay.  Whereupon they left me, and in a little time I was told by the
bluff-looking Merry Andrews I was at liberty to depart.  I believe the priest, in order to
please my governor, interceded for me in high quarters.

"But one good resulted from this affair; there was no presentation of our family to the Holy
Father, for old Mumbo was so frightened by my outrageous looks that he was laid up for a week,
as I was afterwards informed.

"I went home, and had scarcely been there half an hour when I was sent for by the governor,
who again referred to the scene in church, said that he could not tolerate such scandalous
behaviour, and that unless I promised to be more circumspect in future he should be compelled
to discharge me.  I said that if he was scandalised at my behaviour in the church, I was more
scandalised at all I saw going on in the family, which was governed by two rascally priests,
who, not content with plundering him, appeared bent on hurrying the souls of us all to destruction;
and that with respect to discharging me, he could do so that moment, as I wished to go.  I
believe his own reason told him that I was right, for he made no direct answer, but, after
looking on the ground for some time, he told me to leave him.  As he did not tell me to leave
the house, I went to my room, intending to lie down for an hour or two; but scarcely was I
there when the door opened, and in came the red-haired priest.  He showed himself, as he always
did, perfectly civil, asked me how I was, took a chair and sat down.  After a hem or two he
entered into a long conversation on the excellence of what he called the Catholic religion;
told me that he hoped I would not set myself against the light, and likewise against my interest;
for that the family were about to embrace the Catholic religion, and would make it worth my
while to follow their example.  I told him that the family might do what they pleased, but
that I would never forsake the religion of my country for any consideration whatever; that
I was nothing but a poor servant, but I was not to be bought by base gold.  'I admire your
honourable feelings,' said he; 'you shall have no gold; and as I see you are a fellow of spirit,
and do not like being a servant, for which I commend you, I can promise you something better.
I have a good deal of influence in this place, and if you will not set your face against the
light, but embrace the Catholic religion, I will undertake to make your fortune.  You remember
those fine fellows to-day who took you into custody? they are the guards of his Holiness. 
I have no doubt that I have interest enough to procure your enrolment amongst them.'  'What,'
said I, 'become swash-buckler to Mumbo Jumbo up here!  May I--'--and here I swore--'if I do.
The mere possibility of one of their children being swash-buckler to Mumbo Jumbo on the high
Barbary shore has always been a source of heart-breaking to my poor parents.  What, then, would
they not undergo, if they knew for certain that their other child was swash-buckler to Mumbo
Jumbo up here?' Thereupon he asked me, even as you did some time ago, what I meant by Mumbo
Jumbo?  And I told him all I had heard about the Mumbo Jumbo of the high Barbary shore; telling
him that I had no doubt that the old fellow up here was his brother, or nearly related to him.
The man with the red hair listened with the greatest attention to all I said, and when I had
concluded, he got up, nodded to me, and moved to the door; ere he reached the door I saw his
shoulders shaking, and as he closed it behind him I heard him distinctly laughing, to the tune
of--he! he! he!

"But now matters began to mend.  That same evening my young master unexpectedly arrived.  I
believe he soon perceived that something extraordinary had been going on in the family.  He
was for some time closeted with the governor, with whom, I believe, he had a dispute; for my
fellow-servant, the lady's maid, informed me that she heard high words.

"Rather late at night the young gentleman sent for me into his room, and asked me various questions
with respect to what had been going on, and my behaviour in the church, of which he had heard
something.  I told him all I knew with respect to the intrigues of the two priests in the family,
and gave him a circumstantial account of all that had occurred in the church; adding that,
under similar circumstances, I was ready to play the same part over again.  Instead of blaming
me, he commended my behaviour, told me I was a fine fellow, and said he hoped that, if he wanted
my assistance, I would stand by him: this I promised to do.  Before I left him, he entreated
me to inform him the very next time I saw the priests entering the house.

"The next morning, as I was in the court-yard, where I had placed myself to watch, I saw the
two enter and make their way up a private stair to the young ladies' apartment; they were attended
by a man dressed something like a priest, who bore a large box; I instantly ran to relate what
I had seen to my young master.  I found him shaving.  'I will just finish what I am about,'
said he, 'and then wait upon these gentlemen.' He finished what he was about with great deliberation;
then taking a horsewhip, and bidding me follow him, he proceeded at once to the door of his
sisters' apartment: finding it fastened, he burst it open at once with his foot and entered,
followed by myself.  There we beheld the two unfortunate young ladies down on their knees before
a large female doll, dressed up, as usual, in rags and tinsel; the two priests were standing
near, one on either side, with their hands uplifted, whilst the fellow who brought the trumpery
stood a little way down the private stair, the door of which stood open; without a moment's
hesitation, my young master rushed forward, gave the image a cut or two with his horsewhip--then
flying at the priests, he gave them a sound flogging, kicked them down the private stair, and
spurned the man, box and image after them--then locking the door, he gave his sisters a fine
sermon, in which he represented to them their folly in worshipping a silly wooden graven image,
which, though it had eyes, could see not; though it had ears, could hear not; though it had
hands, could not help itself; and though it had feet, could not move about unless it were carried.
Oh, it was a fine sermon that my young master preached, and sorry I am that the Father of the
fetish, old Mumbo, did not hear it.  The elder sister looked ashamed, but the youngest, who
was very weak, did nothing but wring her hands, weep and bewail the injury which had been done
to the dear image.  The young man, however, without paying much regard to either of them, went
to his father, with whom he had a long conversation, which terminated in the old governor giving
orders for preparations to be made for the family's leaving Rome and returning to England.
I believe that the old governor was glad of his son's arrival, and rejoiced at the idea of
getting away from Italy, where he had been so plundered and imposed upon.  The priests, however,
made another attempt upon the poor young ladies.  By the connivance of the female servant who
was in their interest they found their way once more into their apartment, bringing with them
the fetish image, whose body they partly stripped, exhibiting upon it certain sanguine marks
which they had daubed upon it with red paint, but which they said were the result of the lashes
which it had received from the horsewhip.  The youngest girl believed all they said, and kissed
and embraced the dear image; but the eldest, whose eyes had been opened by her brother, to
whom she was much attached, behaved with proper dignity; for, going to the door, she called
the female servant who had a respect for me, and in her presence reproached the two deceivers
for their various impudent cheats, and especially for this their last attempt at imposition;
adding, that if they did not forthwith withdraw and rid her sister and herself of their presence,
she would send word by her maid to her brother, who would presently take effectual means to
expel them.  They took the hint and departed, and we saw no more of them.

"At the end of three days we departed from Rome, but the maid whom the priests had cajoled
remained behind, and it is probable that the youngest of our ladies would have done the same
thing if she could have had her own will, for she was continually raving about her image, and
saying she should wish to live with it in a convent; but we watched the poor thing, and got
her on board ship.  Oh, glad was I to leave that fetish country and old Mumbo behind me!"

CHAPTER C

Nothing but Gloom--Sporting Character--Gouty Tory--Servants' Club--Politics--Reformado Footman--Peroration--Good
Night.

"We arrived in England, and went to our country seat, but the peace and tranquillity of the
family had been marred, and I no longer found my place the pleasant one which it had formerly
been; there was nothing but gloom in the house, for the youngest daughter exhibited signs of
lunacy, and was obliged to be kept under confinement.  The next season I attended my master,
his son, and eldest daughter to London, as I had previously done.  There I left them, for hearing
that a young baronet, an acquaintance of the family, wanted a servant, I applied for the place,
with the consent of my masters, both of whom gave me a strong recommendation; and, being approved
of, I went to live with him.

"My new master was what is called a sporting character, very fond of the turf, upon which he
was not very fortunate.  He was frequently very much in want of money, and my wages were anything
but regularly paid; nevertheless, I liked him very much, for he treated me more like a friend
than a domestic, continually consulting me as to his affairs.  At length he was brought nearly
to his last shifts, by backing the favourite at the Derby, which favourite turned out a regular
brute, being found nowhere at the rush.  Whereupon, he and I had a solemn consultation over
fourteen glasses of brandy and water, and as many cigars--I mean, between us--as to what was
to be done.  He wished to start a coach, in which event he was to be driver, and I guard. 
He was quite competent to drive a coach, being a first-rate whip, and I dare say I should have
made a first-rate guard; but, to start a coach requires money, and we neither of us believed
that anybody would trust us with vehicles and horses, so that idea was laid aside.  We then
debated as to whether or not he should go into the Church; but to go into the Church--at any
rate to become a dean or bishop, which would have been our aim--it is necessary for a man to
possess some education; and my master, although he had been at the best school in England,
that is, the most expensive, and also at College, was almost totally illiterate, so we let
the Church scheme follow that of the coach.  At last, bethinking me that he was tolerably glib
at the tongue, as most people are who are addicted to the turf, also a great master of slang;
remembering also that he had a crabbed old uncle who had some borough interest, I proposed
that he should get into the House, promising in one fortnight to qualify him to make a figure
in it, by certain lessons which I would give him.  He consented; and during the next fortnight
I did little else than give him lessons in elocution, following to a tittle the method of the
great professor, which I had picked up, listening behind the door.  At the end of that period,
we paid a visit to his relation, an old gouty Tory, who, at first, received us very coolly.
My master, however, by flattering a predilection of his for Billy Pitt, soon won his affections
so much, that he promised to bring him into Parliament; and in less than a month was as good
as his word.  My master, partly by his own qualifications, and partly by the assistance which
he had derived, and still occasionally derived from me, cut a wonderful figure in the House,
and was speedily considered one of the most promising speakers; he was always a good hand at
promising--he is at present, I believe, a Cabinet Minister.

"But as he got up in the world he began to look down on me.  I believe he was ashamed of the
obligation under which he lay to me; and at last, requiring no farther hints as to oratory
from a poor servant like me, he took an opportunity of quarrelling with me and discharging
me.  However, as he had still some grace, he recommended me to a gentleman with whom, since
he had attached himself to politics, he had formed an acquaintance, the editor of a grand Tory
Review.  I lost caste terribly amongst the servants for entering the service of a person connected
with a profession so mean as literature; and it was proposed at the Servants' Club, in Park
Lane, to eject me from that society.  The proposition, however, was not carried into effect,
and I was permitted to show myself among them, though few condescended to take much notice
of me.  My master was one of the best men in the world, but also one of the most sensitive.
On his veracity being impugned by the editor of a newspaper, he called him out, and shot him
through the arm.  Though servants are seldom admirers of their masters, I was a great admirer
of mine, and eager to follow his example.  The day after the encounter, on my veracity being
impugned by the servant of Lord C--- in something I said in praise of my master, I determined
to call him out; so I went into another room and wrote a challenge.  But whom should I send
it by?  Several servants to whom I applied refused to be the bearers of it; they said I had
lost caste, and they could not think of going out with me.  At length the servant of the Duke
of B--- consented to take it; but he made me to understand that, though he went out with me,
he did so merely because he despised the Whiggish principles of Lord C---'s servant, and that
if I thought he intended to associate with me I should be mistaken.  Politics, I must tell
you, at that time ran as high amongst the servants as the gentlemen, the servants, however,
being almost invariably opposed to the politics of their respective masters, though both parties
agreed in one point, the scouting of everything low and literary, though I think, of the two,
the liberal or reform party were the most inveterate.  So he took my challenge, which was accepted;
we went out, Lord C---'s servant being seconded by a reformado footman from the palace.  We
fired three times without effect; but this affair lost me my place; my master on hearing it
forthwith discharged me; he was, as I have said before, very sensitive, and he said this duel
of mine was a parody of his own.  Being, however, one of the best men in the world, on his
discharging me he made me a donation of twenty pounds.

"And it was well that he made me this present, for without it I should have been penniless,
having contracted rather expensive habits during the time that I lived with the young baronet.
I now determined to visit my parents, whom I had not seen for years.  I found them in good
health, and, after staying with them for two months, I returned again in the direction of town,
walking, in order to see the country.  On the second day of my journey, not being used to such
fatigue, I fell ill at an inn on the Great North Road, and there I continued for some weeks
till I recovered, but by that time my money was entirely spent.  By living at the inn I had
contracted an acquaintance with the master and the people, and become accustomed to inn life.
As I thought that I might find some difficulty in procuring any desirable situation in London,
owing to my late connection with literature, I determined to remain where I was, provided my
services would be accepted.  I offered them to the master, who, finding I knew something of
horses, engaged me as a postillion.  I have remained there since.  You have now heard my story.

"Stay, you shan't say that I told my tale without a per--peroration.  What shall it be?  Oh,
I remember something which will serve for one!  As I was driving my chaise some weeks ago;
I saw standing at the gate of an avenue, which led up to an old mansion, a figure which I thought
I recognised.  I looked at it attentively, and the figure, as I passed, looked at me; whether
it remembered me I do not know, but I recognised the face it showed me full well.

"If it was not the identical face of the red-haired priest whom I had seen at Rome, may I catch
cold!

"Young gentleman, I will now take a spell on your blanket--young lady, good night."

THE END. {437}

Footnotes:

{22}  Greenwich.

{27a}  Cf. French chaperon.

{27b}  The Gentile's coming.

{27c}  Gypsy fellows.

{33}  Hearken, thimbla, Comes a Gentile.

{35a}  A meaningless verse.

{35b}  Rather, Okki tiro piomus.

{36}  Books.

{37}  Tatchi romadi.

{38}  Great City.

{39a}  Meant for "ghost," but not real Anglo-Romany.

{39b}  Jerry Abershaw (c. 1773-95), a highwayman who haunted Wimbledon Common, and was hanged
on Kennington Common for shooting a constable.

{43a}  Thomas Blood (c. 1618-80).  See T. Seccombe's Lives of Twelve Bad Men (1894).

{43b}  In December 1670.

{63}  ?Amesbury.

{65}  The Avon.

{72a}  The so-called (by Stukeley) "Vespasian's Ramparts."

{72b}  Salisbury.

{87}  This practice is not so uncommon.  Dr. Johnson had a very similar habit in his "sort
of magical movement" (Life by Boswell, end of year 1764); and a member of my own college at
Oxford, nearly thirty years ago, touched just like the man in Lavengro.  Once in the Schools
he remembered he had passed by a pebble which he had noticed in the High Street: he tore up
his papers, and went and picked up the pebble.

{88}  Mr. William Bodham Donne, the examiner of plays 1857-74, was told by Borrow himself that
this "Man who Touched" was drawn from the author of Vathek, William Beckford (1760-1844). 
There are difficulties in the way of accepting this statement, among them that Beckford had
quitted Fonthill for Bath in 1822, three years before Borrow went a-gypsying. Still, I believe
there is something in it.

{114}  A thing done oftener in books than in reality.

{121}  Richard Hurrell Froude in a letter of 1831 brands Dissenters as "the promoters of damnable
heresy."

{139}  A branch of the great Gypsy family of Boswell have contracted the surname to Boss.

{142}  At Tamworth in May 1812 (Knapp, i. 105).

{156}  The Gypsy lass And the Gypsy lad Shall go to-morrow To poison the pig And bewitch the
horse Of the farmer gentleman.

{160}  The Gypsy lass And the Gypsy lad Love stealing And fortune-telling, And lying, And every
-pen But goodness And truth.

{161}  Dog.  Better, jukel.

{165a}  By my God; not Anglo-Romany.

{165b}  Coppersmith.

{167}  Grand-aunt's.

{168}  Cake.

{169}  Rod.

{170}  Aunt.

{174a}  Poisoned.

{174b}  Fortune-telling spirit.  I never met the English Gypsy that used dook.

{177}  Gentile's coming.

{188}  In my Gypsy Folk-Tales (1899, pp. 293-95) I have discussed with some fulness Bunyan's
possible Gypsy ancestry.  The most interesting point is that in 1586 at Launceston a child
was baptized "Nicholas, sonne of James Bownian, an Egiptian rogue."

{201}  Ellis Wynn (c. 1671-1741).  Borrow himself at last printed his translation of The Sleeping
Bard at Yarmouth in 1860, and himself next year reviewed it in the Quarterly.

{238}  Rhys Prichard (1579-1644).

{246}  Hat of beaver.

{247}  Good day, brother.

{249a}  Seems meant for "hang-woman," but there is no such word.

{249b}  Gipsy-wise--an odd form.

{250a}  Good old blood.  Should be rat, not rati.

{250b}  Horse.

{251}  Brother, comrade.

{252a}  Aunt.

{252b}  Poisoning pigs.

{253a}  Poisons; not Anglo-Romany.

{253b}  Better, nashado, hanged.

{254a}  Magistrate.

{254b}  Runner, detective.

{255a}  Woman.  Rightly juvel.

{255b}  No such word.

{256}  Seemingly "gallows," but no such word.

{257a}  Gypsy chap.

{257b}  Engro is a mere termination, like -er in runner.

{259}  Fool.

{260}  Fists.  Prizefighters' slang.

{263}  Blacksmith.

{264a}  Tell fortunes.

{264b}  Hill Town, Norwich, but better, Chumba Gav.

{264c}  "Go with God."  Not English Romany.

{267}  Horse-shoe.

{268a}  Better, yogesko chivs.

{268b}  Probably "brother," but not English Romany.

{268c}  Unknown to English Gypsies.

{268d}  Beating.

{268e}  Questionable.

{269}  Destiny.

{270a}  Knife.

{270b}  Foot.  Not English Romany.

{270c}  Nail, questionable.

{280}  Horse.

{283}  Son; better, chavo.

{285}  As I was going to the town one day I met on the road my Gypsy lass.

{287}  In again.

{293}  Woman, thieves' cant.

{294a}  Ghost.

{294b}  Knive, thieves' cant.

{294c}  Moila, donkey.

{324a}  Gentile listening.

{324b}  Yonder there.

{330}  Mumper, sling for "vagabond."

{347}  Cardinal Giuseppe Mezzofanti (1774-1849), who could speak fifty- eight languages.

{437}  Did ever any other book break off like this one?

