The two were seated in this way one afternoon, Margaret resting after a day's work, when Oliver
opened the door. She had made a sketch of Richard's  head that very morning as he lay back
in a big chair, a strong, vigorous piece of work which she afterward finished.

Richard looked up and his face broke into a joyous smile.

"Bring a chair, my son," he cried, "and sit by me. I have something to say to you." When, a
few moments later, Margaret had left the room to give some directions to Mrs. Mulligan, he
added: "I have been telling Margaret that you both do wrong in putting off your marriage. These
delays fret young people's lives away. She tells me it is your wish. What are you waiting for?"

"Only for money enough to take care of her, father. Madge has been accustomed to more comforts
than I can give her. She would, I know, cheerfully  give up half of her income, small as it
is, to me if I would let her, but that is not the way I want to make her happy. Don't worry,
dear old dad, the Fish portrait will pull us out"--and he leaned down and put his arms about
his father's neck as he used to do when he was a boy. "I shall get there before long."

Oliver did not tell his father what a grief it had been to him to keep Madge waiting, nor how
he had tried to make it up to her in every way while he had made his fight alone. Nor did he
tell Richard of the principal cause of his waiting--that the mortgage to which his mother had
pledged her name and to which he had morally pledged his own was still unpaid.

Richard listened to Oliver's outburst without interrupting  him.

"I only wanted to do the best I could for you my son," he answered, laying his fingers on Oliver's
hand. "I was thinking of nothing but your happiness.  During the last few days, since I have
become assured that this negotiation would go through, I have decided to carry out a plan which
has long been in my mind and which, now that I know about Margaret,  makes it all the more
necessary. I am going to make provision for you immediately. This, I hope, will be to-morrow
or the next day at farthest. The contracts are all ready for our signatures, and only await
the return of one of the attorneys who is out of town. The cash sum they pay for the control
of the patents is, as you know, a considerable one; then I get nearly half of the capital stock
of the new company.  I am going to give you, at once, one-third of the money and one-third
of the stock."

Oliver raised his hand in protest, but Richard kept on.

"It is but just, my son. There are but three of us --your mother, yourself, and I. It is only
your share. I won't have you and Margaret waiting until I am gone"--and he looked up with a
smile on his face.

Oliver stood for a moment dazed at the joyous news, his father's hand in his, the tears dimming
his eyes. While he was thanking him, telling him how glad he was that the struggle was over
and how proud he was of his genius, Margaret stole up behind him and put her hands over his
eyes, bidding him guess who it was--as if there could be another woman in the whole world who
would take the liberty. Oliver caught her in his arms and kissed her, whispering in her ears
the joyous news with her cheek close to his; and Margaret looked from one to the other, and
then put her arms around Richard and kissed him without a word--the first time she had ever
dared so much.

Oh, but there were joyous times that followed!

Mrs. Mulligan, at a whispered word from her mistress,  ran down-stairs as fast as her old legs
could carry her and came back with her arms full of bundles,  which she dumped upon her small
kitchen-table. And Margaret put on a clean white apron, white as snow, and rolled up her sleeves,
showing her beautiful  arms above her elbows--Oliver always vowed that she had picked them
up where the Milo had dropped them--and began emptying the contents of a bowl of oysters, one
of Mrs. Mulligan's packages, into a chafing-dish. And Oliver wheeled out the table and brought
out the cloth, and dear old Richard, his face full of smiles, placed the napkins with great
precision beside each plate, puckering them up into little sheaves, "just as Malachi would
have done," he said; and then Margaret whispered to Oliver if he didn't think "it would be
just the very thing," they were "so anxious to see him"--and Oliver thought it would--he was
cutting bread at the moment, and getting it ready for Mrs. Mulligan to toast on her cracker-box
of a range; and Margaret, with her arms and her cheeks scarlet, ran out in the hall and down
the corridor, and came back, out of breath, with two other girls--one in a calico frock belted
in at her slender waist, and the other in a black bombazine and a linen collar. And Richard
looked into their faces, and took them both by the hand and told them how glad he was to be
permitted to share in their merrymakings; and then, when Oliver had drawn out the chairs--one
was a stool, by the way--the whole party sat down, Oliver at the foot and Richard on Margaret's
right, the old gentleman, remarking, as he opened his napkin, that but one thing was wanting
to complete his happiness, and that was Oliver's mother, who of all women in the world would
enjoy the occasion the most.

But the happiest time of all was over the soup, or rather over the tureen, or rather what was
inside of it--or worse still, what was not. This wonderful soup had been ordered at the restaurant
across the way, and was to be brought in smoking hot at the appointed  time by a boy. The boy
arrived on the minute,  and so did the tureen--a gayly flowered affair with a cover, the whole
safely ensconced in a basket. When the lid was lifted and Margaret and the two girls looked
in, a merry shout went up. Not a drop of soup was in the tureen! The boy craned his head in
amazement, and Mrs. Mulligan, who stood by with the plates, and who had broken out into violent
gestures  at the sight was about to upbraid the boy for his stupidity, when Margaret's quick
eye discovered a trail of grease running down the table-cloth, along the floor and out of the
door. Whereupon everybody got up, including Richard, and with roars of laughter followed the
devious trail out into the hall and so on down the staircase as far as they could see. Only
when Mrs. Mulligan on their return to the room held up the tureen and pointed to a leak in
its bottom, was the mystery explained.

And so the merry dinner went on.

Ah, dear old man, if these happy days could only have gone on till the end.

On the afternoon of the day following this joyous night--the day the contracts were to be signed,
a  culmination which would make everybody happy-- Margaret hurried up the stairs of her building,
and pushed open the door. She knew she should find the inventor waiting for her, and she wanted
to be the first to get the glad news from his lips. It was  varnishing day at the Academy,
and she had gone down to put the last touches on her big portrait--the one of "Madame X." that
she had begun in Paris the year before.

Richard did not move when she entered. He was leaning back in the chair she had placed for
him, his head on his hand, his attitude one of thoughtful repose,  the light of the fast-fading
twilight making a silhouette of his figure. She thought he was dozing, and so crept up behind
him to make sure.

"Ah, my dear, is that you?" he asked. The voice did not sound like Richard's.

"Yes--I thought you were asleep."

"No, my child--I'm only greatly troubled. I'm glad you have come"--and he took her hand and
smoothed it with his own. "Bring your stool; I have something to say to you."

Without taking off her bonnet and cloak, she took her place at his feet. The tones of his voice
chilled her. A great fear rose in her heart. Why she could not tell.

"Has anything happened to Oliver?" she asked, eagerly.

"No, nothing so terrible as that. It is about the motor. The bankers have refused the loan,
and the attorneys have withdrawn the papers."

"Withdrawn the papers! Oh, no it can't be!" She had leaned forward now, her anxious, startled
eyes looking into his.

"Yes, my dear; a Mr. Gorton from Maine has perfected  a machine which not only accomplishes
what I claim for my own, but is much better in every way. The attorneys have been looking into
this new motor for a week past, so I learn now. Here is their letter" --and he put his hand
in his pocket and took out a white envelope. "They will, perhaps, take up Mr. Gorton's machine
instead of mine. I made a hasty examination of this new motor this morning with my old friend
Professor Morse, and we both agree that the invention is all Mr. Gorton claims for it. It is
only a beginning, of course, along the lines of galvanic  energy, but it is a better beginning
than mine, and I feel sure it is all the inventor claims for it. I have so informed them, and
I have also written a letter  to Mr. Gorton congratulating him on his success."  The calmness
and gentleness of his voice thrilled her.

"I suppose I ought to have telegraphed the news to Mrs. Horn, as I promised," he continued,
slowly, as if each word gave him pain, "but I really had not the heart, so I came up here.
I've been here all the afternoon hoping you would come in. The room felt a little cold, my
dear, and your good woman made a fire for me, as you see. You don't mind, do you?"

Margaret bowed her head on his hands and kissed the thin fingers that lay in her own. Her heart
was full to bursting. The pathos of the bent figure, the despairing sound of his voice--so
unlike his buoyant tones; the ghostly light that permeated the room, so restful always before,
so grewsome and forbidding now, appealed to her in a way she had never known. She was not thinking
of herself, nor of Oliver, nor of the wife waiting for the news at home; she was only thinking
of this dear old man who sat with bowed head, his courage gone, all the joyousness out of his
life. What hurt her most was her own utter helplessness.  In most things she could be of service:
now she was powerless. She knew it when she spoke.

"Is it ended?" she asked at last, her practical mind wanting to know the worst.

"Yes, my child, ended. I wish I could give you some hope, but there is none. I shall go home
to- morrow and begin again;--on what I do not know-- something--I cannot tell."

Oliver's footsteps sounded in the outer hall. She rose quickly and met him on the outside,
half closing the door, so that she could tell him the dreadful news without being overheard.

"Broken their promises to father? Impossible! Why? What for? Another invention? Oh, it cannot  be!"

He walked quickly toward him. "But father, what about your patents? They can't rob you of them.
Suppose this man's motor is better."

Richard did not move. He seemed unwilling to look his son in the face.

"Let me take hold of this thing." Oliver was bending over him now, his arms about his neck.
"I'll see Mr. Slade at once. I met him this morning and told him you were here, and he is coming
to call on you. He has always stood by me and will now. These people who have disappointed
you are not the only ones who have got money. Mr. Slade, you know, is now a banker himself.
I will begin to-morrow  to fight this new man who--"

