No. 239.] SATURDAY, MAY 27. 12s. 6d. cloth lettered.

CYCLOPAEDIA BIBLIOGRAPHICA: A Library Manual of Theological and General Literature, and Guide
to Books for Authors, Preachers, Students and Literary Men, Analytical, Bibliographical, and
Biographical. By JAMES DARLING.

A PROSPECTUS, with Specimens and Critical Notices, sent Free on Receipt of a Postage Stamp.

       *       *       *       *       *

TO LITERARY MEN, PUBLISHERS, AND OTHERS.

MESSRS. HOPPER & CO., Record Agents, &c., beg to acquaint the Literary World, that they undertake
Searches among, and Transcripts from, the Public Records, or other Ancient MSS., Translations
from the Norman-French, Latin, and other Documents, &c.

*** MSS. bought, sold, or valued.

4. SOUTHAMPTON STREET, CAMDEN TOWN.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE ORIGINAL QUADRILLES, composed for the PIANO FORTE by MRS. AMBROSE MERTON.

London: Published for the Proprietor, and may be had of C. LONSDALE, 26. Old Bond Street; and
by Order of all Music Sellers.

PRICE THREE SHILLINGS. 8vo., 5s.

THE OLD PRINTER AND THE MODERN PRESS, in relation to the important subject of CHEAP POPULAR
LITERATURE. By CHARLES KNIGHT.

Also, by the same Author, 2 vols. fcp. 8vo., 10s.

ONCE UPON A TIME.

    "The old bees die, the young possess the hive."--Shakspeare.

    "They relate to all manner of topics--old folks, old manners, old
    books; and take them all in all, they make up as charming a pair of
    volumes as we have seen for many a long day."--Fraser's Magazine.

    "'Once upon a Time' is worth possessing."--Examiner.

    "This varied, pleasant, and informing collection of
    Essays."--Spectator.

    "Mr. Charles Knight's entertaining little work is full of various
    knowledge agreeably told."--Quarterly Review.

    "This pleasant gallery of popular antiquarianism."--John Bull.

JOHN MURRAY, Albemarle Street.

       *       *       *       *       *

NEW WORK BY SIR DAVID BREWSTER.

This Day, fcp. 8vo., 6s.

MORE WORLDS THAN ONE; the CREED of the PHILOSOPHER and the HOPE of the CHRISTIAN. by SIR DAVID
BREWSTER.

JOHN MURRAY, Albemarle Street.

       *       *       *       *       *

NEW WORK BY DEAN MILMAN.

Now ready, Vols. I. to III., 8vo., 36s.

HISTORY OF LATIN CHRISTIANITY, including that of THE POPES to the PONTIFICATE of NICHOLAS V.
By HENRY HART MILMAN, D.D., Dean of St. Paul's.

JOHN MURRAY, Albemarle Street.

       *       *       *       *       *

ART AND ARTISTS IN ENGLAND.

Now ready, 3 vols. 8vo., 36s. By DR. WAAGEN, Director of the Royal Gallery of Pictures at Berlin.

JOHN MURRAY, Albemarle Street.

       *       *       *       *       *

MURRAY'S RAILWAY READING.

Now ready, 2 vols. fcap. 8vo., 8s.

ESSAYS FROM "THE TIMES:" Being a Selection from the Literary Papers which have appeared in
that Journal, reprinted by permission.

        CONTENTS:
          Vol. I.
  Nelson and Lady Hamilton.
  Railway Novels.
  Louis-Philippe and his Family.
  John Howard.
  Drama of the French Revolution.
  Lord Holland's Reminiscences.
  Robert Southey.
  Dean Swift--Stella and Vanessa.
  Reminiscences of Coleridge.
  John Keats.
  Grote's History of Greece.
  Literature of the Rail.

          Vol. II.
  Lord Coke.
  Discoveries at Nineveh.
  Lord Mansfield.
  Lion Hunting in Africa.
  Jeremy Taylor.
  Lord Clarendon and his Friends.
  John Sterling.
  Autobiography of a Chartist.
  Americans in England.
  Francis Chantrey.
  Career of Lord Langdale.
  Afghanistan.
  The Greek Revolution.
  Dickens and Thackeray.

*** Each Volume may be had separately.

JOHN MURRAY, Albemarle Street.

       *       *       *       *       *

{486}

JUST PUBLISHED,

Price 11s. to Non-Members.

The TWENTY-SEVENTH VOLUME of the SURTEES SOCIETY PUBLICATIONS, being THE PONTIFICAL OF EGBERT,
ARCHBISHOP OF YORK, A.D. 732-766. Now first published from a MS. of the Tenth Century in the
Imperial Library, Paris.

The other Publications of the SOCIETY are as under:

I.

REGINALDI Monachi Dunelmensis Libellus de Admirandis BEATI CUTHBERTI Virtutibus. 15s.

II.

WILLS and INVENTORIES, illustrative of the History, Manners, Language, Statistics, &c., of
the Northern Counties of England, from the Eleventh Century downwards. [Chiefly from the Registry
at Durham.] 15s.

III.

The TOWNELEY MYSTERIES. 15s.

IV.

TESTAMENTA EBORACENSIA; Wills illustrative of the History, Manners, Language, Statistics, &c.,
of the Province of York, from 1300 downwards. 15s.

V.

SANCTUARIUM DUNELMENSE et SANCTUARIUM BEVERLACENSE; or Registers of the Sanctuaries of Durham
and Beverley. 15s.

VI.

THE CHARTERS OF ENDOWMENT, Inventories and Account Rolls of the PRIORY of FINCHALE, in the
County of Durham. 15s.

VII.

CATALOGI Veteres Librorum ECCLESIAE CATHEDRALIS DUNELM. Catalogues of the Library of Durham
Cathedral, at various periods, from the Conquest to the Dissolution, including Catalogues of
the Library of the Abbey of Hulne, and of the MSS. preserved in the Library of Bishop Cosin,
at Durham. 10s.

VIII.

MISCELLANEA BIOGRAPHICA. Lives of Oswin, King of Northumberland; Two Lives of Cuthbert, Bishop
of Lindisfarne; and a Life of Eata, Bishop of Hexham. 10s.

IX.

Historiae Dunelmensis Scriptores Tres. GAUFRIDUS de COLDINGHAM, ROBERTUS de GRAYSTANES, et
WILLIELMUS de CHAMBRE, with the omissions and mistakes in Wharton's Edition supplied and corrected,
and an Appendix of 665 original Documents, in illustration of the Text. 15s.

X.

RITUALE ECCLESIAE DUNELMENSIS; a Latin Ritual of the Ninth Century, with an interlinear Northumbro-Saxon
Translation. 15s.

XI.

JORDAN FANTOSME'S ANGLO-NORMAN CHRONICLE of the War between the English and the Scots in 1173
and 1174, with a Translation, Notes, &c., by Francisque Michel, F.S.A. London and Edinburgh. 15s.

XII.

Correspondence, Inventories, Account Rolls, and Law Proceedings of the PRIORY OF COLDINGHAM. 15s.

XIII.

LIBER VITAE ECCLESIAE DUNELMENSIS; nec non Obituaria duo Ejusdem Ecclesiae. 10s.

XIV.

The Correspondence of ROBERT BOWES, of Aske, Esq., Ambassador of Queen Elizabeth to the Court
of Scotland. 15s.

XV.

A Description, or Briefe Declaration of all the ANCIENT MONUMENTS, RITES, and CUSTOMS belonging
to, or being within, the MONASTICAL CHURCH OF DURHAM, before the Suppression. Written in 1593. 10s.

XVI.

ANGLO-SAXON and EARLY ENGLISH PSALTER, now first published from MSS. in the British Museum.
Vol. I. 15s.

XVII.

The Correspondence of DR. MATTHEW HUTTON, Archbishop of York. With a Selection from the Letters
of Sir Timothy Hutton, Knt., his Son, and Matthew Hutton, Esq., his Grandson. 15s.

XVIII.

The DURHAM HOUSEHOLD BOOK; or, the Accounts of the Bursar of the Monastery of Durham from 1530
to 1534. 15s.

XIX.

ANGLO-SAXON and EARLY ENGLISH PSALTER. Vol. II. 15s.

XX.

Libellus de Vita et Miraculis S. GODRICI, Heremitae de FINCHALE, auctore REGINALDO Monacho
Dunelmensi. 15s.

XXI. 15s.

XXII.

The INJUNCTIONS and other ECCLESIASTICAL PROCEEDINGS of RICHARD BARNES, Bishop of Durham (1577-1587).
25s.

XXIII.

The ANGLO-SAXON HYMNARIUM, from MSS. of the XIth Century, in Durham, the British Museum, &c. 25s.

XXIV.

The MEMOIR OF MR. SURTEES, by the late George Taylor, Esq. Reprinted from the Fourth Volume
of the History of Durham, with additional Notes and Illustrations, together with an Appendix,
comprising some of Mr. Surtees' Correspondence, Poetry, &c. 16s.

XXV.

The BOLDON BOOK, or SURVEY OF DURHAM in 1183. 10s. 6d.

XXVI.

WILLS and INVENTORIES, illustrative of the History, Manners, Language, Statistics, &c., of
the Counties of York, Westmoreland, and Lancaster, from the Fourteenth Century downwards. (From
the Registry at Richmond.)

       *       *       *       *       *

Published for the SOCIETY by GEORGE ANDREWS, Bookseller, Durham; WHITTAKER & Co., 13. Ave Maria
Lane, London; T. & W. BOONE, 29. New Bond Street, London; and WILLIAM BLACKWOOD & SONS, Edinburgh;
from whom they may be procured through any Bookseller in Town or Country.

       *       *       *       *       *

London Homoeopathic Hospital.

       *       *       *       *       *

ARRANGEMENT

FOR

THE CONVERSAZIONE,

at the

HANOVER SQUARE ROOMS,

On TUESDAY, May 30, 1854.

The Rooms will be open at Eight o'clock.

A SELECTION OF MUSIC

(By the Band of the Royal Regiment of Horse Guards)

WILL BE PERFORMED DURING THE EVENING.

       *       *       *       *       *

In the Rooms will be Exhibited Specimens of--

Electroplate, by Messrs. F. Elkington.

China and Statuettes, by Mr. Alderman Copeland.

Bronzes, by Messrs. Jackson & Graham.

Fine Arts in Electroplating, Metallurgy, &c., by Mr. Charles Elkington & Co.

Etruscan Vases, by Messrs. Battam & Co.

Papier Mache, by Messrs. Jennens & Bettridge.

Stamped Leather, by Mr. Leake.

Lace, by M. Brie.

Wax Models, by M. Montanari.

Artificial Flowers, by Mr. Hill.

Leather Carving, by Mr. Sandars.

Cromo-Lithography, by Messrs. Hahnhart & Son.

Porcelain and Parian, by Messrs. Alcock.

Scientific Models, by Messrs. Watkins & Hill.

And many other Objects of Novelty and Interest.

       *       *       *       *       *

FINE ARTS.

PAINTINGS.--By Messrs. Knight, R.A., Uwins, R.A., Cope, R.A., the late W. Etty, R.A. and DRAWINGS
by John Hayter, Hunt, D. Cox, John Lewis, Bright, Frederick Tayler, Collingwood Smith, Richardson,
Mueller, Vacher, D'Egville, Callam, Rowbotham, &c., Essex (Enamels), Faed (Engravings), etc., etc.

SCULPTURE.--By Messrs. Behnes, Calder Marshall, Matthew Noble, &c., &c.

MICROSCOPES.--By Messrs. Smith & Beck, Pillischer, Topping, Varly, Salmon, Ladd, and by Members
of the Microscopic Society.

STEREOSCOPES, DAGUERROTYPES, AND PHOTOGRAPHS.--By Messrs. Beard, Bland, and Long, Claudet,
Dickenson, Duppa, Horne, Thornthwaite & Co., Kilburn, Ladd, Laroche, Mayall, Pillischer, Royal
Panopticon of Art, and a variety of Photographic Drawings by eminent Amateurs.

Tickets may be had at the Hospital, 32. Golden Square; of Messrs. Aylott & Jones, Paternoster
Row; Mr. Bailliere, 219. Regent Street; Mr. Headland, 15. Princes Street, Hanover Square; Mr.
Leath, Vere Street, Cavendish Square, and St. Paul's Churchyard; Mr. Walker, Conduit Street;
Mr. James Epps, Great Russell Street, Bloomsbury Square, and Broad Street, City; Mr. Turner,
Piccadilly, Manchester; Mr. Thompson, Liverpool; and at all the Homoeopathic Chemists and Booksellers.

Single Tickets, 7s. 6d.; Family Tickets to admit Four, 1l. 4s.

       *       *       *       *       *

{487}

LONDON, SATURDAY, MAY 27, 1854.

Notes.

REPRINTS OF EARLY BIBLES.

In 1833 the authorities of the Clarendon Press put forth a quarto reprint, word for word, page
for page, and letter for letter, of the first large black-letter folio edition of 1611, of
the present authorised or Royal version of the Bible. So accurate was it, that even manifest
errors of the press were retained. It was published that the reader might judge whether the
original standard could still be exactly followed. It was accompanied by a collation with a
smaller black-letter folio of 1613, in preference to the larger folio of that year, as no two
copies (entire) of the latter could be found, all the sheets of which corresponded precisely:

    "Many of these copies contain sheets belonging, as may clearly be
    proved, to editions of more recent date; and even those which appear to
    be still as they were originally published, are made up partly from the
    edition printed at the time, and partly from the remains of earlier
    impressions."

Now this is a most interesting subject to all lovers of our dear old English Bible. It is supposed
the translators revised their work for the 1613 edition (after two years); yet the collation
with the small folio of that year, shows little or no improvement, rather the contrary. I possess
a small quarto edition of 1613 (black-letter, by Barker), not mentioned by our more eminent
bibliographers, which, while admitting the better corrections, adheres to the old 1611 folio,
where the small folio of 1613 unnecessarily deviates. It is certainly, I consider, a most valuable
impression. I have lately purchased a magnificent copy of the great folio of 1613. It is in
the original thick oak binding, with huge brass clasps, corners, and bosses; and appears to
have been chained to a reading-desk. In collating it, I find a sheet or two in 1 Samuel and
St. Matthew most carefully supplied from an earlier impression. The titles both to the Old
and New Testaments are exactly the same as those of the folio 1611, with the exception of the
date 1613 for 1611. It has been gloriously used, and the imagination revels in the thought
of the eyes and hearts that must have been blessed by its perusal. I am not sufficiently conversant
with our earlier translations to identify, without reference, the sheets of the inserted edition,
and I have not time to refer. I may only say that there is a most quaint woodcut of little
David slinging a stone at the giant Goliath. A slight collation of Genesis shows me this large
edition agrees in corrections with the small one the Clarendon Press authorities used, though
my quarto 1613 differs, adhering, as I said before, more closely to the original standard of
1611. I would put a Query or two to your many readers.

1. Was the great folio 1613 ever published entire, or are the sheets I have indicated supplied
in every known copy, some from earlier, some from later, impressions? 2. Is it an established
fact, that the translators revised their work in 1613? 3. What is the small quarto of 1613
I have mentioned?

Lastly, would it not be an interesting enterprise to reprint our various translations of the
holy volume in a cheap and uniform series, like the Parker Society published the Liturgy? A
society might be formed by subscription to support such an object. We might have Coverdale's,
Matthews', Cranmer's, Taverner's, the Geneva (1560), the Bishops' (Parker's, 1568), and the
noble authorised (Royal 1611), with their variations noted. I cannot see any harm would arise;
and surely it might give an impulse to that noblest of all studies, the study of God's Word.
What grander volume for simplicity and elegance of language, for true Anglo-Saxon idiom, than
our present venerated translation? What book that could interest more than Cranmer's Great
Bible of 1539, from whence our familiar Prayer-Book version of the Psalms is taken? It would
give me heartfelt pleasure to contribute my humble efforts in such a cause.

RICHARD HOOPER, M.A.

St. Stephen's, Westminster.

       *       *       *       *       *

MARRIAGE LICENCE OF JOHN GOWER THE POET.

The following special licence of marriage extracted from the Register of William of Wykeham,
preserved in the registry at Winchester, is a curious document in itself; but if, as there
is much reason for supposing, the person on whose behalf it was granted was no less a man than
the illustrious poet--the "moral Gower"--the interest attached to it is very much enhanced:
and for this reason I am desirous of giving it publicity through the columns of "N. & Q."--a
fit place for recording such pieces of information, relating to the lives of men eminent in
the annals of literature. I have not been able to find any notice of the marriage of John Gower
in the books to which I have been able to refer; and, though it may be perhaps an event of
little importance, it is one which a faithful biographer would never omit to mention. The document
is as follows:

    "Willelmus permissione divina Wyntoniensis Episcopus, dilecto in
    Christo filio, domino Willelmo, capellano parochiali ecclesiae S.
    Mariae Magdalenae in Suthwerk, nostrae diocesis, salutem, gratiam, et
    benedictionem. Ut matrimonium inter Joannem Gower et Agnetem Groundolf
    dictae ecclesiae parochianos sine ulteriore bannorum editione, dumtamen
    aliud canonicum non obsistat, extra ecclesiam parochialem, in {488}
    Oratorio ipsius Joannis Gower infra hospicium cum in prioratu B. Mariae
    de Overee in Suthwerk praedicta situatum, solempnizare valeas licenciam
    tibi tenore praesentium, quatenus ad nos attinet, concedimus specialem.
    In cujus rei testimonium sigillum nostrum fecimus his apponi. Dat. in
    manerio nostro de alta clera vicesimo quinto die mensis Januarii, A.D.
    1397, et nostrae consecrationis 31mo."

The connexion of the poet Gower with the priory of St. Mary Overy is well known; as well as
his munificence in contributing very largely to the reconstruction of the church of the priory,
in which he also founded a chantry, and where his tomb still exists. It would appear from this
document, that he actually resided within the priory.

This marriage must have taken place late in his life. The year of his birth is unknown. He
is said to have been somewhat older than Chaucer, the date of whose birth is also uncertain;
there being some grounds for assigning it to 1328, others, perhaps more satisfactory, for fixing
it 1345. If the latter be correct, and if we allow for the disparity of age, we may suppose
Gower to have been somewhere between fifty-five and sixty years of age at the time of his marriage
with Agnes Groundolf.

W. H. GUNNER.

Winchester.

    [A reference to the will of Gower, which is printed in Todd's
    Illustrations of Gower and Chaucer, p. 87. et seq., confirms the
    accuracy of our correspondent's inference, that this is the marriage
    licence of the poet, inasmuch as it shows that the Christian name of
    Gower's wife was Agnes.--ED. "N. & Q."]

       *       *       *       *       *

ASKA OR ASCA.

Throughout North America this dissyllable is found terminating names in localities, occupied
at the present day by Indian tribes speaking very different languages; and, in these languages,
with the exception of such names, few analogous sounds exist. There are, besides, names terminating
in esco, isco, isca, escaw, uscaw, which, perhaps, may be placed in the same category, being
only accidental variations of aska, arising from a difference of ear in those who first heard
them pronounced by a native tongue.

Are these names vernacular in any of the modern Indian languages? and, if so, what is their
real meaning? I propound these questions for solution by any of the gentlemen at Fort Chepewyan,
Norway House, &c. (since, no doubt, "N. & Q." penetrates the Far West as well as the Far East),
who may feel an interest in the subject.

Apparently, they have been imposed by a people who occupied the whole continent from sea to
sea, as they occur from Hudson's Bay to Yucatan, and from the Pacific to the Atlantic.

Were the American nations originally of one tongue? Humboldt, Du Ponceau, and others have remarked
that striking analogies of grammatical construction exist in all American languages, from the
Eskimo to the Fuegian, although differing entirely in their roots. Dr. Prichard says,--

    "There are peculiarities in the very nature of the American languages
    which are likely to produce great variety in words, and to obliterate
    in a comparatively short period the traces of resemblance."--Phys.
    Hist. &c., vol. v. p. 317.

It may be only a curious coincidence, but it is undoubtedly true, that, with scarcely one exception,
all names (we might almost say words) so terminating are more or less connected with water.
The exception (if it really be one) is Masca, which I have found among my old notes, followed
by the word Montagne; but nothing more, and I have forgotten all about it.

For the rest, the varieties in isca, &c., spoken of before, are chiefly to be found in the
northern countries, towards Hudson's and James' Bay, &c., where the present spoken languages
are the Eskimo or Karalit, the Cree, and the Montagnard dialect of the Algonkin, viz. Agomisca,
island in James' Bay; Meminisca, lake on Albany River; Nemiskau, a lake; Pasquamisco, on James'
Bay; then, Keenwapiscaw, lake; Naosquiscaw, ditto; Nepiscaw, ditto; Camipescaw, ditto; Caniapuscaw,
ditto and river: the last five lie between the head waters of the Saguenay and the bottom of
James' Bay.

Again, beginning at the extreme west, we find Oonalaska, or Agoun Aliaska, or (according to
the natives) Nagoun Alaska, an island abounding in fine springs and rivulets. Nor should I
omit another of the Aleutian islands, called Kiska.

Alaska, or Aliaska, a peninsula. The language in these instances is a branch of the Eskimo.

Athabaska (Atapescow of Malte-Brun), lake and river. McKenzie says that the word means, in
the Knistenaux language, a flat, low, swampy country, liable to inundations (edit. 4to., p.
122.). Here I repeat the question, is the word vernacular, or only adopted? In such vocabularies
as I have seen, there is nothing bearing the slightest relationship to it. In one given by
Dr. Latham (Varieties of Man, &c., pp. 208-9.), water, in the Chepewyan, is tone, and river, tesse.

Itaska, the small lake whence the Mississippi has its origin. The languages prevalent in the
adjacent country would be the Sioux, and the Chippeway branch of the Algonquino.

Wapiscow, river. Language, Cree?

Nebraska, "The Shallow River," said to be the name of the Platte in the Sioux language.

Mochasko, "Always full;" another river so called in the Sioux. Query, Are these two vernacular?
Watapan is river in that language. {489}

Oanoska is a Sioux word, meaning "The Great Avenue or Stretch;" but whether it applies to a
river I have forgotten. The quotation is from Long's Expedit. to St. Peter's River, vol. i.
p 339., to which I have not access just now. Atamaska and Madagaska are two names of which
I can give no account, for the same reason as stated above at Maska.

Arthabaska is (or was) a very swampy township so named, lying south of the St Lawrence.

Maskinonge (also the name of a fish) in which the sound occurs, although not as a termination,
is a seigneurie on the north bank of the St Lawrence, of which the part near the river is so
low that it is inundated frequently. A river of the same name runs through this seigneurie.
Both the foregoing are in the country where the Iroquois language prevailed.

Zoraska, or Zawraska, name of a river somewhere between Quebec and James' Bay, of which I know
nothing more, having only heard it spoken of by moose-hunters. Probably it is in a country
where the language would be the Montagnard.

Yamaska, a river on the south side of the St. Lawrence, having much marshy ground about it,
particularly near its junction with the Grand River.

Kamouraska, or Camouraska, islands in the St. Lawrence below Quebec, taking their name from
a seigneurie on the mainland; a level plain surrounded by hills, and dotted all over with mounds.
Bouchette says,--

    "D'apres la position, l'apparence, et l'exacte ressemblance de ces
    especes d'iles en terre-firme avec celles de Camouraska, entre
    lesquelles et le rivage le lit de la riviere est presqu'a sec a la
    maree basse, le naturaliste sera fortement porte a croire que ce qui
    forme a present le continent etait, a une epoque quelconque, submerge
    par les vagues immenses du St Laurent, et que les elevations en
    question formaient des iles, ou des rochers exposes a l'action de
    l'eau," &c.--Description de Bas-Canada, &c., p. 551.

There can be no doubt, if aska relate to water, that this district is appropriately named.

We may presume the language prevalent here to have been the Algonquin, since the inhabitants,
when first visited by Europeans, were either the Micmac or Abenaqui, both tribes of that great
family.

Still further eastward, flowing from Lake Temisconata into the River St. John, we find the
Madawaska, in a country where the language was either the Abenaqui, or a dialect of the Huron,
said to be spoken by the Melicite Indians of the St. John. Aska does not occur again in this
part of North America, as far as I call ascertain; but on looking southward it does so, and
under similar circumstances, viz. associated with water.

Tabasca, or Tobasco (for it is written both ways), a country on the borders of Yucatan, described
by the conquerors as difficult to march through, on account of numerous pools of water and
extensive swamps. Clavigero says the present name was given by the Spaniards; but I know of
no Spanish word at all resembling it, therefore presume they must have adopted the native appellation.
The language was, and perhaps is, the Maya.

Tarasca; name of a people inhabiting the country of Mechouacan, celebrated for its numerous
fountains of fine water. Language appears to have been Mexican. (See Clavigero, vol. i. p.
10., edit. 4to., Cullen's Trans.; and Dr. Prichard's Phys. Hist., &c., vol. v. p. 340.)

The mention of Tarasca reminds one of Tarascon, also written Tarasca. Two instances occur in
the country of Celtic Gaul; both on rivers: the one on the Rhone, the other on the Arriege.

Having for the present finished with America, one is naturally led to inquire whether asca
occurs in other parts of the world, in like manner associated with water. Before doing so,
however, I would observe that Thompson, in his Essay on Etymologies, &c., p. 10., remarks that
"The Gothic termination sk, the origin of our ish, the Saxon isk, signifying assimilated, identified,
is used in all dialects, to the very shores of China," &c. He instances "Tobolsk" and "Uvalsk."
If, then, it be true that [=a] and [=a]b are primitive sounds denoting water in many languages,
may we not here have a combination of [=a] and sk?

But to proceed. Malte Brun mentions a city in Arabia called "Asca," one of the places sacked
by the expedition under Elius Gallus (Precis de la Geographie, &c., vol. i. p. 179.). Generally
speaking, Arabia is not abounding in waters; but that very circumstance renders celebrated,
more or less, every locality where they do abound and are pure. The city, therefore, might
have been notable for its walls and fountains of pure water.

Aska is the name of a river in Japan, remarkable for its great depth, and for frequently changing
its course (Golownin, vol. iii. p. 149.).

In north-eastern Asia we find a river called after the Tongouse, Tongousca. Query, Tungouse-asca?
and, following up Thompson's examples before mentioned, we may name Yakutsk, Irkutsk, Ochotsk,
Kamtchatka, &c., all intimately connected with water. Then there is Kandalask, a gulf of the
White Sea; Tchesk, another; Kaniska-Zemblia, an island, &c. In Spain, Huesca is on the river
Barbato. The two Gradiskas in Hungary, &c. are the one on the Save, the other on the Lisonzo.

Zaleski (Pereslav) is seated on a lake; but Malte-Brun says the name means "au-dela des bois."
This may or may not be the case. The sound is here, and in connexion with water. Pultusk is
nearly surrounded by water, the Narew. Askersan, in Sweden, stands on a lake. Gascon, {490}
says Rafinesque, means "beyond the sea" (American Nations, &c., No. 2. p. 41.).

Madagascar. Curious the similarity between this name of an island and the American names Madagaska
and Madawaska. By the way, I forgot to notice of this last, that Captain Levinge, in his Echoes
from the Back Woods, &c., vol. i. p. 150., derives it from Madawas (Micmac), a "porcupine;"
whilst The Angler in Canada (Lanman), p. 229., says that it means "never frozen," because part
of the river never freezes. Which is right?

Tcherkask. Every one knows that the capital of the Don Cossacks is eminently a water city.
According to Pallas, the Circassians (Tcherkesses) once were located in the Crimea. They may
have extended their influence to the Don, and the name in question may be a synthetic form
of Tcherkesse-aska.

Damasca (Latinised Damascus) is famed all over the East for its waters. The name of the ancient
city was Damas, "Le Demechk, ou Chamel-Dimichk, des Orientaux" (Malte-Brun, viii. 215.).

The modern city is said to be called Damas, or I Domeschk, though it seems more generally known
as El Sham. Bryant says it was called by the natives Damasec and Damakir, the latter meaning
the city (Caer?) of Dams, or of Adama (Mythology, &c., vol. i. p. 69.). Can it have once been
Adama, or Dama-asca?

In Great Britain we have rivers and lakes called severally Esk, Exe or Isca, Axe, and Usk.

Axe seems to have been written Asca at one time; for Lambarde gives Ascanmynster as the Saxon
name of Axminster. Hence, also, we may infer that Axholme Island was once Ascanholme. The Exe
was probably Esk, i.e. water, or river: it certainly was Uske. Iska is the British Isk Latinised
by Ptolemy; for Camden says Exeter was called by the Welsh Caerisk, &c. Usk or Uske was written
Osca by Gyraldo Camb. (See Lambarde.)

Kyleska, or Glendha, ferry in Sutherlandshire. Kyle-aska? Kyles (Ir.), a frith or strait.

Ask occurs frequently as the first syllable of names in England, and such places will be almost
invariably found connected with water. Camden mentions a family of distinguished men in Richmondshire
named Aske, from whom perhaps some places derive their names, as p. ex. the Askhams, Askemoore,
&c. Askrigg, however, being in the neighbourhood of some remarkable waterfalls (Camden), may
have reference to them.

Now, from places let us turn to things, first noticing that usk, in modern Welsh, means river.
In Irish, uisce or uiske is water. In Hebrew and Chaldee, hisca is to wash or to drink. (See
Introduction to Valancey's Irish Dictionary.) In the same we find ascu (ancient Irish), a water-serpent
or dog; iasc, fish; easc (Irish), water, same as esk. Chalmers, in "Caledonia," &c., has easc
or esc (Gael.), water; easc lan (Gael.), the full water.

Askalabos (Greek), a newt or water reptile; and asker, askard, askel, ask, and esk, in provincial
English, a water-newt. (See Archaic Dictionary.)

Masca, the female sea-otter; so called by the Russians.

Askalopas (Greek), a woodcock or snipe, i.e. a swamp-bird.

As I said before, there are few words in any of the Indian languages of North America in which
the sound ask occurs; at least as far as my limited acquaintance with them goes. The only two
I can quote just now are both in the Chippeway. One only has direct reference to water; perhaps
the other may indirectly. They are, woyzask, rushes, water-plants; mejask, herb, or grass.
The only grass the forest Indians are likely to be acquainted with is that growing in the natural
meadows along the river banks, which are occasionally met with, and these in general are pretty
swampy.

We may wind up with our cask and flask. I could have added much more, but fear already to have
exceeded what might hope for admittance in your pages; therefore I will only say that, in offering
these remarks, I insist on nothing, and stand ready to submit to any correction.

A. C. M.

Exeter.

       *       *       *       *       *

LEGENDS OF THE COUNTY CLARE.

About two miles from the village of Corofin, in the west of Clare, are the ruins of the Castle
of Ballyportree, consisting of a massive square tower surrounded by a wall, at the corners
of which are smaller round towers: the outer wall was also surrounded by a ditch. The castle
is still so far perfect that the lower part is inhabited by a farmer's family; and in some
of the upper rooms are still remaining massive chimney-pieces of grey limestone, of a very
modern form, the horizontal portions of which are ornamented with a quatrefoil ornament engraved
within a circle, but there are no dates or armorial bearings: from the windows of the castle
four others are visible, none of them more than two miles from each other; and a very large
cromlech is within a few yards of the castle ditch. The following legend is related of the
castle:--When the Danes were building the castle (the Danes were the great builders, as Oliver
Cromwell was the great destroyer of all the old castles, abbeys, &c. in Ireland),--when the
Danes were building the Castle of Ballyportree, they collected workmen from all quarters, and
forced them to labour night and day without stopping for rest or food; and according as any
of them fell down from exhaustion, his body was thrown upon the wall, which was built up over
him! When {491} the castle was finished, its inhabitants tyrannised over the whole country,
until the time arrived when the Danes were finally expelled from Ireland. Ballyportree Castle
held out to the last, but at length it was taken after a fierce resistance, only three of the
garrison being found alive, who proved to be a father and his two sons; the infuriated conquerors
were about to kill them also, when one of then proposed that their lives should be spared,
and a free passage to their own country given them, on condition that they taught the Irishmen
how to brew the famous ale from the heather--that secret so eagerly coveted by the Irish, and
so zealously guarded by the Danes. At first neither promises nor threats had any effect on
the prisoners, but at length the elder warrior consented to tell the secret on condition that
his two sons should first be put to death before his eyes, alleging his fear, that when he
returned to his own country, they might cause him to be put to death for betraying the secret.
Though somewhat surprised at his request, the Irish chieftains immediately complied with it,
and the young men were slain. Then the old warrior exclaimed, "Fools! I saw that your threats
and your promises were beginning to influence my sons; for they were but boys, and might have
yielded: but now the secret is safe, your threats or your promises have no effect on me!" Enraged
at their disappointment, the Irish soldiers hewed the stern northman in pieces, and the coveted
secret is still unrevealed.

In the South of Scotland a legend, almost word for word the same as the above, is told of an
old castle there, with the exception that, instead of Danes, the old warrior and his sons are
called Pechts. After the slaughter of his sons the old man's eyes are put out, and he is left
to drag on a miserable existence: he lives to an immense old age, and one day, when all the
generation that fought with him have passed away, he hears the young men celebrating the feats
of strength performed by one of their number; the old Pecht asks for the victor, and requests
him to let him feel his wrist; the young man feigns compliance with his request, but places
an iron crow-bar in the old man's hand instead of his wrist; the old Pecht snaps the bar of
iron in two with his fingers, remarking quietly to the astounded spectators, that "it is a
gey bit gristle, and has not much pith in it yet." The story is told in the second volume of
Chambers's Edinburgh Journal, first series, I think; but I have not the volume at hand to refer
to. The similarity between the two legends is curious and interesting.

FRANCIS ROBERT DAVIES.

       *       *       *       *       *

ARCHAIC WORDS.

(Vol. vii., p. 400., &c.)

The following list of words, which do not appear in Mr. Halliwell's Dictionary of Archaic Words,
may form some contribution, however small, to the enlargement of that and of some of our more
comprehensive English dictionaries. It falls in with the desire already expressed in "N. &
Q.;" and, if the present paper seem worth inserting, may be followed by another. In some few
cases, though the word does appear in Mr. Halliwell's columns, an authority is deficient; instances
having as it were turned up, and in rather uncommon sources, which seemed occasionally worth
supplying. It must be observed that the explanations given are, in some instances, mere conjectures,
and await more certain and accurate interpretation.

    Aege, age. The Festyvall, fol. cxii. recto, edit. 1528.

    Advyse, to view attentively. Strype's Memorials, under MARY, ch.
    xxviii. p. 234., folio, or vol. iv. p. 384. edit. 1816.

    Apause, to check. Foxe, Acts and Monuments, vii. 647.; and
    Merchant's Second Tale, 2093.

    Assemble, to resemble. Bale's Image of both Churches, Part II. p.
    378., edit. 1849.

    Beclepe, to embrace. The Festyvall, fol. xxxvi. recto, edit. 1528:
    "The ymage--becleped the knyght about the necke, and kyssed hym."

    Bluck, ...(?) "So the true men shall be hunted and blucked."--The
    Festyvall, fol. xxvi. recto.

    Boystously, roughly. "Salome--boystously handled our Lady."--The
    Festyvall, fol. lxvii. verso.

    Brince, to introduce, hand out, propino. "Luther first brinced to
    Germany the poisoned cup of his heresies."--Harding in Bishop Jewel's
    Works, vol. iv. p. 335., edit. Oxford, 1848.

    Bussing. "Without the blind bussings of a Papist, may no sin be
    solved."--Bishop Bale's Image of both Churches on the Revelation, ch.
    xiii. p. 431., edit. Cambridge, 1849.

    Croked. A curious application of this word occurs in The Festyvall,
    fol. cxxviii. recto: "A croked countenance."

    Daying, arbitration. Jewel's Works, i. 387. See Dr. Jelf's note,
    in loc.

    Dedeful, operative? "This vertue is dedefull to all Chrysten
    People."--The Festyvall, fol. clxxii. recto.

    Do, to do forth; meaning, to proceed with, to go on with, occurs in
    The Festyvall. fol. viii. verso.

    Domageable, injurious. The Festyvall, fol. cxi. recto: "How
    domageable it is to them which use for to saye in theyr bargens and
    marchaundyses, makynge to the prejudyce--of their soules."

    Dyssclaunderer, a calumniator. "To stone hym (Stephen) to deth as for
    a dyssclaunderer."--The Festyvall, fol. lxx. verso.

    Enclense, to make clean. The Festyvall, fol. lxxxviii. recto.

    Enforcement, effort? Erasmus' Enchiridion, 1533, Rule IV. ch. xii.

    {492} Engrease, to overfeed. "Riches, wherewithal they are fatted and
    engreased like swine."--Foxe's Acts and Monuments, v. 615. edit.
    1843.

    Ensignement, ... (?) The Festyvall, fol. cliv. recto: "And whan all
    the people come so togyder at this ensignement."

    Entrecounter, to oppose. Brook's Sermon, 1553, quoted in Foxe's
    Acts and Monuments, vol. viii. p. 782.

    Fele. An application of this word may be quoted, partaking of a
    Grecism, unless we mistake: "And whan the people felte the smell
    therof."--The Festyvall, fol. c. recto.

    Flytterynge: "lyghtnynge, and not flytterynge."--The Festyvall,
    fol. xliv. verso, edit. 1528.

NOVUS.

       *       *       *       *       *

Minor Notes.

Inscriptions on Buildings.--The following inscriptions are taken from buildings connected with
the hospital of Spital-in-the-Street, co. Lincoln.

On the chapel:

 "FVI A^O D[=N]I    1398 }
  NON FVI           1594 }  DOM DEI & PAVPERVM.
  SVM               1616 }

  QVI HANC DEVS HVNC DESTRVET."

On the wall of a cottage, formerly one of the alms-houses:

 "DEO ET DIVITIBVS.
  A^O D[=N]I 1620."

On the wall of a building now used as a barn, but formerly the Court-house, in which the Quarter
Sessions for the parts of Lindsey were formerly held, before their transfer to Kirton in Lindsey:

             "FIAT IVSTITIA.
                  1619."
               "HAEC DOMVS
  DIT, AMAT, PVNIT, CONSERVAT, HONORAT,
  EQVITIAM, PACEM, CRIMINA, JVRA, BONOS."

L. L. L.

Epitaphs.--The following specimen of rural monumental Latin is copied from a tombstone in the
churchyard of Henbury, Gloucestershire:

              "Hic jacet
          Requiesant in pace,
          HENRICUS PARSONES.
       Qui obtit XXV. die Junes,
        Anno Dominii MDCCCXLV,
            Aetatis suae XX.
  Cujus animia proprietur Christus."

The following is from the churchyard of Kingston-Seymour, Somersetshire:

             "J. H.
  He was universally beloved in the circle of
  His acquaintance; but united
  In his death the esteem of all,
  Namely, by bequeathing his remains."

J. K. R. W.

Numbers.--We occasionally see calculations of how often a given number of persons may vary
their position at a table, and each time produce a fresh arrangement. I believe the result
may be arrived at by progressive multiplication, as thus:

  Twice 1                       2
                                3
                              ---
  Giving for three persons      6 changes.
                                4
                              ---
  Giving for four persons      24 changes.
                                5
                              ---
  Giving for five persons     120 changes.
                                6
                              ---
  Giving for six persons      720 changes,

and so on. Probably also change-ringing is governed by the same mode of calculation.

J. D. ALLCROFT.

CELTIC LANGUAGE.--As fraus latet in generalibus in linguistics as in law, I beg to suggest
that, instead of using the word Celtic, the words Gaelic, Cymbric, Breton, Armorican, Welsh,
Irish, &c. might be properly appropriated. The mother Celtic is lost,--her remains are to be
found only in the names of mountains, rivers, and countries; and our knowledge of this tongue
is derived from an acquaintance with her two principal daughters, the Gaelic and Cymbric (=Kymric).
The Gaelic tongue has been driven by Germanic invasion into Ireland (Erse), and into the Highlands
of Scotland (Gaelic). The Cymbric tongue first took refuge in Belgium, known afterwards as
Breton, and still lives as Welsh and Bas-Breton, which (and not the Gaelic) is nearest of kin
in some words to the Latin and Italian.

To understand this subject, the profound induction of Eichhoff must be studied carefully.

T. J. BUCKTON.

Lichfield.

Illustration of Longfellow--"God's Acre."--Longfellow's very beautiful little poem, commencing:

 "I like that ancient Saxon phrase, which calls
    The burial-ground God's acre."

is doubtless familiar to all your readers. It may interest some of them to know, that the "ancient
Saxon phrase" has not yet become obsolete. I read the words "GOTTES ACKER," when at Basle last
autumn, inscribed over the entrance to a modern cemetery, just outside the St. Paul's Gate
of that city.

W. SPARROW SIMPSON.

       *       *       *       *       *

{493}

Queries.

JOHN LOCKE.

I shall be much obliged if any gentleman who has the power of access to the registers of Wrington,
Somerset, or who may otherwise take an interest in the descent of John Locke the philosopher,
will kindly assist me to prove that the parents of that eminent man were as supposed to be
in the accompanying pedigree.

  Edmund Keene of Wrington, = Mary, daughter of ... described as a widow,
    county Somerset.        |   October 15, 1631. (Court Roll.)
     |
    |                              |      |            :     |
    |                              |      |            :    ... = ... Morris.
    |                              |      |            :       /|\
    |                              |      |            :
  Edmund Keene of  = Frances,    John.  Richard  Agnes Keene, = John Locke
  Wrington. Yeoman.| daughter of          (?).    married     :
  Will dated       | ... Locke(?).                at Wrington,:
  September 12,    |  Executrix                   July 15,    :
  1667 (in which   |  of her                      1630.       :
  he mentions his  |  husband's will.                         :
  "loving brother  |                             John Locke the philosopher,
  Peter Locke."    |                              baptized August 29, 1632.
  Who was he?)     |
      |
     |       |          |      |        |
  Samuel   John,      Peter. Sarah.   Mary, baptized at    = John Darbie of
  Keene.   baptized   Both baptized   Wrington, February 27,  Shirbourne,
    :      October 8,  October 24,    1633, by her father's   co. Dorset,
    :      1635.         1639.        will had lands at       Mercer.
    :        :                        Wrington and Ley.       (Deed, August
    ::                        Will dat. August 16,    16, 1676.)
    |                                 1717. by  which she
   Frances Keene.  = Joseph Watkins   devised her estate at
  (Daughter of     |  of Abingdon.    Wrington to her niece Frances Watkins
  Samuel or John?) |                  of Abingdon, widow, remainder to her
                   |                  son Joseph. Died November 27, 1717.
                   |
  Joseph Watkins of Clapton, Middlesex, = Magdalen, daughter of... Gibbes.
                 Esq.                  /|\

I observe that in Chalmers' Dictionary the mother of Locke is called Anne, whereas, in the
Wrington register, I am informed that it appears as Agnes,--"1630, July 15, (married) John
Locke and Agnes Keene." I believe, however, that in former days Anne and Agnes were not unfrequently
confounded, so that the apparent discrepancy may not be material.

The best evidence that is at present within my reach, in support of the connexion here given,
is a letter from Mrs. Frances Watkins, a daughter of either Samuel or John Keene, dated "Abingdon,
January, 1754," addressed to her son "Joseph Watkins, Esq., at John's Coffee House, Cornhill,
London," and from which I make the following extract for the information of those who may be
disposed to look into this question. She says,--

    "I am allied to Mr. Lock thus: His father and my grandmother were
    brother and sister, and his mother and my grandfather were also sister
    and brother, consequently my father and the great Lock were doubly
    first cousins. My grandfather's sister and my grandmother's brother
    produced this wonder of the world. To make you more sensible of it, a
    Lock married a Keen, and a Keen married a Lock. My aunt Keen was a most
    beautiful woman, as was all the family; and my uncle Lock an extream
    wise man. So much for genealogy. My Lord Chancellor King was allied
    thus near. I forgett whether his mother was a Keen or Lock. I had this
    information from my aunt Darby. Mr. Lock had no advantage in his
    person, but was a very fine gentleman. From foreign Courts they used to
    write, 'For John Lock, Esq., in England.'"

C. J.

       *       *       *       *       *

Minor Queries.

"The Village Lawyer."--Can you inform me who is the author of that very popular farce, The
Village Lawyer? It was first acted about the year 1787. It has been ascribed to Mr. Macready,
the father of Mr. W. C. Macready, the eminent tragedian. The real author, however, is said
to have been a dissenting minister in Dublin, and I would be obliged to any of your readers
who could give me his name.

SIGMA.

Richard Plantagenet, Earl of Cambridge.--In a note in the first volume of Miss Strickland's
Lives of the Queens of Scotland, she remarks that Bourchier, Earl of Essex, "was near of kin
to the royal family, being grand-nephew to Richard, Duke of York, father of Edward IV., but
did not share the blood of the heiress of March, Jane Mortimer." I quote from memory, not having
the book at hand; but allowing that Jane for Anne may be a slip of the pen, or a mistake of
the press, where did Miss Strickland discover any second marriage of Richard, Earl of Cambridge?
All pedigrees of the royal family that I have seen agree in giving him only one wife, and in
expressly stating her to be mother to Isabel, Countess of Essex.

J. S. WARDEN.

Highland Regiment.-Can any of your Gaelic or military correspondents inform me whether it is
at present the custom for the officers in the Highland regiments to wear a dirk in addition
to the broadsword? Also whether the Highland regiments were ever armed with broadswords, and
{494} whether their drill is different to that of the other troops of the line? I have somewhere
heard it said that the 28th (an English regiment) were once armed with swords, whence their
name of "The Slashers?" Is this the real origin of the name? and if not, what is? I should
also like to know the origin of the custom of wearing undress white shell jackets, which are
now worn by the Highlanders?

ARTHUR.

Ominous Storms.--A remark by a labouring man of this town (Grantham), which is new to me, is
to the following effect. In March, and all seasons when the judges are on circuit, and when
there are any criminals to be hanged, there are always winds and storms, and roaring tempests.
Perhaps there are readers of "N. & Q." who have met with the same idea.

JOHN HAWKINS.

Edward Fitzgerald, born 17th January, 1528, son of Gerald, ninth Earl of Kildare, and brother
of the celebrated "Silken Thomas," an ancestor of the Duke of Leinster, married Mary, daughter
and heiress of Sir John Leigh of Addington, and widow of Sir Thomas Paston (called improperly
Sir John). There are contradictory pedigrees of the Leigh family in the Surrey Visitations,
e. g. Harl. MSS. 1147. and 5520. Could one of your correspondents oblige me with a correct
pedigree of this Mary Leigh; she is sometimes called "Mabel?"

Y. S. M.

Boyle Family.--Allow me to repeat the Query regarding Richard Boyle (Vol. vii., p. 430.). Richard
Boyle, appointed Dean of Limerick 5th Feb. 1661, and Bishop of Leighlin and Ferns in 1666,
died in 1682. Roger Boyle, the youngest brother of Richard, was born in 1617, and educated
in Trinity College, Dublin, of which he became a Fellow. On the breaking out of the rebellion
of 1641 he went to England, and having become tutor to Lord Paulet, he continued in that family
till the Restoration, when he returned to Ireland, and was presented with the Rectory of Carrigaline,
diocese of Cork. He was made Dean of Cork in 1662, and promoted to the Bishopric of Down and
Connor 12th Sept. 1667. He was translated to Clogher, 21st September, 1672, and died 26th November,
1687. The sister of these prelates was wife to the Rev. Urban Vigors (Vol. viii., p. 340.).
They were near relatives of the great Earl of Cork, and many of their descendants have been
buried in his tomb, in St. Patrick's Cathedral, Dublin. I have not seen any reply to my Query
about Mr. Vigors. May I ask is there any list of the chaplains of King Charles I.?

Y. S. M.

Inn Signs.--As the subject of inns is being discussed, can any of your readers tell the origin
of "The Green Man and Still?" And is there any foundation for a statement, that "the chequers"
have been found on Italian wine-shops, and were imported from Egypt, having there been the
emblem of Osiris.

S. A.

Oxford.

Demoniacal Descent of the Plantagenets.--In "N. & Q.," Vol. vii., p. 73., I asked for information
as to the demoniacal ancestor of Henry II., confessing my own ignorance of the tradition. I
received no answer, but was induced to inquire farther by a passage in the article on "A'Becket"
in the Quarterly Review, xciii. 349.

    "These words goaded the king into one of those paroxysms of fury to
    which all the earlier Plantagenet princes were subject, and which was
    believed by them to arise from a mixture of demoniacal blood in their
    race."

The following is from Thierry, tom. iii. p. 330., Paris, 1830:

    "L'on racontait d'une ancienne Comtesse d'Anjou, aieule du pere de
    Henri II., que son mari ayant remarque avec effroi, qu'elle allait
    rarement a l'eglise, et qu'elle en sortait toujours a la sacre de la
    messe, s'avisa de l'y faire retenir de force par quatre ecuyers; mais
    qu'a l'instant de la consecration, la Comtesse, jettant le manteau par
    lequel on la tenait, s'etait envolee par une fenetre, et n'avait jamais
    reparu. Richard de Poictiers, selon un contemporain, avait coutume de
    rapporter cette aventure, et de dire a ce propos: 'Est-il etonnant que,
    sortis d'une telle source, nous vivions mal, les uns avec les autres?
    Ce qui provient du diable doit retourner au diable.'"

Thierry quotes Brompton apud Scriptores Rerum Francorum, tom. xiii. p. 215.:

    "Istud Ricardus referre solebat, asserens de tali genere procedentes
    sese mutuo infestent, tanquam de diabolo venientes, et ad diabolum
    transeuntes."

I shall be glad of any assistance in tracing the story up or down.

H. B. C.

U. U. Club.

Anglo-Saxon Graves.--The world is continually hearing now of researches in Anglo-Saxon graves.
I beg to inquire whether Anglo-Saxon coins or inscriptions have been found in any of these,
so as to identify them with the people to whom these interments are ascribed? or upon what
other proof or authority these graves are so assigned to the Anglo-Saxons?

H. E.

Robert Brown the Separatist.--Robert Brown the Separatist, from whom his followers were called
"Brownists." Whom did he marry, and when? In the Biog. Brit. he is said to have been the son
of Anthony Brown of Tolthorp, Rutland, Esq. (though born at Northampton, according to Mr. Collier),
and grandson of Francis Brown, whom King Henry VIII., in the eighteenth year of his reign,
privileged by charter to wear his {495} cap in the royal presence. He was nearly allied to
the Lord Treasurer Cecil Lord Burleigh, who was his friend and powerful protector. Burleigh's
aunt Joan, daughter of David Cyssel of Stamford (grandfather of the Lord Treasurer) by his
second wife, married Edmund Brown. She was half-sister of Richard Cyssel of Burleigh, the Lord
Treasurer's father. What connexion was there between Edmund Brown and Anthony Brown of Tolthorp?

Fuller (Ch. Hist., b. ix. p. 168.) says, he had a wife with whom he never lived, and a church
in which he never preached. His church was in Northamptonshire, and he died in Northampton
Gaol in 1630.

From 1589 to 1592 he was master of St. Olave's Grammar School in Southwark.

G. R. CORNER.

Eltham.

Commissions issued by Charles I. at Oxford.--In Lord Campbell's Lives of the Chancellors, vol.
ii. p. 604., it is stated that a commission was granted to Lord Keeper Littleton to raise a
corps of volunteers for the royal service among the members of the legal profession, "and that
the docquet of that commission remains among the instruments passed under the great seal of
King Charles I. at Oxford." P. C. S. S. is very desirous to know where a list of these instruments
can be consulted?

P. C. S. S.

       *       *       *       *       *

Minor Queries with Answers.

Hogmanay.--This word, applied in Scotland to the last day of the year, is derived by Jamieson
(I believe, but have not his Dictionary to refer to) from the Greek [Greek: hagia mene].

Can any of your correspondents north of the Tweed, or elsewhere, give the correct source?

W. T. M.

Hong Kong.

    [Our correspondent is probably not aware that Brand, in his Popular
    Antiquities, vol. i. pp. 457-461. (Bohn's edit.), has devoted a
    chapter to this term. Among other conjectural etymologies he adds the
    following: "We read in the Scotch Presbyterian Eloquence Displayed,
    that it is ordinary among some plebeians in the South of Scotland to go
    about from door to door on New Year's Eve, crying Hagmena, a
    corrupted word from the Greek [Greek: agia mene] i. e. holy month.
    John Dixon, holding forth against this custom once, in a sermon at
    Kelso, says: 'Sirs, do you know what hagmane signifies? It is, the
    devil be in the house! that's the meaning of its Hebrew original,'
    p. 102. Bourne agrees in the derivation of Hagmena given in the Scotch
    Presbyterian Eloquence Displayed. 'Angli,' says Hospinian,
    'Haleg-monath, quasi sacrum mensem vocant.' De Origine Ethn., p.
    81." See also an ingenious essay on Hagmena in the Caledonian Mercury
    for Jan. 2, 1792, from which the most important parts have been
    extracted by Dr. Jamieson in his art. "Hogmanay."]

Longfellow's "Hyperion."--Can any of your readers tell me why that magnificent work of Longfellow's,
which though in prose contains more real poetry than nine-tenths of the volumes of verse now
published, is called Hyperion?

MORDAN GILLOTT.

    [Hyperion is an epithet applied to Apollo, and is used by Shakspeare,
    Hamlet, Act I. Sc. 2.:

     "Hyperion to a satyr."

    Warburton says, "This similitude at first sight seems to be a little
    far-fetched, but it has an exquisite beauty. By the satyr is meant Pan,
    as by Hyperion Apollo. Pan and Apollo were brothers, and the allusion
    is to the contention between those gods for the preference in music."
    Steevens, on the other hand, believes that Shakspeare "has no allusion
    in the present instance, except to the beauty of Apollo, and its
    immediate opposite, the deformity of a satyr." Hyperion or Apollo is
    represented in all the ancient statues as exquisitely beautiful, the
    satyrs hideously ugly.]

Sir Hugh Myddelton.--Where was Sir Hugh Myddleton buried? and has a monument been erected to
his memory? I have searched several encyclopaedias and other works, but they make no mention
of his place of sepulture.

Hughson, I think, states it to be St. Matthew's, Friday Street; but I believe this is not correct.

J. O. W.

    [There is a statue of Sir Hugh Myddelton, by Carew, in the New Royal
    Exchange. See Cunningham's Handbook of London, from which work we
    learn (p. 327.) that "the register of St. Matthew's, Friday Street,
    abounds in entries relating to the family of Sir Hugh Myddleton."
    Cunningham does not mention his burial-place; but in the pedigree of
    the family given in Lewis's History of Islington, it is stated that
    he was buried in the churchyard of St. Matthew, London.]

Sangarede.--The expression "sangarede," or "sangared," occurs in two ancient wills, one dated
1504, in which the testator bequeathed--

    "To the sepulkyr lyght vi hyves of beene to pray ffor me and my wyffe
    in y^e comon sangered."--Lib. Fuller, f. 70.

In the other, dated 1515, this passage occurs:

    "I wyll y^t Ione my wyff here a yeere daye for me yeerly terme of her
    lyfe in the church of Mendlshm, and after here decesse y^e towne of
    Mendelyshm here a sangarede for me and my wyfe in the church of
    Mendlshm perpetually."

I should be much obliged if you or one of your correspondents could furnish me with an intimation
of the meaning of the term.

LAICUS.

    [Sangared, i. e. the chantry, or chanting, from the Saxon sangere,
    a singer.]

Salubrity of Hallsal, near Ormskirk, Lancashire.--Between the 19th of February and the 14th
of {496} May, 1800, ten persons died in this parish whose ages, as recorded on their tombs
in the order of their departure, were 74, 84, 37, 70, 84, 70, 72, 62, 80, 90. This year must
have been a fatal one to old people. Can any of the correspondents of "N. & Q." tell anything
about the season?

W. J.

Bootle.

    [The beginning of the year 1800 was unusually severe; in February, ice
    covered the ground so completely, that people skaited through the
    streets and roads; and in March, easterly winds prevailed with
    extraordinary violence. For the verification of these facts, consult
    the Meteorological diaries in the Gentleman's Magazine of the above
    period.]

Athens.--What is the origin of the term "violet-crowned city," as applied to Athens? Macaulay
uses the expression in his History of England, but does not state how it was acquired.

E. A. T.

    [The ancient Greeks and Romans, at their festive entertainments, wore
    garlands of flowers, and the violet was the favourite of the Athenians,
    than whom no people were more devoted to mirth, conviviality, and
    sensual pleasure. Hence the epithet was also given to Venus, [Greek:
    Kupris iostephanos], as in some verses recorded by Plutarch, in his
    Life of Solon. Aristophanes twice applies the word to his sybarite
    countrymen: Equites, v. 1323., and Acarn. i. 637.]

James Miller.--Who was Miller, mentioned by Warburton as a writer of farces about 1735?

I. R. R.

    [James Miller, a political and dramatic writer, was born in Dorsetshire
    in 1703. He received his education at Wadham College, Oxford; and while
    at the university, wrote a satiric piece called The Humours of
    Oxford, which created him many enemies, and hindered his preferment.
    He also published several political pamphlets against Sir Robert
    Walpole; and also the tragedy of Mahomet, and other plays. He died in
    1744.]

       *       *       *       *       *

Replies.

BRYDONE.

(Vol. ix., pp 138. 255. 305. 432.)

TRAVELLER having honoured me by alluding to a little work of mine, written thirty-five years
ago, I may perhaps be permitted to correct a few errors (trifling, because personal) in his
notice. My affinity was that of a cousin, not uncle, to the late lord my predecessor. I never
had the military rank assigned to me, but was at the time like TRAVELLER himself, a "youngster"
freshly emancipated from Oxford to the Continent: and had little more pretension in printing
the extracts from my Journal, than to comply with the kind wishes of many friends and relatives.

But to pass to what is more important, the character of Brydone, at the time I speak of there
were no useful handbooks in existence; and tourists took for the purpose such volumes of travels
as they could carry. Brydone, for this, was unfit. The French criticism (quoted Vol. ix., 306.)
rightly says, that he sacrificed truth to piquancy in his narrations. Still it is a heavy charge
to suspect so gross a deviation, as that of inventing the description of an ascent which he
never accomplished; especially when the ascent is a feat not at all difficult. The evidence
for this disbelief must be derived from a series of errors in the account, which I do not remember
to have observed while reading him on the spot. The charitable supposition of MR. MACRAY, that
he mistook the summit, is hardly compatible with so defined a cone as that of Etna; but all
must agree with his just estimate of that description, and which the Biographie Universelle
itself terms "chef d'oeuvre de narration." Brydone, no doubt, is as unsafe for the road as
he is amusing for the study, and perhaps from that very reason.

MONSON.

Gatton Park. The subjoined extracts from that work confirm that note, vol. i, pp. 104. 156. 162.

August 8, 1820. Coleridge:

    "I at least am as well as I ever am, and my regular employment, in
    which Mr. Green is weekly my amanuensis, [is] the work on the books of
    the Old and New Testaments, introduced by the assumptions and
    postulates required as the preconditions of a fair examination of
    Christianity as a scheme of doctrines, precepts, and histories, drawn
    or at least deducible from these books."

January, 1821. Editor:

    "The prospectus of these lectures (viz. on Philosophy) is so full of
    interest, and so well worthy of attention, that I subjoin it; trusting
    that the Lectures themselves will soon be furnished by, or under the
    auspices of Mr. Green, the most constant and the most assiduous of his
    disciples. That gentleman will, I earnestly hope--and doubt not--see,
    feel, the necessity of giving the whole of his great master's views,
    opinions, and anticipations; not those alone in which he more entirely
    sympathises, or those which may have more ready acceptance in the
    present time. He will not shrink from the great, the sacred duty he
    has voluntarily undertaken, from any regards of prudence, still less
    from that most hopeless form of fastidiousness, the wish to conciliate
    those who are never to be conciliated, inferior minds smarting under
    a sense of inferiority, and the imputation which they are conscious is
    just, that but for Him they never could have been; that distorted,
    dwarfed, changed, as are all his views and opinions, by passing
    athwart minds with which they could not assimilate, they are yet
    almost the only things which give such minds a status in literature."

How has Mr. Green discharged the duties of this solemn trust? Has he made any attempt to give
publicity to the Logic, the "great work" on Philosophy, the work on the Old and New Testaments,
to be called The Assertion of Religion, or the History of Philosophy, all of which are in his
custody, and of which the first is, on the testimony of Coleridge himself, a finished work?
We know from the Letters, vol. ii. pp. 11. 150., that the Logic is an essay in three parts,
viz. the "Canon," the "Criterion," and the "Organon;" of these the last only can be in any
respect identical with the Treatise on Method. There are other works of Coleridge missing;
to these I will call attention in a future Note. For the four enumerated above Mr. Green is
responsible. He has lately received the homage of the University of Oxford in the shape of
a D.C.L.; he can surely afford a fraction of the few years that may still be allotted to him
in re-creating the fame of, and in discharging his duty to, his great master. If, however,
he cannot afford the time, trouble, and cost of the undertaking, I make him this public offer;
I will, myself, take the responsibility of the publication of the above-mentioned four works,
if he will entrust me with the MSS.

The Editor will, I doubt not, be good enough to forward to the learned Doctor a copy of the
Number in which this appeal is published.

C. MANFIELD INGLEBY.

Birmingham.

       *       *       *       *       *

MR. JUSTICE TALFOURD AND DR. BEATTIE.

(Vol. ix., p 393.)

There is so much similarity of character, in respect of sympathy for the humbler position and
the well-being of others, between this lamented judge and that of the professor who is depicted
by his biographer in the following extract, that I hope you will agree with me in thinking
it worthy of being framed, and hung up as a companion-sketch in your pages:

    "As a Professor, not his own class only, but the whole body of students
    at the University, looked up to him with esteem and veneration. The
    profound piety of the public prayers, with which he began the business
    of each day, arrested the attention of the youngest and most
    thoughtless; the excellence of his moral character; his gravity blended
    with cheerfulness, his strictness joined with gentleness, his favour to
    the virtuous and diligent, and even the mildness of his reproofs to
    those who were less attentive, rendered him the object of their respect
    and admiration. Never was more exact discipline preserved than in his
    class, nor ever anywhere by more gentle means. His sway was absolute,
    because it was founded in reason and affection. He never employed a
    harsh epithet in finding fault with any of his pupils; and when,
    instead of a rebuke which they were conscious they deserved, they met
    merely with a mild reproof, it was conveyed in such a manner as to
    throw not only the delinquent, but sometimes the whole class into
    tears. To gain his favour was the highest ambition of every student;
    and the gentlest word of disapprobation was a punishment, to avoid
    which, no exertion was deemed too much. His great object was not merely
    to make his pupils philosophers, but to render them good men, pious
    Christians, loyal to their king, and attached to the British
    constitution; pure in morals, happy in the consciousness of a right
    conduct, and friends to all mankind."

This is the language of Dr. Beattie's biographer, who knew him intimately. Cowper, the poet,
thus writes of him to the Rev. W. Unwin, from a knowledge of his works:

    "I thanked you in my last for Johnson; I now thank you with more
    emphasis for Beattie--the most agreeable and amiable writer I ever met
    with--the only author I have seen whose critical and philosophical
    researches are diversified and embellished by a poetical imagination,
    that makes even the driest subject, and the leanest, a feast for an
    epicure in books. He is so much at his ease too, that his own character
    appears in every page; and, which is rare, we see not only the writer,
    but the man; and that man so gentle, so well-tempered, so happy in his
    religion, and so humane in his philosophy, that it is necessary to love
    him, if one has any sense of what is lovely."--Life of Dr. Beattie,
    by Sir William Forbes, Bart.

J. M.

Oxford.

       *       *       *       *       *

{498}

RUSSIAN "TE DEUM."

(Vol. ix., p. 325.)

The following is a translation of this Greek doxology, as contained in the Prayer-Book of the
Greek Church, under the title '[Greek: Horologion to mega, Benatiai, Tupog. Nikulaou Gluke],
1845, p. 75.:

    1. Glory to Thee, the Giver of light.

    2. Glory to God on high, and on earth peace, good-will towards men.

    3. O Lord King, heavenly God, Father Almighty, O Lord, only begotten
    Son Jesus Christ, and Holy Spirit.

    5. O Lord God, Lamb of God, Son of the Father, that taketh away the sin
    of the world; have mercy upon us, Thou that takest away the sins of the
    world.

    6. Accept our prayer; Thou that sittest at the Father's right hand,
    have mercy on us:

    7. For Thou only art holy; Thou only, Lord Jesus Christ, art in the
    glory of God the Father. Amen.

    8. Day by day I bless Thee, and I praise Thy name for ever, and for all
    eternity.

    9. Vouchsafe, Lord, this day to keep me sinless.

    10. Blessed art Thou, Lord, the God of our fathers; and praised and
    glorified be Thy name for ever. Amen.

    11. Lord, let Thy mercy be on us, as we trust in Thee.

    12. Blessed art Thou, Lord; teach me Thy statutes.

    13. Lord, Thou hast been our refuge from one generation to another.

    14. I said, Lord be merciful unto me; heal my soul, for I have sinned
    against Thee.

    15. Lord, I fly to Thee; teach me to do Thy will, for Thou art my God;

    16. For with Thee is a well of life, in Thy light shall we see light.

    17. Extend Thy mercy to them that know Thee.

    18. O holy God, holy Strength, holy Immortal, have mercy on us. Amen.

Verses 2. to 7. are identical with the Gloria in Excelsis, or the Angelic Hymn, sung at the
conclusion of the Lord's Supper in the Anglican Church, but which commences the Mass in the
Romish Church. It is of great antiquity, being attributed to Telesphorus, A.D. 139, and is
found in the Apostolic Constitutions, vii. c. 48.

Verses 8, 9. 11. are the same as in the Latin Te Deum.

Verse 12. is from Psalm cxix. 12.

Verse 13. is from Psalm xc. 1.

Verse 14. is from Psalm xli. 4.

Verse 15. is from Psalm cxliii. 9, 10.

Verse 16. is from Psalm xxxvi. 9.

Verse 17. is from Psalm xxxvi. 10.

T. J. BUCKTON.

Lichfield.

In answer to your correspondent HONORE DE MAREVELLE'S Query regarding the Te Deum as sung in
Russia, I beg to inform him that in whatever language the Emperor Nicholas is most familiar
with this hymn, it is sung in all their churches in Sclavonic, which is only intelligible to
the priests and a very small number of the laity, the mass of the people being quite ignorant
of this old language. All the services in Russian churches are performed in Sclavonic.

The Old Testament is not permitted to be read by the people in modern Russ, by command of the
Emperor; it is circulated sparingly in Sclavonic, which is of course useless to most of the
people, for the reason named above. The New Testament is, however, allowed to circulate in
modern Russ, and not half the population read that, perhaps not more than a third.

With regard to their images or pictures (alluded to by me in Vol. viii., p. 582.), I had not
only perused the works mentioned by G. W. (Vol. ix., p. 86.) before I wrote about the Russian
religion, &c., but several other works besides.[1]

Having been in the country for some little time, and paid some attention to the subject, I
was certainly surprised to find little, if any, mention made of their manner of worship or
superstitious customs in Dr. Blackmore's works, and wished to contribute my mite towards giving
your readers some information as to the state of this semi-civilised race.

From Translations of Russian Works you can glean nothing but what the Russian government chooses,
as every work goes through a severe censorship before it is allowed to be printed for circulation;
and if there is anything in it that is not liked, it is not permitted to be published unless
those parts are suppressed.

It is perhaps only partially known that there is some difficulty in getting English books and
newspapers into Russia, as all must go through the censor's office. The Times (which is however
all but, if not quite, prohibited at St. Petersburg, and has been so a long time), Punch, and
other of our papers, possess a ludicrous appearance after having passed through the hands of
the worthies in the censor's office, sometimes there being very little left of them to read.

Whilst writing about images, I omitted to name one or two other circumstances that have come
under my own notice, showing still farther the superstitious veneration in which they are held
by the Russians.

In the case of a house on fire, one of the inmates, with his head uncovered, carries the image
three times round the burning house, under the {499} belief that it will cause the fire to
cease, never attempting to put it out by any other means.

At Moscow there is a very noted image of the Virgin Mary; it is deposited in a recess at one
side of an archway leading to the Kremlin. Every person passing through this archway is obliged
to uncover his head. I had to do so whenever I passed through. The belief of the efficacy of
this image in healing diseases is universal. When any person is ill, by paying the priests
handsomely, they will bring it with great pomp, in a carriage and four horses, to the sick
person's house, who must recover, or else, if death ensues, they say it is so fated.

Instances of other images in various parts of the empire, some believed to have fallen from
heaven, might be multiplied to any extent. I mention these to show that, whatever these representations
of the Deity may be called, I had not written unadvisedly previously, as might be surmised
by G. W.'s remarks. Everybody must deplore the wretched condition of these people; and the
Czar, well knowing their superstitious ideas, works upon their fanatical minds with such letters
as we all have had the sorrow of seeing a specimen of in The Times of to-day.[2]

J. S. A.

May 15, 1854.

[Footnote 1: Owing to an error in my original MS., or of the printers, they were called the
"gods," instead of their gods, answering to the ancient penates.]

[Footnote 2: Vide Nicholas to the Commandant of Odessa.]

       *       *       *       *       *

ARTESIAN WELLS.

(Vol. ix., p. 222.)

Your correspondent STYLITES is strongly advised not to set about making, or rather endeavouring
to make, a well of this description till he has been well advised of the feasibility of the
scheme in his particular locality. The old adage will apply in this case, "Ex quovis ligno,"
&c. It is not everywhere that an artesian well can be obtained with any depth of bore; that
is, a well which shall bring its water to or above the surface of the ground. But if, on sufficient
knowledge of the mineralogical structure of the country, it be declared that a well of the
true artesian sort cannot be obtained, STYLITES should dig his well, say fifteen or twenty
feet deep, and "stein" it, and then bore in search of a spring, unless a sufficient supply
is already obtained from the surface drainage. A moderate outlay in this way, unless the impervious
stratum be of very great thickness indeed, will generally bring up water, with a natural tendency
to rise within reach of a common pump, or of a well-bucket at the least.

But it may still happen that the water of the bore has not this natural tendency. In that case
the sinking of the well may be continued till the water is reached, and a sufficient depth
of reservoir obtained at the bottom.

M. (2)

As practical answers to the inquiries of STYLITES on this subject, I have to say, that common
wells are preferable to artesian in all cases where abundance of water is obtained at a depth
not exceeding thirty feet. I need not tell STYLITES that the common sucking-pump will not draw
up water from a depth exceeding thirty feet. The convenience of common wells is one reason
why artesian ones are not universally adopted; and a greater reason is that artesian wells
are very much more expensive to make than common ones. When artesian wells are preferable to
common ones is, when water cannot be obtained at a depth beyond the reach of the force-pump.
Two of my friends have made artesian wells; one a mill-spinner at Dundee, at a time when that
town was very ill supplied with water. He sunk a well 150 feet in depth and found no water.
A bore was then made through trap rock for upwards of 150 feet, and water was found in abundance
on reaching the underlying sandstone. The water ultimately reached near to the top of the well.
The other well was made by a bleacher in the neighbourhood of Lisburn in Ireland. All the surface
springs in his bleaching-grounds, which are extensive, did not supply a sufficient quantity
for his purposes. The subsoil being boulder clay, he had to bore through it to about 300 feet
before the water was met with; when it rose as near the top of the bore as to permit the use
of a common pump being worked by power. The theory of the action of artesian wells has been
explained by MR. BUCKTON (Vol. ix., p. 283.), but I have no hesitation in telling STYLITES
that he will find water almost anywhere in this country by means of an artesian bore.

HENRY STEPHENS.

       *       *       *       *       *

DOG-WHIPPERS.

(Vol. ix., p. 349.)

The following Notes may contain information for your correspondent C. F. W. on the subject
of dog-whippers.

Richard Dovey, of Farmcote in Shropshire, in the year 1659, charged certain cottages with the
payment of eight shillings to some poor man of the parish of Claverley, who should undertake
to awaken sleepers, and whip dogs from the church during divine service. Ten shillings and
sixpence per annum is now paid for the above service.

John Rudge by his will, dated in 1725, gave five shillings a quarter to a poor man to go about
the parish church of Trysull, in Staffordshire, during sermon, to keep people awake, and keep
dogs out of the church. This sum is still paid for that purpose.

At Chislet, in Kent, is a piece of land called "Dog-whipper's Marsh," about two acres, out
of {500} which the tenants pay ten shillings a year to a person for keeping order in the church
during divine service.

There is an acre of land in the parish of Peterchurch, Herefordshire, appropriated to the use
of a person for keeping dogs out of the church.

In the parish of Christchurch, Spitalfields, there is a charity fund called "cat and dog money,"
the interest on which is now divided annually amongst six poor widows of weavers of the names
of Fabry or Ovington. There is a tradition in the parish that this money was originally left
for the support of cats and dogs, but it is more probable that it was originally intended,
as in the cases above mentioned, to "whip dogs and cats" out of the church during divine service,
and that on the unforeseen increase in the fund after a lapse of years, it became appropriated
in the present way. This money was the subject of a chancery suit in the last century, and
the decree therein directed the present division.

Many of your readers will call to mind the yelp of some poor cur who had strolled through the
open door of a country church on some sultry day, and been ejected by the sexton. I myself
have often listened to the pit-a-pat in the quiet aisle, and I once remember a disturbance
in church caused by the quarrel of two dogs. Such scenes, and the fact that dogs were considered
unclean animals, most likely gave rise to the occupation of dog-whipper as a function of the
sexton. It will also be remembered that some dogs cannot forbear a howl at the sound of certain
musical instruments; and besides the simple inconvenience to the congregation, this howl may
have been considered a manifestation of antipathy to holy influences, as the devil was supposed
to fear holy water.

Landseer's well-known picture of "The Free Church" proves to us that amongst the Highland shepherds
the office does not now at least exist: and amongst other instances of the regular attendance
at church of these "unclean animals," I know one in Wales where a favourite dog always accompanied
his master to church, and stood up in the corner of the pew, keeping watch over the congregation
with the strictest decorum.

A NOTARY.

That persons bearing an office described by such a name were attached to great houses in the
sixteenth century, is clear from the well-known passage in The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act
IV. Sc. 4., where Launce says,--

    "I, having been acquainted with the smell before, knew it was Crab; and
    goes me to the fellow that whips the dogs: 'Friend,' quoth I, 'you
    mean to whip the dog?' 'Ay, marry do I,' quoth he," &c.

W. B. R.

Derby.

       *       *       *       *       *

CEPHAS, A BINDER, AND NOT A ROCK.

(Vol. ix., p. 368.)

I hope you will allow me to give a few reasons for dissenting from MR. MARGOLIOUTH. I will
promise to spare your space and avoid controversy.

1. The Hebrew word Caphis is only to be found in Hab. ii. 11. Hence it has been regarded as
of somewhat uncertain signification. However, by comparison with the Syrian verb [Hebrew: KPS]
(c'phas), we infer that it may denote that which grasps, gathers, or holds together; it is
therefore not synonymous with [Greek: deo], which is to bind, and is used in Matt. xvi. 19.

2. Proper names from the Hebrew, Chaldee, and Syriac, are generally written in Greek, with
the terminations of that language, as e. g. Jesus, John, James, Thomas, Judas, &c., and these
terminations are added to the radical letters of the name, which are all retained. It is easy
to see that Caphis would become Caphisus, while Cepho (Syriac for rock) would become Cephas,
just as Ehudo (Syriac, Jude) becomes Judas.

3. Still less likely would the name Caphis be to lose a radical in its transfer to the Syriac,
where Cephos is represented by Cepho, without s.

4. The paronomasia exhibited in the Latin, "Tu es Petrus, et super hanc petram," also appears
both in the Greek and the Syriac.

5. The difference of gender between the words Petrus and petra, moreover, is preserved in the
Syriac and appears in the Greek.

6. The figure of binding and loosing (v. 19.) is one which was common to the three languages,
Greek, Chaldee, and Syriac, in all of which it denotes "to remit or retain" sins, "to confirm
or abolish" a law, &c.

7. The occurrence of this figure in ch. xviii. 18., where the reference is not special to Peter,
but general to all the apostles. (Compare John xx. 23.)

8. The Syriac uniformly translates the name Peter by Cepho (i. e. Cephas), except once or twice
in Peter's epistles. This at least indicates their view of its meaning.

On the whole I see no reason to suppose that Cephas means anything but stone; certainly there
is much less reason for the proposed signification of binder.

In John i. 42., the clause which explains the name Cephas is absent from the Syriac version
in accordance with the regular and necessary practice of the translators to avoid tautology:
"Thou shalt be called Stone; which is by interpretation Stone!" (See the Journal of Sacred
Literature for January last, p. 457., for several examples of this.) There is here surely sufficient
reason to account for the omission of this clause, which, it {501} appears, is supported by
universal MS. authority, as well as by that of the other versions.

B. H. C.

The paronomasia of Kipho (=Rock) was made in the Syro-Chaldaic tongue, the vernacular language
of our Lord and his disciples. The apostle John, writing in Greek (i. 43.), explains the meaning
of Kipho ([Greek: Kephas]) by the usual Greek phrase [Greek: ho hermeneuetai Petros], which
phrase was necessarily omitted in the Syriac version, where this word Kipho was significant,
in the original sense, as used by our Lord, and therefore needed no such hermeneutic explanation.
Had our Lord spoken in Greek, and had the name [Greek: Kephas] been idem sonans with [Hebrew:
KPYS] (Hab. ii. 11.)--which, however, is not the case,--some slender support might have been
thereby afforded to MR. MARGOLIOUTH'S argument; but as he admits that our Lord did not speak
in the Greek tongue, such argument falls to the ground as void of all probability.

T. J. BUCKTON.

Lichfield.

       *       *       *       *       *

WHITTINGTON'S STONE.

(Vol. ix., p. 397.)

The disappearance of this celebrated memorial of a questionable legend, seems to have been
satisfactorily accounted for. The newspapers inform us that it has been taken to a mason's
yard for the purpose of reparation.

Those who lament the removal of the stone on which, as they imagine, the runaway apprentice
sat listening to the bells of Cheap, will perhaps be surprised to hear that the object of their
regret is at least the third of the stones which have successively stood upon the spot long
since the days of Whittington.

1. In a learned and interesting paper communicated to the pages of Sylvanus Urban (G. M. Dec.
1852) by T. E. T. (a well-known and respected local antiquary, who will yet, it is sincerely
hoped, enrich our libraries with a work on the ancient history of the northern suburbs, a task
for which he is pre-eminently qualified), it is shown that in all probability the site in question
was once occupied by a wayside cross, belonging to the formerly adjacent lazar-house and chapel
of St. Anthony. A certain engraving of 1776, mentioned by Mr. T., and which is now before me,
represents a small obelisk or pyramid standing upon a square base, and surmounted by a cross,
apparently of iron. The stone (popularly regarded as the original) was removed in 1795 by "one
S----," the surveyor of the roads. Having been broken, or as another account states, sawn in
two, the halves were placed as curb-stones against the posts on each side of Queen's Head Lane
in the Lower Street. (Nelson's Hist. of Islington, 1811, p. 102.; Gent. Mag., Sept. and Oct.
1824, pp. 200. 290.; Lewis's Hist. of Islington, 1841, p. 286.) In Adams's Picturesque Guide
to the Environs of London, by E. L. Blanchard (a recent but dateless little work, which I chanced
to open at a book-stall a day or two ago), the present Queen's Head tavern in the Lower Street
is mentioned as containing certain relics of its predecessor, "with the real Whittington stone
(it is said) for a threshold."

2. Shortly after the removal of this supposed "original," a new memorial was erected, with
the inscription "Whittington's Stone." This was, for some cause, removed by order of the churchwardens
in May, 1821.

3. In his second edition, 1823, Nelson says, "The present stone was set up in 1821, by the
trustees of the parish ways." This is the stone which has lately been removed.

H. G.

       *       *       *       *       *

PHOTOGRAPHIC CORRESPONDENCE.

Photographic Experience.--I send you the Rev. W. Le Mottee's and mine:

  W. Le M.

  1. 6 minutes' exposure.

  2. Sea-side.

     {Iod.--Double iod. sol. from 25 gr. N. A. to 1 oz.
  3. {Exc.--5[minim] 50 gr. A. N. A. 5[minim] G. A. Aq. 2 drs.
     {Dev.--1^o 50 gr. A. N. A. and G. A. part. aeq. 2^o G. A.

  4. Turner.

  5. 3/8 inch.

  6. 3 inches.

  7. Diam. lens 3 in. Foc. length parallel rays 12-3/4 in.
  Maker, Slater. Picture 8-1/2 x 6-1/2.

  T. L. M.

  1. 10 minutes.

  2. Sea-side.

     {Iod.
  3. {Exc. As Le M.
     {Dev.

  7. Diam. lens 3-1/4 in. Foc. length 17-1/2 in. Maker,
  Slater. Picture 11-1/2 x 9-1/4.

I have given the development according to the plan usually followed, for the sake of comparison;
but where it is desirable to work out the shadows fully, it is far better to give longer exposure
in the camera (three times that above given), and develop with gallo-nitrate of the strength
used to excite, finishing with gallic acid. The time varies with the subject; a cottage among
trees requiring 12 to 14 minutes. Almost all the statements I have seen, giving the time, do
so absolutely; it is well to remind photographers, that these convey no information whatever,
unless the focal length for parallel rays, and the diameter of the diaphragm, are also given:
the time, in practice as well as in theory, varying (caeteris paribus) directly as the {502}
square of the former, and inversely as the square of the latter; and, without these corrections,
the results of one lens are not comparable with those of another.

When shall we get a good structureless paper? The texture of Turner's, especially his new paper,
is a great defect; and its skies are thin, very inferior to the dense velvety blacks obtained
with Whatman's of old date--a paper now extinct, and one which, unfortunately for us, it seems
impossible to reproduce.

T. L. MANSELL.

Guernsey.

Conversion of Calotype Negatives into Positives.--At the second meeting of the British Association
at York, Professor Grove described a process by which a negative calotype might be converted
into a positive one, by drawing an ordinary calotype image over iodide of potassium and dilute
nitric acid, and exposing to a full sunshine. Not being able to find the proportions in any
published work, can any of your numerous readers give me the required information; and whether
the photograph should be exposed in its damp state, or allowed to dry?

G. GRANTHAM.

Albumenized Paper.--Mr. Spencer, in the last number of the Photographic Journal, in describing
a mode of preparing albumenized paper, states he has never found it necessary to iron it, as
the silver solution coagulates the albumen the moment it comes in contact with it, "and I fancy
makes it print more evenly than when heat has been employed." But Mr. Spencer uses a nitrate
of silver solution of 90 or 100 grains to the ounce, while DR. DIAMOND recommends 40 grains.
Now as it is very desirable to get rid of the ironing if possible, my Query is, Will the 40-grain
solution coagulate the albumen so as to do away with that troublesome process?

P. P.

       *       *       *       *       *

Replies to Minor Queries.

Table-turning (Vol. ix., p. 39.).--The following conclusions, from an expose of the laws of
nature relating to this subject, have been submitted to the world, at the end of a series of
articles in the Revue des Deux Mondes, by M. Babinet, of the French Institute:

    "1^o. Que tout ce qui est raisonnablement admissible dans les curieuses
    experiences qui ont ete faites sur le mouvement des tables ou l'on
    impose les mains, est parfaitement explicable par l'energie bien connue
    des mouvemens naissans de nos organes, pris a leur origine, surtout
    quand une influence nerveuse vient s'y joindre et au moment ou, toutes
    les impulsions etant conspirantes, l'effet produit represente l'effet
    total des actions individuelles.

    "2^o. Que dans l'etude consciencieuse de ces phenomenes
    mecanico-physiologiques, il faudra ecarter toute intervention de force
    mysterieuse en contradiction avec les lois physiques bien etablies par
    l'observation et l'experience.

    "3^o. Qu'il faudra aviser a populariser, non pas dans la peuple, mais
    bien dans la classe eclairee de la societe, les principes des sciences.
    Cette classe si importante, dont l'autorite devrait faire loi pour
    toute la nation, s'est deja montree plusieurs fois au-dessous de cette
    noble mission. La remarque n'est pas de moi, mais au besoin je l'adopte
    et la defends:

     'Si les raisons manquaient, je suis sur qu'en tout cas,
      Les exemples fameux ne me manqueraient pas!'

    Comme le dit Moliere. Il est a constater que l'initiative des
    reclamations en faveur du bon sens contre les prestiges des tables et
    des chapeaux a ete prise par les membres eclaires du clerge de France.

    "4^o. Enfin, les faiseurs des miracles sont instamment supplies de
    vouloir bien, s'ils ne peuvent s'empecher d'en faire, au moins ne pas
    les faire absurdes. Imposer la croyance a un miracle, c'est deja
    beaucoup dans ce siecle; mais vouloir nous convaincre de la realite
    d'un miracle ridicule, c'est vraiment etre trop exigeant!"--Revue des
    Deux Mondes, Janvier 15, 1854.

J. M.

Oxford.

Female Dress (Vol. ix., p. 271.).--I have dresses from 1768 to the present time, two or three
years only missing, from pocket-books, which I have carefully arranged and had bound in a volume.
On referring to it I find that hoops ceased after 1786, excepting for court days. The ladies
at that time wore large hats, the same shape young people and children have at the present
day. Powder went out at the time of the scarcity, patches before hoops, and high-heeled shoes
when short waists came in fashion.

I have a small engraving of their Majesties, attended by the lord chamberlain, &c., together
with the Princess Royal, Prince Edward, and the Princess Elizabeth, in their boxes at the opera
in the year 1782. The queen in a very large hoop, each with their hair full powdered; and the
celebrated Mademoiselle Theodore, in the favourite comic ballad called "Les Petits Reins,"
the same year, with a large hoop, hair well powdered, a little hat at the back of her head
with long strings, very short petticoats, and shoes with buckles.

JULIA R. BOCKETT.

Southcote Lodge.

Office of Sexton held by one Family (Vol. ix., p. 171.).--A search into parish registers would,
I think, show that the office of clerk was often a hereditary one. In Worcestershire, for example,
the family of Rose at Bromsgrove, and the family of Osborne at Belbroughton, have supplied
hereditary clerks to those parishes through many generations. In the latter case, also, the
trade of a tailor has also been hereditary to an Osborne, in conjunction with his duties as
clerk. The Mr. Tristram, who was the patron of the living of Belbroughton (afterwards sold
to St. John's College, Oxford), states, in a letter to the bishop (Lyttelton), that the Osbornes
were tailors in Belbroughton in the reign of Henry VIII. They are tailors, as well as clerks,
to this day, but they can trace their descent to a period of more than {503} three centuries
before Henry VIII. The office of parish clerk and sexton has also been hereditary in the parishes
of Hope and King's Norton, Worcestershire.

CUTHBERT BEDE, B. A.

Lyra's Commentary (Vol. ix., p. 323.).--The human figure described by EDWARD PEACOCK as impressed
on one cover of his curious old copy of the Textus biblie, &c., has no glory round the head,
or over it, by his account. This would warrant the conclusion that it was not intended for
any saint, or it might almost pass for a St. Christopher. But I believe it is meant as emblematic
of a Christian generally, in his passage through this life. I suspect that what MR. PEACOCK
speaks of as a "fence composed of interlaced branches of trees," is intended to represent waves
of water by undulating lines. The figure appears to be wading through the waters of the tribulations
of this life, by the help of his staff, just as St. Christopher is represented. This may account
for the loose appearance of his nether habiliments, which are tucked up, so as to leave the
knees bare. The wallet is a very fit accompaniment for the pilgrim's staff. The wicker basket
holds his more precious goods; but, to show the insecurity of their tenure, the pilgrim has
a sword ready for their defence.

It is not so easy to account for the animals on the other cover. My conjecture is, that at
least the four lower ones are meant for the emblematic figures of the four evangelists. The
bird may be the eagle, the monkey the man; the dog may, on closer scrutiny, be found to look
something like the ox or calf; and the lion speaks for itself. But I can attempt no explanation
of the upper figures, which MR. PEACOCK says "may be horses." I should much like to see drawings
of the whole, both human and animal, having a great predilection for studying such puzzles.
But if the above hints prove of any service, it will gratify

F. C. HUSENBETH, D.D.,

Compiler of the Emblems of Saints.

Blackguard (Vol. vii., p. 77. Vol. viii., p. 414.).--Many contributions towards the history
of this word have appeared in the pages of "N. & Q." May I forward another instance of its
being in early use, although not altogether in its modern acceptation?

A copy of a medical work in my possession (a 12mo., printed in 1622, and in the original binding)
has fly-leaves from some printed book, as is often the case in volumes of that date. These
fly-leaves seem to be part of some descriptive sketches of different classes of society, published
towards the early part of the seventeenth century; and some of your readers may be able to
identify the work from my description of these of sheets. No. 14. is headed "An unworthy Judge;"
16. "An unworthy Knight and Souldier;" 17. "A worthy Gentleman;" 18. "An unworthy Gentleman,"
&c. At p 13., No. 27., occurs "A Bawde of the Blacke Guard," with her description in about
sixteen lines. She is said to be "well verst in the black art, to accommodate them of the black
guard: a weesel-look't gossip she is in all places, where herr mirth is a bawdy tale," and so on.

Judging from these fly-leaves, the work from which they have been taken appears to have been
an octavo or small quarto. "Finis" stands on the reverse of the leaf whence my extract is copied.

JAYDEE.

Another instance of the use of the word black-guard, in the sense given to it in "N. & Q."
(Vol. ii., pp. 170. 285.), is to be found in Burton's Anatomy of Melancholy, part i. sect.
2., "A Digression of the Nature of Spirits, bad Angels, or Devils, &c.," in a passage, part
of which is given as a quotation. The edition of Burton I quote from is 1652.

C. DE D.

    "Augustus Caesar on a time, as he was passing through Rome, and saw
    certain strange women lulling apes and whelps in their arms: 'What!'
    said he; 'have the women of these countries none other children?' So
    may I say unto you [Dr. Cole], that make so much of Gerson, Driedo,
    Royard, and Tapper: Have the learned men of your side none other
    doctors? For, alas! these that ye allege are scarcely worthy to be
    allowed amongst the black guard."--Bp. Jewel's Works (P. S. ed.),
    vol. i. p. 72.

This is, I think, an earlier example than any that has yet been given in "N. & Q."

W. P. STORER.

Olney, Bucks.

"Atonement" (Vol. ix., p. 271.).--The word [Greek: katallage], used by Aeschylus and Demosthenes,
occurs 2 Cor. v. 19., Rom. xi. 15. v. 11. The word atonement bears two senses: the first, reconciliation,
as used by Sir Thomas More, Shakspeare, Beaumont and Fletcher, and Bishops Hall and Taylor;
the second, expiation, as employed by Milton, Swift, and Cowper. In the latter meaning, we
find it in Numbers, and other books of the Old Testament, as the translation of [Greek: hilasma].

Waterland speaks of "the doctrine of expiation, atonement, or satisfaction, made by Christ
in His blood" (Disc. of Fundamentals, vol. v. p. 82.). Barrow, Secker, and Beveridge use the
word atone or atonement in this combined sense of the term. R. Gloucester, Chaucer, and Dryden
expressly speak "at one," in a similar way; and, {504} not to multiply passages, we may merely
cite Tyndal:

    "There is but one mediator, Christ, as saith St. Paul, 1 Tim. ii., and
    by that word understand an atone-maker, a peace-maker, and bringer
    into grace and favour, having full power so to do."--Expos. of Tracy's
    Testament, p. 275., Camb. 1850.

MACKENZIE WALCOTT, M.A.

As a contribution towards the solution of J. H. B.'s Query, I send you the following extracts
from Richardson's Dictionary:

    "And like as he made the Jewes and the Gentiles at one between
    themselves, even so he made them both at one with God, that there
    should be nothing to break the atonement; but that the thynges in
    heaven and the thynges in earth shoulde be ioyned together as it were
    into one body."--Udal, Ephesians, c. ii.

    "Paul sayth, 1 Tim. ij., 'One God, one Mediatour (that is to say,
    aduocate, intercessor, or an atonemaker) betwene God and man: the man
    Christ Jesus, which gaue himself a raunsom for all men."--Tyndal,
    Workes, p. 158.

I am unacquainted with the work referred to in the first extract. The second is from The Whole
Works of W. Tindal, John Frith, and Dr. Barnes [edited by Foxe], Lond. 1573. The title of the
work which contains the passage is, The Obedience of a Christian Man, set forth by William
Tindal, 1528, Oct. 2.

[Greek: Halieus].

Dublin.

Bible of 1527 (Vol. ix., p. 352.).--In reference to the monogram inquired after in this Query,
I think I have seen it, or one very similar, among the "mason marks" on Strasburg Tower, which
would seem a place of Freemason pilgrimage: for the soft stone is deeply carved in various
places within the tower with such marks as this, together with initials and dates of visit.
I have also marks very similar from the stones of the tower of the pretty little cathedral
of Freiburg, Briesgau. I should incline to think it a Masonic mark, and not that of an engraver
on wood, or of a printer.

A. B. R.

Belmont.

Shrove Tuesday (Vol. ix., p. 324.).--The bell described as rung on Shrove Tuesday at Newbury,
was no doubt the old summons which used to call our ancestors to the priest to be shrived,
or confessed, on that day. It is commonly called the "Pancake Bell," because it was also the
signal for the cook to put the pancake on the fire. This savoury couplet occurs in Poor Robin
for 1684:

 "But hark, I hear the pancake bell,
  And fritters make a gallant smell."

The custom of ringing this bell has been retained in many parishes. It is orthodoxly rung at
Ecclesfield from eleven to twelve a.m. Plenty of information on this subject may be found in
Brand's Popular Antiquities.

ALFRED GATTY.

Milton's Correspondence (Vol. viii., p. 640.).--A translation of Milton's Latin familiar correspondence,
made by John Hall, Esq., of the Philadelphia bar, now a Presbyterian clergyman at Trenton,
N.J., was published about eighteen or twenty years ago in this city.

UNEDA.

Philadelphia

"Verbatim et literatim" (Vol. ix., p. 348.).--Your correspondent L. H. J. TONNA, in proposing
for the latter part of the above phrase the form ad literam, might as well have extended his
amendment, and suggested ad verbum et literam; for I should imagine there is quite as little
authority for the word verbatim being used in the Latin language, as for that of literatim.
Vossius is an authority for the latter; but can any of your correspondents oblige me by citing
one for the former, notwithstanding its frequent adoption in English conversation and writings?
Neither verbatim nor literatim will be found in Riddle.

N. L. J.

Epigrams (Vol. vii., p. 175.).--The epigram, "How D.D. swaggers, M.D. rolls," &c., was written
by Horace Smith, and may be found in the New Monthly Magazine for 1823, in the article called
"Grimm's Ghost. Letter XII."

UNEDA.

Philadelphia.

       *       *       *       *       *

Miscellaneous.

NOTES ON BOOKS, ETC.

In days like these, when so many of our new books are but old ones newly dressed up, a work
of original research, and for which the materials have been accumulated by the writer with
great labour and diligence, deserves especial commendation. Of such a character is the Catholic
History of England; its Rulers, Clergy, and Poor, before the Reformation, as described by the
Monkish Historians, by Bernard William MacCabe, of which the third volume, extending from the
reign of Edward Martyr to the Norman Conquest, has just been published. The volumes bear evidence
in every page that they are, as the author describes them, "the results of the writing and
research of many hours--the only hours for many years that I had to spare from other and harder
toils." Himself a zealous and sincere follower of the "ancient faith," Mr. MacCabe's views
of the characters and events of which he is treating, naturally assume the colouring of his
own mind: many, therefore, will dissent from them. None of his readers will, however, dissent
from bestowing upon his work the praise of being carefully compiled and most originally written.
None will deny the charm with which Mr. MacCabe has invested his History, by his admirable
mode of making the old Monkish writers tell their own story. {505}

We some time since called the attention of our readers to a new periodical which had been commenced
at Goettingen, under the title of Zeitschrift fuer Deutsche Mythologie und Sittenkunde, under
the editorship of T. W. Wolf. We have since received the 2nd, 3rd, and 4th Parts of it from
Messrs. Williams and Norgate, and hope shortly to transfer from its pages to our columns a
few of the many curious illustrations of our own Folk Lore, with which it abounds.

BOOKS RECEIVED.--The Works of John Locke, vol. i., Philosophical Works, with a preliminary
Essay and Notes, by J. A. St. John, is the first volume of a collected edition of the writings
of this distinguished English philosopher, intended to form a portion of Bohn's Standard Library.--The
Diary and Letters of Madame D'Arblay, vol. iv., 1788-89. Worth more than its cost for its pictures
of Fox, Burke, Wyndham, &c., and Hastings' Impeachment.--A Poet's Children, by Patrick Scott.
A shilling's worth of miscellaneous poems from the pen of this imaginative but somewhat eccentric
bard.--Points of War, I. II. III. IV., by Franklin Lushington. Mr. Lushington is clearly an
admirer of Tennyson, and has caught not a little of the mannerism and not a few of the graces
of his great model. 1689.

A PRAYER FOR CHARITY, PEACE, AND UNITY, chiefly to be used in Lent.

A PRAYER FOR THE KING'S SUCCESS IN IRELAND. 1690.

A LETTER TO THE CLERGY OF THE DIOCESE OF ELY, at his Primary Visitation. 1692.

THE DIGNITY OF THE CHRISTIAN PRIESTHOOD, delivered to his Clergy at his Fourth Triennial Visitation.
1701.

AN EXHORTATION TO THE CLERGY BEFORE HIS FIFTH TRIENNIAL VISITATION. 1704. With a discourse
on Rev. xvi. 9., upon occasion of the late terrible Storm of Wind.

AN EXHORTATION AT HIS SIXTH TRIENNIAL VISITATION. 1707.

ARCHAEOLOGIA, Vol. III.

  Wanted by the Rev. G. H. Dashwood, Stow Bardolph, Burnham Market,
      Norfolk.

       *       *       *       *       *

Notices to Correspondents.

EDEN WARWICK. The paragraph respecting the Crystal Palace has already appeared in our columns.

SIGMA. How can we forward a letter to this Correspondent?

ENQUIRER. Our Correspondent's Query is not apparent. The Rolls House and Chapel, in Chancery
Lane, never "reverted to their original use," that is, as a House of Maintenance for Converted
Jews.

J. G. T. For the origin of Bands worn by clergymen, lawyers, and others, see our Second Volume,
pp. 23. 76. 126.

"VITA CRUCEM," &c. We have to apologise for having mislaid the copy of the following distich,
requesting a translation as well as the authorship of it:

 "Vita crucem, et vivas, hominem si noscere velles,
  Quis, quid, cur, cujus passus amore fuit."

Which may be literally translated, "Shun the Cross, that you may live, if you would know Him
aright, Who and what He was, why and for love of whom He suffered." These lines seem to be
a caveat against the adoration of the material Cross, and were probably composed during the
domination of the fanatics in Cromwell's time, when that redoubtable Goth, Master William Dowsing,
demolished whatever was inscribed with the Cross, whether of brass, marble, or other material.--Our
Correspondent will find the line, "A falcon towering in his pride of place," in Macbeth, Act
II. Sc. 4.

       *       *       *       *       *

On the 1st of June, and on the first day of every Month, will be published, price Sixpence, the

JOURNAL OF PROGRESS:

An Advocate of advanced Views in SOCIAL, MORAL, INDUSTRIAL, AND POLITICAL ECONOMY; and RECORD
OF STATISTICS.

This Journal is projected, and will be supported, by persons devoted to the practical objects
which chiefly affect the welfare of society.

It will also be sent regularly to every Member of Parliament.

GEORGE BELL, Publisher, 186. Fleet Street, London.

Order of all Booksellers and Newsmen.

       *       *       *       *       *

Now ready, crown 8vo.

A New Edition, in large type, of

THE SACRED GARLAND,

or,

THE CHRISTIAN'S DAILY DELIGHT.

"Pluck a Flower."

Price 5s. cloth lettered: 9s. full calf: 12s. morocco elegant.

Upwards of 100,000 copies of this book in a smaller form have been sold.

MILNER & SOWERBY, Halifax. Foolscap 8vo., price 1s. 6d. Foolscap 8vo., price 1s.

TRUEBNER & CO., 12. Paternoster Row.

       *       *       *       *       *

{506}

BOHN'S STANDARD LIBRARY FOR JUNE.

COWPER'S COMPLETE WORKS, edited by SOUTHEY; comprising his Poems, Correspondence, and Translations;
with Memoir. Illustrated with Fifty fine Engravings on Steel, after designs by Harvey. To be
completed in Eight Volumes. Vol. IV. Conclusion of Memoir and Correspondence, with General
Index to same.

DEFOE'S WORKS, edited by SIR WALTER SCOTT. Vol. I. Containing the Life, Adventures, and Piracies
of Captain Singleton, and the Life of Colonel Jack. With fine Portrait of Defoe.

INDIA, PICTORIAL, DESCRIPTIVE, and HISTORICAL, from the Earliest Times to the Present. Illustrated
by upwards of One Hundred fine Engravings on Wood, and Map of Hindoostan.

ORDERICUS VITALIS: his Ecclesiastical History of England and Normandy, translated with Notes
and the Introduction of Guizot, by T. FORESTER, M.A. Vol. III.

LOGIC, OR THE SCIENCE OF INFERENCE, a popular Manual, by J. DEVEY.

THE ELEGIES OF PROPERTIUS, the Satyricon of Petronius Arbiter, and the KISSES of JOHANNES SECUNDUS,
literally translated, and accompanied by Poetical Versions, from various sources: to which
are added, the LOVE EPISTLES OF ARISTAENETUS, translated by R. BRINSLEY SHERIDAN and H. HALHED.
Edited by WALTER K. KELLY.

       *       *       *       *       *

NORWAY. A Road Book for Tourists in Norway, with Hints to English Sportsmen and Anglers, by
THOMAS FORESTER, Esq. Post 8vo. limp cloth. 2s.

       *       *       *       *       *

W. S. LINCOLN & SON, Caxton House, Blackfriars Road, London (removed from Westminster Road),
will forward Gratis and Post Free to all Applicants, their June Catalogue of Cheap English
and Foreign second-hand Books.

       *       *       *       *       *

DR. DE JONGH'S LIGHT BROWN COD LIVER OIL. Prepared for medicinal use in the Loffoden Isles,
Norway, and put to the test of chemical analysis. The most effectual remedy for Consumption,
Asthma, Gout, Chronic Rheumatism, and all Scrofulous Diseases.

Approved of and recommended by BERZELIUS, LIEBIG, WOEHLER, JONATHAN PEREIRA, FOUQUIER, and
numerous other eminent medical men and scientific chemists in Europe. Specially rewarded with
medals by the Governments of Belgium and the Netherlands. Has almost entirely superseded all
other kinds on the Continent, in consequence of its proved superior power and efficacy--effecting
a cure much more rapidly. Contains iodine, phosphate of chalk, volatile acid, and the elements
of the bile--in short, all its most active and essential principles--in larger quantities than
the pale oils made in England and Newfoundland, deprived mainly of these by their mode of preparation.
A pamphlet by Dr. de Jongh, with detailed remarks upon its superiority, directions for use,
cases in which it has been prescribed with the greatest success, and testimonials, forwarded
gratis on application.

The subjoined testimonial of BARON LIEBIG, Professor of Chemistry at the University of Giessen,
is selected from innumerable others from medical and scientific men of the highest distinction:

    "SIR,--I have the honour of addressing you my warmest thanks for your
    attention in forwarding me your work on the chemical composition and
    properties, as well as on the medicinal effects, of various kinds of
    Cod Liver Oil.

    "You have rendered an essential service to science by your researches,
    and your efforts to provide sufferers with this Medicine in its purest
    and most genuine state, must ensure you the gratitude of every one who
    stands in need of its use.

    "I have the honor of remaining, with expressions of the highest regard
    and esteem,

             "Yours sincerely,
                 "DR. JUSTUS LIEBIG."

         "Giessen, Oct. 30. 1847.
     "To Dr. de Jongh at the Hague."

Sold Wholesale and Retail, in bottles, labelled with Dr. de Jongh's Stamp and Signature, by
ANSAR, HARFORD, & CO., 77. Strand, Sole Consignees and Agents for the United Kingdom and British
Possessions; and by all respectable Chemists and Venders of Medicine in Town and Country, at
the following prices:--Imperial Measure, Half-pints, 2s. 6d.; Pints, 4s. 9d.

       *       *       *       *       *

On 1st June will be published, Part I., price 4s.

MISCELLANEA GRAPHICA: a Collection of Ancient Mediaeval and Renaissance Remains, in the possession
of the LORD LONDESBOROUGH. Illustrated by F. W. FAIRHOLT, F.S.A., &c.

The Work will be published in Nine Quarterly Parts, of royal 4to. size, each Part containing
Four Plates, One of which will be in Chromo-lithography, representing Jewellery, Antique Plate,
Arms, and Armour, and Miscellaneous Antiquities.

London: CHAPMAN & HALL, 193. Piccadilly.

       *       *       *       *       *

Just published, in 4 vols. 8vo., price 2l. in Sheets.

ORIGINES KALENDARIAE ITALICAE; Nundinal Calendars of Ancient Italy; Nundinal Calendar of Romulus;
Calendar of Numa Pompilius; Calendar of the Decemvirs; Irregular Roman Calendar, and Julian
Correction. TABLES OF THE ROMAN CALENDAR, from U.C. 4 of Varro B.C. 750 to U.C. 1108 A.D. 355.
By EDWARD GRESWELL. B.D., Fellow of Corpus Christi College, Oxford.

Oxford: at the UNIVERSITY PRESS.

       *       *       *       *       *

Just published, 8vo., price 2s. 6d.

PRELIMINARY ADDRESS of the ORIGINES KALENDARIAE ITALICAE, lately published at the OXFORD UNIVERSITY
PRESS. With some further observations. By EDWARD GRESWELL, B.D., Fellow of Corpus Christi College,
Oxford.

JOHN HENRY PARKER, Oxford; and 377. Strand, London.

Cambridge: J. DEIGHTON.

       *       *       *       *       *

Just published, 8vo., price 10s. in Sheets.

THEODORETI Episcopi Cyri Ecclesiasticae Historiae Libri Quinque cum Interpretatione Latina
et Annotationibus Henrici Valesii. Recensuit THOMAS GAISFORD, S. T. P., Aedis Christi Decanus
necnon Linguae Graecae Professor Regius.

Oxonii: E TYPOGRAPHEO ACADEMICO.

       *       *       *       *       *

Just published, 8vo., price 5s. 6d. in Sheets.

SYNODUS ANGLICANA. By Edmund Gibson, D.D., afterwards Bishop of London. Edited by EDWARD CARDWELL,
D.D., Principal of St. Alban's Hall.

Oxford: at the UNIVERSITY PRESS.

Sold by JOHN HENRY PARKER, Oxford, and 337. Strand, London; and GARDNER, 7. Paternoster Row.
& 23. West Strand.

       *       *       *       *       *

    Important Sale by Auction of the whole of the remaining Copies of that
    splendid National Work, known as "FINDEN'S ROYAL GALLERY OF BRITISH
    ART," the engraved Plates of which will be destroyed during the
    Progress of the Sale, and in the presence of the Purchasers.

SOUTHGATE & BARRETT have received instructions from MR. HOGARTH, of the Haymarket, to Sell
by Public Auction at their Fine Art and Book Auction Rooms, 22. Fleet Street, London, on Wednesday
Evening, June 7th, and following Evenings,

THE WHOLE OF THE REMAINING COPIES

Of the very Celebrated Work, known as

FINDEN'S ROYAL GALLERY OF BRITISH ART,

Consisting of a limited number of Artists' and other choice proofs, and the print impressions,
which are all in an exceedingly fine state. The work consists of 48 plates, the whole of which
are engraved in line by the most eminent men in that branch of art, and the pictures selected
will at once show that the great artists--Turner, Eastlake, Landseer, Stanfield, Webster, Roberts,
Wilkie, Maclise, Mulready, and more than thirty other British Masters, are represented by the
works which established and upheld them in public favour, and by themes which appeal to universal
sympathy and happiest affections, or which delineate the peculiar glories of our country, and
commemorate its worthiest and most honourable achievements.

The attention of the public is also particularly directed to the fact that ALL THE ENGRAVED
PLATES from which the impressions now offered have been taken, WILL BE DESTROYED IN THE PRESENCE
OF THE PURCHASERS, at the time of Sale. By thus securing the market from being supplied with
inferior impressions at a future time, and at a cheaper rate, the value of the existing stock
will be increased, and it will become the interest of all who wish to possess copies of these
eminent works of art, at a reduced price, to purchase them at this Sale, which will be THE
ONLY OPPORTUNITY of obtaining them.

Under these circumstances, therefore, SOUTHGATE & BARRETT presume to demand for this Sale the
attention of all lovers of art--the amateur, the artist, and the public:--believing that no
opportunity has ever offered so happily calculated to promote taste and to extend knowledge,
while ministering to the purest and best enjoyments which the artist conveys to the hearts
and homes of all who covet intellectual pleasures.

Framed Copies of the work can be seen at MR. HOGARTH'S, 5. Haymarket; MESSRS. LLOYD, BROTHERS,
& CO., 22. Ludgate Hill; and at the AUCTIONEERS, 22. Fleet Street, by whom all Communications
and Commissions will be promptly and faithfully attended to.

*** Catalogues of the entire Sale will be forwarded on Receipt of 12 Postage Stamps.

       *       *       *       *       *

    Sale by Auction of the Stocks of extremely Valuable Modern Engravings,
    the engraved Plates of which will be destroyed in the presence of the
    Purchasers at the Time of Sale. "Ecce Homo," from the picture by Correggio, engraved by G. T. Doo.
    "The Dame School," painted by T. Webster, R. A., engraved by L. Stocks.
    "Eton Montem," two views illustrative of, from pictures by Evans of
    Eton, engraved by Charles Lewis. "Portrait of Mrs. Elizabeth Fry,"
    engraved by Samuel Cousins, A.R.A., from a picture by George Richmond.
    "Portraits of eminent Persons," by George Richmond and C. Baugniet.
    "Portrait of W. C. Macready, Esq., as Werner," painted by D. Maclise,
    R. A., engraved by Sharpe. Flowers of German Art, a series of 20 plates
    by the most eminent engravers. Cranstone's Fugitive Etchings, 17
    plates. Turner and Girtin's River Scenery, 30 plates. "Cottage Piety,"
    painted by Thomas Faed, engraved by Henry Lemon (unpublished). "See
    Saw," painted by T. Webster, R. A., engraved by Holl (unpublished).
    "Village Pastor," painted by W. P. Frith, R. A., engraved by Holl. "The
    Immaculate Conception," painted by Guido, engraved in line by W. H.
    Watt. "Harvey demonstrating to Charles the First his Theory of the
    Circulation of the Blood," painted by Hannah, engraved by Lemon. "The
    Origin of Music," painted by Selous, engraved by Wass. "The First
    Step," painted by Faed, engraved by Sharpe. "The Prize Cartoons,"
    published by Messrs. Longmans & Co. And numerous other highly
    interesting and valuable works of Art.

ALL THE ENGRAVED PLATES of the above-mentioned engravings WILL BE DESTROYED in the presence
of the purchasers at the time of sale, which will thereby secure to the purchasers the same
advantages as are mentioned in the advertisement given above, of the sale of the remaining
copies of "Finden's Royal Gallery."

       *       *       *       *       *

    The very extensive, highly important, and extremely choice Stock of
    MODERN ENGLISH AND FOREIGN ENGRAVINGS, WATER-COLOUR DRAWINGS, and
    expensive Books of Prints, of MR. HOGARTH of the Haymarket. Amongst the ENGRAVINGS will be found in the BEST
STATES OF ARTISTS' and other CHOICE PROOFS, nearly all the popular plates
that have been published during the last quarter of a century; also an
Important Collection of Foreign Line Engravings in the best states; a large
variety of Portraits and other subjects after Sir Joshua Reynolds, some
very rare; an extensive series of prints by Hogarth, in early proofs, and
with curious variations; a most complete series of artists' proofs of the
works of George Cruikshank, including nearly all his early productions,
many unique; a number of scarce Old Prints, and a series in fine states by
Sir Robert Strange. The Stock is peculiarly rich in the works of J. M. W.
Turner, R. A., and comprises artists' proofs and the choicest states of all
his important productions, and matchless copies of the England and Wales
and Southern Coast. The Collection of HIGH-CLASS WATER-COLOUR DRAWINGS
consists of examples of the most eminent artists (particularly some
magnificent specimens by J. M. W. Turner), as well as a great variety of
the early English School, and some by the Ancient Masters; also a most
interesting Collection by Members of the Sketching Society.

22. Fleet Street, London.

       *       *       *       *       *

ALLSOPP'S PALE or BITTER ALE.--MESSERS.

       *       *       *       *       *

Corrections made to printed original.

page 492, article Numbers, "and so on": 'and so one' in original.

page 496, article Athens, "some verses recorded by Plutarch": 'versus' in original.

