"Early days," echoed the miner, "well, I guess I did. I'm a forty-niner." He straightened himself
proudly and looked to see the effect of his words.

"I think we had better go." Again I touched the Antiquary's arm but he gave no heed to my signal.

"There must have been some stirring times here in the days of the gold rush."

"You bet there were," agreed the forty-niner, "and the entire history of San Francisco was
made around this Plaza. Here were built the first hotel, the first school-house, the first
bank; within a stone's throw the first Protestant sermon was preached, the first newspaper
was printed and the first post office was opened. It was through the Plaza that Sam Brannan
ran with a bottle of yellow dust in one hand, waving his hat with the other and shouting, 'Gold!
gold! from the American River!' It was here that the big gambling houses sprang up, where fortunes
were made and lost in a night, and here the first Vigilance Committee met and executed justice."
The old man paused for breath.

I was on the edge of the bench ready for flight. All my good work of the last two days was
rapidly being undermined. I heard again the skeptic's contemptuous tone of yesterday. "It's
either before the fire" or "in the good old days of forty-nine."

"We--we must go," I stammered, "it's getting very late." The Bostonian looked at his watch.
"Not three o'clock yet." He leaned back comfortably. "You ought to be interested in this. Your
grandfather was a forty-niner."

I looked at him searchingly. I ought to be interested! I, who cherished every memory of pioneer
days! I, who had bitten my lips a dozen times that afternoon, and was glorying in the tact
and strength of mind which had avoided this period of our history!

The miner, apparently aware of my presence for the first time, sent me a piercing glance from
beneath his shaggy eyebrows. "So your grandfather--"

"He wasn't exactly a forty-niner," I acknowledged. "He arrived outside the Heads the night
of December thirty-first but there was a heavy fog and the vessel didn't get inside until the
next morning."

"Hard luck," sympathized the old man, "coming near to being a forty-niner and missing it."

"But it's practically the same thing," persisted the Bostonian. "Only a few hours."

"The same thing!" scornfully repeated the miner. "There's as much difference as between Christmas
and Fourth of July. A forty-niner's a forty-niner, and a man that came in fifty--well, he might
as well have come in sixty or seventy, or even in the twentieth century. It's the forty-niner
that counts in this community." He drew himself up proudly. Then plunging his hand deep into
his pocket, drew out a nugget.

"Picked that up off my first claim," he explained, "but the dirt didn't pan out so well. I've
carried it in my pocket all these years, just for the sentiment of the thing, I suppose. Many
a time I was tempted to throw it on a table in the El Dorado, but I hung on to it."

"The El Dorado?" questioned the Easterner.

"Yes, one of the big gambling places here on the Plaza. Everybody took a chance in those days,
even some of the preachers. You met all your friends there, and heard the best music and the
latest news."

"Did they gamble with nuggets?" my companion led the old man on.

"Well, I guess they did! and gold dust in piles. The few children in town used to pan out the
dirt of the Plaza in front of the Temples of Chance every morning after the places were swept
out. The Californians put up parts of their ranchos, too, sometimes."

"How high did the stakes run?" Evidently this descendant of the Pilgrims had not lost all the
sporting blood of his earlier English ancestors.

"Often as high as five hundred or a thousand dollars. The largest stake I ever saw change hands
was forty-five thousand. Many a miner went back to the placers in the spring without a dollar
in his pockets. But everybody was doing it and you could almost count the nationalities in
the crowd around the table by the kinds of coins in the stacks. There were French francs, English
crowns, East Indian rupees, Spanish pesos and United States dollars. The dress was as different
as the money. We miners wore red and blue shirts, slouch hats and wide belts to carry our dust.
The Californians were gorgeous in coats trimmed in gold lace, short pantaloons and high deer-skin
boots, and the Chinese ran a close second in their colored brocaded silks. You knew the professional
gamblers by their long black coats and white linen--real gentlemen, many of 'em and the most
honest in the country.

"Ever see a picture of the Plaza in forty-nine," he asked abruptly.

"Never."

The miner drew a square on the gravel path with his stick. "The El Dorado was here, the Veranda
here and the Bella Union here," he said, punching holes on the three corners of Kearny and
Washington. "They were the finest and they had the best locations in town. The El Dorado paid
forty thousand dollars a year for a tent and twenty-five thousand a month for a building on
the same site later." The end of his stick deepened the hole on the southeast corner.

My eyes wandered from the plan to the real location. "Why, there is the name 'Veranda' over
there now," I exclaimed as the black letters on a white awning caught my eye.

"Yes, it is pretty near the old site, but it's a poor substitute for its predecessor," he added
scornfully. "There was great style in those days --fine bars, lots of glass and mirrors and
pictures worth thousands of dollars. The doors were always open from eleven in the morning
'til daylight the next morning, and a steady stream of people were pouring in and out all the
time. Everybody was there. There weren't no special inducement to stay home nights, when your
residence was a bunk on the wall of a shanty and the fellers over you and under you and across
the room weren't even acquaintances. I got a pretty good room after awhile in the Parker House"--he
drew a small oblong south of the El Dorado-- "for a hundred dollars a week, but I didn't stay
long."

"I should think not--at that price."

"Oh, it wasn't the price. One of my friends paid two hundred and fifty. But you see it got
pretty warm at the Parker House, that Christmas eve, and so we all moved. They cleared away
the hot ashes of the hotel and built the Jenny Lind Theatre on the spot. That was the first
big fire. We had them right along after that, every few weeks. Six big ones in eighteen months,
with lots' of little ones in between."

"Then the last fire wasn't a new experience for you," the Bostonian suggested.

"Lord, no! Rebuilding was a habit with us early San Franciscans. We didn't begin to feel sorry
for a man 'til he'd lost everything he owned three times. The Jenny Lind Theatre went down
six times and the seventh building was sold for the City Hall. It stood right there"--he pointed
to the handsome new Hall of Justice--"until it went up in the last fire."

"You are sure it wasn't the earthquake that finished it?" inquired the skeptic.

"Certainly not," I flared. "The Relief Committee met there that morning to lay their plans
while the fires were raging south of Market Street."

He acknowledged defeat by changing the subject. "Was the old Spanish Custom House here?" he
asked, pointing to the western side of the diagram.

"Yes," assented the miner, and he traced an oblong on the northern end, "and just behind it,
on Washington Street, was Sam Brannan's house. He was the Mormon leader, you know, and brought
a shipload of his followers to establish a settlement in forty-six. He published our first
newspaper, the 'California Star,' in his house."

"Was it where that little green Chinese building with the bracketed columns and turned-up eaves
is?" I interposed.

"The telephone exchange, you mean? Exact spot. They used to ring a hand bell in the Plaza on
Sunday mornings to call the Mormons to hear Brannan preach in the Casa Grande."

"Richardson's house!" My companion sent me an appreciative glance.

"Sure, but that was before most of 'em, including Sam, went back on their faith. Next to the
Custom House on the south," he continued, "was the Public Institute. It wasn't much to look
at--just pine boards--but it was considerable useful. They held the Public School there and
had preaching on Sundays 'til the teacher, the preacher and all the audience went off to the
mines. They tried the Hounds there, too."

"The Hounds?" my friend looked dazed.

"Yes, the Sidney Coves that lived in Sidneyville, along there on Kearny near Pacific." Light
had failed to dawn.

"Here on the corner of Kearny," continued the Forty-niner, "was an old adobe building with
a red-tiled roof and a veranda around it."

"The City Hotel!" I exclaimed delightedly.

"How did you know?" He eyed me curiously.

"My grandfather was a near-forty-niner,"  I reminded him.

"Oh yes. Too bad! Too bad!" he added sympathetically. "It was the house and store of a fellow
named Leidesdorff," he continued, "who did a lot of trading with the Yankee skippers in Mexican
days, and it was turned into a hotel in the gold rush. It was always the swell place for blowouts.
They had a big banquet and ball there for Governor Stockton, I'm told, after the procession
and speeches in the Plaza, and another the next year for Governor Kearny; the first Relief
Committee met here, called by Brannan, Howard and Vallejo, to send rescuers to the Sierras
for the survivors of the Donner Party. There wasn't much of any importance in the way of gathering
that didn't happen there."

We instinctively looked across at the square, three-story, pressed-brick home of the Chinese
Consulate and bank.

"Every big fire took at least one side of the Plaza, and the sixth, in June of fifty-one, wiped
out the whole square. That adobe was the last link between the Spanish village of Yerba Buena
and its American successor, San Francisco," he regretted, "but it was a good thing for the
city, for they began to build with stone and brick after that. Did you see the Parrott Building,
as you came along, on California and Montgomery?" he asked.

The Easterner turned to me. "You didn't show me that," he said, reprovingly.

"No, why should I? It wasn't built until fifty-two."

He ignored my insinuation and turned back to his informer. "What about the Parrott Building?
It sounds like an aviary."

"Not exactly," he smiled. "It was made of granite blocks, cut and dressed and marked in China
and then shipped over and set up by the 'China Boys,' as the Orientals here called themselves."

"It's a curious coincidence," I ventured, "that the Hong Kong Bank now occupies the lower floor.
What a freak of the winds it was that swept the big fire around that and the Montgomery block,
and left them both for posterity!"

"Your fire seemed to have had a special veneration for historic structures," the Easterner
commented. "It respected the Mission in like manner."

"Yes, somewhat," returned the miner, "but it might have had a little more respect and spared
the Tehama House and the What Cheer House. I hated to see them go."

"And the Niantic Hotel and Fort Gunnybags," I added.

"Here! Here! I rise for a point of information," cried the alien. "Did the cheer inebriate
and what is the technical difference between gunny-sacks and carpet bags?"

"Oh, that was our Vigilance Headquarters of fifty-six, where we hung Casey and Cora," elucidated
the Forty-niner.

"Help," gasped the Bostonian, sinking upon the bench.

"Tell him," I nodded to the miner.

