Thus ended Lord Cochrane's written argument. It was followed by, a few words spoken on the
spur of the moment: "Having so long occupied its time, I will not trouble the House longer
than to implore it to investigate the circumstances of my case. I think I have stated enough
to induce it to call for the minutes of the trial. All I wish is an inquiry. Many important
facts yet remain to be considered, and I trust that the House will not come to a decision with
its eyes shut. I entreat, I implore investigation. It is true that a sentence of a court of
law has been pronounced against me; but that punishment is nothing, and will to me seem nothing,
in comparison with what it is in the power of the House to inflict. I have already suffered
much; but if after a deliberate and a fair investigation the House shall determine that I am
guilty, then let me be deserted and abandoned by the world. I shall submit without repining
to any the most dreadful penalty that the House can assign. I solemnly declare before Almighty
God that I am ignorant of the whole transaction. Into the hearts of men we cannot penetrate;
we cannot dive into their inmost thoughts; but my heart I lay open, and my most secret thoughts
I disclose to the House. I entreat the strictest scrutiny and a patient hearing. I implore
it at your hands, as an act of justice, and once more I call upon my Maker, upon Almighty God,
to bear witness that I am innocent. He knows my heart, He knows all its secrets, and He knows
that I am innocent."

An animated debate followed upon that eloquent address. Viscount Castlereagh complained that
Lord Cochrane, instead of defending himself, had only libelled Lord Ellenborough and the noblest
institutions of the land. Other speakers expressed similar opinions; but others testified to
the consistent character of Lord Cochrane, rendering it impossible that he should be guilty
of the offence with which he was charged; and others again confessed that, having previously
had doubts in the matter, those doubts had been removed by the high-minded tone and the powerful
arguments of his defence. But in the end the House adopted the view set forth by Lord Castlereagh;
that its duty was simply to accept the verdict of the Court of the King's Bench, and, according
to precedent, to expel the member declared guilty by that court, without daring to revive the
question of his guilt or innocence; and that it would be better for an innocent man thus to
suffer, than for the House to assail "the bulwarks of English liberty," by turning itself into
a Star Chamber, or an Inquisition, and attempting to interfere with "the regular administration
of justice." The proposal that Lord Cochrane's case should be referred to a Select Committee
was rejected without a division. The motion that he should be expelled from the House was carried
by a hundred and forty members, against forty-four dissentients.

That new act of injustice, however, though it added much to Lord Cochrane's suffering, brought
him no fresh disgrace. It only led to his triumphant re-election as member for Westminster,
under circumstances that were reasonably consoling to him. His seat having been taken from
him on the 5th of July, a great meeting of the electors, attended by five thousand people,
was held on the 11th. It was there unanimously resolved that Lord Cochrane was perfectly innocent
of the Stock Exchange fraud, that he was a fit and proper person to represent the City of Westminster
in Parliament, and that his re-election should be secured without any expense to him. Richard
Brinsley Sheridan, his stout opponent at the previous election, who was now urged to oppose
him again, honourably refused to do so; and therefore the election passed without a contest.
But contest would only have added to its glory; unless, indeed, the people, over-zealous in
their expression of sympathy for their representative, had been provoked thereby to violent
exhibition of their temper. Even without such provocation the turmoil of the re-election day,
the 16th of July, was great; angry crowds assembled in the streets, and menacing words against
the Government and its myrmidons were loudly uttered. The wisdom of Sir Francis Burdett and
other leaders of the popular party, however, prevented anything worse than angry speech.

"Amongst all the occurrences of my life," said Lord Cochrane, writing from the King's Bench
Prison to thank the electors for their confidence in him, "I can call to memory no one which
has produced so great a degree of exultation in my breast as this, that, after all the machinations
of corruption have been able to effect against me, the citizens of Westminster have, with unanimous
voice, pronounced me worthy of continuing to be one of their representatives in Parliament.
With regard to the case, the agitation of which has been the cause of this most gratifying
result, I am in no apprehension as to the opinions and feelings of the world, and especially
of the people of England, who, though they may be occasionally misled, are never deliberately
cruel or unjust. Only let it be said of me: 'The Stock Exchange has accused; Lord Ellenborough
has charged for guilty; the special jury have found that guilt; the Court have sentenced to
the pillory; the House of Commons have expelled; and the Citizens of Westminster have re-elected,'--only
let this be the record placed against my name, and I shall be proud to stand in the calendar
of criminals all the days of my life."

The worst part of the sentence passed upon Lord Cochrane, as has been already said, was not
carried out. The 10th of August had been fixed as the day on which he was to stand in the pillory
for an hour in front of the Royal Exchange. But the danger of a disturbance among the people,
and of fierce opposition in the House of Commons hindered the perpetration of this indignity.
Some sentences of a letter addressed to Lord Ebrington, deprecating his motion in Parliament
for a remission of this part of the sentence, are too characteristic, however, to be left unquoted.
"I did not expect," said Lord Cochrane, "to be treated by your lordship as an object of mercy,
on the grounds of past services, or severity of sentence. I cannot allow myself to be indebted
to that tenderness of disposition which has led your lordship to form an erroneous estimate
of the amount of punishment due to the crimes of which I have been accused; nor can I for a
moment consent that any past services of mine should be prostituted to the purpose of protecting
me from any part of the vengeance of the laws against which I, if at all, have grossly offended.
If I am guilty, I richly merit the whole of the sentence that has been passed upon me. If innocent,
one penalty cannot be inflicted with more justice than another."

If the degradation of the pillory was remitted, another degradation quite as painful to Lord
Cochrane was substituted for it. His name having, on the 25th of June, been struck off the
list of naval officers in the Admiralty, the Knights Companions of the Bath promptly held a
chapter to consider the propriety of expelling him from their ranks. That was soon done, and
no time was lost in making the insult as thorough as possible. At one o'clock in the morning
of the 11th of August, the Bath King at Arms repaired to King Henry the Seventh's Chapel in
Westminster Abbey, and there, under a warrant signed by Lord Sidmouth, the Secretary of State,
removed the banner of Lord Cochrane, which was suspended between those of Lord Beresford and
Sir Brent Spencer. His arms were next unscrewed, and his helmet, sword, and other insignia
were taken down from the stall. The banner was then kicked out of the chapel and down the steps
by the official, eager to omit no possible indignity. It was an indignity unparalleled since
the establishment of the order in 1725.

CHAPTER III.

[1814-1815.]

During the first period of his imprisonment Lord Cochrane was not treated with more than usual
severity. Two rooms in the King's Bench State House were provided for him, in which, of course,
all the expenses of his maintenance devolved upon himself. He was led to understand that, if
he chose to ask for it, he might have the privilege of "the rules," which would have allowed
him, on certain conditions, a range of about half-a-mile round the prison. But he did not choose
to ask. Rather, he said, than seek any favour from the Government, he would lie in a dungeon
all through the term of his unjust imprisonment. Throughout that period he resolutely avowed
his perfect innocence, to friends and foes alike; and the consciousness of his innocence helped
him to bear up under a degradation that, to a nature as sensitive and chivalrous as his, was
doubly bitter. Good friends, like Sir Francis Burdett, came to cheer him in his solitude, and
over-zealous, yet honest, friends, like William Cobbett, came to take counsel with him as to
ways of keeping alive and quickening the popular indignation which, without any stimulants
from headstrong demagogues, was strong enough on his behalf.

The tedium of his captivity was further relieved by his devotion to those scientific and mechanical
pursuits which, all through life, yielded employment very solacing to himself, and very profitable
to the world. While in the King's Bench Prison he was especially occupied in completing a plan
for lighting the public streets by means of a lamp invented by him, in which the main principle
was the introduction of a steady current of fresh air into the globes, whereby all the oil
was fairly burnt, and a brilliant light was always maintained. In this way lamps much cheaper
than those previously in use were found to have a far greater illuminating power. Early in
October, 1814, the lamps in St. Ann's parish, Westminster, numbering eight hundred in all,
were taken down and replaced by four hundred constructed on Lord Cochrane's plan; and even
political opponents spoke in acknowledgment of the excellent result of the change. Had it not
been for the introduction of gas, the superiority of these new lamps must soon have compelled
their adoption all over London. It is curious that the discovery of the illuminating power
of gas--undoubtedly due to his father--should have superseded one of Lord Cochrane's most promising
inventions as soon as it had been brought to recognized perfection.

In such pursuits nine months of the unjust imprisonment were passed. "Lord Cochrane has hitherto
borne all his hardships with great fortitude," wrote one of his most intimate friends on the
10th of November, "and, if there are any more in store for him, I hope he will continue to
be cheerful and courageous." "His lordship always hopes for the best, and is never afraid of
the worst," said the same authority on the 9th of December, "and therefore he is in good spirits."

This fearless disposition led, in March, 1815, to a bold step, which some of Lord Cochrane's
best friends deprecated. Knowing that he was unjustly imprisoned, he conceived that, since
his re-election as member for Westminster, the imprisonment was illegal as well as unjust,
in that it was contrary to the privilege of Parliament. The law provides that "no Member of
Parliament can be imprisoned either for non-payment of a fine to the King, or for any other
cause than treason, felony, or refusing to give security for the peace." It may be questioned
whether, in the presence of this law, his first imprisonment, even under the sentence of the
Court of King's Bench, was legal. But having been imprisoned, and having been expelled from
the House of Commons, it is clear that his subsequent re-election could not interfere with
the fulfilment, of the sentence passed against him, especially as he had not been able to make
good his title to membership by taking the prescribed oaths and claiming a seat in the House.
He, however--acting as it would seem under the advice of William Cobbett and other unsafe counsellors--thought
otherwise, and considered that he was only vindicating a high constitutional principle, against
the exercise of despotic power by the Government, in making his escape from the King's Bench
Prison. "I did not quit these walls," he said in a letter addressed to the electors of Westminster,
on the 12th of April, "to escape from personal oppression, but, at the hazard of my life, to
assert that right to liberty which, as a member of the community, I have never forfeited, and
that right, which I received from you, to attack in its very den the corruption which threatens
to annihilate the liberties of us all. I did not quit them to fly from the justice of my country,
but to expose the wickedness, fraud, and hypocrisy of those who elude that justice by committing
their enormities under the colour of its name. I did not quit them from the childish motive
of impatience under suffering. I stayed long enough to evince that I could endure restraint
as a pain, but not as a penalty. I stayed long enough to be certain that my persecutors were
conscious of their injustice, and to feel that my submission to their unmerited inflictions
was losing the dignity of resignation, and sinking into the ignominious endurance of an insult."

The escape was effected on the 6th of March, and by the same means which had proved successful
in Lord Cochrane's retreat from the gaol at Malta, just four years before. His rooms in the
King's Bench Prison, being on the upper storey of the building known as the State House, were
nearly as high as the wall which formed the prison boundary, and the windows were only a few
feet distant from it. The possibility of escape by this way, however, had never been contemplated,
and therefore the windows were unprotected by bars. Accordingly Lord Cochrane, having been
supplied, from time to time, by the same servant who had aided him at Malta, with a quantity
of small strong rope, managed, soon after midnight, and while the watchman going his rounds
was in a distant part of the prison, to get out of window and climb on to the roof of the building.
Thence he threw a running noose over the iron spikes placed on the wall, and, exercising the
agility that he had acquired during his seaman's occupations, easily gained the summit--to
be somewhat discomfited by having to sit upon the iron spikes while he fastened his rope to
one of them and prepared, with its help, to slip down to the pavement on the outer side of
the wall. The rope was not strong enough, however, to bear his weight; it snapped when he was
some twenty-five feet from the ground, and caused him to fall with his back upon the stone
pavement. There he lay, in an almost unconscious state, for a considerable time. But no passer-by
observed him; and before daylight he was able to crawl to the house of an old nurse of his
eldest son's, who gladly afforded him concealment.

Long concealment was not intended by him. "If it had not been," he said, "for the commotion
excited by that obnoxious, injurious, and arbitrary measure, the Corn Bill, which began to
evince itself on the day of my departure from prison, I should have lost no time in proceeding
to the House of Commons; but, conjecturing that the spirit of disturbance might derive some
encouragement from my unexpected appearance at that time, and having no inclination to promote
tumult, I resolved to defer my appearance at the House, and, if possible, to conceal my departure
from the prison, until the order of the metropolis should be restored."

To the same effect was a letter addressed by Lord Cochrane to the Speaker of the House of Commons
on the 9th of March. "I respectfully request," he said therein, "that you will state to the
honourable the House of Commons, that I should immediately and personally have communicated
to them my departure from the custody of Lord Ellenborough, by whom I have been long most unjustly
detained; but I judged it better to endeavour to conceal my absence, and to defer my appearance
in the House until the public agitation excited by the Corn Bill should subside. And I have
further to request that you will also communicate to the House that it is my intention, on
an early day, to present myself for the purpose of taking my seat and moving an inquiry into
the conduct of Lord Ellenborough."

On the day of that letter's delivery, the 10th of March--also famous as the day on which Buonaparte's
escape from Elba was published in England--Lord Cochrane's gaolers discovered that he was no
longer in his prison. Immediately a hue and cry was raised. This notice was issued: "Escaped
from the King's Bench Prison, on Monday the 6th day of March, instant, Lord Cochrane. He is
about five feet eleven inches in height,[A] thin and narrow-chested, with sandy hair and full
eyes, red whiskers and eyebrows. Whoever will apprehend and secure Lord Cochrane in any of
His Majesty's gaols in the kingdom shall have a reward of three hundred guineas from William
Jones, Marshal of the King's Bench."

[Footnote A: He was really about six feet two inches in height, and broad in proportion.]

Great search was made in consequence of that notice, and Lord Cochrane's disappearance was
an eleven days' wonder. Every newspaper had each day a new statement as to his whereabouts.
Some declared that he had gone mad, and, as a madman's freak, was hiding himself in some corner
of the prison; others that he was lodging at an apothecary's shop in London. According to one
report, he had been seen at Hastings, according to another, at Farnham, and according to another,
in Jersey; while others declared that he had been discovered in France and elsewhere on the
Continent.

None of the thousands whom political spite or the hope of reward set in search of him thought
of looking for him in his real resting-place. "As soon as I had written to the Speaker," he
said, "I went into Hampshire, where I remained eleven days, and till within one day of my appearance
in the House of Commons. During that period I was occupied in regulating my affairs in that
county, and in riding about the county, as was well known to the people of the neighbourhood,
none of whom were base enough to be seduced by a bribe to deliver an injured man into the hands
of his oppressors."

At his own house, known as Holly Hill, in the south of Hampshire, Lord Cochrane remained quietly,
though with no attempt to hide himself, until the 20th of March. He then, in fulfilment of
his original purpose, returned to London, and on the following day entered the House of Commons
at about two o'clock in the afternoon. Very great was the astonishment among the officials
in attendance caused by his appearance, "dressed," according to one of the newspaper reports,
"in his usual costume, grey pantaloons, frogged great-coat, &c.;" and by some of them the intelligence
of his arrival was promptly communicated to the Marshal of the King's Bench. In the meanwhile,
considering himself safe within the precincts of the House at any rate, he proceeded to occupy
his customary seat. To that it was objected that, until he had taken the oaths and complied
with the prescribed forms consequent on his re-election, he had no right within the building.
He answered that he was willing to do this, and, to see that all was according to rule, went
at once to the clerks' office. There it was pretended that the writ of his re-election had
not yet been received, and that it must first be procured from the Crown Office, in Chancery
Lane. Awaiting the return of the messenger, ostensibly despatched for this purpose, he again
entered the House, and there he was found, at a few minutes before four, by Mr. Jones, the
marshal, who, on receiving the information sent to him, had hurried up, with a Bow Street runner
and some tipstaves. The runner, walking up to Lord Cochrane and touching him on the shoulder,
bluntly claimed him as his prisoner. Lord Cochrane asked by what authority he dared to arrest
a Member of Parliament in the House of Commons. "My lord," answered the man, "my authority
is the public proclamation of the Marshal of the King's Bench Prison, offering a reward for
your apprehension." Lord Cochrane declared that he neither acknowledged, nor would yield to,
any such authority, that he was there to resume his seat as one of the representatives of the
City of Westminster, and that any who dared to touch him would do so at their peril. Two tipstaves
thereupon rudely seized him by the arms. He again cautioned them that the Marshal of the King's
Bench had no authority within those walls, and that their conduct was altogether illegal. The
answer was that he had better go quietly; his reply that he would not go at all. Other officers,
however, came up. After a short struggle, he was overpowered, and, on his refusing to walk,
he was carried out of the House on the shoulders of the tipstaves and constables.

There was a halt, however, in this disgraceful march. The Bow Street runner expressed a fear
that Lord Cochrane had firearms concealed under his clothes, and he was accordingly taken into
one of the committee-rooms to be searched. Nothing more dangerous was found about him than
a packet of snuff. "If I had thought of that before," said Lord Cochrane, not quite wisely,
"you should have had it in your eyes!" On this incident was founded a foolish story, to be
told next day, amid a score of exaggerations and falsehoods, in the Government newspapers.
"Being asked why he had provided himself with such a quantity of snuff," we there read, "he
said he had bought a canister for the purpose of throwing it in the eyes of those who might
attempt to secure him, unless the opposing force should be too strong for resistance, observing
that he had found the use of a similar weapon when he was in the Bay of Rosas, as he had thrown
a mixture of lime, sand, &c., upon the Frenchmen who attempted to board his ship, and found
it effectual." Another zealous organ of the Government added that he had also provided himself
with a bottle of vitriol, to be used in the same way.

Had a penknife been found in his pocket, perhaps the Marshal of the King's Bench, the Bow Street
runner, the tipstaves, and the constables would all have fled, deeming that the possession
of so deadly an instrument made the retention of their captive too dangerous a thing to be
attempted. The snuff having been seized, however, he was again lodged on the officers' shoulders
and so conveyed into the courtyard. He then said that, being now beyond the privilege of the
House, he was willing to proceed quietly. A coach was called, and he was taken back to the
King's Bench Prison.

The indignity thus offered to him was small indeed in comparison with the indignity offered
to the Parliament of England. In former times the slightest encroachment by the Crown, by the
Government, or by any humbler part of the executive, was fiercely resented; and to this resentment
some of the greatest and most memorable crises in the long fight for English liberty are due.
But rarely had there been a more flagrant, never a more wanton, infringement of the hardly-won
privileges of the House of Commons. Had Lord Cochrane been detected and seized violently in
some out-of-the-way hiding-place, the over-zealous servants of the Crown would have had some
excuse for their conduct. But in appearing publicly in the House, he showed to all the world
that he was no runaway from justice, that he was willing to submit to its honest administration
by honest hands, that all he sought was a fair hearing and a fair judgment upon his case, and
that, believing it impossible to obtain that through the elaborate machinery of oppression
which then went by the name of administration of justice, he now only asserted his right, the
right of every Englishman, and especially the right of a Member of Parliament, to appeal from
the agents of the law to the makers of the law, to call upon the legislators of his country
to see whether he had not been wrongfully used by the men who, though practically too much
their masters, were in theory only their servants.

"I did not go to the House of Commons," he said, "to complain about losses or sufferings, about
fine or imprisonment; or of property, to the amount of ten times the fine, of which I had been
cheated by this malicious prosecution. I did not go to the House to complain of the mockery
of having been heard in my defence, and answered by a reference to the decision from which
that defence was an appeal. I did not go there to complain of those who expelled me from my
profession. I did not go to the House to complain generally of the advisers of the Crown. But
I went there to complain of the conduct of him who has indeed the right of recommending to
mercy, but whose privilege, as a Privy Councillor, of advising the confirmation of his own
condemnations, and of interposing between the victims of legal vengeance and the justice of
the throne, is spurious and unconstitutional. When it is considered that my intention of going
to the House of Commons was announced on the day on which my absence from the prison was discovered;
I say, when it is considered that, as soon as it was known that I had left the prison, it was
also known that I had left it for the express purpose of going to the House of Commons to move
for an inquiry into the conduct of Lord Ellenborough; when it is considered that every engine
was set to work to tempt or intimidate me from that purpose, to frighten me out of the country
or allure me back to the custody of the marshal, that assurances were given that the doors
should be kept open for my admission at any hour of the night, and that I should be received
with secresy, courtesy, and indemnity; and when it is considered that I was afterwards seized
in the House of Commons, in defiance of the privileges of the House--can there be a doubt that
the object of that apprehension was less the accomplishment of the sentence of the court than
the prevention of the exposure which I was prepared to make of the injustice of that sentence?
That recourse should have been had to violence to stifle the accusations which I was prepared
to bring forward, that terror of the truth should have so superseded a wonted reverence for
parliamentary privileges as to have admitted the intrusion of tipstaves and thief-takers into
the House of Commons, to seize the person of an individual elected to serve as a member of
that House, and avowedly attendant for that purpose, is extraordinary, though not unnatural."

It must be admitted that the question of breach of privilege was somewhat more complicated
than Lord Cochrane considered. His opponents did not think with him that he was still a member
of the House of Commons. That membership had been taken from him, formally, though wrongfully,
by his expulsion on the 5th of July, and he had himself recognized the expulsion by accepting
re-election from the constituents of Westminster on the 16th of the same month. According to
precedent, however, that re-election could not be perfected until the customary oaths had been
taken; and, through a trick contrived in the clerks' office, he was hindered from taking them
before the arrival of the marshal and his consequent arrest. Yet there can be no doubt that,
in the special circumstances of the case, this arrest was especially indecorous, and, in the
method of effecting it, altogether illegal. If he had no right in the House of Commons, he
was a common trespasser, and ought to have been at once removed by the servants of the House,
who alone could have power to touch him within the walls. To allow him a seat therein, without
molestation, until the arrival of the servants of the King's Bench Prison, and then to allow
those servants to enter the House and act upon an authority that could there be no authority,
was wholly unwarrantable, a gross insult to Lord Cochrane, and, to the customs of the House
of Commons, an insult yet more gross. But to the hardship and the insult alike the House of
Commons, servile in its devotion to the Government of the day, was blind.

A miserable farce ensued. While the House was sitting, a few hours after Lord Cochrane's capture,
a letter from the Marshal of the King's Bench was read by the Speaker, in which his bold act
was formally reported and apologized for. "I humbly hope," he there said, "that I have not
committed any breach of privilege by the steps I have taken; and that, if I have done wrong,
it will be attributed to error in judgment, and not to any intention of doing anything that
might give offence."

The short debate that followed the reading of that letter is very noteworthy. Lord Castlereagh
spoke first, and dictated the view to be taken by all loyal members of the House. "From the
nature of the arrest and the circumstances attending it, I do not think, sir," he said, "that
the House is called upon to interfere. I am not aware, as the House was not actually sitting,
with the mace on the table and the Speaker in the chair, when the arrest took place, that any
breach of privilege has been committed. It must be quite obvious to every man that the marshal
has not acted wilfully in violation of the privileges of the House. No blame can attach to
him, since he has submitted himself to the judgment of the House of Commons after having done
that which he considered his duty as a civil officer. Having had Lord Cochrane in his custody,
from which he escaped, the marshal was bound not to pass over any justifiable means of putting
him under arrest whenever a fair opportunity occurred."

Most of the members thought, with Lord Castlereagh, that this was a "fair opportunity." Only
one, Mr. Tierney--and he very feebly--ventured to express an opposite opinion. "I consider
this," he said, "to be the case of a member regularly elected to serve in Parliament, and coming
down to take his seat. Now, sir, the House is regularly adjourned until ten o'clock in the
morning; and I recollect occasions when the Speaker did take the chair at that hour. Suppose,
then, a member, about to take his seat, came down here at an early hour, with the proper documents
in his hand, and desired to be instructed in the mode of proceeding, and, while waiting, an
officer entered, arrested him, and took his person away, would not this be a case to call for
the interference of the House?" Mr. Tierney admitted that he approved of Lord Cochrane's arrest,
but feared it might become a precedent and be put to the "improper purpose" of sanctioning
the arrest of members more deserving of consideration.

To please him, and to satisfy the formalities, therefore, the question was referred to a committee
of privileges. This committee reported, on the 23rd of March, "that, under the particular circumstances,
it did not appear that the privileges of Parliament had been violated, so as to call for the
interposition of the House;" and the House of Commons being satisfied with that opinion, no
further attention was paid to the subject.

In the meanwhile Lord Cochrane was being punished, with inexcusable severity, for his contempt
of the authority of Lord Ellenborough and Mr. Jones. A member of the House, during the discussion
of the 21st of March, had said that he had just come from the King's Bench Prison. "I found
Lord Cochrane," he had averred, "confined there in a strong room, fourteen feet square, without
windows, fireplace, table, or bed. I do not think it can be necessary for the purpose of security
to confine him in this manner. According to my own feelings, it is a place unfit for the noble
lord, or for any other person whatsoever."

In this Strong Room, however, Lord Cochrane was detained for more than three weeks. It was
partly underground, devoid of ventilation or necessary warmth, and, according to the testimony
of Dr. Buchan, one of the physicians who visited him in it, "rendered extremely damp and unpleasant
by the exudations coming through the wall."

On being taken to this den immediately after his capture, Lord Cochrane was informed by Mr.
Jones that he would be detained in it for a short time only, until the apartments over the
lobby of the prison were prepared for his reception. That was done in a few days; but no intimation
of a change was made until the 1st of April, when a message to that effect was sent to the
prisoner. On the following day he received a letter from Mr. Jones informing him that, if he
would anticipate the payment of the fine of 1000l. levied against him, and would also pledge
himself, and give security for the keeping of the promise, to make no further effort to escape,
he might be allowed to occupy the more comfortable quarters. "It is no new thing," said Lord
Cochrane, "for a prisoner to escape or to be retaken; but to require of any prisoner a bond
and securities not to repeat such escape was, I think, a proposition without precedent, and
such as the marshal knew could not be complied with by me without humiliation, and therefore
could not be proposed by him without insult. Besides, he had my assurance that if I were again
to quit his custody (which I gave him no reason to believe I should attempt, and which, as
I observed and believe, it was as easy for me to effect from that room as from any other part
of the prison), I should proceed no further than to the House of Commons, and that where he
found me before he might find me again; I having had no other object in view than that of expressing,
by some peculiar act, the keen sense which I entertained of peculiar injustice, and of endeavouring
to bring such additional proofs of that injustice before the House as were not in my possession
when I was heard in my defence." Mr. Jones, however, resolved to keep his captive in the Strong
Room, unless he would promise to resign himself to captivity in a less obnoxious part of the
prison.

Even for that negative favour the marshal took great credit to himself in a document which
he issued at the time. "If a humane and kind concern for this unfortunate nobleman," he there
averred, "had not softened the solicitude which I naturally felt for my own security, I could
have committed him, on my own warrant for the escape, to the new gaol in Horsemonger Lane,
for the space of a month; and that power is still within my jurisdiction. Had I thought proper
to exercise it, Lord Cochrane would then have been confined in a solitary cell with a stone
floor, with windows impenetrably barred and without glass; nor would it have proved half the
size of the Strong Room in the King's Bench, which has a boarded floor and glazed lights."
That statement reasonably stirred the anger of Lord Cochrane. "Though the solitary cell in
Horsemonger Lane," he answered, "may be half the size of the Strong Room, it could not, I apprehend,
have been more gloomy, damp, filthy, or injurious to health than the last-mentioned dungeon.
And since Mr. Jones could only have confined me in the former place for a month, and did confine
me in the latter for twenty-six days, I can scarcely see that degree of difference which should
entitle him to those 'grateful sentiments for his mode of acting on the occasion' which, he
submits to the public, it is my duty to entertain. The 'glazed lights' mentioned by Mr. Jones
were not put up till I had been thirty hours in the place, and I have always understood that
I was indebted for them to the good offices of Mr. Bennet and Mr. Lambton, who happened [as
part of a Parliamentary Committee] to be prosecuting their inquiry into the state of the prison
at the time of my return. For these and all other mercies of the said marshal, my gratitude
is due to their friendship and sense of duty, and to his dread of their discoveries and proceedings."

It is clear that nothing but fear of the consequences induced Mr. Jones to remove Lord Cochrane
from the Strong Room, after twenty-six days of confinement therein. On the 12th of April the
prisoner issued an address to the electors of Westminster, detailing some of the hardships
to which he was being subjected; and its publication immediately roused so much popular interest
that the authorities of King's Bench Prison deemed it necessary to make at any rate a show
of amelioration in his treatment. On the 13th, his physician, Dr. Buchan, was allowed to visit
him, and his report was such that another medical man of eminence, Mr. Saumarez, was sent to
examine into the state of the prisoner's health. Part of Dr. Buchan's certificate has already
been quoted. The rest was as follows: "This is to certify that I have this day visited Lord
Cochrane, who is affected with severe pain of the breast. His pulse is low, his hands cold,
and he has many symptoms of a person about to have typhus or putrid fever. These symptoms are,
in my opinion, produced by the stagnant air of the Strong Room in which he is now confined."
"I hereby certify," wrote Mr. Saumarez, "that I have visited Lord Cochrane, and am of opinion,
from the state of his health at this time, that it is essentially necessary that he should
be removed from the room which he now inhabits to one which is better ventilated, and in which
there is a fireplace. His lordship complains of pain in the chest, with difficulty of respiration,
accompanied with great coldness of the hands; and, from the general state of his health, there
is great reason to fear that a low typhus may come on."

The only result of those medical opinions was a renewal of the offer to remove Lord Cochrane
to the rooms prepared for him, on the conditions previously specified by Mr. Jones. Lord Cochrane
answered that he would rather die than submit to such an insulting arrangement. He published
the doctors' certificates, however, on the 15th of April, and their effect upon the public
was so great that the authorities were forced on the following day to take him out of his dungeon.
Mr. Jones's account of this step is worth quoting. "I again tried," he reported, "to induce
Lord Cochrane's friends and relations to give me any kind of undertaking against another escape.
On their refusal, I determined myself to become his friend, and, at my own risk, to remove
him to the rooms which have been already mentioned, and where, I am confident, he can have
no cause of complaint. These rooms not being altogether safe against such a person as Lord
Cochrane, should he determine to risk another escape, I must look to the laws of my country
as a safeguard, in the hope that the terrors of them will discourage him from attempting a
repetition of his offence, and prevent him from incurring the penalties of another indictment."

Lord Cochrane never really intended to attempt a second escape. Had it been otherwise, the
illness induced by his confinement in the Strong Room would have restrained him. Being placed
in healthier apartments on the 16th of April, he quietly remained there for the remainder of
his term of imprisonment. On the 20th of June he was informed that, the term being now at an
end, he was at liberty to depart on payment of the fine of 1000l. levied against him. This
he at first refused to do, and accordingly he was detained in prison for a fortnight more;
but at length the entreaties of his friends prevailed. On the 3rd of July he tendered to the
Marshal of the King's Bench a 1000l. note, with this memorable endorsement: "My health having
suffered by long and close confinement, and my oppressors being resolved to deprive me of property
or life, I submit to robbery to protect myself from murder, in the hope that I shall live to
bring the delinquents to justice." Upon that the prison doors were opened for him, and he was
able once more to fight for the justice so cruelly withheld from him, and to make his innocence
entirely clear to all whose selfish interests did not force them to be blind to the truth.

CHAPTER IV.

[1815-1816.]

Released from imprisonment on Monday, the 3rd of July, Lord Cochrane resumed his seat in the
House of Commons on the evening of the same day, just in time to secure the defeat of a measure
which was especially obnoxious to his Radical friends. The Duke of Cumberland having lately
married a daughter of the Duke of Mecklenburg-Strelitz, it was proposed to augment his income
of about 20,000l. a year by a further pension of 6000l. A bill to that effect was brought in
by Lord Castlereagh, and, after much sullen opposition from independent members, allowed a
first reading by a majority of seventeen. On the second division the majority was reduced to
twelve. The bill was brought on for the third reading on the 3rd of July, and would have been
passed through the House of Commons by the Speaker's casting vote but for Lord Cochrane's sudden
appearance. His vote secured a majority against it, and thereby it was finally overthrown.
Great, on the morrow, were the rejoicings of his supporters. "What a triumph," it was said
in a friendly newspaper, "is this to innocence! After being sentenced to the scandalous and
disgraceful punishment of the pillory, after being confined in a loathsome dungeon, fined 1000l.
in money to the king, disgracefully removed from that service in which he had attained such
high honours and rendered to his country such essential service, his escutcheon kicked out
of Westminster Abbey, his order of knighthood taken from him; in short, after having every
possible indignity which the most malignant imagination could invent heaped upon him in every
way, his single vote, on the very first day of his returning to his parliamentary duties, has
been the means of obtaining a signal victory over those under whose persecution he had been
so long suffering."

The one victory upon which Lord Cochrane set his heart, however--the reversal of the unjust
sentence passed upon him, and the consequent restoration of the honours and offices that were
now doubly dear to him--he was not able to obtain. On the 6th of July, just before the prorogation
of Parliament, he gave notice that, early in the next session, he should move for the appointment
of a committee to inquire into the conduct of Lord Ellenborough and others towards him during
the Stock Exchange trial. In arranging for this new effort at self-justification, he was partly
occupied during the ensuing autumn and winter, and the question was brought prominently before
the House of Commons in the spring of 1816; only to issue, however, in further injustice and
disappointment.

His purpose from the first was, of course, virtually the impeachment of Lord Ellenborough;
and that object was yet more apparent from the altered shape which the question assumed when
introduced in the new session. During the recess, Lord Cochrane, with the help of advisers,
some of whom were more zealous than wise, William Cobbett being the chief, had prepared an
elaborate series of "charges of partiality, misrepresentation, injustice, and oppression against
the Lord Chief Justice;" and these were formally introduced to the House of Commons on the
5th of March. "When I recollect," said Lord Cochrane on that occasion, "the imputations cast
upon my character, and circulated industriously previous to any legal proceedings, the conduct
pursued at my trial, the verdict obtained, the ineffectual endeavours; to procure a revision
of my case in the Court of King's Bench, and the infamous sentence there pronounced, together
with my expulsion from this House without being suffered to expose its injustice--when I call
to mind my dismissal from a service in which I have spent the fairest portion of my life, at
least without reproach, and my illegal and unmerited deprivation of the order of the Bath--it
is impossible to speak without emotion. I have but one course now left to pursue, namely, to
show that the charge of the Lord Chief Justice, on which he directed the jury to decide, was
not only unsupported by, but was in direct contradiction to, the evidence on which it professed
to be founded. This is the best course to pursue both in justice to the learned judge and to
myself. Either I am unfit to sit in this House, or the judge has no right to his place on the
bench. I have courted investigation in every shape; and I trust that the learned lord will
not shrink from it or suffer his friends on the opposite side to evade the consideration of
these charges by 'the previous question.'"

Lord Cochrane thereupon tendered to the House thirteen charges against Lord Ellenborough, in
which every point of importance in the Stock Exchange trial was minutely detailed and discussed;
and these charges being read, therein occupying nearly three hours, were ordered to be printed.
A fourteenth charge, bearing upon Lord Ellenborough's conduct subsequent to the trial, was
introduced on the 29th of March; but this, as it included aspersions upon the character of
another judge, Sir Simon Le Blanc, was objected to and withdrawn. There was further discussion
on the subject on the 1st and the 29th of April; but not much was done until the 30th of April.

On that evening, Lord Cochrane formally moved that his charges against Lord Ellenborough should
be referred to a Committee of the whole House, and that evidence in support of them should
be heard at the bar. A lengthy discussion then ensued, the most notable speeches being made
by the Solicitor-General, Sir Francis Burdett, and the Attorney-General.

The Solicitor-General of course opposed the motion. "As the House, on the one hand," he said,
"should jealously watch over the conduct of judges, so, on the other, it should protect them
when deserving of protection, not only as a debt of justice due to the judges, but as a debt
due to justice herself, in order that the public confidence in the purity of the administration
of our laws may not be disappointed, and that the course of that administration may continue
the admiration of the world; for, unless the judges are protected in the exercise of their
functions, the public opinion of the excellence of our laws will be inevitably weakened,--and
to weaken public opinion is to weaken justice herself."

That sort of argument, too frivolous and faulty, it might be supposed, to influence any one,
had weight with the House of Commons to which it was addressed; and the Solicitor-General adduced
much more of it. To him the spotless character of Lord Ellenborough appeared to be an ample
defence against Lord Cochrane's charges. "Never," he said, with a truthfulness that posterity
can appreciate, "never was there an individual at the bar or on the bench less liable to the
imputation of corrupt motives; never was there one more remarkable for independence--I will
say, sturdy independence--of character, than the noble and learned lord. For twelve years he
has presided on the bench with unsullied honour, displaying a perfect knowledge of the law;
evincing as much legal knowledge as was ever amassed by any individual; and now, in the latter
part of his life, when he has arrived at the highest dignity to which a man can arrive, by
a promotion well-earned at the bar, and doubly well-earned at the bench, we are told that he
has sacrificed all his honours by acting from corrupt motives!"

Sir Francis Burdett replied effectively to the speeches of the Solicitor-General and others
who sided with him, and nobly defended his friend. He showed that the proposal to refuse investigation
of this case because it might weaken the cause of justice, by making the conduct of the administrators
of justice contemptible, was worse than frivolous. "Such language," he averred, "would operate
against the investigation of any charges whatever against any judge; would indeed form a barrier
against the exercise of the best privilege of this House--the privilege of inquiring into the
conduct of courts of justice. It would serve equally well to shelter even those judges who
have been dragged from the bench for their misconduct." He then reviewed the incidents of the
Stock Exchange trial, and urged that Lord Cochrane had good reason for bringing forward his
charges. "The question for the House to consider is, 'Do these charges, if admitted, contain
criminal matter for the consideration of the House?' I conceive that they do. No doubt the
judges who condemned Russell and Sidney were, at the time, spoken of as men of high character,
who could not be supposed to suffer any base motives to influence their conduct. Such arguments
as those ought to be banished from this House. It is our duty to look, with constitutional
suspicion on jealousy, on the proceedings of the judges; and, when a grave charge is solemnly
brought forward, justice to the country, as well as to the judge, demands an inquiry into it."

That, however, was refused. After a long speech from the Attorney-General, and an eloquent
reply by Lord Cochrane, the House divided on the motion. Eighty-nine members voted against
it. Its only supporters were Sir Francis Burdett and Lord Cochrane himself. Not only did the
House refuse to listen to the allegations against Lord Ellenborough; in the excess of its devotion
to such law and such order as the Government of the day appointed, it even resolved that all
the entries in its record of proceedings which referred to this subject should be expunged
from the journals. Lord Cochrane made no resistance to this further insult thrown upon him.
"It gives me great satisfaction," he said, in the brief and dignified speech with which he
closed the discussion, "to think that the vote which has been come to has been come to without
any of my charges having been disproved. Whatever may be done with them now, they will find
their way to posterity, and posterity will form a different judgment concerning them than that
which has been adopted by this House. So long as I have a seat in this House, however, I will
continue to bring them forward, year by year and time after time, until I am allowed the opportunity
of establishing the truth of my allegations."

Other occupations prevented the full realization of that purpose. But to the end of his life
Lord Cochrane used every occasion of asserting his innocence and courting a full investigation
of all the incidents on which his assertion was based. Posterity, as he truly prophesied, has
learnt to endorse his judgment; and therefore, in the ensuing pages, it will not be necessary
to adduce from his letters and actions more than occasional illustrations of the temper which
animated him throughout with reference to this heaviest of all his heavy troubles.

By these troubles, however, even in the time of their greatest pressure, he was not overcome;
and in the midst of them he found time and heart for active labour in the good work of various
sorts that was always dear to him. He used the advantages of his liberty in striving to perfect
the invention of improved street lamps and lighting material that had occupied him while in
prison, and to procure their general adoption. His place in Parliament, moreover, all through
the session of 1816, was employed not only in seeking justice for himself, but also in furthering
every project advanced for benefiting the community and checking the pernicious action of the
Government. A zealous, honest Whig before, he was now as zealous and as honest as ever in all
his political conduct. And his devotion to the best interests of the people was yet more apparent
in his unflagging labours, out of Parliament, for the public good. His great abilities, rendered
all the more prominent by the cruel persecution to which he had been and still was subjected,
made him a leading champion of the people during the turmoil to which misgovernment at home,
and the distracted state of foreign politics, gave a special stimulus in 1816.

A long list might be made of the great meetings which he attended, and took part in, both among
his own constituents of Westminster and elsewhere, for the consideration of popular grievances
and their remedies. One such meeting, attended by Henry Brougham and Sir Francis Burdett among
others, was held in Palace Yard, Westminster, on the 1st of March, for the purpose of petitioning
Parliament against the renewal of the property-tax and the maintenance of a standing army in
time of peace. Lord Cochrane, the hero of the day, on account of "the spirit of opposition
which he had shown to the infringement of the constitution and the grievances of the people,"
won for himself new favour by the boldness with which he denounced the policy of the Government,
which, boasting that it was ruining the French nation, was at the same time bringing misery
also upon Englishmen by the excessive taxation and the reckless extravagance to which it resorted.

A smaller, but much more momentous meeting assembled at the City of London Tavern on the 29th
of July, under the auspices of the Association for the Relief of the Manufacturing and Labouring
Poor. Instigated in a spirit of praiseworthy charity by many of the most influential persons
of the day, it was used by Lord Cochrane for the enforcement of the views as to public right
and public duty, and the mutual relations of the rich and the poor, which were forced upon
him by his recent troubles, and the relations in which he was at this time placed with some
over-zealous champions of popular reform, and some unreasonable exponents of popular grievances.
That his conduct on this occasion was extravagant and even factious, he afterwards heartily
regretted. Yet as a memorable illustration of the power and earnestness with which he fought
for what seemed to him to be right, as well with word as with sword, its details, as reported
at the time, may be here set forth at length.

    About half-past one o'clock the Duke of York entered and took
    the chair, supported on his right by the Duke of Kent, and on
    his left by the Duke of Cambridge. He was accompanied on
    his entrance by the Archbishop of Canterbury, the Bishop of
    London, the Duke of Rutland, Lord Manvers, the Chancellor
    of the Exchequer, Mr. Wilberforce, and other distinguished
    individuals.

    His Royal Highness the Duke of York immediately
proceeded to open the business of the day, by observing that the
present meeting had been called to consider and, as far as possible,
to alleviate the present distress and sufferings of the labouring
classes of the community. These distresses were, he feared, too well
known to all who heard him to require any description; and all he
had to add to the bare statement of them was the expression of his
confidence that the liberality which had been so signally manifested
in the course of foreign distress would not be found wanting when the
direction of it was to be towards the comfort and relief of our own
countrymen at home.

THE DUKE OF KENT, after alluding to the exertions of the Committee of
1812, observed that the immediate object was to raise a fund, in
the subsequent accumulation and management of which many ulterior
arrangements might be projected, and from which charity might soon
emanate in a thousand directions. He doubted not that every county and
every town would be quick to imitate the example of the metropolis.
The association of 1812 had at least the merit of producing this
effect, and had spread through the whole land that spirit of active
benevolence which he was feebly invoking on this occasion. He trusted
that it was necessary for him to say but little more to insure the
adoption of the resolution which he should have the honour to propose.
He confessed he felt gratified when he saw so great a concourse of
his countrymen assembled together for such a purpose, and additional
gratification at seeing by whom they were supported. He was sure,
then, that he should not plead in vain to the national liberality; but
that the remedy would be promptly afforded to an evil which he trusted
would be found but temporary. If they should be so happy as but to
succeed in discovering new sources of employment to supply the place
    of those channels which had been suddenly shut up, he should
    indeed despond if we did not soon restore the country to that
    same flourishing condition which had long made her the envy of
    the world. The royal Duke then moved the first resolution,
    as follows:--"That the transition from a state of extensive
    warfare to a system of peace has occasioned a stagnation of
    employment and a revulsion of trade, deeply affecting the
    situation of many parts of the community, and producing many
    instances of great local distress."

    The resolution was seconded by Mr. Harman.

    Lord Cochrane offered himself to the attention of the meeting,
    but was for some time unable to proceed, his voice being lost
    in the huzzas and hisses which his presence called forth.
    Silence being at length in some measure obtained, his lordship
    said he would not have addressed the meeting but that, having
    received a circular letter from the committee, and feeling
    the importance of the subject, he would have thought it a
    dereliction of his duty if he refrained from attending. He
    rose thus early because the observations he had to submit
    would not be suitable if made when the other resolutions were
    put. The first resolution was, in his opinion, founded on
    a gross fallacy; and this was his reason for saying so. The
    existing distresses could not be truly ascribed to any sudden
    transition from war to peace. Could it be pretended that it
    was peace which had occasioned the fall in the value of all
    agricultural produce? Or could any man venture to assert that
    the difficulties and sufferings of the manufacturing classes
    had any other cause than a prodigious and enormous burthen of
    taxation? He was much gratified at seeing the royal Dukes so
    active in promoting a generous and laudable undertaking, and
    he hoped he should not be understood as treating them with
    disrespect when he repeated that the resolution was founded
    on an entire fallacy. But, not to content himself with a mere
    assertion of his own belief,
    he had brought official documents to prove the correctness
    of his statements; and if he should be wrong, he saw the
    Chancellor of the Exchequer near him, who would have the
    opportunity of correcting his misrepresentation. This brief
    statement, he believed, would be quite sufficient to show that
    the financial situation of the country was such as to render
    any attempts of that meeting for the purpose of extending
    general relief utterly ineffectual. The whole revenue of the
    kingdom was 62,267,450l., deducting the property-tax, and
    the revenue was thus expended. The interest of the national
    debt, including the interest of unfunded exchequer bills, was
    upwards of 40,300,000l., leaving to support the expenses of
    Government only about 22,000,000l. It was this enormous sum
    which now hung round our necks--it was this, which unnecessary
    extravagance had caused to increase from year to year to its
    present terrible amount, which was the cause of all the
    evils of the country at this moment. This taxation, and
    extravagance, for which the country was now suffering, was
    supported and sanctioned by those who had derived and still
    derived large emoluments from them. These were truths that
    the people ought to know; for they were the source of their
    burthens, and the origin of all the mischief. It was this
    profuse expenditure of the public money, to say no worse of
    it, that occasioned the present calamities. It was the lavish
    expenditure to meet a compliant list of placemen that brought
    the country to its present state. The deficiency in the
    revenue occasioned by the enormous interest of the national
    debt, which ministers would have to supply, would, according
    to the present disbursements and receipts, amount to
    11,578,000l. unless that expenditure were reduced, every
    such attempt as they were at present making would, he was
    convinced, prove abortive: it was a mere topical application
    while a mortal distemper was raging within. He had taken
    no notice in his estimate of the charges for sinecures or
    the bounties on exports and imports: and yet the returns upon
    which he went, exclusive of these charges, showed a deficit
    for the ensuing year of 3,500,000l. Were those who heard him
    prepared to make this good? It was, he believed, undeniable
    that nothing could equalize our revenue with our expenditure,
    but the putting down entirely the army and navy, or the
    extinction of one half of the national debt; but when he
    looked to the actual receipt of the last quarter and found
    a falling off of 2,400,000l., which, with a corresponding
    decrease in the three succeeding quarters, must create a new
    deficit of 10,000,000l., and, added to the 3,500,000l.
    to which he had alluded, would form a sum equal to the whole
    amount of the boasted sinking-fund, he felt that it was worse
    than trifling to suppose we could go on upon the present
    system. Were they prepared to make up this enormous
    deficiency? [A voice from the crowd cried "Yes."] He was happy
    to hear it: he supposed it was some fund-holder who answered,
    and if any class could do so, it was the fund-holders. They
    alone had the ability, they alone now derived any returns
    from their property; but even if they should be both able and
    willing, still it would only remain a positive deficit made
    good, and no new facility would be derived for alleviating
    the existing burthens. The burthens and distresses must
    still remain what they were before. He spoke not now upon
    conjecture, or loose calculation, he had brought his authority
    with him. These were the records from which he derived his
    statements--the official returns of the Treasury; and
    if false, the Chancellor of the Exchequer was present to
    contradict them. He was glad, he confessed, to see him, for
    those who heard him were, no doubt, aware that it was not
    always in the House of Commons that a minister could discover
    the genuine sentiments of the people. If, therefore, no other
    person should move an amendment, he should feel it his duty
    to propose an omission of that part of the resolution which
    ascribed the distressed state of the country to the transition
    from a state of war to a state of peace, and to state the
    cause to be an enormous debt, and a lavish expenditure. He had
    come there with the expectation of seeing the Duke of Rutland
    in the chair; and with some hopes, as he took the lead upon
    this occasion, that it was his intention to surrender that
    sinecure of 9,000l. a-year which he was now in the habit
    of putting in his pocket. He still trusted that all who were
    present and were also holders of sinecures had it in their
    intention to sacrifice them to their liberality and their
    justice; and that they did not come there to aid the
    distresses of their country by paying half-a-crown per cent,
    out of the hundreds which they took from it. If they did not,
    all he could say was, that to him their pretended charity was
    little better than a fraud. Without, however, taking up more
    of their time, he should move his amendment, with this one
    additional observation, that it would be a disgrace to an
    enlightened meeting, and particularly to a meeting which might
    be considered as comprising an aggregate mass of the property
    and intellect of the country, to place a fallacy upon the
    record of their proceedings, and to build all their following
    resolutions upon an assertion which had no foundation in
    truth. He concluded by moving the following amendment to the
    first resolution:--"That the enormous load of the national
    debt, together with the large military establishment and the
    profuse expenditure of public money, was the real cause of the
    present public distress."

    Mr. Wilberforce said he was himself too much of an Englishman,
    and had been too long engaged in political discussions to feel
    any surprise that those who felt warmly on such a subject as
    the present should be anxious to give
    expression to their sentiments: but he could not help thinking
    that, upon cool reflection, the noble lord would be of opinion
    that his own object would be better attained if he confined
    himself, on this occasion, to the distinct question under
    consideration. The noble lord said the country was in a
    crisis, and would they apply a mere topical remedy? but he
    might ask the noble lord if he would refuse to assuage the
    pain of a temporary distemper because he had it not in his
    power at once to cure it radically? To him the existing
    distress appeared to be a distemper which rather called for
    immediate alleviation, than for the speculative discussion of
    its cause. He thought the most charitable and manly course to
    be pursued--and that which must be most congenial to what
    he knew to be the noble lord's own charitable and manly
    disposition--was not to call upon the meeting to give any
    opinion upon a political question not under consideration,
    so as to divert them from pursuing it with diligence and
    confidence, but to postpone to a better opportunity a
    discussion of this nature, and to unite cordially in the
    general cause of finding employment and encouragement for our
    suffering fellow-citizens. If the noble lord would reflect
    upon the best mode of relieving the distresses of the people,
    he would find his amendment not likely to have that tendency.
    Let him reserve all discussion on the question it involved
    until he could do it without interrupting the stream of
    charity, and until he could enter upon it under fair and
    proper circumstances. He (Mr. Wilberforce), in a proper place,
    would not shrink from meeting the noble lord on that inquiry;
    he was twice as old in public life as the noble lord could
    pretend to be, and fully as independent; yet he would not have
    easily supposed any man, however young in politics, could have
    started such topics there. For his part, he should be sorry to
    take advantage of any credit which might be
    to supposed to belong to him upon such an occasion as this to
    cast reproaches upon those who were concurring with him in a
    benevolent design. The meeting must on the present occasion
    feel how much indebted it stood to the royal personages for
    their attendance. They had come to listen to a discussion
    which had for its avowed and direct object the relief of the
    people, and they were in the room suddenly called upon to lay
    aside the practical part of their inquiry and to enter upon
    a distinct pursuit. Was such a course fair towards those
    illustrious individuals? Was it that which was likely
    to induce them to listen to proposals for their personal
    co-operation on occasions of benevolence, if they had no
    security against the occupation of their time for discussions
    of a different character? In conclusion, he entreated the
    noble lord, of whose real disposition to relieve the people
    of England he had no doubt, and whose motives he could justly
    appreciate, to withdraw his amendment.

    Lord Cochrane thanked the honourable gentleman for his
    personal civilities towards him, and said that he would feel
    no hesitation in withdrawing his amendment if the honourable
    gentleman would state to the meeting, on his own personal
    veracity and honour, that he believed that the original
    resolution contained the true cause of the public distress,
    and the amendment the false one. If the honourable gentleman
    would say that--if any respectable man present would say
    it--he would be satisfied.

    Mr. Cotes said he was entirely unconnected with the noble
    lord, and had never even had the honour of speaking, to him.
    He agreed, however, with him in thinking that this was a
    moment when the eyes of the public ought to be open to their
    real situation. The amendment harmonized entirely with all
    the opinions which he had been able to form upon subject. Mr.
    Wilberforce, to whose humane and benevolent
    Mr. character he was happy to pay his acknowledgments, had
    attempted to get rid of the noble lord's amendment by a sort
    of side-wind; but to his judgment there was no incompatibility
    between the object of the meeting and the amendment. There was
    nothing irrelevant in it; it naturally grew out of the course
    adopted by the chair, and in which a cause of the prevailing
    distress was distinctly specified. The question was, then,
    ought their resolutions to go forth to the public with a
    falsehood upon the face of them? Ought they not to state the
    true cause, since His Royal Highness by mistake had assigned
    a fallacious one? Mr. Wilberforce, with his usual ability, but
    in a manner that still marked its duplicity--he meant the
    word in no offensive sense--had asked, would he enter into
    a political discussion when we were called upon to extend
    relief? He begged to state this was not the true question: it
    was whether they would found all the future proceedings
    upon error and misstatement, or upon incontrovertible facts.
    Another question was, would they be satisfied to patch up the
    wounds of the country for a short period or seek to remedy
    the disease in its spring and in its sources before it became
    still more alarming and incurable? The Duke of Kent said he
    had offered the resolution as it had been put into his hand;
    and if he had conceived there had been any mention of a course
    upon which difference of opinion could exist, he hoped they
    knew him sufficiently to believe that he should have been
    incapable of requiring their assent to it. He now, therefore,
    proposed an omission of all that part of the resolution
    which had any reference whatever to the cause of the present
    distress. He knew the noble lord well enough--and he had known
    him in early life--to be assured that he would agree with him,
    at least in a declaration as to the fact. Their common object,
    he believed, was to afford relief and to admit its necessity
    without assigning
    either one cause or another. For his own part, it had not been
    his intention to attend a political discussion. He would never
    enter the arena of politics with the noble lord; but he begged
    leave to say, he considered himself as competent to plead
    the cause of humanity, to advocate the interests of the
    weather-beaten sufferer, as the noble lord could be. There
    were, however, other times and other places for men to engage
    in discussion of party politics, and he therefore implored the
    noble lord not to distract the attention of the meeting by the
    introduction of these; and to keep solely in view that they
    had met as the friends of benevolence, not as the advocates of
    a party.

    Lord Cochrane, in reply, stated that he had no wish to excite
    a difference of opinion on such an occasion, and that, after
    the alteration in the resolution, nothing gave him more
    pleasure than the opportunity of withdrawing his amendment;
    but, in justification of what he had done, it became necessary
    for him to say that he never would have thought of his
    amendment if it had not been for the assertion as to the cause
    of existing distress--he had no doubt in his mind as to the
    nature of that cause, and he held it but just and honourable
    that if a cause must be assigned, it should be the true one.
    After returning thanks to Mr. Wilberforce and the Duke of Kent
    for their expressions of personal civility, the noble lord
    consented to withdraw his motion so far as he was personally
    concerned in it.

    Considerable opposition, however, from various parts of the
    hall was manifested to this mode of withdrawing the
    amendment, and a great deal of disturbance took place. At last
    the resolution, as altered by the Duke of Kent, was put and
    carried.

    The Duke of Cambridge, in his speech, which followed, returned
    his warm thanks to the noble lord for the handsome manner in
    which he had withdrawn his amendment. He moved the following
    resolution, which was unanimously agreed to:--

    "From the experienced generosity of the British nation it may
    be confidently expected that those who are able to afford the
    means of relief to their fellow-subjects will contribute their
    utmost endeavours to remedy or alleviate the sufferings of
    those who are particularly distressed."

    The Archbishop of Canterbury moved the following resolution,
    which was seconded and carried unanimously: "That although it
    is obviously impossible for any association of individuals to
    attempt a general relief of difficulties affecting so large a
    proportion of the public, yet that it has been proved by
    the experience of this association that most important and
    extensive benefits may be derived from the co-operation and
    correspondence of a society in the metropolis encouraging the
    efforts of those benevolent individuals who may be disposed to
    associate themselves in the different districts for the relief
    of their several neighbourhoods."

    The Duke of Rutland afterwards addressed the meeting,
    and moved that a subscription be immediately opened, and
    contributions generally solicited for carrying into effect the
    objects of this association; which was seconded, and agreed
    to.

    The Earl of Manvers, after stating that he had opposed the
    amendment of the noble lord (Lord Cochrane) solely from his
    anxiety to preserve the unanimity of the meeting, as it was
    only by becoming unanimous they could gain their
    object, moved: "That subscribers of 100l. and upwards be
    added to the committee of the Association for the Relief of
    the Manufacturing and Labouring Poor; that the committee have
    full power to dispose of the funds to be collected, and to
    name sub-committees for correspondence."

    The motion was seconded by Sir T. Bell, and unanimously
    carried.

    The Bishop of London proposed a vote of thanks to the Duke of
    York, which Mr. C. Barclay was about to second, but--

    Lord Cochrane again stepped forward and gained the attention
    of the meeting. He repeated the explanation of the motives
    for withdrawing his proposed amendment, adding, that he had no
    wish again to press that amendment upon the consideration
    of the meeting. But he could not forbear from observing what
    would have been the fate of such a proposition, if brought
    forward in another place, which he need not name. For there,
    instead of being requested to withdraw the proposition, it
    would have been met by a direct negative or by 'the previous
    question,' in support of which, no doubt, a majority of that
    assembly, miscalled the representatives of the people, would
    have voted. Yet the manner in which this, a meeting of the
    people, would have decided, was pretty obvious; and hence it
    might be inferred how far the people concurred in sentiment
    and feeling with the House of Commons. That the proposed, or
    any charitable subscription, must be inadequate to relieve the
    actual distress of the country was a proposition which could
    not be disputed, but yet he did not intend to oppose that
    subscription; on the contrary, he should give it every
    possible support in his power; and it was, he felt, a
    consolation to them that there were still some persons in this
    country who could afford something to relieve the poor; but
    he was afraid that neither the landowner nor the mercantile
    interest had the means of
    doing so; for the former could obtain no rent, and the latter
    no trade--the only persons, in fact, who were able to assist
    the poor under present circumstances were the placemen, the
    sinecurists, and the fund-holders, who must give up at least
    half of their ill-gotten gains in order to effect the object.
    With this impression fixed upon his mind, he felt it his duty
    to propose an additional resolution, that the ministers of
    the crown, that the Government of the country, who wielded
    the power of Parliament, were alone competent to remove and
    to alleviate the national distress. This, indeed, was evident
    from the statement of our financial situation which he
    had already made. He had called upon the Chancellor of the
    Exchequer, who was present, to contradict that statement if
    he could; but the right honourable gentleman had felt it
    expedient not to utter one word, as the meeting had witnessed.
    Yet from that statement it must be obvious, as he had already
    observed, that the military and naval situation of the country
    must be abandoned, or at least half the national debt must be
    extinguished, for the resources of the empire could not endure
    such burthens. The noble lord concluded with expressing his
    intention when the present resolutions were got over, to move
    another, stating the real cause of the present distress,
    and that the Chancellor of the Exchequer and his majesty's
    ministers were alone capable of affording serious relief to
    the present distress.

    Mr. Barclay seconded the motion of the Right Reverend the
    Bishop of London, to which Lord Cochrane assured the meeting
    he entertained no objection.

    Great confusion prevailed in the meeting, some crying out
    for Lord Cochrane's motion, while others were equally loud in
    testifying their anxiety for the vote of thanks.

    The Duke of Kent then put the motion.

    Lord Cochrane said that his sole object was to have an
    opportunity of moving his resolution after the present was
    disposed of.

A person from a distant part of the room exclaimed: "That resolution shall not be put, for
it is a libel on the Parliament." Several other remarks were made, but they were generally
unintelligible from the violent uproar and confusion that prevailed. Loud cries of "Put Lord
Cochrane's motion first" were mixed with the cry of "Chair, chair."

The Duke of Kent said that he had attended this meeting with a view to assist in promoting
an object of charity, and he had no doubt that such was the intention of the noble lord (Cochrane).
Of this he was sure from the noble lord's own declaration, as well as from his knowledge of
the noble lord's feelings. The noble lord had, indeed, himself stated that he had no wish to
introduce any political, or to press any, measure likely to interfere with the object of the
meeting. Therefore, he called upon the noble lord, in consistency, in politeness and urbanity,
not to urge any political principle; and the noble lord must be aware that his proposition
had a strong political tendency. The proposition was indeed such, that the noble lord must
be aware that it was calculated to injure the subscription, for those who were not of the noble
lord's opinion in politics were but too likely to leave the room if that proposition were pressed
to a vote, and thus a material object of charity would suffer through a desire to urge a declaration
of a mere political opinion.

Lord Cochrane disclaimed any wish to provoke political discussion.
He expressed his desire merely to declare a truth which no man
could venture to dispute in any popular assembly, in order that
the Chancellor of the Exchequer, and others present, might have an
    opportunity of reporting to Government the decided sentiment
    and real feeling of the people.

    The Archbishop of Canterbury begged leave to call back the
    attention of the meeting to the motion before it, and which,
    he had no doubt, would be unanimously adopted. This motion,
    the most reverend prelate added, was not intended in any
    degree to interfere with the motion of the noble lord.

    Amid loud cries of "Put Lord Cochrane's motion first, for if
    the motion of thanks be disposed of, the Duke of York will
    leave the chair, and the noble lord's motion will not be put
    at all," the Duke of Kent declared that there could be
    no intention to get rid of the noble lord's motion by any
    side-wind.

    The motion of thanks was then passed while Lord Cochrane was
    engaged in writing his motion, and the Duke of York, having
    bowed to the meeting, immediately withdrew, amidst loud
    hissings, and cries of "Shame! shame! a trick! a trick!"

    The Duke of Kent, whose head was turned towards Lord Cochrane,
    was much surprised and disappointed at discovering the absence
    of the chairman.

    The general cry was then raised: "The Duke of Kent to the
    chair."

    His Royal Highness addressed the meeting. Having, he said,
    pledged himself on proposing the last resolution that there
    was no intention of getting rid of Lord Cochrane's motion by
    any side-wind, he felt himself in a very awkward predicament.
    "But," he added, "I hope that, as liberal Englishmen, you
    will consider my situation and who I am; and that after my
    illustrious relatives have retired from the meeting, you
    will not insist upon my taking the chair for the purpose of
    pressing the declaration of a political opinion;
    but that you will commend my motives, and do justice to
    those feelings which determine the propriety of my immediate
    departure." His Royal Highness accordingly withdrew.

    The majority of the meeting still remained, calling for the
    nomination of another chairman, and pressing the adoption of
    Lord Cochrane's motion; but the noble lord also withdrew, and
    the meeting separated.

That meeting was memorable. If Lord Cochrane's bearing at it was factious, it must be remembered
how greatly he had suffered and how earnestly he desired to save the people at large from the
sufferings entailed upon them by the Government which he and they had learnt to regard with
a common dislike. By exposing what appeared to him and many others to be the hypocrisy of seeming
philanthropists, and showing what he deemed the only real cause and the only real remedy of
the national distress, he only acted as a brave and honest man, and his work was appreciated
by the masses in whose interest it was done. A thrill of satisfaction ran through the land.
During the ensuing weeks and months congratulations were heaped upon him from all quarters,
and from nearly every class of society. If he had lessened the resources of the Association
for the Belief of the Manufacturing and Labouring Poor, he was thanked even for this, since
it was believed to be a good thing for shallow charity to be stayed, in order that the cause
of real justice might be promoted.

The thanks were all the heartier because of the fresh persecution to which Lord Cochrane was
subjected on account of his patriotism. This persecution was in the shape of legal proceedings
instituted against him by the Marshal of the King's Bench Prison for his escape therefrom on
the 10th of March, 1815. The action had been formally commenced almost immediately after the
alleged offence, but on technical grounds, and perhaps from the consciousness that he was already
punished enough, it was delayed for more than a year. As the previous punishment, however,
had not been enough to silence him, the Government determined to revive the old charge as a
further act of vengeance. At the special instigation of Lord Ellenborough, as it was averred,
the prosecution had been renewed in May, 1816, almost immediately after the rejection by the
House of Commons of Lord Cochrane's charges against the vindictive and unprincipled judge;
but the time was too far gone for trial to take place during the summer term. It was again
renewed, and at length successfully, directly after Lord Cochrane's fresh exhibition of his
hostility to the Government at the London Tavern meeting.

The trial was at Guildford, on the 17th of August. Its history and issue may best be told in
the words of an autobiographical fragment, written by Lord Dundonald shortly before his death.
"I was accompanied to Guildford," he said, "by Sir Francis Burdett and several other leading
inhabitants of Westminster, whose names are forgotten by me. I read to the jury a general statement,
on which they unequivocally expressed their conviction that the trial had better not have been
instituted, for that the punishment already sustained was more than adequate to the offence
alleged to have been committed. The judge, however, interfered, and told the jury that, as
I had admitted the escape in my statement, they had no alternative but to bring in a verdict
of guilty, which was reluctantly done, and judgment was deferred.

"After the trial I returned to my house in Hampshire, and not hearing anything more of the
affair, naturally concluded that, in the face of the opinion expressed by the jury, the Government
would be ashamed to prosecute the matter further. Not liking, however, to trust to their mercy,
whilst their malevolence might be exercised at an inconvenient season, or made to depend upon
my political conduct, I directed my attorney to inquire whether it was intended to put in execution
the sentence at Guildford. The reply was that no steps had been taken, and the impression was,
that Government would be against further proceedings, lest they should tend to increase my
popularity. Considering that this might be a feint to put me off my guard, I went to London
for the purpose of attending a large political meeting, in the conduct of which I participated.
Shortly afterwards I received a summons to appear at Westminster Hall and receive judgment
on the verdict; the judgment being that I was condemned to pay a fine of 100l. to the Crown.

"On my refusal to pay the fine, on the 21st of November, I was again taken into custody, I
alleging that the sentence would amount to perpetual imprisonment, for that I would never pay
a fine imposed for escaping from an illegal detention.

"On my being taken back to prison, however, a meeting of the electors of Westminster was held,
at which it was determined that the amount of the fine should be paid by a penny subscription,
no person being allowed to subscribe more. This plan was adopted in order that the public throughout
the kingdom might have an opportunity of manifesting their disapprobation of the oppressive
way in which I was being treated. Though I knew nothing of the intentions of the committee
at the time, it was expected that the subscription would amount to a much larger sum than the
fine, and resolved that the surplus should be devoted to the re-imbursement of the former fine
of 1000l. and of the expenses to which I had been put at the trial. Receiving-houses were accordingly
opened in the metropolis and in various other large towns, and the amount of the fine of 100l.
was speedily collected in London alone.

"Meanwhile meetings were constantly being held to petition Parliament for reform, and at these
my name and sufferings formed a prominent topic, so that the Government would have been glad
to be rid of me. After one of these meetings in Spafields, for the purpose of requesting Sir
Francis Burdett and myself to present a petition to Parliament, a serious riot took place in
the city of London, in which a gentleman was shot by the military. The Government, in alarm
lest the people should proceed to the King's Bench and liberate me, did me the honour to send
a company of infantry to guard me, the officers of the prison being ordered to admit no strangers
whatever. The troops were further ordered to continue their attendance till I was released
from custody.

"The subscription having been completed in pence, sent from all parts of the kingdom, my secretary,
Mr. Jackson, applied to the Master of the Crown Office to receive the amount of the fine in
coppers. This was refused, as not being a legal tender. The Master, however, in token of the
suffering to which I had so unworthily been subjected, said that, as payment of the fine in
such a manner marked the sense of the people on my case, he would not oppose himself to the
expression of public sentiment, but would take 10l. of the sum in coppers. This was accordingly
paid, and the remainder in notes and silver, which were given by various tradesmen in exchange
for the coppers of the people, whose money was thus literally appropriated to the payment of
the fine.

"Finding, on my liberation, whole chests filled with penny pieces, I wrote to the committee,
stating that sufficient had been collected. The reply was that the subscription should go on
till the amount of the fine of 1000l. was paid in addition. The whole of the amount of the
fine was thus realized, with something beyond--I do not recollect how much--towards my law
expenses, which had necessarily been excessive. Taking, however, the 1100l. paid in pence,
this alone showed that two million six hundred and forty thousand persons--composing a very
large portion of the adult population of the kingdom--sympathised with me. Not one of my persecutors
could have elicited such an expression of public sympathy."

The fine being thus paid, Lord Cochrane was released from the King's Bench Prison on the 7th
of December, after a confinement of sixteen days, which was attended by all the wanton severity
shown to him during his previous incarceration. Having been apprehended on a Thursday, he was,
on his arrival at the King's Bench, placed in an unhealthy room protected by an iron grating.
In the evening, having complained of such unusual treatment, he was informed that it was under
the express directions of the Marshal. Next day, being seriously unwell, a physician was sent
to him, who reported that he was suffering from palpitation of the heart and other symptoms
of dangerous excitement, which made it necessary that he should be removed to better quarters.
Accordingly, worse quarters were found for him, in a damp, dark, and very imperfectly-ventilated
room, entirely devoid of furniture, in the middle of the building. Stedfastly refusing to go
there, he was allowed to remain for that night in the room, first assigned to him. On Saturday
morning, just as he was sitting down to breakfast, he was ordered to proceed to his new dungeon.
Again refusing, his untasted breakfast was forcibly taken from him until he consented to eat
it in the appointed place. Thither he accordingly went, and there he was detained for the fortnight
that passed before his liberation.

On the 17th of December an enthusiastic meeting of the citizens of Westminster was held to
congratulate Lord Cochrane upon his release. "We, your lordship's constituents," it was stated
in an address adopted by that meeting, "beg leave, on the present occasion, to declare that,
after having had long and ample means for inquiry and reflection, we remain in the full and
entire conviction of the perfect innocence of your lordship of every part of the offence laid
to your charge at the outset of that series of persecutions by which, during the last three
years of your life, you have been incessantly harassed. But, indeed, those persons must have
very little knowledge of public affairs, and particularly of your distinguished naval and political
career, who do not clearly perceive that all those persecutions have arisen from your public
virtues, and who are not well convinced that, if you had not served the people by your exposure
of the abuses in the prize courts, by your endeavours to restore to the right owners the immense
sums unjustly alienated under the names of Droits of Admiralty, by your honest explanation
of the causes which prevented the naval renown of your country being complete at Basque Roads,
and by having caused to be produced in Parliament, and published to the nation, that memorable
account of sinecures, pensions, and grants which so usefully enlightened the public, you never
would have been prosecuted for a pretended fraud on the funds. Your lordship's constituents,
being thus fully sensible that you have suffered and are still suffering solely for their and
their country's sake, would deem themselves amongst the most ungrateful of mankind were they
to neglect this occasion to tender you the most solemn assurances of their unabated attachment
and their most resolute support, and, whilst they are endeavouring to discharge their duty
towards your lordship, they entertain the consoling reflection that the day is not distant
when you will mainly assist in carrying forward that measure of radical parliamentary reform
which alone can be a safeguard against all sorts of oppressions, and especially oppressions
under which your lordship has so long and so severely suffered."

To that honourable address an honourable reply was penned by Lord Cochrane on the 24th of December,
and presented to the electors of Westminster at another meeting assembled for the purpose on
the 1st of January ensuing.

The direct persecution which began with the Stock Exchange trial and its antecedents was now
at an end, after three years of gross and untiring vindictiveness. Indirect persecution was
to continue for more than thirty years.

[1817-1818.]

The years 1817 and 1818 were years of great political turmoil. The English people, weary of
the European wars, which in two-and-twenty years had raised the national debt from 230,000,000l.
to 860,000,000l., thus causing a taxation which amounted, in the average, to 25l. a year upon
every family of five persons, were in no mood to be made happy even by the restitution of peace.
Partly by necessity, partly by the bad management of the Government and its officials, the
war-burdens were continued, and to the starving multitudes they were more burdensome than ever.
Angry complaints were uttered openly, and repeated again and again with steadily-increasing
vehemence, in all parts of the country. That the ministers and agents of the Crown were grievously
at fault was patent to all; and it is not strange that, in the excitement and the misery that
prevailed, they should be blamed even more than was their due. But the men in power did not
choose to be blamed at all; they denied that any fault attached to them, and fiercely reprobated
every complaint as sedition, every opponent as a lawless and unpatriotic demagogue. Hence the
Government and the people came to be at deadly feud. Most right was with the people, and their
bold assertion of that right, albeit sometimes in wrong ways, has secured memorable benefits
in later times; but power was still with the Government, and it was used even more roughly
than in former years.

That Lord Cochrane, having suffered so much from the vindictive persecution of the Tories,
should have thrown in his lot with its most extreme opponents, is not to be wondered at. During
1817 he was intimately associated with the popular party in all its efforts for the redress
of grievances and in all the assertions of its real and fancied rights. In and out of Parliament
he was alike active and outspoken. The history of his public conduct at this time forms no
small section of the history of the Radical movement during the period. It resulted naturally
from the circumstances in which he had lately been placed. Energetic in thought and action,
a ready writer and an able speaker, his recent sufferings helped to place him in the foremost
rank of patriots, as they were called by friends--demagogues, as they were called by enemies.
With the exception of Sir Francis Burdett, than whom he even went further, the people had,
outside their own ranks, no sturdier champion.

If there had been any doubt before as to his line of action, there could be no doubt after
the re-assembling of Parliament in January, 1817. During the recess, monster meetings had been
held in all parts of the country to consider the popular troubles and to insist upon popular
reforms. Lord Cochrane agreed to present to the House of Commons many of the petitions that
resulted from these meetings, and this he did on the 29th of January, the very day of the re-opening
of Parliament.

In anticipation of this measure, there was a great assembling of reform delegates from all
parts of England, and of others favourable to their purpose, in front of Lord Cochrane's residence
at No. 7, Palace Yard, Westminster. Shortly before two o'clock Lord Cochrane showed himself
at the window, and announced that he was now on his way to the House, there to watch over the
rights and liberties of the people, and that he would shortly return and let them know what
was passing. This he did at four o'clock, part of the interval being occupied with a fervid
address from Henry Hunt. On his reappearance, Lord Cochrane stated that the speech with which
the Prince Regent had opened Parliament had not disappointed his expectations, for it was wholly
disappointing to the people. The Regent had complained of the disaffection pervading the country,
and had announced his intention of using all the power given him by the Constitution for its
suppression. Lord Cochrane expressed his confident hope that the people, having the right on
their side, would so demean themselves as to give their enemies no ground of charge against
them; for those enemies desired nothing so much as riot and disorder.

Thereupon an immense bundle of petitions was handed him, and he himself was placed in a chair,
and so conveyed on men's shoulders to the door of Westminster Hall, where the crowd dispersed
in an orderly way.

In the House, before the motion for an address in answer to the Prince Regent's speech, Lord
Cochrane rose to present a petition, signed by more than twenty thousand inhabitants of Bristol,
setting forth the present distress of the country, the increase of paupers and beggars, the
grievous lack of employment for industrious persons, and the misery that resulted from this
state of things. In these circumstances, the petitioners urged, it was in vain to pretend to
relieve the sufferers by giving them soup, while, for the support of sinecure placemen, pensioners
without number, and an insatiable civil list, half their earnings were taken from them by the
enormous taxation under which the country groaned. After considerable opposition, the petition
was allowed to lie on the table.

Lord Cochrane then presented a smaller but much more outspoken petition from the inhabitants
of Quirk, in Yorkshire. "The petitioners," it was there urged, "have a full and immovable conviction--a
conviction which they believe to be universal throughout the kingdom--that the House does not,
in any constitutional or rational sense, represent the nation; that, when the people have ceased
to be represented, the Constitution is subverted; that taxation without representation is a
state of slavery; that the scourge of taxation without representation has now reached a severity
too harassing and vexatious, too intolerable and degrading, to be longer endured without resistance
by all possible means warranted by the Constitution; that such a condition of affairs has now
been reached that contending factions are alike guilty of their country's wrongs, alike forgetful
of her rights, mocking the public patience with repeated, protracted, and disgusting debates
on questions of refinement in the complicated and abstruse science of taxation, as if in such
refinement, and not in a reformed representation, as if in a consolidated corruption, and not
in a renovated Constitution, relief were to be found; that thus there are left no human means
of redressing the people's wrongs or composing their distracted minds, or of preventing the
subversion of liberty and the establishment of despotism, unless by calling the collected wisdom
and virtue of the community into counsel by the election of a free Parliament; and therefore,
considering that, through the usurpation of borough factions and other causes, the people have
been put even out of a condition to consent to taxes; and considering also that, until their
sacred right of election shall be restored, no free Parliament can have existence, it is necessary
that the House shall, without delay, pass a law for putting the aggrieved and much-aroused
people in possession of their undoubted right to representation co-extensive with taxation,
to an equal distribution of such representation throughout the community, and to Parliaments
of a continuance according to the Constitution, namely, not exceeding one year."

A long discussion ensued as to whether this petition should be accepted by the House or rejected
as an insulting libel. Several members of the House denounced it. Other members, while objecting
to its terms, urged its acceptance. Among them the most notable was Mr. Brougham. The petition,
he said, was rudely worded, and its recommendations were such as no wise lover of the English
Constitution could wholly subscribe to; but it pointed to real grievances and recommended improvements
which were necessary to the well-being of the State, and therefore it ought to be admitted.
Mr. Canning was one of those who insisted upon its rejection, and this was ultimately done
by a majority of 87, 48 being in favour of the petition, and 135 against it.

Four other petitions presented by Lord Cochrane, being to the same effect, were also rejected;
and two, more moderate in their language, were accepted. Lord Cochrane thus succeeded, at any
rate, in forcing the House during several hours to take into consideration the troubled state
of the country, and the pressing need, as it seemed to great masses of the people, of thorough
parliamentary reform.

"You will see by the 'Debates,'" he wrote next day to a friend, "that I presented a number
of petitions last night, and had a hard battle to fight. Today I am quite indisposed, by reason
of the corruption of the Honourable House. It is impossible to support a bad cause by honest
means. God knows where all these base projects will end." That his own cause was a good one,
and that the means used by him were honest, he had no doubt. In the same letter he referred
to the opposition offered to him, even by some of his own relatives, on account of his conduct.
"Mr. Cochrane has thought proper to disavow, through the public papers, any connection with
my politics. The consciousness that I am acting as I ought makes that light which I should
otherwise feel as a heavy clog in following that course which I think honour and justice require."

Therefore he persevered in his Herculean task. Having presented and spoken upon others in the
interval, he presented another monster petition to the House on the 5th of February. It was
signed, he said, by twenty-four thousand inhabitants of London and the neighbourhood. It complained
of the unbearable weight of taxation and the distresses of the country, and of the squandering
of the money extracted from the pockets of an oppressed and impoverished people to support
sinecure placemen and pensioners. "It appears to me," he said, "surprising that there should
be any set of men so cruel and unjust as to wallow in wealth at the public expense while poor
wretches are starving at every corner of the streets." He represented that the petition was
drawn up in temperate, respectful language,--more temperate, indeed, than he should have employed
had he dictated its phrases. He urged that the people had good cause for complaint as to the
way in which Parliament neglected their interests, and good ground for asserting that the system
of parliamentary representation then afforded them was no real representation at all. Members
entered the House only in pursuit of their own selfish ends, and the Government encouraged
this state of things by fostering a system of wholesale bribery and corruption, degrading in
itself and fraught with terrible mischief to the community. What wonder, then, that the people
should pray, as they did in this petition, for a thorough reform, and should point to annual
Parliaments and universal suffrage as the only efficient remedies?

It is needless to recapitulate all the arguments offered again and again by Lord Cochrane,
with ever fresh-force and cogency, in presenting massive petitions to the House, and in introducing
into the occasional debates on reform with which the House amused itself a vigour and practicalness
in which few other members cared to sympathize. Nor need we enumerate all the meetings, in
London and the provinces, in which he took prominent part. It is enough to say that in Parliament
he always spoke with exceeding boldness, and that upon the people, notwithstanding the contrary
assertions of his detractors, he always enjoined, if not conciliation and forbearance, at any
rate such action as was within the strict letter of the law, and most likely, in the end, to
obtain the realization of their wishes. On all occasions he defended them from the charges
of sedition and conspiracy brought against them by their opponents, and proved, to all who
were open to proof, that their objects were patriotic, and were being sought in patriotic ways.

Of this, however, the Government did not choose to be convinced. Taking advantage of some intemperate
speeches of demagogues, making much of some violent handbills circulated by police-officers
under secret instructions, mightily exaggerating a few lawless acts,--as when a drunken old
sailor summoned the keepers of the Tower of London to surrender,--they procured, on the 26th
of February, the suspension of the Habeas Corpus Act. Therefrom resulted, at any rate, some
good. The Whigs, who had hitherto mainly supported the Tory Government, were now turned against
it, and with them the wiser Radicals, like Lord Cochrane, sought to effect a coalition. "You
will perceive by the papers," he said in a letter dated February the 28th, "that I have resolved
to steer another political course, seeing that the only means of averting military despotism
from the country is to unite the people and the Whigs, so far as they can be induced to co-operate,
which they must do if they wish to preserve the remainder of the Constitution. The 'Times'
of yesterday contains the fullest account of the late debates on the suspension of the Habeas
Corpus Act, and by that report you will perceive that the Whigs really made a good stand."

In that temper, Lord Cochrane spoke at a Westminster meeting, held on the 11th of March, "to
take into consideration the propriety of agreeing to an address to His Royal Highness the Prince
Regent, beseeching that he will, in his well-known solicitude for the freedom and happiness
of His Majesty's subjects, remove from his royal councils those ministers who appear resolved
to adopt no effectual measures of economy and retrenchment, but, on the contrary, to persevere
in measures calculated to drive a suffering people to despair."

There was some flattery or some mockery, or something of both, in that announcement; and both,
with much earnest enunciation of popular grievances, were in Lord Cochrane's speech on the
subject. He said that the Regent had as much cause as the people to complain of his present
ministers, seeing how shamelessly they sought to hide from him the real state of the country.
It was to be expected, from the early habits and character of the Regent, that he would anxiously
pursue the interests of the nation, if, instead of being in the hands of an odious oligarchy,
he could act for himself. This, at any rate, Lord Cochrane maintained should be urged upon
him, for if something were not quickly done for the relief of the nation, trade and commerce
would soon be utterly ruined, and the whole community would share the misery that had so long
oppressed the lower orders. He again dwelt forcibly on the causes of this misery, and again
denounced the conduct of the ministers and placemen who, while squandering the hardly-earned
pounds of the people, claimed respect for their exemplary charity in doling out a few farthings
for "the relief of the poor." In the previous year, he showed, Lord Castlereagh, "the bell-wether
of the House of Commons," and thirteen other persons, had drawn from the revenues of the country
309,861l., and out of that amount had given back, in "sinecure soup," only 1505l.

On a hundred other occasions, both outside of the House of Commons and within its walls, Lord
Cochrane continued fearlessly to set forth the troubles of the people and the wrong-doing of
its governors. In Parliament petitions without number were presented, and, amid all sorts of
contumely, defended by him; and he took a no less active part in various important discussions,
of which it will suffice, by way of illustration, to name the debates of the 3rd, 14th, and
28th of March, on the famous Seditious Meetings Bill, and that of the 13th of March on the
depressed condition of English trade and its causes--a subject which was recurred to by Mr.
Brougham in his memorable motion of the 11th of July on the state of the nation.

Six weeks before that, on the 20th of May, Lord Cochrane spoke on another famous motion--that
made by his friend Sir Francis Burdett in favour of parliamentary reform. Once more, he complained
that the existing House of Commons in no way represented the people, and was entirely regardless
of its interests. Nothing better, he alleged, could be hoped for, without a radical change
in the system of representation. "But," he continued, "reform we must have, whether we will
or no. The state of the country is such that things cannot much longer be conducted as they
now are. There is a general call for reform. If the call is not obeyed, thank God the evil
will produce its own remedy, the mass of corruption will destroy itself, for the maggots it
engenders will eat it up. The members of this House are the maggots of the Constitution. They
are the locusts that devour it and cause all the evils that are complained of. There is nothing
wicked which does not emanate from this House. In it originate all knavery, perjury, and fraud.
You well know all this. You also know that the means by which the great majority of the House
is returned is one great cause of the corruption of the whole people. It has been said, 'Let
the people reform themselves;' but if sums of money are offered for seats within these walls,
there will always be found men ready to receive them. It is impossible to imagine that the
profuse expenditure of the late war would have taken place, had it not been for a corrupt majority
devoted to their selfish interests. At least it would have had a shorter duration, from being
carried on in a more effective manner, had it not been conducive to the views of many to prevent
its speedy termination. Much has been said about the glorious result of the war; but has not
lavish expenditure loaded us with taxation which is impoverishing the people and annihilating
commerce? Are not vessels seen everywhere with brooms at their mastheads? Are not sailors starving?
Is not agriculture languishing? Are not our manufactures in the most distressed state?"

Lord Cochrane asserted that the real revolutionists of England were the ministers and their
followers. "I am persuaded that no man without doors wishes the subversion of the Constitution;
but within it, bribery and corruption stand for the Constitution. Mr. Pitt himself confessed
that no honest man could hold the situation of minister for any length of time. There can be
no honest minister until measures have been taken to purge and purify the House. If this be
not done, it is in vain to hope for a renewal of successful enterprise in this country: the
sun of the country is set for ever. It may indeed exist as a petty military German despotism,
with horsemen parading up and down, with large whiskers, with sabres ringing by their horses'
sides, with fantastically-shaped caps of fantastical colours on their heads; but this country
cannot thus be made a great military power. A previous speaker has instanced juries as one
of the benefits of the Constitution; but I will affirm, with respect to the manner in which
juries are chosen under the present system, that justice is much better administered, in a
more summary manner, with less expense, and no chicanery, by the Dey of Algiers. If this country
were erected at once into a downright, honest, open despotism, the people would be gainers.
If a judge or despot then proved a rogue, he would at once appear in his true character; but
now villany can be artfully concealed under the verdict of a packed jury. I am satisfied that
the present system of corruption is more detrimental to the country than a despotism."

No other speaker spoke so boldly as Lord Cochrane; but his eloquent words were substantially
endorsed by many; by Sir Samuel Romilly and Mr. Brougham in especial; and on a division, though
265 voted against Sir Francis Burdett's motion, it was supported by a minority--unusually large
for the time--of 77.

Slowly but surely the better principles of government for which Lord Cochrane fought so persistently
were gaining ground, destined ultimately to produce the changes in national temper which made
plain the duty and expediency of adopting the changes in political systems in which the years
1832 and 1867 are epochs. In after years, Lord Cochrane himself clearly saw that he had been
rash in his advocacy of the sweeping reforms which the excited people deemed necessary for
their welfare in the years of trouble and misgovernment consequent on the tedious war-time
ending with the battle of Waterloo. But he never had cause to regret the honest zeal and the
generous sympathy with which he strove, though in violent ways, to lessen the weight of the
popular distresses.

Distresses were not wanting to himself during this period. The weight of his former troubles
still hung heavily upon him. He could not forget the terrible disgrace--none the less terrible
because it was unmerited--that had befallen him. And in pecuniary ways he was a grievous sufferer
by them. In losing his naval employment he lost the income on which he had counted. His resources
were thus seriously crippled; and the scientific pursuits, in which he still persevered, failed
to bring to him the profit that he anticipated.

In one characteristic way--only one among many--the Government persecution still clung to him.
In the distribution of prize-money for the achievement at Basque Roads all the officers and
crews of Lord Grambier's fleet had been considered entitled to share. To this arrangement Lord
Cochrane objected. He urged that as the whole triumph was due to the Impérieuse and the few
ships actually engaged with her, the reward ought to be limited to them. "I am preparing to
proceed in the Court of Admiralty on the question of head-money for Basque Roads," he wrote
on the 5th of November, 1816; "my affidavit has reluctantly been admitted, though strenuously
opposed, on the ground that I was not to be believed on my oath!"

Lord Cochrane's council in this case was Dr. Lushington, afterwards the eminent judge of the
Admiralty Court. Dr. Lushington showed plainly that the greater part of the fleet, having taken
no share in the action, had no right to head-money, and that therefore all ought to be divided
among those who actually shared with Lord Cochrane the danger and the success of the enterprise.
But Sir William Scott (afterwards Lord Stowell), the judge at that time, was not disposed to
sanction this view. Therefore he thwarted it by delays. The case having been postponed from
November, 1816, was brought up again in the first term of 1817. "The judge has again delayed
his decision," wrote Lord Cochrane on the 28th of February, the day of the announcement, "and
I believe has done so until next session. He gave a curious reason for this, namely, that I
took part at the Westminster meeting against the suspension of the Habeas Corpus Act!"

At the next session it was again postponed, all the time available for its consideration being
taken up with a frivolous discussion as to Lord Cochrane's right to give evidence. "They have
gone the length," wrote his secretary, Mr. Jackson, on the 3rd of May, "of denying Lord Cochrane's
credibility in a court of justice. They had no other way of answering his affidavit, which
would have gained his cause in the Court of Admiralty, as it proved that the French ships in
Basque Roads were destroyed by his own exertions in fighting without orders from the Admiral.
The denial-of Lord Cochrane's competency to give evidence has excited a great deal of interest,
and the Court of Admiralty was quite crowded on Tuesday, when the question came on to be discussed.
I thought that our counsel had much the best of the argument, and I believe the judge, Sir
William Scott, thought so too, as he put off his sentence to a future day." On the future day
the judge admitted as much. "We have gained a bit of a victory in the Admiralty Court," said
the same writer in a letter dated the 9th of June, "the judge having been compelled to pronounce
in favour of his lordship's right to be believed on his oath." The time taken by him to arrive
at this decision, however, was so long that the case had to be adjourned to November term,
and thereby Lord Cochrane's enemies so far attained their object, that it was impossible for
him, in November term, to renew the suit.

In the interval he had gone to France, preparatory to a much longer and more momentous journey
to South America, in anticipation of which he was winding up his affairs and realizing his
property during and after the summer of 1817.

In this settlement of accounts there was at any rate one amusing incident. It will be remembered
that, on the occasion of his being elected Member of Parliament for Honiton in 1806, Lord Cochrane
had refused to follow the almost universal fashion of bribery, but, after the election was
over, had thoughtlessly yielded to the proposal of his agent that he should entertain his constituents
at a public supper.[A] This entertainment, either through spite or through wanton extravagance,
was turned by those to whom the management of it was assigned into a great occasion of feasting
for all the inhabitants of the town; and for defrayment of the expenses thus incurred a claim
for more than 1200l. was afterwards made upon Lord Cochrane. Through eleven years he bluntly
refused to pay the preposterous demand; but his creditors had the law upon their side, and
in the spring of 1817 an order was granted for putting an execution into his house at Holly Hill.

[Footnote A: 'The Autobiography of a Seaman,' vol. i. pp. 203, 204.]

Lord Cochrane, however, having resisted the demand thus far, determined to resist to the end.
For more than six weeks he prevented the agents of the law from entering the house. "I still
hold out," he said in a letter to his secretary, "though the castle has several times been
threatened in great force. The trumpeter is now blowing for a parley, but no one appears on
the ramparts. Explosion-bags are set in the lower embrasures, and all the garrison is under
arms." In the explosion-bags there was nothing more dangerous than powdered charcoal; but,
supposing they contained gunpowder or some other combustible, the sheriff of Hampshire and
twenty-five officers were held at bay by them, until at length one official, more daring than
the rest, jumped in at an open window, to find Lord Cochrane sitting at breakfast and to be
complimented by him upon the wonderful bravery which he had shown in coming up to a building
defended by charcoal dust.

That battle with the sheriff and bailiffs of Hampshire occupied nearly the whole of April and
May, 1817. In the latter month, if not before, Lord Cochrane began to think seriously of proceeding
to join in battles of a more serious sort in South America, under inducements and with issues
that will presently be detailed. "His lordship has made up his mind to go to South America,"
wrote his secretary on the 31st of May. "Numbers of gentlemen of great respectability are desirous
of accompanying him, and even Sir Francis Burdett has declared that he feels a great temptation
to do so; but Lord Cochrane discourages all. They think he is going to immolate the Spaniards
by his secret plans; but he is not going to do anything of the kind, having promised the Prince
Regent not to divulge or use them otherwise than in the service of his country."

With this expedition in view, and purposing to start upon it nearly a year sooner than he found
himself able to do, Lord Cochrane sold Holly Hill and his other property in Hampshire, in July.
In August he went for a few months to France, partly for the benefit of Lady Cochrane's health,
partly, as it would seem, in the hope of introducing into that country the lamps which he had
lately invented, and from which he hoped to derive considerable profit.

To this matter, and to his efforts to obtain some share, at any rate, of his rights from the
English Government, the letters written by him from France chiefly refer. But there are in
them some notes and illustrations of more general interest. "I am quite astonished at the state
of Boulogne," he wrote thence on the 14th of August. "Neither the town nor the heights are
fortified; so great was Napoleon's confidence in the terror of his name and the knowledge he
possessed of the stupidity and ignorance of our Government." In a letter from Paris, dated
the 23rd of August, we read: "Everything is looking much more settled than when I was formerly
here, and I do really think that the Government, from the conciliatory measures wisely adopted,
will stand their ground against the adherents of Buonaparte. We are to have a great rejoicing
to-morrow. All Paris will be dancing, fiddling, and singing. They are a light-hearted people.
I wish I could join in their fun. I was hopeful that I should; but the cursed recollection
of the injustice that has been done to me is never out of my mind; so that all my pleasures
are blasted, from whatever source they might be expected to arise."

That last sentence fairly indicates the state of Lord Cochrane's mind during these painful
years. Weighed down by troubles heavy enough to break the heart of an ordinary man, he fought
nobly for the thorough justification of his character and for the protection of others from
such persecution as had befallen him. In both objects, altogether praise-worthy in themselves,
he may have sometimes been intemperate; but ample excuse for far greater intemperance would
be found in the troubles that oppressed him. "The cursed recollection of the injustice that
has been done to me is never out of my mind; all my pleasures are blasted!"

In the same temper, after a lapse of nine months, about which it is only necessary to say that,
like their forerunners, they were employed in private cares, and, especially after the reassembling
of Parliament, in zealous action for the public good, he made his last speech in the House
of Commons on the 2nd of June, 1818. The occasion was a debate upon a second motion by Sir
Francis Burdett in favour of parliamentary reform, more cogent and effective than that of the
20th of May, 1817, to Lord Cochrane's share in which we have already referred. The former speech
was wholly of public interest. This has a personal significance, very painful and very memorable.
It brings to a pathetic close the saddest epoch in Lord Cochrane's life--so very full of sadness.

"I rise, sir," he said, "to second the motion of my honourable friend. In what I have to say,
I do not presume to think that I can add to the able arguments that have just been uttered;
but it is my duty distinctly to declare my opinions on the subject. When I recollect all the
proceedings of this House, I confess that I do not entertain much hope of a favourable result
to the present motion. To me it seems chiefly serviceable as an exhibition of sound principles,
and as showing the people for what they ought to petition. I shall perhaps be told that it
is unparliamentary to say there are any representatives of the people in this House who have
sold themselves to the purposes and views of any set of men in power; but the history of the
degenerate senate of that once free people, the Romans, will serve to show how far corruption
may make inroads upon public virtue or patriotism. The tyranny inflicted on the Roman people,
and on mankind in general, under the form of acts passed by the Roman senate, will ever prove
a useful memento to nations which have any freedom to lose. It is not for me to prophesy when
our case will be like theirs; but this I will say, that those who are the slaves of a despotic
monarch are far less reprehensible for their actions than those who voluntarily sell themselves
when they have the means of remaining free.

"And here," he continued, in sentences broken by his emotions, "as it is probably the last
time I shall ever have the honour of addressing the House on any subject, I am anxious to tell
its members what I think of their conduct. It is now nearly eleven years since I have had the
honour of a seat in this House, and since then there have been very few measures in which I
could agree with the opinions of the majority. To say that these measures were contrary to
justice would not be parliamentary. I will not even go into the inquiry whether they tend to
the national good or not; but I will merely appeal to the feelings of the landholders present,
I will appeal to the knowledge of those members who are engaged in commerce, and ask them whether
the acts of the legislative body have not been of a description, during the late war, that
would, if not for the timely intervention of the use of machinery, have sent this nation to
total ruin? The country is burthened to a degree which, but for this intervention, it would
have been impossible for the people to bear. The cause of these measures having such an effect
upon the country has been examined and gone into by my honourable colleague (Sir Francis Burdett);
they are to be traced to that patronage and influence which, a number of powerful individuals
possess over the nomination of a great proportion of the members of this House; a power which,
devolving on a few, becomes thereby the more liable to be affected by the influence of the
Crown; and which has in fact been rendered almost entirely subservient to that influence. To
reform the abuses which arise out of this system is the object of my honourable friend's motion.
I will not, cannot, anticipate the success of the motion; but I will say, as has been said
before by the great Chatham, the father of Mr. Pitt, that, if the House does not reform itself
from within, it will be reformed with a vengeance from without. The people will take up the
subject, and a reform will take place which will make many members regret their apathy in now
refusing that reform which might be rendered efficient and permanent. But, unfortunately, in
the present formation of the House, it appears to me that from within no reform can be expected,
and for the truth of this I appeal to the experience of the few members, less than a hundred,
who are now present, nearly six hundred being absent; I appeal to their experience to say whether
they have ever known of any one instance in which a petition of the people for reform has been
taken into consideration, or any redress afforded in consequence of such a petition? This I
regret, because I foresee the consequence which must necessarily result from it. I do trust
and hope that before it is too late some measures shall be adopted for redressing the grievances
of the people; for certain I am that unless some measures are taken to stop the feelings which
the people entertain towards this House and to restore their confidence in it, you will one
day have ample cause to repent the line of conduct you have pursued. The gentlemen who now
sit on the benches opposite with such triumphant feelings will one day repent their conduct.
The commotions to which that conduct will inevitably give rise will shake, not only this House,
but the whole framework of Government and society to its foundations. I have been actuated
by the wish to prevent this, and I have had no other intention.

"I shall not trespass longer on your time," he continued, in a few broken sentences, uttered
painfully and with agitation that aroused much sympathy in the House. "The situation I have
held for eleven years in this House I owe to the favour of the electors of Westminster. The
feelings of my heart are gratified by the manner in which they have acted towards me. They
have rescued me from a desperate and wicked conspiracy which has nearly involved me in total
ruin. I forgive those who have so done; and I hope when they depart to their graves they will
be equally able to forgive themselves. All this is foreign to the subject before the House,
but I trust you will forgive me. I shall not trespass on your time longer now--perhaps never
again on any subject. I hope his Majesty's ministers will take into their serious consideration
what I now say. I do not utter it with any feelings of hostility--such feelings have now left
me--but I trust they will take my warning, and save the country by abandoning the present system
before it is too late."

(1810--1817.)

To an understanding of Lord Cochrane's share in the South American wars of independence a brief
recapitulation of their antecedents, and of the state of affairs at the time of his first connection
with them, is necessary.

The Spanish possessions in both North and South America, which had reached nearly their full
dimensions before the close of the sixteenth century, had been retained, with little opposition
from without, and with still less from within, down to the close of the eighteenth century.
These possessions, including Mexico and Central America, New Granada, Venezuela, Peru, La Plata,
and Chili, covered an area larger than that of Europe, more than twice as large as that of
the present United States. Through half a dozen generations they had been governed with all
the short-sighted tyranny for which the Spanish Government is famous; the resources of the
countries had been crippled in order that each day's greed might be satisfied; and the inhabitants,
who, for the most part, were the mixed offspring of Spanish and native parents, had been kept
in abject dependence and in ignorant ferocity. There was plenty of internal hatred and strife;
but no serious thought of winning their liberty and working out their own regeneration seems
to have existed among the people of the several provinces, until it was suggested by the triumphant
success of the United States in throwing off the stronger but much less oppressive thraldom
of Great Britain. That success having been achieved, however, it was soon emulated by the colonial
subjects of Spain.

The first leader of agitation was Francisco Miranda, a Venezuelan Creole. He visited England
in 1790, and received some encouragement in his revolutionary projects from Pitt. He went to
France in 1792, and there, while waiting some years for fit occasion of prosecuting the work
on which his heart was set, he helped to fight the battle of the revolution against the Bourbons
and the worn-out feudalism of which they were representatives. During his absence, in 1794,
conspiracies against Spain arose in Mexico and New Granada, and, these continuing, he went
in 1794, armed by secret promises of assistance from Pitt, to help in fomenting them. They
prospered for several years; and in 1806 Miranda obtained substantial aid from Sir Alexander
Cochrane, Lord Cochrane's uncle, then the admiral in command of the West India station. But
in 1806 Pitt died. The Whigs came into power, and with their coming occurred a change in the
English policy. In 1807, General Crawfurd was ordered to throw obstacles in the way of Miranda,
then heading a formidable insurrection. The result was a temporary check to the work of revolution.
In 1810 Miranda renewed his enterprise in Venezuela, still with poor success; and in the same
year a fresh revolt was stirred up in Mexico by Miguel Hidalgo, of Costilla, a priest of Dolores.
Hidalgo's insurrection was foolish in design and bloodthirsty in execution. It was continued,
in better spirit, but with poor success, by Morelos and Rayon, who, sustaining a serious defeat
in 1815, left the strife to degenerate into a coarse bandit struggle, very disastrous to Spain,
but hardly beneficial to the cause of Mexican independence.

In the meanwhile a more prosperous and worthier contest was being waged in South America. Besides
the efforts of Miranda in Venezuela, which were renewed between 1810 and 1812, when he was
taken prisoner and sent to Spain, there to die in a dungeon, a separate standard of revolt
was raised in Quito by Narinno and his friends in 1809. After fighting desperately, in guerilla
fashion, for five years, Narinno was captured and forced to share Miranda's lot. A greater
man, the greatest hero of South American independence, Simon Bolivar, succeeded them.

Bolivar, a native of Caraccas, had passed many years in Europe, when in 1810, at the age of
twenty-seven, he went to serve under Miranda in Venezuela. Miranda's defeat in 1812 compelled
him to retire to New Granada, but there he did good service. He improved the fighting ways
and extended the fighting area, and in December, 1814, was appointed captain-general of Venezuela
and New Granada, soon, however, to be driven back and forced to take shelter in Jamaica by
the superior strength of Morillo, the Spanish general, who arrived with a formidable army in
1815. In 1816 Bolivar again showed himself in the field at the head of his famous liberating
army, which, crossing over from Trinidad, and gaining reinforcements at every step, planted
freedom, such as it was, all along the northern parts of South America, in which the new republic
of Colombia was founded under his presidency, in the neighbouring district of New Granada,
and down to the La Plata province, where he established the republic of Bolivia, so named in
his honour. With these patriotic labours he was busied upon land, while Lord Cochrane was securing
the independence of the Spanish colonies by his brave warfare on the sea.

As the cause of liberty progressed in South America, it became apparent that it had poor chance
of permanence, while the revolutionists were unable to cope with the Spaniards in naval strife
or to wrest from Spain her strongholds on the coast. This was especially the case with the
maritime provinces of Chili and Peru. Peru, held firmly by the army garrisoned in Lima, to
which Callao served as an almost impregnable port, had been unable to share in the contest
waged on the other side of the Andes; and Chili, though strong enough to declare its independence,
was too weak to maintain it without foreign aid.

The Chilian struggle began in 1810, when the Spanish captain-general, Carrasco, was deposed,
and a native government set up under Count de la Conquista. By this government the sovereignty
of Spain was still recognised, although various reforms were adopted which Spain could not
be expected to endorse. Accordingly, in April, 1811, an attempt was made by the Spanish soldiers
to overturn the new order of things. The result was that, after brief fighting, the revolutionists
triumphed, and the yoke of Spain was thrown off.

But the independence of Chili, thus easily begun, was not easily continued. Three brothers,
Jose Miguel, Juan Jose, and Luis Carreras, and their sister, styled the Anne Boleyn of Chili,
determined to pervert the public weal to their own aggrandisement. Winning their way into popularity,
they overturned the national congress that had been established in June, and in December set
up a new junta, with Jose Miguel Carrera at its head. A dismal period of misrule ensued, which
encouraged the Spanish generals, Pareja and Sanchez, to attempt the reconquest of Chili in
1813. Pareja and Sanchez were successfully resisted, and a better man, General Bernardo O'Higgins,
the republican son of an Irishman who had been Viceroy of Peru, was put at the head of affairs.
He succeeded to the command of the Chilian army in November, 1813, when a fresh attack from
the Spaniards was expected. At first his good soldiership was successful. The enemy, having
come almost to the gates of Santiago, was forced to retire in May, 1814; and the Chilian cause
might have continued to prosper under O'Higgins, had not the Carreras contrived, in hopes of
reinstating themselves in power, to divide the republican interests, and so, while encouraging
renewed invasion by the Spaniards from Lima, make their resistance more difficult. Wisely deeming
it right to set aside every other consideration than the necessity of saving Chili from the
danger pressing upon it from without, O'Higgins effected a junction with the Carreras, hoping
thus to bring the whole force of the republic against the royalist army, larger than its predecessors,
which was marching towards Santiago and Valparaiso. Had his magnanimous proposals been properly
acted upon, the issue might have been very different. But the Carreras, even in the most urgent
hour of danger, could not forget their private ambitions. Holding aloof with their part of
the army, they allowed O'Higgins and his force of nine hundred to be defeated by four thousand
royalists under General Osorio, in the preliminary fight which took place at the end of September.
They were guilty of like treachery during the great battle of the 1st of October. On that day
the royalists entered Rancagua, the town in which O'Higgins and his little band had taken shelter.
They were fiercely resisted, and the fighting lasted through thirty-six hours. So brave was
the conduct of the patriots that the Spanish general was, after some hours' contest, on the
point of retreating. He saw that he would have no chance of success, had the Carreras brought
up their troops, as was expected by both sides of the combatants. But the Carreras, short-sighted
in their selfishness, and nothing loth that O'Higgins should be defeated, still held aloof.
Thereupon the Spaniards took heart, and made one more desperate effort. With hatchets and swords
they forced their way, inch by inch and hour by hour, into the centre of the town. There, in
an open square, O'Higgins, with two hundred men--all the remnant of his little army--made a
last resistance. When only a few dozen of his soldiers were left alive, and when he himself
was seriously wounded, he determined, not to surrender, but to end the battle. The residue
of the patriots dashed through the town, cutting a road through the astonished crowd of their
opponents, and effected a retreat in which those opponents, though more than twenty times as
numerous, durst not pursue them.

That memorable battle of Rancagua caused throughout the American continent, and, across the
Atlantic, through Europe, a thrill of sympathy for the Chilian war of independence. But its
immediate effects were most disastrous. The Carreras, too selfish to fight before, were now
too cowardly. They and their followers fled. O'Higgins had barely soldiers enough left to serve
as a weak escort to the fourteen hundred old men, women, and children who crossed the Andes
with him on foot, to pass two years and a half in voluntary exile at Mendoza.

During those two years and a half the Spaniards were masters in Santiago, and Chili was once
more a Spanish province, in which the inhabitants were punished terribly in confiscations,
imprisonments, and executions for their recent defection. Deliverance, however, was at hand.
General San Martin, through whom chiefly La Plata had achieved its freedom, gave assistance
to O'Higgins and the Chilian patriots. The main body of the Spanish army, numbering about five
thousand, had been stationed on the heights of Chacabuco, whence Santiago, Valparaiso, and
the other leading towns of Chili were overawed. On the 12th of February, 1817, San Martin and
O'Higgins, with a force nearly as large, surprised this garrison, and, with excellent strategy
and very little loss of life, to the patriots at any rate, it was entirely subdued. Santiago
was entered in triumph on the 14th of February, and a few weeks served for the entire dispersion
of the royalist forces. The supreme directorship of the renovated republic was offered to San
Martin. On his declining the honour, it was assigned, to the satisfaction of all parties, to
O'Higgins.

The new dictator and the wisest of his counsellors, however, were not satisfied with the temporary
advantage that they had achieved. They knew that armies would continue to come down from Peru,
the defeat of which, even if that could be relied upon, would waste all the resources of the
republic. They knew, too, that the Spanish war-ships which supplied Peru with troops and ammunition
from home, passing the Chilian coast on their way, would seriously hinder the commerce on which
the young state had to depend for its development, even if they did not destroy that commerce
at its starting-point by seizing Valparaiso and the other ports. Therefore they resolved to
seek for efficient help from Europe. With that end Don Jose Alvarez, a high-minded patriot,
who had done much good service to Chili in previous years, was immediately sent to Europe,
commissioned to borrow money, to build or buy warships, and in all the ways in his power to
enlist the sympathies of the English people in the republican cause. In the last of these projects,
at any rate, he succeeded beyond all reasonable expectation.

Beaching London in April, 1817, Alvarez was welcomed by many friends of South American freedom--Sir
Francis Burdett, Sir James Mackintosh, Mr. Henry Brougham, and Mr. Edward Ellice among the
number. Lord Cochrane was just then out of London, fighting his amusing battle with the sheriffs
and bailiffs of Hampshire; but as soon as that business was over he took foremost place among
the friends of Don Alvarez and the Chilian cause which he represented. With a message to him,
indeed, Alvarez was specially commissioned. He was invited by the Chilian Government to undertake
the organization and command of an improved naval force, and so, by exercise of the prowess
which he had displayed in the Mediterranean and elsewhere, to render invaluable service to
the young republic.

He promptly accepted the invitation, being induced thereto by many sufficient reasons. Sick
at heart, as we have seen, under the cruel treatment to which for so many years he had been
subjected by his enemies in power, he saw here an opportunity of, at the same time, escaping
from his persecutors, returning to active work in a profession very dear to him, and giving
efficient aid to a noble enterprise.

CHAPTER VII.

[1818-1820.]

Having accepted, in May, 1817, the offer conveyed to him by the Chilian Government through
Don Jose Alvarez, Lord Cochrane's departure from England was delayed for more than a year.
This was chiefly on account of the war-steamer, the Rising Star, which it was arranged to build
and equip in London under his superintendence. But the work proceeded so slowly, in consequence
of the difficulty experienced by Alvarez in raising the requisite funds, that, at last, Lord
Cochrane, being urgently needed in South America, where the Spaniards were steadily gaining
ground, was requested to leave the superintendence of the Rising Star in other hands, and to
cross the Atlantic without her.

Accompanied by Lady Cochrane and his two children, he went first from Rye to Boulogne, and
there, on the 15th of August, 1818, embarked in the Rose, a merchantman which had formerly
been a warsloop. The long voyage was uninteresting until Cape Horn was reached. There, and
in passing along the rugged coast-line of Tierra del Fuego, Lord Cochrane was struck by its
wild scenery. He watched the lazy penguins that crowded on the rocks, among evergreens that
showed brightly amid the imposing mass of snow, and caught with hooks the lazier sea-pigeons
that skimmed the heavy waves and hovered round the bulwarks and got entangled among the rigging
of the Rose. He shot several of the huge albatrosses that floated fearlessly over the deck,
but was not successful in his efforts to catch the fish that were seen coming to the surface
of the troubled sea. The sea was made so boisterous by rain and snow, and such a stiff wind
blew from the west, that for two or three days the Rose could not double the Cape. She was
forced to tack towards the south until a favourable gale set in, which carried her safely to
Valparaiso.

Valparaiso was reached on the 28th of November, after ten weeks passed on shipboard. There
and at Santiago, the seat of government, to which he proceeded as soon as the congratulations
of his new friends would allow him, Lord Cochrane was heartily welcomed. So profuse and prolonged
were the entertainments in his favour--splendid dinners, at which zealous patriots tendered
their hearty compliments, being followed by yet more splendid balls, at which handsome women
showed their gratitude in smiles, and eagerly sought the honour of being led by him through
the dances which were their chief delight--that he had to remind his guests that he had come
to Chili not to feast but to fight.

There was prompt need of fighting. The Spaniards had a strong land force pressing up from the
south and threatening to invest Santiago. Their formidable fleet swept the seas, and was being
organized for an attack on Valparaiso. Admiral Blanco Encalada had just returned from a cruise
in which he had succeeded in capturing, in Talcuanho Bay, a fine Spanish fifty-gun frigate,
the Maria Isabel; but his fleet was ill-ordered and poorly equipped, quite unable, without
thorough re-organization, to withstand the superior force of the enemy. An instance of the
bad state of affairs was induced by Lord Cochrane's arrival, and seemed likely to cause serious
trouble to him and worse misfortune to his Chilian employers. One of the republican vessels
was the Hecate, a sloop of eighteen guns which had been sold out of the British navy and bought
as a speculation by Captains Guise and Spry. Having first offered her in vain to the Buenos
Ayrean Government, they had brought her on to Chili, and there contrived to sell her with advantage
and to be themselves taken into the Chilian service. They and another volunteer, Captain Worcester,
a North American, liking the ascendancy over Admiral Bianco which their experience had won
for them, formed a cabal with the object of securing Admiral Blanco's continuance in the chief
command, or its equal division between him and Lord Cochrane. Nothing but the Chilian admiral's
disinterested patriotism prevented a serious rupture. He steadily withstood all temptations
to his vanity, and avowed his determination to accept no greater honour--if there could be
a greater--than that of serving as second in command under the brave Englishman who had come
to fight for the independence of Chili. Thus, though some troubles afterwards sprang from the
disaffections of Guise, Spry, and Worcester, the mischief schemed by them was prevented at
starting. His flag was hoisted, on the 22nd of December, on board the Maria Isabel, now rechristened
the O'Higgins, and fitted out as the principal ship in the small Chilian fleet. The other vessels
of the fleet were the San Martin, formerly an Indiaman in the English service, of fifty-six
guns; the Lautaro, also an old Indiaman, of forty-four guns; the Galvarino, as the Hecate of
Captains Cruise and Spry was now styled, of eighteen guns; the Chacabuco, of twenty guns; the
Aracauno, of sixteen guns; and a sloop of fourteen guns named the Puyrredon.

The Spanish fleet, which these seven ships had to withstand, comprised fourteen vessels and
twenty-seven gunboats. Of the former three were frigates, the Esmeralda, of forty-four guns,
the Venganza, of forty-two guns, and the Sebastiana, of twenty-eight guns; four were brigs,
the Maypeu, of eighteen guns, the Pezuela, of twenty-two guns, the Potrilla, of eighteen guns,
and another, whose name is not recorded, also of eighteen guns. There was a schooner, name
unknown, which carried one large gun and twenty culverins. The rest were armed merchantmen,
the Resolution, of thirty-six guns; the Cleopatra, of twenty-eight guns; the La Focha, of twenty
guns; the Guarmey, of eighteen guns; the Fernando, of twenty-six guns, and the San Antonio,
of eighteen guns. Only ten out of the fourteen, however, were ready for sea; and before the
whole naval force could be got ready for service, it had been partly broken up by Lord Cochrane.

There was delay, also, in getting the Chilian fleet under sail. After waiting at Valparaiso
as long as he deemed prudent, Lord Cochrane left the three smaller vessels to complete their
equipment under Admiral Blanco's direction, and passed out of port on the 16th of January,
with the O'Higgins, the San Martin, the Lautaro, and the Chacabuco. He had hardly started before
a mutiny broke out on board the last-named vessel, which compelled him to halt at Coquimbo
long enough to try and punish the mutineers. Resuming the voyage, he proceeded along the Chilian
and Peruvian coast as far northward as Callao Bay, where he cruised about for some days, awaiting
an opportunity of attacking the Spanish shipping there collected in considerable force.

While thus waiting he employed his leisure in observations, great and small, of the sort and
in the way characteristic of him all through life. One of his rough notes runs thus:--"Cormorants
resort in enormous nights, coming in the morning from the northward to Callao Bay, and proceeding
along shore to the southward, diving in regular succession one after another on the fish which,
driven at the same time from below by shoals of porpoises, seem to have no chance but to be
devoured under water or scooped up in the large bags pendent from the enormous bills of the
cormorants." "Prodigious seals," we read in another note, "inhabit the rocks, whose grave faces
and grey beards look more like the human countenance than the faces of most other animals.
They are very unwieldy in their movements when on shore, but most expert in the water. There
is a small kind of duck in the bay, which, from the clearness of the water, can be seen flying
with its wings under water in chase of small fry, which it speedily overtakes from its prodigious
speed."

From note-making of that sort, Lord Cochrane turned to more serious business. The batteries
of Callao and of San Lorenzo, a little island in the bay which helped to form the port, mounted
one hundred and sixty guns, and more than twice as many were at the command of vessels there
lying-to. Direct attack of a force so very much superior to that of the Chilian fleet seemed
out of the question. Therefore Lord Cochrane bethought him of a subterfuge. Learning that two
North American war-ships were expected at Callao, he determined to personate them with the
O'Higgins and Lautaro, and so enter the port under alien colours. It was then carnival-time,
and on the 21st of February, deeming that the Spaniards were more likely to be off their guard,
he proposed "to make a feint of sending a boat ashore with despatches, and in the mean time
suddenly to dash at the frigates and cut them out." Unfortunately a dense fog set in, which
lasted till the 28th, and made it impossible for him to effect his purpose before the carnival
was over. Let the sequel be told in his own words. Nevertheless the northern angle of one of
the principal forts was silenced by our fire.

Two hundred and forty years before, almost to a day, Sir Francis Drake--whom, of all English
seamen, Lord Cochrane most resembled in chivalrous daring and in chivalrous hatred of oppression--had
secretly led his little Golden Hind into the harbour of Callao, and there despoiled a Spanish
fleet of seventeen vessels; for which and for his other brave achievements he won the nickname
of El Dracone. Drake the Dragon and Cochrane the Devil were kinsmen in noble hatred, and noble
punishment, of Spanish wrong-doing.

Retiring to San Lorenzo, after the fight in Callao Bay on the 28th of February, Lord Cochrane
occupied the island, and from it blockaded Callao for five weeks. Yet worse, as he was informed
by the poor fellows whom he freed from their misery, was the condition of some Chilian officers
and seamen imprisoned in Lima, and so cruelly chained that the fetters had worn bare their
ankles to the bone. He accordingly, under a flag of truce, sent to the Spanish Viceroy, Don
Joaquim de la Pezuela, offering to exchange for these Chilian prisoners a larger number of
Spaniards captured by himself and others. This proposal was bluntly refused by the Viceroy,
who took occasion, in his letter, to avow his surprise that a British nobleman should come
to fight for a rebel community "unacknowledged by all the powers of the globe." Lord Cochrane
replied that "a British nobleman was a free man, and therefore had a right to assist any country
which was endeavouring to re-establish the rights of aggrieved humanity."

Except in blockading Callao and repairing his ships little was done by Lord Cochrane during
his stay at San Lorenzo. On the 1st of March he went into the harbour again and opened a destructive
fire upon the Spanish gunboats, but as these soon sought shelter under the batteries, which
the O'Higgins and the Lautaro were not strong enough to oppose, the demonstration did not last
long. Unsuccessful also was an attempt made upon the batteries, with the aid of an explosion-vessel,
on the 22nd of March. The explosion-vessel, when just within musket-range, was struck by a
round shot, and foundered, thus spoiling the intended enterprise. But other plans fared better.

At the beginning of April, Lord Cochrane left San Lorenzo and proceeded to Huacho, a few leagues
north of Callao. Its inhabitants were for the most part in sympathy with the republican cause,
and the Spanish garrison fled at almost the first gunshot, leaving a large quantity of government
property and specie in the hands of the assailants. Much other treasure, which proved very
serviceable to the impoverished Chilian exchequer, was captured by the little fleet during
a two months' cruise about the coast of Peru, both north and south of Callao. Everywhere, too,
the Spanish cause was weakened, and the natives were encouraged to share in the great work
of South American rebellion against a tyranny of three centuries' duration. Confidence was
thus inspired, and the universal dissatisfaction with Spanish rule speedily became changed
into an earnest desire to be freed from it."

Having cruised about the Peruvian coast during April and May, Lord Cochrane returned to Valparaiso
on the 16th of June. That was work enough to be done by four small ships, ill-manned and ill-provisioned,
during a five months' absence from Valparaiso; and the Chilians were not ungrateful.

Their gratitude, however, was not strong enough to make them zealous co-operators in his schemes
for their benefit. Lord Cochrane was eager to start upon another expedition, in which he hoped
for yet greater success. But for this were needed preparations which the poverty and mismanagement
of the Chilian Government made almost impossible. He asked for a thousand troops with which
to facilitate a second attack on Callao. This force, certainly not a large one, was promised,
but, when he was about to embark, only ninety soldiers were ready, and even then a private
subscription had to be raised for giving them decent clothing instead of the rags in which
they appeared. For the assault on Callao, also, an ample supply of rockets was required. An
engineer named Goldsack had gone from England to construct them, and, that there might be no
stinting in the work, Lord Cochrane offered to surrender all his share of prize-money. The
offer was refused; but, to save money, their manufacture was assigned to some Spanish prisoners,
who showed their patriotism in making them so badly that, when tried, they were found utterly
worthless. There were other instances of false economy, whereby Lord Cochrane's intended services
to his Chilian employers were seriously hindered. The vessels were refitted, however, and a
new one, an American-built corvette, named the Independencia, of twenty-eight guns, was added
to the number.

After nearly three months' stay at Valparaiso, he again set sail on the 12th of September,
1819. There were also two old vessels, to be used as fireships.

The fleet entered Callao Roads on the 29th of September. On this occasion there was no subterfuge.
On the 30th Lord Cochrane despatched a boat to Callao with a flag of truce, and a challenge
to the Viceroy to send out his ships--nearly twice as strong as those of Chili in guns and
men--for a fair fight in the open sea. The challenge was bluntly rejected, and an attack on
the batteries and the ships in harbour was then planned. On the 1st of October, the smaller
vessels reconnoitred the bay, and there was some fighting, in which the Araucano was damaged.
Throughout the night of the 2nd, a formidable attack was attempted, in which the main reliance
was placed in the Goldsack rockets; but, in consequence of the treacherous handling of the
Spanish soldiers who had filled them, they proved worse than useless, doing nearly as much
injury to the men who fired them as to the enemy. Only one gunboat was sunk by the shells from
a raft commanded by Major Miller, who also did some damage to the forts and shipping. On the
night of the 4th, Lord Cochrane amused himself, while a fireship was being prepared, by causing
a burning tar-barrel to be drifted with the tide towards the enemy's shipping. It was, in the
darkness, supposed to be a much more formidable antagonist, and volleys of Spanish shot were
spent upon it. On the following evening a fireship was despatched; but this also was a failure.
A sudden calm prevented her progress. She was riddled through and through by the enemy's guns,
and, rapidly gaining water in consequence, had to be fired so much too soon that she exploded
before getting near enough to work any serious mischief among the Spanish shipping.

By these misfortunes Lord Cochrane was altogether disheartened. The rockets, on which he had
chiefly relied, had proved worthless, and, one fireship having been wasted, he did not care
to risk the loss of the other. He found too that the Spaniards, profiting by the warning which
he had previously given, had so strengthened their booms that it was quite impossible, with
the small force at his command, to get at them or to reach the port. His store of provisions,
also, was nearly exhausted, and the fresh supply promised from Chili had not arrived. He therefore
reluctantly, for the time, abandoned his project for taking Callao.

He continued to watch the port for a few weeks, however, hoping for some chance opportunity
of injuring it; and, in the interval, sent three hundred and fifty soldiers and marines, under
Lieutenant-Colonel Charles and Major Miller, in the Lautaro, the Galvarino, and the remaining
fireship, commanded by Captain Guise, to attack Pisco and procure from it and the neighbourhood
the requisite provisions. This was satisfactorily done; but the sickness of many of his men
caused his further detention at Santa, whither he had gone from Callao. With the remaining
ships, the O'Higgins, the Lautaro, the Galvarino, and the Puyrredon, Lord Cochrane proceeded
to the mouth of the River Guayaquil. There, on the 28th of the month, he captured two large
Spanish vessels, one of twenty and the other of sixteen guns, laden with timber, and took possession
of the village of Puna. At Guayaquil there was another delay of a fortnight, owing to a mutiny
attempted by Captains Guise and Spry, whose treacherous disposition has already been mentioned.

Not till the middle of December was he able to escape from the troubles brought upon him by
others, and to return to work worthy of his great name and character. Then, however, sending
one of his ships, with the prizes, to Valparaiso, and leaving two others to watch the Peruvian
coast, he started, with only his flag-ship, upon an enterprise as brilliant in conception and
execution as any in his whole eventful history.

Valdivia was the stronghold and centre of Spanish attack upon Chili from the south, just as
were Lima and Callao on the north. To reach it Lord Cochrane had to sail northwards along the
coast of Peru and Chili to some distance below Valparaiso. This he did without loss of time,
to work out an excellent strategy which will be best understood from his own report of it.

"The first step," he said, "clearly was to reconnoitre Valdivia. Two days were occupied in
reconnoitring.

That first business having been satisfactorily achieved, Lord Cochrane proceeded to Concepcion,
there to ask and obtain from its Chilian governor, General Freire, a force of two hundred and
fifty soldiers, under Major Beauchef, a French volunteer. In Talcahuano Bay, moreover, he found
a Chilian schooner, the Montezuma, and a Brazilian brig, the Intrepido. He attached the former
to his service, and accepted the volunteered aid of the latter. With this augmented but still
insignificant force, very defective in some important respects, he returned to Valdivia.

The O'Higgins, thus bravely saved from wreck, was soon joined by the Intrepido and the Montezuma,
and these vessels being now most fit for action, as many men as possible were transferred to
them, and the O'Higgins was ordered to stand out to sea, only to be made use of in case of
need. The Montezuma now became the flag-ship, and with her and her consort Lord Cochrane sailed
into Valdivia Harbour on the 2nd of February. I directed the operation in the gig, whilst Major
Miller, with forty-four marines, pushed off in the first launch, under the fire of the party
at the landing-place, on to which they soon leaped, driving the Spaniards before them at the
point of the bayonet. Upwards of a hundred fell into our hands, and on the following morning
the like number were found to have been bayoneted. Our loss was seven men killed and nineteen
wounded. Those prizes compensated over and over again for the loss of the Intrepido, which
grounded in the channel, and the injuries done to the O'Higgins on her way to Valdivia.

But the value of Lord Cochrane's capture of this stronghold was not to be counted in money.
By its daring conception and easy completion the Spaniards, besides losing their great southern
starting-point for attacks on Chili and the other states that were fighting for their freedom,
lost heart, to a great extent, in their whole South American warfare. They saw that their insurgent
colonists had now found a champion too bold, too cautious, too honest, and too prosperous for
them any longer to hope that they could succeed in their efforts to win back the dependencies
which were shaking off the thraldom of three centuries.

CHAPTER VIII.

[1820-1822.]

Lord Cochrane returned to Valparaiso on the 27th of February, 1820. By General O'Higgins, the
Supreme Director, and by the populace he was enthusiastically received. But Zenteno, the Minister
of Marine, and other members of the Government, jealous of the fresh renown which he had won
by his conquest of Valdivia, showed their jealousy in various offensive ways.

In anticipation of his failure they had prepared an elaborate charge of insubordination, in
that he had not come back direct from Callao. Now that he had triumphed, they sought at first
to have him reprimanded for attempting so hazardous an exploit, and afterwards to rob him of
his due on the ground that his achievement was insignificant and valueless. When they were
compelled by the voice of the people to declare publicly that "the capture of Valdivia was
the happy result of an admirably-arranged plan and of the most daring execution," they refused
to award either to him or to his comrades any other recompense than was contained in the verbal
compliment; and, on his refusing to give up his prizes until the seamen had been paid their
arrears of wages, he was threatened with prosecution for detention of the national property.

The threat was impotent, as the people of Chili would not for a moment have permitted such
an indignity to their champion. But so irritating were this and other attempted persecutions
to Lord Cochrane that, on the 14th of May, he tendered to the Supreme Director his resignation
of service under the Chilian Government. That proposal was, of course, rejected; but with the
rejection came a promise of better treatment. The seamen were paid in July, and the Valdivian
prize-money was nominally awarded. Lord Cochrane's share amounted to 67,000 dollars, and to
this was added a grant of land at Rio Clara. But the money was never paid, and the estate was
forcibly seized a few years afterwards.

Other annoyances, which need not here be detailed, were offered to Lord Cochrane, and thus
six months were wasted by Zenteno and his associates in the Chilian senate. Those sentences
explain the treatment to which, now and afterwards, Lord Cochrane was subjected.

He was allowed, however, to do further excellent service to the nation which had already begun
to reward him with nothing but ingratitude. As soon as the Chilian Government could turn from
its spiteful exercise to its proper duty of consolidating the independence of the insurgents
from Spanish dominion, it was resolved to despatch as strong a force as could be raised for
another and more formidable expedition to Peru, whereby at the same time the Peruvians should
be freed from the tyranny by which they were still oppressed, and the Chilians should be rid
of the constant danger that they incurred from the presence of a Spanish army in Lima, Callao,
and other garrisons, ready to bear down upon them again and again, as it had often done before.
In 1819 Lord Cochrane had vainly asked for a suitable land force with which to aid his attack
upon Callao. It was now resolved to organize a Liberating Army, after the fashion of that with
which Bolivar had nobly scoured the northern districts of South America, and to place it under
the direction of General San Martin, in co-operation with whom Lord Cochrane was to pursue
his work as chief admiral of the fleet. San Martin had fought worthily in La Plata, and he
had earned the gratitude of the Chilians by winning back their freedom in conjunction with
O'Higgins in 1817. Vanity and ambition, however, had since unhinged him, and he now proved
himself a champion of liberty very inferior, both in prowess and in honesty, to Bolivar.

His army, numbering four thousand two hundred men, was collected by the 21st of August, and
on that day it was embarked at Valparaiso in the whole Chilian squadron. Lord Cochrane proposed
to go at once to Chilca, the nearest point both to Lima and to Callao. San Martin, however,
decided upon Pisco as a safer landing-place, and there the troops were deposited on the 8th
of September. For fifty days they were detained there, and the fleet was forced to share their
idleness, capturing only a few passing merchantmen. On the 28th of October they were re-embarked,
and Lord Cochrane again urged a vigorous attack on the capital and its port. Again he was thwarted
by San Martin, who requested to be landed at Ancon, considerably to the north of Callao, and
as unsuitable a halting-place as was the southerly town of Pisco. Lord Cochrane had to comply;
but he bethought him of a plan for achieving a great work, in spite of San Martin. Sending
the main body of his fleet to Ancon with the troops, no the 20th, he retained the O'Higgins,
the Independencia, and the Lautaro, with the professed object of merely blockading Callao at
a safe distance.

The plan was certainly a bold one. The Esmeralda, of forty-four guns, was the finest Spanish
ship in the Pacific Ocean. Now especially well armed and manned, in readiness for any work
that had to be done, she was lying in Callao Harbour, protected by three hundred pieces of
artillery on shore and by a strong boom with chain moorings, by twenty-seven gunboats and several
armed block-ships. These considerations, however, only induced Lord Cochrane to proceed cautiously
upon his enterprise. Three days were spent in preparations, the purpose of which was known
only to himself and to his chief officers.

A request was made for volunteers, and the whole body of seamen and marines on board the three
ships offered to follow Lord Cochrane wherever he might lead. This was more than he wanted.
Contrary to my orders, Captain Gruise then cut the Esmeralda's cables also, so that there was
nothing to be done but to loose her topsails and follow. The fortress thereupon ceased its fire.

Lord Cochrane's exploit, however, though less complete than he had intended, was as successful
in its issue as it was brilliant in its achievement. The speedy liberation of Peru was its
direct consequence, although that good work was seriously impaired by the continued and increasing
misconduct of General San Martin, inducing troubles, of which Lord Cochrane received his full
share.

In the first burst of his enthusiasm at the intelligence of Lord Cochrane's action, San Martin
was generous for once.

A few days later, however, San Martin wrote in very different terms. "Before the General-in-Chief
left the Vice-Admiral of the squadron," he said, in a bulletin to the army, "they agreed on
the execution of a memorable project, sufficient to astonish intrepidity itself, and to make
the history of the liberating expedition of Peru eternal." "This glory," he added, "was reserved
for the Liberating Army, whose efforts have snatched the victims of tyranny from its hands."
Thus impudently did he arrogate to himself a share, at any rate, in the initiation of a project
which Lord Cochrane, knowing that he would oppose it, had purposely kept secret from him, and
assign the whole merit of its completion to the army which his vacillation and incompetence
were holding in unwelcome inactivity.

Lord Cochrane was too much accustomed to personal injustice, however, to be very greatly troubled
by that fresh indignity. It was a far heavier trouble to him that his first triumph was not
allowed to be supplemented by prompt completion of the work on which, and not on any individual
aggrandisement, his heart was set--the establishment of Peruvian as well as Chilian freedom.

San Martin, having done nothing hitherto but allow his army to waste its strength and squander
its resources, first at Pisco and afterwards at Ancon, now fixed upon Huacha as another loitering-place.
Thither Lord Cochrane had to convey it, before he was permitted to resume the blockade of Callao.
This blockade lasted, though not all the while under his personal direction, for eight months.

In ways like those the Spaniards were locked in, and harassed, in Callao Bay. Good result came
in the steady weakening of the Spanish cause. On the 3rd of December, six hundred and fifty
soldiers deserted to the Chilian army. On the 8th they were followed by forty officers; and
after that hardly a day passed without some important defections to the patriot force.'

Unfortunately, however, there was weakness also among the patriots. San Martin, idle himself,
determined to profit by the advantages, direct and indirect, which Lord Cochrane's prowess
had secured and was securing. It began to be no secret that, as soon as Peru was freed from
the Spanish yoke, he proposed to subject it to a military despotism of his own. This being
resented by Lord Cochrane, who on other grounds could have little sympathy or respect for his
associate, coolness arose between the leaders. Lord Cochrane, anxious to do some more important
work, if only a few troops might be allowed to co-operate with his sailors, was forced to share
some of San Martin's inactivity. In March, 1821, he offered, if two thousand soldiers were
assigned to him, to capture Lima; and when this offer was rejected, he declared himself willing
to undertake the work with half the number of men. With difficulty he at last obtained a force
of six hundred; and by them and the fleet nearly all the subsequent fighting in Peru was done.
Lord Cochrane did not venture upon a direct assault on the capital with so small an army; but
he used it vigorously from point to point on the coast, between Callao and Arica, and thus
compelled the capitulation of Lima on the 6th of July.

Again, as heretofore, he was thanked in the first moment of triumph, to be slighted at leisure.
Lord Cochrane, on entering the city, was welcomed as the great deliverer of Peru: the medals
distributed on the 28th of July--the day on which Peru's independence was proclaimed--testified
that the honour was due to General San Martin and his Liberating Army. That, however, was only
part of a policy long before devised.

With that policy, however much he reprobated it, Lord Cochrane wisely judged that it was not
for him to quarrel. He was not, therefore, in Lima on the 3rd of August, when San Martin issued
a proclamation declaring himself Protector of Peru, and appointing three of his creatures as
his Ministers of State. Of the way in which he became acquainted of this violent and lawless
measure, a precise description has been given by an eye-witness, Mr. W.B. Stevenson.

[Footnote A: W.B. Stevenson, "Twenty Years' Residence in South America." 1825.]

Lord Cochrane lost no time in returning to his flagship in Callao Roads. Thence, however, on
the 7th of August, he wrote a letter to San Martin, couched in terms as temperate and persuasive
as he could bring himself to use. Much more to the same effect Lord Cochrane wrote, urging
honesty upon San Martin as the only path by which he could win for himself a permanent success,
and making a special claim upon his honesty in the interests of the seamen and naval officers,
to whom neither pay nor prize-money had been given since their departure from Chili nearly
a year before.

It was all in vain. San Martin wrote, on the 9th of August, a letter making professions of
virtue and acknowledging much personal indebtedness to Lord Cochrane and the fleet, but evading
the whole question at issue.

Lord Cochrane knew that Chili would decline to pay for work that, if intended to be done in
its interests, had been perverted from that intention; and his crews, also knowing it, became
reasonably mutinous. After much further correspondence--in which San Martin suggested as his
only remedy that Lord Cochrane should accept the dishonourable proposal made to him, and, becoming
himself First Admiral of Peru, should induce the fleet to join in the same rebellion against
Chili to which the army had been brought by its general, and in which Captains Guise and Spry,
always evil-minded, had already joined--Lord Cochrane adopted a bold but altogether justifiable
manoeuvre. A large quantity of treasure, seized from the Spaniards, having been deposited by
San Martin at Ancon, he sailed thither, in the middle of September, and quietly took possession
of it. So much as lawful owners could be found for was given up to them. With the residue,
amounting to 285,000 dollars, Lord Cochrane paid off the year's arrears to every officer and
man in his employ, taking nothing for himself, but reserving the small surplus for the pressing
exigencies and re-equipment of the squadron.

It is unnecessary to detail the angry correspondence that arose out of that rough act of justice.
Before the money was distributed, treacherous offers to restore it and enter into rebellious
league with San Martin were made to Lord Cochrane; and with these were alternated mock-virtuous
complaints and bombastic threats. Both bribes and threats were treated by him with equal contempt.

In spite of his treachery to the Chilian Government, General San Martin professed to retain
his functions as Commander-in-Chief of the Chilian liberating expedition to Peru; and, accordingly,
when he found it useless to make further efforts, by bribes or threats, to seduce Lord Cochrane
from his allegiance, he ordered him to return at once to Valparaiso. This order Lord Cochrane
refused to obey, seeing that the work entrusted to him--the entire destruction of the Spanish
squadron in the Pacific--had not yet been completed.

He determined to complete that work, first going to Guayaquil to repair and refit his ships,
which San Martin would not allow him to do in any Peruvian port. He was thus employed during
six weeks following the 18th of October, 1821.

On his departure, a complimentary address from the townsmen afforded him an opportunity of
offering some good advice on a matter in which his long and intelligent political experience
showed him that they were especially at fault. The inhabitants of Guayaquil, like many other
young communities, sought to increase their revenues and strengthen their independence by violent
restrictions upon foreign commerce and arbitrary support of native monopolists. Lord Cochrane
eloquently propounded to them the doctrine of free trade.

Lord Cochrane left Guayaquil on the 3rd of December, and cruised northwards in search of the
Prueba and the Venganza, the only two remaining Spanish frigates, which had made their escape
from Callao and gone in the direction of Mexico. He sailed along the Colombian and Mexican
coasts as far as Acapulco, where he called on the 29th of January, 1822, without finding the
objects of his search. He there learned, on the 2nd of February, from an in-coming merchantman,
that the frigates had eluded him and were now somewhere to the southwards. Upon that he at
once retraced his course, and, in spite of a storm which nearly wrecked his two best ships,
one of them being the captured Esmeralda, now christened the Valdivia, was at Guayaquil again
on the 13th of March. There, as he expected, from information received on the passage, he found
the Venganza. Both the frigates had been compelled, by want of provisions, to run the risk
of halting at Guayaquil, whither also an envoy from San Martin had arrived, instructed to tempt
the Guayaquilians into friendship with Peru and jealousy of Chili. On the appearance of the
Spanish frigates, he had persuaded their captains, as the only means of averting the certain
ruin that Lord Cochrane was planning for them, quietly to surrender to the Peruvian Government.
In this way Chili was cheated of its prizes, although Lord Cochrane's main object, the entire
overthrow of the Spanish war shipping in the Pacific, was accomplished without further use
of powder and shot. The Prueba had been sent to Callao, and the Venganza was now being refitted
at Guayaquil.

Lord Cochrane had now done all that it was possible for him to do in fulfilment of the naval
mission on which he had quitted Chili a year and a half before. Proceeding southward, he anchored
in Callao Roads from the 25th of April till the 10th of May. San Martin's Government, fearing
punishment for their misdeeds, prepared to defend Callao. Lord Cochrane, however, wrote to
say that he had no intention of making war upon the Peruvians; that all he asked was adequate
payment for the services rendered to them by his officers and seamen. In the same letter he
denounced the new treachery that had been shown with reference to the Venganza and the Prueba.

The answer to that letter was a visit from San Martin's chief minister, who begged Lord Cochrane
to recall it, and impudently repeated the old offers of service under the Peruvian Government,
adding that San Martin had written a private letter to the same effect. "Tell the Protector
from me," said Lord Cochrane, "that if, after the conduct he has pursued, he had sent me a
private letter, it would certainly have been returned unanswered. You may also tell him that
it is not my wish to injure him, that I neither fear him nor hate him, but that I disapprove
of his conduct."

Lord Cochrane's brief stay off Callao sufficed to convince him that, though the people of Peru
were being for the time subjected to a tyranny almost equal to that practised by Spain, no
one was likely to be long in fear of San Martin, as his treacheries and his vices were already
bringing upon him well-deserved disgrace and punishment. To that purport Lord Cochrane wrote
to O'Higgins on the 2nd of May.

CHAPTER IX.

[1822-1823.]

Lord Cochrane returned to Valparaiso on the 3rd of June, 1822, having been absent more than
twenty months. An enthusiastic welcome awaited him. Medals were struck in his honour, and in
various ephemeral ways the public gratitude was expressed.

It was, however, only ephemeral. There was no substantial recognition of his great services.
His men were left unpaid, and he himself was subjected to further indignities of the sort already
described. It is not necessary here to give any detailed account of them, or to enter into
a particular rehearsal of his efforts during the next six months to continue his beneficial
services to Chili. He had done the great service for which he had been invited to South America.
In the course of about three years he had scoured the Pacific of the Spanish ships, which had
offered an obstacle too serious for the patriots to overcome by any force or wisdom of their
own. He had made it possible for them to assert their independence of a foreign yoke, and,
if their patriotism had been genuine enough, to work out internal reforms, by which the sometime
colonies of Spain in South America might have been able to vie in greatness with the sometime
colonies of England in the northern continent. The benefits which he conferred especially upon
Chili were shared by all the liberated communities along the whole Pacific coastline up to
Mexico. But all were alike ungrateful, except in fitful words and in sentiments that prompted
to no action.

Shortly after his return to Chili, Lord Cochrane went to live upon the estates that had been
conferred upon him. Soon, however, he was forced to go back to Valparaiso, there to look after
the interests of the officers and crews who had served him and Chili during the previous fighting
time. His earnest arguments on their behalf were not heeded. The poor fellows were left to
starve and be perished by the cold of a South American winter, against which the pitiful rags
in which they were clothed afforded no protection. And before long fresh incidents arose which
made it impossible for him to persevere in fighting their battle.

General San Martin, having run his course of petty tyranny in Peru, was soon forced to resign
his protectorate and seek safety in Chili. He reached Valparaiso on the 12th of October, and
then Lord Cochrane, who had long before seen good reasons for suspecting it, was convinced
that Zenteno and many other influential men in Chili were in league with him. He claimed that
San Martin should be tried by court-martial for his treasons, known to all the world. Instead
of that San Martin was loaded with honours, and fresh indignities were heaped upon his chief
accuser. This monstrous action of the ministers led to a revolution, which, if Lord Cochrane
had stayed to the end, might have proved much to his advantage. But the revolution, headed
by General Freire, an honest man, had for its object the overthrow of O'Higgins, also an honest
man, though too weak to withstand the influences brought to bear upon him by the bad men by
whom he was surrounded. Lord Cochrane refused Freire's offers to join in opposition to O'Higgins,
always, as far as his small powers permitted, his good friend. He preferred to abandon Chili,
or rather to allow it to abandon one who had done for it so much and had received so little
in return.

That letter sufficiently explains the reasons which induced Lord Cochrane to resign his Chilian
command. He had, as he said, received invitations to enter the service of Brazil, of Mexico,
and of Greece. The Mexican offer he declined at once, as acceptance of it would involve little
of the active work in fighting which, if for a good cause, was always attractive to him. Assistance
of the Greeks who, a year and a half before, had begun to throw off their long servitude to
Turkey, and who were now fighting desperately for their freedom, was an enterprise on which
he would gladly have embarked, but the invitation from Brazil was more pressing, and he therefore
conditionally accepted it.

In accordance with the terms of that letter, Lord Cochrane wrote as we have seen to the Supreme
Director of Chili, not completely resigning his employment, but proposing to absent himself
for an indefinite period. His proposal was at once accepted by the Chilian Government, to whom
his honesty and his popularity with the people made him particularly obnoxious. He thereupon
made prompt arrangements for his departure. He quitted Valparaiso on the 18th of January, 1823,
in a vessel chartered for his own use and that of several European officers and seamen, who,
like him, were tired of Chilian ingratitude, and who begged to be employed under him wherever
he might serve.

Of the subsequent occurrences in the Western States, for which he had done so much, and tried
to do so much more than was permitted, it is enough to say that Peru, sadly abused by San Martin,
and almost won back to Spain, was rescued by the valour and wisdom of Bolivar, and that Chili,
destined to much future trouble through the bad action of its false patriots, was temporarily
benefited by the successful revolution which placed General Freire in the Supreme Directorship.

Lord Cochrane had not been absent three months before a new Minister of Marine wrote to inform
him of Freire's accession and to solicit his return. From this, however, he excused himself,
on the grounds that he had now entered into engagements with Brazil which he was bound to fulfil,
and that his past treatment by the Chilian Government discouraged him from renewal of relations
which had been so full of annoyance to him.

Writing thus to the Minister of Marine, Lord Cochrane wrote also at the same time to General
Freire, who, as has been said, asked him to join his revolutionary movement.

For the real welfare of Chili Lord Cochrane was always eager; but in the treatment which he
himself experienced he had strong proof, both during his four years' active service under the
republic and in all after times, of the difficulties in the way of its advancement. Not only
was he subjected to the contumely and neglect of which he complained in the letters just quoted
from: he was also directly mulcted to a very large extent in the scanty recompense for his
services to which he was legally entitled, and indirectly injured to a yet larger extent.

[1823.]

In 1808, King John VI. of Portugal, driven by Buonaparte from his European dominions, took
refuge in his great colonial possession of Brazil, and the result of his emigration was considerable
enlargement of the liberties of the Brazilians. Thereby the immense Portuguese colony in South
America was prevented from following in the revolutionary steps of the numerous Spanish provinces
adjoining it. In Brazil, however, during the ensuing years party faction produced nearly as
much turmoil as attended the struggle for independence in Chili and the other Spanish, colonies.
Those Brazilians who were still intimately connected with the inhabitants of the mother country
rallied under Portuguese leaders, and did their utmost to maintain the Portuguese supremacy
over the colony. Quite as many, on the other hand, were eager to take advantage of the new
state of things as a means of consolidating the freedom of Brazil. Plots and counterplots,
broils and insurrections, lasted, almost without intermission, until 1821, when King John returned
to Portugal, leaving his son, Don Pedro, as lieutenant and regent, to cope with yet greater
difficulties. The Cortes of Portugal, able to get back their king, desired also to bring back
Brazil to all its former servitude. So great was the opposition thus provoked that the native
or true Brazilian party induced Don Pedro to throw off allegiance to his father. In October,
1822, the independence of the colony was publicly declared, and on the 1st of December Don
Pedro assumed the title of Emperor of Brazil.

Only the southern part of Brazil, however, acknowledged his authority. The northern provinces,
including Bahia, Maranham, and Para, were ruled by the Portuguese faction and held by Portuguese
troops. A formidable fleet, moreover, swept the seas, and the independent provinces were threatened
with speedy subjection to the sway of Portugal.

That was the state of affairs in the young empire of Brazil during the months in which Lord
Cochrane, having destroyed the Spanish fleet in the Pacific, was being subjected to the worst
ingratitude of his Chilian employers. Don Pedro and his advisers, hearing of this, lost no
time in inviting him to enter the service of the Brazilian nation. Equal rank and position
to those held by him under Chili were offered to him. In yet stronger terms a second letter
was written soon afterwards.

Lord Cochrane, as we have seen, accepted this invitation; not, however, without some misgivings,
which, in the end, were fully justified. Having quitted Valparaiso on the 18th of January,
1823, he arrived at Rio de Janeiro on the 13th of March. He had not been there a week before
he discovered that, while all classes were anxious to secure his aid, the Emperor Pedro I.
stood almost alone in the desire to treat him honourably and in a way worthy of his character
and reputation. Vague promises were made to him; but, when a statement of his position was
asked for in writing, very different terms were employed. He was only to have the rank of a
subordinate admiral, with pay of less amount than the Chilian pension that he had resigned.
His employment was to be temporary and informal, subjecting him to the chance of dismissal
at any moment. When, however, resenting these trickeries, he announced his intention of proceeding
at once to Europe, and accepting the Greek service offered to him, a different tone was adopted.
Under the Emperor's signature he was appointed, on the 21st of March, First Admiral of the
National and Imperial Navy, with emoluments equal to those he had received from Chili.

He did not then know, though he was soon to learn it by hard experience, how strong, even at
the imperial court, was the influence of the Portuguese party, and by what meanness and trickery
it sought to maintain and augment that influence.

Having entered the Brazilian service, however, Lord Cochrane applied himself to his work with
characteristic energy and success. He hoisted his flag on board the Pedro Primiero on the 21st
of March, and put to sea on the 3rd of April. His squadron consisted of the Pedro Primiero,
a fine and well-appointed ship, rated rather too highly for seventy-four guns, commanded by
Captain Crosbie; of the Piranga, a fine frigate, entrusted to Captain Jowett; of the Maria
de Gloria, a showy but comparatively worthless clipper, mounting thirty-two small guns, under
Captain Beaurepaire; of the Liberal, under Captain Garcaõ. He was accompanied by two old vessels,
the Guarani and the Real, to be used as fireships. Two other ships of war, the Nitherohy, assigned
to Captain Taylor, and the Carolina, were left behind to complete their equipment, and the
first of these joined the squadron on its way to Bahia, which, being the nearest of the disaffected
provinces, was the first to be subdued.

The coast of Bahia was reached on the 1st of May, and Lord Cochrane was arranging to blockade
its capital and port, on the 4th, when the Portuguese fleet came out of the harbour. It comprised
the Don Joaõ, of seventy-four guns; the Constitucaõ, of fifty; the Perola, of forty-four; the
Princeza Real, of twenty-eight; the Regeneracaõ, the Dez de Fevereiro, the San Gaulter, the
Principe de Brazil, and the Restauracaõ, of twenty-six each; the Calypso and the Activa, of
twenty-two; the Audaz, of twenty; and the Canceicaõ, of eight; being one line-of-battle ship,
five frigates, five corvettes, a brig, and a schooner. Lord Cochrane did not venture with his
small and as yet untried force to attack the whole squadron, but he proceeded to cut off the
four rearmost ships. This he did with the Pedro Primiero, but, to his disgust, the other vessels,
heedless of his orders, failed to follow him. The Pedro Primiero, after fighting alone for
some time, and during that time even doing but little mischief, by reason of the clumsy way
in which her guns were handled, had to be withdrawn.

At that failure Lord Cochrane was reasonably chagrined. Worse than the fact that the Portuguese
had escaped uninjured for this once, was the knowledge that he could not hope thoroughly to
punish them without first effecting great reform in the materials at his disposal. On the 5th
of May he wrote to the Government to complain of the miserable condition of the ships and crews
provided for him by the Brazilian Government. The guns are without locks. The bed of the mortar
which I received on board this ship was crushed on the first fire, being entirely rotten. The
fuses for the shells are formed of such wretched composition that it will not take fire with
the discharge of the mortar. Even the powder is so bad that six pounds will not throw out shells
more than a thousand yards.

Other indignant complaints of that sort, which need not here be repeated, were reasonably made
by Lord Cochrane. The bad equipment of his squadron, both in men and in material, had hindered
him, at starting, from achieving a brilliant success over the enemy, and though his subsequent
achievements were of unsurpassed brilliance, he was to the end seriously hindered by the wilful
and accidental mismanagement of his employers.

Lord Cochrane lost no time, however, in correcting by his own prudent action the evil effects
of this mismanagement. Not choosing to run the risk of a second failure, and believing that
two good ships would be more serviceable than any number of bad ones, he took his squadron
to the Moro San Paulo, where he transferred all the best men and the most serviceable fittings
to the flag-ship and the Maria de Gloria. There he left the other vessels to be improved as
far as possible, directing that instruction should be given in seamanship to all the incompetent
men who showed any promise of being made efficient, and that several small prizes which he
had taken on his way from Rio de Janeiro should be turned into fireships for future use. With
the two refitted ships he then went back to Bahia, to watch its whole coast and blockade the port.

The wisdom of this course was at once apparent. Several minor captures were made; the supplies
of Bahia were cut off, and the enemy's squadron was locked in the harbour for three weeks.
Lord Cochrane went to the Moro San Paulo on the 26th, leaving the Maria de Gloria to overlook
the port, and then the Portuguese fleet ventured out for a few days. It dared not show fight,
however, and was driven back by the flag-ship, which returned on the 2nd of June.

That exploit was more daring than Lord Cochrane's modest description would imply; and, though
the bold hope that it might be possible for a single invading ship to conquer the whole Portuguese
squadron in its moorings was not realized, the effect was all that could be desired. The Portuguese
Admiral and his chief officers were at a ball in Bahia while Lord Cochrane was quietly sailing
round and amongst their squadron, and the report of this achievement was brought to them in
the midst of their festivities. No large ship can have come up in the dark." When it was known
that the thing had really been done, and that the construction of fireships at the Moro San
Paulo was being rapidly proceeded with, the Portuguese authorities, both naval and military,
considered that it would be no longer safe to remain in Bahia Harbour. They were seriously
inconvenienced, moreover, by the success with which Lord Cochrane had blockaded the port and
all its approaches. "The means of subsistence fail us, and we cannot secure the entrance of
any provisions," said the Commander-in-Chief, in the proclamation intimating that the so-called
defenders of the province were thinking of abandoning their post. This they did after a fortnight's
consideration. On the 2nd of July the whole squadron of thirteen warvessels and about seventy
merchantmen and transports, filled with a large body of troops, evacuated the port.

That was a movement with which Lord Cochrane was well pleased. He had been in doubt as to the
prudence of leading his small fleet into a desperate action in the harbour, by which the inexperience
of his crews might ruin everything, and which might have to be followed by fighting on land.
But now that the Portuguese, both soldiers and sailors, were in the open sea, he could give
them chase without much risk, as, in the event of their turning round upon him with more valour
than he gave them credit for, the worst that could happen would be his forced abandonment of
the pursuit. The valour was not shown. No sooner were the Portuguese out of port, with their
sails set for Maranham, where they hoped to join other ships and troops, and so augment their
strength, than Lord Cochrane proceeded to follow them and dog their progress.

His scheme was a bold one, but as successful as it was bold. Attended first by the Maria de
Gloria alone, and afterwards by the Carolina, the Nitherohy, and a small merchant brig, the
Colonel Allen, in which he had placed a few guns, he pursued and harassed the cumbrous crowd
of Portuguese warships, troop-ships, and trading vessels, about eighty in all, through fourteen
days. The chase, indeed, was practically conducted by his flag-ship, the Pedro Primiero, alone.
The other vessels were ordered to look out for any of the enemy's fleet that lagged behind
or were borne away from the main body of the fugitives, either to the right hand or to the
left. Of these there were plenty, and none were allowed to escape. The pursuers had easy work
in prize-taking.

Most of his prizes and prisoners Lord Cochrane sent into Pernambuco, the port then nearest
to him, and he despatched two officers to hold Bahia for Brazil. With his flag-ship he continued
his pursuit of the enemy, losing them once during a fog, and, when, he found them, being prevented
from doing all the mischief which he hoped, as a calm enabled them to keep close together and
present a front too formidable for attack by a single assailant. The Portuguese, however, continued
their flight as soon as the wind permitted. Lord Cochrane did not trouble them much during
the day, but each night he swept down on them, like a hawk upon its prey, and harassed them
with wonderful effect. They were chased past Fernando Island, past the Equator, and more than
half way to Cape Verde. Then, on the 16th of July, Lord Cochrane, after a parting broadside,
left them to make their way in peace to Lisbon, there to tell how, by one daring vessel, thirteen
ships of war had been ignominiously driven home, accompanied by only thirteen out of the seventy
vessels that had placed themselves under their protection.

Lord Cochrane would have continued the pursuit still farther, had not some of the troop-ships
contrived to escape; and as he was anxious that these should not get into shelter at Maranham,
or, if there, should not have time to recover their spirits, he deemed it best to hasten thither.
He reached Maranham before them, and thus found it possible to carry through an excellent expedient
which he had devised on the way.

Maranham, the wealthiest province of the old Brazilian colony, was best guarded by the Portuguese,
and now served as the centre and stronghold of resistance to the authority of the new Emperor.
Lord Cochrane's plan had for its object nothing less than the annexation of the whole province
singlehanded and without a blow. With this intent, he entered the River Maranham, which served
as a harbour to the port of the same name, on the 26th of July, with Portuguese colours flying
from the mast of the Pedro Primiero. The authorities, deceived thereby, promptly sent a messenger
with despatches and congratulations on the safe arrival of what was supposed to be a valuable
reinforcement from Portugal. The messenger was soon undeceived, but Lord Cochrane at once made
him the agent of a much more elaborate and altogether justifiable deception Announcing to him
that the swift sailing of the Pedro Primiero had brought her first to Maranham, but that she
was being followed by a formidable squadron, intended for the invasion of the province, he
sent him back with letters to the same effect, addressed to the Portuguese commandant and to
the local Junta of Maranham.

Those mingled promises and threats took prompt effect. On the following day, the 27th of July,
after a conditional offer of capitulation had been rejected, the members of the Junta, the
Bishop of Maranham, and other leading persons, went on board the Pedro Primiero to tender their
submission to the Emperor of Brazil. The city and forts were surrendered without reserve, and
in less than twenty-four hours from Lord Cochrane's first appearance in the river the flag
of Portugal was replaced by that of Brazil. A great province had been added to the dominions
of Pedro I. without bloodshed, and with no more expenditure of ammunition than was needed for
the volleys discharged in honour of the triumph.

The liberation of Maranham was publicly celebrated on the 28th of July, and on the following
day the Portuguese troops embarked for Europe, special concessions being made to them by Lord
Cochrane, who deemed it well that they should be out of the way before the device by which
he had outwitted them was made known. No resentment was to be expected from the civilians,
as even those most hearty in their adherence to the Portuguese faction in Brazil would not
dare to offer direct opposition to the sentiments of the majority. But Lord Cochrane wisely
set himself to conciliate all.

With the capture of Maranham alone, however, Lord Cochrane was not satisfied. Without a day's
delay, he despatched a Portuguese brig which he had seized in the river and christened by its
name, under Captain Grenfell, to follow at Parà, the only important province of Brazil still
under the Portuguese yoke, the same course which he had just adopted with such wonderful success.
He himself found it necessary to remain at Maranham for more than two months, where he had
to curb with a strong hand the passions of the liberated inhabitants, eager to use their liberty
in lawless ways and to retaliate upon the Portuguese still resident among them for all the
hardships which they had hitherto endured.

On the 20th of September, having heard that Captain Grenfell had entirely succeeded in his
designs on Parà, he started for Rio de Janeiro, and there he arrived on the 9th of November.

Lord Cochrane's services had, indeed, been, many of them, "unauthorised and therefore extra-official."
He had been sent out merely to recover Bahia; but, besides doing that, he had gained for Brazil
other territories more than half as large as Europe. For this, however, nothing but gratitude
could be shown, and the gratitude was, for the time at any rate, unalloyed. On the very day
of the Pedro Primiero's return, the Emperor went on board to offer his thanks in person. Further,
thanks were voted by the legislature, and tendered by all classes of the people. The decoration
of the Imperial Order of the Cruizeiro was also bestowed upon Lord Cochrane, and on the 19th
of December he was made a Privy Councillor of Brazil, the highest honour which it was in the
Emperor's power to grant. On the same day he also received from the Emperor a charter confirming
his rank and emoluments as First Admiral of Brazil, "seeing how advantageous it would be for
the interests of this empire to avail itself of the skill of so valuable an officer," and in
recognition of "the valour, intelligence, and activity by which he had distinguished himself
in the different services with which he had been entrusted."

CHAPTER XI.

[1823-1824.]

All the rewards bestowed upon Lord Cochrane for his wonderful successes in the northern part
of Brazil, except the confirmation of his patent as First Admiral, be it noted, were unsubstantial.
He had for ever crushed the power of Portugal in South America; he had added vast provinces
to the imperial dominion, and had thus augmented the imperial revenues by considerably more
than a million dollars a-year, besides the great and immediate profits of his prize-taking.
And all this had been done with a small fleet, poorly equipped and unpaid. The ships entrusted
to him had been rendered efficient by his own ingenuity, unaided by the Government, and with
scant addition to his resources from the numerous captures made by him. In excess of his instructions,
and with nothing but cheap compliments and cheaper promises to encourage him, he had acquired
Maranham and Parà, and all the provinces dependent upon them, as well as Bahia. Relying on
the honour of his employers, he had pledged his own honour, that on their returning to Rio
de Janeiro, his crews, who were clamouring for some part, at any rate, of the wages due to
them, should be fully recompensed, and he had the reasonable expectation, that, out of the
abundant wealth that he had gained for Brazil, he himself should receive his lawful share of
the prize-money gained by his exertions. Instead of that he and his subordinates, both officers
and men, were subjected to an unparalleled course of meanness, trickery, and fraud.

This partly resulted from an unfortunate change in the Government that had occurred during
his absence. When he left Rio de Janeiro, Pedro I.'s chief secretary of state had been Don
José Bonifacio de Andrada y Silva, a wise and patriotic Brazilian. The Emperor and his minister
had all along been seriously crippled in fulfilment of their good purposes by subordinates
of the Portuguese faction, who persistently twisted their instructions, when they did not act
in direct opposition to those instructions, so as to promote their own and their countrymen's
selfish and unpatriotic objects; but there had been hope that the zeal of Pedro and José de
Andrada would overcome these evil devices, and secure the healthy consolidation of the empire.
When Lord Cochrane returned, however, he found that the honest minister had been deposed, that
his party had been ousted, and that the Emperor was surrounded by bad counsellors, who, unable
to pervert his judgment, were strong enough to restrain its action, and who were robbing him,
one by one, of all his constitutional functions, and doing their best to bring Brazil into
a state of anarchy, with a view to the re-establishment of Portuguese authority in its old
or in some new but no less obnoxious form. The Emperor, desiring to do well, had hardly improved
his position, a few days before the Pedro Primiero's arrival, by violently dissolving the Legislative
Assembly, banishing some of its members, and threatening to place Rio de Janeiro itself under
military law.

That was the state of affairs when Lord Cochrane entered the port. Only five days afterwards,
on the 14th of November, 1823, he wrote a bold letter to the Emperor.

That advice, in the main adopted by the Emperor, led to a reconstruction of the Brazilian Constitution
in its present shape, and so added another to the many great benefits which Brazil owes to
Lord Cochrane. But the whole, and especially the last part of it, being directly at variance
with the plans and interests of the Portuguese faction, it won for him much hatred and many
personal troubles.

Consequently, in return for the great services he had conferred to Brazil, he received, as
had been the case in Chili, little but insult and injury, the course of insult and injury being
hardly stayed even during the period in which he was needed to engage in further services.
The Emperor honestly tried to be generous; but he could not rid himself of the Portuguese faction,
generally dominant in Brazil, and his worthy intentions were thwarted in every possible way.
With difficulty could he secure for Lord Cochrane the confirmation of his patent as First Admiral,
which has been already referred to. No great resistance was made to his conferment of the empty
title of Marquis of Maranham, but he was not allowed to make the grant of land which was intended
to go with the title and enable it to be borne with dignity. Prevented from being generous,
he was even hindered from exercising the barest justice.

The injustice was shown not only to Lord Cochrane, but also to all the officers and crews who,
serving under him, had enabled Brazil to maintain its resistance to the tyranny of Portugal,
though not to shake off the tyranny of the faction which still had the interests of Portugal
at heart. It is not necessary to describe in detail the long course of ill-usage to which he
and his subordinates were exposed. Part of that ill-usage will be best and most briefly indicated
by citing a portion of an eloquent memorial which Lord Cochrane addressed to the Imperial Government
on the 30th of January, 1825.

The memorial began by enumerating the achievements of the fleet at Bahia, Maranham, Parà, and
elsewhere. "The imperial squadron," it proceeds, "made sail for Rio de Janeiro, in the full
expectation of reaping a reward for their labours; not only because they had been mainly instrumental
in rescuing from the hands of the Portuguese, and adding to the imperial dominion, one half
of the empire; but also because their hopes seemed to be firmly grounded, independently of
such services, on the capture of upwards of one hundred transports and merchant vessels, exclusive
of ships of war, all of which, they had a just right to expect, would, under the existing laws,
be adjudged to the captors. The whole of them were seized under Portuguese colours, with Portuguese
registers, manned by Portuguese seamen, having on board Portuguese troops and ammunition or
Portuguese produce and manufacture. On arriving at Rio de Janeiro, there was no feeling but
one of satisfaction among the officers and seamen, and the Brazilian marine might from that
moment, without the expense of one milrei to the nation, have been rapidly raised to a state
of efficiency and discipline which had not yet been attained in any marine in South America,
and which the navies of Portugal and Spain do not possess. It could not, however, be long concealed
from the knowledge of the squadron that political or other reasons had prevented any proceedings
being had in the adjudication of their prizes; and the extraordinary declaration that was made
by the Tribunal of Prizes,--'that they were not aware that hostilities existed between Brazil
and Portugal'--led to an inquiry of whom that tribunal was composed. All surprise at so extraordinary
a declaration then ceased; but other sentiments injurious to the imperial service, arose,--those
of indignation and disgust that the power of withholding their rights should be placed in the
hands of persons who were natives of that very nation against which they were employed in war.
His Imperial Majesty, however, having signified to this tribunal his pleasure that they should
delay no longer in proceeding to the adjudication of the captured vessels, the result was that,
in almost every instance, at the commencement of their proceedings, the vessels were condemned,
not as lawful prizes to the captors, but as droits to the Crown. His Majesty was then pleased
to desire that the said droits should be granted to the squadron, and about one-fifth part
of the value of the prizes taken was eventually paid under the denomination of a 'grant of
the droits of the Crown.' But when this decree of his Imperial Majesty was promulgated, the
tribunal altered their course of proceeding, and, instead of condemning to the Crown, did,
in almost every remaining instance, pronounce the acquittal of the vessels captured, and adjudged
them to be given up to pretended Brazilian owners, notwithstanding that Brazilian property
embarked in enemy's vessels was, by the law, declared to be forfeited; and that, too, with
such indecent precipitancy that, in cases where the hull only had been claimed, the cargo also
was decreed to be given up to the claimants of the hull, without any part of it having, at
any time, been even pretended to be their property. Other ships and cargoes were given up without
any form of trial, and without any intimation whatever to the captors and their agents; and,
in most cases, costs and quadruple damages were unjustly decreed against the captors, to the
amount of 300,000 milreis. That the prizes of which the captors were thus fraudulently deprived,
chiefly under the unlawful and false pretence of their belonging to Brazilians, were really
the property of Portuguese and well known so to be by the said tribunal, has since been fully
demonstrated, by the arrival in Lisbon of the whole of the vessels liberated by their decisions.
Thus the charge of a system of wilful injustice, brought by the squadron against the Portuguese
Tribunal of Prizes at Rio de Janeiro, is established beyond the possibility of contradiction."

It was only an aggravation of that injustice that, when Lord Cochrane claimed the prompt and
equitable adjudication of the prizes, an attempt was made to silence him on the 24th of November
by a message from the Minister of Marine, to the effect that the Emperor would do everything
in his power for him personally.

A hardship to the fleet even greater than the withholding of its prize-money was the withholding
of the arrears of pay, which had been accumulating ever since the departure from Rio de Janeiro
in April. On the 27th of November, three months' wages were offered to men to whom more than
twice the amount was due. This they indignantly refused, and all Lord Cochrane's tact was needed
to restrain them from open mutiny.

In spite of the Emperor's friendship towards Lord Cochrane, or rather in consequence of it,
he was in all sorts of ways insulted by the ministry, the head of which was now Severiano da
Costa. A new ship, the Atulanta, was on the 27th of December, without reference to him, ordered
for service at Monte Video. He was on the same day publicly described as "Commander of the
Naval Forces in the Port of Rio de Janeiro," being thus placed on a level with other officers
in the service of which, by the Emperor's patent, he was First Admiral, and no notice was taken
of his protest against that insult. On the 24th of February he was gazetted as "Commander-in-Chief
of all the Naval Forces of the Empire during the present war," by which his functions, though
not now limited in extent, were limited in time. At length, reasonably indignant at these and
other violations of the contract made with him, he offered to resign his command altogether.
One special indignity was attended by some amusing incidents. On the 3rd of June, while he
was residing on shore, it was proposed to search his flag-ship, on the pretext that he had
there concealed large sums of money which were the property of the nation.

That anecdote fairly illustrates the treatment adopted towards Lord Cochrane, and the straits
to which the Emperor was reduced in his efforts to protect him from his enemies in power. The
ill-treatment both of himself and of the whole fleet continuing, he addressed an indignant
protest to his Majesty in July.

That and other arguments contained in the same letter, aided by inducements of a different
sort, to be presently referred to, had partial effect. A small portion of the prize-money and
wages due to the squadron was issued, and Lord Cochrane remained for another year in the service
of Brazil. His weary waiting-time at Rio de Janeiro, however, extending over nearly nine months,
was almost at an end. On the 2nd of August he left it, never to return.

While the ingratitude shown to him in Brazil was at its worst it is interesting to notice that
a few, at any rate, of his own countrymen were remembering his past troubles and his present
worth. On the 21st of June, Sir James Mackintosh, in one of the many speeches in the British
House of Commons in which he nobly advocated the recognition of the independence of the South
American states, both as a political duty and as a necessary measure in the interests of commerce,
made a graceful allusion to Lord Cochrane. "I know," he said, "that I am here touching on a
topic of great delicacy; but I must say that commerce has been gallantly protected by that
extraordinary man who was once a British officer, who once filled a distinguished post in the
British navy at the brightest period of its annals. I mention this circumstance with struggling
and mingled emotions--emotions of pride that the individual I speak of is a Briton, emotions
of regret that he is no longer a British officer. Can any one imagine a more gallant action
than the cutting out of the Esmeralda from Callao? Never was there a greater display of judgment,
calmness, and enterprising British valour than was shown on that memorable occasion. No man
ever felt a more ardent, a more inextinguishable love of country, a more anxious desire to
promote its interests and extend its prosperity, than the gallant individual to whom I allude.
I speak for myself. No person is responsible for the opinions which I now utter. But ask, what
native of this country can help wishing that such a man were again amongst us? I hope I shall
be excused for saying thus much; but I cannot avoid fervently wishing that such advice may
be given to the Crown by his Majesty's constitutional advisers as will induce his Majesty graciously
to restore Lord Cochrane to the country which he so warmly loves, and to that noble service
to the glory of which, I am convinced, he willingly would sacrifice every earthly consideration."

CHAPTER XII.

[1824-1825.]

The political turmoils which Lord Cochrane found to be prevalent in Rio de Janeiro, on his
return from Maranham, were, as he had anticipated, very disastrous to the whole Brazilian empire.
The unpatriotic action of men in power at head-quarters encouraged yet more unpatriotic action
in the outlying and newly-acquired provinces. Portuguese sympathizers in Pernambuco, in Maranham,
and in the neighbouring districts, following the policy of the Portuguese faction at the centre
of government, and acting even more unworthily, induced serious trouble; and the trouble was
aggravated by the fierce opposition which was in many cases offered to them. Before the end
of 1823 information arrived that an insurrection, having for its object the establishment in
the northern provinces of a government distinct from both Brazil and Portugal, had broken out
in Pernambuco, and nearly every week brought fresh intelligence of the spread of this insurrection
and of the troubles induced by it. The Emperor Pedro I. was eager to send thither the squadron
under Lord Cochrane, and so to win back the allegiance of the inhabitants; and for this Lord
Cochrane was no less eager. To the Portuguese partizans, however, whose great effort was to
weaken the resources of the empire, the news of the insurrection was welcome; and perhaps their
strongest inducement to the long course of injustice detailed in the last chapter was the knowledge
that by so doing they were most successfully preventing the despatch of an armament strong
enough to restore order in the northern provinces. Herein they prospered. For more than six
months the Emperor was prevented from suppressing the insurrection, which all through that
time was extending and becoming more and more formidable. Not till July was anything done to
satisfy the claims of the seamen for payment of their prize-money and the arrears of wages
due to them, without which they refused to return to their work and render possible the equipment
and despatch of the squadron; and even then only 200,000 milreis--less than a tenth of the
prize-money that was owing--were granted as an instalment of the payment to be made to them.

With that money, however, Lord Cochrane, using his great personal influence with the officers
and crews, induced them to rejoin the fleet. The funds were placed in his hands on the 12th
of July, 1824, and equitably disbursed by him during the following three weeks. On the 2nd
of August he set sail in the Pedro Primiero from Rio de Janeiro, attended by the Maranham and
three transports containing twelve hundred soldiers.

Having landed General Lima and the troops at Alagoas on the 16th, he arrived off Pernambuco
on the 18th. There he found that a strong republican Government had been set up under the presidentship
of Manoel de Carvalho Pais d'Andrade, whose authority, secret or open, extended far into the
interior and along the adjoining coasts.

While waiting to see the result of those proclamations Lord Cochrane received a message from
Carvalho, offering him immediate payment of 400,000 milreis if he would abandon the imperial
cause and go over to the republicans. That audacious proposal, it need hardly be said, was
indignantly resented by Lord Cochrane. "If I shall have an opportunity of becoming personally
known to your excellency," he wrote, "I can afford you proof that the opinion you have formed
of me has had its origin in the misrepresentations of those in power, whose purposes I was
incapable of serving."

The threats and promises of Lord Cochrane's proclamation did not lead to the peaceable surrender
of Pernambuco, and at the end of the eight days' waiting-time he proceeded to bombard the town.
In that, however, he was hindered by bad weather, which made it impossible for him to enter
the shallow water without great risk of shipwreck. He was in urgent need, also, of anchors
and other fittings. Therefore, after a brief show of attack, which frightened the inhabitants,
but had no other effect, he left the smaller vessels to maintain the blockade, and went on
the 4th of September in the flag-ship to Bahia, there to procure the necessary articles. On
his return he found that General Lima had marched against Pernambuco on the 11th, and, with
the assistance of the blockading vessels, made an easy capture of it.

There was plenty of other work, however, to be done. All the northern provinces were disaffected,
if not in actual revolt, and, in compliance with the Emperor's directions, Lord Cochrane proceeded
to visit their ports and reduce them to order. Some other ships having arrived from Rio de
Janeiro, he selected the Piranga and two smaller vessels for service with the flag-ship, leaving
the others at the disposal of General Lima, and sailed from Pernambuco on the 10th of October.

He reached Cearà on the 18th, and then, by his mere presence, compelled the insurgents, who
had seized the city, to retire, and enabled the well-disposed inhabitants to organize a vigorous
scheme of self-protection.

A harder task awaited him at Maranham, at which he arrived on the 9th of November. There the
utmost confusion prevailed. The Portuguese faction had the supremacy, and there were special
causes of animosity and misconduct among the members of the opposite party of native Brazilians.

This state of things Lord Cochrane set himself zealously to remedy; and, during his six months'
stay at Maranham, he did all that, with the bad materials at his disposal and in the harassing
circumstances of his position, it was possible for him to do. Unable to break down the cabals
and intrigues, the mutual jealousies and the unworthy ambitions that had prevailed previous
to his arrival, he held them all in check while he was present and secured the observance of
law and the freedom of all classes of the community.

Thereby, however, he brought upon himself much fresh hatred. The governor of the province,
being devoted to the Portuguese party and a chief cause of the existing troubles, had to be
suspended and sent to Rio de Janeiro; and though the suspension occurred after orders had been
despatched by the Emperor for his recall, it afforded an excuse to the governor and his friends
in office for denunciation of Lord Cochrane's conduct, alleged to be greatly in excess of his
powers and in contempt of the constituted authority. In fact, the same bad policy that had
embarrassed him before, while he was in Rio de Janeiro, continued to embarrass him yet more
during his service in Maranham. That that service was very helpful to the best interests of
Brazil no one attempted to deny. The French and English consuls, speaking on behalf of all
their countrymen resident in the northern provinces, overstepped the line of strict neutrality,
and entreated him to persevere in the measures by which he was making it possible for commerce
to prosper and the rules of civilized life to be observed. The Emperor sent to thank him for
his work.

The Emperor, however, was at this time almost powerless. The leaders of the Portuguese faction
reigned, and by them Lord Cochrane continued to be treated with every possible indignity and
insult. Not daring openly to dismiss him or even to accept the resignation which he frequently
offered, they determined to wear out his patience, and, if possible, to drive him to some act
on which they could fasten as an excuse for degrading him. They partly succeeded, though the
only wonder is that Lord Cochrane should have been, for so long a time, as patient as he proved.
His temper is well shown in the numerous letters which he addressed to Pedro I. and the Government
during these harassing months.

That request was not granted, or in any way answered; and the statement that the whole of Brazil
was finally subjected to the Emperor's authority proved to be not quite correct. Fresh turmoils
arose in Parà, and Lord Cochrane had to send thither a small force, by which order was restored.
He himself found ample employment in restraining the factions that could not be suppressed
at Maranham.

That was the state of things in the early months of 1825, until unlooked-for circumstances
arose, by which Lord Cochrane's Brazilian employment was brought to a termination in a way
that he had not anticipated. For the condition of the ship's spars I had depended on others,
not deeming it necessary to take upon myself such investigation. It was, however, possible
that we might have patched these up, had not the running rigging been as rotten as the masts,
and we had no spare cordage on board. The good provisions on board being little more than sufficient
for a week's subsistence, a direct return to Rio de Janeiro was out of the question."

It was therefore absolutely necessary to seek some nearer harbour; but Lord Cochrane was considerably
embarrassed in his choice of a port. Portugal was an enemy's country, and Spain, by reason
of his achievements in Chili and Peru, was no less hostile to him. France had not yet recognised
the independence of Brazil, and therefore a stay on any part of its coast might lead to difficulties.
England afforded the only safe halting-place, though there Lord Cochrane was uncertain as to
the way in which, in consequence of the Foreign Enlistment Act, he might be received. To England,
however, he resolved to go; and, sighting its coast on the 25th of June, he anchored at Spithead
on the following day. Salutes were exchanged with a British ship lying in harbour, and in the
afternoon he landed at Portsmouth, to be enthusiastically welcomed by nearly all classes of
his countrymen, whose admiration for his personal character and his excellence as a naval officer
was heightened by the renown of his exploits in South America during an absence of six years
and a half.

His subsequent relations with Brazil can be briefly told. His unavoidable return to England
afforded just the excuse which his enemies in Brazil had been seeking for ousting him from
his command. Lord Cochrane lost no time in reporting his arrival and requesting to be provided
with the necessary means for refitting the Piranga and preparing for a speedy return to Rio
de Janeiro. To expedite matters, he even advanced 2000l. out of his own property--which was
never repaid to him--for this purpose. His repeated applications for instructions were either
unheeded or only answered with insult. He was ordered to return to Brazil at once, towards
which no assistance was given to him; and at the same time his officers and crew were ordered
to repudiate his authority and to return without him.

Lord Cochrane had no room to doubt that by going back to Brazil he should only expose himself
to yet worse treatment than that from which he had been suffering during nearly two years;
but at the same time he was resolved to do nothing at variance with his duty to the Emperor
from whom he had received his commission, and nothing invalidating his claims to the recompense
which was clearly due to him. At length he was relieved from some of his perplexities, after
they had lasted more than three months. On the 3rd of November, 1825, peace was declared between
Brazil and Portugal; and thereby his relations with his employers were materially altered.
The work which he had pledged himself to do was completed, and he was justified in resigning
his command, or at any rate in declining to resume it until the causes of his recent troubles
were removed.

This he did in a letter addressed to the Emperor Pedro I., from London, on the 10th of November.
"The gracious condescension which I experienced from your Imperial Majesty, from the first
moment of my arrival in the Brazils, the honorary distinctions which I received from your Majesty,
and the attention with which you were pleased to listen to all my personal representations
relating to the promotion of the naval power of your empire," he wrote, "have impressed upon
my mind a high sense of the honour which your Majesty conferred, and forbid my entertaining
any other sentiments than those of attachment to your Majesty and devotion to your true interests.
But, whilst I express these my unfeigned sentiments towards your Imperial Majesty, it is with
infinite pain and regret that I recall to my recollection the conduct that has been pursued
towards the naval service, and to myself personally, since the members of the Brazilian administration
of José Bonifacio de Andrade were superseded by persons devoted to the views and interests
of Portugal,--views and interests which are directly opposed to the adoption of that line of
conduct which can alone promote and secure the true interests and glory of your Imperial Majesty,
founded on the tranquillity and happiness of the Brazilian people. Without imputing to such
ministers as Severiano, Gomez, and Barboza disaffection to the person of your Imperial Majesty,
it is sufficient to know that they are men bigoted to the unenlightened opinions of their ancestors
of four centuries ago, that they are men who, from their limited intercourse with the world,
from the paucity of the literature of their native language, and from their want of all rational
instruction in the service of government and political economy, have no conception of governing
Brazil by any other than the same wretched and crooked policy to which the nation had been
so long subjected in its condition as a colony. Nothing further need be said, while we acquit
them of treason, to convict them of unfitness to be the counsellors of your Imperial Majesty.

"None but such ministers as these could have endeavoured to impress upon the mind of your Imperial
Majesty that the refugee Portuguese from the provinces and many thousands from Europe, collected
in Rio de Janeiro, were the only true friends and supporters of the imperial crown of Brazil.
None but such ministers would have endeavoured to impress your Imperial Majesty with a belief
that the Brazilian people were inimical to your person and the imperial crown, merely because
they were hostile to the system pursued by those ministers. None but such ministers would have
placed in important offices of trust the natives of a nation with which your Imperial Majesty
was at war. None but such ministers would have endeavoured to induce your Imperial Majesty
to believe that officers who had abandoned their King and native country for their own private
interests could be depended on as faithful servants to a hostile Government and a foreign land.
None but such ministers could have induced your Imperial Majesty to place in the command of
your fortresses, regiments, and ships of war such individuals as these. None but such ministers
would have attempted to excite in the breast of your Imperial Majesty suspicions with respect
to the fidelity of myself and of those other officers who, by the most zealous exertions, had
proved our devotion to the best interests of your Imperial Majesty and your Brazilian people.
None but such ministers would have endeavoured by insults and acts of the grossest injustice,
to drive us from the service of your Imperial Majesty and to place Portuguese officers in our
stead. And, above all, none but such ministers could have suggested to your Imperial Majesty
that extraordinary proceeding which was projected to take place on the night of the 3rd of
June, 1824, a proceeding which, had it not been averted by a timely discovery and prompt interposition
on my part, would have tarnished for ever the glory of your Imperial Majesty, and which, if
it had failed to prove fatal to myself and officers, must inevitably have driven us from your
imperial service. When placed in competition with this plot of these ministers and the false
insinuations by which they induced your Imperial Majesty to listen to their insidious counsel,
all their previous intrigues, and those of the whole Portuguese faction, to ruin the naval
power of Brazil, sink into insignificance. But for the advancement of Portuguese interests
there was nothing too treacherous or malignant for such ministers and such men as these to
insinuate to your Imperial Majesty, especially when they had discovered that it was not possible
by their unjust conduct to provoke me to abandon the service of Brazil so long as my exertions
could be useful to secure its independence, which I believed to be alike the object of your
Imperial Majesty and the interest of the Brazilian people.

"If the counsels of such persons should prove fatal to the interests of your Imperial Majesty,
no one will regret the event more sincerely than myself. My only consolation will be the knowledge
that your Imperial Majesty cannot but be conscious that I, individually, have discharged my
duty, both in a military and in a private capacity, towards your Majesty, whose true interest,
I may venture to add, I have held in greater regard than my own; for, had I connived at the
views of the Portuguese faction, even without dereliction of my duty as an officer, I might
have shared amply in the honours and emoluments which such influence has enabled these persons
to obtain, instead of being deprived, by their means, of even the ordinary rewards of my labours
in the cause of independence which your Imperial Majesty had engaged me to maintain,--which
cause I neither have abandoned nor will abandon, if ever it should be in my power successfully
to renew my exertions for the true interests of your Imperial Majesty and those of the Brazilian
people.

"Meanwhile my office as Commander-in-Chief of your Imperial Majesty's Naval Forces having terminated
by the conclusion of peace and by the decree promulgated on the 28th of February, 1824, I have
notified to your Imperial Majesty's Envoy, the Chevalier de Gameiro, that I have directed my
flag to be struck this day. Praying that the war now terminated abroad may be accompanied by
tranquillity at home, I respectfully take leave of your Imperial Majesty."

All Lord Cochrane's subsequent correspondence with Brazil had for its object the recovery of
the payments due to him and to his officers and crews for the great services done by them to
the empire. Lord Cochrane had saved that empire from being brought back to the position of
a Portuguese colony, and had enabled it to enter on a career of independence. In return for
it he was subjected to more than two years of galling insult, was deprived of his proper share
of the prizes taken by him and his squadron, was refused the estate in Maranham which the Emperor,
more grateful than his ministers, had bestowed upon him, and was mulcted of a portion of his
pay and of all the pension to which he was entitled by imperial decree and the ordinances of
the Government. His services to Brazil, like his services to Chili, adding much to his renown
as a disinterested champion of liberty and an unrivalled seaman and warrior, brought upon him
personally little but trouble and misfortune. Only near the end of his life, when a worthy
Emperor and honest ministers succeeded to power, was any recompence accorded to him.

CHAPTER XIII.

[1820-1825.]

While Lord Cochrane was rendering efficient service to the cause of freedom in South America,
another war of independence was being waged in Europe; and he had hardly been at home a week
before solicitations pressed upon him from all quarters that he should lend his great name
and great abilities to this war also. As he consented to do so, and almost from the moment
of his arrival was intimately connected with the Greek Revolution, the previous stages of this
memorable episode, the incidents that occurred during his absence in Chili and Brazil, need
to be here reviewed and recapitulated.

The Greek Revolution began openly in 1821. But there had been long previous forebodings of
it. The dwellers in the land once peopled by the noble race which planned and perfected the
arts and graces, the true refinements and the solid virtues that are the basis of our modern
civilization, had been for four centuries and more the slaves of the Turks. They were hardly
Greeks, if by that name is implied descent from the inhabitants of classic Greece. With the
old stock had been blended, from generation to generation, so many foreign elements that nearly
all trace of the original blood had disappeared, and the modern Greeks had nothing but their
residence and their language to justify them in maintaining the old title. But their slavery
was only too real. Oppressed by the Ottomans on account of their race and their religion, the
oppression was none the less in that it induced many of them to cast off the last shreds of
freedom and deck themselves in the coarser, but, to slavish minds, the pleasanter bondage of
trickery and meanness. During the eighteenth century, many Greeks rose to eminence in the Turkish
service, and proved harder task-masters to their brethren than the Turks themselves generally
were. The hope of further aggrandisement, however, led them to scheme the overthrow of their
Ottoman employers, and their projects were greatly aided by the truer, albeit short-sighted,
patriotism that animated the greater number of their kinsmen. They groaned under Turkish thraldom,
and yearned to be freed from it, in the temper so well described and so worthily denounced
by Lord Byron in 1811:--

  "And many dream withal the hour is nigh
  That gives them back their fathers' heritage:
  For foreign arms and aid they loudly sigh,
  Nor solely dare encounter hostile rage.
  Hereditary bondsmen! know ye not
  Who would be free themselves must strike the blow?
  By their right arm the conquest must be wrought.

The Greeks, all but a few genuine patriots, thought otherwise. They sought deliverance at the
hands of Gauls and Muscovites; and, as the Muscovites had good reason for desiring the overthrow
of Turkey, they listened to their prayers, and other ties than that of community in religion
bound the persecuted Greeks to Russia. The Philiké Hetaira, or Friendly Society, chief representative
of a very general movement, was founded at Odessa in 1814. It was a secret society, which speedily
had ramifications among the Greek Christians in every part of Turkey, encouraging them to prepare
for insurrection as soon as the Czar Alexander I. deemed it expedient to aid them by open invasion
of Turkey, or as soon as they themselves could take the initiative, trusting to Russia to complete
the work of revolution. The Friendly Society increased its influence and multiplied its visionary
schemes during many years previous to 1821.

Its strength was augmented by the political condition of Turkey at the time. The Sultan Mahmud--a
true type of the Ottoman sovereign at his worst--had attempted to perfect his power by a long
train of cruelties, of which murder was the lightest. Defeating his own purpose thereby, he
aroused the opposition of Mahometan as well as Christian subjects, and induced the rebellious
schemes of Ali Pasha of Joannina, the boldest of his vassals.

The cruelty could be tolerated; but not opposition to Mahmud's will. Long and growing jealousy
existed between the Sultan and his tributary. At length, in 1820, there was an open rupture.
Ali was denounced as a traitor, and ordered to surrender his pashalik. Instead of so doing,
he organized his army for prompt rebellion, trusting for success partly to the support of the
Greeks. Most of the Greeks held aloof; but the Suliots, a race of Christian marauders, the
fiercest of the fierce community of Albanians, sided with him, and for more than a year rendered
him valuable aid by reason of their hereditary skill in lawless warfare. Not till January,
1822, was Ali forced to surrender, and then only, perhaps, through the defection of the Suliots.

The Suliots, dissatisfied with Ali's recompense for their services, had gone over to the Greeks,
who, not caring to serve under Ali in his rebellion, had welcomed that rebellion as a Heaven-sent
opportunity for realising their long-cherished hopes. The Turkish garrisons in Greece being
half unmanned in order that the strongest possible force might be used in subduing Ali, and
Turkish government in the peninsula being at a standstill, the Greeks found themselves in an
excellent position for asserting their freedom. Had they been less degraded than they were
by their long centuries of slavery, or had there been some better organization than that which
the purposes and the methods of the Friendly Society afforded for developing the latent patriotism
which was honest and wide-spread, they might have achieved a triumph worthy of the classic
name they bore and the heroic ancestry that they claimed.

Unfortunately, the Friendly Society, already degenerated from the unworthy aim with which it
started, now an elaborate machinery of personal ambition, private greed, and local spite, the
willing tool of Russia, was master of the situation. The mastery, however, was by no means
thorough. The society had dispossessed all other organizations, but had no organization of
its own adequate to the working out of a successful rebellion. Its machinery was tolerably
perfect, but efficient motive-power was wanting. Its exchequer was empty; its counsels were
divided; above all, it had alienated the sympathies of the worthiest patriots of Greece. Finding
itself suddenly in the way of triumph, it was incapable of rightly progressing in that way.
Obstacles of its own raising, and obstacles raised by others, stood in the path, and only a
very wise man had the chance of successfully removing them.

The wise man did not exist, or was not to be obtained. Perhaps the wisest, though, as later
history proved, not very wise, was Count John Capodistrias, a native of Corfu. Born in 1777,
he had gone to Italy to study and practise medicine. There also he studied, afterwards to put
in practice, the effete Machiavellianism then in vogue. In 1803 he entered political life as
secretary to the lately-founded republic of the Ionian Islands. Napoleon's annexation of the
Ionian Islands in 1807 drove him into the service of Russia, and, as Russian agent, he advocated,
at the Vienna Conference of 1815, the reconstruction of the Ionian republic. The partial concession
of Great Britain towards that project, by which the Ionian Islands were established as a sort
of commonwealth, dependent upon England, enabled him to live and work in Corfu, awaiting the
realization of his own patriotic schemes, and watching the patriotic movement in Greece. Italian
in his education, and Russian in his sympathies, he was still an honest Greek, worthier and
abler than most other influential Greeks. "He had many virtues and great abilities," says a
competent critic. "His conduct was firm and disinterested, his manners simple and dignified.
His personal feelings were warm, and, as a consequence of this virtue, they were sometimes
so strong as to warp his judgment. He wanted the equanimity and impartiality of mind, and the
elevation of soul necessary to make a great man."[A] In spite of his defects, he might have
done good service to the Greek Revolution, had he accepted the offer of its leadership, shrewdly
tendered to him by the Friendly Society. But this he declined, having no liking for the society,
and no trust in its methods and designs.

[Footnote A: Finlay, "History of the Greek Revolution" (1861), vol. ii., p. 196. Mr. Finlay
served as a volunteer in Greece under Captain Abney Hastings. His work is certainly the best
on the subject, though we shall have in later pages to differ widely from its strictures on
Lord Cochrane's motives and action. But our complaints will be less against his history than
against the two other leading ones--General Gordon's "History of the Greek Revolution" (1832),
and M. Trikoupes's "[Greek: Historia tês Hellênikês Epanastaseôs]" (1853-6), which is not very
much more than a paraphrase of Gordon's work.]

The Friendly Society then sought and found a leader, far inferior to Count Capodistrias, in
Prince Alexander Hypsilantes, the son of a Hospodar of Wallachia who had been deposed in 1806.
Hypsilantes had been educated in Russia, and had there risen to some rank, high enough at any
rate to quicken his ambition and vanity, both as a soldier and as a courtier. He was not without
virtues; but he was utterly unfit for the duties imposed upon him as leader of the Greek Revolution.
Not a Greek himself, his purpose in accepting the office seems to have been to make Greece
an appendage of the despotic monarchy, which, by means of the political crisis, he hoped to
establish in Wallachia, under Russian protection. With that view, in March 1821, he led the
first crude army of Greek and other Christian rebels into Moldavia. There and in Wallachia
he stirred up a brief revolt, attended by military blunders and lawless atrocities which soon
brought vengeance upon himself and made a false beginning of the revolutionary work. Moldavia
and Wallachia were quickly restored to Turkish rule, and Hypsilantes had in June to fly for
safety into Austria. But the bad example that he set, and the evil influence that he and his
promoters and followers of the Friendly Society exerted, initiated a false policy and encouraged
a pernicious course of action, by which the cause of the Greeks was injured for years.

The real Greek revolution began in the Morea. There the Friendly Society did good work in showing
the people that the hour for action had come; but its direction of that action was for the
most part mischievous. The worst Greeks were the leaders, and, under their guidance, the play
of evil passions--inevitable in all efforts of the oppressed to overturn their oppressors--was
developed to a grievous extent. Turkish blood was first shed on the 25th of March, 1821, and
within a week the whole of the Morea was in a ferment of rebellion. By the 22nd of April, which
was Easter Sunday, it is reckoned that from ten to fifteen thousand Mahometans had been slaughtered
in cold blood, and about three thousand Turkish homes destroyed.

The promoters of all that wanton atrocity were the directors of the Friendly Society, among
whom the Archimandrate Gregorios Dikaios, nicknamed Pappa Phlesas, and Petros Mavromichales,
or Petro-Bey, were the most conspicuous. Its principal agents were the klepht or brigand chieftains,
best represented by Theodore Kolokotrones.

Born about 1770, of a family devoted to the use of arms in predatory ways, Kolokotrones had
led a lawless life until 1806, when the Greek peasantry called in the assistance of their Turkish
rulers in hunting down their persecutors of their own race, and when, several of his family
being slain, he himself had to seek refuge in Zante. There he maintained himself, partly by
piracy, partly by cattle-dealing. In 1810 the English annexation of the Ionian Islands led
to his employment, first as captain and afterwards as major, in the Greek contingent of the
British army. He had amassed much wealth, and was in the prime of life when, in January, 1821,
he returned to his early home, to revive his old brigand life under the name of legitimate
warfare. His thorough knowledge of the country, its passes and its strongholds, and his familiarity
with the modes of fighting proper to them, his handsome person and agreeable deportment, his
shrewd wit and persuasive oratory, made him one of the most influential agents of the Revolution
at its commencement, and his influence grew during the ensuing years.

The flame of rebellion, having spread through the Morea during the early weeks of April, extended
rapidly over the adjoining districts of the mainland. By the end of June the insurgents were
masters of nearly all the country now possessed by modern Greece. Their cause was heartily
espoused by the Suliots of Albania and other fellow-Christians in the various Turkish provinces,
and their kinsmen of the outlying islands were eager to join in the work of national regeneration,
and to contribute largely to the completion of that work by their naval prowess.

It was naval prowess, as our later pages will abundantly show, of a very barbarous and undeveloped
sort. Besides the two principal seaports on the mainland, Tricheri on Mount Pelion and Galaxidhi
on the Gulf of Corinth, there were famous colonies of Greek seamen in the islands of Psara
and Kasos, and similar colonies of Albanians in Hydra and Spetzas. These and the other islands
had long practised irregular commerce, and protected that commerce by irregular fighting with
the Turks. At the first sound of revolution they threw in their lot with the insurgents of
the mainland, and thus a nondescript navy of some four hundred brigs and schooners, of from
sixty to four hundred tons' burthen, and manned by about twelve thousand sailors, adepts alike
in trade and piracy, but very unskilled in orderly warfare, and very feebly inspired by anything
like disinterested patriotism, was ready to use and abuse its powers during the ensuing seven
years' fight for Greek independence.

During the summer of 1821, while the continental Greeks were rushing to arms, murdering the
Turkish residents among them by thousands, and thus bringing down upon themselves, or upon
those of their own race who, as peasants and burghers, took no important share in actual fighting,
the murderous vengeance of the Turkish troops sent to attempt the suppression of the revolt,
these sailors were pursuing an easier and more profitable game. The Turkish ports were not
warlike, and the Turkish trading ships were not prepared for fighting. In May, a formidable
crowd of vessels left the islands on a cruise, from which they soon returned with an immense
store of booty. Early in June, the best Turkish fleet that could be brought together, consisting
of two line-of-battle ships, three frigates, and three sloops, went out to harass, if not to
destroy, the swarm of smaller enemies. Jakomaki Tombazes, with thirty-seven of these smaller
enemies, set off to meet them, and falling in with one of the ships, gave her chase, till,
in the roads of Eripos, she was attacked on the 8th of June, and, with the help of a fireship,
destroyed with a loss of nearly four hundred men. That victory caused the flight of the other
Turkish vessels, and was the beginning of much cruel work at sea and with ships, which, not
often daring to meet in open fight, wrought terrible mischief to unprotected ports and islands.

The mischief wrought upon the land was yet more terrible. A seething tide of Greek and Moslem
blood heaved to and fro, as, during the second half of 1821, each party in turn gained temporary
ascendency in one district after another. Greeks murdered Turks, and Turks murdered Greeks,
with equal ferocity; or perhaps the ferocity of the Greeks, stirred by bad leaders to revenge
themselves for all their previous sufferings, even surpassed that of the Turks. Of their cruelty
a glaring instance occurred in their capture of Navarino. The Turkish inhabitants having held
out as long as a mouthful of food was left in the town, were forced to capitulate on the 19th
of August. It was promised that, upon their surrendering, the Greek vessels were to convey
them, their wearing apparel, and their household furniture, either to Egypt or to Tunis. No
sooner were the gates opened than a wholesale plunder and slaughter ensued. A Greek ecclesiastic
has described the scene. "Women wounded with musket-balls and sabre-cuts rushed to the sea,
seeking to escape, and were deliberately shot. Mothers robbed of their clothes, with infants
in their arms, plunged into the water to conceal themselves from shame, and they were then
made a mark for inhuman riflemen. Greeks seized infants from their mothers' breasts and dashed
them against the rocks. Children, three and four years old, were hurled, living, into the sea,
and left to drown. When the massacre was ended, the dead bodies washed ashore, or piled on
the beach, threatened to cause a pestilence."[A] At the sack of Tripolitza, on the 8th of October,
about eight thousand Moslems were murdered, the last two thousand, chiefly women and children,
being taken into a neighbouring ravine, there to be slaughtered at leisure. Two years afterwards
a ghastly heap of bones attested the inhuman deed.

[Footnote A: Finlay, vol. i.; p. 263, citing Phrantzes.]

In ways like these the first stage of the Greek Revolution was achieved. Before the close of
1821, it appeared to the Greeks themselves, to their Moslem enemies, and to their many friends
in England, France, and other countries, that the triumph was complete. Unfortunately, the
same bad motives and the same bad methods that had so grievously polluted the torrent of patriotism
continued to poison and disturb the stream which might otherwise have been henceforth clear,
steady, and health-giving. Greece was free, but, unless another and a much harder revolution
could be effected in the temper and conduct of its own people, unfit to put its freedom to
good use or even to maintain it. "The rapid success of the Greeks during the first few weeks
of the revolution," says their ablest historian, "threw the management of much civil and financial
business into the hands of the proësti and demogeronts in office. The primates, who already
exercised great official authority, instantly appropriated that which had been hitherto exercised
by murdered voivodes and beys. Every primate strove to make himself a little independent potentate,
and every captain of a district assumed the powers of a commander-in-chief. The Revolution,
before six months had passed, seemed to have peopled Greece with a host of little Ali Pashas.
When the primate and the captain acted in concert, they collected the public revenues; administered
the Turkish property, which was declared national; enrolled, paid, and provisioned as many
troops as circumstances required, or as they thought fit; named officers; formed a local guard
for the primate of the best soldiers in the place, who were thus often withdrawn from the public
service; and organised a local police and a local treasury. This I system of local self-government,
constituted in a very self-willed manner, and relieved from almost all responsibility, was
soon established as a natural result of the Revolution over all Greece. The Sultan's authority
having ceased, every primate assumed the prerogatives of the Sultan. For a few weeks this state
of things was unavoidable, and, to an able and honest chief or government, it would have facilitated
the establishment of a strong central authority; but by the vices of Greek society it was perpetuated
into an organised anarchy. No improvement was made in financial arrangements, or in the system
of taxation; no measures were adopted for rendering property more secure; no attempt was made
to create an equitable administration of justice; no courts of law were established; and no
financial accounts were published. Governments were formed, constitutions were drawn up, national
assemblies met, orators debated, and laws were passed according to the political fashion patronised
by the liberals of the day. But no effort was made to prevent the Government being virtually
absolute, unless it was by rendering it absolutely powerless. The constitutions were framed
to remain a dead letter. The national assemblies were nothing but conferences of parties, and
the laws passed were intended to fascinate Western Europe, not to operate with effect in Greece."[A]

[Footnote A: Finlay, vol. i., pp. 280, 281.]

The supreme government of Greece had been assumed in June by Prince Demetrius Hypsilantes,
a worthier man than his brother Alexander, but by no means equal to the task he took in hand.
At first the brigand chiefs and local potentates, not willing to surrender any of the power
they had acquired, were disposed to render to him nominal submission, believing that his name
and his Russian influence would be serviceable to the cause of Greece. But Hypsilantes showed
himself utterly incompetent, and it was soon apparent that his sympathies were wholly alien
to those both of the Greek people and of their military and civil leaders. Therefore another
master had to be chosen. Kolokotrones might have succeeded to the dignity, and he certainly
had vigour enough of disposition, and enough honesty and dishonesty combined, to make the position
one of power as well as of dignity. For that very reason, however, his comrades and rivals
were unwilling to place him in it. They desired a president skilful enough to hold the reins
of government with a very loose hand, yet so as to keep them from getting hopelessly entangled--one
who should be a smart secretary and adviser, without assuming the functions of a director.

Such a man they found in Prince Alexander Mavrocordatos, then about thirty-two years old. He
was a kinsman of a Hospodar of Wallachia, by whom he had in his youth been employed in political
matters. After that he had resided in France, where he acquired much fresh knowledge, and where
his popularity helped to quicken sympathy on behalf of the Greek Revolution at its first outburst.
He had lately come to Missolonghi with a ship-load of ammunition and other material, procured
and brought at his own expense, and soon attained considerable influence. Always courteous
in his manners, only ungenerous in his actions where the interests of others came into collision
with his own, less strong-willed and less ambitious than most of his associates, those associates
were hardly jealous of his popularity at home, and wholly pleased with his popularity among
foreigners. It was a clear gain to their cause to have Shelley writing his "Hellas," and dedicating
the poem to Mavrocordatos, as "a token of admiration, sympathy, and friendship."

Mavrocordatos was named President of Greece in the Constitution of Epidaurus, chiefly his own
workmanship, which was proclaimed on the 13th of January--New Year's Day, according to the
reckoning of the Greek Church--1822. It is not necessary here to detail his own acts or those
of his real or professing subordinates. All we have to do is to furnish a general account,
and a few characteristic illustrations, of the course of events during the Greek Revolution,
in explanation of the state of parties and of politics at the time of Lord Cochrane's advent
among them. These events were marked by continuance of the same selfish policy, divided interests,
class prejudice, and individual jealousy that have been already referred to. The mass of the
Greek people were, as they had been from the first, zealous in their desire for freedom, and,
having won it, they were not unwilling to use it honestly. For their faults their leaders are
chiefly to be blamed; and in apology for those leaders, it must be remembered that they were
an assemblage of soldiers who had been schooled in oriental brigandage, of priests whose education
had been in a corrupt form of Christianity made more corrupt by persecution, of merchants who
had found it hard to trade without trickery, and of seamen who had been taught to regard piracy
as an honourable vocation. Perhaps we have less cause to condemn them for the errors and vices
that they exhibited during their fight for freedom, than to wonder that those errors and vices
were not more reprehensible in themselves and disastrous in their issues.

For about six years the fight was maintained without foreign aid, save that given by private
volunteers and generous champions in Western Europe, against a state numerically nearly twenty
times as strong as the little community of revolutionists. In it, along with much wanton cruelty,
was displayed much excellent heroism. But the heroism was reckless and undisciplined, and therefore
often worse than useless.

Memorable instances both of recklessness and of want of discipline appeared in the attempts
made to wrest Chios from the Turks in 1822. The Greek inhabitants of this island, on whom the
Turkish yoke pressed lightly, had refused to join in the insurgent movement of their brethren
on the mainland and in the neighbouring islands. But it was considered that a little coercion
would induce them to share in the Revolution and convert their prosperous island into a Greek
possession. Therefore, in March, a small force of two thousand five hundred men crossed the
archipelago, took possession of Koutari, the principal town, and proceeded to invest the Turkish
citadel. The Chiots, though perhaps not very willingly, took part in the enterprise; but the
invading party was quite unequal to the work it had undertaken. In April a formidable Turkish
squadron arrived, and by it Chios was easily recovered, to become the scene of vindictive atrocities,
which brought all the terrified inhabitants who were not slaughtered, or who could not escape,
into abject submission. Thereupon, on the 10th of May, a Greek fleet of fifty-six vessels was
despatched by Mavrocordatos to attempt a more thorough capture of the island. Its commander
was Andreas Miaoulis, a Hydriot merchant, who proved himself the best sea-captain among the
Greeks. Had Miaoulis been able, as he wished, to start sooner and meet the Turkish squadron
on its way to Chios, a brilliant victory might have resulted, instead of one of the saddest
catastrophes in the whole Greek war. Being deterred therefrom by the vacillation of Mavrocordatos
and the insubordination of his captains and their crews, he was only able to reach the island
when it was again in the hands of the enemy, and when all was ready for withstanding him. There
was useless fighting on the 31st of May and the two following days. On the 18th of June, Miaoulis
made another attack; but he was only able to destroy the Turkish flag-ship, and nearly all
on board, by means of a fire-vessel. His fleet was unmanageable, and he had to abandon the
enterprise and to leave the unfortunate Chiots to endure further punishment for offences that
were not their own. This punishment was so terrible that, in six months, the population of
Chios was reduced from one hundred thousand to thirty thousand. Twenty thousand managed to
escape. Fifty thousand were either put to death or sold as slaves in Asia Minor.

That failure of the Greeks at Chios, quickly followed by their defeat on land at Petta, greatly
disheartened the revolutionists. Mavrocordatos virtually resigned his presidentship, and there
was anarchy in Greece till 1828. Athens, captured from the Turks in June, 1822, became the
centre of jealous rivalry and visionary scheming, mismanagement, and government that was worse
than no government at all. Odysseus, the vilest of the vile men whom the Revolution brought
to the surface, was its master for some time; and, when he played traitor to the Turks, he
was succeeded by others hardly better than himself.

In spite of some heavy disasters, however, the Greeks were so far successful during 1822 that
in 1823 they were able to hold their newly-acquired territory and to wrest some more fortresses
from their enemies. The real heroism that they had displayed, moreover--the foul cruelties
of which they were guilty and the selfish courses which they pursued being hardly reported
to their friends, and, when reported, hardly believed--awakened keen sympathy on their behalf.
Shelley and Byron, and many others of less note, had sung their virtues and their sufferings
in noble verse and enlarged upon them in eloquent prose, and in England and France, in Switzerland,
Germany, and the united States, a strong party of Philhellenes was organized to collect money
and send recruits for their assistance.

The two Philhellenes of greatest note who served in Greece during the earlier years of the
Revolution were Thomas Gordon and Frank Abney Hastings. Gordon, who attained the rank of general
in the army of independence, had the advantage of a long previous and thorough acquaintance
with the character of both Turks and Greeks and with the languages that they spoke. He watched
all the revolutionary movements from the beginning, and took part in many of them. In the "History
of the Greek Revolution," which he published in 1832, he gave such a vivid and, in the main,
so accurate an account of them that his narrative has formed the basis of the more ambitious
work of the native historian, Mr. Trikoupes. Of the vices and errors of the people on whose
behalf he fought and wrote he spoke boldly. "Whatever national or individual wrong the Greeks
may have endured," he said in one place, "it is impossible to justify the ferocity of their
vengeance or to deny that a comparison instituted between them and the Ottoman generals, Mehemet
Aboulaboud, Omer Vrioni, and the Kehaya Bey of Kurshid, would give to the latter the palm of
humanity. Humanity, however, is a word quite out of place when applied either to them or to
their opponents." In another page, further denouncing the Greek leaders, he wrote: "Panourias
was the worst of these local despots, whom some writers have elevated into heroes. He was,
in fact, an ignoble robber, hardened in evil. He enriched himself with the spoils of the Mahometans;
yet he and his retinue of brigands compelled the people to maintain them at free quarters,
in idleness and luxury, exacting not only bread, meat, wine, and forage, but also sugar and
coffee. Hence springs the reflection that the Greeks had cause to repent their early predilection
for the klephts, who were almost all, beginning with Kolokotrones, infamous for the sordid
perversity of their dispositions."[A] Gordon's disinterested and brave efforts to bring about
a better state of things and to help on the cause of real patriotism in Greece were highly
praiseworthy; but, as another historian has truly said, "he did not possess the activity and
decision of character necessary to obtain commanding influence in council, or to initiate daring
measures in the field."[B]

[Footnote A: Gordon, vol. i., pp. 313, 400.]

[Footnote B: Finlay, vol. ii., p. 129.]

Frank Abney Hastings was an abler man. Born in 1794, he was started in the naval profession
when only eleven years old. Six months after the commencement of his midshipman's life he was
present, on board the Neptune, at the battle of Trafalgar, and during the ensuing fourteen
years he served in nearly every quarter of the globe. His independent spirit, however--something
akin to Lord Cochrane's--brought him into disfavour, and, in 1819, for challenging a superior
officer who had insulted him, he was dismissed from the British navy. Disheartened and disgusted,
he resided in France for about three years. At length he resolved to go and fight for the Greeks,
partly out of sympathy for their cause, partly as a relief from the misery of forced idleness,
partly with the view of developing a plan which he had been devising for extending the use
of steamships in naval warfare,--to which last excellent improvement he greatly contributed.
He arrived at Hydra in April, 1822, just in time to take part in the fighting off Chios. One
of his ingenious suggestions, made to Andreas Miaoulis, and its reception, have been described
by himself. "I proposed to direct a fireship and three other vessels upon the frigate, and,
when near the enemy, to set fire to certain combustibles which should throw out a great flame.
The enemy would naturally conclude they were all fireships. The vessels were then to attach
themselves to the frigate, fire broadsides, double-shotted, throwing on board the enemy at
the same time combustible balls which gave a great smoke without flame. This would doubtless
induce him to believe he was on fire, and give a most favourable opportunity for boarding him.
However, the admiral returned my plan, saying only [Greek: kalo], without asking a single question,
or wishing me to explain its details; and I observed a kind of insolent contempt in his manner.
This interview with the admiral disgusted me. They place you in a position in which it is impossible
to render any service, and then they boast of their own superiority, and of the uselessness
of the Franks, as they call us, in Turkish warfare." Miaoulis, however, soon gained wisdom
and made good use of Captain Hastings, who spent more than 7000l.--all his patrimony--in serving
the Greeks. He was almost the only officer in their employ who, during the earlier years of
the Revolution, succeeded in establishing any sort of discipline or good management.

Lord Byron, the most illustrious of all the early Philhellenes, used to say, shortly before
his death, that with Napier at the head of the army and Hastings in command of a fleet the
triumph of Greece might be insured. Byron was then at Missolonghi, whither he had gone in January,
1824, to die in April. Long before, while stirring up the sympathy of all lovers of liberty
for the cause of regeneration in Greece, he had shown that regeneration could be by no means
a short or easy work, and now he had to report that the real work was hardly yet begun--nay,
that it seemed almost further off than ever. "Of the Greeks," he wrote, "I can't say much good
hitherto, and I do not like to speak ill of them, though they do of one another."

It was chiefly at Byron's instigation that the first Greek loan was contracted, in London,
early in 1824. Its proceeds, 300,000l., were spent partly in unprofitable outlay upon ships,
ammunition, and the like, of which the people were in no position to make good use, but mostly
in civil war and in pandering to the greed and vanity of the members of the Government and
their subordinate officials. "Phanariots and doctors in medicine," says an eye-witness, "who,
in the month of April, 1824, were clad in ragged coats, and who lived on scanty rations, threw
off that patriotic chrysalis before summer was past, and emerged in all the splendour of brigand
life, fluttering about in rich Albanian habiliments, refulgent with brilliant and unused arms,
and followed by diminutive pipe-bearers and tall henchmen."[A]

[Footnote A: Finky, vol. ii. p. 39.]

Even the scanty allowance made by the Greek Government out of its newly-acquired wealth for
fighting purposes was for the most part squandered almost as frivolously. One general who drew
pay and rations for seven hundred soldiers went to fight and die at Sphakteria at the head
of seventeen armed peasants.[A] And that is only a glaring instance of peculations that were
all but universal.

[Footnote A: Trikoupes, vol. iii., p. 206.]

That being the degradation to which the leaders of the Greek Revolution had sunk, it is not
strange that its gains in previous years should have begun in 1824 to be followed by heavy
losses. The Greek people--the peasants and burghers--were still patriots, though ill-trained
and misdirected. They could defend their own homesteads with unsurpassed heroism, and hold
their own mountains and valleys with fierce persistency. But they were unfit for distant fighting,
even when their chiefs consented to employ them in it. Sultan Mahmud, therefore, who had been
profiting by the hard experience of former years, and whose strength had been steadily growing
while the power of the insurgents had been rapidly weakening, entered on a new and successful
policy. He left the Greeks to waste their energies in their own possessions, and resolved to
recapture, one after another, the outposts and ill-protected islands. For this he took especial
care in augmenting his navy, and, besides developing his own resources, induced his powerful
and turbulent vassal, Mohammed Ali, the Pasha of Egypt, to equip a formidable fleet and entrust
it to his son Ibrahim, on whom was conferred the title of Vizier of the Morea.

Even without that aid Mahmud was able to do much in furtherance of his purpose. The island
of Kasos was easily recovered, and full vengeance was wreaked on its Greek inhabitants on the
20th of June. Soon afterwards Psara was seized and punished yet more hardly.

On the 19th of July Ibrahim left Alexandria with a naval force which swept the southern seas
of Greek pirates or privateers. On the 1st of September he effected a junction with the Turkish
fleet at Budrun. Their united strength comprised forty-six ships, frigates, and corvettes,
and about three hundred transports, large and small. The Greek fleet, between seventy and eighty
sail, would have been strong enough to withstand it under any sort of good management; but
good management was wanting, and the crews were quite beyond the control of their masters.
The result was that in a series of small battles during the autumn of 1824 the Mahometans were
generally successful, and their enemies found themselves at the close of the year terribly
discomfited The little organization previously existing was destroyed, and the revolutionists
felt that they had no prospect of advantageously carrying on their strife at sea without assistance
and guidance that could not be looked for among themselves.

Their troubles were increased in the following year. In February and March, 1825, Ibrahim landed
a formidable army in the Morea, and began a course of operations in which the land forces and
the fleet combined to dispossess the Greeks of their chief strongholds. The strongly-fortified
island of Sphakteria, the portal of Navarino and Pylos, was taken on the 8th of May. Pylos
capitulated on the 11th, and Navarino on the 21st of the same month. Other citadels, one after
another, were surrendered; and Ibrahim and his army spent the summer in scouring the Morea
and punishing its inhabitants, with the utmost severity, for the lawless brigandage and the
devoted patriotism of which they had been guilty during the past four years.

The result was altogether disheartening to the Greeks. They saw that their condition was indeed
desperate. George Konduriottes, a Hydriot merchant, an Albanian who could not speak Greek,
and who was alike unable to govern himself or others, had, in June, 1824, been named president
of the republic, and since then the rival interests of the primates, the priests, and the military
leaders had been steadily causing the decay of all that was left of patriotism and increase
of the selfishness that had so long been rampant.

There was one consequence of this degradation, however, which promised to be very beneficial.
Seeing that their cause was being rapidly weakened, and that their hard-fought battle for liberty
was in danger of speedy and ignominious reversal by their own divisions, by the stealthy encroachments
of the Ottomans in the north, and by the more energetic advances of the Egyptians in the south,
the Greeks resolved to abandon some of their jealousies and greeds, to look for a saviour from
without, and, on his coming, to try and submit themselves honestly and heartily to his leadership.
The issue of that resolution was the following letter, written by Mavrocordatos, then Secretary
to the National Assembly:--

"Milord,--Tandis que vos rares talens étaient consacrés à procurer le bonheur d'un pays séparé
par un espace immense de la Grèce, celle-ci ne voyait pas sans admiration, sans intérêt, sans
une espèce de jalousie secrète même, les succès brillants qui ont toujours couronné vos nobles
efforts, et rendu à l'indépendance un des plus beaux, des plus riches pays du monde. Votre
retour en Angleterre a excité la plus vive joie dans le coeur du citoyen Grèc et de ses représentans
par l'espoir flattereur qu'ils commencent à concevoir que, celui qui s'est si noblement dédié
à procurer le bonheur d'une nation, ne refusera pas d'en faire autant pour celui d'une autre,
qui ne lui offre pas une carrière moins brillante et moins digne de lui et par son nom historique,
et par ses malheurs passés et par ses efforts actuels pour reconquérir sa liberté et son indépendance.
Les mers qui rappellent les victoires des Thémistocles et des Timon, ne seront pas un théâtre
indifférent pour celui qui sait apprécier les grands hommes, et un des premiers amiraux de
notre siècle ne verra qu' avec plaisir qu'il est appellé à renouveler les beaux jours de Salamine
et de Mycale à la tête des Miaoulis, des Sachtouris et des Kanaris.

"C'est avec la plus grande satisfaction, milord, que je me vois chargé de faire, au nom du
Gouvernement, à votre seigneurie, la proposition du commandement général des forces navales
de la Grèce. Si votre seigneurie est disposée à l'accepter, Messieurs les Deputés du Gouvernement
Grèc à Londres ont toute l'autorisation et les instructions nécessaires pour combiner avec
elle sur les moyens à mettre à sa disposition, afin d'utiliser le plutôt possible votre noble
décision et accélérer l'heureux moment que la Grèce reconnaissante et enthousiasmée vous verra
combattre pour la cause de sa liberté.

"Je profite de cette occasion pour prier votre seigneurie de vouloir bien agréer l'assurance
de mon respect et de la plus haute estime avec laquelle j'ai l'honneur d'être, milord, de votre
seigneurie le très humble et très obéissant serviteur,

"A. Mavrocordatos,

"Naples de Romanie,

"Secre-genl d'Etat.

"le 20 Août, ----------- 1825 1er 7bre

"A Sa Seigneurie le très Honorable Lord Cochrane, à Londres."

CHAPTER XIV.

[1825-1826.]

The letter from Mavrocordatos quoted in the last chapter was only part of a series of negotiations
that had been long pending. Lord Cochrane, as we have seen, had arrived at Portsmouth on the
26th of June, 1825, in command of a Brazilian war-ship and still holding office as First Admiral
of the Empire of Brazil. His intention in visiting England had been only to effect the necessary
repairs in his ship before going back to Rio de Janeiro. He had no sooner arrived, however,
than it was clear to him, from the vague and insolent language of the Brazilian envoy in London,
that it was designed by that official, if not by the authorities in Rio de Janeiro, to oust
him from his command. During four months he remained in uncertainty, determined not willingly
to retire from his Brazilian service, but gradually convinced by the increasing insolence of
the envoy's treatment of him that it would be inexpedient for him hastily to return to Brazil,
where, before his departure, he had experienced the grossest ingratitude for his brilliant
achievements and neglect and abuse of all sorts. At length, in November, upon learning that
his captain and crew had been formally instructed to "cast off all subordination" to him, he
deemed that he had no alternative but to consider himself dismissed from Brazilian employment
and free to enter upon a new engagement.

That engagement had been urged upon him even while he was in South America by his friends in
England, who were also devoted friends to the cause of Greek independence, and the proposal
had been renewed very soon after his arrival at Portsmouth. It was so freely talked of among
all classes of the English public and so openly discussed in the newspapers before the middle
of August that by it Lord Cochrane's last relations with the Brazilian envoy were seriously
complicated. "Lord Cochrane is looking very well, after eight years of harassing and ungrateful
service," wrote Sir Francis Burdett on the 20th of August, "and, I trust, will be the liberator
of Greece. What a glorious title!"

It is needless to say that Sir Francis Burdett, always the noble and disinterested champion
of the oppressed, and the far-seeing and fearless advocate of liberty both at home and abroad,
was a leading member of the Greek Committee in London. This committee was a counterpart--though
composed of more illustrious members than any of the others--of Philhellenic associations that
had been organized in nearly every capital of Europe and in the chief towns of the United States.
Everywhere a keen sympathy was aroused on behalf of the down-trodden Greeks; and the sympathy
only showed itself more zealously when it appeared that the Greeks were still burdened with
the moral degradation of their long centuries of slavery, and needed the guidance and support
of men more fortunately trained than they had been in ways of freedom. Such a man, and foremost
among such men, always generous, wise, and earnest, was Sir Francis Burdett, Lord Cochrane's
oldest and best political friend, his readiest adviser and stoutest defender all through the
weary time of his subjection to unmerited disgrace and heartless contumely. Another leading
member of the Greek Committee was Mr. John Cam Hobhouse, afterwards Lord Broughton, Lord Byron's
friend and fellow-traveller, now Sir Francis Burdett's colleague in the representation of Westminster
as successor to Lord Cochrane. Another of high note was Mr. Edward Ellice, eminent alike as
a merchant and as a statesman. Another, no less eminent, was Joseph Hume. Another was Mr. (afterwards
Sir) John Bowring, secretary to the Greek Committee. By them and many others the progress of
the Greek Revolution was carefully watched and its best interests were strenuously advocated,
and by all the return of Lord Cochrane to England and the prospect of his enlistment in the
Philhellenic enterprise afforded hearty satisfaction. To them the real liberty of Greece was
a cherished object; and one and all united in welcoming the great promoter of Chilian and Brazilian
independence as the liberator of Greece.

Other honest friends of Greece were less sanguine, and more disposed to urge caution upon Lord
Cochrane. "My very dear friend," wrote one of them, Dr. William Porter, from Bristol on the
25th of August, "I will not suffer you to be longer in England without welcoming you; for your
health, happiness, and fame are all dear to me. I have followed you in your Transatlantic career
with deep feelings of anxiety for your life, but none for your glory: I know you too well to
entertain a fear for that. I had hoped that you would repose on your laurels and enjoy the
evening of life in peace, but am told that you are about to launch a thunderbolt against the
Grand Seignior on behalf of Greece. I wish to see Greece free; but could also wish you to rest
from your labours. For a sexagenarian to command a fleet in ordinary war is an easy task, and
even threescore and ten might do it; but fifty years are too many to conduct a naval war for
a people whose pretensions to nautical skill you will find on a thousand occasions to give
rise to jealousies against you. You will also find that on some important day they will withhold
their co-operation, in order to rob you of your glory. The cause of Greece is, nevertheless,
a glorious cause. Our remembrance of what their ancestors did at Salamis, at Marathon, at Thermopylae,
gives an additional interest to all that concerns them. But, to say the truth of them, they
are a race of tigers, and their ancestors were the same. I shall be glad to see them fall upon
their aigretted keeper and his pashas; but, confound them! I would not answer for their destroying
the man that would break their fetters and set them loose in all the power of recognised freedom."

There was much truth in those opinions, and Lord Cochrane was not blind to it. That he, though
now in his fiftieth year, was too old for any difficult seamanship or daring warfare that came
in his way he certainly was not inclined to admit; but he was not quite as enthusiastic as
Sir Francis Burdett and many of his other friends regarding the immediate purposes and the
ultimate issue of the Greek Revolution. He was now as hearty a lover of liberty, and as willing
to employ all his great experience and his excellent ability in its service, as he had been
eight years before when he went to aid the cause of South American independence. But both in
Chili and in Brazil he had suffered much himself, and, what was yet more galling to one of
his generous disposition, had seen how grievously his disinterested efforts for the benefit
of others had been stultified, by the selfishness and imprudence, the meanness and treachery
of those whom he had done his utmost to direct in a sure and rapid way of freedom. He feared,
and had good reason for fearing, like disappointments in any relations into which he might
enter with Greece. Therefore, though he readily consented to work for the Hellenic revolutionists,
as he had worked for the Chilians and Brazilians, he did so with something of a forlorn hope,
with a fear--which in the end was fully justified--that thereby his own troubles might only
be augmented, and that his philanthropic plans might in great measure be frustrated. Coming
newly to England, where the real state of affairs in Greece, the selfishness of the leaders,
the want of discipline among the masses, and the consequent weakness and embarrassment to the
revolutionary cause, were not thoroughly understood, and where this understanding was especially
difficult for him without previous acquaintance even with all the details that were known and
apprehended by his friends, he yet saw enough to lead him to the belief that the work they
wished him to do in Greece would be harder and more thankless than they supposed.

This must be remembered as an answer to the first of the misstatements--misstatements that
will have to be controverted at every stage of the ensuing narrative--which were carefully
disseminated, and have been persistently recorded by political opponents and jealous rivals
of Lord Cochrane. It has been alleged that he was induced by mercenary motives, and by them
alone, to enter the service of the Greeks. His sole inducements were a desire to do his best
on all occasions towards the punishment of oppressors and the relief of the oppressed, and
a desire, hardly less strong, to seek relief in the naval enterprise that was always very dear
to him from the oppression under which he himself suffered so heavily. The ingratitude that
he had lately experienced in Chili and Brazil, however, bringing upon him much present embarrassment
in lawsuits and other troubles, led him to use what was only common prudence in his negotiations
with the Greek Committee and with the Greek deputies, John Orlando and Andreas Luriottis, who
were in London at the time, and on whom devolved the formal arrangements for employing him
and providing him with suitable equipments for his work.

These were done with help of a second Greek loan, contracted in London in 1825, for 2,000,000l.
Out of this sum it was agreed that Lord Cochrane was to receive 37,000l. at starting, and a
further sum of 20,000l. on the completion of his services; and that he was to be provided with
a suitable squadron, for which purpose 150,000l. were to be expended in the construction of
six steamships in England, and a like sum on the building and fitting out of two sixty-gun
frigates in the United States. With the disappointments that he had experienced in Chili and
Brazil fresh in his mind, he refused to enter on this new engagement without a formidable little
fleet, manned by English and American seamen, and under his exclusive direction; and he further
stipulated that the entire Greek fleet should be at his sole command, and that he should have
full power to carry out his views independently of the Greek Government.

These arrangements were completed on the 16th of August, except that Lord Cochrane, not having
yet been actually dismissed by the Brazilian envoy, refused formally to pledge himself to his
new employers. In conjunction with Sir Francis Burdett, Mr. Hobhouse, Mr. Ellice, and the Ricardos,
as contractors, however, he made all the preliminary arrangements, and before the end of August
he went for a two months' visit to his native county and other parts of Scotland, from which
he had been absent more than twenty years.

One incident in that visit was noteworthy. On the 3rd of October, Lord and Lady Cochrane, being
in Edinburgh, went to the theatre, where an eager crowd assembled to do them honour. Into the
after-piece an allusion to South America was specially introduced. Upon that the whole audience
rose and, turning to the seats occupied by the visitors, showed their admiration by plaudits
so long and so vehement that Lady Cochrane, overpowered by her feelings, burst into tears.
Thereupon Sir Walter Scott, who was in the theatre, wrote the following verses:--

  "I knew thee, lady, by that glorious eye,
  By that pure brow and those dark locks of thine,
  I knew thee for a soldier's bride, and high
  My full heart bounded: for the golden mine
  Of heavenly thought kindled at sight of thee,
  Radiant with all the stars of memory.

  "I knew thee, and, albeit, myself unknown,
  I called on Heaven to bless thee for thy love,
  The strength, the constancy thou long hast shown,
  Each selfish aim, each womanish fear above:
  And, lady, Heaven is with thee; thou art blest,
  Blest in whatever thy immortal soul loves best.

  "Thy name, ask Brazil, for she knows it well;
  It is a name a hero gave to thee;
  In every letter lurks there not a spell,--
  The mighty spell of immortality?
  Ye sail together down time's glittering stream;
  Around your heads two glittering haloes gleam.

  "Even now, as through the air the plaudits rung,
  I marked the smiles that in her features came;
  She caught the word that fell from every tongue,
  And her eye brightened at her Cochrane's name;
  And brighter yet became her bright eyes' blaze;
  It was his country, and she felt the praise,--

  "Ay, even as a woman, and his bride, should feel,
  With all the warmth of an o'erflowing soul:
  Unshaken she had seen the ensanguined steel,
  Unshaken she had heard war's thunders roll,
  But now her noble heart could find relief
  In tears alone, though not the tears of grief.

  "May the gods guard thee, lady, whereso'er
  Thou wanderest in thy love and loveliness!
  For thee may every scene and sky be fair,
  Each hour instinct with more than happiness!
  May all thou valuest be good and great,
  And be thy wishes thy own future fate!"

Those aspirations were very far from realised. Even during his brief holiday in Scotland, Lord
Cochrane was troubled by the news that Mr. Galloway, the engineer to whom had been entrusted
the chief work in constructing steam-boilers for the Greek vessels, was proceeding very slowly
with his task. "My conviction is," wrote Mr. Ellice, "that Galloway, in undertaking so much,
has promised what he can never perform, and that it will be Christmas, if not later, before
the whole work is completed. No engines are to be got either in Glasgow or Liverpool. You know
I am not sanguine, and the sooner you are here to judge for yourself the better. There has
been no hesitation about the means from the beginning, but money will not produce steam-engines
and vessels in these times."

In consequence of that letter, Lord Cochrane hurried up to London at once, intending personally
to superintend and hasten on the work. He arrived on the 3rd of November; but only to find
that fresh troubles were in store for him. He had already been exposed to vexatious litigation,
arising out of groundless and malicious prosecutions with reference to his Brazilian enterprise.
He was now informed that a more serious prosecution was being initiated. The Foreign Enlistment
Act, passed shortly after his acceptance of service under the Chilian Republic, and at the
special instigation of the Spanish Government, had made his work in South America an indictable
offence; but it was supposed that no action would be taken against him now that he had returned
to England. As soon as it was publicly known, however, that he was about to embark in a new
enterprise, on behalf of Greece, steps were taken to restrain him by means of an indictment
on the score of his former employment. "There is a most unchristian league against us," he
wrote to his secretary, "and fearful odds too. To be prosecuted at home, and not permitted
to go abroad, is the devil. How can I be prosecuted for fighting in Brazil for the heir-apparent
to the throne, who, whilst his father was held in restraint by the rebellious Cortes, contended
for the legitimate rights of the royal House of Braganza, then the ally of England, who had,
during the contest, by the presence of her consuls and other official agents, sanctioned the
acts of the Prince Regent of Brazil?"

It soon became clear, however, that the Government had found some justification of its conduct,
and that active measures were being adopted for Lord Cochrane's punishment. He was warned by
Mr. Brougham that, if he stayed many days longer in England, he would be arrested and so prevented
not only from facilitating the construction of the Greek vessels, but even from going to Greece
at all. Therefore, at the earnest advice of his friends, he left London for Calais on the 9th
of November, soon to proceed to Boulogne, where he was joined by his family, and where he waited
for six weeks, vainly hoping that in his absence the contractors and their overseers would
see that the ship-building was promptly and properly executed.

While at Boulogne, foreseeing the troubles that would ensue from these new difficulties, he
was half inclined to abandon his Greek engagement, and in that temper he wrote to Sir Francis
Burdett for advice. "I have taken four-and-twenty hours," wrote his good friend in answer,
on the 18th of November, "to consider your last letter, and have not one moment varied in my
first opinion as to the propriety of your persevering in your glorious career. According to
Brougham's opinion, you cannot be put in a worse situation,--that is, more in peril of Government
here,--by continuing foreign service in the Greek cause than you already stand in by having
served the Emperor of the Brazils. In my opinion you will be in a great deal less; for, the
greater your renown, the less power will your enemies have, whatever may be their inclination,
to meddle with you. Perhaps they only at present desist to look out for a better opportunity,
'reculer pour mieux sauter,' like the tiger. I don't mean to accuse them of this baseness;
but, should it be the case, the less you do the more power they will have to injure you, if
so inclined. Were they to prosecute you for having served the Brazilian Emperor, it would call
forth no public sympathy, or but slight, in your favour. The case would be thought very hard,
to be sure; but that would be all. Not so, should you triumph in the Greek cause. Transcendent
glory would not only crown but protect you. No minister would dare to wag a finger--no, nor
even Crown lawyer a tongue--against you; and, if they did, the feeling of the whole English
public would surround you with an impenetrable shield. Fines would be paid; imprisonment protested
and petitioned against; in short, I am convinced the nation would be in a flame, and you in
far less danger of any attempt to your injury than at present. This, my dear Lord Cochrane,
is my firm conviction."

Encouraged by that letter and other like expressions of opinion from his English friends, Lord
Cochrane determined to persevere in his Greek enterprise, and to reside at Boulogne until the
fleet that was being prepared for him was ready for service. He had to wait, however, very
much longer than had been anticipated, and he was unable to wait all the time in Boulogne.
There also prosecution threatened him. About the middle of December he heard that proceedings
were about to be instituted against him for his detention, while in the Pacific, of a French
brig named La Gazelle, the real inducement thereto being in the fact, as it was reported, that
the French Government had espoused the cause of the Pasha of Egypt, and so was averse to such
a plan for destroying the Egyptian fleet under Ibrahim as Lord Cochrane was concocting. Therefore,
he deemed it expedient to quit French territory, and accordingly he left Boulogne on the 23rd
of December, and took up his residence at Brussels, with his family, on the 28th of the same month.

Through four weary months and more he was waiting at Brussels, harassed by the prosecutions
arising out of the lawsuits that have been already alluded to, in reference to which he said
in one letter, "I think I must make up my mind, though it is a hard task, to quit England for
ever;" harassed even more by the knowledge that the building and fitting out of the vessels
for his Greek expedition were being delayed on frivolous pretexts and for selfish ends, which
his presence in London, if that had been possible, might, to a great extent, have averted.
"The welfare of Greece at this moment rests much on your lordship," wrote Orlando, the chief
deputy in London, "and I dare hope that you will hasten her triumph:" yet Orlando and his fellows
were idling in London, profiting by delays that increased their opportunities of peculation,
and doing nothing to quicken the construction of the fleet. Galloway, the engineer, wrote again
and again to promise that his work should be done in three weeks,--it was always "three weeks
hence;" yet he was well informed that Galloway was wilfully negligent, though he did not know
till afterwards that Galloway, having private connections with the Pasha of Egypt, never intended
to do the work which he was employed to do. Lord Cochrane had good friends at home in Sir Francis
Burdett, Mr. Hobhouse, and others; but they were not competent to take personal supervision
of the details. He had an experienced deputy in Captain Abney Hastings, who had come from Greece
some time before, and who was now to return as Lord Cochrane's second in command; but Captain
Hastings, single-handed, could not exert much influence upon the rogues with whom he had to
deal. "The Perseverance," he wrote of the largest of the ships, which was to be ready first,
on the 10th of December, "may perhaps be ready to sail in six weeks--Mr. Galloway has said
three weeks for the last month; but to his professions I do not, and have not for a length
of time, paid the slightest attention. I believe he does all he can do; all I object against
him is that he promises more than he can perform, and promises with the determination of not
performing it. The Perseverance is a fine vessel. Her power of two forty-horses will, however,
be feeble. I suspect you are not quite aware of the delay which will take place." Lord Cochrane
soon became quite aware of the delay, but was unable to prevent it, and the next few months
were passed by him in tedious anxiety and ceaseless chagrin.

There was one desperate mode of lessening the delay--for Lord Cochrane to go out in the Perseverance
as soon as it was ready to start, leaving the other vessels to follow as soon as they were
ready. Captain Abney Hastings went to Brussels on purpose to urge him to that course, and Mr.
Hobhouse also recommended it. "There are two points," he wrote on the 23rd of December, "to
which your attention will probably be chiefly directed by Captain Hastings. These are, the
expediency of your going with the Perseverance, instead of waiting for the other boats, and
the propriety of immediately disposing of the two frigates in America"--about which frequent
reports had arrived, showing that their preparation was in even worse hands than was that of
the London vessels--"to the highest bidder. As to the first, I am confident that, although
it would have been desirable to have got together the whole force in the first instance, yet,
as the salvation of Greece is a question of time only, and as it will be probably so late either
as May or June next before the two larger boats can leave the river, it would be in every way
inexpedient for you to wait until you could have the whole armament under your orders. Be assured,
your presence in Greece would do more than the activity of any man living, and, as far as anything
can be done in pushing forward the business at home, neither time nor pains shall be spared.
I wish indeed you could have the whole of the boats at once; but Galloway has determined otherwise,
and we must do the next best thing. Captain Hastings will tell you how much may be done even
by one steam-vessel, commanded by you, and directing the operations of the fire-vessels. On
such a topic I should not have the presumption to enlarge to you. As to the American frigates,
it is Mr. Ellice's decided opinion, as well as my own, that you should have the money instead
of the frigates. First and last, the frigates never will be finished. The rogues at New York
demand 60,000l. above the 157,000l. which they have already received, and protest they will
not complete their work without the additional sum. Now 70,000l. in your hands will be better
than the hopes--and they will be nothing but hopes--of having the frigates. If you agree in
this view, perhaps you will be so good as to state it in writing, which may remove Mr. Ricardo's
objections."

Lord Cochrane was tempted to follow Captain Hastings's and Mr. Hobhouse's advice; but he first,
as was his wont, sought Sir Francis Burdett's opinion; and Sir Francis dissuaded him, for the
time, at any rate. "I would by no means have you proceed with the first vessel, nor at all
without adequate means," he wrote on the 15th of January, 1826; "for besides thinking of the
Greeks, for whom I am, I own, greatly interested, I must think, and certainly not with less
interest, of you, and, I may add, in some degree of myself too; for I am placed under much
responsibility, and I don't mean to be a party to making shipwreck of you and your great naval
reputation; nor will I ever consent to your going upon a forlorn and desperate attempt--that
is, without the means necessary for the fair chance of success--in other words, adequate means.
Although you have worked miracles, we can never be justified in expecting them, and still less
in requiring them."

Following that sound advice, Lord Cochrane resolved to wait until, at any rate, a good part
of his fleet was ready. He wrote to that effect, and in as good spirits as he could muster,
to Mr. Hobhouse, who in the answer which he despatched on the 5th of February acknowledged
the wisdom of the decision. "I am very glad to perceive," he said in that answer, "that you
have good heart and hope for the great cause. I assure you we have been doing all we can to
induce the parties concerned to second your wishes in every respect; and I now learn from Mr.
Hastings, who is our sheet anchor, that matters go on pretty well. I hope you write every now
and then to Galloway, in whose hands is the fate of Greece--the worse our luck, for he is the
great cause of our sad delay."

"You see our House is opened," said Mr. Hobhouse in the same letter. "Not a word of Greece
in the Speech, and I spoke to Hume and Wilson, and begged them not to touch upon the subject.
It is much better to keep all quiet, in order to prevent angry words from the ministers, who,
if nothing is said, will, I think, shut their eyes at what we are doing. There is a very prevalent
notion here that the (Holy) Alliance have resolved to recommend something to Turkey in favour
of the Greeks. Whether this is true or not signifies nothing. The Turks will promise anything,
and do just what suits them. They have always lost in war, for more than a hundred years, and
have uniformly gained by diplomacy. They will never abandon the hope of reconquering Greece
until driven out of Europe themselves, which they ought to be. By the way, the Greeks really
appear to have been doing a little better lately; but I still fear these disciplined Arabians.
I have written a very strong letter to Prince Mavrocordatos, telling them to hold out:--no
surrender on any terms. I have not mentioned your name; but I have stated vaguely that they
may expect the promised assistance early in the spring. It would indeed be a fine thing if
you could commence operations during the Rhamadan; but I fear that is impossible. Any time,
however, will do against the stupid, besotted Turks. Were they not led by Frenchmen, even the
Greeks would beat them."

Of the leisure forced upon him, Lord Cochrane made good use in studying for himself the character
of "the stupid, besotted Turks," and the nature of the war that was being waged against them
by the Greeks; and he asked Mr. Hobhouse to procure for him all the books published on the
subject or in any way related to it, of which he was not already master. "With respect to books,"
wrote Mr. Hobhouse, in reply to this request, "there are very few that are not what you have
found those you have read to be, namely, romances; but I will take care to send out with you
such as are the best, together with the most useful map that can be got." More than fifty volumes
were thus collected for Lord Cochrane's use.

From Captain Abney Hastings, moreover, he obtained precise information about Greek waters,
forts, and armaments, as well as "a list of the names of the principal persons in Greece, with
their characters." This list, as showing the opinions of an intelligent Englishman, based on
personal knowledge, as to the parties and persons with whom Lord Cochrane was soon to deal,
is worth quoting entire, especially as it was the chief basis of Lord Cochrane's own judgment
during this time of study and preparation.

I. Archontes, or men influential by their riches.

Lazaros Konduriottes.--A Hydriot merchant, the elder of the two brothers, who are the most
wealthy men in that island, and even in all Greece. This one, by intrigue, by distributing
his money adroitly in Hydra, and keeping in pay the most dissolute and unruly of the sailors,
and protecting them in the commission of their crimes, has acquired almost unlimited power
at Hydra. He asserts democracy, appealing on all occasions to the people, who are his creatures.
The other primates hate him, of course. Lazaros has the reputation of being clever. He never
quits Hydra for an instant, for fear of finding himself supplanted on his return.

George Konduriottes.--Brother of the former, and, like him a Hydriot merchant; an ignorant
weak man; said to be vindictive; espouses the party of his brother at Hydra, by which means
he has obtained the Presidency [of Greece]. He made the land captains his enemies, and had
not good men enough to form an army of his own, viz., regular troops. His penetration went
no further than bribing one captain to destroy another; which had for effect merely the changing
the names of chieftains without diminishing the power. I understand he has lately retired to
Hydra, and takes no active part in affairs.

EMANUEL TOMBAZES.--A Hydriot merchant and captain. There are two brothers, at the head of the
party opposed to Konduriottes. This man was the first who ventured on the voyage from the Black
Sea to Marseilles in a latteen-rigged vessel. This traffic afterwards gave birth to the colossal
fortunes in Hydra. These men are the most enlightened in Hydra. This one is dignified, energetic,
and a good sailor. However, he lost in Candia much of the reputation he had previously acquired;
but with all the errors he committed there, the loss of that island is not attributable to
him. 'Twould have been lost, under similar circumstances, had Cæsar commanded there. Konduriottes
and his adherents hate him, of course, and did all they could to paralyze his operations in
Crete. All considered, this man is more capable of introducing order and regularity into the
ships than any other Greek.

JAKOMAKI TOMBAZES.--A Hydriot merchant and captain, brother of the former. He commanded the
fleet the first year of the Revolution, and to him is due the introduction of fire-vessels,
by which he destroyed the first Turkish line-of-battle ship at Mytelene. He is perhaps the
best-informed Hydriot; but he wants decision, and demands the advice of everybody at the moment
he should be acting. This man takes little part in politics and follows his mercantile pursuits.
His hobby-horse is ship-building, in which art he is such a proficient as to be quite the Seppings
of Hydra. As to the rest, he is a very worthy, warm-hearted man, but excessively phlegmatic.

MIAOULIS.--A Hydriot merchant and captain, who obtained command of the Hydriot fleet after
Jakomaki resigned. He is a very dignified, worthy old man, possesses personal courage and decision,
and is less intriguing than any Greek that I know.

SAKTOURES.--A Hydriot captain. He has risen from a sailor, and is considered by the Archontes
rather in the light of a parvenu. He is courageous and enterprising, but a bit of a pirate.

BONDOMES, SAMADHOFF, GHIKA, ORLANDO.--Hydriot merchants without anything but their money to
recommend them.

PEPINOS.--A Hydriot sailor of the clan of Tombazes, who has distinguished himself frequently
in fireships.

KANARIS.--A Psarian sailor; the most distinguished of the commanders of fire-vessels.

BOTAZES.--A Spetziot merchant; the most influential person in his island. But the Hydriot merchants
possess so much property in Spetziot vessels that, in some measure, they rule that island.

PETRO-BEY [or PETROS MAVROMICHALES].--The principal Archonte of Maina; was governor of that
province under the Turks. A fat, stupid, worthy man; is sincere in the cause, in which he has
lost two if not three sons.

DELIYANNES.--A Moreot Archonte, and one of the most intriguing and ambitious; was formerly
sworn enemy to Kolokotrones and the captains, but, having betrothed his daughter to Kolokotrones's
son, they have become allies. This man, if not the richest Archonte in the Morea, is the one
who affected the most pomp in the time of the Turks, and he cannot now easily brook his diminished
influence. He is reported clever and unprincipled.

NOTABAS.--A Moreot Archonte, considered the most ancient of the noble families in the Morea;
is a well-meaning old blockhead; has a son, a good-looking youth, who commanded the Government
forces against the captains in 1824; is said to be an egregious coward.

LONDOS.--A Moreot Archonte; was much flattered by the Government, but afterwards leagued against
them. He is a drunkard, and a man of no consideration but for his wealth.[A]

[Footnote A: Lord Byron used to describe an evening passed in the company of Londos at Vostitza,
when both were young men. After supper Londos, who had the face and figure of a chimpanzee,
sprang upon a table, and commenced singing through his nose Rhiga's "Hymn to Liberty." A new
cadi, passing near the house, inquired the cause of the discordant hubbub. A native Mussulman
replied, "It is only the young primate Londos, who is drunk, and is singing hymns to the new
franaghia of the Greeks, whom they call 'Eleftheria.'"--Finlay, vol. ii., p. 35.]

ZAIMES.--A Moreot Archonte; said to possess considerable talent, and he exercises a very considerable
influence. His brother was formerly a deputy in England.

SISSINES.--A Moreot Archonte; was formerly a doctor at Patras; has risen into wealth and consequence
since the Revolution; has great talent, and is a great rogue.

SOTIRES XARALAMBI.--A Moreot Archonte of influence. I do not know his character.

SPELIOTOPOLOS.--A Moreot Archonte, whose name would never have been heard by a foreigner, if
he had not been made a member of the executive body; a stupid old man, possessing little influence
of any kind.

KOLETTES.--A Romeliot; was formerly doctor to Ali Pasha; possesses some talent; has held various
situations in the ministry; is detested, yet I know not why. I never could ascertain any act
of his that merited the dislike he has inspired a large party with. I fancy 'tis alone attributable
to jealousy--the peculiar feature of the Greek character. It must nevertheless be acknowledged
that he has sometimes made himself ridiculous by assuming the sword, for which profession he
is totally incapacitated by want of courage. He is, however, poor, although in employment since
the commencement of the Revolution.

THIKOUPES.--An Archonte of Missolonghi; of some importance from the English education he has
received from Lord Guildford; a worthy man, possessed of instruction, but, I think, not genius.
He has married Mavrocordatos's sister.

II. Phanaeiots.

[DEMETRIUS] HYPSILANTES.--Is of a Phanariot family; was a Russian officer; although young,
is bald and feeble. His appearance and voice are much against him. He does not so much want
talent as ferocity. He possesses personal courage and probity, and may be said to be the only
honest man that has figured upon the stage of the Revolution. He does not favour, but has never
openly opposed, the party of the captains. He felt he had not the power to do it with success,
and therefore showed his good sense in refraining. The Archontes, fearing the influence he
might acquire would destroy theirs, have uniformly opposed him, secretly and openly; and they
hate one another so cordially now that it is impossible they should ever unite.

MAVROCORDATOS.--Of a Phanariot family; came forward under the auspices of Hypsilantes, and
then tried to supplant him; and to do this he made himself the tool of the Hydriots, who, as
soon as they had obtained all power in their hands, endeavoured to kick down the stepping-stool
by which they had mounted. Perceiving this, he entered into negotiations with the captains,
and frightened the Hydriots into an acknowledgment of some power for himself. He possesses
quickness and intrigue; but I doubt if he has solid talent, and it is reported that he is particularly
careful not to court danger.

III. Captains or Land-Chieftains.

KOLOKOTRONES.--A captain of the Morea, and the most powerful one in all Greece. He owes this
partly to the numerous ramifications of his family, partly to his reputation as a hereditary
robber, and also to the wealth he has amassed in his vocation. He is a fine, decided-looking
man, and knows perfectly all the localities of the country for carrying on mountain warfare,
and he knows also, better than any other, how to manage the Greek mountaineers. He is, however,
entirely ignorant of any other species of warfare, and is not sufficiently civilized to look
forward for any other advantage to himself or his country than that of possessing the mountains
and keeping the Turks at bay. He proposed destroying all the fortresses except Nauplia. 'Twas
an error of Mavrocordatos to have made this man an open enemy to himself and to organization.
Had he been allowed to have profited by order, he would have espoused it. At present he may
be considered irreconcilably opposed to order and the Hydriot party.

NIKETAS.--There are two of this name; but the only one that merits notice is the Moreot captain,
a relation of Kolokrotones. He is as ignorant and dirty as the rest of his brethren, but bears
the reputation of being disinterested and courageous. He is always poor. All the chieftains
are good bottle-men; but this one excels them so much that 'tis confidently asserted he drinks
three bottles of rum per day.

STAIKOS.--A Moreot captain who took part early with the Hydriot party from jealousy of Kolokotrones.
When that party gained the ascendency, not finding himself sufficiently rewarded, he joined
the captains.

MOMGINOS.--A Mainot chieftain, a rival of Petro-Bey; is undistinguished, except by his colossal
stature and ferocious countenance.

GOURA.--A Romeliot captain; was a soldier of Odysseus, and employed by him in various assassinations,
and thus he rose to preferment and supplanted his protector, and at length assassinated him.
This man possesses courage and extreme ferocity, but is remarkably ignorant. In the hands of
a similar master, he would have been a perfect Tristan l'Hermite. To supplant Odysseus, he
was obliged to range himself with the Hydriot party.

CONSTANTINE BOTZARES.--A Suliot captain; nephew to the celebrated Makrys, who, from all accounts,
was a phenomenon among the captains. This man bears a good character.

KARAÏSKAKES, RANGO, KALTZAS, ZAVELLA, &c. &c.--Romeliot captains; all more or less opposed
to order, according as they see it suits their immediate interest.

That estimate of the Greek heroes--in the main wonderfully accurate--was certainly not encouraging
to Lord Cochrane. He determined, however, to go on with the work he had entered upon, and in
doing his duty to the Greeks, to try to bring into healthy play the real patriotism that was
being perverted by such unworthy leaders.

Great benefit was conferred upon the Greeks by his entering into their service from its very
beginning, in spite of the obstacles which were thrown in his way at starting, and which materially
damaged all his subsequent work on their behalf. No sooner was it known that he was coming
to aid them with his unsurpassed bravery and his unrivalled genius than they took heart and
held out against the Turkish and Egyptian foes to whom they had just before been inclined to
yield. And his enlistment in their cause had another effect, of which they themselves were
ignorant. The mere announcement that he intended to fight and win for them, as he had fought
and won for Chili, for Peru, and for Brazil, while it caused both England and France to do
their utmost in hindering him from achieving an end which was more thorough than they desired,
forced both England and France to shake off the listlessness with which they had regarded the
contest during nearly five years, and initiate the temporizing action by which Greece was prevented
from becoming as great and independent a state as it might have been, yet by which a smaller
independence was secured for it. Hardly had Lord Cochrane consented to serve as admiral of
the Greeks than the Duke of Wellington was despatched, in the beginning of 1826, on a mission
to Russia, which issued in the protocol of April, 1826, and the treaty of July, 1827--both
having for their avowed object the pacification of Greece--and in the battle of Navarino, by
which that pacification was secured.

The Duke of Wellington passed through Brussels, on his way to St. Petersburg, in March, 1826.
Halting there, he informed the hotel-keeper that he could see no one except Lord Cochrane,
which was as distinct an intimation that he desired an interview as, in accordance with the
rules of etiquette, he could make. The hotel-keeper, however, was too dull to take the hint.
He did not acquaint Lord Cochrane of the indirect message intended for him until the Duke of
Wellington had proceeded on his journey. Thus was prevented a meeting between one of England's
greatest soldiers and one of her greatest sailors, which could not but have been very memorable
in itself, and which might have been far more memorable in its political consequences.

The meeting was hindered, and, without listening either to the personal courtesies or to the
diplomatic arguments of the Duke of Wellington, Lord Cochrane continued his preparations for
active service in Greek waters. The details of these preparations and their practical execution,
as has been shown, he was forced to leave in other and less competent hands, and their actual
supervision was still impossible to him. Gradually the irritating and wasteful obstacles for
which Mr. Galloway was chiefly responsible induced him to resolve upon following the advice
tendered in December by Mr. Hobhouse and Captain Hastings--that is, to go to Greece with a
small portion only of the naval armament for which he had stipulated, and which his most cautious
friends deemed necessary to his enterprise. To this he was driven, not only by a desire to
do something worthy of his great name, and something really helpful to the cause which he had
espoused, but also by the knowledge that the tedious delays that arose were squandering all
the money with which he had counted upon rendering his work efficient when he could get to Greece.

Of this he received frequent and clear intimation from all his friends in London, though from
none so emphatically as from the Greek deputies, Orlando and Luriottis, who, being themselves
grievously to blame for their peculations and their bad management, threw all the blame upon
Mr. Galloway and the other defaulters. Finding that the proceeds of the second Greek loan were
being rapidly exhausted by their own and others' wrong-doing, they were even audacious enough
to propose to Lord Cochrane that, not abandoning his Greek engagement, but rather continuing
it under conditions involving much greater risk and anxiety than had been anticipated, he should
return the 37,000l. which had been handed over to Sir Francis Burdett on his account, and take
as sole security for his ultimate recompense the two frigates half built in America, acknowledged
to be of so little value that no purchaser could be found for them. "Our only desire." they
said, "is to rescue the millions of souls that are praying with a thousand supplications that
they may not fall victims to the despair which is only averted by the hope of your lordship's
arrival."

To that preposterous request Lord Cochrane made a very temperate answer. "I have perused your
letter of the 18th," he wrote on the 28th of February, "with the utmost attention, and have
since considered its contents with the most anxious desire to promote the objects you have
in view in all ways in my power. But I have not been able to convince myself that, under existing
circumstances, there is any means by which Greece can be so readily saved as by steady perseverance
in equipping the steam-vessels, which are so admirably calculated to cut off the enemies' communication
with Alexandria and Constantinople, and for towing fire-vessels and explosion-vessels by night
into ports and places where the hostile squadrons anchor on the shores of Greece. With steam-vessels
constructed for such purposes, and a few gunboats carrying heavy cannon, I have no doubt but
that the Morea might in a few weeks be cleared of the enemy's naval force. I wish I could give
you, without writing a volume, a clear view of the numerous reasons, derived from thirty-five
years' experience, which induce me to prefer a force that can move in all directions in the
obscurity of night through narrow channels, in shoal water, and with silence and celerity,
over a naval armament of the usual kind, though of far superior force. You would then perceive
with what efficacy the counsel of Demosthenes to your countrymen might be carried into effect
by desultory attacks on the enemy; and, in fact, you would perceive that steam-vessels, whenever
they shall be brought into war for hostile purposes, will prove the most formidable means that
ever has been employed in naval warfare. Indeed, it is my opinion that twenty-four vessels
moved by steam (such as the largest constructed for your service) could commence at St. Petersburg,
and finish at Constantinople, the destruction of every ship of war in the European ports. I
therefore hold that you ought to strain every nerve to get the steam-vessels equipped. For
on these, next to the valour of the Greeks themselves, depends the fate of Greece, and not
on large unwieldy ships, immovable in calms, and ill-calculated for nocturnal operations on
the shores of the Morea and adjacent islands. Having thus repeated to you my opinions, I have
only to add that, if you judge you can follow a better course, I release you from the engagement
you entered into with me, and I am ready to return you the 37,000l. on your receiving as part
thereof 72,500 Greek scrip, at the price I gave for it on the day following my engagement (under
the faith of the stipulations then entered into), as a further stimulus to my exertion, by
casting my property, as well as my life, into the scale with Greece. This release I am ready
to make at once; but I cannot consent to accept as security, for the fruits of seven years'
toil, vessels manned by Americans, whose pay and provisions I see no adequate or regular means
of providing. But should the 150,000l. placed at the disposal of the Committee not prove sufficient
for the objects I have required, I will advance the 37,000l. for the pay and provisions necessary
for the steamboats on the security of the boats themselves. Thus you have the option of releasing
me from the service, or of continuing my engagement, although I shall lose severely by my temporary
acceptance of your offer."

In that letter Lord Cochrane conceded more than ought to have been expected of him. In a supplementary
letter written on the same day he added: "I again assure you that I am ready to do whatever
is reasonable for the interest of Greece; but it cannot be expected that for such interest
I ought to sacrifice totally those of my family and myself, as would be the case were I to
give up both the means I possess to obtain justice in South America and my indemnification,
on so slender a security as that offered to me. Believe me, I should have tendered the 37,000l.,
without reference to the Greek scrip I had purchased, had it not been evident to me that, under
such circumstances, the security of your public funds would be dependent on chances which I
cannot foresee, and over which I should have no control."

Thus temperately rebuked, the Greek deputies did not urge their proposal any further. They
only wrote to promise all possible expedition in completing the steam-vessels. Lord Cochrane,
however, voluntarily acceded to one of their wishes. Hearing that the largest of the steamers,
the Perseverance, was nearly ready for sea, and that Mr. Galloway had again solemnly pledged
himself to complete the others in a short time, he determined not to wait for the whole force,
but to start at once for the Mediterranean. It had been all along decided that the Perseverance
should be placed under Captain Hastings's command; and it was now arranged that he should take
her to Greece as soon as she was ready, and that Lord Cochrane should follow in a schooner,
the Unicorn, of 158 tons. It was not intended, of course, that with that boat alone he should
go all the way to Greece; but it was considered--perhaps not very wisely--that if he were actually
on his way to Greece, the completion of the other five steamships would be proceeded with more
rapidly; and he agreed that, as soon as he was joined in the Mediterranean by the first two
of these, the Enterprise and the Irresistible, he would hasten on to the Archipelago, and there
make the best of the small force at his disposal. Not only was it supposed that Mr. Galloway
and the other agents would thus be induced to more vigorous action: it was also deemed that
the effect of this step upon the Hellenic nation would be very beneficial. "As soon as the
Greek Government know that your lordship is on your way to Greece," wrote the London deputies
on the 13th of April, "their courage will be animated, and their confidence renewed. We may
with truth assert that your lordship is regarded by all classes of our countrymen as a Messiah,
who is to come to their deliverance; and, from the enthusiasm which will prevail amongst the
people, we may venture to predict that your lordship's valour and success at sea will give
energy and victory to their arms on land."

With the new arrangements necessitated by this change of plans the last two or three weeks
of April and the first of May were occupied. Lord Cochrane put to sea on the 8th of May. "As
a Greek citizen," one of the deputies in London, Andreas Luriottis, had written on the 17th
of April, "I cannot refrain from expressing my sincere gratitude towards your lordship for
the resolution which you have taken to depart almost immediately for Greece. This generous
determination, at a moment when my country is really in want of every assistance, cannot be
regarded with indifference by my countrymen, who already look upon your lordship as a Messiah.
Your talents and intrepidity cannot allow us for a moment to doubt of success. My countrymen
will afford you every assistance, and confer on you all the powers necessary for your undertaking;
although your lordship must be aware that Greece, after five years' struggle, cannot be expected
to present a very favourable aspect to a stranger. Your lordship will, however, find men full
of devotion and courage--men who have founded, their best hopes on you, and from whom, under
such a leader, everything may be expected. Your lordship's previous exploits encourage me to
hope that Greece will not be less successful than the Brazils, since the materials she offers
for cultivation are superior. With patience and perseverance in the outset, all difficulties
will soon vanish, and the course will be direct and unimpeded. The resources of Greece are
not to be despised, and, if successful, she will find ample means to reward those who will
have devoted themselves to her service and to the cause of liberty."

CHAPTER XV.

[1826-1827.]

Lord Cochrane, having passed from Brussels to Flushing, sailed thence in the Unicorn on the
8th of May, 1826. Before proceeding to the Mediterranean, he determined, in spite of the personal
risk he would thus be subjected to through the Foreign Enlistment Act, to see for himself in
what state were the preparations for his enterprise in Greece. He accordingly landed at Weymouth,
and hurrying up to London, spent the greater part of Sunday, the 16th of May, in Mr. Galloway's
building yard at Greenwich.

He found that the Perseverance was apparently completed, though waiting for some finishing
touches to be put to her boilers. "The two other vessels," he said, "were filled with pieces
of the high-pressure engines, all unfixed, and scattered about in the engine-room and on deck.
The boilers were in the small boats, and occupied nearly one half of their length, Mr. Galloway
having, through inattention or otherwise, caused them to be made of the same dimensions as
the boilers for the great vessels, which, by the by, had been improperly increased from sixteen
feet, the length determined on, to twenty-three feet." The inspection was unsatisfactory; but
Mr. Galloway pledged himself on his honour that the Perseverance should start in a day or two,
that the Enterprise and the Irresistible should be completed and sent to sea within a fortnight,
and that the other three vessels should be out of hand in less than a month.

Trusting to that promise, or at any rate hoping that it might be fulfilled, and after a parting
interview with Sir Francis Burdett, Mr. Ellice, and other friends, Lord Cochrane left London
on Monday, and joined the Unicorn, at Dartford, on the 20th of May. It had been arranged that
he should wait in British waters for the first instalment of his little fleet, at any rate.
With that object he called at Falmouth, and, receiving no satisfactory information there, went
to make a longer halt in Bantry Bay. At length, hearing that the Perseverance had actually
started, with Captain Hastings for its commander, and that the other two large vessels were
on the point of leaving the Thames, he left the coast of Ireland on the 12th of June.

He vainly hoped that the vessels would promptly join him in the Mediterranean, and that within
four or five weeks' time he should be at work in Greek waters. The journey, however, was to
last nine months. The mismanagement and the wilful delays of Mr. Galloway and the other contractors
and agents continued as before. The urgent need of Greece was unsatisfied; the funds collected
for promoting her deliverance were wantonly perverted; and the looked-for deliverer was doomed
to nearly a year of further inactivity--hateful to him at all times, but now a special source
of annoyance, as it involved not only idleness to himself, but also serious injury to the cause
he had espoused.

He passed Oporto on the 18th, Lisbon on the 20th, and Gibraltar on the 26th of June. He was
off Algiers on the 3rd of July, and on the 12th he anchored in the harbour of Messina. There,
and in the adjoining waters, he waited nearly three months, in daily expectation of the arrival
of his vessels, Messina having been the appointed meeting-place. No vessels came, but instead
only dismal and procrastinating letters. "We deeply lament," wrote Messrs. J. and S. Ricardo,
the contractors for the Greek loan, in one of them, dated the 9th of September, "that, after
all the exertions which have been used, we have not yet been able to despatch the two large
steam-vessels. Everything has been ready for some time; but Mr. Galloway's failure in the engines
will now occasion a much longer detention. We leave to your brother, who writes by the same
opportunity, to explain fully to your lordship how all this has arisen, and what measures it
has been considered expedient to adopt. In the whole of this unfortunate affair we have endeavoured
to follow your wishes; and our conduct towards Mr. Galloway, who has much to answer for, has
been chiefly directed by his representations." "Galloway is the evil genius that pursues us
everywhere," wrote the same correspondents on the 25th of September; "his presumption is only
equalled by his incompetency. Whatever he has to do with is miserably deficient. We do not
think his misconduct has been intentional; but it has proved most fatal to the interests of
Greece, and of those engaged in her behalf. On your lordship it has pressed peculiarly hard;
and most sincerely do we lament that an undertaking, which promised so fairly in the commencement
should hitherto have proved unavailing, and that your power of assisting this unhappy country
should have been rendered nugatory by the want of means to put it in effect."

