Salem treasures the memory of Hawthorne, and preserves everything tangible relating to him.
The house in which he was born, No. 27 Union Street, is in much the same style and probably
of the same age as the Old Manse at Concord, but somewhat smaller, with only a single window
on either side of the doorway--five windows in all on the front, one large chimney in the centre,
and the roof not exactly a gambrel, for the true gambrel has a curve first inward and then
outward, but something like it. A modest, cosy and rather picturesque dwelling, which if placed
on a green knoll with a few trees about it might become a subject for a sketching class. It
did not belong to Hawthorne's father, after all, but to the widow of the bold Daniel, It was
the cradle of genius, and is now a shrine for many pilgrims. Long may it survive, so that our
grandchildren may gaze upon it.

Here Nathaniel Hawthorne first saw daylight one hundred years ago [Footnote: 1804.] on the
Fourth of July, as if to make a protest against Chauvinistic patriotism; here his mother sat
at the window to see her husband's bark sail out of the harbor on his last voyage; and here
she watched day after day for its return, only to bring a life- long sorrow with it. The life
of a sea-captain's wife is always a half- widowhood, but Mrs. Hathorne was left at twenty-eight
with three small children, including a daughter, Elizabeth, older than Nathaniel, and another,
Louisa, the youngest. The shadow of a heavy misfortune had come upon them, and from this shadow
they never wholly escaped.

Lowell criticised a letter which John Brown wrote concerning his boyhood to Henry L. Stearns,
as the finest bit of autobiography of the nineteenth century.[Footnote: North American Review,
April 1860.] It is in fact almost the only literature of the kind that we possess. A frequent
difficulty that parents find in dealing with their children is, that they have wholly forgotten
the sensations and impressions of their own childhood. The instructor cannot place himself
in the position of the pupil. A naturalist will spend years with a microscope studying the
development of a plant from the seed, but no one has ever applied a similar process to the
budding of genius or even of ordinary intellect. We have the autobiography of one of the greatest
geniuses, written in the calm and stillness of old age, when youthful memories come back to
us involuntarily; yet he barely lifts the veil from his own childhood, and has much more to
say of external events and older people than of himself and his young companions. How valuable
is the story of George Washington and his hatchet, hackneyed as it has become! What do we know
of the boyhood of Franklin, Webster, Seward and Longfellow? Nothing, or next to nothing.

Goethe says that the admirable woman is she who, when her husband dies, becomes a father to
his children; but in the case of Hawthorne's mother, this did not happen to be necessary. Her
brother, Robert Manning, a thrifty and fairly prosperous young man, immediately took Mrs. Hathorne
and her three children into his house on Herbert Street, and made it essentially a home for
them afterward. To the fatherless boy he was more than his own father, away from home ten months
of the year, ever could have been; and though young Nathaniel must have missed that tenderness
of feeling which a man can only entertain toward his own child, there was no lack of kindness
or consideration on Robert Manning's part, to either the boy or his sisters.

It was Mrs. Hathorne who chiefly suffered from this change of domicile. She would seem to have
been always on good terms with her brother's wife, and on the whole they formed a remarkably
harmonious family,--at least we hear nothing to the contrary,--but she was no longer mistress
of her own household. She had her daughters to instruct, and to train up in domestic ways,
and she could be helpful in various matters, large and small; but the mental occupation which
comes from the oversight and direction of household affairs, and which might have served to
divert her mind from sorrowful memories, was now gone from her. Her widowhood separated her
from the outside world and from all society, excepting a few devoted friends, [Footnote: Wide
Awake, xxxiii. 502.] so that under these conditions it is not surprising that her life became
continually more secluded and reserved. It is probable that her temperament was very similar
to her son's; but the impression which has gone forth, that she indulged her melancholy to
an excess, is by no means a just one. The circumstances of her case should be taken into consideration.

Rebecca Manning says:

"I remember aunt Hawthorne as busy about the house, attending to various matters. Her cooking
was excellent, and she was noted for a certain kind of sauce, which nobody else knew how to
make. We always enjoyed going to see her when we were children, for she took great pains to
please us and to give us nice things to eat. Her daughter Elizabeth resembled her in that respect.
In old letters and in the journal of another aunt, which has come into our possession, we read
of her going about making visits, taking drives, and sometimes going on a journey. In later
years she was not well, and I do not remember that she ever came here, but her friends always
received a cordial welcome when they visited her."

This refers to a late period of Madam Hathorne's life, and if she absented herself from the
table, as Elizabeth Peabody states, [Footnote: Lathrop's "Study of Hawthorne."] there was good
reason for it.

Hawthorne himself has left no word concerning his mother, of favorable or unfavorable import,
but it seems probable that he owed his genius to her, if he can be said to have owed it to
any of his ancestors. In after life he affirmed that his sister Elizabeth, who appears to have
been her mother over again, could have written as well as he did, and although we have no palpable
evidence of this--and the letter which she wrote Elizabeth Peabody does not indicate it,--we
are willing to take his word for it. With the shyness and proud reserve which he inherited
from his mother, there also came that exquisite refinement and feminine grace of style which
forms the chief charm of his writing. The same refinement of feeling is noticeable in the letters
of other members of the Manning family. Where his imagination came from, it would be useless
to speculate; but there is no good art without delicacy.

Doctor Nathaniel Peabody lived near the house on Herbert Street, and his daughter Elizabeth
(who afterward became a woman of prodigious learning) soon made acquaintance with the Hathorne
children. She remembers the boy Nathaniel jumping about his uncle's yard, and this is the first
picture that we have of him. When we consider what a beautiful boy he must have been, with
his wavy brown hair, large wistful eyes and vigorous figure, without doubt he was a pleasure
to look upon. We do not hear of him again until November 10, 1813, when he injured his foot
in some unknown manner while at play, and was made lame by it more or less for the three years
succeeding. After being laid up for a month, he wrote this pathetic little letter to his uncle,
Robert Manning, then in Maine, which I have punctuated properly so that the excellence of its
composition may appeal more plainly to the reader.

                                     "SALEM, Thursday, December, 1813.

      "DEAR UNCLE:

"I hope you are well, and I hope Richard is too. My foot is no better. Louisa has got so well
that she has begun to go to school, but she did not go this forenoon because it snowed. Mama
is going to send for Doctor Kitridge to-day, when William Cross comes home at 12 o'clock, and
maybe he will do some good, for Doctor Barstow has not, and I don't know as Doctor Kitridge
will. It is about 4 weeks yesterday since I have been to school, and I don't know but it will
be 4 weeks longer before I go again. I have been out of the office two or three times and have
set down on the step of the door, and once I hopped out into the street. Yesterday I went out
in the office and had 4 cakes. Hannah carried me out once, but not then. Elizabeth and Louisa
send their love to you. I hope you will write to me soon, but I have nothing more to write;
so good-bye, dear Uncle.

                         "Your affectionate Nephew,
                              "NATHANIEL HATHORNE."
[Footnote: Elizabeth Manning in Wide Awake, Nov. 1891.]

This is not so precocious as Mozart's musical compositions at the same age, but how could the
boy Hawthorne have given a clearer account of himself and his situation at the time, without
one word of complaint? It is worth noting also that his prediction in regard to Doctor Kitridge
proved to be correct and even more.

It is evident that neither of his doctors treated him in a physio- logical manner. Kitridge
was a water-cure physician, and his method of treatment deserves to be recorded for its novelty.
He directed Nathaniel to project his naked foot out of a sitting-room window, while he poured
cold water on it from the story above. This, however, does not appear to have helped the case,
and the infirmity continued so long that it was generally feared that his lameness would be
permanent.

Horatio Bridge considered this a fortunate accident for Nathaniel, since it prevented him from
being spoiled by his female relatives, as there is always danger that an only son with two
or more sisters will be spoiled. But it was an advantage to the boy in a different manner from
this. He learned from it the lesson of suffering and endurance, which we all have to learn
sooner or later; and it compelled him, perhaps too young, to seek the comfort of life from
internal sources. There were excellent books in the house,--Shakespeare and Milton, of course,
but also Pope's "Iliad," Thomson's "Seasons," the "Spectator," "Pilgrim's Progress," and the
"Faerie Queene," and the time had now come when these would be serviceable to him. He was not
the only boy that has enjoyed Shakespeare at the age of ten, but that he should have found
interest in Spenser's "Faerie Queene" is somewhat exceptional. Even among professed litterateurs
there are few that read that long allegory, and still fewer who enjoy it; and yet Miss Manning
assures us that Hawthorne would muse over it for hours. Its influence may be perceptible in
some of his shorter stories, but "Pilgrim's Progress" evidently had an effect upon him; and
so had Scott's novels, as we may judge from the first romance that he published.

At the age of twelve years and seven months he composed a short poem, so perfect in form and
mature in judgment that it is difficult to believe that so young a person could have written
it. Not so poetic as it is philosophical, it is valuable as indicating that the boy had already
formed a moral axis for himself,--a life principle from which he never afterward deviated;
and it is given herewith: [Footnote:  A facsimile of the original can be found in Wide Awake,
November, 1891.]

                           "MODERATE VIEWS.

                 "With passions unruffled, untainted by pride,
                    By reason my life let me square;
                  The wants of my nature are cheaply supplied,
                    And the rest are but folly and care.
                  How vainly through infinite trouble and strife,
                    The many their labours employ,
                  Since all, that is truly delightful in life,
                     Is what all if they please may enjoy.

                                          "NATHANIEL HATHORNE.
                  "SALEM, February 13, 1817."

He wrote this with the greatest nicety, framing it in broad black lines, and ornamenting the
capitals in a manner that recalls the decoration of John Hathorne's gravestone. He composed
a number of poems between his thirteenth and seventeenth years, quite as good as those of Longfellow
at the same age; but after he entered Bowdoin College he dropped the practice altogether and
never resumed it, although one would suppose that Longfellow's example would have stimulated
him to better efforts. Neither does he appear to have tried his hand in writing tales, as boys
who have no thought of literary distinction frequently do. During the years of his lameness
he sometimes invented extemporaneous stories, which invariably commenced with a voyage to some
foreign country, from which his hero never returned. This shows how continually his father's
fate was in his mind, although he said nothing of it.

Robert Manning's interest in the stage-company afforded the boy fine opportunities for free
rides, and he probably also frequented the stables; although neither as youth nor as man did
he take much interest in driving or riding. He was more fond of playing upon the wharves, a
good healthy place,--and watching the great ships sailing forth to far- off lands, and returning
with their strange cargoes,--enough to stimulate any boy's imagination, if he has it in him.
It is likely that if Nathaniel's father had lived, he would also have followed a seafaring
life, and would never have become useful to the world in the way that he did.

Somewhere about the close of the eighteenth century, Richard Manning, the father of Mrs. Hathorne,
purchased a large tract of land in Cumberland County, Maine, between Lake Sebago and the town
of Casco; and in 1813 Robert Manning built a house near the lake, in the township of Raymond,
and his brother Richard, who had become much of an invalid, went to live there, partly for
his health and partly to keep an oversight on the property. In 1817 Mrs. Hathorne also went
there, taking her children with her, and remaining, with some intermissions, until 1822. Meanwhile
the Mannings sold some thousands of acres of land, although not, as we may suppose, at very
good prices, and the name of Elizabeth Hathorne was repeatedly attached to the deeds of conveyance.
The house that Robert built was the plainest sort of structure, of only two stories, and with
no appearance of having been painted; but the farmers in the vicinity criticised it as "Manning's
folly,"--exactly why, does not appear clearly, unless they foresaw what actually happened,
that the house could be neither sold nor rented after the Mannings had left it. For many years,
it served as a meeting- house,--one could not call it a church,--and now it has become a Hawthorne
museum, the town of Raymond very laudably keeping it in repair.

Although none of the events in the early life of Hawthorne ought to be considered positive
misfortunes, as they all contributed to make him what he was, yet upon general principles it
is much to be regretted that he should have passed the best years of his boyhood in this out-
of-the-way place. His good uncle supplied him with a boat and a gun, and he enjoyed the small
shooting, fishing, sailing and skating that the place afforded; but in later years he wrote
to Bridge, "It was at Sebago that I learned my cursed habit of solitude," and this pursued
him through life like an evil genius, placing him continually at a disadvantage with his fellow-men.
It has been supposed that this mode of life assisted in developing his individuality, but quite
as strong individualities have been developed in the midst of large cities. "Speech is more
refreshing than light."

When will parents learn wisdom in regard to their children? A conscientious, tender-hearted
boy will be sent to a rough country school, to be scoffed at and maltreated there, before he
is twelve years old; while another of a coarser and harder nature will be kept at home, to
be petted and pampered until all the vigor and manliness are sapped out of him. Parents who
prefer to live in a modest, humble manner, in order that their children may have better advantages,
deserve the highest commendation, but in this respect good instruction is less important than
favorable associations. From fourteen to twenty- one is the formative period of character,
and the influences which may be brought to bear on the growing mind are of the highest importance.
Lake Sebago served as an excellent gymnasium for young Hawthorne, and may have helped to develop
his sense of the beautiful, but he found few companions there, and those not of the most suitable
kind. He was exceedingly fond of skating--so much so that when the ice was smooth he sometimes
remained on the lake far into the night. This we can envy him, for skating is the poetry of motion.

The captain of the "Hawthorne," which plies back and forth across the lake in summer, regularly
points out to his passengers the house where the Hathornes lived. It is easily seen from the
steamer,--a severely plain, unpainted building, in appearance much like the Manning house on
Herbert Street. Nearly in line with it a great cliff-like rock juts out from the centre of
the lake, on which the Indians centuries ago etched and painted great warlike figures, whose
significance is now known to no one. It is said that Hawthorne frequently sailed or rowed to
Indian Rock, and to a sort of grotto there which was large enough for his boat to enter. Both
the rock and the Manning house are now difficult of access. Longfellow wrote a pretty descriptive
poem of a voyage on Sebago, and it is remarkable how he has made use of every feature of the
landscape, every incident of the excursion, to fill his verses. The lake has much the shape
of an hour-glass, the northern and southern portions being connected by a winding strait, so
crooked that it requires the constant effort of the pilot to prevent the little steamer from
running aground. There used to be fine fishing in it,--large perch, bass, and a species of
fresh-water salmon often weighing from six to eight pounds.

Strangely enough, one of Hawthorne's acquaintances on the shores of Sebago was a mulatto boy
named William Symmes, the son of a Virginia slave, foisted by his father upon a Maine sea-captain
named Britton, who lived in the half-wilderness around Raymond. Symmes afterwards became a
sailor, and continued in that vocation until the Civil War, when he went to live in Alexandria,
Va. In 1870 he published in the Portland Transcript what pretended to be a series of extracts
from a diary which young Hawthorne had kept while at Raymond, and which was found there, after
the departure of the Manning family, by a man named Small, while moving a load of furniture
which had been sold to another party. Small preserved it until 1864, and then made a present
of it to Symmes.

Doubts have been cast on the genuineness of this diary, as was natural enough under the circumstances;
for the original manuscript was never produced by Symmes, who died the following year, and
no one knows what has become of it. It may also be asked, why should Small have disposed so
readily of this manuscript to Symmes after preserving it sedulously for more than forty years?
Why did he not return it to its rightful owner; or, if he felt ashamed of his original abstraction,
why did not Symmes restore it to the Hawthorne family after Hawthorne's death, when every newspaper
in the country was celebrating Hawthorne's genius? It also might have occurred to one of them
that such property would have a marketable value, and could be disposed of at a high price
to some collector of literary curiosities; but Symmes did not even ask to be remunerated for
the portion that he contributed to the Portland Transcript. Neither did he harbor the slightest
ill feeling toward Hawthorne, whom he claimed to have met several times in the course of his
wanderings,--once at Salem, and again at Liverpool,--and was always treated by him with exceptional
kindness and civility.

The only answer that can be made to these queries is, that men in Symmes's position in life
do not act according to any method that can be previously calculated. In a case like the present,
there could be no predicting it; and it is possible that this mulatto valued the diary above
all price, as a souvenir of the one white man who had ever been kind and good to him. Who knows
what a heart there may have been in William Symmes?

The internal evidence of this diary is so strongly in its favor as to be almost conclusive.

To which it might be added, that it could be only a Hawthorne that could accomplish such a
fabrication. Few things in literature are more difficult than to make a boy talk like a boy,
and the tone of this Sebago journal is not only boyish, but sweet and pleasant to the ear,
such as we might imagine the talk of the youthful Hawthorne. Not only this, but there is a
gradated improvement of intelligence in the course of it,--rather too much so for entire credibility.
It is quite possible that there is more of it than Hawthorne ever wrote, but that does not
prevent us from having faith in the larger portion of it. The purity of its diction, the nice
adaptation of each word to its purpose, and the accuracy of detail are much in its favor; besides
which, the personal reflections in it are exactly like Hawthorne. The published portion of
the diary in Mr. Pickard's book makes about fifty rather small pages, but no dates are given
except at the close, and that is August, 1818; and as Hawthorne went to Sebago for the first
time the preceding year, we may presume that this note-book represents a winter and summer
vacation, during which he would seem to have enjoyed himself in a healthy boyish fashion. We
have only space for a few extracts from this publication, which serve both to exemplify Hawthorne's
mode of life at Raymond and to illustrate the preceding statement concerning the book.

The first observation in the diary is quoted by Lathrop, and has a decidedly youthful tone.

Kingbirds are the knights-errant of the feathered tribes. They never attack another bird unless
it is three times their own size; but when a few years older, the boy Hawthorne would probably
have noticed that the kingbirds' powers of flight are so superior that all other birds are
practically at their mercy. This fixes the date of the entry in the early summer of 1817, for
kingbirds are not belligerent except during the nesting season.

Notice his objection to bad nomenclature, and his school-boy argument against it.

Here or nowhere do we recognize the budding of Hawthorne's genius. This clear introspective
analysis is the foundation of all true mental power, and Hawthorne might have become a Platonic
philosopher, if he had not preferred to be a story-teller.

