I awoke with a terrific headache and an annoying buzzing in my ears, awoke only partially,
not knowing where I was or why and without any distinct recollections of recent events. My
first sensation was discomfort, not only from the pain of my headache, but also from the heat
of the sunrays beating on me, and that despite the fact that I could feel a strong cool breeze
ruffling my hair and beard.

I sat up and looked about me. Agathemer was snoring. The sun was not low; in fact, at that
time of the year, it was near its highest. I had slept till noon!

Then, all of a sudden I realized that the ship was wholly strange to me and that it was headed
not southeast, but northwest. That realization shocked me broad awake. At the same instant
I saw the shipmaster approaching. He was not Orontides, nor was he at all like him. He had
small feet, was knock-kneed, tall, lean, had a hatchet-face and red hair.

"Awake at last!" he commented. "You lads must have dined gloriously last night. You don't look
half yourselves, yet."

He stared at me, and at Agathemer, who had waked, into much the same sort of daze in which
I had been at first.

"Neptune's trident!" the shipmaster exclaimed. "You two aren't the two lads I was to convoy!
Who are you and how did you get here?"

"We were hunting for our ship after dark," Agathemer said, "and somebody hailed us. We asked
whether it was Orontides and the answer that came back was: 'Aye, Aye!' We were pretty thoroughly
drunk and were glad to be helped aboard and shown our beds. That's all I know."

"Kingdom of Pluto!" the shipmaster cried, "my name's Gerontides, not Orontides. I heard your
question, but you were so drunk I never knew the difference: probably I shouldn't have known
the difference if you had been sober. I was on the lookout for two lads much like you two who
had part paid me to carry them to Genoa. They'll be in a fix."

"'Bout ship," said Agathemer, "and put back to Ostia. You can't be far on your way yet. We'll
pay you what you ask to set us ashore at Ostia."

"I wouldn't 'bout ship," said Gerontides, "for twenty gold pieces."

"We'll pay you thirty," said Agathemer.

"Don't bid any higher, son," Gerontides laughed. "If you were made of gold, to Genoa you go.
I've a bigger stake in a quick landing at Genoa than any sum you could name would overbalance.
Best be content!"

And content we had to be, no arguments, no entreaties, nothing would move him.

"I'll be fair with you," he said. "The lads I took you for had paid me all I had asked them
except one gold piece each on landing at Genoa. That's all you'll have to pay me."

Nothing would budge him from his resolution. Agathemer in despair drowned his misery in flageolet
playing. It seemed to comfort him and certainly comforted me. The crew were delighted. After
a voyage as easy and pleasant as our cruise with Maganno, we landed on the eighth day before
the Ides of September, at Genoa, paid our two gold pieces and set about getting out of that
city as quickly as might be. We avoided, of course, the posting- station where we had changed
horses while in couriers' trappings. But there was a posting-station at each gate of Genoa
and we, having talked over all possibilities in the intervals of flageolet playing, were for
Dertona. We had little trouble in buying a used travelling-carriage. Horses we did not have
to wait long for, as hiring teams were luckily plentiful that day and Imperial agents scarce.
Off we set for Milan.

