He was very much moved by the adventure.  "I have a wonderful deal to say if I once begin;
I have been everywhere," he said to the old man at Gutter Fawr.  He gave the shepherd advice
about his sheep.  "I am in the habit," he said to the landlord at Pont Erwyd, "of talking about
everything, being versed in all matters, do you see, or affecting to be so, which comes much
to the same thing."  Even in the company of his stepdaughter--as they were not in Hyde Park--he
sang in Welsh at the top of his voice.  The miller's hospitality in Mona brought tears to his
eyes; so did his own verse translation of the "Ode to Sycharth," because it made him think
"how much more happy, innocent and holy I was in the days of my boyhood when I translated Iolo's
ode than I am at the present time."  He kissed the silver cup at Llanddewi Brefi and the tombstone
of Huw Morus at Llan Silin.

Unless we count the inn at Cemmaes, where he took vengeance on the suspicious people by using
his note-book in an obvious manner, "now skewing at an object, now leering at an individual,"
he was only once thoroughly put out, and that was at Beth Gelert by a Scotchman: which suggests
a great deal of amiability, on one side, considering that Borrow's Welsh was book-Welsh, execrably
pronounced.

He filled four books with notes, says Knapp, who has printed from them some parts which Borrow
did not use, including the Orange words of "Croppies lie down," and Borrow's translation of
"the best ghost story in the world," by Lope de Vega.  The book founded on these Welsh notes
was advertised in 1857, but not published until 1862.

In the September after his Welsh holiday, 1855, Borrow took his wife and daughter to the Isle
of Man, deposited them at Douglas, and travelled over the island for seven weeks, with intervals
at Douglas.  He took notes that make ninety-six quarto pages in Knapp's copy.  He was to have
founded a book on them, entitled, "Wanderings in Quest of Manx Literature."  Knapp quotes an
introduction which was written.  This and the notes show him collecting in manuscript or viva
voce the carvals or carols then in circulation among the Manx; and he had the good fortune
to receive two volumes of them as gifts.  Some he translated during his visit.  He went about
questioning people concerning the carvals and a Manx poet, named George Killey.  He read a
Manx prayer-book to the poet's daughter at Kirk Onchan, and asked her a score of questions.
He convinced one woman that he was "of the old Manx."  Finding a Manxman who spoke French and
thought it the better language, he made the statement that "Manx or something like it was spoken
in France more than a thousand years before French."  He copied Runic inscriptions, and took
down several fairy tales and a Manx version of the story of "Finn McCoyle" and the Scotch giant.
He went to visit a descendant of the ballad hero, Mollie Charane.  When he wished to know the
size of some old skeletons he inquired if the bones were as large as those of modern ones.
As he met people to compliment him on his Manx, so he did on his walking.  Knapp speaks of
a "terrible journey" over the mountain from Ramsay to Braddan and Douglas in October, but does
not make any quotation relating to it. In his opinion the notes "seldom present any matter
of general interest save to the islanders of Man and the student of Runic inscriptions." Enough,
however, is quoted to show that Borrow was delighted with the country and the people, finding
plenty to satisfy his curiosity in languages and customs.  But he was irritable, and committed
to paper some sarcastic remarks about Sir John Bowring and Lord Raglan, "the secret friend"
of Russia; while the advancement of an enemy and the death of a cousin caused him to reflect:
"William Borrow, the wonderful inventor, dead, and Leicester Curzon . . . a colonel.  Pretty
justice!"  In 1862, in the pages of "Once a Week," he published two of his Manx translations,
the ballads--"Brown William" and "Mollie Charane."  In August and September, 1857, Borrow was
walking again in Wales, covering four hundred miles, as he told John Murray, and once, at least,
between Builth and Mortimer's Cross, making twenty-eight miles in a day.  His route was through
Laugharne, Saundersfoot, Tenby, Pembroke, Milford and Milford Haven, Stainton, Johnston, Haverfordwest,
St. Davids, Fishguard, Newport, Cardigan, Llechryd, Cilgerran, Cenarth, Newcastle Emlyn, Lampeter,
Llanddewi Brefi, Builth, Presteign, Mortimer's Cross, and so to Shrewsbury, and to Uppington,
where Goronwy Owen was curate in the middle of the eighteenth century.  Knapp transcribed part
of Borrow's journal for Messrs. T. C. Cantrill and J. Pringle, remarking that the rubbed pencil
writing took him eight days to decipher.  With the annotations of Messrs. Cantrill and Pringle
it was printed in "Y Cymmrodor," {270a} the journal of the Honourable Society of Cymmrodorion.
I will quote one day's entries, with the annotations, which are the fruit of the most patient
devotion:

"Haverfordwest--little river--bridge; {270b} steep ascent {270c}--sounds of music--young fellows
playing--steep descent--strange town--Castle Inn. H.W. in Welsh Hool-fordd.

"[August] 27th, Thursday.--Burning day as usual.  Breakfasted on tea, eggs, and soup.  Went
up to the Castle.  St. Mary's Church--river--bridge--toll--The two bridge keepers--River Dun
Cledi {270d}--runs into Milford Haven--exceedingly deep in some parts--would swallow up the
largest ship ever built {270e}--people in general dislike and despise the Welsh.

"Started for St. David's.  Course S.W.  {270f}After walking about 2 m. crossed Pelkham Bridge
{271a}--it separates St. Martin's from Camrwyn {271b} parish, as a woman told me who was carrying
a pipkin in which were some potatoes in water but not boiled.  In her other hand she had a
dried herring.  She said she had lived in the parish all her life and could speak no Welsh,
but that there were some people within it who could speak it.  Rested against a shady bank,
{271c} very thirsty and my hurt foot very sore.  She told me that the mountains to the N. were
called by various names.  One the [Clo---?] mountain. {271d}

"The old inn {271e}--the blind woman. {271f}  Arrival of the odd-looking man and the two women
I had passed on the road.  The collier [on] {271g} the ass gives me the real history of Bosvile.
Written in Roche Castle, a kind of oblong tower built on the rock--there is a rock within it,
a huge crag standing towards the East in what was perhaps once a door.  It turned out to be
a chapel. {271h}

"The castle is call'd in Welsh Castel y Garn, a translation of Roche.  The girl and water--B---?
(Nanny) Dallas. {272a}  Dialogue with the Baptist {272b} who was mending the roads.

"Splendid view of sea--isolated rocks to the South.  Sir las {272c} headlands stretching S.
Descent to the shore.  New Gall Bridge. {272d} The collier's wife.  Jemmy Remaunt {272e} was
the name of man on the ass. Her own husband goes to work by the shore.  The ascent round the
hill. Distant view of Roche Castle.  The Welshers, the little village {272f}--all looking down
on the valley appropriately called Y Cwm. Dialogue with tall man Merddyn? {272g}--The Dim o
Clywed."

Not much of this second tour can be shown to have been used in "Wild Wales," where he alludes
to it in the ninety-third chapter, saying that he "long subsequently" found some of the wildest
solitudes and most romantic scenery among the mountains about Tregaron; but the collier may
have given him the suggestion for the encounter with Bosvile in the ninety-eighth chapter.
The spelling points to Borrow's ignorance of the relation of pronunciation and orthography.

In 1858 Borrow's mother died at Oulton and was buried in Oulton churchyard.  During October
and November in that year, partly to take his mind from his bereavement, he was walking in
the Scottish Highlands and Islands.  His note-book contains "nothing of general interest,"
says Knapp, except an imperfect outline of the journey, showing that he was at Oban, Tobermory,
the Mull of Cantire, Glasgow, Perth, Aberdeen, Inverness, Dingwall, Tain, Dornoch, Helmsdale,
Wick, John o'Groats, Thurso, Stromness, Kirkwall, and Lerwick.

In 1860, after taking a house at 20, Hereford Square, West Brompton, he and his wife and stepdaughter
went to Dublin, and himself walked to Connemara and the Giant's Causeway.  His wife thought
this journey "full of adventure and interest," but he left no record of it.  They were again
in Ireland in 1866, Miss Clarke having lately married a Dr. MacOubrey, of Belfast.  Borrow
himself crossed over to Stranraer and had a month's walking in Scotland, to Glen Luce, Castle
Douglas, Dumfries, Ecclefechan, Carlisle, Gilnochie, Hawick, Jedburgh, Yetholm, Kelso, Melrose,
Coldstream, Berwick, and Edinburgh.  He talked to the people, admired the scenery, bathed,
and enjoyed his meals.  He left the briefest of journals, but afterwards, in "Romano Lavo-Lil,"
published an account of the "Gypsy toon" of Kirk Yetholm and how he was introduced to the Gypsy
Queen.  He dropped his umbrella and flung his arms three times up into the air and asked her
in Romany what her name was, and if she was a mumper or a true Gypsy.  She asked him what was
the meaning of this "gibberish," but he describes how gradually he made her declare herself,
and how she examined him in Gypsy and at last offered him a chair, and entered into "deep discourse"
about Gypsy matters.  He talked as he did to such people, saying "Whoy, I calls that a juggal,"
etc.  He found fault with her Romany, which was thin and mixed with Gaelic and cant words.
She told him that he reminded her of her grandfather, Will Faa, "being a tall, lusty man like
himself, and having a skellying look with the left eye, just like him."  He displayed his knowledge
of the affairs of the tribe, both in her country and in England.  She told him that she had
never heard so much Romany before.  She promised to receive him next day, but was out when
he called.

In 1868 he took an autumn walk through Sussex and Hampshire while his wife was at Bognor. 
In the next year his wife died, after being afflicted for some time by troubles connected with
her property, by dropsy, valvular disease of the heart, and "hysteria."  Borrow was melancholy
and irritable, but apparently did not go for another walk in Scotland as was suggested for
a cure; nor ever again did he get far afield on foot.

CHAPTER XXIX--"WILD WALES"

In 1862, between Borrow's two visits to Ireland, his "Wild Wales" was published.  It had been
heralded by an advertisement in 1857, by the publication of the "Sleeping Bard" in 1860, and
by an article on "The Welsh and their Literature" in the "Quarterly" for January, 1861.  This
article quotes "an unpublished work called 'Wild Wales'" and "Mr. Borrow's unpublished work,
'Celtic Bards, Chiefs and Kings.'"  It opened with a vivid story of the coming of Hu Gadarn
and his Cymry to Britain:

"Hu and his people took possession of the best parts of the island, either driving the few
Gaels to other districts or admitting them to their confederacy.  As the country was in a very
wild state, much overgrown with forests in which bears and wolves wandered, and abounding with
deep stagnant pools, which were the haunts of the avanc or crocodile, Hu forthwith set about
clearing it of some of its horrors, and making it more fit to be the abiding place of civilised
beings.  He made his people cut down woods and forests, and destroy, as far as was possible,
wild beasts and crocodiles.  He himself went to a gloomy pool, the haunt of the king of the
efync, baited a huge hook attached to a cable, flung it into the pool, and when the monster
had gorged the snare drew him out by means of certain gigantic oxen, which he had tamed to
the plough, and burnt his horrid, wet, scaly carcass on a fire.  He then caused enclosures
to be made, fields to be ploughed and sown, pleasant wooden houses to be built, bees to be
sheltered and encouraged, and schools to be erected where song and music were taught.  O a
truly great man was Hu Gadarn! though a warrior, he preferred the sickle and pruning hook to
the sword, and the sound of the song and lute to the hoarse blast of the buffalo's horn:

   "The mighty Hu with mead would pay
   The bard for his melodious lay;
   The Emperor of land and sea
   And of all living things was he."

This probably represents Borrow's view of early history, simple, heroical and clear, as it
would have been had he been in command of it.  The article professed to be a review of Borrow's
"Sleeping Bard," and was in fact by Borrow himself.  He had achieved the supreme honour of
reviewing his own work, and, as it fell out, he persuaded the public to buy every copy.  Very
few were found to buy "Wild Wales," notwithstanding.  The first edition of a thousand copies
lasted three years; the second, of three thousand, lasted twenty-three years.  Borrow was ridiculed
for informing his readers that he paid his bill at a Welsh inn, without mentioning the amount.
He was praised for having written "the first clever book . . . in which an honest attempt is
made to do justice to the Welsh literature," for knowing far more than most educated Welshmen
about that literature, and for describing his travels and encounters "with much of the freshness,
humour and geniality of his earlier days," for writing in fact "the best book about Wales ever
published."

Certainly no later book which could be compared with it has been as good, or nearly as good.
As for its predecessors, the "Itinerary" and the "Description" of Gerald of Wales, even setting
aside the charm of antiquity, make a book that is equal to "Wild Wales" for originality, vivacity
and truth.  Of the antiquarian and picturesque travellers in the late eighteenth century and
early nineteenth none wrote anything that is valuable except for some facts and some evidence
of taste.  Borrow himself probably knew few or none of them, though he mentions Gerald. There
is no evidence that he knew the great nineteenth-century collections of Welsh manuscripts and
translations.  He says nothing of the "Mabinogion."  He had apparently never heard of the pedestrian
Iolo Morganwg.  He perhaps never saw Stephens' "Literature of the Kymry."  His knowledge was
picked up anyhow and anywhere from Welsh texts and Lhuyd's "Archaeologia," without system and
with very little friendly discussion or comparison.  Wales, therefore, was to him as wonderful
as Spain, and equally uncharted.  What he saw did not spoil the visionary image, and his enthusiasm
coupled with curiosity gives the book of his travels just the continuous impulse which he never
found for his Cornish, Manx, Irish or Scottish notes.  He was able to fill the book with sympathetic
observation and genial self-revelation.

The book is of course a tourist's book.  Borrow went through the country as a gentleman, running
no risks, and having scarcely an object except to see what was to be seen and to please himself.
He got, as he probably counted on getting, the consideration due to a gentleman who can pay
his way and meets only the humbler sort of people, publicans, farmers, drovers, labourers,
sextons, parish clerks, and men upon the road.  He seldom stayed more than a night or an hour
or two anywhere.  His pictures, therefore, are the impressions of the moment, wrought up at
leisure.  His few weeks in Wales made a book of the same size as an equal number of years in Spain.

Sometimes he writes like a detached observer working from notes, and the result has little
value except in so far as it is a pure record of what was to be seen at such and such a place
in the year 1854.  There are many short passages apparently straight from his notes, dead and
useless.  The description of Llangollen Fair, on August 21, is of this kind, but superior,
and I shall quote it entire:

"The day was dull with occasional showers.  I went to see the fair about noon.  It was held
in and near a little square in the south-east quarter of the town, of which square the police-station
is the principal feature on the side of the west, and an inn, bearing the sign of the Grapes,
on the east.  The fair was a little bustling fair, attended by plenty of people from the country,
and from the English border, and by some who appeared to come from a greater distance than
the border.  A dense row of carts extended from the police-station, half across the space.
These carts were filled with pigs, and had stout cord nettings drawn over them, to prevent
the animals escaping.  By the sides of these carts the principal business of the fair appeared
to be going on--there stood the owners, male and female, higgling with Llangollen men and women,
who came to buy.  The pigs were all small, and the price given seemed to vary from eighteen
to twenty-five shillings.  Those who bought pigs generally carried them away in their arms;
and then there was no little diversion; dire was the screaming of the porkers, yet the purchaser
invariably appeared to know how to manage his bargain, keeping the left arm round the body
of the swine and with the right hand fast gripping the ear--some few were led away by strings.
There were some Welsh cattle, small of course, and the purchasers of these seemed to be Englishmen,
tall burly fellows in general, far exceeding the Welsh in height and size.

"Much business in the cattle-line did not seem, however, to be going on. Now and then a big
fellow made an offer, and held out his hand for a little Pictish grazier to give it a slap--a
cattle bargain being concluded by a slap of the hand--but the Welshman generally turned away,
with a half-resentful exclamation.  There were a few horses and ponies in a street leading
into the fair from the south.

"I saw none sold, however.  A tall athletic figure was striding amongst them, evidently a jockey
and a stranger, looking at them and occasionally asking a slight question of one or another
of their proprietors, but he did not buy.  He might in age be about eight-and-twenty, and about
six feet and three-quarters of an inch in height; in build he was perfection itself--a better-built
man I never saw.  He wore a cap and a brown jockey coat, trowsers, leggings, and highlows,
and sported a single spur.  He had whiskers--all jockeys should have whiskers--but he had what
I did not like, and what no genuine jockey should have, a moustache, which looks coxcombical
and Frenchified--but most things have terribly changed since I was young.  Three or four hardy-looking
fellows, policemen, were gliding about in their blue coats and leather hats, holding their
thin walking-sticks behind them; conspicuous amongst whom was the leader, a tall lathy North
Briton with a keen eye and hard features.  Now if I add there was much gabbling of Welsh round
about, and here and there some slight sawing of English--that in the street leading from the
north there were some stalls of gingerbread and a table at which a queer-looking being with
a red Greek-looking cap on his head, sold rhubarb, herbs, and phials containing the Lord knows
what, and who spoke a low vulgar English dialect,--I repeat, if I add this, I think I have
said all that is necessary about Llangollen Fair."

But this is a somewhat exceptional passage, and the same detachment is rarely found except
in his descriptions of scenery, which are short and serve well enough to remind the reader
of the great hills, the rapid waters, the rocks, and the furnaces, chimneys and pits.  Borrow
certainly does remind us of these things.  In the first place he does so by a hundred minute
and scattered suggestions of the romantic and sublime, and so general that only a pedant will
object to the nightingales which he heard singing in August near Bethesda.  He gives us black
mountains, gloomy shadows, cascades falling into lakes, "singular-looking" rocks, and mountain
villages like one in Castile or La Mancha but for the trees, mountains that made him exclaim:
"I have had Heaven opened to me," moors of a "wretched russet colour," "black gloomy narrow
glens."  He can also be precise and connoisseur-like, as when he describes the cataract at
Llan Rhaiadr:

"What shall I liken it to?  I scarcely know, unless to an immense skein of silk agitated and
disturbed by tempestuous blasts, or to the long tail of a grey courser at furious speed.  Through
the profusion of long silvery threads or hairs, or what looked such, I could here and there
see the black sides of the crag down which the Rhyadr precipitated itself with something between
a boom and a roar."

He is still more a connoisseur when he continues:

"I never saw water falling so gracefully, so much like thin beautiful threads as here.  Yet
even this cataract has its blemish.  What beautiful object has not something which more or
less mars its loveliness?  There is an ugly black bridge or semicircle of rock, about two feet
in diameter and about twenty feet high, which rises some little way below it, and under which
the water, after reaching the bottom, passes, which intercepts the sight, and prevents it from
taking in the whole fall at once.  This unsightly object has stood where it now stands since
the day of creation, and will probably remain there to the day of judgment.  It would be a
desecration of nature to remove it by art, but no one could regret if nature in one of her
floods were to sweep it away."

In another place he tells a poor man that he believes in the sea-serpent, and has a story of
one seen in the very neighbourhood where he meets the man.  Immediately after the description
of the lake there is a proof--one of many--that he was writing straight from notes.  Speaking
of a rivulet, he says: "It was crossed by two bridges, one immensely old and terribly delapidated,
the other old enough, but in better repair--went and drank under the oldest bridge of the two."
The book is large and strong enough to stand many such infinitesimal blemishes.

Alongside of the sublime I will put what Borrow says he liked better.  My mind for the last
half-hour had been in a highly-excited state; I had been repeating verses of old Huw Morus,
brought to my recollection by the sight of his dwelling-place; they were ranting roaring verses,
against the Roundheads.  I admired the vigour, but disliked the principles which they displayed;
and admiration on the one hand, and disapproval on the other, bred a commotion in my mind like
that raised on the sea when tide runs one way and wind blows another.  The quiet scene from
the bridge, however, produced a sedative effect on my mind, and when I resumed my journey I
had forgotten Huw, his verses, and all about Roundheads and Cavaliers."

But it must be said that if the book is on the whole a cheerful one, its cheerfulness not only
receives a foil from the rhetorical sublime, but is a little misted by a melancholy note here
and there.  Thus he sees "a melancholy ship" out on the sea near Holyhead.  He qualifies russet
twice as "wretched" in describing a moor.  He speaks of "strange-looking" hills near Pont Erwyd,
and again near the Devil's Bridge.  His moods were easily changed.  He speaks of "wretched
russet hills," with no birds singing, but only "the lowing of a wretched bullock," and then
of beautiful hills that filled his veins with fresh life so that he walked on merrily.

As for his people, it cannot be asserted that they are always alive though they are often very
Welsh.  They are sketched, with dialogue and description, after the manner of "The Bible in
Spain," though being nearer home they had to be more modest in their peculiarities.  He establishes
Welsh enthusiasm, hospitality and suspiciousness, in a very friendly manner.  The poet-innkeeper
is an excellent sketch of a mild but by no means spiritless type.  He is accompanied by a man
with a bulging shoe who drinks ale and continually ejaculates: "The greatest poet in the world";
for example, when Borrow asks: "Then I have the honour to be seated with a bard of Anglesey?"
"Tut, tut," says the bard.  Borrow agrees with him that envy--which has kept him from the bardic
chair--will not always prevail:

"'Sir,' said the man in grey, 'I am delighted to hear you.  Give me your hand, your honourable
hand.  Sir, you have now felt the hand-grasp of a Welshman, to say nothing of an Anglesey bard,
and I have felt that of a Briton, perhaps a bard, a brother, sir?  O, when I first saw your
face out there in the dyffryn, I at once recognised in it that of a kindred spirit, and I felt
compelled to ask you to drink.  Drink, sir! but how is this? the jug is empty--how is this?--O,
I see--my friend, sir, though an excellent individual, is indiscreet, sir--very indiscreet.
Landlord, bring this moment another jug of ale.'

"'The greatest prydydd,' stuttered he of the bulged shoe--'the greatest prydydd--Oh--'

"'Tut, tut,' said the man in grey.

"'I speak the truth and care for no one,' said he of the tattered hat.  'I say the greatest
prydydd.  Did you not hear me say that I would give a quart of ale to see a poet?'

"'A poet's face,' said the man in grey, 'should be common to all, even like that of the sun.
He is no true poet, who would keep his face from the world.'

"'But,' said I, 'the sun frequently hides his head from the world, behind a cloud.'

"'Not so,' said the man in grey.  'The sun does not hide his face, it is the cloud that hides
it.  The sun is always glad enough to be seen, and so is the poet.  If both are occasionally
hid, trust me it is no fault of theirs.  Bear that in mind; and now pray take up your money.'

"'That man is a gentleman,' thought I to myself, 'whether poet or not; but I really believe
him to be a poet; were he not he could hardly talk in the manner I have just heard him.'

"The man in grey now filled my glass, his own and that of his companion. The latter emptied
his in a minute, not forgetting first to say 'the best prydydd in all the world!'  The man
in grey was also not slow to empty his own.  The jug now passed rapidly between my two friends,
for the poet seemed determined to have his full share of the beverage.  I allowed the ale in
my glass to remain untasted, and began to talk about the bards, and to quote from their works.
I soon found that the man in grey knew quite as much of the old bards and their works as myself.
In one instance he convicted me of a mistake.

"I had quoted those remarkable lines in which an old bard, doubtless seeing the Menai Bridge
by means of second sight, says: 'I will pass to the land of Mona notwithstanding the waters
of Menai, without waiting for the ebb'--and was feeling not a little proud of my erudition
when the man in grey, after looking at me for a moment fixedly, asked me the name of the bard
who composed them--'Sion Tudor,' I replied.

"'There you are wrong,' said the man in grey; 'his name was not Sion Tudor, but Robert Vychan,
in English, Little Bob.  Sion Tudor wrote an englyn on the Skerries whirlpool in the Menai;
but it was Little Bob who wrote the stanza in which the future bridge over the Menai is hinted at.'

"'You are right,' said I, 'you are right.  Well, I am glad that all song and learning are not
dead in Ynis Fon.'

"'Dead,' said the man in grey, whose features began to be rather flushed, 'they are neither
dead, nor ever will be.  There are plenty of poets in Anglesey. . . .'"

The whole sketch is in Borrow's liberal unqualified style, but keeping on the right side of
caricature.  The combination of modesty, touchiness and pride, without humour, is typical and
happily caught.

The chief fault of his Welsh portraits, in fact, is his almost invariable, and almost always
unnecessary, exhibition of his own superiority.  He is nearly always the big clever gentleman
catechizing certain quaint little rustic foreigners.  He met one old man with a crabstick who
told him his Welsh was almost as bad as his English, and a drover who had the advantage of
him in decided opinions and a sense of superiority, and put him down as a pig-jobber; but these
are exceptions. He is not unkind, but on the other hand he forgets that as a rule his size,
his purse, and his remarkable appearance and qualities put his casual hosts very much at a
disadvantage, and he is thus led to exaggerate what suspiciousness he observed.

His success is all the more wonderful when his position and his almost total lack of condescension
and concession are considered, but considered they must be.  When he met a Welsh clergyman
who could talk about the Welsh language, Huw Morus and ale, he said nothing about him except
that he was "a capital specimen of the Welsh country clergyman.  His name was Walter Jones."
Too often he merely got answers to his questions, which break up his pages in an agreeable
manner, but do little more.  In such conversations we should fare ill indeed if one of the
parties were not Borrow, and even as it is, he can be tedious beyond the limits necessary for
truth.  I will give an example:

"After a little time I entered into conversation with my guide.  He had not a word of English.
'Are you married?' said I.

"'In truth I am, sir.'

"'What family have you?'

"'I have a daughter.'

"'Where do you live?'

"'At the house of the Rhyadr.'

"'I suppose you live there as servant?'

"'No, sir, I live there as master.'

"'Is the good woman I saw there your wife?'

"'In truth, sir, she is.'

"'And the young girl I saw your daughter?'

"'Yes, sir, she is my daughter.'

"'And how came the good woman not to tell me you were her husband?'

"'I suppose, sir, you did not ask who I was, and she thought you did not care to know.' . . ."

To multiply instances might cease to be amusing.  It may have been Borrow's right way of getting
what he wanted, though it sounds like a Charity Organization inquisitor.  As to the effectiveness
of setting down every step of the process instead of the result, there can hardly be two opinions,
unless the reader prefers an impression of the wandering inquisitive gentleman to one of the
people questioned.  Probably these barren dialogues may be set down to indolence or to the
too facile adoption of a trick.  They are too casual and slight to be exact, and on the other
hand they are too literal to give a direct impression.

Luckily he diversified such conversation with stories of poets and robbers, gleaned from his
books or from wayside company.  The best of this company was naturally not the humble homekeeping
publican or cottager, but the man or woman of the roads, Gypsy or Irish.

The best man in the book is the Irish fiddler, with a shock of red hair, a hat that had lost
part of its crown and all its rim, and a game leg. This Irishman in the early part of the book
and the Irishwoman at the end are characters that Borrow could put his own blood into.  He
has done so in a manner equal to anything in the same kind in his earlier books.  I shall quote
the whole interview with the man.  It is an admirable piece of imagination.  If any man thinks
it anything else, let him spend ten years in taking down conversations in trains and taverns
and ten years in writing them up, and should he have anything as good as this to show, he has
a most rare talent:

"'Good morning to you,' said I.

"'A good marning to your hanner, a merry afternoon, and a roaring joyous evening--that is the
worst luck I wish to ye.'

"'Are you a native of these parts?' said I.

"'Not exactly, your hanner--I am a native of the city of Dublin, or, what's all the same thing,
of the village of Donnybrook which is close by it.'

"'A celebrated place,' said I.

"'Your hanner may say that; all the world has heard of Donnybrook, owing to the humours of
its fair.  Many is the merry tune I have played to the boys at that fair.'

"'You are a professor of music, I suppose?'

"'And not a very bad one as your hanner will say if you will allow me to play you a tune.'

"'Can you play "Croppies Lie Down"?'

"'I cannot, your hanner; my fingers never learnt to play such a blackguard tune; but if ye
wish to hear "Croppies Get Up" I can oblige ye.'

"'You are a Roman Catholic, I suppose?'

"'I am not, your hanner--I am a Catholic to the backbone, just like my father before me.  Come,
your hanner, shall I play ye "Croppies Get Up"?'

"'No,' said I; 'It's a tune that doesn't please my ears.  If, however, you choose to play "Croppies
Lie Down," I'll give you a shilling.'

"'Your hanner will give me a shilling?'

"'Yes,' said I, 'if you play "Croppies Lie Down": but you know you cannot play it, your fingers
never learned the tune.'

"'They never did, your hanner; but they have heard it played of ould by the blackguard Orange
fiddlers of Dublin on the first of July, when the Protestant boys used to walk round Willie's
statue on College Green--so if your hanner gives me the shilling they may perhaps bring out
something like it.'

"'Very good,' said I; 'begin!'

"'But, your hanner, what shall we do for the words?  Though my fingers may remember the tune,
my tongue does not remember the words--that is unless . . .'

"'I give another shilling,' said I; 'but never mind you the words; I know the words, and will
repeat them.'

"'And your hanner will give me a shilling?'

"'If you play the tune,' said I.

"'Hanner bright, your hanner?'

"'Honour bright,' said I.

"Thereupon the fiddler, taking his bow and shouldering his fiddle, struck up in first-rate
style the glorious tune, which I had so often heard with rapture in the days of my boyhood
in the barrack yard of Clonmel; whilst I walking by his side as he stumped along, caused the
welkin to resound with the words, which were the delight of the young gentlemen of the Protestant
academy of that beautiful old town.

"'I never heard those words before,' said the fiddler, after I had finished the first stanza.

"'Get on with you,' said I.

"'Regular Orange words!' said the fiddler, on my finishing the second stanza.

"'Do you choose to get on?' said I.

"'More blackguard Orange words I never heard!' cried the fiddler, on my coming to the conclusion
of the third stanza.  'Divil a bit farther will I play; at any rate till I get the shilling.'

"'Here it is for you,' said I; 'the song is ended and of course the tune.'

"'Thank your hanner,' said the fiddler, taking the money, 'your hanner has kept your word with
me, which is more than I thought your hanner would.  And now, your hanner, let me ask you why
did your hanner wish for that tune, which is not only a blackguard one, but quite out of date;
and where did your hanner get the words?'

"'I used to hear the tune in my boyish days,' said I, 'and wished to hear it again, for though
you call it a blackguard tune, it is the sweetest and most noble air that Ireland, the land
of music, has ever produced.  As for the words, never mind where I got them; they are violent
enough, but not half so violent as the words of some of the songs made against the Irish Protestants
by the priests.'

"'Your hanner is an Orange man, I see.  Well, your hanner, the Orange is now in the kennel,
and the Croppies have it all their own way.'

"'And perhaps,' said I, 'before I die, the Orange will be out of the kennel and the Croppies
in, even as they were in my young days.'

"'Who knows, your hanner? and who knows that I may not play the ould tune round Willie's image
in College Green, even as I used some twenty-seven years ago?'

"'O then you have been an Orange fiddler?'

"'I have, your hanner.  And now as your hanner has behaved like a gentleman to me I will tell
ye all my history.  I was born in the city of Dublin, that is in the village of Donnybrook,
as I tould your hanner before.  It was to the trade of bricklaying I was bred, and bricklaying
I followed till at last, getting my leg smashed, not by falling off the ladder, but by a row
in the fair, I was obliged to give it up, for how could I run up the ladder with a patten on
my foot, which they put on to make my broken leg as long as the other.  Well, your hanner;
being obliged to give up my bricklaying, I took to fiddling, to which I had always a natural
inclination, and played about the streets, and at fairs, and wakes, and weddings.  At length
some Orange men getting acquainted with me, and liking my style of playing, invited me to their
lodge, where they gave me to drink, and tould me that if I would change my religion and join
them, and play their tunes, they would make it answer my purpose.  Well, your hanner, without
much stickling I gave up my Popery, joined the Orange lodge, learned the Orange tunes, and
became a regular Protestant boy, and truly the Orange men kept their word, and made it answer
my purpose.  O the meat and drink I got, and the money I made by playing at the Orange lodges
and before the processions when the Orange men paraded the streets with their Orange colours.
And O, what a day for me was the glorious first of July when with my whole body covered with
Orange ribbons I fiddled "Croppies Lie Down"--"Boyne Water," and the "Protestant Boys" before
the procession which walked round Willie's figure on horseback in College Green, the man and
horse all ablaze with Orange colours.  But nothing lasts under the sun, as your hanner knows;
Orangeism began to go down; the Government scowled at it, and at last passed a law preventing
the Protestant boys dressing up the figure on the first of July, and walking round it.  That
was the death-blow of the Orange party, your hanner; they never recovered it, but began to
despond and dwindle, and I with them, for there was scarcely any demand for Orange tunes. 
Then Dan O'Connell arose with his emancipation and repale cries, and then instead of Orange
processions and walkings, there were Papist processions and mobs, which made me afraid to stir
out, lest knowing me for an Orange fiddler, they should break my head, as the boys broke my
leg at Donnybrook fair.  At length some of the repalers and emancipators knowing that I was
a first-rate hand at fiddling came to me, and tould me, that if I would give over playing "Croppies
Lie Down" and other Orange tunes, and would play "Croppies Get Up," and what not, and become
a Catholic and a repaler, and an emancipator, they would make a man of me--so as my Orange
trade was gone, and I was half-starved, I consinted, not however till they had introduced me
to Daniel O'Connell, who called me a credit to my country, and the Irish Horpheus, and promised
me a sovereign if I would consint to join the cause, as he called it.  Well, your hanner, I
joined with the cause and became a Papist, I mane a Catholic once more, and went at the head
of processions, covered all over with green ribbons, playing "Croppies Get Up," "Granny Whale,"
and the like.  But, your hanner; though I went the whole hog with the repalers and emancipators,
they did not make their words good by making a man of me.  Scant and sparing were they in the
mate and drink, and yet more sparing in the money, and Daniel O'Connell never gave me the sovereign
which he promised me.  No, your hanner, though I played "Croppies Get Up," till my fingers
ached, as I stumped before him and his mobs and processions, he never gave me the sovereign:
unlike your hanner who gave me the shilling ye promised me for playing "Croppies Lie Down,"
Daniel O'Connell never gave me the sovereign he promised me for playing "Croppies Get Up."
Och, your hanner, I often wished the ould Orange days were back again.  However as I could
do no better I continued going the whole hog with the emancipators and repalers and Dan O'Connell;
I went the whole animal with them till they had got emancipation; and I went the whole animal
with them till they nearly got repale--when all of a sudden they let the whole thing drop--Dan
and his party having frighted the Government out of its seven senses, and gotten all they thought
they could get, in money and places, which was all they wanted, let the whole hullabaloo drop,
and of course myself, who formed part of it.  I went to those who had persuaded me to give
up my Orange tunes, and to play Papist ones, begging them to give me work; but they tould me
very civilly that they had no farther occasion for my services.  I went to Daniel O'Connell
reminding him of the sovereign he had promised me, and offering if he gave it me to play "Croppies
Get Up" under the nose of the lord-lieutenant himself; but he tould me that he had not time
to attend to me, and when I persisted, bade me go to the Divil and shake myself. Well, your
hanner, seeing no prospect for myself in my own country, and having incurred some little debts,
for which I feared to be arrested, I came over to England and Wales, where with little content
and satisfaction I have passed seven years.'

"'Well,' said I, 'thank you for your history--farewell.'

"'Stap, your hanner; does your hanner think that the Orange will ever be out of the kennel,
and that the Orange boys will ever walk round the brass man and horse in College Green as they
did of ould?'

"'Who knows?' said I.  'But suppose all that were to happen, what would it signify to you?'

"'Why then Divil in my patten if I would not go back to Donnybrook and Dublin, hoist the Orange
cockade, and become as good an Orange boy as ever.'

"'What,' said I, 'and give up Popery for the second time?'

"'I would, your hanner; and why not? for in spite of what I have heard Father Toban say, I
am by no means certain that all Protestants will be damned.'

"'Farewell,' said I.

"'Farewell, your hanner, and long life and prosperity to you!  God bless your hanner and your
Orange face.  Ah, the Orange boys are the boys for keeping faith.  They never served me as
Dan O'Connell and his dirty gang of repalers and emancipators did.  Farewell, your hanner,
once more; and here's another scratch of the illigant tune your hanner is so fond of, to cheer
up your hanner's ears upon your way.'

"And long after I had left him I could hear him playing on his fiddle in first-rate style the
beautiful tune of 'Down, down, Croppies Lie Down.'"

CHAPTER XXX--"WILD WALES" (continued)

Much more than in any of his other books Borrow is the hero in "Wild Wales"--a strange black-coated
gentleman with white hair striding over the hills and along the rivers, carrying an umbrella,
asking innumerable questions and giving infinite information about history, literature, religion,
politics, and minor matters, willing to talk to anyone, but determined not to put up at a trampers'
hostelry.  The Irish at Chester took him for a minister, the Irish reapers in Anglesey took
him for a priest and got him to bless them in Latin while they knelt.  All wondered to hear
the Saxon speaking or reading in Welsh.  A man who could speak Spanish addressed him in that
language as a foreigner--"'I can't tell you how it was, sir,' said he, looking me very innocently
in the face, 'but I was forced to speak Spanish to you.'"  At Pentre Dwr the man with the pigs
heard his remarks on pigs and said: "I see you are in the trade and understand a thing or two."
The man on the road south to Tregaron told him that he looked and spoke like the Earl of Leicester.

He reveals himself also without recourse to impartial men upon the road. The mere figure of
the tall man inquiring for the birthplaces of poets and literally translating place names for
their meaning, is very powerful in holding the attention.  He does not conceal his opinions.
Some were already familiar to readers of Borrow, his admiration for Smollett and for Scott
as a writer, his hate of gentility, Cavaliers, Papists, France, sherry, and teetotalism.  The
Chester ale he spirted out of the window after the Chester cheese.  To his subjects of admiration
he also adds Robert Southey, as "not the least of Britain's four great latter poets, decidedly
her best prose writer, and probably the purest and most noble character to which she has ever
given birth"; but this was when he was thinking of Madoc, the Welsh discoverer of America.
I should be sorry to have to name any of the other "four poets" except Byron. Another literary
dictum is that Macpherson's "Ossian" is genuine because a book which followed it and was undoubtedly
genuine bore a strong resemblance to it.  An opinion that shows as fully as any single one
could Borrow's vivid and vague inaccuracy and perversity is this of Snowdon:

"But it is from its connection with romance that Snowdon derives its chief interest.  Who when
he thinks of Snowdon does not associate it with the heroes of romance, Arthur and his knights?
whose fictitious adventures, the splendid dreams of Welsh and Breton minstrels, many of the
scenes of which are the valleys and passes of Snowdon, are the origin of romance, before which
what is classic has for more than half a century been waning, and is perhaps eventually destined
to disappear.  Yes, to romance Snowdon is indebted for its interest and consequently for its
celebrity; but for romance Snowdon would assuredly not be what it at present is, one of the
very celebrated hills of the world, and to the poets of modern Europe almost what Parnassus
was to those of old."

Who associates Snowdon with Arthur, and what Arthurian stories have the valleys and passes
of Snowdon for their scenes? what "poets of modern Europe" have sung of it?  And yet Borrow
has probably often carried this point with his reader.

Borrow as a Christian is very conspicuous in this book.  He cannot speak of Sir Henry Morgan
without calling him "a scourge of God on the cruel Spaniards of the New World. . . . On which
account God prospered and favoured him, permitting him to attain the noble age of ninety."
He was fond of discovering the hand of God, for example, in changing a nunnery--"a place devoted
to gorgeous idolatry and obscene lust"--into a quiet old barn: "Surely," he asks, "the hand
of God is visible here?" and the respectful mower answers: "It is so, sir."  In the same way,
when he has told a man called Dafydd Tibbot, that he is a Frenchman--"Dearie me, sir, am I
indeed?" says the man, very pleased--he supposes the man a descendant of a proud, cruel, violent
Norman, for the descendants of proud, cruel and violent men "are doomed by God to come to the
dogs."  He tells us that he comforted himself, after thinking that his wife and daughter and
himself would before long be dead, by the reflection that "such is the will of Heaven, and
that Heaven is good."  He showed his respect for Sunday by going to church and hesitating to
go to Plynlimmon--"It is really not good to travel on the Sunday without going into a place
of worship."  He wished, as he passed Gwynfe, which means Paradise,--or Gwynfa does; but no
matter,--that he had never read Tom Payne, who "thinks there's not such a place as Paradise."
He lectures a poet's mistress for not staying with her hunchbacked old husband and making him
comfortable: he expresses satisfaction at the poet's late repentance.  After praising Dafydd
as the Welsh Ovid and Horace and Martial, he says:

"Finally, he was something more; he was what not one of the great Latin poets was, a Christian;
that is, in his latter days, when he began to feel the vanity of all human pursuits, when his
nerves began to be unstrung, his hair to fall off, and his teeth to drop out, and he then composed
sacred pieces entitling him to rank with--we were going to say Caedmon--had we done so we should
have done wrong; no uninspired poet ever handled sacred subjects like the grand Saxon Skald--but
which entitle him to be called a great religious poet, inferior to none but the protege of Hilda."

(Here, by the way, he omits to correct the plural unity of the "Quarterly Reviewer.")

But perhaps these remarks are not more than the glib commonplaces of a man who had found Christianity
convenient, but not exactly sufficient.  In another place he says: "The wisest course evidently
is to combine a portion of the philosophy of the tombstone with a portion of the philosophy
of the publican and something more, to enjoy one's pint and pipe and other innocent pleasures,
and to think every now and then of death and judgment--that is what I intend to do, and indeed
is what I have done for the last thirty years."  Which is as much as to say that he was of
"the religion of all sensible men": which is as much as to say that he did not greatly trouble
about such matters.

In the cognate matter of patriotism Borrow is superficially more unsound in "Wild Wales." 
At Birmingham railway station he "became a modern Englishman, enthusiastically proud of modern
England's science and energy"; at the sight of Norman castles he felt no Norman enthusiasm,
but only hate for the Norman name, which he associated with "the deflowering of helpless Englishwomen,
the plundering of English homesteads, and the tearing out of Englishmen's eyes"; but when he
was asked on Snowdon if he was a Breton, he replied: "I wish I was, or anything but what I
am, one of a nation amongst whom any knowledge save what relates to money-making and over-reaching
is looked upon as a disgrace.  I am ashamed to say that I am an Englishman."  And at Gutter
Fawr he gloomily expressed the opinion that we were not going to beat the Russians--"the Russians
are a young nation and we are an old; they are coming on and we are going off; every dog has
its day."  But this was mere refractoriness.  England had not asked his advice; she had moreover
joined forces with her old enemy, France: the patriot therefore hoped that she would perish
to fulfil his own prophecy that she must.  And after the vaticination he sat down to a large
dish of veal cutlets, fried bacon and potatoes, with a jug of ale, and "made one of the best
suppers he ever made in his life," finally "trifling" with some whisky and water.  That is
"the religion of every sensible man," which is Lord Tennyson's phrase, I believe, but my interpretation.

CHAPTER XXXI--"WILD WALES": STYLE

"Wild Wales" having been written from a tourist's note books is less flowing than "The Bible
in Spain" and less delicate than "Lavengro" and "The Romany Rye."  A man is often called an
"individual," the sun is called "the candle of God."  A book just bought is "my late literary
acquisition."  Facts such as "I returned to Llangollen by nearly the same way by which I had
come," abound.  Sentences straight from his note book, lacking either in subject or predicate,
occur here and there.  At times a clause with no sort of value is admitted, as when, forgetting
the name of Kilvey Hill, he says that Swansea town and harbour "are overhung on the side of
the east by a lofty green mountain with a Welsh name, no doubt exceedingly appropriate, but
which I regret to say has escaped my memory."

{picture: The Dolaucothy Arms.  Photo: A. & G. Taylor, Swansea: page302.jpg}

More than once his direct simplicity slips into what could hardly have been supposed to be
within the power of such a pen, as in this conclusion to a chapter:

"How one enjoys one's supper at one's inn, after a good day's walk, provided one has the proud
and glorious consciousness of being able to pay one's reckoning on the morrow!"

Nor is the reader ever allowed to forget that a massive unfeeling Victorianism is the basis
of Borrow's style.  Thus he tells the story of the Treachery of the Long Knives:

"Hengist, wishing to become paramount in Southern Britain, thought that the easiest way to
accomplish his wish would be by destroying the South British chieftains.  Not believing that
he should be able to make away with them by open force, he determined to see what he could
do by treachery.  Accordingly he invited the chieftains to a banquet, to be held near Stonehenge,
or the Hanging Stones, on Salisbury Plain.  The unsuspecting chieftains accepted the invitation,
and on the appointed day repaired to the banquet, which was held in a huge tent.  Hengist received
them with a smiling countenance, and every appearance of hospitality, and caused them to sit
down to table, placing by the side of every Briton one of his own people.  The banquet commenced
and all seemingly was mirth and hilarity.  Now Hengist had commanded his people that, when
he should get up and cry 'nemet eoure saxes,' that is, take your knives, each Saxon should
draw his long sax, or knife, which he wore at his side, and should plunge it into the throat
of his neighbour.  The banquet went on, and in the midst of it, when the unsuspecting Britons
were revelling on the good cheer which had been provided for them, and half-drunken with the
mead and beer which flowed in torrents, uprose Hengist, and with a voice of thunder uttered
the fatal words, 'nemet eoure saxes'; the cry was obeyed, each Saxon grasped his knife, and
struck with it at the throat of his defenceless neighbour.  Almost every blow took effect;
only three British chieftains escaping from the banquet of blood.  This infernal carnage the
Welsh have appropriately denominated the treachery of the long knives.  It will be as well
to observe that the Saxons derived their name from the saxes, or long knives, which they wore
at their sides, and at the use of which they were terribly proficient."

Even so, Borrow's personal vitality triumphs, as it does over his many mistakes, such as Lledach
for Clydach, in Welsh orthography.  There is perhaps hardly such a thing as prose which shall
be accounted perfect by every different age: but what is most important of all, the harmony
of style which gradually steals upon the reader and subjects him to incalculable minor effects,
is not the property of any one age, but of every age; and Victorian prose in general, and Borrow's
in particular, attains it.  "Wild Wales" is rough in grain; it can be long-winded, slovenly
and dull: but it can also be read; and if the whole, or any large portion, be read continuously
it will give a lively and true impression of a beautiful, diverse country, of a distinctive
people, and of a number of vivid men and women, including Borrow himself.  It is less rich
than "The Bible in Spain," less atmospheric than "Lavengro."  It is Borrow's for reasons which
lie open to the view, not on account of any hidden pervasive quality.  Thus what exaggeration
there is may easily be seen, as when a fallow deer is described as equal to a bull in size,
or when carn-lleidyr is said to be one "who, being without house and home, was more desperate
than other thieves, and as savage and brutish as the wolves and foxes with whom he occasionally
shared his pillow, the earn." As a rule he keeps us upon an everyday normal plane.  The bard
of Anglesey and the man who attends upon him come through no ivory gate:

"They saluted me; I returned their salutation, and then we all three stood still looking at
one another.  One of the men was rather a tall figure, about forty, dressed in grey, or pepper-and-salt,
with a cap of some kind on his head, his face was long and rather good-looking, though slightly
pock-broken.  There was a peculiar gravity upon it.  The other person was somewhat about sixty--he
was much shorter than his companion, and much worse dressed--he wore a hat that had several
holes in it, a dusty, rusty black coat, much too large for him; ragged yellow velveteen breeches,
indifferent fustian gaiters, and shoes, cobbled here and there, one of which had rather an
ugly bulge by the side near the toes.  His mouth was exceedingly wide, and his nose remarkably
long; its extremity of a deep purple; upon his features was a half-simple smile or leer; in
his hand was a long stick."

{picture: Dolaucothy House.

To the merit of this the whole book, perhaps the whole of Borrow's work, contributes.  Simple-looking
tranquil successes of this kind are the privilege of a master, and when they occur they proclaim
the master with a voice which, though gentle, will find but few confessing to be deaf to it.
They are not frequent in "Wild Wales."  Borrow had set himself too difficult a task to succeed
altogether with his methods and at his age. Wales was not unknown land; De Quincey, Shelley,
and Peacock, had been there in his own time; and Borrow had not sufficient impulse or opportunity
to transfigure it as he had done Spain; nor had he the time behind him, if he had the power
still, to treat it as he had done the country of his youth in "Lavengro" and "The Romany Rye."

CHAPTER XXXII--"ROMANO LAVO-LIL"

Ambition, with a little revenge, helped to impel Borrow to write "Lavengro" and "The Romany
Rye."  Some of this ambition was left over for "Wild Wales," which he began and finished before
the publication of "The Romany Rye."  There was little of any impulse left for the writing
of books after "Wild Wales."  In 1862 and 1863 he published in "Once a Week" some translations
in prose and verse, from Manx, Russian, Danish and Norse--one poem, on Harald Harfagr, being
illustrated by Frederick Sandys.  He never published the two-volume books, advertised as "ready
for the press" in 1857, "Celtic Bards, Chiefs, and Kings," "Kaempe Viser . . . translated from
the Ancient Danish," "Northern Skalds, Kings and Earls."

Borrow was living in Hereford Square, seeing many people, occasionally dining well, walking
out into the suburban country, and visiting the Gypsy camps in London.  He made notes of his
observations and conversations, which, says Knapp, "are not particularly edifying," whatever
that may mean.  Knapp gives one example from the manuscript, describing the race at Brompton,
on October 14, 1861, between Deerfoot, the Seneca Indian, and Jackson, the "American Deer."
Borrow also wrote for the "Antiquities of the Royal School of Norwich," an autobiography too
long for insertion.  This survived to be captured and printed by Knapp.  It is very inaccurate,
but it serves to corroborate parts of "Lavengro," and its inaccuracy, though now transparent,
is characteristically exaggerated or picturesque.

Borrow's scattered notes would perhaps never have been published in his lifetime, but for an
accident.  In 1870 Charles Godfrey Leland, author of "Hans Breitmann," introduced himself to
Borrow as one who had read "The Zincali," "Lavengro," and "The Romany Rye," five times.  Borrow
answered that he would be pleased to see him at any time.  They met and Leland sent Borrow
his "Breitmann Ballads" because of the German Romany ballad in it, and his "Music Lesson of
Confucius" because of the poem in it inspired by Borrow's reference to Svend Vonved in "The
Romany Rye." Leland confessed in a genial familiar way what "an incredible influence" Borrow's
books had had on him, and thanked him for the "instructions in 'The Romany Rye' as to taking
care of a horse on a thirty-mile ride." Borrow became jealous of this American "Romany Rye."
Leland, suspecting nothing, wrote offering him the dedication of his "English Gypsies."  John
Murray assured Leland that Borrow received this letter, but it was never acknowledged except
by the speedy announcement of a new book--"Romano Lavo-Lil: a word book of the Romany or English
Gypsy Language, by George Borrow, with specimens of Gypsy poetry, and an account of certain
Gypsyries or places inhabited by them, and of various things relating to Gypsy life in England."
Leland speaks of the affair in "The Gypsies," saying that he had nothing but pleasant memories
of the good old Romany Rye:

"A grand old fellow he was--a fresh and hearty giant, holding his six- feet-two or three inches
as uprightly at eighty as he ever had at eighteen.  I believe that was his age, but may be
wrong.  Borrow was like one of the old Norse heroes, whom he so much admired, or an old-fashioned
Gypsy bruiser, full of craft and merry tricks.  One of these he played on me, and I bear him
no malice for it.  The manner of the joke was this: I had written a book on the English Gypsies
and their language; but before I announced it, I wrote a letter to Father George, telling him
that I proposed to print it, and asking his permission to dedicate it to him.  He did not answer
the letter, but 'worked the tip' promptly enough, for he immediately announced in the newspapers
on the following Monday his 'Word- book of the Romany Language,' 'with many pieces in Gypsy,
illustrative of the way of speaking and thinking of the English Gypsies, with specimens of
their poetry, and an account of various things relating to Gypsy life in England.'  This was
exactly what I had told him that my book would contain. . . . I had no ill-feeling about it.

"My obligations to him for 'Lavengro' and 'The Romany Rye' and his other works are such as
I owe to few men.  I have enjoyed Gypsying more than any other sport in the world, and I owe
my love of it to George Borrow."

"The English Gypsies" appeared in 1873, and the "Romano Lavo-Lil" in 1874.

"Romano Lavo-Lil" contains a note on the English Gypsy language, a word- book, some Gypsy songs
and anecdotes with English translations, a list of Gypsy names of English counties and towns,
and accounts of several visits to Gypsy camps in London and the country.  It was hastily put
together, and the word-book, for example, did not include all the Romany used in "Lavengro"
and "The Romany Rye."  There were now critics capable of discovering other shortcomings.

Borrow's book was reviewed along with Leland's "English Gypsies" and Dr. Miklosich's "Dialects
and Migrations of the Gypsies in Europe," and he was attacked for his derivations, his ignorance
of philology and of other writers on his subject, his sketchy knowledge of languages, his interference
with the purity of the idiom in his Romany specimens.  His Gypsy songs were found interesting,
his translations, of course, bad.  The final opinion of the book as a book on the Gypsy language
was: {310}

"Whether or not Mr. Borrow has in the course of his long experience become the deep Gypsy which
he has always been supposed to be, we cannot say; but it is certain that his present book contains
little more than he gave to the public forty years ago, and does not by any means represent
the present state of knowledge on the subject.  But at the present day, when comparative philology
has made such strides, and when want of accurate scholarship is as little tolerated in strange
and remote languages as in classical literature, the 'Romano Lavo-Lil' is, to speak mildly,
an anachronism."

Nor, apart from the word-book and Gypsy specimens, is the book a good example of Borrow's writing.
The accounts of visits to Gypsies at Kirk Yetholm, Wandsworth, Pottery Lane (Notting Hill),
and Friar's Mount (Shore-ditch), are interesting as much for what they tell us of Borrow's
recreations in London as for anything else.  The portrait of the "dark, mysterious, beautiful,
terrible" Mrs. Cooper, the story of Clara Bosvil, the life of Ryley Bosvil--"a thorough Gypsy,
versed in all the arts of the old race, had two wives, never went to church, and considered
that when a man died he was cast into the earth, and there was an end of him"--and his death
and burial ceremony, and some of Borrow's own opinions, for example, in favour of Pontius Pilate
and George IV.--these are simple and vigorous in the old style.  They show that with a sufficient
impulse he could have written another book at least equal to "Wild Wales."  But these uneven
fragments were not worthy of the living man.  They were the sort of thing that his friends
might have been expected to gather up after he was dead.  Scraps like this from "Wisdom of
the Egyptians," are well enough:

"'My father, why were worms made?'  'My son, that moles might live by eating them.'  'My father,
why were moles made?'  'My son, that you and I might live by catching them.'  'My father, why
were you and I made?'  'My son, that worms might live by eating us.'"

Related to Borrow, and to a living Gypsy, by Borrow's pen, how much better!  It is a book that
can be browsed on again and again, but hardly ever without this thought.  It was the result
of ambition, and might have been equal to its predecessors, but competition destroyed the impulse
of ambition and spoilt the book.

"Romano Lavo-Lil" was his last book.  For posthumous publication he left only "The Turkish
Jester; or, The Pleasantries of Cogia Nasr Eddin Effendi, translated from the Turkish by G.
B."  (Ipswich, 1884).  This was a string of the sayings and adventures of one Cogia, in this
style: "One day Cogia Nasr Eddin Effendi said: 'O Mussulmen, give thanks to God Most High that
He did not give the camel wings; for had He given them, they would have perched upon your houses
and chimneys, and have caused them to tumble down upon your heads.'"  This may have been the
translation from the Turkish that Fitzgerald read in 1857 and could not admire.  It is a diverting
book and illustrates Borrow's taste.

CHAPTER XXXIII--LAST YEARS

From 1860 to 1874 Borrow lived at Brompton, and perhaps because he wrote few letters these
years seem to have been more cheerful, except at the time of his wife's death.  He is seen
at "The Star and Garter" in 1861 entertaining Murray and two others at dinner, in a heavy and
expensive style.  He is still an uncomfortable, unattractive figure in a drawing- room, especially
with accurate and intelligent ladies, like Miss Frances Power Cobbe, who would not humour his
inaccurate dictatorship.  Miss Cobbe was his neighbour in Hereford Square.  She says that if
he was not a Gypsy by blood he ought to have been one; she "never liked him, thinking him more
or less of a hypocrite," but nevertheless invited him to her house and tried to console him
in his bereavement by a gentle tact which was not tact in Borrow's case:

"Poor old Borrow is in a sad state.  I hope he is starting in a day or two for Scotland.  I
sent C--- with a note begging him to come and eat the Welsh mutton you sent me to-day, and
he sent back word, 'Yes.'  Then, an hour afterwards, he arrived, and in a most agitated manner
said he had come to say 'he would rather not.  He would not trouble anyone with his sorrows.'
I made him sit down, and talked to him as gently as possible, saying: 'It won't be a trouble,
Mr. Borrow, it will be a pleasure to me.' But it was all of no use.  He was so cross, so rude,
I had the greatest difficulty in talking to him.  I asked him would he look at the photos of
the Siamese, and he said: 'Don't show them to me!'  So, in despair, as he sat silent, I told
him I had been at a pleasant dinner-party the night before, and had met Mr. L---, who told
me of certain curious books of mediaeval history.  'Did he know them?'  'No, and he dared say
Mr. L--- did not, either!  Who was Mr. L---?'  I described that obscure individual (one of
the foremost writers of the day), and added that he was immensely liked by everybody.  Whereupon
Borrow repeated at least twelve times, 'Immensely liked!  As if a man could be immensely liked!'
quite insultingly.  To make a diversion (I was very patient with him as he was in trouble)
I said I had just come home from the Lyell's and had heard . . . But there was no time to say
what I had heard!  Mr. Borrow asked: 'Is that old Lyle I met here once, the man who stands
at the door (of some den or other) and bets?'  I explained who Sir Charles was (of course he
knew very well), but he went on and on, till I said gravely: 'I don't think you meet those
sort of people here, Mr. Borrow--we don't associate with Blacklegs, exactly.'"

A cantankerous man, and as little fitted for Miss Cobbe as Miss Cobbe for him.

{picture: Francis Power Cobbe.  (Reproduced by kind permission of Messrs. Miller, Taylor and
Holmes.): page313.jpg}

There is not one pleasant story of Borrow in a drawing-room.  His great and stately stature,
his bright "very black" or "soft brown" eyes, thick white hair, and smooth oval face, his "loud
rich voice" that could be menacing with nervousness when he was roused, his "bold heroic air,"
{313} ever encased in black raiment to complete the likeness to a "colossal clergyman," never
seemed to go with any kind of furniture, wall- paper, or indoor company where there were strangers
who might pester him. His physical vigour endured, though when nearing sixty he is said to
have lamented that he was childless, saying mournfully: "I shall soon not be able to knock
a man down, and I have no son to do it for me." {314a}  No record remains of his knocking any
man down.  But, at seventy, he could have walked off with E. J. Trelawny, Shelley's friend,
under his arm, and was not averse to putting up his "dukes" to a tramp if necessary. {314b}
At Ascot in 1872 he intervened when two or three hundred soldiers from Windsor were going to
wreck a Gypsy camp for some affront.  Amid the cursing and screaming and brandishing of belts
and tent-rods appeared "an arbiter, a white-haired brown-eyed calm Colossus, speaking Romany
fluently, and drinking deep draughts of ale--in a quarter of an hour Tommy Atkins and Anselo
Stanley were sworn friends over a loving quart." {314c}  But this is told by Hindes Groome,
who said in one place that he met Borrow once, and in another three times.  At seventy, he
would breakfast at eight in Hereford Square, walk to Roehampton and pick up Mr. Watts-Dunton
or Mr. Hake, roam about Wimbledon Common and Richmond Park, bathe in the Pen Ponds even if
it were March and there were ice on the water, then run about to dry, and after fasting for
twelve hours would eat a dinner at Roehampton "that would have done Sir Walter Scott's eyes
good to see." {314d}  He loved Richmond Park, and "seemed to know every tree." {314e}  He loved
also "The Bald-faced Stag," in Roehampton Valley, and over his pot of ale would talk about
Jerry Abershaw, the highwayman, and his deeds performed in the neighbourhood. {314f}  If he
liked old Burton and '37 port he was willing to drink the worst swipes if necessary. {314g}

At another "Bald-faced Hind," above Fairlop, he used to see the Gypsies, for it was their trysting
place.  He went in search of them in Wandsworth and Battersea and whereever they were to be
found, from Notting Hill to Epsom Downs, though they were corrupted by loss of liberty and,
in his opinion, were destined soon to disappear, "merged in the dregs of the English population."
With them, as with others, his vocabulary was "rich in picturesque words of the high road and
dingle."  Once he consented to join a friend in trying Matthew Arnold's "Scholar Gypsy" on
Gypsy taste. The Gypsy girl was pleased with the seventeenth-century story on which the poem
is based, and with some "lovely bits of description," but she was in the main at first bewildered,
and at last unsympathetic and ran away.  The beauty of the girl was too much for Borrow's power
of expression--it was "really quite--quite--."  The girl's companion, a young woman with a
child, was smoking a pipe, and Borrow took it out of her mouth and asked her not to smoke till
he came again, because the child was sickly and his friend put it down to the tobacco.  "It
ought to be a criminal offence for a woman to smoke at all," said Borrow; "fancy kissing a
woman's mouth that smelt of stale tobacco--pheugh!" {315} Whether this proves Borrow's susceptibility
to female charm I cannot say, but it seems to me rather to prove a sort of connoisseurship,
which is not the same thing.

Just after he was seventy, in 1874, the year of Jasper Petulengro's death, Borrow left London
for Oulton.  He was no longer the walker and winter bather of a year or two before, but was
frequently at lodgings in Norwich, and seen and noted as he walked in the streets or sat in
the "Norfolk."  At Oulton he was much alone and was to be heard "by startled rowers on the
lake" chanting verses after his fashion.  His remarkable appearance, his solitariness in the
neglected house and tangled garden, his conversation with Gypsies whom he allowed to camp on
his land, created something of a legend.  Children called after him "Gypsy!" or "Witch!" {316}
Towards the end he was joined at Oulton by his stepdaughter and her husband, Dr. MacOubrey.
In 1879 he was too feeble to walk a few hundred yards, and furious with a man who asked his
age.  In 1880 he made his will.  On July 26, 1881, when he was left entirely alone for the
day, he died, after having expected death for some time.  He was taken to West Brompton to
be buried in that cemetery beside his wife.

CONCLUSION

In his introduction to "The Romany Rye," {317} Hindes Groome gave a long list of Romany Ryes
to show that Borrow was neither the only one nor the first.  He went on to say that there must
have been over a dozen Englishmen, in 1874, with a greater knowledge of the Anglo-Gypsy dialect
than Borrow showed in "Romano Lavo-Lil."  He added that Borrow's knowledge "of the strange
history of the Gypsies was very elementary, of their manners almost more so, and of their folk-lore
practically nil." And yet, he concluded, he "would put George Borrow above every other writer
on the Gypsies. . . . He communicates a subtle insight into Gypsydom that is totally wanting
in the works--mainly philological--of Pott, Liebich . . . and their confreres."  Hindes Groome
was speaking, too, from the point of view of a Romany student, not of a critic of human literature.
In the same way Borrow stands above other English writers on Spain and Wales, for the insight
and life that are lacking in the works of the authorities.

As a master of the living word, Borrow's place is high, and it is unnecessary to make other
claims for him.  He was a wilful roamer in literature and the world, who attained to no mastery
except over words. If there were many Romany Ryes before Borrow, as there were great men before
Agamemnon, there was not another Borrow, as there was not another Homer.

He sings himself.  He creates a wild Spain, a wild England, a wild Wales, and in them places
himself, the Gypsies, and other wildish men, and himself again.  His outstanding character,
his ways and gestures, irresistible even when offensive, hold us while he is in our presence.
In these repressed indoor days, we like a swaggering man who does justice to the size of the
planet.  We run after biographies of extraordinary monarchs, poets, bandits, prostitutes, and
see in them magnificent expansions of our fragmentary, undeveloped, or mistaken selves.  We
love strange mighty men, especially when they are dead and can no longer rob us of property,
sleep, or life: we can handle the great hero or blackguard by the fireside as easily as a cat.
Borrow, as his books portray him, is admirably fitted to be our hero.  He stood six-feet-two
and was so finely made that, in spite of his own statement which could not be less than true,
others have declared him six-feet-three and six- feet-four.  He could box, ride, walk, swim,
and endure hardship.  He was adventurous.  He was solitary.  He was opinionated and a bully.
He was mysterious: he impressed all and puzzled many.  He spoke thirty languages and translated
their poetry into verse.

Moreover, he ran away.  He ran away from school as a boy.  He ran away from London as a youth.
He ran away from England as a man.  He ran away from West Brompton as an old man, to the Gypsyries
of London.  He went out into the wilderness and he savoured of it.  His running away from London
has something grand and allegorical about it.  It reminds me of the Welshman on London Bridge,
carrying a hazel stick which a strange old man recognised as coming from Craig-y-Dinas, and
at the old man's bidding he went to Craig-y-Dinas and to the cave in it, and found Arthur and
his knights sleeping and a great treasure buried. . .

{picture: The Gipsyrie at Battersea.  Photo: W. J. Roberts: page318.jpg}

In these days when it is a remarkable thing if an author has his pocket picked, or narrowly
escapes being in a ship that is wrecked, or takes poison when he is young, even the outline
of Borrow's life is attractive. Like Byron, Ben Jonson, and Chaucer, he reminds us that an
author is not bound to be a nun with a beard.  He depicts himself continually, at all ages,
and in all conditions of pathos or pride.  Other human beings, with few exceptions, he depicts
only in relation to himself.  He never follows men and women here and there, but reveals them
in one or two concentrated hours; and either he admires or he dislikes, and there is no mistaking
it.  Thus his humour is limited by his egoism, which leads him into extravagance, either to
his own advantage or to the disadvantage of his enemies.

He kept good company from his youth up.  Wistful or fancifully envious admiration for the fortunate
simple yeomen, or careless poor men, or noble savages, or untradesmanlike fishermen, or unromanized
Germani, or animals who do not fret about their souls, admiration for those in any class who
are not for the fashion of these days, is a deep-seated and ancient sentiment, akin to the
sentiment for childhood and the golden age.  Borrow met a hundred men fit to awaken and satisfy
this admiration in an age when thousands can over-eat and over-dress in comfort all the days
of their life.  Sometimes he shows that he himself admires in this way, but more often he mingles
with them as one almost on an equality with them, though his melancholy or his book knowledge
is at times something of a foil.  He introduces us to fighting men, jockeys, thieves, and ratcatchers,
without our running any risk of contamination.  Above all, he introduces us to the Gypsies,
people who are either young and beautiful or strong, or else witch-like in a fierce old age.

Izaak Walton heard the Gypsies talking under the honeysuckle hedge at Waltham, and the beggar
virgin singing:

   "Bright shines the sun, play, beggars play!
   Here's scraps enough to serve to-day."

Glanvill told of the poor Oxford scholar who went away with the Gypsies and learnt their "traditional
kind of learning," and meant soon to leave them and give the world an account of what he had
learned.  Men like George Morland have lived for a time with Gypsies.  Matthew Arnold elaborated
Glanvill's tale in a sweet Oxford strain.  All these things delight us.  Some day we shall
be pleased even with the Gypsy's carrion- eating and thieving, "those habits of the Gypsy,
shocking to the moralist and sanitarian, and disgusting to the person of delicate stomach,"
which please Mr. W. H. Hudson "rather than the romance and poetry which the scholar-Gypsy enthusiasts
are fond of reading into him."  Borrow's Gypsies are wild and uncoddled and without sordidness,
and will not soon be superseded.  They are painted with a lively if ideal colouring, and they
live only in his books.  They will not be seen again until the day of Jefferies' wild England,
"after London," shall come, and tents are pitched amidst the ruins of palaces that had displaced
earlier tents. Borrow's England is the old England of Fielding, painted with more intensity
because even as Borrow was travelling the change was far advanced, and when he was writing
had been fulfilled.  And now most people have to keep off the grass, except in remotest parts
or in the neighbourhood of large towns where landowners are, to some extent, kept in their
place.  The rivers, the very roads, are not ours, as they were Borrow's.  We go out to look
for them still, and of those who adventure with caravan, tent, or knapsack, the majority must
be consciously under Borrow's influence.

Yet he was no mere lover and praiser of old times.  His London in 1825 is more romantic than
the later London of more deliberate romances: he found it romantic; he did not merely think
it would be so if only we could see it.  He loved the old and the wild too well to deface his
feeling by more than an occasional comparison with the new and the refined, and these comparisons
are not effective.

He is best when he is without apparent design.  As a rule if he has a design it is too obvious:
he exaggerates, uses the old-fashioned trick of re-appearance and recognition, or breaks out
into heavy eloquence of description or meditation.  These things show up because he is the
most "natural" of writers.  His style is a modification of the style of his age, and is without
the consistent personal quality of other vigorous men's, like Hazlitt or Cobbett.  Perhaps
English became a foreign language like his other thirty.  Thus his books have no professional
air, and they create without difficulty the illusion of reality.  This lack of a literary manner,
this appearance of writing like everybody else in his day, combines, with his character and
habits, to endear him to a generation that has had its Pater and may find Stevenson too silky.

More than most authors Borrow appears greater than his books, though he is their offspring.
It is one of his great achievements to have made his books bring forth this lusty and mysterious
figure which moves to and fro in all of them, worthy of the finest scenes and making the duller
ones acceptable.  He is not greater than his books in the sense that he is greater than the
sum of them: as a writer he made the most out of his life.  But in the flesh he was a fine
figure of a man, and what he wrote has added something, swelling him to more than human proportions,
stranger and more heroical.  So we come to admire him as a rare specimen of the genus homo,
who had among other faculties that of writing English; and at last we have him armed with a
pen that is mightier than a sword, but with a sword as well, and what he writes acquires a
mythical value.  Should his writing ever lose the power to evoke this figure, it might suffer
heavily.  We to-day have many temptations to over praise him, because he is a Great Man, a
big truculent outdoor wizard, who comes to our doors with a marvellous company of Gypsies and
fellows whose like we shall never see again and could not invent.  When we have used the impulse
he may give us towards a ruder liberty, he may be neglected; but I cannot believe that things
so much alive as many and many a page of Borrow will ever die.

BIBLIOGRAPHY OF GEORGE BORROW

By EDWARD THOMAS.

1823

"New Monthly Magazine," Vol. 7: "The Diver, a Ballad translated from the German," by G. O. B.

"Monthly Magazine," Vol. 56: "Ode to a Mountain Torrent," from the German of Stolberg; "Death,"
from the Swedish of J. C. Lohmann; "Mountain Song," from the German of Schiller; "Danish Poetry
and Ballad Writing," with a translation of "Skion Middel"; "Lenora," a new translation from
the German, in the metre of the original; "Chloe," from the Dutch of Johannes Bellamy; "Sea-Song,"
from the Danish of Evald; "The Erl-King, from the German of Goethe; signed "George Olaus Borrow."

1824

"Monthly Magazine," Vol. 57: "Bernard's Address to his Army," a ballad from the Spanish; "The
Singing Mariner," a ballad from the Spanish; "The French Princess," a ballad from the Spanish;
"The Nightingale," translated from the Danish; signed, all but the last, "George Olaus Borrow."

"Monthly Magazine," Vol. 58: "Danish Traditions and Superstitions"; "War- Song," written when
the French invaded Spain, translated from the Spanish of Vincente, by George Olaus Borrow;
"Danish Songs and Ballads," No. 1, Bear Song, by "B."

"Universal Review," Vols. 1 and 2, May, June, Sept, Nov.: Unsigned reviews by Borrow.

1825.

"Monthly Magazine," Vol. 58: "Danish Traditions and Superstitions."

"Monthly Magazine," Vol. 59: "Danish Traditions and Superstitions," in five parts; "The Deceived
Merman," from the Danish, by "G. B."

"Monthly Magazine," Vol. 60: "Danish Traditions and Superstitions," in two parts.

"Universal Review," Vol. 2, Jan.: Unsigned reviews by Borrow.

"Celebrated Trials, and Remarkable Cases of Criminal Jurisprudence, from the earliest records
to the year 1825."  6 vols.  Knight and Lacey, Paternoster Row.

"Faustus: His Life, Death, and Descent into Hell," translated from the German.  London, Simpkin
and Marshall.

1826.

"Romantic Ballads," translated from the Danish: and miscellaneous pieces, by George Borrow.
Norwich, S. Wilkin, Upper-Haymarket.  Other copies printed by S. Wilkin, published by John
Taylor, London.

1828-9.

"Memoirs of Vidocq," principal agent of the French police until 1827, and now proprietor of
the paper manufactory at St. Mande.  Written by himself.  Translated from the French [by Borrow?].
4 vols.  London, Whittaker, Treacher and Arnot, Ave Maria Lane.

1830.

"Foreign Quarterly Review," Vol. 6, June.  [Sixteen translations from the Danish by Borrow,
in an article by John Bowring.]

1832.

"Norfolk Chronicle," August 18: On the origin of the word "Tory," by George Borrow.

1833.

"El Evangelio segun San Lucas traducido del Latin al Mexicano . . ." Londres, Impreso por Samuel
Bagster.  [Corrected for the press by Borrow.]

1835.

"Targum, or Metrical Translations from Thirty Languages and Dialects," by George Borrow.  St.
Petersburg, Schulz and Beneze.

"The Talisman," from the Russian of Alexander Pushkin, with other pieces. St. Petersburg, Schulz
and Beneze.  [Translated by Borrow.]

"Mousei echen Isus Gheristos i tuta puha itche ghese."  St. Petersburg, Schulz and Beneze.
[Edited by Borrow.]

1836.

"Athenaeum," August 20: "The Gypsies of Russia and Spain."  [Unsigned.]

"Athenaeum," March 5.  Review of "Targum," and of Borrow's edition of the "Manchu Bible," by
John P. Hasfeldt,

1837.

"El Nuevo Testamento, traducido al Espanol. . . ."  Madrid, D.  Joaquin de la Barrera.  Edited
by Borrow.

"Embeo e Majaro Lucas. . . . El Evangelio segun S. Lucas, traducido al Romani, o dialecto de
los Gitanos de Espana."  Madrid.  [Translated by Borrow, "in Badajoz, in the winter of 1836."]

1838.

"Evangelioa San Lucasen Guissan.  El Evangelio segun S. Lucas, traducido al Vascuence."  Madrid,
Gompania Tipografica.  [Edited by Borrow.]

1841.

"The Zincali, or An Account of the Gypsies of Spain, with an original collection of their songs,
and a copious dictionary of their language." By George Borrow, late Agent of the British and
Foreign Bible Society.  In 2 vols.  London, John Murray.

1842.

"Athenaeum," April and May; Review of "The Zincali."

"Blackwood," September; Review of "The Zincali."

"Monthly Review," May; Review of "The Zincali."

"Westminster Review," May; Review of "The Zincali," by John Bowring.

"British and Foreign Review," June.  Review of "The Zincali," by Richard Ford.

"Excursions Along the Shores of the Mediterranean," by Col. E. H. D. Elers Napier.

"Gypsies," by Samuel Roberts.  5th edition.  (Letter by Borrow.)

"The Bible in Spain, or the Journeys, Adventures, and Imprisonments of an Englishman, in an
attempt to circulate the Scriptures in the Peninsula," by George Borrow.  In 3 vols.  London,
John Murray.

"Athenaeum," December; Review of "The Bible in Spain."

"Quarterly," December; Review of "The Bible in Spain."

"Spectator," December; Review of "The Bible in Spain."

1843.

"The Zincali."  Second edition, with preface dated March 1, 1843.

"Memoirs of William Taylor," by J. W. Robberds.

"Edinburgh Review," February; review of "The Bible in Spain," by Richard Ford.

"Dublin Review," May; review of "The Bible in Spain."

"Tait's Edinburgh Review," February, March; review of "The Bible in Spain."

1851.

"Lavengro: the Scholar--the Gypsy--the Priest," by George Borrow.  In 3 vols.  London, John
Murray.  Portrait by Henry Wyndham Phillips.

"Athenaeum," February; review of "Lavengro."

"Blackwood," March; review of "Lavengro."

"Fraser," March; review of "Lavengro."

"New Monthly Magazine," March; review of "Lavengro," by W. H. Ainsworth.

"New Monthly Magazine," April; review of "Lavengro," by T. Gordon Hake.

"Tait's Edinburgh Magazine," May; review of "Lavengro," by William Bodham Donne.

"Britannia," April 26; review of "Lavengro."

1852.

"Hungary in 1851; with an Experience of the Austrian Police," by Charles L. Brace.

1857.

"The Romany Rye," a sequel to "Lavengro," by George Borrow.  In 2 vols. London, John Murray.

"Quarterly Review"; review of "Lavengro," by Whitwell Elwin.

"Saturday Review," May 23; review of "Lavengro."

"Athenaeum," May 23; review of "Lavengro."

1859.

"History of the British and Foreign Bible Society," by George Browne.

1860.

"The Sleeping Bard, or Visions of the World, Death, and Hell," by Elis Wyn.  Translated from
the Cambrian British by George Borrow.  London, John Murray.

1861.

"Quarterly Review," January: "The Welsh and their Literature," by George Borrow.

1862.

"Wild Wales: its People, Language, and Scenery," by George Borrow.  3 vols.  London, John Murray.

"Spectator," December; review of "Wild Wales."

"Once a Week," Vol. 6: "Ballads of the Isle of Man,"--"Brown William," and "Mollie Charane."
"Russian Popular Tales"--"Emelian the Fool," "The Story of Yvashka with the Bear's Ear," and
"The Story of Tim."  Vol. 7: "Harold Harfagr."  [Translations by Borrow.]

1863.

"Once a Week," Vol. 8: "The Count of Vendel's Daughter."  Vol. 9: "The Hail-Storm, or the Death
of Bui."  [Translations by Borrow.]

"The Cornhill Magazine," January; review of "Wild Wales."

1872.

"Romany Rye," 3rd edition, with note by Borrow.

1874.  By George Borrow.  London, John Murray.

"Athenaeum," April 25; review of "Romano Lavo-Lil."

"Academy," June 13; review of "Romano Lavo-Lil," by F. Hindes Groome.

1876.

"Correspondence and Table Talk of B. R. Haydon."

1877.

"Autobiography of Harriet Martineau."

1880.

"In Gypsy Tents," by F. Hindes Groome.

1881.

"Athenaeum," August 6, article by Whitwell Elwin.

"Athenaeum," August 13, article by A. Egmont Hake.

"Athenaeum," September 3 and 10, articles by Theodore Watts.

"Macmillan's Magazine," November, articles by A. Egmont Hake.

1882.

"Memories of Old Friends," by Caroline Fox.

1883.

"East Anglican Handbook," article by Charles Mackie.

"East Anglia," by J. Ewing Ritchie.

"The Red Dragon, the National Magazine of Wales."  Vol. 3.  "George Borrow in Wales," by Tal-a-hen.

1884.  Ipswich, W. Webber.

1885.

"Ecrivains modernes de l'Angleterre," par Emile Montegut.

1886.

"Macmillan's Magazine," article by George Saintsbury.

1887.

"Obiter Dicta," by Augustine Birrell.  [2nd Series.]

"Epoch (U.S.A.)" article by Julian Hawthorne.

1888.

"Athenaeum," March 17, article by Theodore Watts.

"Reflector," Jan. 8, article by Augustine Birrell.

"La Critique Scientifique," by Emile Hennequin.  Paris.

1889.

"The Death of Balder."  Translated from the Danish of Evald, by George Borrow.  Norwich.  London,
Jarrold and Son.

"Letters and Literary Remains of Edward Fitzgerald."

"Journal of Gypsy Lore Society," Vol. 1, article by Rev. Wentworth Webster.

"Bible in Spain," with biographical introduction by G. T. Bettany, London: Ward, Lock.

1890.

"Views and Reviews," by W. E. Henley.

"Essays in English Literature," by G. Saintsbury.

1891.

"A Publisher and his Friends," by Samuel Smiles.

1892.

"Eastern Daily Press," September 17, 19, 22.

"Eastern Daily Press," October 1.

"Bohemes et Gypsies" (translation of parts of "Lavengro," with biographical sketch by H. Duclos.
Paris).

"Memoirs of Eighty Years," by Thomas Gordon Hake.

1893.

"Bookman," February, article by F. Hindes Groome.

"Athenaeum," July 8, article by Augustus Jessopp.

"Athenaeum," July 22, article by A. W. Upcher.

"Lavengro," with introduction by Theodore Watts.  London, Ward, Lock.

"Memoirs," by C. G. Leland.

1894.

"Letters of Edward Fitzgerald," edited by W. Aldis Wright.

"Life of Frances Power Cobbe," by herself.

1895.

"Journals and Correspondence of Lady Eastlake," edited by C. E. Smith.

"Good Words," February, article by John Murray.

1896.

"George Borrow in East Anglia," by W. A. Dutt.

"Lavengro," with introduction by Augustine Birrell; illustrated by E. J. Sullivan.  London,
Macmillan.

"Bible in Spain," with notes and glossary by Ulick Ralph Burke.  London, Murray.

"Globe," July 21.  "Vestiges of George Borrow: some Personal Reminiscences."

1899.

"Bible Society Reporter," July.

"Life, Writings, and Correspondence of George Borrow," derived from official and other authentic
sources, by William I. Knapp, with portrait and illustrations.  2 vols.  London, John Murray.

"Athenaeum," March 25; review of W. I. Knapp's "Life of Borrow," by Theodore Watts-Dunton.

"Bookman," May; review of Knapp, by F. Hindes Groome.

1900.

"Lavengro."  A new edition, containing the unaltered text of the original issue; some suppressed
episodes; MS. variorum, vocabulary and notes.  By the author of "The Life of George Borrow."
Definitive edition.  London, John Murray.

"Lavengro," illustrated by C. A. Shepperson, with introduction by C. E. Beckett.

"The Romany Rye."

"The Romany Rye," with a defence of George Borrow, by Theodore Watts-Dunton.

"Daily Chronicle," April 30, 1900, article by Augustus Jessopp.

1901.

"More Letters of Edward Fitzgerald," edited by W. Aldis Wright.

"Archiv, N. S.," July; "George Borrow," by Georg Herzfeld.  Berlin.

"Isopel Berners," edited by Thomas Seccombe.  [Passages arranged from "Lavengro" and "The Romany
Rye."]

"Lavengro," edited by F. Hindes Groome.

1902.

"Bookman," February; "George Borrow, his Homes and Haunts," by Thomas Seccombe.

"Some 18th Century Men of Letters," by Whitwell Elwin, edited by Warwick Elwin.

1903.

"The Romany Rye," edited by John Sampson.

1904.

"Story of the Bible Society," by William Canton.

"Gypsy Stories from 'The Bible in Spain,'" edited by W. H. D. Rouse.

"Stories of Antonio and Benedict Mol," edited by W. H. D. Rouse.

"Lavengro," illustrated by Claude Shepperson.

1905.

"The Letters of Richard Ford," edited by R. E. Prothero.

"William Bodham Donne and his Friends," by Catherine B. Johnson.

"Selections from George Borrow."  London, Arnold.

"Spanish Influence on English Literature," by Martin A. S. Hume.

1906.

"Lavengro," edited by Thomas Seccombe.  (Everyman Library.)

"Wild Wales," edited by Theodore Watts-Dunton.  (Everyman Library.)

"The Bible in Spain," edited by Edward Thomas.  (Everyman Library.)

"Charles Godfred Leland," by Elizabeth Robins Pennell.

"The Vagabond in Literature," by Arthur Rickett.

1907.

"Immortal Memories," by Clement Shorter.

"The Literature of Roguery," by Frank W. Chandler.

1908.

"George Borrow: the Man and his Work," by R. A. J. Walling.

"The Annals of Willenhall," by Frederick William Hackwood.

"The Bible in the World," July; "Footprints of George Borrow," by A. G. Jayne.

1909.

"The Border Magazine," March, April: "George Borrow and the Borders," by J. Pringle.

"Annals of the Harford family."

1910.

"The Little Guide to Staffordshire," by Charles Masefield (s.v. Willenhall and Bushbury).

"Y Cymmrodor" (Journal of the Honourable Society of Cymmrodorion): "Journal of Borrow's Second
Tour in Wales," with notes by T. C. Cantrill and J. Pringle.

"Gypsy Lore."  Vol. 3 (New Series): article on Borrow's "Gypsies," by T. W. Thompson.

"George Borrow," by Bernhard Blaesing.  Berlin.

1911.

"Letters of George Borrow to the Bible Society," edited by T. H. Darlow.

"Post Liminium," by Lionel Johnson.

1912.

"The Life of George Borrow," compiled from unpublished official documents, his works, correspondence,
etc.  By Herbert Jenkins, with a frontispiece and 12 other illustrations.  London, John Murray.

"Nation," review of above, Feb. 17.

"New Age," review of above, by T. W. Thompson, March.

INDEX

"Adventures of Captain Singleton, The," pp. 43-44, 51.

"Athenaeum, The," pp. 35, 166, 209-10, 218, 221, 310.

Barbauld, Mrs., p. 68.

Benson, A. C., p. 209.

Berners, Isopel, pp. 34, 50, 93, 220.  See also ROMANY RYE--Characters.

Berwick-upon-Tweed, p. 3.

BIBLE IN SPAIN, THE,
    general references, pp. 6, 10, 11, 28, 32, 111, 113, 147.
    studied in detail, pp. 162-199.
    autobiographical basis of, p. 112.
    characters of, pp. 181-191: Benedict Mol, pp. 181-188; Antonio, pp.
190-191; Abarbanel, p. 189; Francisco, pp. 152-154.
    materials of, pp. 6, 32, 163, 164, 169, 213.
    style, pp. 168, 192-199: faults, p. 195; biblical touches, p. 196;
dialogue, pp. 196-199; foreign words, pp. 197, 198-199.
    quotations from, pp. 173-176, 177, 179-180, 193, 197-198.
    contemporary and other criticisms of:--pp. 16, 35-36, 148, 166, 198.

British and Foreign Bible Society, the, pp. 14, 125, 126-127, 139-140, 144; for Borrow's letters
to the Society, see "Letters."

Blackheath, pp. 92, 96.

Borrow, Ann, pp. 55, 61, 81, 112, 133, 144, 201, 208, 210, 231, 272.

Borrow, John Thomas, pp. 55-56, 85, 105, 133, 215, 231.

BORROW, GEORGE HENRY,

(i) LIFE:--

    parentage, pp. 55-56.
    birth, pp. 2, 56.
    his name, pp. 2-4.
    travelling with his father's regiment, pp. 56-57.
    at Pett, pp. 21, 56.
    at Hythe, pp. 22, 56.
    at Canterbury, p. 56.
    at Dereham, pp. 56, 57.
    at Norman Cross, and first meeting with Gypsies, p. 57.
    at school at Dereham, Huddersfield and Edinburgh, p. 57; at Norwich
Grammar School, p. 59; at the Protestant Academy, Clonmel, pp. 59-60;
again at Norwich Grammar School, pp. 60, 61-64.
   plays truant, pp. 13, 64.
   breakdown in health at sixteen, pp. 32, 65.
   articled to a solicitor at Norwich, p. 65.
   frequents Taylor's circle, pp. 66-72.
   reads in the library of Norwich guildhall, p. 73.
   publishes translations, pp. 73-80.
   has another illness, p. 81.
   goes to London, p. 81.
   compiles "Celebrated Trials" and publishes translations and articles,
p. 85.
   ill again: leaves London and begins wandering, p. 96.
   poisoned by Mrs. Herne, p. 70; meets Isopel Berners, id.
   at Norwich in 1826, p. 112; in London in same year, id.
   at Norwich in 1827, p. 113.
   in London in 1829 and 1830, id.
   at Norwich in 1830, p. 117.
   meets Mrs. Clarke, 1832, p. 125.
   interview with the Bible Society in same year, id.
   sent to St. Petersburg, July, 1833, pp. 130-131.
   travels to Novgorod and Moscow, p. 133.
   leaves Russia in 1835, p. 133.
   after a month in England, sails for Lisbon in November, 1835, p. 134.
   crosses into Spain early in 1836, reaches Madrid, and returns to
London in October, p. 135.
   returns to Spain at the end of a month, p. 137.
   quarrels with the Society, and is recalled in 1838, pp. 140-141.
   returns to Spain at end of the same year, p. 141.
   journeys to Tangier and Barbary in 1839, p. 143.
   becomes engaged to Mrs. Clarke, p. 144.
   leaves Spain finally in April, 1840, p. 145.
   marries Mrs. Clarke, id.
   settles at Oulton, p. 147.
   publication of "The Zincali" in 1841, p. 147.
   publication of "The Bible in Spain" in 1842, p. 166.
   re-editions and translations of "The Bible in Spain," p. 200.
   his fame and popularity, id.
   is not made a J.P., p. 201.
   restless and unsatisfied, p. 202.
   travels again in 1844, p. 203.
   settles in England, p. 204.
   writes "Lavengro," p. 205.
   publication of "Lavengro" in 1851, p. 212.
   moves to Yarmouth in 1853, p. 207.
   publication of "The Romany Rye" delayed, p. 212.
   his annoyance at the criticisms of "Lavengro," pp. 212, 253-254.
   tours in Cornwall in 1853, p. 264.
   in Wales in 1854, pp. 265-268.
   in the Isle of Man in 1855, pp. 268-269.
   in Wales in 1857, pp. 269-272.
   in Scotland in 1858, pp. 272-273.
   settles in London in 1860, p. 273.
   visits Ireland in 1860, p. 273.
   publication of "Wild Wales" in 1862, p. 275.
   in Scotland and Ireland in 1866, p. 273.
   in Sussex and Hampshire in 1868, p. 274.
   meets Leland in 1870, pp. 308-309.
   publication of "Romano Lavo-Lil" in 1874, p. 309.
   anecdotes of Borrow aetat. 60-70, pp. 312-315.
   leaves London and goes to Oulton in 1874, p. 315.
   is often in Norwich, id.
   death in 1881, p. 316.

(ii.) CHARACTER:--

   appearance, pp. 55, 56, 61, 70, 105-106 (at twenty-two), 201-202 (at
forty), 308 (at eighty).
   portraits, pp. 105, 112, 204.
   manners, pp. 170-172.
   habits as a child, pp. 56, 60.
   self-centred, p. 1; reserved and solitary, p. 70; melancholy, pp. 85,
110, 112, 117; mysterious and impressive, pp. 12-13, 19, 167; sensitive,
p. 86
   attacks of "horrors," pp. 34, 98, 117 sqq., 131.
   surly and ill-tempered in middle life, pp. 208, 209.
   kindness to animals, pp. 210-211.
   passion for horses, pp. 60, 107-109, 192, 203.
   dislike of smoking, pp. 116, 315; and other prejudices, pp. 297-298.
   attitude towards vagrants and criminals, pp. 258-263.
   patriotism, pp. 214, 227-228.
   religious belief, pp. 24, 30-31, 33, 50, 56-57, 71, 81, 114, 122-123,
126, 127-129, 168-169, 175, 218, 242, 299-300.
   his memory, pp. 29-30, 70, 75.

(iii.) CHARACTERISTICS AS A WRITER:--

   collection and choice of material, pp. 20, 163-165, 218.
   personality and observation, p. 148.
   descriptive power, pp. 173-180.
   vocabulary, pp. 226, 242.
   use of the marvellous and supernatural, p. 85.
   treatment of facts, pp. 2, 5, 12-13, 25, 27, 32, 35, 36, 39, 50-51,
93, 94, 95, 180, 188, 228-229.
   use of dramatic re-appearances, pp. 11, 93, 185, 189-190, 229-230,
233, 254, 321.
   love of mystery and romance, pp. 12, 193-194, 196, 217-218, 227, 320,
321.
   final estimate, pp. 317-322.

(iv.) LITERARY DEVELOPMENT:--

   his imagination stimulated by Danish relics, p. 23.
   his reading, pp. 40-51, 77-79, 85.
   character of his early work, pp. 74-75, 77, 79-80, 117.

(v.) KNOWLEDGE OF LANGUAGES:--

   Latin, pp. 57, 60; Greek, pp. 60, 61; Irish, pp. 60, 65; French, p.
62; Italian, id.; Spanish, id.; Gypsy, pp. 64, 137-138, 236; Welsh,
pp. 65, 267-268; Danish, p. 65; Hebrew, p. 65; Arabic, pp. 65, 113;
Armenian, pp. 65, 98, 103; German, p. 70; Portuguese, p. 70; Old English,
p. 73; Old Norse, p. 73; Swedish, p. 73; Dutch, p. 73; Persian, pp. 113,
204; Manchu-Tartar, pp. 125, 129; Russian, pp. 131-132; Manx, pp. 268-
269: Translations from Welsh, pp. 73, 75, 114; from Danish, pp. 73, 75;
from German, pp. 73, 75, from Swedish, p. 73; from Dutch, p. 73; from
Gypsy, pp. 79-80; from Russian, pp. 131-132; from Manx, p. 269; from
"thirty languages," pp. 79, 114.

(vi.) PORTRAYAL OF HIMSELF:--

   general references, pp. 1, 6, 7, 10, 14, 17, 21, 28, 51, 53-54.
   as a child, p. 56.
   as a missionary, p. 128.
   in "The Zincali," pp. 149-154.
   in "The Bible in Spain," pp. 173, 188, 192, 194-195.
   in "Lavengro," pp. 213-215.
   in "The Romany Rye," pp. 255-256, 256-257.
   in "Wild Wales," pp. 297-301.

Borrow, Mary, pp. 147, 166, 273, 274.

Borrow, Thomas, pp. 24, 61-62, 70, 201, 231.
   early life and marriage, p. 25.
   at Norwich, pp. 24, 61-62, 70.
   death, p. 81.

Bowring, J., pp. 71-72, 113, 207, 212, 269.

Brooke, J., p. 62.

Bunyan, J., p. 41.

Burton, R., pp. 188-189.

Byron, Ld., pp. 41, 80, 91, 205.

Carlyle, J., p. 68.

"Catholic Times, The," p. 242.

"Celebrated Trials," pp. 40, 62, 79, 84.

Clarke, Henrietta, pp. 126, 143, 145, 207, 267, 273, 316.

Clarke, Mary, pp. 14, 125, 126, 133, 143-144, 145: See also Borrow Mary.

Cobbe, F. P., pp. 312-313.

Cobbett, W., pp. 47-50, 164.

Cowper, W., pp 24, 26.

"Dairyman's Daughter, the," pp. 81-84.

Darlow, T. H., pp. 163, 164.

Defoe, D., pp. 41, 43-44, 54, 250.

De Quincey, T., pp. 44, 51.

Donne, W. B., p. 36.

Dutt, W. A., p. 205.

East Dereham, pp. 2, 26, 30.

Eastlake, Lady, p. 201.

"Edinburgh Review, The," pp. 148, 198, 203.

"Elvir Hill," p. 3.

Elwin, W., pp. 36, 252, 253, 314.

"English Rogue, The," p. 44.

"Examiner, The," p. 166.

Fitzgerald, E., pp. 209, 311.

Flamson, p. 207.

Ford, R., pp. 14, 19, 20, 26, 28, 29, 44, 148, 165, 166-167, 197, 198, 202, 203, 207, 213, 253.

Fox, Caroline, p. 201.

"Fraser's Magazine," pp. 35-36.

Giraldus Cambrensis, pp. 276-277.

"Gil Blas," pp. 16, 189.

Goethe, p. 74.

Groome, F. Hindes, pp. 221, 314, 317.

Gurney, A., p. 210.

Gypsies, pp. 2, 6-10, 12-13, 17-19, 45-46, 57, 64, 97, 132-133, 135-138, 142-143, 148-149,
152, 154, 170, 197-198, 219, 221-226, 234-242, 261-262, 273-274, 309-311, 314-315, 319-320.

"Gypsies of Spain, The," see "Zincali, The."

"Gypsy Lore" (article by T. W. Thompson), p. 2.

Haggart, David, pp. 57-59.

Hake, A. E., pp. 313, 314.

Hake, G., p. 208.

Hardy, T., p. 68.

"Hayward, S. D., The Life of," pp. 88-90.

Hazlitt, W., p. 66.

Hudson, W. H., p. 320.

Jefferies, R., pp. 3, 23, 320.

"Joseph Sell," pp. 92-95, 99.

Keats, J., p, 80.

Knapp, W. I., pp. 2, 6, 13, 29-30, 31-32, 36, 37, 39, 40, 52, 59, 64, 71, 72, 73, 92, 93, 95,
112, 113, 136, 138, 140, 181, 188, 203-204, 206-207, 210, 212, 234, 265, 268, 269, 273, 307.

Lamb, C., p. 198.

LAVENGRO,
   general references, p. 14, 19-20, 28, 30, 32, 44, 65, 66, 79, 81, 86,
93, 96-98, 123, 147, 189.
   studied in detail, pp. 212-252.
   autobiographical basis, pp. 15, 50-51, 52.
   characters of, pp. 50, 231-244.
   the publisher, pp. 232-233.
   the Anglo-Germanist, p. 231.
   Jasper Petulengro, s.v. and pp. 236-238.
   see also ROMANY RYE--Characters.
   materials of, pp. 50, 212-213.
   style, pp. 21-26, 245-252.
   occasionally Victorian, pp. 245-246.
   the vocabulary, pp. 246-247.
   quotations from, pp. 3-5, 21-26, 32-34, 37-38, 41-43, 86-87, 96, 98-
101, 101-103, 117-122, 213-214, 215-217, 219, 222-224, 224-225, 225-226,
234-236, 245, 258-259, 259-260.
   contemporary and other criticisms of:--pp. 35, 36, 220, 221, 253.

Leland, C. G., pp. 87-88, 308-309.

Letters of Borrow to the Bible Society,
   general references, pp. 19, 32, 50, 112, 163-164, 173.
   quotations from, pp. 128-130, 132-133, 135-136, 140, 144.

Lhuyd's "Archaeologia," p. 277.

"Life, a Drama," pp. 20, 21.

Lockhart, J. G., p. 207.

"Mabinogion, The," p. 277.

Mackintosh, Sir J., p. 66.

Martineau, J., p. 62.

Martineau, H., p. 69.

"Moll Flanders," p. 44.

Montegut, E., p. 253.

"Monthly Magazine, The," pp. 73, 74.

Moore-Carew, B., pp. 45-47.

Morganwg, Iolo, p. 277.

Murray, J., pp. 16, 19, 166, 212.

"My Life: a Drama," p. 19.

Napier, Col., pp. 141-143, 203.

"New Monthly Magazine, The," p. 73.

"Newgate Lives and Trials," see "Celebrated Trials."

"Once a Week," pp. 269, 307.

Opie, A., p. 68.

Oulton, pp. 28, 147, 315.

"Oxford Review, The," see "Universal Review, The."

Perfrement, Ann, p. 55: See also Borrow, Ann.

Peto, Mr., p. 207.

Petulengro, Jasper, pp. 2, 17-20, 26, 57, 64, 92, 315: See also LAVENGRO--Characters.

Phillips, H. W., p. 204.

Phillips, Sir, R., pp. 73, 81, 232.

"Quarterly Review, The," pp. 36, 207, 275-276.

Reynolds, J. H., pp. 90-91.

Ritchie, J. E., p. 71.

Robinson, Crabb, p. 68.

"Robinson Crusoe," pp. 41-43, 44.

"Romantic Ballads," pp. 76, 80, 112.

ROMANO LAVO-LIL,
   autobiographical anecdote in, pp. 273-274.
   publication of, pp. 308-309.
   criticisms of, pp. 309-310.
   main interest of, pp. 310-311.

ROMANY RYE, THE,
   general references, pp. 28, 79, 93, 111, 189.
   studied in detail, pp. 212-252.
   inferiority to "Lavengro," p. 230.
   autobiographical basis of, p. 50-51, 52, 112.
   characters of, pp. 72, 231-244.
   Flamson, p. 207.
   the Old Radical, p. 207.
   Isopel Berners, s.v. and pp. 239-242.
   the Man in Black, pp. 242-244.
   materials of, pp. 212-213.
   style, see under LAVENGRO--Style.
   quotations from, pp. 107-109, 127-128, 237-238, 238-239, 239-241, 241-
242, 245-246, 247-250, 254, 255-256, 256-257, 260-261, 261-262.
   contemporary and other criticisms of, pp. 36, 252.

"Saturday Review, The," p. 253.

Scaliger, J., p. 26.

Scott, Sir W., pp. 66, 112.

Seccombe, T., pp. 1, 50, 68, 96, 97, 242-243, 250-251.

"Sleeping Bard, The," pp. 114-116, 275-276.

Smith, Ambrose, pp. 2, 19, 26.

Smollett, J., pp. 41, 250.

"Songs of Scandinavia," p. 113.

Southey, R., pp. 70, 71.

Sterne, L. pp. 41, 54, 250.

Stevenson, R. L., p. 3.

Strickland, A., p. 208.

"Tait's Edinburgh Magazine," p. 36.

"Targum," pp. 79, 114.

Taylor, W., pp. 25, 66-70.

Thurtell, J., pp. 7, 62-64, 233, 258, 259-260.

"Turkish Jester, The," p. 311.

"Universal Review, The," pp. 84, 91.

Vidocq's Memoirs, pp 93-95, 113.

"Vocabulary of the Gypsy Language," p. 203.

Walling, R. A. J., pp. 72, 113, 122, 204, 208, 218, 265.

"Wandering Children and the Benevolent Gentleman, The," p. 13.

Watts-Dunton, T., pp. 51, 93, 122, 206, 220, 314, 315.

Wesley, J., p. 50.

WILD WALES,
   general references, pp. 65, 123-124.
   studied in detail, pp. 275-306.
   autobiographical basis, pp. 113-114.
   characters of, pp. 284-289.
   the bard, pp. 284-287.
   the Irish fiddler, pp. 290-296.
   materials of, pp. 272, 277.
   style, pp. 302-306.
   quotations from, pp. 278-279, 280, 281-283, 283-284, 284-287 288-296,
298, 299-300, 302-303, 304, 305.
   criticisms of, p. 276.

Wordsworth, W., p. 80.

Yeats, W. B., p. 58.

ZINCALI, THE,
   general references, pp. 6, in, 144.
   studied in detail, pp. 147-162.
   autobiographical basis of, p. 113.
   characters of,
   the Gitana of Seville, pp. 156-161.
   materials of, p. 6, 147-148, 163, 164.
   style, pp. 155, 156, 162.
   contemporary and other criticisms of, pp. 35-36, 148.
   quotations from, p. 6-10, 15-17, 18-19, 137-138, 152-154, 155-156, 156-
161.

Footnotes:

{1}  Thomas Seccombe; introduction to "Lavengro" (Everyman).

{2}  "Gypsy Lore," Jan., 1910.

{3}  "Lavengro," Chapter VI.

{13a}  Knapp I., 62-4.

{13b}  II., 207.

{17a}  Good-day.

{17b}  Glandered horse.

{17c}  Two brothers.

{18a}  Christmas, literally Wine-day.

{18b}  Irishman or beggar, literally a dirty squalid person.

{18c}  Guineas.

{19a}  Silver teapots.

{19b}  The Gypsy word for a certain town (Norwich).

{30}  Suppressed MS. of "Lavengro," quoted in Knapp I., 36.

{31}  Knapp I., 25.

{50}  "Lavengro."

{68}  See "Panthera" in "Time's Laughing Stocks," by Thomas Hardy.

{71a}  J. Ewing Ritchie.

{71b}  Dr. Knapp, I., 79, connects this question with Captain Borrow's last will and testament,
made on Feb. 11, 1822.

{72}  "George Borrow: the Man and His Work," 1908.

{75a}  Translation published, Norwich, 1825, anonymous.

{75b}  Translation published, London, Jarrold & Sons, 1889.

{85}  "Romantic Ballads."

{87}  "The Gypsies."

{93a}  "The Romany Rye," edited by F. Hindes Groome.

{93b}  Translated, 1828.

{96}  "Isopel Berners."

{97}  Knapp, I., 105.

{114}  See "Wild Wales," Chapter XXXIII.

{126}  Borrow's Letters to the Bible Society: Introduction, p. 2.

{128a}  Borrow's Letters to the Bible Society, p. 469.

{128b}  Ibid., p. 27.

{128c}  Ibid., p. 280.

{128d}  Ibid., p. 342.

{129a}  Borrow's Letters to the Bible Society, p. 20.

{129b}  Ibid., p. 364.

{130}  Borrow's Letters to the Bible Society, p. 8.

{132}  August 20, 1836.

{137}  Wentworth Webster, in "Journal of Gypsy Lore Society."

{139}  "Borrow's Letters to the Bible Society," p. 271.

{140}  "Borrow's Letters to the Bible Society," p. 334.

{144}  Letter to the Bible Society, 25th Nov., 1839.

{148}  "Edinburgh Review," February, 1843.

{154}  The hostess, Maria Diaz, and her son Juan Jose Lopez, were present when the outcast
uttered these prophetic words.

{163a}  Edited by T. H. Darlow, Hodder and Stoughton.

{163b}  See, e.g., "Bible in Spain," Chapter XIII.  "I shall have frequent occasion to mention
the Swiss in the course of these Journals . . ."; also the preface.

{163c}  Ibid., p. 445.

{173}  Borrow's Letters to the Bible Society, p. 391.

{181}  Knapp, I., p. 270.

{184}  Witch.  Ger. Hexe.

{187}  Fake.

{201}  Egmont Hake; "Athenaeum," 13th August, 1881.

{205}  "George Borrow in East Anglia," by W. A. Dutt.

{206}  T. Watts-Dunton in "Lavengro" (Minerva Library).

{208}  "Memoirs of 80 years," by Gordon Hake.

{209}  "Edward Fitzgerald," A. C. Benson.

{210a}  "Athenaeum," July, 1893.

{210b}  Knapp and W. A. Dutt.

{212}  See Chapters II., III., and IV.

{218a}  R. A. J. Walling.

{218b}  "Athenaeum," 25th March, 1889.

{220}  "Lavengro" (Minerva Library).

{221a}  "In Gypsy Tents."

{221b}  March 25th, 1899.

{242}  "Isopel Berners."

{250}  "Isopel Berners," edited by Thomas Seccombe.

{270a}  Vol. XXII., 1910.

{270b}  Merlin's Bridge, on the outskirts of Haverfordwest.

{270c}  Merlin's Hill.

{270d}  River Daucleddau.  The river at Haverfordwest is the Western Cleddau; it joins the
Eastern Cleddau about six miles below the town. Both rivers then become known as Daucleddau
or the two Cleddaus.

{270e}  Borrow means Milford Haven; the swallowing capacities of the Western Cleddau are small.

{270f}  North-west.

{271a}  Pelcomb Bridge.

{271b}  Camrose parish.

{271c}  Appropriately known as Tinker's Bank.

{271d}  Dr. Knapp was unable to decipher this word.  He remarks in a note that the pencillings
are much rubbed and almost illegible.  We think, however, that the word should be Plumstone,
a lofty hill which Borrow would see just before he crossed Pelcomb Bridge.

{271e}  This was a low thatched cottage on the St. David's road, half-way up Keeston Hill.
A few years ago it was demolished, and a new and more commodious building known as the Hill
Arms erected on its site.

{271f}  The old inn was kept by the blind woman, whose name was Mrs. Lloyd.  Many stories are
related of her wonderful cleverness in managing her business, and it is said that no customer
was ever able to cheat her with a bad coin.  Her blindness was the result of an attack of small-pox
when twelve years of age.

{271g}  Dr. Knapp's insertion.

{271h}  It is doubtful if there was a chapel; no one remembers it.

{272a}  Nanny Dallas is a mistake.  No such name is remembered by the oldest inhabitants, and
it seems certain that the woman Borrow met was Nanny Lawless, who lived at Simpson a short
distance away.

{272b}  Evan Rees, of Summerhill (a mile south-east of Roch).

{272c}  Sger-las and Sger-ddu, two isolated rocky islets off Solva Harbour.  The headlands
are the numerous prominences which jut out along the north shore of St. Bride's Bay.

{272d}  Newgale Bridge.

{272e}  Jemmy Raymond.  "Remaunt" is the local pronunciation.  Jemmy and his ass appear to
have been two well-known figures in Roch thirty or forty years ago; the former died about the
year 1886.

{272f}  Pen-y-cwm.

{272g}  Davies the carpenter was undoubtedly the man; he was noted for his stature.  Dim-yn-clywed--deaf.

{310}  "Athenaeum," 25th April, 1874.

{313}  A. Egmont Hake.

{314a}  Whitwell Elwin.

{314b}  T. Watts-Dunton.

{314c}  F. Hindes Groome.

{314d}  T. Watts-Dunton.

{314e}  Ibid.

{314f}  A. Egmont Hake.

{314g}  Ibid.

{315}  T. Watts-Dunton.

{316}  Thomas Seccombe: "Everyman" edition of "Lavengro."

{317}  Methuen & Co.