It was admitted on all sides that Ferdinand Lopez was a "gentleman." Johnson says that any
other derivation of this difficult word than that which causes it to signify "a man of ancestry"
is whimsical. There are many, who in defining the term for their own use, still adhere to Johnson's
dictum;--but they adhere to it with certain unexpressed allowances for possible exceptions.
The chances are very much in favour of the well-born man, but exceptions may exist. It was
not generally believed that Ferdinand Lopez was well born;--but he was a gentleman. And this
most precious rank was acceded to him although he was employed,--or at least had been employed,--on
business which does not of itself give such a warrant of position as is supposed to be afforded
by the bar and the church, by the military services and by physic. He had been on the Stock
Exchange, and still in some manner, not clearly understood by his friends, did business in
the City.

At the time with which we are now concerned Ferdinand Lopez was thirty-three years old, and
as he had begun life early he had been long before the world. It was known of him that he had
been at a good English private school, and it was reported, on the solitary evidence of one
who had there been his schoolfellow, that a rumour was current in the school that his school
bills were paid by an old gentleman who was not related to him. Thence at the age of seventeen
he had been sent to a German University, and at the age of twenty-one had appeared in London,
in a stockbroker's office, where he was soon known as an accomplished linguist, and as a very
clever fellow,--precocious, not given to many pleasures, apt for work, but hardly trustworthy
by employers, not as being dishonest, but as having a taste for being a master rather than
a servant. Indeed his period of servitude was very short. It was not in his nature to be active
on behalf of others. He was soon active for himself, and at one time it was supposed that he
was making a fortune. Then it was known that he had left his regular business, and it was supposed
that he had lost all that he had ever made or had ever possessed. But nobody, not even his
own bankers or his own lawyer,--not even the old woman who looked after his linen,--ever really
knew the state of his affairs.

He was certainly a handsome man,--his beauty being of a sort which men are apt to deny and
women to admit lavishly. He was nearly six feet tall, very dark, and very thin, with regular,
well-cut features indicating little to the physiognomist unless it be the great gift of self-possession.
His hair was cut short, and he wore no beard beyond an absolutely black moustache. His teeth
were perfect in form and whiteness,--a characteristic which, though it may be a valued item
in a general catalogue of personal attraction, does not generally recommend a man to the unconscious
judgment of his acquaintance. But about the mouth and chin of this man there was a something
of softness, perhaps in the play of the lips, perhaps in the dimple, which in some degree lessened
the feeling of hardness which was produced by the square brow and bold, unflinching, combative
eyes. They who knew him and liked him were reconciled by the lower face. The greater number
who knew him and did not like him felt and resented,--even though in nine cases out of ten
they might express no resentment even to themselves,--the pugnacity of his steady glance.

