The Epic: an Essay

By Lascelles Abercrombie

1914.

By the same Author:

Towards a Theory of Art Speculative Dialogues Four Short Plays Thomas Hardy: A Critical Study
Principles of English Prosody

PREFACE

As this essay is disposed to consider epic poetry as a species of literature, and not as a
department of sociology or archaeology or ethnology, the reader will not find it anything material
to the discussion which may be typified in those very interesting works, Gilbert Murray's "The
Rise of the Greek Epic" and Andrew Lang's "The World of Homer." The distinction between a literary
and a scientific attitude to Homer (and all other "authentic" epic) is, I think, finally summed
up in Mr. Mackail's "Lectures on Greek Poetry"; the following pages, at any rate, assume that
this is so. Theories about epic origins were therefore indifferent to my purpose. Besides,
I do not see the need for any theories; I think it need only be said, of any epic poem whatever,
that it was composed by a man and transmitted by men. But this is not to say that investigation
of the "authentic" epic poet's milieu may not be extremely profitable; and for settling the
preliminaries of this essay, I owe a great deal to Mr. Chadwick's profoundly interesting study,
"The Heroic Age"; though I daresay Mr. Chadwick would repudiate some of my conclusions. I must
also acknowledge suggestions taken from Mr. Macneile Dixon's learned and vigorous "English
Epic and Heroic Poetry"; and especially the assistance of Mr. John Clark's "History of Epic
Poetry." Mr. Clark's book is so thorough and so adequate that my own would certainly have been
superfluous, were it not that I have taken a particular point of view which his method seems
to rule out--a point of view which seemed well worth taking. This is my excuse, too, for considering
only the most conspicuous instances of epic poetry. They have been discussed often enough;
but not often, so far as I know, primarily as stages of one continuous artistic development.

I.

BEGINNINGS

The invention of epic poetry corresponds with a definite and, in the history of the world,
often recurring state of society. That is to say, epic poetry has been invented many times
and independently; but, as the needs which prompted the invention have been broadly similar,
so the invention itself has been. Most nations have passed through the same sort of chemistry.
Before their hot racial elements have been thoroughly compounded, and thence have cooled into
the stable convenience of routine which is the material shape of civilization--before this
has firmly occurred, there has usually been what is called an "Heroic Age." It is apt to be
the hottest and most glowing stage of the process. So much is commonplace. Exactly what causes
the racial elements of a nation, with all their varying properties, to flash suddenly (as it
seems) into the splendid incandescence of an Heroic Age, and thence to shift again into a comparatively
rigid and perhaps comparatively lustreless civilization--this difficult matter has been very
nicely investigated of late, and to interesting, though not decided, result. But I may not
concern myself with this; nor even with the detailed characteristics, alleged or ascertained,
of the Heroic Age of nations. It is enough for the purpose of this book that the name "Heroic
Age" is a good one for this stage of the business; it is obviously, and on the whole rightly,
descriptive. For the stage displays the first vigorous expression, as the natural thing and
without conspicuous restraint, of private individuality. In savagery, thought, sentiment, religion
and social organization may be exceedingly complicated, full of the most subtle and strange
relationships; but they exist as complete and determined wholes, each part absolutely bound
up with the rest. Analysis has never come near them. The savage is blinded to the glaring incongruities
of his tribal ideas not so much by habit or reverence; it is simply that the mere possibility
of such a thing as analysis has never occurred to him. He thinks, he feels, he lives, all in
a whole. Each person is the tribe in little. This may make everyone an astoundingly complex
character; but it makes strong individuality impossible in savagery, since everyone accepts
the same elaborate unanalysed whole of tribal existence. That existence, indeed, would find
in the assertion of private individuality a serious danger; and tribal organization guards
against this so efficiently that it is doubtless impossible, so long as there is no interruption
from outside. In some obscure manner, however, savage existence has been constantly interrupted;
and it seems as if the long-repressed forces of individuality then burst out into exaggerated
vehemence; for the result (if it is not slavery) is, that a people passes from its savage to
its heroic age, on its way to some permanence of civilization. It must always have taken a
good deal to break up the rigidity of savage society. It might be the shock of enforced mixture
with a totally alien race, the two kinds of blood, full of independent vigour, compelled to
flow together;[1] or it might be the migration, due to economic stress, from one tract of country
to which the tribal existence was perfectly adapted to another for which it was quite unsuited,
with the added necessity of conquering the peoples found in possession. Whatever the cause
may have been, the result is obvious: a sudden liberation, a delighted expansion, of numerous
private individualities.

But the various appearances of the Heroic Age cannot, perhaps, be completely generalized. What
has just been written will probably do for the Heroic Age which produced Homer, and for that
which produced the Nibelungenlied, Beowulf, and the Northern Sagas. It may, therefore stand
as the typical case; since Homer and these Northern poems are what most people have in their
minds when they speak of "authentic" epic. But decidedly Heroic Ages have occurred much later
than the latest of these cases; and they arose out of a state of society which cannot roundly
be called savagery. Europe, for instance, had its unmistakable Heroic Age when it was fighting
with the Moslem, whether that warfare was a cause or merely an accompaniment. And the period
which preceded it, the period after the failure of Roman civilization, was sufficiently "dark"
and devoid of individuality, to make the sudden plenty of potent and splendid individuals seem
a phenomenon of the same sort as that which has been roughly described; it can scarcely be
doubted that the age which is exhibited in the Poem of the Cid, the Song of Roland, and the
lays of the Crusaders (la Chanson d'Antioche, for instance), was similar in all essentials
to the age we find in Homer and the Nibelungenlied. Servia, too, has its ballad-cycles of Christian
and Mahometan warfare, which suppose an age obviously heroic. But it hardly falls in with our
scheme; Servia, at this time, might have been expected to have gone well past its Heroic Age.
Either, then, it was somehow unusually prolonged, or else the clash of the Ottoman war revived
it. The case of Servia is interesting in another way. The songs about the battle of Kossovo
describe Servian defeat--defeat so overwhelming that poetry cannot possibly translate it, and
does not attempt it, into anything that looks like victory. Even the splendid courage of its
hero Milos, who counters an imputation of treachery by riding in full daylight into the Ottoman
camp and murdering the Sultan, even this courage is rather near to desperation. The Marko cycle--Marko
whose betrayal of his country seems wiped out by his immense prowess--has in a less degree
this utter defeat of Servia as its background. But Servian history before all this has many
glories, which, one would think, would serve the turn of heroic song better than appalling
defeat and, indeed, enslavement. Why is the latter celebrated and not the former? The reason
can only be this: heroic poetry depends on an heroic age, and an age is heroic because of what
it is, not because of what it does. Servia's defeat by the armies of Amurath came at a time
when its people was too strongly possessed by the heroic spirit to avoid uttering itself in
poetry. And from this it appears, too, that when the heroic age sings, it primarily sings of
itself, even when that means singing of its own humiliation.--One other exceptional kind of
heroic age must just be mentioned, in this professedly inadequate summary. It is the kind which
occurs quite locally and on a petty scale, with causes obscurer than ever. The Border Ballads,
for instance, and the Robin Hood Ballads, clearly suppose a state of society which is nothing
but a very circumscribed and not very important heroic age. Here the households of gentry take
the place of courts, and the poetry in vogue there is perhaps instantly taken up by the taverns;
or perhaps this is a case in which the heroes are so little removed from common folk that celebration
of individual prowess begins among the latter, not, as seems usually to have happened, among
the social equals of the heroes. But doubtless there are infinite grades in the structure of
the Heroic Age.

The note of the Heroic Age, then, is vehement private individuality freely and greatly asserting
itself. The assertion is not always what we should call noble; but it is always forceful and
unmistakable. There would be, no doubt, some social and religious scheme to contain the individual's
self-assertion; but the latter, not the former, is the thing that counts. It is not an age
that lasts for very long as a rule; and before there comes the state in which strong social
organization and strong private individuality are compatible--mutually helpful instead of destroying
one another, as they do, in opposite ways, in savagery and in the Heroic Age--before the state
called civilization can arrive, there has commonly been a long passage of dark obscurity, which
throws up into exaggerated brightness the radiance of the Heroic Age. The balance of private
good and general welfare is at the bottom of civilized morals; but the morals of the Heroic
Age are founded on individuality, and on nothing else. In Homer, for instance, it can be seen
pretty clearly that a "good" man is simply a man of imposing, active individuality[2]; a "bad"
man is an inefficient, undistinguished man--probably, too, like Thersites, ugly. It is, in
fact, an absolutely aristocratic age--an age in which he who rules is thereby proven the "best."
And from its nature it must be an age very heartily engaged in something; usually fighting
whoever is near enough to be fought with, though in Beowulf it seems to be doing something
more profitable to the civilization which is to follow it--taming the fierceness of surrounding
circumstance and man's primitive kind. But in any case it has a good deal of leisure; and the
best way to prevent this from dragging heavily is (after feasting) to glory in the things it
has done; or perhaps in the things it would like to have done. Hence heroic poetry. But exactly
what heroic poetry was in its origin, probably we shall never know. It would scarcely be history,
and it would scarcely be very ornate poetry. The first thing required would be to translate
the prowess of champions into good and moving narrative; and this would be metrified, because
so it becomes both more exciting and more easily remembered. Each succeeding bard would improve,
according to his own notions, the material he received from his teachers; the prowess of the
great heroes would become more and more astonishing, more and more calculated to keep awake
the feasted nobles who listened to the song. In an age when writing, if it exists at all, is
a rare and secret art, the mists of antiquity descend after a very few generations. There is
little chance of the songs of the bards being checked by recorded actuality; for if anyone
could write at all, it would be the bards themselves, who would use the mystery or purposes
of their own trade. In quite a short time, oral tradition, in keeping of the bards, whose business
is to purvey wonders, makes the champions perform easily, deeds which "the men of the present
time" can only gape at; and every bard takes over the stock of tradition, not from original
sources, but from the mingled fantasy and memory of the bard who came just before him. So that
when this tradition survives at all, it survives in a form very different from what it was
in the beginning. But apparently we can mark out several stages in the fortunes of the tradition.
It is first of all court poetry, or perhaps baronial poetry; and it may survive as that. From
this stage it may pass into possession of the common people, or at least into the possession
of bards whose clients are peasants and not nobles; from being court poetry it becomes the
poetry of cottages and taverns. It may survive as this. Finally, it may be taken up again by
the courts, and become poetry of much greater sophistication and nicety than it was in either
of the preceding stages. But each stage leaves its sign on the tradition.

All this gives us what is conveniently called "epic material"; the material out of which epic
poetry might be made. But it does not give us epic poetry. The world knows of a vast stock
of epic material scattered up and down the nations; sometimes its artistic value is as extraordinary
as its archaeological interest, but not always. Instances are our own Border Ballads and Robin
Hood Ballads; the Servian cycles of the Battle of Kossovo and the prowess of Marko; the modern
Greek songs of the revolt against Turkey (the conditions of which seem to have been similar
to those which surrounded the growth of our riding ballads); the fragments of Finnish legend
which were pieced together into the Kalevala; the Ossianic poetry; and perhaps some of the
minor sagas should be put in here. Then there are the glorious Welsh stories of Arthur, Tristram,
and the rest, and the not less glorious Irish stories of Deirdre and Cuchulain; both of these
noble masses of legend seem to have only just missed the final shaping which turns epic material
into epic poetry. For epic material, it must be repeated, is not the same thing as epic poetry.
Epic material is fragmentary, scattered, loosely related, sometimes contradictory, each piece
of comparatively small size, with no intention beyond hearty narrative. It is a heap of excellent
stones, admirably quarried out of a great rock-face of stubborn experience. But for this to
be worked into some great structure of epic poetry, the Heroic Age must be capable of producing
individuality of much profounder nature than any of its fighting champions. Or rather, we should
simply say that the production of epic poetry depends on the occurrence (always an accidental
occurrence) of creative genius. It is quite likely that what Homer had to work on was nothing
superior to the Arthurian legends. But Homer occurred; and the tales of Troy and Odysseus became
incomparable poetry.

An epic is not made by piecing together a set of heroic lays, adjusting their discrepancies
and making them into a continuous narrative. An epic is not even a re-creation of old things;
it is altogether a new creation, a new creation in terms of old things. And what else is any
other poetry? The epic poet has behind him a tradition of matter and a tradition of style;
and that is what every other poet has behind him too; only, for the epic poet, tradition is
rather narrower, rather more strictly compelling. This must not be lost sight of. It is what
the poet does with the tradition he falls in which is, artistically, the important thing. He
takes a mass of confused splendours, and he makes them into something which they certainly
were not before; something which, as we can clearly see by comparing epic poetry with mere
epic material, the latter scarce hinted at. He makes this heap of matter into a grand design;
he forces it to obey a single presiding unity of artistic purpose. Obviously, something much
more potent is required for this than a fine skill in narrative and poetic ornament. Unity
is not merely an external affair. There is only one thing which can master the perplexed stuff
of epic material into unity; and that is, an ability to see in particular human experience
some significant symbolism of man's general destiny.

It is natural that, after the epic poet has arrived, the crude epic material in which he worked
should scarcely be heard of. It could only be handed on by the minstrels themselves; and their
audiences would not be likely to listen comfortably to the old piecemeal songs after they had
heard the familiar events fall into the magnificent ordered pomp of the genuine epic poet.
The tradition, indeed, would start afresh with him; but how the novel tradition fared as it
grew old with his successors, is difficult guesswork. We can tell, however, sometimes, in what
stage of the epic material's development the great unifying epic poet occurred. Three roughly
defined stages have been mentioned. Homer perhaps came when the epic material was still in
its first stage of being court-poetry. Almost certainly this is when the poets of the Crusading
lays, of the Song of Roland, and the Poem of the Cid, set to work. Hesiod is a clear instance
of the poet who masters epic material after it has passed into popular possession; and the
Nibelungenlied is thought to be made out of matter that has passed from the people back again
to the courts.

Epic poetry, then, as distinct from mere epic material, is the concern of this book. The intention
is, to determine wherein epic poetry is a definite species of literature, what it characteristically
does for conscious human life, and to find out whether this species and this function have
shown, and are likely to show, any development. It must be admitted, that the great unifying
poet who worked on the epic material before him, did not always produce something which must
come within the scope of this intention. Hesiod has just been given as an instance of such
a poet; but his work is scarcely an epic.[3] The great sagas, too, I must omit. They are epic
enough in primary intention, but they are not poetry; and I am among those who believe that
there is a difference between poetry and prose. If epic poetry is a definite species, the sagas
do not fall within it. But this will leave me more of the "authentic" epic poetry than I can
possibly deal with; and I shall have to confine myself to its greatest examples. Before, however,
proceeding to consider epic poetry as a whole, as a constantly recurring form of art, continually
responding to the new needs of man's developing consciousness, I must go, rapidly and generally,
over the "literary epic"; and especially I must question whether it is really justifiable or
profitable to divide epic poetry into the two contrasted departments of "authentic" and "literary."

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 1: hos d' ote cheimarroi potamoi kat opesthi rheontes es misgagkeian xumballeton
obrimon udor krounon ek melalon koilaes entosthe charadraes. Iliad, IV, 452.]

[Footnote 2: Etymologically, the "good" man is the "admirable" man. In this sense, Homer's
gods are certainly "good"; every epithet he gives them--Joyous-Thunderer, Far-Darter, Cloud-Gatherer
and the rest--proclaims their unapproachable "goodness." If it had been said to Homer, that
his gods cannot be "good" because their behaviour is consistently cynical, cruel, unscrupulous
and scandalous, he would simply think he had not heard aright: Zeus is an habitual liar, of
course, but what has that got to do with his "goodness"?--Only those who would have Homer a
kind of Salvationist need regret this. Just because he could only make his gods "good" in this
primitive style, he was able to treat their discordant family in that vein of exquisite comedy
which is one of the most precious things in the world.]

[Footnote 3: Scarcely what we call epic. "Epos" might include Hesiod as well as epic material;
"epopee" is the business that Homer started.]

II.

LITERARY EPIC

Epic poetry, then, was invented to supply the artistic demands of society in a certain definite
and recognizable state. Or rather, it was the epic material which supplied that; the first
epic poets gave their age, as genius always does, something which the age had never thought
of asking for; which, nevertheless, when it was given, the age took good hold of, and found
that, after all, this, too, it had wanted without knowing it. But as society went on towards
civilization, the need for epic grew less and less; and its preservation, if not accidental,
was an act of conscious aesthetic admiration rather than of unconscious necessity. It was preserved
somehow, however; and after other kinds of literature had arisen as inevitably and naturally
as epic, and had become, in their turn, things of less instant necessity than they were, it
was found that, in the manner and purpose of epic poetry, something was given which was not
given elsewhere; something of extraordinary value. Epic poetry would therefore be undertaken
again; but now, of course, deliberately. With several different kinds of poetry to choose from,
a man would decide that he would like best to be an epic poet, and he would set out, in conscious
determination, on an epic poem. The result, good or bad, of such a determination is called
"literary" epic. The poems of Apollonius Rhodius, Virgil, Lucan, Camoens, Tasso and Milton
are "literary" epics. But such poetry as the Odyssey, the Iliad, Beowulf, the Song of Roland,
and the Nibelungenlied, poetry which seems an immediate response to some general and instant
need in its surrounding community--such poetry is "authentic" epic.

A great deal has been made of this distinction; it has almost been taken to divide epic poetry
into two species. And, as the names commonly given to the two supposed species suggest, there
is some notion that "literary" epic must be in a way inferior to "authentic" epic. The superstition
of antiquity has something to do with this; but the presence of Homer among the "authentic"
epics has probably still more to do with it. For Homer is the poet who is usually chosen to
stand for "authentic" epic; and, by a facile association of ideas, the conspicuous characteristics
of Homer seem to be the marks of "authentic" epic as a species. It is, of course, quite true,
that, for sustained grandeur and splendour, no poet can be put beside Homer except Dante and
Milton; but it is also quite clear that in Homer, as in Dante, and Milton, such conspicuous
characteristics are simply the marks of peculiar poetic genius. If we leave Homer out, and
consider poetic greatness only (the only important thing to consider), there is no "authentic"
epic which can stand against Paradise Lost or the Aeneid. Then there is the curious modern
feeling--which is sometimes but dressed up by erroneous aesthetic theory (the worship of a
quite national "lyricism," for instance) but which is really nothing but a sign of covert barbarism--that
lengthy poetic composition is somehow undesirable; and Homer is thought to have had a better
excuse for composing a long poem than Milton.

But doubtless the real reason for the hard division of epic poetry into two classes, and for
the presumed inferiority of "literary" to "authentic," lies in the application of that curiosity
among false ideas, the belief in a "folk-spirit." This notion that such a thing as a "folk-spirit"
can create art, and that the art which it does create must be somehow better than other art,
is, I suppose, the offspring of democratic ideas in politics. The chief objection to it is
that there never has been and never can be anything in actuality corresponding to the "folk-spirit"
which this notion supposes. Poetry is the work of poets, not of peoples or communities; artistic
creation can never be anything but the production of an individual mind. We may, if we like,
think that poetry would be more "natural" if it were composed by the folk as the folk, and
not by persons peculiarly endowed; and to think so is doubtless agreeable to the notion that
the folk is more important than the individual. But there is nothing gained by thinking in
this way, except a very illusory kind of pleasure; since it is impossible that the folk should
ever be a poet. This indisputable axiom has been ignored more in theories about ballads--about
epic material--than in theories about the epics themselves. But the belief in a real folk-origin
for ballads, untenable though it be in a little examination, has had a decided effect on the
common opinion of the authentic epics. In the first place, a poem constructed out of ballads
composed, somehow or other, by the folk, ought to be more "natural" than a work of deliberate
art--a "literary" epic; that is to say, these Rousseau-ish notions will admire it for being
further from civilization and nearer to the noble savage; civilization being held, by some
mysterious argument, to be deficient in "naturalness." In the second place, this belief has
made it credible that the plain corruption of authentic epic by oral transmission, or very
limited transmission through script, might be the sign of multiple authorship; for if you believe
that a whole folk can compose a ballad, you may easily believe that a dozen poets can compose
an epic.

But all this rests on simple ignoring of the nature of poetic composition. The folk-origin
of ballads and the multiple authorship of epics are heresies worse than the futilities of the
Baconians; at any rate, they are based on the same resolute omission, and build on it a wilder
fantasy. They omit to consider what poetry is. Those who think Bacon wrote Hamlet, and those
who think several poets wrote the Iliad, can make out a deal of ingenious evidence for their
doctrines. But it is all useless, because the first assumption in each case is unthinkable.
It is psychologically impossible that the mind of Bacon should have produced Hamlet; but the
impossibility is even more clamant when it comes to supposing that several poets, not in collaboration,
but in haphazard succession, could produce a poem of vast sweeping unity and superbly consistent
splendour of style. So far as mere authorship goes, then, we cannot make any real difference
between "authentic" and "literary" epic. We cannot say that, while this is written by an individual
genius, that is the work of a community. Individual genius, of whatever quality, is responsible
for both. The folk, however, cannot be ruled out. Genius does the work; but the folk is the
condition in which genius does it. And here we may find a genuine difference between "literary"
and "authentic"; not so much in the nature of the condition as in its closeness and insistence.

The kind of folk-spirit behind the poet is, indeed, different in the Iliad and Beowulf and
the Song of Roland from what it is in Milton and Tasso and Virgil. But there is also as much
difference here between the members of each class as between the two classes themselves. You
cannot read much of Beowulf with Homer in your mind, without becoming conscious that the difference
in individual genius is by no means the whole difference. Both poets maintain a similar ideal
in life; but they maintain it within conditions altogether unlike. The folk-spirit behind Beowulf
is cloudy and tumultuous, finding grandeur in storm and gloom and mere mass--in the misty lack
of shape. Behind Homer it is, on the contrary, radiant and, however vehement, always delighting
in measure, finding grandeur in brightness and clarity and shining outline. So, again, we may
very easily see how Tasso's poetry implies the Italy of his time, and Milton's the England
of his time. But where Homer and Beowulf together differ from Tasso and Milton is in the way
the surrounding folk-spirit contains the poet's mind. It would be a very idle piece of work,
to choose between the potency of Homer's genius and of Milton's; but it is clear that the immediate
circumstance of the poet's life presses much more insistently on the Iliad and the Odyssey
than on Paradise Lost. It is the difference between the contracted, precise, but vigorous tradition
of an heroic age, and the diffused, eclectic, complicated culture of a civilization. And if
it may be said that the insistence of racial circumstance in Homer gives him a greater intensity
of cordial, human inspiration, it must also be said that the larger, less exacting conditions
of Milton's mental life allow his art to go into greater scope and more subtle complexity of
significance. Great epic poetry will always frankly accept the social conditions within which
it is composed; but the conditions contract and intensify the conduct of the poem, or allow
it to dilate and absorb larger matter, according as the narrow primitive torrents of man's
spirit broaden into the greater but slower volume of civilized life. The change is neither
desirable nor undesirable; it is merely inevitable. It means that epic poetry has kept up with
the development of human life.

It is because of all this that we have heard a good deal about the "authentic" epic getting
"closer to its subject" than "literary" epic. It seems, on the face of it, very improbable
that there should be any real difference here. No great poetry, of whatever kind, is conceivable
unless the subject has become integrated with the poet's mind and mood. Milton is as close
to his subject, Virgil to his, as Homer to Achilles or the Saxon poet to Beowulf. What is really
meant can be nothing but the greater insistence of racial tradition in the "authentic" epics.
The subject of the Iliad is the fighting of heroes, with all its implications and consequences;
the subject of the Odyssey is adventure and its opposite, the longing for safety and home;
in Beowulf it is kingship--the ability to show man how to conquer the monstrous forces of his
world; and so on. Such were the subjects which an imperious racial tradition pressed on the
early epic poet, who delighted to be so governed. These were the matters which his people could
understand, of which they could easily perceive the significance. For him, then, there could
be no other matters than these, or the like of these. But it is not in such matters that a
poet living in a time of less primitive and more expanded consciousness would find the highest
importance. For a Roman, the chief matter for an epic poem would be Roman civilization; for
a Puritan, it would be the relations of God and man. When, therefore, we consider how close
to his subject an epic poet is, we must be careful to be quite clear what his subject is. And
if he has gone beyond the immediate experiences of primitive society, we need not expect him
to be as close as the early poets were to the fury of battle and the agony of wounds and the
desolation of widows; or to the sensation of exploring beyond the familiar regions; or to the
marsh-fiends and fire-drakes into which primitive imagination naturally translated the terrible
unknown powers of the world. We need not, in a word, expect the "literary" epic to compete
with the "authentic" epic; for the fact is, that the purpose of epic poetry, and therefore
the nature of its subject, must continually develop. It is quite true that the later epics
take over, to a very great extent, the methods and manners of the earlier poems; just as architecture
hands on the style of wooden structure to an age that builds in stone, and again imposes the
manners of stone construction on an age that builds in concrete and steel. But, in the case
of epic at any rate, this is not merely the inertia of artistic convention. With the development
of epic intention, and the subsequent choosing of themes larger and subtler than what common
experience is wont to deal in, a certain duplicity becomes inevitable. The real intention of
the Aeneid, and the real intention of Paradise Lost, are not easily brought into vivid apprehension.
The natural thing to do, then, would be to use the familiar substance of early epic, but to
use it as a convenient and pleasant solvent for the novel intention. It is what has been done
in all the great "literary" epics. But hasty criticism, finding that where they resembled Homer
they seemed not so close to their matter, has taken this as a pervading and unfortunate characteristic.
It has not perceived that what in Homer was the main business of the epic, has become in later
epic a device. Having so altered, it has naturally lost in significance; but in the greatest
instances of later epic, that for which the device was used has been as profoundly absorbed
into the poet's being as Homer's matter was into his being. It may be noted, too, that a corresponding
change has also taken place in the opposite direction. As Homer's chief substance becomes a
device in later epic, so a device of Homer's becomes in later epic the chief substance. Homer's
supernatural machinery may be reckoned as a device--a device to heighten the general style
and action of his poems; the significance of Homer must be found among his heroes, not among
his gods. But with Milton, it has become necessary to entrust to the supernatural action the
whole aim and purport of the poem.

On the whole, then, there is no reason why "literary" epic should not be as close to its subject
as "authentic" epic; there is every reason why both kinds should be equally close. But in testing
whether they actually are equally close, we have to remember that in the later epic it has
become necessary to use the ostensible subject as a vehicle for the real subject. And who,
with any active sympathy for poetry, can say that Milton felt his theme with less intensity
than Homer? Milton is not so close to his fighting angels as Homer is to his fighting men;
but the war in heaven is an incident in Milton's figurative expression of something that has
become altogether himself--the mystery of individual existence in universal existence, and
the accompanying mystery of sin, of individual will inexplicably allowed to tamper with the
divinely universal will. Milton, of course, in closeness to his subject and in everything else,
stands as supreme above the other poets of literary epic as Homer does above the poets of authentic
epic. But what is true of Milton is true, in less degree, of the others. If there is any good
in them, it is primarily because they have got very close to their subjects: that is required
not only for epic, but for all poetry. Coleridge, in a famous estimate put twenty years for
the shortest period in which an epic could be composed; and of this, ten years were to be for
preparation. He meant that not less than ten years would do for the poet to fill all his being
with the theme; and nothing else will serve, It is well known how Milton brooded over his subject,
how Virgil lingered over his, how Camoen. carried the Luisads round the world with him, with
what furious intensity Tasso gave himself to writing Jerusalem Delivered. We may suppose, perhaps,
that the poets of "authentic" epic had a somewhat easier task. There was no need for them to
be "long choosing and beginning late." The pressure of racial tradition would see that they
chose the right sort of subject; would see, too, that they lived right in the heart of their
subject. For the poet of "literary" epic, however, it is his own consciousness that must select
the kind of theme which will fulfil the epic intention for his own day; it is his own determination
and studious endurance that will draw the theme into the secrets of his being. If he is not
capable of getting close to his subject, we should not for that reason call his work "literary"
epic. It would put him in the class of Milton, the most literary of all poets. We must simply
call his stuff bad epic. There is plenty of it. Southey is the great instance. Southey would
decide to write an epic about Spain, or India, or Arabia, or America. Next he would read up,
in several languages, about his proposed subject; that would take him perhaps a year. Then
he would versify as much strange information as he could remember; that might take a few months.
The result is deadly; and because he was never anywhere near his subject. It is for the same
reason that the unspeakable labours of Blackmore, Glover and Wilkie, and Voltaire's ridiculous
Henriade, have gone to pile up the rubbish-heaps of literature.

So far, supposed differences between "authentic" and "literary" epic have resolved themselves
into little more than signs of development in epic intention; the change has not been found
to produce enough artistic difference between early and later epic to warrant anything like
a division into two distinct species. The epic, whether "literary" or "authentic," is a single
form of art; but it is a form capable of adapting itself to the altering requirements of prevalent
consciousness. In addition, however, to differences in general conception, there are certain
mechanical differences which should be just noticed. The first epics were intended for recitation;
the literary epic is meant to be read. It is more difficult to keep the attention of hearers
than of readers. This in itself would be enough to rule out themes remote from common experience,
supposing any such were to suggest themselves to the primitive epic poet. Perhaps, indeed,
we should not be far wrong if we saw a chief reason for the pressure of surrounding tradition
on the early epic in this very fact, that it is poetry meant for recitation. Traditional matter
must be glorified, since it would be easier to listen to the re-creation of familiar stories
than to quite new and unexpected things; the listeners, we must remember, needed poetry chiefly
as the re-creation of tired hours. Traditional manner would be equally difficult to avoid;
for it is a tradition that plainly embodies the requirements, fixed by experience, of recited
poetry. Those features of it which make for tedium when it is read--repetition, stock epithets,
set phrases for given situations--are the very things best suited, with their recurring well-known
syllables, to fix the attention of listeners more firmly, or to stir it when it drowses; at
the least they provide a sort of recognizable scaffolding for the events, and it is remarkable
how easily the progress of events may be missed when poetry is declaimed. Indeed, if the primitive
epic poet could avoid some of the anxieties peculiar to the composition of literary epic, he
had others to make up for it. He had to study closely the delicate science of holding auricular
attention when once he had got it; and probably he would have some difficulty in getting it
at all. The really great poet challenges it, like Homer, with some tremendous, irresistible
opening; and in this respect the magnificent prelude to Beowulf may almost be put beside Homer.
But lesser poets have another way. That prolixity at the beginning of many primitive epics,
their wordy deliberation in getting under way, is probably intentional. The Song of Roland,
for instance, begins with a long series of exceedingly dull stanzas; to a reader, the preliminaries
of the story seem insufferably drawn out. But by the time the reciter had got through this
unimportant dreariness, no doubt his audience had settled down to listen. The Chanson d'Antioche
contains perhaps the most illuminating admission of this difficulty. In the first "Chant,"
the first section opens:[4]

  Seigneurs, faites silence; et que tout bruit cesse,
  Si vous voulez entendre une glorieuse chanson.
  Aucun jongleur ne vous en dira une meilleure.

Then some vaguely prelusive lines. But the audience is clearly not quite ready yet, for the
second section begins:

  Barons, écoutez-moi, et cessez vos querelles!
  Je vous dirai une très-belle chanson.

And after some further prelude, the section ends:

  Ici commence la chanson où il y a tant à apprendre.

The "Chanson" does, indeed, make some show of beginning in the third section, but it still
moves with a cautious and prelusive air, as if anxious not to launch out too soon. And this
was evidently prudent, for when the fourth section opens, direct exhortation to the audience
has again become necessary:

  Maintenant, seigneurs, écoutez ce que dit l'Écriture.

And once more in the fifth section:

  Barons, écoutez un excellent couplet.

In the sixth, the jongleur is getting desperate:

  Seigneurs, pour l'amour de Dieu, faites silence, écoutez-moi,
  Pour qu'en partant de ce monde vous entriez dans un meilleur;

but after this exclamation he has his way, though the story proper is still a good way off.
Perhaps not all of these hortatory stanzas were commonly used; any or all of them could certainly
be omitted without damaging the poem. But they were there to be used, according to the judgment
of the jongleur and the temper of his audience, and their presence in the poem is very suggestive
of the special difficulties in the art of rhapsodic poetry.

But the gravest difficulty, and perhaps the most important, in poetry meant solely for recitation,
is the difficulty of achieving verbal beauty, or rather of making verbal beauty tell. Vigorous
but controlled imagination, formative power, insight into the significance of things--these
are qualities which a poet must eminently possess; but these are qualities which may also be
eminently possessed by men who cannot claim the title of poet. The real differentia of the
poet is his command over the secret magic of words. Others may have as delighted a sense of
this magic, but it is only the poet who can master it and do what he likes with it. And next
to the invention of speaking itself, the most important invention for the poet has been the
invention of writing and reading; for this has added immensely to the scope of his mastery
over words. No poet will ever take the written word as a substitute for the spoken word; he
knows that it is on the spoken word, and the spoken word only, that his art is founded. But
he trusts his reader to do as he himself does--to receive written words always as the code
of spoken words. To do so has wonderfully enlarged his technical opportunities; for apprehension
is quicker and finer through the eye than through the ear. After the invention of reading,
even poetry designed primarily for declamation (like drama or lyric) has depths and subtleties
of art which were not possible for the primitive poet. Accordingly we find that, on the whole,
in comparison with "literary" epic, the texture of "authentic" epic is flat and dull. The story
may be superb, and its management may be superb; but the words in which the story lives do
not come near the grandeur of Milton, or the exquisiteness of Virgil, or the deliciousness
of Tasso. Indeed, if we are to say what is the real difference between Beowulf and Paradise
Lost, we must simply say that Beowulf is not such good poetry. There is, of course, one tremendous
exception; Homer is the one poet of authentic epic who had sufficient genius to make unfailingly,
nobly beautiful poetry within the strict and hard conditions of purely auricular art. Compare
Homer's ambrosial glory with the descent tap-water of Hesiod; compare his continuous burnished
gleam of wrought metal with the sparse grains that lie in the sandy diction of all the "authentic"
epics of the other nations. And, by all ancient accounts, the other early Greek epics would
not fare much better in the comparison. Homer's singularity in this respect is overwhelming;
but it is frequently forgotten, and especially by those who think to help in the Homeric question
by comparing him with other "authentic" epics. Supposing (we can only just suppose it) a case
were made out for the growth rather than the individual authorship of some "authentic" epic
other than Homer; it could never have any bearing on the question of Homeric authorship, because
no early epic is comparable with the poetry of Homer. Nothing, indeed, is comparable with the
poetry of Homer, except poetry for whose individual authorship history unmistakably vouches.

So we cannot say that Homer was not as deliberate a craftsman in words as Milton himself. The
scope of his craft was more restricted, as his repetitions and stock epithets show; he was
restricted by the fact that he composed for recitation, and the auricular appreciation of diction
is limited, the nature of poetry obeying, in the main, the nature of those for whom it is composed.
But this is just a case in which genius transcends technical scope. The effects Homer produced
with his methods were as great as any effects produced by later and more elaborate methods,
after poetry began to be read as well as heard. But neither must we say that the other poets
of "authentic" epic were not deliberate craftsmen in words. Poets will always get as much beauty
out of words as they can. The fact that so often in the early epics a magnificent subject is
told, on the whole, in a lumpish and tedious diction, is not to be explained by any contempt
for careful art, as though it were a thing unworthy of such heroic singers; it is simply to
be explained by lack of such genius as is capable of transcending the severe limitations of
auricular poetry. And we may well believe that only the rarest and most potent kind of genius
could transcend such limitations.

In summary, then, we find certain conceptual differences and certain mechanical differences
between "authentic" and "literary" epic. But these are not such as to enable us to say that
there is, artistically, any real difference between the two kinds. Rather, the differences
exhibit the changes we might expect in an art that has kept up with consciousness developing,
and civilization becoming more intricate. "Literary" epic is as close to its subject as "authentic";
but, as a general rule, "authentic" epic, in response to its surrounding needs, has a simple
and concrete subject, and the closeness of the poet to this is therefore more obvious than
in "literary" epic, which (again in response to surrounding needs) has been driven to take
for subject some great abstract idea and display this in a concrete but only ostensible subject.
Then in craftsmanship, the two kinds of epic are equally deliberate, equally concerned with
careful art; but "literary" epic has been able to take such advantage of the habit of reading
that, with the single exception of Homer, it has achieved a diction much more answerable to
the greatness of epic matter than the "authentic" poems. We may, then, in a general survey,
regard epic poetry as being in all ages essentially the same kind of art, fulfilling always
a similar, though constantly developing, intention. Whatever sort of society he lives in, whether
he be surrounded by illiterate heroism or placid culture, the epic poet has a definite function
to perform. We see him accepting, and with his genius transfiguring, the general circumstance
of his time; we see him symbolizing, in some appropriate form, whatever sense of the significance
of life he feels acting as the accepted unconscious metaphysic of his age. To do this, he takes
some great story which has been absorbed into the prevailing consciousness of his people. As
a rule, though not quite invariably, the story will be of things which are, or seem, so far
back in the past, that anything may credibly happen in it; so imagination has its freedom,
and so significance is displayed. But quite invariably, the materials of the story will have
an unmistakable air of actuality; that is, they come profoundly out of human experience, whether
they declare legendary heroism, as in Homer and Virgil, or myth, as in Beowulf and Paradise
Lost, or actual history, as in Lucan and Camoens and Tasso. And he sets out this story and
its significance in poetry as lofty and as elaborate as he can compass. That, roughly, is what
we see the epic poets doing, whether they be "literary" or "authentic"; and if this can be
agreed on, we should now have come tolerably close to a definition of epic poetry.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 4: From the version of the Marquise de Sainte-Aulaire.]

III.

THE NATURE OF EPIC

Rigid definitions in literature are, however, dangerous. At bottom, it is what we feel, not
what we think, that makes us put certain poems together and apart from others; and feelings
cannot be defined, but only related. If we define a poem, we say what we think about it; and
that may not sufficiently imply the essential thing the poem does for us. Hence the definition
is liable either to be too strict, or to admit work which does not properly satisfy the criterion
of feeling. It seems probable that, in the last resort, classification in literature rests
on that least tangible, least definable matter, style; for style is the sign of the poem's
spirit, and it is the spirit that we feel. If we can get some notion of how those poems, which
we call epic, agree with one another in style, it is likely we shall be as close as may be
to a definition of epic. I use the word "style," of course, in its largest sense--manner of
conception as well as manner of composition.

An easy way to define epic, though not a very profitable way, would be to say simply, that
an epic is a poem which produces feelings similar to those produced by Paradise Lost or the
Iliad, Beowulf or the Song of Roland. Indeed, you might include all the epics of Europe in
this definition without losing your breath; for the epic poet is the rarest kind of artist.
And while it is not a simple matter to say off-hand what it is that is common to all these
poems, there seems to be general acknowledgment that they are clearly separable from other
kinds of poetry; and this although the word epic has been rather badly abused. For instance,
The Faery Queene and La Divina Commedia have been called epic poems; but I do not think that
anyone could fail to admit, on a little pressure, that the experience of reading The Faery
Queene or La Divina Commedia is not in the least like the experience of reading Paradise Lost
or the Iliad. But as a poem may have lyrical qualities without being a lyric, so a poem may
have epical qualities without being an epic. In all the poems which the world has agreed to
call epics, there is a story told, and well told. But Dante's poem attempts no story at all,
and Spenser's, though it attempts several, does not tell them well--it scarcely attempts to
make the reader believe in them, being much more concerned with the decoration and the implication
of its fables than with the fables themselves. What epic quality, detached from epic proper,
do these poems possess, then, apart from the mere fact that they take up a great many pages?
It is simply a question of their style--the style of their conception and the style of their
writing; the whole style of their imagination, in fact. They take us into a region in which
nothing happens that is not deeply significant; a dominant, noticeably symbolic, purpose presides
over each poem, moulds it greatly and informs it throughout.

This takes us some little way towards deciding the nature of epic. It must be a story, and
the story must be told well and greatly; and, whether in the story itself or in the telling
of it, significance must be implied. Does that mean that the epic must be allegorical? Many
have thought so; even Homer has been accused of constructing allegories. But this is only a
crude way of emphasizing the significance of epic; and there is a vast deal of difference between
a significant story and an allegorical story. Reality of substance is a thing on which epic
poetry must always be able to rely. Not only because Spenser does not tell his stories very
well, but even more because their substance (not, of course, their meaning) is deliciously
and deliberately unreal, The Faery Queene is outside the strict sense of the word epic. Allegory
requires material ingeniously manipulated and fantastic; what is more important, it requires
material invented by the poet himself. That is a long way from the solid reality of material
which epic requires. Not manipulation, but imaginative transfiguration of material; not invention,
but selection of existing material appropriate to his genius, and complete absorption of it
into his being; that is how the epic poet works. Allegory is a beautiful way of inculcating
and asserting some special significance in life; but epic has a severer task, and a more impressive
one. It has not to say, Life in the world ought to mean this or that; it has to show life unmistakably
being significant. It does not gloss or interpret the fact of life, but re-creates it and charges
the fact itself with the poet's own sense of ultimate values. This will be less precise than
the definite assertions of allegory; but for that reason it will be more deeply felt. The values
will be emotional and spiritual rather than intellectual. And they will be the poet's own only
because he has made them part of his being; in him (though he probably does not know it) they
will be representative of the best and most characteristic life of his time. That does not
mean that the epic poet's image of life's significance is of merely contemporary or transient
importance. No stage through which the general consciousness of men has gone can ever be outgrown
by men; whatever happens afterwards does not displace it, but includes it. We could not do
without Paradise Lost nowadays; but neither can we do without the Iliad. It would not, perhaps,
be far from the truth, if it were even said that the significance of Paradise Lost cannot be
properly understood unless the significance of the Iliad be understood.

The prime material of the epic poet, then, must be real and not invented. But when the story
of the poem is safely concerned with some reality, he can, of course, graft on this as much
appropriate invention as he pleases; it will be one of his ways of elaborating his main, unifying
purpose--and to call it "unifying" is to assume that, however brilliant his surrounding invention
may be, the purpose will always be firmly implicit in the central subject. Some of the early
epics manage to do without any conspicuous added invention designed to extend what the main
subject intends; but such nobly simple, forthright narrative as Beowulf and the Song of Roland
would not do for a purpose slightly more subtle than what the makers of these ringing poems
had in mind. The reality of the central subject is, of course, to be understood broadly. It
means that the story must be founded deep in the general experience of men. A decisive campaign
is not, for the epic poet, any more real than a legend full of human truth. All that the name
of Caesar suggests is extremely important for mankind; so is all that the name of Satan suggests:
Satan, in this sense, is as real as Caesar. And, as far as reality is concerned, there is nothing
to choose between the Christians taking Jerusalem and the Greeks taking Troy; nor between Odysseus
sailing into fairyland and Vasco da Gama sailing round the world. It is certainly possible
that a poet might devise a story of such a kind that we could easily take it as something which
might have been a real human experience. But that is not enough for the epic poet. He needs
something which everyone knows about, something which indisputably, and admittedly, has been
a human experience; and even Grendel, the fiend of the marshes, was, we can clearly see, for
the poet of Beowulf a figure profoundly and generally accepted as not only true but real; what,
indeed, can be more real for poetry than a devouring fiend which lives in pestilent fens? And
the reason why epic poetry so imperiously demands reality of subject is clear; it is because
such poetry has symbolically to re-create the actual fact and the actual particulars of human
existence in terms of a general significance--the reader must feel that life itself has submitted
to plastic imagination. No fiction will ever have the air, so necessary for this epic symbolism,
not merely of representing, but of unmistakably being, human experience. This might suggest
that history would be the thing for an epic poet; and so it would be, if history were superior
to legend in poetic reality. But, simply as substance, there is nothing to choose between them;
while history has the obvious disadvantage of being commonly too strict in the manner of its
events to allow of creative freedom. Its details will probably be so well known, that any modification
of them will draw more attention to discrepancy with the records than to achievement thereby
of poetic purpose. And yet modification, or at least suppression and exaggeration, of the details
of history will certainly be necessary. Not to declare what happened, and the results of what
happened, is the object of an epic; but to accept all this as the mere material in which a
single artistic purpose, a unique, vital symbolism may be shaped. And if legend, after passing
for innumerable years through popular imagination, still requires to be shaped at the hands
of the epic poet, how much more must the crude events of history require this! For it is not
in events as they happen, however notably, that man may see symbols of vital destiny, but in
events as they are transformed by plastic imagination.

Yet it has been possible to use history as the material of great epic poetry; Camoens and Tasso
did this--the chief subject of the Lusiads is even contemporary history. But evidently success
in these cases was due to the exceptional and fortunate fact that the fixed notorieties of
history were combined with a strange and mysterious geography. The remoteness and, one might
say, the romantic possibilities of the places into which Camoens and Tasso were led by their
themes, enable imagination to deal pretty freely with history. But in a little more than ten
years after Camoens glorified Portugal in an historical epic, Don Alonso de Ercilla tried to
do the same for Spain. He puts his action far enough from home: the Spaniards are conquering
Chili. But the world has grown smaller and more familiar in the interval: the astonishing things
that could easily happen in the seas of Madagascar cannot now conveniently happen in Chili.
The Araucana is versified history, not epic. That is to say, the action has no deeper significance
than any other actual warfare; it has not been, and could not have been, shaped to any symbolic
purpose. Long before Tasso and Camoens and Ercilla, two Scotchmen had attempted to put patriotism
into epic form; Barbour had written his Bruce and Blind Harry his Wallace. But what with the
nearness of their events, and what with the rusticity of their authors, these tolerable, ambling
poems are quite unable to get the better of the hardness of history. Probably the boldest attempt
to make epic of well-known, documented history is Lucan's Pharsalia. It is a brilliant performance,
and a deliberate effort to carry on the development of epic. At the very least it has enriched
the thought of humanity with some imperishable lines. But it is true, what the great critic
said of it: the Pharsalia partakes more of the nature of oratory than of poetry. It means that
Lucan, in choosing history, chose something which he had to declaim about, something which,
at best, he could imaginatively realize; but not something which he could imaginatively re-create.
It is quite different with poems like the Song of Roland. They are composed in, or are drawn
immediately out of, an heroic age; an age, that is to say, when the idea of history has not
arisen, when anything that happens turns inevitably, and in a surprisingly short time, into
legend. Thus, an unimportant, probably unpunished, attack by Basque mountaineers on the Emperor's
rear-guard has become, in the Song of Roland, a great infamy of Saracenic treachery, which
must be greatly avenged.

Such, in a broad description, is the nature of epic poetry. To define it with any narrower
nicety would probably be rash. We have not been discovering what an epic poem ought to be,
but roughly examining what similarity of quality there is in all those poems which we feel,
strictly attending to the emotional experience of reading them, can be classed together and,
for convenience, termed epic. But it is not much good having a name for this species of poetry
if it is given as well to poems of quite a different nature. It is not much good agreeing to
call by the name of epic such poems as the Iliad and the Odyssey, Beowulf and the Song of Roland,
Paradise Lost and Gerusalemme Liberata, if epic is also to be the title for The Faery Queene
and La Divina Commedia, The Idylls of the King and The Ring and the Book. But I believe most
of the importance in the meaning of the word epic, when it is reasonably used, will be found
in what is written above. Apart from the specific form of epic, it shares much of its ultimate
intention with the greatest kind of drama (though not with all drama). And just as drama, whatever
grandeur of purpose it may attempt, must be a good play, so epic must be a good story. It will
tell its tale both largely and intensely, and the diction will be carried on the volume of
a powerful, flowing metre. To distinguish, however, between merely narrative poetry, and poetry
which goes beyond being mere narrative into the being of epic, must often be left to feeling
which can scarcely be precisely analysed. A curious instance of the difficulty in exactly defining
epic (but not in exactly deciding what is epic) may be found in the work of William Morris.
Morris left two long narrative poems, The Life and Death of Jason, and The Story of Sigurd
the Volsung.

I do not think anyone need hesitate to put Sigurd among the epics; but I do not think anyone
who will scrupulously compare the experience of reading Jason with the experience of reading
Sigurd, can help agreeing that Jason should be kept out of the epics. There is nothing to choose
between the subjects of the two poems. For an Englishman, Greek mythology means as much as
the mythology of the North. And I should say that the bright, exact diction and the modest
metre of Jason are more interesting and attractive than the diction, often monotonous and vague,
and the metre, often clumsily vehement, of Sigurd. Yet for all that it is the style of Sigurd
that puts it with the epics and apart from Jason; for style goes beyond metre and diction,
beyond execution, into conception. The whole imagination of Sigurd is incomparably larger than
that of Jason. In Sigurd, you feel that the fashioning grasp of imagination has not only seized
on the show of things, and not only on the physical or moral unity of things, but has somehow
brought into the midst of all this, and has kneaded into the texture of it all, something of
the ultimate and metaphysical significance of life. You scarcely feel that in Jason.

Yes, epic poetry must be an affair of evident largeness. It was well said, that "the praise
of an epic poem is to feign a person exceeding Nature." "Feign" here means to imagine; and
imagine does not mean to invent. But, like most of the numerous epigrams that have been made
about epic poetry, the remark does not describe the nature of epic, but rather one of the conspicuous
signs that that nature is fulfilling itself. A poem which is, in some sort, a summation for
its time of the values of life, will inevitably concern itself with at least one figure, and
probably with several, in whom the whole virtue, and perhaps also the whole failure, of living
seems superhumanly concentrated. A story weighted with the epic purpose could not proceed at
all, unless it were expressed in persons big enough to support it. The subject, then, as the
epic poet uses it, will obviously be an important one. Whether, apart from the way the poet
uses it, the subject ought to be an important one, would not start a very profitable discussion.
Homer has been praised for making, in the Iliad, a first-rate poem out of a second-rate subject.
It is a neat saying; but it seems unlikely that anything really second-rate should turn into
first-rate epic. I imagine Homer would have been considerably surprised, if anyone had told
him that the vast train of tragic events caused by the gross and insupportable insult put by
Agamemnon, the mean mind in authority, on Achilles, the typical hero--that this noble and profoundly
human theme was a second-rate subject. At any rate, the subject must be of capital importance
in its treatment. It must symbolize--not as a particular and separable assertion, but at large
and generally--some great aspect of vital destiny, without losing the air of recording some
accepted reality of human experience, and without failing to be a good story; and the pressure
of high purpose will inform diction and metre, as far, at least, as the poet's verbal art will
let it.

The usual attempts at stricter definition of epic than anything this chapter contains, are
either, in spite of what they try for, so vague that they would admit almost any long stretch
of narrative poetry; or else they are based on the accidents or devices of epic art; and in
that case they are apt to exclude work which is essentially epic because something inessential
is lacking. It has, for instance, been seriously debated, whether an epic should not contain
a catalogue of heroes. Other things, which epics have been required to contain, besides much
that is not worth mentioning,[5] are a descent into hell and some supernatural machinery. Both
of these are obviously devices for enlarging the scope of the action. The notion of a visit
to the ghosts has fascinated many poets, and Dante elaborated this Homeric device into the
main scheme of the greatest of non-epical poems, as Milton elaborated the other Homeric device
into the main scheme of the greatest of literary epics. But a visit to the ghosts is, of course,
like games or single combat or a set debate, merely an incident which may or may not be useful.
Supernatural machinery, however, is worth some short discussion here, though it must be alluded
to further in the sequel. The first and obvious thing to remark is, that an unquestionably
epic effect can be given without any supernatural machinery at all. The poet of Beowulf has
no need of it, for instance. A Christian redactor has worked over the poem, with more piety
than skill; he can always be detected, and his clumsy little interjections have nothing to
do with the general tenour of the poem. The human world ends off, as it were, precipitously;
and beyond there is an endless, impracticable abyss in which dwells the secret governance of
things, an unknowable and implacable fate--"Wyrd"--neither malign nor benevolent, but simply
inscrutable. The peculiar cast of noble and desolate courage which this bleak conception gives
to the poem is perhaps unique among the epics.

But very few epic poets have ventured to do without supernatural machinery of some sort. And
it is plain that it must greatly assist the epic purpose to surround the action with immortals
who are not only interested spectators of the event, but are deeply implicated in it; nothing
could more certainly liberate, or at least more appropriately decorate, the significant force
of the subject. We may leave Milton out, for there can be no question about Paradise Lost here;
the significance of the subject is not only liberated by, it entirely exists in, the supernatural
machinery. But with the other epic poets, we should certainly expect them to ask us for our
belief in their immortals. That, however, is just what they seem curiously careless of doing.
The immortals are there, they are the occasion of splendid poetry; they do what they are intended
to do--they declare, namely, by their speech and their action, the importance to the world
of what is going on in the poem. Only--there is no obligation to believe in them; and will
not that mean, no obligation to believe in their concern for the subject, and all that that
implies? Homer begins this paradox. Think of that lovely and exquisitely mischievous passage
in the Iliad called The Cheating of Zeus. The salvationist school of commentators calls this
an interpolation; but the spirit of it is implicit throughout the whole of Homer's dealing
with the gods; whenever, at least, he deals with them at length, and not merely incidentally.
Not to accept that spirit is not to accept Homer. The manner of describing the Olympian family
at the end of the first book is quite continuous throughout, and simply reaches its climax
in the fourteenth book. Nobody ever believed in Homer's gods, as he must believe in Hektor
and Achilles. (Puritans like Xenophanes were annoyed not with the gods for being as Homer described
them, but with Homer for describing them as he did.) Virgil is more decorous; but can we imagine
Virgil praying, or anybody praying, to the gods of the Aeneid? The supernatural machinery of
Camoens and Tasso is frankly absurd; they are not only careless of credibility, but of sanity.
Lucan tried to do without gods; but his witchcraft engages belief even more faintly than the
mingled Paganism and Christianity of Camoens, and merely shows how strongly the most rationalistic
of epic poets felt the value of some imaginary relaxation in the limits of human existence.
Is it, then, only as such a relaxation that supernatural machinery is valuable? Or only as
a superlative kind of ornament? It is surely more than that. In spite of the fact that we are
not seriously asked to believe in it, it does beautifully and strikingly crystallize the poet's
determination to show us things that go past the reach of common knowledge. But by putting
it, whether instinctively or deliberately, on a lower plane of credibility than the main action,
the poet obeys his deepest and gravest necessity: the necessity of keeping his poem emphatically
an affair of recognizable human events. It is of man, and man's purpose in the world, that
the epic poet has to sing; not of the purpose of gods. The gods must only illustrate man's
destiny; and they must be kept within the bounds of beautiful illustration. But it requires
a finer genius than most epic poets have possessed, to keep supernatural machinery just sufficiently
fanciful without missing its function. Perhaps only Homer and Virgil have done that perfectly.
Milton's revolutionary development marks a crisis in the general process of epic so important,
that it can only be discussed when that process is considered, in the following chapter, as
a whole.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 5: Such as similes and episodes. It is as if a man were to say, the essential thing
about a bridge is that it should be painted.]

IV.

THE EPIC SERIES

By the general process of epic poetry, I mean the way this form of art has constantly responded
to the profound needs of the society in which it was made. But the development of human society
does not go straight forward; and the epic process will therefore be a recurring process, the
series a recurring series--though not in exact repetition. Thus, the Homeric poems, the Argonautica,
the Aeneid, the Pharsalia, and the later Latin epics, form one series: the Aeneid would be
the climax of the series, which thence declines, were it not that the whole originates with
the incomparable genius of Homer--a fact which makes it seem to decline from start to finish.
Then the process begins again, and again fulfils itself, in the series which goes from Beowulf,
the Song of Roland, and the Nibelungenlied, through Camoens and Tasso up to Milton. And in
this case Milton is plainly the climax. There is nothing like Paradise Lost in the preceding
poems, and epic poetry has done nothing since but decline from that towering glory.

But it will be convenient not to make too much of chronology, in a general account of epic
development. It has already appeared that the duties of all "authentic" epic are broadly the
same, and the poems of this kind, though two thousand years may separate their occurrence,
may be properly brought together as varieties of one sub-species. "Literary" epic differs much
more in the specific purpose of its art, as civilized societies differ much more than heroic,
and also as the looser milieu of a civilization allows a less strictly traditional exercise
of personal genius than an heroic age. Still, it does not require any manipulation to combine
the "literary" epics from both series into a single process. Indeed, if we take Homer, Virgil
and Milton as the outstanding events in the whole progress of epic poetry, and group the less
important poems appropriately round these three names, we shall not be far from the ideal truth
of epic development. We might say, then, that Homer begins the whole business of epic, imperishably
fixes its type and, in a way that can never be questioned, declares its artistic purpose; Virgil
perfects the type; and Milton perfects the purpose. Three such poets are not, heaven knows,
summed up in a phrase; I mean merely to indicate how they are related one to another in the
general scheme of epic poetry. For discriminating their merits, deciding their comparative
eminence, I have no inclination; and fortunately it does not come within the requirements of
this essay. Indeed, I think the reader will easily excuse me, if I touch very slightly on the
poetic manner, in the common and narrow sense, of the poets whom I shall have to mention; since
these qualities have been so often and sometimes so admirably dealt with. It is at the broader
aspects of artistic purpose that I wish to look.

"From Homer," said Goethe, "I learn every day more clearly, that in our life here above ground
we have, properly speaking, to enact Hell." It is rather a startling sentence at first. That
poetry which, for us, in Thoreau's excellent words, "lies in the east of literature," scarcely
suggests, in the usual opinion of it, Hell. We are tempted to think of Homer as the most fortunate
of poets. It seems as if he had but to open his mouth and speak, to create divine poetry; and
it does not lessen our sense of his good fortune when, on looking a little closer, we see that
this is really the result of an unerring and unfailing art, an extraordinarily skilful technique.
He had it entirely at his command; and he exercised it in a language in which, though it may
be singularly artificial and conventional, we can still feel the wonder of its sensuous beauty
and the splendour of its expressive power. It is a language that seems alive with eagerness
to respond to imagination. Open Homer anywhere, and the casual grandeur of his untranslatable
language appears; such lines as:

    amphi de naees
  smerdaleon konabaesan ausanton hup' Achaion.[6]

That, you might say, is Homer at his ease; when he exerts himself you get a miracle like:

    su den strophalingi koniaes
  keiso megas megalosti, lelasmenos hipposunaon.[7]

It seems the art of one who walked through the world of things endowed with the senses of a
god, and able, with that perfection of effort that looks as if it were effortless, to fashion
his experience into incorruptible song; whether it be the dance of flies round a byre at milking-time,
or a forest-fire on the mountains at night. The shape and clamour of waves breaking on the
beach in a storm is as irresistibly recorded by Homer as the gleaming flowers which earth put
forth to be the bed of Zeus and Hera in Gargaros, when a golden cloud was their coverlet, and
Sleep sat on a pine tree near by in the likeness of a murmuring night-jar. It is an art so
balanced, that when it tells us, with no special emphasis, how the Trojans came on with a din
like the clangour of a flock of cranes, but the Achaians came on in silence, the temper of
the two hosts is discriminated for the whole poem; or, in the supreme instance, when it tells
us how the old men looked at Helen and said, "No wonder the young men fight for her!" then
Helen's beauty must be accepted by the faith of all the world. The particulars of such poetry
could be enumerated for pages; and this is the poetry which is filled, more than any other
literature, in the Iliad with the nobility of men and women, in the Odyssey with the light
of natural magic. And think of those gods of Homer's; he is the one poet who has been able
to make the dark terrors of religion beautiful, harmless and quietly entertaining. It is easy
to read this poetry and simply enjoy it; it is easy to say, the man whose spirit held this
poetry must have been divinely happy. But this is the poetry whence Goethe learnt that the
function of man is "to enact Hell."

Goethe is profoundly right; though possibly he puts it in a way to which Homer himself might
have demurred. For the phrase inevitably has its point in the word "Hell"; Homer, we may suppose,
would have preferred the point to come in the word "enact." In any case, the details of Christian
eschatology must not engage us much in interpreting Goethe's epigram. There is truth in it,
not simply because the two poems take place in a theatre of calamity; not simply, for instance,
because of the beloved Hektor's terrible agony of death, and the woes of Andromache and Priam.
Such things are the partial, incidental expressions of the whole artistic purpose. Still less
is it because of a strain of latent savagery in, at any rate, the Iliad; as when the sage and
reverend Nestor urges that not one of the Greeks should go home until he has lain with the
wife of a slaughtered Trojan, or as in the tremendous words of the oath: "Whoever first offend
against this oath, may their brains be poured out on the ground like this wine, their own and
their children's, and may their wives be made subject to strangers." All that is one of the
accidental qualities of Homer. But the force of the word "enact" in Goethe's epigram will certainly
come home to us when we think of those famous speeches in which courage is unforgettably declared--such
speeches as that of Sarpedon to Glaukos, or of Glaukos to Diomedes, or of Hektor at his parting
with Andromache. What these speeches mean, however, in the whole artistic purpose of Homer,
will assuredly be missed if they are detached for consideration; especially we shall miss the
deep significance of the fact that in all of these speeches the substantial thought falls,
as it were, into two clauses. Courage is in the one clause, a deliberate facing of death; but
something equally important is in the other. Is it honour? The Homeric hero makes a great deal
of honour; but it is honour paid to himself, living; what he wants above everything is to be
admired--"always to be the best"; that is what true heroism is. But he is to go where he knows
death will strike at him; and he does not make much of honour after death; for him, the meanest
man living is better than a dead hero. Death ends everything, as far as he is concerned, honour
and all; his courage looks for no reward hereafter. No; but since ten thousand fates of death
are always instant round us; since the generations of men are of no more account than leaves
of a tree; since Troy and all its people will soon be destroyed--he will stand in death's way.
Sarpedon emphasizes this with its converse: There would be no need of daring and fighting,
he says, of "man-ennobling battle," if we could be for ever ageless and deathless. That is
the heroic age; any other would say, If only we could not be killed, how pleasant to run what
might have been risks! For the hero, that would simply not be worth while. Does he find them
pleasant, then, just because they are risky? Not quite; that, again, is to detach part of the
meaning from the whole. If anywhere, we shall, perhaps, find the whole meaning of Homer most
clearly indicated in such words as those given (without any enforcement) to Achilles and Thetis
near the beginning of the Iliad, as if to sound the pitch of Homer's poetry:

  mêter, hepi m hetekes ge minynthadion per heonta,
  timên per moi hophellen Olympios engyalixai
  Zeus hypsibremetês.[8]
       *       *       *       *       *
  timêson moi yion hos hôkymorôtatos hallon
  heplet'.[9]

Minunthadion--hôkymorôtatos: those are the imporportant words; key-words, they might be called.
If we really understand these lines, if we see in them what it is that Agamemnon's insult has
deprived Achilles of--the sign and acknowledgment of his fellows' admiration while he is still
living among them, the one thing which makes a hero's life worth living, which enables him
to enact his Hell--we shall scarcely complain that the Iliad is composed on a second-rate subject.
The significance of the poem is not in the incidents surrounding the "Achilleis"; the whole
significance is centred in the Wrath of Achilles, and thence made to impregnate every part.

Life is short; we must make the best of it. How trite that sounds! But it is not trite at all
really. It seems difficult, sometimes, to believe that there was a time when sentiments now
become habitual, sentiments that imply not only the original imperative of conduct, but the
original metaphysic of living, were by no means altogether habitual. It is difficult to imagine
backwards into the time when self-consciousness was still so fresh from its emergence out of
the mere tribal consciousness of savagery, that it must not only accept the fact, but first
intensely realize, that man is hôkymorôtatos--a thing of swiftest doom. And it was for men
who were able, and forced, to do that, that the Iliad and the Odyssey and the other early epics
were composed. But life is not only short; it is, in itself, valueless. "As the generation
of leaves, so is the generation of men." The life of man matters to nobody but himself. It
happens incidentally in universal destiny; but beyond just happening it has no function. No
function, of course, except for man himself. If man is to find any value in life it is he himself
that must create the value. For the sense of the ultimate uselessness of life, of the blankness
of imperturbable darkness that surrounds it, Goethe's word "Hell" is not too shocking. But
no one has properly lived who has not felt this Hell; and we may easily believe that in an
heroic age, the intensity of this feeling was the secret of the intensity of living. For where
will the primitive instinct of man, where will the hero, find the chance of creating a value
for life? In danger, and in the courage that welcomes danger. That not only evaluates life;
it derives the value from the very fact that forces man to create value--the fact of his swift
and instant doom--hôkymorôtatos once more; it makes this dreadful fact enjoyable. And so, with
courage as the value of life, and man thence delightedly accepting whatever can be made of
his passage, the doom of life is not simply suffered; man enacts his own life; he has mastered it.

We need not say that this is the lesson of Homer. And all this, barely stated, is a very different
matter from what it is when it is poetically symbolized in the vast and shapely substance of
the Iliad and the Odyssey. It is quite possible, of course, to appreciate, pleasantly and externally,
the Iliad with its pressure of thronging life and its daring unity, and the Odyssey with its
serener life and its superb construction, though much more sectional unity. But we do not appreciate
what Homer did for his time, and is still doing for all the world, we do not appreciate the
spirit of his music, unless we see the warfare and the adventure as symbols of the primary
courage of life; and there is more in those words than seems when they are baldly written.
And it is not his morals, but Homer's art that does that for us. And what Homer's art does
supremely, the other early epics do in their way too. Their way is not to be compared with
Homer's way. They are very much nearer than he is to the mere epic material--to the moderate
accomplishment of the primitive ballad. Apart from their greatness, and often successful greatness,
of intention, perhaps the only one that has an answerable greatness in the detail of its technique
is Beowulf. That is not on account of its "kennings"--the strange device by which early popular
poetry (Hesiod is another instance) tries to liberate and master the magic of words. A good
deal has been made of these "kennings"; but it does not take us far towards great poetry, to
have the sea called "whale-road" or "swan-road" or "gannet's-bath"; though we are getting nearer
to it when the sun is called "candle of the firmament" or "heaven's gem." On the whole, the
poem is composed in an elaborate, ambitious diction which is not properly governed. Alliteration
proves a somewhat dangerous principle; it seems mainly responsible for the way the poet makes
his sentences by piling up clauses, like shooting a load of stones out of a cart. You cannot
always make out exactly what he means; and it is doubtful whether he always had a clearly-thought
meaning. Most of the subsidiary matter is foisted in with monstrous clumsiness. Yet Beowulf
has what we do not find, out of Homer, in the other early epics. It has occasionally an unforgettable
grandeur of phrasing. And it has other and perhaps deeper poetic qualities. When the warriors
are waiting in the haunted hall for the coming of the marsh-fiend Grendel, they fall into untroubled
sleep; and the poet adds, with Homeric restraint: "Not one of them thought that he should thence
be ever seeking his loved home again, his people or free city, where he was nurtured." The
opening is magnificent, one of the noblest things that have been done in language. There is
some wonderful grim landscape in the poem; towards the middle there is a great speech on deterioration
through prosperity, a piece of sustained intensity that reads like an Aeschylean chorus; and
there is some admirable fighting, especially the fight with Grendel in the hall, and with Grendel's
mother under the waters, while Beowulf's companions anxiously watch the troubled surface of
the mere. The fact that the action of the poem is chiefly made of single combat with supernatural
creatures and that there is not tapestry figured with radiant gods drawn between the life of
men and the ultimate darkness, gives a peculiar and notable character to the way Beowulf symbolizes
the primary courage of life. One would like to think, with some enthusiasts, that this great
poem, composed in a language totally unintelligible to the huge majority of Englishmen--further
from English than Latin is from Italian--and perhaps not even composed in England, certainly
not concerned either with England or Englishmen, might nevertheless be called an English epic.

But of course the early epics do not, any of them, merely repeat the significance of Homer
in another form. They might do that, if poetry had to inculcate a moral, as some have supposed.
But however nicely we may analyse it, we shall never find in poetry a significance which is
really detachable, and expressible in another way. The significance is the poetry. What Beowulf
or the Iliad or the Odyssey means is simply what it is in its whole nature; we can but roughly
indicate it. And as poetry is never the same, so its significance is never quite the same.
Courage as the first necessary value of life is most naively and simply expressed, perhaps,
in the Poem of the Cid; but even here the expression is, as in all art, unique, and chiefly
because it is contrived through solidly imagined characters. There is splendid characterization,
too, in the Song of Roland, together with a fine sense of poetic form; not fine enough, however,
to avoid a prodigious deal of conventional gag. The battling is lavish, but always exciting;
and in, at least, that section which describes how the dying Oliver, blinded by weariness and
wounds, mistakes Roland for a pagan and feebly smites him with his sword, there is real and
piercing pathos. But for all his sense of character, the poet has very little discretion in
his admiration of his heroes. Christianity, in these two poems, has less effect than one might
think. The conspicuous value of life is still the original value, courage; but elaboration
and refinement of this begin to appear, especially in the Song of Roland, as passionately conscious
patriotism and loyalty. The chief contribution of the Nibelungenlied to the main process of
epic poetry is plot in narrative; a contribution, that is, to the manner rather than to the
content of epic symbolism. There is something that can be called plot in Homer; but with him,
as in all other early epics, it is of no great account compared with the straightforward linking
of incidents into a direct chain of narrative. The story of the Nibelungenlied, however, is
not a chain but a web. Events and the influence of characters are woven closely and intricately
together into one tragic pattern; and this requires not only characterization, but also the
adding to the characters of persistent and dominant motives.

Epic poetry exhibits life in some great symbolic attitude. It cannot strictly be said to symbolize
life itself, but always some manner of life. But life as courage--the turning of the dark,
hard condition of life into something which can be exulted in--this, which is the deep significance
of the art of the first epics, is the absolutely necessary foundation for any subsequent valuation
of life; Man can achieve nothing until he has first achieved courage. And this, much more than
any inheritance of manner, is what makes all the writers of deliberate or "literary" epic imply
the existence of Homer. If Homer had not done his work, they could not have done theirs. But
"literary" epics are as necessary as Homer. We cannot go on with courage as the solitary valuation
of life. We must have the foundation, but we must also have the superstructure. Speaking comparatively,
it may be said that the function of Homeric epic has been to create imperishable symbolism
for the actual courageous consciousness of life, but the duty of "literary" epic has been to
develop this function, answerably to the development of life itself, into symbolism of some
conscious idea of life--something at once more formalized and more subtilized than the primary
virtue of courage. The Greeks, however, were too much overshadowed by the greatness of Homer
to do much towards this. The Argonautica, the half-hearted epic of Apollonius Rhodius, is the
only attempt that need concern us. It is not a poem that can be read straight through; it is
only enjoyable in moments--moments of charming, minute observation, like the description of
a sunbeam thrown quivering on the wall from a basin of water "which has just been poured out,"
lines not only charming in themselves, but finely used as a simile for Medea's agitated heart;
or moments of romantic fantasy, as when the Argonauts see the eagle flying towards Prometheus,
and then hear the Titan's agonized cry. But it is not in such passages that what Apollonius
did for epic abides. A great deal of his third book is a real contribution to the main process,
to epic content as well as to epic manner. To the manner of epic he added analytic psychology.
No one will ever imagine character more deeply or more firmly than Homer did in, say, Achilles;
but Apollonius was the man who showed how epic as well as drama may use the nice minutiae of
psychological imagination. Through Virgil, this contribution to epic manner has pervaded subsequent
literature. Apollonius, too, in his fumbling way, as though he did not quite know what he was
doing, has yet done something very important for the development of epic significance. Love
has been nothing but a subordinate incident, almost one might say an ornament, in the early
epics; in Apollonius, though working through a deal of gross and lumbering mythological machinery,
love becomes for the first time one of the primary values of life. The love of Jason and Medea
is the vital symbolism of the Argonautica.

But it is Virgil who really begins the development of epic art. He took over from Apollonius
love as part of the epic symbolism of life, and delicate psychology as part of the epic method.
And, like Apollonius, he used these novelties chiefly in the person of a heroine. But in Virgil
they belong to an incomparably greater art; and it is through Virgil that they have become
necessities of the epic tradition. More than this, however, was required of him. The epic poet
collaborates with the spirit of his time in the composition of his work. That is, if he is
successful; the time may refuse to work with him, but he may not refuse to work with his time.
Virgil not only implies, he often clearly states, the original epic values of life, the Homeric
values; as in the famous:

  Stat sua cuique dies; breve et inreparabile tempus
  Omnibus est vitae: sed famam extendere factis,
  Hoc virtutis opus.[10]

But to write a poem chiefly to symbolize this simple, heroic metaphysic would scarcely have
done for Virgil; it would certainly not have done for his time. It was eminently a time of
social organization, one might perhaps say of social consciousness. After Sylla and Marius
and Caesar, life as an affair of sheer individualism would not very strongly appeal to a thoughtful
Roman. Accordingly, as has so often been remarked, the Aeneid celebrates the Roman Empire.
A political idea does not seem a very likely subject for a kind of poetry which must declare
greatly the fundamentals of living; not even when it is a political idea unequalled in the
world, the idea of the Roman Empire. Had Virgil been a good Roman, the Aeneid might have been
what no doubt Augustus, and Rome generally, desired, a political epic. But Virgil was not a
good Roman; there was something in him that was not Roman at all. It was this strange incalculable
element in him that seems for ever making him accomplish something he had not thought of; it
was surely this that made him, unintentionally it may be, use the idea of the Roman Empire
as a vehicle for a much profounder valuation of life. We must remember here the Virgil of the
Fourth Eclogue--that extraordinary, impassioned poem in which he dreams of man attaining to
some perfection of living. It is still this Virgil, though saddened and resigned, who writes
the Aeneid. Man creating his own destiny, man, however wearied with the long task of resistance,
achieving some conscious community of aspiration, and dreaming of the perfection of himself:
the poet whose lovely and noble art makes us a great symbol of that, is assuredly carrying
on the work of Homer. This was the development in epic intention required to make epic poetry
answer to the widening needs of civilization.

But even more important, in the whole process of epic, than what Virgil's art does, is the
way it does it. And this in spite of the fact which everyone has noticed, that Virgil does
not compare with Homer as a poet of seafaring and warfaring. He is not, indeed, very interested
in either; and it is unfortunate that, in managing the story of Aeneas (in itself an excellent
medium for his symbolic purpose) he felt himself compelled to try for some likeness to the
Odyssey and the Iliad--to do by art married to study what the poet of the Odyssey and the Iliad
had done by art married to intuitive experience. But his failure in this does not matter much
in comparison with his technical success otherwise. Virgil showed how poetry may be made deliberately
adequate to the epic purpose. That does not mean that Virgil is more artistic than Homer. Homer's
redundance, wholesale repetition of lines, and stock epithets cannot be altogether dismissed
as "faults"; they are characteristics of a wonderfully accomplished and efficient technique.
But epic poetry cannot be written as Homer composed it; whereas it must be written something
as Virgil wrote it; yes, if epic poetry is to be written, Virgil must show how that is to be
done. The superb Virgilian economy is the thing for an epic poet now; the concision, the scrupulousness,
the loading of every word with something appreciable of the whole significance. That is not
an unworthy theme; and Lucan evidently felt the necessity for development in epic. But he made
the mistake, characteristically Roman, of thinking history more real than legend; and, trying
to lead epic in this direction, supernatural machinery would inevitably go too. That, perhaps,
was fortunate, for it enabled Lucan safely to introduce one of his great and memorable lines:

  Jupiter est quodcunque vides, quodcunque moveris;[12]

which would certainly explode any supernatural machinery that could be invented. The Pharsalia
could not be anything more than an interesting but unsuccessful attempt; it was not on these
lines that epic poetry was to develop. Lucan died at an age when most poets have done nothing
very remarkable; that he already had achieved a poem like the Pharsalia, would make us think
he might have gone to incredible heights, were it not that the mistake of the Pharsalia seems
to belong incurably to his temperament.

Lucan's determined stoicism may, philosophically, be more consistent than the dubious stoicism
of Virgil. But Virgil knew that, in epic, supernatural imagination is better than consistency.
It was an important step when he made Jupiter, though a personal god, a power to which no limits
are assigned; when he also made the other divinities but shadows, or, at most, functions, of
Jupiter. This answers to his conviction that spirit universally and singly pervades matter;
but, what is more, it answers to the needs of epic development. When we come to Tasso and Camoens,
we seem to have gone backward in this respect; we seem to come upon poetry in which supernatural
machinery is in a state of chronic insubordination. But that, too, was perhaps necessary. In
comparison with the Aeneid, Gerusalemme Liberata and Os Lusiadas lack intellectual control
and spiritual depth; but in comparison with the Roman, the two modern poems thrill with a new
passion of life, a new wine of life, heady, as it seems, with new significance--a significance
as yet only felt, not understood. Both Tasso and Camoens clearly join on to the main epic tradition:
Tasso derives chiefly from the Aeneid and the Iliad, Camoens from the Aeneid and the Odyssey.
Tasso is perhaps more Virgilian than Camoens; the plastic power of his imagination is more
assured. But the advantage Camoens has over Tasso seems to repeat the advantage Homer has over
Virgil; the ostensible subject of the Lusiads glows with the truth of experience. But the real
subject is behind these splendid voyagings, just as the real subject of Tasso is behind the
battles of Christian and Saracen; and in both poets the inmost theme is broadly the same. It
is the consciousness of modern Europe. Jerusalem Delivered and the Lusiads are drenched with
the spirit of the Renaissance; and that is chiefly responsible for their lovely poetry. But
they reach out towards the new Europe that was then just beginning. Europe making common cause
against the peoples that are not Europe; Europe carrying her domination round the world--is
that what Tasso and Camoens ultimately mean? It would be too hard and too narrow a matter by
itself to make these poems what they are. No; it is not the action of Europe, but the spirit
of European consciousness, that gave Tasso and Camoens their deepest inspiration. But what
European consciousness really is, these poets rather vaguely suggest than master into clear
and irresistible expression, into the supreme symbolism of perfectly adequate art. They still
took European consciousness as an affair of geography and race rather than simply as a triumphant
stage in the general progress of man's knowledge of himself. Their time imposed a duty on them;
that they clearly understood. But they did not clearly understand what the duty was; partly,
no doubt, because they were both strongly influenced by mediaeval religion. And so it is atmosphere,
in Tasso and Camoens, that counts much more than substance; both poets seem perpetually thrilled
by something they cannot express--the non so che of Tasso. And what chiefly gives this sense
of quivering, uncertain significance to their poetry is the increase of freedom and decrease
of control in the supernatural. Supernaturalism was emphasized, because they instinctively
felt that this was the means epic poetry must use to accomplish its new duties; it was disorderly,
because they did not quite know what use these duties required. Tasso and Camoens, for all
the splendour and loveliness of their work, leave epic poetry, as it were, consciously dissatisfied--knowing
that its future must achieve some significance larger and deeper than anything it had yet done,
and knowing that this must be done somehow through imagined supernaturalism. It waited nearly
a hundred years for the poet who understood exactly what was to be done and exactly how to do it.

In Paradise Lost, the development of epic poetry culminates, as far as it has yet gone. The
essential inspiration of the poem implies a particular sense of human existence which has not
yet definitely appeared in the epic series, but which the process of life in Europe made it
absolutely necessary that epic poetry should symbolize. In Milton, the poet arose who was supremely
adequate to the greatest task laid on epic poetry since its beginning with Homer; Milton's
task was perhaps even more exacting than that original one. "His work is not the greatest of
heroic poems, only because it is not the first." The epigram might just as reasonably have
been the other way round. But nothing would be more unprofitable than a discussion in which
Homer and Milton compete for supremacy of genius. Our business here is quite otherwise.

With the partial exception of Tasso and Camoens, all epic poetry before Milton is some symbolism
of man's sense of his own will. It is simply this in Homer; and the succeeding poets developed
this intention but remained well within it. Not even Virgil, with his metaphysic of individual
merged into social will--not even Virgil went outside it. In fact, it is a sort of monism of
consciousness that inspires all pre-Miltonic epic. But in Milton, it has become a dualism.
Before him, the primary impulse of epic is an impassioned sense of man's nature being contained--by
his destiny: his only because he is in it and belongs to it, as we say "my country." With Milton,
this has necessarily become not only a sense of man's rigorously contained nature, but equally
a sense of that which contains man--in fact, simultaneously a sense of individual will and
of universal necessity. The single sense of these two irreconcilables is what Milton's poetry
has to symbolize. Could they be reconciled, the two elements in man's modern consciousness
of existence would form a monism. But this consciousness is a dualism; its elements are absolutely
opposed. Paradise Lost is inspired by intense consciousness of the eternal contradiction between
the general, unlimited, irresistible will of universal destiny, and defined individual will
existing within this, and inexplicably capable of acting on it, even against it. Or, if that
seems too much of an antinomy to some philosophies (and it is perhaps possible to make it look
more apparent than real), the dualism can be unavoidably declared by putting it entirely in
terms of consciousness: destiny creating within itself an existence which stands against and
apart from destiny by being conscious of it. In Milton's poetry the spirit of man is equally
conscious of its own limited reality and of the unlimited reality of that which contains him
and drives him with its motion--of his own will striving in the midst of destiny: destiny irresistible,
yet his will unmastered.

This is not to examine the development of epic poetry by looking at that which is not poetry.
In this kind of art, more perhaps than in any other, we must ignore the wilful theories of
those who would set boundaries to the meaning of the word poetry. In such a poem as Milton's,
whatever is in it is its poetry; the poetry of Paradise Lost is just--Paradise Lost! Its pomp
of divine syllables and glorious images is no more the poetry of Milton than the idea of man
which he expressed. But the general manner of an art is for ever similar; it is its inspiration
that is for ever changing.

But what Homer's words, and perhaps what Virgil's words, set out to do, they do just as marvellously.
There is no sure way of comparison here. How words do their work in poetry, and how we appreciate
the way they do it--this seems to involve the obscurest processes of the mind: analysis can
but fumble at it. But we can compare inspiration--the nature of the inmost urgent motive of
poetry. And it is not irrelevant to add (it seems to me mere fact), that Milton had the greatest
motive that has ever ruled a poet.

For the vehicle of this motive, a fable of purely human action would obviously not suffice.
What Milton has to express is, of course, altogether human; destiny is an entirely human conception.
But he has to express not simply the sense of human existence occurring in destiny; that brings
in destiny only mediately, through that which is destined. He has to express the sense of destiny
immediately, at the same time as he expresses its opponent, the destined will of man. Destiny
will appear in poetry as an omnipotent God; Virgil had already prepared poetry for that. But
the action at large must clearly consist now, and for the first time, overwhelmingly of supernatural
imagination. Milton has been foolishly blamed for making his supernaturalism too human. But
nothing can come into poetry that is not shaped and recognizable; how else but in anthropomorphism
could destiny, or (its poetic equivalent) deity, exist in Paradise Lost?

We may see what a change has come over epic poetry, if we compare this supernatural imagination
of Milton's with the supernatural machinery of any previous epic poet. Virgil is the most scrupulous
in this respect; and towards the inevitable change, which Milton completed and perfected from
Camoens and Tasso, Virgil took a great step in making Jupiter professedly almighty. But compare
Virgil's "Tantaene animis celestibus irae?" with Milton's "Evil, be thou my good!" It is the
difference between an accidental device and essential substance. That, in order to symbolize
in epic form--that is to say, in narrative form--the dualistic sense of destiny and the destined,
and both immediately --Milton had to dissolve his human action completely in a supernatural
action, is the sign not merely of a development, but of a re-creation, of epic art.

It has been said that Satan is the hero of Paradise Lost. The offence which the remark has
caused is due, no doubt, to injudicious use of the word "hero." It is surely the simple fact
that if Paradise Lost exists for any one figure, that is Satan; just as the Iliad exists for
Achilles, and the Odyssey for Odysseus. It is in the figure of Satan that the imperishable
significance of Paradise Lost is centred; his vast unyielding agony symbolizes the profound
antinomy of modern consciousness. And if this is what he is in significance it is worth noting
what he is in technique. He is the blending of the poem's human plane with its supernatural
plane. The epic hero has always represented humanity by being superhuman; in Satan he has grown
into the supernatural. He does not thereby cease to symbolize human existence; but he is thereby
able to symbolize simultaneously the sense of its irreconcilable condition, of the universal
destiny that contains it. Out of Satan's colossal figure, the single urgency of inspiration,
which this dualistic consciousness of existence makes, radiates through all the regions of
Milton's vast and rigorous imagination. "Milton," says Landor, "even Milton rankt with living men!"

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 6: 'And all round the ships echoed terribly to the shouting Achaians.']

[Footnote 7:
  'When in a dusty whirlwind thou didst lie,
    Thy valour lost, forgot thy chivalry.'--OGILBY.
(The version leaves out megas megalosti.)
]

[Footnote 8: 'Mother, since thou didst bear me to be so short-lived, Olympian Zeus that thunders
from on high should especially have bestowed honour on me.']

[Footnote 9: 'Honour my son for me, for the swiftest doom of all is his.']

[Footnote 10: "For everyone his own day is appointed; for all men the period of life is short
and not to be recalled: but to spread glory by deeds, that is what valour can do."]

[Footnote 11:
  "They wer' amid the shadows by night in loneliness obscure
  Walking forth i' the void and vasty dominyon of Ades;
  As by an uncertain moonray secretly illumin'd
  One goeth in the forest, when heav'n is gloomily clouded,
  And black night hath robb'd the colours and beauty from all things."
--ROBERT BRIDGES.
]

[Footnote 12: "All that is known, all that is felt, is God."]

V.

AFTER MILTON

And after Milton, what is to happen? First, briefly, for a few instances of what has happened.
We may leave out experiments in religious sentiment like Klopstock's Messiah. We must leave
out also poems which have something of the look of epic at first glance, but have nothing of
the scope of epic intention; such as Scott's longer poems. These might resemble the "lays"
out of which some people imagine "authentic" epic to have been made. But the lays are not the
epic. Scott's poems have not the depth nor the definiteness of symbolic intention--what is
sometimes called the epic unity--and this is what we can always discover in any poetry which
gives us the peculiar experience we must associate with the word epic, if it is to have any
precision of meaning. What applies to Scott, will apply still more to Byron's poems; Byron
is one of the greatest of modern poets, but that does not make him an epic poet. We must keep
our minds on epic intention. Shelley's Revolt of Islam has something of it, but too vaguely
and too fantastically; the generality of human experience had little to do with this glittering
poem. Keats's Hyperion is wonderful; but it does not go far enough to let us form any judgment
of it appropriate to the present purpose.[13] Our search will not take us far before we notice
something very remarkable; poems which look superficially like epic turn out to have scarce
anything of real epic intention; whereas epic intention is apt to appear in poems that do not
look like epic at all. In fact, it seems as if epic manner and epic content were trying for
a divorce. If this be so, the traditional epic manner will scarcely survive the separation.
Epic content, however, may very well be looking out for a match with a new manner; though so
far it does not seem to have found an altogether satisfactory partner.

But there are one or two poems in which the old union seems still happy. Most noteworthy is
Goethe's Hermann und Dorothea. You may say that it does not much matter whether such poetry
should be called epic or, as some hold, idyllic. But it is interesting to note, first, that
the poem is deliberately written with epic style and epic intention; and, second, that, though
singularly beautiful, it makes no attempt to add anything to epic development. It is interesting,
too, to see epic poetry trying to get away from its heroes, and trying to use material the
poetic importance of which seems to depend solely on the treatment, not on itself. This was
a natural and, for some things, a laudable reaction. But it inevitably meant that epic must
renounce the triumphs which Milton had won for it. William Morris saw no reason for abandoning
either the heroes or anything else of the epic tradition. The chief personages of Sigurd the
Volsung are admittedly more than human, the events frankly marvellous. The poem is an impressive
one, and in one way or another fulfils all the main qualifications of epic. But perhaps no
great poem ever had so many faults. These have nothing to do with its management of supernaturalism;
those who object to this simply show ignorance of the fundamental necessities of epic poetry.
The first book is magnificent; everything that epic narrative should be; but after this the
poem grows long-winded, and that is the last thing epic poetry should be. It is written with
a running pen; so long as the verse keeps going on, Morris seems satisfied, though it is very
often going on about unimportant things, and in an uninteresting manner. After the first book,
indeed, as far as Morris's epic manner is concerned, Virgil and Milton might never have lived.
It attempts to be the grand manner by means of vagueness. In an altogether extraordinary way,
the poem slurs over the crucial incidents (as in the inept lines describing the death of Fafnir,
and those, equally hollow, describing the death of Guttorm--two noble opportunities simply
not perceived) and tirelessly expatiates on the mere surroundings of the story. Yet there is
no attempt to make anything there credible: Morris seems to have mixed up the effects of epic
with the effects of a fairy-tale. The poem lacks intellect; it has no clear-cut thought. And
it lacks sensuous images; it is full of the sentiment, not of the sense of things, which is
the wrong way round. Hence the protracted conversations are as a rule amazingly windy and pointless,
as the protracted descriptions are amazingly useless and tedious. And the superhuman virtues
of the characters are not shown in the poem so much as energetically asserted. It says much
for the genius of Morris that Sigurd the Volsung, with all these faults, is not to be condemned;
that, on the contrary, to read it is rather a great than a tiresome experience; and not only
because the faults are relieved, here and there, by exquisite beauties and dignities, indeed
by incomparable lines, but because the poem as a whole does, as it goes on, accumulate an immense
pressure of significance. All the great epics of the world have, however, perfectly clearly
a significance in close relation with the spirit of their time; the intense desire to symbolize
the consciousness of man as far as it has attained, is what vitally inspires an epic poet,
and the ardour of this infects his whole style. Morris, in this sense, was not vitally inspired.
Sigurd the Volsung is a kind of set exercise in epic poetry. It is great, but it is not needed.
It is, in fact, an attempt to write epic poetry as it might have been written, and to make
epic poetry mean what it might have meant, in the days when the tale of Sigurd and the Niblungs
was newly come among men's minds. Mr. Doughty, in his surprising poem The Dawn in Britain,
also seems trying to compose an epic exercise, rather than to be obeying a vital necessity
of inspiration. For all that, it is a great poem, full of irresistible vision and memorable
diction. But it is written in a revolutionary syntax, which, like most revolutions of this
kind, achieves nothing beyond the fact of being revolutionary; and Mr. Doughty often uses the
unexpected effects of his queer syntax instead of the unexpected effects of poetry, which makes
the poem even longer psychologically than it is physically. Lander's Gebir has much that can
truly be called epic in it; and it has learned the lessons in manner which Virgil and Milton
so nobly taught. It has perhaps learned them too well; never were concision, and the loading
of each word with heavy duties, so thoroughly practised. The action is so compressed that it
is difficult to make out exactly what is going on; we no sooner realize that an incident has
begun than we find ourselves in the midst of another. Apart from these idiosyncrasies, the
poetry of Gebir is a curious mixture of splendour and commonplace. If fiction could ever be
wholly, and not only partially, epic, it would be in Gebir.

In all these poems, we see an epic intention still combined with a recognizably epic manner.
But what is quite evident is, that in all of them there is no attempt to carry on the development
of epic, to take up its symbolic power where Milton left it. On the contrary, this seems to
be deliberately avoided. For any tentative advance on Miltonic significance, even for any real
acceptance of it, we must go to poetry which tries to put epic intention into a new form. Some
obvious peculiarities of epic style are sufficiently definite to be detachable. Since Theocritus,
a perverse kind of pleasure has often been obtained by putting some of the peculiarities of
epic--peculiarities really required by a very long poem--into the compass of a very short poem.
An epic idyll cannot, of course, contain any considerable epic intention; it is wrought out
of the mere shell of epic, and avoids any semblance of epic scope. But by devising somehow
a connected sequence of idylls, something of epic scope can be acquired again. As Hugo says,
in his preface to La Legende des Siècles: "Comme dans une mosaïque, chaque pierre a sa couleur
et sa forme propre; l'ensemble donne une figure. La figure de ce livre," he goes on, "c'est
l'homme." To get an epic design or figure through a sequence of small idylls need not be the
result of mere technical curiosity. It may be a valuable method for the future of epic. Tennyson
attempted this method in Idylls of the King; not, as is now usually admitted, with any great
success. The sequence is admirable for sheer craftsmanship, for astonishing craftsmanship;
but it did not manage to effect anything like a conspicuous symbolism. You have but to think
of Paradise Lost to see what Idylls of the King lacks. Victor Hugo, however, did better in
La Legende des Siècles. "La figure, c'est l'homme"; there, at any rate, is the intention of
epic symbolism. And, however pretentious the poem may be, it undoubtedly does make a passionate
effort to develop the significance which Milton had achieved; chiefly to enlarge the scope
of this significance.[14] Browning's The Ring and the Book also uses this notion of an idyllic
sequence; but without any semblance of epic purpose, purely for the exhibition of human character.

It has already been remarked that the ultimate significance of great drama is the same as that
of epic. Since the vital epic purpose--the kind of epic purpose which answers to the spirit
of the time--is evidently looking for some new form to inhabit, it is not surprising, then,
that it should have occasionally tried on dramatic form. And, unquestionably, for great poetic
symbolism of the depths of modern consciousness, for such symbolism as Milton's, we must go
to two such invasions of epic purpose into dramatic manner--to Goethe's Faust and Hardy's The
Dynasts. But dramatic significance and epic significance have been admitted to be broadly the
same; to take but one instance, Aeschylus's Prometheus is closely related to Milton's Satan
(though I think Prometheus really represents a monism of consciousness--that which is destined--as
Satan represents a dualism--at once the destined and the destiny). How then can we speak of
epic purpose invading drama? Surely in this way. Drama seeks to present its significance with
narrowed intensity, but epic in a large dilatation: the one contracts, the other expatiates.
When, therefore, we find drama setting out its significance in such a way as to become epically
dilated, we may say that dramatic has grown into epic purpose. Or, even more positively, we
may say that epic has taken over drama and adapted it to its peculiar needs. In any case, with
one exception to be mentioned presently, it is only in Faust and The Dynasts that we find any
great development of Miltonic significance. These are the poems that give us immense and shapely
symbols of the spirit of man, conscious not only of the sense of his own destined being, but
also of some sense of that which destines. In fact, these two are the poems that develop and
elaborate, in their own way, the Miltonic significance, as all the epics in between Homer and
Milton develop and elaborate Homeric significance. And yet, in spite of Faust and The Dynasts,
it may be doubted whether the union of epic and drama is likely to be permanent. The peculiar
effects which epic intention, in whatever manner, must aim at, seem to be as much hindered
as helped by dramatic form; and possibly it is because the detail is necessarily too much enforced
for the broad perfection of epic effect.

The real truth seems to be, that there is an inevitable and profound difficulty in carrying
on the Miltonic significance in anything like a story. Regular epic having reached its climax
in Paradise Lost, the epic purpose must find some other way of going on. Hugo saw this, when
he strung his huge epic sequence together not on a connected story but on a single idea: "la
figure, c'est l'homme." If we are to have, as we must have, direct symbolism of the way man
is conscious of his being nowadays, which means direct symbolism both of man's spirit and of
the (philosophical) opponent of this, the universal fate of things--if we are to have all this,
it is hard to see how any story can be adequate to such symbolic requirements, unless it is
a story which moves in some large region of imagined supernaturalism. And it seems questionable
whether we have enough formal "belief" nowadays to allow of such a story appearing as solid
and as vividly credible as epic poetry needs. It is a decided disadvantage, from the purely
epic point of view, that those admirable "Intelligences" in Hardy's The Dynasts are so obviously
abstract ideas disguised. The supernaturalism of epic, however incredible it may be in the
poem, must be worked up out of the material of some generally accepted belief. I think it would
be agreed, that what was possible for Milton would scarcely be possible to-day; and even more
impossible would be the naïveté of Homer and the quite different but equally impracticable
naïveté of Tasso and Camoens. The conclusion seems to be, that the epic purpose will have to
abandon the necessity of telling a story.

Hugo's way may prove to be the right one. But there may be another; and what has happened in
the past may suggest what may happen in the future. Epic poetry in the regular epic form has
before now seemed unlikely. It seemed unlikely after the Alexandrians had made such poor attempts
at standing upright under the immensity of Homer; it seemed so, until, after several efforts,
Latin poetry became triumphantly epic in Virgil. And again, when the mystical prestige of Virgil
was domineering everything, regular epic seemed unlikely; until, after the doubtful attempts
of Boiardo and Ariosto, Tasso arrived. But in each case, while the occurrence of regular epic
was seeming so improbable, it nevertheless happened that poetry was written which was certainly
nothing like epic in form, but which was strongly charged with a profound pressure of purpose
closely akin to epic purpose; and De Rerum Natura and La Divina Commedia are very suggestive
to speculation now. Of course, the fact that, in both these cases, regular epic did eventually
occur, must warn us that in artistic development anything may happen; but it does seem as if
there were a deeper improbability for the occurrence of regular epic now than in the times
just before Virgil and Tasso--of regular epic, that is, inspired by some vital import, not
simply, like Sigurd the Volsung, by archaeological import. Lucretius is a good deal more suggestive
than Dante; for Dante's form is too exactly suited to his own peculiar genius and his own peculiar
time to be adaptable. But the method of Lucretius is eminently adaptable. That amazing image
of the sublime mind of Lucretius is exactly the kind of lofty symbolism that the continuation
of epic purpose now seems to require--a subjective symbolism. I believe Wordsworth felt this,
when he planned his great symbolic poem, and partly executed it in The Prelude and The Excursion:
for there, more profoundly than anywhere out of Milton himself, Milton's spiritual legacy is
employed. It may be, then, that Lucretius and Wordsworth will preside over the change from
objective to subjective symbolism which Milton has, perhaps, made necessary for the continued
development of the epic purpose: after Milton, it seems likely that there is nothing more to
be done with objective epic. But Hugo's method, of a connected sequence of separate poems,
instead of one continuous poem, may come in here. The determination to keep up a continuous
form brought both Lucretius and Wordsworth at times perilously near to the odious state of
didactic poetry; it was at least responsible for some tedium. Epic poetry will certainly never
be didactic. What we may imagine--who knows how vainly imagine?--is, then, a sequence of odes
expressing, in the image of some fortunate and lofty mind, as much of the spiritual significance
which the epic purpose must continue from Milton, as is possible, in the style of Lucretius
and Wordsworth, for subjective symbolism. A pregnant experiment towards something like this
has already been seen--in George Meredith's magnificent set of Odes in Contribution to the
Song of the French History. The subject is ostensibly concrete; but France in her agonies and
triumphs has been personified into a superb symbol of Meredith's own reading of human fate.
The series builds up a decidedly epic significance, and its manner is extraordinarily suggestive
of a new epic method. Nevertheless, something more Lucretian in central imagination, something
less bound to concrete and particular event, seems required for the complete development of
epic purpose.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 13: In the greatest poetry, all the elements of human nature are burning in a single
flame. The artifice of criticism is to detect what peculiar radiance each element contributes
to the whole light; but this no more affects the singleness of the compounded energy in poetry
than the spectroscopic examination of fire affects the single nature of actual flame. For the
purposes of this book, it has been necessary to look chiefly at the contribution of intellect
to epic poetry; for it is in that contribution that the development of poetry, so far as there
is any development at all, really consists. This being so, it might be thought that Keats could
hardly have done anything for the real progress of epic. But Keats's apparent (it is only apparent)
rejection of intellect in his poetry was the result of youthful theory; his letters show that,
in fact, intellect was a thing unusually vigorous in his nature. If the Keats of the letters
be added to the Keats of the poems, a personality appears that seems more likely than any of
his contemporaries, or than anyone who has come after him, for the work of carrying Miltonic
epic forward without forsaking Miltonic form.]

[Footnote 14: For all I know, Hugo may never have read Milton; judging by some silly remarks
of his, I should hope not. But Hugo could feel the things in the spirit of man that Milton
felt; not only because they were still there, but because the secret influence of Milton has
intensified the consciousness of them in thousands who think they know nothing of Paradise
Lost. Modern literary history will not be properly understood until it is realized that Milton
is one of the dominating minds of Europe, whether Europe know it or not. There are scarcely
half a dozen figures that can be compared with Milton for irresistible influence--quite apart
from his unapproachable supremacy in the technique of poetry. When Addison remarked that Paradise
Lost is universally and perpetually interesting, he said what is not to be questioned; though
he did not perceive the real reason for his assertion. Darwin no more injured the significance
of Paradise Lost than air-planes have injured Homer.]

