    "My Lord,--The young man who delivers this to your Lordship, is
    one who for several years has been preparing himself for the
    ministry, and in order to it has, I think, completed his time at
    the university. The occasion of his applying this way was purely
    from his own inclination. I took him a child from his poor
    parents, out of a numerous and necessitous family, into my own,
    employing him in nothing servile; and finding his ingenuity, put
    him abroad to the best schools to qualify him for preferment in
    a peculiar way. But the serious temper of the lad disposing him,
    as I found, to the ministry preferably to other advantages, I
    could not be his hindrance; though till very lately I gave him
    no prospect of any encouragement through my interest. But having
    been at last convinced, by his sober and religious courage, his
    studious inclination and meek behaviour, that 'twas real
    principle and not a vanity or conceit that led him into these
    thoughts, I am resolved, in case your lordship thinks him worthy
    of the ministry, to procure him a benefice as soon as anything
    happens in my power, and in the mean time design to keep him as
    my chaplain in my family.

    "I am, my Lord, &c.,

    "SHAFTESBURY."

The second letter inserted in my copy is to Ainsworth himself, dated Reigate, 11th May, 1711,
and written when he was about to apply for priest's orders. But the bulk of this letter is
printed, with a different beginning and ending, in the tenth printed letter, under date July
10th, 1710, and is there made to apply to Ainsworth's having just received deacon's orders.
The beginning, and ending of the letter, as in MS., are--

    "I am glad the time is come that you are to receive full orders,
    and that you hope it from the hands of our {98} great, worthy,
    and excellent Bishop, the Lord of Salisbury. This is one of the
    circumstances" [then the letter proceeds exactly as in the
    printed Letter X., and the MS. letter concludes:] "God send you
    all true Christianity, with that temper, life, and manners which
    become it.

    "I am, your hearty friend,

    "SHAFTESBURY."

I quote the printed beginning of Letter X., on account of the eulogy on Bishop Burnet:--

    "I believed, indeed, it was your expecting me every day at ----
    that prevented your writing since you received orders from the
    good Bishop, my Lord of Salisbury; who, as he has done more than
    any man living for the good and honour of the Church of England
    and the Reformed Religion, so he now suffers more than any man
    from the tongues and slander of those ungrateful Churchmen, who
    may well call themselves by that single term of distinction,
    having no claim to that of Christianity or Protestant, since
    they have thrown off all the temper of the former and all
    concern or interest with the latter. I hope whatever advice the
    great and good Bishop gave you, will sink deeply into your
    mind."

Mr. Singer has extracted from the eighth printed letter one or two sentences on Locke's denial
of innate ideas. A discussion of Locke's views on this subject, or of Lord Shaftesbury's contrary
doctrine of a "moral sense," is not suited to your columns; and I only wish to say that I think
Mr. Singer has not made it sufficiently clear that Lord Shaftesbury's remarks apply only to
the speculative consequences, according to his own view, of a denial of innate ideas; and that
Lord Shaftesbury, in another passage of the same Letters, renders the following tribute of
praise to the Essay on the Human Understanding:--

    "I am not sorry that I lent you Mr. Locke's Essay on the Human
    Understanding, which may as well qualify for business and the
    world as for the sciences and a University. No one has done more
    towards the recalling of philosophy from barbarity into use and
    practice of the world, and into the company of the better and
    politer sort, who might well be ashamed of it in its other
    dress. No one has opened a better or clearer way to reasoning;
    and, above all, I wonder to hear him censured so much by any
    Church of England men, for advancing reason and bringing the use
    of it so much into religion, when it is by this only that we
    fight against the enthusiasts and repel the great enemies of our
    Church."

A life of the author of the Characteristics is hardly less a desideratum than that of his grandfather,
the Lord Chancellor, and would make an interesting work, written in connection with the politics
as well as literature of the reigns of William and Anne; for the third Lord Shaftesbury, though
prevented by ill-health from undertaking office or regularly attending parliament, took always
a lively interest in politics. An interesting collection of the third earl's letters has been
published by Mr. Foster (Letters of Locke, Algernon Sidney, and the Earl of Shaftesbury), and
a few letters from him to Locke are in Lord King's Life of Locke. I subjoin a "note" of a few
original letters of the third Lord Shaftesbury in the British Museum; some of your readers
who frequent the British Museum may perhaps be induced to copy them for your columns.

Letters to Des Maizeaux (one interesting, offering him pecuniary assistance) in Ags. Cat. MSS.
4288.

Letters to Charles Montagu, Earl of Halifax[1], (one introducing Toland). Add. MSS. 7121.

Letter to Toland (printed, I think, in one of the Memoirs of Toland). Ags. Cat. 4295. 10.

Letter to T. Stringer in 1625. Ib. 4107. 115.

In Watt's Bibliotheca Britannica, neither the Letters to a young Man at the University, published
in 1716, nor the collection of letters of 1746, are mentioned; and confusion is made between
the author of the Characteristics and his grandfather the Chancellor. Several political tracts,
published during the latter part of Charles II.'s reign, which have been ascribed to the first
Earl of Shaftesbury, but of which, though they were probably written under his supervision,
it is extremely doubtful that he was the actual author, are lumped together with the Characteristics
as the works of one and the same Earl of Shaftesbury.

Some years ago a discovery was made in Holland of MSS. of Le Clerc, and some notice of the
MSS., and extracts from them, are to be found in the following work:--

    "De Joanne Clerico et Philippo A. Limborch Dissertationes Duæ.
    Adhibitis Epistolis aliisque Scriptis ineditis scripsit atque
    eruditorum virorum epistolis nunc primum editis auxit Abr. Des
    Amorie Van Der Hoeven, &c. Amstelodami: apud Fredericum Muller,
    1843."

Two letters of Locke are among the MSS. Now it is mentioned by Mr. Martyn, the biographer of
the first Earl of Shaftesbury, in a MS. letter in the British Museum, that some of this earl's
papers were sent by the family to Le Clerc, and were supposed not to have been returned. I
mention this, as I perceive you have readers and correspondents in Holland, in the hope that
I may possibly learn whether any papers relating to the first Earl of Shaftesbury have been
found among the lately discovered Le Clerc MSS.; and it is not unlikely that the same MSS.
might contain letters of the third earl, the author of the Characteristics, who was a friend
and correspondent of Le Clerc.

W.D. CHRISTIE.

    [Footnote 1: Two of these--one a letter asking the earl to stand
    godfather to his son, and the other a short note, forwarding a
    book (Qy. of Toland's)--are printed by Sir Henry Ellis in his
    Camden volume, Letters of Eminent Literary Men.--ED.]

       *       *       *       *       * {99}

CAXTON'S PRINTING-OFFICE.

The particular spot where Caxton exercised his business, or the place where his press was fixed,
cannot now, perhaps, be exactly ascertained. Dr. Dibdin, after a careful examination of existing
testimonies, thinks it most probable that he erected his press in one of the chapels attached
to the aisles of Westminster Abbey; and as no remains of this interesting place can now be
discovered, there is a strong presumption that it was pulled down in making alterations for
the building of Henry VII.'s splendid chapel.

It has been frequently asserted that all Caxton's books were printed in a part of Westminster
Abbey; this must be mere conjecture, because we find no statement of it from himself: he first
mentions the place of his printing in 1477, so that he must have printed some time without
informing us where.

With all possible respect for the opinions of Dr. Dibdin, and the numerous writers on our early
typography, I have very considerable doubts as to whether Caxton really printed within the
walls of the Abbey at all. I am aware that he himself says, in some of his colophons, "Emprinted
in th' Abbey of Westmynstre," but query whether the precincts of the Abbey are not intended?
Stow, in his Annals (edit 1560, p. 686.), says,--"William Caxton of London, mercer, brought
it (printing) into England about the year 1471, and first practised the same in the Abbie of
St. Peter at Westminster;" but in his Survey of London, 1603 (edit. Thoms, p. 176.), the same
writer gives us a more full and particular account; it is as follows:--

    "Near unto this house [i.e. Henry VII.'s alms-house], westward,
    was an old chapel of St. Anne; over against the which, the Lady
    Margaret, mother to King Henry VII., erected an alms-house for
    poor women, which is now turned into lodgings for the singing
    men of the college. The place wherein this chapel and alms-house
    standeth was called the Elemosinary, or almonry, now corruptly
    the ambry, for that the alms of the Abbey were there distributed
    to the poor; and therein Islip, abbot of Westminster, erected
    the first press of book-printing that ever was in England, about
    the year of Christ 1471. William Caxton, citizen of London,
    mercer, brought it into England, and was the first that
    practised it in the said abbey; after which time the like was
    practised in the abbeys of St. Augustine at Canterbury, St.
    Albans, and other monasteries."

Again, in the curious hand-bill preserved in the Bodleian Library, it will be remembered that
Caxton invites his customers to "come to Westmonester into the Almonestrye," where they may
purchase his books "good chepe."

From these extracts it is pretty clear that Caxton's printing-office was in the Almonry, which
was within the precincts of the Abbey, and not in the Abbey itself. The "old chapel of St.
Anne" was doubtless the place where the first printing-office was erected in England. Abbot
Milling (not Islip, as stated by Stow) was the generous friend and patron of Caxton and the
art of printing; and it was by permission of this learned monk that our printer was allowed
the use of the building in question.

The old chapel of St. Anne stood in the New-way, near the back of the workhouse, at the bottom
of the almonry leading to what is now called Stratton Ground. It was pulled down, I believe,
about the middle of the seventeenth century. The new chapel of St. Anne, erected in 1631, near
the site of the old one, was destroyed about fifty years since.

Mr. Cunningham, in his Handbook for London (vol. i. p. 17.), says,--

    "The first printing-press ever seen in England was set up in
    this almonry under the patronage of Esteney, Abbot of
    Westminster, by William Caxton, citizen and mercer (d. 1483)."

