But Robin was angry.  He had long ago forgotten his share in the business; he had adopted so
successfully the rôle of injured sufferer that his own actions seemed to him almost meritorious.
But he was very angry with them.  Here they were, in the face of a family crisis, deliberately
adopting a policy of laissez-faire; he had done his best and had failed, but he was young and
ignorant of the world (that at least he now admitted), but they were old, experienced, wise--or,
at least, they had always seemed to him to stand for experience and wisdom, and yet they could
do nothing--nay, worse--they seemed to wish to do nothing--Oh! he was angry with them!

The whole room with its silver and knick-knacks--its beautifully worked cushions and charming
water-colours, its shining rows of complete editions and dainty china stood to him now for
incapacity.  Three weeks ago it had seemed his Holy of Holies.

"But we can't wait," he repeated--"we can't!  Don't you see, Aunt Clare, she isn't the sort
of girl that waiting does for?  She'd never dream of waiting herself."  Dahlia seemed, by contrast
with their complacent acquiescence, almost admirable.

"Well, dear," Clare answered, "your uncle and I have both tried--I think that we may be alarming
ourselves unnecessarily.  I must say she didn't seem to me to bear any grudge against you.
I daresay she will leave things as they are----"

"Then why keep the letters?"

"Oh, sentiment.  It would remind her, you see----"

But Robin could only repeat--"No, she's not that kind of girl," and marvel, perplexedly, at
their short-sightedness.

And then he approached the point--

"There is, of course," he said slowly, "one other person who might help us----"  He paused.

Garrett put his book down and looked up.  Clare leaned towards him.

"Yes?"  Clare looked slightly incredulous of any suggested remedy--but apparently composed
and a little tired of all this argument.  But, in reality, her heart was beating furiously.
Had it come at last?--that first mention of his father that she had dreaded for so many days.

"I really cannot think----" from Garrett.

"Why not my father?"

Again it seemed to Clare that she and Harry were struggling for Robin ... since that first
moment of his entry they had struggled--she with her twenty years of faithful service, he with
nothing--Oh! it was unfair!

"But, Robin," she said gently--"you can't--not, at least, after what has happened.  This is
an affair for ourselves--for the family."

"But he is the family!"

"Well, in a sense, yes.  But his long absence--his different way of looking at things--make
it rather hard.  It would be better, wouldn't it, to settle it here, without its going further."

"To settle it, yes--but we can't--we don't--we are leaving things quite alone--waiting--when
we ought to do something."

Robin knew that she was showing him that his father was still outside the circle--that for
herself and Uncle Garrett recent events had made no difference.

But was he outside the circle?  Why should he be?  At any rate he would soon be head of the
House, and then it would matter very little----

"Also," Clare added, "he will scarcely have time just now.  He is with father all day--and
I don't see what he could do, after all."

"He could see her," said Robin slowly.  He suddenly remembered that Dahlia had once expressed
great admiration for his father--she was the very woman to like that kind of man.  A hurried
mental comparison between his father and Uncle Garrett favoured the idea.

"He could see her," he said again.  "I think she might like him."

"My dear boy," said Garrett, "take it from me that what a man could do I've done.  I assure
you it's useless.  Your father is a very excellent man, but, I must confess, in my opinion
scarcely a diplomat----"

"Well, at any rate it's worth trying," cried Robin impatiently.  "We must, I suppose, eat humble
pie after the things you said to him, Aunt Clare, the other day, but I must confess it's the
only chance.  He will be decent about it, I'm sure--I think you scarcely realise how nasty
it promises to be."

"Who is to ask?" said Garrett.

"I will ask him," said Clare suddenly.  "Perhaps after all Robin is right--he might do something."

It might, she thought, be the best thing.  Unless he tried, Robin would always consider him
capable of succeeding--but he should try and fail--fail!  Why, of course he would fail.

"Thank you, Aunt Clare."  Robin walked to the door and then turned: "Soon would be best"--then
he closed the door behind him.

His father was coming down the stairs as he passed through the hall. He saw him against the
light of the window and he half turned as though to speak to him--but his father gave no sign;
he looked very stern--perhaps his grandfather was dead.

The sudden fear--the terror of death brought very close to him for the first time--caught him
by the throat.

"He is not dead?" he whispered.

"He is asleep," Harry said, stopping for a moment on the last step of the stairs and looking
at him across the hall--"I am afraid that he won't live through the night."

They had both spoken softly, and the utter silence of the house, the heaviness of the air so
that it seemed to hang in thick clouds above one's head, drove Robin out.  He looked as though
he would speak, and then, with bent head, passed into the garden.

He felt most miserably lonely and depressed--if he hadn't been so old and proud he would have
hidden in one of the bushes and cried.  It was all so terrible--his grandfather, that weighty,
eerie impression of Death felt for the first time, the dreadful uncertainty of the Feverel
affair, all things were quite enough for misery, but this feeling of loneliness was new to him.

He had always had friends, but even when they had failed him there had been behind them the
House--its traditions, its records, its history--his aunt and uncle, and, most reassuring of
all, himself.

But now all these had failed him.  His friends were vaguely unattractive; Randal was terribly
superficial, he was betraying the House; his aunt and uncle were unsatisfactory, and for himself--well,
he wasn't quite so splendid as he had once thought.  He was wretchedly dissatisfied with it
all and felt that he would give all the polish and culture in the world for a simple, unaffected
friendship in which he could trust.

"Some one," he said angrily, "that would do something"--and his thoughts were of his father.

It was dark now, and he went down to the sea, because he liked the white flash of the waves
as they broke on the beach--this sudden appearing and disappearing and the rustle of the pebbles
as they turned slowly back and vanished into the night again.

He liked, too, the myriad lights of the town: the rows of lamps, rising tier on tier into the
night sky, like people in some great amphitheatre waiting in silence for the rising of a mighty
curtain.  He always thought on these nights of Germany--Germany, Worms, the little bookseller,
the distant gleam of candles in the Cathedrals, the flash of the sun through the trees over
the Rhine, the crooked, cobbled streets at night with the moon like a lamp and the gabled roofs
flinging wild shadows over the stones ... the night-sea brought it very close and carried Randal
and Cambridge and Dahlia Feverel very far away, although he did not know why.

He watched the light of the town and the waves and the great flashing eye of the lighthouse
and then turned back.  As he climbed the steps up the cliff he heard some one behind him, and,
turning, saw that it was Mary Bethel.  She said "Good-night" quickly and was going to pass
him, but he stopped her.

"I haven't seen you for ages, Mary," he said.  He resolved to speak to her.  She knew his father
and had always been a good sort--perhaps she would help him.

"Are you coming back, Robin?" she said, stopping and smiling.  There was a lamp at the top
of the cliff where the road ran past the steps, and by the light of it he saw that she had
been crying.  But he was too much occupied with his own affairs to consider the matter very
deeply, and then girls cried so easily.

"Yes," he said, "let us go round by the road and the Chapel--it's a splendid night; besides,
we don't seem to have met recently.  We've both been busy, I suppose, and I've a good deal
to talk about."

"If you like," she said, rather listlessly.  It would, at least, save her from her own thoughts
and protect her perhaps from the ceaseless repetition of that scene of three days ago when
she had turned the man that she loved more than all the world away and had lied to him because
she was proud.

And so at first she scarcely listened to him.  They walked down the road that ran along the
top of the cliff and the great eye of the lighthouse wheeled upon them, flashed and vanished;
she saw the room with its dingy carpet and wide-open window, and she heard his voice again
and saw his hands clenched--oh! she had been a fine fool!  So it was little wonder that she
did not hear his son.

But Robin had at last an audience and he knew no mercy.  All the agitation of the last week
came pouring forth--he lost all sense of time and place; he was at the end of the world addressing
infinity on the subject of his woes, and it says a good deal for his vanity and not much for
his sense of humour that he did not feel the lack of proportion in such a position.

"It was a girl, you know--perhaps you've met her--a Miss Feverel--Dahlia Feverel.  I met her
at Cambridge and we got rather thick, and then I wrote to her--rot, you know, like one does--and
when I wanted to get back the letters she wouldn't let me have them, and she's going to use
them, I'm afraid, for--well--Breach of Promise!"

He paused and waited for the effect of the announcement, but it never came; she was walking
quickly, with her head lifted to catch the wind that blew from the sea--he could not be certain
that she had heard.

"Breach of Promise!" he repeated impressively.  "It would be rather an awful thing for people
in our position if it really came to that--it would be beastly for me.  Of course, I meant
nothing by it--the letters, I mean--a chap never does.  Everybody at Cambridge talks to girls--the
girls like it--but she took it seriously, and now she may bring it down on our heads at any
time, and you can't think how beastly it is waiting for it to come.  We've done all we could--all
of us--and now I can tell you it's been worrying me like anything wondering what she's done.
My uncle and aunt both tried and failed; I was rather disappointed, because after all one would
have thought that they would be able to deal with a thing like that, wouldn't one?"

He paused again, but she only said "Yes" and hurried on.

"So now I'm at my wits' end and I thought that you might help me."

"Why not your father?" she said suddenly.

"Ah! that's just it," he answered eagerly.  "That's where I wanted you to give me your advice.
You see--well, it's a little hard to explain--we weren't very nice to the governor when he
came back first--the first day or two, I mean.  He was--well, different--didn't look at things
as we did; liked different things and had strong views about knocking down the Cove.  So we
went on our way and didn't pay much attention to him--I daresay he's told you all about it--and
I'm sorry enough now, although it really was largely his own fault!  I don't think he seemed
to want us to have much to do with him, and then one day Clare spoke to him about things and
asked him to consider us a little and he flared up.

