       *       *       *       *       *

LITERARY NOTE AND QUERY.--First volume of Tacitus translated into English by A.W. QUILL. Judging
from a review in the Times of this instalment, it is the work of neither a soft nor hard Quill,
but a medium Quill. With such a suggestive name, this author will show himself a Goose Quill
if he does not at once turn his attention to the History of PENN.

       *       *       *       *       *

LADY GAY'S SELECTIONS.

The Bobolink, Henley.

DEAR MR. PUNCH,

The Election at Sheepsdoor being regarded as a "moral" for our Candidate--(what a delightful
change from the im-moral way in which elections used to be conducted!)--I felt it was safe
for me to wing my flight to fresh scenes and pastures new!--not that I wanted any "new pastures,"
having been a grass-widow for some time;--but having had enough of the "rolling billow"--(by
the way, the rolling "Billow" at Stockbridge didn't roll fast enough)--I yearned for the silvery
smoothness of Father Thames, so started for Henley with my faithful Eulalie--(I really must
change her name, it sounds like a Swiss jödel); but, oh! my goodness!--talk about billows--the
Channel passage is a fool to what we found at Henley! Waves mountain high!--(This of course
is an exaggeration, but I've read it so often in sea-novels, that I've almost come to believe
it possible--it would be nearer the truth, as dear Mrs. RAMSBOTHAM would pronounce it, I fancy--waves
"mounting high.") I had to sit all day on the roof of the Bobolink, with a lifebelt or something
round my waist!--and having made me acquaintance of a sweet youth who could swim, I implored
him not to leave me!--and he didn't--the whole day long. Ah! he was very nice!--I need not
tell you I didn't notice the racing much, but I did take an interest in two of the contests;
viz.--(I don't know what "viz." means--but I do know I am using it correctly)--The Diamond
Sculls, and The Ladies' Challenge. The Diamonds were walked off, or rowed off to Holland--(great
place, I'm told, for diamonds)--by Mr. K. OOMS (who evidently "kooms" of an athletic stock),
amid the generous cheers of our defeated Englishmen! The other--and naturally, from its title,
the most important event--was competed for by two boat-loads from Cambridge University--Crews,
I believe, they call them, but I always thought it was a sign of contempt to allude to any
party of people as "a crew." However that may be, I was informed that "First Trinity had carried
off the Ladies!" (just as if they were a pack of Sabine women), and I suppose it was true;
though, in counting up the Ladies in sight, I only missed one--and she, I found, had fallen
into the river, and been gallantly rescued by a spectator, who, I presume, was determined to
have his share, in spite of the First Trinity Men!

Back to town, after all was over on Thursday, to find everybody wild with "election fever."
A large group surrounding the "tape" at the Club (I belong to the "Amazon," of course), and
ordering lemon squashes when a seat was lost, and whiskey and seltzer when the reverse was
the case! Oh, this Election! Thank goodness, I'm off to Newmarket, to spend the week with Sir
NEWMAN and Lady GATESHEAD, with a distinct feeling of relief at getting back to business after
this fortnight of exciting relaxation!

Next week's racing furnishes quite a lengthy menu, with several attractive entrées, and some
good "made-up-overnight" dishes; in fact, a programme which appeals strongly to every racy
palate. I do not propose to work my way through the entire menu (not being an Alderman), and
will only hint at a few of the side-dishes, which may be worth attention reserving my great
effort for the "plat de résistance" at Sandown; so, at Newmarket--try just a mouthful of July
Handicap à la Duke of DEVONSHIRE's "Selected;" should it choke you, have a pat on the "Bach"
when attacking the Beaufort Stakes; and to wind up with dessert, worthy of a CHESTERFIELD,
take a "Meddler." If this conglomeration of good things is not too much for you, travel back
to town in time for the great race of the week; but, if upset, don't blame,

Yours devotedly, LADY GAY.

"ECLIPSE STAKES SELECTION."

  With Gouverneur, Orme, and such giants to run,
    It needs the cool calm of a PLATO
  To fix on the horse that will "capture the bun!"
    But I think it will be "Orvieto."

       *       *       *       *       *

OPERATIC NOTES.

Tuesday.--Première of Elaine. BEMBERG Composer, LÉON-JEHIN Conductor, and Sir DRURIOLANUS Producer.
Full House, determined to give New Opera a fair hearing, and sit it out. Don't get a new Opera
every day. Congratulations to BEMBERG in a general way. "In a first Opera" (if this be his
first), to quote the Composer of the recent De-La-ra-Boom Buddha, who was complacently listening
to the other Composer's new Opera, "originality breeds contempt." So a little bit here, and
a little bit there, here a bit, and there a bit, and everywhere a bit, gets rid of all superfluity
in the Composer's brain, and saves the listening critic much trouble. Then his next Opera--Ah!--that
ought to be all genuinely new and original Sparkling BEMBERG Cabinet. "Elaine," observed a
lady critic, "is graceful and airy"--which, in the lady's presence, the present listener was
not prepared to deny.

Contented must have been Composer BEMBERG with such a cast as was made and provided for him
by Sir DRURIOLANUS. MELBA, as the "Lily Maid of Astolat," charming, with a charming song, "L'Amour
est pur." The audience was in an encoring humour, but, thank goodness, only a few encores were
taken, and the others left, otherwise none of us would have been home till sunrise. In the
swan-like dying scene the Composer wrings our heart-strings with his harp-strings, reminding
everyone forcibly that, as Mr. Guppy observed, "There are chords!" Wagnerian, sometimes, is
our BEMBERG, with his horns and brass. Fine chorus at beginning of Act II.--the Tournament
Act--which shows, as a foolish person observed, "a Rummy lot at Camelot." At end of Third Act
MELBA and JEAN DE RESZKÉ (who must have joined the Salvation Army, as he was, apparently, "saving
himself" all the evening) were enthusiastically called. Engaged in curtseying her thanks, MELBA
didn't notice--as, how should she?--property steps behind her, on which, at about her tenth
curtsey, she suddenly sat down about two seconds before she could possibly realise that there
was any chance of sitting down. But JEAN LAUNCELOT DE RESZKÉ was there, and rescued her! Good
Knight! JEAN DE RESCUE! Then EDWARD, as Hermit, own brother to Friar Laurence, excellent. But
so were they all, and the Opera will well repay several re-hearings.

Thursday.--Aïda. Generally considered rather a heavy Opera by VERDI. "But to-night," says WAGSTAFF,
"the Verdi-ict quite t'other way." MAUREL excellent as Amonasro, and MAGGIE MACINTYRE looked,
acted, and sang Maggie-nificently. Uncommonly good was GIULIA RAVOGLI as Amneris, Aïda's rival
for the love of the small-sized Radamès Dimitresco, or Dimi-nutive-Tresco (comparatively speaking),
to whom EDWARD DE RESZKÉ, being quite a Ned and shoulders taller, might spare some of his superfluous
inches.

EDWARD uncommonly good as Ramfis, which name, considering the peculiar make-up, might be appropriately
changed to Rum Phiz, and nobody be any the worse. BEVIGNANI conducted himself and the orchestra
admirably; M. PLANÇON, in English Plain Song, did all well that as Il Re he had to do, looking
every inch a Re, and not a bit Il. Mlle. BAUERMEISTER was Una Sacerdotissa, but she would be
anything and do everything well. Signer RINALDINI was Un Messagiero. His costume might have
been more effective had Sir AUGUSTUS brought him up to date as a Messenger Boy for the Telephonie-sol-fa
Company. This can be amended. House good.

Friday.--Covent Garden, Elaine expected, but didn't appear. JOHN THE RISKY, the Launcelot of
the Opera, unwell. "Not Launcelot, but another!" cried Sir DRURIOLANUS, only there wasn't another.
So Carmen was played. "Not this Elaine," continued Sir AUGUSTUS, "but Drur-e-lane." So away!
to hear the Trumpeter of the German Band. This Trompeter might be played as a trump in a small
house, but 'tis trumpery for Drury Lane. One phrase of an old music-hall ditty, the words of
which were, "She walked forward, I followed on, tra la la!" constantly recur. Who originated
it? Unwonted excitement of going to two Operas told on shattered frame, so staggered to Maiden
Lane, which, on account of its being the home for oysters, crabs, and lobsters, should be renamed
Mer-maiden Lane. Behold! good Dr. BAYLIS "within the Rules" making up his evening prescriptions.
"Quis supperabit?" asked the learned Dr. B. "Ego," replied I, like JEAMES, knowing the language.
And "supper-a-bit" it was. "'84 wachterum unum pintum frigidum sumendum cum '92 chickeno,"
&c. "My benizon on thee!" said CRITICUS REDIVIVUS. "Dr. BAYLIS, I bay-liss thee!" with the
accent on the "liss." So home. After all the chops and changes of this operatic life, I am
with "chicken and champagne" content. Finis coronat opus.

       *       *       *       *       *

MORE CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE ALCOHOLIC QUESTION.

(A FEW REMARKS ON DR. ROBSON ROOSE'S ARTICLE IN NEW REVIEW.)

1. Inebriates should be shut up in Alcoholloway Prison.

2. "Food-accessory" is a very pretty name for drink. Henceforth let the butler go round as
"the merry toast goes round." Let butlers and footmen, in dining-rooms and places where they
have various liquors, be instructed to inquire of each and every guest "What food-accessory
will you take, Sir?"

3. "The use of Alcohol dates from very early times." But it is not recommended by the faculty
as a good thing to be taken at 7 A.M., or at any time in the morning immediately on awaking.

As to when any one has had enough "alcohol," the old test first put forward many years ago
by Mr. Punch, still holds good. If you can say "British Constitution" distinctly, and without
effort, so that it shall not be all in one composite word sounding like "Bri'sh-conshushun,"
then, perhaps, you may go up-stairs (if you can) and join the ladies.

4. "The liver is very prone to become affected." The question is, first, Is "an evil liver"
or "a good liver" here intended? But, apart from this, any affectation in a liver, good or
bad, is objectionable. It must be taken for granted, in a serious discussion on the subject,
that "a slave to his liver" is a synonym for "a livery servant." The one objection to a livery
servant lies in this very fact; for a slave to liver is rarely in a good humour, and is generally
sulky, lazy, and disobliging.

5. "Wine comes in, rubs off the acerbities, and brings all down to the same level of good humour."
The end of such a happy party is, of course, all under the table, smiling, but speechless.

  Smiling, but beautiful they lay,
  A gleam was in their half-closed eye,
  But still they murmured with a sigh,
            Hic-shelsher-wa'.

Dr. ROBERTS, as quoted by his confrère, ROBSON ROOSETEM PASHA, appears to be a very sensible
person. Dr. ROBERTS--he is not Dr. ARTHUR ROBERTS, we believe--recommends the liqueur to be
judiciously taken at meal-times. And, by the way, as the knowledge of when to cry, "Hold, enough!"
is most useful, here is another test of sobriety in this very word "judicious," which some,
after a couple of glasses (or more) of fine old cognac, will pronounce as though 'twere spelt
"seducious," and some will swear it ought to be "jusidious." When nobody can pronounce "judicious"
correctly, the arbiter bibendi, if himself absolutely sober as a judge ought to be,--a man
quite "above-board," i.e., not yet under it,--such a one may pronounce that the guests have
had quite enough. It is a pity that so excellent a writer on temperance should have the singular
disadvantage of a plural name. If, after dinner, a worthy convivialist observed, "I see ROBERTS,"
would not the question naturally be, "How many of 'em?" The Doctor can omit the "s," and, as
perhaps he is already a little singular in his carefully-advanced theories, why should he not
de-pluralise his surname? Do the Doctors R.R. and R. differ on this? Then we must decide. In
the meantime, to show our approval of this particular article of Dr. ROBSON ROOSTEM PASHA's
faith, we, as a jovial company, drink his health, and then depart for our annual Alcoholiday trip.

       *       *       *       *       *

LAWN TENNIS INTELLIGENCE.--BADDELAY has taken the cake.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

OUT OF IT!

(THE LAY OF THE NON-ELECTED.)

  Then a warm-faced functionary read the "Declaration"--when
  A sort of sinking sickness took SMITH in the abdomen;
  And he smiled a sickly sort of smile, and stalked out at the door,
  And the subsequent proceedings interested him no more!

          Bret Harte adapted.

  Pheugh! His poll was taken early (it was not on Saturday),
  And he lost by seven hundred, and is out of the fierce fray;
  And whether he rejoices, or internally repines,
  May be clear to the wiseacres who can "read between the lines."

  It was hot, too, while it lasted, and of epidemic ills
  The Election Fever "takes the cake." 'Tis true it seldom kills,
  But for far and wide contagion, and for agony acute,
  Its supremacy is certain as its sway is absolute.

  And he had it very badly. He looks convalescent now,
  But the frenzy of the meeting brought the crimson to his brow,
  And his thorax is still husky with his eloquent appeal
  To the mustered working-men at the hour of mid-day meal.

  How they swarmed about his waggon! How their oily fustian filled
  The summer air with fragrance that his fine olfactories thrilled!
  How very loud their shouts were, and how very rude their jeers,
  And how very strong the bouquet of clay pipes and bitter beers!

  His arguments amused them, and his peroration fine,
  About "standing for old England stoutly all along the line,"
  Would have surely proved impressive, but for some sardonic ass,
  Who produced an anti-climax with the shouted comment "Gas!"

  Then the mob broke up in laughter, to return to pipe and can,
  And--plumped for his opponent pretty nearly to a man;
  For of all ungrateful cynics, and of all impervious clowns,
  Commend me (says our wanderer), to the workmen of our towns.

  Well, experientia docet. That confounded "local Club"
  (Blend of Institute and Chapel with a savour of the pub.)
  Where the pallid-faced cheesemongers, and the clammy-handed snobs,
  Swarmed around to "patronise" him, was the toughest of tough jobs.

  Its rooms were wondrous stuffy and its members scarce "good form,"
  For they mostly dropped their aitches, and they always looked so
          warm.
  Why political enthusiasts so run to noise and heat,
  And crude manners, and bad grammar, is a crux that's hard to beat.

  But he bore it,--yes, he bore it; he shook heaps of 'orny 'ands,
  Heard the shindy of their shoutings, and the braying of their bands;
  Stood their "heckling," which was trying, and their praises, which
          were worse,
  All the claims upon his time, and taste, his patience, and his
          purse.

  Then they "chucked" him by three figures! Well, he's "out of it,"
          thanks be!
  And he "offs it by the Special" to the river or the sea.
  He heard the "Declaration," and the rival Party's roar,
  And--"the subsequent proceedings interested him no more."

  "'Latest Results! Helections!!' Oh, confound the boy! Get out!
  Let the winners sum their winnings, let their blatant backers shout.
  What have I to do with pollings? Cease, cacophonous urchin, cease!
  I am going to read The Wrecker, and possess my soul in peace!"

       *       *       *       *       *

"D.G." and MRS. R.--Mr. Punch begs to congratulate the Daily Graphic on the electioneering
ladder showing every day the position of the Parties. Very "Happy Thought." His ancient friend,
Mrs. RAM, in speaking of this journal, observed, that "Daily Graphic was not by any means a
new name, and the paper ought to have been purely theatrical, as the person after whom it is
evidently called was the celebrated actor, you know, my dear, in the last century, whom Dr.
JOHNSON used to call 'Little Daily Graphic.'"

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

THE END OF HENLEY.

(FRAGMENT FROM A HISTORICAL SKETCH YET TO BE WRITTEN.)

It was shortly after the middle of July, 1892, that the Great Representative of the British
Race stood upon the Victoria Embankment, watching the river-steamers as they passed to and
fro. There were few persons about, for the General Election was over, and civilised London
was out of Town. Some of civilised London had gone abroad, some were in Scotland, some by the
Sea. So the Great Representative expected to see no one.

"Mr. Punch, I believe!" said some one, approaching the Great Representative. The speaker was
a person who wore a garb peculiarly suitable to the autumnal sultriness of the weather. He
had about a couple of yards of calico, and one good coating of serviceable paint. The Great
Representative bowed his head, and by a gesture, invited further explanation.

"I am connected with the literary world, and am a Colonist. I am known, or used to be known
(for I am getting a trifle out of date), as Lord MACAULAY's New-Zealander."

Again the Great Representative bowed. He knew his visitor, and bade him welcome. Then he asked
him the cause of his visit.

"Well, I really don't know," replied the New-Zealander, with a short laugh. "I am afraid I
must have been hoaxed. I was told that England was absolutely ruined, and was looking for a
comfortable seat amongst the remains of London Bridge."

"You see you are slightly premature," returned the Great Representative, pointing towards a
more or less majestic pile in the offing. "There was some talk of rebuilding the structure
some short while ago, but a viaduct near the Tower was considered preferable. When it is opened,
there will be Knighthoods for the Sheriffs, and a Baronetcy for the Lord MAYOR."

"And yet," pondered the New-Zealander, "I was certainly informed by wire, that the glory of
Britain had vanished for ever."

"Very likely an Election cry," observed Mr. Punch, "In the midst of a contested polling, both
sides think the success of their rivals must be followed by immediate disaster. But somehow
or other, things settle down afterwards, and nothing comes of it. Whichever side wins, the
old flag floats in the wind as gaily and as prosperously as ever."

"And yet I was certainly told that the sun of England had set never to rise again," persisted
the Aboriginal, who seemed to be of an obstinate turn of mind. "Now I remember--the cause was
something to do with Diamonds and Henley. Stay, the bright brains of the nation had disappeared.
I recollect, the Diamond Sculls of the nation (once so great) had passed to foreigners."

"Ah, now I take your meaning." said the National Representative, with a smile, "and you must
have heard of the result of the race for the Diamond Sculls at Henley."

"That must be it," acquiesced the New-Zealander. "I had forgotten to take into account possible
errors in transmission. But tell me, has there been a national defeat?"

