THE ATLANTIC MONTHLY.

VOL. X.--OCTOBER, 1862.--NO. LX.

A MAGAZINE OF LITERATURE, ART, AND POLITICS.

AUTUMNAL TINTS.

DAVID GAUNT.

PART II.

It was late. Palmer, unhitching his horse from the fence, mounted and rode briskly down the
hill. He would lose the girl: saw the loss, faced it. Besides the love he bore her, she had
made God a truth to him. He was jaded, defeated, as if some power outside of himself had taken
him unexpectedly at advantage to-night, and wrung this thing from him. Life was not much to
look forward to,--the stretch it had been before: study, and the war, and hard common sense,--the
theatre,--card-playing. Not being a man, I cannot tell you how much his loss amounted to. I
know, going down the rutted wagon-road, his mild face fell slowly into a haggard vacancy foreign
to it: one or two people at the tavern where he stopped asked him if he were ill: I think,
too, that he prayed once or twice to whatever God he had, looking up with dry eye and shut
lips,--dumb prayers, wrung out of some depth within, such as Christian sent out of the slough,
when he was like to die. But he did stop at the tavern, and there drank some brandy to steady
his nerves; and he did not forget that there was an ambuscade of Rebels at Blue's Gap, and
that he was to share in the attack on them at daylight: he spurred his horse, as he drew nearer
Romney. Dode, being a woman, thinking love lost, sat by the fire, looking vacantly at nothing.
Yet the loss was as costly to him as to her, and would be remembered as long.

He came up to the church where the meeting had been held. It was just over; the crowded room
was stifling with the smoke of tobacco and tallow-candles; there was an American flag hanging
over the pulpit, a man pounding on a drum at the door, and a swarm of loafers on the steps,
cheering for the Union, for Jeff Davis, etc. Palmer dismounted, and made his way to the pulpit,
where Dyke, a lieutenant in his company, was.

"All ready, Dyke?"

"All right, Capt'n."

Palmer lingered, listening to the talk of the men. Dyke had been an Ohio-River pilot; after
the troubles began, had taken a pork-contract under Government; but was lieutenant now, as
I said. It paid better than pork, he told Palmer,--a commission, especially in damp weather.
Palmer did not sneer. Dykes, North and South, had quit the hog-killing for the man-killing
business, with no other motive than the percentage, he knew; but he thought the rottenness
lay lower than their hearts. Palmer stood looking down at the crowd: the poorer class of laborers,--their
limbs cased in shaggy blouses and green baize leggings,--their faces dogged, anxious as their
own oxen.

"'Bout half on 'em Secesh," whispered Jim Dyke. "'T depends on who burned their barns fust."

Jim was recruiting to fill up some vacancies in Palmer's company. He had been tolerably successful
that day; as he said, with a wink, to the Captain,--

"The twenty dollars a month on one side, an' the test-oath on t' other, brought loyalty up
to the scratch."

He presented some of the recruits to Palmer: pluming himself, adjusting the bogus chains over
his pink shirt.

"Hyur's Squire Pratt. Got two sons in th' army,--goin' hisself. That's the talk! Charley Orr,
show yerself! This boy's father was shot in his bed by the Bushwhackers."

A mere boy, thin, consumptive, hollow-chested: a mother's-boy, Palmer saw, with fair hair and
dreamy eyes. He held out his hand to him.

"Charley will fight for something better than revenge. I see it in his face."

The little fellow's eyes flashed.

"Yes, Captain."

He watched Palmer after that with the look one of the Cavaliers might have turned to a Stuart.
But he began to cough presently, and slipped back to the benches where the women were. Palmer
heard one of them in rusty black sob out,--"Oh, Charley! Charley!"

There was not much enthusiasm among the women; Palmer looked at them with a dreary trail of
thought in his brain. They were of the raw, unclarified American type: thick-blooded, shrewish,
with dish-shaped faces, inelastic limbs. They had taken the war into their whole strength,
like their sisters, North and South: as women greedily do anything that promises to be an outlet
for what power of brain, heart, or animal fervor they may have, over what is needed for wifehood
or maternity. Theodora, he thought, angrily, looked at the war as these women did, had no poetic
enthusiasm about it, did not grasp the grand abstract theory on either side. She would not
accept it as a fiery, chivalric cause, as the Abolitionist did, nor as a stern necessity, like
the Union-saver. The sickly Louisianian, following her son from Pickens to Richmond, besieging
God for vengeance with the mad impatience of her blood, or the Puritan mother praying beside
her dead hero-boy, would have called Dode cowardly and dull. So would those blue-eyed, gushing
girls who lift the cup of blood to their lips with as fervid an abandon as ever did French
bacchante. Palmer despised them. Their sleazy lives had wanted color and substance, and they
found it in a cant of patriotism, in illuminating their windows after slaughter, in dressing
their tables with helmets of sugar, (after the fashion of the White House,)--delicate souvenirs
de la guerre!

But Theodora and these women had seen their door-posts slopped with blood,--that made a difference.
This woman in front had found her boy's half-charred body left tied to a tree by Rebel scouts:
this girl was the grandchild of Naylor, a man of seventy,--the Federal soldiers were fired
at from his house one day,--the next, the old man stood dumb upon its threshold; in this world,
he never would call to God for vengeance. Palmer knew these things were true. Yet Dode should
not for this sink to low notions about the war. She did: she talked plain Saxon of it, and
what it made of men; said no cause could sanctify a deed so vile,--nothing could be holy which
turned honest men into thieves and assassins. Her notions were low to degradation, Palmer thought,
with the quickening cause at his heart; they had talked of it the last time he was here. She
thought they struck bottom on some eternal truth, a humanity broader than patriotism. Pah!
he sickened at such whining cant! The little Captain was common-sensed to the backbone,--intolerant.
He was an American, with the native taint of American conceit, but he was a man whose look
was as true as his oath; therefore, talking of the war, he never glossed it over,--showed its
worst phases, in Virginia and Missouri; but he accepted it, in all its horror, as a savage
necessity. It was a thing that must be, while men were men, and not angels.

While he stood looking at the crowd, Nabbes, a reporter for one of the New-York papers, who
was lounging in the pulpit, began to laugh at him.

"I say, Captain, you Virginia Loyalists don't go into this war with vim. It's a bitter job to you."

Palmer's face reddened.

"What you say is true, thank God,"--quietly.

Nabbes stuck his hands into his pockets, whistling. He shrewdly suspected Palmer wasn't "sound."
No patriot would go into the war with such a miserable phiz as that. Yet he fought like a tiger
up in the mountains. Of course, the war was a bad business,--and the taxes--whew! Last summer
things were smashed generally, and when Will (his brother) sailed in Sherman's expedition,
it was a blue day enough: how his mother and the girls did carry on! (Nabbes and Will supported
the family, by the way; and Nabbes, inside of his slang, billiards, etc., was a good, soft-hearted
fellow.) However, the country was looking up now. There were our victories,--and his own salary
was raised. Will was snug down at Port Royal,--sent the girls home some confoundedly pretty
jewelry; they were as busy as bees, knitting socks, and--What, the Devil! were we to be ridden
over rough-shod by Davis and his crew? Northern brain and muscle were toughest, and let water
find its own level. So he tore out a fly-leaf from the big Bible, and jotted down notes of
the meeting,--"An outpouring of the loyal heart of West Virginia,"--and yawned, ready for bed,
contented with the world, himself, and God.

Dyke touched Palmer's arm.

"Lor', Capt'n," he whispered, "ef thar a'n't old Scofield! 'n the back o' th' house, watchin'
you. Son killed at Manassas,--George,--d' ye know?"

"I know."

"Danged ef I don't respect Secesh like them," broke out Dyke. "Ye'll not sin his soul with
a test-oath. Thar's grit thar. Well, God help us!"

Palmer stepped down from the pulpit; but the old man, seeing him coming, turned and shouldered
his way out of the crowd, his haggard face blood-red.

"What'll the old chap say to Gaunt's enlistin'?" said Dyke.

"Gaunt in? Bully for the parson!" said Squire Pratt.

"Parson 'listed?" said the reporter. "They and the women led off in this war. I'm glad of it,--brings
out the pith in 'em."

"I dunno," said Dyke, looking round. "Gaunt's name brought in a dozen; but----It's a dirty
business, the war. I wish 'n somebody's hands hed stayed clean of it."

"It's the Lord's work," said Pratt, with a twang, being a class-leader.

"Ye-s? So 'ud Bishop Polk say. Got a different Lord down thar? 'S likely. Henry Wise used to
talk of the 'God of Virginia.'"

"Was a fellow," said Nabbes, nursing one foot, "that set me easy about my soul, and the thing.
A chaplain in Congress: after we took down that bitter Mason--and--Slidell pill, it was. Prayed
to Jesus to keep us safe until our vengeance on England was ripe,--to 'aid us through the patient
watch and vigil long of him who treasures up a wrong.' Old boy, thinks I, if that's Christianity,
it's cheap. I'll take stock in it. Going at half-price, I think."

"I am tired of this cant of Christians refusing to join in the war," said Palmer, impatiently.
"God allows it; it helps His plans."

"Humph! So did Judas," muttered Dyke, shrewdly. "Well, I a'n't a purfessor myself.--Boys, come
along! Drum-call time. You're in luck. We'll have work afore mornin',--an' darned ef you sha'n't
be in it, in spite of rules!"

When the recruits went out, the meeting broke up. Palmer put on his hat, and made his way out
of a side-door into the snow-covered field about the church, glancing at his watch as he went.
He had but little time to spare. The Federal camp lay on a distant hill-side below Romney:
through the dim winter shadows he could see points of light shifting from tent to tent; a single
bugle-call had shrilled through the mountains once or twice; the regiments ordered for the
attack were under arms now, he concluded. They had a long march before them: the Gap, where
the Confederate band were concealed, lay sixteen miles distant. Unless the Union troops succeeded
in surprising the Rebels, the fight, Palmer knew, would be desperate; the position they held
was almost impregnable, --camped behind a steep gash in the mountain: a handful of men could
hold it against Dunning's whole brigade, unshielded, bare. A surprise was almost impossible
in these mountains, where Rebel guerrillas lurked behind every tree, and every woman in the
village-shanties was ready to risk limbs or life as a Rebel spy. Thus far, however, he thought
this movement had been kept secret: even the men did not know where they were going.

Crossing the field hurriedly, he saw two men talking eagerly behind a thorn-bush. One of them,
turning, came towards him, his hat slouched over his face. It was Scofield. As he came into
the clear starlight, Palmer recognized the thick-set, sluggish figure and haggard face, and
waited for him,--with a quick remembrance of long summer days, when he and George, boys together,
had looked on this man as the wisest and strongest, sitting at his side digging worms or making
yellow flies for him to fish in the Big Cacapon,--how they would have the delicate broiled
trout for supper,--how Dode was a chubby little puss then, with white apron and big brown eyes,
choosing to sit on his lap when they went to the table, and putting her hand slyly into his
coffee. An odd thing to think of then and there! George lay stiff now, with a wooden board
only at his head to tell that he once lived. The thoughts struck through Palmer's brain in
the waiting moment, making his hand unsteady as he held it out to the old man.

"Uncle Scofield! Is the war to come between you and me? For George's sake! I saw him at Harper's
Ferry before--before Manassas. We were no less friends then than ever before."

The old man's eyes had glared defiance at Palmer under their gray brows when he faced him,
but his big bony hand kept fumbling nervously with his cravat.

"Yes, Dougl's. I didn't want to meet yer. Red an' white's my colors,--red an' white, so help
me God!"

"I know," said Palmer, quietly.

There was a silence,--the men looking steadily at each other.

"Ye saw George?" the old man said, his eyes falling.

"Yes. At Harper's Ferry. I was making my way through the Confederate lines; George took me
over, risking his own life to do it, then reported himself under arrest. He did not lose his
commission; your general was just"----

Scofield's face worked.

"That was like my boy! Thar's not a grandfather he hes in the country whar he's gone to that
would believe one of our blood could do a mean thing! The Scofields ar'n't well larned, but
they've true honor, Dougl's Palmer!"

Palmer's eyes lighted. Men of the old lion-breed know each other in spite of dress or heirship
of opinion.

"Ye've been to th' house to-night, boy?" said the old man, his voice softened. "Yes? That was
right. Ye've truer notions nor me. I went away so 's not till meet yer. I'm sorry for it. George's
gone, Dougl's, but he'd be glad till think you an' me was the same as ever,--he would!" He
held out his hand. Something worthy the name of man in each met in the grasp, that no blood
spilled could foul or embitter. They walked across the field together, the old man leaning
his hand on Palmer's shoulder as if for support, though he did not need it. He had been used
to walk so with George. This was his boy's friend: that thought filled and warmed his heart
so utterly that he forgot his hand rested on a Federal uniform. Palmer was strangely silent.

"I saw Theodora," he said at last, gravely.

Scofield started at the tone, looked at him keenly, some new thought breaking in on him, frightening,
troubling him. He did not answer; they crossed the broad field, coming at last to the hill-road.
The old man spoke at last, with an effort.

"You an' my little girl are friends, did you mean, Dougl's? The war didn't come between ye?"

"Nothing shall come between us,"--quietly, his eye full upon the old man's. The story of a
life lay in the look.

Scofield met it questioningly, almost solemnly. It was no time for explanation. He pushed his
trembling hand through his stubby gray hair.

"Well, well, Dougl's. These days is harrd. But it'll come right! God knows all."

The road was empty now,--lay narrow and bare down the hill; the moon had set, and the snow-clouds
were graying heavily the pale light above. Only the sharp call of a discordant trumpet broke
the solitude and dumbness of the hills. A lonesome, foreboding night. The old man rested his
hand on the fence, choking down an uncertain groan now and then, digging into the snow with
his foot, while Palmer watched him.

"I must bid yer good-bye, Dougl's," he said at last. "I've a long tramp afore me to-night.
Mebbe worse. Mayhap I mayn't see you agin; men can't hev a grip on the next hour, these days.
I'm glad we 're friends. Whatever comes afore mornin', I'm glad o' that!"

"Have you no more to say to me?"

"Yes, Dougl's,--'s for my little girl,--ef so be as I should foller my boy sometime, I'd wish
you'd be friends to Dode, Dougl's. Yes! I would,"--hesitating, something wet oozing from his
small black eye, and losing itself in the snuffy wrinkles.

Palmer was touched. It was a hard struggle with pain that had wrung out that tear. The old
man held his hand a minute, then turned to the road.

"Whichever of us sees Geordy first kin tell him t' other's livin' a true-grit honest life,
call him Yankee or Virginian,--an' that's enough said! So good bye, Dougl's!"

Palmer mounted his horse and galloped off to the camp, the old man plodding steadily down the
road. When the echo of the horse's hoofs had ceased, a lean gangling figure came from out of
the field-brush, and met him.

"Why, David boy! whar were ye to-night?" Scofield's voice had grown strangely tender in the
last hour.

Gaunt hesitated. He had not the moral courage to tell the old man he had enlisted.

"I waited. I must air the church,--it is polluted with foul smells."

Scofield laughed to himself at David's "whimsey," but he halted, going with the young man as
he strode across the field. He had a dull foreboding of the end of the night's battle: before
he went to it, he clung with a womanish affection to anything belonging to his home, as this
Gaunt did. He had not thought the poor young man was so dear to him, until now, as he jogged
along beside him, thinking that before morning he might be lying dead at the Gap. How many
people would care? David would, and Dode, and old Bone.

Gaunt hurried in,--he ought to be in camp, but he could not leave the house of God polluted
all night,--opening the windows, even carrying the flag outside. The emblem of freedom, of
course,--but----He hardly knew why he did it. There were flags on every Methodist chapel, almost:
the sect had thrown itself into the war con amore. But Gaunt had fallen into that sect by mistake;
his animal nature was too weak for it: as for his feeling about the church, he had just that
faint shade of Pantheism innate in him that would have made a good Episcopalian. The planks
of the floor were more to him than other planks; something else than sunshine had often shone
in to him through the little panes,--he touched them gently; he walked softly over the rag-carpet
on the aisle. The LORD was in His holy temple. With another thought close behind that, of the
time when the church was built, more than a year ago; what a happy, almost jolly time they
had, the members giving the timber, and making a sort of frolic of putting it up, in the afternoons
after harvest. They were all in one army or the other now: some of them in Blue's Gap. He would
help ferret them out in the morning. He shivered, with the old doubt tugging fiercely at his
heart. Was he right? The war was one of God's great judgments, but was it his place to be in
it? It was too late to question now.

He went up into the pulpit, taking out the Bible that lay on the shelf, lighting a candle,
glancing uneasily at the old man on the steps. He never had feared to meet his eye before.
He turned to the fly-leaf, holding it to the candle. What odd fancy made him want to read the
uncouth, blotted words written there? He knew them well enough. "To my Dear frend, David Gaunt.
May, 1860. the Lord be Betwien mee And thee. J. Scofield." It was two years since he had given
it to Gaunt, just after George had been so ill with cholera, and David had nursed him through
with it. Gaunt fancied that nursing had made the hearts of both son and father more tender
than all his sermons. He used to pray with them in the evenings as George grew better, hardly
able to keep from weeping like a woman, for George was very dear to him. Afterwards the old
man came to church more regularly, and George had quit swearing, and given up card-playing.
He remembered the evening when the old man gave him the Bible. He had been down in Wheeling,
and when he came home brought it out to Gaunt in the old corn-field, wrapped up in his best
red bandanna handkerchief,--his face growing red and pale. "It's the Book, David. I thort ef
you'd use this one till preach from. Mayhap it wouldn't be right till take it from a sinner
like me, but--I thort I'd like it, somehow,"--showing him the fly-leaf. "I writ this,--ef it
would be true,--what I writ,--'The Lord he between me and thee'?"

Gaunt passed his fingers now over the misspelled words softly as he would stroke a dead face.
Then he came out, putting out the candle, and buttoning the Bible inside of his coat.

Scofield waited for him on the steps. Some trouble was in the old fellow's face, Gaunt thought,
which he could not fathom. His coarse voice choked every now and then, and his eyes looked
as though he never hoped to see the church or Gaunt again.

"Heh, David!" with a silly laugh. "You'll think me humorsome, boy, but I hev an odd fancy."

He stopped abruptly.

"What is it?"

"It's lonesome here,"--looking around vaguely. "God seems near here on the hills, d' ye think?
David, I'm goin' a bit out on the road to-night, an' life's uncertain these times. Whiles I
think I might never be back to see Dode agin,--or you. David, you're nearer to Him than me;
you brought me to Him, you know. S'pose,--you'll think me foolish now,--ef we said a bit prayer
here afore I go; what d'ye think? Heh?"

Gaunt was startled. Somehow to-night he did not feel as if God was near on the hills, as Scofield
thought.

"I will,"--hesitating. "Are you going to see Dode first, before you go?"

"Dode? Don't speak of her, boy! I'm sick! Kneel down an' pray,--the Lord's Prayer,--that's
enough,--mother taught me that,"--baring his gray head, while Gaunt, his worn face turned to
the sky, said the old words over. "Forgive," he muttered,--"resist not evil,"--some fragments
vexing his brain. "Did He mean that? David boy? Did He mean His people to trust in God to right
them as He did? Pah! times is different now,"--pulling his hat over his forehead to go. "Good
bye, David!"

"Where are you going?"

"I don't mind tellin' you,--you'll keep it. Bone's bringin' a horse yonder to the road. I'm
goin' to warn the boys to be ready, an' help 'em,--at the Gap, you know?"

"The Gap? Merciful God, no!" cried Gaunt. "Go back"----

The words stopped in his throat. What if he met this man there?

Scofield looked at him, bewildered.

"Thar's no danger," he said, calmly. "Yer nerves are weak. But yer love for me's true, David.
That's sure,"--with a smile. "But I've got to warn the boys. Good bye,"--hesitating, his face
growing red. "Ye'll mind, ef anything should happen,--what I writ in the Book,--once,--'The
Lord be between me an' thee,' dead or alive? Them's good, friendly words. Good bye! God bless
you, boy!"

Gaunt wrung his hand, and watched him as he turned to the road. He saw Bone meet him, leading
a horse. As the old man mounted, he turned, and, seeing Gaunt, nodded cheerfully, and going
down the hill began to whistle. "Ef I should never come back, he kin tell Dode I hed a light
heart at th' last," he thought. But when he was out of hearing, the whistle stopped, and he
put spurs to the horse.

Counting the hours, the minutes,--a turbid broil of thought in his brain, of Dode sitting alone,
of George and his murderers, "stiffening his courage,"--right and wrong mixing each other inextricably
together. If, now and then, a shadow crossed him of the meek Nazarene leaving this word to
His followers, that, let the world do as it would, they should resist not evil, he thrust it
back. It did not suit to-day. Hours passed. The night crept on towards morning, colder, stiller.
Faint bars of gray fell on the stretch of hill-tops, broad and pallid. The shaggy peaks blanched
whiter in it. You could hear from the road-bushes the chirp of a snow-bird, wakened by the
tramp of his horse, or the flutter of its wings. Overhead, the stars disappeared, like flakes
of fire going out; the sky came nearer, tinged with healthier blue. He could see the mountain
where the Gap was, close at hand, but a few miles distant.

He had met no pickets: he believed the whole Confederate camp there was asleep. And behind
him, on the road he had just passed, trailing up the side of a hill, was a wavering, stealthy
line, creeping slowly nearer every minute,--the gray columns under Dunning. The old man struck
the rowels into his horse,--the boys would be murdered in their sleep! The road was rutted
deep: the horse, an old village hack, lumbered along, stumbling at every step. "Ef my old bones
was what they used to be, I'd best trust them," he muttered. Another hour was over; there were
but two miles before him to the Gap: but the old mare panted and balked at every ditch across
the road. The Federal force was near; even the tap of their drum had ceased long since; their
march was as silent as a tiger's spring. Close behind,--closer every minute! He pulled the
rein savagely,--why could not the dumb brute know that life and death waited on her foot? The
poor beast's eye lightened. She gathered her whole strength, sprang forward, struck upon a
glaze of ice, and fell. The old man dragged himself out. "Poor old Jin! ye did what ye could!"
he said. He was lamed by the fall. It was no time to think of that; he hobbled on, the cold
drops of sweat oozing out on his face from pain. Reaching the bridge that crosses the stream
there, he glanced back. He could not see the Federal troops, but he heard the dull march of
their regiments,--like some giant's tread, slow, muffled in snow. Closer,--closer every minute!
His heavy boots clogged with snow; the pain exhausted even his thick lungs,--they breathed
heavily; he climbed the narrow ridge of ground that ran parallel with the road, and hurried
on. Half an hour more, and he would save them!

A cold, stirless air: Gaunt panted in it. Was there ever night so silent? Following his lead,
came the long column, a dark, even-moving mass, shirred with steel. Sometimes he could catch
glimpses of some vivid point in the bulk: a hand, moving nervously to the sword's hilt; faces,--sensual,
or vapid, or royal, side by side, but sharpened alike by a high purpose, with shut jaws, and
keen, side-glancing eyes.

He was in advance of them, with one other man,--Dyke. Dyke took him, as knowing the country
best, and being a trustworthy guide. So this was work! True work for a man. Marching hour after
hour through the solitary night, he had time to think. Dyke talked to him but little: said
once, "P'raps 't was as well the parsons had wakened up, and was mixin' with other folks. Gettin'
into camp 'ud show 'em original sin, he guessed. Not but what this war-work brought out good
in a man. Makes 'em, or breaks 'em, ginerally." And then was silent. Gaunt caught the words.
Yes,--it was better preachers should lay off the prestige of the cloth, and rough it like their
Master, face to face with men. There would be fewer despicable shams among them. But this?--clutching
the loaded pistol in his hand. Thinking of Cromwell and Hedley Vicars. Freedom! It was a nobler
cause than theirs. But a Face was before him, white, thorn-crowned, bent watchful over the
world. He was sent of Jesus. To do what? Preach peace by murder? What said his Master? "That
ye resist not evil." Bah! Palmer said the doctrine of nonresistance was whining cant. As long
as human nature was the same, right and wrong would be left to the arbitrament of brute force.
And yet--was not Christianity a diviner breath than this passing through the ages? "Ye are
the light of the world." Even the "roughs" sneered at the fighting parsons. It was too late
to think now. He pushed back his thin yellow hair, his homesick eyes wandering upwards, his
mouth growing dry and parched.

They were nearing the mountain now. Dawn was coming. The gray sky heated and glowed into inner
deeps of rose; the fresh morning air sprang from its warm nest somewhere, and came to meet
them, like some one singing a heartsome song under his breath. The faces of the columns looked
more rigid, paler, in the glow: men facing death have no time for fresh morning thoughts.

They were within a few rods of the Gap. As yet there was no sign of sentinel,--not even the
click of a musket was heard. "They sleep like the dead," muttered Dyke. "We'll be on them in
five minutes more." Gaunt, keeping step with him, pressing up the hill, shivered. He thought
he saw blood on his hands. Why, this was work! His whole body throbbed as with one pulse. Behind
him, a long way, came the column; his quickened nerves felt the slow beat of their tread, like
the breathing of some great animal. Crouching in a stubble-field at the road-side he saw a
negro,--a horse at a little distance. It was Bone; he had followed his master: the thought
passing vaguely before him without meaning. On! on! The man beside him, with his head bent,
his teeth clenched, the pupils of his eyes contracted, like a cat's nearing its prey. The road
lay bare before them.

"Halt!" said Dyke. "Let them come up to us."

Gaunt stopped in his shambling gait.

"Look!" hissed Dyke,--"a spy!"--as the figure of a man climbed from a ditch where he had been
concealed as he ran, and darted towards the rebel camp. "We'll miss them yet!"--firing after
him with an oath. The pistol missed,--flashed in the pan. "Wet!"--dashing it on the ground.
"Fire, Gaunt!--quick!"

The man looked round; he ran lamely,--a thick, burly figure, a haggard face. Gaunt's pistol
fell. Dode's father! the only man that loved him!

"Damn you!" shouted Dyke, "are you going to shirk?"

Why, this was the work! Gaunt pulled the trigger; there was a blinding flash. The old man stood
a moment on the ridge, the wind blowing his gray hair back, then staggered, and fell,--that
was all.

The column, sweeping up on the double-quick, carried the young disciple of Jesus with them.
The jaws of the Gap were before them,--the enemy. What difference, if he turned pale, and cried
out weakly, looking back at the man that he had killed?

For a moment the silence was unbroken. The winter's dawn, with pink blushes, and restless soft
sighs, was yet wakening into day. The next, the air was shattered with the thunder of the guns
among the hills, shouts, curses, death-cries. The speech which this day was to utter in the
years was the old vexed cry,--"How long, O Lord? how long?"

A fight, short, but desperate. Where-ever it was hottest, the men crowded after one leader,
a small man, with a mild, quiet face,--Douglas Palmer. Fighting with a purpose: high,--the
highest, he thought: to uphold his Government. His blows fell heavy and sure.

You know the end of the story. The Federal victory was complete. The Rebel forces were carried
off prisoners to Romney. How many, on either side, were lost, as in every battle of our civil
war, no one can tell: it is better, perhaps, we do not know.

The Federal column did not return in an unbroken mass as they went. There were wounded and
dying among them; some vacant places. Besides, they had work to do on their road back: the
Rebels had been sheltered in the farmers' houses near; the "nest must be cleaned out": every
homestead but two from Romney to the Gap was laid in ashes. It was not a pleasant sight for
the officers to see women and children flying half-naked and homeless through the snow, nor
did they think it would strengthen the Union sentiment; but what could they do? As great atrocities
as these were committed by the Rebels. The war, as Palmer said, was a savage necessity.

When the fight was nearly over, the horse which Palmer rode broke from the mélée and rushed
back to the road. His master did not guide him. His face was set, pale; there was a thin foam
on his lips. He had felt a sabre-cut in his side in the first of the engagement, but had not
heeded it: now, he was growing blind, reeling on the saddle. Every bound of the horse jarred
him with pain. His sense was leaving him, he knew; he wondered dimly if he was dying. That
was the end of it, was it? He hoped to God the Union cause would triumph. Theodora,--he wished
Theodora and he had parted friends. The man fell heavily forward, and the horse, terrified
to madness, sprang aside, on a shelving ledge on the road-side, the edge of a deep mountain-gully.
It was only sand beneath the snow, and gave way as he touched it. The animal struggled frantically
to regain his footing, but the whole mass slid, and horse and rider rolled senseless to the
bottom. When the noon-sun struck its peering light that day down into the dark crevice, Palmer
lay there, stiff and stark.

When the Federal troops had passed by that morning, Scofield felt some one lift him gently,
where he had fallen. It was Bone.

"Don't yer try ter stan', Mars' Joe," he said. "I kin tote yer like a fedder. Lor' bress yer,
dis is nuffin'. We'll hev yer roun' 'n no time,"--his face turning ash-colored as he talked,
seeing how dark the stain was on the old man's waistcoat.

His master could not help chuckling even then.

"Bone," he gasped, "when will ye quit lyin'? Put me down, old fellow. Easy. I'm goin' fast."

Death did not take him unawares. He had thought all day it would end in this way. But he never
knew who killed him,--I am glad of that.

Bone laid him on a pile of lumber behind some bushes. He could do little,--only held his big
hand over the wound with all his force, having a vague notion he could so keep in life. He
did not comprehend yet that his master was dying, enough to be sorry: he had a sort of pride
in being nearest to Mars' Joe in a time like this,--in having him to himself. That was right:
hadn't they always been together since they were boys and set rabbit-traps on the South-Branch
Mountain? But there was a strange look in the old man's eyes Bone did not recognize,--a new
and awful thought. Now and then the sharp crack of the musketry jarred him.

"Tink dem Yankees is gettin' de Debbil in de Gap," Bone said, consolingly. "Would yer like
ter know how de fight is goin', Mars'?"

"What matters it?" mumbled the old man. "Them things is triflin', after all,--now,--now."

"Is dar anyting yer'd like me ter git, Mars' Joe?" said Bone, through his sobs.

The thought of the dying man was darkening fast; he began to mutter about Dode, and George
at Harper's Ferry,--"Give Coly a warm mash to-night, Bone."

"O Lord!" cried the negro, "ef Mist' Dode was hyur! Him's goin', an' him's las' breff is given
ter de beast! Mars' Joe," calling in his ear, "fur God's sake say um prayer!"

The man moved restlessly, half-conscious.

"I wish David was here,--to pray for me."

The negro gritted his teeth, choking down an oath.

"I wish,--I thort I'd die at home,--allays. That bed I've slep' in come thirty years. I wish
I was in th' house."

His breath came heavy and at long intervals. Bone gave a crazed look toward the road, with
a wild thought of picking his master up and carrying him home. But it was nearly over now.
The old man's eyes were dull; they would never see Dode again. That very moment she stood watching
for him on the porch, her face colorless from a sleepless night, thinking he had been at Romney,
that every moment she would hear his "Hillo!" round the bend of the road. She did not know
that could not be again. He lay now, his limbs stretched out, his grizzly old head in Bone's arms.

"Tell Dode I didn't fight. She'll be glad o' that. Thar's no blood on my hands." He fumbled
at his pocket. "My pipe? Was it broke when I fell? Dody 'd like to keep it, mayhap. She allays
lit it for me."

The moment's flash died down. He muttered once or twice, after that,--"Dode,"--and "Lord Jesus,"--and
then his eyes shut. That was all.

They had buried her dead out of her sight. They had no time for mourning or funeral-making
now. They only left her for a day alone to hide her head from all the world in the coarse old
waistcoat, where the heart that had been so big and warm for her lay dead beneath,--to hug
the cold, haggard face to her breast, and smooth the gray hair. She knew what the old man had
been to her--now! There was not a homely way he had of showing his unutterable pride and love
for his little girl that did not wring her very soul. She had always loved him; but she knew
now how much warmer and brighter his rough life might have been, if she had chosen to make
it so. There was not a cross word of hers, nor an angry look, that she did not remember with
a bitterness that made her sick as death. If she could but know he forgave her! It was too
late. She loathed herself, her coldness, her want of love to him,--to all the world. If she
could only tell him she loved him, once more!--hiding her face in his breast, wishing she could
lie there as cold and still as he, whispering, continually, "Father! Father!" Could he not
hear? When they took him away, she did not cry nor faint. When trouble stabbed Dode to the
quick, she was one of those people who do not ask for help, but go alone, like a hurt deer,
until the wound heals or kills. This was a loss for life. Of course, this throbbing pain would
grieve itself down; but in all the years to come no one would take just the place her old father
had left vacant. Husband and child might be dearer, but she would never be "Dody" to any one
again. She shut the loss up in her own heart. She never named him afterwards.

It was a cold winter's evening, that, after the funeral. The January wind came up with a sharp,
dreary sough into the defiles of the hills, crusting over the snow-sweeps with a glaze of ice
that glittered in the pearly sunlight, clear up the rugged peaks. There, at the edge of them,
the snow fretted and arched and fell back in curling foam-waves with hints of delicate rose-bloom
in their white shining. The trees, that had stood all winter bare and patient, lifting up their
dumb arms in dreary supplication, suddenly, to-day, clothed themselves, every trunk and limb
and twig, in flashing ice, that threw back into the gray air the royal greeting of a thousand
splendid dyes, violet, amber, and crimson,--to show God they did not need to wait for summer
days to praise Him. A cold afternoon: even the seeds hid in the mould down below the snow were
chilled to the heart, and thought they surely could not live the winter out: the cows, when
Bone went out drearily to feed them by himself, were watching the thin, frozen breath steaming
from their nostrils with tears in their eyes, he thought.

A cold day: cold for the sick and wounded soldiers that were jolted in ambulances down the
mountain-roads through its creeping hours. For the Federal troops had evacuated Romney. The
Rebel forces, under Jackson, had nearly closed around the mountain-camp before they were discovered:
they were twenty thousand strong. Lander's force was but a handful in comparison: he escaped
with them for their lives that day, leaving the town and the hills in full possession of the
Confederates.

A bleak, heartless day: coldest of all for Dode, lying on the floor of her little room. How
wide and vacant the world looked to her! What could she do there? Why was she born? She must
show her Master to others,--of course; but--she was alone: everybody she loved had been taken
from her. She wished that she were dead. She lay there, trying to pray, now and then,--motionless,
like some death in life; the gray sunlight looking in at her, in a wondering way. It was quite
contented to be gray and cold, till summer came.

Out in the little kitchen, the day had warmed up wonderfully. Dode's Aunt Perrine, a widow
of thirty years' standing, had come over to "see to things durin' this murnful affliction."
As she had brought her hair-trunk and bonnet-box, it was probable her stay would be indefinite.
Dode was conscious of her as she would be of an attack of nettle-rash. Mrs. Perrine and her
usual burying-colleague, "Mis' Browst," had gotten up a snug supper of fried oysters, and between
that and the fresh relish of horror from the funeral were in a high state of enjoyment.

Aunt Perrine, having officiated as chief mourner that very morning, was not disposed to bear
her honors meekly.

"It was little Jane Browst knew of sorrer. With eight gells well married,--well married, Jane,--deny
it, ef you can,--what can you know of my feelins this day? Hyur's Mahala's husband dead an'
gone,--did you say tea or coffee, Jane?--Joseph Scofield, a good brother-in-law to me's lives,
laid in the sod this day. You may well shake yer head! But who 'll take his place to me? Dode
there's young an' 'll outgrow it. But it 's me that suffers the loss,"--with a fresh douse
of tears, and a contemptuous shove of the oyster-plate to make room for her weeping head. "It's
me that's the old 'n' withered trunk!"

Mis' Browst helped herself freely to the oysters just then.

"Not," said Aunt Perrine, with stern self-control, "that I don't submit, an' bear as a Christian
ought."

She took the spoon again.

"'N' I could wish," severely, raising her voice, "'s all others could profit likewise by this
dispensation. Them as is kerried off by tantrums, 'n' consorts with Papishers 'n' the Lord
knows what, might see in this a judgment, ef they would."

Mis' Browst groaned in concert.

"Ye needn't girn that away, Jane Browst," whispered Aunt Perrine, emphatically. "Dode Scofield's
a different guess sort of a gell from any Browst. Keep yer groans for yer own nest. Ef I improve
the occasion while she's young an' tender, what's that to you? Look at home, you'd best, I say!"

Mis' Browst was a woman of resources and English pluck. She always came out best at last, though
her hair was toffy-colored and her eyes a washed-out blue, and Aunt Perrine was of the color
of a mild Indian. Two of Mis' Browst's sons-in-law had been "burned out" by the Yankees; another
was in the Union army: these trump-cards of misery she did now so produce and flourish and
weep over that she utterly routed the enemy, reduced her to stolid silence.

"Well, well," she muttered, getting breath. "We'll not talk of our individooal sorrers when
affliction is general, Jane Browst. S'pose we hev Bone in, and hear the perticklers of the
scrimmage at Blue's Gap. It's little time I've hed for news since,"--with a groan to close
the subject finally.

Mis' Browst sighed an assent, drinking her coffee with a resigned gulp, with the firm conviction
that the civil war had been designed for her especial trial and enlargement in Christian grace.

So Bone was called in from the cow-yard. His eyes were quite fiery, for the poor stupid fellow
had been crying over the "warm mash" he was giving to Coly. "Him's las' words was referrin'
ter yer, yer pore beast," he had said, snuffling out loud. He had stayed in the stables all
day, "wishin' all ole she-cats was to home, an' him an' Mist' Dode could live in peace."

However, he was rather flattered at the possession of so important a story just now, and in
obedience to Aunt Perrine's nod seated himself with dignity on the lowest step of the garret-stairs,
holding carefully his old felt hat, which he had decorated with streaming weepers of crape.

Dode, pressing her hands to her ears, heard only the dull drone of their voices. She shut her
eyes, sometimes, and tried to fancy that she was dreaming and would waken presently,--that
she would hear her father rap on the window with his cowhide, and call, "Supper, Dody dear?"--that
it was a dream that Douglas Palmer was gone forever, that she had put him away. Had she been
right? God knew; she was not sure.

It grew darker; the gray afternoon was wearing away with keen gusts and fitful snow-falls.
Dode looked up wearily: a sharp exclamation, rasped out by Aunt Perrine, roused her.

"Dead? Dougl's dead?"

"Done gone, Mist'. I forgot dat--ter tell yer. Had somefin' else ter tink of."

"Down in the gully?"

"Saw him lyin' dar as I went ter git Flynn's cart ter--ter bring Mars' Joe, yer know,--home.
Gone dead. Like he's dar yit. Snow 'ud kiver him fast, an' de Yankees hedn't much leisure ter
hunt up de missin',--yi! yi!"--with an attempt at a chuckle.

"Dougl's dead!" said Aunt Perrine. "Well!--in the midst of life--Yer not goin', Jane Browst?
What's yer hurry, woman? You've but a step across the road. Stay to-night. Dode an' me'll be
glad of yer company. It's better to come to the house of murnin' than the house of feastin',
you know."

"You may be thankful you've a house to cover you, Ann Perrine, an'"----

"Yes,--I know. I'm resigned. But there's no affliction like death.--Bone, open the gate for
Mis' Browst. Them hasps is needin' mendin', as I've often said to Joseph,--um!"

The women kissed each other as often as women do whose kisses are--cheap, and Mis' Browst set
off down the road. Bone, turning to shut the gate, felt a cold hand on his arm.

"Gor-a'mighty! Mist' Dode, what is it?"

The figure standing in the snow wrapt in a blue cloak shook as he touched it. Was she, too,
struck with death? Her eyes were burning, her face white and clammy.

"Where is he, Uncle Bone? where?"

The old man understood--all.

"Gone dead, darlin'."--holding her hand in his paw, tenderly. "Don't fret, chile! Down in de
Tear-coat gully. Dead, chile, dead! Don't yer understan'?"

"He is not dead," she said, quietly. "Open the gate," pulling at the broken hasp.

"Fur de Lor's sake, Mist' Dode, come in 'n' bathe yer feet 'n' go to bed! Chile, yer crazy!"

Common sense, and a flash of something behind to give it effect, spoke out of Dode's brown
eyes, just then.

"Go into the stable, and bring a horse after me. The cart is broken?"

"Yes, 'm. Dat cussed Ben"----

"Bring the horse,--and some brandy, Uncle Bone."

"Danged ef yer shall kill yerself! Chile, I tell yer he's dead. I'll call Mist' Perrine."

Her eyes were black now, for an instant; then they softened.

"He is not dead. Come, Uncle Bone. You're all the help I have, now."

The old man's flabby face worked. He did not say anything, but went into the stable, and presently
came out, leading the horse, with fearful glances back at the windows. He soon overtook the
girl going hurriedly down the road, and lifted her into the saddle.

"Chile! chile! yer kin make a fool of ole Bone, allays."

She did not speak; her face, with its straight-lidded eyes, turned to the mountain beyond which
lay the Tear-coat gully. A fair face under its blue hood, even though white with pain,--an
honorable face: the best a woman can know of pride and love in life spoke through it.

"Mist' Dode," whined Ben, submissively, "what are yer goin' ter do? Bring him home?"

"Yes."

"Fur de lub o' heben!"--stopping short. "A Yankee captain in de house, an' Jackson's men rampin'
over de country like devils! Dey'll burn de place ter de groun', ef dey fin' him."

"I know."

Bone groaned horribly, then went on doggedly. Fate was against him: his gray hairs were bound
to go down with sorrow to the grave. He looked up at her wistfully, after a while.

"What'll Mist' Perrine say?" he asked.

Dode's face flushed scarlet. The winter mountain night, Jackson's army, she did not fear; but
the staring malicious world in the face of Aunt Perrine did make her woman's heart blench.

"It doesn't matter," she said, her eyes full of tears. "I can't help that, Uncle Bone,"--putting
her little hand on his shoulder, as he walked beside her. The child was so utterly alone, you know.

The road was lonely,--a mere mountain-path striking obliquely through the hills to the highway:
darkening hills and sky and valleys strangely sinking into that desolate homesick mood of winter
twilight. The sun was gone; one or two sad red shadows lay across the gray. Night would soon
be here, and he lay stiff-cold beneath the snow. Not dead: her heart told her that imperiously
from the first. But there was not one instant to lose.

"I cannot wait for you, Uncle Bone. I must go alone."

"Debbil de step! I'll take yer 'cross fields ter Gentry's, an' ride on myself."

"You could not find him. No one could find him but me."

Something possessed the girl, other than her common self. She pushed his hand gently from the
reins, and left him. Bone wrung his hands.

"'N' de guerrillas,--'n' de rest o' de incarnate debbils!"

She knew that. Dode was no heroine,--a miserable coward. There was not a black stump of a tree
by the road-side, nor the rustle of a squirrel in the trees, that did not make her heart jump
and throb against her bodice. Her horse climbed the rocky path slowly. I told you the girl
thought her Helper was alive, and very near. She did to-night. She thought He was beside her
in this lonesome road, and knew she would be safe. She felt as if she could take hold of His
very hand. It grew darker: the mountains of snow glowered wan like the dead kings in Hades;
the sweeps of dark forests whispered some broken mysterious word, as she passed; sometimes,
in a sudden opening, she could see on a far hill-side the red fires of a camp. She could not
help the sick feeling in her throat, nor make her hand steady; but the more alone she was,
the nearer He came,--the pale face of the Nazarene, who loved His mother and Mary, who took
the little children in His arms before He blessed them. Nearer than ever before; so she was
not afraid to tell Him, as she went, how she had suffered that day, and that she loved this
man who lay dying under the snow: to ask that she might find him. A great gulf lay between
them. Would He go with her, if she crossed it? She knew He would.

A strange peace came to the girl. She untied her hood and pushed it back, that her whole head
might feel the still air. How pure it was! God was in it,--in all. The mountains, the sky,
the armies yonder, her own heart, and his under the snow, rested in Him, like motes in the
sunshine.

The moon, rising behind a bank of cloud, threw patches of light now and then across the path:
the girl's head, as she rode through them, came into quick relief. No saint's face,--a very
woman's, its pale, reserved beauty unstrung with pain, her bosom full of earthly love, but
in her eyes that look which Mary must have given, when, after she thought her Lord was dead,
He called her, "Mary!" and she, looking up, said, "Master!"

She had reached the highway at last. She could see where, some distance yet beyond, the gully
struck black across the snow-covered fields. The road ran above it, zigzag along the hill-side.
She thought, as her horse galloped up the path, she could see the very spot where Douglas was
lying. Not dead,--she knew he was not dead! She came to it now. How deathly still it was! As
she tied the horse to the fence, and climbed down the precipice through the snow, she was dimly
conscious that the air was warmer, that the pure moonlight was about her, genial, hopeful.
A startled snow-bird chirped to her, as she passed. Why, it was a happy promise! Why should
it not be happy? He was not dead, and she had leave to come to him.

Yet, before she gained the level field, the pulse in her body was weak and sick, and her eyes
were growing blind. She did not see him. Half covered by snow, she found his gray horse, dead,
killed by the fall. Palmer was gone. The gully was covered with muddy ice; there was a split
in it, and underneath, the black water curdled and frothed. Had he fallen there? Was that thing
that rose and fell in the roots of the old willow his dead hand? There was a floating gleam
of yellow in the water,--it looked like hair. Dode put her hand to her hot breast, shut her
dry lips. He was not dead! God could not lie to her!

Stooping, she went over the ground again, an unbroken waste of white: until, close to the water's
edge, she found the ginseng-weeds torn and trampled down. She never afterwards smelt their
unclean, pungent odor, without a sudden pang of the smothered pain of this night coming back
to her. She knelt, and found foot-marks,--one booted and spurred. She knew it: what was there
he had touched that she did not know? He was alive: she did not cry out at this, or laugh,
as her soul went up to God,--only thrust her hand deep into the snow where his foot had been,
with a quick, fierce tenderness, blushing as she drew it back, as if she had forgotten herself,
and from her heart caressed him. She heard a sound at the other side of a bend in the hill,
a low drone, like somebody mumbling a hymn.

She pushed her way through the thicket: the moon did not shine there; there was a dark crevice
in the hill, where some farmer's boy had built a shed. There was a fire in it, now, smouldering,
as though whoever made it feared its red light would be seen by the distant pickets. Coming
up to it, she stood in the door-way. Douglas Palmer lay on a heap of blankets on the ground:
she could not see his face, for a lank, slothful figure was stooping over him, chafing his
head. It was Gaunt. Dode went in, and knelt down beside the wounded man,--quietly: it seemed
to her natural and right she should be there. Palmer's eyes were shut, his breathing heavy,
uncertain; but his clothes were dried, and his side was bandaged.

"It was only a flesh-wound," said Gaunt, in his vague way,--"deep, though. I knew how to bind
it. He'll live, Douglas will."

He did not seem surprised to see the girl. Nothing could be so bizarre in the world, that his
cloudy, crotchety brain did not accept it, and make a commonplace matter out of it. It never
occurred to him to wonder how she came there. He stood with folded arms, his bony shoulders
bolstering up the board wall, watching her as she knelt, her hands on Palmer's pillow, but
not touching him. Gaunt's lean face had a pitiful look, sometimes,--the look of the child he
was in his heart,--hungry, wistful, as though he sought for something, which you might have,
perhaps. He looked at Dode,--the child of the man that he had killed. She did not know that.
When she came in, he thought of shaking hands with her, as he used to do. That could never
be again,--never. The man that he had killed? Whatever that meant to him, his artist eye took
keen note of Dode, as she knelt there, in spite of remorse or pain below: how her noble, delicate
head rose from the coarse blue drapery, the dark rings of her curling hair, the pale, clear-cut
face, the burning lips, the eyes whose earthly soul was for the man who lay there. He knew
that, yet he never loved her so fiercely as now,--now, when her father's blood lay between them.

"Did you find him?" she asked, without looking up. "I ought to have done it. I wish I had done
that. I wish I had given him his life. It was my right."

One would think she was talking in her sleep.

"Why was it your right?" he asked, quietly.

"Because I loved him."

Gaunt raised his hand to his head suddenly.

"Did you, Dode? I had a better right than that. Because I hated him."

"He never harmed you, David Gaunt,"--with as proud composure as that with which a Roman wife
would defend her lord.

"I saved his life. Dode, I'm trying to do right: God knows I am. But I hated him; he took from
me the only thing that would have loved me."

She looked up timidly, her face growing crimson.

"I never would have loved you, David."

"No? I'm sorry you told me that, Dode."

That was all he said. He helped her gently, as she arranged the carpets and old blanket under
the wounded man; then he went out into the fresh air, saying he did not feel well. She was
glad that he was gone; Palmer moved uneasily; she wanted his first look all to herself. She
pushed back his fair hair: what a broad, melancholy forehead lay under it! The man wanted something
to believe in,--a God in life: you could see that in his face. She was to bring it to him:
she could not keep the tears back to think that this was so. The next minute she laughed in
her childish fashion, as she put the brandy to his lips, and the color came to his face. He
had been physician before; now it was her turn to master and rule. He looked up at last, into
her eyes, bewildered,--his face struggling to gather sense, distinctness. When he spoke, though,
it was in his quiet old voice.

"I have been asleep. Where is Gaunt? He dressed my side."

"He is out, sitting on the hill-side."

"And you are here, Theodora?"

"Yes, Douglas."

He was silent. He was weak from loss of blood, but his thoughts were sharp, clear as never
before. The years that were gone of his life seemed clogged into one bulk; how hungry they
had been, hard, cruel! He never had felt it as now, while he lay helpless, his sultry look
reading the woman's eyes bent on his. They were pure and restful; love and home waited in them;
something beyond,--a peace he could not yet comprehend. But this life was not for him,--he
remembered that; the girl was nothing to him now: he was not fool enough to taunt himself with
false hopes. She came there out of pity: any woman would do as much for a wounded man. He would
never fool himself to be so balked again. The loss cut too deep. So he forced his face to be
cool and critical, while poor Dode waited, innocently wondering that he did not welcome her,
pity her now that her father was dead, forgetting that he knew nothing of that. For him, he
looked at the fire, wondering if the Rebel scouts could see it,--thinking it would not be many
days before Lander would dislodge Jackson,--trying to think of anything rather than himself,
and the beautiful woman kneeling there.

Her eyes filled with tears at last, when he did not speak, and she turned away. The blood rushed
to Palmer's face: surely that was more than pity! But he would not tempt her,--he would never
vex her soul as he had done before: if she had come to him, as a sister might, because she
thought he was dying, he would not taunt her with the old love she had for him.

"I think I can stand up," he said, cheerfully; "lend me your arm, Theodora."

Dode's arm was strong-nerved as well as fair; she helped him rise, and stood beside him as
he went to the door, for he walked unsteadily. He took his hand from her shoulder instantly,--did
not look at her: followed with his eye the black line of the fretted hills, the glimmer of
the distant watch-fires. The path to the West lay through the Rebel camps.

"It is a long trail out of danger," he said, smiling.

"You are going? I thought you needed rest."

Calm, icy enough now: he was indifferent to her. She knew how to keep the pain down until he
was gone.

"Rest? Yes. Where did you mean I should find it?"--facing her, sudden and keen. "Where am I
to be sheltered? In your home, Theodora?"

"I thought that. I see now that it was a foolish hope, Douglas."

"How did you hope it? What brought you here?"--his voice thick, tremulous with passion. "Were
you going to take me in as a Sister of Charity might some wounded dog? Are pity and gratitude
all that is left between you and me?"

She did not answer,--her face pale, unmoving in the moonlight, quietly turned to his. These
mad heats did not touch her.

"You may be cold enough to palter with fire that has burned you, Theodora. I am not."

She did not speak.

"Sooner than have gone to you for sisterly help and comfort, such as you gave just now, I would
have frozen in the snow, and been less cold. Unless you break down the bar you put between
us, I never want to see your face again,--never, living or dead! I want no sham farce of friendship
between us, benefits given or received: your hand touching mine as it might touch Bone's or
David Gaunt's; your voice cooing in my ear as it did just now, cool and friendly. It maddened
me. Rest can scarcely come from you to me, now."

"I understand you. I am to go back, then? It was a long road,--and cold, Douglas."

He stopped abruptly, looked at her steadily.

"Do not taunt me, child! I am a blunt man: what words say, they mean, to me. Do you love me,
Theodora?"

She did not speak, drawn back from him in the opposite shadow of the door-way. He leaned forward,
his breath coming hurried, low.

"Are you cold? See how shaggy this great cloak is,--is it wide enough for you and me? Will
you come to me, Theodora?"

"I did come to you. Look! you put me back: 'There shall be no benefits given or received between
us.'"

"How did you come?"--gravely, as a man should speak to a woman, childish trifling thrust aside.
"How did you mean to take me home? As a pure, God-fearing woman should the man she loved? Into
your heart, into your holiest thought? to gather strength from my strength, to make my power
your power, your God my God? to be one with me? Was it so you came?"

He waited a minute. How cold and lonely the night was! How near rest and home came to him in
this woman standing there! Would he lose them? One moment more would tell. When he spoke again,
his voice was lower, feeble.

"There is a great gulf between you and me, Theodora. I know that. Will you cross it? Will you
come to me?"

She came to him. He gathered her into his arms as he might a little child, never to be cold
again; he felt her full heart throb passionately against his own; he took from her burning
lips the first pure, womanly kiss: she was all his. But when she turned her head, there was
a quick upward glance of her eyes, he knew not whether of appeal or thanks. There was a Something
in the world more near and real to her than he; he loved her the better for it: yet until he
found that Unknown God, they were not one.

It was an uncertain step broke the silence, cracking the crusted snow.

"Why, Gaunt!" said Palmer, "what are you doing in the cold? Come to the fire, boy!"

He could afford to speak cordially, heartily, out of the great warmth in big own breast. Theodora
was heaping shavings on the ashes. Gaunt took them from her.

"Let me do it," he muttered. "I'd like to make your whole life warm, Dode,--your life, and--any
one's you love."

Dode's face flushed with a happy smile. Even David never would think of her as alone again.
Poor David! She never before had thought how guileless he was,--how pitiful and solitary his life.

"Come home with us," she said, eagerly, holding out her hand.

He drew back, wiping the sweat from his face.

"You cannot see what is on my hand. I can't touch you, Dode. Never again. Let me alone."

"She is right, Gaunt," said Palmer. "You stay here at the risk of your life. Come to the house.
Theodora can hide us; and if they discover us, we can protect her together."

Gaunt smiled faintly.

"I must make my way to Springfield to-morrow. My work is there,--my new work, Palmer."

Palmer looked troubled.

"I wish you had not taken it up. This war may be needed to conquer a way for the day of peace
and good-will among men; but you, who profess to be a seer and actor in that day, have only
one work: to make it real to us now on earth, as your Master did, in the old time."

Gaunt did not speak,--fumbled among the chips at the fire. He raised himself at last.

"I'm trying to do what's right," he said, in a subdued voice. "I haven't had a pleasant life,--but
it will come right at last, maybe."

"It will come right, David!" said the girl.

His face lighted: her cheery voice sounded like a welcome ringing through his future years.
It was a good omen, coming from her whom he had wronged.

"Are you going now, Gaunt?" asked Palmer, seeing him button his thin coat. "Take my blanket,--nay,
you shall. As soon as I am strong enough, I'll find you at Springfield."

He wished he could hearten the poor unnerved soul, somehow.

Gaunt stopped outside, looking at them,--some uncertain thought coming and going in his face.

"I'll speak it out, whatever you may think. Dode, I've done you a deadly hurt. Don't ask me
what it is,--God knows. I'd like, before I go, to show you I love you in a pure, honorable
way, you and your husband"----

The words choked in his throat; he stopped abruptly.

"Whatever you do, it will be honorable, David," said Palmer, gently.

"I think--God might take it as expiation,"--holding his hand to his head.

He did not speak again for a little while, then he said,----

"I will never see these old Virginian hills again. I am going West; they will let me nurse
in one of the hospitals;--that will be better than this that is on my hand."

Whatever intolerable pain lay in these words, he smothered it down, kept his voice steady.

"Do you understand, Douglas Palmer? I will never see you again. Nor Dode. You love this woman;
so did I,--as well as you. Let me make her your wife before I go,--here, under this sky, with
God looking down on us. Will you? I shall be happier to know that I have done it."

He waited while Douglas spoke eagerly to the girl, and then said,----

"Theodora, for God's sake don't refuse! I have hurt you,--the marks of it you and I will carry
to the grave. Let me think you forgive me before I go. Grant me this one request."

Did she guess the hurt he had done her? Through all her fright and blushes, the woman in her
spoke out nobly.

"I do not wish to know how you have wronged me. Whatever it be, it was innocently done. God
will forgive you, and I do. There shall be peace between us, David."

But she did not offer to touch his hand again: stood there, white and trembling.

"It shall be as you say," said Palmer.

So they were married, Douglas and Dode, in the wide winter night. A few short words, that struck
the very depths of their being, to make them one: simple words, wrung out of the man's thin
lips with what suffering only he knew.

"Those whom God hath joined together let no man put asunder." Thus he shut himself out from
her forever. But the prayer for a blessing on them came from as pure a heart as any child's
that lives. He bade them good-bye, cheerfully, when he had finished, and turned away, but came
back presently, and said good-night again, looking in their faces steadily, then took his solitary
way across the hills. They never saw him again.

Bone, who had secured two horses by love or money or--confiscation, had stood mutely in the
background, gulping down his opinion of this extraordinary scene. He did not offer it now,
only suggested it was "high time to be movin'," and when he was left alone, trudging through
the snow, contented himself with smoothing his felt hat, and a breathless, "Ef dis nigger on'y
knew what Mist' Perrine would say!"

A June day. These old Virginia hills have sucked in the winter's ice and snow, and throbbed
it out again for the blue heaven to see in a whole summer's wealth of trees quivering with
the luxury of being, in wreathed mosses, and bedded fern: the very blood that fell on them
speaks in fair, grateful flowers to Him who doeth all things well. Some healthy hearts, like
the hills, you know, accept pain, and utter it again in fresher-blooded peace and life and
love. The evening sunshine lingers on Dode's little house to-day; the brown walls have the
same cheery whim in life as the soul of their mistress, and catch the last ray of light,--will
not let it go. Bone, smoking his pipe at the garden-gate, looks at the house with drowsy complacency.
He calls it all "Mist' Dode's snuggery," now: he does not know that the rich, full-toned vigor
of her happiness is the germ of all this life and beauty. But he does know that the sun never
seemed so warm, the air so pure, as this summer,--that about the quiet farm and homestead there
is a genial atmosphere of peace: the wounded soldiers who come there often to be cured grow
strong and calm in it; the war seems far-off to them; they have come somehow a step nearer
the inner heaven. Bone rejoices in showing off the wonders of the place to them, in matching
Coly's shiny sides against the "Government beastesses," in talking of the giant red beets,
or crumpled green cauliflower, breaking the rich garden-mould. "Yer've no sich cherries nor
taters nor raspberries as dem in de Norf, I'll bet!" Even the crimson trumpet-flower on the
wall is "a Virginny creeper, Sah!" But Bone learns something from them in exchange. He does
not boast so often now of being "ole Mars' Joe's man,"--sits and thinks profoundly, till he
goes to sleep. "Not of leavin' yer, Mist' Dode, I know what free darkies is, up dar; but dar's
somefin' in a fellah's 'longin' ter hisself, af'er all!" Dode only smiles at his deep cogitations,
as he weeds the garden-beds, or fodders the stock. She is a half-Abolitionist herself, and
then she knows her State will soon be free.

So Dode, with deeper-lit eyes, and fresher rose in her cheek, stands in the door this summer
evening waiting for her husband. She cannot see him often; he has yet the work to do which
he calls just and holy. But he is coming now. It is very quiet; she can hear her own heart
beat slow and full; the warm air holds moveless the delicate scent of the clover; the bees
hum her a drowsy good-night, as they pass; the locusts in the lindens have just begun to sing
themselves to sleep; but the glowless crimson in the West holds her thought the longest. She
loves, understands color: it speaks to her of the Day waiting just behind this. Her eyes fill
with tears, she knows not why: her life seems rounded, complete, wrapt in a great peace; the
grave at Manassas, and that planted with moss on the hill yonder, are in it; they only make
her joy in living more tender and holy.

He has come now; stops to look at his wife's face, as though its fairness and meaning were
new to him always. There is no look in her eyes he loves so well to see as that which tells
her Master is near her. Sometimes she thinks he too----But she knows that "according to her
faith it shall be unto her." They are alone to-night; even Bone is asleep. But in the midst
of a crowd, they who love each other are alone together: as the first man and woman stood face
to face in the great silent world, with God looking down, and only their love between them.

The same June evening lights the windows of a Western hospital. There is not a fresh meadow-scented
breath it gives that does not bring to some sick brain a thought of home, in a New-England
village, or a Georgia rice-field. The windows are open; the pure light creeping into poisoned
rooms carries with it a Sabbath peace, they think. One man stops in his hurried work, and looking
out, grows cool in its tranquil calm. So the sun used to set in old Virginia, he thinks. A
tall, slab-sided man, in the dress of a hospital-nurse: a worn face, but quick, sensitive;
the patients like it better than any other: it looks as if the man had buried great pain in
his life, and come now into its Indian-summer days. The eyes are childish, eager, ready to
laugh as cry,--the voice warm, chordant,--the touch of the hand unutterably tender.

A busy life, not one moment idle; but the man grows strong in it,--a healthy servant, doing
a healthy work. The patients are glad when he comes to their ward in turn. How the windows
open, and the fresh air comes in! how the lazy nurses find a masterful will over them! how
full of innermost life he is! how real his God seems to him!

He looks from the window now, his thought having time to close upon himself. He holds up his
busy, solitary life to God, with a happy smile. He goes back to that bitter past, shrinking;
but he knows its meaning now. As the warm evening wanes into coolness and gray, the one unspoken
pain of his life comes back, and whitens his cheerful face. There is blood on his hands. He
sees the old man's gray hairs blown again by the wind, sees him stagger and fall. Gaunt covers
his bony face with his hands, but he cannot shut it out. Yet he is learning to look back on
even that with healthy, hopeful eyes. He reads over again each day the misspelled words in
the Bible,--thinking that the old man's haggard face looks down on him with the old kindly,
forgiving smile. What if his blood be on his hands? He looks up now through the gathering night,
into the land where spirits wait for us, as one who meets a friend's face, saying,--

"Let it be true what you have writ,--'The Lord be between me and thee,' forever!"

EUPHORION.
      "I will not longer
      Earth-bound linger:
      Loosen your hold on
      Hand and on ringlet.
      Girdle and garment;
      Leave them: they're mine!"
      "Bethink thee, bethink thee
      To whom thou belongest!
      Say, wouldst thou wound us,
      Rudely destroying
      Threefold the beauty,--
      Mine, his, and thine?"
      FAUST,--SECOND PART.

  Nay, fold your arms, beloved Friends,
    Above the hearts that vainly beat!
  Or catch the rainbow where it bends,
    And find your darling at its feet;

  Or fix the fountain's varying shape,
    The sunset-cloud's elusive dye,
  The speech of winds that round the cape
    Make music to the sea and sky:

  So may you summon from the air
    The loveliness that vanished hence,
  And Twilight give his beauteous hair,
    And Morning give his countenance,

  And Life about his being clasp
    Her rosy girdle once again:--
  But no! let go your stubborn grasp
    On some wild hope, and take your pain!

  For, through the crystal of your tears,
    His love and beauty fairer shine;
  The shadows of advancing years
    Draw back, and leave him all divine.

  And Death, that took him, cannot claim
    The smallest vesture of his birth,--
  The little life, a dancing flame
    That hovered o'er the hills of earth,--

  The finer soul, that unto ours
    A subtle perfume seemed to be,
  Like incense blown from April flowers
    Beside the scarred and stormy tree,--

  The wondering eyes, that ever saw
    Some fleeting mystery in the air,
  And felt the stars of evening draw
    His heart to silence, childhood's prayer!

  Our suns were all too fierce for him;
    Our rude winds pierced him through and through;
  But Heaven has valleys cool and dim,
    And boscage sweet with starry dew.

  There knowledge breathes in balmy air,
    Not wrung, as here, with panting breast:
  The wisdom born of toil you share;
    But he, the wisdom born of rest.

  For every picture here that slept,
    A living canvas is unrolled;
  The silent harp he might have swept
    Leans to his touch its strings of gold.

  Believe, dear Friends, they murmur still
    Some sweet accord to those you play,
  That happier winds of Eden thrill
    With echoes of the earthly lay;

  That he, for every triumph won,
    Whereto your poet-souls aspire,
  Sees opening, in that perfect sun,
    Another blossom's bud of fire!

  Each song, of Love and Sorrow born,
    Another flower to crown your boy,--
  Each shadow here his ray of morn,
    Till Grief shall clasp the hand of Joy!

HOUSE-BUILDING.

Because our architecture is bad, and because the architecture of our forefathers in the Middle
Ages was good, Mr. Ruskin and others seem to think there is no salvation for us until we build
in the same spirit as they did. But that we should do so no more follows than that we should
envy those geological ages when the club-mosses were of the size of forest-trees, and the frogs
as big as oxen. There are many advantages to be had in the forests of the Amazon and the interior
of Borneo,--inexhaustible fertility, endless water-power,--but no one thinks of going there
to live.

No age is without its attractions. There would be much to envy in the Greek or the Roman life,
if we could have them clear of drawbacks. Many persons would be glad always to find Emerson
in State Street, or sauntering in the Mall, ready to talk with all comers,--or to hear the
latest words of Bancroft or Lowell from their own lips at the cattle-show or the militia-muster.
The Roman villas had some excellent features,--the peristyle of statues, the cryptoporticus
with its midnight coolness and shade of a July noon, the mosaic floor, and the glimmering frescoes
of the ceiling. But we are content to get our poets and historians in their books, and to take
the pine-grove for our noonday walk, or to wait till night has transformed the street into
a cryptoporticus nobler than Titus's. It is as history that these things charm us; but the
charm vanishes, when, even in fancy, we bring them into contact with our actual lives. So it
is with the medieval architecture. It is true, in studying these wonderful fossils, a regret
for our present poverty, and a desire to appropriate something from the ancient riches, will
at times come over us. But this feeling, if it be more than slight and transient, if it seriously
influence our conduct, is somewhat factitious or somewhat morbid. Let us be a little disinterested
in our admiration, and not, like children, cry for all we see. We have our share: let us leave
the dead theirs.

The fallacy lies in the supposition, that, besides all their advantages, they had all ours
too. It is with our mental as with our bodily vision,--we see only what is remote; and the
image to the mind depends, not only upon seeing, but upon not seeing. In the distant star,
all foulness and gloom are lost, and only the pure splendor reaches us. Inspired by Mr. Ruskin's
eloquence, the neophyte sets forth with contrition to put his precepts into practice. But the
counterstatement which he had overlooked does not, therefore, cease to exist. At the outset,
he finds unexpected sacrifices are demanded. And, as money is the common measure of the forces
disposable, the hindrances take the form of increase of cost. Before the first step can be
taken towards doing anything as Mr. Ruskin would have it done, he discovers that at least it
will cost enormously more to do it in that way. The lamps of truth and sacrifice demand such
expensive nourishment, that he is forced to ask himself whether they are of themselves really
sufficient to live by.

It is not that we are poorer or more penurious than our ancestors, but that we have more wants
than they, and that the new wants overshadow the old. What is spent in one direction must be
spared in another. The matter-of-course necessaries of our life were luxuries or were unknown
to them. First of all, the luxury of freedom,--political, social, and domestic,--with the habits
it creates, is the source of great and ever-increasing expense. We are still much behindhand
in this matter, and shall by-and-by spend more largely upon it. But, compared with our ancestors,
individual culture, to which freedom is the means, absorbs a large share of our expenditure.
The noble architecture of the thirteenth century was the work of corporations, of a society
that knew only corporations, and where individual culture was a crime. Dante had made the discovery
that it is the man that creates his own position, not the accident of birth. But his life shows
how this belief isolated him. Nor was the coincidence between the artistic spirit of the age
and its limitations accidental. Just in proportion as the spirit of individualism penetrated
society, and began to show itself as the Renaissance, architecture declined. The Egyptian pyramids
are marvels to us, because we are accustomed to look upon the laborer as a man. But once allow
that he is only so much brute force,--cheap, readily available, and to be had in endless supply,
but as a moral entity less to be respected than a cat or a heron, and the marvel ceases. Should
not the building be great to which man himself is sacrificed? Later, the builders are no longer
slaves; but man is still subordinate to his own work, adores the work of his hands. This stands
for him, undertakes to represent him, though, from its partial nature, it can only typify certain
aspects or functions of him. A Gothic cathedral is an attempt at a universal expression of
humanity, a stone image of society, in which each particle, insignificant by itself, has its
meaning in the connection. It was the fresh interest in the attempt that gave birth to that
wonderful architecture. This is the interest it still has, but now only historical, since the
discovery was made that the particle is greater than the mass,--that it is for the sake of
the individual that society and its institutions exist. Ever since, a process of disintegration
has been going on, resulting in a progressive reversal of the previous relation. Not the private
virtues of the structure, but its uses, are now uppermost, and ever more and more developed.
Even in our own short annals something of this process may be traced. Old gentlemen complain
of the cost of our houses. The houses of their boyhood, they say, were handsomer and better
built, yet cost less. There is some truth in this, for the race of architect-builders hardly
reaches into this century. But if the comparison be pushed into details, we soon come to the
conviction that the owners of these houses were persons whose habits were, in many respects,
uncouth and barbarous. It is easy to provide in the lump; but with decency, privacy, independence,--in
short, with a high degree of respect on the part of the members of the household for each other's
individuality,--expense begins. Letarouilly says it is difficult to discover in the Roman palaces
of the Renaissance any reference to special uses of the different apartments. It was to the
outside, the vestibule, courtyard, and staircase, that care and study were given: the inside
was intended only as a measure of the riches and importance of the owner, not as his habitation.
The part really inhabited by him was the mezzanino,--a low, intermediate story, where he and
his family were kennelled out of the way. Has any admiring traveller ever asked himself how
he could establish himself, with wife and children, in the Foscari or the Vendramin palace?
To live in them, it would be necessary to build a house inside.

Nor is there any ground for saying that the fault is in the builders,--that the old builders
met the demands of their time, and would equally satisfy the demands of our time, without sacrifice
of their art. The first demand in the days of good architecture was, that the building should
have an independent artistic value beyond its use. This is what architecture requires; for
architecture is building, pure,--building for its own sake, not as means. What Mr. Garbett
says is, no doubt, quite true,--that nothing was ever made, for taste's sake, less efficient
than it might have been. But many things were made more efficient than they might have been;
or, rather, this is always the character of good architecture. It is in this surplus of perfection,
above bare necessity, that its claim to rank among the fine arts consists. This character the
builders of the good times, accordingly, never left out of sight; so that, if their means were
limited, they lavished all upon one point,--made that overflow with riches, and left the rest
plain and bare; never did they spread their pittance thin to cover the whole, as we do. It
is for this reason that so few of the great cathedrals were finished, and that in buildings
of all kinds we so often find the decoration in patches, sharply marked off from the rest of
the structure. This noble profuseness is not, indeed, necessarily decoration; the essence of
it is an independent value and interest in the building, aside from the temporary and accidental
employment. The spires and the flying-buttresses of the Northern cathedrals cannot be defended
on the ground of thrifty construction. The Italian churches accomplished that as well without
either. How remote the reference to use in the mighty portals of Rheims, or the soaring vaultings
of Amiens and Beauvais! Does anybody suppose that Michel Angelo, when he undertook to raise
the dome of the Pantheon into the air, was thinking of the most economical way of roofing a
given space? These fine works have their whole value as expression; it is with their visible
contempt of thrift that our admiration begins. They pared away the stone to the minimum that
safety demanded, and beyond it,--yet not from thrift, but to make the design more preëminent
and necessary, and to owe as little as possible to the inert strength of the material.

But though we admire the result, we have grown out of sympathy with the cause, the state of
mind that produced it, and so the root wherefrom the like should be produced is cut off. There
is no reason to suppose that the old builders were men of a different kind from ours, more
earnest, more poetical. The stories about the science of the medieval masons are rubbish. All
men are in earnest about something; our men are as good as they, and would have built as well,
had they been born at the right time for it. But now they are thinking of other things. The
Dilettanti Society sent Mr. Penrose to Athens to study in the ancient remains there the optical
corrections which it was alleged the Greeks made in the horizontal lines of their buildings.
Mr. Penrose made careful measurements, establishing the fact, and a folio volume of plates
was published to illustrate the discovery, and evince the unequalled nicety of the Greek eye.
But the main point, namely, that a horizontal line above the level of the eye, in order to
appear horizontal, must bend slightly upwards, was pointed out to me years ago by a common
plasterer.

It is not that our builders are degenerate, but that their art is a trade, occupies only their
hands, not their minds, and this by no fault in them or in anybody, but by the natural progress
of the world. In each age by turn some one mental organ is in a state of hypertrophy; immediately
that becomes the medium of expression,--not that it is the only possible or even the best,
but that its time has come,--then it gives place to another. Architecture is dead and gone
to dust long ago. We are not called upon to sing threnodies over it, still less to attempt
to galvanize a semblance of life into it. If we must blame somebody, let it not be the builder,
but his employers, who, caring less even than he for the reality of good architecture, (for
the material itself teaches him something,) force him into these puerilities in order to gratify
their dissolute fancies.

If these views seem to any one low and prosaic, let me remind him that poetry does not differ
from prose in being false. We must respect the facts. If there were in this country any considerable
number of persons to whom the buildings they daily enter had any positive permanent value besides
convenience,--who looked upon the church, the bank, or the house, as upon a poem or a statue,--the
birth of a national architecture would be assured. But as the fact stands, while utility, and
that of a temporary and makeshift sort, is really the first consideration, we are not yet ready
to acknowledge this to others or to ourselves, and so fail to get from it what negative advantage
we might, but blunder on under some fancied necessity, spending what we can ill spare, to the
defrauding of legitimate demands, as a sort of sin-offering for our aesthetic deficiency, or
as a blind to conceal it. The falsehood, like all falsehood, defeats itself; the pains we take
only serve to make the failure more complete.

This is displayed most fully in the doings of "Building Committees." Here we see what each
member (perhaps it would be more just to say the least judicious among them) would do in his
own case, were he free from the rude admonitions of necessity. He has at least to live in his
own house, and so cannot escape some attention to the substantial requirements of it; though
some houses, too, seem emancipated from such considerations, and to have been built for any
end rather than to live in. But in catering for the public, it is the outsiders alone that
seem to be consulted, the careless passer-by, who for once will pause a moment to commend or
to sneer at the façade,--not the persons whose lives for years, perhaps, are to be affected
by the internal arrangement. It is doubtless from a suspicion, more or less obscure, of the
incoherency of their purpose, that such committees usually fall into the hands of a "practical
man,"--that is, a man impassive to principles, of hardihood or bluntness of perception enough
to carry into effect their vague fancies, and spare them from coming face to face with their
inconsistencies. Thus fairly adrift and kept adrift from the main purpose, there is no vagary
impossible to them,--churches in which there is no hearing, hospitals contrived to develop
disease, museums of tinder, libraries impossible to light or warm. And what gain comes to beauty
from these sacrifices, let our streets answer. Good architecture requires before all things
a definite aim, long persisted in. It never was an invention, anywhere, but always a gradual
growth. What chance of that here?

The only chance clearly is to cut away till we come to the solid ground of real, not fancied,
requirement. As long as it is our whims, and not our necessities, that build, it matters little
how much pains we take, how learned and assiduous we are. I have no hope of any considerable
advantage from the abundant exhortation to frankness and genuineness in the use of materials,
unless it lead first of all to a more frank and genuine consideration of the occasion for using
the materials at all. If it lead only to open timber roofs and stone walls in place of the
Renaissance stucco, I think the gain very questionable. The stucco is more comfortable, and
at least we had got used to it. These are matters of detail: suppose your details are more
genuine, if the whole design is a sham, if the aim be only to excite the admiration of bystanders,
the thing is not altered, whether the bystanders are learned in such matters or ignorant. The
more excellent the work is in its kind, the more insidious and virulent the falsity, if the
whole occasion of it be a pretence. If it must be false, let it by all means be gross and glaring,--we
shall be the sooner rid of it.

It may be asked whether, then, I surrender the whole matter of appearance,--whether the building
may as well be ugly as beautiful. By no means; what I have said is in the interest of beauty,
as far as it is possible to us. Positive beauty it may be often necessary to forego, but bad
taste is never necessary. Ugliness is not mere absence of beauty, but absence of it where it
ought to be present. It comes always from a disappointed expectation,--as where the lineaments
that do not disgust in the potato meet us in the human face, or even in the hippopotamus, whom
accordingly Nature kindly puts out of sight. It is bad taste that we suffer from,--not plainness,
not indifference to appearance, but features misplaced, shallow mimicry of "effects" where
their causes do not exist, transparent pretences of all kinds, forcing attention to the absence
of the reality, otherwise perhaps unnoticed. The first step toward seemly building is to rectify
the relation between the appearance and the uses of the building,--to give to each the weight
that it really has with us, not what we fancy or are told it ought to have. Mr. Ruskin too
often seems to imply that fine architecture is like virtue or the kingdom of Heaven: that,
if it be sought first, all other things will be added. A sounder basis for design, beyond what
is necessary to use, seems to me that proposed by Mr. Garbett, (to whom we are indebted for
the most useful hints upon architecture,) namely, politeness, a decent regard for the eyes
of other people (and for one's own, for politeness regards one's self as well). Politeness,
however, as Mr. Garbett admits, is chiefly a negative art, and consists in abstaining and not
meddling. The main character of the building being settled by the most unhesitating consideration
of its uses, we are to see that it disfigures the world as little as possible.

Let me, at the risk of tediousness, proceed to bring these generalities to a point by a few
instances,--not intending to exhaust the topic, but only to exemplify the method of approaching it.

The commonest case for counsel, and more common here than anywhere else, is where a man is
to build for himself a house, especially in the country,--for town-houses are more governed
by extraneous considerations. The first point is the aspect,--that the living-rooms be well
open to the sun. Let no fancied advantages of view or of symmetrical position interfere with
this. For they operate seldom and strike most at first, but the aspect tells on body and mind
every day. It is astonishing how reckless people are of this vital point, suffering it to be
determined for them by the direction of a road, or even of a division-fence,--as if they had
never looked at their houses with their own eyes, but only with the casual view of a stranger.
It does not follow, however, that the entrance must be on the sunny side, though this is generally
best, as the loss of space in the rooms is more than made up by the cheeriness of the approach.
For the same reason, unless you are sailing very close to the wind, let your entrance-hall
be roomy. It is in no sense an unproductive outlay, for it avails above in chambers, and below
in the refuge it affords to the children from the severer rules of the parlor.

As to number and distribution of rooms, the field is somewhat wide. Here the differences of
income, of pursuits, and the idiosyncrasies of taste come in; and more than all, not only are
the circumstances originally different, but constantly varying. I speak not of the fluctuations
of fortune, but of normal and expected changes. The young couple, or the old, are easily lodged.
But in middle life,--since we are not content, like our forefathers, with bestowing our children
out of sight,--it takes a great deal of room to provide for them on both floors, without either
neglect or oppression, and to keep up the due oversight without sacrificing ourselves or them.
For children are rather exclusive, and spoil for other use more room than they occupy. Here
I counsel every man who must have a corner to himself to fix his study in the attic, for the
only way to avoid noise without wasteful complication is to be above it.

The smallest house must provide some escape from the dining-room. If dining-room and sitting-room
are on the sunny side, and the entrance be also on that side, they will be separated, as indeed
they always may be, without loss. The notion that the rooms must immediately connect is one
of those whims to which houses are sacrificed. The only advantage is the facility for receiving
company. But if the occasions when the guests will be too many for one room are likely to be
frequent, rather than permanently spoil the living-room, it is better to set apart rooms for
reception. Our position in this matter is in truth rather embarrassing. Formerly (and the view
is not yet wholly obsolete) the whole house was a reception-hall, the domestic life of the
inmates being a secondary matter, swept into some corner, such as the cells of the mediaeval
castles or the mezzanino of the Italian palaces. But the austere aspect of the shut-up "best
parlor" of our grandfathers, with its closed blinds and chilly chintz covers, showed that the
tables were beginning to turn, and the household to assert its rights and civilly to pay off
the guest for his usurpations. Henceforth he is welcome, but he is secondary; it was not for
him that the house was built; and if it comes to choosing, he can be dispensed with. It would
be very agreeable to unite with all the new advantages all the old,--the easy hospitality,
the disengaged suavity of the ancient manners. Now the brow of the host is clouded, he has
too much on his mind to play his part perfectly. It is not that good-will is wanting, but that
life is more complicated. The burdens are more evenly distributed, and no class is free and
at leisure. But to fret over our disadvantages, and to extol the past, is only to ignore the
price that was paid for those advantages we covet. There was always somebody to sweat for that
leisure. Would a society divided into castes be better? Or again, who would like to have his
children sleep three in a bed, and live in the kitchen, in order that the best rooms should
always be swept and garnished for company?

In every case, unless a man is rich enough to have two houses in one, it comes to choice between
domestic comfort and these occasional facilities. Direct connection of rooms usually involves
the sacrifice of the chimney-corner, on one or both sides; for it is not pleasant to sit in
a passage-way, even if it be rarely used. For use in cold weather the available portion of
a room may be reckoned as limited by the door nearest the fireplace.

It will be noticed that this supposes the use of open fireplaces. The open fireplace is not
a necessary of life, but it is one of the first luxuries, and one that no man who can afford
to eat meat every day can afford to dispense with. No furnace can supply the place of it; for,
though the furnace is an indispensable auxiliary in severe cold, and though, well managed,
it need not vitiate the air, yet, like all contrivances for supplying heated air instead of
heat, it has the insurmountable defect of not warming the body directly, nor until all the
surrounding air be warmed first, and thus stops the natural reaction and the brace and stimulus
derived from it. Used exclusively, it amounts to voluntarily incurring the disadvantage of
a tropical climate.

Let the walls of the second story be upright. The recent fashion of a mansard or "French roof"
is only making part of the wall of the house look like roof, at equal expense, at the sacrifice
of space inside, and above all, of tightness. For, though shingles and even slates will generally
keep out the rain, the innumerable cracks between the sides of them can never be made air-tight,
and therefore admit heat and cold much more freely than any proper wall-covering. A covering
of metal would be too good a conductor of external temperature,--while clapboarding would endanger
the resemblance to a roof, which is the only gain proposed.

As to the size of the house, it is important to observe that its cost does not depend so much
upon the size of the rooms (within reasonable limits) as upon the number of them, the complication
of plan, and the number of doors and windows. For every door or window you can omit you may
add three or four feet to your house. The height of the stories will be governed by the area
of the largest rooms;--what will please each person depends very much upon what he is used
to. In the old New-England houses the stories were very low, often less than eight feet in
the best rooms. In favor of low rooms it is to be remembered that they are more easily lighted
and warmed, and involve less climbing of stairs. Rooms are often made lofty under the impression
that better ventilation is thereby secured; but there is a confusion here. A high room is less
intolerable without ventilation, the vitiated air being more diluted; but a low room is usually
more easily ventilated, because the windows are nearer the ceiling.

Mr. Garbett advises that the windows be many and small. This costs more; and if it be understood
to involve placing the windows on different sides, the effect, I think, will be generally less
agreeable than where the room is lighted wholly from one side. A capital exception, however,
is the dining-room, which should always, if possible, abound in cross-lights; else one half
the table will be oppressed by a glare of light, and the other visible only in silhouette.

As to material, stone is the handsomest, and the only one that constantly grows handsomer,
and does not require that your creepers should be periodically disturbed for painting or repairs.
But this is perhaps all that can be said in its favor. To make a stone house as good as a wooden
one we must build a wooden one inside of it. Wood is our common material, and there is none
better, if we take the pains to make it tight. There is a prevalent notion that it is the thinness
of our cheap wooden houses that makes them pervious to heat and cold. But no wooden house,
unless built of solid and well-fitted logs, could resist the external temperature by virtue
of thickness. It is tightness that tells here. Wherever air passes, heat and cold pass with
it. What is important, therefore, is, by good contrivance and careful execution, to stop all
cracks as far as possible. For this, an outside covering of sheathing-felt, or some equivalent
material, may be recommended, and especially a double plastering inside,--not the common "back-plastering,"
but two separate compact surfaces of lime and sand, inside the frame.

The position, the internal arrangement, and the material being determined upon, the next point
is that the structure shall be as little of an eyesore as we can make it. Do what we will,
every house, as long as it is new, is a standing defiance to the landscape. In color, texture,
and form, it disconnects itself and resists assimilation to its surroundings. The "gentle incorporation
into the scenery of Nature," that Wordsworth demands, is the most difficult point to effect,
as well as the most needful. This makes the importance of a background of trees, of shrubs,
and creepers, and the uniting lines of sheds, piazzas, etc., mediating and easing off the shock
which the upstart mass inflicts upon the eye. Hence Sir Joshua Reynolds's rule for the color
of a house, to imitate the tint of the soil where it is to stand. Hence the advantage of a
well-assured base and generally of a pyramidal outline, because this is the figure of braced
and balanced equilibrium, assured to all natural objects by the slow operation of natural laws,
which we must take care not to violate in our haste, unless for due cause shown.

We hear much of the importance of proportions, but the main point generally is that the house
be not too high. This is the most universal difficulty, particularly in small houses, the area
being diminished, but not the height of stories. In this respect the old farm-houses had a
great advantage, and this is a main element in their good effect,--aided as it is by the height
of the roof; for a high roof will often make a building seem lower than it would with a low
roof or none at all. The dreary effect of the flat-roofed houses in the neighborhood of New
York is due partly to the unrelieved height, and partly to the unfinished or truncated appearance
of a thing without a top. The New York fashion gives, no doubt, the most for the money; but
the effect is so offensive that I think it justifies us for once in violating Mr. Garbett's
canon and sacrificing efficiency to taste.

The most pleasing shape of roof, other things being equal, is the pyramidal or hipped, inclining
from all sides towards the centre. The drawback is, that, if it must be pierced by windows,
their lines will stick off from the roof, so that, as seen from below, they will be violently
detached from the general mass. The good taste of the old builders made them avoid putting
dormer-windows (at least in front) in roofs of one pitch; the windows were in the gables, carried
out for this purpose; or if dormers were necessary, they made a mansard or double-pitched roof,
in which the windows are less detached. Another excellent feature in the old New-England farm-houses
is the long slope of the roof behind, and, in general, the habit of roofing porches, dormers,
sheds, and other projections by continuing the main roof over them, with great gain to breadth
and solidity of effect.

In fact, were it possible, we could not do better for the outside than to take these old houses
for our model. But here, as everywhere, we find the outside depends on the inside, and that
what we most admire in them will conflict with the new requirements. For instance, the massive
central chimney and the expanse on the ground point to the kitchen as the common living-room
of the family; they are irreconcilable with our need of more chambers and of the possibility
of more separation above and below. The later and more ambitious houses, such as were built
in the neighborhood of Boston at the beginning of the century, come nearer to our wants; but
they sacrifice too much to a cut-and-dried symmetry to be of much use to us. After that the
way is downward through one set of absurdities after another, until of late some signs of more
common-sense treatment begin to be visible.

The way out of this quagmire is first of all to avoid confusion of aim. What is this that we
are building? If it is a monument, let us seek only to make it beautiful. But if it is a house,
let us always keep in mind that the appearance of it, being really secondary, must be seen
to have been held so throughout. Else we shall not, in the long run, escape bad taste. Bad
taste is not mere failure, but failure to do something which ought not to have been attempted.
For instance, among the most frequent occasions for deformity in modern houses are the dormers,
the windows that rise above the roof. In the Gothic buildings these are among the most attractive
features. The reason is that the tendency of the outline to detach itself from the mass of
the building furnishes to the Gothic a culminating point for the distinct legitimate aim at
beauty of expression that pervades the whole; but to the modern builder, whose aim, as regards
expression, should be wholly negative, it is at best an embarrassment, and often a snare.

The chief obstacle to a rational view of the present position of architecture comes from the
number of clever men who devote their lives to putting a good face on our absurdities, and
by all sorts of tricks and sophistries in wood and stone prevent us from seeing our conduct
in its proper deformity. They dazzle and bewilder us with beauties plucked at haphazard from
all times and ages,--as much forgeries as any that men are hanged for,--and then, when the
cheat begins to peep through, they fool us again with pretences of thoroughness, consistency
of style, genuineness in the use of materials, etc., as if the danger were in the execution,
and not in the main intention. So they fool us for a while longer, and we praise their fine
doings, and even persuade ourselves there is something liberal and ennobling in their influence.
But we tire at last of these exotics. A million of them is not worth one of those sober flowers
of homely growth where use has by chance, as it were, blossomed into beauty. This is the only
success in that kind that can be hoped for in our day. But it must come of itself; it cannot
be had for the seeking, nor if sought for its own sake. The active competition that goes on
in our streets is not the way to it, unless negatively, by way of disgust and exhaustion. For
some help, meantime, I commend the opinion of an architect of my acquaintance, who said the
highest compliment he ever received was from a drover, who could not account for it that "he
had passed that way so often and never seen that old house." Nobody expects his house will
be beautiful, do what he will; why pay for the certainty of failure? Not to be conspicuous,
and, to that end, to respect the plain fundamental rules of statics, of good construction,
of harmonious color, and to resist sacrificing any solid advantage to show, these are our safest
rules at present.

MR. AXTELL.

PART III.

The twilight was almost gone on the Saturday night when I went back to the grave, solemn house.
There was no one dead in it now. It was the first time that I had approached it without the
abyss of shadow under its roof. A little elasticity came back to me. Kino came out to give
his welcome: we had become friendly. Katie let me in.

"Perhaps you'd choose to wait down-stairs a bit," she said; "Mr. Abraham's getting his tea
up in Miss Lettie's room."

She lighted the lamp, and left me. After my two explorations in unknown realms,--the one voluntary,
looking at the painting on the wall, the other involuntary, looking at a human soul in sorrow,--I
resolved to shut my eyes to all that they ought not to see; and therefore I stationed myself
in the green glade of a chair, and very properly decided that the only thing I would look at
should be the fire. What I might see there surely could offend no one, unless it were the deity
of Coal,--and Redleaf was not near any carboniferous group.

Peculiar were the forms the fire took an elfish pleasure in assuming. Little blue flames came
up into atmospheric life, through the rending fissures where so many years of ages they had
been pent into the very blackness of darkness; and as they gained their freedom, they gave
tiny, crackling shouts of liberty. "We're free! we're free!" they smally cried; and I wondered
if a race, buried as deeply in the strata of races as these bits of burning coal had been in
the geologic periods of earth, could utter such cries.

The fire grew, the liberty paeans ceased. Deep opaline content burned lambescent amid the coals.
Ashy cinders fell from the grate slowly, slumberously, as the one dead, that very afternoon
buried, had gone to rest, in the night-time, when the household was asleep, without any one
to hold her hand whilst she took the first step in the surging sea of river. Yes, she died
alone,--"in the heart of the night," Dr. Eaton said it must have been "that the bridegroom
came." Had she oil in her lamp? What was she like? Like her son Abraham, or her daughter Lettie?
I tried to paint her face as it must have been. It is darker still in that grave where she
lies than was the night wherein she died. Miss Lettie was right: they have a fathom of earth
over her,--there's not one glimmer of light down there. When I am buried, won't some one shut
in one little sun-ray with me, that I may see to feel the gloom?

I looked down upon the gravelly earth lying above her, as I had looked across at it when I
left the parsonage at night fall, and passed by the church-yard. All the while, my eyes were
in the depths of the fire. I went down through stone and soil to the coffin there. All was
unutterable blackness. I put out my hand to feel. It was a cold, marbleized face that my warm,
living fingers wandered over. I touched the forehead: it was very stony, granite-like,--not
a woman's forehead. The eyes were large,--I felt them under the half-closed lids. The mouth--Yes,
Miss Lettie was right. Love for Abraham had covered up this mother-love for her. And confession
unto her dead was, it must have been, better than unto her living. The answer would have been
much the same.

Shudderingly, I picked up my hand, the one that had been lying upon the arm of the chair, whilst
its life and spirit had gone out on their mission of discovery. It was very cold. I warmed
it before the fire, and began to think that Aaron was right,--this House of Axtell was stealing
away my proper self, or, at least, this hand of mine had been unlawfully employed, through
occasion of them. As the warmth of burning coals revivified my hand, I saw something in the
fire,--a face,--the very one these live fingers had just been tracing in yonder church-yard.
Its eyes were open now,--large, luminous, earnest, with a wave of solid pride sweeping on through
the irides and almost overwhelming the pupils. The mouth,--oh, those lips! ever uttered they
a prayer? They look, trembling the while, so unutterably unforgiving! When they come to stand
before the I AM, will they ever plead? It is hard to think the Deity maketh such souls. Doth
He? I looked a little farther on in the fiery group. Other forms of coal took the human face.
I saw two. Whose were they? One was like unto my mother. How little I remember of her! and
yet this was like my memory,--sweetly gentle, loving past expression's power, no taint of earth
therein. Another came up. I did not know it. Something whispered, "It is of you." I almost
heard the words with my outward ears. I looked around the room. No one was with me. Stillness
reigned in the house.

"It takes Mr. Axtell a very long time to take his tea," I thought; "he must know more of hunger's
power than I.--I will look at the fire no more," I said, slowly, to myself, and closed my eyelids,
somewhat willing to drop after all that they had endured that day.

A soft, silver, "swimming sound" floated through the room. It was the clock upon the mantel
sending out tones of time-hours. I looked up. It was eleven of the clock. "I must have fallen
asleep," I thought, and threw off the folds of a shawl which I surely left on the sofa over
there when I seated myself in this chair. My head was upon a pillow, downy and white, instead
of the green vale of chair in which I had laid it down. I sprang up. There was little of lamp-light
in the room. I saw something that looked marvellously like somebody, near the sofa. It was
Katie, my good little friend Katie. She was sitting on a footstool with her head upon her hands,
and, poor, tired child! fast asleep. I awoke her.

"Who covered me up, Katie?" I asked.

"Mr. Abraham," said Katie; and her waking senses came back.

"And how did the pillow get under my head?"

"Mr. Abraham said 'he was sorry that you had come.' You looked very white in your sleep, and
he said 'you wouldn't wake up'; so I lifted your head just a mite, and he fixed the pillow
under it. He told me to stay here until you awoke."

"Which I have most decidedly done, Katie," I said; and I fully determined to take no more naps
in this house.

How could it have happened? I accounted for the fact in the most reasonable way I knew,--I,
who rejoice in being reasonable,--by thinking it occurred in consequence of my long watchfulness,
and sombreness of thought and soul.

"I am sorry that you didn't wake me," I said to Katie, as she moved the chairs in the room
to their respective places.

With the most childlike implicitness in the world, the little maid stood still and looked at me.

"I couldn't, you know, Miss Percival, when Mr. Abraham told me not to," were the positive words
she used in giving her reason.

I forgave Katie, and wondered what the secret of this man's commanding power could be, as on
this Saturday night.

I left the world, and went up to take my last watch with the convalescing lady. Her brother
was with her. He looked a little surprised, when I went in; but the cloud of anger had gone
away: folded it up he had, I fancied, all ready to shake out again upon the slightest provocation;
and I did not care to see its folds waving around me, so I did not speak to him. Miss Axtell
seemed pleased to see me; said "she trusted that this would be the last occasion on which she
should require night-care."

Her beauty was lovely now. A roseate hue was over her complexion: a little of the old fever
rising, I suppose it must have been.

"I've been talking with Abraham," she said, when I spoke of it.

Why should a conversation with her brother occasion return of fever? Perhaps it was not that,
but the mention of the fact, which increased the glow wonderfully.

Mr. Axtell bade his sister good-night.

"You will do it to-morrow, Abraham?" she asked, as he was going from the room.

"I will think about it to-night, and give you my decision in the morning, Lettie."

Mr. Axtell must have been very absent-minded, for he turned back, hoped I had not taken cold
in the library, and ended the wish with a civil "Good night, Miss Percival."

"Good night, Mr. Axtell," I said; and he was gone.

There was no need of persuasion to quietude to-night, it seemed, for Miss Axtell gave me no
field for the practice of oratory: she was quite ready and willing to sleep.

"Can you not sleep, too?" she asked, as she closed her eyes; "if I need you, I can speak."

No, I could not sleep. The night grew cold: a little edge of winter had come back. I felt chilled,--either
because of my sleep down-stairs, or because the mercury was cold before me. My shawl I had
not brought up with me. Might I not find one? The closet-door was just ajar: it was a place
for shawls. I crossed the room, and, opening it a little more, went in. I saw something very
like one hanging there, but it was close beside that grave brown plaid dress, and I had resolved
to intrude no farther into the affair of the tower. Results had not pleased me.

I grew colder than ever, standing hesitatingly in the closet, whence a draught blew from the
dressing-room beyond. I must have the shawl. I reached forth my hand to take it down. The dress,
I found, was hung over it. It must needs come off, before the shawl. I lifted it, catching,
as I did so, my fingers in a rent,--was it? Yes, a piece was gone. I looked at the size and
form of it, which agreed perfectly with the fragment I had found. This dress, then, had been
in the tower, beyond all question.

I thought myself very fairy-like in my movements, but the fire was not. Some one--it must have
been Mr. Axtell or Katie--had put upon the hearth a stick of chestnut-wood, which, suddenly
igniting, snapped vigorously. This began ere I was safely outside of the closet. Miss Lettie
was awakened. She arose a little wildly, sitting up in the bed. I do not know that it was the
fire that aroused her.

"I've had a terrific dream, Miss Percival; don't let me fall asleep again"; and her heart beat
fast and heavily. She pressed her hands upon it, and asked for some quieting medicine, which
I gave. She was getting worse again, I knew; her hands wandered up to her head, in the same
way that they had done when she was first ill.

"I want some one to help me," she said, as if talking to herself; "the waters are very rough.
I thought they would be all smooth after the great storm."

"Perhaps it is only the healthful rising of the tide," I ventured to say.

She looked at me, took her hands down from her head, her beautiful, classic head, with its
wide, heavenly arch of forehead, and sat still thus, looking at me in that fixed way, that
wellnigh sent me to call Katie again, for full ten minutes. I moved about the room, arranged
the fire on a more quiet basis, and then, finding nothing else to do, stood before it, hoping
that Miss Axtell would lie down again. In taking something from my pocket I must have drawn
out the trophy of my tower-victory, for Miss Axtell suddenly said,--

"You've dropped something, Miss Percival."

Turning, I picked it up hastily, lest she should recognize it.

She must have seen it quite well, for it had been lying in the full light of the blazing wood.

"Have you a dress like that?" she asked, when I had restored the fragment.

"I have not," I replied. "I am sorry I awakened you."

"It was a dream that awakened me," she said. "Will you have the kindness to give me that bit
of cloth you picked up? I have a fancy for it."

I gave it to her.

She hastily put away the gift I had given, and said,--

"You like the old tower in the church-yard, Miss Percival, I believe?"

"Oh, yes: it is a great attraction for me. Redleaf would be Redleaf no longer, if it were away."

"Have you visited it since you've been here this time?"

"Once only."

"Were there any changes?" she asked.

"A few," I said. "There is another entrance to the tower than by the door, Miss Axtell."

Slowly the lady dropped back to the pillows whence she had arisen from the disturbing dream.
She did not move again for many minutes; then it was a few low-spoken words that summoned me
to her side.

"I know there is another entrance to the tower," she said; "but I did not think that any one
else knew of it. Who told you?"

"Excuse me from answering, if you please," I said, unwilling to excite her more, for I knew
that the fever was rising rapidly.

"Who knows of this besides you? You don't mind telling me that much?"

"No one knows it, I think; no person told me, and I have told no one. You seem to have more
fever; can you not sleep?"

"Not with all this equinoctial storm raging, and the tide you told me of coming up with the wind."

She looked decidedly worse. Mr. Axtell let her have her own way. I thought it wise to follow
his leading, and I asked,--

"What tide do you mean? You cannot hear the sea, and it isn't time for the equinoctial gale."

This question seemed to have quieted Miss Axtell beyond thought of reply. She did not speak
again until the Sabbath-day had begun. Then, at the very point where she had ceased, she recommenced.

"It is a pity to let the sea in on the fertile fields of your young life," she said; "but this
tide,--it is not that that is now flowing in on the far-away beach of Redcliff. It is the tide
of emotion, that some one day in life begins to rise in the human heart,--and, oh, what a strange,
wondrous thing it is! There are Bay-of-Fundy tides, and the uniform tides, and the tideless
waters that rest around Pacific Isles; and no mortal knoweth the cause of their rise or fall.
So in human hearts: some must endure the great throbbing surges that are so hard coming against
one poor heart with nothing but the earth to rest upon, and yet must stand fast; then there
are the many, the blessed congregation of hearts, that are only stirred by moderate, even-flowing
emotions, that never rise over a tide-line, behind which the congregation are quite secure,
and stand and censure the souls striving and toiling in waves that they only look upon, but
never--no, never--feel. Is this right, Miss Percival?"

"It seems not," I said; "but the tideless hearts, what of them?"

"Oh, they are the hardest of all. Think! Imagine one of those serene, iridescent rings of land,
moored close beside the cliff, at which the waves never rest from beating. Could the one forever
at peace, with leave from wind and wave to grow its verdure and twine its tendrils just where
it would,--could it feel for the life-points against which the Gulf-Stream only now and then
sent up a cheering bit of warmth, whilst the soul of the cliff saw its own land of greenness,
only far, far away over the waters, but could not attain unto it, not whilst north-land winds
blow or the earth-time endures?"

Miss Axtell ceased, and the same fixed, absorbed expression came to her. She looked as she
had done on the night, four days since, when I came in at that door for the first time. I thought
of the question her brother had asked me concerning the turning of the key; and crossing the
room, I turned it.

"Why did you lock the door?" she asked.

"I am constitutionally timid," was my apology.

"You have never evinced it before; why now?"

"Because I have not thought of it sooner."

"Will you unlock it, please?" she asked; and her eyes were very bright with the fever-fire
that I knew was burning up, until I feared the flame would touch her mind. "I don't like being
locked in; I wish to be free," she added.

This lady has something of Mr. Axtell's command of manner. I could not think it right to refuse
to comply, and I unlocked the door.

She seemed restless. "Bring me the key, will you?" she asked, after a few moments of silence,
in which her wandering eyes sought the door frequently.

I gave it to her. I might have locked the door before giving her the key, but I could not do
it even in her approach to wildness. I hate deception as devoutly as she disguises. She thanked
me for my compliance, and said, with a scintillation of coaxingness in her manner,--

"You need not be afraid; there's nothing to harm one in Redleaf."

"Why did you come, to be kind to me, sick and in sorrow?" she suddenly asked, whilst I, unseen
by her, was preparing one of the soothing powders that still were left from the night wherein
I forgot my duty.

I knew not how to reply. The very bit of material which she had hidden underneath a pillow
was the cause; and so I answered,--

"Town-life is so different; one becomes so accustomed to a ring of changes in the all-around
of life, that, when in the country, one looks for something to remind one of the life that
has been left."

"Then you did not come from genuine kindness?"

"No, I am afraid not."

"Do not be afraid to be truthful, ever," she said, and added,--"Once more, will you tell me
where you found the fragment you have given me?"

"I cannot, Miss Axtell."

She did not speak again, but lay looking at the ceiling until long after the moon had risen,--the
waning moon, that comes up so weirdly, late in the night, like a spectre of light appointed
to haunt the solemn old earth, and punish it with the remembrance of a brighter, better light
gone, and a renewed consciousness of its own once unformed, chaotic existence. I saw rays from
it coming in through the parted curtains, and distinctly traced tree-branches wavering to and
fro out in the night-wind, set astir as the moon came up. At last she said,--

"I wish you would go to sleep. Won't you wake Katie up, and then lie down? She has had a rest."

"Poor, tired child," I said; "she had work to do yesterday; I had not."

"Abraham, then, if not Katie."

"He has been up three nights, Miss Axtell,--I only one."

"I did not know it," she said. "I forgot that I had been so long ill."

"Will you try and sleep?" once more I asked; "it is near morning."

She wished to know the hour, made me give her watch into her own keeping, and then said "she
would not talk, no, she would be very quiet, if I would only gratify her by making myself comfortable
on the lounge." It did not seem very unreasonable, and I consented.

"But you are looking at me," she said. "I hate to be watched; do shut your eyes."

I looked away from her. Time went on. I heard the clock strike four times, in the March night.
Miss Axtell was very quiet,--better, I was convinced. I arose once to rebuild the fire. Wood-fires
burn down so soon. Then I took up my watch, thinking over the strange events, all unconsummated,
that had been and still were in being under this roof.

Five hours came booming up from the village-clock. The wind must have changed, or I could not
have heard the strokes, so roundly full.

"How short the hour has been!" was my first thought. Kino began a furious, untimely barking.
"What for?" I wondered; and I lifted up my head and listened. No sound; the room was very still.
Miss Axtell had dropped the curtains of the bed. It annoyed her, I supposed, to feel herself
watched. "Her breathing is very soft," I thought; "I do not even hear it. Her sleep must be
pleasant, after the fever."

I laid my head down to its resting-place, listening still. Kino kept up a low, ominous growl,
quite different from his first barking. Nothing more came. "I'm glad he doesn't waken Miss
Axtell," I thought; and gradually Kino dropped his growls into low, plaintive moans, which
in time died away. As they did so, another sound, not outside, but in the house, set my poor,
weak heart into violent throbbings. Footsteps were in the upper hall, I felt sure. Miss Axtell
might not hear them, if she had not heard Kino's louder noise. Slowly they came,--not heavy,
with a stout, manly tread, but muffled. They came close to the door. If the key were only in
it! But I could not move. I heard a hand going over it, just as I had heard that hand three
days before in the dark tower. A moment's awful pour of feeling, and then came the gentlest,
softest of knocks. Why did I not get up and see who it was? Simply because Nature made me cowardly,
and meant me, therefore, to bear cowardice bravely. I never moved. A second time came the knock,
but no more nerve of sound in it than at the first. A hand touched the knob after that, and
turning it gently, the door was carefully pushed open, and a figure, looking very much like
Mr. Axtell, only the long, dark hair fell over his face, came noiselessly in. I could not tell
at the moment who it was. I watched him cautiously. He stood still, looking first at the bed,
whose curtains were down, then around the room. For one moment I thought him looking at me,
and involuntarily my eyelids closed, lest he might know himself watched. He put up his hand,
and pushed back the heavy hair from his forehead. It was only Mr. Axtell. The relief was so
great that I spoke,--softly, it is true.

"What is it?" I asked. "Is anything wrong, Mr. Axtell?"

"It seems not," he said. "Kino's barking aroused me,--it is so unusual. How has she slept?"

"Very well. For the last hour she has not spoken."

Kino began again his low, dismal howling.

"Did not the dog disturb her when he barked?"

Mr. Axtell had walked to the lounge from which I had risen, still speaking in the voice that
has much of tone without much sound.

"No,--she did not seem to hear it."

"She must be sleeping very deeply," the brother said; and as he spoke, he cautiously uplifted
a fold of the hangings.

What was it that came over his face, made visible even in the gloom of the room? Something
terrible.

"What is it?" I asked, springing up; "what has happened?" and I put out my hand to take the
look at the sleeper in there that he had done.

He stayed my hand, waved it back, folded his arms, as if nothing unusual had occurred, and
questioned me.

"What has she talked about to-night?"

"She has said very little."

"Tell me something that she has said, immediately"; and he looked fearfully agitated.

"What has happened?" I asked; and again I caught at the hangings which concealed the fearful
thing that he had seen.

"Answer me!" Two words only, but tremendously uttered.

"She asked me if I liked the tower in the church-yard," I said.

"You told her what?"

"That I did like it."

"Has she seemed worried about anything?" and Mr. Axtell threw up a window-sash, letting the
cold March wind into this room of sickness. As he did so, I lifted the folds that the wind
rudely swayed. Miss Axtell was not there.

He turned around. I stood speechless.

"How long have you been asleep?" he asked, coolly, as if nothing had occurred.

"Not at all," I answered. Then I thought, "I must have slept, else she could not have gone
out without my knowing it."--"I heard the stroke of four and of five," I said.

He looked up and down the street, only a little lighted by the feeble, old, fading moon.

"Have you any idea where she would go?" he asked.

"She may be in the house," I said; "why not look?"

"No; I found the front-door unfastened. I thought Katie might have forgotten it, when I went
to see. She has gone out, I know."

He looked for the wrappings she might have put on, searching, as he did so, for the small lamp
that always was placed beside the larger one upon the table. It was gone. It had been there
at four o'clock, when I put wood on the fire.

"Where would she carry a lamp?" Mr. Axtell asked, as he went on, searching, in known places,
for articles of apparel that were not in their wonted homes. Having found them, he went out
hurriedly, went to his own room, came out thence a moment after, with boots on his feet in
place of the slippers he had frightened me with, and an overcoat across his arm. He did not
seem to see me, as I stood waiting in the hall.

"Where are you going?" I asked of him, but he did not answer. He went straight on by me, and
down, out of the house, closing the great hall-door after him with a force that shook the walls.

I went into the deserted room, put down the window-sash that he had left open, laid more wood
upon the dying embers, caught up Miss Axtell's shawl, and, throwing it over my head, started
down the stairs. It was pitch-dark, not even moonlight, there. I went back for a lamp: the
only one was the heavy bronze, in the lone room. Mr. Axtell's door was open. He had left a
light. I went in and took it up, with a box of matches lying near, and once more started down
the stairs. How full of trembling I was! yet not afraid: there was a life, perhaps, to save.
I opened the heavy oaken door. The wind put out my light. I did not need it longer. The shred
of moon, hanging prophetic of doom, let out its ghastly whiteness to ghost the village.

Kino did not bark. The wind came down the street from churchward, whence I had heard the stroke
of the village-clock. Ten minutes past five: it would be morning soon. I listened. The wind
brought me footsteps, going farther and farther on: or was it the fluttering of my own garments
that I heard? "I will know," I thought; and I ran a little way, then listened again. They seemed
less far than before, but still going on. I ran again, farther than at first. I saw a figure
before me, but, oh, so far! It seemed that I should never catch it. I tried, and called. I
might as well have shouted to my father, miles away; for the wind carried my voice nearer to
him than to Mr. Axtell, hurrying on. Where would he go? I tried to keep him in sight. He turned
a corner, and the wind tormented me; it was almost a gale that blew, and I had the shawl to
hold over my head. I came to the corner that he had turned: it was near the parsonage,--only
two or three houses away. There was less of wind. I went on, half-breathless with the intensity
of the effort I made to breathe. The stars looked cold. I was near the church-yard. First the
church,--then the place of graves,--after that, the long, sloping garden, and the parsonage
higher up. I passed by the last house. I drew near to the church. How fearful! I stopped. It
was only a momentary weakness: a life was concerned; it was no place for idle fears. I crept
on, shivering with the cold, and the night, and the loneliness, and the awful thought that
the Deity was punishing me for having gone, in imagination, down to the cradle of His dead,
by sending me out this night among graves. I heard the church-windows rattling coarse, woody
tunes; but I tried not to hear, and went past. A low paling ran along the interval between
the church and the parsonage-garden. I had crossed the street when I came up to the church;
now I moved along opposite this fearful spot. The paling was white. I listened. No sound. A
shadow from a tall pine-tree fell across a part of the paling. Therein I thought I saw what
might be Mr. Axtell, leaning on the fence. I went a little of the distance across the street.
Whatever it was, it stirred. I ran back, and started on, thinking to gain the parsonage. The
figure--it was Mr. Axtell--came after me. As soon as I knew, for he called, "Lettie," I stopped
and turned toward him.

"It isn't your sister," I said.

"You, Miss Percival? Why are you out?" and he seemed anxious. He said, "You are suffering too
much from the 'strange people.'"

How could he mention my hasty words at such a time? and I remembered the unforgiving face that
I had touched a fathom deep under the hard ground.

"I'm glad I've found you," I said. "Have you the church-key?"

He told me that he had. I said,--

"Come and open it."

"What for?" and he still peered over among the tombstones, as if expecting to find Miss Lettie
there.

"It is not there that she would go, I think; come quickly with me," I said.

We walked to the church-entrance, hastily. He searched for the key. He hadn't it. I put my
hand out, and touched it in the door.

"See here! I'm right!" and as I spoke, I drew a match across the stone step. The wind put out
the flame. I guarded the second one with my shawl, and lighted the lamp.

"Open quickly, before I lose it," I said.

He did, and we went in,--in through the vestibule, where I first had seen this man, tolling
the bell for his mother's death,--up the aisle, where I had gone the day I saw the thirsty,
hungry, little mouse. I felt afraid, even with this strong man, for I did not know where I
was going. We drew near the pulpit,--the pulpit in which Aaron preached.

"She is not here," Mr. Axtell said; and he looked about the empty pews, feebly lighted from
my small flame.

He started forward as he spoke.

"Don't leave me," I said; and I put my hand within his arm.

What we saw was a change in the pulpit, an opening, as if some one had destroyed the panelled
front of it.

"Come," I said; and I drew near, and put the lamp through the opening, showing a few stone
steps; perhaps there were a dozen of them; at least, they went down into undefined darkness.

"What is this, Miss Percival?"

"I don't know,--I have never seen it before; but I think it leads to the tower. You will find
her there. Come!" and I went down the first step, with a feeling far stronger than the prisoner's
doomed to step off into interminable depths, in that Old-World castle famous for wrongs to
mankind,--for I knew my danger: he does not, as he comes to the last step, from off which he
goes down to a deep, watery death.

Mr. Axtell was aroused. He took the lamp from my unsteady hand, and, bidding me come back,
went down before me. At the foot we found ourselves in a stone passage-way. It seemed below
the reach of rains, and not very damp. Once I hit my foot against a stone, and fell. As Mr.
Axtell turned back to see if I was hurt, he let the light fall distinctly on the ground. I
saw a letter. He went on. I groped for it, one moment, then found it, and put it, with the
torn piece of envelope to which it might belong, within my pocket. We came, at last,--a long
distance it seemed for only a hundred feet,--to steps again. There were only three of them.
Mr. Axtell held the lamp up; there was an opening. I shaded the light immediately, and whispered,--

"She's up there, I'm sure. Don't alarm her."

"How can I help it?" he asked.

I had as little of wisdom on the point as he; but I heard a noise. I saw a glimmer of light,
as I looked up; then it was gone. I put my head through the opening, then reached down for
the lamp. I held it up, and called,--

"Miss Axtell!"

No answer.

"We shall have to go up," her brother said.

I entered the tower, the place I had so loved before,--and now seemed destined to atone for
my love by suffering.

"Don't let the light go out, Mr. Axtell," were all the words spoken; and we went up the long,
winding stairway.

At the top stood Miss Axtell, fixed and statue-like, with fever-excited eyes. She looked not
at us, but far away, through the rough wood inside, through the stone of the tower: her gaze
seemed limitless.

"Come, Lettie! come, sister! come home with me," her brother said.

She heeded not; the only seeming effect was a convulsion of the muscles used in holding the
lamp. I ventured to take it from her.

"Where did you find it?" she asked, in determined tones; "will you tell me now?"

"Whom is she speaking to?" asked Mr. Axtell.

I answered,--

"Yes, Miss Axtell, it was in here."

"Where is the rest?" and her beautiful eyes were coruscant.

I handed to her the last of the trophies of my first visit. She seized it eagerly.

"Don't do that," said Mr. Axtell, as she lighted it from the lamp he held. But she was not
to be stayed; she held it aloft until the fire came down and touched her fingers; then she
dropped it, burning still, down to the stone floor, far below.

She seemed helpless then; she looked as she did when a few hours before she had said, "I want
some one to help me."

"Oh!--I've--lost--something!" and she tolled the words out, as slowly as the notes of the passing
bell.

"What is it, Lettie? Come home; the day is breaking"; and Mr. Axtell put his arm about her.

I thought of the letter that I had picked up in the passage-way.

"What have you lost, Miss Axtell? Is it anything that I could find for you?" and I laid my
hand upon hers, as the only method of drawing away her eyes from their terrible immutation
of expression.

"You? No, I should think not; how could you? you only found a piece of it."

"What is this?" I asked; and I held up the letter: the superscription was visible only to herself.

What a change came over her! Soft, dewy tears melted in those burning eyes, and sent a mist
of sweet effluence over her face. Mr. Axtell was still supporting her; she did not touch the
letter I held; she reached out both of her hands, bent a little toward me,--for she was much
taller than I am,--took my cold, shivering face in those two burning hands, and touched my
forehead with her lips.

"God has made you well," she said; "thank Him."

She did not ask for the letter. I put it whence I had taken it. She evidently trusted me with it.

"Abraham, I'm sick," she said; and she laid her head upon his shoulder, passively as an infant
might have done.

Her strength was gone; she could no longer support herself, and the day was breaking. Mr. Axtell,
strong, vigorous, full-souled man as I knew him to be, looked at me, and his look said, "What
am I to do with her?"

I answered it by throwing off the shawl and putting it upon the floor where we were standing,
and saying,--

"Let her rest here, until I come."

I took the still burning lamp and went down,--down through the entrance into the deep, walled
passage-way, on, step after step, through this black tunnel, built, when, I knew not, or by
whom; but I was brave now. I had won the trust of a soul: it was light unto my feet. I reached
the twelve stone steps leading into the church. I ran lightly up them, and, stooping, crept
into this still house of God. Silence held the place. The next reign would be that of worship.
Is it thus in the church-yard, after the silence of Death,--the long waiting, listening for
the slowly gathering voice of praise, that, one fair day in time, time, shall transfuse the
reverent souls, until the voice of the dew God sends down shall be heard dropping on the grassy
sod, and welcomed as the prelude to the archangel's grand semibreve that will usher in the
sublime Psalm of Everlasting Life?

Wait on, souls! it is good to wait the voice of the Lord God Almighty, who holdeth the earth
in the hollow of His hand,--His hand, that we may feel for, when the way is dark, whose living
fibres thrill both heart and soul. Yes, God's hand is never away from earth. I reached out
anew for it in that dismal pathway through which I had come, and it guided me into this quiet,
peaceful place, full of morning rays.

I did not stop to think all this; I felt it; for feeling is swifter than thought. Thought is
the tree; feeling, the blossom thereof. I closed the panelling behind me, leaving the church
as it had been on the day when, I saw the little hungry mouse treading sacred places. I went
down the aisle; and as I passed by the hempen rope in the vestibule that so often had set the
bell a-ringing, a longing came to do it now, to tell the village-people, by voice of sacred
bell, that there was a new-born worship come down from Heaven. But I did not. I hurried on,
and went out, locking the door after me. The March morning was cold. I missed the shawl I had
left. My hair was as much astir as Aaron's had been one morning, not long before, and I truly
believe there was as much of theology in it. No one was abroad. People sleep late on Sunday
mornings. The east was blossoming into a magnificent sunflower.

Looking at myself, as I began my walk, I laughed aloud. I was still carrying a lighted lamp,--for
the wind, like the village-people, slept at sunrise. I comforted myself by thinking of a predecessor
somewhat famous for a like deed, and bent upon a like errand. The man that I searched for I
should surely find, and honest, too; for it was Aaron.

The parsonage was cruelly inhospitable. No door was left unfastened. I knocked at a window
opening on the veranda. I gave the signal-knock that Sophie and I had listened and opened to,
unhesitatingly, for many years. It needed nothing more. Instantly I heard Sophie say,--"That's
Anna's knock"; and immediately thereafter the curtain was put aside, and Sophie's precious
face and azure eyes peeped out. She looked in amazement to see me thus, and in one moment more
had let me in.

"Wake Aaron," I said, without giving her time to question me.

"He is awake. What has happened? Is Miss Axtell dying?" she questioned.

"No," I said; "but I want to speak to Aaron, directly. I'm going to my room one moment."

I went up. The tower-key was hanging where I had left it. I took it down, and made myself respectable
by covering up my breezy hair with a hood, with the further precaution of a cloak. I had not
long to wait for Aaron's coming; but it was long enough to remind me to carry some restorative
with me. Aaron came.

"Miss Axtell is very ill," I said; "she is quite wild, and left the house in the night. She's
up in the church-yard tower. Will you help her brother take her home, as soon as you possibly can?"

"How strange!" were his only words; and as I went the garden way, Aaron started to arouse his
horse from morning sleep.

"No one need to know the church entrance," I thought; and as I went in, I tried to close down
the heavy stone, which fitted in so well, that it seemed, like all the others, built to stay.

I could not stir it. Perhaps Aaron would not look, when he came in; but doubting his special
blindness, I asked Mr. Axtell to put it back. He seemed to comprehend my meaning. I took his
place beside Miss Axtell. She was no longer wilful or determined. Her strength was gone. Her
head drooped upon my shoulder, and when I held a spoon, filled with the restorative that I
had brought, to her lips, they opened, and she took that which I gave, mechanically. Her eyelids
were down. I looked at the fair, beautiful face that lay so near to my eyes. It was full of
the softest pencillings; little golden sinuosities of light were woven all over it; and the
blue lines along which emotion flies were wonderfully arrowy and sky-like in their wanderings,
for they left no trace to tell whence they came or whither led. I heard the heavy, ponderous
weight let fall. It was the same sound as that which I heard on that memorable night. Miss
Axtell shivered a little; or was it but the effect of the concussion?

The brother came up; he looked down, kindly at me, lovingly at his sister.

"Shall I relieve you?" he asked.

I folded my arm only a little more tightly for answer, and said,--

"Mr. Wilton will be here soon; he is getting the carriage, to take your sister home."

"I will go and help him, if you don't mind being left"; and he looked inquiringly.

"There's no danger. I shall not fall asleep," I said.

"She's harmless now, poor child! If we can only get her back safely!" And with these words
he left me again.

Sophie came up soon, quite fearless now. She brought a variety of comforting things, among
them a pillow. Miss Axtell was too much exhausted to open her eyes, or speak. I thought two
or three times that she had ceased to breathe. What if she should die here? They came. She
was lifted up, and borne down to the carriage, that waited outside the graveyard. Helpless
ones are carried in often: never before (it might be) had one been taken thence. And still
the village-people seemed to be buried in rest.

Sophie and I walked on, whilst slowly the carriage proceeded to the gable-roofed, high-chimneyed
house, that arose, well defined and clear, in the early sunlight. Smoke was rising from the
kitchen-fire. Sophie and I went in, just as the carriage stopped. She waited to receive the
invalid, whilst I went up to see if the absence had been discovered. It was but little more
than an hour since Mr. Axtell and I had gone out. Evidently there had been no visitors. The
wood that had been put on the fire before I left had gone down into glowing coals that looked
warm and inviting. I kneeled and stirred them to a brighter glow, and put on more wood, my
fingers very stiff the while. I drew back the curtains from the bed, smoothed the pillows,
and the disorder occasioned by our hasty exodus, and went down. Aaron and Mr. Axtell had carried
the poor invalid to the library, and laid her upon the sofa there, but it was very cold. The
fire was not yet built.

There was a sound of some one coming from the kitchen-way. Mr. Axtell looked at me. "You know
how to keep a secret," he said, and motioned me in the direction whence came the sound, I hurried
out, closing the door, and met Katie running up to know "what had happened?"

I sent her back on some slight pretext, and followed whither she went. I heard the cook mumblingly
scolding about "noises in the night, dogs barking and doors shutting, she knew; such a house
as it was, with people dying, getting sick, and putting every sort of a bothersome dream into
a quiet body's head, that wanted to rest, just as she worked, like a Christian." And all the
while she went on making preparations for a future breakfast.

"What was 't now that ye heard? Kate, you're easy enough at hearing o' noises in the broad
daylight: I wish 't ye would be as harksome at night."

"Hush, Cooky!" said Katie; "Miss Percival is here."

I went up to Cooky and soothed her, told her that I had heard the dog barking too, and that
I thought that I did hear something like the shutting of a door in the night. Cooky rewarded
my efforts at sympathy by expressing gladness "that there was one sensible person in the house
that had ears fit for Christian purposes."

"Don't mind her, Miss Percival," Katie said; "she's cross because I wakened her too early;
she'll get over it when she has had her breakfast"

I gave Katie something to do, telling her to make coffee for Miss Axtell as soon as possible;
and with a few more words, meant to be conciliating to Cooky, I took up the glass Katie brought
me, and went back.

They had carried Miss Axtell up-stairs. Sophie was taking her wrappings off. How carefully
she had guarded herself, even in her illness, for the walk! and now, all the nerve of fever
gone, she lay as white and strengthless as she had done in the tower. I went for Doctor Eaton,
on my own responsibility.

"He would come in a few minutes," was the message to me.

Sophie said "that she would stay, for I must go home."

As she said so, a little wavering cloud of doubt went across her forehead, eclipsing, for a
moment, its light; then all was bright again.

"What is it?" I asked. "Something for Aaron, I know."

Sophie looked the least bit like a rather old child asking for sugar-candy; but she said,--

"Just you tie his cravat for him, there's a good sister; don't forget; that's all. After that
you may go to sleep, and sleep all day. You look as if you needed it."

She came to say one more forgotten thing,--

"Just see that Aaron gets a white handkerchief: he's fond of gay colors, you know. Two Sundays
ago, when I wasn't looking, he carried off to church one of Chloe's turbans, and deliberately
shook out the three-cornered article, and never knew the difference till his face told him
it was cotton instead of silk."

I promised extra caution on the second point, and had just closed the lower door--Aaron was
already holding the gate open for me--when the softly purplish bands of hair came again into
the wind.

"One thing more, Anna: do see what he takes for a sermon. The text is in the fifth chapter
of First Thessalonians. He will certainly pick up a Fast-day or a Thanksgiving sermon, if you
don't put the right one into his hands."

"Hasn't he two sermons on the same chapter?" I asked.

"Yes, half a dozen. You'll know the one for to-day; I wrote it for him the day he had the headache;
the text is"--and there was a little moment of thought; then she said--"'Who died for us, that,
whether we wake or sleep, we should live together with him.' Aaron's waiting; don't keep him;
good bye!" and she was closed in.

I felt faint and weary, now that there was no more to be done. The village-people were awake.
Village-sounds were abroad in the Sunday atmosphere, vibrant with holiness. The farmers stopped
in their care for their animals, and spent a moment in innocent wonder of the reason why their
pastor should be abroad thus early.

Chloe's turban welcomed us first, then Chloe's self. Breakfast, that morning, had a rare charm
about it for me. I felt that I had a right to it; in some wise it was a breakfast earned. Aaron
looked melancholy; his coffee was not charmful, I knew; the chemical changes that sugar and
milk wrought were not the same as when Sophie presided over the laboratory of the breakfast-tray.
I am not an absorbent, and so I reflected Aaron's discomfort. He was disposed to question me
for a reason for Miss Axtell's aberration. I was not empowered to give one, and was fully determined
to impart no information until such time as I could with honor tell all. Aaron desisted after
a while, and changed interrogation for information.

"We're to have a new sexton," he said.

"Why, Aaron?" I asked,--and, in my surprise, put sugar, destined for my coffee, into a glass
of water.

"Because Abraham Axtell has resigned."

"When?"

"This very morning."

"He will be sexton until you find another, will he not?"

"For one week only," he said.

I remembered that my pocket held the church-key. I could not send it to him without exciting
question. Aaron would surely ask how I came by it, if I trusted him to restore it. So, sleepy,
weary, I sat down at the window from which Sophie and her sister Anna had watched the strange
man digging in the frosty earth,--sat down to my last watching, waiting to see Mr. Axtell come
up to ring the first bell.

I found I was an hour too early; so I went and talked to Chloe a little, scattered crumbs for
the first-come birds and corn for the chickens, and looked down the deep, deep well, with its
curb lichened over, into the dark pupil of water, whose iris is never disturbed, unless by
the bucket that hung in such gibbety repose on the lofty extreme of the great sweep, that creaked
dismally, uttering a pitiful cry of complaint. If it hadn't been Sunday, I would have coaxed
Aaron to pour some oil on its turbulence; but since Sunday it was, I was to be content to let
it screech on. It was not a "sheep fallen into a pit," only a disturbed well-sweep. Do well-sweeps
feel, I wonder? Why not? Mr. Axtell asked how I knew that the dead cannot hear.

Aaron came out in search of me. He had been assiduously trying to make a ministerial disposition
of his cravat, until it was creased and wrinkled beyond repair.

"I did not know that you put on the paraphernalia of pastorhood so early," I said, "or I would
have come in."

"I shall be very thankful, if you'll give me a respectable appearance," he said, which I faithfully
tried to do.

I gave him the sermon and the proper handkerchief, then left him to his hour of seclusion before
service, when even Sophie never went nigh.

Half-past nine of the clock came. It was the time for the ringing of the first bell. No sexton
appeared. I looked far down the street, having walked to the corner of the church for the purpose.
Perhaps Mr. Axtell was searching for the key. What if I should ring the bell? I had wished
to, still earlier in the morning. No one would see me go in.

The third time I entered within the church. The bell-rope swayed to and fro with a mimic oscillation;
a sort of admonitory premonition of what it must shortly do ran up its fibres. I had left the
entrance into the place devoted to worship open. I closed it now. There was nothing very alarming
in standing there. The floor was oaken and old; the walls were gray, and seamed with crevices;
there were steps, at either extreme, leading into galleries,--one for the choir, two for happy
children excluded by numbers from the straight family-pews, right under Aaron's gray eyes,
that saw everything, except the few items that Sophie must watch for him, such as neckties,
handkerchiefs, and sermons.

There was a smooth place on the rope. The roughness had been worn away by contact of human
hands. Abraham Axtell's hands--the same that covered his face before the young girl's picture,
that digged the grave, and so gently soothed his sister that very morning--had worn it smooth.
It was out of my reach, too high up for me to attain unto; and so I held it tightly lower down.
The ungrateful rope was very prickly; it hurt me, but I held fast, and slowly, surely drew
it down. Too slowly; there was not sound enough to frighten a bird out of the belfry, had one
been there to listen; but Aaron, on his knees within his study, praying for the gift of healing,
that he might restore sick souls, would hear. Once more I drew the rope, with a tiny persistence
that was childish, amusing. A baby-tone came to me from the bell, accustomed to other things.
I had gained courage from the two attempts; it grew rapidly; and soon, out into the people's
homes, the sounding strokes were ringing, clear, sonorous, and true. I had never noticed how
long a time the "first bell" rang. It was the last Sunday morning's service of the sexton.
He might be expected to linger a little in the net-work of memory; and thus, anxious to do
my duty well, I rang on.

The neighbor's boy opened the door and put his head inside; and then he opened his eyes wondrously
wide at me, and, frightened, ran away. I left my bell to tone itself to silence, with little
sighing notes, like a child sobbing itself into sleep, and called after him. The rough boy
came to me. I asked "if he would do me a favor." He said, "of course he would."

"I wish you to build the church-fires; and don't tell any one that you saw me ringing the bell."

"If you tell me not to, I sha'n't," was his laconic reply.

I went home, my latest duty done. I saw, far down the willow-arched street, Mr. Axtell coming.

With closed blinds, and room of silence, I ought to have found rest; but I did not. I heard
Aaron go out. I trusted that he had got the proper sermon. I heard the second bell ring. It
was so near, how could I help it? I heard the congregation singing. Triumphant joy was the
impression that the song brought to my darkened room. I thought of the letter that was in my
pocket. It did not please me to feel that it was out of my keeping. I took it thence, and held
it in my hands. It had no envelope. It was written upon soft, white paper, and was addressed
to some one: to whom I would not see. Not if my happiness depended upon it, would I sacrifice
the trust reposed in me. Holding the letter thus, a face came to memory. It was the third face
of the three that had been painted in anthracite. I could not tell where I had known it in
life. It did not seem as if it belonged to mortal time. I got up, opened the blinds for a moment,
and looked in the glass. I saw myself,--and yet,--yes, there was a similitude to that I saw
in memory; and then that strange, sad seeming of soul-sense, that says, "Such as you are, you
have been somewhere for ages," overwhelmed and sent shakings of solemn ague to me.

"I'm getting ill," I thought; "I'll have no more of this."

I looked at a bottle of chloroform standing conveniently near, took it up, and drew out the
stopper. Lifting it to the light, I looked at it. Quiet and calm and peaceful it reposed, unconscious
of ill done or to be done by itself. It was so innocent that I could not let it sin by hurting
me. I gazed again at my reflection in the glass, and a sudden intuition taught me a startling
truth.

It may have been, nay, must have been, the innocence born of the lucent chloroform, reflected
in my own face; but I was certain that the mirror and the Axtell house contained two pictures
that were the one like the other. I smiled at the fancy. The illusion, if illusion it was,
fled. The picture on the wall never smiled from out the canvas. I took dark winding-cloths
and bound them about my head, covering the hair and forehead, all the while watching the effect
produced in the mirror. The result was somewhat striking, it is true, but not of the agreeable
style. I unbound my frontlet, taking off the black phylactery, whose memorable sentence, written
in white letters, had been visible to myself alone. A contrast suggested itself to me. I would
try white; and so I materialized the suggestion, and stood looking the least bit in the world
like a nun, bound about with my white vestments, and had obtained only one very unsatisfactory
glimpse of the effect produced upon the sensitive heart of quicksilver, when I found that that
subtile heart responded to influences other than mine. What I discovered was another face,
not in the most remote degree like mine,--as different as it could possibly be,--a face belonging
to the carboniferous strata of the human ages. Had it been imitating me? Its race are eminent
for imitative genius. A queer sort of a nun it was, wearing neither black nor white, but high
tropical hues. Repose of being did not belong to this face. It darted around, and looked into
my eyes.

"Goodness o' mercy Miss Anna, what ails thee's little head? is it quite turned with being up
o' nights? Lie down, little honey! let old Chloe bathe it for thee." And Chloe hummed around
the room like a bee; she folded up the petals of light that I had unbudded when I wanted to
see what manner of face I had. Strange fancy it is that the extra fairy gives to mortals, this
breaking up of roses and dolls and joys, to find what is in them!

I was pleased to have Chloe come in, to take charge of me. I had gone a little way beyond my
own proper realm, and it was grateful to feel my centrifugal tendencies overcome by this sable
centripetency of force, that took off my strange habitings,--only the paraphernalia of headache
to her. Pillowing the head supposed to be tormented with pain, Chloe went about to remedy the
evil by drowning it in lavender-water. I let her think what she pleased, and bravely lifted
up the mount of my head, like Ararat of old unto the great deluge; but she would not let me
talk as I pleased. Chloe was half a century old, with a warm, affectionate, red heart under
her black seeming; and it pulsated around me now, as I lay there, under her care, in absolute
quiet, hushed to content by her humming ways and words.

The second hymn of the church-service was sending its voice of worship up unto the Lord of
all the earth, and Chloe and I, two of the children of that Lord, upon His earth, were awed
by it. "The neighbor's boy must have left a window open," I thought. The fruitage of song blossomed
on, the petalled notes withered and fell, and Chloe garnered in her harvest from the field,
with a quaintly expressed regret that she "wasn't in the meadows of the land of Canaan, where
taller songs were growing."

"Never mind, Chloe," I said; "the hymns of earth are very sweet; you can wait a little longer,
can't you?"

"Don't you talk, child; you'll make your head ache again. Yes, old Chloe is willing to wait;
there's honey and sugar left on the ground for her to find, only she's old now, she can't stoop
to pick it up as well as she could once."

"What do you mean, Chloe?"

"Didn't I tell ye you mustn't talk, Miss Anna? Don't be trying to trouble yourself with old
Chloe's meanings: they haven't any understanding in them for other people to find out."

"Why not, Chloe?"

"Thee's talking again, Miss Anna. It's the Lord's thoughts that are given to black Chloe, and
she hasn't anything to dress them up in but her own, poor, old, ragged words, that a'n't fit
to use any way; so Chloe'll wait until she gets something better to make 'em 'pear to belong
to the Lord that owns 'em"; and Chloe still soothingly bathed my head, which I think was aching
all the while, only I should not have found it out, if she had not told me it.

"I want to ask you a question, Chloe."

"Well, just one, honey!"

"Am I much like--do I look as my mother used to?"

"Blessed child! no, no more 'n I do; only ye've both got white faces from the good Lord, and
He didn't please to give Chloe anything better than a black one."

"What did she look like?"

"Thee's not to talk one word more. Chloe must go and look after Master Aaron's dinner; he doesn't
like husks to feed on. Mistress Percival was like an angel, when the Lord took her from the
earth. I'm afraid old Chloe wouldn't know her now, she's been so long with Seraphim and Cherubim
in the Great City with the light of the Celestial Sun shining in her face. I'm afraid Chloe
wouldn't dare to speak to her, if she was to meet her in the shining street of the New Jerusalem."

"She would know you, though, Chloe."

"There isn't any night there, Miss Anna; she couldn't see me; I'm black and wicked"; and Chloe
dropped something upon my hand. It was a tear from her great eyes.

"Your soul will be white, Chloe. Christ will make it so."

"Well, well, honey, don't you trouble yourself 'bout my soul. The Lord made it, and I guess
He'll take care of it, when it gets free from the earth"; and Chloe went down to look after
a fragment of the very earth she was anxious to escape from.

I heard this child of "Afric's golden sands" singing a song to soothe her soul among the dinner-deeds
that she was enacting. Then I thought me of the earth lying in the hollow of God's hand, and
in some way I wished that I might get in-between the earth and the Holding Hand, and a wisp
of the sweet hymn, "Nearer to Thee, my God," floated out from my heart's voice, almost with
music in it. And the wishing words melted into an air of prayer. I felt the mighty Hand around
me. I put myself fearlessly into the loving depths thereof, engraved with lines of life, and
slept securely there. Did the divine fingers draw me a little more closely, and press the lines
engraven on the Hand into my soul, and leave an impression of dreams there? I felt myself going
swiftly on and up through a skyey gradient, and the soft, balmy air, displaced by my passing
through, fell back into its own place with pearly music. I wanted to open my eyes and see where
I was going; but I could not. I was passive in action, active in thought only. Then, the music
growing fainter and fainter as the atmosphere became more celestially rarefied, I felt the
supporting Hand going away from me. One after another the fingers loosened their hold, and
yet I did not feel that I was falling. It was gone, and I floated on. With its absence came
the wish for action. My eyes were unloosed, and I looked up. Far above me I saw the Hand that
had brought me up hither. It had gone on before, and was waiting my coming. I made an effort
to reach it.

A voice came; and clouds, rosy, ambient, such as angels hang around the pavilion of the sun,
were unfolding their glory-woven webs and weaving me in. "It is good to be here," I whispered
to my spirit's inmost sense of hearing; and the voice that I heard spake these words unto me:--

"You have been brought up hither to learn your mission upon the earth to which you go."

Old, prophetic, syllabic sounds, lisped in the place whence I had come, were given unto me,
and I answered,--

"Speak, Lord, for Thy servant heareth!"

Then a rushing wind of sound filled my ears, and I saw the flashing of a wing of angel in among
the cumulosity of clouds, and it made an opening into an ethereous region beyond. An oval,
azurous picture was before me, set in this rolling, surging frame of ambient gold and silver glory.

"It is not for me to see in there," I thought; and I shut my eyes.

The voice that I had heard before spake once more:--

"Learn what thy God would have thee to do. Look up!"

Obeying the mighty behest, I beheld, and an ovaline picture, painted in the artistry of heaven,
let down from the crystalline walls, that I might not see, and held fast by a cord of gold,
safe in an angel's keeping, God had sent for me to look upon.

It was not such as masters of earth toil to paint. It was a living group that I saw.

Four figures stood there.

The first one was the face that I had just asked Chloe the semblance of. Loving past expression's
power. The love emitted from those eyes brought tears into mine, and I heard one of them go
dropping down, down into the cloudy deep below, as one day I had heard one falling elsewhere,
on a cold stone.

Two hands were wafted out towards me, and the lips were just parted, as if waiting for coming
words. I looked and listened, a little blinded by the glory and my tears.

"Go forth, dear child, to the work thy God appoints for thee to do!"

I looked up a little higher, just over the face of my mother, and, in holiest benediction,
the Hand that had brought me up hither was laid upon her head. One stood beside her, leaning
upon her shoulder. I recognized the face of the mysterious young girl.

"Will you do something for me on the earth, whence I have been called?" she asked.

The mighty voice that rang amid the clouds bade me "Answer." And tremulously, as if my poor
earth-words had no place in the exceeding brightness, I gave an "I will."

"Comfort you the one afflicted. Tell him to look no longer into my grave. Let him not wander
beside the marble foam that surges up from the Sea of Death, for that the Lord hath prepared
another way for his footsteps. Lead him a little while on the earth, and then"----

I know not what more she would have spoken, for the Hand closed her lips. I sought my mother's
face. It was gone. Another came forward. I felt involuntarily for the cold Hand that one night
wandered under the sod in search of the face that now I saw in this picture let down from crystalline
walls.

"I have a message for you," were the words I heard. "Tell her that I know what she would tell
me: I have been made to know it here, where all things are clear: tell her that my forgiveness
is as large as the heaven to which I have been permitted to enter in. Give her of the love
that I did not when I might have done it."

The Hand was offered to her. Pleadingly, she looked up at it. For a moment my eyelids were
heavy. When the weight was lifted, only one figure remained upon the celestial canvas. I could
not see the countenance thereof: hands were clasped tightly over it.

"One more message the Lord permits for earth," said a touching, trembling, praying voice. "Say
unto one sinning, that I have prayed unto the Christ that died for him,--that his mother is
always praying for her son. Find out his sin, and solace his soul with the knowledge of my
prayers."

The angel-wing that had cleaved the sky to let this picture in lifted her upon its pinions,
and bore her through the azure, and I saw the great Hand open, as of one casting out many seeds
upon the earth. Again an angel-wing swept its way among the clouds, and folds of opaline glow
pavilioned the entrance into cerulean heights, and a solemn voice uttered these words out of
the great All-Where around me:--

"I am the Lord thy God. I will show thee the way wherein I would have thee to walk. Rest thy
soul in my love, and it shall satisfy thee."

With heart and soul and voice, my all of being cried out.--

"Only let Thy hand hold me!"

I awoke with one of those awful heart-exciting starts that come in sleep, such as a new planet
might give when first projected into its orbit, before centrifugal and centripetal forces have
time to exert their influences. I wonder what it is. Can it be a misstep, in the darkness,
into the abyss between the land of waking and the land where there are nor years nor months
nor days, where the soul abides in Lethe,--save when some wing troubles the waters for a little
while?

I was wearied, with the weariness of one having come from long journeying. I closed my eyes
again, and tried to sleep. Chloe looked in at me.

"Have you had a nice sleep, Miss Anna?" she asked, as I moved at her coming.

"I fear not, Chloe," I said; "my head doesn't behave nicely since I awoke. Bring me the bottle
of chloroform: it's just there, upon the bureau."

Chloe went hurrying, bustling out of the room, and brought me the chloroform from some other
part of the house.

"Where did you bring this from?" I asked; "do you use chloroform?"

"I've a horror of all pisons," said Chloe; "I didn't like to leave this near you; pisons is
very bad for young people."

Smiling at Chloe's prudent fears for me, I inhaled a little of the friend, dangerous, and to
be trusted only a little way, like the most of friends, and gave it back to Chloe. The honest
woman restored it to her pocket in the presence of my two eyes. I had had enough of it, and
I let her carry it away,--a victory she enjoyed, I knew, and it cost me nothing, save a smile
at her idle fears for me. I did not know then that Chloe had, in her semi-century of life,
found a reason for her dread of poisons, among which she evidently promoted chloroform to a
high power in the field of active service.

I arose with a new feeling in my existence. I felt that I had been led into a strange avenue
of life, constellated with the Southern Cross, which I had never yet seen. It was daylight
now. I must await the coming of the hours when God maketh the darkness to curtain round the
earth, that He may come down and walk in "the groves and grounds that His own feet have hallowed,"
that He may look near at what the children of men will to do. I must await this hour, when
heaven will be thick with legions of starry eyes, that look down through the empyrean at their
God walking among men.

Is it wonderful that they tremble so, when He who saith, "Vengeance is mine, I will repay,"
seeth so much to awaken the eye that "never slumbereth nor sleepeth" to retribution? If angels
tremble so, safe in heavenly heights, how ought poor sinful man to fear for himself, lest that
vengeance overtake him, ere he have time to cry, "Have mercy!"

I took up the Holy Bible, and opened it, as I often had done before, with the belief at work
within my heart, that whatsoever words my eyes first fell upon would be prophetic to me. I
opened and read, "I must work the works of Him that sent me, while it is day: the night cometh,
when no man can work."

And I, kneeling, prayed, "Show me, my God, what Thou wilt have me to do, or to be! Work Thou
within me! Let the one little atom of Thyself that Thou hast given into my keeping be so holily
guarded, so sacredly kept, that, at the fast, it may come back a fibre of Thine own Self, and
be received into the Great Existence that liveth forever and ever!"

I arose and walked forth into this newness of life, enveloped with a halo of the Divine effluence,
in which I hoped forever to dwell,--or if forever had any meaning to me, it was in an existent now.

I passed through Aaron's study, and an awe of reverence led me to pause before the table where
he had worked for so many days, worked to make God's salvation seem harmonious with man's free-will;
and, in loving all suffering human kind, newness of love for Aaron and for his cool-browed
wife came to me: not that I had not loved them long, but there come neap-tides into the oceans
of emotion, and work solemnly, awfully, until great frothings from the storm lie all a-tremble
on the coasts of the land whither our course tends in the daily, hourly round of life.

I'm very glad Aaron didn't come in just then. It is good to be with God alone, in deep emotions.
It never was meant by the Good Spirit for man to behold what is in his brother-man. I think
we'd all fly--as far apart as the Universe would give us leave. Just let the effervescence
of one life o'erlip the cup and fall into another, and the draught would be a drink of electricity.
Who would care to taste it? Not Aaron, I'm sure. And so I shook out this crispy lace of emotion
that was rather choking in my throat, and went down to where Chloe watched the elements whence
all this chemistry had been evolved.

"I thought ye'd be coming after somewhat to eat," Chloe said; "but I knew, if I asked you,
you'd sure say,' No, honey'"; and she went about to "do me good," in her own way.

I heard the afternoon's latest hymn sung in the church whilst I waited. I saw the great congregation
come out, and, with divided ways, go each homeward. Sophie had not returned. I wanted to hear
from Miss Axtell. Last of all walked Aaron. With bent head and slow musingness of step, he
came to his home. I met him at the entrance.

"Are you tired with preaching, Aaron?" I asked.

He looked up, at my unusual accost; and I think there must have been somewhat unwonted about
me, he looked at me so long.

"No," he said, "I've had a pleasant field to-day: there are violets, even in my pathways, Anna."

"Sophie's a pansy," I said.

"Sophie's a Sharon rose," spake Aaron.

He looked inquiringly at me, and added,--

"And you, Anna?"

"An aloe, Aaron."

He smiled the least in the world, and said,--

"Had I been asked, instead of being the asker, I should have made answer, 'She's a Japan rose.'"

"Oh, Aaron, no fragrance! that's not complimentary."

"Crush the leaves of heliotrope in the cup, Anna."

I did not understand what he meant, then; perhaps I do not now: some figure of speech from
the Orient, I fancy, with a glow of meaning about it visible only to poetic vision. I lost
my way, blinded in seeking to penetrate the mystery, and was brought back to Redleaf by two
welcome events: the cup Chloe brought, and the letter Aaron gave, with a beseeching of pardon
for having forgotten to give it in the morning.

I read my letter, interluding it with little commas of sipping at the cup. It was from my father,
very brief, but somewhat stirring. Here it lies before me now.

   "My MYRTLE-VINE,--

   "I want you at home. I am well; but that is no reason why I should
   not need your greenness on my walls. Come home, dear child, on the
   morrow. Do not fail me. You never have; 't would be cruel now, when
   spring is coming, the very time of hope. Waitingly,

   "Your father,

   "JULIUS PERCIVAL."

"What puts you in such a turmoil, Anna?" Aaron asked. "What has happened at home?"

I thought he had been duly attending to the state of his own inward hopes and fears, instead
of mine. Slightly disconcerted by his gray eyes, the very same that disturb turbulent boys
in church-time, I turned away from them, went to the door, and leaning against the side thereof,
looking the while up at the sky, I answered,--

"I'm going home on the morrow, Aaron."

"Going home?" he repeated, as if the words had borne an uncertain import. "Pray tell me, what
has occurred?"

"It pleases my father to have me there. He gives no reason."

"What will Sophie say? She's hardly seen you since you came, you've been so usefully employed.
I hope you have not hurt yourself. I wish you were going back with brighter color in your cheeks."

"There is something in Nature besides mere coloring," I said, and looked for the answer.

It was better than I thought to get.

"What?" he asked.

"Two things, Aaron,--conception and form."

Aaron mused awhile.

"What gave you the idea?" he asked, his musing over.

"Sermons in granite," I answered; and I looked at the sunshine, the afternoon radiance that
fell soothingly into the winter-wearied grass lying in the graveyard, waiting like souls for
the warmth of love to enlife them.

Aaron said,--

"Sandstone and limestone you mean, Anna."

"Oh, no,--granite. I mean the Axtells."

"I'm glad you've found anything comprehensible enough to call a sermon in them," he answered.
"Ill, dying, and in affliction, they are impenetrable to me." And Aaron turned away and went in.

LEAMINGTON SPA.

   MY DEAR EDITOR,--

   You can hardly have expected to hear from me again, (unless by
   invitation to the field of honor,) after those cruel and terrible
   notes upon my harmless article in the July Number. How could you find
   it in your heart (a soft one, as I have hitherto supposed) to treat
   an old friend and liege contributor in that unheard-of way? Not that
   I should care a fig for any amount of vituperation, if you had only
   let my article come before the public as I wrote it, instead of
   suppressing precisely the passages--with which I had taken most
   pains, and which I flattered myself were most cleverly done. The
   interview with the President, for example: it would have been a
   treasure to the future historian; and I hold you responsible to
   posterity for thrusting it into the fire. However, I cannot lose so
   good an opportunity of showing the world the placability and
   sweetness that adorn my character, and therefore send you another
   article, in which, I trust, you will find nothing to strike
   out,--unless, peradventure, you think that I may disturb the
   tranquillity of nations by my plan of annexing Great Britain, or my
   attempted adumbration of a fat English dowager!

   Truly, yours,

   A PEACEABLE MAN.

SANITARY CONDITION OF THE ARMY.

The power and efficiency of an army consist in the amount of the power and efficiency of its
elements, in the health, strength, and energy of its members. No army can be strong, however
numerous its soldiers, if they are weak; nor is it completely strong, unless every member is
in full vigor. The weakness of any part, however small, diminishes, to that extent, the force
of the whole; and the increase of power in any part adds so much to the total strength.

In order, then, to have a strong and effective army, it is necessary not only to have a sufficient
number of men, but that each one of these should have in himself the greatest amount of force,
the fullest health and energy the human body can present.

This is usually regarded in the original creation of an army. The soldiers are picked men.
None but those of perfect form, complete in all their organization and functions, and free
from every defect or disease, are intended to be admitted. The general community, in civil
life, includes not only the strong and healthy, but also the defective, the weak, and the sick,
the blind, the halt, the consumptive, the rheumatic, the immature in childhood, and the exhausted
and decrepit in age.

In the enlistment of recruits, the candidates for the army are rigidly examined, and none are
admitted except such as appear to be mentally and physically sound and perfect. Hence, many
who offer their services to the Government are rejected, and sometimes the proportion accepted
is very small.

In Great Britain and Ireland, during the twenty years from 1832 to 1851 inclusive, 305,897
applied for admission into the British army. Of these, 97,457, or 32 per cent., were rejected,
and only 208,440, or 68 per cent., were accepted.[2]

In France, during thirteen years, 1831 to 1843 inclusive, 2,280,540 were offered for examination
as candidates for the army. Of these, 182,664, being too short, though perhaps otherwise in
possession of all the requisites of health, were not examined, leaving 2,097,876, who were
considered as candidates for examination. Of these, 680,560, or 32.5 per cent, were rejected
on account of physical unfitness, and only 1,417,316, or 67.5 per cent., were allowed to join
the army.[3]

The men who ordinarily offer for the American army, in time of peace, are of still inferior
grade, as to health and strength. In the year 1852, at the several recruiting-stations, 16,114
presented themselves for enlistment, and 10,945, or 67.9 per cent., were rejected, for reasons
not connected with health:--

        3,162 too young,
          732 too old,
        1,806 too short,
          657 married,
        2,434 could not speak English,
           32 extremely ignorant,
        1,965 intemperate,
          106 of bad morals,
           51 had been in armies from which
     --------- they had deserted,
Total, 10,945

All of these may have been in good health.

Of the remainder, 5,169, who were subjects of further inquiry, 2,443 were rejected for reasons
connected with their physical or mental condition:--

          243 mal-formed,
          630 unsound in physical constitution,
           16 unsound in mind,
          314 had diseased eyes,
           55 had diseased ears,
          314 had hernia,
        1,071 had varicose veins,

       -------
Total,  2,443

Only 2,726 were accepted, being 52.7 per cent, of those who were examined, and less than 17
per cent., or about one-sixth, of all who offered themselves as candidates for the army, in
that year.[4]

In time of peace, the character of the men who desire to become soldiers differs with the degree
of public prosperity. When business is good, most men obtain employment in the more desirable
and profitable avocations of civil life. Then a larger proportion of those who are willing
to enter the army are unfitted, by their habits or their health, for the occupations of peace,
and go to the rendezvous only as a last resort, to obtain their bread. But when business falters,
a larger and a better class are thrown out of work, and are glad to enter the service of the
country by bearing arms. The year 1852 was one of prosperity, and affords, therefore, no indication
of the class and character of men who are willing to enlist in the average years. The Government
Reports state that in some other years 6,383 were accepted and 3,617 rejected out of 10,000
that offered to enlist. But in time of war, when the country is endangered, and men have a
higher motive for entering its service than mere employment and wages, those of a better class
both as to character and health flock to the army; and in the present war, the army is composed,
in great degree, of men of the highest personal character and social position, who leave the
most desirable and lucrative employments to serve their country as soldiers.

As, then, the army excludes, or intends to exclude, from its ranks all the defective, weak,
and sick, it begins with a much higher average of health and vigor, a greater power of action,
of endurance, and of resisting the causes of disease, than the mass of men of the same ages
in civil life. It is composed of men in the fulness of strength and efficiency. This is the
vital machinery with which Governments propose to do their martial work; and the amount of
vital force which belongs to these living machines, severally and collectively, is the capital
with which they intend to accomplish their purposes. Every wise Government begins the business
of war with a good capital of life, a large quantity of vital force in its army. So far they
do well; but more is necessary. This complete and fitting preparation alone is not sufficient
to carry on the martial process through weeks and months of labor and privation. Not only must
the living machinery of bone and flesh be well selected, but its force must be sustained, it
must be kept in the most effective condition and in the best and most available working order.
For this there are two established conditions, that admit of no variation nor neglect: first,
a sufficient supply of suitable nutriment, and faithful regard to all the laws of health; and,
second, the due appropriation of the vital force that is thus from day to day created.

A due supply of appropriate food and of pure air, sufficient protection and cleansing of the
surface, moderate labor and refreshing rest, are the necessary conditions of health, and cannot
be disregarded, in the least degree, without a loss of force. The privation of even a single
meal, or the use of food that is hard of digestion or innutritious, and the loss of any of
the needful sleep, are followed by a corresponding loss of effective power, as surely as the
slackened fire in the furnace is followed by lessened steam and power in the engine.

Whosoever, then, wishes to sustain his own forces or those of his laborers with the least cost,
and use them with the greatest effect, must take Nature on her own terms. It is vain to try
to evade or alter her conditions. The Kingdom of Heaven is not divided against itself. It makes
no compromises, not even for the necessities of nations. It will not consent that any one,
even the least, of its laws shall be set aside, to advance any other, however important. Each
single law stands by itself, and exacts complete obedience to its own requirements: it gives
its own rewards and inflicts its own punishments. The stomach will not digest tough and hard
or old salted meats, or heavy bread, without demanding and receiving a great and perhaps an
almost exhausting proportion of the nervous energies. The nutritive organs will not create
vigorous muscles and effective limbs, unless the blood is constantly and appropriately recruited.
The lungs will not decarbonize and purify the blood with foul air, that has been breathed over
and over and lost its oxygen. However noble or holy the purpose for which human power is to
be used, it will not be created, except according to the established conditions. The strength
of the warrior in battle cannot be sustained, except in the appointed way, even though the
fate of all humanity depend on his exertions.

Nature keeps an exact account with all her children, and gives power in proportion to their
fulfilment of her conditions. She measures out and sustains vital force according to the kind
and fitness of the raw material provided for her. When we deal liberally with her, she deals
liberally with us. For everything we give to her she makes a just return. The stomach, the
nutrient arteries, the lungs, have no love, no patriotism, no pity; but they are perfectly
honest. The healthy digestive organs will extract and pay over to the blood-vessels just so
much of the nutritive elements as the food we eat contains in an extractible form, and no more;
and for this purpose they will demand and take just so much of the nervous energy as may be
needed. The nutrient arteries will convert into living flesh just so much of the nutritive
elements as the digestive organs give them, and no more. The lungs will send out from the body
as many of the atoms of exhausted and dead flesh as the oxygen we give them will convert into
carbonic acid and water, and this is all they can do. In these matters, the vital organs are
as honest and as faithful as the boiler, that gives forth steam in the exact ratio of the heat
which the burning fuel evolves and the fitness of the water that is supplied to it; and neither
can be persuaded to do otherwise. The living machine of bone and flesh and the dead machine
of iron prepare their forces according to the means they have, not according to the ulterior
purpose to which those forces are to be applied. They do this alike for all. They do it as
well for the sinner as for the saint,--as well for the traitorous Secessionist striving to
destroy his country as for the patriot endeavoring to sustain it.

In neither case is it a matter of will, but of necessity. The amount of power to be generated
in both living and dead machines is simply a question of quality and quantity of provision
for the purpose. So much food, air, protection given produce so much strength. A proposition
to reduce the amount of either of these necessarily involves the proposition to reduce the
available force. Whoever determines to eat or give his men less or poorer food, or impure air,
practically determines to do less work. In all this management of the human body, we are sure
to get what we pay for, and we are equally sure not to get what we do not pay for.

All Governments have tried, and are now, in various degrees, trying, the experiment of privation
in their armies. The soldier cannot carry with him the usual means and comforts of home. He
must give these up the moment he enters the martial ranks, and reduce his apparatus of living
to the smallest possible quantity. He must generally limit himself to a portable house, kitchen,
cooking-apparatus, and wardrobe, and to an entire privation of furniture, and sometimes submit
to a complete destitution of everything except the provision he may carry in his haversack
and the blanket he can carry on his back. When stationary, he commonly sleeps in barracks;
but he spends most of his time in the field and sleeps in tents. Occasionally he is compelled
to sleep in the open air, without any covering but his blanket, and to cook in an extemporized
kitchen, which he may make of a few stones piled together or of a hole in the earth, with only
a kettle, that he carries on his back, for cooking-apparatus. In all cases and conditions,
whether in fort or in field, in barrack, tent, or open air, he is limited to the smallest artificial
habitation, the least amount of furniture and conveniences, the cheapest and most compact food,
and the rudest cookery. He is, therefore, never so well protected against the elements, nor,
when sleeping under cover, so well supplied with air for respiration, as he is at home. Moreover,
when lodging abroad, he cannot take his choice of places; he is liable, from the necessities
of war, to encamp in wet and malarious spots, and to be exposed to chills and miasms of unhealthy
districts. He is necessarily exposed to weather of every kind,--to cold, to rains, to storms;
and when wet, he has not the means of warming himself, nor of drying or changing his clothing.
His life, though under martial discipline, is irregular. At times, he has to undergo severe
and protracted labors, forced marches, and the violent and long-continued struggles of combat;
at other times, he has not exercise sufficient for health. His food is irregularly served.
He is sometimes short of provisions, and compelled to pass whole days in abstinence or on shore
allowance. Occasionally he cannot obtain even water to drink, through hours of thirsty toil.
No Government nor managers of war have ever yet been able to make exact and unfailing provision
for the wants and necessities of their armies, as men usually do for themselves and their families
at home.

SUPPOSED DANGERS TO THE SOLDIER.

From the earliest recorded periods of the world, men have gone forth to war, for the purpose
of destroying or overcoming their enemies, and with the chance of being themselves destroyed
or overthrown. Public authorities have generally taken account of the number of their own men
who have been wounded and killed in battle, and of the casualties in the opposing armies. Gunpowder
and steel, and the manifold weapons, instruments, and means of destruction in the hands of
the enemy are commonly considered as the principal, if not the only sources of danger to the
soldier, and ground of anxiety to his friends; and the nation reckons its losses in war by
the number of those who were wounded and killed in battle. But the suffering and waste of life,
apart from the combat, the sickness, the depreciation of vital force, the withering of constitutional
energy, and the mortality in camp and fortress, in barrack, tent, and hospital, have not usually
been the subjects of such careful observation, nor the grounds of fear to the soldier and of
anxiety to those who are interested in his safety. Consequently, until within the present century,
comparatively little attention has been given to the dangers that hang over the army out of
the battle-field, and but little provision has been made, by the combatants or their rulers,
to obviate or relieve them. No Government in former times, and few in later years, have taken
and published complete accounts of the diseases of their armies, and of the deaths that followed
in consequence. Some such records have been made and printed, but these are mostly fragmentary
and partial, and on the authority of individuals, officers, surgeons, scholars, and philanthropists.

It must not be forgotten that the army is originally composed of picked men, while the general
community includes not only the imperfect, diseased, and weak that belong to itself, but also
those who are rejected from the army. If, then, the conditions, circumstances, and habits of
both were equally favorable, there would be less sickness and a lower rate of mortality among
the soldiers than among men of the same ages at home. But if in the army there should be found
more sickness and death than in the community at home, or even an equal amount, it is manifestly
chargeable to the presence of more deteriorating and destructive influences in the military
than in civil life.

SICKNESS AND MORTALITY IN CIVIL LIFE.

The amount of sickness among the people at home is not generally recognized, still less is
it carefully measured and recorded. But the experience and calculations of the Friendly Societies
of Great Britain, and of other associations for Health-Assurance there and elsewhere, afford
sufficient data for determining the proportion of time lost in sickness by men of various ages.
These Friendly Societies are composed mainly of men of the working-classes, from which most
of the soldiers of the British army are drawn.

According to the calculations and tables of Mr. Ansel, in his work on "Friendly Societies,"
the men of the army-ages, from 20 to 40, in the working-classes, lose, on an average, five
days and six-tenths of a day by sickness in each year, which will make one and a half per cent,
of the males of this age and class constantly sick. Mr. Neison's calculations and tables, in
his "Contributions to Vital Statistics," make this average somewhat over seven days' yearly
sickness, and one and ninety-two hundredths of one per cent, constantly sick. These were the
bases of the rates adopted by the Health-Assurance companies in New England, and their experience
shows that the amount of sickness in these Northern States is about the same as, if not somewhat
greater than, that in Great Britain, among any definite number of men.

The rate of mortality is more easily ascertained, and is generally calculated and determined
in civilized nations. This rate, among all classes of males, between 20 and 40 years old, in
England and Wales, is .92 per cent.: that is, 92 will die out of 10,000 men of these ages,
on an average, in each year; but in the healthiest districts the rate is only 77 in 10,000.
The mortality among the males of Massachusetts, of the same ages, according to Mr. Elliott's
calculations, is 1.11 per cent, or 111 in 10,000. This maybe safely assumed as the rate of
mortality in all New England. That of the Southern States is somewhat greater.

These rates of sickness and death--one and a half or one and ninety-two hundredths per cent,
constantly sick, and seventy-seven to one hundred and eleven dying, in each year, among ten
thousand living--may be considered as the proportion of males, of the army-ages, that should
be constantly taken away from active labor and business by illness, and that should be annually
lost by death. Whether at home, amidst the usually favorable circumstances and the average
comforts, or in the army, under privation and exposure, men of these ages may be presumed to
be necessarily subject to this amount, at least, of loss of vital force and life. And these
rates may be adopted as the standard of comparison of the sanitary influences of civil and
military life.

SICKNESS AND MORTALITY OF THE ARMY IN PEACE.

Soldiers are subject to different influences and exposures, and their waste and loss of life
differ, in peace and war. In peace they are mostly stationary, at posts, forts, and in cantonments.
They generally live in barracks, with fixed habits and sufficient means of subsistence. They
have their regular supplies of food and clothing and labor, and are protected from the elements,
heat, cold, and storms. They are seldom or never subjected to privation or excessive fatigue.
But in war they are in the field, and sleep in tents which are generally too full and often
densely crowded. Sometimes they sleep in huts, and occasionally in the open air. They are liable
to exposures, hardships, and privations, to uncertain supplies of food and bad cookery.

The report of the commission appointed by the British Government to inquire into the sanitary
condition, of the army shows a remarkable and unexpected degree of mortality among the troops
stationed at home under the most favorable circumstances, as well as among those abroad. The
Foot-Guards are the very élite of the whole army; they are the most perfect of the faultless
in form and in health. They are the pets of the Government and the people. They are stationed
at London and Windsor, and lodged in magnificent barracks, apparently ample for their accommodation.
They are clothed and fed with extraordinary care, and are supposed to have every means of health.
And yet their record shows a sad difference between their rate of mortality and that of men
of the same ages in civil life. A similar excess of mortality was found to exist among all
the home-army, which includes many thousand soldiers, stationed in various towns and places
throughout the kingdom.

The following table exhibits the annual mortality in these classes.[5]

DEATHS IN 10,000. Age       Civilians   Foot-Guards   Home-Army

20 to 25      84          216          170 25 to 30      92          211          183 30 to
35     102          195          184 35 to 40     116          224          193

Through the fifteen years from 1839 to 1853 inclusive, the annual mortality of all the army,
excepting the artillery, engineers, and West India and colonial corps, was 330 among 10,000
living; while that among the same number of males of the army-ages, in all England and Wales,
was 92, and in the healthiest districts only 77.[6]

There is no official account at hand of the general mortality in the Russian army on the peace-establishment;
yet, according to Boudin, in one portion, consisting of 192,834 men, 144,352 had been sick,
and 7,541, or 38 per 1,000, died in one year.[7]

The Prussian army, with an average of 150,582 men, lost by death, during the ten years 1829
to 1838, 1,975 in each year, which is at the rate of 13 per 1,000 living.[8]

The mortality of the Piedmontese army, from 1834 to 1843 inclusive, was 158 in 10,000, while
that of the males at home was 92 in the same number living.

From 1775 to 1791, seventeen years, the mortality among the cavalry was 181, and among the
infantry 349, out of 10,000 living; but in the ten years from 1834 to 1843 these rates were
only 108 and 215.[9]

Colored troops are employed by the British Government in all their colonies and possessions
in tropical climates. The mortality of these soldiers is known, and also that of the colored
male civilians in the East Indies and in the West-India Islands and South-American Provinces.
In four of these, the rate of mortality is higher among the male slaves than among the colored
soldiers; but in all the others, this rate is higher in the army. In all the West-Indian and
South-American possessions of Great Britain, the average rate of deaths is 25 per cent, greater
among the black troops than among the black males of all ages on the plantations and in the
towns. The soldiers are of the healthier ages, 20 to 40, but the civilians include both the
young and the old: if these could be excluded, and the comparison made between soldiers and
laborers of the same ages, the difference in favor of civil pursuits would appear much greater.

Throughout the world, where the armies of Great Britain are stationed or serve, the death-rate
is greater among the troops than among civilians of the same races and ages, except among the
colored troops in Tobago, Montserrat, Antigua, and Granada in America, and among the Sepoys
in the East Indies.[10]

In the army of the United States, during the period from 1840 to 1854, not including the two
years of the Mexican War, there was an average of 9,278 men, or an aggregate of 120,622 years
of service, equal to so many men serving one year. Among these and during this period, there
were 342,107 cases of sickness reported by the surgeons, and 3,416 deaths from disease, showing
a rate of mortality of 2.83 per cent., or two and a half times as great as that among the males
of Massachusetts of the army-ages, and three times as great as that in England and Wales. The
attacks of sickness average almost three for each man in each year. This is manifestly more
than that which falls upon men of these ages at home.[11]

SICKNESS AND MORTALITY OF THE ARMY IN WAR.

Thus far the sickness and mortality of the army in time of peace only has been considered.
The experience of war tells a more painful story of the dangers of the men engaged in it. Sir
John Pringle states, that, in the British armies that were sent to the Low Countries and Germany,
in the years 1743 to 1747, a great amount of sickness and mortality prevailed. He says, that,
besides those who were suffering from wounds, "at some periods more than one-fifth of the army
were in the hospitals." "One regiment had over one-half of its men sick." "In July and August,
1743, one-half of the army had the dysentery." "In 1747, four battalions," of 715 men each,
"at South Beveland and Walcheren, both in field and in quarters, were so very sickly, that,
at the height of the epidemic, some of these corps had but one hundred men fit for duty; six-sevenths
of their numbers were sick."[12] "At the end of the campaign the Royal Battalion had but four
men who had not been ill." And "when these corps went into winter-quarters, their sick, in
proportion to their men fit for duty, were nearly as four to one."[13] In 1748, dysentery prevailed.
"In one regiment of 500 men, 150 were sick at the end of five weeks; 200 were sick after two
months; and at the end of the campaign, they had in all but thirty who had never been ill."
"In Johnson's regiment sometimes one-half were sick; and in the Scotch Fusileers 300 were ill
at one time."[14]

The British army in Egypt, in 1801, had from 103 to 261 and an average of 182 sick in each
thousand; and the French army had an average of 125 in 1,000, or one-eighth of the whole, on
the sick-list.[15]

In July, 1809, the British Government sent another army, of 39,219 men, to the Netherlands.
They were stationed at Walcheren, which was the principal seat of the sickness and suffering
of their predecessors, sixty or seventy years before. Fever and dysentery attacked this second
army as they had the first, and with a similar virulence and destructiveness. In two months
after landing,

Sept. 13, 7,626 were on the sick-list.
  "   19, 8,123     "    "
  "   21, 8,684     "    "
  "   23, 9,046     "    "

In ninety-seven days 12,867 were sent home sick; and on the 22d of October there were only
4,000 effective men left fit for duty out of this army of about 40,000 healthy men, who had
left England within less than four months. On the 1st of February of the next year, there were
11,513 on the sick-list, and 15,570 had been lost or disabled. Between January 1st and June
of the same year, (1810,) 36,500 were admitted to the hospitals, and 8,000, or more than 20
per cent., died, which is equal to an annual rate of 48 per cent, mortality.

The British army in Spain and Portugal suffered greatly through the Peninsular War, from 1808
to 1814. During the whole of that period, there was a constant average of 209 per 1,000 on
the sick-list, and the proportion was sometimes swelled to 330 per 1,000. Through the forty-one
months ending May 25th, 1814, with an average of 61,511 men, there was an average of 13,815
in the hospitals, which is 22.5 per cent.; of these only one-fifteenth, or 1.5 per cent. of
the whole army, were laid up on account of injuries in battle, and 21 per cent. were disabled
by diseases. From these causes 24,930 died, which is an annual average of 7,296, or a rate
of 11.8 per cent, mortality.[16]

No better authority can be adduced, for the condition of men engaged in the actual service
of war, than Lord Wellington. On the 14th of November, 1809, he wrote from his army in Spain
to Lord Liverpool, then at the head of the British Government,--"In all times and places the
sick-list of the army amounts to ten per cent of all."[17] He seemed to consider this the lowest
attainable rate of sickness, and he hoped to be able to reduce that of his own army to it:
this is more than five times as great as the rate of sickness among male civilians of the army-ages.
The sickness in Lord Wellington's army, at the moment of writing this despatch, was fifteen
per cent., or seven and a half times as great as that at home.

In the same Peninsular War, there was of the sick in the French army a constant average of
136 per 1,000 in Spain, and 146 per 1,000 in Portugal. Mr. Edmonds says, that, just before
the Battle of Talavera, the French army consisted of 275,000 men, of whom 61,000, or 22.2 per
cent., were sick.[18] Lord Wellington wrote, Sept. 19, 1809, that the French army of 225,000
men had 30,000 to 40,000 sick, which is 13.3 to 17.7 per cent. The French army in Portugal
had at one time 64 per 1,000, and at another 235 per 1,000, and an average of 146 per 1,000,
in the hospitals through the war.

The British army that fought the Battle of Waterloo, in 1815, had an average of 60,992 men,
through the campaign of four months, June to September; of these, there was an average of 7,909,
or 12.9 per cent., in the hospitals.[19]

The British legion that went to Spain in 1836 consisted of 7,000 men. Of these, 5,000, or 71
per cent., were admitted into the hospitals in three and a half months, and 1,223 died in six
months. This is equal to an annual rate of almost two and a half, 2.44, attacks for each man,
and of 34.9 per cent. mortality.[20]

"Of 115,000 Russians who invaded Turkey in 1828 and 1829, only 10,000 or 15,000 ever repassed
the Pruth. The rest died there of intermittent fevers, dysenteries, and plague." "From May,
1828, to February, 1829, 210,108 patients were admitted into the general and regimental hospitals."
"In October, 1828, 20,000 entered the general hospitals." "The sickness was very fatal." "More
than a quarter of the fever-patients died." "5,509 entered the hospitals, and of these, 3,959
died in August, 1829, and only 614 ultimately recovered." "At Brailow the plague attacked 1,200
and destroyed 774." "Dysentery was equally fatal." "In the march across the Balkan, 1,000 men
died of diarrhoea, fever, and scurvy." "In Bulgaria, during July, 37,000 men were taken sick."
"At Adrianople a vast barrack was taken for a hospital, and in three days 1,616 patients were
admitted. On the first of September there were 3,666, and on the 15th, 4,646 patients in the
house. This was one-quarter of all the disposable force at that station." "In October, 1,300
died of dysentery; and at the end of the month there were 4,700 in the hospitals." "In the
whole army the loss to the Russians in the year 1829 was at least 60,000 men."[21]

CRIMEAN WAR.

In 1854, twenty-five years after this fatal experience of the Russian army in Bulgaria, the
British Government sent an army to the same province, where the men were exposed to the same
diseases and suffered a similar depreciation of vital force in sickness and death. For two
years and more they struggled with these destructive influences in their own camps, in Bulgaria
and the Crimea, with the usual result of such exposures in waste of life. From April 10, 1854,
to June 30, 1856, 82,901 British soldiers were sent to the Black Sea and its coasts; and through
these twenty-six and two-thirds months the British army had an average of 34,559 men engaged
in that "War in the East" with Russia. From these there were furnished to the general and regimental,
the stationary and movable hospitals 218,952 cases: 24,084, or 11 per cent, of these patients
were wounded or injured in battle, and 194,868, or 89 per cent, suffered from the diseases
of the camp. This is equal to an annual average of two and a half attacks of sickness for each
man. The published reports give an analysis of only 162,123 of these cases of disease. Of these,
110,673, or 68 per cent., were of the zymotic class,--fevers, dysenteries, scurvy, etc., which
are generally supposed to be due to exposure and privation, and other causes which are subject
to human control. During the two years ending with March, 1856, 16,224 died of diseases, of
which 14,476 were of the zymotic or preventable class, 2,755 were killed in battle, and 2,019
died of wounds and injuries received in battle. The annual rate of mortality, from all diseases,
was 23 per cent; from zymotic diseases, 21 per cent.; from battle, 6.9 per cent. The rate of
sickness and mortality varied exceedingly in different months. In April, May, and June, 1854,
the deaths were at the annual rate of 8.7 per 1,000; in July, 159 per 1,000; in August and
September, 310 per 1,000; in December, this rate again rose and reached 679 per 1,000; and
in January, 1855, owing to the great exposures, hardships, and privations in the siege, and
the very imperfect means of sustenance and protection, the mortality increased to the enormous
rate of 1,142 per 1,000, so that, if it had continued unabated, it would have destroyed the
whole army in ten and a half months.[22]

AMERICAN ARMY, 1812 TO 1814.

We need not go abroad to find proofs of the waste of life in military camps. Our own army,
in the war with Great Britain in 1812-14, suffered, as the European armies have done, by sickness
and death, far beyond men in civil occupations. There are no comprehensive reports, published
by the Government, of the sanitary condition and history of the army on the Northern frontier
during that war. But the partial and fragmentary statements of Dr. Mann, in his "Medical Sketches,"
and the occasional and apparently incidental allusions to the diseases and deaths by the commanding
officers, in their letters and despatches to the Secretary of War, show that sickness was sometimes
fearfully prevalent and fatal among our soldiers. Dr. Mann says: "One regiment on the frontier,
at one time, counted 900 strong, but was reduced, by a total want of a good police, to less
than 200 fit for duty." "At one period more than 340 were in the hospitals, and, in addition
to this, a large number were reported sick in camp."[23] "The aggregate of the army at Fort
George and its dependencies was about 5,000. From an estimate of the number sick in the general
and regimental hospitals, it was my persuasion that but little more than half of the army was
capable of duty, at one period, during the summer months"[24] of 1813. "During the month of
August more than one-third of the soldiers were on the sick-reports."[25] Dr. Mann quotes Dr.
Lovell, another army-surgeon, who says, in the autumn of 1813: "A morning report, now before
me, gives 75 sick, out of a corps of 160. The several regiments of the army, in their reports,
exhibit a proportional number unfit for duty."[26] Dr. Mann states that "the troops at Burlington,
Vt., in the winter of 1812-13, did not number over 1,600, and the deaths did not exceed 200,
from the last of November to the last of February."[27] But Dr. Gallup says: "The whole number
of deaths is said to be not less than 700 to 800 in four months," and "the number of soldiers
stationed at this encampment [Burlington] was about 2,500 to 2,800."[28] According to Dr. Mann's
statement, the mortality was at the annual rate of 50 per cent.; and according to that of Dr.
Gallup, it was at the rate of 75 to 96 per cent. This is nearly equal to the severest mortality
in the Crimea.

General William H. Harrison, writing to the Secretary of War from the borders of Lake Erie,
Aug. 29, 1813, says: "You can form some estimate of the deadly effects of the immense body
of stagnant water with which the vicinity of the lake abounds, from the state of the troops
at Sandusky. Upwards of 90 are this morning reported sick, out of about 220." This is a rate
of over 40 per cent. "Those at Fort Meigs are not much better."[29]

General Wilkinson wrote from Fort George, Sept. 16, 1813: "We count, on paper, 4,600, and could
show 3,400 combatants"; that is, 25 per cent, and more are sick. "The enemy, from the best
information we have, have about 3,000 on paper, of whom 1,400," or 46.6 per cent., "are sick."[30]

MEXICAN WAR.

There was a similar waste of life among our troops in the Mexican War. There is no published
record of the number of the sick, nor of their diseases. But the letters of General Scott and
General Taylor to the Secretary of War show that the loss of effective force in our army was
at times very great by sickness in that war.

General Scott wrote:--

   "Puebla, July 25, 1847.

   "May 30, the number of sick here was 1,017, of effectives 5,820."

   "Since the arrival of General Pillow, we have effectives (rank and
   file) 8,061, sick 2,215, beside 87 officers under the latter
   head."[31]

Again:--

   "Mexico, Dec. 5,1847.

   "The force at Chapultepec fit for duty is only about 6,000, rank and
   file; the number of sick, exclusive of officers, being 2,041."[32]

According to these statements, the proportions of the sick were 17.4 to 27.4 and 24.7 per cent
of all in these corps at the times specified.

General Taylor wrote:--

   "Camp near Monterey, July 27,1847.

   "Great sickness and mortality have prevailed among the volunteer
   troops in front of Saltillo."[33]

August 10th, he said, that "nearly 23 per cent, of the force present was disabled by disease."

The official reports show only the number that died, but make no distinction as to causes of
death, except to separate the deaths from wounds received in battle from those from other causes.

During that war, 100,454 men were sent to Mexico from the United States. They were enlisted
for various periods, but served, on an average, thirteen months and one day each, making a
total of 109,104 years of military service rendered by our soldiers in that war. The total
loss of these men was 1,549 killed in battle or died of wounds, 10,986 died from diseases,
making 12,535 deaths. Besides these, 12,252 were discharged for disability. The mortality from
disease was almost equal to the annual rate of 11 per cent., which is about ten times as great
as that of men in ordinary civil life at home.

SICKNESS IN THE PRESENT UNION ARMY.

There are not as yet, and for a long time there cannot be, any full Government reports of the
amount and kind of sickness in the present army of the United States. But the excellent reports
of the inquiries of the Sanitary Commission give much important and trustworthy information
in respect to these matters. Most of the encampments of all the corps have been examined by
their inspectors; and their returns show, that the average number sick, during the seven months
ending with February last, was, among the troops who were recruited in New England 74.6, among
those from the Middle States 56.6, and, during six months ending with January, among those
from the Western States 104.3, in 1,000 men. From an examination of 217 regiments, during two
months ending the middle of February, the rate of sickness among the troops in the Eastern
Sanitary Department was 74, in the Central Department, Western Virginia and Ohio, 90, and in
the Western, 107, in 1,000 men. The average of all these regiments was 90 in 1,000. The highest
rate in Eastern Virginia was 281 per 1,000, in the Fifth Vermont; and the lowest, 9, in the
Seventh Massachusetts. In the Central Department the highest was 260, in the Forty-First Ohio;
and the lowest, 17, in the Sixth Ohio. In the Western Department the highest was 340, in the
Forty-Second Illinois; and the lowest, 15, in the Thirty-Sixth Illinois.

On the 22d of February, the number of men sick in each 1,000, in the several divisions of the
Army of the Potomac, was ascertained to be,--

|  Keyes's,               |   30.3   | |  Sedgwick's,            |   32.0   | |  Hooker's,
|   43.7   | |  McCall's               |   44.4   | |  Banks's,               |   45.0   |
|  Porter's,              |   46.4   | |  Blenker's,             |   47.7   | |  McDowell's,
|   48.2   | |  Heintzelman's          |   49.0   | |  Franklin's             |   54.1   |
|  Dix's,                 |   71.8   | |  United States Regulars,|   76.0   | |  Sumner's,
|   77.5   | |  Smiths's,              |   81.6   | |  Casey's                |   87.6[34]  |

Probably there has been more sickness in all the armies, as they have gone farther southward
and the warm season has advanced. This would naturally be expected, and the fear is strengthened
by the occasional reports in the newspapers. Still, taking the trustworthy reports herein given,
it is manifest that our Union army is one of the healthiest on record; and yet their rate of
sickness is from three to five times as great as that of civilians of their own ages at home.
Unquestionably, this better condition of our men is due to the better intelligence of the age
and of our people,--especially in respect to the dangers of the field and the necessity of
proper provision on the part of the Government and of self-care on the part of the men,--to
the wisdom, labors, and comprehensive watchfulness of the Sanitary Commission, and to the universal
sympathy of the men and women of the land, who have given their souls, their hands, and their
money to the work of lessening the discomforts and alleviating the sufferings of the Army of
Freedom.

OTHER LIGHTER AND UNRECORDED SICKNESS.

The records and reports of the sickness in the army do not include all the depreciations and
curtailments of life and strength among the soldiers, nor all the losses of effective force
which the Government suffers through them, on account of disease and debility. These records
contain, at best, only such ailments as are of sufficient importance to come under the observation
of the surgeon. But there are manifold lighter physical disturbances, which, though they neither
prostrate the patient, nor even cause him to go to the hospital, yet none the less certainly
unfit him for labor and duty. Of the regiment referred to by Dr. Mann, and already adduced
in this article, in which 700 were unable to attend to duty, 340 were in the hospital under
the surgeon's care, and 360 were ill in camp. It is probable that a similar, though smaller,
discrepancy often exists between the surgeon's records and the absentees from parades, guard-duty,
etc.

It is improbable, and even impossible, that complete records and reports should always be made
of all who are sick and unfit for duty, or even of all who come under the surgeon's care. Sir
John Hall, principal Medical Officer of the British army in the Crimea, says that there were
"218,952 admissions into hospital."[35] "The general return, showing the primary admissions
into the hospitals of the army in the East, from the 10th April, 1854, to the 30th June, 1856,
gives only 162,123 cases of all kinds."[36] But another Government Report states the admissions
to be 162,073.[37] Miss Nightingale says, "There was, at first, no system of registration for
general hospitals, for all were burdened with work beyond their strength."[38] Dr. Mann says,
that, in the War of 1812, "no sick-records were found in the hospital at Burlington," one of
the largest depositories of the sick then in the country. "The hospital-records on the Niagara
were under no order."[39] It could hardly have been otherwise. The regimental hospitals then,
as frequently must be the case in war, were merely extemporized shelters, not conveniences.
They were churches, houses, barns, shops, sheds, or any building that happened to be within
reach, or huts, cabins, or tents suddenly created for the purpose. In these all the surgeons'
time, energy, and resources were expended in making their patients comfortable, in defending
them from cold and storm, or from suffering in their crowded rooms or shanties. They were obliged
to devote all their strength to taking care of the present. They could take little account
of the past, and were often unable to make any record for the future. They could not do this
for those under their own immediate eye in the hospital; much less could they do it for those
who remained in their tents, and needed little or no medical attention, but only rest. Moreover,
the exposures and labors of the campaign sometimes diminish the number and force of the surgeons
as well as of the men, and reduce their strength at the very moment when the greatest demand
is made for their exertions. Dr. Mann says, "The sick in the hospital were between six and
seven hundred, and there were only three surgeons present for duty." "Of seven surgeons attached
to the hospital department, one died, three were absent by reason of indisposition, and the
other three were sick."[40] Fifty-four surgeons died in the Russian army in Turkey in the summer
of 1828. "At Brailow, the pestilence spared neither surgeons nor nurses."[41] Sir John Hall
says, "The medical officers got sick, a great number went away, and we were embarrassed." "Thirty
per cent. were sometimes sick and absent" from their posts in the Crimea.[42] Seventy surgeons
died in the French army in the same war. It is not reasonable, then, to suppose that all or
nearly all the cases of sickness, whether in hospital or in camp, can be recorded, especially
at times when they are the most abundant.

Nor do the cases of sickness of every sort, grave and light, recorded and unrecorded, include
all the depressions of vital energy and all the suspensions and loss of effective force in
the army. Whenever any general cause of depression weighs upon a body of men, as fatigue, cold,
storm, privation of food, or malaria, it vitiates the power of all, in various degrees and
with various results; the weak and susceptible are sickened, and all lose some force and are
less able to labor and attend to duty. No account is taken, none can be taken, of this discount
of the general force of the army; yet it is none the less a loss of strength, and an impediment
to the execution of the purposes of the Government.

INVALIDING.

The loss of force by death, by sickness in hospital and camp, and by temporary depression,
is not all that the army is subject to. Those who are laboring under consumption, asthma, epilepsy,
insanity, and other incurable disorders, and those whose constitutions are broken, or withered
and reduced below the standard of military requirement, are generally, and by some Governments
always, discharged. These pass back to the general community, where they finally die. By this
process the army is continually sifting out its worst lives, and at the same time it fills
their places with healthy recruits. It thus keeps up its average of health and diminishes its
rate of mortality; but the sum and the rates of sickness and mortality in the community are
both thereby increased.

During the Crimean War, 17.34 per cent, were invalided and sent home from the British army,
and 21 per cent, from the French army, as unable to do military service. By this means, 11,994[43]
British and 65,069[44] French soldiers were lost to their Governments. The army of the United
States, in the Mexican War, discharged and sent home 12,252 men, or 12 per cent, of the entire
number engaged in that war, on account of disability.

The causes of this exhaustion of personal force are manifold and various, and so generally
present that the number and proportion of those who are thus hopelessly reduced below the degree
of efficient military usefulness, in the British army, has been determined by observation,
and the Government calculates the rate of the loss which will happen in this way, at any period
of service. Out of 10,000 men enlisted in their twenty-first year, 718 will be invalided during
the first quinquennial period, or before they pass their twenty-fifth year, 539 in the second,
673 in the third, and 854 in the fourth,--making 2,784, or more than one-quarter of the whole,
discharged for disability or chronic ailment, before they complete their twenty years of military
service and their forty years of life.

It is further to be considered, that, during these twenty years, the numbers are diminishing
by death, and thus the ratio of enfeebled and invalided is increased. Out of 10,000 soldiers
who survive and remain in the army in each successive quinquennial period, 768 will be invalided
in the first, 680 in the second, 1,023 in the third, and 1,674 in the fourth. In the first
year the ratio is 181, in the fifth 129, in the tenth 165, in the fifteenth 276, and in the
twentieth 411, among 10,000 surviving and remaining.

The depressing and exhaustive force of military life on the soldiers is gradually accumulative,
or the power of resistance gradually wastes, from the beginning to the end of service. There
is an apparent exception to this law in the fact, that, in the British army, the ratio of those
who were invalided was 181 in 10,000, but diminished, in the second, third, and fourth years,
to 129 in the fifth and sixth, then again rose, through all the succeeding years, to 411 in
the twentieth. The experience of the British army, in this respect, is corroborated by that
of ours in the Mexican War. From the old standing army 502, from the additional force recently
enlisted 548, and from the volunteers 1,178, in 10,000 of each, were discharged on account
of disability. Some part of this great difference between the regulars and volunteers is doubtless
due to the well-known fact, that the latter were originally enlisted, in part at least, for
domestic trainings, and not for the actual service of war, and therefore were examined with
less scrutiny, and included more of the weaker constitutions.

The Sanitary Commission, after inspecting two hundred and seventeen regiments of the present
army of the United States, and comparing the several corps with each other in respect of health,
came to a similar conclusion. They found that the twenty-four regiments which had the least
sickness had been in service one hundred and forty days on an average, and the twenty-four
regiments which had the most sickness had been in the field only one hundred and eleven days.
The Actuary adds, in explanation,--"The difference between the sickness of the older and newer
regiments is probably attributable, in part, to the constant weeding out of the sickly by discharges
from the service. The fact is notorious, that medical inspection of recruits, on enlistment,
has been, as a rule, most imperfectly executed; and the city of Washington is constantly thronged
with invalids awaiting their discharge-papers, who at the time of their enlistment were physically
unfit for service."[45] In addition to this, it must be remembered, that, although all recruits
are apparently perfect in form and free from disease when they enter the army, yet there may
be differences in constitutional force, which cannot be detected by the most careful examiners.
Some have more and some have less power of endurance. But the military burden and the work
of war are arranged and determined for the strongest, and, of course, break down the weak,
who retire in disability or sink in death.

GENERAL VITAL DEPRESSION

Two causes of depression operate, to a considerable degree in peace and to a very great degree
in war, on the soldier, and reduce and sicken him more than the civilian. His vital force is
not so well sustained by never-failing supplies of nutritious and digestible food and regular
nightly sleep, and his powers are more exhausted in hardships and exposures, in excessive labors
and want of due rest and protection against cold and heat, storms and rains. Consequently the
army suffers mostly from diseases of depression,--those of the typhoid, adynamic, and scorbutic
types. McGrigor says, that, in the British army in the Peninsula, of 176,007 cases treated
and recorded by the surgeons, 68,894 were fevers, 23,203 diseases of the bowels, 12,167 ulcers,
and 4,027 diseases of the lungs.[46] In the British hospitals in the Crimean War, 39 per cent.
were cholera, dysentery, and diarrhoea, 19 per cent. fevers, 1.2 per cent. scurvy, 8 per cent.
diseases of the lungs, 8 per cent. diseases of the skin, 3.3 per cent. rheumatism, 2.5 per
cent. diseases of the brain and nervous system, 1.4 per cent. frost-bite or mortification produced
by low vitality and chills, 13, or one in 12,000, had sunstroke, 257 had the itch, and 68 per
cent. of all were of the zymotic class,[47] which are considered as principally due to privation,
exposure, and personal neglect. The deaths from these classes of causes were in a somewhat
similar proportion to the mortality from all stated causes,--being 58 per cent. from cholera,
dysentery, and diarrhoea, and 1 per cent. from all other disorders of the digestive organs,
19 per cent. from fevers, 3.6 per cent. from diseases of the lungs, 1.3 per cent. from rheumatism,
1.3 per cent. from diseases of the brain and nervous system, and 79 per cent. from those of
the zymotic class. The same classes of disease, with a much larger proportion of typhoid, pneumonia,
prostrated and destroyed many in the American army in the War of 1812.

In paper No. 40, p. 54, of the Sanitary Commission, is a report of the diseases that occurred
in forty-nine regiments, while under inspection about forty days each, between July and October,
1861. 27,526 cases were reported; of these 67 per cent. were zymotic, 41 per cent. diseases
of the digestive organs, 22 per cent. fevers 7 per cent. diseases of the lungs, 5 per cent.
diseases of the brain. Among males of the army-ages the proportions of deaths from these classes
of causes to those from all causes were, in Massachusetts, in 1859, zymotic 15 per cent., diseases
of digestive organs 3.6 per cent., of lungs 50 per cent., fevers 9 per cent., diseases of brain
4.6 per cent[48]. According to the mortality-statistics of the seventh census of the United
States, of the males between the ages of twenty and fifty, in Maryland, Virginia, North Carolina,
South Carolina, and Georgia, whose deaths in the year ending June 1st, 1850, and their causes,
were ascertained and reported by the marshals, 34.3 per cent. died of zymotic diseases, 8 per
cent. of all the diseases of the digestive organs, 30.8 per cent. of diseases of the respiratory
organs, 24.4 per cent. of fevers, and 5.7 per cent. of disorders of the brain and nervous system.
In England and Wales, in 1858, these proportions were, zymotic 14 per cent., fevers 8 per cent.,
diseases of digestive organs 7.9 per cent., of lungs 8 per cent., and of the brain 7 per cent[49].

If, however, we analyze the returns of mortality in civil life, and distinguish those of the
poor and neglected dwellers in the crowded and filthy lanes and alleys of cities, whose animal
forces are not well developed, or are reduced by insufficient and uncertain nutrition, by poor
food or bad cookery, by foul air within and stenchy atmosphere without, by imperfect protection
of house and clothing, we shall find the same diseases there as in the army. Wherever the vital
forces are depressed, there these diseases of low vitality happen most frequently and are most
fatal.

Volumes of other facts and statements might be quoted to show that military service is exhaustive
of vital force more than the pursuits of civil life. It is so even in time of peace, and it
is remarkably so in time of war. Comparing the English statements of the mortality in the army
with the calculations of the expectation of life in the general community, the difference is
at once manifest.

Of 10,000 men at the age of twenty, there will die before they complete their fortieth year,--

British army in time of peace,         3,058 England and Wales, English Life-Table, 1,853 According
to tables of Amicable and Equitable Life-Insurance Companies,    1,972 New England and New
York, according to the tables of the New-England Mutual Life-Insurance Company,         1,721

DANGERS IN LAND-BATTLES.

This large amount of disease and mortality in the army arises not from the battle-field, but
belongs to the camp, the tent, the barrack, the cantonment; and it is as certain, though not
so great, in time of peace, when no harm is inflicted by the instruments of destruction, as
in time of war. The battle, which is the world's terror, is comparatively harmless. The official
histories of the deadly struggles of armies show that they are not so wasteful of life as is
generally supposed. Mr. William Barwick Hodge examined the records and despatches in the War-Office
in London, and from these and other sources prepared an exceedingly valuable and instructive
paper on "The Mortality arising from Military Operations," which was read before the London
Statistical Society, and printed in the nineteenth volume of the Society's journal. Some of
the tables will be as interesting to Americans as to Englishmen. On the following page is a
tabular view, taken from this work, of the casualties in nineteen battles fought by the British
armies with those of other nations.

TABLE 1.--NINETEEN LAND-BATTLES.
                                                           BRITISH
                                                         Casualties
                                                       Killed in battle
                                               Officers ---------------
                                                and men        Per 1000
         Date.                 Battles.         engaged Number  engaged
------------------------   --------------------  ------  ----   ----
1801, March 21, . . . . .  Alexandria . . . . .  14,000   243     17.3
1806, July 4, . . . . . .  Maida  . . . . . . .  5,675     45      7.9
1808, August 21,  . . . .  Vimiciro . . . . . .  19,200   135      7.
1809, January 16, . . . .  Corunna  . . . . . .  16,700   158      9.4
 "    July 28,  . . . . .  Talavera . . . . . .  22,100   801      3.6
1810, September . . . . .  Busaco . . . . . . .  27,800   106      3.9
1811, March 5,  . . . . .  Barrosa  . . . . . .   5,230   202     38.6
 "    May 5,  . . . . . .  Fuentes de Onore . .  22,900   170      7.4
 "     "  16, . . . . . .  Albuera  . . . . . .   9,000   882     98.
1812, July 22,  . . . . .  Salamanca  . . . . .  30,500   388     12.7
1813, June 21,  . . . . .  Vittoria . . . . . .  42,000   501     11.9
 "    July 25 to August 2  Pyrenees . . . . . .  30,000   559     18.6
 "    November 10,  . . .  Nivelle  . . . . . .  47,600   277      5.7
1814, February 27,  . . .  Orthés . . . . . . .  27,000   210      7.7
 "    April 10, . . . . .  Toulouse . . . . . .  26,800   312     11.6
1815, January 8,  . . . .  New Orleans  . . . .   6,000   386     64.3
 "    June 16-18, . . . .  Waterloo . . . . . .  49,900 2,126     42.6
1854, September 20, . . .  Alma . . . . . . . .  26,800   353     13.1
 "    November 5, . . . .  Inkerman . . . . . .   9,000   632     70.2
                                                -------  -----    ----
                                                438,205  8,486    19.3
Estimated deaths among the wounded  . . . . . .          4,894
Estimated casualties among the missing  . . . .          1,137
                                                         -----
Total                                                   14,517    33.1

TABLE 1.--NINETEEN LAND-BATTLES. (cont.)

BRITISH. (cont.)
                                         Deaths in battle
                    Casualties (cont.)   from wounds, and
                          Wounded        among the missing.
                      Number. Per 1000   Number. Per 1000
    Battles.                  engaged            engaged
--------------------   -----  -----      -----   -----
Alexandria . . . . .   1,193   85.2        393    28.1
Maida  . . . . . . .     282   49.1         87    15.3
Vimiciro . . . . . .     534   27.7        215    11.2
Corunna  . . . . . .     634   37.9        257    15.4
Talavera . . . . . .   3,913   17.7      1,455    65.8
Busaco . . . . . . .     500   18.         183     6.6
Barrosa  . . . . . .   1,040  198.8        360    68.8
Fuentes de Onore . .   1,043   45.5        379    16.6
Albuera  . . . . . .   2,672  296.6      1,358   151.
Salamanca  . . . . .   2,714   89.         770    25.2
Vittoria . . . . . .   2,807   66.8        890    21.2
Pyrenees . . . . . .   3,693  123.1      1,197    39.9
Nivelle  . . . . . .   1,777   37.3        675    14.2
Orthés . . . . . . .   1,411   52.2        404    15.
Toulouse . . . . . .   1,795   66.9        582    21.7
New Orleans  . . . .   1,516  252.6        625   104.2
Waterloo . . . . . .   8,140  163.1      3,245    65.
Alma . . . . . . . .   1,619   60.4        559    20.9
Inkerman . . . . . .   1,878  208.6        883    98.1
                       -----  -----      -----   -----
                      39,161   89.3     14,517    33.

Total                          91.9

TABLE 1.--NINETEEN LAND-BATTLES. (cont.)

                        BRITISH AND ALLIES.
                      Officers  Casualties.
                      and men
    Battles.          engaged.  Number. Per 1000
--------------------
Alexandria . . . . .
Maida  . . . . . . .
Vimiciro . . . . . .
Corunna  . . . . . .
Talavera . . . . . .   56,000   6,268    112
Busaco . . . . . . .   57,000   1,300     23
Barrosa  . . . . . .   14,500   1,610    111
Fuentes de Onore . .   35,200   1,469     42
Albuera  . . . . . .   37,000   6,500    176
Salamanca  . . . . .   54,200   4,964     92
Vittoria . . . . . .   95,800   4,829     50
Pyrenees . . . . . .   65,000   6,540    101
Nivelle  . . . . . .   90,600   2,621     29
Orthés . . . . . . .   43,600   2,200     50
Toulouse . . . . . .   54,400   4,641     85
New Orleans  . . . .
Waterloo . . . . . .  230,600  36,590    159
Alma . . . . . . . .   55,000   3,545     64
Inkerman . . . . . .
                      -------  ------    ---
                      888,900  83,077     92
Estimated casualties
among the missing  . . . .      3,787
                               ------
                               86,864     98

Of those who were engaged in these nineteen battles one in 51.6, or 1.93 per cent., were killed.
The deaths in consequence of the battles, including both those who died of wounds and those
that died among the missing, were one in 30, or 3.3 per cent. of all who were in the fight.
It is worth noticing here, that the British loss in the Battle of New Orleans was larger than
in any other battle here adduced, except in that of Albuera, in Spain, with the French, in 1811.

In the British army, from 1793 to 1815, including twenty-one years of war, and excluding 1802,
the year of peace, the number of officers varied from 3,576 in the first year to 13,248 in
1813, and the men varied from 74,500 in 1793 to 276,000 in 1813, making an annual average of
9,078 officers and 189,200 men, and equal to 199,727 officers and 4,168,500 men serving one
year. During these twenty-one years of war, among the officers 920 were killed and 4,685 were
wounded, and among the men 15,392 were killed and 65,393 were wounded. This is an annual average
of deaths from battle of 460 officers and 369 men, and of wounded 2,340 officers and 1,580
men, among 100,000 of each class. Of the officers less than half of one per cent., or 1 in
217, were killed, and a little more than two per cent., or 1 in 42, were wounded; and among
the men a little more than a third of one per cent., 1 in 271, were killed, and one and a half
per cent., 1 in 63, wounded, in each year. The comparative danger to the two is, of death,
46 officers to 37 men, and of wounds, 234 officers to 158 men. A larger proportion of the officers
than of the soldiers were killed and wounded; yet a larger proportion of the wounded officers
recovered. This is attributed to the fact that the officers were injured by rifle-balls, being
picked out by the marksmen, while the soldiers were injured by cannon- and musket-balls and
shells, which inflict more deadly injuries.

DANGERS IN NAVAL BATTLES.

It may not be out of place here to show the dangers of naval warfare, which are discussed at
length by Mr. Hodge, in a very elaborate paper in the eighteenth volume of the Statistical
Society's journal. From one of his tables, containing a condensed statistical history of the
English navy, through the wars with France, 1792-1815, the following facts are gathered.

During those wars, the British Parliament, in its several annual grants, voted 2,527,390 men
for the navy. But the number actually in the service is estimated not to have exceeded 2,424,000
in all, or a constant average force of 110,180 men. Within this time these men fought five
hundred and seventy-six naval battles, and they were exposed to storms, to shipwreck, and to
fire, in every sea. In all these exposures, the records show that the loss of life was less
than was suffered by the soldiers on the land. There were--

Killed in battle, officers, .    .    .    346
 "         "       men,    .    .    .   4,441
                                        ------
                                Total,   4,787
Wounded, officers,     .    .    .    .    935
   "     men,         .    .    .    .  13,335
                                        ------
                               Total,   14,270
Drowned and otherwise destroyed in
 battle,     .    .    .    .    .    .    449
Estimated deaths among the wounded,      1,427

Total destroyed by battle,  .    .    .  6,663 Lost by shipwreck, accidental drowning

  and by fire,    .    .    .    .    . 13,621
Total deaths, from other causes than
  disease,   .    .    .    .    .    . 20,284

Comparing the whole number of men in the naval service, during this period, with the mortality
from causes incidental to the service, the average annual loss was--

Killed in battle,   .    .    .    .   one in 506, or .197 per cent.
Drowned and lost in battle, and died
  of wounds    .    .    .    .    .   one in 1,292, or .077 per cent.
Wounded,       .    .    .    .    .   one in 169, or .588 per cent.
Drowned and lost by shipwreck, fire,
  etc., otherwise than by battle,  .   one in 178, or .561 per cent.
Total annual loss by battle and the
  special dangers of the sea, .    .   one in 119, or .836 per cent.

TABLE II.--BATTLES BETWEEN FLEETS OR SQUADRONS
                        BRITISH.
                                             Guns
Date.                Place.       Ships.  Broadside.   Men.
1782, April 12,    West Indies      36     1,315     21,608
1794, June 1,      English Channel  26     1,087     17,241
1795, March 14,    Genoa            14       557      8,810
1797, February 14, Cape St. Vincent 15       620      9,508
 "    October 11,  Camperdown       16       575      8,221
1798, August 1,    Nile             14       507      7,985
1801, July 12,     Algeziras         5       188      3,100
1805, July 22,     Cape Finisterre  15       596     10,500
 "    October 21,  Trafalgar        27     1,074     16,826
 "    November 4,  Bay of Biscay     9       262      4,186
1806, February 6,  San Domingo       7       257      4,094
1811, March 12,    Lissa             4        59        886
 "    May 20,      Madagascar        4        73        903
                                   ---     -----    -------
                                   192     7,170    113,863

TABLE II.--BATTLES BETWEEN FLEETS OR SQUADRONS (cont.)
                          BRITISH.                ENEMY.
                   Killed.         Wounded.
              Number. Per 1000. Number. Per 1000.
West Indies       250    11      810     37       French.
English Channel   290    16      858     47        do.
Genoa              71     8      266     30        do.
Cape St. Vincent   73     7      227     29       Spanish.
Camperdown        203    24      622     75       Dutch.
Nile              218    27      678     84       French.
Algeziras          18     6      102     33       French and Spanish.
Cape Finisterre    39     3      159     15        do.
Trafalgar         449    26     1241     73        do.
Bay of Biscay      24     5      111     26       French.
San Domingo        74     1.8    264     64        do.
Lissa              44    49      144    162       French and Italian.
Madagascar         25    27       89     98       French.
                 ----    ----   ----    -----
                 1778    15.6   5571     48.9

TABLE III.--BATTLES BETWEEN BRITISH AND AMERICAN SHIPS.
                               BRITISH.           Loss.
                                   Guns
                 Duration         broad-
Date.           of action. Ship.   side. Men. Killed. Wounded. Casualties.
                                                            Number.  Per
                   H.  M.                                            1000.

1812, August. 19,  1  55 Guerrière   24   244    15    63      78     320
  " September 17,     43 Frolic       9    92    15    47      62     674
  " October 25,    2  40 Macedonian  24   254    31    64      95     374
  " December 20,   3     Java        24   379    22   102     124     379
1813, February 14,    25 Peacock      9   110     4    33      37     336
  " June 1,           15 Shannon     25   306    24    59      83     271
  " August 12,        45 Pelican      9   101     2     5       7      69
1814, August 27,      45 Reindeer     9    98    25    41      66     673
1815, January 15,  5  58 Endymion    24   319    11    14      25      78
                                    --- -----   ---   ---     ---     ---
                                    157 1,903   149   428     577     303

TABLE III.--BATTLES BETWEEN BRITISH AND AMERICAN SHIPS. (cont.)
                                        AMERICAN.
                                  Guns.
                       Ship.    Broadside. Men.  Killed and wounded.
                                                 Number. Per 1000.
1812, August. 19,     Constitution  28      460     20      43
  " September 17,     Wasp           9      135     16     119
  " October 25,       United States 28      474      6      13
  " December 20,      Constitution  28      480     34      71
1813, February 14,    Hornet        10      162      5      31
  " June 1,           Chesapeake    25      376    146     389
  " August 12,        Argus         10      122     24     397
1814, August 27,      Wasp          11      173     26     150
1815, January 15,     President     28      465    105     226
                                   ---    -----    ---     ---
                                   177    2,847    382     133

Mr. Hodge's second table shows the conditions and casualties of thirteen battles between fleets
and squadrons. This is condensed and quoted on the preceding page.

His third table includes thirty-five actions with single ships on each side, between the years
1793 and 1815. 8,542 men were engaged, and 483, or 56.5 per 1,000, were killed, and 1,230,
or 144 per 1,000, wounded.

Twenty-six of these actions were with French ships, which are here omitted, and nine with American
ships, which are shown in the second table on the preceding page.

There is a very remarkable difference in the loss which the British suffered in naval and in
land battles:--

No. of    Vessels.              Killed.   Wounded. Battles                         One in 
One in 13        Fleets..............  64.0      20.4 35        Single ships........  17.7
6.9 28        French single ships.  19.8      10.6 9         American do. do.  ..  12.7   
4.4 19        Land battles........  30.0      11.0

The danger both of wounds and death in these contests was three times as great in the single
ships as in fleets, and about five times as great in battles with the Americans as in fleet-battles
with other nations. The dangers in fleet-battles were about half as great as those in land-battles,
and these were but little more than half as great as those in fights with single ships.

COMPARATIVE DANGER OF CAMP AND BATTLE-FIELD.

These records of land-battles show that the dangers from that cause are not very great; probably
they are less than the world imagines; certainly they are much less than those of the camp.
Of the 176,007 admitted into the regimental hospitals during the Peninsular War, only 20,886
were from wounds, the rest from diseases; fourteen-fifteenths of the burden on the hospitals
in that war, through forty-two months, were diseased patients, and only one-fifteenth were
wounded. In the Crimean War, 11.2 per cent. in the hospitals suffered from injuries in battle,
and 88.8 per cent. from other causes. 10 per cent. of the French patients in the same war were
wounded, and 90 per cent. had fevers, etc. In the autumn of 1814, there were 815 patients in
the great military hospital at Burlington, Vermont. Of these 50 were wounded, and the rest
had the diseases of the camp.

In the Crimean War, 16,296 died from disease, and 4,774 from injuries received in battle. In
the Peninsular War, 25,304 died of disease, and 9,450 from wounds.

During eighteen years, 1840 to 1857, 19,504 were discharged from the home, and 21,325 from
the foreign stations of the British army. Of these, 541, or 2.7 per cent. of those at home,
and 3,708, or 17.3 per cent. abroad, were on account of wounds and fractures, and the others
on account of disease, debility, and exhaustion.

NATIONS DO NOT LEARN FROM EXPERIENCE TO PREPARE FOR ARMY-SICKNESS.

Nations, when they go to war, prepare to inflict injury and death on their opponents, and make
up their minds to receive the same in return; but they seem neither to look nor to prepare
for sickness and death in their camps. And when these come upon their armies, they seem either
to shut their eyes to the facts, or submit to the loss as to a disturbance in Nature, a storm,
a drought, or an earthquake, which they can neither prevent nor provide for, and for which
they feel no responsibility, but only hope that it will not happen again. Nevertheless, this
waste of life has followed every army which has been made to violate the laws of health, in
privations, exposures, and hardships, and whose internal history is known. The experience of
such disastrous campaigns ought to induce Governments to inquire into the causes of the suffering
and loss, and to learn whether they are not engaged in a struggle against Nature, in which
they must certainly fail, and endeavoring to make the human body bear burdens and labors which
are beyond its strength. But Governments are slow to learn, especially sanitary lessons. The
British army suffered and died in great numbers at Walcheren and South Beveland, in the middle
of the last century. Pringle described the sad condition of those troops, and warned his nation
against a similar exposure; yet, sixty years later, the Ministry sent another army to the same
place, to sink under the malarious influences and diseases in the same way. The English troops
at Jamaica were stationed in the low grounds, where, "for many generations," "the average annual
mortality was 13 per cent." "A recommendation for their removal from the plains to the mountains
was made so far back as 1791. Numerous reports were sent to the Government, advising that a
higher situation should be selected"; but it was not until 1837, after nearly half a century
of experience and warning, that the Ministry opened their eyes to this cost of life and money
in excessive sickness and mortality, and then removed the garrison to Maroontown, where the
death-rate fell to 2 per cent., or less than one-sixth of what it had been[50].

The American army, in the war with Great Britain fifty years ago, suffered from the want of
proper provision for their necessities and comfort, from exposures and hardships, so that sometimes
half its force was unavailable; yet, at the present moment, a monstrous army is collected and
sent to the field, under the same regulations, and with the same idea of man's indefinite power
of endurance, and the responsibility and superintendence of their health is left, in large
measure, to an accidental and outside body of men, the Sanitary Commission, which, although
an institution of great heart and energy, and supported by the sympathies and cooperation of
the whole people, is yet doing a work that ought to be done by the Government, and carrying
out a plan of operations that should be inseparably associated with the original creation of
the army and the whole management of the war.

CRIMEAN WAR.

The lesson which the experience of the Russian army of 1828 and 1829 taught the world of the
mortal dangers of Bulgaria was lost on the British Government, which sent its own troops there
in 1854, to be exposed to, and wither before, the same destructive influences. But at length
sickness prevailed to such an extent, and death made such havoc, in the army in the East, that
England's great sympathies were roused, and the Ministers' attention was drawn to the irresistible
fact, that the strongest of Britain's soldiers were passing rapidly from the camp to the hospital,
and from the hospital to the grave. Then a doubt occurred to the minds of the men in power,
whether all was right in the Crimea, and whether something might not be done for the sanitary
salvation of the army. They sent a commission, consisting of Dr. John Sutherland, one of the
ablest sanitarians of the kingdom, Dr. Hector Gavin, and Robert Rawlinson, civil engineer,
to the Black Sea, to inquire into the state of things there, to search out the causes of the
sufferings of the army, and see if there might not be a remedy found and applied. At the same
time, Miss Nightingale and a large corps of assistants, attendants, and nurses, women of station
and culture and women of hire, went to that terrible scene of misery and death, to aid in any
measures that might be devised to alleviate the condition of the men. Great abuses and negligence
were found; and the causes of disease were manifest, manifold, and needless. But a reform was
at once instituted; great changes were made in the general management of the camp and hospitals
and in the condition of the soldiers. Disease began to diminish, the progress of mortality
was arrested, and in the course of a few months the rate of death was as low as among men of
the same ages at home.

This commission made a full report, when they returned, and described the state of things they
found in the Crimea and on the shores of the Black Sea,--the camps, barracks, huts, tents,
food, manner of life, and general sanitary condition of the troops, their terrible sufferings,
and the means and ways of caring for the sick, the measures of reform which they had proposed
and carried out, and their effects on the health of the men. This report was published by the
Government.

Besides this commission, the Government sent Dr. Lyons, a surgeon and pathologist of great
learning and acumen, to investigate the pathology or morbid condition of the army. According
to his instructions, he spent four months in the Crimea and at the great hospitals on the Bosphorus.
He examined and traced the course of disease and disturbance in the sick and wounded. He made
very many thorough examinations after death, in order to determine the effects of vitiating
influences upon the organization, and the condition of the textures and organs of the body
in connection with the several kinds of disorders. Dr. Lyons's extremely instructive report
was published by national authority as one of the Parliamentary folio volumes. After the war
was over, Dr. W. Hanbury and Staff-Surgeon Matthew, under the direction of the Secretary of
War, gathered, analyzed, and prepared the records of all the surgeons of the several corps
of the Crimean army. To these they added a long and valuable treatise on the nature and character
of the diseases, and their connection with the condition and habits of the men. These are published
in two very thick folio volumes, and give a minute and almost daily history of the life, labors,
exposures, privations, sufferings, sickness, and mortality of each regiment. These two works,
of Dr. Lyons and Drs. Hanbury and Matthew, show the inseparable connection between the manner
of living and the health, and demonstrate that the severe life of war, with its diminished
creation of vital force, by imperfect and uncertain nutrition and excessive expenditure in
exposures and labors, necessarily breaks down the constitution. It subjects the body to more
abundant disorders, and especially to those of the depressive, adynamic type, which, from the
want of the usual recuperative power, are more fatal than the diseases of civil life. These
works may be considered generic as well as specific. They apply to and describe the sanitary
condition and the pathological history of all armies engaged in hard and severe campaigns,
as well as those of the Crimea. They should, therefore, be read by every Government that engages
in or is forced into any war. They should be distributed to and thoroughly understood by every
commander who directs the army, and every surgeon who superintends the sanitary condition of,
and manages the sickness among, the men; and happy will it be for those soldiers whose military
and sanitary directors avail themselves of the instructions contained in these volumes.

There are several other works on the Crimean War, by surgeons and other officers, written mainly
to give a knowledge of the general facts of those campaigns, but all incidentally corroborating
and explaining the statements in the Government Reports, in respect to the health and sufferings
of the British and French armies. In this view, Dr. Bryce's book, "England and France before
Sebastopol," and M. Baudens's and M. Scrive's medical works in French, are worthy of great
attention and confidence.

The most important and valuable work, in this connection, is the Report of the British Commission
appointed in May, 1854, "to inquire into the regulations affecting the sanitary condition of
the British army, the organization of the military hospitals, and the treatment of the sick
and wounded." This commission included some of the ablest and most learned physicians and surgeons
in the civil and military service, some of the most accomplished statisticians, sanitarians,
army-officers, and statesmen in the United Kingdom. They were authorized to inquire into the
habits and duties, the moral and sanitary condition of the army, the amount and kinds of sickness,
the causes and frequency of death, and the means of improvement. This commission sat for a
long time in London. They called before them fifty-three witnesses, among whom were Sir Benjamin
Brodie, the leading surgeon of England, Dr. Andrew Smith, Director-General of the Medical Department
of the Army, Thomas Alexander, Inspector-General of Hospitals, Major-General Airey, Quartermaster-General,
Dr. John Sutherland, late Crimean Commissioner, and one of the leading authorities of Great
Britain in all sanitary matters, Dr. William Fair, the chief and master-spirit of the Registry-Office,
and the highest authority in vital statistics, Colonel Sir Alexander Tulloch, author of the
elaborate and valuable reports on the mortality in the British army, Francis G. P. Neison,
author of "Contributions to Vital Statistics," Miss Nightingale, and others, surgeons, officers,
purveyors, engineers, soldiers, and medical and sanitary scholars.

The commission put forth 10,070 interrogatories relating to everything connected with the army,
the persons and the matériel, to officers, surgeons, physicians, health-officers, soldiers,
nurses, cooks, clothing, food, cooking, barracks, tents, huts, hospitals, duties, labors, exposures,
and privations, and their effects on health and life, in every climate, wherever British troops
are stationed or serve, at home and abroad. The same inquiry was extended to the armies of
other nations, French, Turkish, Russian, etc. To these questions the witnesses returned answers,
and statements of facts and opinions, all carefully prepared, and some of great length, and
elaborate calculations in respect to the whole military and sanitary science and practice of
the age. A large part of the inquiry was directed to the Crimean army, whose condition had
been, and was then, a matter of the most intense interest. Many of the witnesses had, in various
ways, been connected with that war: they were familiar with its history, and their answers
revealed much that had not before been known. The result of all this investigation is published
in a folio volume of 607 pages, filled with facts and principles, the lamentable history of
the past, painful descriptions of the present, and wise suggestions for the future management
of the army; and the whole is worthy of the careful attention of all who, as projectors, leaders,
or followers, have anything to do with the active operations of war.

The Crimean War has this remarkable interest, not that the suffering of the troops and their
depreciation in effective power were greater than in many other wars, but that these happened
in an age when the intelligence and philanthropy, and even the policy of the nation, demanded
to know whether the vital depression and the loss of martial strength were as great as rumor
reported, whether these were the necessary condition of war, and whether anything could be
done to lessen them. By the investigations and reports of commissions, officers, and others,
the internal history of this war is more completely revealed and better known than that of
any other on record. It is placed on a hill, in the sight of all nations and governments, for
their observation and warning, to be faithful to the laws of health in providing for, and in
the use of, their armies, if they would obtain the most efficient service from them.

WANT OF SANITARY PREPARATIONS FOR WAR.

There are, and have been, faults--grievous, destructive, and costly faults--in all connected
with armies, from the Governments at the head, down through all grades of officers, to the
men in the ranks: they are faults of theory and faults of practice,--of plan in those who direct,
and of self-management in those whose whole duty is to obey. The root of this is the failure
to fully understand and count the cost, and to prepare to meet it as men generally do in the
management of their common affairs. In civil life, when prudent men intend to effect any purpose
by the aid of motive power, whether of water, steam, horse, or other kind, they carefully consider
the means of generating that power, and the best and safest ways of applying and expending
it. They include this in their plans, and make provision accordingly. Precisely determining
the extent of the purpose they design to effect, and the amount of force that is and will be
needed, they make their arrangements to provide or generate and maintain so much as long as
they intend to do the work. During the whole process, they carefully guard and treasure it
up and allow none to be wasted or applied to any other than the appointed purpose. But in the
use and management of the vital machines, the human bodies, by which the purposes of war are
to be accomplished, nations are less wise. There are few, perhaps no records of any Government,
which, in creating, maintaining and operating with an army, has, at and during the same time,
created and established the never-failing means of keeping the machinery of war in the best
working order, by sustaining the health and force of the men in unfailing fulness.

War is carried on by a partnership between the Government and soldiers, to which the Government
contributes money and directing skill, and assumes the responsibility of management, and the
soldiers contribute their vital force. In the operation of this joint concern, both the money
of the nation and the lives of the men are put at risk. Although, by the terms of the contract,
the Government is presumed to expend its money and the soldiers' vital force to the extent
that may be necessary to effect the objects of the association, it has no right to do this
for any other purpose or on any other condition. It may send the men to battle, where they
may lose in wounds or in death a part or all that they have contributed; but it has no right,
by any negligence or folly on its own part or in its agents, to expend any of the soldiers'
health or strength in hunger, nakedness, foul air, miasma, or disease. There is a received
glory attached to wounds, and even to death, received in a struggle with the enemies of one's
country, and this is offered as a part of the compensation to the warrior for the risk that
he runs; but there is no glory in sickness or death from typhus, cholera, or dysentery, and
no compensation of this kind comes to those who suffer or perish from these, in camp or military
hospital.

DIFFERENCE BETWEEN CIVIL AND MILITARY LIFE.

Military life, with the labors, exposures, and circumstances of war, differs widely from civil
life. The social and domestic machinery of home spontaneously brings within the reach of families
the things that are needful for their sustenance, comfortable for their enjoyment, and favorable
to their health. But this self-acting machinery follows not the soldier through his campaigns.
Everything he needs or enjoys is to be a matter of special thought, and obtained with a special
effort and often with difficulty. Much that was very comfortable and salutary in civil life
must be given up in the camp. The government is the purveyor for and the manager of the army;
it undertakes to provide and care for, to sustain and nourish the men. But, with all its wisdom,
power, and means, it is not equal to the thousand or thousands of housekeepers that cared and
provided for these men when at home; and certainly it does not, and probably cannot, perform
these domestic offices as well and as profitably for the soldiers as their natural providers
did. Nevertheless, the Government is the sole provider for the army, and assumes the main responsibility
of the physical condition of its members.

Starting with the very common belief that the human body has an indefinite power of endurance,
or, if it suffer from disease, or fall in death, it is from causes beyond man's control,--seeing,
also, that it is impossible to carry the common means of sustaining life into the camp, Governments
seem willing to try the experiment of requiring their men to do the hard work of war without
a certain, full supply of sustenance. They expect from the army the largest expenditure of
force, but sometimes give it the smallest means and poorest conditions of recuperating it.

The business of war is not constant and permanent, like the pursuits of peace. It therefore
comes to most managers as a new and unfamiliar work, to which they can bring little or no acquaintance
from experience. They enter upon untried ground with imperfect knowledge of its responsibilities
and dangers, and inadequate conceptions of the materials and powers with which they are to
operate. They therefore make many and some very grave mistakes, every one of which, in its
due proportion, is doubly paid for in drafts on the nation's treasury and on the soldiers'
vital capital, neither of which is ever dishonored.

Military life is equally new to the soldier, for which none of his previous education or experience
has fitted him. He has had his mother, wife, sister, or other housekeeper, trained and appointed
for the purpose, to look after his nutrition, his clothing, his personal comfort, and, consequently,
his health. These do not come without thought and labor. The domestic administration of the
household and the care of its members require as much talent, intelligence, and discipline
as any of the ordinary occupations of men. Throughout the civilized world, this responsibility
and the labor necessary for its fulfilment absorb a large portion of the mental and physical
power of women.

When the new recruit enters the army, he leaves all this care and protection behind, but finds
no substitute, no compensation for his loss in his new position. The Government supposes either
that this is all unnecessary, or that the man in arms has an inspired capacity or an instinctive
aptitude for self-care as well as for labor, and that he can generate and sustain physical
force as well as expend it. But he is no more fitted for this, by his previous training and
habits, than his mother and wife are for making shoes or building houses by theirs. Nevertheless
he is thrown upon his own resources to do what he may for himself. The army-regulations of
the United States say, "Soldiers are expected to preserve, distribute, and cook their own subsistence";
and most other Governments require the same of their men. Washing, mending, sweeping, all manner
of cleansing, arrangement and care of whatever pertains to clothing and housekeeping, come
under the same law of prescription or necessity. The soldier must do these things, or they
will be left undone. He who has never arranged, cared for, or cooked his own or any other food,
who has never washed, mended, or swept, is expected to understand and required to do these
for himself, or suffer the consequences of neglect.

The want of knowledge and training for these purposes makes the soldier a bad cook, as well
as an indiscreet, negligent, and often a slovenly self-manager, and consequently his nutrition
and his personal and domestic habits are neither so healthy nor so invigorating as those of
men in civil life; and the Government neither thinks of this deficiency nor provides for it
by furnishing instruction in regard to this new responsibility and these new duties, nor does
it exercise a rigid watchfulness over his habits to compel them to be as good and as healthy
as they may be.

MUCH SICKNESS DUE TO ERRORS OF GOVERNMENT.

Whatever may be the excess of sickness and mortality among soldiers over those among civilians,
it is manifest that a great portion is due to preventable causes; and it is equally manifest
that a large part of these are owing to the negligence of the Government or its agents, the
officers in command or the men themselves, in regard to encampments, tents, clothing, food,
labors, exposures, etc.

The places of encampment are usually selected for strategic purposes, or military convenience,
and the soldiers are exposed to the endemic influences, whatever they may be. In some localities
these influences are perfectly salubrious; in others they are intensely destructive. Malaria
and miasms offer to the unpractised eye of the military officer no perceptible signs of their
presence. The camp is liable to be pitched and the men required to sleep in malarious spots,
or on the damp earth, or over a wet subsoil, exposed to noisome and dangerous exhalations from
which disease may arise. Pringle says, that, in 1798, the regiment which had 52 per cent, sick
in two months, and 94 per cent, sick in one season, "were cantoned on marshes whence noxious
exhalations emanated."[51] "Another regiment encamped where meadows had been flowed all winter
and just drained, and half the men became sick." Lord Wellington wrote, August 11, 1811, "Very
recently, the officer commanding a brigade encamped in one of the most unwholesome situations,
and every man of them is sick."[52] One of our regiments encamped at Worcester, Massachusetts,
on the Agricultural Society's grounds, where the upper soil was not dry and the subsoil was
wet. The men slept in tents on the ground, consequently there were thirty to forty cases of
disordered bowels a day. The surgeon caused the tents to be floored, and the disease was mitigated.
The Eleventh Massachusetts Regiment were encamped on a wet soil at Budd's Ferry, in Maryland.
In a week, thirty cases of fever appeared. Dr. Russell, the surgeon, ordered the camp to be
removed to a dry field, and the tents to be floored with brush; no new cases of fever appeared
afterward. Moltka says that "the Russian army which suffered so terribly and fatally in 1828
and 1829 was badly clothed and badly nourished, and in no way protected against the climate
of the Danubian Provinces, and especially of Bulgaria, where the temperature varies from 58°
in the day to 29° at night, and where the falling dew is like a fine and penetrating rain."[53]

Lord Wellington was a sagacious observer and a bold speaker. His despatches to his Government
frequently mention, the errors of those who should provide for the army, and the consequent
sufferings of the soldiers. November 14, 1809, he says, "In the English army of 30,000 men,
6,000 are sick." "Want of proper food increases sickness." "With nothing but water for drink,
with meat, but no salt, and bread very rarely for a month, and no other food; consequently,
few, if any, were not affected with dysentery." Again he writes, "Men cannot perform the labors
of soldiers without food. Three of General Park's brigade died of famine yesterday, on their
march; and above a hundred and fifty have fallen out from weakness, many of whom must have
died from the same cause." August 9, 1809, he wrote to Lord Castlereagh, "No troops can serve
to any good purpose, unless they are regularly fed. It is an error to suppose that a Spaniard,
or any man or animal of any country, can make an exertion without food." In February, 1811,
he wrote, "The Portuguese army of 43,000 or 44,000 men has about 9,000 sick, which is rather
more than a fifth. This is caused by want of proper and regular food, and of money to purchase
hospital-stores. If this be continued, the whole army will be down, or must be disbanded."

The British army in Spain suffered from want of clothing as well as of food. The Duke, who
did not intend to be misunderstood, nor believe that this was without somebody's fault, wrote,
November 3, 1810, to General Pane, "I wish it were in my power to give you well-clothed troops
or hang those who ought to have given them clothing."

The diaries of the medical officers in the Crimean army, quoted in the "Medical and Surgical
History" of that war, already referred to, are full of similar complaints, and these are supported
by Dr. Lyons's "Pathological Report." One says, "Some of the camps were very injudiciously
chosen." "The men were very much weakened," "unable to undergo any fatigue," even "to carry
their knapsacks." "At Balaklava, they built their huts on a very unhealthy site." Sir John
Hall, Inspector-General of Hospitals, referring to this, said, "I protested against it, in
the strongest way I could, but without effect; and the consequence was that shortly after the
men had spotted fever."[54] Dr. Hanbury says: "November, 1854. Health of the army rapidly deteriorated
from defective diet, harassing duties, hardships, privations, and exposures to the inclement
season." "Cholera increased; cold, wet, innutritious and irritating diet produced dysentery,
congestion and disorganization of the mucous membrane of the bowels, and scurvy." January,
1855, he says, "Fever and bowel affections indicated morbid action; scurvy and gangrene indicated
privation and exposures."

The surgeon of the Thirty-Fourth Regiment writes: "November, 1854. Cholera broke out. It rained
constantly. Troops had no other protection from the damp ground than a single wet blanket."
"Without warm clothing, on short allowance of provisions, in want of fuel." "The sanitary condition
of the regiment deteriorated rapidly: 56 per cent. of the men admitted to the hospital."

Forty-First Regiment, November and December. "No respite from severe duties; weather cold and
wet; clothing ill-adapted for such climate and service; disease rapidly increased; 70 per cent.
of the men in the hospital in two months."

Thirty-Third Regiment, December, 1854. "Cold and wet weather, coupled with insufficient food,
fuel, and clothing, and severe and arduous duties, all combined to keep up the sickness; 48.8
per cent. admitted to the hospital in this month."

Twentieth Regiment. "The impoverished condition of the blood, dependent on long use of improper
diet, exposure to wet and cold, and want of sufficient clothing and rest, had become evident."
"Scurvy, diarrhoea, frost-bite, and ulceration of the feet followed."

First Regiment. "December, 1854. Scarcely a soldier in perfect health, from sleeping on damp
ground, in wet clothing, and no change of dress; cooking the worst; field-hospital over-crowded."
"January, 1855. Type of disease becoming more unequivocally the result of bad feeding, exposure,
and other hardships."

Thirtieth Regiment. "Duties and employments extremely severe; exposure protracted; no means
of personal cleanliness; clothing infested with vermin; since Nov. 14, short allowance of meat,
and, on some days, of biscuit, sometimes no sugar, once no rice; food sometimes spoiled in
cooking; tents leaked; floors and bedding wet; sanitary efficiency deteriorated in a decided
manner."

These quotations are but samples of hundreds, perhaps thousands, of similar statements, showing
the immediate connection between privations, exposures, and hardships, and depression of life
and abundant disease.

Dr. Sutherland went through all the camps, and makes similar statements. "The damp, unventilated,
and undrained huts, in some parts of the camp, produced consequences similar to those in cellar-dwellings
at home,"--that is, typhus and typhoid diseases. "The half-buried huts of the Sardinian camp
furnished a large proportion of fever cases among their occupants," "That beautiful village
of Balaklava was allowed to become a hot-bed of pestilence, so that fever, dysentery, and cholera,
in it and its vicinity and on the ships in the harbor, were abundant." "Filth, manure, offal,
dead carcasses, had been allowed to accumulate to such an extent, that we found, on our arrival,
in March, 1855, it would have required the labor of three hundred men to remove the local causes
of disease before the warm weather set in."[55] General Airey said: "The French General Canrobert
came to me, complaining of the condition in which his men were. He said 'they were dying in
the mud.'"[56]

Dr. Bryce, one of the army-surgeons in that war, says, in his book: "The British army was exhausted
by overwork and the deficiency of everything that would sustain health and strength."

When the soldier, overcome by these morbific influences, became sick, and was taken to the
hospital, he was still compelled to suffer, and often sank under, the privation of those comforts
and means of restoration which the sick at home usually enjoy.

Dr. Sutherland says: "The hospitals at Scutari were magnificent buildings, apparently admirably
adapted to their purpose; but, when carefully examined, they were found to be little better
than pest-houses."[57]

Under direction of the Sanitary Commission, the hospitals were cleansed and ventilated, and
the patients allowed more room. In the first three weeks of these improvements, the mortality
from diseases fell to one-half; in the second three weeks, to one-third; in the third, to one-fifth;
and in the fourth and fifth periods, to one-tenth of that which prevailed be before they were
begun.[58]

The reform was carried through the whole army, camp and barracks, Government supplies, and
soldiers' habits and exposures; and the mortality from diseases, which had been at the annual
rate of 114 per cent. in January, and 83 per cent. in February, fell to 19 per cent. in April
and May, 5 per cent. in the autumn, and 1.6 per cent. in the winter following.[59]

The exposures, privations, and sufferings of our own army in the last war with Great Britain,
heart-rending even at this distance of time, were sufficient to account for much of the terrible
sickness and mortality that prostrated and destroyed the men. They were at times in want of
food, clothing, and tents; and yet, in the new and unsettled country, in the wilderness and
forest, they performed great labors. "Long and unremitting exposures to wet, cold, and fatigue,
with a diet which, under existing circumstances, could not prove nutritious, exhausted the
vital principle, and diarrhoea and typhus fever supervened. The production of animal putrefaction
and excrementitious materials were also sources of these diseases. Armies always accumulate
these noxious principles about their encampments in a few days, when attention is not called
to their daily removal."[60] Feeble, and destitute of clothing and provisions, they invaded
Canada at the end of the autumn in 1813. "During the whole of October and part of November,
most of them were subjected to excessive fatigues, and exposed in open boats on the lake, when
it rained almost every day." "On the 14th of November the weather became intensely cold, and
remained so all winter. In addition to their great fatigue, most of them lost their extra clothing
and blankets on their march and in the battle of the 11th. Even the sick had no covering but
tents until January. Provisions were scarce, and of a bad quality. Under these circumstances,
sickness and mortality were very great." "Nearly one-half of the army," 47 per cent., "were
unfit for duty."[61]

"Through the following winter, the want of necessaries for the support of the enfeebled and
wretched soldier was most severely felt. The poor subsistence which bread of the worst quality
afforded was almost the only support which could be had for seven weeks." "The sickness, deaths,
and distress at French Mills excited much alarm. This great mortality had obvious causes for
its existence." "Predispositions to sickness, the effects of obvious causes, the comfortless
condition of men exposed to cold, wanting the common necessaries of life to support them in
their exhausted states." Dr. Lovell adds: "It was impossible for the sick to be restored with
nothing to subsist upon except damaged bread."[62] Among the causes of the abundant sickness,
in March, along the Niagara frontier, given by the surgeons, were "severe duty during the inclement
weather, exposure on the lake in open transports, bad bread made of damaged flour, either not
nutritious or absolutely deleterious, bad water impregnated with the product of vegetable putrefaction,
and the effluvia from materials of animal production with which the air was replete."[63] "The
array, in consequence of its stationary position, suffered from diseases aggravated by filth
accumulated in its vicinity." "The clothing was not sufficient to protect the men on the northern
frontier, and even this short allowance failed to reach them in due season."[64] "The woollen
garments have not been issued until the warm weather of summer commenced, when winter finds
them either naked or clad in their summer dresses, perishing with cold."[65]

The camps were sometimes in malarious districts. "At Fort George and the vicinity, the troops
were exposed to intense heat during the day and to cold and chilly atmosphere at night." "The
diseases consequent to this exposure, typhus and intermittent fever, dysentery and diarrhoea,"
and "but little more than half of the men were fit for duty."[66]

Gen. Scott wrote from Mexico, February 14, 1848: "The army is also suffering from the want
of necessary clothing. The new troops are as destitute as the others. They were first told
that they should find abundant supplies at New Orleans, next at Vera Cruz, and finally here."[67]

There is ever a danger of the sensibilities and perceptive faculties becoming blunted by exposure
to and familiarity with offensive effluvia. "The General repeatedly called the attention of
the officers at Fort George to the filthy state and foul effluvia of their camp, but they perceived
no offensive odor; their olfactories had lost their acuteness, and failed to warn them of the
noisome gases that pervaded the atmosphere."[68] If the officers fail of their duty as housekeepers
to see that everything in the camp and tents is clean and healthy, the men fall into negligent
habits, and become dirty and sick. It was the "total want of good police" that reduced the
regiment already referred to from 900 to 200 fit for duty. On the other hand, "The regiment
of artillery, always subject to correct discipline, with quarters and encampments always in
the best state, and the men mostly neat and clean, suffered less by disease than any on the
northern frontier. Their better health may be much imputed to cleanliness."[69]

Itch and lice, the natural progeny of negligence and uncleanness, often find their home in
the army. Pringle, more than a hundred years ago, said that "itch was the most general distemper
among soldiers." Personal and household vermin seem to have an instinctive apprehension of
the homes that are prepared for them, and flock to the families and dwellings where washing
and sweeping are not the paramount law and unfailing habit. They are found in the houses and
on the bodies of the filthy and negligent everywhere. They especially delight in living with
those who rarely change their body-linen and bedding. They were carried into and established
themselves in the new barracks of Camp Cameron in Cambridge, Massachusetts; but they are never
found in the Boston House of Correction, which receives its recruits from the filthiest dens
of iniquity, because the energetic master enforces thorough cleansing on every new-comer, and
continues it so long as he remains.

The camps and police of the present Union army, though better than the average of others and
far above some, are yet not in as healthy condition as they might be. [70] The same Report
adds: "On the whole, a very marked and gratifying improvement has occurred during the summer."
And that improvement has been going on ever since. Yet the description of a camp at Grafton,
Virginia, in March, shows that there a very bad and dangerous state of things existed at that
time, and "one-seventh of the regiment was sick and unfit for duty"; but the bold and clear
report of Dr. Hammond of the United States Army produced a decided and favorable change, and
"the regiment has now less than the average amount of sickness." [71]

The hospitals of the army are mostly buildings erected for other purposes, and not fitted for
their present use; and the sudden influx of a large military population, with its usual amount
of sickness, has often crowded these receptacles of the suffering soldiers. For want of experience
on the part of the officers, surgeons, nurses, and men, in the management of such establishments,
they are sometimes in very bad and unhealthy condition. In Cumberland, Maryland, fifteen buildings
were occupied by about five hundred patients. These buildings had been warehouses, hotels,
etc., with few or none of the conveniences for the sick. They were densely crowded; in some
the men were "lying on the floor as thickly as they could be packed." One room with 960 feet
of air contained four patients. Dr. Hammond's description of the eighty-three rooms and the
condition of the patients in them seems to justify the terms he frequently uses. "Halls very
dirty." "Rooms dismal and badly ventilated." "Utmost confusion appears to exist about each
hospital; consequently, duties are neglected, and a state of the most disgusting want of cleanliness
exists." [72] Happily, the wise and generous suggestions of the surgeon were carried out, and
with the best results. This hospital was an exception; but it shows the need of intelligent
watchfulness on the part of the Government.

Crowded Quarters.

It is to be expected that the soldier's dwelling, his tent and barrack, will be reduced to
the lowest endurable dimensions in the campaign, for there is a seeming necessity for this
economy of room; but in garrisons, stations, and cantonments, and even in encampments in, time
of peace, this necessity ceases, and there is a power at least, if not a disposition, to give
a more liberal supply of house--and lodging-room to the army, and a better opportunity for
rest and recuperation. In common dwelling-houses, under favorable circumstances, each sleeper
is usually allowed from 500 to 1,000 cubic feet of space: a chamber fifteen or sixteen feet
square and eight feet high, with 1,800 to 2,048 feet of air, is considered a good lodging-room
for two persons. This gives 900 to 1,024 feet of air for each. The prudent always have some
means of admitting fresh air, or some way for the foul air to escape, by an open window, or
an opening into the chimney, or both. If such a room be occupied by three lodgers, it is crowded,
and the air becomes perceptibly foul in the night. Sometimes more are allowed to sleep within
a room of this size; but it is a matter of necessity, or of lower sensibility, and is not healthy.
They do not find sufficient oxygen to purify or decarbonize their blood through the night;
they consequently are not refreshed, nor invigorated and fully prepared for the labors of the
following day.

No nation has made this liberal and proper provision of lodging-room for its sleeping soldiers
in peace or in war, in garrison or in the encampment.

The British army-regulations formerly allowed 400 to 500 cubic feet for each soldier in barracks
in temperate climates, and 480 to 600 in tropical climates. The new regulations allow 600 feet
in temperate climates.[73] But the 356 barracks at the various military stations in Great Britain
and Ireland give the soldiers much less breathing-room than the more recent regulations require.
Of these,

  3 allow 100 to 200 feet for each man.
 27  "    200 to 300 "         "
123  "    300 to 400 "         "
125  "    400 to 500 "         "

 59  "    500 to 600 "         "
 19  "    600 to 800 "         " [74]

The French Government allows 444 feet for each infantry soldier, and 518 feet for each man
in the cavalry.

The British soldiers, at these home-stations, have less breathing-space and are subject to
more foulness of air than the people of England in civil life; and the natural consequence
was discovered by the investigation of the Military Sanitary Commission, that consumption and
other diseases of the lungs were much more prevalent and fatal among these soldiers, who were
originally possessed of perfect constitutions and health, than among the people at large. The
mortality from consumption and other diseases of the respiratory organs, among the Household
Cavalry, the Queen's Body-Guard, and the most perfectly formed men in the kingdom, was 25 per
cent., among the Dragoon Guards 59 per cent., among the Infantry of the Line 115 per cent.,
and among the Foot-Guards 172 per cent. greater than it was among the males of the same ages
throughout England and Wales, and consumption was the prevailing cause of death.

The huts of the British army are of various sizes, holding from twenty-five to seventy-two
men, and allowing from 146 to 165 cubic feet for each. The "Portsmouth hut" is the favorite.
It is twenty-seven feet long, fifteen feet wide, walls six feet, and ridge twelve feet high.
This holds twenty-five men, and allows 146 feet of air to each man. All these huts have windows,
and most of them are ventilated through openings under the eaves or just below the ridge, and
some through both.

Some of the temporary barracks erected at Newport News, Virginia, are one hundred feet long,
twenty-two feet wide, and twelve and a half feet high at the ridge, and accommodate seventy-six
men, giving each 360 feet of air. Some are larger, and allow more space; others allow less;
in one each man has only 169 feet of breathing-space. All these buildings are well supplied
with windows, which serve also for ventilators.

In forts, the garrisons are usually more liberally supplied with sleeping-room, yet, on emergencies,
they are densely crowded. At Fort Warren, in Boston Harbor, two regiments were temporarily
stationed, in the summer of 1861. There was one large barrack divided into some large and many
small rooms, and there was the usual supply of rooms in the casemates. There was one range
of rooms in the barrack, each sixteen feet six inches long, seven feet four inches high, and
varying in width from ten feet eight inches to thirteen feet two inches. In most of these rooms,
including two of the narrowest, twelve men slept. They had from 105 to 119 feet of air for
each one. There was a large window in each room, which was opened at night, and might have
served for healthy ventilation, except that there was an accumulation of disgusting filth within
a few feet of the building, on that side, sending forth offensive and noisome effluvia, and
rendering it doubtful which was the most disagreeable and dangerous, the foul air within or
the foul atmosphere without. In two of the casemate-rooms, holding sixty and seventy-five men
respectively, each man had 144 and 180 feet of air. At Fort Independence, in the same harbor,
a battalion was stationed, and slept in thirteen casemate-rooms, where the men had from 150
to 297 feet of air. All the casemate-rooms, being in the thick walls, and covered with earth,
in both forts, were cold and damp, and many of them were kept comfortable only by fires, even
in June.

The ten new barracks at Camp Cameron, in Cambridge, when full, according to the plan, give
each soldier 202 feet of air for respiration; but in August last, when densely filled, as some
of them were, the proportion of air for each man was reduced to 120 feet. The doors and windows
were left open at night, however, and obviated in some degree the evil effects of the crowding.

TENTS

The portable house must necessarily be as small as possible, and must be made to give its occupants
the smallest endurable space. The English bell-tent contains 512 cubic feet, and lodges twelve
to fifteen men, when on march, and eight to twelve men in camp, affording 34 to 64 feet of
breathing-space for each. Quartermaster-General Airey says this is the best tent in use.

The American tents are of many varieties in shape and size. The Sibley tent gives 1,052 feet
to seventeen or eighteen, and sometimes to twenty men, being 53 to 62 feet for each. The Fremont
tent is somewhat larger, and, as used in the cavalry camp at Readville, gave the men more air
than the Sibley. Both of these have means of ventilation. The wedge-tent, being the simplest
in structure, is most easily pitched, struck, and packed by the soldiers, and therefore used
by 58 per cent, of the regiments of the Union army, six me sleeping in each. But as occupied
by two of the regiments in Massachusetts, in the summer of 1861, it was the most crowded and
unhealthy. Those used by the Second Regiment at West Roxbury, and the Ninth at Long Island,
(in Boston Harbor,) were twelve and a half feet long, eight feet wide, and six feet high to
the ridge, and held twelve men. Each sleeper had 8-1/3 square feet of floor to rest upon, and
25 cubic feet of air to breathe through the night, with no ventilation, except what air passed
in through the door-way, when left open, and through the porous cloth that covered the tent.
Some of the tents of one of the regiments encamped at Worcester had 56 feet of floor-surface,
and 160 feet of air, which was divided among six men, giving each 27 feet of air.

In all the camps of Massachusetts, and of most armies everywhere, economy, not only of room
within the tents, but of ground where they are placed, seems to be deemed very important, even
on those fields where there is opportunity for indefinite expansion of the encampment. The
British army-regulations prescribe three plans of arranging the tents. The most liberal and
loose arrangement gives to each soldier eighty square feet of ground, the next gives forty-two,
and the most compact allows twenty-seven feet, without and within his tent. These are densities
of population equal to having 348,000, 664,000, and 1,008,829 people on a square mile. But
enormous and incredible as this condensation of humanity may seem, we, in Massachusetts, have
beaten it, in one instance at least. In the camp of the Ninth Regiment at Long Island, the
tents were placed in compact rows, and touched each other on the two sides and at the back.
Between the alternate rows there were narrow lanes, barely wide enough for carriages to pass.
Thus arranged, the men, when in their tents, were packed at the rate of 1,152,000 on a square
mile, or one man on every twenty--two square feet, including the lanes between, as well as
the ground under, the tents.

The city of London has 17,678 persons on a square mile, through its whole extent, including
the open spaces, streets, squares, and parks. East London, the densest and most unhealthy district,
has 175,816 on a mile. Boston, including East and South Boston, but not Washington Village,
has 50,805 on a mile; and the Broad-Street section, densely filled with Irish families, had,
when last examined for this purpose, in 1845, a density of population at the rate of 413,000
on the same space.

RESULTS OF SANITARY REFORMS.

The errors and losses which have been adverted to are not all constant nor universal: not every
army is hungry or has bad cookery; not every one encamps in malarious spots, or sleeps in crowded
tents, or is cold, wet, or overworked: but, so far as the internal history of military life
has been revealed, they have been and are sufficiently frequent to produce a greater depression
of force, more sickness, and a higher rate of mortality among the soldiery than are found to
exist among civilians. Every failure to meet the natural necessities or wants of the animal
body, in respect to food, air, cleanliness, and protection, has, in its own way, and in its
due proportion, diminished the power that might otherwise have been created; and every misapplication
has again reduced that vital capital which was already at a discount. These first bind the
strong man, and then, exposing him to morbific influences, rob him of his health. Perhaps in
none of the common affairs of the world do men allow so large a part of the power they raise
and the means they gather for any purpose to be lost, before they reach their object and strike
their final and effective blow, as the rulers of nations allow to be lost in the gathering
and application of human force to the purposes of war. And this is mainly because those rulers
do not study and regard the nature and conditions of the living machines with which they operate,
and the vital forces that move them, as faithfully as men in civil life study and regard the
conditions of the dead machines they use, and the powers of water and steam that propel them,
and form their plans accordingly.

But it is satisfactory to know that great improvements have been made in this respect. From
a careful and extended inquiry into the diseases of the army and their causes, it is manifest
that they do not necessarily belong to the profession of war. Although sickness has been more
prevalent, and death in consequence more frequent, in camps and military stations than in the
dwellings of peace, this excess is not unavoidable, but may be mostly, if not entirely, prevented.
Men are not more sick because they are soldiers and live apart from their homes, but because
they are exposed to conditions or indulge in habits that would produce the same results in
civil as in military life. Wherever civilians have fallen into these conditions and habits,
they have suffered in the same way; and wherever the army has been redeemed from these, sickness
and mortality have diminished, and the health and efficiency of the men have improved.

Great Britain has made and is still making great and successful efforts to reform the sanitary
condition of her army. The improvement in the health of the troops in the Crimea in 1856 and
1857 has already been described. The reduction of the annual rate of mortality caused by disease,
from 1,142 to 13 in a thousand, in thirteen months, opened the eyes of the Government to the
real state of matters in the army, and to their own connection with it. They saw that the excess
of sickness and death among the troops had its origin in circumstances and conditions which
they could control, and then they began to feel the responsibility resting upon them for the
health and life of their soldiers. On further investigation, they discovered that soldiers
in active service everywhere suffered more by sickness and death than civilians at home, and
then they very naturally concluded that a similar application of sanitary measures and enforcement
of the sanitary laws would be as advantageous to the health and life of the men at all other
places as in the Crimea. A thorough reform was determined upon, and carried out with signal
success in all the military stations at home and abroad. "The late Lord Herbert, first in a
royal commission, then in a commission for carrying out its recommendations, and lastly as
Secretary of State for War in Lord Palmerston's administration, neglecting the enjoyments which
high rank and a splendid fortune placed at his command, devoted himself to the sanitary reform
of the army."[75] He saw that the health of the soldiers was perilled more "by bad sanitary
arrangements than by climate," and that these could be amended. "He had some courageous colleagues,
among whom I must name as the foremost Florence Nightingale, who shares without diminishing
his glory."[76] Both of these great sanitary reformers sacrificed themselves for the good of
the suffering and perishing soldier. "Lord Herbert died at the age of fifty-one, broken down
by work so entirely that his medical attendants hardly knew to what to attribute his death."[77]
Although he probed the evil to the very bottom, and boldly laid bare the time-honored abuses,
neglects, and ignorance of the natural laws, whence so much sickness had sprung to waste the
army, yet he "did not think it enough to point out evils in a report; he got commissions of
practical men to put an end to them."[78] A new and improved code of medical regulations, and
a new and rational system of sanitary administration, suited to the wants and liabilities of
the human body, were devised and adopted for the British army, and their conditions are established
and carried out with the most happy results.

These new systems connect with every corps of the army the means of protecting the health of
the men, as well as of healing their diseases.

   "The Medical Department of the British army includes,--

   "1. Director-General, who is the sole responsible administrative head
   of the medical service.

   "2. Three Heads of Departments, to aid the Director-General with
   their advice, and to work the routine-details.

   "A Medical Head, to give advice and assistance on all subjects
   connected with the medical service and hospitals of the army.

   "A Sanitary Head, to give advice and assistance on all subjects
   connected with the hygiene of the army.

   "A Statistical Head, who will keep the medical statistics,
   case-books, meteorological registers," etc.[79]

Besides these medical officers, there are an Inspector-General of Hospitals, a Deputy Inspector-General
of Hospitals, Staff and Regimental Surgeons, Staff and Regimental Assistant-Surgeons, and Apothecaries.

The British army is plentifully supplied with these medical officers. For the army of 118,000
men there were provided one thousand and seventy-five medical officers under full pay in 1859.
Four hundred and seventy surgeons and assistant-surgeons were attached to the hundred regiments
of infantry.[80]

It is made the duty of the medical officer to keep constant watch over all the means and habits
of life among the troops,--"to see that all regulations for protecting the health of troops,
in barracks, garrisons, stations, or camps, are duly observed." "He is to satisfy himself as
to the sanitary condition of barracks," "as to their cleanliness, within and without, their
ventilation, warming, and lighting," "as to the drainage, ash-pits, offal," etc. "He is to
satisfy himself that the rations are good, that the kitchen-utensils are sufficient and in
good order, and that the cooking is sufficiently varied."[81]

Nothing in the condition, circumstances, or habits of the men, that can affect their health,
must be allowed to escape the notice of these medical officers.

In every plan for the location or movement of any body of troops, it is made the duty of the
principal medical officer first to ascertain the effect which such movement or location will
have upon the men, and advise the commander accordingly. It is his duty, also, to inspect all
camp-sites and "give his opinion in writing on the salubrity or otherwise of the proposed position,
with any recommendations he may have to make respecting the drainage, preparation of the ground,
distance of the tents or huts from each other, the number of men to be placed in each tent
or hut, the state of cleanliness, ventilation, and water-supply."[82] "The sanitary officer
shall keep up a daily inspection of the whole camp, and especially inform himself as to the
health of the troops, and of the appearance of any zymotic disease among them; and he shall
immediately, on being informed of the appearance of any such disease, examine into the cause
of the same, whether such disease proceed from, or is aggravated by, sanitary defects in cleansing,
drainage, nuisances, overcrowding, defective ventilation, bad or deficient water supply, dampness,
marshy ground, or from any other local cause, or from bad or deficient food, intemperance,
unwholesome liquors, fruit, defective clothing or shelter, exposure, fatigue, or any other
cause, and report immediately to the commander of the forces, on such causes, and the remedial
measures he has to propose for their removal." "And he shall report at least daily on the progress
or decline of the disease, and on the means adopted for the removal of its causes."[83]

Thus the British army is furnished with the best sanitary instruction the nation can afford,
to guide the officers and show the men how to live, and sustain their strength for the most
effective labor in the service of the country.

To make this system of vigilant watchfulness over the health of the men the more effectual,
the medical officer of each corps is required to make weekly returns to the principal medical
officer of the command, and this principal officer makes monthly returns to the central office
at London. These weekly and monthly returns include all the matters that relate to the health
of the troops, "to the sanitary condition of the barracks, quarters, hospitals, the rations,
clothing, duties, etc., of the troops, and the effects of these on their health."[84]

Under these new regulations, the exact condition of the army everywhere is always open to the
eyes of medical and sanitary officers, and they are made responsible for the health of the
soldiers. The consequence has been a great improvement in the condition and habits of the men.
Camps have been better located and arranged. Food is better supplied. Cooking is more varied,
and suited to the digestive powers. The old plan of boiling seven days in the week is abolished,
and baking, stewing, and other more wholesome methods of preparation are adopted in the army-kitchens,
with very great advantage to the health of the men and to the efficiency of the military service.
Sickness has diminished and mortality very greatly lessened, and the most satisfactory evidence
has been given from all the stations of the British army at home and abroad, that the great
excess of disease and death among the troops over those of civilians at home is needless, and
that health and life are measured out to the soldier, as well as to the citizen, according
to the manner in which he fulfils or is allowed to fulfil the conditions established by Nature
for his being here.

The last army medical report shows the amount and rate of sickness and mortality of every corps,
both in the year 1859, under the new system of watchfulness and proper provision, and at a
former period, under the old régime of neglect.

THE NUMBER OF DEATHS IN 100,000.[85]
                       Annual Average for
                    10 years, 1837 to 1846.     1859.
Household Cavalry            1,039               427
Dragoon-Guards               1,208               794
Foot-Guards                  1,872               859
Infantry Regiments           1,706               758
Men in healthy
  districts of England                           723

The Foot-Guards, which lost annually 1,415 from diseases of the chest before the reform, lost
only 538 in 100,000 from the same cause in 1859.[86]

Among the infantry of the line, the annual attacks of fever were reduced to a little more than
one-third, and the deaths from this cause to two-fifths of their former ratio. The cases of
zymotic disease were diminished 33 per cent., and the mortality from this class of maladies
was reduced 68 per cent.[87]

The same happy accounts of improvement come from every province and every military station
where the British Government has placed its armies.

Our present army is in better condition than those of other times and other nations; and more
and more will be done for this end. The Government has already admitted the Sanitary Commission
into a sort of copartnership in the management of the army, and hereafter the principles of
this excellent and useful association will be incorporated with, and become an inseparable
part of, the machinery of war, to be conducted by the same hands that direct the movements
of the armies, ever present and efficient to meet all the natural wants of the soldier, and
to reduce his danger of sickness and mortality, as nearly as possible, to that of men of the
same age at home.

AN ARAB WELCOME.
  I.
    Because thou com'st, a tired guest,
    Unto my tent, I bid thee rest.
    This cruse of oil, this skin of wine,
    These tamarinds and dates, are thine:
    And while thou eatest, Hassan, there,
  Shall bathe the heated nostrils of thy mare.
  II.
    Allah il Allah! Even so
    An Arab chieftain treats a foe:
    Holds him as one without a fault,
    Who breaks his bread and tastes his salt;
    And, in fair battle, strikes him dead
  With the same pleasure that he gives him bread!

ELIZABETH SARA SHEPPARD

You ask from me some particulars of the valued life so recently closed. Miss Sheppard was my
friend of many years; I was with her to the last hour of her existence; but this is not the
time for other than a brief notice of her career, and I comply with your request by sending
you a slight memorial, hardly full enough for publication.

Elizabeth Sara Sheppard, the authoress of "Charles Auchester," "Counterparts," etc., was born
at Blackheath, in England. Her father was a clergyman of unusual scholastic attainments, and
took high honors at St. John's College, Oxford. Mr. Sheppard, on the mother's side, could number
Hebrew ancestors, and this was the pride of his second daughter, the subject of this notice.
Her love for the whole Hebrew race amounted to a passion, which found its expression in the
romance of "Charles Auchester."

Very early she displayed a most decided poetic predisposition,--writing, when but ten years
old, with surprising facility on every possible subject. No metre had any difficulties for
her, and no theme seemed dull to her vivid intelligence,--her fancy being roused to action
in a moment, by the barest hint given either by Nature or Art. Her first drama was written
at this early age; it was called "Boadicea," and was composed immediately after she had been
shown a field at Islington where this queen is said to have pitched her tent. Any one who asked
was welcome to "some verses by 'Little Lizzie,'" written in her peculiar and fairy-like hand,
(for when very young, her writing was remarkable for its extreme smallness and finish.) given
with childlike simplicity, and artless ignorance of the worth of what she bestowed with a kiss
and a smile.

Her poems were composed at once, with scarcely a correction. Her earlier ones, for the most
part, were written at the corner of a large table, covered with the usual heaps of "after-lessons,"
in a school-room, where some twenty enfranchised girls were putting away copybooks, French
grammars, etc., and getting out play-boxes and fancy-work, with the common amount of chatter
and noise. Contrasted with such young persons, this child looked a strange, unearthly creature,--her
large, dark gray eye full of inspiration, and every movement of her frame and tone of her voice
instinct with delicate energy.

At the same age she would extemporize for hours on the organ, after wreathing the candlesticks
with garden-flowers which she had brought in her hand,--their scent, she would say, suggesting
the wild, sweet fancies which her fingers seemed able to call forth on the shortest notice.
Persons straying into the church, as they often did, attracted by the sound of music, would
declare the performer to be an experienced masculine musician.

When but a year older, she was an excellent Latin scholar, and, to use her father's words,
she might then have "gone in for honors at Oxford." French she spoke and wrote fluently, besides
reading Goethe and Schiller with avidity, and translating as fast as she read,--Schiller having
always the preference. At fourteen she began the study of Hebrew, of which language she was
a worshipper, and could not at that early age even let Greek alone. Her wonderful power of
seizing on the genius of a language, and becoming for the time a foreigner in spirit, was noticed
by all her teachers; her ear was so delicate that no subtile inflection ever escaped her, nor
any idiom.

And now she surprised her most intimate friend by the present of a prose story, sent to her,
when absent, in chapters by the post. This was succeeded by many other tales, and finally by
"Charles Auchester," --which romance, as well as that of "Counterparts," was written in the
few hours she could command after her teaching was over: for in her mother's school she taught
music the greater part of every day,--both theoretically and practically,--and also Latin.

Her health, always delicate, suffered wofully from this constant strain, and caused her to
experience the most painful exhaustion, which, however, she never permitted to be an excuse
for shirking an occupation naturally distasteful to her,--and doubly so, that through all the
din of practice her thousand fancies clamored like caged birds eager for liberty.

The moment her hour of leisure came, she would hide herself with her best loved work in the
quietest corner she could find; sometimes it was a little room in-doors, sometimes the summer-house,
sometimes under a large mulberry-tree; and thus "Charles Auchester" and "Counterparts" were
written, the former without one correction,--sheet after sheet, flung from her hand in the
ardor of composition, being picked up and read by the friend who was in all her literary secrets.
At last this same friend, finding she had no thought of publication, in a moment of playful
daring, persuaded her to send the manuscript to Benjamin Disraeli, and he introduced it to
his publishers. I quote from his letter to the author, which may not be out of place here:--

"No greater book will ever be written upon music, and it will one day be recognized as the
imaginative classic of that divine art."

"Counterparts" and other tales soon followed. And about the same date she presented, anonymously,
a volume of stories to the young daughter of Mr. John Hullah, of "Part Music" celebrity. They
were in manuscript printing, (if such a term may be used,) written by her own hand, and remarkable
for their curious beauty. The heading of each story was picked out in black and gold. The stories
are named "Adelaide's Dream," "Little Wonder, or, The Children's Fairy," "The Bird of Paradise,"
"Sprömkari," (from a Scandinavian legend,) "The First Concert," "The Concert in the Hollow
Tree," "Uncle, or, Which is the Prettiest?" "Little Ernest," "The Nautilus Voyage." These stories
are illustrated, and have a lovely dedication to the little lady for whom they were written.

The author had attended the "Upper Singing-Schools" for the sake of more musical experience.
Yet she then sang at sight perfectly, with any number of voices. She has left three published
songs, dedicated to the Marchioness of Hastings, and a large number of manuscript poems.

Her character was in perfect keeping with the high tone of her books. Noble, generous, and
self-forgetting, tender and most faithful in friendship, burning with indignation at injustice
shown to another, longing to find virtues instead of digging for faults,--her greatest suffering
arose from pained surprise, when persons proved themselves less noble than she had deemed them.

Her rich imagination and slender purse were open to all beggars, but for herself she asked
nothing, and was constantly a willing sufferer from her own inability to toady a patron or
to make a good bargain with a publisher.

She felt most warmly for her friends in America, whose comprehension of her views, and honest,
open appreciation of her books, inspired her with an ardent desire to write for them a romance
in her very best manner. She had sketched two, and, doubtful which to proceed with first, contemplated
sending both to an American friend for his decision; but constant suffering stayed her hand.

In the early spring she grew weaker day by day, and died on the 13th of March, at Brixton,
in England, at the age of thirty-two.

Those who loved either her person or her works will find her place forever empty.

Among her manuscript papers I found this sketch, which has a peculiar significance now that
the writer has passed away. It has never been printed.

A NICHE IN THE HEART.

I had been wandering, almost all day, in the cathedral of a town at some distance from London.
I had sketched its carved pulpit, one or two cherub faces looking down from its columns, some
of its best reliefs, and its oldest monument. It was evening, and I could no longer see to
draw, though pencillings of light still fell on the pavement through the larger windows, whose
colors were softened like those of the lunar rainbow; and still the edges of the stalls were
gilded with the last gleams of sunset, though the seats were filled already with those phantoms
which twilight seems to create in such a place. The monuments looked calmer and less formal
than when daylight bared all their defects of design or finish; they seemed now worthy of their
position beneath the vaulted roof, and even, adjuncts themselves to the harmony of the architecture.
One among them, noticeable in the daytime for its refined workmanship, now gleamed out fresher
and whiter than the rest, as was natural, for it had been placed there but a little while;
but it had besides more expression, in its very simplicity, than such-like mementos of stone
or marble usually contain. This was the memento of a husband's regret, and, as such, touching,
however vain: a delicate form drooping on a bier, at whose head stood an angel, with an infant
in his arms, which he raised to heaven with an air of triumph; while at the foot of the death-bed
a figure knelt, in all the relaxed abandonment of woe. Marvellously, and out of small means,
the chisel had conveyed this impression; for the kneeling figure was mantled from head to foot,
and had its face hidden in the folds of the drapery which skirted the bier,--veiled, like the
face of the tortured father in the old tragic tale.

While I gazed, I insensibly approached the still group; and while musing what manner of grief
it might be, which could solace by perpetuating its mere image, I observed two other persons,
whose entrance I had not been aware of, but whose attention was evidently directed to what
had attracted mine. They were a lady and a gentleman, and the latter seemed actually supporting
the former, who leaned heavily upon his arm, as it appeared from her manner of carriage, so
weakly and wearily she stood. Her form was extremely slight, and the outline of her countenance
sharp from attenuation, and in that uncertain light, or rather shade, she looked almost as
pale as the carved faces before us. The gentleman, who was of a stately height, bent over her
with an anxious air, while she gazed fixedly upon the monument. Her silence seemed to oppress
him, for after a minute or two he asked her whether it was not very beautiful. "You know,"
she answered, in one of those low voices that are more impressive than the loudest, "You know
I always suspect those memorials. I would rather have a niche in the heart."

They passed on, and left me standing there. I know not whether the fragile speaker has earned
the monument she desired, whether those feeble footsteps have found their repose,--"a quiet
conscience in a quiet breast,"--but her words struck me, and I have often thought of them since.

There is always something which seems less than the intention in a monument to heroism or to
goodness, the patriot of the country, or the missionary of civilization. Every one feels that
the graves of War, the many in the one, where link is welded to link in the chain of glory,
are more sublime, more sacred, than the exceptional mausoleum. Every one has been struck with
repugnant melancholy in the city church-yard, where tomb presses against tomb, and multitude
in death destroys identity, saving where the little greatness of wealth or rank may provide
itself a separate railing or an overtopping urn. Even in the more suggestive solitude of the
country, one cannot but contrast the few hillocks here and there carefully weeded, and their
trained and tended rose-bushes, with the many more neglected and sunken, whose distained stones
the brier-tangle half conceals, and whose forget-me-nots have long since died for want of water.
One may even muse unprofitably (despite the moralist) in our picturesque cemeteries, and as
unprofitably in those abroad, with their crowds of crosses and monotony of immortal wreaths.
In fact, whether on grounds philosophical or religious, it is not good to brood on mortality
for itself alone; better rather to recall the living past, and in the living present prepare
for the perfect future.

None die to be forgotten who deserve to be remembered. Even the fame for which some are ardent
to sacrifice their lives, enjoyed early at that crisis of existence we call success, will in
most cases change the desire for renown into a necessity, and stimulate the mind to the lowest
motive but one, ambition,--possibly, to emulation, the lowest of all. Fame is valuable simply
as the test of excellence; and there is a certain kind of popularity, sudden alike in its rise
and subsidency, which deserves not the other and lasting name, for it fails to soothe that
intellectual conscience which a great writer has declared to exist equally with the moral conscience.
After all, it is a question whether fame is as precious to the celebrated during their lifetime
as it is to those who love them, or who are attached to them by interest.

There are persons who die and are forgotten, when their exit from the stage of human affairs
is a source of advantage to their survivors. Witness those possessed of large fortunes, which
they have it in their power to bequeath, and over whose dwellings of mortality vigilant relations
hover like the carrion-fowl above the dying battle-steed. I remember a good story to this effect,
in which a lady and gentleman took a grateful vow to pic-nic annually, on the anniversary of
his death, at the tomb of a relation who had greatly enriched them. They did so, actually,
once; succeeding years saw them no more at the solemn tryst.

Even as to those who have excelled in art, or portrayed in language the imaginative side of
life, it may be that their works abide and they not be recognized in them, that their words
may be echoed in many tongues while the writer is put out of the question almost as entirely
as he who carved the first hieroglyph on the archaic stone. It will ever be found, whether
in works or words, that what touches the heart rather than what strikes the fancy, what draws
the tear rather than excites the smile, will embalm the memory of the man of genius. But of
all posthumous distinctions the noblest is that awarded to the philanthropist; even the meed
of the man of science, which consists in the complete working of some great discovery skilfully
applied, falls short of the reward of those who have contributed their utmost to the physical
improvement and social elevation of man,--from the munificent endowment whose benefits increase
and multiply in each succeeding generation, to the smallest seed of charity scattered by the
frailest hand, as sure as the strong to gather together at the harvest its countless sheaves.
To fill a niche in a heart, or a niche in each of a thousand hearts,--either a holier place
than that of the poet, who lives in the imagination he renders restless, or that of the hero,
who renders the mind more restless still for his suggestion of the glory which may surround
a name, a glory rather to be dreaded than desired,--too often, in such cases, must evil be
done or tolerated that good may be brought forth.

Then there is consolation for those not gifted either with worldly means or powers of mind
or healthful daring. Some will ever remember and regret the man or woman who carries true feeling
into the affairs of life, important or minute: gentle courtesies, heart-warm words, delicate
regards,--as surely part of consummate charity as the drop is a portion of the deep whose fountains
it helps to fill. Precious, too, is self-denial, not austerely invoked from conscience by the
voice of duty, but welling from the heart as a natural and necessary return for all it owes
to a Power it cannot reward. It has been said, that, to be respected in old age, one should
be kind to little children all one's life. May we not, therefore, show just such helpful tenderness
to the childlike or appealing weakness of every person with whom we have to do?--for few hearts,
alas! have not a weak string. Then no burden shall be left to the last hour, except that of
mortality, of which time itself relieves us kindly,--nor shall we have an account to settle
with the future to which it consigns the faithful.

RESOURCES OF THE SOUTH.

In the spring of 1860, a passenger left Massachusetts for the sunny South. As he passed slowly
down to the Battery to embark from New York, the sun shone brightly on acres of drays awaiting
their turn to approach the Southern steamers. Some of them had waited patiently from early
morn for an opportunity to discharge, and it was a current rumor that twenty dollars had been
paid for a chance to reach the steamers. The previous season had been a good one, and Cotton
wore its robes of royalty. Southern credit stood at the highest point, while the West was out
of favor; and doubtless many of the keen traders of the South, having some inkling of coming
events, were preparing for future emergencies.

In the spring of 1860, the South was literally overrun with goods. Some sixteen powerful steamers
were running between Savannah and New York; an equal number were on the line to Charleston;
steamers and flat-boats in countless numbers were bearing down the Mississippi their tribute
of flour, lard, and corn. The Northern and Western merchants were counting down their money
for rice, cotton, and sugar, and giving long credits on the produce of the North and West.

Before hostilities began, the South was allowed to supply itself freely with powder and arms,
and for months after they had begun, large supplies of fire-arms were drawn through Kentucky.
Down to a recent period the South has continued to receive supplies from Missouri, Virginia,
and Tennessee. With these resources, and with a capital drawn from a debt of two hundred millions
to the North and West, it has been able to support, for the first fifteen months at least,
three hundred thousand men in the field, and successfully to resist, in some cases, the advance
of the Federal Army. While these resources lasted, while the blockade was ineffective, while
the Confederacy could produce men to replace all who fell, while a paper currency and scrip
could be floated, and while the nation hesitated to put forth its strength, the South was able
to maintain a strong front, although driven successively from Maryland, Missouri, Kentucky,
Western Virginia, and Tennessee, and thus deprived of nearly half the population and resources
on which it originally relied.

The enlarged canal of New York, and the great railways which furnish direct routes from the
West to the Atlantic, have of late years diverted from the Father of Waters a very large proportion
of the exports of the West, but the steamers and flat-boats which floated down the Mississippi
literally fed the Cotton States. Laden with corn, flour, and lard, with ploughs, glass, and
nails, with horses and mules, and live stock of every description, they distributed their cargoes
from Memphis to New Orleans, and came back freighted with sugar and cotton.

At length this great commerce has been interrupted, and the South, cut off from this almost
indispensable supply of the necessaries of life, is now struggling for existence, and diverts
its negroes from the remunerative culture of sugar and cotton to the cultivation of grain and corn.

There are few at the North who appreciate the sacrifice which attends this diversion, or the
extent of the pressure which led to this disastrous change.

In Illinois, Iowa, or Indiana, the farmer can grow rich while selling his corn for ten cents
per bushel, and it is now common for a man and a boy to cultivate a hundred acres and to gather
five thousand bushels in a single season. The South does not possess the rich and exhaustless
soil of the prairies, which for half a century will yield without return successive and luxuriant
crops of corn. Its soil is generally light and easily exhausted, and is tilled by the rude
and unwilling labor of the slave. The census apprises us that its average crop of corn is but
fifteen bushels to the acre, in place of fifty to sixty in Illinois, and even this depends
in part on guano or artificial stimulants. The average yield of wheat south of Tennessee is
but six bushels to the acre, in place of twenty to forty in Ohio. The Southern planters, who
can sell cotton with profit at ten cents per pound, cannot produce corn for less than one dollar
per bushel, or tenfold the cost in the West, and in past years a dollar has been the customary
price from North Carolina to Texas.

Before the war, the cotton-crop of the South had risen to five millions of bales; but now four-fifths
of the land in cultivation is devoted to corn and grain. In place of five millions of bales,
worth at former prices two hundred millions of dollars, and at present rates at least eight
hundred millions, the South, in its folly, to the injury of the world, and the ruin of most
of its planters, is now producing, in place of its cotton, less corn than could be furnished
in Illinois in ordinary seasons for twenty millions of dollars. But even this is inadequate
to the wants of its people and its stock. Its small farmers are diverted from the cultivation
of the soil. The conscript-law is drafting all the able-bodied white men into the army.

The States from Tennessee and North Carolina to Texas have neither pasture nor mowing; their
feeble stock gains but a precarious livelihood from the cane-brakes or weeds of the forests
and Northern hay. Corn and grain were transported by railway more than three hundred miles
into the interior. The writer has stood beside a yoke of Georgia oxen in Atlanta so small that
they might well pass for calves at the North. Two Illinois steers would weigh down a half-dozen
such animals. But, diminutive as they are, they, as well as the people of the South, require
Northern supplies. And at this moment their last dependence is placed upon the valley of Virginia
and the valleys of East Tennessee. Let us hope that the Union armies which now possess Nashville,
Memphis, and Cumberland Gap may soon occupy Knoxville.

In the language of the "Richmond Examiner," "the possession of the lead, copper, and salt mines,
and the pork, corn, and hay-crop of these countries, Eastern Tennessee and Western Virginia,
is now vital to the existence of the Confederacy. This section of the country is the keystone
of the Southern arch. It is now in great peril, as is the great artery through which the life-blood
of the South now circulates. Whether the East Tennessee and Virginia railroad is to be surrendered,
whether the only adequate supply of salt is to be lost, whether the only hay-crop of the South
is to be surrendered, are questions of vast and pressing importance."

The wall of fire to which allusion has sometimes been made in debate is now closing in around
the Southern Confederacy. The Mississippi is closed. But a single point of contact, at Vicksburg,
remains between the States west of the Mississippi and the Atlantic States. Texas is insulated.
The blockade is daily becoming more stringent upon the seaboard. One effort more, soon to be
made, must sever the rich valleys, mines, and furnaces of Tennessee from the cotton districts,
and the exhaustion of supplies of every description will soon become more and more apparent.

It is undoubtedly true that an occasional cargo escapes the blockade, that a few boat-loads
of supplies are ferried by treason at the midnight hour across the Chesapeake, and sold at
extravagant prices; but what does this amount to? What a contrast this trade presents to the
millions of tons which used to reach the South from the Free States and Europe before it was
crushed by the rebellion! And what a contrast does it present to-day to the commerce of the
North,--to the barks and propellers which float down the Lakes deeply laden with grain,--to
the weekly exports of New York, (twelve millions for the last three weeks,)--to its vast income
from duties,--to the ships of the North visiting every ocean, earning more freight than for
years past, although deprived of the carrying-trade of the South, and contending successfully
with the marine of Great Britain for the supremacy on the ocean! How signal has thus far been
the failure of the Southern prophecies made before the outbreak!

New York, we were told, was dependent on Southern commerce, and was to be ruined by the war;
there were to be riots in the streets, and its palaces were to fall in ruins: but the riots
and the ruins are to be found only in Southern latitudes.

The manufacturers of Massachusetts were to be broken down: but the woollen trade and the shoe-trade
have received a new impetus,--are highly prosperous; and the cotton-spinners, with more than
a year's supply of cotton, have by the rise of prices enjoyed a profit unprecedented. Having
used their cotton with moderation, they have at the close of each six months seen their stocks
of raw material and goods, by the rise of prices, undiminished in value, and blessed like the
widow's cruse of oil. Nearly all have paid large dividends, many have earned dividends for
the year to come, and are now sending their male operatives to the war, and their females to
their rural homes, where they expect to perform some of the duties of brothers who have volunteered
for the war. The ruin predicted falls not upon the spinner, but upon the authors of Secession.

Let us glance for a moment at the present condition of the South. General Butler found at New
Orleans proof of its exhaustion in the prices of food,--with corn, for instance, at three dollars
per bushel, flour twenty to thirty dollars per barrel, and hay at one hundred dollars per ton.

If we pass on to Mobile, we hear of similar prices, and learn that not a carpet can be found
on the floor of any resident: they have all been cut into blankets for the army. White curtains
and drapery have been converted into shirts; for cotton cloth cannot be had for a dollar a yard.

As we come on toward the North, we find the shops of Savannah nearly empty, with shoes and
boots quoted at thirty dollars per pair. At such rates, what must it cost to put an army in
condition to move?

At Charleston, the stores which two years since were overflowing with merchandise, and the
daily recipients, of entire cargoes, are utterly empty; and when we reach Richmond, we see
sugar quoted at three-fourths of a dollar, coffee at two dollars, and tea at sixteen dollars
per pound, broadcloth at fifty dollars per yard, while whiskey, worth at Cincinnati twenty
cents per gallon, commands at Richmond six dollars.

Such is the condition of affairs, while the South still has access to Virginia and East Tennessee,
and after it has received a year's supply of Northern productions for which no payment has
been made.

Having thus pictured the physical resources of the enemy, let us inquire what is the force
which he can bring into the field, and his means of maintaining it.

There is conclusive evidence that at no period during the war has the Confederacy had more
than three hundred and fifty thousand effective men in the field, and it has no power to carry
that number beyond four hundred thousand. The population of the Union, by the census of 1860,
was thirty-two millions. At the usual rate of increase it now amounts to thirty-four millions;
of these, four millions are blacks, and of the residue, twenty-six millions are in the loyal
districts, and but four millions in the Confederacy, if we exclude New Orleans and those portions
of Virginia and Tennessee which have been subdued by the Federal arms.

In our Northern States the militia has rarely exceeded ten per cent. of the population. At
least one-half of the population is composed of females; one-half of the residue is below the
age of sixteen. If we deduct from the remainder three-twentieths for those below eighteen,
those above forty-five, and those exempted by law or infirmity, one-tenth alone will remain.

It is said that the Confederacy has called out all the white males between sixteen and thirty-five,
and proposes to summon all those between thirty-five and fifty. If it does so, we may well
expect such forces to break down in heavy marches or suffer from exposure. But let us assume
that it can bring into the field fourteen per cent. of its entire population--(and we must
not forget that this is a high estimate, as all the able-bodied men of Massachusetts are but
twelve per cent. of her population, or one hundred and fifty-five thousand): upon this assumption,
the effective force of the Confederacy at the start was but five hundred and sixty thousand,
and if to this we add forty thousand more for volunteers and conscripts from Maryland, Missouri,
Kentucky, and East Tennessee, we have a capacity for six hundred thousand only. Of these there
has been a continual waste from the outset by sickness, desertions, capture, and the casualties
of war. The Union army has lost at least one-third, and been reduced from six hundred thousand
to four hundred thousand by such depletion; and in the same ratio, the South, with inferior
supplies and stores, and with greater exposure, must have lost at least an equal number.

In estimating its present capacity at four hundred thousand men, we undoubtedly exceed the
actual resources of the South. To meet this we have at least four hundred thousand effective
men now in the field, to be increased to a million by the new levies, and soon to be aided
by thirty mail-clad steamers added to our present fleet on the ocean and the Mississippi,--a
naval force equivalent to at least two hundred thousand more.

To sustain such forces in the field and on the water will doubtless tax all the energies of
the Union; but how is the inferior force of four hundred thousand to be clad, fed, and paid
by the exhausted Confederacy, with a white population less than one-sixth of that opposed to
them, without commerce and the mechanic arts, and with no productive agriculture?

The pecuniary resources of the South for carrying on this war have thus far consisted principally
of a paper currency and bonds, with a forced circulation. It has drawn little from taxes or
forfeiture, although it has been aided by the appropriation of both public and private property
of the United States.

We have no record of the currency issued, but we know that both prices and pay have been higher
in Southern than in Northern armies; and if with us it has cost a thousand dollars per annum
to sustain a soldier in the field, it has cost at that rate four hundred and sixty-seven millions
to maintain three hundred and fifty thousand men for the last sixteen months in the Southern
army, and of this at least four hundred millions has been met by the issue of paper.

Such an issue would be equivalent to an issue of seven times that amount, or of twenty-eight
hundred millions, to be borne by the whites who now recognize the Union. How long can the South
continue to float such a currency? Does it not already equal or exceed the paper currency of
our Revolution, which became utterly worthless, notwithstanding our nation achieved its independence?

Our fathers, long before the surrender at Yorktown, resorted to specie, to the bank of Morris,
and to French and Dutch subsidies: but how is the South to command bank-notes or specie, or
to buy arms, powder, or provisions, or to satisfy soldiers with a currency such as has been
described, or to make new issues at the rate of twenty-five millions per month?

At Richmond, the capital of the Confederacy, gold ranges from 125 to 150 per cent. premium.
Must not this advance require a double or triple issue of currency, namely, fifty to seventy-five
millions per month, to accomplish as much as has already been effected? And how as has already
been effected? and how long can such a currency be floated within a contracting circle, and
in the face of our new levies and our unbounded national credit? If the war should last another
year, and this depreciating currency can be floated at all, it is safe to infer from the history
of the past that the debt of the South must increase at least one thousand millions. Under
the pressure of such growing weight its end may be safely predicted.

Thus far in the contest the South has possessed one great advantage. The planter's son, reared
to no profession, in a region where the pursuits of trade and the mechanic arts have little
honor, has been accustomed from childhood to the use of the horse and rifle. In most of the
towns of the South you will find a military academy, and here the young cadet has been trained
to arms and qualified for office: we have no such class in the Free States, except a few graduates
from West Point. Under such officers, a motley army has been collected, composed of foreigners
who have toiled in Southern cities as draymen and porters, of Northern clerks driven by coercion
or sheer necessity to enlist, the poor whites, the outcasts of the South, a class the most
degraded in public estimate,--a class which has the respect of neither the white man nor the
negro. These people inhabit to a great extent the scrub-oak or black-jack forests, the second
growth which has sprung up on exhausted plantations. Destitute of schools, churches, and newspapers,
unable to read or write, without culture, generally steeped in whiskey, their sole property
a cabin, and perhaps a few swine, which roam through the forests, these Pariahs of society
gain a precarious subsistence by hunting, fishing, and occasional depredations upon the property
of the planters. During a brief visit to Columbia, in 1860, one of these outcasts was arraigned
before the Court of Sessions for stealing black-jack from a plantation and selling it in the
streets of Columbia; and the judge in his flowing robes, while enlarging upon the offence,
facetiously remarked, that the prisoner had doubtless swallowed the black-jack,--an allusion
to the habits of the class which seemed well understood by the bar.

The position of this class has thus far been improved by the war. In the army the poor white
has associated with the officer, far above him in social life. His aid has been courted, he
has received high wages in Confederate notes, he has found better fare and clothing than he
could procure at home, and has been lured to the contest by the eloquent appeals of the planter,
by bitter attacks upon the North, and glowing pictures of the ruin which the abolitionists
would bring upon the South. The Confederate notes have until recently proved sufficient for
his purposes, while other classes have supplied the means to prosecute the war. But as the
circle contracts and these notes prove worthless, food and clothing, tobacco and whiskey will
cease to be attainable; and when the provost marshal has swept the plantation, and comes to
the poor man's cabin to take his last bushel of meal and to shoot down his swine for the subsistence
of the army, he will at length ask what he has to gain from the further prosecution of the war.

When this crisis arrives, and it must be approaching, how can the Southern army retain in its
ranks either the poor white, the foreigner, or the Northern clerk, whose sympathies have never
been with the Confederacy?

It may be said, that the Confederacy can continue the war by wealth accumulated in former years.
But that wealth vested in land, slaves, or railways, now unproductive, or in banks whose funds
have been advanced to planters still under protest. This wealth will not suffice to prosecute
the war. Thus far it has been sustained by funds on hand, the seizure of national forts, arms,
and arsenals, by the appropriation of debts due to Northern merchants, by supplies from Kentucky,
Tennessee, and Missouri, and by the issue of paper already greatly depreciated. With these
resources it has conducted a losing warfare while we were creating an army and a navy, and
during this contest has lost three of the most important border States, nearly half of a fourth,
several of its chief seaports, nearly all its shipping, and the navigation of the Mississippi.

But it may be urged, Has not McClellan retired from his intrenchments before Richmond? Have
we not fought with varying results successive battles around Manassas? Are not our troops retiring
to their old lines before Washington? Have not the enemy again broken into Kentucky? and do
they not menace the banks of the Potomac and the Ohio? Let us concede all this. Let us admit
that our new levies are for the moment inert,--that we are now marshalling, arming, and drilling
our raw recruits; let us concede that the giant of the North has not yet put forth his energies,--that,
although roused from his torpor, one of his arms is still benumbed, and that his lithe and
active opponent is for the moment pommelling him on every side, and has a momentary advantage;
let us admit that our go-ahead nation is indignant at the idea of one step backward in this
great contest: still it is safe to predict that within sixty days our new army of superior
men will be ready to take the field and advance upon the foe in overwhelming force,--that soon
our iron fleet will be ready to batter down the fortresses of Charleston, Savannah, Mobile,
Vicksburg, and Galveston, the last strongholds of the enemy. And when his army of conscripts
shall have wasted away, after their last flurry and struggle, where is he to recruit or procure
a new army for resistance or offence? The South is now taking the field with all its strength;
but when that strength is broken, what power will remain to confront the forces of the Union?

The South has driven to the war its whole white population able to bear arms, and when that
force is exhausted, at least two-thirds of the adult males of the North and the whole black
population will still remain to sustain the Government, and births and emigration will soon
fill the vacuum.

Let us place at the helm men of character and tried activity,--men of intelligence and forecast,--men
who can appreciate the leaders of the South, reckless alike of property, character, and life,
and the result cannot be doubtful.

The South is now commencing a new campaign, and is to confront a navy hourly improving, and
an invulnerable fleet, armed with cannon more effective than any yet used in naval warfare.
It is to encounter, with conscripts, a million of hardy volunteers, and to do this with its
supplies reduced and its credit broken. It has but one reliance: a slave population of four
millions, competent to maintain themselves, but incompetent to furnish to their masters a full
supply of the coarsest food. While it furnishes a scanty supply, while it toils in the trenches,
and feeds the horses of the cavalry, or drives the army-wagons, it is still an element of strength
to the masters, and the question occurs, Shall the nation, now so severely taxed by the slaveholder,
and compelled to pour forth its best blood like water to preserve its existence, remove this
element of present and future strength by liberating the slave?

Can the slaveholder claim the preservation of slavery, when he relies upon it and uses it to
aid him in destroying the Government? And if one-half of the population of the South is ready
to sustain the Government, and to withdraw its aid from the foe, shall not the loyalist, whether
white or black, be accepted and allowed the privileges of a citizen when he takes refuge under
the national flag?

Can we expect future peace, unless we reduce to order lawless men, unless we draw them from
the war-path by making labor and the arts of peace respected?

This is a momentous question which addresses itself to our nation at the present juncture.
There are some who imagine that the negro, if liberated, would renew the scenes of San Domingo,
and massacre the people of the South. But such has not been the case in the French and British
Isles of the West Indies, although in those islands the proportion of the white population
is far below that at the South. In the Cotton States the whites and the negroes are nearly
equal in numbers; and if, in Jamaica, Barbadoes, Santa Cruz, and Martinique, the slaves, when
liberated, have respected the rights of the masters, and recognized their title to the land,
and have submitted to toil for moderate wages, where a handful of whites monopolized the soil,
and demanded for it prices far beyond the value of the slave and land together, may we not
well anticipate that the slave population, barely equal in number to the white population,
trained to submission in a region where land is of little value, will, if liberated, continue
to be a quiet and peaceful population?

There are some who predict that the negroes, if emancipated, will overrun the North and West.
But why should they fly from the South to the cold winters and less genial climate of the North
or West? It is servitude which degrades the negro; and if the stigma which he now bears is
removed, why should he not cling to the region in which he was born and bred, and to which
he is adapted by nature?

Should the institution of slavery survive the war into which we have been plunged by its adherents
and propagators, we might well fear that our Northern and Western States would be overrun by
the fugitives, who, having escaped during the war, would be disposed to place distance between
themselves and their late masters, and to fly from the borders of States which would not hesitate
to reduce them again to servitude; but if the institution itself should be terminated by the
war, why should the free man be a fugitive from his home?

Our Western States are desirous to perpetuate in its purity the Anglo-Saxon blood, and would
colonize the West with men raised under free institutions. They shrink from all contact with
a race of bondmen. Our President, himself a Western man, proposes to colonize the free negro
in Central America, and thriving colonies already exist on the coast of Africa. But why should
we send from this country her millions of laborers? Is our land exhausted? Is there no room
for the negro in the region where he lives? Has not the demand for sugar and cotton, for naval
stores and timber, overtaken the supply? and has not the frank and truthful Mr. Spratt, of
South Carolina, announced in the councils of that State, that the South must import more savages
from Africa, to reclaim and improve its soil? Why, then, banish the well-trained laborer now
on the spot?

Does not history apprise us how Spain suffered in her agriculture, and the arts of life declined,
when the Moriscos were driven from her soil? how Belgium, the garden of Europe, decayed when
Spanish intolerance banished to England the Protestant weavers and spinners, who laid the foundation
of English opulence? how France retrograded when superstition exiled from her shores the industrious
Huguenots? And are we to draw no light from history? Would we, at this moment, when our cotton-mills
are closing their gates,--when the cotton-spinner of England appeals to the British minister
for intervention,--when the weaver of Rouen demands the raw material of Louis Napoleon,--shall
we, at a time when a single crop of cotton is worth, at current prices, nearly a thousand millions,
or twice the debt contracted for the war,--impair our national strength by destroying the sources
of supply? At least one crop has been lost, and this will for a term of years insure high prices.
Are we to deprive our nation of these prices, and of the freights which would attend the shipments
to Europe? Shall not cotton contribute to make good our losses, and to the progress of the nation?

Why is colonization necessary?

There is a belt of territory, now sparsely populated, and inhabited chiefly by negroes, extending
from the Dismal Swamp to the Capes of Florida, and from these Capes to the Brazos,--generally
level, and free from rocks and stones,--of the average width of nearly one hundred miles,--its
area at least two hundred millions of acres,--competent to sustain forty millions of negroes,
or ten times the number which now exist within the United States. Here are vast forests, unctuous
with turpentine, annually producing pitch, tar, rosin, and ship-timber, with material for houses,
boats, fuel, and lightwood, while the mossy drapery of the trees in suitable for pillows and
cushions. Here is a soil which, with proper cultivation, can produce rice, corn, cotton, tobacco,
and indigo, and is admirably adapted to the culture of the ground-nut and sweet potato. Here
are rivers and inlets abounding in fish and shell-fish. Here is a climate, often fatal to the
white, but suited to the negro. Here are no harsh winters or chilling snows. Along the coast
we may rear black seamen for our Southern steamers,--cooks, stewards, and mariners for our
West India voyages.

Has not Nature designed a black fringe for this coast? Has not the importation of the negro
been designed by Providence to reclaim this coast, and to give his progeny permanent and appropriate
homes? And, to use a favorite phrase of the South, does not Manifest Destiny point to this
consummation? and why should the negro be exiled from these shores? Does he not cling like
the white man to his native land? and are not his tastes, wishes, and attachments to be consulted,--a
question so important to his race?

But it may be urged, that this is not public domain,--that it has been already appropriated,
and is now the property of the Southern planter. But here is a public exigency, and the remedy
should be proportioned to the exigency. The right of eminent domain should be exercised by
the nation either directly after conquest, or through the States or Territories it may establish.
By that right, in England and in most of our States, private property is taken for highways
or railways. In New York it is thus appropriated for markets, hospitals, and other public purposes.

The land in question, if we deduct the sites of towns and villages and cities, as should be
done, will not average in value three dollars per acre. Let it be valued at twice that price,
and be charged with the interest of that price as a ground-rent to be paid by the settler.
And if, in Barbadoes, the free negro has raised the value of land to three hundred dollars
per acre, surely on this coast he can prosper upon land costing one-fiftieth part of the average
price of that of Barbadoes.

If six dollars would not suffice, the land might be rated at an average value of ten dollars,
and the settler charged with a quit-rent of half a dollar per acre, and allowed to convert
his tenure into a fee-simple by the payment of the principal. The planter whose land should
be appropriated would thus realize more than its value, and in great part the value of his
slaves,--while the negro would secure at once a settled home, with an interest in the soil
and the means of subsistence.

Is not this the true solution of the great problem?

If we can give to the negro a fixed tenure in the soil under the tutelage of the nation, he
will soon have every incentive to exertion. With peace must come a continuous demand for all
the produce of the South,--for cotton, tobacco, timber, and naval stores,--in exchange for
which the negro would require at least threefold the amount of boots, shoes, clothing, and
utensils which he at present consumes. Labor would then become honored and respected. Upon
the uplands of the South the white man can toil effectively in the open air. In the warehouse
and the workshop he can actually toil more hours during the year than in New York or New England,
for his fingers will not there be benumbed by the intense cold of the North. When labor ceases
to be degrading, the military school will give place to the academy, commerce will be honored,
and a check be given to military aspirations; and should an insurrection again occur, the loyal
population bordering the coast may be armed to resist alike insurrection at home and intervention
from abroad, and unite with our navy in preserving the peace of the country.

REVIEWS AND LITERARY NOTICES. Boston: Ticknor & Fields.

This thoroughly prepared book will prove of much service in those departments of musical study
and practice for which it is intended. The style of church-music throughout the country has
undergone material changes within the last five-and-twenty years. In the cities and larger
towns, such societies as can afford the expense have established quartette choirs of trained
vocalists, who deliver the hymns and anthems of the service to selections from the music of
the great masters, which they are expected to render in a manner that shall be satisfactory
to a taste educated and refined by the instruction of good teachers and the public performances
of skilful musicians. In the country churches, the congregations still unite in the singing;
or, where it has been the custom for those who could sing to "sit in the seats" and form a
chorus choir, such custom still obtains. Some notion of city taste, however, has gone abroad
in the country, and the choirs, although old-fashioned in their organization, are not quite
content with the psalm-books of old time, and are constantly asking for something newer and
better. A great many volumes have been published in order to supply this want, some of which
have done good, while, if we say of others that they have done no harm, it is as much as they
deserve.

A music-book for general use in churches which do not have quartette choirs and "classical"
music must be prepared with care and good judgment. It must contain, of course, certain old
standard tunes which seem justly destined to live in perpetual favor, and it must surround
these with clusters of new tunes, which shall be as solid and correct in their harmony as the
older, while their lightness and fluency of melody belong to the present day. There must be
anthems and chants, and there must be a clear and thorough exposition of the elements of vocal
music to help on the tyros who aspire to join the choir.

The work of which we are writing answers these requirements well. Its editors are practical
men; they have not only taught music to city pupils, but they have conducted choirs and singing-schools,
and have discovered the wants of ordinary singers by much experience in normal schools and
musical conventions.

"The Tabernacle" contains the fruits of their observation and experience, and will be found
to meet the requirements of many singers who have hitherto been unsatisfied. It commences with
the rudiments of music and a glossary of technical terms, to which is appended a good collection
of part-songs, especially prepared for social and festival occasions. Then follow the hymn-tunes,
which are adapted not only to the ordinary metres, but also to all the irregular metres which
are to be found in any collection of hymns which is known to be used in the country. Next come
the chants and anthems: among these are arrangements from Mozart, Beethoven, Chapple, Rossini,
(the "Inflammatus" from the "Stabat Mater"), Curschmann, (the celebrated trio, "Ti prego,")
Lambillote, and other standard authors. Indices, remarkably full, and prepared upon an ingenious
system, by which the metre and rhythm of every tune are indicated, conclude the volume.

We are confident that choristers will find "The Tabernacle" to be just such a book as they
like to use in instructing and leading their choirs, and that choirs will consider it to be
one of the books from which they are best pleased to sing.

The Rebellion Record: A Diary of American Events, with Documents, Narratives, Illustrative
Incidents, Poetry, etc. Edited by FRANK MOORE, Author of "Diary of the American Revolution."
New York: G.P. Putnam. Charles T. Evans, General Agent.

Three large volumes of this valuable record of the momentous events now transpiring on this
continent have been published. The maps, diagrams, and portraits are excellent in their way.
No fuller documentary history of the Great Rebellion could be desired; and as every detail
is given from day-to-day's journals, the "Record" of Mr. Moore must always stand a comprehensive
and accurate cyclopedia of the War. For the public and household library it is a work of sterling
interest, for it gathers up every important fact connected with the struggle now pending, and
presents it in a form easy to be examined. It begins as far back as December 17, 1860, and
the third volume ends with the events of 1861.

RECENT AMERICAN PUBLICATIONS

RECEIVED BY THE EDITORS OF THE ATLANTIC MONTHLY.

The Artist's Married Life; being that of Albert Dürer. Translated from the German of Leopold
Schefer, by Mrs. J.R. Stodart. Revised Edition, with Memoir. New York. James Miller. 16mo.
pp. xxviii., 204. 88 cts.

The Pennimans; or, The Triumph of Genius. Boston. G.A. Fuller. 12mo. pp. 296. $1.00.

Sister Rose; or, The Ominous Marriage. By Wilkie Collins. Philadelphia. T.B. Peterson & Brothers.
8vo. paper, pp 65. 25 cts.

Rifle-Shots at Past and Passing Events. A Poem in Three Cantos. Being Hits at Time on the Wing.
By an Inhabitant of the Comet of 1861. Philadelphia. T.B. Peterson & Brothers. 8vo. paper,
pp. 112. 25 cts.

Agnes Stanhope. A Tale of English Life. By Miss Martha Remick. Boston, James M. Usher. 12mo.
pp. 444. $1.00.

The Yellow Mask; or, The Ghost in the Ball-Room. A Novel. By Farleigh Owen. Boston. T.O.H.P.
Burnham. 8vo. paper, pp. 155. 50 cts.

Cursory Thoughts on some Natural Phenomena. Bearing chiefly on the Primary Cause of the Succession
of New Species, and on the Unity of Force. New York. C. Scribner. 8vo. paper, pp. 32. 25 cts.

The Trail-Hunter. A Tale of the Far West. By Gustave Aimard. Philadelphia. T.B. Peterson &
Brothers. 8vo. paper, pp. 175. 50 cts.

The Crisis: its Rationale. By Thomas J. Sizer. Buffalo. Breed, Butler, & Co. 8vo. paper, pp.
100. 25 cts.

Footnotes:

1: The original of the leaf copied on the next page was picked from such a pile.

2: Report on the Sanitary Condition of the British Army, p. 498.

3: Report on the Sanitary Condition of the British Army, p. 499.

4: Medical Statistics of the United States Army, 1839-54, p.625.

5: Report on the Sanitary Condition of the British Army.

6: Ibid.

7: Traité de Géographie et de Statistique Médicales, Tom. II. p. 289.

8: Ibid. p. 286.

10: Report on the Sanitary Condition of the British Army.

11: Medical Statistics U.S. Army, 1839-54, p. 491, etc.

12: Observations on the Diseases of the Army, p. 51.

13: Ib., p. 53.

14: Observations on the Diseases of the Army, p. 59.

15: London Statistical Journal, Vol. XIX. p. 247.

16: Edmonds in London Lancet, Vol. XXXVI. p. 143.

17: Despatches.

18: Edmonds in London Lancet, Vol. XXXVI. p. 145.

19: Edmonds in London Lancet, Vol. XXXVI. p. 148.

20: Ib., p. 219.

22: Report on the Sanitary Condition of the British Army, p. 524.

23: Medical Sketches, p. 39.

24: Ib., p. 204.

25: Ib., p. 66.

26: Medical Sketches, p. 119.

27: Ib., p. 199.

28: On Epidemics, p. 70.

29: United States Documents, 1814.

30: Ib., 1814.

31: Executive Documents, U.S., 1847-48, Vol. VII. p. 1013.

32: Ib., p. 1033.

33: Ib., p. 1185.

34: MS. Letter of Mr. Elliott, Actuary of the Sanitary Commission.

35: Report on the Sanitary Condition of the British Army, p. 180.

36: Ib., 525.

37: Medical and Surgical History of the War in the East, Vol. II. p. 252.

38: Report on the Sanitary Condition of the British Army, p. 377.

39: Medical Sketches, p. 246.

40: Medical Sketches, p. 66.

42: Report on the Sanitary Condition of the British Army, p. 180.

43: Medical and Surgical History of the British Army in the East, Vol. II. p. 227.

44: British and Foreign Medical and Surgical Journal, Vol. XXI.

45: MS. Letter of Mr. Elliott.

46: Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, Vol. VI. p.478, etc.

47: Report on the Sanitary Condition of the British Army, p. 525.--Medical and Surgical History
of the War in the East.

48: Calculated from the Eighteenth Registration Report.

49: Calculated from Twenty-First Report of Registrar General.

50: Report on the Sanitary Condition of the British Army, p. 212. Colonel Tulloch.

51: Diseases of the Army, p. 50.

52: Despatches.

54: Report on the Sanitary Condition of the British Army, p. 178.

55: Report of the Sanitary Commission.--Report on the Sanitary Condition of the British Army,
p. 335.

56: Report of the Sanitary Condition of the British Army, p 97.

57: Ib., p. 334.

58: Ib., p. 365.

59: Ib., p. 524.

60: Dr. Mann, Medical Sketches, p. 64.

61: Dr. Lovell, quoted by Mann, Medical Sketches, p. 119.

62: Mann, Medical Sketches, pp. 120, 121.

63: Ib., p. 78.

64: Ib., p. 92.

65: Ib., p. 124.

66: Ib., p. 204.

67: Executive Documents, U.S., 1848, Vol. VII. p. 1224.

68: Mann, Medical Sketches, p. 66.

69: Ib., p. 39.

70: p. 23.

71: Report of the Sanitary Commission, No. 41.

72: Report of the Sanitary Commission, No. 41.

73: Report of Barrack Commission, p. 160.

74: Report on the Sanitary Condition of the British Army, p. 439.

75: Dr. Farr, in Journal of the London Statistical Society, Vol. XXIV. p. 472.

76: Ibid.

77: MS. Letter of Dr. Sutherland.

78: Section Dr. Farr, ubi supra.

79: Army Medical Regulations, p. 27, etc.

80: Report of the Army Medical Department for 1859.

81: Army Medical Regulations, p. 29.

82: Army Medical Regulations, p. 83.

83: Ib., p. 84.

84: Army Medical Regulations, p. 93.

85: Report of the Army Medical Department for 1859, p. 6.

86: Report of the Army Medical Department for 1859, p. 10.

87: Ibid.

