"And your handkerchief is just as pretty as ever," said the Wizard, returning it to Gertie.
Archy clapped his hands loudly and earnestly, as though he was at a regular show, and Gertie
joined in.

"My next trick will be to turn an umbrella into a music-box," said the Wizard, shaking his
green bag out to its full length. Even to think of such a trick caused the audience of two
to laugh so heartily that it came near rolling off the stump. The Wizard picked up Uncle Ebenezer's
umbrella, and holding it in one hand, and the green bag in the other, said "Presto!" three
times, and then poked the umbrella inside the bag.

"Now, my little man, what do you see inside?"

Archy peeped, expecting to see the umbrella, but he saw nothing but a neat little music-box.

"Oh, he's done it, Gertie, sure as anything," said Archy, gleefully.

"Let's have some music; it will play three tunes," said the Wizard, lifting the music-box from
the bag. It first played "Coming Through the Eye," then "Violets Blue," and next struck up
a lively German waltz.

The instant the waltz began, the Green Wizard of the Forest went dancing all over the green
moss with the long green bag for a partner, and merrily called for Archy and Gertie to join
in. When the music stopped, they did also, but looking around for the Wizard, he was nowhere
to be seen. After vainly waiting his return some time, they started home, and as Archy understood
how to wind and start the music-box, they had music all the way.

Mamma Stewardson was seated on the veranda as the children came toward the house, and Uncle
Ebenezer, in slippers and long linen summer coat, could be seen nervously pacing up and down
the wide hall that led to the door.

"My dears," said mamma, as they came near, "you should not have taken Uncle Ebenezer's umbrella;
but I hope you have taken good care of it."

Gertie looked at Archy and then at the music-box, and Archy looked at the music-box and then
at Gertie.

"Please never take my umbrella again," said Uncle Ebenezer, coming out on the veranda. "I'll
buy you as many umbrellas as you want, bless your hearts."

"But what have you done with it, Archy?" asked mamma, turning around as she rose to have a
full view of the children, and not seeing the umbrella.

"Why, the Green Wizard turned it into this music-box; but we'll go right off and get him to
turn it back. He was a real nice Wizard, and will do anything we ask."

"And he danced, and we danced," said Gertie, her eyes fairly dancing in her head.

Mamma Stewardson was much puzzled to know what all this meant, so she called Gertie and Archy
to her, that they might slowly explain.

Uncle Ebenezer stood quiet almost a minute, running his fingers through his hair, until it
stood on end like porcupine quills. "Ha! I have it," said he. "Some rascally tramp has taken
my umbrella from these innocent children, and given them this trumpery music-box to amuse them
while he escaped."

"Why, Uncle Ebenezer, the music plays splendidly," said Gertie.

"Yes, my dear; yet, though I can buy a thousand more boxes precisely like that one, there isn't
one more such an umbrella. But where is Adolphus? He must go after that tramp."

"I think he is down at the pond sketching," answered mamma.

"Then I must go," exclaimed Uncle Ebenezer, reaching the hat-rack in exactly five steps. He
clapped on the first hat he came to--it was mamma's sun-hat, all trimmed with wild grasses.
Then running through the kitchen, as the nearest way, he spied old John's stable boots, into
which he jumped, kicking off his slippers; and in a jiffy was on a full run toward the woods,
with his long coat flying out behind, mamma's hat bouncing up and down on his head.

In the course of an hour Uncle Ebenezer came back, but without finding the umbrella or catching
the Wizard. He told mamma privately that he thought the children must have fallen asleep in
the woods and dreamed about the Wizard, and that the umbrella was lost there somewhere. However,
you see, that wouldn't account for the music-box; and then Uncle Ebenezer was puzzled. But
Cousin Adolphus was the most puzzled of all, and he shook his head and questioned the children
as though he had never heard of anything quite so amazing.

The next time Adolphus came from the city he brought Uncle Ebenezer a present of a beautiful
silk umbrella with an ivory handle, and it was so much lighter than the old green gingham one
that Uncle Ebenezer was pleased with it at once.

       *       *       *       *       *

One day, late that summer, while a merry party were out on the mill-pond fishing, Uncle Ebenezer
caught something tremendous on his line. It proved to be that old great-handled green gingham
umbrella; but then all torn, rusty, and muddied. Mamma said that Cousin Adolphus looked startled
when he saw that poor umbrella drawn to the surface, and point its slimy ribs at him like long
fingers, and that he seemed glad when the rusty frame was thrown back into the water.

About a month after that Uncle Ebenezer went to a masquerade party, and the following day he
saw Gertie and Archy.

"Children, I caught the Green Wizard of the Forest last night," said he, exultantly. "He was
dressed all in green, as you said, and his other name is Adolphus Stewardson--the rogue! He
wanted to get rid of that umbrella, and now I don't blame him a particle because he did."

[Begun in No. 31 of HARPER'S YOUNG PEOPLE, June 1.]

THE MORAL PIRATES.

BY W. L. ALDEN.

CHAPTER XII.

Though no tramps appeared during the night, the sentinels proved to be useful; for as soon
as the day began to dawn, Harry, who was on sentry duty, called his comrades, and thus they
were enabled to get breakfast early, and to start before six o'clock. They had to wait half
an hour for the first lock to be opened, but after that they had no difficulty in passing through
the other locks. They rowed steadily, taking turns at the oars, and occasionally fastening
the boat to the stern of a canal-boat, which would tow them while they took a short rest. Early
in the afternoon they reached Fort Edward, where they disembarked; and Harry and Tom went in
search of a team, which they hired to carry them to Warrensburg, on the Schroon branch of the
Hudson.

When the teamster drove down to the bank of the canal, Tom and the Sharpe boys began to unload
the boat. Harry stopped them. "There isn't any use in taking the things out of the boat," said
he. "We can draw her out of the canal and put her on the wagon just as she is."

"Her stern will dip under when we haul her bow out," said Tom.

"No, it won't," replied Harry.

"Let's take the things out of the stern-sheets, anyhow," urged Tom. "All our shoes are there,
and we can't afford to lose them."

"Nothing will happen to them," answered Harry, confidently. "It's my boat, and I'm going to
haul her out with the things in her."

Tom said no more, but took hold of the bow of the boat with the others, and they began to pull
her out of the water. As Tom had prophesied, when she was about half way out her stern dipped
under, the water poured in, and nearly everything in the after-part of the boat floated out.
The harm was done now; so the boys hastily dragged the boat up the bank, and then began to
lament their losses.

There was not a shoe left, except the shoes that Harry and Tom had put on when they went in
search of the team. The mast and sail and two oars were floating on the water, and a quantity
of small articles, including the tin frying-pans and a tin pail, had shared the fate of the
shoes, and were lying at the bottom of the canal.

"It was my fault," said Harry, "and I beg everybody's pardon. I'll strip and dive for the things
till I find them." So saying, he threw off his clothes and sprang into the canal. Joe, who
was, next to Harry, the best swimmer of the party, followed his example; and a number of the
villagers and "canalers" collected on the tow-path to watch the divers.

The canal was not more than eight feet deep, but the bottom was very muddy, and the boys had
to feel about in the mud with their feet for the lost articles. They were very fortunate, and
before long succeeded in recovering all the shoes, except one of Joe's, and several other things.
Meanwhile three women and half a dozen girls, all of whom lived on board the fleet of canal-boats
that were lying near by, joined the spectators, and seemed to think that the whole business
was a capital joke. Harry and Joe were now anxious to come out of the water; but they could
not come ashore while these spectators were there, so they swam some distance up the canal,
and crept out behind a barn.

Meanwhile Tom and Jim were busily baling out the boat, and arranging the wet things so that
the sun could dry them. They were so busy that they forgot all about Harry and Joe. Presently
Tom said, "Hark! I think I hear somebody calling."

They listened, and presently they heard a voice in the distance calling, "Tom! Jim! boys! somebody!
bring us our clothes!"

"It's Harry and Joe," exclaimed Tom. "Where on earth are they?"

They looked up the canal, and finally discovered a naked arm waving frantically from behind
a barn that stood near the water. "They must be behind that barn," said Tom. "Why, the mosquitoes
will eat 'em alive. I'll take their clothes to them right away." So saying, Tom gathered up
the shirts, trousers, and hats of the two unhappy divers, and ran with them to their owners.
He found Harry and Joe crouched behind the barn, chattering with cold, and surrounded by clouds
of eager mosquitoes. "We've been here half an hour," cried Joe, "and the mosquitoes would have
finished us in another half hour. I think my right leg is nearly gone already."

"And I know I must have lost a gallon of blood," said Harry.

The boys hurriedly dressed themselves, and returning to the boat, helped to put it on the wagon;
and with the wet shoes hanging from the cart-rungs they started on their ride to Warrensburg.
It was a hot and tedious ride, and as the wagon had no springs, the boys were bumped so terribly
that they ached all over. They tried to sing, but the words were bumped out of them in the
most startling way; and after singing one verse of the "Star-spangled Banner" in this fashion,

  "The St-t-tar-spangl-led-led ba-a-an-na-na--"

they gave it up.

About four o'clock they reached Warrensburg, and after getting some dry sugar to replace that
which had been mixed with canal water, they launched the boat and rowed up the river. They
found it a narrow stream, with a rapid current and a good depth of water. After their tiresome
ride the smooth motion of the boat seemed delightful, and they were really sorry when they
found it was so late that they must camp for the night.

They chose a pleasant sandy spot between the river and the edge of a thick wood. The opposite
bank was also thickly wooded, and they felt as if they were in the depths of a wilderness,
though in reality there were houses quite near at hand. They pitched their tent, made a good
supper--of which they were in need, for they had eaten very little at noon--and then "turned in."

For some reason--perhaps because the mosquitoes had so cruelly maltreated him--Joe was not
sleepy, and after having lain awake a long time while the other boys were sleeping soundly,
he began to feel lonesome. He heard a great many mysterious noises, as any one who lies awake
in a tent always does. The melancholy call of the loon sounded ghostly, and the sighing of
the wind in the trees seemed to him like the breathing of huge animals. After a while he found
himself getting nervous as well as lonesome, and imagined that he saw shadows of strange objects
passing in front of the tent. By-and-by he distinctly heard the twigs and branches crackling,
as somebody or something moved through the woods. The noise came nearer, and suddenly it flashed
upon Joe that a bear was approaching. He crept carefully to the opening of the tent, and putting
his head out, saw indistinctly a large animal moving slowly in the shadow of the bushes only
three or four rods from him.

Joe lost no time in waking up the other boys, cautioning them as he did so not to make the
least noise. "There's a bear close by the tent," he whispered. "I've been listening to him
for a long while, and just now I saw him."

Harry immediately grasped the gun, both barrels of which he had loaded before going to sleep.
Tom wished that he had the hatchet, but as it had been left in the boat, he had no weapon but
his penknife. Thus armed, the two crept stealthily out of the tent to fight the bear, leaving
Joe and Jim in a very unhappy state of mind, with nothing to defend themselves against the
bear, in case he should attack the tent, except a tooth-brush and a lantern.

The outline of the animal could be seen, but Tom and Harry could not make out which end of
it was its head. "You must shoot him just behind the shoulder," whispered Tom; "that's the
only spot where you can kill a bear." Harry said nothing, but watched carefully to see the
animal move. Presently it threw up either its head or tail--the boys could not tell which--and
started toward them. Harry forgot all about shooting at the shoulder, but in his excitement
fired at the animal generally, without picking out any particular spot in which to plant his shot.

The effect of the shot was surprising. The bear set up a tremendous bellow, and by the flash
of the gun the boys saw their dreaded enemy galloping away, with its horns and tail in the
air. Tom burst into a loud laugh. "Come out, Joe," he cried. "Your bear's gone home to be milked--that
is, if Harry hasn't mortally wounded her."

Fortunately Harry had made a miss; and he found his whole charge of shot the next morning in
the trunk of a big white birch-tree. The innocent cow that Joe had mistaken for a bear was,
however, so thoroughly frightened that she did not come near the camp again.

"I stick to it that it was a bear," said Joe, as the boys were wrapping themselves in their
blankets. "Cows go to roost at sunset. Suppose it did bellow: how do you know that bears don't
bellow when they are shot?"

"How about the horns, Joe?" asked Tom.

"There's horned owls--why shouldn't there be horned bears? Anyway, I believe it was a bear,
and I shall stick to it." And to this day Joe believes--or thinks he does--that he had a very
narrow escape from a ferocious bear on the banks of the Schroon.

[TO BE CONTINUED.]

THE IDLE HOUR

  The robin sings on the topmost bough of the spreading maple-tree,
  Where the cool green leaves to the whispering breeze are nodding
    merrily;
  The sunbeams bright from the azure sky go frolicking here and there,
  And the breath of the clover blossom lies sweet on the summer air,

  And under the trees so restfully, where the shadows softest lie,
  Like a woodland nymph in her netted couch between fair earth and sky,
  Behold our dainty darling, safe hidden from friends away,
  Content with the merry sunshine, the robin, and breeze to stay.

LITTLE MADGE.

BY MARY D. BRINE.

"Oh dear! such fun! Don't I wish just for once I could be a rich lady's little girl, and wear
a white dress and slippers, and a blue sash ever so wide, and curls in my hair! I do wish a
fairy could fly right out of the sky this minute, and give me things I want! Oh, dear me!"

Little Madge sat perched on the iron fence surrounding a handsome house, within which a birthday
party was going on merrily. It was dark outside, and the street lamps were not bright enough
to betray this little watcher to the gaze of the young people who were dancing under the light
of brilliant chandeliers, and sending the sweet music of their happy voices out through the
open windows into the silent street, where a few moments before little Madge Lee had been trying
to sell matches. So she had ceased her cry of "Matches! matches!" which seemed so feeble in
comparison to the sounds of merry music that filled the street as she came slowly along, and
had clambered like a little monkey to the top of the iron fence, where at last she sat securely,
watching the good time going on inside the beautiful rooms.

Madge had never in all the eight years of her life owned such things as a white dress, slippers,
or sash. And as for "curls in her hair," her own round head was like a boy's, so closely was
the dark hair cut.

Madge, with several others as unfortunate as herself, lived with an old woman who cared for
them only according to the pennies they could bring in to her each night. Whether the pennies
were begged or stolen or honestly earned made little difference to her. The children were all
waifs and strays whom nobody owned or seemed to care for, and, with the exception of little
Madge, none of them had ever known a parent's love. Her father died when she was a baby, and
after a few years' struggle with poverty, her dear mother had followed him, leaving her child
to the tender mercies of Mrs. McLane. For two years Madge had lived with this woman, roaming
the streets by day, and sleeping on a handful of straw at night. She was scolded when she failed
to bring in her usual amount of pennies, oftener whipped than scolded, and never spoken kindly
to except by some kind-hearted stranger in the street.

On this night her little heart had seemed more than ever despondent and weary, for people didn't
want her matches, and pushed her aside when she would have offered them. And she was just about
ready to cry, when the sound of music fell upon her ear, and drew her toward the house from
whence it proceeded.

While she sat upon the railing, intent upon the scene before her, a voice at her side startled her.

"Is it here ye are, Madge Lay? Bad luck to ye, thin, won't ye be afther catchin' the lickin'
from Granny McLane for not sellin' yer matches! Sure ye needn't be invyin' the stoyle of yer
betthers as kin dance, for lookat!" and seizing what little remained to her of a skirt, Biddy
O'Hara commenced a caper on her toes in such a way as made Madge laugh outright. In an instant
Biddy dropped flat on the ground under the fence, while Madge, in a vain attempt to follow
her example, caught her dress in the railing, and hung helpless, just as a lady, who had been
near the window, looked out to see where the laugh came from.

Poor, frightened Madge! She was seen by the lady, who called to her, kindly, "What is the trouble,
little girl? can't you get down?"

"Whisht! aisy, Madge; don't spake a wurrid for yer life!" was whispered by Biddy from her hiding-place.

But Madge's fright vanished at the kindly words and tone, and she answered: "Please, lady,
I'm caught in the rail; but I wasn't a-doin' any harm, ma'am. I'll go as soon as I can get
loose, please, lady."

"Arrah, thin, Madge Lay, if ye bethray me here, I'll have it out wid ye afther--now moind!"
came again from the frightened Biddy, who had really nothing to be afraid of, only that her
pocket held three stolen handkerchiefs, and her heart a guilty feeling that weighed like lead.

Meanwhile the lady had sent a servant out to release Madge from her predicament, and bade him
also bring the child to the door. There she gave Madge a plate of ice-cream, and told her to
sit down on the step and eat it. "It is late for so young a child to be out alone. How happens
it so with you, little girl?" she asked.

And Madge replied, simply, "Trying to sell matches, ma'am. And I just stopped to see the fun
inside here, that's all; and I happened to laugh, ma'am, and was scared, and stuck on the fence
when I was tryin' to get down."

At last Madge finished her ice-cream, gave the plate to the servant, and thanking him (for
the lady had returned to the children in the parlor), went down the steps with a bright face.

What she and Biddy talked about after that needn't be told here; but what Biddy did is rather
important to know, because but for that particular thing I doubt if this story of "Little Madge"
would have been told. A few moments more Madge watched the party, climbing the fence again
in order to see better, while Biddy, in her rage over Madge's good luck, revenged herself in
her own favorite way--a good slap on the little bare foot which hung over the railing.

The front door stood open, and the light from the hall chandelier shone upon something that
glittered on the door-mat. The servant was not in sight; the merriment in the parlors was increasing;
the way was open to any child who might see and covet the gold locket which lay ready to be
picked up either by honest or dishonest hands. And Biddy O'Hara was just the child to creep
up the steps as she did, and with just such naughty hands as hers pick up the locket, and,
after one instant's examination of it, slip it into the pocket in which were the three stolen
handkerchiefs.

But rapid as had been the girl's examination of the locket, she had been noticed by Madge as
she sat on her high seat. However, she kept quiet about her discovery as presently she and
Biddy went home through the lonely streets; but never had detective sharper eyes to watch than
had Madge, who used her blue orbs to the best advantage before she tumbled down upon her share
of the straw that night, and prepared to sleep--or rather appeared to prepare for sleep; for
not one step toward slumber-land would the little girl go until the locket had been removed
from the hole in the wall where Biddy had so slyly put it.

And so it happened that when, by-and-by, Biddy and all the others were sleeping, Madge crept
over to the hole, and returned with the locket in her own possession. Then she slept too, and
the locket remained safely hidden in the little girl's dress until she arose in the early morning.

"Now, thin, Madge Lay," screamed Mrs. McLane, shaking her finger at the child, "here's thim
matches av yourn, an' moind ye don't come home forninst the eyes av me widout ye've sold the
blissed lot, ivery wan av 'em, or it's sorra a taste av supper ye'll git the noight." So Madge
was pushed out and up the steps into the glad sunshine so grateful to her. And eagerly she
began to search for the house in which the party had been given the night before. It had been
a strange street to Madge, and she could not quite locate it again, though she walked until
her little feet ached, and she finally sat down on the curbstone of a pleasant shady avenue
to rest awhile.

Madge grew discouraged. She looked up at the blue far-off sky, and dimly remembered when people
had explained to her that her mamma and papa, poor as they had been in this world, had gone
to live there and be happy for evermore. She remembered how she had cried, and how her mother
had kissed her the very last thing, and then suddenly turned so pale and cold that the little
girl grew frightened, and cried harder than ever in her life before. She hadn't had a kiss
since that time from anybody; and how the little motherless heart yearned for just one more
warm loving caress from the dear mother who "lived in the sky," as the child expressed it!
So when presently she saw a lady and child at the basement window of the house opposite, she
went over, and, kneeling at the window, offered a box of matches for sale. The lady noticed
the traces of Madge's tears, and kindly inquired the cause as she bought and paid for the matches.
Little Madge replied:

"I was wanting to be kissed, ma'am, and wishing for my mother in heaven, and I was so--so tired
with looking for a lady who had her locket stole, ma'am, and I watched where the girl hid it,
and was goin' to take it back, but I can't find the street, nor house, nor anything, ma'am;
and I wish I had a mother to hold me in her lap like you hold your little girl. It must be
nice to have a mother."

"Poor little girl!" said the lady, and then she suddenly added: "Come inside, please. I'll
let you in, and then I want you to go up stairs with me."

Much astonished, Madge obeyed, and followed the lady up to a pleasant room where a gentleman
was at work amid easels, and half-finished pictures, and the pretty confusion of an artist's
studio.

"Edward, you wanted a model yesterday," said the lady. "Here's a child who might do for your
street picture. See, she carries her matches with her--just the thing."

And so little Madge earned a whole silver dollar for half a day's standing in one position
before the artist, who was delighted with his model, and made a charming likeness of her, matches,
ragged dress, bare feet, and all. The child left the locket with her new friend to be taken
care of until she might find the owner, and then went crying matches through the streets, with
a happy heart, little dreaming of what would result from her morning's work.

Only a few days after that a visitor to the artist's studio was admiring his latest picture,
called "The Model Match Girl."

"What a strange title?" she said.

And he laughed as he replied: "Yes, I gave it that name to please my wife, who brought me the
girl. She was really a model in regard to honesty." And then he told the story of the locket,
and of the gratitude of the little girl for the ice-cream the kind owner of the locket had
given her; and finally the locket was produced, and recognized by the visitor as her own.

"It must have fallen from my chain while I talked to the child, and yet the dishonest girl
got hold of it, after all, before my little match girl had seen it. How I wish I could find her!"

Said the artist in reply: "Well, the girl is coming in a day or two to look at the picture,
and I will send her to you. I had no idea that it was you from whom the locket had been stolen.
It is strange indeed!"

And thus ere very long Madge met her first kind friend, and was led to tell the whole story
of her pitiful life and craving for love. And at last, through the lady's continued kindness,
little Madge was transferred with many other little children from the crowded, noisy, and unwholesome
street which had so long been her home, to the care of those whose business it is to take just
such poor orphaned little ones to new and happy homes far off in the country, where warm, kind
hearts are willing and anxious to adopt them, and bring them up to useful womanhood.

Madge wrote a letter to the lady not long ago, and after telling about her happy times in her
new home, she added, "And, oh! Mrs. ----, this dear lady here kisses me good-night always,
and it feels just as if I had a mother after all."

[Begun in HARPER'S YOUNG PEOPLE No. 37, July 13.]

THE STORY OF THE AMERICAN NAVY.

BY BENSON J. LOSSING.

CHAPTER VI.

