    "Some people, when they return from Italy, say it has no wood,
    and some a great deal. The fact is, that many parts of it,
    Tuscany included, has no wood to speak of: it wants larger
    trees interspersed with the small ones, in the manner of our
    hedge-row elms. A tree of a reasonable height is a god-send.
    The olives are low and hazy-looking, like dry sallows. You
    have plenty of these; but to an Englishman, looking from a
    height, they appear little better than brushwood. Then there
    are no meadows, no proper green fields in June; nothing of
    that luxurious combination of green and russet, of grass, wild
    flowers, and woods, over which a lover of nature can stroll
    for hours, with a foot as fresh as the stag's; unmixed with
    chalk-dust, and an eternal public path, and able to lie down,
    if he will, and sleep in clover. In short--saving, alas! a
    finer sky and a drier atmosphere--we have the best part of
    Italy in books; and this we can enjoy in England. Give me
    Tuscany in Middlesex or Berkshire, and the Valley of Ladies
    between Jack Straw's Castle and Harrow.... To me, Italy had a
    certain hard taste in the mouth: its mountains were too bare,
    its outlines too sharp, its lanes too stony, its voices too
    loud, its long summer too dusty. I longed to bathe myself in
    the grassy balm of my native fields."

As a whole these volumes are full of interest and variety. They introduce us to numerous famous
people, and leave us with a most agreeable impression of their author.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE MORMONS.

THOMAS L. KANE, of Philadelphia, distinguished himself very honorably a year or two ago by
the vindication of the Mormons against calumnies to which they had been subjected in the Western
States, and by appeals for their relief from the sufferings induced by unlooked-for exposure
in their exodus to California. We are indebted to him for an interesting discourse upon the
subject, delivered before the Historical Society of Pennsylvania. He concludes this performance
with the following observations, which we believe to be altogether just. Mr. KANE is a man
of sagacity and integrity, and his opportunities for the formation of a wise opinion upon this
subject were such as very few have possessed:

    "I have gone over the work I assigned myself when I accepted
    your Committee's invitation, as fully as I could do without
    trespassing too largely upon your courteous patience. But I
    should do wrong to conclude my lecture without declaring in
    succinct and definite terms, the opinions I have formed and
    entertain of the Mormon people. The libels, of which they
    have been made the subject, make this a simple act of justice.
    Perhaps, too, my opinion, even with those who know me as you
    do, will better answer its end following after the narrative I
    have given.

    "I have spoken to you of a people; whose industry had made
    them rich, and gathered around them all the comforts, and not
    a few of the luxuries of refined life; expelled by lawless
    force into the wilderness; seeking an untried home far away
    from the scenes which their previous life had endeared to
    them; moving onward, destitute, hunger-sickened, and sinking
    with disease; bearing along with them their wives and
    children, the aged, and the poor, and the decrepid; renewing
    daily on their march, the offices of devotion, the ties of
    family, and friendship, and charity; sharing necessities, and
    braving dangers together, cheerful in the midst of want and
    trial, and persevering until they triumphed. I have told, or
    tried to tell you, of men, who when menaced by famine, and
    in the midst of pestilence, with every energy taxed by the
    urgency of the hour, were building roads and bridges, laying
    out villages, and planting cornfields, for the stranger
    who might come after them, their kinsman only by a common
    humanity, and peradventure a common suffering,--of men, who
    have renewed their prosperity in the homes they have founded
    in the desert,--and who, in their new built city, walled
    round by mountains like a fortress, are extending pious
    hospitalities to the destitute emigrants from our frontier
    lines,--of men who, far removed from the restraints of law,
    obeyed it from choice, or found in the recesses of their
    religion, something not inconsistent with human laws, but
    far more controlling; and who are now soliciting from the
    government of the United States, not indemnity,--for the
    appeal would be hopeless, and they know it--not protection,
    for they now have no need of it,--but that identity of
    political institutions and that community of laws with the
    rest of us, which was confessedly their birthright when they
    were driven beyond our borders.

    "I said I would give you the opinion I formed of the Mormons:
    you may deduce it for yourselves from these facts. But I will
    add that I have not yet heard the single charge against them
    as a community, against their habitual purity of life,
    their integrity of dealing, their toleration of religious
    differences in opinion, their regard for the laws, or their
    devotion to the constitutional government under which we live,
    that I do not from my own observation, or the testimony of
    others, know to be unfounded."

       *       *       *       *       *

ORIGINAL POETRY.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE BRIDE'S REVERIE.

BY MRS. M.E. HEWITT.

  Lonely to-night, oh, loved one! is our dwelling,
    And lone and wearily hath gone the day;
  For thou, whose presence like a flood is swelling
    With joy my life-tide--thou art far away.

  And wearily for me will go the morrow,
    While for thy voice, thy smile, I vainly yearn;
  Oh, from fond thought some comfort I will borrow,
    To wile away the hours till thou return!

  I will remember that first, sweet revealing
    Wherewith thy love o'er my tranced being stole;
  I, like the Pythoness enraptured, feeling
    The god divine pervading all my soul.

  I will remember each fond aspiration
    In secret milled with thy cherished name,
  Till from thy lips, in wildering modulation,
    Those words of ecstasy "I love thee!" came.

  And I will think of all our blest communing,
    And all thy low-breathed words of tenderness;
  Thy voice to me its melody attuning
    Till every tone seemed fraught with a caress.

  And feel thee near me, while in thought repeating
    The treasured memories thou alone dost share
  Hark! with hushed breath and pulses wildly beating
    I hear thy footstep bounding o'er the stair!

  And I no longer to my heart am telling
    The weary weight of loneliness it bore;
  For thou, whose love makes heaven within our dwelling,
    Thou art returned, and all is joy once more.

       *       *       *       *       *

TO ----. BY MRS. R.B.K.

  Oh how I loved thee! how I blessed the hour,
    When first thy lips, wak'ning my trusting heart,
  Like some soft southern gale upon a flower,
    Into a blooming hope, murmured "we ne'er will part."

  Never to part! alas! the lingering sound
    Thro' the sad echoes of pale Memory's cave,
  Startles once more the hope my young soul found,
    Into bright hues, but, only for the grave ...

  Must we then part! ah, till this heavy hour,
    Fraught with the leaden weight of sorrowing years,
  I could have  stemmed grief's tide like some light shower,
    Where shows a rainbow hope to quell all idle fears.

