The youth in the Stalls, fresh from college or school, will be about as much equal to the translation
offhand as is young Sir Lucian Brent when asked by Mr. CATHCART to give the meaning of the
Latin on the ancient brasses in the old church, and they won't thank you for bringing school
studies into playtime. On the whole, nothing is gained by this Dr. Panglossian introduction
of Latin quotation; it doesn't help the action, nor emphasise a character, nor does it strengthen
a situation, to bring in even the most appropriate lines which are not "in a language understanded
of the people." Sir Richard Philliter, Q.C., might be known in private life to his friends
as Sir HORACE DAVUS (Non Oedipus). Mr. CATHCART's Pedgrift, parish clerk and sexton, is an
excellent little character-sketch, as is also that of Mrs. Hornutt, the pew-opener.

As for Mr. FORBES ROBERTSON and Miss KATE RORKE, they seemed to me to be what the author had
made them--i.e., stagey. Miss DOLORES DRUMMOND, as Mrs. Veale, is very good, and Miss MARIE
LINDEN, except in one stagey bit in the Third Act, plays with great care and judgment. The
interior of the old country church (Act III.) is a masterpiece of scenic art and stage arrangement,--a
perfect picture by Mr. W. HARFORD. I wish I could say the same of the dénoûment of the interrupted
marriage, which strongly reminded me of a pictorial heading to some exciting chapter in a penny
novelette or The London Journal. It is a very weak finish, and not strengthened or improved
in any way by the line Sir Richard Philliter, Q.C., has to say, on which the Curtain descends.
And what does everybody exclaim afterwards? Simply, "Why there's nothing for HARE to do in
it. We thought we should see him again, and that he would come out all right at last." That's
the feeling. They can't bear the idea of their favourite first-class Comedian being a sordid,
swindling old villain, unless the character be exceptionally amusing. Lady Bountiful might
be termed "A bald piece," because it has so little HARE.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE BOAT-RACE TEN YEARS HENCE!

(WHEN NO DOUBT IT WILL BE CONDUCTED ON STRICTLY SCIENTIFIC PRINCIPLES.)

The crews were met together on the day fixed for the event in the Council Room of the Combined
Universities Barge moored at Putney. Fifteen of the athletes wore the usual training mufti,
which contrasted strongly with the garb of the sixteenth--a complete suit of flannels. "To
quote our ancestors--'Why this thusness?'" asked the Camford Stroke, as he recognised one of
his own men in this strange apparel.

"Why not?" replied the other; "surely we are not going to pull in tweeds?"

"We are not going to pull at all," explained the leader of the Oxbridge Eight, courteously;
"I think we can manage the matter in a more satisfactory fashion. It was all very well in the
Nineties to race in real earnest, but now that we have reached the Twentieth Century our civilisation
teaches something better."

"Certainly!" returned the Camford Stroke; "and I think we had better get at once to business.
Who has the sworn information of our respective coaches?"

"I have," replied the Hon. Solicitor to the rival Boating Clubs; "and, if you will allow me,
I will produce them--or rather it, for the coaches have affirmed jointly."

All present bowing acquiescence, the man of law, putting on his spectacles, and opening a brief-bag,
produced a document, and read as follows:--

"It is our opinion that Oxbridge, as the heavier crew, has an advantage over Camford, which
is only lessened, and certainly not entirely removed, by the better training of the latter.
Moreover, the steering of the Oxbridge coxwain is infinitely preferable to the steering of
his rival. The times of the various trials, too, have in every instance given a distinct advantage
to Oxbridge. Again, they have a better boat. So, given fine weather, the result is a foregone
conclusion. Oxbridge must win, although no doubt Camford would make a good fight for it, and
come in a respectable second."

"I suppose we may add, 'barring accidents'?" suggested the Camford Stroke, with rather a forced
laugh.

"Sir!" exclaimed the Hon. Solicitor, with some severity. "In a company of gentlemen like those
present, accidents always are barred!"

"Quite so," admitted the Camford champion, "and I suppose our committee of the latest Senior
Wrangler and the youngest Double First have considered what I may call the atmospheric conditions
under which the race would have taken place?"

"Yes, Sir, we have, and those conditions are all unfavourable to the success of Camford," was
the ready reply.

"Then I think we have but one more thing to do--to give three hearty cheers for our opponents."
said the Oxbridge Stroke, and a minute later the rafters rang with loud applause.

"But why shouldn't we have rowed it out?" asked the gentleman in flannels--he was a Freshman--a
little later. "Surely that would have been more satisfactory."

"Not at all," was the reply. "The plan is merely a survival of the fittest!" and his answer
afforded general satisfaction.

       *       *       *       *       *

SHELLEY REVISED.

                        Most rhyming men
  Are cradled into poetry by fashion,
  And learn as formula what they print as passion.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Development of Africa, by A.S. WHITE, is advertised. This is White on Black, and no player
in hand. It should be immediately followed by Black on White, or Who takes the Pool? Exciting
match, with one life each.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

KEPT IN THE STABLE.

HEAD GROOM B-LF-R LOQ.:--

  Kept in! Yes, by thunder! Be 't prudence or blunder,
    Gov's fondness for Tithe, or bad weather, or what,
  You're kept in the stable, though fit, ay, and able
    To lead the whole field and to win by a lot.
  A hunter I never bestrode half as clever!
    Tithe? Pooh! He's not in it, my beauty, with you.
  You've breed, style, and mettle, and look in rare fettle.
    If I had to settle, you know what I'd do!

  These gentlemen-riders deem all are outsiders
    Save them: as if gent ever made A 1 jock!
  Ah! ADAM L. GORDON,[1] poor chap, had a word on
    Such matters. I'll warrant he sat like a rock,
  And went like a blizzard. Yes, beauty, it is hard
    To eat off your head in the stable like this.
  Too long you have idled; but wait till you're bridled!
    The hunt of the season I swear you won't miss,

  It has been hard weather, although, beauty, whether
    'Tis that altogether your chance that postponed,
  Or whether Boss SOLLY committed a folly--
    No matter! A comelier crack he ne'er owned,
  Although 'tis I say it who shouldn't. The way it
    Has snowed and has frozen may be his excuse;
  But when you're once started, deer-limbed, lion-hearted,
    I warrant, my beauty, you'll go like the deuce. (All whip shun
    When riding such rattlers, and trust to the curb.)
  That mare was your sort, lad. I guess there'll be sport, lad,
    When you make strong running, and near the last jump.
  And you, when extended, look "bloodlike and splendid."
    Ah! poor LINDSAY GORDON was sportsman and trump.

  I see your sleek muzzle in front! It will puzzle
    Your critics, my boy, to pick holes in you then:
  There's howling "HISTORICUS,"--he's but a sorry cuss!
    WEG, too, that grandest of all grand old men;
  He's ridden some races; of chances and paces,
    Of crocks versus cracks he did ought to be judge.
  He sees you are speedy; when MORLEY sneers "Weedy,"
    Or LAB doubts your staying, WEG knows it's all fudge!

  We're biding our time, lad. Your fettle is prime, lad;
    Though we're frost-bound now, open weather must come,
  At least after Easter; and, beauty, when we stir.
    And forge to the front, lad, we'll just make things hum.
  In spite of much ruction concerning Obstruction,
    I wish--in a whisper--we'd started before,
  And, forcing the running, discarding all cunning,
    Romped in--as we will--'midst a general roar!

[Footnote 1: ADAM LINDSAY GORDON, the ardent, horse-loving Australian poet.]

       *       *       *       *       *

MORE IBSENITY.

Ghosts at the Royalty. "Alas, poor Ghosts!" A shady piece. "No money taken at the doors" on
this occasion, which is making a virtue of necessity. This being the case, Ghosts was, and
if played again will, be witnessed by an audience mainly composed of "Deadheads." Lively this.
The Critics have spoken out strongly, and those interested in this Ibsenity should read the
criticisms presumably by Mr. CLEMENT SCOTT in The Telegraph and Mr. MOY THOMAS in The Daily
News. Stingers; but as outspoken as they are true, and just in all their dealings with this
Ibsenian craze.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Les Oiseaux."--Mrs. RAM says she pities any unfortunate man whose wife has a fearful temper.
She knows one such husband who quite quails before his wife, "and I'm not surprised," adds
Mrs. R., "for I know her, and she's a regular ptarmigan."

       *       *       *       *       *

The Coming Census.--CARLYLE said, "The population of the British Empire is composed of so many
millions, mostly fools." Will the Census be taken on the First of April?

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

OUR BOOKING-OFFICE.

The Baron can highly recommend The Wages of Sin, by LUCAS MALET. "I am informed," says the
B. DE B.-W., "that this is the nom de plume of an Authoress. This MALET should be Femalet."
Be this as it may, the Baron, who is discretion itself, will not attempt to penetrate beyond
the veil. Some of the writing is a bit tall; but thank heaven, my old æsthetic friend, "O-the-pity-of-it"
occurs only once; and O the pity of it when he does so, and gives a "MAUDLE and POSTLETHWAITE"
tone to the passage in question. What does "huffle" mean? (Vol. III., p. 82.) Genius has a
right to create words; and when Genius does so, the very sound of the word conveys its meaning
with and frequently without the context. "But I'm huffled," says the Baron, "if I understand
it here." Still "huffled" is a good-substitute for strong language, when you're ruffled. Don't
let the light-hearted reader be deterred by the slow pace of Volume One; but stick to it, and
avoid skipping. A selfish mean cuss is the "hero," so to style him; and personally, the Baron
would consider him in Society as a first-class artistic bore. The character is drawn with great
skill, as are they all. The description of Mrs. Crookendon's after-dinner party is as life-like
as if it were a well-staged scene in a well-written and well-cast Drama.

"I have been dipping into Country House Sketches, by C.C. RHYS," says the Baron, "and have
come to the conclusion that if the author, youthful I fancy, would give himself time, and have
the patience to 'follow my LEVER,' the result would be a Jack Hinton Junior, with a smack of
Soapey Sponge in it." The short stories are all, more or less, good, and would be still better
but for a certain cocksureness about them which savours of the man in a country house who will
insist on telling you a series of good stories about himself, one after the other, until the
guests in the smoking-room, in sheer despair of ever getting their turn of talking about themselves,
or of turning on the tap of their own good stories, light their candles, yawn, and go pensively
to bed.

My "Faithful Co." informs me that he has been reading some very excellent Sketches of England,
by a "Foreign Artist," and a "Foreign Author." The latter is no less a person than the genial
representative of the Journal des Débats in London, Mons. P. VILLARS. My "Co." says that, take
it all round, this is one of the best books upon La Perfide Albion he has ever read. Both scribe
and illustrator are evidently fond of the "Foreigners" they find in the British Isles. Mons.
VILLARS, however, makes one startling assertion, which has taken my "Co," by surprise. The
"Foreign Author" declares that "laughter never struck his ears." Now our Monsieur is an admirable
raconteur, and if he ever told one of his capital stories to an Englishman of average intelligence,
he must have heard laughter. He has also read a rather strange work called, What will Mrs.
Grundy say? My "Co." declares that, considering its subject, the book, which is not without
merit, might be recommended as a disciplinary exercise during Lent.

Says "Co. Junior," to the Baron, "Sir, I've just come across AUSTIN DOBSON and his Four Frenchwomen."
"Hold!" cries the Baron, frowning. "No scandal." "Nay, Sir," quoth "Co. Junior," nervously.
"'tis but the title of a book." "That is another thing," says the Baron, waving his hand, "proceed!"
"It is about Mlle. DE CORDAY, Madame ROLAND, the Princesse DE LAMBALLE, and Madame DE GENLIS.
I recommend it, Sir. Tolle, Lege! "And with a bow "Co. Junior," withdraws from the presence.

Quoth the Baron, "I was looking again into Saint Monica, just to see if I might like it any
better than I did on the first occasion--which, "with me hand upon me hearrt," as Doctor O'Q.
says, I cannot say I do,--when I came upon the following misprint,--"This woman, nevertheless,
worshipped him as the god of her idoltary." It's a beautiful word, "idoltary," and so much
better than the ordinary way of spelling it. So, after all, there is more in Saint Monica than
I had expected. In fact, its chief fault is that it is too much spun out; and, just at this
time, Saint Monica mustn't be associated in any sort of way with the House at Cambridge where
they spin.

THE BARON DE BOOK-WORMS.

       *       *       *       *       *

TO A DÉBUTANTE.

  Fair Maiden of unclouded brow
    Who, gaily, 'mid the gay the gayest,
  To England, Home, and Duty now
            Oblation payest.

  Gay seeming,--if the milliner's
    Can cheer, the florist's homage sightly;
  And yet, unless my fancy errs,
            Thou shudderest slightly.

  Is it a sigh for childhood's bliss,
    A dread of what is coming, come what
  May matrimonially--or is
            It draughty somewhat?

  St. James's corridors are long
    As Art, as Life thy raiment brief is
  (Except the train, of course)--and strong
            Mamma's relief is.

  In vulgar phrase, "Your mother knows
    You're out," at length. Such triumphs too dear
  Are sometimes purchased. I suppose
            She fidgets you, dear.

  "The Countess!--bow, child, to the Earl!--
    Those terrible HYDE PARKES! Their posies
  Look quite too vulgar; cut them, girl.
            How red your nose is!

  "Quick! take the powder-puff, my love--
    Not on your bouquet or your hair now!--
  Don't bungle so; you'll drop that glove--
            Please take more care now.

  "You stoop like any bourgeoise chit.
    Who'd think you educated highly?
  No, not so stiff. Do blush a bit,
            And simper shyly."

  Ah! Maiden fair of cloudless air.
    This kind of thing is hardly pleasant.
  Indeed, I'm thankful not to wear
            Thy shoes at present!

       *       *       *       *       *

"THE FLOWERS THAT BLOOM, TRA-LA!"

In the Times for March 12th appeared a notice of The Spring Flower Show, wherein it was stated
that a silver medal was awarded to Mr. BARR for his "pretty collections, which included the
spurius Henry Irving." There's an "o" omitted, of course, but it's the same word. Who is the
"spurious HENRY IRVING"? Where does this flower of the Drama flourish, away from the Lyceum
Theatre? What and where does HENRICUS SPURIUS play? Does he appear in the Hare-Bells? Is he
to bloom in Covent Garden? or is it, after all, only a plant? There is only one HENRICUS IRVINGUS,
and he's not "spurius."

       *       *       *       *       *

QUEER QUERIES.

HEALTH.--I am not an invalid, but I suffer from giddiness, a feeling of suffocation, with excruciating
pains, and apparent cessation of the heart's action. I am also so nervous, that, whenever the
door is opened, I begin to scream loudly. My mental feebleness finds vent in puns that have
alienated my oldest friends. Could some Correspondent explain these symptoms? I do not believe
in Doctors, but am taking "Soft-sawder's Emulgent Balsam of Aconitine." It does not seem to
have done me much good yet, but that is probably due to my not having tried it long enough.--RATHER
ANXIOUS.

       *       *       *       *       *

A DANCING-ON-NOTHING GIRL.--Talk of The Dancing Girl at the Haymarket--of course people will
talk--why she's nothing to the girls who dance to M. JACOBI's inimitable ballet-music at the
Alhambra. Here they have a magic show, which "puzzles the Quaker;" and I don't mind admitting
that I was the quaker when I saw a fair and comely young lady up in the air standing still
and dancing on nothing at all! Certainly "Aerolithe" is as good as any of her marvellous predecessors,
the Vanishing Girl included. As a conjuror, Mr. CARL HERTZ, who I take to be the inventor of
the above illusion, is also uncommonly neat, and this "Ten o'Clock," to all lovers of the marvellous,
can be recommended by

THE FACULTY FOR AMUSEMENT.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

"OH, NO, WE NEVER MENTION HIM!"

    [HER MAJESTY in the evening witnessed the performance of The
    Gondoliers, a Comic Opera, composed by Sir ARTHUR SULLIVAN,
    in the Waterloo Chamber, by the Savoy Theatre Company, under
    the management of MR. R. D'OYLY CARTE.--From the Times Court
    Circular, Monday, March 9.]

"A comic Opera, composed by Sir ARTHUR SULLIVAN." Quite so. But where does W.S. GILBERT come
in? Let us see. After giving the programme, and after giving all the characters and the supers,
the words "Dramatis Personæ" occur as an after-thought, and underneath are the names of the
Musical Director, Stage Manager, Wig Provider, &c., &c. Well, "W.S.G." doesn't come in here.
After the highly successful performance, R. D'OYLY CARTE, says the Times C.C., "had the honour
of being presented to HER MAJESTY, who expressed her warm appreciation of the manner in which
the performance was conducted." Did R. D'OYLY think of mentioning that "the words" were by
W.S.G.? And then it is told how D'OYLY refused to take any payment for the performance. Noble,
generous-hearted, large-minded, and liberal D'OYLY! Sir ARTHUR COURTLY SULLIVAN's name was
to the Bill, and so his consent to this extra act of generosity may be taken for granted. But
what said Sir BRIAN DE BOIS GILBERT? By the merry-maskins, but an he be not pleased, dub me
knight Samingo! Will D'OYLY be dubbed Knight? And what sort of a Knight? Well, remembering
a certain amusing little episode in the more recent history of the Savoy Theatre, why not a
"Carpet Knight"?

       *       *       *       *       *

A MERE SUGGESTION FOR NEXT TIME.--Last Tuesday, under the heading of "To-day," the Times announced
that "at the Society of Arts Mr. J. STARKIE GARDNER, as Cantor Lecturer, would discourse on
'Enamelling and Damascening,' Professor H. HERKOMER being in the Chair." Our excellent Bushian
Professor was the right man in the right place, being so interested in theatrical matters;
but, at the same time, wouldn't the lecture on "Damascening," or "How to Dam-a-scene," have
been more suitably given at the Playwreckers' Club, with Mr.