Towards the month of November a Hydriote brig of war, commanded by the nephew of the brave
Criézy, sailed to Cephalonia to take him on board, and bring him to Missolonghi; but the Septinsular
government, not permitting ships bearing a Greek flag to come into its harbours, Byron was
obliged to pass to Zante in a small vessel, and to join the Greek brig afterwards, which was
waiting for him near Zante. Hardly was Byron on board when he kissed the mainmast, calling
it "sacred wood." The ship's crew astonished at this whimsical behaviour, regarded him in silence;
suddenly Byron turned towards the captain and the sailors, whom he embraced with tears, and
said to them, "It is by this wood that you will consolidate your independence." At these words
the sailors, moved with enthusiasm, regarded him with admiration. Byron soon reached Missolonghi:
the members of the Administrative Council received him at the head of two thousand soldiers
drawn up in order. The artillery of the place, and the discharge of musquetry announced the
happy arrival of this great man. All the inhabitants ran to the shore, and welcomed him with
acclamations. As soon as he had entered the town, he went to the hotel of the Administrative
Council, where he was complimented by Porphyrios, Archbishop of Arta, Lepanto and Etolia, accompanied
by all his clergy. The first words of Byron were, "Where is the brother of the modern Leonidas?"
Constantine Botzaris, a young man, tall and well made, immediately stepped forward, and Byron
thus accosted him:--"Happy mortal! Thou art the brother of a hero, whose name will never be
effaced in the lapse of ages!" Then perceiving a great crowd assembled under the windows of
the hotel, he advanced towards the casement, and said, "Hellenes! you see amongst you an Englishman
who has never ceased to study Greece in her antiquity, and to think of her in her modern state;
an Englishman who has always invoked by his vows that liberty, for which you are now making
so many heroic efforts. I am grateful for the sentiments which you testify towards me; in a
short time you will see me in the middle of your phalanxes, to conquer or perish with you."
A month afterwards the government sent him a deputation, charged to offer him a sword and the
patent of Greek citizenship; at the same time the town of Missolonghi inscribed him in its
archives. For this public act they prepared a solemn ceremony for him; they fixed beforehand
the day--they invited there by circular letters the inhabitants of the neighbouring districts--and
more than twenty thousand persons arrived at Missolonghi. Byron in a Greek costume, preceded
and followed by all the military, who loved him, proceeded to the church, where the Archbishop
Porphyrios and the bishop of Rogon, Joseph, that martyr of religion and his country, received
him in the vestibule of the church, clothed in their sacerdotal habits; and, after having celebrated
mass, they offered him the sword and the patent of citizenship. Byron demanded that the sword
should be first dedicated on the tomb of Marco Botzaris; and immediately the whole retinue,
and an immense crowd, went out of the church to the tomb of that warrior, which had been ornamented
with beautiful marble at the expense of the poet.

The archbishop placed the sword upon this tomb, and then Byron, to inspire the Greeks with
enthusiasm, advanced with a religious silence, and stopping all on a sudden, he pronounced
this discourse in the Greek tongue:--"What man reposes buried under this stone? What hollow
voice issues from this tomb? What is this sepulchre, from whence will spring the happiness
of Greece? But what am I saying? Is it not the tomb of Marco Botzaris, who has been dead some
months, and who, with a handful of brave men, precipitated himself upon the numerous ranks
of the most formidable enemies of Greece? How dare I approach the sacred place where he reposes--I,
who neither possess his heroism nor his virtues? However, in touching this tomb, I hope that
its emanations will always inflame my heart with patriotism." So saying, and advancing towards
the sepulchre, he kissed it while shedding tears. Every spectator exclaimed, "Lord Byron for
ever!" "I see," added his lordship, "the sword and the letter of citizenship, which the government
offers me; from this day I am the fellow-citizen of this hero, and of all the brave people
who surround me. Hellenes! I hope to live with you, to fight the enemy with you, and to die
with you if it be necessary." Byron, superior to vulgar prejudice, saw in the manners of the
pallikares an ingenuous simplicity, a manly frankness and rustic procedure, but full of honour;
he observed in the people a docility and constancy capable of the greatest efforts, when it
shall be conducted by skilful and virtuous men; he observed amongst the Greek women natural
gaiety, unstudied gentleness, and religious resignation to misfortunes.

Byron did not pretend to bend a whole people to his tastes and European habits. He came not
to censure with a stern look their costumes, their dances, and their music; on the contrary,
he entered into their national dances, he learned their warlike songs, he dressed himself like
them, he spoke their language; in a word, he soon became a true Roumeliote. Consequently, he
was adored by all Western Greece; every captain acknowledged him with pleasure as his chief;
the proud Souliots gloried in being under his immediate command. The funds of the first loan
being addressed to him, and submitted to his inspection, gave him influence, not only over
continental Greece, but even over the Peloponnesus; so that he was in a situation, if not sufficient
to stifle discord, at least to keep it within bounds. Not having yet fathomed the character
of all the chief people, as well civil as military, he was sometimes deceived in the beginning
of his sojourn, which a little hurt his popularity; but being completely above trifling passions,
being able to strengthen by his union with it the party which appeared to him the most patriotic,
he might without any doubt, with time and experience, have played a part the most magnificent
and salutary to Greece. At first he had constructed, at his own expense, a fort in the little
isle of Xéclamisma, the capture of which would have given great facilities to the enemies to
attack by sea Missolonghi or Anatoliko. Missolonghi gave to this important fort the name of
"Fort Byron." This nobleman conceived afterwards, studied and prepared an expedition against
the strong place of Lepanto, the capture of which would have produced consequences singularly
favourable. Once in possession of the means of regularly paying the soldiers, he would have
been able to form a choice body, and take the town, which did not present any difficulty of
attack, either on account of the few troops shut up there, or the weakness of its fortifications.
Byron only waited the arrival of the loan, to begin his march.

Thus he led an agreeable life in the midst of a nation which he aimed at saving. Enchanted
with the bravery of the Souliots, and their manners, which recalled to him the simplicity of
Homeric times, he assisted at their banquets, extended upon the turf; he learnt their pyrrhic
dance, and he sang in unison the airs of Riga, harmonizing his steps to the sound of their
national mandolin. Alas! he carried too far his benevolent condescension. Towards the beginning
of April he went to hunt in the marshes of Missolonghi. He entered on foot in the shallows;
he came out quite wet, and, following the example of the pallikares accustomed to the malaria,
he would not change his clothes, and persisted in having them dried upon his body. Attacked
with an inflammation upon the lungs, he refused to let himself be bled, notwithstanding the
intreaties of his physician, of Maurocordato and all his friends. His malady quickly grew worse;
on the fourth day Byron became delirious; by means of bleeding he recovered from his drowsiness,
but without being able to speak; then, feeling his end approaching, he gave his attendants
to understand that he wished to take leave of the captains and all the Souliots. As each approached,
Byron made a sign to them to kiss him. At last he expired in the arms of Maurocordato, whilst
pronouncing the names of his daughter and of Greece. His death was fatal to the nation, which
it plunged in mourning and tears.

       *       *       *       *       *

MANNERS & CUSTOMS OF ALL NATIONS.

       *       *       *       *       *

CEREMONIES RELATING TO THE HAIR.

(For the Mirror.)

Among the ancient Greeks, all dead persons were thought to be under the jurisdiction of the
infernal deities, and therefore no man (says Potter) could resign his life, till some of his
hairs were cut to consecrate to them. During the ceremony of laying out, clothing the dead,
and sometimes the interment itself, the hair of the deceased person was hung upon the door,
to signify the family was in mourning. It was sometimes laid upon the dead body, sometimes
cast into the funeral pile, and sometimes placed upon the grave. Electra in Sophocles says,
that Agamemnon had commanded her and Chrysothemis to pay him this honour:--

  "With drink-off'rings and locks of hair we must,
  According to his will, his tomb adorn."

Candace in Ovid bewails her calamity, in that she was not permitted to adorn her lover's tomb
with her locks.

At Patroclus's funeral, the Grecians, to show their affection and respect to him, covered his
body with their hair; Achilles cast it into the funeral pile. The custom of nourishing the
hair on religious accounts seems to have prevailed in most nations. Osiris, the Egyptian, consecrated
his hair to the gods, as we learn from Diodorus; and in Arian's account of India, it appears
it was a custom there to preserve their hair for some god, which they first learnt (as that
author reports) from Bacchus.

The Greeks and Romans wore false hair. It was esteemed a peculiar honour among the ancient
Gauls to have long hair. For this reason Julius Caesar, upon subduing the Gauls, made them
cut off their hair, as a token of submission. In the royal family of France, it was a long
time the peculiar mark and privilege of kings and princes of the blood to wear long hair, artfully
dressed and curled; every body else being obliged to be polled, or cut round, in sign of inferiority
and obedience. In the eighth century, it was the custom of people of quality to have their
children's hair cut the first time by persons they had a particular honour and esteem for,
who, in virtue of this ceremony, were reputed a sort of spiritual parents or godfathers to
them. In the year 1096, there was a canon, importing, that such as wore long hair should be
excluded coming into church when living, and not be prayed for when dead. Charlemagne wore
his hair very short, his son shorter; Charles the Bald had none at all. Under Hugh Capet it
began to appear again; this the ecclesiastics were displeased with, and excommunicated all
who let their hair grow. Peter Lombard expostulated the matter so warmly with Charles the Young,
that he cut off his own hair; and his successors, for some generations, wore it very short.
A professor of Utrecht, in 1650, wrote expressly on the question, Whether it be lawful for
men to wear long hair? and concluded for the negative. Another divine, named Reeves, who had
written for the affirmative, replied to him. In New England a declaration was inscribed in
the register of the colony against the practice of wearing long hair, which was principally
levelled at the Quakers, with unjust severity.

P.T.W.

       *       *       *       *       *

Pagoda in Kew Gardens.

In one of the wildernesses of Kew Gardens stands the Great Pagoda, erected in the year 1762,
from a design in imitation of the Chinese Taa. The base is a regular octagon, 49 feet in diameter;
and the superstructure is likewise a regular octagon on its plan, and in its elevation composed
of 10 prisms, which form the 10 different stories of the building. The lowest of these is 26
feet in diameter, exclusive of the portico which surrounds it, and 18 feet high; the second
is 25 feet in diameter, and 17 feet high; and all the rest diminish in diameter and height,
in the same arithmetical proportion, to the ninth story, which is 18 feet in diameter and 10
feet high. The tenth story is 17 feet in diameter, and, with the covering, 20 feet high, and
the finishing on the top is 17 feet high; so that the whole structure, from the base to the
top of the fleuron, is 163 feet. Each story finishes with a projecting roof, after the Chinese
manner, covered with plates of varnished iron of different colours, and round each of them
is a gallery enclosed with a rail. All the angles of the roof are adorned with large dragons,
eighty in number, covered with a kind of thin glass of various colours, which produces a most
dazzling reflection; and the whole ornament at the top is double gilt. The walls of the building
are composed of very hard bricks; the outside of well-coloured and well-matched greystocks,
(bricks,) neatly laid. The staircase is in the centre of the building. The prospect opens as
you advance in height; and from the top you command a very extensive view on all sides, and,
in some directions, upwards of forty miles distant, over a rich and variegated country.

       *       *       *       *       *

FINE ARTS

       *       *       *       *       *

MR. HAYDON'S PICTURE OF "CHAIRING THE MEMBERS."

In our last volume we were induced to appropriate nearly six of our columns to a description
of Mr. Haydon's Picture of the Mock Election in the King's Bench Prison--or rather the first
of a series of pictures to illustrate the Election, the subject of the present notice being
the Second, or the Chairing of the Members, which was intended for the concluding scene of
the burlesque. It will, therefore, be unnecessary for us here to give any additional explanation
of the real life of these paintings, except so far as may be necessary to the explanation of
the present picture.

The "Chairing" was acted on a water butt one evening, but was to have been again performed
in more magnificent costume the next day; just, however, as all the actors in this eccentric
masquerade, High Sheriff, Lord Mayor, Head Constable, Assessor, Poll Clerks, and Members, were
ready dressed, and preparing to start, the marshal interfered, stopped the procession, and,
after some parley, was advised to send for the guards.

"About the middle of a sunny day," says Mr. Haydon, "when all was quiet, save the occasional
cracking of a racket ball, while some were reading, some smoking, some lounging, some talking,
some occupied with their own sorrows, and some with the sorrows of their friends, in rushed
six fine grenadiers with a noble fellow of a sergeant at their head, with bayonets fixed, and
several rounds of ball in their cartouches, expecting to meet (by their looks) with the most
desperate resistance."

"The materials thus afforded me by the entrance of the guards, I have combined in one moment;"
or "I have combined in one moment what happened at different moments; the characters and soldiers
are all portraits. I have only used the poets and painters' license, to make out the second
part of the story, a part that happens in all elections, viz. the chairing of the successful
candidates."

