This day, on board the Peacock, they witnessed a sea-fight between a whale and one of its many
enemies. The sea was quite smooth, and offered the best possible view of the whole combat.
First, at a distance from the ship, a whale was seen floundering in a most extraordinary way,
lashing the smooth sea into a perfect foam, and endeavouring apparently to extricate himself
from some annoyance. As he approached the ship, the struggle continuing and becoming more violent,
it was perceived that a fish, apparently about twenty feet long, held him by the jaw, his contortions,
spouting, and throes, all betokening the agony of the huge monster. The whale now threw himself
at full length from the water with open mouth, his pursuer still hanging to the jaw, the blood
issuing from the wound and dyeing the sea to a distance around; but all his flounderings were
of no avail; his pertinacious enemy still maintained his hold, and was evidently getting the
advantage of him. Much alarm seemed to be felt by the many other whales around. These "killers,"
as they are called, are of a brownish colour on the back, and white on the belly, with a long
dorsal fin. Such was the turbulence with which they passed, that a good view could not be had
of them to make out more nearly the description. These fish attack a whale in the same way
as dogs bait a bull, and worry him to death. They are armed with strong sharp teeth, and generally
seize the whale by the lower jaw. It is said that the only part of them they eat is the tongue.
The whalers give some marvellous accounts of these killers, and of their immense strength;
among them, that they have been known to drag a whale away from several boats which were towing
it to the ship.

WAR DANCES OF THE NEW ZEALANDERS.

Wishing to see their war-dances, I requested the chief Pomare to gratify us with an exhibition,
which he consented to do. The ground chosen was the hillside of Mr. Clendon, our consul's place,
where between three and four hundred natives, with their wives and children, assembled. Pomare
divided the men into three parties or squads, and stationed these at some distance from each
other. Shortly after this was done, I received a message from him, to say that they were all
hungry, and wanted me to treat them to something to eat. This was refused until they had finished
their dance, and much delay took place in consequence. Pomare and his warriors were at first
immoveable; but they, in a short time, determined they would unite on the hill-top, which was
accordingly ordered, although I was told they were too hungry to dance well. Here they arranged
themselves in a solid column, and began stamping, shouting, jumping, and shaking their guns,
clubs, and paddles in the air, with violent gesticulations, to a sort of savage time. A more
grotesque group cannot well be imagined; dressed, half-dressed, or entirely naked. After much
preliminary action, they all set off, with a frantic shout, at full speed in a war-charge,
which not only put to flight all the animals that were feeding in the neighbourhood, but startled
the spectators. After running about two hundred and fifty yards, they fired their guns and
halted, with another shout. They then returned in the same manner, and stopped before us, a
truly savage multitude, wrought up to apparent frenzy, and exhibiting all the modes practised
of maiming and killing their enemies, until they became exhausted, and lay down on the ground
like tired dogs, panting for breath. One of the chiefs then took an old broken dragoon-sword,
and began running to and fro before us, flourishing it, and, at the same time, delivering a
speech at the top of his voice. The speech, as interpreted to me, ran thus: "You are welcome,
you are our friends, and we are glad to see you," frequently repeated. After three or four
had shewn off in this way, they determined they must have something to eat, saying that I had
promised them rice and sugar, and they ought to have it. Mr. Clendon, however, persuaded them
to give one of their feast-dances. The performers consisted of about fifteen old, and as many
young persons, whom they arranged in close order. The young girls laid aside a part of their
dress to exhibit their forms to more advantage, and they commenced a kind of recitative, accompanied
by all manner of gesticulations, with a sort of guttural husk for a chorus. It was not necessary
to understand their language to comprehend their meaning; and it is unnecessary to add, that
their tastes did not appear very refined, but were similar to what we have constantly observed
among the heathen nations of Polynesia. Their impatience now became ungovernable; and hearing
that the rice and sugar were being served out, they retreated precipitately down the hill,
where they all set to most heartily, with their wives and children, to devour the food. This,
to me, was the most entertaining part of the exhibition. They did not appear selfish towards
each other; the children were taken care of, and all seemed to enjoy themselves. I received
many thanks in passing among them, and their countenances betokened contentment. Although they
were clothed for the occasion in their best, they exhibited but a squalid and dirty appearance,
both in their dress and persons.

       *       *       *       *       *

We now end our extracts from this very entertaining Work,--upon the resources of which we have
so largely drawn,--by the history of Paddy Connel, as described by himself, and who had been
a resident among the Feejeean savages for nearly forty years.

HISTORY OF PADDY CONNEL.

One day, while at the Observatory, I was greatly surprised at seeing one whom I took to be
a Feejeeman, enter my tent, a circumstance so inconsistent with the respect to our prescribed
limit, of which I have spoken. His colour, however, struck me as lighter than that of any native
I had yet seen. He was a short wrinkled old man, but appeared to possess great vigour and activity.
He had a beard that reached to his middle, and but little hair, of a reddish-grey colour, on
his head. He gave me no time for inquiry, but at once addressed me in broad Irish, with a rich
Milesian brogue. In a few minutes he made me acquainted with his story, which, by his own account,
was as follows:--

His name was Paddy Connel, but the natives called him Berry; he was born in the county of Clare,
in Ireland; had run away from school when he was a little fellow, and after wandering about
as a vagabond, was pressed into the army in the first Irish rebellion. At the time the French
landed in Ireland, the regiment to which he was attached marched at once against the enemy,
and soon arrived on the field of battle, where they were brought to the charge. The first thing
he knew or heard, the drums struck up a White Boy's tune, and his whole regiment went over
and joined the French, with the exception of the officers, who had to flee. They were then
marched against the British, and were soon defeated by Lord Cornwallis; it was a hard fight,
and Paddy found himself among the slain. When he thought the battle was over, and night came
on, he crawled off and reached home. He was then taken up and tried for his life, but was acquitted;
he was, however, remanded to prison, and busied himself in effecting the escape of some of
his comrades. On this being discovered, he was confined in the black hole, and soon after sent
to Cork, to be put on board a convict-ship bound to New South Wales. When he arrived there,
his name was not found on the books of the prisoners; consequently he had been transported
by mistake, and was, therefore, set at liberty. He then worked about for several years, and
collected a small sum of money, but unfortunately fell into bad company, got drunk, and lost
it all. Just about this time Captain Sartori, of the ship General Wellesley, arrived at Sydney.
Having lost a great part of his crew by sickness and desertion, he desired to procure hands
for his ship, which was still at Sandalwood Bay, and obtained thirty-five men, one of whom
was Paddy Connel. At the time they were ready to depart, a French privateer, Le Gloriant, Captain
Dubardieu, put into Sydney, when Captain Sartori engaged a passage for himself and his men
to the Feejees. On their way they touched at Norfolk Island, where the ship struck, and damaged
her keel so much that they were obliged to put into the Bay of Islands for repairs. Paddy asserts
that a difficulty had occurred here between Captain Sartori and his men about their provisions,
which was amicably settled. The Gloriant finally sailed from New Zealand for Tongataboo, where
they arrived just after the capture of a vessel, which he supposed to have been the Port au
Prince, as they had obtained many articles from the natives, which had evidently belonged to
some large vessel. Here they remained some months, and then sailed for Sandalwood Bay, where
the men, on account of their former quarrel with Captain Sartori, refused to go on board the
General Wellesley: some of them shipped on board the Gloriant, and others, with Paddy, determined
to remain on shore with the natives. He added, that Captain Sartori was kind to him, and at
parting had given him a pistol, cutlass, and an old good-for-nothing musket; these, with his
sea-chest and a few clothes, were all that he possessed. He had now lived forty years among
these savages. After hearing his whole story, I told him I did not believe a word of it; to
which he answered, that the main part of it was true, but he might have made some mistakes,
as he had been so much in the habit of lying to the Feejeeans, that he hardly now knew when
he told the truth, adding, that he had no desire to tell anything but the truth.

Paddy turned out to be a very amusing fellow, and possessed an accurate knowledge of the Feejee
character. Some of the whites told me that he was more than half Feejee; indeed he seemed to
delight in shewing how nearly he was allied to them in feeling and propensities; and, like
them, seemed to fix his attention upon trifles. He gave me a droll account of his daily employments,
which it would be inappropriate to give here, and finished by telling me the only wish he had
then, was to get for his little boy, on whom he doated, a small hatchet; and the only articles
he had to offer for it were a few old hens. On my asking him if he did not cultivate the ground,
he said at once no; he found it much easier to get his living by telling the Feejeeans stories,
which he could always make good enough for them;--these, and the care of his two little boys,
and his hens, and his pigs, when he had any, gave him ample employment and plenty of food.
He had lived much at Rewa, and, until lately, had been a resident at Levuka, but had, in consequence
of his intrigues, been expelled by the white residents, to the island of Ambatiki. It appeared
that they had unanimously come to the conclusion, that if he did not remove, they would be
obliged to put him to death for their own safety. I could not induce Whippy or Tom to give
me the circumstances that occasioned this determination; and Paddy would not communicate more
than that his residence on Ambatiki was a forced one, and that it was as though he was living
out of the world, rearing pigs, fowls, and children. Of the last description of live stock
he had forty-eight, and hoped that he might live to see fifty born to him. He had had one hundred
wives.

~Extraordinary Escape from Drowning.~

The following Narrative of an extraordinary escape from drowning, after being wrecked among
the Rapids of the St. Lawrence, first appeared in the Liverpool Mercury, the Editors of which
state that they have published it by permission of the writer, who is a well-known merchant
of great respectability in that city. We have extracted it from the pages of the Edinburgh
Magazine, the Editor of which remarks,--"We have been induced to transfer it into our Miscellany,
not merely from the uncommon interest of the detail, but because we happen to be able to vouch
for its authenticity."

