Kippy and the Colonel were conversing on the centre of the well-worn pitch. The Colonel was
speaking.

"... Lose ten runs and the match! I never heard such infernal nonsense. That shot was worth
six runs on any ground. I shall insist on revising the rules."

At the same time I noticed that Kippy was holding a red-and-white box, and the Colonel was
with difficulty thrusting something through the inadequate slit.

It looked like a piece of paper.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *
The Huns at Home.

    "In the final figure, all the dancers make bows and curtseys to
    the Emperor and Empress, who are either standing or sitting at
    this time on the throne."
    --Mr. GERARD'S description of a Court Ball.

Two chiefs with but a single chair to stand on. And yet they call Germany undemocratic!

       *       *       *       *       *

    "M. Painlevé's resemblance to M. Briand (the former Premier) is
    string."--Liverpool Daily Post.

Whereas the tie between British Ministers is generally tape (red).

       *       *       *       *       *

PRESERVING THEIR PROSPECTS.

    [Exemption has been granted by the Warwick Appeal Tribunal to
    a man who applied on the ground that if he lived long enough
    he would inherit £200,000.]

Extract from "The Mid-County Advertiser," July 30th.

Martin Slim, 25, single, categoried A 1, applied for exemption to the Bumpshire Tribunal on
the ground that if he were required to do military service he would lose a substantial fortune.
Applicant explained that he was engaged in an enterprise which involved the planting of 200
acres of young cork-trees. The trees would be ready for cutting in about 1945, by which time
it was estimated the demand for cork legs would enable him to realise a handsome profit on
the sale of the bark. Total exemption was granted, the chairman of the Tribunal congratulating
the young man on his patriotic foresight.

"The Snobington Mercury," August 7th.

Among the recent applicants to the Snobington Appeal Tribunal was the Hon. Geoffrey de Knute.
Solicitor for the applicant stated that his client, who was already giving all his time to
the organisation of hat-trimming competitions for wounded soldiers and other work of national
importance, desired exemption for the reason that he expected shortly to succeed to the Earldom
of Swankshire. There were, he explained, three brothers who stood between his client and the
title, all over military age. It was expected, however, that the age limit would before long
be substantially raised, in which case there was every reason to believe that his client, if
exempted from military service, might outlive his relatives. After some consultation the chairman
stated that ten years' exemption would be granted.

"The Morning News," August 14th.

Sol. Strunski, 18, single, passed for General Service, applied for exemption yesterday before
the Birdcage Walk Tribunal. Applicant's mother, who was observed to be wearing several large
diamond rings and a sable jacket, informed the Tribunal that applicant was her sole support;
that he had been engaged until recently upon a contract for supplying the Army Ordnance Department
with antimacassars, but that, as the result of false charges made against him by persons connected
with the police force, the War Office had removed his name from its list of eligible contractors,
with the result that he was now out of work. He had, however, been offered the secretaryship
of the Russian branch of the No-Conscription Fellowship. It was a great chance for him, she
explained, but he would lose it if he were called up. The Tribunal expressed its sympathy with
Mrs. Strunski, and stated that the War, important as it might be, could not be allowed to mar
the future of such an able youth. Total exemption.

