The Surtees Society, for the publication of inedited MSS. illustrative of the intellectual,
moral, religious, and social condition of those parts of the United Kingdom which constitute
the ancient kingdom of Northumberland, has been remodelled. The subscription for the year is
one guinea, and the works in immediate preparation are, 1. "The Anglo-Saxon Hymnarium."

We have great pleasure in directing attention to the Exhibition of Works of Ancient and Mediæval
Art which is to be opened in the Adelphi next month.

This is a great opportunity for forming an Exhibition of a novel and most interesting kind,
one which is calculated both to interest and amuse the archæologist and the public, and to
instruct the artizan and the manufacturer. We sincerely hope possessors of articles suitable
for exhibition, will not fail to take advantage of it. They should immediately enter into communication
with the Honorary Secretary to the Exhibition, at the rooms of the Society of Arts, or they
will be too late.

The Gentlemen's Magazine realizes all our anticipations. The Reviews are of a very superior
order. Justice is done to as well as upon the authors who have come under notice, and the original
articles are of high value; those upon the Dea Sequana and the History of Words are especially
worthy of notice. Mr. Waller's papers upon Christian Iconography promise to be of the highest
value. A new career of usefulness and honour has been opened up to Sylvanus Urban, who seems
determined to merit the addition lately made to his title, and to become what is really a desideratum
in English Literature--a good "Historical Review."

Messrs. Sotheby and Co. will sell, on Thursday and Friday next, a very choice Selection of
Magnificent Books and Pictorial Works from the Library of an eminent Collector, including large
paper copies of the Antiquarian Works of Visconti, Montfaucon, &c.; the first four editions
of Shakspeare, and other works of similar high character.

We have received the following Catalogues:--

   "Catalogue of most splendid and truly valuable Ancient
    Manuscripts upon Vellum and Paper, particularly rich in
    History and Topography, Heraldry and County Visitations,
    Pedigrees and Family History, Ancient Charters, Royal Grants
    and other Documents of peculiar interest to the Antiquary
    and Historian, on sale by Thomas Thorpe, 13. Henrietta Street,
    Covent Garden; and

   "Bernard Quartch's Catalogue of Foreign and English Books,
    selling for Cash at very reduced Prices, at 16. Edit. C. DE NISCH. Antwerp, 1654.

CLICHTORÆUS, ELUCIDATORIUM ECCLESIASTICUM. Paris, 1556.

CORNER, PROMPTUARIUM DEVOTIONIS. Vienna, 1672.

Odd Volumes.

AMES AND HERBERT'S TYPOGRAPHICAL ANTIQUITIES. By DIBDIN.

F.D. (BRADFORD) is informed that the Towneley Mysteries have been printed by the Surtees Society,
and the Coventry and Chester Mysteries by the Shakspeare Society. We have no doubt the Collection
of Early Mysteries, printed at Basle, may be procured from any of the foreign booksellers.

W. calls our attention to an error in p. 217. The Field of Forty Foot-steps is a distinct work
by Miss Porter, published in the same collection as "Coming Out", but not the second title
of that work.

J.K.R.W. Many thanks, although there has not been an opportunity of using the communications.

G.W. will find the phrase "to dine with Duke Humphrey" very fully illustrated in Nares.

It will contain, amongst other subjects, a large collection of Books on HERALDRY, GENEALOGY,
and FAMILY HISTORY, a few Books on ANGLING, some early ENGLISH DICTIONARIES, Books of POETRY,
HISTORY, TOPOGRAPHY, and ENGRAVINGS, with various works in other interesting departments of
Miscellaneous Literature.

       *       *       *       *       *

