She wondered a little nervously why Oliver was looking so vexed and--yes, so miserable, too!
He seemed terribly out of spirits. Had he and Ethel quarrelled? The thought gave a look of
tender inquiry to her eyes as she held out her hand to him. And on meeting that sweet glance,
Oliver's face brightened. He had been feeling an unreasonable annoyance with her for walking
home with Maurice Kenyon, and had even in his heart called her "a little French flirt." Though
why it should matter to him that she was a flirt, did not exactly appear.

They said good-bye to each other, and separated. Maurice went off to see a patient; Oliver
accompanied Ethel to her own house; Lesley entered her own home.

She was alone for an hour or two, and, to tell the truth, she felt rather dull. Miss Brooke
went away to her circle of select souls, and her father, as she knew, had gone to Mrs. Romaine's.
She took out her much-prized volume of "The Unexplored," and began to read it again; wishing
that she could talk to her mother about it, and explain to her how really great and good a
man her father was. For--she had got as far as this--she was sure that her mother did not understand
him. It would have been impossible for him to do a mean, a cruel, a dishonorable action. There
had been a misunderstanding somewhere; and Lesley wished, with her whole soul, that she could
clear it up.

The sound of the opening and closing of the front door did not arouse her from her dreams.
She read on, holding the little paper-covered volume on her lap, deep in deepest thought, until
the door of the drawing-room opened rather suddenly, and her father walked in.

It was an unusual hour at which to see him in the drawing-room, and Lesley looked up in surprise.
Then, half unconsciously, half timidly, she drew her filmy embroidered handkerchief over the
book in her lap. She had a shy dislike to letting her father see what she was reading.

He did not seem, however, to take any notice of her occupation. He walked straight to an arm-chair
on the opposite side of the hearth, sat down, stretching out his long legs, and placing his
elbows on the arms of the chair. The unruly lock of hair, which no hairdresser could tame,
had fallen right across his broad brow, and heightened the effect of a very undeniable frown.
Mr. Caspar Brooke was in anything but an amiable temper.

It was with a laudable attempt, however, to keep the displeasure out of his voice that he said
at length--

"I thought I understood you to say, Lesley, that you were not musical!"

The color flushed Lesley's face to the very roots of her hair.

"I do not think I am--very musical," she said, trying to answer bravely. "I play the piano
very little."

"Of course you must know that that is a quibble," said Mr. Brooke, dryly. "A talent for music
does not confine itself solely to the piano. I presume that you have been told that you have
a good voice?"

"Yes, I have been told so."

"And you have had lessons?"

"Yes, a few."

"Then may I ask what was your motive for declining to take lessons in London when I asked to
do so? You even went so far as to make use of a subterfuge: you gave me to understand that
you had no musical power at all, and that you knew nothing and could do nothing?"

He paused as if he expected a reply; but Lesley did not say a word.

"I cannot understand it," Mr. Brooke went on; "but,"--after a pause--"I suppose there is no
reason why I should. I did not come to say anything much about that part of the business. I
came rather to suggest that as you have a good voice, it is wrong not to cultivate it. And
your lessons will give you something to do. It seems to me rather a pity, my dear, that you
should do nothing but sit round and read novels--which, your aunt tells me, is your principal
occupation. Suppose you try to find something more useful to do?"

He spoke with a smile now and in a softer voice; but Lesley was much too hurt and depressed
to say a word. He looked at her steadfastly for a minute or two, and decided that she was sullen.

"I will see about the lessons for you," he said, getting up and speaking decidedly, "and I
hope you will make the most of your opportunities. How much time have you been in the habit
of devoting to your singing every day?"

"An hour and a half," said Lesley, in a very low voice.

"And you left off practising as soon as you came here? That was a great pity; and you must
allow me to say, Lesley, very silly into the bargain. Surely your own conscience tells you
that it was wrong? A voice like yours is not meant to be hidden."

Lesley wished that at that moment she could find any voice at all. She sat like a statue, conscious
only of an effort to repress her tears. And Mr. Brooke, having said all that he wanted to say,
took up a book, and thought how difficult it was to manage women who met remonstrances in silence.

Lesley got up in a few moments and walked quietly out of the room. But she forgot her book.
It fell noiselessly on the soft fur rug, and lay there, with leaves flattened and back bent
outwards. Caspar Brooke was one of the people who cannot bear to see a book treated with anything
less than reverence. He picked it up, straightened the leaves, and looked casually at the title.
It was "The Unexplored."

He held it for a minute, gazing before him with wide eyes as if he were troubled or perplexed.
Then he shook his head, sighed, smiled, and put it down upon the nearest table. "Poor little
girl!" he said. "I wonder if I frightened her at all!"

CHAPTER XVI.

AT MRS. ROMAINE'S.

The reason why Caspar Brooke spoke somewhat sharply to Lesley was not far to seek. He had been
to Mrs. Romaine's house to tea. The sequence of cause and effect can easily be conjectured.

"How charmingly your daughter sang!" Mrs. Romaine began, when she had got Mr. Brooke into his
favorite corner, and given him a cup of her best China tea.

"Yes, she sang very well," said Brooke, carelessly.

"I had no idea that she could sing! Why, by the bye--did you not tell me that she said she
was not musical?--declined singing lessons, and so on?"

"Yes, I think I said so. Yes, she did."

"She must be very modest!" said Mrs. Romaine, lifting her eyebrows.

"I don't know--I fancy she did not want to be indebted to me for more than she could help."

Mrs. Romaine looked pained, and kept for a few moments a pained silence.

"My poor friend!" she said at last. "This is very sad! Could she"--and Brooke knew that the
pronoun referred to Lady Alice, not to Lesley--"could she not be content with abandoning you,
without poisoning your daughter's mind against you?"

Caspar said nothing. He leaned forward, tea-cup in hand, and studied the carpet. It was, perhaps,
hard for him to find a suitable reply.

"It is too much," Rosalind continued, with increasing energy. "You have taken not a daughter,
but an enemy into your house. She sits and criticizes all you do--sends accounts to her mother,
doubtless, of all your comings and goings. She looks upon you as a tyrant, and a disreputable
person, too. She has been taught to hate you, and she carries out the teaching--oh, I can see
it in every line of her face, every inflection of her voice: she has been taught to loathe
you, my poor, misjudged friend, and she does not disguise her loathing!"

It is not quite pleasant for a man to hear that his daughter hates him, and makes no secret
of the hatred. Caspar immediately concluded that Lesley had made some outspoken remarks upon
the subject to Mrs. Romaine. Secretly he felt hurt and angry: outwardly he smiled.

"What would you have?" he said, lightly but bitterly. "Lady Alice has no doubt indoctrinated
her daughter, as you say; all that I can expect from Lesley is civility. And I generally get that."

"Civility? Between father and daughter? When she ought to be proud of such a father--proud
of all that you are, and all that you have done! She should be adoring you, slaving for you,
ready to sacrifice herself at your smallest word--and see what she is! A machine, silent, useless,
unwilling--from whom all that you can claim is--civility! Oh, women are capable sometimes of
taking a terrible revenge!"

She threw her hands out with a gesture of despair and deprecation, which was really fine in
its way; then she rose from her chair, went to the mantelpiece, and stood with her face bent
upon her clasped hands. Caspar rose too, and stood on the hearthrug beside her, looking down
at the pretty ruffled head, with something very like affection in his eye.

He did not quite understand this emotion of hers, but its sincerity touched as well as puzzled
him. For she was sincere as far as he was concerned, and this sincerity gave her a certain
amount of power, such as sincerity always gives. The ring of true feeling in her voice could
not be counterfeited, and Caspar was flattered by it, as any man would have been flattered
at having excited so much sympathy in the heart of a talented and beautiful woman.

He knew that Alice had been jealous of Rosalind Romaine, but, he thought, quite unreasonably
so. Poor Rosalind, tied to a dry old stick of a husband, to whom she did her duty most thoroughly,
was naturally glad to talk now and then to a man who knew something of Art and Life. That was
simple enough, and he had been glad of her interest and sympathy, especially as these were
denied to him by his wife. There was nothing for Lady Alice to be jealous about. And he had
dismissed the matter impatiently from his thoughts. Alice had left him because she hated his
opinions, his manner of life, his profession--not because she was jealous of Rosalind Romaine.
But Rosalind knew better.

The woman's sympathy affected him so far, however, that, after standing silent for a minute
or two, he laid his hand softly upon her arm. It was a foolish thing to do, but then Caspar
Brooke was never a particularly wise man, in spite of his goodness of heart and fertility of
brain. And Rosalind felt, by the thrill that ran through her at his touch, that she had gained
more from him than she had ever gained before. What would he say next?

Well, he did not say very much. "Your sympathy, Rosalind," he said, "is very pleasant--very
dear to me. But you must not give me too much of it. Sympathy is enervating, as other men have
found before me!"

"May I not offer you mine?" she said, plaintively. "It is so hard to be silent! If only I could
make Lesley understand what you are--how noble--how good----"

Caspar laughed, and took away his hand. "Don't talk to her about me; it would do no good," he said.

He stood in the firelight, looking so massive, so stern, so resolved, that Mrs. Romaine lost
herself for a moment in admiration of his great frame and leonine head. And as she paused he
spoke again.

"I have not lately observed much hostility to myself in Lesley's demeanor," he said. "At first,
of course--but lately--well, I have been more struck by a sort of languor, a want of interest
and comprehension, than anything else. No doubt she feels that she is in a new world----"

"Ah yes, a world of intellect and activity to which she has not been accustomed," said Mrs.
Romaine, briskly. Since Caspar had removed his hand she had been standing erect, watchfully
observant of him. It was by his moods that she intended to regulate her own. "I suppose she
has been accustomed to nothing but softness and self-indulgence; and she does not understand
this larger life to which she now has access."

"Poor child!" said Mr. Brooke.

But this was not at all the remark that Mrs. Romaine wanted him to make. She tried to beat
back the tide of paternal affection that was evidently setting in.

"She wants rousing I am afraid. She ought not to be allowed to sink into a dreamy, listless
state. It must be very trying for you to see it; you must be pained by the selfishness and
waywardness from which it proceeds----"

"Do you think it does?" said Mr. Brooke, almost wistfully. "I should be sorry to think Lesley
selfish. Sophy says that she is more ignorant than selfish."

"But what is ignorance save a form of selfishness?" cried Rosalind, indignantly. "She might
know if she chose! She does know the common duties of humanity, the duty of every man or woman
to labor for others, to gain knowledge, to make broad the borders of light! Oh, I cannot bear
to hear ignorance alleged as an excuse for self-love! It is impossible that any one with Lesley's
faculties should not see her duty, even if she is idle and indifferent enough to let it pass
when she does see it."

Mr. Brooke sat down, regardless of the fact that Mrs. Romaine was standing, and looked at the
carpet again with a sigh.

"You may be right," he said, in a pained tone; "but if so, what am I to do?"

"You must speak to her," said Rosalind, energetically. "You must tell her not to be idle and
obstinate and wayward: you must show her her duty, so that she may have no excuse for neglecting
it."

He shrugged his shoulders.

"That's not a man's duty, it seems to me. Woman to woman, man to man. I wish you would do it,
Rosalind!"

"Oh, no; I have not a mother's right," said she, softly.

But the remark had an effect which she had not anticipated.

"That is true. It is a mother who should tell a girl her duty. Poor Lesley's mother has not
done all that she might do in that respect. Our unhappy quarrel has caused her to represent
me to the girl in very dark colors, I believe. But I have lately been wondering whether that
might not be amended. Did you hear that man's taunt this afternoon--about the wife that had
left me? I can't endure that sort of thing. Think of the harm it does. And then the child must
needs go and sing 'Home, Sweet Home.' To me, whose home was broken up by her mother. I had
the greatest possible difficulty in sitting through that song, Rosalind. And I said to myself
that I was a great fool to put up with this state of things."

His sentences were unusually short, his tones abrupt; both covered an amount of agitation which
Mrs. Romaine had not expected to see. She sat down and remained silent and motionless: she
even held her breath, not well knowing what to expect. Presently he resumed, in a lower tone--

"I know that if I alter existing arrangements I shall give myself some pain and discomfort,
and inflict more, perhaps, upon others; but I think this is inevitable. I am determined, if
possible, to end my solitary life, and the solitary life also of a woman who is--I may say
it now--dear to me." He spoke with deliberate gravity. Mrs. Romaine's pulses beat faster: the
hot color began to steal into her cheeks. "I never wished to inflict pain upon her. I have
always regretted the years of separation and loneliness that we have both spent. So I have
resolved--perhaps that is too strong a word--I am thinking of asking her to share my home with
me again."

"Again?" The word escaped Rosalind's lips before she knew that she had spoken.

"Yes, once again," said Caspar, quite unconscious of her emotion. "We did not get on very well
when we lived together, but we are older now, and I think that if we made a fresh start it
might be possible--I wonder if Alice would consent?"

There was a moment's pause. Then--"You think of asking Lady Alice to come back to you?" said
Mrs. Romaine, in a hard, measured voice, which made Caspar look at her with some transient
feeling of surprise. But he put down the change of tone to her astonishment at his proposition,
and went on unmoved.

"I thought of it--yes. It would be much better for Lesley."

"Are you so devoted to Lesley that you want to sacrifice your whole life for her?" asked Rosalind,
in the same hard, strained voice.

"My whole life? Well, no--but you exaggerate, Rosalind. I do not sacrifice my whole life by
having my wife and daughter in my house."

"That is plausibly said. But one has to consider what sort of wife and daughter yours are,
and what part of your life will have to be devoted to them."

Brooke sat and stroked his beard. He began to wish that he had not mentioned his project to
Mrs. Romaine. But he could not easily tell her to hold her tongue.

"I am not going to presume," said Rosalind, "to say anything unkind--anything harsh of your
wife: I know I have not the right, and I know that you would--very properly--resent it. So
don't be afraid. But I only want to remind you that Lady Alice is not even where she was when,
as an over-sensitive, easily-offended girl, she fled from you. She has had twelve years of
life under conditions differing most entirely from yours. She has lived in the fashionable
world--a world which of all others you dislike. What sympathy can there be between you? She
may be perfect in her own line, but it is not your line: you are different; and you will never
be happy together."

"That is a hard thing to say, Rosalind."

"It will be a harder thing for you if you try it. Believe me, Caspar"--her voice trembled as
she used his Christian name, which she very seldom did--"believe me that if it would be for
your happiness I would welcome the change! But when I remember the discord, the incompatibility,
the want of sympathy, which used to grieve me in those old days, I cannot think----"

She stopped short, and put her handkerchief to her eyes.

"Lady Alice could not understand you--could not appreciate you," she said. "And it was hard--hard
for your friends to look on and say--nothing!"

Brooke rose abruptly from his chair. "No one ever had a truer friend than I have in you," he
said, huskily. "But it seems to me that Alice may have changed with the lapse of years; she
may have become easier to satisfy, better able to sympathize----"

"Does she show that spirit in the way she has spoken of you to your daughter? What do you gather
from Lesley as to her state of mind?" said Mrs. Romaine, keenly.

He paused. She knew very well that the question was a hard one for him to answer.

"Ah," he said, with a heavy sigh, "you know as well as I do."

Then he turned aside, and for an instant or two there was a silence.

"I suppose it would not be wise," he continued, at last. "But I wish that it could have been
done. It would be better in many ways. A man and wife ought to live together. A girl ought
to live with her parents. We are all in false positions. And, perhaps, if any one is to be
sacrificed, it ought to be myself," he said, with a curious smile.

"You forget," said Mrs. Romaine with emotion, "that you sacrifice others in sacrificing yourself."

"Others? No, I don't think so. You allude to my sister?"

"No--not your sister."

"Sophy could go on living with us and managing the household affairs," said Brooke, who had
no conception of what poor Mrs. Romaine meant; "and she is not a person who would willingly
interfere with other people's views or opinions. Indeed, she carries the laisser-faire principle
almost to an extreme. Sophy is no proselytizer, thank God!"

"I did not mean Sophy: I meant your friends--old friends like myself," said Rosalind, desperately.
"You will cast us all off--you will forget us--forget--me!"

There was unusual passion in her voice. Then she hid her face in her hands and burst into tears.
Brooke made two steps towards her, and stopped short.

"Rosalind!" he exclaimed. "You cannot think that! you cannot think that I shall ever forget
old friends!"

Then he halted, and stood looking down at her, and biting his beard, which he was crushing
up to his lips with one hand, after his fashion when he was embarrassed or perplexed. Some
glimmer of the truth had begun to manifest itself to him. A hot, red flush crossed his brow.

"Rosalind," he said, in a softer but also a colder tone, "you must not take this matter so
much to heart. Rest assured that I--and my wife, if she comes back, and my daughter also--will
always look upon you as a very dear and valued friend."

"I am so alone in the world," she said, wiping away her tears and slightly lifting her head.
"I cannot bear to think that the day will come when I----"

She paused--perhaps purposely. But Caspar was resolved to treat the subject more lightly now.

"When you are without friends? Oh, that will never be. You are too kind and sympathetic to
be without as many friends as you choose to have."

"And you--yourself----"

"Oh, I am of a very constant disposition," he said, cheerfully. "I suppose it is for that reason
that I want Alice back. You know that in spite of all our disagreements, I have always held
to it that I never saw a woman half as charming, half as attractive, as Alice."

This was a speech not calculated to soothe Mrs. Romaine's wounded feelings, or to implant in
her a liking for Lady Alice. For Mrs. Romaine was not very generous, and she was irritated
by the thought that she had betrayed her own secret. She rose to her feet at once, with a quick
and rather haughty gesture.

"You are indeed a model of constancy," she said. "Some men would resent insults, even if offered
to them by wives. You are capable, it seems, of much forgetfulness and much forgiveness."

"Do you think that a fault?" asked Brooke, calmly. Her mood changed at once. She burst into
a shrill little laugh.

"Oh, not at all. Most convenient--for the wife. There is one danger--you may incur the censure
of more worldly men; but then you are too high-minded to care for that!"

Caspar shrugged his broad shoulders.

"I think I can take care of myself," he said, good-humoredly. "And now I must go. Pray don't
distress yourself on my account. I will not do anything rash."

They stood facing each other, she with her eyes down, he looking straight into her face. Some
instinct told her not to break the spell by looking up. There was a conflict going on in Caspar
Brooke's mind--a conflict between pity (not love) and duty. He was a tender-hearted man, and
it would have been very easy to him just then to have given her some friendly, comforting words,
or even----

Yes, he acknowledged to himself, he would have liked to kiss those soft lips of hers, those
downcast eyelids, slightly reddened by recent tears! And he did not think that she would resent
the caress.

But how could he ask his wife to return to him if he did this thing? As he had indicated by
his words, he still loved Lady Alice. He had the courage to be faithful to her, too. For Caspar
Brooke was a man of strong convictions, steadfast will, and stainless honor. However great
the temptation might be, he was not going to do a thing that he knew he should afterwards regret.

"Good-bye, Mrs. Romaine."

"Good-bye, Mr. Brooke."

So they took leave of each other; and Rosalind went to bed with a bad headache, while Caspar
Brooke returned home to find fault with his daughter Lesley.

CHAPTER XVII.

THE WIFE OF FRANCIS TRENT.

Far away from the eminently respectable quarter of London, adorned by the habitation of families
like the Brookes, the Kenyons, and the Romaines, you may find an unsavory district in Whitechapel
which is known as Truefit Row. It is a street of tall and mean-looking houses, which seem to
be toppling to their fall; and the pavement is strewn with garbage which is seldom cleared
away. Many of the windows of the houses are broken; many of the doors hang ajar, for the floors
are let out in flats, and there is a common stair for at least five and twenty families. It
is a dreary-looking place, and the dwellers therein look as dreary as their own abode.

In one of these houses Mr. Francis Trent had found a resting-place for the sole of his foot.
It was not a fashionable lodging, not even a particularly clean one; but he had come down in
the world, and did not very much care where he lived, so long as he had plenty to drink, and
a little money in his pockets. But these commodities were not as plentiful as he wanted them
to be. Therefore he passed a good deal of his time in a state of chronic brooding and discontent.

He had one room on the third storey. The woodwork of this apartment was so engrained with grime
that scarcely any amount of washing would have made it look clean; but it had certainly been
washed within a comparatively recent date. The wall paper, which had peeled off in certain
places, had also been repaired by a careful hand; and the curtains which shaded the unbroken
window were almost spotlessly clean. By several other indications it was quite plain that a
woman's hand had lately been busy in the room; and compared with many other rooms in the same
building, it was quite a palace of cleanliness and comfort.

But Francis Trent did not think so. He sat over his small and smouldering fire one dark November
afternoon, and shivered, partly from cold and partly from disgust. He had no coals left, and
no money wherewith to buy them: a few sticks and some coke and cinders were the materials out
of which he was trying to make a fire, and naturally the result was not very inspiriting. The
kettle, which was standing on the dull embers, showed not the slightest inclination to "sing."
Francis Trent, outstretched on a basket-chair (the only comfortable article of furniture that
the room contained), gave the fire an occasional stir with his foot, and bestowed upon it a
deal of invective.

"It will be out directly," he said at last, sitting up and looking dismally about him; "and
it's nearly five o'clock. She said she would be here at four. Ugh! how cold it is! If she doesn't
come in five minutes I shall go to the Spotted Dog. There's always a fire there, thank goodness,
and they'll stand me a glass of something hot, I daresay."

He rose and walked about the room by way of relieving the monotony of existence, and causing
his blood to circulate a little faster. But this mode of activity did not long please him,
and he threw himself back in his chair at last, and uttered an exclamation of disgust.

"Confound it! I shall go out," he said to himself.

But just at that moment a hand fumbled at the latch. He called out "Come in," an unnecessary
call, because the door was half open before he spoke, and a woman entered the room, shutting
the door behind her.

She was slight, trim, not very tall: she had a pale face and dark eyes, dark, glossy hair,
and delicate features. If Lesley had been there, she would have recognized in this woman the
ladies' maid who called herself Mary Kingston. But in this part of the world she was known
as Mrs. Trent.

Francis did not give her a warm welcome, and yet his weak, worn face lighted up a little at
the sight of her. "I thought you were never coming," he said, grumblingly, and his eyes fell
greedily to the basket that she carried on her arm. "What have you got there?"

"Just a few little things for your tea," said Mary, depositing the basket on the table. "And,
oh--what a wretched fire! Have you no coals?"

"Neither coals nor food nor drink," he answered, sullenly, "nor money in my pocket either."

The woman stood and looked at him. "You had two pounds the day before yesterday," she said.

"Billiards," he answered, laconically. But he turned away so as not to see her face.

She gave a short, sharp exclamation. "You promised to be careful!"

