I should certainly have supposed that recent history had discounted popular interest in the
monarchies of make-believe; in other words, that when real sovereigns have been behaving in
so sensational a manner one might expect a slump in counterfeits. But it appears that Mr. H.B.
MARRIOTT WATSON is by no means of this opinion. His latest story, The Pester Finger (SKEFFINGTON),
shows him as Ruritanian as ever. As usual we find that distressful country, here called Varavia,
in the throes of dynastic upheaval, which centres, in a manner also not without precedent,
in the figure of a young and beautiful Princess. This lady, the last of her race, had been
adopted as ward--on, I thought, insufficient introduction--by the hero, Sir Francis Vyse. The
situation was further complicated by the fact that in his youth he had been the officer of
the guard who ought to have prevented the murder of Sonia's august parents, and didn't. Quite
early I gave up counting how many times Sir Francis and his fair ward were set upon, submerged,
imprisoned and generally knocked about. You never saw so convulsed a courtship; for I will
no longer conceal the fact that, when he was not more strenuously engaged, he soon began to
regard Sonia with a softening eye. And as Sonia herself was growing up to womanhood, or, in
Mr. WATSON'S elegant phrase, "muliebrity claimed her definitely"--well, he is an enviable reader
for whom the last page will hold any considerable surprise.

       *       *       *       *       *

"ETIENNE," in an introductory note to A Naval Lieutenant, 1914-1918 (METHUEN), gives an excellent
reason for wishing to record his impressions of the "sea affair." He was in H.M.S. Southampton
during the earlier part of the War, and "on all the four principal occasions when considerable
German forces were encountered in the North Sea, her guns were in action." Very naturally he
desired to do honour to this gallant light cruiser, and I admire prodigiously the modest way
in which he has done it. "ETIENNE" is not a stylist; a professor of syntax might conceivably
be distressed by his confusion of prepositions; but apart from this detail all is plain sailing--and
fighting. I have read no more thrilling account of the Battle of Jutland than is to be found
here. The author does it so well because he tells his story with great simplicity and without
what I believe he would call "windiness." Best of all, he has a nice sense of humour, and would
even, I believe, have discovered the funny side of Scapa, if there had been one. "ETIENNE,"
whose short stories of naval life were amusing, makes a distinct advance in this new work.

       *       *       *       *       *

SONGS OF INNOCENCE.

GOLF IN SPRINGTIME.

  Merry little baa-lambs sporting on the grass,
  Playing ring-a-roses, dancing as you pass,
                          Crying,
  "Jones has topped his brassie shot! What a way to play!
  Now then, all together, boys--Me-e-eh!"
  Pretty little woollies, white as driven snow,
  Following your mothers, skipping as you go,
                          Crying,
  "Jones is in the bunker! What a lot he has to say!
  Give it all together, boys--Me-e-e-eh!"
  Harbingers of Springtime! innocently fair,
  Frisking on the greensward, leaping in the air,
                          Crying,
  "Jones is in the whins again! He's off his drive to-day;
  Once more let him have it, boys--Me-e-e-e-eh!"
  Silly little baa-lambs! If you only knew,
  One day you'll be fatter and I'll have the laugh on you,
                          Crying,
  "Every time I foozled they bleated with delight.
  Now they're lamb-and-mint-sauce. Serves the beggars right!"

  ALGOL.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *