The main part of the story of that day's sport, as far as we're concerned with it, got itself
told so early in the day that readers need not be kept long waiting for the details. Tolleyboy
soon relieved these imperious riders from all dangers as to a blank. At the first covert drawn
a fox was found immediately, and without any of those delays, so perplexing to some and so
comforting to others, made away for some distant home of his own. It is, perhaps, on such occasions
as these that riders are subjected to the worst perils of the hunting field. There comes a
sudden rush, when men have not cooled themselves down by the process of riding here and there
and going through the usual preliminary prefaces to a run. They are collected in crowds, and
the horses are more impatient even than their riders. No one on that occasion could have been
more impatient than Walker,--unless it was the steed upon which Walker was mounted. There was
a crowd of men standing in a lane at the corner of the covert,--of men who had only that moment
reached the spot,--when at about thirty yards from them a fox crossed the lane, and two or
three leading hounds close at his brush. One or two of the strangers from the enemy's country
occupied a position close to, or rather in the very entrance of, a little hunting gate which
led out of the lane into the field opposite. Between the lane and the field there was a fence
which was not "rideable!" As is the custom with lanes, the roadway had been so cut down that
there was a bank altogether precipitous about three feet high, and on that a hedge of trees
and stakes and roots which had also been cut almost into the consistency of a wall. The gate
was the only place,--into which these enemies had thrust themselves, and in the possession
of which they did not choose to hurry themselves, asserting as they kept their places that
it would be well to give the fox a minute. The assertion in the interests of hunting might
have been true. A sportsman who could at such a moment have kept his blood perfectly cool,
might have remembered his duties well enough to have abstained from pressing into the field
in order that the fox might have his fair chance. Hampstead, however, who was next to the enemies,
was not that cool hero, and bade the strangers move on, not failing to thrust his horse against
their horses. Next to him, and a little to the left, was the unfortunate Walker. To his patriotic
spirit it was intolerable that any stranger should be in that field before one of their own
hunt. What he himself attempted, what he wished to do, or whether any clear intention was formed
in his mind, no one ever knew. But to the astonishment of all who saw it the horse got himself
half-turned round towards the fence, and attempted to take it in a stand. The eager animal
did get himself up amidst the thick wood on the top of the bank, and then fell headlong over,
having entangled his feet among the boughs. Had his rider sat loosely he would probably have
got clear of his horse. But as it was they came down together, and unfortunately the horse
was uppermost. Just as it happened Lord Hampstead made his way through the gate, and was the
first who dismounted to give assistance to his friend. In two or three minutes there was a
crowd round, with a doctor in the midst of it, and a rumour was going about that the man had
been killed. In the mean time the enemies were riding well to the hounds, with Tolleyboy but
a few yards behind them, Tolleyboy having judiciously remembered a spot at which he could make
his way out of the covert into field without either passing through the gate or over the fence.

The reader may as well know at once that Walker was not killed. He was not killed, though he
was so crushed and mauled with broken ribs and collar-bone, so knocked out of breath and stunned
and mangled and squeezed, so pummelled and pounded and generally misused, that he did not come
to himself for many hours, and could never after remember anything of that day's performances
after eating his breakfast at Gorse Hall. It was a week before tidings went through the Shires
that he was likely to live at all, and even then it was asserted that he had been so altogether
smashed that he would never again use any of his limbs. On the morning after the hunt his widowed
mother and only sister were down with him at the hotel, and there they remained till they were
able to carry him away to his own house. "Won't I?" was almost the first intelligible word
he said when his mother suggested to him, her only son, that now at least he would promise
to abandon that desperate amusement, and would never go hunting any more. It may be said in
praise of British surgery generally that Walker was out again on the first of the following
November.

But Walker with his misfortunes and his heroism and his recovery would have been nothing to
us had it been known from the first to all the field that Walker had been the victim. The accident
happened between eleven and twelve,--probably not much before twelve. But the tidings of it
were sent up by telegraph from some neighbouring station to London in time to be inserted in
one of the afternoon newspapers of that day; and the tidings as sent informed the public that
Lord Hampstead while hunting that morning had fallen with his horse at the corner of Gimberly
Green, that the animal had fallen on him,--and that he had been crushed to death. Had the false
information been given in regard to Walker it might probably have excited so little attention
that the world would have known nothing about it till it learned that the poor fellow had not
been killed. But, having been given as to a young nobleman, everybody had heard of it before
dinner-time that evening. Lord Persiflage knew it in the House of Lords, and Lord Llwddythlw
had heard it in the House of Commons. There was not a club which had not declared poor Hampstead
to be an excellent fellow, although he was a little mad. The Montressors had already congratulated
themselves on the good fortune of little Lord Frederic; and the speedy death of the Marquis
was prophesied, as men and women were quite sure that he would not be able in his present condition
to bear the loss of his eldest son. The news was telegraphed down to Trafford Park by the family
lawyer,--with an intimation, however, that, as the accident had been so recent, no absolute
credence should yet be given as to its fatal result. "Bad fall probably," said the lawyer in
his telegram, "but I don't believe the rest. Will send again when I hear the truth." At nine
o'clock that evening the truth was known in London, and before midnight the poor Marquis had
been relieved from his terrible affliction. But for three hours it had been supposed at Trafford
Park that Lord Frederic had become the heir to his father's title and his father's property.

Close inquiry was afterwards made as to the person by whom this false intelligence had been
sent to the newspaper, but nothing certain was ever asserted respecting it. That a general
rumour had prevailed for a time among many who were out that Lord Hampstead had been the victim,
was found to have been the case. He had been congratulated by scores of men who had heard that
he had fallen. When Tolleyboy was breaking up the fox, and wondering why so few men had ridden
through the hunt with him, he was told that Lord Hampstead had been killed, and had dropped
his bloody knife out of his hands. But no one would own as to having sent the telegram. Suspicion
attached itself to an attorney from Kettering who had been seen in the early part of the day,
but it could not be traced home to him. Official inquiry was made; but as it was not known
who sent the message, or to what address, or from what post town, or even the wording of the
message, official information was not forthcoming. It is probable that Sir Boreas at the Post
Office did not think it proper to tell everybody all that he knew. It was admitted that a great
injury had been done to the poor Marquis, but it was argued on the other side that the injury
had been quickly removed.

There had, however, been three or four hours at Trafford Park, during which feelings had been
excited which afterwards gave rise to bitter disappointment. The message had come to Mr. Greenwood,
of whose estrangement from the family the London solicitor had not been as yet made aware.
He had been forced to send the tidings into the sick man's room by Harris, the butler, but
he had himself carried it up to the Marchioness. "I am obliged to come," he said, as though
apologizing when she looked at him with angry eyes because of his intrusion. "There has been
an accident." He was standing, as he always stood, with his hands hanging down by his side.
But there was a painful look in his eyes more than she had usually read there.

"What accident--what accident, Mr. Greenwood? Why do you not tell me?" Her heart ran away at
once to the little beds in which her darlings were already lying in the next room.

"It is a telegram from London."

From London--a telegram! Then her boys were safe. "Why do you not tell me instead of standing
there?"

"Lord Hampstead--"

"Lord Hampstead! What has he done? Is he married?"

"He will never be married." Then she shook in every limb, and clenched her hands, and stood
with open mouth, not daring to question him. "He has had a fall, Lady Kingsbury."

"A fall!"

"The horse has crushed him."

"Crushed him!"

"I used to say it would be so, you know. And now it has come to pass."

"Is he--?"

"Dead? Yes, Lady Kingsbury, he is--dead." Then he gave her the telegram to read. She struggled
to read it, but the words were too vague; or her eyes too dim. "Harris has gone in with the
tidings. I had better read the telegram, I suppose, but I thought you'd like to see it. I told
you how it would be, Lady Kingsbury; and now it has come to pass." He stood standing a minute
or two longer, but as she sat hiding her face, and unable to speak, he left the room without
absolutely asking her to thank him for his news.

As soon as he was gone she crept slowly into the room in which her three boys were sleeping.
A door from her own chamber opened into it, and then another into that in which one of the
nurses slept. She leaned over them and kissed them all; but she knelt at that on which Lord
Frederic lay, and woke him with her warm embraces. "Oh, mamma, don't," said the boy. Then he
shook himself, and sat up in his bed. "Mamma, when is Jack coming?" he said. Let her train
them as she would, they would always ask for Jack. "Go to sleep, my darling, my darling, my
darling!" she said, kissing him again and again. "Trafford," she said, whispering to herself,
as she went back to her own room, trying the sound of the title he would have to use. It had
been all arranged in her own mind how it was to be, if such a thing should happen.

"Go down," she said to her maid soon afterwards, "and ask Mrs. Crawley whether his Lordship
would wish to see me." Mrs. Crawley was the nurse. But the maid brought back word that "My
Lord" did not wish to see "My Lady." For three hours he lay stupefied in his sorrow; and for
three hours she sat alone, almost in the dark. We may doubt whether it was all triumph. Her
darling had got what she believed to be his due; but the memory that she had longed for it,--almost
prayed for it,--must have dulled her joy.

There was no such regret with Mr. Greenwood. It seemed to him that Fortune, Fate, Providence,
or what not, had only done its duty. He believed that he had in truth foreseen and foretold
the death of the pernicious young man. But would the young man's death be now of any service
to him? Was it not too late? Had they not all quarrelled with him? Nevertheless he had been
avenged.

So it was at Trafford Park for three hours. Then there came a postboy galloping on horseback,
and the truth was known. Lady Kingsbury went again to her children, but this time she did not
kiss them. A gleam of glory had come there and had passed away;--but yet there was something
of relief.

Why had he allowed himself to be so cowed on that morning? That was Mr. Greenwood's thought.

The poor Marquis fell into a slumber almost immediately, and on the next morning had almost
forgotten that the first telegram had come.

CHAPTER XIX.

FALSE TIDINGS.

But there was another household which the false tidings of Lord Hampstead's death reached that
same night. The feelings excited at Trafford had been very keen,--parental agony, maternal
hope, disappointment, and revenge; but in that other household there was suffering quite as
great. Mr. Fay himself did not devote much time during the day either to the morning or the
evening newspapers. Had he been alone at Messrs. Pogson and Littlebird's he would have heard
nothing of the false tidings. But sitting in his inner room, Mr. Pogson read the third edition
of the Evening Advertiser, and then saw the statement, given with many details. "We," said
the statement, "have sent over to the office of our contemporary, and have corroborated the
facts." Then the story was repeated. Pushing his way through a gate at Gimberley Green, Lord
Hampstead's horse had tumbled down, and all the field had ridden over him. He had been picked
up dead, and his body had been carried home to Gorse Hall. Now Lord Hampstead's name had become
familiar in King's Court. Tribbledale had told how the young lord had become enamoured of Zachary
Fay's daughter, and was ready to marry her at a moment's notice. The tale had been repeated
to old Littlebird by young Littlebird, and at last even to Mr. Pogson himself. There had been,
of course, much doubt in King's Court as to the very improbable story. But some inquiries had
been made, and there was now a general belief in its truth. When Mr. Pogson read the account
of the sad tragedy he paused a moment to think what he would do, then opened his door and called
for Zachary Fay. They who had known the Quaker long always called him Zachary, or Friend Zachary,
or Zachary Fay. "My friend," said Mr. Pogson, "have you read this yet?" and he handed him the
paper.

"I never have much time for the newspaper till I get home at night," said the clerk, taking
the sheet that was offered him.

"You had better read it, perhaps, as I have heard your name mentioned, I know not how properly,
with that of the young lord." Then the Quaker, bringing his spectacles down from his forehead
over his eyes, slowly read the paragraph. As he did so Mr. Pogson looked at him carefully.
But the Quaker showed very little emotion by his face. "Does it concern you, Zachary?"

"I know the young man, Mr. Pogson. Though he be much out of my own rank, circumstances have
brought him to my notice. I shall be grieved if this be true. With thy permission, Mr. Pogson,
I will lock up my desk and return home at once." To this Mr. Pogson of course assented, recommending
the Quaker to put the newspaper into his pocket.

Zachary Fay, as he walked to the spot where he was wont to find the omnibus, considered much
as to what he might best do when he reached home. Should he tell the sad tidings to his girl,
or should he leave her to hear it when further time should have confirmed the truth. To Zachary
himself it seemed too probable that it should be true. Hunting to him, in his absolute ignorance
of what hunting meant, seemed to be an occupation so full of danger that the wonder was that
the hunting world had not already been exterminated. And then there was present to him a feeling,
as there is to so many of us, that the grand thing which Fortune seemed to offer him was too
good to be true. It could hardly be that he should live to see his daughter the mother of a
future British peer! He had tried to school himself not to wish it, telling himself that such
wishes were vain, and such longings wicked; he had said much to himself as to the dangers of
rank and titles and wealth for those who were not born to them. He had said something also
of that family tragedy which had robbed his own life of most of its joys, and which seemed
to have laid so heavy a burden on his girl's spirit. Going backwards and forwards morning and
evening to his work, he had endeavoured to make his own heart acknowledge that the marriage
was not desirable; but he had failed;--and had endeavoured to reconcile the failure to his
conscience by telling himself falsely that he as a father had been anxious only for the welfare
of his child. Now he felt the blow terribly on her account, feeling sure that his girl's heart
had been given to the young man; but he felt it also on his own. It might be, nevertheless,
that the report would prove untrue. Had the matter been one in which he was not himself so
deeply interested, he would certainly have believed it to be untrue, he being a man by his
nature not prone to easy belief. It would, however, be wiser, he said to himself as he left
the omnibus at the "Duchess of Edinburgh," to say nothing as yet to Marion. Then he put the
paper carefully into his breast coat pocket, and considered how he might best hide his feelings
as to the sad news. But all this was in vain. The story had already found its way down to Paradise
Row. Mrs. Demijohn was as greedy of news as her neighbours, and would generally send round
the corner for a halfpenny evening journal. On this occasion she did so, and within two minutes
of the time in which the paper had been put into her hands exclaimed to her niece almost with
ecstasy, "Clara, what do you think? That young lord who comes here to see Marion Fay has gone
and got himself killed out hunting."

"Lord Hampstead!" shouted Clara. "Got himself killed! Laws, aunt, I can't believe it!" In her
tone, also, there was something almost of exultation. The glory that had been supposed to be
awaiting Marion Fay was almost too much for the endurance of any neighbour. Since it had become
an ascertained fact that Lord Hampstead had admired the girl, Marion's popularity in the Row
had certainly decreased. Mrs. Duffer believed her no longer to be handsome; Clara had always
thought her to be pert; Mrs. Demijohn had expressed her opinion that the man was an idiot;
and the landlady at the "Duchess of Edinburgh" had wittily asserted that "young marquises were
not to be caught with chaff." There was no doubt a sense of relief in Clara Demijohn's mind
when she heard that this special young marquis had been trampled to death in the hunting field,
and carried home a corpse.

"I must go and tell the poor girl," said Clara, immediately.

"Leave it alone," said the old woman. "There will be plenty to tell her, let alone you." But
such occasions occur so rarely that it does not do not to take advantage of them. In ordinary
life events are so unfrequent, and when they do arrive they give such a flavour of salt to
hours which are generally tedious, that sudden misfortunes come as godsends,--almost even when
they happen to ourselves. Even a funeral gives a tasteful break to the monotony of our usual
occupations, and small-pox in the next street is a gratifying excitement. Clara soon got possession
of the newspaper, and with it in her hand ran across the street to No. 17. Miss Fay was at
Home, and in a minute or two came down to Miss Demijohn in the parlour.

