Wooden Tombs and Effigies (Vol. vii., pp. 528. 607.).--In a chapel adjoining the church of
Heveningham in Suffolk, are (or rather were in 1832) the remains of a good altar tomb, with
recumbent effigies carved in chesnut, of a knight and his lady: it appeared to be, from the
armour and architecture, of the early part of the fifteenth century; and from the arms, Quarterly
or and gules within a border engrailed sable, charged with escallops argent, no doubt belonged
to the ancient family of Heveningham of that place; probably Sir John Heveningham, knight of
the shire for the county of Suffolk in the 1st of Henry IV.

When I visited this tomb in 1832, it was in a most dilapidated condition: the slab on which
the effigy of the knight once rested was broken in; within the head of the lady, which was
separated from the body, a thrush had built its nest: notwithstanding, however, the neglect
and damp to which the chapel was exposed, these chesnut effigies remained wonderfully sound
and perfect.

SPES.

The monument to Sir Walter Traylli and his lady, in Woodford Church in Northamptonshire, is
of wood.

There is a wooden effigy in Gayton Church, Northamptonshire, of a knight templar, recumbent,
in a cross-legged position, his feet resting on an animal: over the armour is a surcoat; the
helmet is close fitted to the head, his right hand is on the hilt of his sword, a shield is
on the left arm.

There is also a fine wooden effigy of Sir Hugh Bardolph in Burnham Church in Norfolk.

J. B.

In Fersfield Church, in Norfolk, there is a wooden figure to the memory of Sir Robert Du Bois,
Kt., ob. 1311. See Bloomfield's Norfolk, vol. i. p. 68.

J. B.

Lord Clarendon and the Tubwoman (Vol. vii., pp. 133. 211. 634.).--Upon reference to the story
of the "tubwoman" in p. 133., it will be seen that Mr. Hyde is distinctly stated to have himself
married the brewer's widow, and to have married her for her money. It is farther said that
Ann Hyde, the mother of Queen Mary and Queen Ann, was the only issue of this marriage; whereas
Ann Hyde had four brothers and a sister. No allusion is made in this account to Sir Thomas
Ailesbury. Your correspondent MR. WARDEN says, that "the story has usually been told of the
wife of Sir Thomas Ailesbury," and that it may be true of her. Will he have the kindness to
furnish a reference to the version of the story in which Sir Thomas Ailesbury is said to have
married the tubwoman?

L.

House-marks (Vol. vii., p. 594.).--I do not know whether [alpha]. recollects the frequent occurrence
of marks upon sheep in this country. Although I have often seen them, I cannot just now describe
one accurately. Some sheep passed my house yesterday which were marked with a cross within
a circle.

Riding with a friend, a miller, in Essex, about thirteen years ago, he jumped out of the gig
and over a gate, to seize a sack which was lying in a field. Seeing no initials upon it, I
asked how he knew that it was his; when he pointed out to me a fish marked upon it, which he
told me had been his own and his father's mark for many years. He also said that most of the
millers in the neighbourhood had a peculiar mark (not their names or initials), each a different
one for his own sacks.

A. J. N.

Birmingham.

"Amentium haud amantium" (Vol. vii., p. 595.).--Your correspondent's Query sent me at once
to a queer old Terence in English, together with the text, "operâ ac industriâ R. B., in Axholmensi
insulâ, Lincolnsherii Epwortheatis. [London, Printed by John Legatt, and are to be sold by
Andrew Crooke, at the sign of the Green-Dragon, in Paul's Church Yard. 1641.] 6th Edition."

Here, as I expected, I found an alliterative translation of the phase in question "For they
are fare as they were lunaticke, and not love-sicke."

The translation, I may add, is in prose.

OXONIENSIS.

Walthamstow.

The Megatherium in the British Museum (Vol. vii., p. 590.).--It is much to be regretted that
A FOREIGN SURGEON should not have examined the contents of the room which contains the cast
of the skeleton of this animal with a little more attention, before he penned the above article.
Had he done so, he would have found many of the original bones, from casts of which the restored
skeleton has been constructed, in Wall Cases 9 and 10, and would not have fallen into the error
of supposing that it is a fac-simile of the original skeleton at Madrid. That specimen was
exhumed near Buenos Ayres in 1789; whilst our restoration {20} has been made from bones of
another individual, many of which are, as I have stated, to be found in the British Museum
itself, and others in that of the Royal College of Surgeons. I are not about to defend the
propriety of putting the trunk of a palm-tree into the claws of the Megatherium, though I do
not suppose that the restorer ever expected, when he did so, that any one would entertain the
idea that this gigantic beast was in the habit of climbing trees; but I would fain ask your
correspondent on what grounds he makes the dogmatic assertion that "Palms there were none,
at that period of telluric formation." I will simply remind him of the vast numbers of fossil
fruits, and other remains of palms, in the London clay of the Isle of Sheppey.

W. J. BERNHARD SMITH.

Temple.

Pictorial Proverbs (Vol. v., p. 559.).--Perhaps the book here mentioned is one of the old German
Narrenbuchs, or Book of Fools, which were generally illustrated with pictures, of which I have
a curious set in my possession.

Can any of your correspondents give some account of the nature and merits of these books? Are
any of them worth translating at the present day? The one from which my pictures were taken
has the title Mala Gallina, malum Ovum, and was published at Vienna and Nuremburg. It seems
to have been a satire on the female sex; but the text, I am sorry to say, is not in my possession.

H. T. RILEY.

"Hurrah," and other War-cries (Vol. vii., p. 596.).--The following passage (which I find in
my notes with the reference Ménagiana, vol. ii. p. 328.) may partially assist your correspondent
CAPE:

    "Le cri des anciens Comtes d'Anjou étoit Rallie. En voici l'origine.
    Eude II., Comte de Blois, marchant avec une armée considérable contre
    Foulke Nerra, Comte d'Anjou, ces deux princes se rencontrèrent à
    Pontlevoi sur le Cher, où ils se livrèrent bataille le 6 Juillet, 1016. Et à ce propos je vous rapporterai ce qu'en dit
    Maître Vace, surnommé le Clerc de Caen, dans son Roman de Normandie:

     'François crie Montjoye, et Normans Dex-aye:
      Flamands crie Aras, et Angevin Rallie:
      Et li cuens Thiebaut Chartre et Passavant crie.'"

This last cry is not unlike the Irish "Faugh-a-Ballagh" in signification.

J. H. LERESCHE.

Manchester.

The following extracts from Sir Francis Palgrave's History of Normandy and England, vol. i.
p. 696., explain the origin of the word "Hurrah," respecting which one of your correspondents
inquires:

    "It was a 'wise custom' in Normandy, established by Rollo's decree,
    that whoever sustained, or feared to sustain, any damage of goods or
    chattels, life or limb, was entitled to raise the country by the cry of
    haro, or haron, upon which cry all the lieges were bound to join in
    pursuit of the offender,--Haron! Ha Raoul! justice invoked in Duke
    Rollo's name. Whoever failed to aid, made fine to the sovereign; whilst
    a heavier mulct was consistently inflicted upon the mocker who raised
    the clameur de haro without due and sufficient cause, a disturber of
    the commonwealth's tranquillity.

    "The clameur de haro is the English system of 'hue and cry.' The old
    English exclamation Harrow! our national vernacular Hurrah! being
    only a variation thereof, is identical with the supposed invocation of
    the Norman chieftain; and the usage, suggested by common sense,
    prevailed under various modifications throughout the greater part of
    the Pays Coutumier of France."

A. M. S.

       *       *       *       *       *

Miscellaneous.

NOTES ON BOOKS, ETC.

Among the books which we have for some time intended to bring under the notice of our readers
is a new and cheaper edition of The Coin Collector's Manual, or Guide to the Numismatic Student
in the Formation of a Cabinet of Coins: comprising an Historical and Critical Account of the
Origin and Progress of Coinage, from the Earliest Period to the Fall of the Roman Empire; with
some Account of the Coinages of Modern Europe, more especially of Great Britain, by H. Noel
Humphreys: and we have been the more anxious to do this, because, except among professed collectors,
greater ignorance probably exists on the subject of coins, their date, value, &c., than upon
any other subject with which educated people are supposed to possess some acquaintance. Yet
there are few numismatic questions likely to occur which ordinary readers would not be enabled
to solve by a reference to these two little volumes, enriched as it is with numerous illustrations;
especially if they would place beside them Akerman's most useful Numismatic Manual.

We are indebted to Mr. Murray for two volumes which will be among the pleasant additions to
the cheap books of the month, namely, the new volume, being the fourth of the reprint, of Lord
Mahon's History of England to the Peace of Versailles, which comprises the interval between
the Peace of Aix-la-Chapelle and that of Hubertsburg; and in the Railway Reading, for half-a-crown!
the fourth edition of Lockhart's spirited translations of Ancient Spanish Ballads, Historical
and Romantic. Thanks, Mr. Murray, thanks!

That Mr. De la Motte, who is so well known as an accomplished draughtsman, should turn his
attention to photography, is no slight testimony to the value of the art. That he has become
a master in it, may be seen by one glance at his own works on the walls of his Photographic
Gallery. The beginner may therefore receive with confidence the results of that gentleman's
experience; and The Practice of Photography, a Manual for Students and Amateurs, just published
by him, will {21} be found a most useful and instructive companion to every one who is now
contemplating an excursion, armed with a camera, for the purpose of securing for the gratification
of his friends truthful records of his wanderings. Mr. De la Motte wisely confines his instruction
to the paper and glass processes; his details on these are clear and minute, and the book is
well worth the money for those pages of it alone which are devoted to the "Chemicals used in
Photography."

BOOKS RECEIVED.--On the Archaic Mode of expressing Numbers in English, Saxon, Friesic, &c.,
by E. Thomson, Esq.; a learned and ingenious tract, written originally for insertion in "N.
& Q.," but which fact ought not to prevent our speaking of it in the terms which it deserves.--A
Few Words in Reply to the Animadversions of the Rev. Mr. Dyce on Mr. Hunter's "Disquisition
on the Tempest," 1839, and his "New Illustrations of the Life, Studies, and Writings of Shakspeare,"
1845, &c. A short but interesting contribution to Shakspearian criticism, by one who has already
done good service in the same cause. If we cannot agree with Mr. Hunter in all that he seeks
to establish, we can admire his knowledge of Elizabethan literature, and appreciate the spirit
in which he writes.--The Antiquary. This is the first number of a small work consisting of
reprints of proclamations, curious advertisements from early newspapers, and such odd matters
as paint more forcibly than the gravest historian, the colours of the times.