"The girl is mad!" exclaimed the astonished father, who seemed to begin to be slightly alarmed
at the flashes of indignation that burst from Count Ericson's wild-looking eyes. "Don't mind
what such a silly thing says; she does it only to show her cleverness. What does she know of
war or warriors? She cares for nothing yet but her puppy-dog. She pats it all day, and lets
it bite her pretty little hand. Such a hand it is to refuse a pledge to Alexander!"

The politician was on the right track; for such a pretty hand was not in Sweden--nor probably
in Denmark either--and the cunning old minister took it between his finger and thumb, and placed
it almost on the lip of the irate young worshipper of glory; if it did not actually touch the
lip it went very near it, and distinctly moved one or two of the most prominent tufts of the
stout yellow mustache. "The little goose," pursued the respectable sire, "to pretend to have
an opinion on any subject except the colour of a riband. Upon my honour, I believe she presumes
to be a critic of warriors, because she plays a good game of chess. It is one of her accomplishments,
Count; and if you will take a little of the conceit out of her, you will confer an infinite
obligation on both of us."

Saying this, he lifted with his own ministerial fingers a small table from a corner of the
room, and placed it in front of the youthful couple, with the men all ready laid out. Ericson's
eyes sparkled at the sight of his favourite game; and he determined to display his utmost skill,
and teach his antagonist a few secrets of the art of (mimic) war. But determinations, as has
been remarked by several sages, past and present, are sometimes vain. Nothing, one would think,
could be so likely to restore a man's self-possession as a quiet game of chess--an occupation
as efficacious in soothing the savage breast as music itself. But Ericson seemed still agitated
from the contradictions he had encountered from the free-spoken Christina, and threw a little
more politeness into his manner than he had hitherto vouchsafed to show, when he invited her
to be his adversary in a game.

"But, if I beat you?" she said ominously, holding up one of the fair fingers to which his attention
had been so particularly called, and implying by the question, if you get angry when I only
refuse your toast, won't you eat me if I am the winner at chess? "But, if I beat you?" she said.

"That will not be the only occasion on which you will have triumphed over me, you--you"----He
seemed greatly at a loss for a word, and concluded his speech with--"beauty!" This expression,
which was, no doubt, intended for the most complimentary he could find, was accompanied with
a look of admiration so long, so broad, and so impudent, that she blushed, and a squeeze of
her hand so hard, so rough, and so continued, that she screamed. She threw a glance of inexpressible
disdain on the insolent wooer, and looked for protection to her father; but that venerable
individual was at that moment so sound asleep on one of the sofas at the other end of the room,
that no noise whatever could have awakened him. Ericson seemed totally unmoved by all the contempt
she could express in her looks, and probably thought he was in a thriving condition, from the
fact (somewhat unusual) of his being looked at at all. She lost her temper altogether. She
covered her cheek, which was flushed with anger, with the little hand that was reddened with
pain, and resolved to play her worst to spite her ill-mannered antagonist. But all her attempts
at bad play were useless. The board shook beneath the immense hands of Ericson, who was in
a tremendous state of agitation, and hardly knew the pieces. He pushed then hither and thither--made
his knights slide along with the episcopal propriety of bishops, and made his bishops caracole
across the squares with the unseemly elasticity of knights. His game got into such confusion,
that Christina could not avoid winning, and at last--enjoying the victory she had determined
not to win--she cried out, with a voice of triumph, "Check to the king by the queen."

"Cruel girl!" exclaimed the Count, dashing his hand among the pieces with an energy that scattered
them all upon the floor. "Haven't you been anxious to make the king your prisoner?"

"But there is nothing to hinder him from saving himself," answered Christina, looking round
once more to her father, who, however, pursued his slumber with the utmost assiduity and had
apparently a very agreeable dream, for a smile was evident at the corners of his mouth. "It
is impossible to place the board as it was," she continued, trying to gather up the pieces,
and place castles, knights, and pawns in their proper position again.

"Don't try it--don't try it," cried Ericson, losing all command of himself, and pushing the
board away from him, till it spun over with all its men on the carpet. "The game is over--you
have given me check, and mated me!" And in a moment, as if ashamed of the influence exercised
over him by so very unwarlike an individual as a little girl of eighteen, he hurried from the
room, stumbling over his enormous sword, which got, somehow or other, between his legs, and
cursing his awkwardness and the absurd excess of admiration which caused it.

"That man will surely never come here again," said Christina to her father, as he entered the
room an hour after the incidents of the chess-board; for the obsequious minister had followed
Ericson in his rapid retreat, and now returned radiant with joy, as if his guest had been the
most fascinating of men.

"Not come here again!" chuckled the father. "That's all you know about it. He is dying with
impatience to return, and is angry with himself for having wasted the two precious hours of
your society in the way he did. He never had two such happy hours in his life."

"Happy! is that what he calls happiness?" answered Christina, opening her eyes in amazement.
"I don't know what his notions may be--but mine----oh, father!" she cried, emboldened by the
smile she saw on the old man's countenance, "you are only trying me; say you are only proving
my constancy, by persuading me that such a being as that has any wish to please me. He is more
in love with Alexander the Great than with me; and he is quite right, for he has a far better
chance of a return."

"An enthusiasm excusable, my dear, in a young warrior of twenty years of age, whose savage
ambition it will be your delightful task to tame. He is in a terrible state of agitation--a
most flattering thing, let me tell you, to a young gipsy like you--and you must humour him
a little, and not break out quite so fiercely, you minx; and yet you managed very well, too.
A fine fellow, Ericson, though a little wild; rich, powerful, nobly born--what can you wish
for better?"

"My cousin," answered Christina, with a bluntness that astonished the advocate of Ericson's
claims; "my cousin Adolphus, and no other. He is braver than this savage; and as to nobility,
he is as nobly born as my own right honourable papa, and that is high enough for me."

"Go, go," said the courtier, a little puzzled by the openness of his daughter's confession,
and kissing her forehead at the same time; "go to bed, my girl, and pray for your father's
advancement."

Christina, like a dutiful child, prayed as she was told for her father's success and happiness,
and then added a petition of her own, shorter, perhaps, but quite as sincere, for her cousin
Adolphus. If she added one for herself, it was a work of supererogation, for she felt that
in praying for the happiness of her lover, she was not unmindful of her own.

For some days after the supper recorded above, she was too happy tormenting the very object
of all these aspirations, to trouble her head about the awkward and ill-mannered protégé of
her father, whom she hated with as much cordiality as the most jealous of rivals could desire.
But of course she was extremely careful to let no glimpse of this unchristian feeling towards
Count Ericson be perceptible to the person who would have rejoiced in it so much. In fact,
she carried her philanthropy to such a pitch, that she never mentioned any of the bad qualities
of her new admirer, and Adolphus very naturally concluded that she felt as she spoke on the
interesting subject. So, all of a sudden, Adolphus, who was prouder than Christina, perhaps
because he was poorer, would not condescend to be made a fool of, as he magnanimously thought
it, any longer. He had the immense satisfaction of staying away from the house for nearly half
a week, and then, when he did pay a visit, he was almost as cold as the formal piece of diplomacy
in the bag-wig and ruffles whom he called his uncle; and a great deal stiffer than the beautiful
piece of pique, in silk gown and white satin corset, whom he called his cousin. Christina was
dismayed at the sudden change--Adolphus never spoke to her, seldom looked at her, and evidently
left the coast clear--so she thought--for the rich and powerful rival her father had so strongly
supported. After much thinking, some sulkiness, and a good many fits of crying, Christina resolved,
as the best way of recovering her own peace of mind, and the love of her cousin Adolphus, to
put an end in a very decided manner to the pretensions of the Count. One day, accordingly,
she watched her opportunity, and followed with anxious eyes her father's retreat from the room,
under pretence of some important despatches to be sent off. She found herself alone with the
object of her dislike--and only waited for a beginning to the conversation, that she might
astonish his weak mind with the severity of her invectives. In fact, she had determined, according
to the vulgar phrase, to tell him a bit of her mind--and a very small bit of it, she was well
aware, would be sufficient to satisfy Count Ericson of the condition of all the rest. But the
lover was in a contemplative mood, and stood as silent as a milestone, and looking almost as
animated and profound. She sighed, she coughed, she drops her handkerchief. All wouldn't do--the
milestone took no notice--Christina at last grew angry, and could contain herself no longer.

"I dreamt of you last night," she said by way of a beginning. "I hope in future you will leave
my sleep undisturbed by your presumptuous presence. It is bad enough to be forced to see you
when one is awake."

"And I, also, had a dream," replied Ericson, starting from his reverie, confused and only having
heard the first part of the somewhat fierce attack. "I dreamt that you looked at me with a
smile, a long, long look, so sweet, so winning. It was a happy dream!"

"It was a false one," she said, with tremendous bitterness. "I know better where to direct
my smiles, whether I am awake or asleep."

"And how did I appear to you?" asked the Count, presenting a splendid specimen in his astonished
look of the state of mind called "the dumfoundered" by some learned philosophers, and by others
"the flabbergasted."

"You appeared to me like the nightmare! frightful and unsupportable as you do to me now," was
the answer, accompanied with the look and manner that showed she was a judge of nightmares,
and thought him a very unfavourable specimen of the animal.

"Ill-natured little tyrant!" cried Ericson, rushing to her, "teach me how you would have me
love you, and I will do everything you ask!" In a moment he had seized her in his arms, and
imprinted a kiss of prodigious violence on her cheek, which was redder than fire with rage
and surprise!

