IN EASTERN SEAS;
  OR,
  THE COMMISSION OF
  H.M.S. "IRON DUKE,"
  Flag-ship in China, 1878-83.

  BY
  J. J. SMITH, N. S.

  DEVONPORT:
  PRINTED AND PUBLISHED BY A. H. SWISS, 111 AND 112 FORE STREET.
  1883.

  To my late Shipmates
  IN
  H.M.S. "IRON DUKE,"

  The following pages are respectfully inscribed.

    Those who voyage beyond sea change their climate
    often, but their affections never.

PREFACE.

To write something which shall please one's own friends is one thing; to undertake the task
of pleasing anybody else is another; and, I take it, a far more difficult one. The writer of
the following pages never sought to sail beyond the peaceful and well-marked area of the first,
until induced--at the suggestions of his shipmates, though against his better judgment--to
venture on the dark and tempest-swept ocean of the second.

The only originality claimed for the narrative is that of introducing such a manifestly inferior
production to your notice.

Shipmates, my little bark is frail; deal gently with her, and--let me ask it as a special favor--do
not blow too fiercely on her untried sails.

Much depends on the title of a book. Does it convey an adequate idea of the subject-matter?
I would claim for mine at least that merit; for is not every sea over which we have voyaged
to the eastward of England?

CONTENTS.

                                                                Page
  CHAPTER I.

  We Commission our Ship--Visit Portsmouth--Prepare to Sail        1

  CHAPTER II.

  Good-by to Albion--Southward Ho!--Gibraltar                     12

  CHAPTER III.

  Up the Mediterranean--Malta                                     26

  CHAPTER IV.

  Port Said--The Suez Canal--Voyage down the Red Sea--Aden        39

  CHAPTER V.

  Across the Indian Ocean--Ceylon--Singapore--A Cruise in
  the Straits of Malacca                                          47

  CHAPTER VI.

  Sarawak--Labuan--Manilla--Heavy weather                         62

  CHAPTER VII.

  Hong Kong--Some Chinese manners and customs                     71

  CHAPTER VIII.

  Preparations for the North--Amoy--Wosung, and what befell
  us there                                                        83

  CHAPTER IX.

  Arrival at Nagasaki--Something about Japan--A run through
  the Town--Visit to a Sintoo Temple                              94

  CHAPTER X.

  The Inland Sea--Kobé--Fusi-Yama--Yokohama--Visit to
  Tokio                                                          113

  CHAPTER XI.

  Northward--Hakodadi--Dui--Castries Bay--Barracouta--
  Vladivostock                                                   131

  CHAPTER XII.

  Chefoo--Nagasaki en route--Japan revisited--Kobé--
  Yokohama                                                       146

  CHAPTER XIII.

  We attempt an overland route, with the result of the trial     159

  CHAPTER XIV.

  The new regime--Something about Saigon--The First Cruise
  of the China Squadron--An Alarm of Fire!--Arrival of
  Flying Squadron                                                181

  CHAPTER XV.

  Second Cruise of the China Squadron--Principally concerning
  a Visit to the Loo-Choo Isles and Corea--Welcome news
  from home--Conclusion                                          210

  APPENDIX A.--Deaths during the Commission                       i.

  APPENDIX B.--Table of places visited and distances run
  during the Commission                                         iii.

CHAPTER I.

    "We sail the ocean blue, And our saucy ship's a beauty."

  WE COMMISSION OUR SHIP. VISIT PORTSMOUTH.
  PREPARE TO SAIL.

On one of those delicious semi-tropical afternoons, which geologists tell us once bathed the
whole of our island, and which even now, as though loath to part from its one-time home, still
dwells lovingly in Devonia's summer, I wended my way to Devonport Park to feast my eyes once
again on the familiar scenes of early days. What I beheld was a fair picture--the Hamoaze,
with its burden of shapely hulls, and its beautiful undulating shores of wood and dell, lay
glittering resplendent at my feet. So still and peaceful was it all that the din of hammers,
the whir of machinery, and the voices of men were all blended in one most musical cadence.
Scores of pleasure-boats dot the lake-like surface of the noble sheet of water, for the most
part rowed by the lusty arms of those amphibious creatures familiarly known as "Jack Tars,"
recently let loose from the dear old "Model" or the equally dear "Academy." A voice, bell-like
and clear--surely that of a girl--invited my closer attention; and yes, there she is! and not
one only, but many ones,--one in each boat, whom Jack is initiating into that wonderfully difficult
branch of navigation--a sailor's courtship!

Now, whatever anybody else may say to the contrary, I hold that the British tar would scarcely
be the "soaring soul" that he is were it not for the influence--not always a beneficial influence,
by the way, of the softer sex. And here, a word for him with special respect to what people
are pleased to call his inconstancy. With all his vagaries, and from the very nature of his
calling he has many, I think there are few other professions which would bear weighing in the
balance with his and not be found as wanting in this quality. True, none is so easily swayed,
so easily led; but the fault is not his, that must be laid at the doors of those who compel
England's sailors to a forced banishment for long periods of years, in lands where it is impossible
the home influences can reach them. Is it a matter of much wonderment, then, if he is swayed
by the new and intoxicating forms which pleasure takes in those far-distant climes where the
eye of Mrs. Grundy never penetrates?

A somewhat curious way in which to commence my narrative, say you? I think so too, on re-reading
it; but with your permission, I will not dash my pen through it.

Let me, however, make sail and get under way with my yarn.

Cast we our eyes outward once again, beyond the boats with their beautiful coxswains--I mean
hen-swains--to where that huge glistening iron mass floats proudly on the main. Reader, that
object is the heroine, if I may so say, of this very unromantic story. She is in strange contrast
with the numerous wooden veterans around her--relics of Old England's fighting days. I thought
as I gazed on that splendid ship that, had I my choice, nothing would suit me better than to
go to sea in her.

A month has passed; it is the 4th of July, in the year of grace 1878, and my wish is likely
to be consummated, for I find myself on this morning, with several hundreds of others, taking
a short trip across the harbour to the "Iron Duke," for so is she named, corrupted by irreverent
mariners into the "Irish Duke."

We skip lightly up the side, or through the ports, bundling boxes, bags, and hats unceremoniously
through anywhere; and find ourselves, though not without sundry knocks and manifold bruises,
standing on the quarter-deck.

With a few exceptions we are all West-countrymen, undoubted "dumplings" and "duff-eaters"--at
least, so say our East-country friends, though experience has taught me, and probably many
of my readers too, that at demolishing a plum pudding the east is not a whit behind the west;
in that particular we all betray a common English origin.

Though our ship's company is, seemingly, young, very young, the men are growing, and lusty
and strong: and bid fair, ere the end of our commission, to develope into the ideal British
sailor. A stranger, perhaps, would be struck with their youthful appearance; for strangers,
especially if they be midland men, have an idea that a sailor is a hairy monster, but once
removed from a gorilla or a baboon; and if we accept the relationship to these candated gentry,
I don't think his ideas would be far out--say a dozen years since. But these terrible monsters
are all now enjoying their well-earned pensions in rural quiet, leaving to the youngsters of
this generation the duty of supplying their places in that great fighting machine--the navy.

The sailor of to-day possesses, at least, one decided advantage over his brother of the past.
In the olden days--not so very olden either--if one man in a ship's company could read and
write a letter he was considered a genius; now a sailor is, comparatively, an educated man:
and if one is to be found who cannot read and write well, and accomplish far more abstruse
things with his head, he is dubbed--a donkey. He is not now the debauched ignoramus which has
made the English sailor a proverb all over the world. Education is of little value if it is
not capable of changing a man's habits for the better. There is, however, much room for improvement
in certain national traits; apropos of this, the "Mail" for September, 20th, 1880, lies before
me, wherein the writer, in a leading article, after giving a description of the combined squadron
at Gravosa, goes on to say, "It is amusing to find that the traditional impression of an Englishman
prevails so largely at Gravosa, Ragrusa, &c., namely, that he is always drunk, or has just
been drunk, or is on the point of being drunk." Great, though, was the surprise of the honest
Ragusans when they discovered that their estimate of that erratic creature was at variance
with the testimony of their experience of him; for the writer further adds, "The conduct of
our men ashore, the neat, clean appearance they present, and their orderly and sober behaviour
has been much commented on."

But this is a digression--let me bring to the wind again. At the time of our arrival on board
neither the captain nor the commander had joined. The first lieutenant was, however, awaiting
us on the quarter-deck, and who, with the promptness of an old sailor, allowed no time to be
wasted, but proceeded at once with the work of stationing his crew.

At length every man knows his place on the watch-bill, and we hurry off to the lower deck to
look after our more private affairs.

It needs not that I enter into a long and dry description of the peculiar construction of our
ship, of the guns she carries, or how she is fitted out. You yourselves are far more qualified
to do that than I am. After just a cursory glance at these particulars we see about getting
some "panem," especially as a most delectable odour from the lower regions assails our nostrils,
betraying that that indispensable gentleman, the ship's cook, has lavished all his art on the
production of a sailor's dinner. "Man is mortal," so we yield to the temptation, especially
as we are awfully hungry--when is a sailor not so? Few meals present so much food for wonderment
to the landsman as does a sailor's first dinner on board a newly-commissioned ship; all is
hurry, bustle, and apparently hopeless confusion. Bags and hammocks lie about just where they
ought not to lie; ditty boxes are piled anywhere, and threatening instant downfall; whilst
one has to wade knee-deep through a whole sea of hats to reach a place at the tables.

A jostling, animated, good-natured throng is this multitude of seamen, intent on satisfying
nature's first demand; for dinner is the only meal, properly so called, a sailor gets. Nor
does it matter much, though the ship's steward has not yet issued a single utensil out of which
we can dine; such a slight annoyance is not likely to inconvenience men who, in most things,
are as primitive in their mode of living as were our progenitors in the garden of story. Bear
in mind, the object we have in view is to clear those tables of their frugal burdens--hunks
of boiled beef, absolutely nothing else. What, then, though there be no elaborate dinner service,
so long as the end is attained, and that it is, and in the most satisfactory and expeditious
manner, with scrupulous neatness and perfect finish, our friends from the shore must bear witness.

A few words, ere we fall to, descriptive of the lower deck, which serves us for "kitchen, parlour,
and all." What an altitude between the decks! Can it be that those concerns up there are meant
for the stowage of boxes and hats? And see, too, this systematic arrangement of bars, transverse
and upright, is it possible they are anything naval? Their office, though, becomes apparent
when we reflect that there are no hooks, as in wooden ships, for the hammocks. In this iron
age we have advanced a step, and even sailors can now boast of having posts to their beds.
For the rest, the tables are large and at a comfortable distance apart; the ports admit a cheerful
amount of light and a wholesome supply of air; and--but there goes the pipe "to dinner," so
I will pipe down.

A telegram had been received during the forenoon, announcing that the captain would join us
further on in the day; and accordingly, at about 4 p.m., he arrived. A tall, rather slight
made man is our future chief, upright as an arrow, and with an eye such as one sees in men
born to command men. His reputation comes with him in that vague semi-mysterious manner--such
news does travel--and we hear he is a strict "service" officer, and an excellent seaman--good
qualities both, and such as the generality of man-of-war's men raise no objection to. Withal
we are told he is "smart," meaning, of course, that there must be no shirking of duty, no infringement
of the regulations with him. His reputation, I say, came with him, it stuck to him, and left
with him. With the captain's arrival our first day on board came to an end.

On the 6th the commander joined. In appearance he is the direct antithesis of the captain,
being stout, well knit, and of medium height--the ideal Englishman of the country gentleman
type--bluff and hearty, and with a face as cheerful as the sun.

Let us now pass rapidly over the few intervening days, and start afresh from July 17th. So
much energy and determination had been displayed by all hands, that long before most ships
have half thought about the matter we were ready for sea. In the short space of twelve days,
so far as we were concerned, we were quite capable of voyaging to the moon--given a water-way
by which to reach her, especially with such a chief as "Energetic H." at the helm.

On the morning of the 17th, there being nothing further to detain us in Hamoaze, steam was
got up, and ere long we were leaving, for a few years, the old and familiar "Cambridge" and
"Impregnable," the one-time homes of so many amongst us; and bidding king "Billy" and his royal
consort a long good bye! until Devil's Point hides from us a picture many of us were destined
never to behold again.

Ere long the booming of our heavy guns, as we saluted the admiral, announced that we had dropped
our anchor for the first time in the Sound.

After testing speed on the measured mile, powder and shell, and other explosives, were got
on board and safely stowed, though it would appear that the engineer authorities were not satisfied
with the results of the steam trial. A second trial was therefore deemed necessary, and on
this occasion a sort of fête was made of it; for numbers of officials and un-officials, with
their lady friends, came on board to witness the result. The day was beautifully fine, and
the trip a really enjoyable one--the cruising ground lying between the Start and Fowey.

July 22nd.--The "long-expected" come at last, namely, the admiral's inspection.

There is a purely nautical proverb, or, at any rate, one which is so common amongst sailors,
that it may be considered as such, which says "Live to-day live for ever;" one of those expressions
which, somehow, everybody knows the meaning of, but which none seem to be able to render intelligible.
Well, this idea is peculiarly applicable to admirals' visits; for if one can manage to live
through such an atmosphere of bustle and worry, such rushing and tearing, such anxiety of mind,
and such alacrity of movement as follows in the train of the great man, then surely existence
at any other time and under any other conditions is an easy matter.

It was with peculiar feelings, then, that we received the august Sir Thomas, over our gangway.
Nor were these feelings modified by the knowledge that Admiral Symonds is a thorough old "salt,"
a tar of the old school; and, as such, is, of course, au fait with the weak points in a ship's
cleanliness and manoeuvring. His inspection was, I believe, extremely satisfactory.

We hoped that with the departure of the admiral we should have been permitted to land earlier
this evening, as a sort of reward for our late exertions, especially as we have not seen our
homes and families by daylight for some considerable period. Imagine, then, our feelings when
a signal was thrown out at Mount-Wise that we were to perform some evolution, which would consume
all the remaining hours of light. But the little cherub on the royal truck, which, according
to Dibdin, is perched at that commanding altitude, especially to look out that squalls don't
happen to Jack, came to console us in the--at other times unwelcome--shape of a deluge of rain.
Thus we got ashore earlier, though, as a set-off against so much happiness, wetter men.

On July 26th orders came that we were to proceed to Portsmouth, to take in our armament of
torpedoes, and in a few hours the Start was growing small astern as we took our way up channel.
We were only a night at sea, but that a dirty one--not rough, but foggy--such as one usually
encounters in this great commercial highway. Early on the following morning the Isle of Wight
lay abeam, and the view from the sea was most lovely: the white cliffs of the island, packed
in layers like slices of cake, presenting a learned page out of the book of nature to the curious.
In passing Sandown Bay we caught a distant view of the operations for raising the "Eurydice."
Our thoughts naturally took a melancholy turn, for many of us had lost comrades--some few,
friends--in that ill-fated ship. But I think one of the leading characteristics of the sailor
is the ease with which he throws off melancholy at will. The fact is, he encounters danger
so frequently, and in so many varied shapes and forms, that if he put on depressing thoughts
every time he is brought face to face with it, then he would be for ever clothed in that garb.

With a pausing tribute to the dead, and many a silent prayer, perhaps--for sailors can and
do pray--we steamed into Spithead, forgetting, in all probability, the Eurydice and all connected
with her.

As our torpedoes were all ready for us, it was not long before they were on board and fitted
in their places. Our ship was not originally intended to carry these murderous weapons, so
it was necessary to pierce ports in her sides, two forward and two aft, that they may be discharged.
The staff of the torpedo school brought with them twelve of these novel fighting machines,
at a cost of about £300 each, though £500 is the price paid to Whitehead's firm at Fiume; but
as the English Government has the authority, with certain limitations, themselves to manufacture
the torpedo, they cost England the former price.

After a short trial of the discharging gear outside the circular forts we shook hands with
the land of smoked haddock and sour bread, and trimmed sails for the west, reaching the Sound
by the following morning, when coaling lighters attached themselves to us before you could
say Jack Robinson.

Work is again the order of the day; for coaling a large iron-clad over all means some exertion
I can assure you. It is most unpleasant work, nevertheless it has to be done, so we set to
work with a will. Dirty as the ship was, and dirty as we all were, from the copious showers
of diamond dust falling everywhere, yet nothing could daunt our friends from paying us the
usual dinner-hour visit.

It was a curious spectacle to witness that farewell visit, to see coal begrimed men coming
up from below, reeking with sweat, to clasp the fair hand of a mother, to snatch a kiss from
the soft cheek of a sister or sweetheart, or to feel the lingering embrace of a wife.

      "Then the rough seamen's hands they wring;
      And some, o'erpowered with bursting feeling,
    Their arms around them wildly fling,
      While tears down many a cheek are stealing."

CHAPTER II.

    "Now we must leave our fatherland,
    And wander far o'er ocean's foam."

  GOOD BYE TO ALBION! SOUTHWARD HO!
  GIBRALTAR.

Farewell, farewell! The last words have been said! How we would have put off that last hour;
how we would have blotted it out, if, by so doing, we might have avoided that farewell. I never
before realised how impressive a sailor's parting is. Was it really but a few hours since that
loving, clinging hands rested within our own, that we heard the scarcely breathed words which
still linger in our ears? How like a dream it all seems, and how like a dream it must continue
to be, until we shall once more hear those voices and feel those hands.

Thus felt we as on the morn of August, 4th, 1878, just one month from the hoisting of the pennant,
we rounded the western end of Plymouth Breakwater, en route for the land of the Celestials.
It was Sunday, and never Sabbath broke fairer than that one, or sun shone more auspiciously
on the commencement of a voyage.

Our friends, I doubt not, are casting longing and tear-bedimmed eyes after us; and many a handkerchief
flutters its good bye long after objects on the shore have ceased to be distinguishable. Let
us leave them to their tears; for us the sterner realities of life. We are not going away for
ever, I trust; and England's sailors are patriots enough to feel that their own land, and mothers,
wives, and sisters are the dearest and best in the world. With a short silent prayer, commending
them to God's protection, we take a last look for good and all, at old Rame Head, and endeavour
if we can to banish melancholy.

But are we really at sea? for the ship is so steady, and the water so smooth, that, without
the sense of sight, we have no perception of motion. Sea voyages are, as a rule, uneventful
and monotonous--to the seaman, at any rate, and ours was no exception.

A few days after leaving Plymouth we were fairly in the bay so dreaded by ancient mariners,
and which is popularly supposed to be for ever

    "Upheaving, downrolling tumultuously."

Many a yarn have I heard old salts spin of this special and favourite abode of the god of storms:
how that the seas were so high that in the valleys between the wind was taken completely out
of a ship's sails; then, fearful lest each successive wave would engulf her, her trembling
crew see her up-borne with terrible force, and once more subject to the full fury of the blast:
how that no bottom was to be reached by the heaviest of leads and the longest of lines,--and
such-like awe-inspiring wonders; or, as that most observant of naval poets, old Falconer, graphically
puts it--

    "Now quivering o'er the topmast wave she rides,
    Whilst beneath the enormous gulf divides.
    Now launching headlong down the horrid vale,
    Becalmed, she hears no more the howling gale;
    Till up the dreadful height again she flies,
    Trembling beneath the current of the skies."

We probably crossed Biscay during the time the presiding restless spirit was taking holiday
or sleeping; for a lake could not possibly have presented a smoother surface. Shoals of porpoises,
trying their rate of speed under our bows; the dull flop of a solitary sea-bird astern, seeking
sundry bits of biscuit or other waste; and the everlasting rythm of the engines were the only
occurrences to mar the sameness of this part of our voyage.

Internally all the activity usually displayed on board a British man-of-war was being carried
on incessantly; nothing was neglected, and the captain soon led us to see that "thorough" was
his motto, and that for him there were to be no half measures. Nor did he, during the time
he was with us, ever require of us more than he was ready to undertake himself. He set us such
an example of zeal and activity, that though we might not altogether have approved, yet we
were bound to admire it.

It is the fourth day of our voyage, and we are in sight of the high land of the Torres Vedras,
at the mouth of the Tagus. Far, far away in the background, like a magnificent panorama, rise
the high, time-worn summits of the Sierras of Spain. On approaching near enough to distinguish
objects we discovered several large baronial castles, or convents, perched high up on bold
pinnacled crags, in positions most inaccessible and impregnable. One goes back, in fancy, to
the feudal days, and recalls those heroes of our boyish imaginations to the times when

    "Knights were bold and barons held their sway,"

with all the consequent ills of that system of government.

Our sails are filled with the balmy breath of Portugal's orange groves as we continue our southward
way. Cape St. Vincent soon rises, Dungeness-like, right ahead, and we call to mind that this
was the scene of one of England's great naval victories. These rocks, so still and peaceful
now, have resounded to the din of deadly strife, when, in the year 1797, a Spanish fleet, of
twenty-seven sail, tried to wrest the dominion of the seas from its lawful holders, the English
fleet, under Sir John Jervis, numbering only half that of the enemy.

Next, never to be forgotten Trafalgar is reached. Trafalgar, glorious Trafalgar! a household
word so long as England shall endure. How our thoughts love to dwell on the deeds you witnessed
our fathers do, every man of whom was a hero.

And now arrives Sunday, August 11th, on which day, after having been favoured with exceptionally
fair weather, Gibraltar, with its mighty rocky fortress, heaves in sight.

Before we arrive at the anchorage I would beg a slight indulgence of my readers whilst I twist
a yarn about "Gib.;" and as, I think, much of the interest attaching to a place or object is
due to a knowledge of its previous history, I purpose to give just a rapid and cursory glance
at a few of the leading events connected with the past of the places we visit.

Gibraltar is of Moorish origin, having been named after the famous Saracen chieftain, Tarik,
who made this rock the starting point of his conquests in Spain. Hence it was called Gib-el-Tarik--the
hill of Tarik--further Europeanized into the modern Gibraltar. This magnificent natural fortress
rises perpendicularly to a height of 1300 feet from the purple waves of the Mediterranean.
It and the peak Abyla, on the opposite (African) coast, were styled by the Greeks, in their
poetical language, "the pillars of Hercules;" whilst the strait between is said to have been
executed by the same man of muscle, to wile away the tedium of an idle hour.

The remnants of this now almost-forgotten race--the Saracen--are still to be found on the northern
seaboard of Africa, in the kingdom called Morocco, where they strive to eke out a scant existence
from the arid plains of that parched and burning clime.

The events I have recorded above happened hundreds of years ago. Let us leap the gulf of time,
and see if there be anything else worthy of note or interest as bearing upon Gibraltar. I think
there is--much that is interesting to Englishmen. In 1704, Sir George Rooke and Admiral Byng
had made several attempts to engage the French fleet, but had signally failed. Deeming it undesirable
to return to Plymouth in this inglorious manner, the two leaders determined to win laurels
for themselves and fleet somehow and somewhere--it mattered not where, and they decided on
making a bold attempt on Gibraltar.

It was during this memorable attack that the signal gallantry of the Royal Marines displayed
itself in so brilliant and wonderful a manner--gallantry which has shed such lustre on the
annals of naval warfare, and gained for them a name and a place second to none in the British army.

In 1713, on peace being proclaimed, the fortress was ceded to England in perpetuity; but the
Spaniards had no intention of abiding by a treaty wrung from them at such a cost. The result
was that several subsequent attempts were made to regain the place. At length, in the years
1789-93, occurred that memorable siege--the greatest, perhaps, on record--when a mere handful
of British soldiers, under General Elliott, successfully withstood a siege of three years'
duration, which settled at once and, let us hope, for ever the question as to who were henceforth
to be masters here. But it is a bitter pill to the Spaniards; and even now they can scarcely
realize that it does not belong to them. The Spanish people are continually being buoyed up
with the pleasant fiction, that it is only lent to its present proprietors; for in all documents
relating to Gibraltar, or in all questions raised in the Spanish parliament touching that place,
the British are referred to as being only "in temporary possession of Gibraltar."

The view of the town from the bay is rather pleasing. Before us and far away to the left, till
hid by an eminence, the houses stand out boldly, terrace above terrace, against the rocky background--their
white mass and gaily-colored verandahs glistening in the sunbeams.

To prevent loss of time, instead of anchoring we were at once secured alongside the jetty,
thus offering a fine opportunity for sight-seers, who speedily throng the wharf. A most motley
gathering that same crowd, a few were undoubtedly British, therefore nothing need be said of
them--a few more, half-blooded Spaniards; and as we shall become better acquainted on our visiting
the town, we will pass them without comment also; but one remarkable race, which has its representatives
amongst the sea of faces before us, needs a few words of remark. Their proud, commanding bearing,
clearly-cut features--as if just from the sculptor's chisel, their sallow complexion--almost
approaching a saffron hue, all are new to us. Red fez caps on a close-shaven head, loose flowing
scarlet tunics, bare legs, and sandalled feet--these clearly betray their oriental origin.
Who are they? Reader, a few pages back I endeavoured to claim your interest in a people who
once owned half Spain--the Moors: these before you are some of their descendants, and are a
portion of the army of the Sultan of Morocco, here for the purpose of receiving instruction
in gunnery. Though they have such proud looks they are extremely bashful and restive under
our gaze, constantly shifting their position to escape our scrutiny; as for making a sketch
of one, that is nearly impossible, for immediately he sees you put your pencil to paper he
vanishes in the crowd, as though he had detected you levelling a revolver at him.

The other dwellers on the soil are a strange mixture of the Mediterranean race; and as it is
impossible to describe them, or say what they are, we will just be content with the title they
are proudest of--the reptilian one of "rock scorpions"--a tough, hardy people, though, notwithstanding
their doubtful ancestry.

In my description of places I shall always assume that about twenty or thirty of my shipmates
accompany me in my strolls,--we shall get along much pleasanter, and enjoy ourselves much better
thus than if we were scattered without any end in view: besides, it will be much less difficult
for me, and I shall be enabled to get rid of that objectionable personal pronoun, first person
singular, nominative. I will, therefore, with your kind co-operation, introduce you to the
first of our series of rambles.

The climate is beautiful and the air most exhilirating, two, at any rate, of the attributes
to an enjoyable walk already manufactured for us. Passing out of the Dockyard precincts we
are at once in the English quarter. As I said before, the houses are constructed in terraces:
hence we find ourselves continually mounting flights of steps to get from one street to another,
so that there is really little inducement for pedestrians to move out of doors at all. Vegetation
is very scarce, a want we can scarcely be surprised at when we consider the soil. Of course,
that camel of the vegetable world, the cactus tribe, has its representatives in this arid,
parched earth, where, seemingly, it is impossible anything else can take root.

As we approach the rising ground, which hides a portion of the town from our view, we observe
the walls of an old ruin boldly outlined against the pure blue of the sky. This is all that
now remains of a Moorish castle, the last existing monument of that race in Gibraltar.

But we must hurry on, for we have a lot to do: amongst other things, a climb to where that
flag flutters indistinctly in the breeze. After sundry twists and turns, now up these steps,
now down this street, or that, we find ourselves at the beginning of the ascent, and in as
rubbly and dusty a pathway as one would wish to traverse. What with the ruts worn by the rain,
and the tearing up of the ground by the passage of heavy ordnance, it would be a difficult
matter indeed to select any particular line of march and call it a road. Travellers ordinarily
engage mules for the journey; we sailors scorn any such four-footed assistance, though the
next time we voyage this way it will be as well to remember that ankle boots are preferable
to "pursers' crabs." As we advance, the sun's rays are beginning to get unpleasantly warm,
whilst the sand most persistently ignores all the known laws of gravity, by fixing itself in
our eyes, mouths, and nostrils.

Herds of goats, with their attendant shepherds, occasionally cross our path, changing their
pasturage. Query, what do they live on? I don't think that any of our party have yet seen anything
green since we started, not a blade of grass nor even a moss to relieve the stony reality of
the hard rock.

With what a sigh of relief and satisfaction we reach the top, and enter within the welcome
shade afforded by the signal-house. Refreshments are eagerly sought after, anything to wash
the dust out of one's mouth. There is no lack of drinks here, very fortunately; beer and stout,
and something--which being put into lemonade bottles passes, I suppose, for that beverage--are
speedily, greedily, gulped down our parched throats. The supposed lemonade which, by special
desire, fell to my lot, was enough to engender thoughts of disloyalty to a certain lady and
her cause in the mind of the stoutest champion of the league; and I took considerable credit
to myself that I passed scathless through such a trying ordeal. What stuff! Just imagine, you
who are drinking your stout with such keen relish, and smacking your lips in such evident satisfaction,
imbibing a liquid as hot almost as the surrounding air, and so insipid that I have tasted medicines
far more palatable. Opportunely I call to mind a proverb of our Spanish friends yonder, "The
sailor who would caulk his boat must not turn up his nose at pitch;" and as, figuratively speaking,
I want to caulk mine, I make a virtue of necessity, and the obnoxious liquid vanishes.

Having regaled ourselves at a very moderate cost, all things considered, we are invited to
insert our names in the visitors' book. To satisfy a curiosity we possess we turn back over
the pages, to see who has honored this height with their presence. We find princes from Germany,
grandees from Spain, professors from America, naval officers of almost all nations, and ladies
not a few. One person of a witty and poetical turn thus records his and his friends' visit:--

  "April 17th, 1878.

      Three friends this day
      Walked all the way
      To the signal station;
      There was W. T.,
      With his chum, C. G.,
      And R. H. of the British nation."

After such an enjoyable rest, suppose we just step outside on the terrace, and have a look
around whilst we "do" our tobacco.

We are at a height of 1255 feet above the level of the sea; and the fatigue of the ascent is
more than compensated by the view of the splendid natural panorama, spread out like a map around
us. The bay of Gibraltar, with the houses of the town of Algeciras, are distinctly visible;
so, too, is the southern range of the Ronda mountains, the purple Mediterranean, with the immense
jumble of Afric's sparkling shores, the Atlas mountains, the Neutral ground, and the Spanish
lines. These are some of the objects which never tire the eye. The precipices below us are
amazingly steep, in some cases the heights even overhang. Many precious lives were lost through
inadvertent steps during the first occupation; and this suggests to me a story I have read
somewhere, and which I will ask your pardon for telling you.

A young officer of the garrison, who with a brother officer was on guard one day, suddenly
missed his companion; and on retracing his steps a little he saw his poor friend's mangled
body about 400 feet below. The sub, however, made no reference or allusion to this accident
in his report. His commanding officer, on being informed of the sad business, immediately summoned
his subordinate before him, and demanded an explanation of his conduct, the following dialogue
taking place between them:--"You say, sir, in your report, 'N.B.--nothing extraordinary since
guard mounting,' when your brother officer, who was on guard with you, has fallen over a precipice
400 feet high and been killed! call you this nothing?" Our sub, who hailed from 'auld reekie,'
thus replied, "Weel, sir, I dinna think there is onything extraordinary in that; had he fa'n
doon a precipice 400 feet high, and not been killed, I should ha'e thocht it vera extraordinary
indeed, and would ha'e put it doon in my report!"

I think we have found the down journey not nearly so difficult or wearying as the ascent, for
we are in the town ere we are aware of it, and following in the wake of a throng of people,
seemingly all heading in one direction. As we have still a few hours left us we will accompany
them, and make a study of Spanish life by gaslight.

Graceful, black-eyed women, instinct with loveliness and vivacity, claim our first notice--first,
because they are ladies, and, secondly, because of their becoming attire and the natural grace
of their movements; for theirs is "the very poetry of motion." We have all possibly seen pictures
of Spanish women, and may have, no doubt, remarked the head-gear they were depicted with. The
flowing lace adornment, reaching from the head to the shoulders, and from thence thrown in
graceful folds over the back and one arm, is called the "mantilla," and is the characteristic
costume of the ladies of Spain. Each carries a fan in her hand--no lady is dressed without
it--which they use, not so much for the purpose of cooling themselves as to convey the subtle
emotions of the Spanish female mind. It seems to do the duty of eyes, though they possess very
beautiful eyes, too. What I mean is, that whereas we in our colder climate generally indicate
love, passion, or melancholy by means of the eyes principally, and through the facial muscles
generally, these ladies interpret all this through the agency of the fan. So skilled are they
in its use, that there is scarcely an emotion, it is said, which they cannot render intelligible
by this means.

To say that we passed them without an impertinent stare is to confess at once that we are not
sailors. This want of manners, or seeming want, is excusable, I think, insomuch that in our
everyday life we see so little of them, that when we do fall across "the sex" we regard them
more in the light of curiosities than tangible flesh and blood like ourselves. I see, too,
that some of the more susceptible of our party are looking behind them. "Remember Lot's wife,"
and remember, too, the blue-eyed girls of your village homes whom you parted from so recently;
for the Spanish maids, with all their charms, will scarcely bear comparison with our bonnie
English lasses.

We have said something of the "senoras," now a word for the "senors." The dress of the men
is as picturesque and gaudy as that of the ladies is not; in the particular, indeed, the sexes
seem to have usurped the other's rights. Young Spanish swells, in colored velvet breeches and
tastefully embroidered leggings, scarlet silk sash around the loins, and irreproachable linen,
with, here and there, one with the far-famed guitar, improvising amorous nothings for the ear
of some susceptible damsel, abandon themselves to the luxury of the hour in true Spanish style.

But what is this? Whither has the crowd conducted us? Surely the fairies have been at work!
In other words, we have wandered into the Alameda, or Public Gardens. I beg to recall a statement
which I fear I made somewhat rashly a few pages back, in which I said that Gibraltar could
not possibly yield any green thing, owing to its miserable soil. I find I am wrong, for here
before us is a perfect greenery. Stately trees, beautiful blossoms, fragrant and gaily-flowered
shrubs, ferns and grasses--all are here in abundance. How charming it all looked by the light
of many colored lamps! These gardens are evidently the favorite promenade of all classes of
the people--the Spanish don, the English officer, the Southern Jew, and the swarthy African--all
find a place in its walks, and glide along its various avenues in twos or threes, according
to taste. The strains of the Garrison band, too, invite us to linger yet, as the sweet airs
of the reminiscences of Scotland whisper among the branches. Sombre-clad priests, in long togas
and shovel hats, bustle about here and there, now talking cheerfully to one lady, now looking
correction at another; but all enjoying themselves with as much evident pleasure as their more
mundane flocks.

The boom of the Citadel gun cuts short all our pleasing reflections, and we may (very unwillingly
it must be confessed) tear ourselves away from this happy place.

On arriving at the Dockyard gates we are summoned to give the pass-word by the vigilant guard
before we are allowed to pass the ponderous portal. Those who have read Captain Marryatt's
delightful story, "Peter Simple," and I should hope there are few sailors who have not, will
perhaps recall the amusing scene which took place on this very spot between lieutenant O'Brien
and the soldier on guard.

Our days at pleasant "Gib." are drawing to a close. I feel assured that we shall carry with
us, in our voyage to the far east, many pleasing recollections of Gibraltar--its balmy air
and genial climate--its abundance of grapes, melons, and oranges. Would we could send some
to our friends in England.

CHAPTER III.

    Melita! The glory of a triumph clings, odorous as incense,
                        Around thy hero dead!

  UP THE MEDITERRANEAN.--MALTA.

With the dawn of August 15th we were rounding Europa Point, and leaving Gibraltar far away
astern. On our starboard hand three or four luminous points in the atmosphere indicate the
position of the snow peaks of Atlas, the range itself being lost in the distance.

We chanced on a favoring breeze, so all sail was spread to help us against the strong five
knot current always setting out from this sea. I cannot tell with what feelings you entered
upon this, the greatest highway of commerce in the world. For all of us it possesses a certain
interest, but to some more so than to others. I refer to those who love to wander in imagination
amidst the departed glories of Greece and Rome--empires which lived, moved, and had their being
when our forefathers were but tattooed savages.

As we advance, the sea begins to widen, the mountainous outline of the Spanish coast trends
boldly to the northward; whilst the African shore grows indistinct and flatter, save where
here and there some mighty peak rears its head from out of cloudland. Since leaving "Gib."
we have been under the escort of shoals of porpoises, who ever and anon shoot ahead to compare
rate of speed; or, by way of change in the programme, to exhibit their fishy feats under the
ship's bows. Whether there be any truth in the mariners' yarn, that the presence of porpoises
generally indicates a change in the wind, I will leave for you to form your own opinion; but
certain it was, that on the present occasion, the wind did change, and to a "muzzler" illustrating
in the most practical manner that our ship could be just as lively on occasion as other pieces
of naval architecture. The stomachs of some of our younger hands, too, seemed to have suddenly
acquired a sympathetic feeling with the movements of the ship, which, strangely enough, impressed
them with a desire to reveal what they had had for dinner. The ship, though, dashed onward
like a mad thing, regardless of the agony she was inflicting on some of her human parasites.

This was but the commencement of our sufferings for now the heat was beginning to annoy us.
To us who could go on deck when we wished it was bad enough, but to those poor fellows who
had to swelter and toil in the stokehole it must have been very trying, though compared with
what was yet to come this was a mere bagatelle. We had encountered that blasting wind known
as the "sirocco"--the scourge of the Mediterranean--which after gathering force and heat in
the African deserts comes with its fiery and sand-laden breath to sap the moisture from all
who have not the natures of salamanders. Fortunately we soon passed beyond its sphere of action.

Darkness rapidly sets in in these regions of eternal summer. The sunny shores and genial climes
of the Mediterranean, where the very touch of the air seems a perfumed caress, lack only one
thing to make them a paradise. Those pleasant hours which obtain in our less favoured land
after the sun has set, and which we call twilight, are entirely unknown here, hours which England's
youths and maidens generally appropriate to themselves, and which, in after years, recall some
of the sweetest memories of their lives. Fancy a day deprived of such hours! No sooner has
Phoebus veiled his glorious beams than there is a general demand for candles, and we find our
liberal supply of two 'dips' a very inadequate apology for about four hours' illuminating purposes
on a draughty deck.

But we must haste on our way past the Tunisian Coast, past Galita, onward through fleets of
lateen rigged piratical looking crafts, with snowy sails and bird-like movements, dashing their
white wings in the surge. We must not dwell too long on this peaceful and pleasant shore, for
Pantellaria--an island of more interest in one sense--begins to rise ahead. This, in all probability,
is the "Calypso's Isle" of the classics, but now the less poetical "Botany Bay" of the Italians.
I should think that a few years' compulsory residence here is a thing to be desired rather
than not, for it is a delightful spot enough, a sort of embryo continent, and nature seems
to have achieved here some of her grandest works in the smallest possible space and with the
least possible amount of material. As we near its shore we catch a glimpse of a pure white
town, gracefully reclining on the slopes of a hill at the head of a perfect miniature of a
bay. Artistically the effect is very pleasing, the glistening white houses seem as if embowered
in the darkest of green foliage, each roof, each angle standing out most distinctly. Much as
we regret it we see charming Pantellaria vanishing astern, for our engines will not cease their
everlasting plunges to satisfy any weaknesses of ours.

How wonderfully strange and new everything seems to us; the sea, the land, its peoples, all
so different to England; even the very heavens shed milder lights, have purer depths of colour.
At night the stars shine out larger and with greater brilliance than we are wont to see them.
Our old friend, the Great Bear, still remains true to us, though he keeps shorter watches in
our southward way, others less loyal, forsake us altogether, yet in exchange if we get new
forms they are not less beautiful.

Brilliant as are the skies the sea is equally so, for there seem as many gems beneath as above
us; we appear to be cleaving our way through a yielding mass of liquid gold. Every dash the
ship makes she seems to set the sea on fire, throwing starry sprays far over our heads on to
the deck where the drops still retain their light.

At early morning on August 22nd, a great jabbering outside the ship, as though a colony of
monkeys had encountered another babel, announced that we were at Malta. Boats by the hundred
swarm around us, and never was seen such a gesticulating, swearing crowd, as their occupants,
nor such pushing and hauling, such splashing and wrangling, and even fighting to maintain their
stations alongside. One's eyes cannot fail to be arrested by these boats, but the colouring
of them is what attracts particular attention. We get here our first idea of the criental love
for colour, though at Malta the idea is exaggerated, because the colours do not blend harmoniously.
For instance, the same boat will be painted with emerald green, vermillion, cobalt, and chrome
yellow, put on without the slightest regard to effect or harmony. The eye on the bow is universal,
no waterman would dare venture from the shore without such a pilot.

These little crafts, in addition to their legitimate use, have a secondary, though very important
one, that of advertising mediums, not unworthy the genius of our American cousins. To select
an example here and there. One boat bearing the characteristic and truly Catholic legend "Nostra
Senora di Lordes," also sets forth another legend to the effect that "Every ting ver cheap
here Jack," though what is cheap and where is not so clearly indicated; on another this extraordinary
piece of English, "Spose you cum my housee, have got plenty." Of these same "housees" numerous
tales are told; of one in particular, where you can obtain "ebery ting" except the right. You
ask for beef steak, or ham and eggs, and the master of the house, in the blandest manner and
with much shrugging of the shoulders, will answer you, "Me ver sorry, hab got ebery ting but
that," and ditto to your next order, he has also the sang froid to tell you on your complaining
of the toughness of that succulent, that his cabbage must be tender because it has been boiling
ever since the "Caledonia" went home. If you don't enjoy it after that, all that I can say
is you are over fastidious.

But to return to the busy and noisy throng alongside. Its composition differs very little from
that usually encountered by ships of war in all parts of call. The washerwomen are the undoubted
masters of the situation, and carry all before them. The alacrity with which they scramble
up the perpendicular side of the ship is simply astonishing. It struck me that we could not
do it with greater ease, notwithstanding that we possess the advantage of unfettered extremities.
In the twinkling of an eye they are below, and besieging us in our messes, holding out for
our inspection greasy looking rolls of paper, purporting to set forth in English, French, Italian
and Spanish, and even in Greek and Turkish, the bearers' exploits amidst the soap suds. To
read the English certificates while at breakfast is highly amusing and provocative of much
merriment. Here is one. The writer is one "Bill Pumpkin," H.M.S. "Ugly Mug," who states that
the holder, Mary Brown (who does not know Mary the ubiquitous Mary), "has a strange knack of
forgetting the gender of a shirt, for it not unfrequently happens that you may find her with
that article of male apparel on her own 'proper person,' otherwise, he says, she is all that
can be desired." The said Mary B being unable to read English--or for that matter any other
language--holds up her paper in triumph. Happy, ignorant Mary!

Having squared yards with the black-eyed nymphs (all the shady side of thirty), we are next
assailed with the milkmen, who not only bring their cans, but also their goats on board. When
the can is run out "nanny" is milked, and sent about to look for a feed under the mess-tables,
a locality she is thoroughly acquainted with from frequent experience.

Our first breakfast in Malta is over, a meal not easily to be forgotten, for fruit is plentiful
and good and very cheap, and milk equally so, and cans full of the latter added to the chocolate
make that nutritious beverage truly delightful, while luscious grapes supply a wholesome and
refreshing dietary.

Now for a run on shore. Valetta, or la Valette, in honor of one of the most famous of the Grand
Masters, the modern capital of Malta, is a fairly large place, though by no means extensive
enough to be styled a City, except out of courtesy. How dingy the buildings and how dusty the
pavements from the crumbling masonry. The houses are so lofty that the strip of blue sky can
scarcely send its light to the bottom, whilst the upper storeys have such an affectionate leaning
towards each other, that the wonder is that any mortar is capable of restraining their eagerness
to fall on each other's necks. But all the houses are not like this, and the character of the
masonry speedily improves on emerging from the gloomy alleys into the magnificent Strada Reale,
more of a roadway than a street, for though there are many grand edifices and numerous shop
fronts, yet one may walk to Floriana on the one hand, and to Civita Vecchia on the other, without
turning to the right or left.

This crowded thoroughfare presents at this special time in particular a most cosmopolitan appearance,
for we have dropped in at Malta during the sojourn here of the Indian Contingent, brought to
Europe in anticipation of difficulties with Russia.

The Maltese themselves, though unquestionably a small race, are wiry and capable of enduring
great hardships. They are very skilful artisans, the filigree jewellery of their silversmiths,
for example, is unequalled as a work of art by anything of its kind in Europe. They are splendid
divers, and seem equally at home in the water as on the land; the smallest coin thrown overboard
being brought to the surface in a twinkling. Whatever their original language might have been,
that which they now possess is a most animated one; for they throw their spars about in a most
alarming manner in emphasis of what they say, inclining one to the belief that sailors have
of this people, namely--if you tie a Maltese hands he can't speak.

Just a word or two descriptive of the sexes: the men we will dismiss with a few words; they
are, as I said before, below the medium height, with dark Italian faces and eyes, but otherwise
not remarkable. The women are, though, or perhaps I ought to have said their appearance is.
Landing in Malta for the first time, a stranger is apt to conclude that every woman he sees
is either a sister of mercy or a nun. This is due, in a great measure, to their national costume,
about the only national possession they can now boast of, which consists of a loose gown of
rusty black and a hood-like covering over the head and shoulders, also black. This construction
throws their face--a rather comely one--into deep shade, almost as sombre-looking as their
dress. No doubt if they could be induced to wear the various so-called aids to nature which
our ladies use to make "a good figure," the Maltese women might do as an advertisement for
Worth; but under the present system of dressing well, I would guarantee to produce as shapely
a structure out of a stuffed bread bag with a spun-yarn around its middle.

If a people be religious, in proportion to the number of priests and sacred edifices seen in
their midst, then ought the Maltese to be pre-eminently a devout people; for it seems as if
every third building is a church, and every other man one meets a priest; whilst the incessant
and not always melodious clanging of bells all day long, is a constant reminder that there
is no lack of opportunity for devotees.

So far as the outward appearance of the priests may be taken as the index to the man's worldly
position, I should pronounce their calling anything but a lucrative one; for a more seedy-looking
class is rarely to be met with. Their care-worn faces and rusty and tattered garments testifying
that in Valetta, at least, the proverbial easy and jolly life of the priesthood does not prevail.

In spite of the lack of good building material, there are some very fine buildings in Malta--notably,
the palace, the cathedral of San Giovanni, and the opera house. The palace has its immediate
entrance from the Strada Reale, by means of an arched gateway of Oriental design, whilst iron
railings extend along the whole front of the structure on either side the gate. Within is the
palace square, beautifully and tastefully laid out with rare exotics and flowering trees, floral
designs and fish ponds. A grand marble stairway indicates the direction we are to take to reach
the interior of the pile, at the head of which is a sort of vestibule, or hall, when all further
progress is barred by the presence of one of the palace functionaries. We explain our errand,
said functionary demurs, pulls a long face, makes sundry excuses as to its not being the proper
day and so on, whilst all the time he is making a mental calculation as to the value of the
expected "tip." The workings of that man's mind are as patent as the day. An English shilling
speedily smooths the wrinkles off that puckered brow as if by a miracle, and makes us the best
of friends. What wonders the little medallion portrait of the Majesty of England will work,
what hearts soften, what doors unlock, and what hypocrites make! With a flattering and obsequious
bow our guide leads the way.

The palace was built by the Knights as their regal residence, and as everything in it has been
most religiously preserved, the various rooms will present a pretty fair picture of the manner
of life of these soldier priests, whose portraits adorns the walls around. To the frame of
each a metal label is attached, on which is an inscription in Latin, setting forth the patronymic
and virtues of the original. Some are represented in military armour with bold martial air,
whilst others are depicted in the more peaceful garb of priests, or civilians, but all wear
the sash and cross, peculiar to the Order, the latter symbol--known as the Maltese Cross--being
found on all their coins and possessions.

Out of the portrait gallery folding doors admit us to the Parliament House, where the Government
officials assemble for the conduct of State business. The four walls are enriched and adorned
with wonderful specimens of needlework, testifying to the patience and skill of the knights'
fair friends.

But the most interesting place of all is the armoury, a vast hall at right angles to the picture
gallery, in which are weapons and arms of all sizes, workmanship, and ages; from the light
rapier and fencing helmet for friendly practice, to the two-handed sword and iron casque of
thirty pounds weight, for the more deadly strife. Some highly interesting relics are here,
too, the original document whereby Charles V. tendered the island to the Knights--a consumptive
looking cannon with very large touch-holes and very small bores--stone shot, iron shot, lead
balls, all arranged in neat designs. Suits of armour of delicate filigree work, in silver and
gold, in glass cases; other suits less costly, though of equal ingenuity, ranged along the
walls in erect positions, spear in hand, or leaning on a huge sword. From the size and weight
of some of these suits, I opine, the Knights must have been men of large build, a medium sized
suit being rather the exception than otherwise.

After a glance at the old, lumbering State carriage of Bonaparte, with its faded, gilded trappings
and armorial emblazonry, we haste away to view something else.

Next in importance to the Palace, comes the Church of St. John (San Giovanni), by far the finest
building in Malta. The interior is very gorgeous, with gilded vaulted roof, finely carved pulpits,
rare old crimson tapestries and monumental floor, resembling one enormous heraldic shield.
Beneath, lie the mouldering remains of the defunct knights, the arms of each being represented
on the slabs above them, in the most delicate and accurate designs, in some cases stones more
rare and costly than marble being used.

At the end of the eastern aisle is the Chapel of the Madonna, guarded by massive silver bars,
saved from the rapacity of Napoleon's soldiers by the cunning and ingenuity of a priest, who,
perceiving that Bony's followers had very loose ideas of mine and thine, painted the rails
wood colour, and thus preserved them inviolate.

Once more in busy, bustling, Strada Reale, with its gay shops filled with a tempting display
of gold and silver filigree work, corals and laces, the latter very fine specimens of needlework
indeed.

Thus far, we have performed all our movements on foot, but now, as we have to go a rather long
distance over very uninteresting ground, we think it more convenient to sling our legs over
a horse's back, for the journey to Civita Vecchia, better known to sailors as "Chivity-Vic."
This was the former capital of the island, though now, as deserted almost as Babylon, its streets
overgrown with grass, its buildings crumbling ruins, and echoing to the tread of our horses'
hoofs. But it is not so much to view these ruins that I have brought you here, as to visit
the Catacombs, or subterranean burying grounds of the early inhabitants. These are not much
compared with those at Naples, or Palermo, for instance, but to those who have seen neither
the one nor the other, they will present all the charm of novelty. Though only a charnel house
it is laid out with great care, in street, square, and alley, just like the abodes of men above.
The bodies are mostly in a fine state of preservation, reposing in niches cut out of the dry
earth, some of the tombs being double, others, again, having an additional crib for a child.
It is next to impossible that organic matter can fall to decay, owing to the extreme dryness
of the place, and, except that the colour has changed a little, the dead people around would
have no difficulty in recognizing their own faces again if brought suddenly to life. Some of
the bodies seem actually alive, a deception further borne out by their being clothed in the
very garments they wore when sentient, joyful dwellers, in the city above. It is worthy of
remark that, though there is but one and the same means of ingress and egress, the air is wonderfully
pure, and free from any offensive odour or mustiness.

Its extreme dryness though, seems somehow to have a reciprocal effect on the palates of our
party, for I hear vague murmurs of "wanting something damp," which, by-an-bye, break out into
a general stampede. If there be any bye-laws in existence against hard riding, we are happily
ignorant of them, nor have we the slightest sympathy with anxious mothers, whose dusky and
grimy offspring are engaged at a rudimentary school for cookery in the mud of the road. Sailors,
as a rule, don't note such items.

August 25th, to-day, after a rather short stay, we looked our last, for some years, on "the
fair isle"--St. Paul's Melita.

The voyage from Malta to Port Said was accomplished without any notable event, except that
the heat goes on steadily increasing.

August 31st, to-day, we made the low-lying land in the neighbourhood of Port Said, and by noon
had arrived and moored off that uninteresting town. Coaling at Port Said is effected with great
rapidity, for ships have to be speedily pushed on through the Canal to prevent a block, thus,
by the following afternoon, we commenced our first stage of the Canal passage, under the escort
of one of the Company's steam tugs, for ships of our size may not use their own engines for
fear of the "wash" abrading the sandy banks.

The character of the scenery soon changes, and we seem to have an intuitive perception that
we are in the land of the Pharaohs. On the one side, far as the eye can reach, and for hundreds
of miles beyond, a desert of glistening sand is spread before us, for the most part level and
unbroken, but occasionally interrupted by billow-like undulations, resembling the ground swell
at sea. Here and there a salt pond breaks the monotonous ochre of the sand. These ponds are,
in the majority of cases, quite dry, and encrusted with a beautiful crystalline whiteness resembling
snow, making even the desert look interesting. On the Egyptian side, a series of gem-studded
lagoons stretch away to the haze of an indistinct horizon, the mirage reproducing the green
and gold of the thousand isles in the highly heated atmosphere.

By 6 p.m. we had reached the first station, or "Gare," when we brought up alongside a jetty
for the night. When darkness had set in, the wild melancholy howl of the jackal was borne across
the desert by the evening breeze, a sound sufficiently startling and inexplicable if you don't
happen to know its origin. What these animals can find to eat in a parching desert is, and
remains to me, a mystery.

On pushing on the following morning, a quail and several locusts flew on board; interesting
because we are now in the region of Scripture natural history. As I was desirous of procuring
a specimen of the Scriptural locust, I expressed a wish to that effect, and soon had more of
them than I knew what to do with, till, in fact, I thought the Egyptian plague was about to
be exemplified. I will here take occasion to thank my shipmates for their kindly and ready
assistance, in helping me to furnish a cabinet with natural history specimens. Nothing living,
coming within their reach, has ever escaped them; birds, insects, fish, reptiles, all have
been laid as trophies before me to undergo that metamorphosis known as "bottling." I verily
believe that had an elephant insinuated himself across their path, he would have found his
way into my "preserves."

This was an extremely quiet day, everybody indulging a siesta under double and curtained awnings,
until about 5 p.m., when bump! a dead stop, and a list to port. We are aground. But grounding
on such a soft bed is not a serious affair, and by extra exertions on the part of "Robert,"
our tug, and a turn or two of our own screws, we were soon in deep water again. This was but
the initiation ceremony; ere the termination of our commission we were destined to become passed
masters in the art of bumping, as the sequel will show.

At this juncture the Canal ceases to be such, as it enters that natural watercourse--the Bitter
Lakes. Herein, we are at perfect liberty to use our own engines, whereby we are speedily across
their glassy surface, and entering on to the last portion of the passage. On rounding a point
on the opposite side, a scene, truly Biblical, met our view--two Arab maidens tending their
flocks. Perhaps they had taken advantage of the absence of man to uncover their faces; if so,
they were speedily careful to rectify the error, on catching sight of such terrible beings
as bluejackets; but not before we had caught a glimpse at a rather pleasing face, with small,
straight nose, rosy lips, splendid teeth, the blackest of eyes, and the brownest of skin. The
veils, which serve to hide their prettiness, are real works of art, composed of gold and silver
coins, beads and shells, tastefully and geometrically arranged on a groundwork of black lace.
After repeated hand kissing from our amorous tars--an action whose significance is apparently
lost on these damsels--we bid good bye to the "nut-brown maids," and at 5 p.m., on September
4th, enter the broad waters of the Gulf of Suez.

The great feature of the town of Suez is its donkeys; wonderfully knowing creatures, who, with
their masters, look upon every visitor, as in duty bound, to engage their services. To say
them nay, and to suggest that your legs are quite capable of bearing you to the town, is only
provocative of an incredulous smile, or a negative shake of the head. Never was seen such patience
and importunity as that displayed by boy and beast. The most striking thing about them is their
names--shared in common--which furnish one with a running commentary on current events in Europe.
For example, there were the "Prince of Wales" and "Roger Tichborne," "Mrs. Besant" and the
"Fruits of Philosophy"! The "mokes" are so well trained--or is it that they have traversed
the same ground so often? that, in spite of all tugging at the reins, and the administration
of thundering applications of your heel in the abdominal region, they will insist upon conducting
you to a locality well understood, but of no very pronounced respectability. I did hear--but
this between you and I--that a rather too confiding naval chaplain, on one occasion, trusted
himself to the guidance of one of these perfidious beasts, and even the sanctity of his cloth,
could not save him from the same fate.

September 7th. We may now be said to have entered upon the saddest and most unpleasant part
of the voyage, that of the Red Sea passage.

The day after sailing, the look-out from the mast head reported a vessel aground off the starboard
bow, with a second vessel close by, and, seemingly, in a similar predicament. Our thoughts
at once adverted to the two troopships which left last night, so we hurried on, and, arriving
at the spot, found we had surmised correctly. One only, the steamer, was aground; her consort,
the sailing ship, being at anchor a safe distance off. We lost no time in sending hawsers on
board, but it was not until the third day that we were successful in our efforts to haul her off.

Our voyage resumed, we had scarcely got out of sight of the two ships, when the sudden cry
of "man overboard!" was heard above the din of flapping canvas and creaking blocks. To stop
the engines, gather in the upper sails, let fly sheets, and back the main yard, was the work
of seconds; and before the ship was well around--smart as she was on her heel, too--the life-boat
was half-way on her errand of mercy. Young Moxey was soon amongst us again, none the worse
for his involuntary immersion, although his bath was more than an ordinary risky one, owing
to the proximity of sharks.

From that exalted observatory, the mast head, we noticed the red colour from which the sea
derives its name. The surface has not a general ruddy tinge, as we most of us thought it had,--only
here and there blood-red patches appear, mottling the vivid blue surface.

September 11th.--My "journal" is a blank for three whole days, owing to the intense heat, which
is simply unbearable. I can only give our friends a faint idea of what it was like, by asking
them to imagine themselves strapped down over a heated oven whilst somebody has built a fire
on top of them, to ensure a judicious "browning" on both sides alike. Sleep is out of the question,
"prickly heat" is careful of that. As may be supposed, the sufferings of the deck hands--bad
enough as in all conscience it was--were not to be compared with the tortures endured by the
poor fellows in the stoke-hole, who had to be hoisted up in buckets that they might gasp in
the scarcely less hot air on deck. From bad, this state of things came to worse--men succumbed
to its influence, the sick list swelled, and, finally, death stalked insidiously in our midst.

September 13th.--The first victim was John Bayley, a marine, who died to-day after an illness
of only a few short hours. One curious thing about this sickness is that those attacked by
it exhibit, more or less, symptoms of madness. One of my own messmates, for instance, whose
life was preserved by a miracle, almost went entirely out of his mind. I will not dwell too
long upon these sufferings, nor rekindle the harrowing scenes in your minds.

At sunset on the 14th the bell tolled for a funeral, as, with half-masted flag, and officers
and men assembled, we prepared to do the last that ever poor Bayley would require from man.
Funerals are solemn things at any time, but a funeral at sea is more than this--it is impressive
and awe-inspiring, especially if there be others so near death's door that one does not know
whose turn it may be next. Decently and in order the hammock-clad form is brought to the gangway,
whilst the chaplain's voice, clear and distinct--more distinct than ordinary it seems--reads
the beautiful service for the Church of England's dead. A hollow plunge, a few eddying circles,
at the words--"we commit his body to the deep"--and he is gone for ever.

Almost simultaneously with departure of one, another of our shipmates, Mr. Easton, the gunner,
died.

Providentially for all of us, a squall of wind struck us at this point of our voyage--a squall
of such violence, whilst it lasted, that the air was thoroughly purged of its baneful qualities,
and restored again to its elasticity.

But what a God-send it was! The iron hull of our ship, always unpleasantly hot in these latitudes,
was rapidly cooled by the deluge of rain which came with the wind. Renewed life and vigour
entered into our emaciated frames, and revivified men marked for death; and was it not delicious
to rush about naked in the puddles of rain on the upper deck!

Well, all things mundane have an end, even the most unpleasant--though it must be confessed
their finality is generally lingering. Thus our desolate voyage through that seething cauldron,
known to geographers and schoolboys as the Red Sea, at length approached its termination.

Our grim shipmate, death, did not go over the side till he had marked yet another victim for
his insatiate grasp; for, to-day, Mr. Scoble, one of our engineers, died. He, too, was buried
at sea, though we were only a few hours from port. On the morn of this day, September 17th,
we passed the strait of Bab-el-mandeb--Arabic for "Gate of Tears"--an extremely appropriate
name, too, I should think.

Aden, which we reached the same evening, has a very bleak and barren appearance, and is, seemingly,
nothing better than a volcanic rock. Its apparent sterility does not, as a matter of fact,
exist; for it produces an abundance of vegetables of all kinds, splendid corn with stalks above
the ordinary height, fruits, roses, and other delightful and highly-scented flowers, in rank
abundance. There is something thriving and go-a-head about the place, in spite of unkindly
nature. It has one terrible drawback, for rain falls only at intervals of years, sometimes
taking a holiday for three or even more years. The people are busy and bustling--troops of
camels, donkeys, and ostriches continually stream in and out the town, testifying to an extensive
trade with the neighbouring states. A peculiar race of people is found here, the Soumali--tall,
gaunt-looking fellows, with a mass of moppy hair dyed a brilliant red. This head-gear, surmounting
a small black face, is laughable in the extreme. Plenty of ostrich feathers may be obtained
of the Arabian Jews; and though, of course, you pay sailors' prices for them, yet even then
the sums given are not nearly so much as would be charged in England for a far inferior feather.

On the eve of departure we were visited by a novel shower, composed of sand and locusts, from
the African desert. These things, unpleasant as they seem to us, are, we are told, of as common
occurrence here as rain showers at home.

  ACROSS THE INDIAN OCEAN.--CEYLON.--SINGAPORE.--A
  CRUISE IN THE STRAITS OF MALACCA.

September 21st.--Having, as it were, given the go-by to two continents, we commence on an extended
acquaintance with a third.

With sails spread to a S.W. monsoon we rapidly speed over that glorious expanse of luminous
sea where it is ever summer, and in whose pearly depths living things innumerable revel in
the very joy of existence.

Though hot, this part of the voyage is not unpleasant, for a cooling breeze is constantly setting
down the hatchways from the sails. What one would rather be without, though, is that tropical
tinting known as the "prickly heat," which now begins to get troublesome; for, like boils,
its spots generally select those parts of the epidermis where they are likely to become of
the greatest nuisance, making the friction of garments almost intolerable; but there, one can't
have everything.

When the sails are trimmed with the same regularity day after day, with never a tack nor sheet
started, existence does not offer much of variety, so that, like Columbus' sailors, we were
glad to welcome even a gale of wind. Now, a rolling and pitching ship is capital fun if you
can manage to stay the surgings of a revolutionary stomach; but it sometimes happens that you
can't, when, to vary a line in "In Memoriam," "you heave responsive to the heaving deep." Then,
too, we are as hungry as "sea dogs." Ten or twelve days on sea rations are not to be envied,
especially as there is plenty of room for improvement in the dietary. It is all very nice,
nay, pleasant even, to feel hungry when there is a prospect of a good "feed" in the tin dish;
but how frequently do we find a "southerly wind" prevailing in that receptacle for "panem;"
and what is there, I ask, in "Fanny Adams" alternated with "salt junk?" In the one, nausea;
in the other, mahogany.

Friday, October 14th.--Just at our breakfast hour we sighted that oriental fairy garden, Ceylon's
isle; and though we must be from fifteen to twenty miles off, a curiously-constructed native
vessel, with perhaps a dozen persons on board, has just put out to welcome and pilot us to
land. A boat so different to all other boats that I must say a word about it. It is a sort
of double canoe, constructed of the hollowed out trunk of a cocoanut tree, to which is attached
a couple of outriggers, with a second canoe-shaped structure at their extremities, but of lesser
dimensions than the boat proper, and differing from it, too, in not being hollowed out--in
fact the latter is used only as a balance for the other. When it comes on to blow with any
force, the Singalese boatmen may be observed standing out on their outriggers, to counteract
the force of the wind on the high sails. The stronger the breeze the further out the men go.
Their mode of expressing the intensity of a breeze is significant. The Singalese don't say
as we do, it is blowing stiff, or half a gale, or a gale; but that it is a "one-man wind,"
or "two," or "three-man wind," as the case may be. I believe a similar idiom is used by the
natives of the Sandwich isles.

On nearing the land we could see how really delightful this ocean gem is. One mass of gorgeous,
perfumed foliage blazes suddenly on the sight from the midst of the sea; feathery palms, broad
trembling leaves, and groves of lofty cocoanut trees springing from the midst of richly-flowering
shrubs.

From the inner harbour the view of Galle is very fine. For miles on either hand stretches a
palm-fringed shore, with the noble cocoanut trees so close to the water's edge, that at times
the sea seems to dash right into their midst. Cocoanut trees, like volcanoes, seemingly prefer
the proximity of the sea to a more retired position.

The whole scene reminds one of the beautiful places visited by captain Cook, in his voyages.
Even the boats are laden with the self-same royal fruits--great green cocoanuts, pine apples,
bananas, plantains, and yams.

All those curiosities for which India is famous--every conceivable article which the fancy
or ingenuity of man can possibly fabricate out of such commodities, as sandal wood, ebony,
ivory, and porcupines' quills, richly and delicately carved, may be had here for a mere song
if you possess only patience. Amongst other things there is a brisk trade carried on in precious
stones. Some of the dealers in this article have found their way to our lower deck, and proceed
to pull little parcels, containing sparkling and pellucid gems from their inner garments. There,
before us, in their downy nest, lie rubies, sapphires, opals, and many more real or fictitious
stones, seven-eighths of which are probably manufactured at Birmingham, though Ceylon abounds
in real gems. It may, I think, be safely conceded that "Jack" very rarely drops in for one
such. The dealers ask most fabulous prices for their wares--so many thousand rupees; but after
haggling with you for about an hour or so are glad enough to part with them at your own price--a
proof, should you need it, of the genuineness of your purchase.

We are rather dubious at first about entering the canoes, for they are so narrow as scarcely
to admit of our broad hams being comfortably stowed. However, by dint of a little lateral pressure
in that quarter, we at length manage to wedge ourselves in. We find the motion pleasant enough--a
sense of security growing with experience.

I suppose we are not the first, nor, unless some sudden calamity undertake the place, are we
likely to be the last, who have remarked how exceeding annoying the "boys" at the landing-place
are. Guides they call themselves; sailors, in their excellently-terse and rotund way, call
them by another name, which certainly does not commence with a "G." These wasps know just sufficient
of English to make you disgusted with your mother tongue. The ordinary and generally conclusive
argument of applying the toe of one's boot to the region of their quarter galleries does not
seem to be effective here. It is one of those things one has to put up with.

The town follows the sinuous windings of the shore for upwards of a mile and a half, under
an arcade of cocoa palms, which forms one of the finest promenades imaginable. Under this quivering
canopy the fierce rays of the outside sun filter through--a soft, sheeny, mellow light--making
his tropic rays deliciously cool, at the same time imparting to them a mystic coloring of gold
and emerald green in all their wonderful combinations and capabilities of tone, impossible
to set down in writing.

A noticeable thing about all this wonderful profusion, is the number of beautiful shrubs, principally
spice or perfume bearing, and the grand harmonies and contrasts of colour they present. Here,
for example, is the nutmeg, with its peach-like fruit; here the cinnamon, a tree whose foliage
embraces the most delicate gradations of colour, from olive green to softest pink; there an
aromatic gum tree, the dark-leaved coffee tree, the invaluable bread fruit, and scores of others
beyond my botanical ken.

The houses, examined in detail, are not by any means the captivating objects we took them to
be from the ship; and they certainly don't improve on a closer acquaintance. The air in the
vicinity is thick and heavy, with a rancid odour of cocoanut oil, emanating from the hair and
bodies of the local humanity. Their dwellings are constructed of humble enough materials, in
all conscience; for of the four sides, three are of mud, the fourth being left open for the
purposes usually supplied by doors, windows, and chimneys amongst ourselves. A sort of blind
of cocoanut-fibre covers this aperture to about half way, so that one can easily see what is
going on within. Near the door reclines an indolent, almost nude man, in the most convenient
attitude for sleep; in the far corner his wife or slave--for the names are synonymous--toiling
and moiling at a stone mill--a gaunt, angular, ugly woman, with great rings in her nose and
ears, and on her wrists and ankles. Perfectly nude children and mangy-looking curs have all
the rest of the apartment to themselves; and from the way in which they are enjoying their
gambols, one may judge that for them life is not an unpleasant thing on the whole. The number
of brown imps scattered about the streets, threatening to upset your every movement, speaks
highly of the prolificness of Singalese matrons; and if a numerous progeny is a desirable thing,
then these mammas ought to consider themselves blessed amongst women. Their general aspect,
though, conveys the opposite impression.

Everybody is addicted to the vice of chewing the betel-nut, a proceeding which has the effect
of dyeing the teeth and lips a brilliant crimson, and gives to this people the appearance of
an universal bleeding at the mouth.

Having completed a hasty perambulation of the town we drive boldly into the undergrowth to
where a strange-looking building lies half-buried in the foliage. It proves to be a Buddhist
temple, an octagonal-shaped structure with a bell-like roof. As we enter within its precincts,
boy priests are particularly careful to obliterate the marks of our heathen feet on their beautiful
floor of golden sand. Inside are eight figures of the good Buddha, alternately standing and
sitting, depicted with that calm, inscrutable countenance so remarkable in the image of this
deity wherever this religion prevails. Before each figure is a small altar, littered with flowers,
the most conspicuous blossom being the lotus lily, the symbol of this faith. Other than these
devotional oblations there is little to be seen; what part in the ceremonies the priests take,
or where they perform their functions, does not appear.

At the gate of the Court on our passing out, stands a bold, yellow-robed priest, with a metal
salver in his hand, suggestive of donations. We told the old gent with naval bluntness that
we were not in the habit of aiding the Society for the propagation of paganism--a remark, by
the way, which it was as well, perhaps, he could not understand.

Sunday, October 6th.--Though sailors are excellent singers--especially of hymn tunes--I never
before heard a hymn rendered so effectively on board a man-of-war as that beautiful composition
by Bishop Heber, commencing

    "What though the spicy breezes
    Blow soft o'er Ceylon's isle,"

and which was one of the appropriate hymns for our morning Service.

October 8th.--Towards evening we bade good-bye to this favoured land, and stood away to the
eastward. We had made good an offing, and set everything aloft snug for the night, when heavy
volumes of steam were found to be issuing from the regions of the engine-room. A steam pipe
had burst, a fracture of so little moment that after a short delay to effect repairs we were
able to resume our voyage. But though the damage was not serious, so far as the ship was concerned,
to us, personally, it was a matter of some consequence, on account of our bags and chests being
stowed immediately over the fractured pipe; and in order to secure our property, we were compelled
to make a blind rush for it, re-appearing from our vapour bath, as red as boiled lobsters.

A splendid eight knot breeze brought us, after a few days, off Acheen head, in Sumatra, and
at the entrance of the Straits of Malacca. And here, the monsoon which had favoured us over
so many miles of the pathless ocean, suddenly forsook us. Sails were of no further use, and
we braced up our sweat glands for four or five days of increasing heat. In obedience to the
demands of an imperious, ever-rising, thermometer, we reduced our rig to the least possible
articles consistent with decency and the regulations of the Service--which latter, by the way,
discriminates not between the caloric of the north pole and that of the equator.

Just at this time, we encountered a phenomenon of frequent occurrence in this region, namely,
water-spouts. One of these tremendous, funnel-shaped, columns of water actually burst just
ahead of us, drenching our decks in showers of spray, and causing the water to seethe and vex
itself as though some monster were lashing it into fury.

October 18th.--The scene which presented itself to our eyes, as we entered the narrow, gem-studded
channel which leads up to Singapore was such that I trust it may live long in my mind as a
memory picture of grateful and refreshing beauty. I don't know that it will compare with the
mighty growth of Ceylon's forests, or with the variety and richness of its forms; but for mellowness
of tint and harmonious blending of soft foliage, Singapore's park-like views seem to me, as
yet, unrivalled. The channel is so narrow and its banks so high, that one is quite unprepared
for the splendour which suddenly, like the shifting lights in a transformation scene, blazes
out in all its tropic splendour. Now, the scenes depicted in the "Arabian Nights" seem to me
not so impossible after all, and, except that gems don't grow on the trees, this fairy garden
might well have stood in the writer's mind as his ideal of paradise.

Very reluctantly we turn away, as that grim reality, known as the Tangong Pagar coaling wharf,
heaves in sight, and alongside which we are rapidly secured. Hundreds of coolies, in anticipation
of our enormous wants--500 tons of carbon--are already thronging the jetty with their baskets
of coal, which ere long, is rattling down our coal shoots.

The Malays, though labouring under the disadvantage of a bad reputation, are a well developed,
muscular race, of a dark, copper colour. Dress does not trouble them much, for all that custom
and society demand of them in this respect is a couple of yards or so of white linen about
their lumbar region; the remainder of their sleek, oily bodies presenting the appearance of
polished bronze. They are great divers, especially the youths and boys--I had almost said infants,
for some of the little mortals can scarcely have passed the sucking age. Their stock of English
is very limited: "Jack, I say jack, I dive," delivered all in one mouthful and with no regard
to punctuation, being about the extent of their acquirements in our tongue.

Our first day at Singapore was marked by a sad termination. Emanuel Dewdney, one of our boys,
a weakly lad and far too delicate for the rough life he had adopted, died of heat apoplexy
in the afternoon.

Though Singapore lies so near the equator--within two degrees of it in fact--it enjoys a very
healthy, though, of course, a very hot climate. The town itself is not very extensive. There
is the usual native Malay division with its system of mud architecture, its dirt and smells;
and that of the European residents--a marked contrast to the irregular jumble of the other.
I don't know that there is particularly much to see in the island, except, perhaps, the Botanical
Gardens, whose beauties will amply repay you for the rather long walk to reach them. You may
take a coach if you like, but that will spoil the pleasure. In these gardens all the choicest
and rarest flora, and much of the fauna, of the East Indies, are brought together and acclimatized.
The most conspicuous amongst the former, and certainly the most lovely--and that is saying
much where all excel--is a species of acacia, a large tree with great flaming scarlet and yellow
flowers. Then there is that extremely interesting and singularly funny creeper, the sensitive
plant, which, on the approach of anybody, has the power of doubling up its leaves as if in
sudden fear. Birds in great variety--all scarlet, gold, and azure--inhabit spacious aviaries
within the grounds. Lyre birds, argus pheasants, great eagles, and owls from Java, doves, pigeons,
lories, and humming birds, the metallic lustre of whose plumage flashes in the light like the
sheen of steel. One or two tigers--in a cage, of course--invite our curiosity. I was not, however,
prepared to make quite so close an acquaintance with these lovely supple creatures, as one
of the marines of our party, who, having indulged too freely in malt, possibly mistook the
animals for cats, the result being he got so damaged about the bows as to be rendered unfit
for divisions the following morning, and barely escaped with his eyesight. Drink makes a man
do queer things.

The native men are very picturesquely apparelled in gaily coloured turbans and sarongs, whilst
the women,--tall, graceful, and pretty--convey a small fortune about with them, in the shape
of jewellery, in the cartilage of the nose, in the ears, and around the arms and legs. I saw
one woman who had such heavy masses of gold in her ears that the lobes of those organs touched
her shoulders.

November 1st.--At 9 a.m. the long-expected "Audacious" hove in sight, flying the flag of Admiral
Hillyar at the main. How we already envy her fortunate crew!

November 8th, off to Penang. The pipe "up anchor" this morning was hailed with delight. Anything
to change the dull monotony of the last few weeks. We started with an overcast and rainy sky,
and by the next morning had reached Malacca, a small British settlement, essentially Malay,
more a village than a town. It lies very low and close to the water's edge, the houses of the
natives being all constructed on piles driven into the mud, and embowered in a dense framework
of cocoa palms. In the distance rises the high cone-shaped peak of Ophir, now a lovely sight
because of the misty covering which envelopes it to near its summit. Bananas are very plentiful;
so, too, are monkeys and the canes so highly prized at home.

November 9th.--To-day, our own admiral came in, in the mail steamer, and glad are we that he
has arrived, that we may be again on the move, for you know there are happier states and more
comfortable, than a forcible detention in a red-hot ironclad.

Sunday, November 13th.--I see in my "journal" that I have noted what, under ordinary conditions,
would call for no remark, that a lady was present at our service to-day. None but those who
are banished the softening and refreshing influence of woman's society can form any idea how
pleasant it is to see an English woman in this land of yellow bellies and sable skins.

November 15th.--Now we are really the Flag Ship, for this morning the "Audacious," with a parting
cheer, bade us good-bye, and started for home.

November 21st.--By early morning we discovered the island of Din Ding right a-head.

Nothing can exceed the wonderful beauty of this tiny island. From the sea it has so much the
appearance of the bosky slopes of Mount Edgcumbe, that, were it not for the characteristic
palm, one could well imagine one's self looking at a bit of our own dear England.

A stretch of sandy beach, white and glistening as silver, with the graceful waving plumes of
the cocoanut tree close to the water's edge, and behind, the pile dwellings of the Malays,
nestling at the foot of a wooded eminence, capped to its very summit with a dense and varied
growth; such is the picture viewed from the anchorage. Din Ding, or Ding Ding--as sailors,
by a system of alliteration, very fashionable amongst themselves--render it, lies at the mouth
of the Perak river.

On landing we struck at once into the jungle, under tall palms, with their great ripening fruit,
and other tropic vegetation. Road, there was none; only a sort of bridle path, very heavy with
mud, and overgrown with great hawser-like creepers, indicated a way along which we trudged.
Now and then the fallen trunk of a great tree barred our further progress, or a chasm yawned
before us, or mayhap, a great time-worn boulder stopped the way; insignificant objects all
when matelôts are on the war trail. Our object was to reach a certain house on yonder point,
in which a most dastardly murder was recently perpetrated on the British resident, Colonel
Lloyd, who, with his wife and sister, had made this their home. The house is now quite empty,
but in one of the rooms we saw, or fancied we saw, spots of sanguine dye on the floor.

We hastened onward through a small hamlet of about a dozen miserable huts, resting on piles.
Tubs of putrid fish, in all stages of decomposition, gave out a most horrid stench, whilst
other carcasses strewed the ground in advanced rottenness. Is it not revolting, that amongst
these people, fish in its pure state is rarely eaten, and if it be, it is always raw. But nature
is ever lovely, though the human part of her does all it can to deface her; if she were not
so what a spoiled world ours would be!

Holding our nostrils we ran for it, doubtful if we should ever get rid of the smell. Further
on was a hut of rather larger pretensions, now used as a barrack for the police. One of these
latter, who possessed a tolerable knowledge of English, struck up a conversation with us, and
amongst indifferent topics we asked about the prisoners recently captured. He certainly took
us by surprise, when he indicated they were within the building, alongside of which we were
standing. Would we like to see them? We would. Yes, true enough, there on the floor were five
Chinamen, lashed and bound so tight that the flesh stood out in great purple ridges on either
side the rope.

To get back to our boat we had to repass the village of odours delectable. On this occasion
the scantily clad and polished Malays, whom we had not seen on passing through, put in an appearance.

By 4 p.m. the anchor was aweigh, and we heading towards Penang, which was reached on the following
day in the midst of thick, dirty weather.

The town is well built, and the cleanest I have yet seen since leaving Europe. The island is
sometimes termed the "Garden of the East," and if it is always as now, I should say the name
was justly bestowed. A little way out in the country is a fine waterfall, which all who call
here, make a point of visiting. Jumping into a pony carriage, locally called a gharry, a comfortable,
well ventilated vehicle, capable of seating four persons, we desire the turban driver to steer
for the latter place. Along the very fine road to the fall, a profusion of palms and gigantic
tree ferns, between thirty and forty feet high, up whose great stems gaily flowered creepers
wind their hawser-like fronds, make a delicious and cooling shade. Yonder tree away there in
the background, with delicate pea-green leaves, is an old friend of ours. Let your memories
go back to your infancy. Cannot you recall many a wry face; cannot you remember how unpleasant
the after sensations when stern, but kind mothers forced a nauseous decoction called "senna"
down your widely-gaping throat? You smile. I felt certain you had all experienced it. Well
that is the senna tree.

Large mansions lying back from the roadway, with gates and paths leading up to their entrances,
and a smell of new mown hay, were most home-like and refreshing.

We should have fared much better had a more mutual understanding existed between us and our
pony. That obtuse little beast, good enough at curves and tangents, after half an hour's canter,
flatly refused to exert himself above a walk; nor, though frequently encouraged by the whip,
did he accelerate his movements to the end of our drive.

At the fall we had a very refreshing shower bath under a thundering cascade of water tumbling
over the edge of a gorge. Near at hand, and conveniently so, too, for the priesthood, is a
small shrine sacred to the Hindoo god Brahin, a diminutive edition of whom stands on a little
pedestal, amidst braziers, lamps, figures with elephants' heads and human bodies, and other
monstrosities. You may be certain there was a mendicant priest in attendance on his godship.

On the return voyage our hack behaved even more ungentlemanly than before, for now he most
emphatically refused to budge an inch, indicating his intention of becoming a fixture by planting
his feet obliquely, like a stubborn jackass, into the ground. Human nature could scarcely be
expected to tolerate such evidence of mutiny, so, jumping into the first passing carriage,
we reached the town at a fairly creditable canter.

November 28th.--To-day our short stay at Penang comes to a conclusion, and a few days afterwards
we are once more at Singapore.

CHAPTER VI.

    "Merrily, merrily on we sail!
    The sailor's life is gay!
    His hopes are on the favouring gale,
    And whether it freshens, or whether it fail
    He recks not, cares not, no not he;
    For his hope is ever upon the sea."

  SARAWAK.--LABUAN.--MANILLA.--HEAVY WEATHER.

December 5th.--At 4 p.m. the anchor was hove short for our voyage to Hong Kong, by way of Manilla.
As we start some days sooner than we anticipated, we had made no provision for getting our
washed clothes on board, and grave fears are entertained that we shall be compelled to sail
without it, for as yet there is not so much as the ghost of a washerwoman in sight. Will they,
can they by any fortuitous combination of circumstances, put in an appearance before we leave?
Despair, we are off! But surely no, it can't be? Yes, by jove, there are boats pulling after
us with all the might the rowers can command. We lie to, the proas come nearer. Hurrah! the
clothes, some wholly washed, some half-washed, and some not washed at all. Piles of fair white
linen are bundled up the gangway pell-mell, Malay washerwomen bundled out ditto, and for payment,
the revolving screws settle that in a highly satisfactory manner.

With the "Lapwing" in tow, and the gentlest of breezes filling the lighter canvas, we shape
our course eastward.

December 8th.--Late in the afternoon we brought up in the roadstead of Sarawak, on the northern
coast of Borneo. The place is not at all enlivening; neither house, human being, nor boat,
to indicate we are in habitable land. The town itself, the capital of a small rajahship governed
by an Englishman, lies some twenty miles up a river, in the estuary of which we are anchored.
The province was presented by the Sultan of Borneo, in 1843, to Sir James Brooke, uncle of
the present proprietor, who, on the decease of Sir James, in 1868, succeeded to the territory.

Here the "Lapwing," after having taken the admiral up the river, parted company, whilst we
continued our way along the Bornean shore.

December 12th.--We awoke to find ourselves in the midst of a labyrinth of isles most wonderful
to behold, vaguely guessing which, out of so many, can be Labuan. The rattling of the chain
through the hawse, decides it. A small settlement over which England's flag keeps guard, lies
before us. This is the town of Victoria. This small island, previous to 1846, belonged to Borneo,
but in that year the Sultan ceded it to Britain, as a convenient station for checking piracy
on his sea-board. It lies off the north-eastern end of the great island of Borneo, and within
view of its precipitous heights and mist-clad peaks.

December 14th.--Coaling is a long process at Labuan, first, because the ship lies so far from
the shore, and next, because of the insufficiency of convenient boats, and the necessary coolie
labour to put the coal on board, thus it took us two whole days to get in as many hundred tons.
By the evening of the 14th however, we had cleared the islands, and shaped course for Manilla
against a head wind.

December 19th.--It has taken us twelve hours to clear the intricate, and gusty approaches to
Manilla Bay, the wind, occasionally meeting us with such force, accompanied by such a chopping
sea, that we sometimes made no progress at all. On coming to anchor we were rather surprised
to find the "Lapwing" had preceded us, and was lying close in shore.

Manilla, the capital of Luzon, the largest of the Philippine Islands, is a city of considerable
magnitude, and has all the appearance of a Spanish town in Europe, these islands having belonged
to Spain for over 300 years.

Though we arrived on a Sunday it was anticipated there would be no difficulty in procuring
coal immediately. Had the British been in authority here we should have been privileged to
do so with impunity. When this conclusion was arrived at, one potent factor had not been considered--"the
Church"--and for once in a way we were thankful to the Church. The archbishop of Manilla and
his subordinates hold more real sway over the minds and bodies of the natives--Indians, as
they are called--than all the temporal power of the governor, backed by his guards, or even
than the king himself.

Amidst all the Spanish jabber around, it is refreshing to hear ourselves hailed in genuine
English, and soon the author of the sound grasps us by the hand and welcomes us to his house,
a request we gladly comply with.

The houses are very like those of Gibraltar, and one's memory is rapidly borne back to the
"Rock," especially as everything around is Spanish.

Perhaps the great feature of the place is its cathedrals; one in particular, a magnificent
structure, so roomy and lofty that I should think half the devout of the city could find accommodation
therein. In less than two years subsequent to our visit the whole of this grand pile was little
better than a heap of ruins, from an earthquake wave which passed over these islands. This
most terrible of natural phenomena is of frequent occurrence in this quarter of the world.
In many parts of the city we observed whole streets and churches in ruins, as if from a recent
bombardment.

Cock-fighting is the great national sport, amusement, or cruelty, which of the three you will,
indulged in by the good people of Manilla. Everywhere along the streets you may meet Spanish
boys and half castes, with each his bird tucked under his arm ready for the combat, should
the chance passer-by make it worth their while.

The best place to witness this propensity for blood, which seems in-born in every Spaniard,
is at the public arena in the heart of the city, where hundreds of cocks are generally engaged
at once, the betting on a certain bird not unfrequently amounting to thousands of dollars.
I will not trouble you with the sickening details of the scene I witnessed--to my shame I say
it--I think few of those who are present at a first exhibition of this cruel and useless sport
will be desirous of witnessing a second--except he be a man of a morbid inclination. One may
be impelled by curiosity to satisfy a human weakness, but every rightly balanced mind will
turn from the scene with feelings of repugnance and disgust.

December 23rd.--The last day of our stay, and the last opportunity we shall have for laying
in stock for the 25th. In the afternoon the caterers of messes having been accorded the necessary
permission, went on shore to make a general clearance in the Manilla markets. There was every
prospect, when they left the ship, of the day continuing fine--a bright sun and a clear sky
above, and a smooth sea below. Unfortunately for the success of the expedition, this happy
meteoric combination did not continue. The heavens began to frown, and the sea--ever jealous
of its sister's moods--put on a restless appearance. At sun-down the wind suddenly rose to
half a gale, with a cross lumpy sea and drenching showers of rain. The accommodation for the
men to return to the ship was degrees from being called even fair. They had hired a rickety
steam launch, scarcely capable of holding her own in ordinary weather, and two smaller boats,
or gigs, neither of which was in a seaworthy condition; and in these was to be found room for
upwards of forty men, besides about a ton of provisions of all kinds. It was evident, or ought
to have been, that it was madness to attempt leaving the shore whilst the present weather lasted.
I have seen the offence of breaking leave justified for less boisterous weather. Orders, however,
(especially sailing orders) are imperative; so the flotilla put off at 7 p.m. in tow of the
launch. The following was the arrangement:--The launch, laden far below her bearings, took
the lead; the second boat contained all the heaviest provisions--flour, pigs, poultry, potatoes,
and such like; whilst far too many men had stowed themselves in the third boat, to give but
the faintest idea of either comfort or safety.

When about half-way to the ship, the painter of the hindmost boat parted, and the launch, rounding
to, to her assistance narrowly escaped swamping. The next mishap chanced to the second boat--the
provision gig--whose stem piece was tugged completely out of her, and the two sides, having
thus lost their mutual support, parted and went to the bottom, the onlookers having to endure
the melancholy sight of witnessing all their good things going to fatten old Davy Jones, or
to fill his lockers, or something of that sort. But the distress of these very distressed mariners
was not yet complete; a strange fatality seemed to have embarked with them. It was now the
launch's turn: first the third boat, next the second, and now the launch in proper, though
fortunately not arithmetical progression. It was discovered that the supply of coal could not
possibly last to the ship! What was to be done? "Opportunity," it is said, "makes the thief;"
it may be also said, with equal truth, that opportunity makes the dormant abilities of some
men to soar above their fellows, over-riding even destiny itself. The Spanish crew of the launch
were unequal to the emergency, were worse than useless in fact; but an able substitute for
the engineer was found in Andrews, one of our leading stokers; and for coxswain, who better
than Law, the boatswain's mate? The former of these at once directed everybody to pull the
inner wood work of the launch to pieces, and, as the bump of destructiveness has its full development
in the sailor phrenology, he had not long to wait for his fuel; thus they managed to reach
the ship full six hours after they had left the shore.

December 25th.--Christmas in merry England is one thing; Christmas in a gale in the China Sea
another, and so distinct a thing as scarcely to be confounded with the former. But let us see
if we can tell our friends something about it. Considering the shortcomings we had to put up
with--bare tables, hungry bellies, and the lively movements of our ship, consequent on a rising
malevolent sea--I think we managed to enjoy a fair amount of fun, whether it was genuine or
not is another point, nor would I like to vouch for its being altogether devoid of irony. "Father
Christmas" paid us his customary visit anyway, in his mantle of snow--fancy snow within fifteen
degrees of the line!--which merry, rubicund, and very ancient man was ably personated by a
gigantic marine, the necessary barrel-like proportions being conveyed by a feather pillow.

"A hungry man is an angry one;" so runs the legend, but, if true, and I have every reason to
believe that it is, it held not on the lower deck of the "Iron Duke" this day, for no man was
angry, and every man was hungry, not counting some who had their heads down the lee scuppers.
Altogether the day passed very smoothly inboard, though outside a storm was hurrying on us
with gigantic strides.

December 26th.--The overcast sky of last night was indeed a precursor of what was to follow.
About midnight the wind freshened into a full gale, the first we have encountered since leaving
England. It gave us a proper shaking down into our places. The sea became wild and mountainous,
the wind shrieking and vicious, and as to hold our course we had to stem its full fury, it
was found impossible to keep the ship head on except at a much greater consumption of coal
than we were prepared to use. Crash! What's gone? The jib-boom and all its appurtenances. The
wrecked spar falling athwart the ram remained there for hours, proving a most difficult obstacle
to clear away in such a whirl as was going on in the neighbourhood of our bows.

But there were no signs of the gale moderating, and the admiral deeming, I suppose, the present
state of things far from satisfactory determined on putting back to Manilla. The ship was brought
around, or "wore" as nautical men term it, an evolution which, though not of difficult accomplishment,
at a certain moment in its progress leaves the vessel completely helpless in the trough of
the sea, a fact you all know far better than myself, I only touch upon it to hint what the
result must be to such a cumbersome mass as our iron hull. As we broached to, it became a matter
of holding on to everything, and by everything--eyebrows and all--especially between decks.
Delightful times these for ditty boxes, crockery, bread barges, and slush tubs; 'tis their
only chance for enjoyment and they make the most of it. Such revelry generally winds up with
a grand crash somewhere in the vicinity of the iron combings to the hatchways. Any plates left,
any basins? Nay, that would be to ask too much of the potter's art. At length we are put round,
and running back to Manilla under all the canvas we dare shew.

December 31st.--Completed with coal and left on a fresh attempt to reach Hong Kong, the black
and lowering sky suggesting either the continuation of, or the sequel to, the late stormy weather.
Being New Year's Eve the usual attempt at a tin-pot band was made to make the night hideous.
Setting aside the annoyance of this species of rowdyism to the less exuberant spirits amongst
us, the noise would be most unseemly with the commander-in-chief on board, and it says much
for the would-be musicians that they saw it in this light.

We reached the northern point of Luzon without mishap, and stood away with a heavy cross-sea
for Hong Kong, arriving on January 4th, 1879.

CHAPTER VII.

    "Then Kublai Khan gave the word of command
    And they all poured into the Central Land."

  HONG KONG.--SOME CHINESE MANNERS AND CUSTOMS.

I suppose there are few amongst us, sailors though we are, who, as boys at school when reading
of China, have never expressed a wish to see that land for themselves, to say nothing of making
the acquaintance of its quaint old-world people in their very own homes. In my imagination
I had covered its goodly soil with wondrous palaces, all sparkling with splendour and embellished
with all that art could furnish or riches command. I had peopled its broad plains with bright
beautiful forms in silken attire, amongst whom a love of the elegant and the beautiful pervaded
all classes of the community, and who in long ages ago had attained to arts and learning which
it has taken us centuries of careful study and elaborate research to acquire. Yea, it was always
a wonderland to me, even down to the present year; such is the power which the associations
formed by the child exercise over the mind of the man. Yet were we prepared to meet a people
who should, in almost all things, differ from almost all other peoples. In the last particular
we are not deceived; in all else, yes. But I wont anticipate.

In this little book I shall not be able to tell you a tithe of what may be told of this land
did I feel competent to do so. Volumes have been written on the subject, and still the half
has not been said. I purpose, therefore, henceforward to intersperse with the narrative of
our own doings, just so much of the manners and customs of the Chinese and Japanese, as every
sailor possessed of the ordinary powers of vision may see for himself.

January 4th.--The harbour of Hong Kong is reached from the sea by means of a rather long and
tortuous passage, with bleak barren heights on either hand,--the channel being in some parts
so narrow that there is scarce room for the ship to turn.

The island itself--rendered either "red harbour" or "fragrant streams," which you prefer, though
neither seems applicable, certainly not the latter if by fragrance is meant what we mean by
it--lies on the southern seaboard of China. It became British in 1842, on the conclusion of
the first Chinese war. The city of Victoria is situated on its northern side, and stands on
a beautiful land-locked harbour, formed by the island on the one hand and the peninsula of
Kowloon (also British) on the other a sheet of water which always presents a gay and animated
appearance, from the thousands of vessels and boats which cover its surface like a mosaic.

It is not without some difficulty that we push our way through the thronging craft, principally
little boats termed "sampans," to our moorings abreast of the Dockyard. Curious craft withal,
and serving a double purpose; for besides their legitimate one, whole families live and move,
are born, and die in them; the necessary accommodation being furnished by an ingenious arrangement
of hatches, floors, and partitions, and, as it seems highly fashionable that the Chinese mammas
should be making constant additions to the population, the squalling of the young celestials
betrays a healthiness of lung, and a knowledge of its capabilities, scarcely to be credited
of such small humanity.

The earlier fate of these infantile members of the boat population is sad. They are exposed
to a "rough-and-tumble" existence as soon as they are ushered into the world, especially should
the poor innocent have the misfortune to be born a girl baby, for in that case she has simply
to shift for herself, the inhuman parents considering themselves fortunate if they lose a girl
or two overboard. The boys, or "bull" children, as they are termed, meet with rather more care
relatively speaking. As, from the nature of their occupation, but little time can be devoted
to nursing--the mother being compelled to constant labour at the oar--the child is slung on
to her back, and, as she moves to and fro with the stroke of the oar, the babe's soft face
bobs in unison against its mother's back, a fact which will perhaps explain how it is that
the lower class Chinese wear their noses flattened out on their two cheeks rather than in the
prominent position usually selected by that organ.

It is amazing how wonderfully quick the Chinese pick up a colloquial foreign tongue; the same
tailor for instance experiencing no difficulty in making himself understood in English, French,
Russian, or Spanish; English, though, is the language par excellence along all the China seaboard.
So universal is it that a foreigner must needs know something of our tongue to make himself
intelligible to the ordinary Chinaman; and, more remarkable still, there is such a vast difference
between the spoken dialects of north and south China--nay, even between any two provinces in
the "Flowery Land"--that I have known some of our native domestics from the Canton district,
when talking with their countrymen of Chefoo, communicate their ideas and wants in English,
because their own medium failed them; the difference between the native dialects being as broad
as that between English and Dutch.

Though such a diversity exists orally, the written character is common, and expresses exactly
the same idea all over the empire, and beyond it in Japan, Corea, and the Loo Choo islands.

The Chinese are splendid workmen, providing you can furnish them with a model or copy, for
there is very little genius, properly so-called, attached to John Chinaman.

Their imitative faculty and powers of memory are really wonderful; as an instance of the former
perhaps the following may not be amiss:--

"In the earlier days of the first occupation, the English residents of Hong Kong were often
placed in difficulties about their clothing, Chinamen not having attained to that perfection
in the tailors' art which they now have acquired. On one occasion an old coat was supplied
to a native tailor as a guide to the construction of a new one; it so happened the old garment
had a carefully mended rent in its sleeve--a circumstance the man was prompt to notice--setting
to at once, with infinite pains, to make a tear of a similar size and shape in the new coat,
and to re-sew it with the exact number of stitches as in the original."

The old stories we have heard at home about a Chinaman's tail being designed that by it he
may be hoisted to heaven, and that if he lose it he may never hope to reach that desirable
altitude, have really no foundation in fact, nor is it a fact, as sailors are apt to believe,
that it is nurtured for their special benefit as a convenient handle for playing off practical
jokes on the luckless possessors; the truth being that the "queue," now so universally prized
amongst them, is a symbol of conquest forced upon them by their hated Tartar-masters. Previous
to the seventeenth century the inhabitants of the middle kingdom wore their hair much after
the style of the people of Corea, but after the Manchu conquest they were compelled to adopt
the present mode.

The city of Victoria is very prettily situated on the slopes of an eminence which culminates
in a peak at an altitude of 1300 feet, and from which a most charming and cheerful view of
the sea on the one side, and the harbour and the yellow sand-stone hills of China on the other.

It is allowed to be the most cosmopolitan city in the world. Representatives of races far in
excess of the Pentecostal catalogue, may be encountered in its streets in any hour's walk;
men of all shades of colour and of every religious creed live here side by side in apparent
perfect harmony. The Chinese who form the bulk of the population live entirely apart from the
"Ung-moh" (red hair devils) as they flatteringly term us. English manners and customs do not
seem to have influenced the native mind in the smallest degree, in spite of our charities and
schools--a fact we cannot wonder at, taking into account our diabolical origin.

The town--by which I mean the European part of it--possesses many public and private buildings
of almost palatial grandeur. Of these, Government house, the City hall--including the museum
and reading room, the cathedral and college, the various banks, and the residences of the great
merchants may be cited as examples. There is also a fine botanical garden, not nearly so large
as that at Singapore, but perhaps scarcely less beautiful, and an extensive recreation and
drill ground, where one may see curious sights! pigtailed, loose-robed Chinamen wielding the
cricket-bat, and dealing the ball some creditable raps too.

There is perhaps only one good street in the colony, Victoria street or Queen's road; this
traverses the city from end to end, and constitutes the great business thoroughfare of the
place. After about an hour's walk along it, for the first part under an arcade of trees, we
find ourselves in the filthy, unsavoury Chinese quarter, as the nose is careful to remind you
if there be any doubt about it. They are certainly a very dirty race, these Chinamen; the dirtiest
on earth, I should be inclined to say, considering their boasted civilization and vaunted morals;
and, though compelled by our sanitary laws to live somewhat more cleanly than their enthralled
brethren on the continent, still they are dirty, and I'll hazard to say a sight of the Chinese
of this town would soon dispel any illusions one might have nourished to the contrary. A subsequent
visit to the native city of Shanghai shewed us to what disgusting depths humanity can descend
in this particular.

This enterprising people possess some very fine shops, where you can purchase every known European
commodity at cheaper rates than of the European firms. Every shop has a huge sign-board depending
from the top of the house to the bottom, whereon is recorded in vermillion and gold characters,
not so much the name as the virtues of the man within, sometimes, too, his genealogical tree
is appended. Such expressions as "no cheating here" or "I cannot deceive," are common, but,
in nearly every case, belie the character of the proprietor, who is a living libel on the word
honesty. Honesty! old Shylock even would blush for them.

Here, where there is protection for life and property, a shopkeeper surprises you at the rich
and grand display of his wares. In China proper, a dealer dare not show all he is worth for
fear of the mandarins, who, should one chance to pass that way, would in all probability, cast
his covetous eyes on the poor man's property, and demand whatever had taken his fancy. Nor
may a poor man be in possession of an article inconsistent with his position in the social
scale--he may not be the owner of a tiger's skin, for instance, as none but mandarins and people
of similar position, are permitted such luxuries. This reminds one of the time, not so very
remote, when similar restrictions were placed on dress in England.

This system of mulcting is known all over China as "cum-shaw," a system, too, which I would
advise all sailors to adopt in their dealings with the slippery race if they would not be robbed.
The vendor dare not say nay to a mandarin; and, though it is a point of etiquette on the part
of the big man to offer payment, it is equally a point of etiquette for the tradesman to refuse:
a fact, it is said, the mandarin always calculates on.

In addition to the orthodox shop, the streets are lined with itinerants, orange stalls, betel-nut
tables, heaps of rags, and sundries, baskets of vegetables of very strange appearance and strong
penetrating odours, half-cooked roots and leaves--for the people never eat a well-cooked root
or vegetable; it is from these principally that the intolerable stench is proceeding.

What the Chinese eat is a mystery, and such queer compounds enter into their menu that I would
give everybody who dines with a Chinaman this advice--don't enquire too minutely into what
is placed before you, or you will eat nothing, and so offend your host; bolt it and fancy it
is something nice--and fancy goes for something at times, I can assure you. That it requires
a tremendous effort on the part of the human stomach, the subjoined "Bill of Fare" of a dinner
given to Governor Hennessey by one of the Chinese guilds will, perhaps, serve to shew:

    Birds' Nest Soup.

    Pigeons' Egg Soup.

    Fungus Soup.

     *       *       *

    Fried Sharks' Fins.

    Beche-de-mer[1] and Wild Duck.

    Stewed Chicken and Sharks' Fins.

    Fish Maw.

     *       *       *

    Minced Partridge.

    Ham and Capon.

    Meat Ball and Fungus.

    Boiled Shell Fish.

    Pig's Throat, stewed.

    Minced Shell Fish with Greens.

    Chicken Gruel Salad.

    Stewed Mushrooms.

    Pig's Leg, stewed.

     *       *       *

    Roast Capon.     Roast Mutton.

    Roast Pig.       Roast Goose.

     *       *       *

    Fruits.          Melon Seeds.

    Preserves.       Almonds.

  [Footnote 1: The Holothuria of naturalists--a species of
  sea-slug or sea-cucumber found on the shores of Borneo and on
  most of the islands of the Pacific, and which being dried in
  the sun is considered a dainty by Chinese epicures.]

Cats, too, are entertained as food, though I believe only by the extremely poor, to whom nothing
seems to come amiss. One may frequently meet in the streets vendors of poor puss, easily recognisable
by their suggestive cry, "mow (miow?) youk"--cat-meat!

One is struck with astonishment at the vast crowds which always throng the streets, each unit
of which seems intent on some most important business, and looks as though its accomplishment
absorbed his whole being. Perhaps it is only a few ounces of fish which he carries suspended
from his ringer by a cord; but if it were the emperor's diamonds he could not conduct himself
with more importance.

The ordinary means of conveyance in China is by the sedan chair, a sort of box of cane-work
supported on poles for the convenience of the bearers, of whom there are generally two, but
frequently as many as six. The riding is comfortable enough, and the springy motion imparted
by the rider's weight is one of the pleasantest sensations I know of. Of course our tars, immediately
they come on shore and see something new, want to find out all about it: hence sedan chairs
are all the go, and a bad time the poor coolies have of it, too; for "Jack" is all motion,
especially if he be in that semi-apathetic state known as "east half south," as it not unfrequently
happens that he is. He compels his bearers to tax their powers of endurance to the utmost,
urging them by all the endearing epithets in the nautical vocabulary to unheard-of exertions,
regardless of the luckless pedestrians in the way.

Whilst we are on the return voyage through Queen's road, I must just say a word or two about
the people's costume, which, as we observe, is nearly the same for both sexes; for if there
be any difference, it is but slight in detail. Their dress is the most unbecoming and ungraceful
it is possible to conceive, and yet, we are bound to admit, most refined. Had the women the
redeeming quality of beauty, or the charm of a pretty face, possibly even this dress might
appear to better advantage. A coarse-looking black or blue blouse, of that material known to
us as "nankeen," a tiny apron confined to the waist by a slender scarlet cord--their only bit
of bright color--short wide trousers, almost as broad at the bottoms as they are long, bare
legs and feet--such is a vision of the Chinese woman of the working classes. The dress of a
lady differs from this only in the nature of the material of which the garments are made--in
their case, silk as a rule--stockinged feet, and silk shoes with thick while, though extremely
light, soles. Nations, like individuals, have their fopperies; the celestials display this
quality, particularly in the coverings for the feet. The shoe, especially of the females, is,
beyond question, the most tasteful article in their costume. It is, as I have said before,
made of silk, generally of a lavender, salmon, or rose color, embroidered in beautiful and
artistic patterns of leaves, flowers, and insects. The soles are of the whitest doeskin; and
so particular are they that they shall retain their unsullied appearance, that, like the cats,
they seldom walk through a wet or muddy street.

The system of binding the feet of the women is by no means so universal as we have been led
to believe, and we must confess to having been deceived in this matter; we all thought, probably,
to have seen all the women with that useful member reduced to the dimensions of a baby's foot--instead
of which, what do we really see? scarce one deformed woman in all our walks. Yet this nation
considers this cramped, tortured lump (it has lost all semblance to a foot) an index of beauty.

Their hair is by far their finest possession, which, with their large almond-shaped eyes, is
invariably of a black color. I once saw a Chinaman with red hair, and you cannot think how
ludicrous his queue looked beside the sable tails of his brethren. The manner in which the
women dress their hair is most wonderful, and materially helps to give them their uninviting
appearance. They have a fashion of sticking it out around the head in the shape of a teapot,
stiffened with grease and slips of bamboo. That this style of head-dress enhances their ugliness
very few Europeans I think will deny; for some women whom we have seen, with their hair combed
neatly back over their heads and coiled up in a trace behind, looked not altogether uncomely.

The head is dressed but once in ten days; and as the people sleep in their day clothes, the
possibility is they entertain about their persons a private menagerie of those interesting
creatures whose name looks so vulgar in print. It is one of the commonest scenes in the streets
to see a Chinaman squat on the kerb-stone and turn up a fold or two of his trousers to manipulate
these little pests; and even the high officials and well-to-do people look upon it as no outrage
to the proprieties, to be seen removing one of "China's millions" from the garment of a friend
or guest.

CHAPTER VIII.

                ----"All the deep
    Is restless change." * * *

  PREPARATIONS FOR THE NORTH.--AMOY.--WUSUNG,
  AND WHAT BEFELL US THERE.

Whatever pretensions to beauty our ship may have possessed on leaving England--and that she
possessed some it is but fair to add--have been greatly marred by the late voyage, and especially
by the washing down we encountered on the trip from Manilla. The effect has been to reduce
our once fairy and glistening hull to a jaundiced mass of rust and stains. Therefore are we
to go into "weeds." Black certainly gives an iron-clad a more man-of-war look, and a more war-like
effect, to say nothing of the superior ease with which it can be kept clean.

January 22nd.--The Chinese new-year's day.--I should consider even such a poor account of the
Chinese as this professes to be very incomplete, did it not contain something as to the manner
the people observe the festival of the new year. And just a word before I start. It must not
be supposed that I gained the information, if it be worthy to be classed as such, on a first
visit to Hong Kong. This part of my "journal," including the previous chapter, has received
the corrections and additions of nearly four years' experience.

The Chinese new year--a movable feast--depending, like all their chronological measurements,
on the motions of the moon, may occur as early as it does this year, or it may fall as late
as the middle of February. It is to the celestials what Christmas day is to us, and is observed
by every true Chinaman most religiously: not, be it understood, religiously in our and the
common acceptation of the term--for China has no religion--it possesses a gigantic superstition;
but between a superstition and a religion, I need scarcely add, a vast difference exists. To
the practical mind of John Chinaman, religious observances are made to subordinate themselves
to worldly interests.

During the time we have been on the station the Shanghai district was once suffering from extreme
drought. The rain-god was appealed to--still no rain came. Well, what was to be done? This.
The god was admonished, that if rain came not within a certain period something terrible would
happen to him. Still no rain. The exasperated priests and people then took measures to execute
their threat. Putting a rope around the idol, the people, with their united efforts, pulled
him to the ground to suffer further outrages at the hands of an ungrateful mob. Thus much for
their religion. But to continue.

The last month in the old year is spent in elaborate preparation for the coming one. All arrears
of business are made up, all accounts closed and punctually discharged, whilst everyone works
his hardest to increase his stock of money.

At midnight on the last of the old year a bell is heard to toll, at which signal everybody
rushes into the streets, armed with squibs, crackers, Catherine wheels, and other blatant pyrotechnical
compositions; and as each tries to outdo his neighbour in the din he creates, the noise accompanying
their discharge is the most satisfactory possible. The temples and pagodas are brilliantly
lighted with colored lamps and colored candles, whilst similar candles and "joss-sticks," and
gold and silver paper, illumine the interiors of their, at other times, grimy and dingy abodes.
When morning arrives, the streets present a curious spectacle--everybody seems to be shaking
hands with himself. A Chinaman, on meeting and saluting a friend, instead of seizing his hand,
as we should, clasps his own hands together, the right hand grasping the left, which he sways
up and down in front of his body.

Each person, too, is dressed in the newest and costliest dress he can afford; and as there
is but one universal fashion of garment in China, everybody tries to surpass everybody else
in the richness of the material of which his clothes are made. The children, in particular,
come out well, the girls especially, with highly-rouged and powdered cheeks and necks, gaudily
decorated "queue" (for that appendix is not confined to the one sex), and silk dresses of the
most beautiful colors. The whole scene has a very stage-like and brilliant effect.

It is worthy of remark, as shewing another trait in this truly remarkable race, that though
they manufacture a very fiery liquor (called "samshaw") from rice, yet you will rarely see
a drunken Chinaman in the streets. As far as I can remember I have met with only one such,
and he a servant on board our ship, who had adopted a liking for rum because, I suppose, it
is the custom for a sailor to drink what is issued to him.

The harbour, too, has its distinctive features on this gay and festive occasion. Every junk
is covered with great pennons of silk in the most startling colors, whilst from every available
space small oblong pieces of paper, with characters written on them, flutter to the breeze.
These are "joss-papers," and contain prayers for wealth, prosperity, and (if they have not
one already) an heir, "joss" is the generic name they give to their idols, and the whole ritual
they call "joss pidgin." The priests they name "joss-men," an appellation, too, they somewhat
irreverently bestow on our naval chaplains. One of the largest junks, with a priest on board,
and containing all the vessels and objects pertaining to their ritual, makes the circuit of
the harbour--the priest meanwhile burning prayers and setting off crackers for a blessing on
the supply of fish for the ensuing year.

January 29th.--This evening the officers gave their first theatrical entertainment on board,
the acting of some of the characters being pronounced above the average; one or two of the
younger midshipmen, to whom the parts fell, made very tempting and graceful ladies.

February 14th.--This day finds us at the back of the island preparing for target practice.
In one of the bays here is an admirable natural target: a solitary rock rising perpendicularly
from the sea, with a mark painted on it, is a most interesting thing to fire at, for you can
observe the effect of your shot. Behind this rock sloped a hill, on which were seated, though
unknown to us, two Chinamen; the first half-a-dozen rounds were so true that the unseen watchers
had no suspicion they were in dangerous quarters, or that it was possible that even the Duke's
marksmen were fallible; the seventh round disillusioned them, for, from a slight fault in the
elevation, the shot over-reached the target and pitched so close to the Chinamen that stones
and rubbish came rattling down from everywhere about their ears; fear lent them wings, and
they scampered off like the wind. They may be running now for aught I know, as when we last
saw them the horizon seemed to be the goal they were aiming at.

March 10th.--We were to have put to sea to-day had not a melancholy and fatal accident changed
the whole course of events. Richard Darcy, a young seaman, whilst engaged on the crosstrees
fell to the deck, striking the rail on the topgallant forecastle in his fall. His body was
frightfully mangled and torn, his scull fractured, and all his limbs broken. Mercifully he
never regained consciousness. Next day we buried him in the beautiful cemetery of Happy Valley,
than which there are few more picturesque spots in China; 'twas surely a poetic fancy which
inspired the Chinese with the term "happy" when naming this sylvian vale.

In the afternoon we slipped from the buoy and steamed seaward for tactics, returning the following
day to prepare for going in dock.

March 26th.--The last day for our stay in Aberdeen. A special steam launch had arrived from
Hong Kong during the forenoon with all the élite of the city to see the floating of our ship.
However, they were doomed to disappointment, for, on the tide reaching its highest, it was
found the ship refused to move, nor would she start, though every effort was made to coax her.
It was not until the next tide, assisted by a strong breeze, that the ship once more rested
in deep water.

With characteristic expedition and commendable zeal, our captain had the ship ready for sea,
and awaiting orders in the briefest possible time.

April 21st.--Early this morning that pleasant sound, the cable rattling through the hawse,
told us that we had bid good-bye to Victoria, for a few months at least. A rather stiff breeze
was blowing at the time--a sufficient hint that we might possibly meet with something rash
outside; nor was the hint to be disregarded, for, scarcely had we cleared the mouth of the
harbour, when, what sailors call a "sneezer," accompanied by a green sea in all our weather
ports, met us as an introduction to our northern cruise. So threatening was the look of the
sky, and remembering that in these seas old Boreas often indulges his fancy in a gentle zephyr
called a typhoon, it was deemed expedient to seek shelter for the night.

On the third day out we reached Amoy, or rather the outside anchorage of that harbour, to await
daylight for the passage up to the town.

So far as the little island settlement forming the foreign concession can make it so, Amoy
is a pretty enough place; otherwise it is like all other Chinese towns, and wont bear too close
a scrutiny. It is built on an island of the same name, and is walled in by several miles of
embrasured masonry; a fort or barracks on the beach, gay with pennons, imparting a semi-military
look to the place. Flags seem to play a most important part in the usages of war amongst this
nation, for, in addition to the great banners of the mandarins and their subordinates, every
soldier bears one in the muzzle of his rifle, or stuck in a bamboo over his shoulder.

Resuming our course, after a stay of about forty-eight hours, we next touched at the island
of White Dogs, off the port of Foo-Choo, the great naval depôt and arsenal of China. The "Vigilant"
had preceded us here to embark the admiral for Foo-Choo, whilst we put to sea again.

April 30th.--At daylight we found ourselves amongst an archipelago of picturesque and richly
cultivated islands, one mass of greenery from base to summit. The effect produced by the different
tints of the foliage was very fine indeed. Beyond a doubt the Chinese exhibit great skill and
economy in the gardener's art.

This was the approach to Chusan, the largest island of the group, at which we anchored at noon.
The place fell under a British attack in 1841, remaining in our possession until the more convenient
and more valuable island of Hong Kong was ceded to us in exchange. Before us lies a considerable
town called Tinghae, where are buried many of our poor fellow countrymen and their families
who fell victims to fever and the attacks of a cruel enemy during the occupation. We found
their graves in a very neglected condition, many of the tombstones having been appropriated
by the inhabitants to prop up those architectural abominations which it would be a libel to
term houses. Admiral Coote subsequently sent the "Modeste" down with orders to repair the burial
ground; the misappropriated stones were speedily restored to their places by the blue-jackets,
who dealt with the natives in a very summary manner by wrecking their houses about their ears.

It was not long before a sleek old Chinaman, rejoicing in the imposing Chin-English name of
"Chin-Chang-Jim-Crow," came on board and introduced himself as "me de bumboat"; he further
explained that it was so long since a man-of-war had been in that neighbourhood, that probably
he would experience some difficulty in procuring "Chow."

In the course of a day or so the admiral arrived from Ningpo, which was the signal for our
at once heaving up anchor and continuing our voyage.

We are now in the estuary of one of the noblest rivers of the world, and the largest in China.
It is estimated that this river, the Yang-tsze-Kiang, "Son of the Ocean," brings seaward, annually,
as much solid matter as would make an island as large as Ireland! The navigation of its mouth
is extremely dangerous, on account of the constantly-shifting sandbanks and consequent alteration
of the channel. Fortunately, the European pilots are very skilful in detecting these changes.
It is usual for large ships to drop anchor on this mud, locally termed the "flats," until boarded
by a pilot, who takes you either to Wosung or Shanghai, according to your draught of water.

Wosung scarcely merits the name of town; perhaps with more accuracy it might be termed a village.
It is nevertheless, the head quarters of a large junk fleet, and has one of the finest and
strongest forts in China to protect it from seaward. The place is interesting to us in one
sense, because in 1875 an English company obtained permission to construct a line of rail from
here to Shanghai.

China, with its four thousand years of existence, looked on this innovation with a jealous
eye, and would have pitched the whole concern into the river, had she dared; unfortunately
the line was carried near a burying ground, and thus a ready excuse for stopping the work presented
itself. It was alleged that the noise would disturb the spirits of the dead, of whom the Chinese
are in ghostly fear. An almost similar difficulty was met when the arsenal was built at Foo-Choo,
and a magnificent temple was actually erected in that city for the accommodation of the refugee
spirits.

To bring matters to a climax a man was run over by one of the trucks and killed. The mandarins
could no longer hold out against the popular voice, and the whole plant was bought up by the
Government for twice the sum the projectors had spent about it.

This is the brief history of the first and, up to now, the only attempt to introduce railways
into China; but the late Kuldja difficulty, and the ease with which the Russians had brought
an army to their Siberian frontier, have caused the Chinese to open their eyes to the advantage
of railways for strategic, if for no other purpose, and I believe a line is already in contemplation
between Tien-tsin and the capital.

Owing to a blunder on the part of the pilot, so some said, and some others, in consequence
of someone else's blunder, our anchor was dropped too near a mud bank, with the result that
when the ship swung to a firm knot current, up she went high and dry. Means were at once taken
to get her off, but by the time all the necessary arrangements were completed--and there was
no time lost either--the tide had ebbed considerably.

In the middle watch of this, the "Iron Duke's" first night on the Chinese territory, the steel
hawser was brought to the capstan, but a piece of yarn would have been equally efficacious;
for, under the immense strain, it snapped like a bow string, and, as there was now nothing
to keep the stern in check, away she went broadside on to the difficulty.

Meantime a telegram had been wired to the admiral at Shanghai, and next day all the available
help at that port came down the river to our assistance; besides the "Vigilant," "Eyera," "Midge,"
and "Growler," there were two American war vessels, the "Monocasy" and "Palos," also a Chinese
paddle steamer.

On the third night a combined attempt was made to either haul us off or to pull us to pieces.
With all their tugging they effected neither the one nor the other, and, had not nature "lent
us a fin"--in the shape of a breeze of wind--we might have been lying there to this day; a
few pulls on our hawsers and we had the satisfaction of feeling that the dear old craft was
once more on her proper element. The commander of one of the American ships afterwards commenting
on the difficulty experienced in removing us, hailed our captain with "Guess, Cap'n, that piece
of machinery of yours is lumpy!" "Rather, Jonothan, I calculate."

Had we not floated to-day the alternative was rather consoling; nothing less than the removal
of all our heavy guns and spars.

Before our departure Shanghai was all astir at the visit of General Grant of the United States.
Ostensibly, the general is travelling incog., but really as the representative of the United
States, for he flies the "stars and stripes" at the main, and gets a salute of twenty-one guns
wherever he goes. For some reason or other we did not salute as he passed up the river.

May 22nd saw us clearing out of the dangerous precincts of the Shanghai river and shaping our
course across the turbid waters of the Yellow Sea for pastures new--that is to say--for Japan.
Under double-reefed canvas and a nine knot breeze we sighted land in the vicinity of Nagasaki
on the 25th, and by evening our anchor "kissed the mud" in as lovely a spot as ever mortal
set eyes on. But I will reserve my eulogies for another chapter.

CHAPTER IX.

    "It was a fresh and glorious world,
    A banner bright that shone unfurled
    Before me suddenly."

  ARRIVAL AT NAGASAKI.--SOMETHING ABOUT JAPAN.--A
  RUN THROUGH THE TOWN.--VISIT TO A SINTOR TEMPLE.

I know not if the author of the above lines had ever been to Japan. I should think it very
unlikely; and possibly the poet is but describing the scenery of his Cumberland home. In no
disparagement of the beauteous country of the lake and mountain, yet we must confess that nothing
there can compare with Japan's natural magnificence.

All who have ever written of Japan, or who have ever visited its shores, are unanimous in the
praise they bestow on its charms of landscape. Even rollicking and light-hearted tars, who,
as a rule, are not very sensible to the beauties of nature, are bound to use "unqualified expressions
of delight," when that "bright banner" lies unfurled under their gaze. And of all this beauteous
land no part of it is more beautiful than the bay of Ommura, in the month of May.

Coming towards Nagasaki, from the westward, is like sailing on to a line of high, rigid, impenetrable
rocks, for, apparently, we are heading blindly on to land which discloses not the slightest
indication of an opening; but, relying on the accuracy of our charts, and the skill of our
officers, we assume we are on the right course. By-and-bye the land, as if by some magic power,
seems to rend asunder, and we find ourselves in a narrow channel, with well-wooded eminences
on either hand, clothed with handsome fir trees. Right in front of us, and hiding the view
of the town, is a small cone-shaped island of great beauty. English is a weak language in which
to express clearly its surpassing loveliness. This is Takabuko, or more familiarly, Papenberg,
a spot with a sad and bloody history, for it was here that the remnant of the persecuted Christians,
who escaped the general massacre in 1838,--when 30,000 perished--made a last ineffectual stand
for their lives and faith. But to no purpose, for pressed to extremities by the swords of their
relentless persecutors, they threw themselves over the heights, and perished in the sea.

The people are not altogether to blame for this barbarous and cruel persecution. Had the Jesuits
been satisfied with their spiritual conquests, and not sought to subvert the government of
the country, all might have gone well, and Japan, ere now, been a Christian country. But no;
true to themselves and to their Order, they came not to bring peace, but literally a sword,
and the innocent were made to suffer for the ambitions of a few designing priests.

The island passed, what a view presents itself! The long perspective of the bay, the densely
wooded hills and lower slopes teeming with agricultural produce, rich corn-fields, ripe for
the sickle; picturesque dwellings, hid in shadowy foliage, and flowers and fruit trees, to
which the purity and rarity of the atmosphere lend a brilliancy of colouring and distinctness
of outline, impossible to describe; the clear blue water, with here and there a quaint and
curious-looking junk, resting on its glassy and reflecting surface; the town, sweeping around
the shores of the bay; and, afar, the majesty of hill and vale; such, dear reader, is a weak
and very imperfect word picture of the charming bay of Omura.

Recent events in Japan have taken such a remarkable turn, that history, neither ancient nor
modern, presents no parallel with it. That we may have a more adequate conception of the Japan
of to-day, it is absolutely necessary that we make some acquaintance with the Japan of the past.

Of the origin of the people we can gleam very little, except from the questionable source of
tradition. Several theories are advanced to account for their existence here. One authority
discovers in them the long-lost "lost tribes of Israel;" according to another, they are a branch
of the great American-Indian family; both of which statements we had better accept with caution.
Their own theory--or rather that of the aborigines, the Aïnos of Yeso,--a race whom the indefatigable
Miss Bird has recently brought prominently before the world--states that the goddess of the
celestial universe, a woman of incomparable beauty and great accomplishments, came eastward
to seek out the most beautiful spot for a terrestrial residence, and at length chose Japan,
where she spent her time in cultivating the silkworm, and in the Diana-like pursuits of the
chase; until one day, as she stood beside a beautiful stream, admiring her fair form in its
reflecting surface, she was startled by the sudden appearance of a large dog. Tremblingly she
hid herself, but the dog sought her out, and, to her surprise, entered into conversation with
her, and finally into a more intimate alliance. From the union of these two opposite natures--according
to this account--the Aïnos are descended.

One other tradition I will mention--the Chinese--which perhaps has something of the truth in
it. According to it, a certain emperor of China, ruminating on the brevity of human life, and
of his own in particular, thought it possible to find a means whereby his pleasant existence
might be indefinitely prolonged. To this end he summoned all the physicians in his kingdom,
and ordered them, on pain of forfeiting their heads, to discover this remedy. After much deliberation,
one at last hit upon a plan which, if successful, would be the means of saving, at least, his
own head. He informed the emperor that in a land to the eastward, across the Yellow Sea, was
the panacea he sought; but that, in order to obtain it, it was necessary to fit out a ship,
with a certain number of young virgins, and an equal number of young men of pure lives, as
a propitiatory offering to the stern guardian of the "elixir of life." The ship sailed, freighted
as desired, and after a few days reached the western shores of Japan, from whence, you will
readily imagine, the wily sage never returned. These young men and maidens became the ancestors
of the Japanese race.

Their form of government was despotic in its character, and feudal in its system. The country
was governed by a powerful ruler with the title of mikado--"son of the sun"--who was supported
in his despotism by tributary princes, or daimios. Of them the mikado demanded military service
in time of war, and also compelled them to reside a part of each year in his capital, where
quarters were provided for them and their numerous retainers in the neighbourhood of the palace.
The visitor may still see whole streets in Tokio without a single inhabitant, the former residences
of the daimios' followers, and the aspect is dreary in the extreme.

In addition to his temporal functions, the mikado has always been the great high priest of
the Sintor faith. On the breaking out of a war with China, it was found that his attendance
with the army would deprive the religion of its spiritual head, and so indispensable was his
presence in the great temple, that such a deprivation would be little short of a calamity.
In this dilemma, he called to his aid the general of his forces, an able warrior and a shrewd
designing man, conferred on him the hereditary title of shio-goon, or tycoon, and despatched
him at the head of the army to carry fire and sword into the coasts of China. This prince's
name was Tycosama, a name great in Japan's history, and destined to become terrible to the
Christians. As generally happens, when a clever soldier with a devoted army at his back is
placed in such a position, he finds it but a step to supreme dominion, the army being a pretty
conclusive argument in his favor. His first act was the removal of the mikado to the holy city,
Kioto, where henceforth he was kept secluded, and hemmed in by so much mystery, that the people
began to look upon their ancient ruler as little less than a god.

It will be readily imagined that the tycoons, by their arrogant assumption to the imperial
dignity, made for themselves many enemies amongst the powerful daimios. The disaffected united
to form a party of reaction which, in the end, overthrew the tycoon, restored the mikado to
his ancient splendour, and gave Japan to the world. In 1853, an American squadron, under Commodore
Perry, came to Yokohama, and demanded a trade treaty with the United States. After much circumlocution
he obtained one, thus pioneering a way for the Europeans. England demanded one the following
year, and got it; then followed the other maritime nations of Europe, but these treaties proved
to be of as little value as the paper on which they were drawn up.

The adherents of the tycoon displayed a bitter animosity against the foreigner, and especially
a most powerful daimio, the prince of Satsuma, who nourished a detestable hatred to Europeans.
Through the machinations of this party, murders of foreigners, resident in Yokohama, were of
almost daily occurrence, till at last the British consul fell a victim to their hatred. This
brought matters to a head. In 1863, England declared war against Japan; blockaded the Inland
Seas with a combined squadron of English, French, Dutch, and American ships, acting under the
orders of Admiral Keuper, stormed and captured Simonoseki, and burnt Kagosima, the capital
of the prince of Satsuma. Having brought the Japanese to their senses, we demanded of them
a war indemnity, half of which was to be paid by Satsuma.

Five years passed. The mikado meanwhile had placed himself at the head of the reactionary party,
pensioned the tycoon, and made rapid advancement in European manners and customs. In 1868,
Satsuma and his party broke out into open rebellion against the mikado. But the prince's levies
were no match for the imperial troops, armed with the snider, and the result was the rebellion,
after some sanguinary battles, was put down, the estates of the rebels confiscated, and the
chief actors in the drama banished to distant parts of the empire.

There, dear reader, I am as glad as you that I have finished spinning that yarn. Now for the
legitimate narrative.

Nagasaki, or more correctly Nangasaki, is a town of considerable magnitude, skirting the shores
of the bay, and built in the form of an amphitheatre. On the terraces above the town, several
large temples with graceful, fluted, tent-like roofs, embowered in sombre and tranquil pine
groves, shew out distinctly against the dark background, whilst the thousands of little granite
monumental columns of the burying grounds, stud the hills on every side, giving to Nagasaki
almost a distinct feature.

Immediately ahead of the anchorage is the small island of Desima, the most interesting portion
of the city to Europeans. Previous to 1859 it was the only part of Japan open to foreigners,
and even then only to the Dutch, who, for upwards of 200 years, had never been allowed to set
foot outside the limits of the island,--a space 600 feet long by 150 feet broad--separated
from the main land by the narrowest of canals.

Japanese towns are laid out in regular streets, much after the fashion obtaining in Europe.
The system of drainage is abominable, though personally, the people are the cleanest on earth,
if constant bathing is to be taken as an index to cleanliness. The streets have no footpaths,
and access to the houses is obtained by three or four loose planks stretching across the open
festering gutters. As a natural result, small pox and cholera commit yearly ravages amongst
the populace. Another great evil against good sanitation, exists in the shallowness of their
graves. The Japanese have also a penchant for unripe fruits.

A native house is a perfect model of neatness and simplicity. A simple framework, of a rich
dark coloured wood, is thrown up, and roofed over with rice straw. There is but one story,
the requisite number of apartments being made by means of sliding wooden frames, covered with
snow-white rice paper. The floor is raised off the ground about eighteen inches, and is covered
with beautiful and delicately wrought straw mattresses, on which the inmates sit, recline,
take their meals, and sleep at night. These habitations possess nothing in the shape of furniture;
no fireplace even, because the Japanese--like Chinese--never use fire to warm themselves, the
requisite degree of warmth being obtained by the addition of more and heavier garments. These
abodes present a marked contrast to the Chinese dwellings, which, as we saw, were foul and
grimy, whilst here all is cheerful and airy.

No house is complete without its tiny garden of dwarf trees, its model lakes, in which that
curiosity of fish-culture, the many tailed gold and silver fish, are to be seen disporting
themselves; its rockeries spanned by bridges; its boats and junks floating about on the surface
of the lakes, in fact a Japanese landscape in miniature.

It seems the privilege of a people, who live in a land where nature surrounds them with bright
and beautiful forms, to, in some manner, reflect these beauties in their lives. This people
possess these qualities in an eminent degree, for a happier, healthier, more cheerful race,
one will rarely see. Their children--ridiculously like their seniors from wearing the same
style of garment--are the roundest, rosiest, chubbiest little pieces of humanity ever born.
Everybody has a fresh, wholesome look, due to repeated ablutions. The bath amongst the Japanese,
as amongst the ancient Romans, is a public institution; in fact, we think too public, for both
sexes mix promiscuously together in the same bath, almost in the full light of day; whilst
hired wipers go about their business in a most matter-of-fact manner. This is a feature of
the people we cannot understand, but they themselves consider it no impropriety. A writer on
Japan, speaking of this says:--"We cannot, with justice, tax with immodesty the individual
who, in his own country, wounds none of the social proprieties in the midst of which he has
been brought up." These bath-houses are perfectly open to the public gaze, no one evincing
the slightest curiosity to look within, except, perhaps, the diffident sailor. It is very evident
that Mrs. Grundy has not yet put in her censorious appearance in Japan, nor have our western
conventionalities set their seal on what, after all, is but a single act of personal cleanliness.
"Honi soit qui mal y pense."

Their mode of dress is an embodiment of simplicity and elegance. Both sexes wear a sort of
loose dressing gown, sometimes of silk--mostly so in the case of the fair sex--crossed over
the front of their bodies, allowing the knee perfect liberty to protrude itself, if it is so
minded, and confined to the waist by a band. But it is more particularly of the dress of the
ladies I wish to speak. The band circling the waist, and known as the "obe," is very broad,
and composed of magnificent folds of rich silk, and tied up in a large quaint bow behind. A
Japanese lady lavishes all her taste on the selection of the material and in the choice of
colour, of which these bands are composed, and which are to them what jewellery is to the more
refined Europeans. No ornament of the precious metal is ever seen about their persons. Their
taste in the matter of hues is faultless; no people, I will venture to say, have such a perception
of the harmonies of colour. Their tints are of the most delicate and charming shades the artist's
fancy or the dyer's art can furnish, and often wrought in rich and elegant patterns. They are
passionately fond of flowers, the dark and abundant tresses of their hair being always decorated
with them, either real or artificial. Their only other adornments are a tortoise-shell comb
of delicate workmanship, and a long steel pin with a ball of red coral in the end, passing
through their rich raven hair. They use powder about their necks and shoulders pretty freely,
and sometimes colour the under lip a deep carmine, or even gold, a process which does not add
to their personal attractions. They wear no linen; a very thin chemise of silk crepe, in addition
to the loose outer garment, is all their covering. But it must be remembered that the great
aim of this people seems to be simplicity, therefore we wont too minutely scrutinize their
deficiencies of costume; there is much to be said in its favour, it is neither immodest nor
suggestive. The feet are clothed in a short sock, with a division at the great toe for the
passage of the sandal strap. These sandals or clogs are the most ungainly articles in their
wardrobe. A simple lump of wood, the length and breadth of the foot, about two or three inches
in altitude, and lacquered at the sides, is their substitute for our boot. Their walk is a
shuffling gait, the knee bent and always in advance of the body.

The married women have a curious custom--now fast dying out--of blacking their teeth and plucking
out their eye-brows to prevent, as their husbands say, other men casting "sheep's eyes" at them.

The males of the coolie class are very scantily clad, for all that they wear is the narrowest
possible fold of linen around the loins; but, as if to compensate for this scarcity of rigging,
they are frequently most elaborately tattooed from head to foot.

A Japanese husband does not make a slave of his wife, as is too often the case amongst orientals;
she is allowed perfect liberty of action, and to indulge her fancy in innocent pleasures to
an unlimited extent. Her lord is not ashamed to be seen walking beside her, nor does he think
it too much beneath him to fondle and carry the baby in public. They are excessively fond of
their children; the hundreds of toy shops and confection stalls about the streets bearing testimony
to this.

The old custom of dressing the hair, which some of the men still affect, is rather peculiar.
A broad gutter is shaved from the crown of the head forward, whilst the remaining hair, which
is permitted to grow long, is gathered and combed upwards, where the ends are tied, marled
down, and served over (as we should say in nautical phraseology) and brought forward over the
shaven gangway.

One other custom I must mention, the strangest one of all: they have a legalized form of that
vice which, in other countries, by tacit consent, is banned, but which even the most refined
people must tolerate. But what makes it more strange still is, that no inconsiderable portion
of the public revenue is derived from this source. The government sets aside a certain quarter
in every city and town for its accommodation, gives it a distinct and characteristic name,
and appoints officers over it for the collection of the revenues. I thought it not a little
significant on landing for the first time in Japan to find myself and "rick-sha" wheeled, by
the accommodating coolie, right into the heart of this quarter. The advances of the fair sex
are likely to prove embarrassing to the stranger, for, before they are married, they are at
liberty to do as they please, and do not, by such acts, lose caste or forfeit the respect of
their friends and neighbours.

Here, as in the Indian Seas, our laundresses are men, the cleanest and quickest washers we
have encountered in the voyage. As an instance of their despatch, they will take your bedding
ashore in the morning, and by tea-time you will receive it ready for turning in, the blanket
washed and dried, the hair teazed and made so soft that you would scarcely fancy it was the
same old "doss" again.

Though the women do not wash our clothes, they do what is far harder work, i.e. coal our ship.
We were surprised, beyond measure, to see women toiling away at this dirty, laborious calling.
And the Japanese women are such little creatures, too! There was, however, one exception, a
woman of herculean strength and limb, looking like a giantess amongst her puny sisters, and
fully conscious of her superior muscular power. This lady, stripped to the waist as she was,
would, I am sure, intimidate the boldest mariner from a too close acquaintance with her embrace.
They belong to the coolie class, a distinct caste in Japan, wear a distinguishing badge on
their clothing, form a community amongst themselves, and rarely marry out of their own calling.

At noon these grimy Hebes, Hercules as well, all tripped on board to dine, the upper battery
offering them all the accommodation they required; each carried with her a little lacquered
box, with three sliding drawers, in which was neatly and cleanly stowed her dinner--rice, fish,
and vegetables; taking out all the drawers, and laying them on her lap, with a pair of chop-sticks,
she soon demolished her frugal meal. After a whiff or two at a pipe, whose bowl just contained
enough tobacco for two draws, she was ready to resume her work.

The European concession occupies the most picturesque position in Nagasaki, from which city
it is separated by a creek, well known to our blue-jackets, spanned by two or three bridges.
On either side of this strip of water a perfect cosmopolitan colony of beer-house keepers have
assembled, with the sole intention of "bleeding" the sailor, and upon whose well-known devotion,
to the shrine of Bass and Allsop, they manage to amass considerable fortunes.

Before leaving Nagasaki I would ask you to accompany me to one of the temples, that known as
the Temple of the Horse, being, perhaps, the best. It is rather a long distance by foot, but
Englishmen, at least according to Japanese ideas, have too much money to walk when they can
ride, so to keep up the national conceit, but more for our own convenience, we jump into an
elegant little carriage, or "jin-riki-sha," literally "man-power-carriage," but in sailor phrase
"johnny-ring-shaw," or short "ring shaw." Away we go, a dozen or more in a line, over the creek
bridge, past Desima, which we leave on our left hand, and soon we are in the heart of the native
city, and traversing what is popularly known as "curio" street. At this point we request our
human horses to trot, instead of going at the mad speed usual to them, in order that we make
notes of Japanese life by the way. We pass many shops devoted to the sale of lacquer ware,
for which the Japanese are so justly famed, catch glimpses of unequalled egg shell, and Satsuma
china, made of a clay, formed only in this neighbourhood, and which, thanks to the European
mania for collecting, fetch the most fancy prices; get a view of silk shops, full of rich stuffs
and embroideries. Here an artist tinting a fan or a silk lantern; there a woman weaving cloth
for the use of her household and everywhere people plying their various callings on the elevated
floors of their houses. I should say needle making amongst these people is a rather laborious
undertaking, and one which requires more than an ordinary amount of patience. The wire has
first to be cut the desired length, then filed to a point at one end and the other flattened
ready for the eye to be drilled, and finally the whole has to be filed up and smoothed off,
and all by one man. The Japanese are but indifferent sewers, all their seams exhibiting numerous
"holidays." Pretty children, with their hair clipped around their heads like a priest's tonsure,
sport around us, but are not intrusive. Each child has a little pouch attached to his girdle,
which, we are informed, contains the address of the child's parents, and also an invocation
to the little one's protecting god, in case of his straying from home. We meet with cheerful
looks and pleasant greetings everywhere. The gentle and musical "o-hi-o," "good day," with
its softly accented second syllable, and as we pass the earnest "sayonara," the "au revoir"
of the French, tell us very plainly we are no unwelcome visitors, whilst their bows are the
most graceful, because natural, and therefore unaffected, actions it is possible to conceive.

We notice, too, that numbers of the males are in full European costume, which generally hangs
about them in a most awkward manner, reminding one of a broom-handle dressed in a frock coat.
Others, again, don't discard the national dress altogether, but compromise matters by putting
on, in addition to their long gown, a European hat and shoes, which, if anything, looks worse
still. The ladies have not yet adopted the European style which, perhaps, they have sense enough
to see, is far more complex and inconvenient than their own. Of this much I am certain that
no mysterious production of Worth would be more becoming, or suit them better than their own
graceful, national dress.

At our imperative "chop, chop," jack's sole stock-in-trade of that intellectual puzzle, the
Chinese language, and which he finds equally serviceable this side the water, our Jehus start
off like an arrow shot from a bow. What endurance these men possess, and what limbs!

After a pleasant half-an-hour's ride, a sudden jolt indicates we are at our destination.

We alight at the base of a flight of broad stone stairs leading to the temple, and which we
can just discern at a considerable altitude above us, peeping out of the dark shadow of a grove
of firs. Arches of a curious and simple design, under which it is necessary to pass, are the
distinguishing features of a kami or sintoo temple, and perhaps of Japan itself, as the pyramids
are characteristic of ancient Egypt.

Two uprights of bronze, stone, or wood, inclined to each other at the summits, and held in
position by a transverse beam piercing the pillars at about three feet from their tops. Over
this again is another beam with horn-like curves at the ends, and turned upward, and simply
laid on the tops of the shafts. The approaches to some of these temples are spanned by hundreds
of such structures, which, when made of wood and lacquered bright vermillion, look altogether
curious.

On the topmost stair, as if guarding the main entrance to the sanctuary, are two seated idols
of the "god of war," in complete armour, each with bow in hand and a quiver full of arrows
over his shoulder, and protected by a cage work of wire. What certainly gives us matter for
speculation, and causes us no little surprise, is to see the golden scales of their splendid
armour, and even their ruddy lacquered faces, bespattered with pellets of chewed paper after
the manner familiar to us as school boys; when not satisfied with the correctness of the geographers,
we used to chew blotting paper to fling in recent discoveries on the wall maps. Do these people
desecrate their idols thus? There is no desecration here. These little lumps of pulp are simply
prayers, pieces of paper on which the priests have traced some mystic characters for the use
of the devout, and which, because of their inability to reach the idol to paste the strips
on, they shoot through the wire in this manner.

We now pass under the last arch, with its monstrous swinging paper lantern, into the courtyard
of the temple. The first object which claims our attention is a bronze horse, from which the
temple takes its name. The work of art--for so it is reckoned--would be more like a horse,
if its tail were less suggestive of a pump handle. Near is a bronze trough filled with holy
water, to be applied internally; and around three sides of the square numerous empty houses,
which, on high days and holidays, are used as shops for the sale of sacred and fancy articles.
Up a few more steps and suddenly we are on the polished floor of the temple, and standing amidst
a throng of kneeling worshippers, with heads bowed and hands pressed together in prayer.

Their mode of procedure at these shrines seems something after the following: the worshipper
first seizes a straw rope depending from the edge of the roof of the temple, to which is attached
a bell, of that shape worn by ferrets at home, only of course on a much more gigantic scale;
this is to apprise the slumbering god of the applicant's presence. He then commences his petition
or confession; places an offering of money in a large trough-like receptacle for the purpose;
takes a drink at the holy water font, and departs to his home chatting gaily to his neighbours
as he descends the steps. The whole business occupies about five minutes.

Sintoo temples have but little interior or body. All the worshipping is done outside on the
beautifully kept polished floor. A notice in English reminds us vandals that we must remove
our shoes if we would tread this sacred spot.

Within, is simplicity itself; a mirror and a crystal ball is all one sees; the former typical
of the ease with which the Almighty can read our hearts; the second an emblem of purity. They
worship the Supreme Being under the threefold title, which, strangely enough, we find in the
Book of Daniel, by which we may infer they have no inadequate conception of the true God.

We leave the temple court by a different outlet to that by which we entered, and come out on
a charmingly laid out garden and fish ponds, where are seats and tea houses for the accommodation
of visitors. Each tea house has its bevy of dark-eyed houris, who use every wile and charm
known to the sex, to induce you to patronise their several houses. To do the proper thing,
and perhaps influenced by the bright eyes raised so beseechingly to ours, we adjourn to one
of these restaurants. Removing our shoes--a proceeding you are bound to comply with before
entering a Japanese house--we seat ourselves cross-legged, tailor fashion, on the straw mattresses
I have previously mentioned, whilst an attendant damsel, with deft fingers, makes the tea in
a little terra-cotta teapot, the contents of which she poured into a number of doll's cups,
without handles, on a lacquered tray. Other girls handed us each a cup, in which was a liquid
not unlike saffron water in colour and in taste.

They use neither milk nor sugar, and the cups are so provokingly small, that it is only by
keeping our attendant syrens under the most active employment, that we are at last able to
say we have tasted it. With our tea we get some excellent sponge cake called "casutira," a
corruption of the Spanish word "castile," said to be, until very recently, the only word of
European etymology in the language. The Jesuits first introduced the cake from Spain, and taught
the people how to make it. Whatever its origin, it is very good. You get chop-sticks handed
you too, which, after a few ineffectual and laughable attempts to manipulate in the approved
fashion, you throw on one side. After the decks are cleared the young ladies bring out their
sam-sins, and whilst we smoke Japanese pipes, they delight our ears with an overture, which
we pronounce excruciating in English, though with our eyes we say "divine as Patti."

But we must not tarry longer here for the setting sun warns us it is time to get on board.

Our patient "steeds" are at the foot of the stairs, each ready to claim his rider. These fellows
will stick to you like a leech; follow you about for hours, never intruding their presence
on you, and yet seem to anticipate all your movements and wants.

CHAPTER X.

    "I looked upon those hills and plains,
    And seemed as if let loose from chains,
            To live at liberty."

  THE INLAND SEAS.--KOBE.--FUSI-YAMA.--YOKOHAMA.
  VISIT TO TOKIO.

The arrival of the "Vigilant" from Shanghai, with the admiral on board, brought our stay at
charming Nagasaki to a close. During the absence of our band with the "Vigilant," one of its
members, Henry Harper, a feeble old man, and far advanced in consumption, died at Shanghai.

June 11th.--Left Nagasaki en route for the eastward, via the Inland Seas. Our way to Simoneski
lay through numerous islands of so beautiful an appearance that a writer has compared them
to some of the fairest spots in Devon. But this, though it says much, is but a poor tribute
to such enchanting loveliness.

At daylight the following morning we made the narrow channel at Simoneski, the western entrance
to the seas; and as there is always a strong rush of water through the passage towards the
ocean, we had to steam hard against a considerable current. The town, of which I spoke in my
last chapter, has a very straggling and neat cleanly appearance. There are no forts or other
defences to indicate that not so long ago this town offered defiance and a short resistance
to a European squadron.

The Inland Sea has four chief divisions, which now commences to open out before us, and is
reckoned to possess some of the finest scenery in the world. I had often wished to see it for
myself; but I must confess I was unprepared, even with an imagination not liable to surprise,
at a picture of nature's own producing, for such beauty and grandeur. For hundreds of miles,
day after day, we were borne past a moving diorama of scenery unrivalled by anything here below.
On a smooth blue sea, and under a cloudless sky, onward we sped, passing, one after another,
the most delightful islets the eye ever dwelt on, each appearing to us a perfect paradise in
itself. Further on, indicated by a mere purple haze, appeared others, and yet others, in almost
endless perspective. I should say the islands in this sea may be numbered by thousands.

Not many years since, strangers were debarred from using this passage. I fancy I can imagine
the impressions the first Europeans must have had of this fairy land, of such a climate, such
a soil, and such delightful glades and woodlands!

On each of the larger islands we noticed snug temples, like miniature Swiss chalets, embowered
in woods--their peculiar architecture standing out in relief from a tangled mass of vegetation.

The channels where there are so many islands as here are necessarily intricate and dangerous;
and as it would be to court danger to continue our course after sundown, there are several
well-marked anchorages where it is customary to bring up at night. The first of these was a
sheltered bay with twin villages at its head, which I fancifully designated Kingsand and Cawsand--the
promontory forming one arm of the bay, looking not unlike Penlee point--greatly adding to the
conceit.

June 14th.--At noon we reached Kobé, or Hiogo, and let go our anchor far out in what appears
to be an open roadstead. This town is one of the most recent of the treaty ports--in fact it
and Osaca opposite, are the last thrown open to trade; hence we shall probably find Kobé more
native and less Europeanized than are the other towns we shall visit.

The native town is very extensive, reaching far back to the basis of the hills, and well away
to the left of the anchorage. To the right a stretch of low-lying land, with its tiny fields
of ripe grain, looks very fine. This track leads to the water-falls--a prettier place for a
pic-nic and one more accommodating one can scarcely find. Between this plain and the old town
of Hiogo the Europeans have raised their pretty picturesque dwellings. The streets here are
very regular and well kept, the trees planted along the sides giving the place quite a French
appearance.

There is at least one I was about to say magnificent street in the town, with an extent of
over two miles, along and in which all the bustle and business are conducted. Notwithstanding
its recent opening, public-houses, with their alluring signs, have sprung up with mushroom-like
rapidity. One in particular I will just mention, not that you are ever likely to forget "Good
old Joe," but simply that you may smile, when reading this over, at the willingness with which
you were led as lambs to the slaughter. I trust you escaped without the mark of the butcher's
knife.

After traversing about half the length of the street I mentioned before, the traveller finds
himself abreast of the Nanko temple, a large and imposing structure having a wide and noble-looking
entrance from the street, and just now presenting a very festive and animated appearance. On
either side the really grand avenue to the temple a veritable fair is being held, and such
a spectacle was as welcome as it was unlooked for. The amusements were so like those provided
at similar gatherings at home that the wonder is, that peoples separated by half a world of
varied civilization can possess the details of such festivities in common. Confection stalls,
wild beast shows, shooting galleries, archery grounds, theatres, music halls, even a Japanese
edition of the thimble-and-pea business was not wanting. In one of the theatres we visited,
the acting, although considered good from a Japanese point of view, possessed too many muscular
contortions, too much contraction and expansion of the facial organs, to please an English
audience. Men do all the acting, women never appear on the Japanese stage.

The music halls are not more enlivening than are the theatres, though the sight of an interior
is worth the ten sen fee, if only to see their manner of conducting the opera. If you imagine
the interior of a church, having all its pews removed, leaving only the cant pieces on which
they were erected, and the spaces between these pieces covered and padded with the beautiful
rice-straw matting of the country, you will get a fairly good idea of the simple fittings of
a Japanese music hall. A whole family seats itself in one of these squares; and as a concert
in this country is really a formidable affair, they bring their braziers, teapots, and chow-boxes
with them. The performer--a lady--is seated, tailor fashion, on a raised platform, a music
desk in front of her, and her musical instruments near at hand. The Japanese, like the Chinese,
sing from the throat, and the effect produced on the tympanum is that of an amorous tom-cat
chanting to his lady-love at midnight. The words she is singing, and has been singing for the--a
friend who was with me said "the last week;" but knowing him to be a joker, I accept the statement
with caution--for the last six hours, and which she will probably continue to sing for the
next six, contain rather too much levity and grossness, could we understand them, to be at
all suitable even for sailors. But her present audience receive them with the utmost indifference,
only betraying that they are at all conscious of what is going on by an occasional clapping
of the hands. Now and again the singer has a spell and a libation of saki, an attendant keeping
her liberally supplied in this item, of which she manages to drink a quantity during her song;
and, by way of a change at these times, she enters into a monologue or a recitation. Taken
and viewed in an artistic light, the audience in their rich gala dresses is a pleasing piece
of color and of harmonic contrasts.

Close to the temple a crowd is gathered around a horse box, in which is a milk-white steed--sacred,
of course. Before him a little table is placed, covered with tiny saucers filled with beans;
and the devout--and we in particular--can have the puerile satisfaction of seeing him munch
his comfits in a strangely horselike manner for the small sum of a "sen!" Near at hand are
some more sacred creatures--hundreds of turtles in a slimy pond rear their snake-like heads
through the thick green water for the pieces of biscuit and little red balls of prepared food
which the children are constantly flinging into their midst. These reptiles, it may be remembered,
form an important figure-subject in Japanese carvings, paintings, and bronzes.

Within easy distance of Kobé, and connected with it by rail, are the cities of Osaca and Kioto,
the former being the seaport of the latter, and, possibly, the greatest trade centre in the
empire. It seems to be built at the delta of a river; and as there are scores of bridges spanning
their several mouths, it has much the appearance of Venice. Kioto is the sacred city of Japan,
and contains, amongst other interesting sights, a large temple, in which are no fewer than
33,333 gods! Yearly pilgrimages are made here; and to provide spiritual ministrations for the
thousands of pilgrims, it is said that the priests form one-fifth of the entire population.

June 17th, to-day we completed with coal and started for Yokohama, leaving the Inland Sea by
its south eastern entrance and entering on the broad bosom of the great Pacific. By the help
of a splendid breeze we are speedily clear of the Linschoten strait and in view of a strange
picture, for giant Fusi begins to rear his hoary head above the main.

At first it appears but a small conical shaped island, rising isolated from the midst of the
sea, and which in a few hours we shall reach. But a few hours multiply into scores of hours,
and still that island appears at a tantalizing distance, and it is not until the main land
comes into view that we discover the misty island is no island at all, but a superb mountain.
It can be seen at an immense distance from the sea; we, ourselves, are, at the very least,
sixty miles from its base, and yet how clearly distinct, how tangibly present, how boldly out-lined
it stands against the opal tints of the evening sky.

Fusi-yama--"the peerless," "the matchless," or "the unrivalled,"--is an extinct volcano, on
the island of Niphon, though, only a century since, it was in active operation, and is said
to have been brought into existence in the space of a few days. Few sights are likely to leave
such an impression on one's mind, as solitary, graceful, cold looking Fusi, which, clothed
in a mantle of snow, may, not inaptly, be compared to a grim sentinel guarding the destinies
of a nation. But who shall attempt a description of its glories as we saw it that evening at
sunset, and many an evening afterward, with the chance and transient effect of light and shade
playing on its pearly sides.

June 19.--The freshening gale soon rattled us past the town of Simoda, and into the great bay
of Yedo, with the volcano of Vries at its entrance. Hundreds of queer-shaped junks and smaller
craft, laden with the produce of the busy nation, glide across the rolling seas with duck-like
motions, on their peaceful mission to the capital.

I have before had occasion to mention these unintelligible pieces of naval architecture, but
as they never before appeared to me at such advantage as now, as they struggle up the wind
across our track, I have hitherto refrained from saying much about them. They are constructed
very sharp forward and very broad aft, with high, rising sterns something after the manner
of the Chinese junk, but far more picturesque and compact than the sister country's vessel;
and, so far as looks go, a far more seaworthy craft than the latter. They carry an immense
sail of pure white canvas, save where a black cloth is let in--for contrast perhaps--on the
huge characters composing the owner's name, mar its fair surface; and a stout, heavy mast placed
well abaft the centre of the vessel, and curved at its upper end, the better to form an overhanging
derrick to hoist the sail by. The sail is made of any number of cloths laced together vertically--not
sewn--by which method each cloth has a bellying property and wrinkled appearance, independent
of its neighbours, thus the whole surface holds far more wind than one continuous sheet would
do. The vessels, despite their unnautical appearance, sail well on a wind. Some writers have
affirmed, that instead of reefing as we do, and as is pretty universal all over the world--namely,
by reducing the perpendicular height of the sail--that the Japanese accomplish this by taking
in sail at the sides, or laterally, by unlacing a cloth at a time. This seems to me highly
absurd, and is certainly not borne out by the testimony of my own observation; and that they
should not conform to the common usage of maritime nations--both savage and civilized--in this
particular is improbable. Even the Chinese--who are generally admitted to be the most unconforming
and irrational people in the world--reef their sails, at least, in the orthodox way. Besides
taking a practical view of the matter, how are they in any sudden emergency, and with their
limited crews, to undo the elaborate lacing, without going out on the yard and climbing down
the sail, unlacing as they go? So far as I am able to judge, their method is a most simple
and effective one, for all that they do is to lower the sail, gather in the slack at the bottom,
and as there are several sheets up and down the breech of the sail, the thing is done with
the utmost facility.

The build of a junk's stern is somewhat peculiar, for there is a great hollow which, apparently,
penetrates the body of the vessel; a mode of construction said to be due to an edict of one
of the tycoons, to prevent his subjects from leaving the country; for though it seems incredible,
these junks have been known to voyage to India. The sampan has a similar faulty arrangement
of stern. Though the people obeyed the spirit of the law, they evaded the letter of it by placing
sliding watertight boards across the aperture.

By noon we had anchored off Yokohama, now a large and flourishing town, and the chief naval
and foreign trading port of Japan, though, before the English arrived here in 1854, it was
little more than a village.

Having got through the noise and smoke of salutes to no less than four admirals, and other
minor consular expenditures of gunpowder, we prepared ourselves for a pleasurable stay in the
sailor's paradise. Perhaps no place in the round of sailors' visits, certainly none on this
station, offers so many inducements, so many and pleasing channels of getting rid of money,
as does Yokohama. Certain it is that the officers, who form the banking committee on board,
never complain of being over worked, during a ship's stay in this harbour, and plethoric bank
books are frequently reduced to a sad and pitiable state of emaciation after having "done"
Yokohama and its vicinity.

The residences of the Europeans are situated out of the town on a rising ground to the left,
known as the Bluff. Here the merchants live in rural magnificence, each with his mansion surrounded
by its own park-like grounds. The English and foreign naval hospitals are also situated in
this healthy and beautiful spot; and it was here, too, that our recent marine contingent to
Japan had their barrack.

