THE ATLANTIC MONTHLY.

A MAGAZINE OF LITERATURE, ART, AND POLITICS.

       *       *       *       *       *

VOL. XII.--AUGUST, 1863.--NO. LXX.

       *       *       *       *       *

AN AMERICAN IN THE HOUSE OF LORDS.

Having in a former number of this magazine attempted to give some account of the House of Commons,
and to present some sketches of its leading members,[1] I now design to introduce my readers
to the House of Lords.

[Footnote 1: Atlantic Monthly for December, 1861.]

It is obviously unnecessary to repeat so much of the previous description as applies to the
general external and internal appearance of the New Palace of Westminster. It only remains
to speak of the hall devoted to the sessions of the House of Lords. And certainly it is an
apartment deserving a more extended notice than our limits will allow. As the finest specimen
of Gothic civil architecture in the world, perfect in its proportions, beautiful and appropriate
in its decorations, the frescoes perpetuating some of the most striking scenes in English history,
the stained glass windows representing the Kings and Queens of the United Kingdom from the
accession of William the Conqueror down to the present reign, the niches filled with effigies
of the Barons who wrested Magna Charta from King John, the ceiling glowing with gold and colors
presenting different national symbols and devices in most elaborate workmanship and admirable
intricacy of design, it is undeniably worthy of the high purpose to which it is dedicated.

The House of Lords also contains the throne occupied by the reigning sovereign at the opening
and prorogation of Parliament. Perhaps its more appropriate designation would be a State-Chair.
In general form and outline it is substantially similar to the chairs in which the sovereigns
of England have for centuries been accustomed to sit at their coronations. We need hardly add
that no expense has been spared to give to the throne such intrinsic value, and to adorn it
with such emblems of national significance, as to furnish renewed evidence of England's unwavering
loyalty to the reigning house.

In pointing out what is peculiar to the House of Lords, I am aware that there is danger of
falling into the error of stating what is already familiar to some of my readers. And yet a
traveller's narrative is not always tiresome to the tourist who has himself visited the same
localities and witnessed the same scenes. If anxious for the "diffusion of useful knowledge,"
he will cheerfully consent that the curiosity of others, who have not shared his good fortune,
should be gratified, although it be at his expense. At the same time, he certainly has a right
to insist that the extraordinary and improbable stories told to the too credulous voyageur
by some lying scoundrel of a courier or some unprincipled valet-de-place shall not be palmed
upon the unsuspecting public as genuine tales of travel and adventure.

The House of Lords is composed of lords spiritual and lords temporal. As this body is now constituted,
the lords spiritual are two archbishops, twenty-four bishops, and four Irish representative
prelates. The lords temporal are three peers of the blood royal, twenty dukes, nineteen marquises,
one hundred and ten earls, twenty-two viscounts, two hundred and ten barons, sixteen Scotch
representative peers, and twenty-eight Irish representative peers. There are twenty-three Scotch
peers and eighty-five Irish peers who have no seats in Parliament. The representative peers
for Scotland are elected for every Parliament, while the representative peers for Ireland are
elected for life. As has been already intimated, this enumeration applies only to the present
House of Lords, which comprises four hundred and fifty-eight members,--an increase of about
thirty noblemen in as many years.

The persons selected from time to time for the honor of the peerage are members of families
already among the nobility, eminent barristers, military and naval commanders who have distinguished
themselves in the service, and occasionally persons of controlling and acknowledged importance
in commercial life. Lord Macaulay is the first instance in which this high compliment has been
conferred for literary merit; and it was well understood, when the great essayist and historian
was ennobled, that the exception in his favor was mainly due to the fact that he was unmarried.
With his untimely death the title became extinct. Lord Overstone, formerly Mr. Loyd, and a
prominent member of the banking firm of Jones, Loyd, and Co. of London, elevated to the peerage
in 1850, is without heirs apparent or presumptive, and there is good reason to believe that
this circumstance had a material bearing upon his well-deserved promotion. But these infrequent
exceptions, these rare concessions so ungraciously made, only prove the rigor of the rule.
Practically, to all but members of noble families, and men distinguished for military, naval,
or political services, or eminent lawyers or clergymen, the House of Lords is unattainable.
Brown may reach the highest range of artistic excellence, he may achieve world-wide fame as
an architect, his canvas may glow with the marvellous coloring of Titian or repeat the rare
and delicate grace of Correggio, the triumphs of his chisel may reflect honor upon England
and his age; the inventive genius of Jones, painfully elaborating, through long and suffering
years of obscure poverty, the crude conceptions of his boyhood, may confer inestimable benefits
upon his race; the scientific discoveries of Robinson may add incalculable wealth to the resources
of his nation: but let them not dream of any other nobility than that conferred by Nature;
let them be content to live and die plain, untitled Brown, Jones, and Robinson, or at best
look forward only to the barren honors of knighthood. Indeed, it is not too much to say that
for plebeian merit the only available avenues to the peerage are the Church and the Bar.

The proportion of law lords now in the House of Lords is unusually large,--there being, besides
Lord Westbury, the present Lord-High-Chancellor, no fewer than six Ex-Lord-Chancellors, each
enjoying the very satisfactory pension of five thousand pounds per annum. Lord Lyndhurst still
survives at the ripe age of ninety-one; and Lord Brougham, now in his eighty-sixth year, has
made good his promise that he would outlive Lord Campbell, and spare his friends the pain of
seeing his biography added to the lives of the Lord-Chancellors to whom, in Lord Brougham's
opinion, Lord Campbell had done such inadequate justice.

The course of proceeding in the House of Lords differs considerably from that pursued in the
House of Commons. The Lord-High-Chancellor, seated on the wool-sack,--a crimson cushion, innocent
of any support to the back, and by no means suggestive of comfort, or inviting deliberations
of the peers, but is never addressed by the speakers. "My lords" is the phrase with which every
peer commences his remarks.

Another peculiarity patent to the stranger is the small number usually present at the debates.
The average attendance is less than fifty, and often one sees only fifteen or twenty peers
in their seats. Two or three leading members of the Ministry, as many prominent members of
the opposition, a bishop or two, a score of deluded, but well-meaning gentlemen, who obstinately
adhere to the unfashionable notion, that, where great political powers are enjoyed, there are
certain serious duties to the public closely connected therewith, a few prosy and pompous peers
who believe that their constant presence is essential to the welfare and prosperity of the
kingdom,--such, I think, is a correct classification of the ordinary attendance of noblemen
at the House of Lords.

This body possesses several obvious advantages over any other deliberative assembly now existing.
Not the least among these is the fact that the oldest son of every peer is prepared by a careful
course of education for political and diplomatic life. Every peer, except some of recent creation,
has from childhood enjoyed all conceivable facilities for acquiring a finished education. In
giving direction to his studies at school and at the university, special reference has been
had to his future Parliamentary career. Nothing that large wealth could supply, or the most
powerful family-influence could command, has been spared to give to the future legislator every
needed qualification for the grave and responsible duties which he will one day be called to
assume. His ambition has been stimulated by the traditional achievements of a long line of
illustrious ancestors, and his pride has been awakened and kept alive by the universal deference
paid to his position as the heir apparent or presumptive of a noble house.

This view is so well presented in "The Caxtons," that I need offer no apology for making an
extract from that most able and discriminating picture of English society.

But to all these preëminent advantages of early education and training there must be added
the invaluable opportunities of enlarged and extended legislative experience in the House of
Commons. If we examine the antecedents of some of the most prominent men now in the House of
Lords, we shall discover abundant evidence of this fact. Earl Russell was a member of the House
of Commons for more than thirty years; Earl Derby, more than twenty-five years; the Earl of
Shaftesbury, for about twenty-four years; the Duke of Richmond, the Earl of Shrewsbury, and
the Duke of Rutland, for about the same period. And of the present House of Commons more than
fifty members are heirs apparent or presumptive to existing peerages.

And then there is the further circumstance that seats in the House of Lords are for life. Members
of this body do not stand in fear of removal by the votes of disappointed or indignant constituents.
Entirely independent of public opinion, they can defy the disapprobation of the masses, and
smile at the denunciation of the press. Undoubtedly, this fact has a twofold bearing, and deprives
the peers of that strong incentive to active exertion and industrious legislation which the
House of Commons, looking directly to the people for support and continuance, always possesses.
Yet the advantages in point of prolonged experience and ever increasing familiarity with the
details of public business are unquestionable.

As a matter of course, there are many noblemen upon whom these rare facilities of education
and this admirable training for public life would seem to have been wasted. As Americans, we
must be pardoned for expressing our belief in the venerable doctrine that there is no royal
road to learning. If a peer of the realm is determined to be a dunce, nothing in the English
Constitution prevents him from being a dunce, and "not all the blood of all the Howards" can
make him a scholar or a statesman. If, resting securely in the conviction that a nobleman does
not need to be instructed, he will not condescend to study, and does not avail himself of his
most enviable advantages, whatever may be his social rank, his ignorance and incapacity cannot
be disguised, but will even become more odious and culpable in the view of impartial criticism
by reason of his conspicuous position and his neglect of these very advantages.

But frequent as these instances are, it will not be for a moment supposed that the whole peerage
would justly fall under such censure. Nor will it be thought surprising that the House of Lords
contains a considerable number of men of sterling ability, statesmen of broad and comprehensive
views, accustomed to deal with important questions of public interest and national policy with
calm, deliberate judgment, and far-reaching sagacity. Hampered as they certainly are by a traditional
conservatism often as much at variance with sound political philosophy as it is with the lessons
of all history, and characterized as their attitude towards foreign nations always has been
by a singular want of all generosity, still it must be confessed that their steady and unwavering
adherence to a line of conduct which has made England feared and her power respected by every
country in the world has a certain element of dignity and manly self-reliance which compels
our admiration. And while they have been of late so frequently outwitted by the flexible, if
not tortuous, policy of Louis Napoleon, it yet remains to be seen whether the firm and unyielding
course of the English Ministry will not in the end prove quite as successful as the more Machiavellian
management of the French Emperor.

I hardly know how to describe accurately the impression made upon the mind of an American by
his first visit to the House of Lords. What memories haunt him of the Norman Conquest and the
Crusades, of Magna Charta and the King-Maker, of noblemen who suffered with Charles I. and
supped with Charles II., and of noblemen still later whose family-pride looked down upon the
House of Hanover, and whose banded political power and freely lavished wealth checked the brilliant
career of Napoleon, and maintained, the supremacy of England on sea and land!

Enter, then, the House of Lords with these stirring memories, and confess frankly to a feeling
of disappointment. Here are seated a few well-behaved gentlemen of all ages, often carelessly
dressed, and almost invariably in English morning-costume. They are sleepily discussing some
uninteresting question, and you are disposed to retire in view of the more powerful attractions
of Drury Lane or the Haymarket, or the chance of something better worth hearing in the House
of Commons. Take my advice, and wait until the adjournment. It will not be long, and by leaving
now you may lose an important debate and the sight of some men whose fame is bounded only by
the limits of Christendom. Even now there is a slight stir in the House. A nobleman has entered
whose movements you will do well to follow. He takes his place just at the left of the Lord-Chancellor,
but remains seated only for a moment. If you are familiar with the pencil of Punch, you will
recognize him at a glance. A thin, wiry, yet muscular frame, a singularly marked and expressive
face and mobile features, a nose that defies description, a high cravat like a poultice covered
with a black silk bandage, clothes that seem to have been made for a much larger man, and always
a pair of old-fashioned checked trousers,--of course, this can only be Lord Brougham. He is
eighty-five years old, and yet his physical activity would do no injustice to a man in the
prime of life. If you watch him a few moments, you will have abundant evidence of his restless
energy. While we look, he has crossed to the opposite side of the House, and is enjoying a
hearty laugh with the Bishop of Oxford. The round, full face of "Slippery Sam" (as he is disrespectfully
called throughout England) is beaming with appreciative delight; but before the Bishop has
time to reply, the titled humorist is on the wing again, and in an instant we see him seated
between Earl Granville and the Duke of Somerset, conversing with all the vivacity and enthusiasm
of a school-boy. In a moment he is in motion again, and has shaken hands with half a dozen
peers. Undeterred by the supernaturally solemn countenance of the Marquis of Normanby, he has
actually addressed a joke to that dignified fossil, and has passed on without waiting to observe
its effect. A few words with Earl Derby, a little animated talk with the Earl of Ellenborough,
and he has made the circuit of the House, everywhere received with a welcoming smile and a
kindly grasp of the hand, and everywhere finding willing and gratified listeners. Possibly
that is pardoned to his age and eminence which would be resented as impertinence in a younger
man, but certainly he enjoys a license accorded to no one else in this aristocratic assembly.

The dull debate of the past hour is now concluded, the House is thin, and there are indications
of immediate adjournment. Remain a little longer, however, and your patience may possibly be
richly rewarded. There is no order in the discussion of topics, and at any moment while the
House continues in session there may spring up a debate calling out all the ability of the
leading peers in attendance. After a short pause the quiet is broken by an aged nobleman on
the opposition benches. He rises slowly and feebly with the assistance of a cane, but his voice
is firm and his manner is forcible. That he is a man of mark is evident from the significant
silence and the deferential attention with which his first words are received. You ask his
name, and with ill-disguised amazement at your ignorance a gentleman by your side informs you
that the speaker is Lord Lyndhurst.

Perhaps the life of no public man in England has so much of interest to an American as that
of this distinguished nobleman. Born in Boston while we were still in a condition of colonial
dependence, he has lived to see his native land emerge from her state of vassalage, pass through
a long-protracted struggle for liberty with the most powerful nation on earth, successfully
maintain her right to be free and independent, advance with giant strides in a career of unexampled
prosperity, assume an undisputed position as one of the great powers of Christendom, and finally
put forth the most gigantic efforts to crush a rebellion compared with which the conspiracy
of Catiline was but the impotent uprising of an angry dwarf.

Lord Lyndhurst was called to the bar of England in 1804. It was before the splendid forensic
successes of Erskine had been rewarded by a seat on the wool-sack, or Wellington had completed
his brilliant and decisive campaign in India, or the military glory of Napoleon had culminated
at Austerlitz, or Pitt, turning sadly from the map of Europe and saying, "Henceforth we may
close that map for half a century," had gone broken-hearted to an early grave, or Nelson had
defeated the combined navies of France and Spain at Trafalgar. Lord Byron had not yet entered
Cambridge University, Sir Walter Scott had not published his first poem, and Canova was still
in the height of his well-earned fame. It was before the first steamboat of Robert Fulton had
vexed the quiet waters of the Hudson, or Aaron Burr had failed in his attempted treason, or
Daniel Welter had entered upon his professional career, or Thomas Jefferson had completed his
first official term as President of the United States.

Lord Lyndhurst's advancement to the highest honors of his profession and to a commanding place
in the councils of his adopted country was rapid almost beyond precedent. He was appointed
Solicitor-General in 1819, Attorney-General in 1823, Master of the Rolls in 1826, and Lord-Chancellor
in 1827. He remained in this office until 1830, and retired only to be created Lord-Chief-Baron
of the Exchequer. In 1835 he was again appointed Lord-Chancellor, and once more, for the third
time, in 1841.

The characteristic qualities of the oratory of Lord Lyndhurst, when in his prime, were perfect
coolness and self-possession, a most pleasing and plausible manner, singular ingenuity in dealing
with a difficult question or in weakening the effect of an argument really unanswerable, a
clear and musical voice, great ease and felicity of expression, and a wonderful command, always
discreetly used, of all the weapons of irony and invective. He is, perhaps, the only nobleman
in the House of Lords whom Lord Brougham has ever feared to encounter. All these elements of
successful oratory Lord Lyndhurst has retained to an extraordinary degree until within a year
or two.

I chanced to hear this remarkable man during an evening in the month of July, 1859. The House
of Lords was thinly attended. There had been a short and uninteresting debate on "The Atlantic-Telegraph
Bill," and an early adjournment seemed certain. But at this juncture Lord Lyndhurst rose, and,
after adverting to the fact that he had previously given notice of his design to draw their
lordships' attention to the military and naval defences of the country, proceeded to address
the House upon this question. It should be borne in mind that this was a period of great and
engrossing excitement in England, created by the supposed danger of invasion by France. Volunteer
rifle-companies were springing up all over the kingdom, newspapers were filled with discussions
concerning the sufficiency of the national defences, and speculations on the chances for and
against such an armed invasion. There was, meanwhile, a strong peace-party which earnestly
deprecated all agitation of the subject, maintained that the sentiments of the French Emperor
and the French nation were most friendly to England, and contended that to incur largely increased
expenses for additional war-preparations was unnecessary, impolitic, and ruinously extravagant.
At the head of this party were Cobden and Bright.

It was to answer these arguments, to convince England that there was a real and positive peril,
and to urge upon Her Majesty's Government the paramount importance of preparing to meet not
only a possible, but a probable danger, that Lord Lyndhurst addressed the House of Lords. He
began by impressing upon their lordships the fact that the policy which he advocated was not
aggressive, but strictly defensive. He reviewed the history of previous attempts to invade
England. He pointed out the significant circumstance, that these attempts had hitherto failed
mainly by reason of the casualties to which sailing-vessels were always exposed. He pressed
upon their attention the change which steam-navigation had recently wrought in naval warfare.
He quoted the pithy remark of Lord Palmerston, that "steam had converted the Channel into a
river, and thrown a bridge across it."

He demonstrated from recent history the facility with which France could transport large forces
by sea to distant points. Then, in tones tremulous with emotion, he drew upon the resources
of his own marvellous memory. "I have experienced, my lords, something like a sentiment of
humiliation in going through these details. I recollect the day when every part of the opposite
coast was blockaded by an English fleet. I remember the victory of Camperdown, and that of
St. Vincent, won by Sir J. Jervis. I do not forget the great victory of the Nile, nor, last
of all, that triumphant fight at Trafalgar, which almost annihilated the navies of France and
Spain, I contrast the position which we occupied at that period with that which we now hold.
I recollect the expulsion of the French from Egypt, the achievement of victory after victory
in Spain, the British army established in the South of France, and then the great battle by
which that war was terminated. I cannot glance back over that series of events without feeling
some degree of humiliation when I am called upon to state in this House the measures which
I deem it to be necessary to take in order to provide for the safety of the country."

Then pausing a moment and overcoming his evident emotion, he continued, with a force of manner
and dignity of bearing which no words can fitly describe,--"But I may be asked, 'Why do you
think such measures requisite? Are we not in alliance with France? Are we not on terms of friendship
with Russia? What other power can molest us?' To these questions, my lords, my answer shall
be a short and simple one. I will not consent to live in dependence on the friendship or forbearance
of any country. I rely solely on my own vigor, my own exertion, and my own intelligence." It
will be readily believed that cheer after cheer rang through the House when this bold and manly
announcement was made.

Then, after alluding to the immense armament by sea and land which France had hurled with such
incredible rapidity upon the Austrian Empire during the recent war in Italy, he concluded by
saying,--"Are we to sit supine on our own shores, and not to prepare the means necessary in
case of war to resist that power? I do not wish to say that we should do this for any aggressive
purpose. What I insist upon is, that we are bound to make every effort necessary for our own
shelter and protection. Beside this, the question of expense and of money sinks into insignificance.
It is the price we must pay for our insurance, and it is but a moderate price for so important
an insurance. I know there are persons who will say, 'Let us run the risk.' Be it so. But,
my lords, if the calamity should come, if the conflagration should take place, what words can
describe the extent of the calamity, or what imagination can paint the overwhelming ruin that
would fall upon us? I shall be told, perhaps, that these are the timid counsels of old age.
My lords, for myself, I should run no risk. Personally I have nothing to fear. But to point
out possible peril and how to guard effectively against it,--that is surely to be considered
not as timidity, but as the dictate of wisdom and prudence. I have confined myself to facts
that cannot be disputed. I think I have confined myself to inferences that no man can successfully
contravene. I hope what I have said has been in accordance with your feelings and opinions.
I shall terminate what I have to say in two emphatic words, 'Voe victis!'--words of solemn
and most significant import."

So spoke the Nestor of the English nation. Has our country no lesson to learn from the well-considered
words of this aged and accomplished statesman? Are we not paying a large insurance to secure
permanent national prosperity? And is it not a wise and profitable investment, at any cost
of blood and treasure, if it promises the supremacy of our Constitution, the integrity of our
Union, and the impartial enforcement of our laws?

When it is remembered that Lord Lyndhurst was at this time in his eighty-eighth year, this
speech of nearly an hour in length, giving no evidence from first to last of physical debility
or mental decay, delivered in a firm, clear, and unfaltering voice, admirable for its logical
arrangement, most forcible and telling in its treatment of the subject, and irresistible in
its conclusions, must be considered as hardly finding a parallel in ancient or modern times.
We might almost call it his valedictory; for his lordship's subsequent speeches have been infrequent,
and, with, we believe, a single exception, short, and he is now rarely, if ever, seen in the
House of Lords.

I shall not dwell upon the speeches that followed this earnest and eloquent appeal to the wisdom
and patriotism of the listening peers. They were mainly confined to grateful recognition of
the service which Lord Lyndhurst had rendered to the nation by his frank and fearless avowal
of those principles which alone could preserve the honor and independence of England. The opposition
urged the most vigorous preparations for resisting invasion, while Her Majesty's ministers
disclaimed any intention of weakening or neglecting the national defences. As the speeches,
however exhibited little worthy of mention beyond the presentation of these points, I have
supposed that a more general description of some of the leading members of the Upper House
would be more interesting to my readers than a detailed account of what was said upon this
particular occasion.

I have already alluded to the personal appearance and bearing of Lord Brougham. By reason of
his great age, his long Parliamentary experience, (he has been in the House of Commons and
House of Lords for nearly fifty years,) his habit of frequent speaking, and the commanding
ability of many of his public efforts, his name as an orator is perhaps more widely known,
and his peculiar style of declamation more correctly appreciated, than those of any other man
now living. It would therefore seem unnecessary to give any sketch of his oratory, or of his
manner in debate. Very few educated men in this country are unfamiliar with his eloquent defence
of Queen Caroline, or his most bitter attack upon Mr. Canning, or his brilliant argument for
Mr. Williams when prosecuted by the Durham clergy. Lord Brougham retains to this day the same
fearless contempt of all opposition, the same extravagant and often inconsistent animosity
to every phase of conservative policy, and the same fiery zeal in advocating every measure
which he has espoused, that have ever characterized his erratic career. The witty author of
"The Bachelor of the Albany" has tersely, and not without a certain spice of truth, described
him as "a man of brilliant incapacity, vast and various misinformation, and immense moral requirements."

The Duke of Argyle deserves more than a passing mention. Although comparatively a young man,
he has already had a most creditable career, and given new lustre to an old and honored name.
In politics he is a decided and consistent Liberal, and he merits the favorable consideration
of all loyal Americans from the fact that he has not failed on every proper occasion to advocate
our cause with such arguments as show clearly that he fully understands our position and appreciates
the importance of the principles for which we are contending. It is a curious coincidence,
that his style of address bears a close resemblance to what may be called the American manner.
Rapid, but distinct, in utterance, facile and fluent in speech, natural and graceful in gesticulation,
he might almost be transplanted to the halls of Congress at Washington without betraying his
foreign birth and education.

Lord Derby is undoubtedly the most skillful Parliamentary tactician and the most accomplished
speaker in the House of Lords. In 1834, (when he was a member of the House of Commons,) Macaulay
said of him, that "his knowledge of the science of parliamentary defence resembled an instinct."
He is the acknowledged leader of the Tories or Conservatives in England, and dictates the policy
of his party with absolute despotism. Belonging to one of the oldest peerages in the kingdom,
having already filled some of the most important offices in Her Majesty's Government, occupying
the highly honorable position of Chancellor of the University of Oxford, (as successor of the
first Duke of Wellington,) an exact and finished scholar, enjoying an immense income, and the
proprietor of vast landed estates, he may be justly considered one of the best types of England's
aristocracy. He has that unmistakable air of authority without the least alloy of arrogance,
that "pride in his port," which quietly asserts the dignity of long descent. As a speaker,
his manner is impressive and forcible, with a rare command of choice language, an accurate
and comprehensive knowledge of all subjects connected with the administration of public affairs,
and that entire self-control which comes from life-long contact on terms of equality with the
best society in Europe and a thorough confidence in his own mental resources. Lord Derby is
preëminently a Parliamentary orator, and furnishes one of the unusual instances where a reputation
for eloquence earned in the House of Commons has been fully sustained by a successful trial
in the House of Lords.

Another debater of marked ability in this body is Dr. Samuel Wilberforce, Bishop of Oxford.
He is the third son of William Wilberforce, the celebrated philanthropist, but by no means
inherits the simplicity of character and singular absence of all personal ambition which made
his father so widely beloved and respected. He is known as the leading exponent of High-Church
views, and has been heard in the House of Lords on every question directly or indirectly affecting
the interests of the Establishment. It was long ago said of him, that, had he been in political
life, he would surely and easily have risen to the position of Premier. He has for years been
charged with a marked proclivity to the doctrines of the Puseyites; and his adroitness in baffling
all attempted investigation into the manner in which he has conducted the discipline of his
diocese has perhaps contributed more than any other cause to fasten upon him the significant
sobriquet to which I have already alluded.

Any sketch of the prominent members of the House of Lords would be imperfect which should omit
to give some account of Lord Westbury, the present Lord-High-Chancellor. Having been Solicitor-General
in two successive Administrations, he was filling for the second time the position of Attorney-General,
when, upon the death of Lord Campbell, he was raised to the wool-sack. As a Chancery practitioner
he was for years at the head of his profession, and is supposed to have received the largest
income ever enjoyed by an English barrister. During the four years next preceding his elevation
to the peerage his average annual earnings at the bar were twenty thousand pounds. In the summer
of 1860 it was my good fortune to hear the argument of Lord Westbury (then Sir Richard Bethell)
in a case of great interest and importance, before Vice-Chancellor Wood. The point at issue
involved the construction of a marriage-settlement between the Earl of Shrewsbury and the Prince
Borghese of Rome, drawn up on the occasion of the marriage of the Prince with Lady Talbot,
second daughter of the Earl. The interpretation of the terms of the contract was by express
stipulation to be in accordance with the Roman common law. A commission sent to Rome to ascertain
the meaning of certain provisions contained in the contract resulted in several folio volumes,
embodying "the conflicting opinions of the most eminent Roman lawyers," supported by references
to the Canonists, the decisions of the "Sacred Rota," the great text-writers upon jurisprudence,
the Institutes and Pandects, and ascending still higher to the laws of the Roman Republic and
the Augustan era.

The leading counsel in the kingdom were retained in the case, and unusual public interest was
enlisted. The amount at stake was twenty thousand pounds, and it was estimated that nearly,
if not quite, that amount had already been consumed in costs. Legal proceedings are not an
inexpensive luxury anywhere; but "the fat contention and the flowing fee" have a significance
to English ears which we can hardly appreciate in this country.

It will be at once apparent even to the unprofessional reader that most difficult and complicated
questions were presented by this case,--questions turning on the exact interpretation of contracts,
involving delicate verbal distinctions, and demanding a thorough comprehension of an immense
and unwieldy mass of Roman law embraced in the dissenting dicta of Roman lawyers. It required
the exercise of the very highest legal ability, trained and habituated by long and patient
discipline to grapple with great issues.

The argument of Sir Richard Bethell abundantly demonstrated his capacity to satisfy the demands
of the occasion, and displayed most triumphantly his perfect mastery of the whole subject.
As the time drew near when he was expected to close for the defence, barristers and students-at-law
began to flock into the small and inconveniently arranged courtroom. A stranger and a foreigner
could not but see at once that the Attorney-General was the cynosure of all eyes. And, indeed,
no one in the room more thoroughly appreciated the fact that he was the central and controlling
attraction than Sir Richard himself. I must be pardoned for using an English slang-phrase,
but I can convey the impression which he inevitably makes upon a spectator in no other way
than by saying that he is "a most magnificent swell." And I do this with the more confidence
as I have heard him characterized in precisely these words by members of the English bar. Every
motion, every attitude, indicates an intense self-consciousness. The Earl of Chatham had not
a greater passion for theatrical effect, nor has a more consummate and finished actor ever
graced the stage. If the performance had been less perfect, it would have been ludicrous in
the extreme; for it did not overlook the minutest details. He could not examine his brief,
or make a suggestion to one of his associates, or note an important point in the argument of
opposing counsel, or listen to an intimation of opinion from the Bench, without an obvious
eye to dramatic propriety. During the trial, an attorney's clerk handed him a letter, and the
air with which it was opened, read, and answered was of itself a study. Yet it was all in the
highest style of the art. No possible fault could be found with the execution. Not a single
spectator ventured to smile. The supremacy of undoubted genius was never more apparent, and
never exacted nor received more willing worship. Through the kindness of a friendly barrister
I was introduced to one of the juniors of the Attorney-General,--a stripling of about fifty
years of age. While we were conversing about the case, Sir Richard turned and made some comment
upon the conduct of the trial; but my friend would no more have thought of introducing me to
the leader of the bar than he would have ventured to stop the carriage of the Queen in Hyde
Park and present me then and there to Her Majesty.

I remember as well as if it were but yesterday how attorneys and junior counsel listened with
the utmost deference to every suggestion which he condescended to address to them, how narrowly
the law-students watched him, as if some legal principle were to be read in his cold, hard
countenance, and, as he at last rose slowly and solemnly to make his long-expected argument,
how court, bar, and by-standers composed themselves to hear. He spoke with great deliberation
and distinctness, with singular precision and propriety of language, without any parade of
rhetoric or attempt at eloquence. After a very short and appropriate exordium, he proceeded
directly to the merits of the case. His words were well-weighed, and his manner was earnest
and impressive. It was, in short, the perfection of reason confidently addressed to a competent
tribunal.

And yet his manner was by no means that of a man seeking to persuade a superior, but rather
that of one comparing opinions with an equal, if not an inferior mind, elevated by some accident
to a position of factitious importance. One could not but feel that here was a power behind
the throne greater than the throne itself.

It cannot be doubted that this consciousness of mental and professional preëminence, sustained
by the unanimous verdict of public opinion, has given to Lord Westbury a defiant, if not an
insolent bearing. The story is current at the English bar, that, some years ago, when offered
a seat on the Bench, with a salary of five thousand pounds, he promptly declined, saying, "I
would rather earn ten thousand pounds a year by talking sense than five thousand pounds a year
by hearing other men talk nonsense." Anecdotes are frequent in illustration of his supercilious
treatment of attorneys and clients while he was a barrister. And since his elevation to the
wool-sack there has been no abatement or modification of his offensive manner. His demeanor
toward counsel appearing before him has been the subject of constant and indignant complaint.
It will be remembered by some of my readers, that, not long since, during a session of the
House of Lords, he gave the lie direct to one of the peers,--an occurrence almost without precedent
in that decorous body. Far different from this was the tone in which Lord Thurlow, while Lord-Chancellor,
asserted his independence and vindicated his title to respect in his memorable rebuke addressed
to the Duke of Grafton. If the testimony of English travellers in this country is to be believed,
the legislative assemblies of our own land have hitherto enjoyed the unenviable monopoly of
this species of retort.

The House of Lords contains other peers of marked ability and protracted Parliamentary experience,
among whom are Earl Granville, the Earl of Ellenborough, the Duke of Somerset, and the Earl
of Shaftesbury; but we cannot dwell in detail upon their individual characteristics as speakers,
or upon the share they have severally taken in the public councils, without extending this
article beyond its legitimate limits.

As genius is not necessarily or usually transmitted from generation to generation, while a
seat in the House of Lords is an inheritable privilege, it will be readily believed that there
is a considerable number of peers with no natural or acquired fitness for legislative duties,--men
whose dullness in debate, and whose utter incapacity to comprehend any question of public interest
or importance, cannot be adequately described. They speak occasionally, from a certain ill-defined
sense of what may be due to their position, yet are obviously aware that what they say is entitled
to no weight, and are greatly relieved when the unwelcome and disagreeable duty has been discharged.
They are the men who hesitate and stammer, whose hats and canes are always in their way, and
who have no very clear notions about what should be done with their hands. A visitor who chances
to spend an evening in the House of Lords for the first and last time, while noblemen of this
stamp are quieting their tender consciences by a statement of their views upon the subject
under discussion, will be sure to retire with a very unfavorable and wholly incorrect estimate
of the speaking talent of English peers.

It would hardly seem necessary to devote time or space to those members of the House of Lords
who are rarely, if ever, present at the debates. As has been already stated, the whole number
of peers is about four hundred and sixty, of whom less than twenty-five are minors, while the
average attendance is less than fifty. The right to vote by proxy is a peculiar and exclusive
privilege of the Upper House, and vicarious voting to a great extent is common on all important
issues. Macaulay, many years ago, pronounced the House of Lords "a small and torpid audience";
and certainly, since the expression of this opinion, there has been no increase of average
attendance. A considerable proportion of the absentees will be found among the "fast noblemen"
of the kingdom,--the men who prostitute their exalted social position to the basest purposes,
squandering their substance and wasting their time in degrading dissipation, the easy prey
of accomplished sharpers, and a burning disgrace to their order. Sometimes, indeed, they pause
on the brink of utter ruin, only to become in their turn apostles of iniquity, and to lure
others to a like destruction. The unblushing and successful audacity of these titled roués
is beginning to attract the attention and awaken the fears of the better part of the English
people. Their pernicious example is bearing most abundant and bitter fruit in the depraved
morals of what are called the "lower classes" of society, and their misdeeds are repeated in
less fashionable quarters, with less brilliant surroundings. Against this swelling tide of
corrupting influence the press of England is now raising its warning voice, and the statements
which are publicly and unreservedly made, and the predictions which are confidently given,
are very far from being welcome to English eyes or grateful to English ears.

Another class of the House of Lords, and it is a large one, is most happily characterized by
Sydney Smith in his review of "Granby." "Lord Chesterton we have often met with, and suffered
a good deal from his lordship: a heavy, pompous, meddling peer, occupying a great share of
the conversation, saying things in ten words which required only two, and evidently convinced
that he is making a great impression; a large man, with a large head, and a very landed manner;
knowing enough to torment his fellow-creatures, not to instruct them; the ridicule of young
ladies, and the natural butt and target of wit. It is easy to talk of carnivorous animals and
beasts of prey; but does such a man, who lays waste a whole civilized party of beings by prosing,
reflect upon the joy he spoils and the misery he creates in the course of his life, and that
any one who listens to him through politeness would prefer toothache or ear-ache to his conversation?
Does he consider the great uneasiness which ensues, when the company has discovered a man to
be an extremely absurd person, at the same time that it is absolutely impossible to convey
by words or manner the most distant suspicion of the discovery?"

Now, most unfortunately, the noble House of Chesterton is still extant, and its numerous representatives
cherish with jealous care every inherited absurdity of the family. Their favorite field of
operations is the House of Lords, partly because the strict proprieties of the place protect
them from rude and inconvenient interruption, and partly because they can be sure of a "fit
audience found, though few,"--an audience of equals, whom it is no condescension to address.
In the House of Commons they would be coughed down or groaned down before they had wasted ten
minutes of the public time, and that they escape as swift suppression in the House of Lords
is much more creditable to the courtesy of that body than to its just appreciation of the shortness
of human life. There is rarely a debate of importance in the House of Lords during which some
one of the Chesterton family does not contribute his morsel of pompous imbecility, or unfold
his budget of obsolete and exploded prejudices, or add his mite of curious misinformation.
That such painful exhibitions of callow and contracted bigotry should so frequently be made
in a body claiming for itself the finest culture and the highest civilization in Christendom
is certainly a most mortifying circumstance, and serves to show that narrow views and unstatesmanlike
opinions are not confined to democratic deliberative assemblies, and that the choicest advantages
of education, literary and political, are not at all inconsistent with ignorance and arrogance.

But we will allow his lordship to tell his own story. Here is his set speech, only slightly
modified from evening to evening, as may be demanded by the difference in the questions under
debate.

"My lords, the noble lord who has just taken his seat, although, I am bound to say, presenting
his view of the case with that candor which my noble friend (if the noble lord will allow me
to call him so) always displays, yet, my lords, I cannot but add, omitted one important feature
of the subject. Now, my lords, I am exceedingly reluctant to take up the time of your lordships
with my views upon the subject-matter of this debate; yet, my lords, as the noble and learned
lord who spoke last but one, as well as the noble earl at the head of Her Majesty's Government,
and the noble marquis who addressed your lordships early in the evening, have all fallen into
the same mistake, (if these noble lords will permit me to presume that they could be mistaken,)
I must beg leave to call your lordships' attention to the significant fact, that each and all
of these noble lords have failed to point out to your lordships, that, important and even conclusive
as the arguments and statistics of their lordships may at first sight appear, yet they have
not directed your lordships to the very suspicious circumstance that our noble ancestors have
never discovered the necessity of resorting to this singular expedient.

"For myself, my lords, I confess that I am filled with the most gloomy forebodings for the
future of this country, when I hear a question of this transcendent importance gravely discussed
by noble lords without the slightest allusion to this vital consideration. I beg to ask noble
lords, Are we wiser than our forefathers? Are any avenues of information open to us which were
closed to them? Were they less patriotic, less intelligent, less statesmanlike, than the present
generation? Why, then, I most earnestly put it to your lordships, should we disregard, or,
certainly, lose sight of their wisdom and their experience? I implore noble lords to pause
before it is too late. I solemnly call upon them to consider that the proposed measure is,
after all, only democracy under a thin disguise. Has it never occurred to noble lords that
this project did not originate in this House? that its warmest friends and most ardent and
persevering advocates are found among those who come from the people, and who, from the very
nature of the case, are incompetent to decide upon what will be for the, best interests of
the kingdom? My lords, I feel deeply upon this subject, and I must be pardoned for expressing
myself in strong terms. I say again, that I see here the clearest evidence of democratic tendencies,
a contempt for existing and ancient institutions, and an alarming want of respect for time-honored
precedents, which, I am bound to say, demand our prompt and indignant condemnation," etc.,
etc., etc.[2]

[Footnote 2: If any one of my readers is inclined to suspect that I have drawn upon my imagination
for this specimen speech, I will only say, that, if he were my bitterest enemy, I could wish
him no more severe punishment than to undergo as I have done, (horresco referens,) an hour
of the Marquis of Normanby, the Earl of Malmesbury, and a few other kindred spirits. If he
have no opportunity of subjecting the truth of my statement and the accuracy of my report to
this most grievous test, I beg to assure him that I have given no fancy sketch, but that I
have heard speeches from these noblemen in precisely this tone and to exactly this effect.]

This is the regular speech, protracted in the same strain for perhaps half an hour. Of the
manner of the noble orator I will not venture a description. Any attempt to convey an idea
of the air of omniscience with which these dreary platitudes are delivered would surely result
in failure. It is enough to say that the impression which the noble lord leaves upon an unprejudiced
and un-English mind is in all respects painful. Indeed, one sees at a glance how absolutely
hopeless would be any finite effort to convince him of the absurdity of his positions or the
weakness of his understanding. There he stands, a solemn, shallow, conceited, narrow-minded,
imperturbable, impracticable, incorrigible blockhead, on whom everything in the shape of argument
is utterly wasted, and from whom all the arrows of wit and sarcasm fall harmless to the ground.
In fact, he is perfectly proof against any intellectual weapons forged by human skill or wielded
by mortal arm, and he awaits and receives every attack with a stolid and insulting indifference
which must be maddening to an opponent.

I hasten to confess my entire incapacity to describe the uniform personal bearing of a Chesterton
in or out of the House of Lords. It is strictly sui generis. It has neither the quiet, unassuming
dignity of the Derbys, the Shaftesburys, or the Warwicks, nor the vulgar vanity of the untravelled
Cockney. It simply defies accurate delineation. Dickens has attempted to paint the portrait
of such a character in "Bleak House"; but Sir Leicester Dedlock, even in the hands of this
great artist, is not a success,--merely because, in the case of the Baronet, selfishness and
self-importance are only a superficial crust, while with your true Chesterton these attributes
penetrate to the core and are as much a part of the man as any limbs or any feature of his
face. A genuine Chesterton is as unlike his stupid caricature in our own theaters in the person
of "Lord Dundreary," as the John Bull of the French stage, leading a woman by a halter around
her neck, and exclaiming, "G---- d----! I will sell my wife at Smithfield," is unlike the Englishman
of real life. Lord Chesterton does not wear a small glass in his right eye, nor commence every
other sentence with "Aw! weally now." He does not stare you out of countenance in a café, nor
wonder "what the Devil that fellaw means by his insolence." So much by way of negative description.
To appreciate him positively, one must see him and hear him. No matter when or where you encounter
him, you will find him ever the same; and you will at last conclude that his manners are not
unnatural to a very weak man inheriting the traditions of an ancient and titled family, and
educated from childhood to believe that he belongs to a superior order of beings.

Of course the strong point of a Chesterton is what he calls his "conservatism." He values everything
in proportion to its antiquity, and prefers a time-honored abuse to a modern blessing. With
a former Duke of Somerset, he would pity Adam, "because he had no ancestors." His sympathies,
so far as he has any sentiments which deserve to be dignified by that name, are ever on the
side of tyranny. He condescends to give his valuable sanction to the liberal institutions of
England, not because they are liberal, but because they are English. Next after the Established
Church, the reigning sovereign and the royal family, his own order and his precious self, his
warmest admiration is bestowed on some good old-fashioned, thorough-going, grinding despotism.
He defends the Emperor of Austria, and considers the King of Naples a much-abused monarch.

If his lordship has ever been in diplomatic life,--an event highly probable,--he becomes the
most intolerable nuisance that ever belied the noblest sentiments of civilized society or blocked
the wheels of public debate. Flattered by the interested attention of despotic courts, his
poor weak head has been completely turned. He has seen everything en couleur de rose. He assures
their lordships that he has never known a single well-authenticated case of oppression of the
lower classes, while it is within his personal knowledge that many of the best families (in
Italy, for instance) have been compelled to leave all their property behind them, and fly for
their lives before an insolent and unreasoning mob. How he deluges the House with distorted
facts and garbled statistics! How he warns noble lords against the wiles of Mazzini, the unscrupulous
ambition of Victor Emmanuel, and the headlong haste of Garibaldi!

Of course, his lordship's bitterest hatred and intensest aversion are reserved for democratic
institutions. Against these he wages a constant crusade. Armed cap-à-pie in his common-sense-proof
coat of mail, he charges feebly upon them with his blunt lance, works away furiously with his
wooden sword, and then ambles off with a triumphant air very ludicrous to behold. Democracy
is the bête noir of all the Chestertons. They attack it not only because they consider it a
recent innovation, but also because it threatens the permanence of their order. About the practical
working of a republic they have no better information than they have about the institutions
of Iceland or the politics of Patagonia. It is quite enough for them to know that the theory
of democracy is based on the equality of man, and that where democracy prevails a privileged
class is unknown.

It is hardly necessary to add, that the present condition of the United Stales is a perfect
godsend to the whole family of Chestertons. Have they not long predicted our disgrace and downfall?
Have they not, indeed, ever since our unjustifiable Declaration of Independence, anticipated
precisely what has happened? Have they not always and everywhere contended that a republic
had no elements of national cohesion? In a word, have they not feared our growing power and
population as only such base and ignoble spirits can fear the sure and steady progress of a
rival nation? Unhappily, their influence in the councils of the kingdom is by no means inconsiderable.
The prestige of an ancient family, the obsequious deference paid in England to exalted social
position, and the power of patronage, all combine to confer on the Chestertons a commanding
and controlling authority absurdly out of proportion to their intrinsic ability.

There has been a prevalent notion in this country that England was slowly, but certainly, tending
towards a more democratic form of government, and a more equal and equitable distribution of
power among the different orders of society. This is very far from being the case. It has been
well said, that "it is always considered a piece of impertinence in England, if a man of less
than two or three thousand a year has any opinions at all upon important subjects." But if
this income is quadrupled, and the high honor of a seat in the House of Lords is superadded,
it is not difficult to understand that the titled recipient of such a revenue will find that
his opinions command the greatest consideration. The organization of the present Cabinet of
England is a fresh and conclusive illustration of this principle. It is not too much to say,
that at this moment the home and foreign administration of the government is substantially
in the hands of the House of Lords. Indeed, the aristocratic element of English society is
as powerful to-day as it has been at any time during the past century. To fortify this statement
by competent authority, we make an extract from a leader in the London "Times," on the occasion
of the elevation of Lord John Russell to the peerage. "But however welcome to the House of
Lords may be the accession of Lord John Russell, the House of Commons, we apprehend, will contemplate
it with very little satisfaction. While the House of Lords does but one-twentieth part of the
business of the House of Commons, it boasts a lion's share of the present administration. Three
out of our five Secretaries of State, the Lord-Chancellor, the First Lord of the Admiralty,
the Lord-President of the Council, the Postmaster-General, the Lord Privy Seal, all hold seats
in the Upper House, while the Home-Secretary, and the Secretary for India, the First Lord of
the Treasury, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, the President of the Board of Trade, the President
of the Poor-Law Board, the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster, and the Secretary for Ireland
hold seats in the House of Commons. Lord John Russell goes to give more to that which had already
too much. At the present moment, the two ministers whose united departments distribute between
twenty and thirty millions of the national revenue sit in the House which does not represent
the people. In voting the army and navy estimates, the House of Commons received this year
from the Under-Secretaries that information which they ought to have from the best and most
authentic, sources. To these is now added the all-important department of Foreign Affairs;
so that, if things remain as they are, the representatives of the people must be content to
feed on second-hand information.... Most of us can remember a time when it was a favorite topic
with popular agitators to expatiate on the number of lords which a government contained, as
if every peer of Parliament wielded an influence necessarily hostile to the liberties of the
country. We look down in the present age with contempt on such vulgar prejudices; but we seem
to be running into the contrary extreme, when we allow almost all the important offices of
our government to be monopolized by a chamber where there is small scope for rhetorical ability,
and the short sittings and unbusiness-like habits of which make it very unsuited for the enforcement
of ministerial responsibility. The statesmen who have charge of large departments of expenditure,
like the army and navy, and of the highest interests of the nation, ought to be in the House
of Commons, is necessarily superior to a member of the House of the House of Lords, but it
is to the House of Commons that these high functionaries are principally accountable, and because,
if they forfeit the confidence of the House of Commons, the House of Lords can avail them but
little. The matter is of much importance and much difficulty. We can only hope that the opportunity
of redressing this manifest imperfection in the structure of the present government will not
be lost, and that the House of Commons may recover those political privileges which it has
hitherto been its pride to enjoy."

This distribution of power in the English Cabinet furnishes a sufficient solution of the present
attitude of the English Government towards this country. The ruling classes of England can
have no sincere sympathy with the North, because its institutions and instincts are democratic.
They give countenance to the South, because at heart and in practice it is essentially an aristocracy.
To remove the dangerous example of a successful and powerful republic, where every man has
equal rights, civil and religious, and where a privileged order in Church and State is impossible,
has become in the minds of England's governing classes an imperious necessity. Compared with
the importance of securing this result, all other considerations weigh as nothing. Brothers
by blood, language, and religion, as they have been accustomed to call us while we were united
and formidable, we are now, since civil war has weakened us and great national questions have
distracted our councils, treated as aliens, if not as enemies. On the other hand, the South,
whose leaders have ever been first to take hostile ground against England, and whose "peculiar
institution" has drawn upon us the eloquent and unsparing denunciations of English philanthropists,
is just now in high favor with the "mother-country." Not only has the ill-disguised dislike
of the Tories ripened into open animosity, not only are we the target for the shallow scorn
of the Chestertons, (even a donkey may dare to kick a dying lion,) but we have lost the once
strongly pronounced friendship of such ardent anti-slavery men as Lord Brougham and the Earl
of Shaftesbury. Why is this? Does not the explanation lie in a nutshell? We were becoming too
strong. We were disturbing the balance of power. We were demonstrating too plainly the inherent
activity and irresistible energy of a purely democratic form of government. Therefore Carthago
delenda est. "But yet the pity of it, Iago!" Mark how a Christian nation deals with a Christian
ally. Our destruction is to be accomplished, not by open warfare, but by the delusive and dastardly
pretence of neutrality. There is to be no diplomatic recognition of an independent Southern
Confederacy, but a formidable navy is to be furnished to our enemies, and their armies are
to be abundantly supplied with the munitions of war. But how? By the English Government? Oh,
no! This would be in violation of solemn treaties. Earl Russell says, "We have long maintained
relations of peace and amity" with the United States. England cannot officially recognize or
aid the South without placing herself in a hostile attitude towards this country. Yet meanwhile
English capitalists can publicly subscribe to the loan which our enemies solicit, and from
English ship-yards a fleet of iron-clad war-vessels can be sent to lay waste our commerce and
break our blockade of Southern ports. What the end will be no one may venture to foretell;
but it needs no prophet to predict that many years will not obliterate from the minds of the
American people the present policy of the English Cabinet, controlled as it is by the genius
of English aristocracy.

       *       *       *       *       *

THEODORE WINTHROP'S WRITINGS.

"The first time I saw Theodore Winthrop," said one to me a few days ago, "he came into my office
with a common friend. They were talking as they entered, and Winthrop said, 'Yes, the fellows
who came over in the Mayflower can't afford to do that!'

"'There,' thought I to myself, 'there's another of the Mayflower men! I wish to my soul that
ship had sunk on her voyage out!' But when I came to know him, I quickly learned that with
him origin was not a matter of vain pride, but a fact inciting him to all nobleness of thought
and life, and spurring him on to emulate the qualities of his ancestor."

That is to say, he was not a prig, or a snob, but a gentleman. And if he remembered that he
"came over in the Mayflower," it was because he felt that that circumstance bound him to higher
enterprises, to better work, than other men's. And he believed in his heart, as he wrote in
the opening chapter of "John Brent," that "deeds of the heroic and chivalric times do not utterly
disdain our day. There are men," he continues, "as ready to gallop for love and strike for
love now as in the age of Amadis." Ay, and for a nobler love than the love of woman--for love
of country, and of liberty--he was ready to strike, and to die.

Ready to do, when the time came; but also--what required a greater soul--ready to wait in cheerful
content till the fitting time should come. Think of these volumes lying in his desk at home,
and he, their author, going about his daily tasks and pleasures, as hearty and as unrepining
as though no whisper of ambition had ever come to his soul,--as though he had no slightest
desire for the pleasant fame which a successful book gives to a young man. Think of it, O race
of scribblers, to whom a month in the printer's hands seems a monstrous delay, and who bore
publishers with half-finished manuscripts, as impatient hens begin, untimely, to cackle before
the egg is laid.

That a young man, not thirty-three when he died, should have written these volumes, so full
of life, so full of strange adventure, of wide reading, telling of such large and thorough
knowledge of books and men and Nature, is a remarkable fact in itself. That he should have
let the manuscripts lie in his desk has probably surprised the world more. But, much as he
wrote, Winthrop, perhaps, always felt that his true life was not that of the author, but of
the actor. He has often told me that it was a pleasure to write,--probably such a pleasure
as it is to an old tar to spin his yarns. His mind was active, stored with the accumulated
facts of a varied experience. How keen an observer of Nature he was, those who have read "John
Brent" or the "Canoe and Saddle" need not be told; how appreciative an observer of every-day
life, was shown in that brilliant story which appeared in these pages some eighteen months
ago, under the title of "Love and Skates." Our American life lost by his death one who, had
he lived, would have represented it, reported it to the world, soul and body together; for
he comprehended its spirit, as well as saw its outer husk; he was in sympathy with all its
manifestations.

That quick, intelligent eye saw everything; that kindly, sympathetic spirit comprehended always
the soul of things; and no life, however common, rugged, or coarse, was to him empty. If he
added always something of his own nobility of heart, if he did not pry out with prurient eyes
the meannesses of life around him, the picture he drew was none the less true,--was, indeed,
it seems to me, all the more true. Therefore I say that his early death was a loss to American
literature, or, to speak more accurately, to that too small part of our literature which concerns
itself with American life. To him the hard-featured Yankee had something besides hard features
and ungainly manners; he saw the better part as well as the grosser of the creature, and knew that

    "Poor lone Hannah,
    Sitting by the window, binding shoes,"

had somewhat besides coarse hands and red eyes. He was not tainted with the vicious habit of
caricature, which is the excuse with which superficial and heartless writers impose their false
art upon the public. Nor did he need that his heroes should wear kid gloves,--though he was
himself the neatest-gloved man I knew. "Armstrong of Oregon" was a rough figure enough; but
how well he knew how to bring out the kindly traits in that rude lumberman's character! how
true to Nature is that sketch of a gentleman in homespun! And even Jake Shamberlain, the Mormon
mail-carrier, a rollicking, untidy rover, fond of whiskey, and doubtless not too scrupulous
in a "trade," has yet, in Winthrop's story, qualities which draw us to him.

To sit down to "John Brent" after rending one of the popular novels of these days, by one of
the class of writers who imagine photography the noblest of arts, is like getting out of a
fashionable "party" into the crisp air of a clear, starlight, December night. And yet Winthrop
was a "society" man; one might almost say he knew that life better than the other, the freer,
the nobler, which he loved to describe, as he loved to live it.

A neat, active figure of a man, carefully dressed, as one who pays all proper honor to the
body in which he walks about; a gentleman, not only in the broader and more generous sense,
but also according to the narrower, conventional meaning of the term; plainly a scholarly man,
fond of books, and knowing the best books; with that modest, diffident air which bookish men
have; with a curious shyness, indeed, as of one who was not accustomed and did not like to
come into too close contact with the every-day world: such Theodore Winthrop appeared to me.
I recollect the surprise with which I heard--not from him--that he had ridden across the Plains,
had camped with Lieutenant Strain, had "roughed it" in the roughest parts of our continent.
But if you looked a little closely into the face, you saw in the fine lines of the mouth the
determination of a man who can bear to carry his body into any peril or difficulty; and in
the eye--he had the eye of a born sailor, an eye accustomed to measure the distance for a dangerous
leap, quick to comprehend all parts of a novel situation--you saw there presence of mind, unfaltering
readiness, and a spirit equal to anything the day might bring forth.

In the Memoir prefixed to "Cecil Dreeme" Curtis has drawn a portrait, tender and true, of his
friend and neighbor. The few words which have written themselves here tell of him only as he
appeared to one who knew him less intimately, who saw him not often.

I come now to speak of the writings which Winthrop left. These have the singular merit, that
they are all American. From first to last, they are plainly the work of a man who had no need
to go to Europe for characters or scenery or plot,--who valued and understood the peculiar
life and the peculiar Nature of this continent, and, like a true artist and poet, chose to
represent that life and Nature of which he was a part. His stories smack of the soil; his characters--especially
in "John Brent," where his own ride across the continent is dramatized--are as fresh and as
true as only a true artist could make them. Take, for instance, the "Pike," the border-ruffian
transplanted to a California "ranch,"--not a ruffian, as he says, but a barbarian.

"America is manufacturing several new types of men. The Pike is one of the newest. He is a
bastard pioneer. With one hand he clutches the pioneer vices; with the other he beckons forward
the vices of civilization. It is hard to understand how a man can have so little virtue in
so long a body, unless the shakes are foes to virtue in the soul, as they are to beauty in
the face.

"He is a terrible shock, this unlucky Pike, to the hope that the new race on the new continent
is to be a handsome race. I lose that faith, which the people about me now have nourished,
when I recall the Pike. He is hung together, not put together. He inserts his lank fathom of
a man into a suit of molasses-colored homespun. Frowzy and husky is the hair Nature crowns
him with; frowzy and stubby the beard. He shambles in his walk. He drawls in his talk. He drinks
whiskey by the tank. His oaths are to his words as Falstaff's sack to his bread. I have seen
Maltese beggars, Arab camel-drivers, Dominican friars, New-York aldermen, Digger Indians; the
foulest, frowziest creatures I have ever seen are thorough-bred Pikes."

This is not complimentary, but any one who has seen the creature knows that it is a portrait
done by a first-rate artist.

Take, again, that other vulgarer ruffian, "Jim Robinson," "a little man, stockish, oily, and
red in the face, a jaunty fellow, too, with a certain shabby air of coxcombry even in his travel-stained
attire,"--and how accurately does he describe the metamorphosis of this nauseous grub into
a still more disgusting butterfly!

"I can imagine him when he arrives at St. Louis, blossomed into a purple coat with velvet lappels,
a brocaded waistcoat, diamond shirt-studs, or a flamboyant scarf pinned with a pinchbeck dog,
and red-legged, patent-leather boots, picking his teeth on the steps of the Planters' House."

Or, once more, that more saintly villain, the Mormon Elder Sizzum.

"Presently Sizzum appeared. He had taken time to tone down the pioneer and develop the deacon
in his style, and a very sleek personage he had made of himself. He was clean shaved: clean
shaving is a favorite coxcombry of the deacon class. His long black hair, growing rank from
a muddy skin, was sleekly put behind his ears. A large white blossom of cravat expanded under
his nude, beefy chin, and he wore a black dress-coat, creased with its recent packing. Except
that his pantaloons were thrust into boots with the maker's name (Abel Gushing, Lynn, Mass.)
stamped in gold on a scarlet morocco shield in front, he was in correct go-to-meetin' costume,--a
Chadband of the Plains."

When you see one of these men, you will know him again. Winthrop has sketched these rascals
with a few touches, as felicitous as any of Dickens's, and they will bear his mark forever:
T.W. fecit.

As for Jake Shamberlain, with his odd mixture of many religious and irreligious dialects, what
there is of him is as good as Sam Weller or Mrs. Poyser.

"'Hillo, Shamberlain!' hailed Brent, riding up to the train.

"'Howdydo? Howdydo? No swap!' responded Jake, after the Indian fashion. 'Bung my eyes, ef you're
not the mate of all mates I'm glad to see! Pax vobiscrum, my filly! You look as fresh as an
Aperel shad. Praisèd be the Lord,' continued he, relapsing into Mormon slang, 'who has sent
thee again, like a brand from the burning, to fall into paths of pleasantness with the Saints,
as they wander from the Promised Land to the mean section where the low-lived Gentiles ripen
their souls for hell!'"

Or Jake's droll commentary on the story of Old Bridger, ousted from his fort, and robbed of
his goods, by the Saints, in the name of the Prophet Brigham.

"'It's olluz so,' says Jake; 'Paul plants, and Apollyon gets the increase. Not that Bridger's
like Paul, any more 'n we're like Apollyon; but we're goan to have all the cider off his apple-trees.'"

Or, again, Jake's compliments to "Armstrong of Oregon," that galloping Vigilant Committee of one.

"I'll help you, if I know how, Armstrong. I ha'n't seen no two in my life, Old Country or New
Country, Saints or Gentiles, as I'd do more for 'n you and your brother. I've olluz said, ef
the world was chock full of Armstrongs, Paradise wouldn't pay, and Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob
mout just as well blow out their candle and go under a bushel-basket,--unless a half-bushel
would kiver 'em."

But the true hero of the book is the horse Don Fulano. It is easy to see that Winthrop was
a first-rate horseman, from the loving manner in which he describes and dwells on the perfections
of the matchless stallion. None but one who knew every point of a horse, none but one of the
Centaur breed, could have drawn Don Fulano,--just as none but a born skater could have written
those inimitable skating-scenes in his story of "Love and Skates."

"He was an American horse,--so they distinguish in California one brought from the old States,--A
SUPERB YOUNG STALLION, PERFECTLY BLACK, WITHOUT MARK. It was magnificent to see him, as he
circled about me, fire in his eye, pride in his nostril, tail flying like a banner, power and
grace from tip to tip. No one would ever mount him, or ride him, unless it was his royal pleasure.
He was conscious of his representative position, and showed his paces handsomely."

This is the creature who takes the lead in that stirring and matchless "Gallop of Three" to
the Luggernel Spring, to quote from which would be to spoil it. It must be read entire.

In the "Canoe and Saddle" is recorded Winthrop's long ride across the continent. Setting out
in a canoe, from Port Townsend, in Vancouver's Island, he journeyed, without company of other
white men, to the Salt Lake City and thence to "the States,"--a tedious and barbarous experience,
heightened, in this account of it, by the traveller's cheery spirits, his ardent love of Nature,
and capacity to describe the grand natural scenery, of the effect of which upon himself he
says, at the end,--

"And in all that period, while I was so near to Nature, the great lessons of the wilderness
deepened into my heart day by day, the hedges of conventionalism withered away from my horizon,
and all the pedantries of scholastic thought perished out of my mind forever."

He bore hardships with the courage and imperturbable good-nature of a born gentleman. It is
when men are starving, when the plating of romance is worn off by the chafe of severe and continued
suffering,--it is then that "blood tells." Winthrop had evidently that keen relish for rough
life which the gently nurtured and highly cultivated man has oftener than his rude neighbor,
partly because, in his case, contrast lends a zest to the experience. Thus, when he camps with
a gang of "road-makers," in the farthest Western wilderness,--a part of Captain McClellan's
Pacific Railroad Expedition,--how thoroughly he enjoys the rough hospitality and rude wit of
these pioneers!

"In such a Platonic republic as this a man found his place according to his powers. The cooks
were no base scullions; they were brethren, whom conscious ability, sustained by universal
suffrage, had endowed with the frying-pan."

"My hosts were a stalwart gang.... Their talk was as muscular as their arms. When these laughed,
as only men fresh and hearty and in the open air can laugh, the world became mainly grotesque:
it seemed at once a comic thing to live,--a subject for chuckling, that we were bipeds, with
noses,--a thing to roar at, that we had all met there from the wide world, to hobnob by a frolicsome
fire with tin pots of coffee, and partake of crisped bacon and toasted dough-boys in ridiculous
abundance. Easy laughter infected the atmosphere. Echoes ceased to be pensive, and became jocose.
A rattling humor pervaded the forest, and Green River rippled with noise of fantastic jollity.
Civilization and its dilettante diners-out sneer when Clodpole at Dives's table doubles his
soup, knifes his fish, tilts his plate into his lap, puts muscle into the crushing of his méringue,
and tosses off the warm beaker in his finger-bowl. Camps by Tacoma sneer not at all, but candidly
roar, at parallel accidents. Gawky makes a cushion of his flapjack. Butterfingers drops his
red-hot rasher into his bosom, or lets slip his mug of coffee into his boot drying at the fire,--a
boot henceforth saccharine. A mule, slipping his halter, steps forward unnoticed, puts his
nose into the circle, and brays resonant. These are the jocular boons of life, and at these
the woodsmen guffaw with lusty good-nature. Coarse and rude the jokes may be, but not nasty,
like the innuendoes of pseudo-refined cockneys. If the woodsmen are guilty of uncleanly wit,
it differs from the uncleanly wit of cities as the mud of a road differs from the sticky slime
of slums.

"It is a stout sensation to meet masculine, muscular men at the brave point of a penetrating
Boston hooihut,--men who are mates,--men to whom technical culture means nought,--men to whom
myself am nought, unless I can saddle, lasso, cook, sing, and chop,--unless I am a man of nerve
and pluck, and a brother in generosity and heartiness. It is restoration to play at cudgels
of jocoseness with a circle of friendly roughs, not one of whom ever heard the word bore,--with
pioneers, who must think and act, and wrench their living from the closed hand of Nature."

And here is a dinner "in the open."

"Upon the carte du jour at Restaurant Sowee was written Grouse. 'How shall we have them?' said
I, cook and convive, to Loolowcan, marmiton and convive. 'One of these cocks of the mountain
shall be fried, since gridiron is not,' responded I to myself, after meditation; 'two shall
be spitted and roasted; and, as Azrael may not want us before breakfast to-morrow, the fourth
shall go upon the carte de déjeuner'.

"'O Pork! what a creature thou art!' continued I, in monologue, cutting neat slices of that
viand with my bowie-knife, and laying them fraternally, three in a bed, in the frying-pan.
'Blessed be Moses, who forbade thee to the Jews, whereby we, of freer dispensations, heirs
of all the ages, inherit also pigs more numerous and bacon cheaper! O Pork! what could campaigners
do without thy fatness, thy leanness, thy saltness, thy portableness?'

"Here Loolowcan presented me the three birds, plucked featherless as Plato's man. The two roasters
we planted carefully on spits before a sultry spot of the fire. From a horizontal stick, supported
on forked stakes, we suspended by a twig over each roaster an automatic baster, an inverted
cone of pork, ordained to yield its spicy juices to the wooing flame, and drip bedewing on
each bosom beneath. The roasters ripened deliberately, while keen and quick fire told upon
the frier, the first course of our feast. Meanwhile I brewed a pot of tea, blessing Confucius
for that restorative weed, as I had blessed Moses for his abstinence from porkers.

"Need I say that the grouse were admirable, that everything was delicious, and the Confucian
weed first chop? Even a scouse of mouldy biscuit met the approval of Loolowcan. Feasts cooked
under the greenwood tree, and eaten by their cooks after a triumphant day of progress, are
sweeter than the conventional banquets of languid Christendom."

"Life in the Open Air"--containing sketches of travel among the mountains and lakes of Maine,
as well as the story of "Love and Skates," which has been spoken of, "The March of the Seventh
Regiment," "Washington as a Camp," an essay descriptive of Church's great picture, "The Heart
of the Andes," and two fragments, one of them the charming commencement of a story which promised
to be one of his best and most enjoyable efforts in this direction--is the concluding volume
of Winthrop's collected writings. I speak of it in this place, because it is in some part a
companion-book to the volumes we have been discussing. It is as full of buoyant life, of fresh
and noble thought, of graceful wit and humor, as those; in parts it contains the most finished
of his literary work. Few Americans who read it at the time will ever forget that stirring
description of the march of the New-York Seventh; it is a piece of the history of our war which
will live and be read as long as Americans read their history. It moved my blood, in the reading,
tonight, as it did in those days--which seem already some centuries old, so do events crowd
the retrospect--when we were all reading it in the pages of the "Atlantic." In the unfinished
story of "Brightly's Orphan" there is a Jew boy from Chatham Street, an original of the first
water, who, though scarce fairly introduced, will, I am sure, make a place for himself and
for his author in the memories of all who relish humor of the best kind.

"Cecil Dreeme" and "Edwin Brothertoft" are quite other books than these we have spoken of.
Here Winthrop tried a different vein,--two different veins, perhaps. Both are stories of suffering
and crime, stories of the world and society. In one it is a woman, in the other a man, who
is wronged. One deals with New York city-life of the very present day; the other is a story
of the Revolutionary War, and of Tories and Patriots. The popular verdict has declared him
successful, even here. "Cecil Dreeme" has run through no less than fifteen editions.

In this story we are shown New York "society" as doubtless Winthrop knew it to be. Yet the
book has a curious air of the Old-World; it might be a story of Venice, almost. It tells us
of Old-World vices and crimes, and the fittings and furnishings are of a piece. The localities,
indeed, are sketched so faithfully, that a stranger to the city, coming suddenly, in his wanderings,
upon Chrysalis College Buildings, could not fail to recognize them at once,--as indeed happened
to a country friend of mine recently, to his great delight. But the men are Americans, bred
and formed--and for the most part spoiled--in Europe; Americans who have gone to Paris before
their time, if it be true, what a witty Bostonian said, that good Americans go to Paris when
they die. With all this, the book has a strange charm, so that it takes possession of you in
spite of yourself. It is as though it drew away the curtain, for one slight moment, from the
mysteries which "society" decorously hides,--as though he who drew the curtain stood beside
it, pointing with solemn finger and silent indignation to the baseness of which he gives you
a glimpse. Yet even here the good carries the day, and that in no maudlin way, but because
the true men are the better men.

These, then, are Winthrop's writings,--the literary works of a young man who died at thirty-two,
and who had spent a goodly part of his mature life in the saddle and the canoe, exploring his
own country, and in foreign travel. As we look at the volumes, we wonder how he found time
for so much; but when we have read, we wonder yet more at the excellence of all he wrote. In
all and through all shines his own noble spirit; and thus these books of his, whose printed
pages he never saw, will keep his memory green amongst us; for, through them, all who read
may know that there wrote a true gentleman.

Once he wrote,--

    "Let me not waste in skirmishes my power,
    In petty struggles. Rather in the hour
    Of deadly conflict may I nobly die,
    In my first battle perish gloriously."

Even so he fell; but in these written works, as in his gallant death, he left with us lessons
which will yet win battles for the good cause of American liberty, which he held dearest in
his heart.

       *       *       *       *       *

HILARY.

                 Hilary,
    Summer calls thee, o'er the sea!
      Like white flowers upon the tide,
      In and out the vessels glide;
      But no wind on all the main
      Sends thy blithe soul home again:
    Every salt breeze moans for thee,
                 Hilary!

                 Hilary,
    Welcome Summer's step will be,
      Save to those beside whose door
      Doleful birds sit evermore
      Singing, "Never comes he here
      Who made every season's cheer!"
    Dull the June that brings not thee,
                 Hilary!

                 Hilary,
    What strange world has sheltered thee?
      Here the soil beneath thy feet
      Rang with songs, and blossomed sweet;
      Blue skies ask thee yet of Earth,
      Blind and dumb without thy mirth:
    With thee went her heart of glee,
                 Hilary!

                 Hilary,
    All things shape a sigh for thee!
      O'er the waves, among the flowers,
      Through the lapse of odorous hours,
      Breathes a lonely, longing sound,
      As of something sought, unfound:
    Lorn are all things, lorn are we,
                 Hilary!

                 Hilary,
    Oh, to sail in quest of thee,
      To the trade-wind's steady tune,
      Past the hurrying monsoon,
      Into torrid seas, that lave
      Dry, hot sands,--a breathless grave,--
    Sad as vain the search would be,
                 Hilary!

                 Hilary,
    Chase the sorrow from the sea!
      Summer-heart, bring summer near,
      Warm, and fresh, and airy-clear!
      --Dead thou art not: dead is pain;
      Now Earth sees and sings again:
    Death, to hold thee, Life must be,
                 Hilary!

       *       *       *       *       *

DEBBY'S DÉBUT.

       *       *       *       *       *

WET-WEATHER WORK.

BY A FARMER.

III.

Will any of our artists ever give us, on canvas, a good, rattling, saucy shower? There is room
in it for a rare handling of the brush:--the vague, indistinguishable line of hills, (as I
see them to-day,)--the wild scud of gray, with fine gray lines, slanted by the wind, and trending
eagerly downward,--the swift, petulant dash into the little pools of the highway, making fairy
bubbles that break as soon as they form,--the land smoking with excess of moisture,--and the
pelted leaves all wincing and shining and adrip.

I know no painter who has so well succeeded in putting a wet sky into his pictures as Turner;
and in this I judge him by the literal chiaroscuro of engraving. In proof of it, I take down
from my shelf his "Rivers of France": a book over which I have spent a great many pleasant
hours, and idle ones too,--if it be idle to travel leagues at the turning of a page, and to
see hill-sides spotty with vineyards, and great bridges wallowing through the Loire, and to
watch the fishermen of Honfleur putting to sea. There are skies, as I said, in some of these
pictures which make a man instinctively think of his umbrella, or of his distance from home:
no actual rain-drift stretching from them, but such unmistakable promise of a rainy afternoon,
in their little parallel wisps of dark-bottomed clouds, as would make a provident farmer order
every scythe out of the field.

In the "Chair of Gargantua," on which my eye falls, as I turn over the pages, an actual thunder-storm
is breaking. The scene is somewhere upon the Lower Seine. From the middle of the left of the
picture the lofty river-bank stretches far across, forming all the background;--its extreme
distance hidden by a bold thrust of the right bank, which juts into the picture just far enough
to shelter a white village, which lies gleaming upon the edge of the water. On all the foreground
lies the river, broad as a bay. The storm is coming down the stream. Over the left spur of
the bank, and over the meeting of the banks, it broods black as night. Through a little rift
there is a glimpse of serene sky, from which a mellow light streams down upon the edges and
angles of a few cliffs upon the farther shore. All the rest is heavily shadowed. The edges
of the coming tempest are tortuous and convulsed, and you know that a fierce wind is driving
the black billows on; yet all the water under the lee of the shores is as tranquil as a dream;
a white sail, near to the white village, hangs slouchingly to the mast: but in the foreground
the tempest has already caught the water; a tall lugger is scudding and careening under it
as if mad; the crews of three fishermen's boats, that toss on the vexed water, are making a
confused rush to shorten sail, and you may almost fancy that you hear their outcries sweeping
down the wind. In the middle scene, a little steamer is floating tranquilly on water which
is yet calm; and a column of smoke piling up from its tall chimney rises for a space placidly
enough, until the wind catches and whisks it before the storm. I would wager ten to one, upon
the mere proof in the picture, that the fishermen and the washerwomen in the foreground will
be drenched within an hour.

When I have once opened the covers of Turner,--especially upon such a wet day as this,--it
is hard for me to leave him until I have wandered all up and down the Loire, revisited Tours
and its quiet cathedral, and Blois with its stately chateau, and Amboise with its statelier,
and coquetted again with memories of the Maid of Orléans.

From the Upper Loire it is easy to slip into the branching valleys which sidle away from it
far down into the country of the Auvergne. Turner does not go there, indeed; the more's the
pity; but I do, since it is the most attractive region rurally (Brittany perhaps excepted)
in all France. The valleys are green, the brooks are frequent, the rivers are tortuous, the
mountains are high, and luxuriant walnut-trees embower the roads. It was near to Moulins, on
the way hither, through the pleasant Bourbonnois, that Tristram Shandy met with the poor, half-crazed
Maria, piping her evening service to the Virgin.

And at that thought I must do no less than pull down my "Tristram Shandy," (on which the dust
of years has accumulated,) and read again that tender story of the lorn maiden, with her attendant
goat, and her hair caught up in a silken fillet, and her shepherd's pipe, from which she pours
out a low, plaintive wail upon the evening air.

It is not a little singular that a British author should have supplied the only Arcadian resident
of all this Arcadian region. The Abbé Delille was, indeed, born hereabout, within sight of
the bold Puy de Dome, and within marketing-distance of the beautiful Clermont. But there is
very little that is Arcadian, in freshness or simplicity, in either the "Gardens" or the other
verse of Delille.

Out of his own mouth (the little green-backed book, my boy) I will condemn him:--

    "Ce n'est plus cette simple et rustique déesse
    Qui suit ses vieilles lois; c'est une enchanteresse
    Qui, la baguette en main, par des hardis travaux
    Fait naître des aspects et des trésors nouveaux,
    Compose un sol plus riche et des races plus belles,
    Fertilise les monts, dompte les rocs rebelles."

The baguette of Delille is no shepherd's crook; it has more the fashion of a drumstick,--baguette
de tambour.

If I follow on southward to Provence, whither I am borne upon the scuds of rain over Turner's
pictures, and the pretty Bourbonnois, and the green mountains of Auvergne, I find all the characteristic
literature of that land of olives is only of love or war: the vines, the olive-orchards, and
the yellow hill-sides pass for nothing. And if I read an old Sirvente of the Troubadours, beginning
with a certain redolence of the fields, all this yields presently to knights, and steeds caparisoned,--

    "Cavalliers ab cavals armatz."

It is smooth reading, and is attributed to Bertrand de Born,[3] who lived in the time when
even the lion-hearted King Richard turned his brawny fingers to the luting of a song.

[Footnote 3: M. Raynouard, Poésies de Troubadours, II. 209.]

But as the Troubadour nestles more warmly into the rhythm of his verse, the birds are all forgotten,
and the beautiful spring, and there is a sturdy clang of battle, that would not discredit our
own times:--

    "I tell you that nothing my soul can cheer,
      Or banqueting or reposing,
    Like the onset cry of 'Charge them!' rung
      From each side, as in battle closing;
        Where the horses neigh,
    And the call to 'aid' is echoing loud,
    And there, on the earth, the lowly and proud
        In the foss together lie,
    And yonder is piled the mingled heap
    Of the brave that scaled the trenches steep.

    "Barons! your castles in safety place,
      Your cities and villages, too,
    Before ye haste to the battle-scene:
      And Papiol! quickly go,
    And tell the lord of 'Yes and No'
    That peace already too long hath been!"[4]

[Footnote 4: I cannot forbear taking a bit of margin to print the closing stanzas of the original,
which carry the clash of sabres in their very sound.

    "Ie us dic que tan no m' a sabor
      Manjars ni beure ni dormir
    Cum a quant aug cridar: A lor!
      D'ambas las partz; et aug agnir
        Cavals voitz per l'ombratge,
    Et aug cridar: Aidatz! Aidatz!
    E vei cazer per los fossatz
        Paucs e grans per l'erbatge,
    E vei los mortz que pels costatz
    An los tronsons outre passatz.

      "Baros, metetz et gatge
      Castels e vilas e ciutatz,
      Enans q' usquecs no us guerreiatz.

      "Papiol, d'agradatge
      Ad Oc e No t' en vai viatz,
      Dic li que trop estan en patz."

It would seem that the men of that time, like men of most times, bore a considerable contempt
for people who said "Yes" one day, and "No" the next.]

I am on my way to Italy, (it may as well be confessed,) where I had fully intended to open
my rainy day's work; but Turner has kept me, and then Auvergne, and then the brisk battle-song
of a Troubadour.

When I was upon the Cajano farm of Lorenzo the Magnificent, during my last "spell of wet,"
it was uncourteous not to refer to the pleasant commemorative poem of "Ambra," which Lorenzo
himself wrote, and which, whatever may be said against the conception and conduct of it, shows
in its opening stanzas that the great Medici was as appreciative of rural images--fir-boughs
with loaded snows, thick cypresses in which late birds lurked, sharp-leaved junipers, and sturdy
pines fighting the wind--as ever he had been of antique jewels, or of the rhythm of such as
Politiano. And if I have spoken slightingly of this latter poet, it was only in contrast with
Virgil, and in view of his strained Latinity. When he is himself, and wraps his fancies only
in his own sparkling Tuscan, we forget his classic frigidities, and his quarrels with Madonna
Clarice, and are willing to confess that no pen of his time was dipped with such a relishing
gusto into the colors of the hyacinths and trembling pansies, and into all the blandishments
of a gushing and wanton spring.[5]

[Footnote 5: See Wm. Parr Greswell's Memoirs of Politiano, with translations.]

But classical affectation was the fashion of that day. A certain Bolognese noble, Berò by name,
wrote ten Latin books on rural affairs: Tiraboschi says he never saw them; neither have I.
Another scholar, Pietro da Barga, who astonished his teachers by his wonderful proficiency
at the age of twelve, and who was afterward guest of the French ambassador in Venice, wrote
a poem on rural matters, to which, with an exaggerated classicism, he gave the Greek name of
"Cynegeticon"; and about the same time Giuseppe Voltolina composed three books on kitchen-gardening.
I name these writers only out of sympathy with their topics: I would not advise the reading
of them: it would involve a long journey and scrupulous search to find them, through I know
not what out-of-the-way libraries; and if found, no essentially new facts or theories could
be counted on which are not covered by the treatise of Crescenzi. The Pisans or Venetians may
possibly have introduced a few new plants from the East; the example of the Medici may have
suggested some improvements in the arrangement of forcing-houses, or the outlay of villas;
but in all that regarded general husbandry, Crescenzi was still the man.

I linger about this period, and the writers of this time, because I snuff here and there among
them the perfume of a country bouquet, which carries the odor of the fields with it, and transports
me to the "empurpled hill-sides" of Tuscany. Shall I name Sannazaro, with his "Arcadia"?--a
dead book now,--or "Amyntas," who, before he is tall enough to steal apples from the lowest
boughs, (so sings Tasso,) plunges head and ears in love with Sylvia, the fine daughter of Montano,
who has a store of cattle, "richissimo d'armenti"?

Then there is Rucellai, who, under the pontificate of Leo X., came to be Governor of the Castle
of Sant' Angelo, and yet has left a poem of fifteen hundred lines devoted to Bees. In his suggestions
for the allaying of a civil war among these winged people, he is quite beyond either Virgil
or Columella or Mr. Lincoln. "Pluck some leafy branch," he says, "and with it sprinkle the
contending factions with either honey or sweet grape-juice, and you shall see them instantly
forego their strife":--

            "The two warring bands joyful unite,
    And foe embraces foe: each with its lips
    Licking the others' wings, feet, arms, and breast,
    Whereon the luscious mixture hath been shed,
    And all inebriate with delight."

So the Swiss,[6] he continues, when they fall out among themselves, are appeased by some grave
old gentleman, who says a few pleasant words, and orders up a good stoop of sweet wine, in
which all parties presently dip their beards, and laugh and embrace and make peace, and so
forget outrage. It may have been the sixteenth-century way of closing a battle.

[Footnote 6:
    "Come quando nei Suizzeri si muove
    Sedizione, e che si grida a l' arme;
    Se qualche nom grave allor si leva in piede
    E comincia a parlar con dolce lingua,
    Mitiga i petti barbari e feroci;
    E intanto fa portare ondanti vasi
    Pieni di dolci ed odorati vini;
    Ahora ognun le labbra e 'l mento immerge
    Ne' le spumanti tazze," etc.
]

Guarini, with all his affectations, has little prettinesses which charm like the chirping of
a bird;--as where he paints (in the very first scene of the "Pastor Fido") the little sparrow
flitting from fir to beech, and from beech to myrtle, and twittering, "How I love! how I love!"
And the bird-mate ("il suo dolce desio") twitters in reply, "How I love, how I love, too!"
"Ardo d' amore anch' io."

Messer Pietro Bembo was a different man from Guarini. I cannot imagine him listening to the
sparrows; I cannot imagine him plucking a flower,--except he have some courtly gallantry in
hand, perhaps toward the Borgia. He was one of those pompous, stiff, scholastic prigs who wrote
by rules of syntax; and of syntax he is dead. He was clever and learned; he wrote in Latin,
Italian, Castlian: but nobody reads him; he has only a little crypt in the "Autori Diversi."
I think of him as I think of fine women who must always rustle in brocade embossed with hard
jewels, and who never win the triumphs that belong to a charming morning déshabillé with only
the added improvisation of a rose.

In his "Asolani" Bembo gives a very full and minute description of the gardens at Asolo, which
relieved the royal retirement of Caterina, the Queen of Cyprus. Nothing could be more admirable
than the situation: there were skirts of mountain which were covered, and are still covered,
with oaks; there were grottos in the sides of cliffs, and water so disposed--in jets, in pools
inclosed by marble, and among rocks--as to counterfeit all the wildness of Nature; there was
the same stately array of cypresses, and of clipped hedges, which had belonged to the villas
of Pliny; temples were decorated with blazing frescoes, to which, I dare say, Carpaccio may
have lent a hand, if not that wild rake, Giorgione. Here the pretty Queen, with eight thousand
gold ducats a year, (whatever that amount may have been,) and some seventy odd retainers, held
her court; and here Bembo, a dashing young fellow at that time of seven or eight and twenty,
became a party to those disquisitions on Love, and to those recitations of song, part of which
he has recorded in the "Asolani." I am sorry to say, the beauty of the place, so far as regards
its artificial features, is now all gone. The hall, which may have served as the presence-chamber
of the Queen, was only a few years since doing service as a farmer's barn; and the traces of
a Diana and an Apollo were still coloring the wall under which a few cows were crunching their
clover-hay.

All the gardening of Italy at that period, as, indeed, at almost all times, depended very much
upon architectural accessories: colonnades and wall-veil with frescoes make a large part of
Italian gardening to this day. The Isola Bella in the Lago Maggiore, and the Borghese Garden
at Rome, are fair types. And as I recall the sunny vistas of this last, and the noontide loungings
upon the marble seats, counting white flecks of statues amid the green of cypresses, and watching
the shadow which some dense-topped pine flings upon a marble flight of steps or a marble balustrade,
I cannot sneer at the Italian gardening, or wish it were other than it is. The art-life of
Italy is the crowning and the overlapping life. The Campagna seems only a bit of foreground
to carry the leaping arches of the aqueducts, and to throw the hills of Tivoli and Albano to
a purple distance. The farmers (fattori) who gallop across the fields, in rough sheepskin wrappers,
and upon scurvy-looking ponies, are more picturesque than thrifty; and if I gallop in company
with one of them to his home upon the farther edge of the Campagna, (which is an allowable
wet-day fancy,) I shall find a tall stone house smeared over roughly with plaster, and its
ground-floor devoted to a crazy cart, a pony, a brace of cows, and a few goats; a rude court
is walled in adjoining the house, where a few pigs are grunting. Ascending an oaken stair-way
within the door, I come upon the living-room of the fattore; the beams overhead are begrimed
with smoke, and garnished here and there with flitches of bacon; a scant fire of fagots is
struggling into blaze upon an open hearth; and on a low table bare of either cloth or cleanliness,
there waits him his supper of polenta, which is nothing more or less than our plain boiled
Indian-pudding. Add to this a red-eyed dog, that seems to be a savage representative of a Scotch
colley,--a lean, wrinkled, dark-faced woman, who is unwinding the bandages from a squalling
Bambino,--a mixed odor of garlic and of goats, that is quickened with an ammoniacal pungency,--and
you may form some idea of the home of a small Roman farmer in our day. It falls away from the
standard of Cato; and so does the man.

He takes his twenty or thirty acres, upon shares, from some wealthy proprietor of Rome, whose
estate may possibly cover a square mile or two of territory. He sells vegetables, poultry,
a little grain, a few curds, and possibly a butt or two of sour wine. He is a type of a great
many who lived within the limits of the old Papal territory; whether he and they have dropped
their musty sheepskins and shaken off their unthrift under the new government, I cannot say.

Around Bologna, indeed, there was a better race of farmers: the intervening thrift of Tuscany
had always its influence. The meadows of Terni, too, which are watered by the Velino, bear
three full crops of grass in the season; the valley of the Clitumnus is like a miniature of
the Genesee; and around Perugia the crimson-tasselled clovers, in the season of their bloom,
give to the fields the beauty of a garden.

The old Duke of Tuscany, before he became soured by his political mishaps, was a great patron
of agricultural improvements. He had princely farms in the neighborhood both of his capital
and of Pisa. Of the latter I cannot speak from personal observation; but the dairy-farm, Cascina,
near to Florence, can hardly have been much inferior to the Cajano property of the great Lorenzo.
The stables were admirably arranged, and of permanent character; the neatness was equal to
that of the dairies of Holland. The Swiss cows, of a pretty dun-color, were kept stalled, and
luxuriously fed upon freshly cut ray-grass, clover, or vetches, with an occasional sprinkling
of meal; the calves were invariably reared by hand; and the average per diem of milk, throughout
the season, was stated at fourteen quarts; and I think Madonna Clarice never strained more
than this into the cheese-tubs of Ambra. I trust the burghers of Florence, and the new Gonfaloniere,
whoever he may be, will not forget the dun cows of the Cascina, or their baitings with the
tender vetches.

The redemption of the waste marshlands in the Val di Chiana by the engineering skill of Fossombroni,
and the consequent restoration of many thousands of acres which seemed hopelessly lost to fertility,
is a result of which the Medici would hardly have dreamed, and which would do credit to any
age or country.

About the better-cultivated portions of Lombardy there is an almost regal look. The roads are
straight, and of most admirable construction. Lines of trees lift their stateliness on either
side, and carry trailing festoons of vines. On both sides streams of water are flowing in artificial
canals, interrupted here and there by cross sluices and gates, by means of which any or all
of the fields can be laid under water at pleasure, so that old meadows return three and four
cuttings of grass in the year. There are patches of Indian-corn which are equal to any that
can be seen on the Miami; hemp and flax appear at intervals, and upon the lower lands rice.
The barns are huge in size, and are raised from the ground upon columns of masonry.

I have a dapper little note-book of travel, from which these facts are mainly taken; and at
the head of one of its pages I observe an old ink-sketch of a few trees, with festoons of vines
between. It is yellowed now, and poor always; for I am but a dabbler at such things. Yet it
brings back, clearly and briskly, the broad stretch of Lombard meadows, the smooth Macadam,
the gleaming canals of water, the white finials of Milan Cathedral shining somewhere in the
distance, the thrushes, as in the "Pastor Fido," filling all the morning air with their sweet

    "Ardo d' amore! ardo d' amore!"

the dewy clover-lots, looking like wavy silken plush, the green glitter of mulberry-leaves,
and the beggar in steeple-crowned hat, who says, "Grazia," and "Á rivedervi!" as I drop him
a few kreutzers, and rattle away to the North, and out of Italy.

       *       *       *       *       *

About the year 1570, a certain Conrad Heresbach, who was Councillor to the Duke of Cleves,
(brother to that unfortunate Anne of Cleves who was one of the wife-victims of Henry VIII.,)
wrote four Latin books on rustic affairs, which were translated by Barnaby Googe, a Lincolnshire
farmer and poet, who was in his day gentleman-pensioner to Queen Elizabeth.

The work is written in the form of a dialogue, the parties being Cono, a country-gentleman,
Metella, his wife, Rigo, a courtier, and Hermes, a servant. The first book relates to tillage,
and farm-practice in general; the second, to orcharding, gardens, and woods; the third, to
cattle; and the fourth, to fowl, fish, and bees. He had evidently been an attentive reader
of the older authors I have discussed, and his citations from them are abundant. He had also
opportunity for every-day observation in a region which, besides being one of the most fertile,
was probably at that time the most highly cultivated in Europe; and his work may be regarded
as the most important contribution to agricultural literature since the days of Crescenzi.
He reaffirms, indeed, many of the old fables of the Latinists,--respects the force of proper
incantations, has abiding faith in "the moon being aloft" in time of sowing, and insists that
the medlar can be grafted on the pine, and the cherry upon the fir. Rue, he tells us, "will
prosper the better for being stolen"; and "If you breake to powder the horne of a Ram & sowe
it watrying it well, it is thought it will come to be good Sperage" (Asparagus). He assures
us that he has grafted the pear successfully when in full bloom; and furthermore, that he has
seen apples which have been kept sound for three years.

Upon the last page are some rules for purchasing land, which I suspect are to be attributed
to the poet of Lincolnshire, rather than to Heresbach. They are as good as they were then;
and the poetry none the worse:--

    "First see that the land be clear
    In title of the seller;
    And that it stand in danger
    Of no woman's dowrie;
    See whether the tenure be bond or free,
    And release of every fee of fee;
    See that the seller be of age,
    And that it lie not in mortgage;
    Whether ataile be thereof found,
    And whether it stand in statute bound;
    Consider what service longeth thereto,
    And what quit rent thereout must goe;
    And if it become of a wedded woman,
    Think thou then on covert baron;
    And if thou may in any wise,
    Make thy charter in warrantise,
    To thee, thine heyres, assignes also;
    Thus should a wise purchaser doe."

The learned Lipsius was a contemporary of Councillor Heresbach, and although his orthodoxy
was somewhat questionable, and his Calvinism somewhat stretchy, there can be no doubt of the
honest rural love which belongs to some of his letters, and especially to this smack of verse
(I dare not say poetry) with which he closes his Eighth (Cent. I.)

    "Vitam si liceat mihi
    Formare arbitriis meis:
    Non fasces cupiam aut opes,
    Non clarus niveis equis
    Captiva agmina traxerim.
      In solis habitem locis,
    Hortos possideam atque agros,
    Illic ad strepitus aquæ
    Musarum studiis fruar.
      Sic cum fata mihi ultima
    Pernerit Lachesis mea;
    Tranquillus moriar senex."

And with this I will have done with a dead language; for I am come to a period now when I can
garnish my talk with the flowers of good old English gardens. At the very thought of them,
I seem to hear the royal captive James pouring madrigals through the window of his Windsor
prison,--

    "the hymnis consecrat
    Of lovis use, now soft, now loud among,
    That all the gardens and the wallis rung."

And through the "Dreme" of Chaucer I seem to see the great plain of Woodstock stretching away
under my view, all white and green, "green y-powdered with daisy." Upon the half-ploughed land,
lying yonder veiled so tenderly with the mist and the rain, I could take oath to the very spot
where five hundred years ago the plowman of Chaucer, all "forswat,"

    "plucked up his plowe
    Whan midsomer mone was comen in
    And shoke off shear, and coulter off drowe,
    And honged his harnis on a pinne,
    And said his beasts should ete enowe
    And lie in grasse up to the chin."

But Chaucer was no farmer, or he would have known it to be bad husbandry (even for poetry)
to allow cattle steaming from the plough to lie down in grass of that height.

       *       *       *       *       *

Sir Anthony Fitz-herbert is the first duly accredited writer on British husbandry. There are
some few earlier ones, it is true,--a certain "Mayster Groshede, Bysshop of Lyncoln," and a
Henri Calcoensis, among them. Indeed, Mr. Donaldson, who has compiled a bibliography of British
farm-writers, and who once threatened a poem on kindred subjects, has the effrontery to include
Lord Littleton. Now I have a respect for Lord Littleton, and for Coke on Littleton, but it
is tempered with some early experiences in a lawyer's office, and some later experiences of
the legal profession; he may have written well upon "Tenures," but he had not enough of tenderness
even for a teasel.

I think it worthy of remark, in view of the mixed complexion which I have given to these wet-day
studies, that the oldest printed copy of that sweet ballad of the "Nut Browne Mayde" has come
to us in a Chronicle of 1503, which contains also a chapter upon "the crafte of graffynge &
plantynge & alterynge of fruyts." What could be happier than the conjunction of the knight
of "the grenwode tree" with a good chapter on "graffynge"?

Fitz-herbert's work is entitled a "Boke of Husbandrie," and counts, among other headings of
discourse, the following:--

"Whether is better a plough of horses or a plough of oxen."

"To cary out dounge & mucke, & to spreade it."

"The fyrste furryng of the falowes."

"To make a ewe to love hir lambe."

"To bye lean cattel."

"A shorte information for a young gentyleman that entendeth to thryve."

"What the wyfe oughte to dooe generally."

(seq.) "To kepe measure in spendynge."

"What be God's commandments."

By all which it may be seen that Sir Anthony took as broad a view of husbandry as did Xenophon.

Among other advices to the "young gentyleman that entendeth to thryve" he counsels him to rise
betime in the morning, and if "he fynde any horses, mares, swyne, shepe, beastes in his pastures
that be not his own; or fynde a gap in his hedge, or any water standynge in his pasture uppon
his grasse, whereby he may take double herte, bothe losse of his grasse, & rotting of his shepe,
& calves; or if he fyndeth or seeth anything that is amisse, & wold be amended, let him take
out his tables & wryte the defautes; & when he commeth home to dinner, supper, or at nyght,
then let him call his bayley, & soo shewe him the defautes. For this," says he, "used I to
doo x or xi yeres or more; & yf he cannot wryte, lette him nycke the defautes uppon a stycke."

Sir Anthony is gracious to the wife, but he is not tender; and it may be encouraging to country-housewives
nowadays to see what service was expected of their mothers in the days of Henry VIII.

"It is a wives occupacion to winow al maner of cornes, to make malte, wash & wring, to make
hey, to shere corne, & in time of neede to helpe her husbande to fyll the mucke wayne or donge
carte, dryve the plough, to lode hay corne & such other. Also to go or ride to the market to
sell butter, chese, mylke, egges, chekens, kapons, hennes, pygges, gees & al maner of corne.
And also to bye al maner of necessary thinges belonging to a household, & to make a true rekening
& accompt to her husband what she hath receyved & what she hathe payed. And yf the husband
go to market to bye or sell as they ofte do, he then to shew his wife in lyke maner. For if
one of them should use to disceive the other, he disceyveth himselfe, & he is not lyke to thryve,
& therfore they must be true ether to other."

       *       *       *       *       *

I come next to Master Tusser,--poet, farmer, chorister, vagabond, happily dead at last, and
with a tomb whereon some wag wrote this:--

    "Tusser, they tell me, when thou wert alive,
    Thou teaching thrift, thyself could never thrive;
    So, like the whetstone, many men are wont
    To sharpen others when themselves are blunt."

I cannot help considering poor Tusser's example one of warning to all poetically inclined farmers.

He was born at a little village in the County of Essex. Having a good voice, he came early
in life to be installed as singer at Wallingford College; and showing here a great proficiency,
he was shortly after impressed for the choir of St. Paul's Cathedral. Afterward he was for
some time at Eton, where he had the ill-luck to receive some fifty-four stripes for his shortcomings
in Latin; thence he goes to Trinity College, Cambridge, where he lives "in clover." Thence
he goes to Ipswich, or its neighborhood, with no better experience. Afterward we hear of him
with a second wife at Dereham Abbey; but his wife is young and sharp-tempered, and his landlord
a screw: so he does not thrive here, but goes to Norwich and commences chorister again; but
presently takes another farm in Fairstead, Essex, where it would seem he eked out a support
by collecting tithes for the parson. But he says,--

           "I spyed, if parson died,
    (All hope in vain,) to hope for gain
            I might go dance."

Possibly he did go dance: he certainly left the tithe-business, and after settling in one more
home, from which he ran to escape the plague, we find him returned to London, to die,--where
he was buried in the Poultry.

There are good points in his poem, showing close observation, good sense, and excellent judgment.
His rules of farm-practice are entirely safe and judicious, and make one wonder how the man
who could give such capital advice could make so capital a failure. In the secret lies all
the philosophy of the difference between knowledge and practice. The instance is not without
its modern support: I have the honor of acquaintance with several gentlemen who lay down charming
rules for successful husbandry, every time they pay the country a visit; and yet even their
poultry-account is always largely against the constipated hens.

What is specially remarkable about Tusser is his air of entire resignation amid all manner
of vicissitudes: he does not seem to count his hardships either wonderful or intolerable or
unmerited. He tells us of the thrashing he had at Eton, (fifty-four licks,) without greatly
impugning the head-master; and his shiftlessness in life makes us strongly suspect that he
deserved it all.

Fuller, in his "Worthies," says Tusser "spread his bread with all sorts of butter, yet none
would stick thereon." In short, though the poet wrote well on farm-practice, he certainly was
not a good exemplar of farm-successes. With all his excellent notions about sowing and reaping,
and rising with the lark, I should look for a little more of stirring mettle and of dogged
resolution in a man to be recommended as a tenant.

       *       *       *       *       *

I now come to Sir Hugh Platt, called by Mr. Weston, in his catalogue of English authors, "the
most ingenious husbandman of his age."[7] He is elsewhere described as a gentleman of Lincoln's
Inn, who had two estates in the country, besides a garden in St. Martin's Lane. He was an enthusiast
in agricultural, as well as horticultural inquiries, corresponding largely with leading farmers,
and conducting careful experiments within his own grounds.

[Footnote 7: Latter part of sixteenth century; and was living, according to Johnson, as late
as 1606.]

I must confess to more doubt of the goodness of the wine than of the speech of the ambassador;
French ambassadors are always so complaisant!

Again he indulges us in the story of a pretty conceit whereby that "delicate Knight," Sir Francis
Carew, proposed to astonish the Queen by a sight of a cherry-tree in full bearing, a month
after the fruit had gone by in England. "This secret he performed, by straining a Tent or couer
of canuass ouer the whole tree, and wetting the same now and then with a scoope or horne, as
the heat of the weather required: and so, by witholding the sunne beams from reflecting upon
the berries, they grew both great, and were very long before they had gotten their perfect
cherrie-colour: and when he was assured of her Majestie's comming, he remoued the Tent, and
a few sunny daies brought them to their full maturities."

These notices are to be found in his "Flores Paradise." Another work, entitled "Dyuers Soyles
for manuring pasture & arable land," enumerates, in addition to the usual odorous galaxy, such
extraordinarily new matters (in that day) as "salt, street-dirt, clay, Fullers earth, moorish
earth, fern, hair, calcination of all vegetables, malt dust, soap-boilers ashes, and marle."
But what I think particularly commends him to notice, and makes him worthy to be enrolled among
the pioneers, is his little tract upon "The Setting of Corne."[8]

[Footnote 8: This is not mentioned either by Felton in his Portraits, etc., or by Johnson in
his History of Gardening. Donaldson gives the title, and the headings of the chapters.]

In this he anticipates the system of "dibbling" grain, which, notwithstanding, is spoken of
by writers within half a century[9] as a new thing; and which, it is needless to say, still
prevails extensively in many parts of England. If the tract alluded to be indeed the work of
Sir Hugh Platt, it antedates very many of the suggestions and improvements which are usually
accorded to Tull. The latter, indeed, proposed the drill, and repeated tillage; but certain
advantages, before unconsidered, such as increased tillering of individual plants, economy
of seed, and facility of culture, are common to both systems. Sir Hugh, in consecutive chapters,
shows how the discovery came about; "why the corne shootes into so many eares"; how the ground
is to be dug for the new practice; and what are the several instruments for making the holes
and covering the grain.

[Footnote 9: See Young, Annals of Agriculture, Vol.

       *       *       *       *       *

Gervase Markham must have been a roistering gallant about the time that Sir Hugh was conducting
his experiments on "Soyles"; for, in 1591, he had the honor to be dangerously wounded in a
duel which he fought in behalf of the Countess of Shrewsbury; there are also some painful rumors
current (in old books) in regard to his habits in early life, which weaken somewhat our trust
in him as a quiet country counsellor. I suspect, that, up to mature life, at any rate, he knew
much more about the sparring of a game-cock than the making of capons. Yet he wrote books upon
the proper care of beasts and fowls, as well as upon almost every subject connected with husbandry.
And that these were good books, or at least in large demand, we have in evidence the memorandum
of a promise which some griping bookseller extorted from him, under date of July, 1617:--

"I, Gervase Markham, of London, Gent, do promise hereafter never to write any more book or
books to be printed of the diseases or cures of any cattle, as horse, oxe, cowe, sheepe, swine
and goates, &c. In witness whereof, I have hereunto sett my hand, the 24th day of Julie.

"GERVIS MARKHAM."

He seems to have been a man of some literary accomplishments, and one who knew how to turn
them to account. He translated the "Maison Rustique" of Liebault, and had some hand in the
concoction of one or two poems which kindled the ire of the Puritan clergy. There is no doubt
but he was an adroit bookmaker; and the value of his labors, in respect to practical husbandry,
was due chiefly to his art of arranging, compacting, and illustrating the maxims and practices
already received. His observations upon diseases of cattle and upon horsemanship were doubtless
based on experimental knowledge; for he was a rare and ardent sportsman, and possessed all
a sportsman's keenness in the detection of infirmities.

I suspect, moreover, that there were substantial grounds for that acquaintance with gastronomy
shown in the "Country Housewife." In this book, after discoursing upon cookery and great feasts,
he gives the details of a "humble feast of a proportion which any good man may keep in his family."

This is what Master Gervase calls a frugal dinner, for the entertainment of a worthy friend;
is it any wonder that he wrote about "Country Contentments"?

       *       *       *       *       *

My chapter is nearly full; and a burst of sunshine is flaming over all the land under my eye;
and yet I am but just entered upon the period of English literary history which is most rich
in rural illustration. The mere backs of the books relating thereto, as my glance ranges over
them, where they stand in tidy platoon, start a delightfully confused picture to my mind.

I think it possible that Sir Hugh Platt may some day entertain at his Bednall-Greene garden
the worshipful Francis Bacon, who is living down at Twickenham, and who is a thriving lawyer,
and has written essays, which Sir Hugh must know,--in which he discourses shrewdly upon gardens,
as well as many kindred matters; and through his wide correspondence, Sir Hugh must probably
have heard of certain new herbs which have been brought home from Virginia and the Roanoke,
and very possibly he is making trial of a tobacco-plant in his garden, to be submitted some
day to his friend, the French Ambassador.

I can fancy Gervase Markham "making a night of it" with those rollicking bachelors, Beaumont
and Fletcher, at the "Mermaid," or going with them to the Globe Theatre to see two Warwickshire
brothers, Edmund and Will Shakspeare, who are on the boards there,--the latter taking the part
of Old Knowell, in Ben Jonson's play of "Every Man in his Humour." His friends say that this
Will has parts.

Then there is the fiery and dashing Sir Philip Sidney, who threatened to thrust a dagger into
the heart of poor Molyneux, his father's steward, for opening private letters (which poor Molyneux
never did); and Sir Philip knows all about poetry and the ancients; and in virtue of his knowledges,
he writes a terribly magniloquent and tedious "Arcadia," which, when he comes to die gallantly
in battle, is admired and read everywhere: nowadays it rests mostly on the shelf. But the memory
of his generous and noble spirit is far livelier than his book. It was through him, and his
friendship, probably, that the poet Spenser was gifted by the Queen with a fine farm of three
thousand acres among the Bally-Howra hills of Ireland.

And it was here that Sir Walter Raleigh, that "shepherd of the sea," visited the poet, and
found him seated

                    "amongst the coolly shade
    Of the green alders, by the Mulla's shore."

Did the gallant privateer possibly talk with the farmer about the introduction of that new
esculent, the potato? Did they talk tobacco? Did Colin Clout have any observations to make
upon the rot in sheep, or upon the probable "clip" of the year?

Nothing of this; but

    "He pip'd, I sung; and when he sung, I pip'd:
    By chaunge of tunes each making other merry."

The lines would make a fair argument of the poet's bucolic life. I have a strong faith that
his farming was of the higgledy-piggledy order; I do not believe that he could have set a plough
into the sod, or have made a good "cast" of barley. It is certain, that, when the Tyrone rebels
burned him out of Kilcolman Castle, he took no treasure with him but his Elizabeth and the
two babes; and the only treasures he left were the ashes of the dear child whose face shone
on him there for the last time,--

          "bright with many a curl
    That clustered round her head."

I wish I could love his "Shepherd's Calendar"; but I cannot. Abounding art of language, exquisite
fancies, delicacies innumerable there may be; but there is no exhilarating air from the mountains,
no crisp breezes, no songs that make the welkin ring, no river that champs the bit, no sky-piercing
falcon.

And as for the "Faëry Queene," if I must confess it, I can never read far without a sense of
suffocation from the affluence of its beauties. It is a marvellously fair sea and broad,--with
tender winds blowing over it, and all the ripples are iris-hued; but you long for some brave
blast that shall scoop great hollows in it, and shake out the briny beads from its lifted waters,
and drive wild scuds of spray among the screaming curlew.

In short, I can never read far in Spenser without taking a rest--as we farmers lean upon our
spades, when the digging is in unctuous fat soil that lifts heavily.

And so I leave the matter,--with the "Faëry Queene" in my thought, and leaning on my spade.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE GEOLOGICAL MIDDLE AGE.

I shall pass lightly over the Permian and Triassic epochs, as being more nearly related in
their organic forms to the Carboniferous epoch, with which we are already somewhat familiar,
while in those next in succession, the Jurassic and Cretaceous epochs, the later conditions
of animal life begin to be already foreshadowed. But though less significant for us in the
present stage of our discussion, it must not be supposed that the Permian and Triassic epochs
were unimportant in the physical and organic history of Europe. A glance at any geological
map of Europe will show the reader how the Belgian island stretched gradually in a southwesterly
direction during the Permian epoch, approaching the coast of France by slowly increasing accumulations,
and thus filling the Burgundian channel; a wide border of Permian deposits around the coal-field
of Great Britain marks the increase of this region also during the same time, and a very extensive
tract of a like character is to be seen in Russia. The latter is, however, still under doubt
and discussion among geologists, and more recent investigations tend to show that this Russian
region, supposed at first to be exclusively Permian, is at least in part Triassic.

With the coming in of the Triassic epoch began the great deposits of Red Sandstone, Muschel-Kalk,
and Keuper, in Central Europe. They united the Belgian island to the region of the Vosges and
the Black Forest, while they also filled to a great extent the channel between Belgium and
the Bohemian island. Thus the land slowly gained upon the Triassic ocean, shutting it within
ever-narrowing limits, and preparing the large inland seas so characteristic of the later Secondary
times. The character of the organic world still retained a general resemblance to that of the
Carboniferous epoch. Among Radiates, the Corals were more nearly allied to those of the earlier
ages than to those of modern times, and Crinoids abounded still, though some of the higher
Echinoderm types were already introduced. Among Mollusks, the lower Bivalves, that is, the
Brachiopods and Bryozoa, still prevailed, while Ammonites continued to be very numerous, differing
from the earlier ones chiefly in the ever-increasing complications of their inner partitions,
which become so deeply involuted and cut upon their margins, before the type disappears, as
to make an intricate tracery of very various patterns on the surface of these shells. The most
conspicuous type of Articulates continues as before to be that of Crustacea; but Trilobites
have finished their career, and the Lobster-like Crustacea make their appearance for the first
time. It does not seem that the class of Insects has greatly increased since the Carboniferous
epoch; and Worms are still as difficult to trace as ever, being chiefly known by the cases
in which they sheltered themselves. Among Vertebrates, the Fishes still resemble those of the
Carboniferous epoch, belonging principally to the Selachians and Ganoids. They have, however,
approached somewhat toward a modern pattern, the lobes of the tail being more evenly cut, and
their general outline more like that of common fishes. The gigantic marsh Reptiles have become
far more numerous and various. They continue through several epochs, but may be said to reach
their culminating point in the Jurassic and Cretaceous deposits.

I cannot pass over the Triassic epoch without some allusion to the so-called bird-tracks, so
generally believed to mark the introduction of Birds at this time. It is true that in the deposits
of the Trias there have been found many traces of footsteps, indicating a vast number of animals
which, except for these footprints, remain unknown to us. In the sandstone of the Connecticut
Valley they are found in extraordinary numbers, as if these animals, whatever they were, had
been in the habit of frequenting that shore. They appear to have been very diversified; for
some of the tracks are very large, others quite small, while some would seem, from the way
in which the footsteps follow each other, to have been quadrupedal, and others bipedal. We
can even measure the length of their strides, following the impressions which, from their succession
in a continuous line, mark the walk of a single animal.[10] The fact that we find these footprints
without any bones or other remains to indicate the animals by which they were made is accounted
for by the mode of deposition of the sandstone. It is very unfavorable for the preservation
of bones; but, being composed of minute sand mixed with mud, it affords an admirable substance
for the reception of these impressions, which have been thus cast in a mould, as it were, and
preserved through ages. These animals must have been large, when full-grown, for we find strides
measuring six feet between, evidently belonging to the same animal. In the quadrupedal tracks,
the front feet seem to have been smaller than the hind ones. Some of the tracks show four toes
all turned forward, while in others three toes are turned forward and one backward. It happened
that the first tracks found belonged to the latter class; and they very naturally gave rise
to the idea that these impressions were made by birds, on account of this formation of the
foot. This, however, is a mere inference; and since the inductive method is the only true one
in science, it seems to me that we should turn to the facts we have in our possession for the
explanation of these mysterious footprints, rather than endeavor to supply by assumption those
which we have not. As there are no bones found in connection with these tracks, the only way
to arrive at their true character, in the present state of our knowledge, is by comparing them
with bones found in other localities in the deposits of the same period in the world's history.
Now there have never been found in the Trias any remains of Birds, while it contains innumerable
bones of Reptiles; and therefore I think that it is in the latter class that we shall eventually
find the solution of this mystery.

[Footnote 10: For all details respecting these tracks see Hitchcock's Ichnology of New England.
Boston, 1858. 4to.]

It is true that the bones of the Triassic Reptiles are scattered and disconnected; no complete
skeleton has yet been discovered, nor has any foot been found; so that no direct comparison
can be made with the steps. It is, however, my belief, from all we know of the character of
the Animal Kingdom in those days, that these animals were reptilian, but combined, like so
many of the early types, characters of their own class with those of higher animals yet to
come. It seems to me probable, that, in those tracks where one toe is turned backward, the
impression is made not by a toe, but by a heel, or by a long sole projecting backward; for
it is not pointed, like those of the front toes, but is blunt. It is true that there is a division
of joints in the toes, which seems in favor of the idea that they were those of Birds; for
when the three toes are turned forward, there are two joints on the inner one, three on the
middle, and four on the outer one, as in Birds. But this feature is not peculiar to Birds;
it is found in Turtles also. The correspondence of these footprints with each other leaves
no doubt that they were all by one kind of animal; for both the bipedal and the quadrupedal
tracks have the same character. The only quadrupedal animals now known to us which walk on
two legs are the Kangaroos. They raise themselves on their hind legs, using the front ones
to bring their food to their mouth. They leap with the hind legs, sometimes bringing down their
front feet to steady themselves after the spring, and making use also of their tails, to balance
the body after leaping. In these tracks we find traces of a tail between the feet. I do not
bring this forward as any evidence that these animals were allied to Kangaroos, since I believe
that nothing is more injurious in science than assumptions which do not rest on a broad basis
of facts; but I wish only to show that these tracks recall other animals besides Birds, with
which they have been universally associated. And seeing, as we do, that so many of the early
types prophesy future forms, it seems not improbable that they may have belonged to animals
which combined with reptilian characters some birdlike features, and also some features of
the earliest and lowest group of Mammalia, the Marsupials. To sum up my opinion respecting
these footmarks, I believe that they were made by animals of a prophetic type, belonging to
the class of Reptiles, and exhibiting many synthetic characters.

The more closely we study past creations, the more impressive and significant do the synthetic
types, presenting features of the higher classes under the guise of the lower ones, become.
They hold the promise of the future. As the opening overture of an opera contains all the musical
elements to be therein developed, so this living prelude of the Creative work comprises all
the organic elements to be successively developed in the course of time. When Cuvier first
saw the teeth of a Wealden Reptile, he pronounced them to be those of a Rhinoceros, so mammalian
were they in their character. So, when Sommering first saw the remains of a Jurassic Pterodactyl,
he pronounced them to be those of a Bird. These mistakes were not due to a superficial judgment
in men who knew Nature so well, but to this prophetic character in the early types themselves,
in which features were united never known to exist together in our days.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Jurassic epoch, next in succession, was a very important one in the history of Europe.
It completed the junction of several of the larger islands, filling the channel between the
central plateau of France and the Belgian island, as well as that between the former and the
island of Bretagne, so that France was now a sort of crescent of land holding a Jurassic sea
in its centre, Bretagne and Belgium forming the two horns. This Jurassic basin or inland sea
united England and France, and it may not be amiss to say a word here of its subsequent transformations.
During the long succession of Jurassic periods, the deposits of that epoch, chiefly limestone
and clays, with here and there a bed of sand, were accumulated at its bottom. Upon these followed
the chalk deposits of the Cretaceous epoch, until the basin was gradually filled, and partially,
at least, turned to dry land. But at the close of the Cretaceous epoch a fissure was formed,
allowing the entrance of the sea at the western end, so that the constant washing of the tides
and storms wore away the lower, softer deposits, leaving the overhanging chalk cliffs unsupported.
These latter, as their support were undermined, crumbled down, thus widening the channel gradually.
This process must, of course, have gone on more rapidly at the western end, where the sea rushed
on with most force, till the channel was worn through to the German Ocean on the other side,
and the sea then began to act with like power at both ends of the channel. This explains its
form, wider at the western end, narrower between Dover and Calais, and widening again at the
eastern extremity. This ancient basin, extending from the centre of France into England, is
rich in the remains of a number of successive epochs. Around its margin we find the Jurassic
deposits, showing that there must have been some changes of level which raised the shores and
prevented later accumulations from covering them, while in the centre the Jurassic deposits
are concealed by those of the Cretaceous epoch above them, these being also partially hidden
under the later Tertiary beds. Let us see, then, what this inland sea has to tell us of the
organic world in the Jurassic epoch.

At that time the region where Lyme-Regis is now situated in modern England was an estuary on
the shore of that ancient sea. About forty years ago a discovery of large and curious bones,
belonging to some animal unknown to the scientific world, turned the attention of naturalists
to this locality, and since then such a quantity and variety of such remains have been found
in the neighborhood as to show that the Sharks, Whales, Porpoises, etc., of the present ocean
are not more numerous and diversified than were the inhabitants of this old bay or inlet. Among
these animals, the Ichthyosauri (Fish-Lizards) form one of the best-known and most prominent
groups. They are chiefly found in the Lias, the lowest set of beds of the Jurassic deposits,
and seem to have come in with the close of the Triassic epoch. It is greatly to be regretted
that all that is known of the Triassic Reptiles antecedent to the Ichthyosauri still remains
in the form of original papers, and is not yet embodied in text-books. They are quite as interesting,
as curious, and as diversified as those of the Jurassic epoch, which are, however, much more
extensively known, on account of the large collections of these animals belonging to the British
Museum. It will be more easy to understand the structural relations of the latter, and their
true position in the Animal Kingdom, when those which preceded them are better understood.
One of the most remarkable and numerous of these Triassic Reptiles seems to have been an animal
resembling, in the form of the head, and in the two articulating surfaces at the juncture of
the head with the backbone, the Frogs and Salamanders, though its teeth are like those of a
Crocodile. As yet nothing has been found of these animals except the head,--neither the backbone
nor the limbs; so that little is known of their general structure.

The Ichthyosauri (Figure 1) must have been very large, seven or eight feet being the ordinary
length, while specimens measuring from twenty to thirty feet are not uncommon. The large head
is pointed, like that of the Porpoise; the jaws contain a number of conical teeth, of reptilian
form and character; the eyeball was very large, as may be seen by the socket, and it was supported
by pieces of bone, such as we find now only in the eyes of birds of prey and in the bony fishes.
The ribs begin at the neck and continue to the tail, and there is no distinction between head
and neck, as in most Reptiles, but a continuous outline, as in Fishes. They had four limbs,
not divided into fingers, but forming mere paddles. Yet fingers seem to be hinted at in these
paddles, though not developed, for the bones are in parallel rows, as if to mark what might
be such a division. The back-bones are short, but very high, and the surfaces of articulation
are hollow, conical cavities, as in Fishes, instead of ball-and-socket joints, as in Reptiles.
The ribs are more complicated than in Vertebrates generally: they consist of several pieces,
and the breast-bone is formed of a number of bones, making together quite an intricate bony
net-work. There is only one living animal, the Crocodile, characterized by this peculiar structure
of the breast-bone. The Ichthyosaurus is, indeed, one of the most remarkable of the synthetic
types: by the shape of its head one would associate it with the Porpoises, while by its paddles
and its long tail it reminds one of the whole group of Cetaceans to which the Porpoises belong;
by its crocodilian teeth, its ribs, and its breast-bone, it seems allied to Reptiles; and by
its uniform neck, not distinguished from the body, and the structure of the backbone, it recalls
the Fishes.

Another most curious member of this group is the Plesiosaurus, odd Saurian (Figure 2). By its
disproportionately long and flexible neck, and its small, flat head, it unquestionably foreshadows
the Serpents, while by the structure of the backbone, the limbs, and the tail, it is closely
allied with the Ichthyosaurus. Its flappers are, however, more slender, less clumsy, and were,
no doubt, adapted to more rapid motion than the fins of the Ichthyosaurus, while its tail is
shorter in proportion to the whole length of the animal. It seems probable, from its general
structure, that the Ichthyosaurus moved like a Fish, chiefly by the flapping of the tail, aided
by the fins, while in the Plesiosaurus the tail must have been much less efficient as a locomotive
organ, and the long, snake-like, flexible neck no doubt rendered the whole body more agile
and rapid in its movements. In comparing the two, it may be said, that, as a whole, the Ichthyosaurus,
though belonging by its structure to the class of Reptiles, has a closer external resemblance
to the Fishes, while the Plesiosaurus is more decidedly reptilian in character. If there exists
any animal in our waters, not yet known to naturalists, answering to the descriptions of the
"Sea-Serpent," it must be closely allied to the Plesiosaurus. The occurrence in the fresh waters
of North America of a Fish, the Lepidosteus, which is closely allied to the fossil Fishes found
with the Plesiosaurus in the Jurassic beds, renders such a supposition probable.

Of all these strange old forms, so singularly uniting features of Fishes and Reptiles, none
has given rise to more discussion than the Pterodactylus, (Figure 3,) another of the Saurian
tribe, associated, however, with Birds by some naturalists, on account of its large wing-like
appendages. From the extraordinary length of its anterior limbs, they have generally been described
as wings, and the animal is usually represented as a flying Reptile. But if we consider its
whole structure, this does not seem probable, and I believe it to have been an essentially
aquatic animal, moving after the fashion of the Sea-Turtle. Its so-called wings resemble in
structure the front paddles of the Sea-Turtles far more than the wings of a Bird; differing
from them, indeed, only by the extraordinary length of the inner toe, while the outer ones
are comparatively much shorter. But, notwithstanding this difference, the hand of the Pterodactylus
is constructed like that of an aquatic swimming marine Reptile; and I believe, that, if we
represent it with its long neck stretched upon the water, its large head furnished with powerful,
well-armed jaws, ready to dive after the innumerable smaller animals living in the same ocean,
we shall have a more natural picture of its habits than if we consider it as a flying animal,
which it is generally supposed to have been. It has not the powerful breast-bone, with the
large projecting keel along the middle line, such as exists in all the flying animals. Its
breast-bone, on the contrary, is thin and flat, like that of the present Sea-Turtle; and if
it moved through the water by the help of its long flappers, as the Sea-Turtle does now, it
could well dispense with that powerful construction of the breast-bone so essential to all
animals which fly through the air. Again, the powerful teeth, long and conical, placed at considerable
intervals in the jaw, constitute a feature common to all predaceous aquatic animals, and would
seem to have been utterly useless in a flying animal at that time, since there were no aërial
beings of any size to prey upon. The Dragon-Flies found in the same deposits with the Pterodactylus
were certainly not a game requiring so powerful a battery of attack.

The Fishes of the Jurassic sea were exceedingly numerous, but were all of the Ganoid and Selachian
tribes. It would weary the reader, were I to introduce here any detailed description of them,
but they were as numerous and varied as those living in our present waters. There was the Hybodus,
with the marked furrows on the spines and the strong hooks along their margin,--the huge Chimera,
with its long whip, its curved bone over the back, and its parrot-like bill,--the Lepidotus,
with its large square scales, its large head, its numerous rows of teeth, one within another,
forming a powerful grinding apparatus,--the Microdon, with its round, flat body, its jaw paved
with small grinding teeth,--the swift Aspidorhynchus, with its long, slender body and massive
tail, enabling it to strike the water powerfully and dart forward with great rapidity. There
were also a host of small Fishes, comparing with those above mentioned as our Perch, Herring,
Smelts, etc., compare with our larger Fishes; but, whatever their size or form, all the Fishes
of those days had the same hard scales fitting to each other by hooks, instead of the thin
membranous scales overlapping each other at the edge, like the common Fishes of more modern
times. The smaller Fishes, no doubt, afforded food to the larger ones, and to the aquatic Reptiles.
Indeed, in parts of the intestines of the Ichthyosauri, and in their petrified excrements,
have been found the scales and teeth of these smaller Fishes perfectly preserved. It is amazing
that we can learn so much of the habits of life of these past creatures, and know even what
was the food of animals existing countless ages before man was created.

There are traces of Mammalia in the Jurassic deposits, but they were of those inferior kinds
known now as Marsupials, and no complete specimens have yet been found.

The Articulates were largely represented in this epoch. There were already in the vegetation
a number of Gymnosperms, affording more favorable nourishment for Insects than the forests
of earlier times; and we accordingly find that class in larger numbers than ever before, though
still meagre in comparison with its present representation. Crustacea were numerous,--those
of the Shrimp and Lobster kinds prevailing, though in some of the Lobsters we have the first
advance towards the highest class of Crustacea in the expansion of the transverse diameter
now so characteristic of the Crabs. Among Mollusks we have a host of gigantic Ammonites; and
the naked Cephalopods, which were in later times to become the prominent representatives of
that class, already begin to make their appearance. Among Radiates, some of the higher kinds
of Echinoderms, the Ophiurans and Echinolds, take the place of the Crinoids, and the Acalephian
Corals give way to the Astræan and Meandrina-like types, resembling the Reef-Builders of the
present time.

       *       *       *       *       *

I have spoken especially of the inhabitants of the Jurassic sea lying between England and France,
because it was there that were first found the remains of some of the most remarkable and largest
Jurassic animals. But wherever these deposits have been investigated, the remains contained
in them reveal the same organic character, though, of course, we find the land Reptiles only
where there happen to have been marshes, the aquatic Saurians wherever large estuaries or bays
gave them an opportunity of coming in near shore, so that their bones were preserved in the
accumulations of mud or clay constantly collecting in such localities,--the Crustacea, Shells,
or Sea-Urchins on the old sea-beaches, the Corals in the neighborhood of coral reefs, and so
on. In short, the distribution of animals then as now was in accordance with their nature and
habits, and we shall seek vainly for them in the localities where they did not belong.

But when I say that the character of the Jurassic animals is the same, I mean, that, wherever
a Jurassic sea-shore occurs, be it in France, Germany, England, or elsewhere throughout the
world, the Shells, Crustacea, or other animals found upon it have a special character, and
are not to be confounded by any one thoroughly acquainted with these fossils with the Shells
or Crustacea of any preceding or subsequent time,--that, where a Jurassic marsh exists, the
land Reptiles inhabiting it are Jurassic, and neither Triassic nor Cretaceous,--that a Jurassic
coral reef is built of Corals belonging as distinctly to the Jurassic creation as the Corals
on the Florida reefs belong to the present creation,--that, where some Jurassic bay or inlet
is disclosed to us with the Fishes anciently inhabiting it, they are as characteristic of their
time as are the Fishes of Massachusetts Bay now.

And not only so, but, while this unity of creation prevails throughout the entire epoch as
a whole, there is the same variety of geographical distribution, the same circumscription of
faunæ within distinct zoölogical provinces, as at the present time. The Fishes of Massachusetts
Bay are not the same as those of Chesapeake Bay, nor those of Chesapeake Bay the same as those
of Pamlico Sound, nor those of Pamlico Sound the same as those of the Florida coast. This division
of the surface of the earth into given areas within which certain combinations of animals and
plants are confined is not peculiar to the present creation, but has prevailed in all times,
though with ever-increasing diversity, as the surface of the earth itself assumed a greater
variety of climatic conditions. D'Orbigny and others were mistaken in assuming that faunal
differences have been introduced only in the last geological epochs. Besides these adjoining
zoölogical faunæ, each epoch is divided, as we have seen, into a number of periods, occupying
successive levels one above another, and differing specifically from each other in time as
zoölogical provinces differ from each other in space. In short, every epoch is to be looked
upon from two points of view: as a unit, complete in itself, having one character throughout,
and as a stage in the progressive history of the world, forming part of an organic whole.

       *       *       *       *       *

As the Jurassic epoch was ushered in by the upheaval of the Jura, so its close was marked by
the upheaval of that system of mountains called the Côte d'Or. With this latter upheaval began
the Cretaceous epoch, which we will examine with special reference to its subdivision into
periods, since the periods in this epoch have been clearly distinguished, and investigated
with especial care. I have alluded in the preceding article to the immediate contact of the
Jurassic and Cretaceous epochs in Switzerland, affording peculiar facilities for the direct
comparison of their organic remains. But the Cretaceous deposits are well known, not only in
this inland sea of ancient Switzerland, but in a number of European basins, in France, in the
Pyrenees, on the Mediterranean shores, and also in Syria, Egypt, India, and Southern Africa,
as well as on our own continent. In all these localities, the Cretaceous remains, like those
of the Jurassic epoch, have one organic character, distinct and unique. This fact is especially
significant, because the contact of their respective deposits is in many localities so immediate
and continuous that it affords an admirable test for the development-theory. If this is the
true mode of origin of animals, those of the later Jurassic beds must be the progenitors of
those of the earlier Cretaceous deposits. Let us see now how far this agrees with our knowledge
of the physiological laws of development.

Take first the class of Fishes. We have seen that in the Jurassic periods there were none of
our common Fishes, none corresponding to our Herring, Pickerel, Mackerel, and the like,--no
Fishes, in short, with thin membranous scales, but that the class was represented exclusively
by those with hard, flint-like scales. In the Cretaceous epoch, however, we come suddenly upon
a horde of Fishes corresponding to our smaller common Fishes of the Pickerel and Herring tribes,
but principally of the kinds found now in tropical waters; there are none like our Cods, Haddocks,
etc., such as are found at present in the colder seas. The Fishes of the Jurassic epoch corresponding
to our Sharks and Skates and Gar-Pikes still exist, but in much smaller proportion, while these
more modern kinds are very numerous. Indeed, a classification of the Cretaceous Fishes would
correspond very nearly to one founded on those now living. Shall we, then, suppose that the
large reptilian Fishes of the Jurassic time began suddenly to lay numerous broods of these
smaller, more modern, scaly Fishes? And shall we account for the diminution of the previous
forms by supposing that in order to give a fair chance to the new kinds they brought them forth
in large numbers, while they reproduced their own kind less abundantly? According to very careful
estimates, if we accept this view, the progeny of the Jurassic Fishes must have borne a proportion
of about ninety per cent, of entirely new types to some ten per cent, of those resembling the
parents. One would like a fact or two on which to rest so very extraordinary a reversal of
all known physiological laws of reproduction, but, unhappily, there is not one.

Still more unaccountable, upon any theory of development according to ordinary laws of reproduction,
are those unique, isolated types limited to a single epoch, or sometimes even to a single period.
There are some very remarkable instances of this in the Cretaceous deposits. To make my statement
clearer, I will say a word of the sequence of these deposits and their division into periods.

These Cretaceous beds were at first divided only into three sets, called the Neocomian, or
lower deposits, the Green-Sands, or middle deposits, and the Chalk, or upper deposits. The
Neocomian, the lower division, was afterwards subdivided into three sets of beds, called the
Lower, Middle, and Upper Neocomian by some geologists, the Valengian, Neocomian, and Urgonian
by others. These three periods are not only traced in immediate succession, one above another,
in the transverse cut before described, across the mountain of Chaumont, near Neufchatel, but
they are also traced almost on one level along the plain at the foot of the Jura. It is evident
that by some disturbance of the surface the eastern end of the range was raised slightly, lifting
the lower or Valengian deposits out of the water, so that they remain uncovered, and the next
set of deposits, the Neocomian, is accumulated along their base, while these in their turn
are slightly raised, and the Urgonian beds are accumulated against them a little lower down.
They follow each other from east to west in a narrower area, just as the Azoic, Silurian, and
Devonian deposits follow each other from north to south in the northern part of the United
States. The Cretaceous deposits have been intimately studied in various localities by different
geologists, and are now subdivided into at least ten, or it may be fifteen or sixteen distinct
periods, as they stand at present. This is, however, but the beginning of the work; and the
recent investigations of the French geologist, Coquand, indicate that several of these periods
at least are susceptible of further subdivision. I present here a table enumerating the periods
of the Cretaceous epoch best known at present, in their sequence, because I want to show how
sharply and in how arbitrary a manner, if I may so express it, new forms are introduced. The
names are simply derived from the localities, or from some circumstances connected with the
locality where each period has been studied.

    Table of Periods in the Cretaceous Epoch.

      Maestrichtian } Chalk.
      Senonian      }

      Turonian      } Chalk Marl.
      Cenomanian    }

      Albian        }
      Aptian        } Green Sands.
      Rhodanian     }

      Urgonian      }
      Neocomian     } Wealden.
      Valengian     }

One of the most peculiar and distinct of those unique types alluded to above is that of the
Rudistes, a singular Bivalve, in which the lower valve is very deep and conical, while the
upper valve sets into to it as into a cup. The subjoined woodcut represents such a Bivalve.
These Rudistes are found suddenly in the Urgonian deposits; there are none in the two preceding
sets of beds; they disappear in the three following periods, and reappear again in great numbers
in the Cenomanian, Turonian, and Senonian periods, and disappear again in the succeeding one.
These can hardly be missed from any negligence or oversight in the examination of these deposits,
for they are by no means rare. They are found always in great numbers, occupying crowded beds,
like Oysters in the present time. So numerous are they, where they occur at all, that the deposits
containing them are called by many naturalists the first, second, third, and fourth bank of
Rudistes. Which of the ordinary Bivalves, then, gave rise to this very remarkable form in the
class, allowed it to die out, and revived it again at various intervals? This is by no means
the only instance of the same kind. There are a number of types making their appearance suddenly,
lasting during one period or during a succession of periods, and then disappearing forever,
while others, like the Rudistes, come in, vanish, and reappear at a later time.

I am well aware that the advocates of the development-theory do not state their views as I
have here presented them. On the contrary, they protest against any idea of sudden, violent,
abrupt changes, and maintain that by slow and imperceptible modifications during immense periods
of time these new types have been introduced without involving any infringement of the ordinary
processes of development; and they account for the entire absence of corroborative facts in
the past history of animals by what they call the "imperfection of the geological record."
Now, while I admit that our knowledge of geology is still very incomplete, I assert that just
where the direct sequence of geological deposits is needed for this evidence, we have it. The
Jurassic beds, without a single modern scaly Fish, are in immediate contact with the Cretaceous
beds, in which the Fishes of that kind are proportionately almost as numerous as they are now;
and between these two sets of deposits there is not a trace of any transition or intermediate
form to unite the reptilian Fishes of the Jurassic with the common Fishes of the Cretaceous
times. Again, the Cretaceous beds in which the crowded banks of Rudistes, so singular and unique
in form, first make their appearance, follow immediately upon those in which all the Bivalves
are of an entirely different character. In short, the deposits of this year along any sea-coast
or at the mouth of any of our rivers do not follow more directly upon those of last year than
do these successive sets of beds of past ages follow upon each other. In making these statements,
I do not forget the immense length of the geological periods; on the contrary, I fully accede
to it, and believe that it is more likely to have been underrated than overstated. But let
it be increased a thousand-fold, the fact remains, that these new types occur commonly at the
dividing line where one period joins the next, just on the margin of both.

For years I have collected daily among some of these deposits, and I know the Sea-Urchins,
Corals, Fishes, Crustacea, and Shells of those old shores as well as I know those of Nahant
Beach, and there is nothing more striking to a naturalist than the sudden, abrupt changes of
species in passing from one to another. In the second set of Cretaceous beds, the Neocomian,
there is found a little Terebratula (a small Bivalve Shell) in immense quantities: they may
actually be collected by the bushel. Pass to the Urgonian beds, resting directly upon the Neocomian,
and there is not one to be found, and an entirely new species comes in. There is a peculiar
Spatangus (Sea-Urchin) found throughout the whole series of beds in which this Terebratula
occurs. At the same moment that you miss the Shell, the Sea-Urchin disappears also, and another
takes its place. Now, admitting for a moment that the later can have grown out of the earlier
forms, I maintain, that, if this be so, the change is immediate, sudden, without any gradual
transitions, and is, therefore, wholly inconsistent with all our known physiological laws,
as well as with the transmutation-theory.

There is a very singular group of Ammonites in the Cretaceous epoch, which, were it not for
the suddenness of its appearance, might seem rather to favor the development-theory, from its
great variety of closely allied forms. We have traced the Chambered Shells from the straight,
simple ones of the earliest epochs up to the intricate and closely coiled forms of the Jurassic
epoch. In the so-called Portland stone, belonging to the upper set of Jurassic beds, there
is only one type of Ammonite; but in the Cretaceous beds, immediately above it, there set in
a number of different genera and distinct species, including the most fantastic and seemingly
abnormal forms. It is as if the close coil by which these shells had been characterized during
the Middle Age had been suddenly broken up and decomposed into an endless variety of outlines.
Some of these new types still retain the coil, but the whorls are much less compact than before,
as in the Crioceras; in others, the direction of the coil is so changed as to make a spiral,
as in the Turrilites; or the shell starts with a coil, then proceeds in a straight line, and
changes to a curve again at the other extremity, as in the Ancyloceras, or in the Scaphites,
in which the first coil is somewhat closer than in the Ancyloceras; or the tendency to a coil
is reduced to a single curve, so as to give the shell the outline of a horn, as in the Toxoceras;
or the coil is entirely lost, and the shell reduced to its primitive straight form, as in the
Baculites, which, except for their undulating partitions, might be mistaken for the Orthoceratites
of the Silurian and Devonian epochs. I have presented here but a few species of these extraordinary
Cretaceous Ammonites, and, strange to say, with this breaking-up of the type into a number
of fantastic and often contorted shapes, it disappears. It is singular that forms so unusual
and so contrary to the previous regularity of this group should accompany its last stage of
existence, and seem to shadow forth by their strange contortions the final dissolution of their
type. When I look upon a collection of these old shells, I can never divest myself of an impression
that the contortions of a death-struggle have been made the pattern of living types, and with
that the whole group has ended.

Now shall we infer that the compact, closely coiled Ammonites of the Jurassic deposits, while
continuing their own kind, brought forth a variety of other kinds, and so distributed these
new organic elements as to produce a large number of distinct genera and species? I confess
that these ideas are so contrary to all I have learned from Nature in the course of a long
life that I should be forced to renounce completely the results of my studies in Embryology
and Palæontology before I could adopt these new views of the origin of species. And while the
distinguished originator of this theory is entitled to our highest respect for his scientific
researches, yet it should not be forgotten that the most conclusive evidence brought forward
by him and his adherents is of a negative character, drawn from a science in which they do
not pretend to have made personal investigations, that of Geology, while the proofs they offer
us from their own departments of science, those of Zoölogy and Botany, are derived from observations,
still very incomplete, upon domesticated animals and cultivated plants, which can never be
made a test of the origin of wild species.[11]

[Footnote 11: The advocates of the development-theory allude to the metamorphosis of animals
and plants as supporting their view of a change of one species into another. They compare the
passage of a common leaf into the calyx or crown-leaves in plants, or that of a larva into
a perfect insect, to the passage of one species into another. The only objection to this argument
seems to be, that, whereas Nature daily presents us myriads of examples of the one set of phenomena,
showing it to be a norm, not a single instance of the other has ever been known to occur either
in the animal or in the vegetable kingdom.]

In my next article I shall show the relation between the Cretaceous and Tertiary epochs, and
see whether there is any reason to believe that the gigantic Mammalia of more modern times
were derived from the Reptiles of the Secondary age.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE WHITE-THROATED SPARROW.

    Hark! 't is our Northern Nightingale that sings
    In far-off, leafy cloisters, dark and cool,
    Flinging his flute-notes bounding from the skies!

    Thou wild musician of the mountain-streams,
    Most tuneful minstrel of the forest-choirs,
    Bird of all grace and harmony of soul,
    Unseen, we hail thee for thy blissful voice!

    Up in yon tremulous mist where morning wakes
    Illimitable shadows from their dark abodes,
    Or in this woodland glade tumultuous grown
    With all the murmurous language of the trees,
    No blither presence fills the vocal space.
    The wandering rivulets dancing through the grass,
    The gambols, low or loud, of insect-life,
    The cheerful call of cattle in the vales,
    Sweet natural sounds of the contented hours,--
    All seem less jubilant when thy song begins.

    Deep in the shade we lie and listen long;
    For human converse well may pause, and man
    Learn from such notes fresh hints of praise,
    That upward swelling from thy grateful tribe
    Circles the hills with melodies of joy.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE FLEUR-DE-LIS IN FLORIDA.

    [In the July number of this magazine is a sketch of the attempt
    of the Huguenots, under the auspices of Coligny, to found a
    colony at Port Royal. Two years later, an attempt was made to
    establish a Protestant community on the banks of the River St.
    John's, in Florida.
René de Laudonnière held command. The foundation-stone was left
out. There were no tillers of the soil.

With a few officers and twelve soldiers, Laudonnière landed where Ribaut had landed before
him; and as their boat neared the shore, they saw an Indian chief who ran to meet them, whooping
and clamoring welcome from afar. It was Satouriona, the savage potentate who ruled some thirty
villages around the lower St. John's and northward along the coast. With him came two stalwart
sons, and behind trooped a host of tribesmen arrayed in smoke-tanned deerskins stained with
wild devices in gaudy colors. They crowded around the voyagers with beaming visages and yelps
of gratulation. The royal Satouriona could not contain the exuberance of his joy, since in
the person of the French commander he recognized the brother of the Sun, descended from the
skies to aid him against his great rival, Outina.

Hard by stood the column of stone, graven with the fleur-de-lis, planted here on the former
voyage. The Indians had crowned the mystic emblem with evergreens, and placed offerings of
maize on the ground before it; for with an affectionate and reverent wonder they had ever remembered
the steel-clad strangers whom, two summers before, John Ribaut had led to their shores.

Five miles up the St. John's, or River of May, there stands, on the southern bank, a hill some
forty feet high, boldly thrusting itself into the broad and lazy waters. It is now called St.
John's Bluff. Thither the Frenchmen repaired, pushed through the dense semi-tropical forest,
and climbed the steep acclivity. Thence they surveyed their Canaan. Beneath them moved the
unruffled river, gliding around the reed-grown shores of marshy islands, the haunt of alligators,
and betwixt the bordering expanse of wide, wet meadows, studded with island-like clumps of
pine and palmetto, and bounded by the sunny verge of distant forests. Far on their right, seen
by glimpses between the shaggy cedar-boughs, the glistening sea lay stretched along the horizon.
Before, in hazy distance, the softened green of the woodlands was veined with the mazes of
the countless interlacing streams that drain the watery region behind St. Mary's and Fernandina.
To the left, the St. John's flowed gleaming betwixt verdant shores beyond whose portals lay
the El Dorado of their dreams. "Briefly," writes Laudonnière, "the place is so pleasant that
those which are melancholicke would be inforced to change their humour."

A fresh surprise awaited them. The allotted span of mortal life was quadrupled in that benign
climate. Laudonnière's lieutenant, Ottigny, ranging the neighboring forest with a party of
soldiers, met a troop of Indians who invited him to their dwellings. Mounted on the back of
a stout savage, who plunged with him through the deep marshes, and guided him by devious pathways
through the tangled thickets, he arrived at length, and beheld a wondrous spectacle. A broad
meadow, a running brook, a lofty wall of encircling forests. The men called it the Vale of
Laudonnière.

At daybreak they were roused by sound of trumpet. Men and officers joined their voices in a
psalm, then betook themselves to their task. Their task was the building of a fort, and this
was the chosen spot. It was a tract of dry ground on the brink of the river, immediately above
St. John's Bluff. On the right was the bluff; on the left, a marsh; in front, the river; behind,
the forest.

A word touching these savages. In the peninsula of Florida were several distinct Indian confederacies,
with three of which the French were brought into contact. The first was that of Satouriona.
The next was the potent confederacy of the Thimagoa, under a chief called Outina, whose forty
villages were scattered among the lakes and forests around the upper waters of this remarkable
river. Their social state was more advanced than that of the wandering hunter-tribes of the North.

Their villages were clusters of huts thatched with palmetto.

The most prominent feature of their religion was sun-worship, and, like other wild American
tribes, they abounded in "medicine-men," who combined the functions of priest, physician, and
necromancer.

Their fort nearly finished, and their league made with Satouriona, the gold-hunting Huguenots
were eager to spy out the secrets of the interior. To this end the lieutenant, Ottigny, went
up the river in a sail-boat. With him were a few soldiers and two Indians, the latter going
forth, says Laudonnière, as if bound to a wedding, keen for a fight with the hated Thimagoa,
and exulting in the havoc to be wrought among them by the magic weapons of their white allies.
They were doomed to grievous disappointment.

The Sieur d'Ottigny spread his sail, and calmly glided up the dark waters of the St. John's.
A scene fraught with strange interest to the naturalist and the lover of Nature. Each alike
has left the record of his wanderings, fresh as the woods and waters that inspired it. Slight,
then, was the change since Ottigny, first of white men, steered his bark along the still breast
of the virgin river. Before him, like a lake, the redundant waters spread far and wide; and
along the low shores, or jutting points, or the waveless margin of deep and sheltered coves,
towered wild, majestic forms of vegetable beauty. Here rose the magnolia, high above surrounding
woods; but the gorgeous bloom had fallen, that a few weeks earlier studded the verdant dome
with silver. From the edge of the bordering swamp the cypress reared its vast buttressed column
and leafy canopy. From the rugged arms of oak and pine streamed the gray drapery of the long
Spanish moss, swayed mournfully in the faintest breeze. Here were the tropical plumage of the
palm, the dark green masses of the live-oak, the glistening verdure of wild orange-groves;
and from out the shadowy thickets hung the wreaths of the jessamine and the scarlet trumpets
of the bignonia.

Nor less did the fruitful river teem with varied forms of animal life. From the caverns of
leafy shade came the gleam and flicker of many-colored plumage. The cormorant, the pelican,
the heron, floated on the water, or stalked along its pebbly brink. Among the sedges, the alligator,
foul from his native mud, outstretched his hideous length, or, sluggish and sullen, drifted
past the boat, his grim head level with the surface, and each scale, each folding of his horny
hide, distinctly visible, as, with the slow movement of distended paws, he balanced himself
in the water.

Among such scenes, for twenty leagues, the adventurous sail moved on. Far to the right, beyond
the silent waste of pines, lay the realm of the mighty Potanou. The Thimagoa towns were still
above them on the river, when they saw three canoes of this people at no great distance in
front. Forthwith the two Indians in the boat were fevered with excitement. With glittering
eyes they snatched pike and sword, and prepared for fight; but the sage Ottigny, bearing slowly
down on the strangers, gave them time to run their craft ashore and escape to the woods. Then,
landing, he approached the canoes, placed in them a few trinkets, and withdrew to a distance.
The fugitives took heart, and, step by step, returned. An amicable intercourse was opened,
with assurances of friendship on the part of the French, a procedure viewed by Satouriona's
Indians with unspeakable disgust and ire.

The ice thus broken, Ottigny returned to Fort Caroline; and a fortnight later, an officer named
Vasseur sailed up the river to pursue the adventure: for the French, thinking that the nation
of the Thimagoa lay betwixt them and the gold-mines, would by no means quarrel with them, and
Laudonnière repented him already of his rash pledge to Satouriona.

Returning, he was met, near the fort, by one of Satouriona's chiefs, who questioned him touching
his dealings with the Thimagoa. Vasseur replied, that he had set upon and routed them with
incredible slaughter. But as the chief, seeming as yet unsatisfied, continued his inquiries,
the sergeant, Francis la Caille, drew his sword, and, like Falstaff before him, re-enacted
his deeds of valor, pursuing and thrusting at the imaginary Thimagoa as they fled before his
fury. Whereat the chief, at length convinced, led the party to his lodge, and entertained them
with a certain savory decoction with which the Indians were wont to regale those whom they
delighted to honor.

Elate at the promise of a French alliance, Satouriona had summoned his vassal chiefs to war.
From the St. Mary's and the Satilla and the distant Altamaha, from every quarter of his woodland
realm, they had mustered at his call. By the margin of the St. John's, the forest was alive
with their bivouacs. Ten chiefs were here, and some five hundred men. And now, when all was
ready, Satouriona reminded Laudonnière of his promise, and claimed its fulfilment; but the
latter gave evasive answers and a virtual refusal. Stifling his rage, the chief prepared to
go without him.

Captain Vasseur, with Arlac, the ensign, a sergeant, and ten soldiers, embarked to bear the
ill-gotten gift to Outina. Arrived, they were showered with thanks by that grateful potentate,
who, hastening to avail himself of his new alliance, invited them to join in a raid against
his neighbor, Potanou. To this end, Arlac and five soldiers remained, while Vasseur with the
rest descended to Fort Caroline.

The warriors were mustered, the dances were danced, and the songs were sung. Then the wild
cohort took up its march. The wilderness through which they passed holds its distinctive features
to this day,--the shady desert of the pine-barrens, where many a wanderer has miserably died,
with haggard eye seeking in vain for clue or guidance in the pitiless, inexorable monotony.
Yet the waste has its oases, the "hummocks," where the live-oaks are hung with long festoons
of grape-vines,--where the air is sweet with woodland odors, and vocal with the song of birds.
Then the deep cypress-swamp, where dark trunks rise like the columns of some vast sepulchre.
Above, the impervious canopy of leaves; beneath, a black and root-encumbered slough. Perpetual
moisture trickles down the clammy bark, while trunk and limb, distorted with strange shapes
of vegetable disease, wear in the gloom a semblance grotesque and startling. Lifeless forms
lean propped in wild disorder against the living, and from every rugged stem and lank limb
outstretched hangs the dark drapery of the Spanish moss. The swamp is veiled in mourning. No
breath, no voice. A deathly stillness, till the plunge of the alligator, lashing the waters
of the black lagoon, resounds with hollow echo through the tomb-like solitude.

Next, the broad sunlight and the wide savanna. Wading breast-deep in grass, they view the wavy
sea of verdure, with headland and cape and far-reaching promontory, with distant coasts, hazy
and dim, havens and shadowed coves, islands of the magnolia and the palm, high, impending shores
of the mulberry and the elm, the ash, hickory, and maple. Here the rich gordonia, never out
of bloom, sends down its thirsty roots to drink at the stealing brook. Here the halesia hangs
out its silvery bells, the purple clusters of the wistaria droop from the supporting bough,
and the coral blossoms of the erythryna glow in the shade beneath. From tufted masses of sword-like
leaves shoot up the tall spires of the yucca, heavy with pendent flowers, of pallid hue, like
the moon, and from the grass gleams the blue eye of the starry ixia.

Through forest, swamp, savanna, the valiant Frenchmen held their way. At first, Outina's Indians
kept always in advance; but when they reached the hostile district, the modest warriors fell
to the rear, resigning the post of honor to their French allies.

An open country; a rude cultivation; the tall palisades of an Indian town. The men of Thimagoa
ran screeching in pursuit. Pell-mell, all entered the town together. Slaughter; pillage; flame.
The work was done, and the band returned triumphant.

CHAPTER II. And why has he sent La Roche Ferrière to make his fortune among the Indians, while
we are kept here, digging at the works?

Of La Roche Ferrière and his adventures, more hereafter. But for Laudonnière, he said, their
fortunes would all be made. Many of the soldiers were in the conspiracy. The malecontents took
the opportunity to send home charges against Laudonnière of peculation, favoritism, and tyranny.
In short, the flower of the company wished to turn buccaneers. They brought strange tales of
those among whom they had dwelt. Le Moyne drew a picture of the fight. One collected refuse
fish-bones and pounded them into meal.

Laudonnière waited two days, then descended the river. Outina, however, was kindly treated,
and assured of immediate freedom on payment of the ransom. The soldiers coolly picked them
up and broke them as they fell. He called the tidings to the fort below.

A doubt soon mingled with their joy. Who were the strangers? Were they the succors so long
hoped in vain? or were they Spaniards bringing steel and fire? They were neither. Apostles
of the cross, bearing the word of peace to benighted heathendom? Queen Elizabeth had an interest
in the venture, and received her share of the sugar, pearls, ginger, and hides which the vigorous
measures of Sir John gained from his Spanish customers.

Hawkins came up the river in a pinnace, and landed at Fort Caroline, "accompanied," says Laudonnière,
"with gentlemen honorably apparelled, yet unarmed."

Hereupon arose a great clamor.

Here opens a wilder act of this eventful drama. At another day we shall lift the curtain on
its fierce and bloody scenes.

       *       *       *       *       *

SEAWARD.

TO ----.

    How long it seems since that mild April night,
      When, leaning from the window, you and I
    Heard, clearly ringing from the shadowy bight,
                 The loon's unearthly cry!

    Southwest the wind blew; million little waves
      Ran rippling round the point in mellow tune;
    But mournful, like the voice of one who raves,
                 That laughter of the loon.

    We called to him, while blindly through the haze
      Upclimbed the meagre moon behind us, slow,
    So dim, the fleet of boats we scarce could trace,
                 Moored lightly, just below.

    We called, and, lo, he answered! Half in fear,
      I sent the note back. Echoing rock and bay
    Made melancholy music far and near;
                 Slowly it died away.

    That schooner, you remember? Flying ghost!
      Her canvas catching every wandering beam,
    Aërial, noiseless, past the glimmering coast
                 She glided like a dream.

    Would we were leaning from your window now,
      Together calling to the eerie loon,
    The fresh wind blowing care from either brow,
                 This sumptuous night of June!

    So many sighs load this sweet inland air,
      'T is hard to breathe, nor can we find relief;
    However lightly touched, we all must share
                 The nobleness of grief.

    But sighs are spent before they reach your ear,
      Vaguely they mingle with the water's rune;
    No sadder sound salutes you than the clear,
                 Wild laughter of the loon. It is also an institution peculiar, I believe, to
Harvard, and I was somewhat curious to observe its ceremonials, besides
feeling a not entirely unawful interest in being introduced for the
first time to the arcana of that renowned Alma Mater. At all
events, there is sufficient groundwork for any quantity of euphuism
about "classic shades," "groves of Academe," et cetera. Trollope had
his fling at the square brick buildings; but it was a fling that they
richly deserved, for they are in very deed as ugly as it is possible to
conceive,--angular, formal, stiff, windowy, bricky,--and the farther in
you go, the worse it grows. When I entered those brick boxes, I felt as if I were going
into a stable. Think, now, of taking a boy away from
his home, from his mother and sisters, from carpets and curtains and all
the softening influences of cultivated taste, and turning him loose with
dozens of other boys into a congeries of pens like this! Who wonders
that he comes out a boor? I felt a sinking at the heart in climbing up
those narrow, uncouth staircases. We talk about education. We boast of
having the finest system in the world. Harvard is, if not the most
distinguished, certainly among the first institutions in the country;
but, in my opinion, formed in the entry of the first Harvard house I
entered, Harvard has not begun to hit the nail on the head. Education!
Do you call it education, to put a boy into a hole, and work out of him
a certain amount of mathematics, and work into him a certain number of
languages? Is a man dressed, because one arm has a spotless wristband,
unquestionable sleeve-buttons, a handsome sleeve, and a well-fitting
glove at the end, while the man is out at the other elbow, patched on
both knees, and down at the heels? Should we consider Nature a success,
if she concerned herself only with carrying nutriment to the stomach,
and left the heart and the lungs and the liver and the nerves to shift
for themselves? Yet so do we, educating boys in these dens called
colleges. We educate the mind, the memory, the intellectual faculties;
but the manners, the courtesies, the social tastes, the greater part of
what goes to make life happy and genial, not to say good, we leave out
of view. People talk about the "awkward age" of boys,--the age in which
their hands and feet trouble them, and in which they are a social burden
to themselves and their friends. But one age need be no more awkward
than another. I have seen boys that were gentlemen from the cradle to
the grave,--almost; certainly from the time they ceased to be babies
till they passed altogether out of my sight. Let boys have the
associations, the culture, the training, and the treatment of gentlemen,
and I do not believe there will be a single moment of their lives in
which they will be clowns.

And among the first necessities are the surroundings of a gentleman. When a man is grown up,
he can live in a sty and not be a pig; but turn a horde of boys in, and when they come out
they will root out. A man is strong and stiff. His inward, inherent power, toughened by exposure
and fortified by knowledge, overmasters opposing circumstances. He can neglect the prickles
and assume the rose of his position. He stands scornfully erect amid the grovelling influences
that would pull him down. It may perhaps be, also, that here and there a boy, with a strong
native predilection to refinement, shall be eclectic, and, with the water-lily's instinct,
select from coarse contiguities only that which will nourish a delicate soul. But human nature
in its infancy is usually a very susceptible material. It grows as it is trained. It will be
rude, if it is left rude, and fine only as it is wrought finely. Educate a boy to tumbled hair
and grimy hands, and he will go tumbled and grimy to his grave. Put a hundred boys together
where they will have the appurtenances of a clown, and I do not believe there will be ten out
of the hundred who will not become precisely to that degree clownish. I am not battling for
the luxuries of life, but I am for its decencies. I would not turn boys into Sybarites, but
neither would I let them riot into Satyrs. The effeminacy of a false aristocracy is no nearer
the heights of true manhood than the clumsiness of the clod, but I think it is just as near.
I would have college rooms, college entrances, and all college domains cleanly and attractive.
I would, in the first place, have every rough board planed, and painted in soft and cheerful
tints. I would have the walls pleasantly colored, or covered with delicate, or bright, or warm-hued
paper. The floor should be either tiled, or hidden under carpets, durable, if possible, at
any rate, decent. Straw or rope matting is better than brown, yawning boards. There you have
things put upon an entirely new basis. At no immoderate expense there is a new sky, a new earth,
a new horizon. If a boy is rich and can furnish his room handsomely, the furnishings will not
shame the room and its vicinity. If he is poor and can provide but cheaply, he will still have
a comely home provided for him by the Mater who then will be Alma to some purpose.

Do you laugh at all this? So did Sarah laugh at the angels, but the angels had the right of
it for all that.

I am told that it would all be useless,--that the boys would deface and destroy, till the last
state of the buildings would be worse than the first. I do not believe one word of it. It is
inferred that they would deface, because they deface now. But what is it that they deface?
Deformity. And who blames them? You see a rough board, and, by natural instinct, you dive into
it with your jackknife. A base bare wall is a standing invitation to energetic and unruly pencils.
Give the boys a little elegance and the tutors a little tact, and I do not believe there would
be any trouble. If I had a thousand dollars,--as I did have once, but it is gone: shall I ever
look upon its like again?--I would not be afraid to stake the whole of it upon the good behavior
of college students,--that is, if I could have the managing of them. I would make them "a speech,"
when they came back at the end of one of their long vacations, telling them what had been done,
why it had been done, and the objections that had been urged against doing it. Then I would
put the matter entirely into their hands. I would appeal solely to their honor. I would repose
in them so much confidence that they could by no possibility betray it. We don't trust people
half enough. We hedge ourselves about with laws and locks and deeds and bonds, and neglect
the weightier matters of inherent right and justice that lie in every bosom.

It may be thought hardly polite to accept hospitality and then go away and inveigh against
the hospital; but my animadversions, you will do me the justice to observe, are not aimed at
my entertainers. I am marauding for, not against them.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Oration and Poem form the first public features of Class-Day, but, arriving late, I could
only eddy on the surge that swept around the door. Strains of distant eloquence would occasionally
float musically to my ear; now and then a single word would steer clear of the thousands of
heads and come into my port unharmed. Frequent waves of laughter beat and broke into the vestibule;
but what is more "trying" to a frail temper than laughter in which one cannot join? So we tarried
long enough to mark the fair faces and fine dresses, and then rambled under the old trees till
the hour for the "collation" came; and this is the second point on which I purpose to dwell.

Each member of the Senior Class prepares a banquet,--sometimes separately and sometimes in
clubs, at an expense varying from fifty to five hundred dollars,--to which he invites as many
friends as he chooses, or as are available. If I live a thousand years, I do not believe I
shall ever do a more virtuous deed than I did long ago in staying at home for the sake of a
quarter of a dollar when the rest of the school went to see Tom Thumb, the late bewritten bridegroom.
I call it virtuous, because I had the quarter and could have gone, and could not explain the
reason why I did not go. And though a senior class in Harvard College may reasonably be supposed
to be beyond the eminent domain of Tom Thumb and quarter-dollars, the principle is precisely
the same,--only the temptation, I suppose, is much stronger, as the stake is larger.

Nothing can be more appropriate, more harmonious, than dancing on the green. In saying this,
I design to cast no slur on the moral character of masculine dancers. It is unquestionably
above reproach; but let an angel put on the black coat and trousers which constitute the "full-dress"
of a modern gentleman, and therein antic through the "Lancers," and he would simply be ridiculous,--which
is all I allege against Thomas, Richard, and Henry, Esq. I would have men dance, if it is necessary,
in order to "set off" women, and to keep themselves out of mischief; but in point of grace,
or elegance, or attractiveness, I should beg men to hold their peace--and their pumps. How
can people,--I could not help saying to myself,--how can people endure such proximity in such
a sweltering heat? Not to put too fine a point on it, I mean that these girls' gyrations in
the centre of their gyrating and centrifugal hoops make a most operatic drapery-display. Do
I shock ears polite? I trust so. If the saying of shocking things might prevent the doing of
shocking things, I should be well content. And is it an unpardonable sin for me to sit alone
in my own room and write about what you go into a great hall, before hundreds of strange men
and women, and do?

The funny part of Class-Day comes last,--not so very funny to tell, but amazingly funny to
see,--only a wreath of bouquets fastened around the trunk of an old tree, perhaps eight or
ten feet from the ground, and then the four classes range themselves around it in four circles
with their hands fast locked together, the Freshman Class on the outside, the Senior Class
within, grotesquely tricked out in vile old coats and "shocking bad hats." Then the two alternate
classes go one way around the tree and the two others the opposite, pell-mell, harum-scarum,
pushing and pulling, down and up again, only keeping fast hold of hands, singing, shouting,
cheering ad libitum, ad throatum, (theirs,) ad earsum, (ours,) and going all the time in that
din and yell and crowd and crash dear to the hearts of boys. At a given signal there is a pause,
and the Senior Class make sudden charge upon the bouquets, huddling and hustling and crowding
and jumping at the foot of the old tree; bubbling up on each other's shoulders into momentary
prominence and prospect of success, and immediately disappearing ignominiously; making frantic
grasps and clutches with a hundred long arms and eager outstretched hands, and finally succeeding,
by shoulders and fists, in bringing the wreath away piecemeal; and then they give themselves
up to mutual embraces, groans, laments, and all the enginery of pathetic affection in the last
gasping throes of separation,--to the doleful tearing of hair and the rending of their fantastic
garments. It is the personification of legalized rowdyism; and if young men would but confine
themselves to such rowdyism as may be looked at and laughed at by their mothers and sisters,
they would find life just as amusing and a thousand times more pure and profitable.

       *       *       *       *       *

It occurs to me here that there is one subject on which I desire to "give my views," though
it is quite unconnected with Class-Day. But it is probable that in the whole course of my natural
life it will never again happen to me to be writing about colleges, so I desire to say in this
paper everything I have to say on the subject. I refer to the practice of "hazing," which is
an abomination.

And why is not some legitimate and wholesome safety-valve provided by authority to let off
superabundant vitality, that boys may not, by the mere occasions of their own natures, be driven
into wickedness? Class-Day is very well, but it comes only once a year, and what is needed
is an opportunity for daily ebullition, so that each night may square its own account and forestall
explosion.

       *       *       *       *       *

LOVE'S CHALLENGE.

    I picked this trifle from the floor,
       Unknowing from whose tender hand
    It fell,--but now would fain restore
       A thing which hath my heart unmanned.

    I say unmanned, for 't is not now
       A manly mood to dream of Love,
    When each bold champion knits his brow,
       And for War's gauntlet doffs his glove.

    But we're exempt, and have no heart
       Of wreak within us for the fray;
    And therefore teach our souls the art
       With life and life's concerns to play.

    Yet, lady, trust me, 't is not all
       In play that I proclaim intent,
    When next thou lett'st thy gauntlet fall,
       To take it as a challenge meant.

    REPLY.

    SIR CARPET-KNIGHT, who canst not fight,
       Thy gallantries are not for me;
    The man whom I with love requite
       Must sing in a more martial key.

    I have two brothers on the field,
       And one beneath it,--none knows where;
    And I shall keep my spirit steeled
       To any save a soldier's prayer.

    If thou have music in thy soul,
       Yet hast no sinew for the strife,
    Go teach thyself the war-drum's roll,
       And woo me better with a fife!

       *       *       *       *       *

POLITICAL PROBLEMS, AND CONDITIONS OF PEACE.

The relations existing between the Federal Government and the several States, and the reciprocal
rights and powers of each, have never been settled, except in part. Upon matters of taxation
and commerce, and the diversified questions that arise in times of peace, the decisions of
the Supreme Court have marked the boundary-lines of State and Federal power with considerable
clearness and precision. But all these questions are superficial and trivial, when compared
with those which are coming up for decision out of the great struggle in which we are now engaged.
The Southern Rebellion, greater than any recorded in history since the world began, must necessarily
call for the exercise of all the powers with which the Government is clothed. And we need not
be surprised, if, in resorting to the new measures which the great exigency of the new condition
seems to require, it shall be found, after the storm has ceased and the clouds have rolled
away, that in some things the Government has transcended its legitimate powers, while in others
it has suffered, because fearing to use those which it really possesses. It is dependent in
many things upon the States; and yet it is supreme over them all. There can be no Senate, as
a branch either of the executive or of the legislative department, without the action of the
States; and yet the Government emanates directly from the people. In defending itself against
an armed rebellion of nearly half the States themselves, struggling for self-preservation,
it may rightfully, as in other wars, grasp all the means within its reach. War makes its own
methods, for all of which necessity is a sufficient plea. But when the defence shall have been
made, when the attack is repelled, and the Rebellion shall have been fully suppressed, then
will come the questions, What are the best means of restoration? and, How shall a recurrence
of the evil be prevented?

Though the Federal Government is one of limited powers, the people possess all governmental
powers; and these are spoken of as powers delegated and powers reserved. So far as these are
reserved to the people, they may be exercised either through the Federal Government or the
State. And the Federal Government, though limited in its powers, is restricted in the subjects
upon which it can act, rather than in the quantum of power it can exercise over those matters
within its jurisdiction. Over those interests which are committed to its care it has all the
powers incident to any other government in the world,--powers necessary by implication to accomplish
the purpose intended. The construction of the grant in the Constitution is not to be critical
and stringent, as if the people, by its adoption, were selling power to a stranger,--but liberal,
considering that they were enabling their own agents to achieve a noble work for them.

We have been accustomed to extol the wisdom of our fathers, in framing and establishing such
a form of government; but our highest praises have been too small. We have hitherto had but
a partial conception of their wisdom. We knew not the terrible test to which their work was
to be exposed. After the long discipline of the Revolutionary War, and the experience of the
weakness and impending anarchy of the Confederation, they understood, far better than we, the
dangers to which every government is liable, from within and from without. And we are just
now beginning to see, that, in the Constitution they adopted, they not only provided for the
interests of peace, but for the dangers and emergencies of war. Brief sentences, hardly noticed
before, now throw open their doors like a magazine of arms, ready for use in the hour of peril.
And while we shall come out of this struggle, and the political contest that will follow it,
without impairing any of the rights of the States, the Federal Government restored will stand
before the world in a majesty of strength of which we have before had no conception.

The questions evolved by the war are already attracting public attention. It is well that they
should do so. The peace and prosperity of the country in future years depend upon their solution.
They are so interwoven that a mistake in regard to one may involve us in other errors. The
power of the Government so to remove the cause of the present rebellion as to prevent its recurrence,
if it have any such power, is one which it is imperatively bound to exercise,--else all the
treasure and blood expended in quelling it will be wasted. Has it any such power? Can Slavery
be exterminated? And can the Rebel States be held as conquests, and be restored only upon condition
of being forever free? It is proposed briefly to discuss these questions.

EMANCIPATION.

There are those who believe that the President's Proclamation will cease to be of any force
at the close of the war, and that no slaves will have any right to their freedom by it except
such as may be actually liberated by the military authorities.

There are others, who hold that the Proclamation has the force of law,--that by it every slave
within the designated territory has now a legal right to his liberty,--and that, if the military
power does not secure that right to him during the war, he may successfully appeal to the civil
power afterwards.

If the Proclamation is a law, it must be conceded, that, like all the laws of war, it will
cease to be in force when the war is closed. But if, like a legislative act, it confers actual
rights on the slaves, whether they are able to secure them in fact or not, then those rights
are not lost, though the law cease to exist. On the other hand, if it confers no actual rights
on any who are beyond its reach,--if it is merely an offer of freedom to all who can come and
receive it,--then those only who do receive it while the offer continues will have any rights
by it when it has ceased to be in force.

The position of Mr. Adams on this subject seems to have been misunderstood. When his remarks
in Congress are carefully examined, it will be found that he did not claim that the proclamation
of a military commander would operate, like a statute, to confer the right of freedom upon
all the slaves in an invaded country. But he asserted a general principle of international
law,--that the commander of an invading army is not bound to recognize the municipal laws of
the country,--that he may treat all as freemen, though some are slaves. And he claimed, that,
in case of a servile war in this country, our army would have a right to suppress the insurrection
by giving freedom to the insurgents. In regard to the effect of such a proclamation upon those
not liberated by the military power, he expressed no opinion.

The precedents usually cited are not any more satisfactory. In Hayti, and in the South-American
republics, emancipation became an established fact by the action of the civil power. In each
case a proclamation by the military power was the initial step; but the consummation was attained
by the fact that the same power afterwards became dominant in civil, as well as in military
affairs.

Conceding, then, that the Proclamation is but a declaration of the war-policy, designed and
adapted to secure a still higher end,--the preservation and perpetuity of our free institutions,--it
is still claimed that the Government has the right to pursue this policy until Slavery is abolished,
and forever prohibited, within all the Rebel States.

Though we speak of the Rebellion as an "insurrection," it has assumed such proportions that
we are in a state of actual war. Nor does it make any difference that it is a civil war. It
has just been decided by the Supreme Court of the United States, that we have the same rights
against the people and States in rebellion, by the law of nations, that we should have against
alien enemies. The property of non-combatants is liable to confiscation, as enemies' property;
and it makes no difference that some of them are personally loyal. All the inhabitants of the
Rebel States have the rights of enemies only. The recent cases of the Brilliant, Hiawatha,
and Amy Warwick settle this beyond all question. There was some difference of opinion among
the judges, but only on the question whether this condition preceded the Act of Congress of
July, 1861,--a majority holding that it did, commencing with the proclamation of the blockade.
So that it cannot be denied that we may treat the Rebel States as enemies, and adopt all measures
against them which any belligerents engaged in a just war may adopt.

And no principle of the law of nations is more universally admitted than this,--that the party
in the right, after the war is commenced, may continue to carry it on until the enemy shall
submit to such terms as will be a sufficient indemnity for all the losses and expenses caused
by it, and will prevent another war in the future. And to this end he may conquer and hold
in subjection people and territory, until such terms are submitted to. And until then, the
state of war continues. The right to impose such terms as will secure peace in the future is
one of the fundamental principles of international law.

"Of the absolute international rights of States," says Mr. Wheaton, "one of the most essential
and important, and that which lies at the foundation of all the rest, is the right of self-preservation.
This right necessarily involves all other incidental rights which are essential as means to
give effect to the principal end."

"The end of a just war," says Vattel, "is to avenge, or prevent, injury."

"If the safety of the State lies at stake, our precaution and foresight cannot be extended
too far. Must we delay to arrest our ruin until it has become inevitable?"

"Where the end is lawful, he who has the right to pursue that end has, of course, a right to
employ all the means necessary for its attainment."

"When the conqueror has totally subdued a nation, he undoubtedly may, in the first place, do
himself justice respecting the object which had given rise to the war, and indemnify himself
for the expenses and damages sustained by it; he may, according to the exigency of the case,
subject the nation to punishment by way of example; and he may, if prudence require it, render
her incapable of doing mischief with the same ease in future."

"Every nation," says Chancellor Kent, "has an undoubted right to provide for its own safety,
and to take due precaution against distant, as well as impending danger."

Our rights as belligerents, therefore, are ample for our security in time to come. The Rebel
States will not cease to be enemies by being defeated and exhausted and disabled from continuing
active hostilities. They have invoked the laws of war, and they must abide the decision of
the tribunal to which they have appealed. We may hold them as enemies until they submit to
such reasonable terms of peace as we may demand. Whether we shall require any indemnity for
the vast expenditures and losses to which we have been subjected is a question of great magnitude;
but it is of little importance compared with that of guarding against a recurrence of the Rebellion,
by removing the cause of it. It would be worse than madness to restore them to all their former
rights under the government they have done their utmost to destroy, and at the same time permit
them to retain a system that would surely involve us or our children in another struggle of
the same kind.

Slavery and freedom cannot permanently coexist under the same government. There is an inevitable,
perpetual, irrepressible conflict between them. The present rebellion is but the culmination
of this conflict, long existing,--transferred from social and political life to the camp and
the battle-field. In the new arena, we have all the rights of belligerents in an international
war. Slavery has taken the sword; let it perish by the sword. If we spare it, its wickedness
will be exceeded by our folly. As victors, the world concedes our right to demand, for our
own future peace, as the only terms of restoration, not only the abolition of Slavery in all
the Rebel States, but its prohibition in all coming time. It cannot be, that, with the terrible
lessons of these passing years, we shall be so utterly destitute of wisdom and prudence as
to leave our children exposed to the dangers of another rebellion, after entailing upon them
the vast burdens of this, by our national debt.

It has been said, that, if Slavery should be abolished, the States could afterwards reestablish
it. This is claimed, on the ground that every State may determine for itself the character
of its own domestic institutions. The right to do so has been conceded to some of the new States.

But it should be remembered that this right has been, to establish Slavery by bringing in slaves
from the old States,--not by taking citizens of the United States, and reducing them to slavery.
If one such citizen can be enslaved, then can any other; and the very foundations of the Federal
Government can be overturned by a State. For a government that cannot protect its own citizens
from loss of citizenship by being chattellized is no government at all.

Citizenship is a reciprocal relation. The citizen owes allegiance; the government owes protection.
When a person is naturalized, he takes the oath of allegiance. Does he got nothing in return?
Can a State annul all the rights which the Federal Government has conferred? Then, indeed,
would it be better for those who come to our shores to remain citizens of the old nations;
for they could protect them, but we cannot. Then, to be a citizen of the United States--a privilege
we had thought greater than that of Roman citizenship when that empire was in its glory--is
a privilege which any State may annul at its pleasure!

The power and position of a nation depend upon the number, wealth, intelligence, and power
of its citizens. And the nation, in order to employ and develop its resources, must have free
scope for the use of its powers. No State has a right to block the path of the United States,
or in any way to "retard, impede, or burden it, in the execution of its powers." For this reason,
if a citizen is wealthy enough to lend money to the Federal Government, a State cannot tax
his scrip to the amount of one cent. But, if the doctrine contended for by some is sound, then
it may take the citizen himself, confiscate the whole of his property, blot out his citizenship,
and make a chattel of him, and the Federal Government can afford him no protection! Among all
the doctrines that Slavery has originated in this country, there is none more monstrous than this.

But this is not a question of any practical importance at this time. There is no danger that
Slavery will ever be tolerated where it has been once abolished. It may go into new fields;
it seldom returns to those from which it has been driven. The institutions of learning and
religion that follow in the path of freedom, if they find a congenial soil, are not likely
to be supplanted by the dark and noxious exotics of ignorance and barbarism.

And besides, as we have already seen, it is our right, as one of the conditions of restoration,
to provide for the perpetual prohibition of Slavery within the Rebel States. This, like the
Ordinance of 1787, will stand as an insurmountable barrier in all time to come. And the security
it will afford will be even more certain. For, while there may be a difference of opinion in
regard to the effect of a law of Congress relating to existing Territories, there is no doubt
that conditions imposed at the time upon the admission of new States, or the restoration of
the Rebel States, will be of perpetual obligation.

RIGHTS OF REBEL STATES.

On this subject there are two theories, each of which has advocates among our most eminent
statesmen.

By some it is claimed that the Rebels have lost all rights as citizens of States, and are in
the condition of the inhabitants of unorganized territories belonging to the United States,--and
that, having forfeited their rights, they can never be restored to their former position, except
by the consent of the Federal Government. This consent may be given by admitting them as new
States, or restoring them as old,--the Government having the right in either case to annex
terms and conditions.

There are others who contend that the Rebel States, though in rebellion, have lost none of
their rights as States,--that the moment they submit they may choose members of Congress and
Presidential electors, and demand, and we must concede, the same position they formerly held.
This theory has been partially recognized by the present Administration, but not to an extent
that precludes the other from being adopted, if it is right.

If the people of the States which have seceded, as soon as they submit, have an absolute right
to resume their former position in the Government, with their present constitutions upholding
Slavery, it certainly will be a great, if not an insurmountable, obstacle to the adoption of
those measures which may be necessary to secure our peace in the future. That they have no
such right, it is believed may be made perfectly clear.

If we triumph, we shall have all the rights which, by the laws of nations, belong to conquerors
in a just war. In a civil war, the rights of conquest may not be of the same nature as in a
war between different nations; but that there are such rights in all wars has already been
stated on the highest authority. If a province, having definite constitutional rights, revolts,
and attempts to overthrow the power of the central government, it would be a strange doctrine,
to claim, that, after being subdued, it had risked and lost nothing by the undertaking. No
authority can be found to sustain such a proposition. A rebellion puts everything at risk.
Any other doctrine would hold out encouragement to all wicked and rebellious spirits. If they
revolt, they know that everything is staked upon the chances of success. Everything is lost
by defeat. By the laws of war, long established among the nations,--laws which the Rebel States
have themselves invoked,--if they fail, they will have no right to be restored, except upon
such terms as our Government may prescribe. The right to make war, conferred by the Constitution,
carries with it all the rights and powers incident to a war, necessary for its successful prosecution,
and essential to prevent its recurrence.

But without resorting to the extraordinary powers incident to a state of war, the same conclusion,
in regard to the effect of a rebellion by a State Government, results from the relations which
the States sustain to the Federal Government. Though they cannot escape its jurisdiction, their
position, as States, is one which may be forfeited and lost.

It has been objected that this doctrine is equivalent to a recognition of the right of Secession,
because it concedes the power of any one State to withdraw from the Union. But the fallacy
of this objection is easily demonstrated.

The Federal Government does not emanate from the States, but directly from the people. The
relation between them is that of protection on the one hand and allegiance on the other. This
relation cannot be dissolved by either party, unless by voluntary or compulsory expatriation.
It subsists alike in States and Territories, not being dependent upon any local government.
The Rebels claim the right to dissolve this relation, and to become free from and independent
of the Federal Government, though retaining the same territory as before. We deny any such
right, and hold, that, though they may forfeit their rights as a State, they are still bound
by, and under the jurisdiction of, the Federal Government. This jurisdiction, though absolute
in all places, is not the same in all.

In the District of Columbia, and in all unorganized territories, the jurisdiction of the Federal
Government is exclusive in its extent, as well as in its nature. It must protect the inhabitants
in all their rights,--for there is no other power to protect them. They owe allegiance to it,
and to no other.

The inhabitants of the organized territories, though under the general jurisdiction of the
Federal Government, are, to some extent, under the jurisdiction of the Territorial Governments.
Each is bound to protect them in certain things; they are bound to support and obey each in
certain things.

The people of a State are also under the absolute jurisdiction of the Federal Government in
all matters embraced in the Constitution. They owe it unqualified allegiance and support in
those things. But they are also, in some matters, under the jurisdiction of the State Government,
and owe allegiance to that. There are many matters over which both have jurisdiction, and in
which the citizens have a right to look to each, or both, for protection. The courts of each
issue writs of habeas corpus, and give the citizens their liberty, unless there is legal cause
for their custody or restraint.

Now, if a State Government forfeits all right to the allegiance and support of its citizens,
they are not thereby absolved from their allegiance to the Federal Government. On the contrary,
the jurisdiction of the Federal Government is thereby enlarged; for it is then the only Government
which the citizens are bound to obey. Take, for illustration, the State of Arkansas. By seceding,
the State Government forfeited all claim to the obedience of the citizens. The inhabitants
no longer owe it any allegiance. If loyal, they will not obey it, except as compelled by force.
But they still owe allegiance to the United States Government. And there being no other Government
which they are bound to obey, they are in the same condition as before the State was admitted
into the Union, or any Territorial Government was organized.

The same is true of South Carolina. For, though it was an independent State before the Constitution
was adopted, its citizens voluntarily yielded up that position, and became subject to the Federal
Government, claiming the privileges and assuming the liabilities of a higher citizenship. And
if, by reason of its rebellion, their State Government has forfeited its claim upon them, and
its right to rule over them, they owe no allegiance to any except the Government of the United
States.

But it is argued by some, that a State, once admitted into the Union, cannot forfeit its rights
as a State under the Constitution, because it cannot, as such, be guilty of treason; that the
inhabitants may all be traitors, and the State Government secede, and engage in a war against
the Republic, and yet retain all its rights intact.

A State, in the meaning of public law, has been defined to be a body of persons united together
in one community, for the defence of their rights. They do not constitute a State until organized.
If the organization ceases to exist, they are no longer a State. If the State organization
becomes despotic, and the inhabitants overthrow it by a revolution, it then ceases to exist.
The people are remitted to their original rights, and must organize a new State.

A State, as such, may be guilty of treason. Crimes may be committed by organized bodies of
men. Corporations are often convicted, and punished by fines, or by a forfeiture of all corporate
rights. And though we have no provision for putting a State on trial, it may, as a State, be
guilty. Treason is defined by the Constitution to be "levying war against the United States."
This is just what South Carolina, as a State, is doing. Not only the people, but the State
Government, has revolted. The people owe it no allegiance. It is their duty, not to support,
but to oppose it. The Federal Government owes it no recognition. It has the right to destroy
and exterminate it. A State Government in rebellion has no rights under the Constitution. It
is itself a rebellion, and must necessarily cease to exist when the rebellion is suppressed.

And when the State Government which has revolted shall be conquered and overthrown, there will
then be no South Carolina in existence. If there were loyal people enough there, bond or free,
to rise up and overthrow it, they would be no more bound to revive the old Constitution, with
its tyrannical provisions, than were our fathers to return to the British Government. Such
a revolution is inaugurated in that State, by loyal men, to overthrow the despotic power of
the State Government. If the State Government had remained loyal, it might have called on the
Federal Government. But by seceding it has justified the Federal Government in aiding or organizing
a revolution against it, for its utter overthrow and extinction.

It is true, indeed, the idea prevails that there is still, somehow, a State of South Carolina,
besides that which is in rebellion. But the State must exist in fact, or it has no existence.
There is no such thing as a merely theoretical State, separate and different from the actual.
The revolted States are the same States that were once loyal. And when some loyal citizens
in each of them, with the aid of the Federal Government, have overthrown and destroyed them,
the ground will be cleared for the formation of new States, or the reorganization of the old;
and they may be admitted or restored, upon such conditions as may be deemed wise and prudent,
to promote and secure the future peace and welfare of the whole country.

There is no evidence that loyal persons in the Rebel States claim or desire to uphold the existence
of those States, under their present constitutions, with the system of Slavery. But if there
are any such persons, their wishes are not to override the interests of the Republic. It is
their misfortune to reside in States that have revolted; and all their losses, pecuniary and
political, are chargeable to those States, and not to the Federal Government. If they are so
blind as to suppose that their losses will be increased by emancipation, that, also, will be
chargeable to the rebellion of those States. Their loyalty does not save those States from
being treated as enemies; it does not prevent their own condition from being determined by
that of their States. As it is well known, a portion of their property has been confiscated
by an Act of Congress, on the ground that they are, in part, responsible for the rebellion
of those States. The theory, therefore, that such loyal men constitute loyal States, still
existing, in distinction from the States that have rebelled, is utterly groundless. On this
point we cannot do better than quote from the opinion of the Supreme Court of the United States
in a case already referred to, sustaining the belligerent legislation of Congress.

"In organizing this rebellion, they have acted as States, claiming to be sovereign over all
persons and property within their respective limits, and claiming the right to absolve their
citizens from their allegiance to the Federal Government. Several of these States have combined
to form a new Confederacy, claiming to be acknowledged by the world as a sovereign State. Their
right to do so is now being decided by wager of battle. The ports and territory of each of
these States are held in hostility to the General Government. It is no loose, unorganized insurrection,
having no defined boundary or possession. It has a boundary, marked by lines of bayonets, and
which can be crossed only by force. South of this line is enemy's territory, because it is
claimed and held in possession by an organized, hostile, and belligerent power. All persons
residing within this territory, whose property may be used to increase the revenues of the
hostile power, are in this contest liable to be treated as enemies."

It is not to be presumed that Congress will do anything unnecessarily to add to the misfortunes
of loyal men in the South. On the contrary, all that is being done is more directly for their
benefit than for that of any other class of men. The vast expenditure of treasure and blood
in this war is for the purpose of protecting them first of all, and restoring to them the blessings
of a good government. And if it shall be found practicable to indemnify them for all losses,
whether by emancipation or otherwise, no one will object.

       *       *       *       *       *

The object of this article is to prove that the Government possesses ample power, according
to the law of nations, to suppress the Rebellion, and secure the country against the danger
of another, by Emancipation, through the military power; that, though Emancipation is a policy,
and not a law, the war may be prosecuted until this end is accomplished, and Slavery in future
forever prohibited; that, by secession and rebellion, the revolted States have forfeited all
right to the allegiance of their citizens, who are thereby remitted to the condition and rights
of citizens solely of the United States; and that the Federal Government, as well under the
Constitution as by right of conquest, may impose such terms upon the reorganization and restoration
of those States as may be necessary to secure present safety, and avert danger in time to come.
These views are presented in as brief and simple terms as possible, with the hope that they
may be adopted by the people and by the Government. It is confidently believed, that, if the
President and Congress will act in accordance with them, their acts will be fully sustained
by the Supreme Court,--and that, the element and source of discord being at last entirely removed
from the country, a career of peace and prosperity will then begin which shall be the admiration
of the world.

At this time we present a humiliating spectacle to other nations: nearly half of our national
temple in ruins,--the work of blind folly and mad ambition. The people of the North claimed
no right to tear it down, or even to repair it. But since the people of the South have risen
in rebellion, let us believe that there is now an opportunity, nay, an imperative necessity,
to remove from its foundations the rock of Oppression, that was sure to crumble in the refining
fires of a Christian civilization, and establish in its place the stone of LIBERTY,--unchanging
and eternal as its Author. Let us rejoice in the hope, already brightening into fruition, that
out of these ruins our temple shall rise again, in a fresher beauty, a firmer strength, a brighter
glory,--and above it again shall float the old flag, every star restored, henceforth to all,
of every color and every race, the flag of the free.

       *       *       *       *       *

REVIEWS AND LITERARY NOTICES.

Journal of a Residence on a Georgian Plantation in 1838-39. By FRANCES ANNE KEMBLE. New York:
Harper & Brothers.

Those who remember the "Journal of a Residence in America," of Frances Anne Kemble, or, as
she was universally and kindly called, Fanny Kemble,--a book long since out of print, and entirely
out of the knowledge of our younger readers,--will not cease to wonder, as they close these
thoughtful, tranquil, and tragical pages. The earlier journal was the dashing, fragmentary
diary of a brilliant girl, half impatient of her own success in an art for which she was peculiarly
gifted, yet the details of which were sincerely repugnant to her. It crackled and sparkled
with naïve arrogance. It criticized a new world and fresh forms of civilization with the amusing
petulance of a spoiled daughter of John Bull. It was flimsy, flippant, laughable, rollicking,
vivid. It described scenes and persons, often with airy grace, often with profound and pensive
feeling. It was the slightest of diaries, written in public for the public; but it was universally
read, as its author had been universally sought and admired in the sphere of her art; and no
one who knew anything of her truly, but knew what an incisive eye, what a large heart, what
a candid and vigorous mind, what real humanity, generosity, and sympathy, characterized Miss
Kemble.

The dazzling phantasmagoria which life had been to the young actress was suddenly exchanged
for the most practical acquaintance with its realities. She was married, left the stage, and
as a wife and mother resided for a winter on the plantations of her husband upon the coast
of Georgia. And now, after twenty-five years, the journal of her residence there is published.
It has been wisely kept. For never could such a book speak with such power as at this moment.
The tumult of the war will be forgotten, as you read, in the profound and appalled attention
enforced by this remarkable revelation of the interior life of Slavery. The spirit, the character,
and the purpose of the Rebellion are here laid bare. Its inevitability is equally apparent.
The book is a permanent and most valuable chapter in our history; for it is the first ample,
lucid, faithful, detailed account, from the actual head-quarters of a slave-plantation in this
country, of the workings of the system,--its persistent, hopeless, helpless crushing of humanity
in the slave, and the more fearful moral and mental dry-rot it generates in the master.

We have had plenty of literature upon the subject. First of all, in spirit and comprehension,
the masterly, careful, copious, and patient works of Mr. Olmsted. But he, like Arthur Young
in France, was only an observer. He could be no more. "Uncle Tom," as its "Key" shows, and
as Mrs. Kemble declares, was no less a faithful than the most famous witness against the system.
But it was a novel. Then there was "American Slavery as it is," a work of authenticated facts,
issued by the American Anti-Slavery Society in 1839, and the fearful mass of testimony incessantly
published by the distinctively Abolition papers, periodicals, books, and orators, during the
last quarter of a century. But the world was deaf. "They have made it a business. They select
all the horrors. They accumulate exceptions." Such were the objections that limited the power
of this tremendous battery. Meanwhile, also, it was answered. Foreign tourists were taken to
"model plantations." They shed tears over the patriarchal benignity of this venerable and beautiful
provision of Divine Providence for the spiritual training of our African fellow-creatures.
The affection of "Mammy" for "Massa and Missis" was something unknown where hired labor prevailed.
Graver voices took up the burden of the song. There was no pauperism in a slave-country. There
were no prostitutes. It had its disadvantages, certainly; but what form of society, what system
of labor has not? Besides, here it was. It was the interest of slaveholders to be kind. And
what a blessing to bring the poor heathen from benighted Africa and pagan servitude to the
ennobling influences of Slavery, as practised among Southwestern Christians in America, and
"professors" in South Carolina and Georgia! See the Reverend Mr. Adams and Miss Murray passim.
This was the answer made to the statements of the actual facts of the system, when it was found
that the question had gone before public opinion, and would be decided upon its merits by that
tribunal, all the panders, bullies, assassins, apologists, and chaplains of Slavery to the
contrary notwithstanding. In fact, when that was once clearly perceived, the issue was no less
visible; only whether it were to be reached by war or peace was not so plain.

Yet in all this tremendous debate which resounds through the last thirty years of our history,
rising and swelling until every other sound was lost in its imperious roar, one decisive voice
was silent. It was precisely that which is heard in this book. General statements, harrowing
details from those who had been slaveholders, and who had renounced Slavery, were sometimes
made public. Indeed, the most cruel and necessary incidents, the hunting with blood-hounds,
the branding, the maiming, the roasting, the whipping of pregnant women, could not be kept
from knowledge. They blazed into print. But the public, hundreds of miles away, while it sighed
and shuddered a little, resolved that such atrocities were exceptional. 'Twas a shocking pity,
to be sure! Poor things! Women, too! Tut, tut!

Now, at last, we have no general statement, no single, sickening incident, but the diary of
the mistress of plantations of seven hundred slaves, living under the most favorable circumstances,
upon the islands at the mouth of the Altamaha River, in Georgia. It is a journal, kept from
day to day, of the actual ordinary life of the plantation, where the slaves belonged to educated,
intelligent, and what are called the most respectable people,--not persons imbruted by exile
among slaves upon solitary islands, but who had lived in large Northern cities and the most
accomplished society, subject to all the influences of the highest civilization. It is the
journal of a hearty, generous, clear-sighted woman, who went to the plantation, loving the
master, and believing, that, though Slavery might be sad, it might also be mitigated, and the
slave might be content. It is the record of ghastly undeceiving,--of the details of a system
so wantonly, brutally, damnably unjust, inhuman, and degrading, that it blights the country,
paralyzes civilization, and vitiates human nature itself. The brilliant girl of the earlier
journal is the sobered and solemnized matron of this. The very magnitude of the misery that
surrounds her, the traces of which everywhere sadden her eye and wring her heart, compel her
to the simplest narration. There is no writing for effect. There is not a single "sensational"
passage. The story is monotonous; for the wrong it describes is perpetual and unrelieved.

As the mistress of the plantation, she was brought into constant intercourse with the slave-women;
and no other account of this class is so thorough and plainly stated. So pitiful a tale was
seldom told. It was a "model plantation"; but every day was darkened to the mistress by the
appeals of these women and her observation of their condition. The heart of the reader sickens
as hers despaired. To produce "little niggers" for Massa and Missis was the enforced ambition
of these poor women. After the third week of confinement they were sent into the fields to
work. If they lingered or complained, they were whipped. For beseeching the mistress to pray
for some relief in their sad straits, they were also whipped. If their tasks were unperformed,
or the driver lost his temper, they were whipped again. If they would not yield to the embrace
of the overseer, they were whipped once more. How are they whipped? What a blessing for these
poor heathen that they are brought to a Christian land! When a band of pregnant women came
to their master to implore relief from overwork, he seemed "positively degraded" to his wife,
as he stood urging them to do their allotted tasks. She began to fear lest she should cease
to respect the man she loved; "for the details of slaveholding are so unmanly, letting alone
every other consideration, that I know not how any one with the spirit of a man can condescend
to them." The master gives a slave as a present to an overseer whose administration of the
estate was agreeable to him. The slave is intelligent and capable, the husband of a wife and
the father of children, and they are all fondly attached to each other. He passionately declares
that he will kill himself rather than follow his new master and leave wife and children behind.
Roused by the storm of grief, the wife opens the door of her room, and beholds her husband,
with his arms folded, advising his slave "not to make a fuss about what there is no help for."
The same master insists that there is no hardship or injustice in whipping a woman who asks
his wife to intercede for her, but confesses that it is "disagreeable." At last he tells her
that she must no longer fatigue him with the "stuff" and "trash" which "the niggers," who are
"all d----d liars," make her believe, and henceforward closes his ears to all complaint.

Yet this was a model plantation, and this was probably not a hard master, as masters go.

And yet this is the system which we have been in the habit of calling patriarchal, because
the model masters said it was so, and trade was too prosperous to allow any difference with
them! And these are the model masters, supported in luxury by all this unpaid labor and untold
woe, these women-whippers and breeders of babies for sale, who have figured in our talk and
imaginations as "the chivalry" and "gentlemen"! These are they to whom American society has
koo-too'd, and in whose presence it has been ill-bred and uncourteous to say that every man
has rights, that every laborer is worthy of his hire, that injustice is unjust, and uncleanness
foul. No wonder that Russell, coming to New York, and finding the rich men and the political
confederates of the conspirators declaring that the Government of the United States could not
help itself, and that they would allow no interference with their Southern friends, sincerely
believed what he wished to, and wrote to John Bull, whose round face was red with eager desire
to hear it, that the Revolution was virtually accomplished. No wonder that the haughty slaveholders,
smeared with sycophantic slime, at Newport, at Saratoga, in the "polite" and "conservative"
Northern circles, believed what Mr. Hunter of Virginia told a Massachusetts delegate to the
Peace Congress,--that there would be no serious trouble, and that the Montgomery Constitution
would be readily adopted by the "conservative" sentiment of the North.

Mrs. Kemble's book shows what the miserable magic is that enchants these Southern American
citizens into people whose philosophy of society would disgrace the Dark Ages, and whose social
system is that of Dahomey.

The life that she describes upon the model plantation is the necessary life of Slavery everywhere,--injustice,
ignorance, superstition, terror, degradation, brutality; and this is the system to which a
great political party--counting upon the enervation of prosperity, the timidity of trade, the
distance of the suffering, the legal quibbles, the moral sophisms, the hatred of ignorance,
the jealousy of race, and the possession of power--has conspired to keep the nation blind and
deaf, trusting that its mind was utterly obscured and its conscience wholly destroyed.

But the nation is young, and of course the effort has ended in civil war. Slavery, industrially
and politically, inevitably resists Christian civilization. The natural progress and development
of men into a constantly higher manhood must cease, or this system, which strives to convert
men into things, must give way. Its haughty instinct knows it, and therefore Slavery rebels.
This Rebellion is simply the insurrection of Barbarism against Civilization. It would overthrow
the Government, not for any wrong the Government has done, for that is not alleged. It knows
that the people are the Government,--that the spirit of the people is progressive and intelligent,--and
that there is no hope for permanent and expansive injustice, so long as the people freely discuss
and decide. It would therefore establish a new Government, of which this meanest and most beastly
despotism shall be the chief corner-stone. In a letter to C.G., in the appendix of her book,
Mrs. Kemble sets this truth in the clearest light. But whoever would comprehend the real social
scope of the Rebellion should ponder every page of the journal itself. It will show him that
Slavery and rebellion to this Government are identical, not only in fact, but of necessity.
It will teach him that the fierce battle between Slavery and the Government, once engaged,
can end only in the destruction of one or the other.

This is not a book which a woman like Mrs. Kemble publishes without a solemn sense of responsibility.
A sadder book the human hand never wrote, nor one more likely to arrest the thoughts of all
those in the world who watch our war and are yet not steeled to persuasion and conviction.
An Englishwoman, she publishes it in England, which hates us, that a testimony which will not
be doubted may be useful to the country in which she has lived so long, and with which her
sweetest and saddest memories are forever associated. It is a noble service nobly done. The
enthusiasm, the admiration, the affection, which in our day of seemingly cloudless prosperity
greeted the brilliant girl, have been bountifully repaid by the true and timely words now spoken
in our seeming adversity by the grave and thoughtful woman. Read before the Massachusetts Historical
Society, August 14, 1862. By GEORGE LIVERMORE. Third Edition. Boston: A. Williams & Co.

This Historical Research is one of the most valuable works that have been called out by the
existing Rebellion. It is a thorough and candid exposition of the opinions of the founders
of the Republic on negroes as slaves, as citizens, and as soldiers, and has done more, perhaps,
than any other single essay to form the public opinion of the present time in respect to the
position that the negro should rightfully hold in our State and our army. It has, therefore,
and will retain, a double interest, as exhibiting and illustrating the opinions prevalent during
the two most important periods of our history. It was first printed, several months since,
for private distribution only. More than a thousand copies were thus distributed by its public-spirited
author. By this means the attention of persons in positions of influence was more readily secured
than it could have been, had the essay been published in the ordinary way. The manner in which
the research was conducted, the evidence afforded by every page of the author's conscientious
labor, impartial selection, and exhaustive investigation, won immediate confidence in his statements,
while his obvious candor, fairness of judgment, and love of truth secured respect for his conclusions.
The interest excited by the work extended to a wider circle than could be satisfied by any
private issue, while its value became more and more evident, so that, after its publication
in the Proceedings of the Massachusetts Historical Society, the permission of the author was
obtained by the New-England Loyal Publication Society to issue the work in a form for general
circulation.

We are glad to assist, by our hearty commendation, the extension of the influence of this essay.
It forms, as now issued, a handsome pamphlet of two hundred pages, with a full Table of Contents
and a copious Index, and is for sale at a price which brings it within the means of every one
who may wish to obtain it. It is a book which should be in the reading-room of every Loyal
League throughout the country, and of every military hospital. Editors of the loyal press should
be provided with it, as containing an arsenal of incontrovertible arguments with which to meet
the false assertions by which the maligners of the negro race and the supporters of Slavery
too often undertake to maintain their bad cause.

Exhibiting, as Mr. Livermore's book does, the contrast between the opinions of the founders
of the Republic and those professed by the would-be destroyers of the Republic, and showing,
as it does, how far a large portion even of the people of the North have fallen away from the
just and generous doctrine of the earlier time, it must lead every thoughtful reader to a deep
sense of the need of a regeneration of the spirit of the nation, and to a confirmed conviction
of the incompatibility of Slavery with national greatness and virtue. The Rebellion has taught
us that the Republic is not safe while Slavery is permitted to exercise any political power.
It ought to teach us also, that, as long as Slavery exists in any of the States, it will not
cease to exercise political power, and that the only means to make the nation safe is utterly
to abolish and destroy Slavery, wherever it is found within its limits. Nor is this all; the
lesson of the Rebellion is but half learned, unless we resolve that henceforth there shall
be no fatal division between our consciences, our principles, our theories, and our treatment
of the black race, and unless we acknowledge their inalienable right to that justice by which
alone the most ancient heavens and the most sacred institutions are fresh and strong.

There is no better textbook for enforcing these lessons than Mr. Livermore's Research.

       *       *       *       *       *

RECENT AMERICAN PUBLICATIONS

RECEIVED BY THE EDITORS OF THE ATLANTIC MONTHLY.

"Christopher North." A Memoir of John Wilson, late Professor of Moral Philosophy in the University
of Edinburgh. Compiled from Family-Papers and other Sources. By his Daughter, Mrs. Gordon.
With an Introduction by R. Shelton Mackenzie, D.C.L., Editor of the "Noctes Ambrosianæ," etc.
Complete in One Volume. New York. W.J. Widdleton. 8vo. pp. xii., 484. $2.00.

Alphabetical Army-Register; giving the Names, Date of Present and Original Commissions, Rank,
Place of Nativity, and from whence Appointed, of all the Officers of the United States Army,
as shown by the Official Army-Register, May, 1863. New York. D. Van Nostrand. 8vo. paper, pp.
64. Collected and edited by James Spedding, M.A., of Trinity College, Cambridge; Robert Leslie
Ellis, M.A., late Fellow of Trinity College, Cambridge; and Douglas Denon Heath, Barrister-at-Law,
late Fellow of Trinity College, Cambridge. Vol. VI. Boston. Taggard & Thompson. 12mo. pp. 450.
$1.50.

Money. By Charles Moran. New York. D. Appleton & Co. 12mo. pp. 228. $1.00.

The Crisis. New York. D. Appleton & Co. 8vo. paper, pp. 95. 50 cts.

Chemistry. By William Thomas Brande, D.C.L., F.R.S.L. and E., of Her Majesty's Mint, Member
of the Senate of the University of London, and Honorary Professor of Chemistry in the Royal
Institution of Great Britain; and Alfred Swaine Taylor, M.D., F.R.S., Fellow of the Royal College
of Physicians of London, and Professor of Chemistry and Medical Jurisprudence in Guy's Hospital.
Philadelphia. Blanchard & Lea. 8vo. pp. 696. $3.50.

The Life and Letters of Washington Irving. By his Nephew, Pierre M. Irving. New York. G.P.
Putnam. 12mo. pp. 403. $1.50.

Lectures on the Symbolic Character of the Sacred Scriptures. By Rev. Abiel Silver, Minister
of the New Jerusalem Church in New York. New York. D. Appleton & Co. 12mo. pp. 286. $1.25.

Evidence as to Man's Place in Nature. By Thomas H. Huxley, F.R.S., F.L.S., Professor of Natural
History in the Jermyn-Street School of Mines. New York. D. Appleton & Co. 12mo. pp. 184. $1.25.

United States Infantry Tactics, for the Instruction, Exercise, and Manoeuvres of the Soldier,
a Company, Line of Skirmishers, and Battalion; for the Use of the Colored Troops of the United
States Infantry. Prepared under Direction of the War Department. New York. D. Van Nostrand.
18mo. pp. 445. $1.50.

