A
                    SYSTEM OF INSTRUCTION
                            IN
                     THE PRACTICAL USE
                            OF
                       THE BLOWPIPE.

   BEING A GRADUATED COURSE OF ANALYSIS FOR THE USE OF STUDENTS
      AND ALL THOSE ENGAGED IN THE EXAMINATION OF METALLIC
                       COMBINATIONS.

                        NEW YORK:
               H. BAILLIÈRE, 290 BROADWAY,
              AND 219 REGENT STREET, LONDON.

      PARIS: J.B. BAILLIÈRE ET FILS, RUE HAUTEFEUILLE.
      MADRID: C. BAILLY-BAILLIÈRE, CALLE DEL PRINCIPE.
                          1858.

       *       *       *       *       *

TABLE OF CONTENTS.

PART I.

Preface,                                                             7
The Use of the Blowpipe,                                             9
Utensils--The Blowpipe,                                             12
The Oil Lamp,                                                       22
The Spirit Lamp,                                                    23
Charcoal Support,                                                   24
Platinum Supports,                                                  26
Iron Spoons,                                                        28
Glass Tubes,                                                        28
Other Apparatus necessary,                                          31
THE REAGENTS,                                                       34
  Reagents of General Use,                                          34
  Carbonate of Soda,                                                34
  Hydrate of Baryta,                                                35
  Bi-sulphate of Potassa,                                           35
  Oxalate of Potassa,                                               36
  Cyanide of Potassium,                                             36
Nitrate of Potassa,                                                 37
  Borax,                                                            38
  Microcosmic Salt,                                                 39
  Nitrate of Cobalt,                                                40
  Tin,                                                              41
  Silica,                                                           42
  Test Papers,                                                      42
ESPECIAL REAGENTS,                                                  43
  Boracic Acid,                                                     43
  Fluorspar,                                                        43
  Oxalate of Nickel,                                                43
  Oxide of Copper,                                                  43
  Antimoniate of Potassa,                                           44
  Silver Foil,                                                      44
  Nitroprusside of Sodium,                                          44

PART II.

Initiatory Analysis,                                                47
Examination with the Glass Bulb,                                    47
      "     in the Open Tube,                                       52
      "     upon Charcoal,                                          55
      "     in the Platinum Forceps,                                61
      "     in the Borax Bead,                                      69
      "     in Microcosmic Salt,                                    72
Table I.--Colors of Beads of Borax and Microcosmic Salt,            75
Table II.--Behavior of Metallic Oxydes with Borax and
  Microcosmic Salt,                                                 85
Examinations with Carbonate of Soda,                               103

PART III.

Special Reactions,                                                 109
A.--METALLIC OXIDES:
  First Group.--The Alkalies: Potassa, Soda, Ammonia, and Lithia,  110
  Second Group.--The Alkaline Earths: Baryta, Strontia, Lime,
    and Magnesia,                                                  115
  Third Group.--The Earths: Alumina, Glucina, Yttria, Thorina,
    and Zirconia,                                                  121
  Fourth Group.--Cerium, Lanthanium, Didymium, Columbium,
    Niobium, Pelopium, Titanium, Uranium, Vanadium, Chromium,
    Manganese,                                                     124
  Fifth Group.--Iron, Cobalt, Nickel,                              135
  Sixth Group.--Zinc, Cadmium, Antimony, Tellurium,                140
  Seventh Group.--Lead, Bismuth, Tin,                              149
  Eighth Group.--Mercury, Arsenic,                                 157
  Ninth Group.--Copper, Silver, Gold,                              161
  Tenth Group.--Molybdenum, Osmium,                                165
  Eleventh Group.--Platinum, Palladium, Iridium, Rhodium,
    Ruthenium,                                                     167

Non-Metallic Substances,                                           168

Tabular Statement of the Reactions of Minerals before
    the Blowpipe,                                                  178
  Carbon and Organic Minerals,                                     181
  Potassa,                                                         184
  Soda,                                                            186
  Baryta and Strontia,                                             190
  Lime,                                                            192
  Magnesia,                                                        196
  Alumina,                                                         200
  Silicates,                                                       204
  Uranium,                                                         212
  Iron,                                                            214
  Manganese,                                                       222
  Nickel and Cobalt,                                               226
  Zinc,                                                            232
  Bismuth,                                                         234
  Lead,                                                            238
  Copper,                                                          248
  Antimony,                                                        256
  Arsenic,                                                         260
  Mercury,                                                         262
  Silver,                                                          264

       *       *       *       *       *

PREFACE.

It is believed the arrangement of the present work is superior to that of many of its predecessors,
as a vehicle for the facilitation of the student's progress. While it does not pretend to any
other rank than as an introduction to the larger works, it is hoped that the arrangement of
its matter is such that the beginner may more readily comprehend the entire subject of Blowpipe
Analysis than if he were to begin his studies by the perusal of the more copious works of Berzelius
and Plattner.

When the student shall have gone through these pages, and repeated the various reactions described,
then he will be fully prepared to enter upon the study of the larger works. To progress through
them will then be but a comparatively easy task.

The arrangement of this little work has been such as the author and his friends have considered
the best that could be devised for the purpose of facilitating the progress of the student.
Whether we have succeeded is left for the public to decide. The author is indebted to several
of his friends for valuable contributions and suggestions.

S.

CINCINNATI, June, 1857.

*       *       *       *       *

         THE BLOWPIPE.

*       *       *       *       *

Part First.

THE USE OF THE BLOWPIPE.

Perhaps during the last fifty years, no department of chemistry has been so enriched as that
relating to analysis by means of the Blowpipe.

Through the unwearied exertions of men of science, the use of this instrument has arrived to
such a degree of perfection, that we have a right to term its use, "Analysis in the dry way,"
in contradistinction to analysis "in the wet way." The manipulations are so simple and expeditious,
and the results so clear and characteristic, that the Blowpipe analysis not only verifies and
completes the results of analysis in the wet way, but it gives in many cases direct evidences
of the presence or absence of many substances, which would not be otherwise detected, but through
a troublesome and tedious process, involving both prolixity and time; for instance, the detection
of manganese in minerals.

Many substances have to go through Blowpipe manipulations before they can be submitted to an
analysis in the wet way. The apparatus and reagents employed are compendious and small in number,
so that they can be carried easily while on scientific excursions, a considerable advantage
for mineralogists and metallurgists.

The principal operations with the Blowpipe may be explained briefly as follows:

(a.) By Ignition is meant the exposure of a substance to such a degree of heat, that it glows
or emits light, or becomes red-hot. Its greatest value is in the separation of a volatile substance
from one less volatile, or one which is entirely fixed at the temperature of the flame. In
this case we only take cognizance of the latter or fixed substance, although in many instances
we make use of ignition for the purpose of changing the conditions of a substance, for example,
the sesquioxide of chromium (Cr^{2}O^{3}) in its insoluble modification; and as a preliminary
examination for the purpose of ascertaining whether the subject of inquiry be a combination
of an organic or inorganic nature.

The apparatus used for this purpose are crucibles of platinum or silver, platinum foil, a platinum
spoon, platinum wire or tongs, charcoal, glass tubes, and iron spoons.

(b.) Sublimation is that process by which we convert a solid substance into vapor by means
of a strong heat. These vapors are condensed by refrigeration into the solid form. It may be
termed a distillation of a solid substance. Sublimation is of great consequence in the detection
of many substances; for instance, arsenic, antimony, mercury, etc.

The apparatus used for the purposes of sublimation consist of glass tubes closed at one end.

(c.) Fusion.--Many substances when exposed to a certain degree of heat lose their solid form,
and are converted into a liquid. Those substances which do not become converted into the liquid
state by heat, are said to be infusible. It is a convenient classification to arrange substances
into those which are fusible with difficulty, and those which are easily fusible. Very often
we resort to fusion for the purpose of decomposing a substance, or to cause it to enter into
other combinations, by which means it is the more readily detected. If insoluble substances
are fused with others more fusible (reagents) for the purpose of causing a combination which
is soluble in water and acids, the operation is termed unclosing. These substances are particularly
the silicates and the sulphates of the alkaline earths. The usual reagents resorted to for
this purpose are carbonate of soda (NaO, CO^{2}), carbonate of potash (KO, CO^{2}), or still
better, a mixture of the two in equal parts. In some cases we use the hydrate of barytes (BaO,
HO) and the bisulphate of potash (KO, 2SO^{3}). The platinum spoon is generally used for this
manipulation.

Substances are exposed to fusion for the purpose of getting a new combination which has such
distinctive characteristics that we can class it under a certain group; or for the purpose
of ascertaining at once what the substance may be. The reagents used for this purpose are borax
(NaO, 2BrO^{3}) and the microcosmic salt (NaO, NH^{4}O, PO^{5}, HO). Charcoal and the platinum
wire are used as supports for this kind of operation.

(d.) Oxidation.--The chemical combination of any substance with oxygen is termed oxidation,
and the products are termed oxides. As these oxides have qualities differing from those which
are non-oxidized, it therefore frequently becomes necessary to convert substances into oxides;
or, if they are such, of a lower degree, to convert them into a higher degree of oxidation.
These different states of oxidation frequently present characteristic marks of identity sufficient
to enable us to draw conclusions in relation to the substance under examination. For instance,
the oxidation of manganese, of arsenic, etc. The conditions necessary for oxidation, are high
temperature and the free admission of air to the substance.

If the oxidation is effected through the addition of a substance containing oxygen (for instance,
the nitrate or chlorate of potash) and the heating is accompanied by a lively deflagration
and crackling noise, it is termed detonation. By this process we frequently effect the oxidation
of a substance, and thus we prove the presence or the absence of a certain class of substances.
For instance, if we detonate (as it is termed by the German chemists) the sulphide of antimony,
or the sulphide of arsenic with nitrate of potash, we get the nitrate of antimony, or the nitrate
of arsenic. The salts of nitric or chloric acid are determined by fusing them with the cyanide
of potassium, because the salts of these acids detonate.

(e.) Reduction.--If we deprive an oxidized substance of its oxygen, we term the process reduction.
This is effected by fusing the substance under examination with another which possesses a greater
affinity for oxygen. The agents used for reduction are hydrogen, charcoal, soda, cyanide of
potassium, etc. Substances generally, when in the unoxidized state, have such characteristic
qualities, that they cannot very readily be mistaken for others. For this reason, reduction
is a very excellent expedient for the purpose of discerning and classifying many substances.

B. UTENSILS.

We shall give here a brief description of the most necessary apparatus used for analysis in
the dry way, and of their use.

The Blowpipe is a small instrument, made generally out of brass, silver, or German silver,
and was principally used in earlier times for the purpose of soldering small pieces of metals
together. It is generally made in the form of a tube, bent at a right angle, but without a
sharp corner. The largest one is about seven inches long, and the smallest about two inches.
The latter one terminates with a small point, with a small orifice. The first use of the blowpipe
that we have recorded is that of a Swedish mining officer, who used it in the year 1738 for
chemical purposes, but we have the most meagre accounts of his operations. In 1758 another
Swedish mining officer, by the name of Cronstedt, published his "Use of the Blowpipe in Chemistry
and Mineralogy," translated into English, in 1770, by Van Engestroem. Bergman extended its
use, and after him Ghan and the venerable Berzelius (1821). The blowpipe most generally used
in chemical examinations is composed of the following parts: (Fig. 1.) A is a little reservoir
made air-tight by grinding the part B into it. This reservoir serves the purpose of retaining
the moisture with which the air from the mouth is charged. A small conical tube is fitted to
this reservoir. This tube terminates in a fine orifice. As this small point is liable to get
clogged up with soot, etc., it is better that it should be made of platinum, so that it may
be ignited. Two of these platinum tubes should be supplied, differing in the size of the orifice,
by which a stronger or lighter current of flame may be projected from it. Metals, such as brass
or German silver, are very liable to become dirty through oxidation, and when placed between
the lips are liable to impart a disagreeable taste. To avoid this, the top of the tube must
be supplied with a mouthpiece of ivory or horn C. The blowpipe here represented is the one
used by Ghan, and approved by Berzelius. The trumpet mouthpiece was adopted by Plattner; it
is pressed upon the lips while blowing, which is less tiresome than holding the mouthpiece
between the lips, although many prefer the latter mode.

Dr. Black's blowpipe is as good an instrument and cheaper. It consists of two tubes, soldered
at a right angle; the larger one, into which the air is blown, is of sufficient capacity to
serve as a reservoir.

A chemist can, with a blowpipe and a piece of charcoal, determine many substances without any
reagents, thus enabling him, even when travelling, to make useful investigations with means
which are always at his disposal. There are pocket blowpipes as portable as a pencil case,
such as Wollaston's and Mitscherlich's; these are objectionable for continued use as their
construction requires the use of a metallic mouthpiece. Mr. Casamajor, of New York, has made
one lately which has an ivory mouthpiece, and which, when in use, is like Dr. Black's.

The length of the blowpipe is generally seven or eight inches, but this depends very much upon
the visual angle of the operators. A short-sighted person, of course, would require an instrument
of less length than would suit a far-sighted person.

The purpose required of the blowpipe is to introduce a fine current of air into the flame of
a candle or lamp, by which a higher degree of heat is induced, and consequently combustion
is more rapidly accomplished.

By inspecting the flame of a candle burning under usual circumstances, we perceive at the bottom
of the flame a portion which is of a light blue color (a b), Fig. 2, which gradually diminishes
in size as it recedes from the wick, and disappears when it reaches the perpendicular side
of the flame. In the midst of the flame there is a dark nucleus with a conical form (c). This
is enveloped by the illuminating portion of the flame (d). At the exterior edge of the part
d we perceive a thin, scarcely visible veil, a, e, e, which is broader near the apex of the
flame. The action of the burning candle may be thus explained. The radiant heat from the flame
melts the tallow or wax, which then passes up into the texture of the wick by capillary attraction
until it reaches the glowing wick, where the heat decomposes the combustible matter into carbonated
hydrogen (C^{4}H^{4}), and into carbonic oxide (CO).

While these gases are rising in hot condition, the air comes in contact with them and effects
their combustion. The dark portion, c, of the flame is where the carbon and gases have not
a sufficiency of air for their thorough combustion; but gradually they become mixed with air,
although not then sufficient for complete combustion. The hydrogen is first oxidized or burnt,
and then the carbon is attacked by the air, although particles of carbon are separated, and
it is these, in a state of intense ignition, which produce the illumination. By bringing any
oxidizable substance into this portion of the flame, it oxidizes very quickly in consequence
of the high temperature and the free access of air. For that reason this part of the flame
is termed the oxidizing flame, while the illuminating portion, by its tendency to abstract
oxygen for the purpose of complete combustion, easily reduces oxidated substances brought into
it, and it is, therefore, called the flame of reduction. In the oxidizing flame, on the contrary,
all the carbon which exists in the interior of the flame is oxidized into carbonic acid (CO^{2})
and carbonic oxide (CO), while the blue color of the cone of the flame is caused by the complete
combustion of the carbonic oxide. These two portions of the flame--the oxidizing and the reducing--are
the principal agents of blowpipe analysis.

If we introduce a fine current of air into a flame, we notice the following: The air strikes
first the dark nucleus, and forcing the gases beyond it, mixes with them, by which oxygen is
mingled freely with them. This effects the complete combustion of the gases at a certain distance
from the point of the blowpipe. At this place the flame has the highest temperature, forming
there the point of a blue cone. The illuminated or reducing portion of the flame is enveloped
outside and inside by a very hot flame, whereby its own temperature is so much increased that
in this reduction-flame many substances will undergo fusion which would prove perfectly refractory
in a common flame. The exterior scarcely visible part loses its form, is diminished, and pressed
more to a point, by which its heating power is greatly increased.

The Blast of Air.--By using the blowpipe for chemical purposes, the effect intended to be produced
is an uninterrupted steady stream of air for many minutes together, if necessary, without an
instant's cessation. Therefore, the blowing can only be effected with the muscles of the cheeks,
and not by the exertion of the lungs. It is only by this means that a steady constant stream
of air can be kept up, while the lungs will not be injured by the deprival of air. The details
of the proper manner of using the blowpipe are really more difficult to describe than to acquire
by practice; therefore the pupil is requested to apply himself at once to its practice, by
which he will soon learn to produce a steady current of air, and to distinguish the different
flames from each other. We would simply say that the tongue must be applied to the roof of
the mouth, so as to interrupt the communication between the passage of the nostrils and the
mouth. The operator now fills his mouth with air, which is to be passed through the pipe by
compressing the muscles of the cheeks, while he breathes through the nostrils, and uses the
palate as a valve. When the mouth becomes nearly empty, it is replenished by the lungs in an
instant, while the tongue is momentarily withdrawn from the roof of the mouth. The stream of
air can be continued for a long time, without the least fatigue or injury to the lungs. The
easiest way for the student to accustom himself to the use of the blowpipe, is first to learn
to fill the mouth with air, and while the lips are kept firmly closed to breathe freely through
the nostrils. Having effected this much, he may introduce the mouthpiece of the blowpipe between
his lips. By inflating the cheeks, and breathing through the nostrils, he will soon learn to
use the instrument without the least fatigue. The air is forced through the tube against the
flame by the action of the muscles of the cheeks, while he continues to breathe without interruption
through the nostrils. Having become acquainted with this process, it only requires some practice
to produce a steady jet of flame. A defect in the nature of the combustible used, as bad oil,
such as fish oil, or oil thickened by long standing or by dirt, dirty cotton wick, or an untrimmed
one, or a dirty wickholder, or a want of steadiness of the hand that holds the blowpipe, will
prevent a steady jet of flame. But frequently the fault lies in the orifice of the jet, or
too small a hole, or its partial stoppage by dirt, which will prevent a steady jet of air,
and lead to difficulty. With a good blowpipe the air projects the entire flame, forming a horizontal,
blue cone of flame, which converges to a point at about an inch from the wick, with a larger,
longer, and more luminous flame enveloping it, and terminating to a point beyond that of the
blue flame.

To produce an efficient flame of oxidation, put the point of the blowpipe into the flame about
one third the diameter of the wick, and about one twelfth of an inch above it. This, however,
depends upon the size of the flame used. Blow strong enough to keep the flame straight and
horizontal, using the largest orifice for the purpose. Upon examining the flame thus produced,
we will observe a long, blue flame, a b, Fig. 3, which letters correspond with the same letters
in Fig. 2. But this flame has changed its form, and contains all the combustible gases. It
forms now a thin, blue cone, which converges to a point about an inch from the wick. This point
of the flame possesses the highest intensity of temperature, for there the combustion of the
gases is the most complete. In the original flame, the hottest part forms the external envelope,
but here it is compressed more into a point, forming the cone of the blue flame, and likewise
an envelope of flame surrounding the blue one, extending beyond it from a to c, and presenting
a light bluish or brownish color. The external flame has the highest temperature at d, but
this decreases from d to c.

If there is a very high temperature, the oxidation is not effected so readily in many cases,
unless the substance is removed a little from the flame; but if the heat be not too high, it
is readily oxidized in the flame, or near its cone. If the current of air is blown too freely
or violently into the flame, more air is forced there than is sufficient to consume the gases.
This superfluous air only acts detrimentally, by cooling the flame.

In general the operation proceeds best when the substance is kept at a dull red heat. The blue
cone must be kept free from straggling rays of the yellow or reduction flame. If the analysis
be effected on charcoal, the blast should not be too strong, as a part of the coal would be
converted into carbonic oxide, which would act antagonistically to the oxidation. The oxidation
flame requires a steady current of air, for the purpose of keeping the blue cone constantly
of the same length. For the purpose of acquiring practice, the following may be done: Melt
a little molybdenic acid with some borax, upon a platinum wire, about the sixteenth of an inch
from the point of the blue cone. In the pure oxidation flame, a clear yellowish glass is formed;
but as soon as the reduction flame reaches it, or the point of the blue cone touches it, the
color of the bead changes to a brown, which, finally, after a little longer blowing, becomes
quite dark, and loses its transparency. The cause of this is, that the molybdenic acid is very
easily reduced to a lower degree of oxidation, or to the oxide of molybdenum. The flame of
oxidation will again convert this oxide into the acid, and this conversion is a good test of
the progress of the student in the use of the blowpipe. In cases where we have to separate
a more oxidizable substance from a less one, we use with success the blue cone, particularly
if we wish to determine whether a substance has the quality, when submitted to heat in the
blue cone, of coloring the external flame.

A good reduction flame can be obtained by the use of a small orifice at the point of the blowpipe.
In order to produce such a flame, hold the point of the blowpipe higher above the wick, while
the nozzle must not enter the flame so far as in the production of the oxidation flame. The
point of the blowpipe should only touch the flame, while the current of air blown into it must
be stronger than into the oxidation flame. If we project a stream, in the manner mentioned,
into the flame, from the smaller side of the wick to the middle, we shall perceive the flame
changed to a long, narrow, luminous cone, a b, Fig. 4, the end a of which is enveloped by the
same dimly visible blueish colored portion of the flame a, c, which we perceive in the original
flame, with its point at c. The portion close above the wick, presenting the dull appearance,
is occasioned by the rising gases which have not supplied to them enough oxygen to consume
them entirely. The hydrogen is consumed, while the carbon is separated in a state of bright
ignition, and forms the internal flame.

Directly above the wick, the combustion of the gases is least complete, and forms there likewise,
as is the case in the free flame, a dark blue nucleus d.

If the oxide of a metal is brought into the luminous portion of the flame produced as above,
so that the flame envelopes the substance perfectly, the access of air is prevented. The partially
consumed gases have now a strong affinity for oxygen, under the influence of the intense heat
of that part of the flame. The substance is thus deprived of a part, or the whole, of its oxygen,
and becomes reduced according to the strength of the affinity which the substance itself has
for oxygen. If the reduction of a substance is undertaken on platinum, by fusion with a flux,
and if the oxide is difficult to reduce, the reduction will be completely effected only in
the luminous part of the flame. But if a substance be reduced on charcoal, the reduction will
take place in the blue part of the flame, as long as the access of air is cut off; but it is
the luminous part of the flame which really possesses the greatest reducing power.

The following should be observed in order to procure a good reduction flame:

    The wick should not be too long, that it may make a smoke, nor
    too short, otherwise the flame will be too small to produce a
    heat strong enough for reduction.

    The wick must be free from all loose threads, and from
    charcoal.

    The blast should be continued for a considerable time without
    intermission, otherwise reduction cannot be effected.

For the purpose of acquiring practice, the student may fuse the oxide of manganese with borax,
upon a platinum wire, in the oxidation flame, when a violet-red glass will be obtained; or
if too much of the oxide be used, a glass of a dark color and opaque will be obtained. By submitting
this glass to the reduction flame, it will become colorless in correspondence to the perfection
with which the flame is produced. Or a piece of tin may be fused upon charcoal, and kept in
that state for a considerable time, while it presents the appearance of a bright metal on the
surface. This will require dexterity in the operator; for, if the oxidation flame should chance
to touch the bright metal only for a moment, it is coated with an infusible oxide.

