145}

                         The American Missionary

     *     *     *     *     *

Vol. XLII. June, 1888. No. 6.

     *     *     *     *     *

CONTENTS

   EDITORIAL
        FINANCIAL
        A NOBLE WORD FROM THE OHIO CONGREGATIONAL ASSOCIATION
        FACTS AND FIGURES
        THE COLOR-LINE QUESTION: WHAT IS IT?
        PARAGRAPHS
        FROM ADDRESS OF REV. E.T. FLEMING OF GEORGIA
        A STRIKING STATEMENT
        MISAPPLIED BENEFACTIONS
        IN MEMORIAM
        THE RADICAL FORCES OF CHRISTIANITY, AS EXHIBITED IN THE WORK
          OF THE AMERICAN MISSIONARY ASSOCIATION. By Rev. J.W. Cooper,
          D.D.
   THE SOUTH.
        NOTES IN THE SADDLE
        THE ALABAMA ASSOCIATION
        TEMPERANCE WORK IN OUR SCHOOLS
   THE INDIANS.
        LETTER FROM AN INDIAN CHIEF IN DAKOTA
   THE CHINESE.
        EVANGELISTIC WORK
        CHINESE GRATITUDE
   BUREAU OF WOMAN'S WORK.
        WOMAN'S MISSIONARY ASSOCIATION OF ALABAMA
        LESSON LEAVES
        WOMAN'S WORK IN THE SOUTH
   RECEIPTS

     *     *     *     *     *

New York. Price, 50 Cents a Year, in Advance. Published by the American Missionary Association.
Entered at the Post-Office at New York, N.Y., as second-class matter. Rooms, 56 Reade Street.

     *     *     *     *     *

{146}

AMERICAN MISSIONARY ASSOCIATION.

     *     *     *     *     *

{147}

THE AMERICAN MISSIONARY.

     *     *     *     *     *

                     Vol. XLII. May, 1888. No. 5.

     *     *     *     *     *

 AMERICAN MISSIONARY ASSOCIATION.

     *     *     *     *     *

This Number of the Missionary will reach our friends, the pastors and the churches, about the
first of June, one month before the usual vacation time sends many of the pastors to their
much-needed summer rest, and when the churches enter upon the months of small congregations.
We wish to remind our friends that the expenditures of a missionary society have no vacation,
and to ask them that in this remaining month, special efforts be made to prepare us for the
months when there is the usual outflow with only a small stream coming in.

The showing of our receipts is favorable. For the seven months to April 30th, they aggregate
$158,921.20, an increase of $5,082.75 over last year. The increase in collections and donations
is $9,241.84, but there is a decrease in legacies of $4,159.09, leaving the net increase as
above stated. On the other hand, however, the expenditure that has been absolutely demanded
by our growing work has been $23,778.24 over the receipts. Our committee has denied many appeals
pressed upon it, from the workers in the field, for needed growth and strengthening; but some
calls have come with such urgency to save the work already in hand, that it felt constrained
to grant the additional appropriations, and we are very confident that if our constituents
had been present, they, too, would have concurred heartily and unanimously in the votes.

We might reasonably hope that this debtor balance would be wiped out during the five months
of our fiscal year yet before us, but there is a special reason for anxiety that it should
soon be materially reduced. It is at this time that we are compelled to plan the work, and
make estimates, for the next fiscal year, beginning October 1st. We are now endeavoring to
cut down these estimates to the lowest possible point, but if, before the close of June, there
shall be no marked reduction of this balance, we shall be obliged to cut still further, even
to the arresting or crippling of work already begun. We ask our friends to rally to the rescue.

     *     *     *     *     *

{148}

  A NOBLE WORD FROM THE OHIO CONGREGATIONAL ASSOCIATION.

 REPORT ON THE A.M.A. BY REV. WASHINGTON GLADDEN, D.D.

The work of the American Missionary Association appeals to the churches of Ohio with cumulative
urgency. "A.M.A.," as our stalwart brother Pike used to say, are letters that stand for the
darkened races of this continent--the American, the Mongolian and the African. To the Christian
people of America, these tribes are entrusted; for their enlightenment and Christianization,
we are responsible. The Government at Washington can do something toward protecting these people
in their political rights; but there is very little, after all, that can be done for any people
which does not know how to assert and maintain its own rights. Liberty can never be a gratuity,
it must always be an achievement. Peoples, as well as individuals, must work out their own
salvation. The Negro at the South is cheated out of his political rights, simply because he
does not know how to claim them; the Indian on the plains is defrauded of his property, because
he does not know how to protect himself. No matter how favorable the laws may be to these hapless
people, they will be oppressed and impoverished and kept in a condition of semi-slavery, unless
they know how to use the laws in their own advantage. Education, therefore, is the only effectual
remedy for their wrongs. To awaken their minds, to arouse the energies of hope, to show them
that they are made in God's image and that they have a right to all the liberties of the laws
of God, is the only way to complete and secure their emancipation from bondage and from barbarism.

This is the work to which the American Missionary Association calls us all. It is our just
pride as Congregationalists that through this Association more has been done for the true enfranchisement
of the freedmen than through any other agency, and it is our duty to see that this great work,
in which we have borne so large and honorable a part, halt not nor slacken in its energy because
of our failure to keep its treasury replenished and its faithful laborers re-enforced and supported
by our gifts and our prayers.

     *     *     *     *     *

  FACTS AND FIGURES.

The sum total of all the contributions of all the benevolent agencies for the evangelization
and education of the Negro in the South, is seventeen cents per year for each person.

This seventeen cents includes whatever is done in missionary colleges and in all educational
missions, as well as in the direct church work.

In twenty-one years from 1841 to 1861 there were twenty-one crops of cotton raised by slave
labor, which aggregated 58,441,906 bales. {149}

In the twenty-one years from 1865 to 1885 there were twenty-one crops of cotton which aggregated
93,389,031 bales.

That is, by free labor there was an excess over the productions of slave labor of 34,947,125
bales, or nearly 35,000,000 bales. The value of 35,000,000 bales of cotton produced by free
labor in excess of the product of slave labor cannot have been less than $2,000,000,000, or
about the full valuation of all the slaves who were made free by the war, had they been sold
at the ruling prices. The gain is due not only to the emancipation of the blacks, but to the
emancipation of the whites from enforced idleness.

The cotton factories of the world annually require about 12,000,000 bales of cotton, American
weight. Good land in Texas produces one bale to the acre. The world's supply of cotton could
be grown on less than 19,000 square miles, or upon an area equal to only seven per cent. of
the area of Texas.

     *     *     *     *     *

  THE COLOR-LINE QUESTION: WHAT IS IT?

1. It is not the question of social equality. No one doubts the right of individuals, or the
family, or the social circle, to draw their lines of association and fellowship at their own
pleasure, whether at wealth, rank, fashion, talent, or anything else. To confound this with
the real question, is not candid.

2. Still less is it the question of the inter-marriage of the races. Here, individual preference
is undeniable. To claim that this is the question, and to ask tauntingly: "Do you want your
daughter to marry a nigger?" is ungentlemanly and unworthy of an answer.

3. The question is: Shall a line be drawn between the white and black races, giving rights
and privileges in Church and State to the one race, which are denied to the other, solely because
of race or color? In other words: Shall a line be drawn which shall separate the Negroes, and
assign them as a race to the position of inferiors irrespective of merit or character, and
merely on the ground of race or color?

To narrow the discussion, we leave out of view the civil or political aspect of the question
and confine ourselves to the religious, and we propose to give a few illustrations. A Negro
in every way qualified, in character, piety, and intelligence, applies for membership in a
white church. Shall the color-line be drawn and he be refused admission for no other reason
than that he is a Negro? This does not imply that the whites and blacks should be urged or
persuaded to unite in all churches or in any church. It may be conceded that the blacks generally
do not desire to unite with white churches, and that, in their present state of culture, it
may not always be for their edification to do so. But where an individual Negro does believe
that it would be for his edification and growth in grace to belong to a white church, shall
the color that God stamped on him, or the race in which God gave him his birth, be a sufficient
reason {150} for refusing him? The question and the principle apply equally if the Negro should
be given to understand that while he would not actually be refused admission, yet the preference
of the church would be that he should not apply; nay, we do not see why the principle is not
the same if the well-known attitude of the church on the race question should be such that
the Christian self-respect of the Negro would not allow him to make the application.

Again, shall colored churches, conferences or presbyteries be formed on the same territory
in order that the colored members may not unite with the white churches, conferences or presbyteries?
Shall a line be run between the races on the simple ground of race or color, and irrespective
of character, convenience or choice, so that the Negro as a church member shall not be allowed
to choose the church he shall join, or as a minister the option as to his conference or presbytery?
For one race to demand such a line of separation, is to consign the other race to a position
of inferiority as humiliating as it is discouraging. Such is the demand of race prejudice,
and such the position of inferiority in which it insists on placing the Negro. Slavery held
the Negro there, and since emancipation, this race-separation is intended to accomplish the
same purpose. The Southern white man makes no objection to the race or color of the Negro,
but only to his position as an equal. He was not merely tolerated, he was more than tolerated,
as a slave, and he is now as a servant.

The present controversy in regard to the color-line is calling forth some frank admissions
from intelligent white men at the South. Thus the Rev. Wm. H. Campbell, an Episcopal clergyman
of South Carolina, vindicates his refusal to sit in Convention with the Negroes by the inferiority
which the Almighty has stamped upon them. Mr. Campbell says:

  "The Bishop does not understand or appreciate the reasons why some
  of us cannot, under any circumstances, sit in Convention with
  Negroes. The objections commonly made need not here be referred to.
  The difficulty with some of us is not 'on account of color,' as it
  is usually, but not with strict accuracy, put; for some Negroes are
  as white as some white men, but because they are of an inferior
  race, so made by the Almighty and never intended by him to be put
  on an equality with the white race, in either Church or State."

The question at issue is not one of expediency, but of principle; and, among Christians, whether
in the individual church or the ecclesiastical body, it is a question of Christian duty to
be settled by the Divine authority of the Master himself. We propose no argument on the subject,
but content ourselves by quoting a few well-known passages of Scripture, which, though familiar,
have lost neither their significancy nor their authority. In the end, the voice of God must
be decisive.

  "God hath showed me that I should call no man common or unclean."

  "Inasmuch as ye have not done it unto one of the least of these, my
  brethren, ye have not done it unto me."

     *     *     *     *     *

Secretary Roy, in the Advance, controverts the statement of the Herald and Presbyter, that
the Congregationalists have come to consent to separate ecclesiastical bodies on the ground
of color. Dr. Roy supposes that this conclusion may have been jumped at because of the formation
of a new Congregational Association in Georgia, which is an outcome from the Congregational
Methodist churches there. The Interior, evidently with gladness, makes the same assertion.
The Christian Union replies to this, saying, "We do not think this is true; but, if it is,
so much the worse for the Congregationalists!" We may say with Dr. Roy, that nothing is more
certain than that in the New Empire that is growing before our eyes, the Congregational churches
of this century will not turn towards the dark ages, and will not put themselves to shame by
refusing to fellowship with the disciples of Christ on the ground of caste. Such a proposition
would have the scorn of our National Council.

The Christianity of our churches will not fall behind the humanity of Victor Hugo, who said,
"I have had in my hand the gloved and white palm of the upper class and the heavy black hand
of the lower class, and have recognized that both are the hands of man."

The Congregational churches may not be quoted as countenancing this great wickedness against
God and man.

     *     *     *     *     *

  FROM ADDRESS OF REV. E.T. FLEMING OF GEORGIA, IN THE BROADWAY TABERNACLE
  OF NEW YORK.

"I suppose it will be necessary to tell you that I am a Negro, that I was born a slave. We
are struggling against difficulties. We meet with a great deal of opposition. A case comes
to mind which shows something of this opposition. I went out into what we call the Bottom District.
The church there was dirty. I went to work and got a sufficient amount of money to buy a barrel
of lime. It took me a week to get enough money to buy a barrel of lime. Another brother and
myself got the barrel of lime there on a wheel-barrow. We whitewashed the church inside and
out, and finished the job about half-past eleven o'clock. It was too late to return to the
city, and we agreed to sleep in the church. The next morning, I was surprised to hear a great
noise on the outside, and opening the door, looked out and saw a lean, lank, white woman. She
was calling to her daughter, "Louisa, Louisa, come here." Her daughter {152} came to her mother
and said, "My ---- ----, they have painted the nigger church white. We must put a stop to that."
They said we would have to move the church, on the ground that they were not going to stand
anything of that kind. These are the things that meet us in opposition there. I was myself
refused admittance to a Gospel Tent where a distinguished evangelist from the North was preaching."

     *     *     *     *     *

  A STRIKING STATEMENT.

In one of the hotels in Columbia, South Carolina, among the collections of an excellent library,
is a book which bears the seal of the State of South Carolina, giving much statistical information
as to the geological character of the State, its agricultural resources, its mineral products
and the peculiarities of its population. From its pages, the following extract is taken, which
is reproduced here for its suggestiveness. It seems incredible, and yet the authority is wholly
Southern and has the imprint of the State. It is as follows:

  "No effort adequate to even an approximate determination
  statistically of the intermixture of the White and Negro races has
  as yet been undertaken. Mr. Patterson, quoted in an authoritative
  work upon 'The Resources and Population of South Carolina,' and
  published by the State Board of Agriculture in 1883, as one who
  has given much attention to the subject, says, even now there are
  no longer Negroes. One-third has a large infusion of white blood,
  another third has less, but still some, and of the other third it
  would be difficult to find an assured specimen of pure African
  blood. This, continues the report, is a startling statement; but in
  the absence of statistics, whoever puts it to the test among his
  Negro acquaintance will be surprised at the degree in which it
  conforms to the facts. If the lineage of those Negroes whose color
  and features seem most unmistakably to mark them as of purely
  African descent, be traced, indubitable evidence may often be
  obtained of white parentage more or less remote."

     *     *     *     *     *

  MISAPPLIED BENEFACTIONS.

The judicious placing of benefaction is a large part of the good of it. Is it wisely located?
Will it be permanent? Will it be reproductive? Will it be in the hands of persons suitably
responsible for the administration of it? Will it be under a fitting supervision? The cause
appeals to sympathy; does it also carry the mark of good judgment? For lack of this double
endorsement, not a little of generous giving is thrown away. It is a fine piece of romance;
does it proffer a sufficient security upon the proffered investment of the Lord's money?

A worthy Christian woman brings the scheme. It is laid upon the mountains of East Tennessee,
thrust up into notoriety by the writing of Charles Egbert Craddock. A lady of faith and hope
and energy, {153} proposes to build up an industrial farm-school of high quality for the neglected
girls of that mountain district. She has already been teaching a common-school among them.
She comes up to a city of New England. She lays her plan before some of the noble women there.
They take it up without further inquiry as to the feasibility of the undertaking. With their
first contributions an old worn-out farm is bought in the lady's name, and in the cheap farm-house
a small school is opened. The location is in an out-of-the-way neighborhood, three or four
miles from the little, old, tumble-down county seat. Now a fine building is to be secured.
The lady patrons raise their offerings up to six thousand dollars. Fine architectural plans
are devised at the North. Meantime, speculators on the ground, who for a few cents an acre
have bought up a great quantity of land adjoining and would be glad to sell it at a dollar
an acre, have donated a hundred acres, more or less, to the school. On this tract the building
is located and goes forward. The frame is put up and pretty much enclosed. For want of money
the enterprise comes to a stand, and now for these four years the stranded structure has been
taking damage from the storms.

The place has been visited repeatedly by the superintendents of the A.M.A., to find the state
of the case and to see if anything could be done to utilize the partial plant. The pastor of
the lady donors became interested to save the investment through the A.M.A., or to stop the
pouring of more funds into the venture, but after all his correspondence and personal conference,
he found that, if the whole property were to be offered to the Association, it could not afford
to accept it and undertake to carry forward the school. It already has a prosperous academy
in that county and another in an adjoining county, and these, wisely located in congenial communities,
are all that is needed for those and for contiguous counties. There is no way to utilize it,
Alas, "Wherefore this waste?"

An Orphanage for colored children is a tempting charity. The A.M.A early undertook such work.
At Wilmington, N.C., and at Atlanta, Ga., it bought lands and erected ample buildings, but
the experiment satisfied the authorities that the Association was not called to that department
of work. The children's god-fathers and god-mothers, in devotion to their covenant, or grand-parents
from personal interest, would soon be taking them out, and others having care of them would
call them out as soon as, by some growth and training, the scholars were made profitable for
work, and so those properties were sold and the avails put into the ordinary educational process.
Then the conclusion was reached that this was the obligation of the local communities, and
not of foreign charity. According to this idea, an Orphanage in a Southern city, undertaken
not by the patronage or approval of the A.M.A., though made to appear so because the originator
had been under its commission there as a missionary, has been transferred to a local board
and to the support of the city {154} and county. That is as it should be. Those local authorities
ought to take care of their own orphans, and not appeal to the charity of the North to relieve
them of their proper burdens of humanity.

Another so-called Orphanage at still another Southern city, started as an individual venture.
It was allowed for a short time to have a conditional endorsement from the A.M.A., which was
soon withdrawn and the enterprise disowned. This has swallowed up thousands of dollars of the
money of benevolence, and yet it has all the time been a sham and a falsehood. There was nothing
of it. When a lady newspaper correspondent called to visit the institution, ten or a dozen
children from a neighboring private school were borrowed and paraded as orphans, when at the
time there were only two little children in the concern, and they had grandparents living near
and abundantly able to take care of them. "Wherefore this waste?"

In yet another Southern city, a couple of young ladies start a school. Having once been under
commission of the A.M.A., in connection with its institutions, they appear to many to have
its endorsement and they make appeal to its constituents. Money comes along for a work irresponsibly
begun and without supervision. Only a year goes by before they appeal by their leaflet-paper
for several thousand dollars to buy land and build a home and school property. Who but they
shall hold and own the property? Whose shall it be when they marry or grow weary of the work
and leave? What protection is there for such misplaced benefaction?

By no means would the Association seek to interfere with donations to individuals where the
donors investigate for themselves and assume the responsibility, but it is not fair that we
should be held as apparently responsible for movements that we disown, and it is not fair to
our constituents that we should allow them to remain under the impression that in giving to
irresponsible projects, they are favoring such as are endorsed by us.

Thirty-five years ago the Congregational Union was initiated in the Albany Convention on purpose
to protect Eastern friends from the miscellaneous and irresponsible and persistent solicitation
for individual church enterprise. It is the business of that Society to receive, inspect and
decide upon all such applications. Take it away and the flood gates would be lifted again.
No less in the cause of missionary education is such discretionary service needed.

     *     *     *     *     *

  THE NEGRO QUESTION.

This is the title of a recent brochure by George W. Cable, published by the American Missionary
Association. With the most vigorous and courageous devotion to the question that "is the gravest
in American affairs," Mr. Cable addresses himself to the problem and to the answer that should
be made to it. His apprehension of injustice is so keen and true, {155} and his seriousness,
in view of the weariness and offence that the whole subject gives to a great majority of the
people, is so urgent, that the paper has been criticized as pessimistic, and as an impatient
cry against evils that are speedily being rectified. We may say that the optimistic view of
evils never did much to correct them, and that those who are patient with wrongs will never
create a sentiment against them. To us, this seems the voice of a prophet pleading for righteousness
to man and righteousness in the land.

     *     *     *     *     *

  OUR WHOLE COUNTRY.

Among the recent issues of the press, none has been more effective and deservedly popular than
the pamphlet entitled, "OUR COUNTRY," written by our esteemed friend, Rev. Josiah Strong, D.D.
It has aroused public attention in a remarkable degree, and has opened the way for a career
of most promising usefulness to the author.

Our only regret in reading these stirring pages, has arisen from the fact, that in its survey
it leaves almost entirely out of account nearly one third part of our country, namely, the
South, a part, too, that contains as many elements of future trouble to the nation, and elements,
too, that if properly dealt with, can minister as largely to the nation's future prosperity,
as any other portion. Our object in penning this item is to suggest that some man of equal
diligence in collecting facts, and of equal skill in handling them, shall write a book entitled,
"Our Whole Country," that shall omit no part of it.

     *     *     *     *     *

  A SAMPLE OF SOUTHERN CHURCH WORK.

The Rev. G.W. McClellan, a graduate of Fisk University and recently a student at Hartford Theological
Seminary, has formed a "Boys' Christian Association" in connection with his church work in
Louisville. The boys meet on Friday evenings for literary exercises, and the following are
some of the questions debated this winter.

1. Resolved, That Washington was a greater general than Grant.

2. Resolved, That capital punishment ought to be abolished.

3. Resolved, That strikes are right and necessary.

4. Resolved, That boys, as a rule, after graduation from the High School, should go to College.

     *     *     *     *     *

  EXTRACTS FROM EXAMINATION PAPERS.

Question. What was the Dred Scott decision?

Answer. "The Dred Scott decision declared that slave owners could carry their slaves into any
territory except their own." {156}

Another Answer. "Dred Scott decision was, that protected tariff should be kept out of the territories."

Question. What are ocean currents?

Answer. "The Ocean currant is a celebrated meal-storm on the coast of Norway."

     *     *     *     *     *

  A STRAW.

A few days since, there was an examination of candidates for positions as teachers in the New
Orleans public schools. Four of our Straight University girls presented themselves, three graduates
and one an undergraduate, and all passed the examination, receiving respectively 94, 93, 92
and 87 per cent., and three were at once given good positions.

     *     *     *     *     *

  IN MEMORIAM.

Another good man has gone to his reward. Rev. Geo. J. Tillotson, who has perpetuated his name
in the Tillotson Institute, Austin, Texas, died March 29th, at his home in Wethersfield, Conn.
His useful life was spent in that State. He was born in Farmington, Feb. 5, 1805, was graduated
at Yale in 1825, studied theology in the Yale Seminary one year and at Andover for two years,
completing his theological studies in 1830. He had several long pastorates, which he filled
with great fidelity and success. From 1876 he was not employed as a pastor, but devoted himself
with great assiduity to various modes of promoting the Redeemer's kingdom. He had practised
economy and had the means to give, and this he did with a discriminating, and yet a liberal,
hand. To the founding of the Tillotson Institute, he gave not only from his own resources,
but devoted his time and energies to collecting funds from his friends. But his benefactions
were not confined to one object; he had a broad sympathy for every good cause. He was a man
of genial temperament, and closed his useful career after a short illness in the 84th year
of his age. By the "radical forces of Christianity," we mean the simple spirit of the Master,
in its original and energetic operation. We are dealing with no abstractions, neither are we
considering the operation of human agencies. What Christ was in his earthly ministry, that
Christianity is, because of His living presence {157} in the church to-day. Wherever we discover
the working of those principles which were exemplified in his life, there He is present in
living power, the inspirer of the endeavor, and the strength of it. The claim that the work
of the American Missionary Association makes upon our attention, may be presented in a variety
of forms. Its work is commended to us, for example, because it is patriotic, that is, it makes
its appeal to our self-interest. The instinct of self-preservation demands that we sustain
it. Four and a half millions of Negroes in our Southern States are utterly illiterate. Half
that number of Southern whites are in the same deplorable condition. These men are citizens.
They hold the ballot. Our free institutions are not safe in such hands as these. Education
is an absolute necessity. This wide-spreading and dense ignorance, among masses of free American
people, must be speedily overcome. We do not wonder, therefore, that Andrew D. White in his
scholarly address, "The Message of the 19th Century to the 20th," puts the education of the
South first among the many great and pressing problems that claim the attention of statesmen.
It is a matter of self-interest and self-preservation.

This work commends itself, also, because of its justice. It appeals as a duty, to every enlightened
conscience. The ignorance of the Negro, and the degradation of the Indian, are more our fault
than theirs. We owe it to them, as a matter of simple justice, that we now make reparation,
as best we can, for the wrong done to them in the past. If we, as a nation, have helped push
them down, we ought to help lift them up. It is a burden which stern justice lays upon us.

But I turn from all such impressive arguments as these, to find another and altogether different
motive to this work, one which the statesman may consider of little worth, the appeal of which
mere conscience may not feel, but, which to the Christian heart must ever be more powerful
and persuasive than all other motives that can be named. This work commends itself to us, because
it is a Christly work. The spirit of the Master is in it. The radical forces of Christianity
are exemplified by it. And here is its strongest claim upon our sympathy and support.

That this representation is not an exaggerated one, and that the claim is in no way over-stated,
we shall see more clearly as the comparison is followed out in detail. The work which this
Association has in hand will {158} bear the test of analysis. It is not only a Christian work,
it is a work which, from the beginning, has called into exercise the fundamental principles
of Christianity. It exemplifies Christianity in its most original and essential features.

 I.--A RADICAL FAITH.

As I look into this work, the first thing that impresses me is the faith that inspired it.
It was a most sublime undertaking. It began, so far as relates to its present fields of labor,
with the millions of freedmen just emancipated from two and a half centuries of bondage. What
this bondage signified, this present generation will find it difficult to realize. For years
it had been a crime to teach them the alphabet. They had been bought and sold like cattle.
Their lives were a daily school in sensual immorality, deceit and dishonesty. Every manly aspiration,
and womanly feeling, was smothered at its birth. They had come from savagery to slavery, and
in a day, without training or preparation, they were set free. It is no wonder that they were
ignorant, indolent, degraded and despised. As one of their own number says, "We came into bondage
naked and destitute of worldly goods, we went out of it penniless, homeless and almost characterless."
Now it was this mass of degraded humanity that this Association set itself to elevate and Christianize,
and it did it with a calm assurance and serene hope which no obstacle has as yet been able
to disturb. The road has been a long and hard one, but it did not anticipate an easy time or
miraculous success. It has met with new and perhaps unexpected difficulties. It may be that
all the workers would say what the President of Talladega writes in a recent letter, "The magnitude
of the obstacles are more and more real to me as I live and work." But they still live and
they still work, never doubting the final result. If you want to find men who have undying
faith in the future of the black race, go to those who, in the spirit of their Master, are
toiling night and day, under the commission of this Society, for its elevation.

In the same spirit, also, this Association has welcomed new labors and entered into new fields.
When Chinamen were to be Christianized, immediately it had great faith for the Chinese. When
the Indian missions were laid upon it, then it saw wonderful possibilities in the red man.
And now, last of all, when some million or two of long-forgotten and neglected "Mountain Whites"
are brought to its attention, it sees in these abjectly poor, dispirited and superstitious
people, only another opportunity for elevating humanity, and proving the power of Christianity
to restore the lost manhood of every race.

These servants of God are not engaged in a forlorn hope. They have faith. Wherever they work
there they expect results, not only in the saving of individual souls, but in regenerating
whole races of men. A Christian woman, missionary to the poor whites among the mountains of
East {159} Tennessee, under the inspiration of her great faith, writes home to her friends,
"We can almost hear the bells ring in unreared steeples, and hear the songs from choirs that
are as yet totally oblivious to the spirit of melody, and enter into the heart-worship of the
prayer meetings that are to be when shall have been fulfilled the prophecy, that 'to the people
which sat in darkness and the shadow of death, light is sprung up'." Such buoyant, hopeful
faith as this, so clear and beautiful in its confidence in the promises of God, is one of the
"radical forces" which command, while they inspire, this holy work.

 II.--A RADICAL LOVE.

