The real history of Southern Massachusetts began in June, 1664, when the General Court of the
Plymouth Colony passed an order that "all that tracte of land called and known by the name
of Acushena,[1] Ponogansett, and Coaksett, is allowed by the court to bee a townshipe, and
said towne bee henceforth ... called and knowne by the name of Dartmouth." In November, 1652,
Wamsutta and his father, Massasoit, had signed a deed conveying to William Bradford, Capt.
Standish, Thomas Southworth, John Winslow, John Cooke, and their associates all the land lying
three miles eastward from a river called the Coshenegg to Acoaksett, to a flat rock on the
western side of the said harbor, the conveyance including all that land from the sea upward
"so high that the English may not be annoyed by the hunting of the Indians, in any sort, of
their cattle." The price paid for this tract was, thirty yards of cloth, eight moose-skins,
fifteen axes, fifteen hoes, fifteen pairs of breeches, eight blankets, two kettles, one cloak,
two pounds wampum, eight pairs stockings, eight pairs shoes, one iron pot, and ten shillings
in other commodities. This immense tract had twenty miles of sea-coast, not to mention harbors,
etc., and represents, besides the present township of Dartmouth, New Bedford, Fairhaven, Westport,
and Acushnet.[2]

  [1] In the old records this name is variously spelled Acushena,
  Accushnutt, Cushnet, Acushnett, Acushnet, etc. The spelling now always
  used is Acushnet. Apponegansett was often spelled without the initial A.

  [2] The original township of Dartmouth was owned by thirty-six
  proprietors at the time of its settlement. This old proprietorship was a
  quasi corporation, which existed for 170 years. It conveyed all the
  lands sold until at last nothing remained. Its meetings were then mere
  formalities, and they finally died for lack of attendance.

In a brief article it is impossible to give more than the cream of the whole story of the growth
and existence of this settlement. It experienced the vicissitudes of Indian depredations and
wars. In the King Philip war it was nearly obliterated, only the little settlement of Apponegansett
surviving. But at the return of peace the settlers took up their old avocations, and gradually,
but surely, made the old town of Dartmouth. The story of nearly every other outlying settlement
in those days is the story of this one, so that all that concerns us are the historical events
peculiar to this.

These early inhabitants combined tilling the soil and extracting the wealth of the sea, only,
however, as shore fishermen, and an occasional off-shore whaling voyage in small boats. One
event in early history shows that the people were possessed of something more than the traditional
courage and bold seamanship for which southern Massachusetts was ever famed, and shows a spiritual
courage as well as that deliberate manly determination to overcome all physical obstacles to
existence with which the early settlers were permeated.

This was the dispute between the General Court at Plymouth and the town authorities regarding
a settled minister. A good two-thirds of the people were Friends, and one of their number provided
for their spiritual wants without compensation. Those remaining were mostly Baptists, who also
had among them a quasi minister who acted as pastor. But the General Court at Plymouth wanted
the settlers to have their kind of a minister; so in 1671 they ordered the settlers to raise
£15 by taxation "to help towards the support of such as may dispense the word of God." But
as the settlers were satisfied with their own ministers they refused to obey the order. Fortunately
they were far away from the court. Then about that time King Philip's war broke out, and absorbed
the whole attention of the court; although time enough was found to warn the people that the
calamity of war was due to the "lack of a dispenser of the word of God" among them. But no
sooner had the war ended than the old dispute was taken up just where it was left off. The
court pleaded and persuaded, then commanded, and finally threatened; but year after year the
colonists continued doing as they pleased, regardless of the court. Finally, in 1722, as a
last resort, the court ingeniously combined the provincial and ministerial tax, £181 12s. in
all, with the intention of providing a minister by that means. The town called a meeting, and,
after promptly voting the provincial tax of £81 12s., as promptly refused to raise the extra
£100, which they recognized as the ministerial tax in a new garb. Such defiance led to the
arrest of the selectmen, and they were imprisoned at Taunton. This thoroughly aroused the town.
A meeting was immediately held, and £700 was unanimously voted to support the selectmen. This
enormous sum for those days was used partly to support the selectmen and their families, but
mostly to send an embassy to England to seek redress from the King and his council. In this
the colonists were successful, for not only were the selectmen ordered released from prison,
but the province of Massachusetts Bay was ordered to remit the obnoxious taxes which it had
in vain tried for thirty-one years to collect. It was not until about this time that what is
now New Bedford was settled. Joseph Russell had been practically the sole inhabitant. He was
succeeded by his twin sons John and Joseph. The latter lived near the heart of the site of
the present city, and is regarded as its real founder. For some time vessels of all classes
had fitted out in the Apponegansett river, but he sent his from the Acushnet. His merchantmen
sailed all over the seas. At the same time he fitted out whaling vessels. These whalers were
small sloops and schooners, which only went off-shore, captured a whale or two, then returned
to try out the oil. In connection with this business Mr. Russell had built try works, and he
started a sperm-oil factory. The infant whaling industry began about 1760 to attract a boat-builder,
then a carpenter, a blacksmith, and so on until gradually there became quite a little settlement.
Larger vessels were built, voyages were extended to some two or three weeks, and sometimes
to as many months, the seas being scoured from Newfoundland to Virginia for whales.

The year 1765 was an eventful one, as it brought Joseph Rotch, a man of means and experience,
from Nantucket,--or Sherburn as it was called up to 1790,--to carry on the whaling business
here; and his vessels, together with those of other new-comers, materially increased the size
of the little fleet sailing from the Acushnet river. The settlement had now become quite a
little village, and needed a distinctive name, as it had always been regarded as a part of
the village of Acushnet; so it was christened Bedford, and in after years the New was added
to distinguish it from the Bedford near Boston.

Being deeper, broader, and a safer harbor than the Apponegansett, the Acushnet river gradually
absorbed most of the fleet that had sailed from there, so that the little fleet of a few vessels
in 1765 had become one of fifty vessels in 1773. Among these vessels was one owned by Mr. Rotch,--the
"Dartmouth,"--which will be remembered as long as the American republic stands, for it was
this vessel that took the tea to Boston which was thrown overboard at the time of the famous
Tea Party in 1773.

But the Revolution put a stop to a continuance of this marvellous growth, and during the following
eight years in the struggle for liberty, decay, fire, and the English did fatal destruction
to the vessels in Buzzard's Bay. Mr. Rotch returned to his off-shore island home, taking his
vessels with him, and one or two other merchants followed his example and moved away. What
vessels remained after these desertions were moored along the wharves. But the people did not
settle down in idleness to wait for the war to be over. While the women were working for the
soldiers, in providing them clothing, etc., the men young and old proved that their sea-training
in the catching of whales was invaluable in manning the little navy of the colonies. With such
men behind him, John Paul Jones scoured the ocean and even defied the English in their own
harbors, and the little navy became a powerful and dangerous foe to the proud mistress of the
seas. Not the least destructive vessels of the brave American navy were the whaling vessels
from Buzzard's Bay made over into men-of-war. The frequent and astonishing victories of these
vessels caused many valuable prizes to be brought into the bay, and the natural consequence
was the raid of Major Gen. Gray, accompanied by the ill-fated Andre, on the fourth day of September,
and the day following, in 1778, by which nearly the whole town of Bedford was laid in ashes
and property to the value of over half a million of dollars destroyed, together with seventy
vessels, including eight large ships with their cargoes, and four privateers.

At the first whisperings of peace, Capt. Moores, of the good ship "Bedford," with a cargo of
oil, set sail for London, and first displayed to the defeated English, in their great metropolis,
the stars and stripes of the infant republic of the western world. This promptness of Capt.
Moores is a fair sample of the manner in which the village of Bedford grasped the return of
peace and rushed into its former industries. The greater part of the village had been rebuilt;
the vessels that survived the war--most of them as men-of-war--were refitted, and whaling and
commerce resumed, although it was years before whaling fairly got on its feet again. This was
owing to the lack of a market for oil, as England and France had passed laws practically prohibiting
its importation. Some merchants were forced to live in French or English territory and sail
under those flags, in order to pursue whaling with any profit.

In 1787 the General Court of Massachusetts incorporated the town of New Bedford, and in 1847
it became a city. The census of 1790 reported a population of 3,313 in the new town. But there
was nothing at this time to cause the town to grow, nor was there until 1804, when, through
the intercessions of William Rotch, Sr., Great Britain remitted her alien duty on oil. From
that year New Bedford began to assume her distinctive character as the whaling port preëminent
of the world. The stock in trade to begin with was no meagre one, as it consisted of fifty-nine
vessels of 19,146 tons' burden, about thirty of them being brigs and ships employed in the
merchant service with Europe, South America, and the West Indies. This fleet suffered terribly
from the impressment of seamen, then the embargo, and finally by the second war with England,
during which many vessels were captured. This over, the place began in earnest its distinctive
career.

