There can be but one objection urged against the establishment of colonial distilleries; that
it will deprive the resident merchants in India, from whence by far the greater proportion
of spirits is at present imported into the colony, of this branch of commerce. The trade, however,
of that country is on too extensive a scale, to be perceptibly affected by so trifling a restriction,
which, in fact, has always existed till within the last five years; as the importation of spirits,
till that period, was always subject to limitation, and only permitted by express licence.
But were the case otherwise, what right has one portion of the empire to look for aggrandisement
at the expense of another? Ought the welfare and happiness of twenty thousand persons to be
sacrificed, in order to promote the views of a few interested individuals? If it were politic
in his majesty's government to concede any superiority of privilege to any one body of the
king's subjects over another, surely a colony composed entirely of Englishmen has reason to
expect that such a concession should be made in its favour, and not to its prejudice in favour
of a country acquired and in some measure maintained by force, and connected with the parent
country by no ties of common origin and affinity, by no congeniality of habit, by no similarity
of religion. But the colonists neither expect nor desire any such concessions: they seek the
possession and enjoyment of their own indubitable rights; they would not curtail those of others:
they neither want to render other colonies tributary to their prosperity, nor to continue,
as they have hitherto been, tributary to that of others.

If, on the other hand, we take a hasty survey of the advantages, which I trust it has been
satisfactorily proved, would be consequent on internal distillation, never, it will be seen,
was there a measure which could adduce in its support more urgent and weighty considerations.
It would afford employment, and thus impart fresh health and vigor to the agricultural body,
debilitated by long suffering and disease; it would place the means of the colonists on a level
with their wants, and by creating a good and sufficient medium of circulation in the place
of the present worthless currency, would give rise to other channels of industry, and to the
speedy establishment of an export trade. It is the only possible way of insuring the colony
against the calamitous effects which have hitherto been invariably attendant on the inundations
of the river Hawkesbury; it would lessen the injurious preponderancy of the government in the
market, by creating a great competition for the purchase of grain, and would thus prevent the
arbitrary imposition on this, the principal production of the colonists, of a maximum that
is frequently beneath its just value, and it would improve the morals of the present and of
future generations. With these irresistible arguments in favour of this measure, it must be
evident that the cause of justice and morality would be violated by any further unnecessary
delay in its adoption.

The next object of internal consumption, to which in my opinion the government ought to direct
the attention of the colonists, is the growth of tobacco. The amount of the annual importation
of this article from the United States of America and the Brazils, (the two supplying countries)
cannot be estimated at less than five thousand pounds. This would be a very material saving
to the colony in its present circumstances, and one that might be effected with the greatest
ease, and without prejudice to any part of the empire. The only question in this instance is,
whether it be more politic that the colony should supply itself, or be dependent on foreigners.
There are no contending interests to reconcile, no portion of his majesty's subjects in any
part of the globe, who could wish to oppose the imposition of a prohibitory duty on the importation
of this article into the colony. And this is the only measure that would be necessary to direct
the attention of the settlers to this highly important production, for which it has been found
that the climate and soil of the colony are peculiarly adapted. In three years at most, after
the adoption of this regulation, the colonists would raise a sufficient quantity of tobacco
for their own consumption. It will be an after consideration for the government to take the
requisite means to promote the increased growth and exportation of this highly important product
to the mother country. The immense advantage that she would derive from possessing in one of
her own colonies, an article of such general consumption, and for which she is at present entirely
tributary to foreign powers, is too obvious to need illustration, and too considerable not
to attract the attention and encouragement of her legislature.

Hemp, flax, and linseed, are also productions to which the climate and soil of the colony,
and its dependent settlements at the Derwent and Port Dalrymple are remarkably congenial, and
the growth of which might be easily promoted by wise regulations. Yet highly valuable as are
all these productions, and altogether dependent as is this country for the amazing quantities
of them, which she consumes in her navy, her manufactures, and her commerce, no attempt has
been made since the establishment of the colony to direct the attention of its inhabitants
to their growth and exportation. The views of the different gentlemen, who have been successively
intrusted with the government, have either never reached so far, or else their means have been
inadequate to the accomplishment of these great ends. In embellishing the capital, and erecting
various public edifices, of which, however, I do not mean to question the utility, their attention
appears to have been chiefly absorbed. It seems never to have come into their contemplation
that all these embellishments would have been the natural and inevitable results of the increasing
prosperity of the community, but that they could never of themselves either create or promote
it. A flourishing agriculture, a thriving commerce, would have equally effected all these objects;
but with this material difference, without that enormous expence to this country with which
they have been attended. The imposition of small taxes for the promotion of public objects,
is no grievance to a people whose prosperity is the work of a wise and considerative government.
An impolitic and oppressive one cancels alike the will to make, and the power to levy such
contributions; and imposes on itself the necessity of moderating its wants, or of having recourse
to foreign channels for their supply. In this instance the great burden of these public undertakings
has fallen on this country, nor have they been the most inconsiderable item in the amount of
the colonial expenditure. Yet all that has been already lavished, and all that this country
may hereafter lavish in prosecution of the same narrow and absurd system, will have but little
influence in promoting the real purposes of colonization.

This mania for building, which has always directed the government, has unfortunately communicated
itself to the colonists, particularly those who inhabit the various towns, and they are at
present in the condition of a man who has a large house, but wants wherewithal to furnish and
support it. Their situation would be more enviable, if they had smaller habitations replete
with a greater degree of plenty and comfort. The establishment of an export trade, that may
enable them to procure in sufficient abundance those foreign commodities which long habit has
rendered indispensable to civilized life, is what they desire, and what a wise government would
desire also; more especially since the parent colony is a great manufacturing nation, and possesses
the power of supplying the commodities in question. Millions more expended in the same improvident
manner as heretofore, will not effect this great object; and with half the expence already
incurred a politic government would have already accomplished it. Of this assertion the labours
of an individual, who, if on the one hand he has met with some support from the more liberal
and enlightened administration of this country, has constantly experienced, on the other, all
the opposition which the envy and malevolence of the local government could throw in his way,
furnish an indubitable proof.

