REPERTORY OF THE COMEDIE HUMAINE

                        TRANSLATOR'S PREFACE

"Work crowned by the French Academy" is a significant line borne by the title-page of the original
edition of Messieurs Cerfberr and Christophe's monumental work. The motto indicates the high
esteem in which the French authorities hold this very necessary adjunct to the great Balzacian
structure. And even without this word of approval, the intelligent reader needs but a glance
within the pages of the Repertory of the Comedie Humaine to convince him at once of its utility.

In brief, the purpose of the Repertory is to give in alphabetical sequence the names of all
the characters forming this Balzacian society, together with the salient points in their lives.
It is, of course, well known that Balzac made his characters appear again and again, thus creating
out of his distinct novels a miniature world. To cite a case in point, Rastignac, who comes
as near being the hero of the Comedie as any other single character, makes his first appearance
in Father Goriot, as a student of law; then appearing and disappearing fitfully in a score
of principal novels, he is finally made a minister and peer of France. Without the aid of the
Repertory it would be difficult for any save a reader of the entire Comedie to trace out his
career. But here it is arranged in temporal sequence, thus giving us a concrete view of the
man and his relation to this society.

In reading any separate story, when reference is made in passing to a character, the reader
will find it helpful and interesting to turn to the Repertory and find what manner of man it
is that is under advisement. A little systematic reading of this nature will speedily render
the reader a "confirmed Balzacian."

A slight confusion may arise in the use of the Repertory on account of the subdivision of titles.
This is the fault neither of Messieurs Cerfberr and Christophe nor of the translator, but of
Balzac himself, who was continually changing titles, dividing and subdividing stories, and
revamping and working other changes in his books. Cousin Betty and Cousin Pons were placed
together by him under the general title of Poor Relations. Being separate stories, we have
retained the separate titles. Similarly, the three divisions of Lost Illusions were never published
together until 1843--in the first complete edition of the Comedie; before assuming final shape
its parts had received several different titles. In the present text the editor has deemed
it best to retain two of the parts under Lost Illusions, while the third, which presents a
separate Rubempre episode, is given as A Distinguished Provincial at Paris. The three parts
of The Thirteen--Ferragus, The Duchess of Langeais, and The Girl with the Golden Eyes--are
given under the general title. The fourth part of Scenes from a Courtesan's Life, Vautrin's
Last Avatar, which until the Edition Definitive had been published separately, is here merged
into its final place. But the three parts of The Celibates --Pierrette, The Vicar of Tours
and A Bachelor's Establishment, being detached, are given separately. Other minor instances
occur, but should be readily cleared up by reference to the Indices, also to the General Introduction
given elsewhere.

In the preparation of this English text, great care has been exercised to gain accuracy--a
quality not found in other versions now extant. In one or two instances, errors have been discovered
in the original French, notably in dates--probably typographical errors--which have been corrected
by means of foot-notes. A few unimportant elisions have been made for the sake of brevity and
coherence. Many difficulties confront the translator in the preparation of material of this
nature, involving names, dates and titles. Opportunities are constantly afforded for error,
and the work must necessarily be painstaking in order to be successful. We desire here to express
appreciation for the valuable assistance of Mr. Norman Hinsdale Pitman.

To Balzac, more than to any other author, a Repertory of characters is applicable; for he it
was who not only created an entire human society, but placed therein a multitude of personages
so real, so distinct with vitality, that biographies of them seem no more than simple justice.
We can do no more, then, than follow the advice of Balzac--to quote again from the original
title-page--and "give a parallel to the civil register."

                                                J. WALKER McSPADDEN

                            INTRODUCTION

Are you a confirmed Balzacian?--to employ a former expression of Gautier in Jeune France on
the morrow following the appearance of that mystic Rabelaisian epic, The Magic Skin. Have you
experienced, while reading at school or clandestinely some stray volume of the Comedie Humaine,
a sort of exaltation such as no other book had aroused hitherto, and few have caused since?
Have you dreamed at an age when one plucks in advance all the fruit from the tree of life --yet
in blossom--I repeat, have you dreamed of being a Daniel d'Arthez, and of covering yourself
with glory by the force of your achievements, in order to be requited, some day, for all the
sufferings of your poverty-stricken youth, by the sublime Diane, Duchesse de Maufrigneuse,
Princesse de Cadignan?

Or, perchance, being more ambitious and less literary, you have desired to see--like a second
Rastignac, the doors of high society opened to your eager gaze by means of the golden key suspended
from Delphine de Nucingen's bracelet?

Romancist, have you sighed for the angelic tenderness of a Henriette de Mortsauf, and realized
in your dreams the innocent emotions excited by culling nosegays, by listening to tales of
grief, by furtive hand-clasps on the banks of a narrow river, blue and placid, in a valley
where your friendship flourishes like a fair, delicate lily, the ideal, the chaste flower?

Misanthrope, have you caressed the chimera, to ward off the dark hours of advancing age, of
a friendship equal to that with which the good Schmucke enveloped even the whims of his poor
Pons? Have you appreciated the sovereign power of secret societies, and deliberated with yourself
as to which of your acquaintances would be most worthy to enter The Thirteen? In your mind's
eye has the map of France ever appeared to be divided into as many provinces as the Comedie
Humaine has stories? Has Tours stood for Birotteau, La Gamard, for the formidable Abbe Troubert;
Douai, Claes; Limoges, Madame Graslin; Besancon, Savarus and his misguided love; Angouleme,
Rubempre; Sancerre, Madame de la Baudraye; Alencon, that touching, artless old maid to whom
her uncle, the Abbe de Sponde, remarked with gentle irony: "You have too much wit. You don't
need so much to be happy"?

Oh, sorcery of the most wonderful magician of letters the world has seen since Shakespeare!
If you have come under the spell of his enchantments, be it only for an hour, here is a book
that will delight you, a book that would have pleased Balzac himself--Balzac, who was more
the victim of his work than his most fanatical readers, and whose dream was to compete with
the civil records. This volume of nearly six hundred pages is really the civil record of all
the characters in the Comedie Humaine, by which you may locate, detail by detail, the smallest
adventures of the heroes who pass and repass through the various novels, and by which you can
recall at a moment's notice the emotions once awakened by the perusal of such and such a masterpiece.
More modestly, it is a kind of table of contents, of a unique type; a table of living contents!

Many Balzacians have dreamed of compiling such a civil record. I myself have known of five
or six who attempted this singular task. To cite only two names out of the many, the idea of
this unusual Vapereau ran through the head of that keen and delicate critic, M. Henri Meilhac,
and of that detective in continued stories, Emile Gaboriau. I believe that I also have among
the papers of my eighteenth year some sheets covered with notes taken with the same intention.
But the labor was too exhaustive. It demanded an infinite patience, combined with an inextinguishable
ardor and enthusiasm. The two faithful disciples of the master who have conjoined their efforts
to uprear this monument, could not perhaps have overcome the difficulties of the undertaking
if they had not supported each other, bringing to the common work, M. Christophe his painstaking
method, M. Cerfberr his accurate memory, his passionate faith in the genius of the great Honore,
a faith that carried unshakingly whole mountains of documents.

A pleasing chapter of literary gossip might be written about this collaboration; a melancholy
chapter, since it brings with it the memory of a charming man, who first brought Messieurs
Cerfberr and Christophe together, and who has since died under mournful circumstances. His
name was Albert Allenet, and he was chief editor of a courageous little review, La Jeune France,
which he maintained for some years with a perseverance worthy of the Man of Business in the
Comedie Humaine. I can see him yet, a feverish fellow, wan and haggard, but with his face always
lit up by enthusiasm, stopping me in a theatre lobby to tell me about a plan of M. Cerfberr's;
and almost immediately we discovered that the same plan had been conceived by M. Christophe.
The latter had already prepared a cabinet of pigeon-holes, arranged and classified by the names
of Balzacian characters. When two men encounter in the same enterprise as compilers, they will
either hate each other or unite their efforts. Thanks to the excellent Allenet, the two confirmed
Balzacians took to each other wonderfully.

Poor Allenet! It was not long afterwards that we accompanied his body to the grave, one gloomy
afternoon towards the end of autumn--all of us who had known and loved him. He is dead also,
that other Balzacian who was so much interested in this work, and for whom the Comedie Humaine
was an absorbing thought, Honore Granoux. He was a merchant of Marseilles, with a wan aspect
and already an invalid when I met him. But he became animated when speaking of Balzac; and
with what a mysterious, conspiratorlike veneration did he pronounce these words: "The Vicomte"--meaning,
of course, to the thirty-third degree Balzacolatrites, that incomparable bibliophile to whom
we owe the history of the novelist's works, M. de Spoelberch de Lovenjoul!--"The Vicomte will
approve--or disapprove." That was the unvarying formula for Granoux, who had devoted himself
to the enormous task of collecting all the articles, small or great, published about Balzac
since his entry as a writer. And just see what a fascination this devil of a man--as Theophile
Gautier once called him--exercises over his followers; I am fully convinced that these little
details of Balzacian mania will cause the reader to smile. As for me, I have found them, and
still find them, as natural as Balzac's own remark to Jules Sandeau, who was telling him about
a sick sister: "Let us go back to reality. Who is going to marry Eugenie Grandet?"

Fascination! That is the only word that quite characterizes the sort of influence wielded by
Balzac over those who really enjoy him; and it is not to-day that the phenomenon began. Vallies
pointed it out long ago in an eloquent page of the Refractaires concerning "book victims."
Saint Beuve, who can scarcely be suspected of fondness towards the editor-in-chief of the Revue
Parisienne, tells a story stranger and more significant than every other. At one time an entire
social set in Venice, and the most aristocratic, decided to give out among its members different
characters drawn from the Comedie Humaine; and some of these roles, the critic adds, mysteriously,
were artistically carried out to the very end;--a dangerous experiment, for we are well aware
that the heroes and heroines of Balzac often skirt the most treacherous abysses of the social Hell.

All this happened about 1840. The present year is 1887, and there seems no prospect of the
sorcery weakening. The work to which these notes serve as an introduction may be taken as proof.
Indeed, somebody has said that the men of Balzac have appeared as much in literature as in
life, especially since the death of the novelist. Balzac seems to have observed the society
of his day less than he contributed to form a new one. Such and such personages are truer to
life in 1860 than in 1835. When one considers a phenomenon of such range and intensity, it
does not suffice to employ words like infatuation, fashion, mania. The attraction of an author
becomes a psychological fact of prime importance and subject to analysis. I think I can see
two reasons for this particular strength of Balzac's genius. One dwells in the special character
of his vision, the other in the philosophical trend which he succeeded in giving to all his
writing.

As to the scope of his vision, this Repertory alone will suffice to show. Turn over the leaves
at random and estimate the number of fictitious deeds going to make up these two thousand biographies,
each individual, each distinct, and most of them complete--that is to say, taking the character
at his birth and leaving him only at his death. Balzac not only knows the date of birth or
of death, he knows as well the local coloring of the time and the country and profession to
which the man belongs. He is thoroughly conversant with questions of taxation and income and
the agricultural conditions. He is not ignorant of the fact that Grandet cannot make his fortune
by the same methods employed by Gobseck, his rival in avarice; nor Ferdinand du Tillet, that
jackal, with the same magnitude of operations worked out by that elephant of a Nucingen. He
has outlined and measured the exact relation of each character to his environment in the same
way he has outlined and measured the bonds uniting the various characters; so well that each
individual is defined separately as to his personal and his social side, and in the same manner
each family is defined. It is the skeleton of these individuals and of these families that
is laid bare for your contemplation in these notes of Messieurs Cerfberr and Christophe. But
this structure of facts, dependent one upon another by a logic equal to that of life itself,
is the smallest effort of Balzac's genius. Does a birth-certificate, a marriage-contract or
an inventory of wealth represent a person? Certainly not. There is still lacking, for a bone
covering, the flesh, the blood, the muscles and the nerves. A glance from Balzac, and all these
tabulated facts become imbued with life; to this circumstantial view of the conditions of existence
with certain beings is added as full a view of the beings themselves.

And first of all he knows them physiologically. The inner workings of their corporeal mechanism
is no mystery for him. Whether it is Birotteau's gout, or Mortsauf's nervousness, or Fraisier's
skin trouble, or the secret reason for Rouget's subjugation by Flore, or Louis Lambert's catalepsy,
he is as conversant with the case as though he were a physician; and he is as well informed,
also, as a confessor concerning the spiritual mechanism which this animal machine supports.
The slightest frailties of conscience are perceptible to him. From the portress Cibot to the
Marquise d'Espard, not one of his women has an evil thought that he does not fathom. With what
art, comparable to that of Stendhal, or Laclos, or the most subtle analysts, does he note --in
The Secrets of a Princess--the transition from comedy to sincerity! He knows when a sentiment
is simple and when it is complex, when the heart is a dupe of the mind and when of the senses.
And through it all he hears his characters speak, he distinguishes their voices, and we ourselves
distinguish them in the dialogue. The growling of Vautrin, the hissing of La Gamard, the melodious
tones of Madame de Mortsauf still linger in our ears. For such intensity of evocation is as
contagious as an enthusiasm or a panic.

There is abundant testimony going to show that with Balzac this evocation is accomplished,
as in the mystic arts by releasing it, so to speak, from the ordinary laws of life. Pray note
in what terms M. le Docteur Fournier, the real mayor of Tours, relates incidents of the novelist's
method of work, according to the report of a servant employed at the chateau of Sache: "Sometimes
he would shut himself up in his room and stay there several days. Then it was that, plunged
into a sort of ecstasy and armed with a crow quill, he would write night and day, abstaining
from all food and merely contenting himself with decoctions of coffee which he himself prepared."
[Brochure of M. le Docteur Fournier in regard to the statue of Balzac, that statue a piece
of work to which M. Henry Renault--another devotee who had established Le Balzac--had given
himself so ardently. In this brochure is found a very curious portrait of Balzac, after a sepia
by Louis Boulanger belonging to M. le Baron Larrey.]

In the opening pages of Facino Cane this phenomenon is thus described: "With me observation
had become intuitive from early youth. It penetrated the soul without neglecting the body,
or rather it seized so completely the external details that it went beyond them. It gave me
the faculty of living the life of the individual over whom it obtained control, and allowed
me to substitute myself for him like the dervish in Arabian Nights assumed the soul and the
body of persons over whom he pronounced certain words." And he adds, after describing how he
followed a workman and his wife along the street: "I could espouse their very life, I felt
their rags on my back. I trod in their tattered shoes. Their desires, their needs, all passed
into my soul, or my soul passed into them. It was the dream of a man awakened." One day while
he and a friend of his were watching a beggar pass by, the friend was so astonished to see
Balzac touch his own sleeve; he seemed to feel the rent which gaped at the elbow of the beggar.

Am I wrong in connecting this sort of imagination with that which one witnesses in fanatics
of religious faith? With such a faculty Balzac could not be, like Edgar Poe, merely a narrator
of nightmares. He was preserved from the fantastic by another gift which seems contradictory
to the first. This visionary was in reality a philosopher, that is to say, an experimenter
and a manipulator of general ideas. Proof of this may be found in his biography, which shows
him to us, during his college days at Vendome, plunged into a whirl of abstract reading. The
entire theological and occult library which he discovered in the old Oratorian institution
was absorbed by the child, till he had to quit school sick, his brain benumbed by this strange
opium. The story of Louis Lambert is a monograph of his own mind. During his youth and in the
moments snatched from his profession, to what did he turn his attention? Still to general ideas.
We find him an interested onlooker at the quarrel of Geoffroy Saint-Hilaire and Cuvier, troubling
himself about the hypothesis of the unity of creation, and still dealing with mysticism; and,
in fact, his romances abound in theories. There is not one of his works from which you cannot
obtain abstract thoughts by the hundreds. If he describes, as in The Vicar of Tours, the woes
of an old priest, he profits by the opportunity to exploit a theory concerning the development
of sensibility, and a treatise on the future of Catholicism. If he describes, as in The Firm
of Nucingen, a supper given to Parisian blases, he introduces a system of credit, reports of
the Bank and Bureau of Finance, and--any number of other things! Speaking of Daniel d'Arthez,
that one of his heroes who, with Albert Savarus and Raphael, most nearly resembles himself,
he writes: "Daniel would not admit the existence of talent without profound metaphysical knowledge.
At this moment he was in the act of despoiling both ancient and modern philosophy of all their
wealth in order to assimilate it. He desired, like Moliere, to become a profound philosopher
first of all, a writer of comedies afterwards." Some readers there are, indeed, who think that
philosophy superabounds with Balzac, that the surplus of general hypotheses overflows at times,
and that the novels are too prone to digressions. Be that as it may, it seems incontestible
that this was his master faculty, the virtue and vice of his thought. Let us see, however,
by what singular detour this power of generalization--the antithesis, one might say, of the
creative power--increased in him the faculty of the poetic visionary.

It is important, first of all, to note that this power of the visionary could not be put directly
into play. Balzac had not long enough to live. The list of his works, year by year, prepared
by his sister, shows that from the moment he achieved his reputation till the day of his death
he never took time for rest or observation or the study of mankind by daily and close contact,
like Moliere or Saint-Simon. He cut his life in two, writing by night, sleeping by day, and
after sparing not a single hour for calling, promenades or sentiment. Indeed, he would not
admit this troublesome factor of sentiment, except at a distance and through letters--"because
it forms one's style"! At any rate, that is the kind of love he most willingly admitted--unless
an exception be made of the mysterious intimacies of which his correspondence has left traces.
During his youth he had followed this same habit of heavy labor, and as a result the experience
of this master of exact literature was reduced to a minimum; but this minimum sufficed for
him, precisely because of the philosophical insight which he possessed to so high a degree.
To this meagre number of positive faculties furnished by observation, he applied an analysis
so intuitive that he discovered, behind the small facts amassed by him in no unusual quantity,
the profound forces, the generative influences, so to speak.

He himself describes--once more in connection with Daniel d'Arthez --the method pursued in
this analytical and generalizing work. He calls it a "retrospective penetration." Probably
he lays hold of the elements of experience and casts them into a seeming retort of reveries.
Thanks to an alchemy somewhat analogous to that of Cuvier, he was enabled to reconstruct an
entire temperament from the smallest detail, and an entire class from a single individual;
but that which guided him in his work of reconstruction was always and everywhere the habitual
process of philosophers: the quest and investigation of causes.

It is due to this analysis that this dreamer has defined almost all the great principles of
the psychological changes incident to our time. He saw clearly, while democracy was establishing
itself with us on the ruins of the ancient regime, the novelty of the sentiments which these
transfers from class to class were certain to produce. He fathomed every complication of heart
and mind in the modern woman by an intuition of the laws which control her development. He
divined the transformation in the lives of artists, keeping pace with the change in the national
situation; and to this day the picture he has drawn of journalism in Lost Illusions ("A Distinguished
Provincial at Paris") remains strictly true. It seems to me that this same power of locating
causes, which has brought about such a wealth of ideas in his work, has also brought about
the magic of it all. While other novelists describe humanity from the outside, he has shown
man to us both from within and without. The characters which crowd forth from his brain are
sustained and impelled by the same social waves which sustain and impel us. The generative
facts which created them are the same which are always in operation about us. If many young
men have taken as a model a Rastignac, for instance, it is because the passions by which this
ambitious pauper was consumed are the same which our age of unbridled greed multiplies around
disinherited youth. Add to this that Balzac was not content merely to display the fruitful
sources of a modern intellect, but that he cast upon them the glare of the most ardent imagination
the world has ever known. By a rare combination this philosopher was also a man, like the story-tellers
of the Orient, to whom solitude and the over-excitement of night-work had communicated a brilliant
and unbroken hallucination. He was able to impart this fever to his readers, and to plunge
them into a sort of Arabian Nights country, where all the passions, all the desires of real
life appear, but expanded to the point of fantasy, like the dreams brought on by laudanum or
hasheesh. Why, then, should we not understand the reason that, for certain readers, this world
of Balzac's is more real than the actual world, and that they devoted their energies to imitating
it?

It is possible that to-day the phenomenon is becoming rarer, and that Balzac, while no less
admired, does not exercise the same fascinating influence. The cause for this is that the great
social forces which he defined have almost ended their work. Other forces now shape the oncoming
generations and prepare them for further sensitive influences. It is none the less a fact that,
to penetrate the central portions of the nineteenth century in France, one must read and reread
the Comedie Humaine. And we owe sincere thanks to Messieurs Cerfberr and Christophe for this
Repertory. Thanks to them, we shall the more easily traverse the long galleries, painted and
frescoed, of this enormous palace,--a palace still unfinished, inasmuch as it lacks those Scenes
of Military Life whose titles awaken dreams within us: Forced Marches; The Battle of Austerlitz;
After Dresden. Incontestably, Tolstoy's War and Peace is an admirable book, but how can we
help regretting the loss of the painting of the Grand Army and of our Great Emperor, by Balzac,
our Napoleon of letters?

                                                      PAUL BOURGET.

                  REPERTORY OF THE COMEDIE HUMAINE

                                  A

ABRAMKO, Polish Jew of gigantic strength, thoroughly devoted to the broker, Elie Magus, whose
porter he was, and whose daughter and treasures he guarded with the aid of three fierce dogs,
in 1844, in a old house on the Minimes road hard by the Palais Royale, Paris. Abramko had allowed
himself to be compromised in the Polish insurrection and Magus was interested in saving him.
[Cousin Pons.]

ADELE, sturdy, good-hearted Briarde servant of Denis Rogron and his sister, Sylvie, from 1824
to 1827 at Provins. Contrary to her employers, she displayed much sympathy and pity for their
youthful cousin, Pierrette Lorrain. [Pierrette.]

ADELE, chambermaid of Madame du Val-Noble at the time when the latter was maintained so magnificently
by the stockbroker, Jacques Falleix, who failed in 1929. [Scenes from a Courtesan's Life.]

ADOLPHE, slight, blonde young man employed at the shop of the shawl merchant, Fritot, in the
Bourse quarter, Paris, at the time of the reign of Louis Philippe. [Gaudissart II.]

ADOLPHUS, head of the banking firm of Adolphus & Company of Manheim, and father of the Baroness
Wilhelmine d'Aldrigger. [The Firm of Nucingen.]

AGATHE (Sister), nee Langeais, nun of the convent of Chelles, and, with her sister Martha and
the Abbe de Marolles, a refugee under the Terror in a poor house of the Faubourg Saint-Martin,
Paris. [An Episode Under the Terror.]

AIGLEMONT (General, Marquis Victor d'), heir of the Marquis d'Aiglemont and nephew of the dowager
Comtesse de Listomere-Landon; born in 1783. After having been the lover of the Marechale de
Carigliano, he married, in the latter part of 1813 (at which time he was one of the youngest
and most dashing colonels of the French cavalry), Mlle. Julie de Chatillonest, his cousin,
with whom he resided successively at Touraine, Paris and Versailles.* He took part in the great
struggle of the Empire; but the Restoration freed him from his oath to Napoleon, restored his
titles, entrusted to him a station in the Body Guard, which gave him the rank of general, and
later made him a peer of France. Gradually he forsook his wife, whom he deceived on account
of Madame de Serizy. In 1817 the Marquis d'Aiglemont became the father of a daughter (See Helene
d'Aiglemont) who was his image physically and morally; his last three children came into the
world during a liaison between the Marquise d'Aiglemont and the brilliant diplomat, Charles
de Vandenesse. In 1827 the general, as well as his protege and cousin, Godefroid de Beaudenord,
was hurt by the fraudulent failure of the Baron de Nucingen. Moreover, he sank a million in
the Wortschin mines where he had been speculating with hypothecated securities of his wife's.
This completed his ruin. He went to America, whence he returned, six years later, with a new
fortune. The Marquis d'Aiglemont died, overcome by his exertions, in 1833.** [At the Sign of
the Cat and Racket. The Firm of Nucingen. A Woman of Thirty.]

*   It appears that the residence of the Marquis d'Aiglemont at
    Versailles was located at number 57, on the present Avenue de
    Paris; until recently it was occupied by one of the authors of
    this work.

**  Given erroneously in the original as 1835.

AIGLEMONT (Generale, Marquise Julie d'), wife of the preceding; born in 1792. Her father, M.
de Chatillonest, advised her against, but gave her in marriage to her cousin, the attractive
Colonel Victor d'Aiglemont, in 1813. Quickly disillusioned and attacked from another source
by an "inflammation very often fatal, and which is spoken of by women only in confidence,"
she sank into a profound melancholy. The death of the Comtesse de Listomere-Landon, her aunt
by marriage, deprived her of valuable protection and advice. Shortly thereafter she became
a mother and found, in the realization of her new duties, strength to resist the mutual attachment
between herself and the young and romantic Englishman, Lord Arthur Ormond Grenville, a student
of medicine who had nursed her and healed her bodily ailments, and who died rather than compromise
her. Heart-broken, the marquise withdrew to the solitude of an old chateau situated between
Moret and Montereau in the midst of a neglected waste. She remained a recluse for almost a
year, given over utterly to her grief, refusing the consolations of the Church offered her
by the old cure of the village of Saint-Lange. Then she re-entered society at Paris. There,
at the age of about thirty, she yielded to the genuine passion of the Marquis de Vandenesse.
A child, christened Charles, was born of this union, but he perished at an early age under
very tragic circumstances. Two other children, Moina and Abel, were also the result of this
love union. They were favored by their mother above the two eldest children, Helene and Gustave,
the only ones really belonging to the Marquis d'Aiglemont. Madame d'Aiglemont, when nearly
fifty, a widow, and having none of her children remaining alive save her daughter Moina, sacrificed
all her own fortune for a dower in order to marry the latter to M. de Saint-Hereen, heir of
one of the most famous families of France. She then went to live with her son-in-law in a magnificent
mansion overlooking the Esplanade des Invalides. But her daughter gave her slight return for
her love. Ruffled one day by some remarks made to her by Madame d'Aiglemont concerning the
suspicious devotion of the Marquis de Vandenesse, Moina went so far as to fling back at her
mother the remembrance of the latter's own guilty relations with the young man's father. Terribly
overcome by this attack, the poor woman, who was a physical wreck, deaf and subject to heart
disease, died in 1844. [A Woman of Thirty.]

AIGLEMONT (Helene d'), eldest daughter of the Marquis and Marquise Victor d'Aiglemont; born
in 1817. She and her brother Gustave were neglected by her mother for Charles, Abel and Moina.
On this account Helene became jealous and defiant. When about eight years old, in a paroxysm
of ferocious hate, she pushed her brother Charles into the Bievre, where he was drowned. This
childish crime always passed for a terrible accident. When a young woman--one Christmas night--Helene
eloped with a mysterious adventurer who was being tracked by justice and who was, for the time
being, in hiding at the home of the Marquis Victor d'Aiglemont, at Versailles. Her despairing
father sought her vainly. He saw her no more till seven years later, and then only once, when
on his return from America to France. The ship on which he returned was captured by pirates,
whose captain, "The Parisian," the veritable abductor of Helene, protected the marquis and
his fortune. The two lovers had four beautiful children and lived together in the most perfect
happiness, sharing the same perils. Helene refused to follow her father. In 1835, some months
after the death of her husband, Madame d'Aiglemont, while taking the youthful Moina to a Pyrenees
watering-place, was asked to aid a poor sufferer. It was her daughter, Helene, who had just
escaped shipwreck, saving only one child. Both presently succumbed before the eyes of Madame
d'Aiglemont. [A Woman of Thirty.]

AIGLEMONT (Gustave d'), second child of the Marquis and Marquise Victor d'Aiglemont, and born
under the Restoration. His first appearance is while still a child, about 1827 or 1828, when
returning in company with his father and his sister Helene from the presentation of a gloomy
melodrama at the Gaite theatre. He was obliged to flee hastily from a scene, which violently
agitated Helene, because it recalled the circumstances surrounding the death of his brother,
some two or three years earlier. Gustave d'Aiglemont is next found in the drawing-room at Versailles,
where the family is assembled, on the same evening of the abduction of Helene. He died at an
early age of cholera, leaving a widow and children for whom the Dowager Marquise d'Aiglemont
showed little love. [A Woman of Thirty.]

AIGLEMONT (Charles d'), third child of the Marquis and the Marquise d'Aiglemont, born at the
time of the intimacy of Madame d'Aiglemont with the Marquis de Vandenesse. He appears but a
single time, one spring morning about 1824 or 1825, then being four years old. He was out walking
with his sister Helene, his mother and the Marquis de Vandenesse. In a sudden outburst of jealous
hate, Helene pushed the little Charles into the Bievre, where he was drowned. [A Woman of Thirty.]

AIGLEMONT (Moina d'), fourth child and second daughter of the Marquis and Marquise Victor d'Aiglemont.
(See Comtesse de Saint-Hereen.) [A Woman of Thirty.]

AIGLEMONT (Abel d'), fifth and last child of the Marquis and Marquise Victor d'Aiglemont, born
during the relations of his mother with M. de Vandenesse. Moina and he were the favorites of
Madame d'Aiglemont. Killed in Africa before Constantine. [A Woman of Thirty.]

AJUDA-PINTO (Marquis Miguel d'), Portuguese belonging to a very old and wealthy family, the
oldest branch of which was connected with the Bragance and the Grandlieu houses. In 1819 he
was enrolled among the most distinguished dandies who graced Parisian society. At this same
period he began to forsake Claire de Bourgogne, Vicomtesse de Beauseant, with whom he had been
intimate for three years. After having caused her much uneasiness concerning his real intentions,
he returned her letters, on the intervention of Eugene de Rastignac, and married Mlle. Berthe
de Rochefide. [Father Goriot. Scenes from a Courtesan's Life.] In 1832 he was present at one
of Madame d'Espard's receptions, where every one there joined in slandering the Princesse de
Cadignan before Daniel d'Arthez, then violently enamored of her. [The Secrets of a Princess.]
Towards 1840, the Marquis d'Ajuda-Pinto, then a widower, married again--this time Mlle. Josephine
de Grandlieu, third daughter of the last duke of this name. Shortly thereafter, the marquis
was accomplice in a plot hatched by the friends of the Duchesse de Grandlieu and Madame du
Guenic to rescue Calyste du Guenic from the clutches of the Marquise de Rochefide. [Beatrix.]

AJUDA-PINTO (Marquise Berthe d'), nee Rochefide. Married to the Marquis Miguel d'Ajuda-Pinto
in 1820. Died about 1849. [Beatrix.]

AJUDA-PINTO (Marquise Josephine d'), daughter of the Duc and Duchesse Ferdinand de Grandlieu;
second wife of the Marquis Miguel d'Ajuda-Pinto, her kinsman by marriage. Their marriage was
celebrated about 1840. [Scenes from a Courtesan's Life.]

ALAIN (Frederic), born about 1767. He was clerk in the office of Bordin, procureur of Chatelet.
In 1798 he lent one hundred crowns in gold to Monegod his life-long friend. This sum not being
repaid, M. Alain found himself almost insolvent, and was obliged to take an insignificant position
at the Mont-de-Piete. In addition to this he kept the books of Cesar Birotteau, the well-known
perfumer. Monegod became wealthy in 1816, and he forced M. Alain to accept a hundred and fifty
thousand francs in payment of the loan of the hundred crowns. The good man then devoted his
unlooked-for fortune to philanthropies in concert with Judge Popinot. Later, at the close of
1825, he became one of the most active aides of Madame de la Chanterie and her charitable association.
It was M. Alain who introduced Godefroid into the Brotherhood of the Consolation. [The Seamy
Side of History.]

ALBERTINE, Madame de Bargeton's chambermaid, between the years 1821 and 1824. [Lost Illusions.]

ALBON (Marquis d'), court councillor and ministerial deputy under the Restoration. Born in
1777. In September, 1819, he went hunting in the edge of the forest of l'Isle-Adam with his
friend Philippe de Sucy, who suddenly fell senseless at the sight of a poor madwoman whom he
recognized as a former mistress, Stephanie de Vandieres. The Marquis d'Albon, assisted by two
passers by, M. and Mme. de Granville, resuscitated M. de Sucy. Then the marquis returned, at
his friend's entreaty, to the home of Stephanie, where he learned from the uncle of this unfortunate
one the sad story of the love of his friend and Madame de Vandieres. [Farewell.]

ALBRIZZI (Comtesse), a friend, in 1820, at Venice, of the celebrated melomaniac, Capraja. [Massimilla
Doni.]

ALDRIGGER (Jean-Baptiste, Baron d'), born in Alsace in 1764. In 1800 a banker at Strasbourg,
where he was at the apogee of a fortune made during the Revolution, he wedded, partly through
ambition, partly through inclination, the heiress of the Adolphuses of Manheim. The young daughter
was idolized by every one in her family and naturally inherited all their fortune after some
ten years. Aldrigger, created baron by the Emperor, was passionately devoted to the great man
who had bestowed upon him his title, and he ruined himself, between 1814 and 1815, by believing
too deeply in "the sun of Austerlitz." At the time of the invasion, the trustworthy Alsatian
continued to pay on demand and closed up his bank, thus meriting the remark of Nucingen, his
former head-clerk: "Honest, but stoobid." The Baron d'Aldrigger went at once to Paris. There
still remained to him an income of forty-four thousand francs, reduced at his death, in 1823,
by more than half on account of the expenditures and carelessness of his wife. The latter was
left a widow with two daughters, Malvina and Isaure. [The Firm of Nucingen.]

ALDRIGGER (Theodora-Marguerite-Wilhelmine, Baronne d'), nee Adolphus. Daughter of the banker
Adolphus of Manheim, greatly spoiled by her parents. In 1800 she married the Strasbourg banker,
Aldrigger, who spoiled her as badly as they had done and as later did the two daughters whom
she had by her husband. She was superficial, incapable, egotistic, coquettish and pretty. At
forty years of age she still preserved almost all her freshness and could be called "the little
Shepherdess of the Alps." In 1823, when the baron died, she came near following him through
her violent grief. The following morning at breakfast she was served with small pease, of which
she was very fond, and these small pease averted the crisis. She resided in the rue Joubert,
Paris, where she held receptions until the marriage of her younger daughter. [The Firm of Nucingen.]

ALDRIGGER (Malvina d'), elder daughter of the Baron and Baroness d'Aldrigger, born at Strasbourg
in 1801, at the time when the family was most wealthy. Dignified, slender, swarthy, sensuous,
she was a good type of the woman "you have seen at Barcelona." Intelligent, haughty, whole-souled,
sentimental and sympathetic, she was nevertheless smitten by the dry Ferdinand du Tillet, who
sought her hand in marriage at one time, but forsook her when he learned of the bankruptcy
of the Aldrigger family. The lawyer Desroches also considered asking the hand of Malvina, but
he too gave up the idea. The young girl was counseled by Eugene de Rastignac, who took it upon
himself to see that she got married. Nevertheless, she ended by being an old maid, withering
day by day, giving piano lessons, living rather meagrely with her mother in a modest flat on
the third floor, in the rue du Mont-Thabor. [The Firm of Nucingen.]

ALDRIGGER (Isaure d'), second daughter of the Baron and Baronne d'Aldrigger, married to Godefroid
de Beaudenord (See that name.) [The Firm of Nucingen.]

ALINE, a young Auvergne chambermaid in the service of Madame Veronique Graslin, to whom she
was devoted body and soul. She was probably the only one to whom was confided all the terrible
secrets pertaining to the life of Madame Graslin. [The Country Parson.]

ALLEGRAIN* (Christophe-Gabriel), French sculptor, born in 1710. With Lauterbourg and Vien,
at Rome, in 1758, he assisted his friend Sarrasine to abduct Zambinella, then a famous singer.
The prima-donna was a eunuch. [Sarrasine.]

*   To the sculptor Allegrain who died in 1795, the Louvre Museum is
    indebted for a "Narcisse," a "Diana," and a "Venus entering the
    Bath."

ALPHONSE, a friend of the ruined orphan, Charles Grandet, tarrying temporarily at Saumur. In
1819 he acquitted himself most creditably of a mission entrusted to him by that young man.
He wound up Charles' business at Paris, paying all his debts by a single little sale. [Eugenie
Grandet.]

AL-SARTCHILD, name of a German banking-house, where Gedeon Brunner was compelled to deposit
the funds belonging to his son Frederic and inherited from his mother. [Cousin Pons.]

ALTHOR (Jacob), a Hambourg banker, who opened up a business at Havre in 1815. He had a son,
whom in 1829 M. and Mme. Mignon desired for a son-in-law. [Modeste Mignon.]

ALTHOR (Francisque), son of Jacob Althor. Francisque was the dandy of Havre in 1829. He wished
to marry Modeste Mignon but forsook her quickly enough when he found out that her family was
bankrupt. Not long afterwards he married Mlle. Vilquin the elder. [Modeste Mignon.]

AMANDA, Parisian modiste at the time of Louis Philippe. Among her customers was Marguerite
Turquet, known as Malaga, who was slow in paying bills. [A Man of Business.]

AMAURY (Madame), owner, in 1829, of a pavilion at Sauvic, near Ingouville, which Canalis leased
when he went to Havre to see Mlle. Mignon [Modeste Mignon.]

AMBERMESNIL (Comtesse de l') went in 1819, when about thirty-six years old, to board with the
widow, Mme. Vauquer, rue Nueve Sainte-Genevieve, now Tournefort, Paris. Mme. de l'Ambermesnil
gave it out that she was awaiting the settlement of a pension which was due her on account
of being the widow of a general killed "on the battlefield." Mme. Vauquer gave her every attention,
confiding all her own affairs to her. The comtesse vanished at the end of six months, leaving
a board bill unsettled. Mme. Vauquer sought her eagerly, but was never able to obtain a trace
of this adventuress. [Father Goriot.]

AMEDEE, nickname bestowed on Felix de Vandenesse by Lady Dudley when she thought she saw a
rival in Madame de Mortsauf. [The Lily of the Valley.]

ANCHISE (Pere), a surname given by La Palferine to a little Savoyard of ten years who worked
for him without pay. "I have never seen such silliness coupled with such intelligence," the
Prince of Bohemia said of this child; "he would go through fire for me, he understands everything,
and yet he does not see that I cannot help him." [A Prince of Bohemia.]

ANGARD--At Paris, in 1840, the "professor" Angard was consulted, in connection with the Doctors
Bianchon and Larabit, on account of Mme. Hector Hulot, who it was feared was losing her reason.
[Cousin Betty.]

ANGELIQUE (Sister), nun of the Carmelite convent at Blois under Louis XVIII. Celebrated for
her leanness. She was known by Renee de l'Estorade (Mme. de Maucombe) and Louise de Chaulieu
(Mme. Marie Gaston), who went to school at the convent. [Letters of Two Brides.]

ANICETTE, chambermaid of the Princesse de Cadignan in 1839. The artful and pretty Champagne
girl was sought by the sub-prefect of Arcis-sur-Aube, by Maxime de Trailles, and by Mme. Beauvisage,
the mayor's wife, each trying to bribe and enlist her on the side of one of the various candidates
for deputy. [The Member for Arcis.]

ANNETTE, Christian name of a young woman of the Parisian world, under the Restoration. She
had been brought up at Ecouen, where she had received the practical counsels of Mme. Campan.
Mistress of Charles Grandet before his father's death. Towards the close of 1819, a prey to
suspicion, she must needs sacrifice her happiness for the time being, so she made a weary journey
with her husband into Scotland. She made her lover effeminate and materialistic, advising with
him about everything. He returned from the Indies in 1827, when she quickly brought about his
engagement with Mlle. d'Aubrion. [Eugenie Grandet.]

ANNETTE, maid servant of Rigou at Blangy, Burgundy. She was nineteen years old, in 1823, and
had held this place for more than three years, although Gregoire Rigou never kept servants
for a longer period than this, however much he might and did favor them. Annette, sweet, blonde,
delicate, a true masterpiece of dainty, piquant loveliness, worthy to wear a duchess' coronet,
earned nevertheless only thirty francs a year. She kept company with Jean-Louis Tonsard without
letting her master once suspect it; ambition had prompted this young woman to flatter her employer
as a means of hoodwinking this lynx. [The Peasantry.]

ANSELME, Jesuit, living in rue des Postes (now rue Lhomond). Celebrated mathematician. Had
some dealings with Felix Phellion, whom he tried to convert to his religious belief. This rather
meagre information concerning him was furnished by a certain Madame Komorn. [The Middle Classes.]

ANTOINE, born in the village of Echelles, Savoy. In 1824 he had served longest as clerk in
the Bureau of Finance, where he had secured positions, still more modest than his own, for
a couple of his nephews, Laurent and Gabriel, both of whom were married to lace laundresses.
Antoine meddled with every act of the administration. He elbowed, criticised, scolded and toadied
to Clement Chardin des Lupeaulx and other office-holders. He doubtless lived with his nephews.
[The Government Clerks.]

ANTOINE, old servant of the Marquise Beatrix de Rochefide, in 1840, on the rue de Chartes-du-Roule,
near Monceau Park, Paris. [Beatrix.]

ANTONIA--see Chocardelle, Mlle.

AQUILINA, a Parisian courtesan of the time of the Restoration and Louis Philippe. She claimed
to be a Piedmontese. Of her true name she was ignorant. She had appropriated this nom de guerre
from a character in the well-known tragedy by Otway, "Venice Preserved," that she had chanced
to read. At sixteen, pure and beautiful, at the time of her downfall, she had met Castanier,
Nucingen's cashier, who resolved to save her from evil for his own gain, and live maritally
with her in the rue Richter. Aquilina then took the name of Madame de la Garde. At the same
time of her relations with Castanier, she had for a lover a certain Leon, a petty officer in
a regiment of infantry, and none other than one of the sergeants of Rochelle to be executed
on the Place de Greve in 1822. Before this execution, in the reign of Louis XVIII., she attended
a performance of "Le Comedien d'Etampes," one evening at the Gymnase, when she laughed immoderately
at the comical part played by Perlet. At the same time, Castanier, also present at this mirthful
scene, but harassed by Melmoth, was experiencing the insufferable doom of a cruel hidden drama.
[Melmoth Reconciled.] Her next appearance is at a famous orgy at the home of Frederic Taillefer,
rue Joubert, in company with Emile Blondet, Rastignac, Bixiou and Raphael de Valentin. She
was a magnificent girl of good figure, superb carriage, and striking though irregular features.
Her glance and smile startled one. She always included some red trinket in her attire, in memory
of her executed lover. [The Magic Skin.]

ARCOS (Comte d'), a Spanish grandee living in the Peninsula at the time of the expedition of
Napoleon I. He would probably have married Maria-Pepita-Juana Marana de Mancini, had it not
been for the peculiar incidents which brought about her marriage with the French officer, Francois
Diard. [The Maranas.]

ARGAIOLO (Duc d'), a very rich and well-born Italian, the respected though aged husband of
her who later became the Duchesse de Rhetore, to the perpetual grief of Albert Savarus. Argaiolo
died, almost an octogenarian, in 1835. [Albert Savarus.]

ARGAIOLO (Duchesse d'), nee Soderini, wife of the Duc d'Argaiolo. She became a widow in 1835,
and took as her second husband the Duc de Rhetore. (See Duchesse de Rhetore.) [Albert Savarus.]

ARRACHELAINE, surname of the rogue, Ruffard. (See that name.) [Scenes from a Courtesan's Life.]

ARTHEZ (Daniel d'), one of the most illustrious authors of the nineteenth century, and one
of those rare men who display "the unity of excellent talent and excellent character." Born
about 1794 or 1796. A Picard gentleman. In 1821, when about twenty-five, he was poverty-stricken
and dwelt on the fifth floor of a dismal house in the rue des Quatre-Vents, Paris, where had
also resided the illustrious surgeon Desplein, in his youth. There he fraternized with: Horace
Bianchon, then house-physician at Hotel-Dieu; Leon Giraud, the profound philosopher; Joseph
Bridau, the painter who later achieved so much renown; Fulgence Ridal, comic poet of great
sprightliness; Meyraux, the eminent physiologist who died young; lastly, Louis Lambert and
Michel Chrestien, the Federalist Republican, both of whom were cut off in their prime. To these
men of heart and of talent Lucien de Rubempre, the poet, sought to attach himself. He was introduced
by Daniel d'Arthez, their recognized leader. This society had taken the name of the "Cenacle."
D'Arthez and his friends advised and aided, when in need, Lucien the "Distinguished Provincial
at Paris" who ended so tragically. Moreover, with a truly remarkable disinterestedness d'Arthez
corrected and revised "The Archer of Charles IX.," written by Lucien, and the work became a
superb book, in his hands. Another glimpse of d'Arthez is as the unselfish friend of Marie
Gaston, a young poet of his stamp, but "effeminate." D'Arthez was swarthy, with long locks,
rather small and bearing some resemblance to Bonaparte. He might be called the rival of Rousseau,
"the Aquatic," since he was very temperate, very pure, and drank water only. For a long time
he ate at Flicoteaux's in the Latin Quarter. He had grown famous in 1832, besides enjoying
an income of thirty thousand francs bequeathed by an uncle who had left him a prey to the most
biting poverty so long as the author was unknown. D'Arthez then resided in a pretty house of
his own in the rue de Bellefond, where he lived in other respects as formerly, in the rigor
of work. He was a deputy sitting on the right and upholding the Royalist platform of Divine
Right. When he had acquired a competence, he had a most vulgar and incomprehensible liaison
with a woman tolerably pretty, but belonging to a lower society and without either education
or breeding. D'Arthez maintained her, nevertheless, carefully concealing her from sight; but,
far from being a pleasurable manner of life, it became odious to him. It was at this time that
he was invited to the home of Diane de Maufrigneuse, Princesse de Cadignan, who was then thirty-six,
but did not look it. The famous "great coquette" told him her (so-called) "secrets," offered
herself outright to this man whom she treated as a "famous simpleton," and whom she made her
lover. After that day there was no doubt about the relations of the princesse and Daniel d'Arthez.
The great author, whose works became very rare, appeared only during some of the winter months
at the Chamber of Deputies. [A Distinguished Provincial at Paris. Letters of Two Brides. The
Member for Arcis. The Secrets of a Princess.]

ASIE, one of the pseudonyms of Jacqueline Collin. (See that name.) [Scenes from a Courtesan's
Life.]

ATHALIE, cook for Mme. Schontz in 1836. According to her mistress, she was specially gifted
in preparing venison. [The Muse of the Department.]

AUBRION (Marquis d'), a gentleman-in-waiting of the Bedchamber, under Charles X. He was of
the house of Aubrion de Buch, whose last head died before 1789. He was silly enough to wed
a woman of fashion, though he was already an old man of but twenty thousand francs income,
a sum hardly sufficient in Paris. He tried to marry his daughter without a dowry to some man
who was intoxicated with nobility. In 1827, to quote Mme. d'Aubrion, this ancient wreck was
madly devoted to the Duchesse de Chaulieu [Eugenie Grandet.]

AUBRION (Marquise d'), wife of the preceding. Born in 1789. At thirty-eight she was still pretty,
and, having always been somewhat aspiring, she endeavored (in 1827), by hook or by crook, to
entangle Charles Grandet, lately returned from the Indies. She wished to make a son-in-law
out of him, and she succeeded. [Eugenie Grandet.]

AUBRION (Mathilde d') daughter of the Marquis and Marquise d'Aubrion; born in 1808; married
to Charles Grandet. (See that name.) [Eugenie Grandet.]

AUBRION (Comte d'), the title acquired by Charles Grandet after his marriage to the daughter
of the Marquis d'Aubrion. [The Firm of Nucingen.]

AUFFRAY, grocer at Provins, in the period of Louis XV., Louis XVI. and the Revolution. M. Auffray
married the first time when eighteen, the second time at sixty-nine. By his first wife he had
a rather ugly daughter who married, at sixteen, a landlord of Provins, Rogron by name. Auffray
had another daughter, by his second marriage, a charming girl, this time, who married a Breton
captain in the Imperial Guard. Pierrette Lorrain was the daughter of this officer. The old
grocer Auffray died at the time of the Empire without having had time enough to make his will.
The inheritance was so skillfully manipulated by Rogron, the first son-in-law of the deceased,
that almost nothing was left for the goodman's widow, then only about thirty-eight years old.
[Pierrette.]

AUFFRAY (Madame), wife of the preceding. (See Neraud, Mme.) [Pierrette.]

AUFFRAY, a notary of Provins in 1827. Husband of Mme. Guenee's third daughter. Great-grand-nephew
of the old grocer, Auffray. Appointed a guardian of Pierrette Lorrain. On account of the ill-treatment
to which this young girl was subjected at the home of her guardian, Denis Rogron, she was removed,
an invalid, to the home of the notary Auffray, a designated guardian, where she died, although
tenderly cared for. [Pierrette.]

AUFFRAY (Madame), born Guenee. Wife of the preceding. The third daughter of Mme. Guenee, born
Tiphaine. She exhibited the greatest kindness for Pierrette Lorrain, and nursed her tenderly
in her last illness. [Pierrette.]

AUGUSTE, name borne by Boislaurier, as chief of "brigands," in the uprisings of the West under
the Republic and under the Empire. [The Seamy Side of History.]

AUGUSTE, valet de chambre of the General Marquis Armand de Montriveau, under the Restoration,
at the time when the latter dwelt in the rue de Seine hard by the Chamber of Peers, and was
intimate with the Duchesse Antoinette de Langeais. [The Thirteen.]

AUGUSTE, notorious assassin, executed in the first years of the Restoration. He left a mistress,
surnamed Rousse, to whom Jacques Collin had faithfully remitted (in 1819) some twenty odd thousands
of francs, on behalf of her lover after his execution. This woman was married in 1821, by Jacques
Collin's sister, to the head clerk of a rich, wholesale hardware merchant. Nevertheless, though
once more in respectable society, she remained bound, by a secret compact, to the terrible
Vautrin and his sister. [Scenes from a Courtesan's Life.]

AUGUSTE (Madame), dressmaker of Esther Gobseck, and her creditor in the time of Louis XVIII.
[Scenes from a Courtesan's Life.]

AUGUSTIN, valet de chambre of M. de Serizy in 1822. [A Start in Life.]

AURELIE, a Parisian courtesan, under Louis Philippe, at the time when Mme. Fabien du Ronceret
commenced her conquests. [Beatrix.]

AURELIE (La Petite), one of the nicknames of Josephine Schiltz, also called Schontz, who became,
later, Mme. Fabien du Ronceret. [Beatrix.]

AUVERGNAT (L'), one of the assumed names of the rogue Selerier, alias Pere Ralleau, alias Rouleur,
alias Fil-de-soie. (See Selerier.) [Scenes from a Courtesan's Life.]

                                  B

BABYLAS, groom or "tiger" of Amedee de Soulas, in 1834, at Besancon. Was fourteen years old
at this time. The son of one of his master's tenants. He earned thirty-six francs a month by
his position to support himself, but he was neat and skillful. [Albert Savarus.]

BAPTISTE, valet de chambre to the Duchesse de Lenoncourt-Chaulieu in 1830. [Scenes from a Courtesan's
Life.]

BARBANCHU, Bohemian with a cocked hat, who was called into Vefour's by some journalists who
breakfasted there at the expense of Jerome Thuillier, in 1840, and invited by them to "sponge"
off of this urbane man, which he did. [The Middle Classes.]

BARBANTI (The), a Corsican family who brought about the reconciliation of the Piombos and the
Portas in 1800. [The Vendetta.]

BARBET, a dynasty of second-hand book-dealers in Paris under the Restoration and Louis Philippe.
They were Normans. In 1821 and the years following, one of them ran a little shop on the quay
des Grands-Augustins, and purchased Lousteau's books. In 1836, a Barbet, partner in a book-shop
with Metivier and Morand, owned a wretched house on the rue Notre-Dame-des-Champs and the boulevard
du Mont-Parnasse, where dwelt the Baron Bourlac with his daughter and grandson. In 1840 the
Barbets had become regular usurers dealing in credits with the firm of Cerizet and Company.
The same year a Barbet occupied, in a house belonging to Jerome Thuillier, rue Saint-Dominique-d'Enfer
(now rue Royal-Collard), a room on the first flight up and a shop on the ground floor. He was
then a "publisher's shark." Barbet junior, a nephew of the foregoing, and editor in the alley
des Panoramas, placed on the market at this time a brochure composed by Th. de la Peyrade but
signed by Thuillier and having the title "Capital and Taxes." (See Cibot, Barbette.) [Les Chouans.]

BARCHOU DE PENHOEN (Auguste-Theodore-Hilaire), born at Morlaix (Finistere), April 28, 1801,
died at Saint-Germain-en-Laye, July 29, 1855. A school-mate of Balzac, Jules Dufaure and Louis
Lambert, and his neighbors in the college dormitory of Vendome in 1811. Later he was an officer,
then a writer of transcendental philosophy, a translator of Fichte, a friend and interpreter
of Ballanche. In 1849 he was elected, by his fellow-citizens of Finistere, to the Legislative
Assembly where he represented the Legitimists and the Catholics. He protested against the coup
d'etat of December 2, 1851 (See "The Story of a Crime," by Victor Hugo). When a child he came
under the influence of Pyrrhonism. He once gainsaid the talent of Louis Lambert, his Vendome
school-mate. [Louis Lambert.]

BARGETON (De), born between 1761 and 1763. Great-grandson of an Alderman of Bordeau named Mirault,
ennobled during the reign of Louis XIII., and whose son, under Louis XIV., now Mirault de Bargeton,
was an officer of the Guards de la Porte. He owned a house at Angouleme, in the rue du Minage,
where he lived with his wife, Marie-Louise-Anais de Negrepelisse, to whom he was entirely obedient.
On her account, and at her instigation, he fought with one of the habitues of his salon, Stanislas
de Chandour, who had circulated in the town a slander on Mme. de Bargeton. Bargeton lodged
a bullet in his opponent's neck. He had for a second his father-in-law, M. de Negrepelisse.
Following this, M. de Bargeton retired into his estate at Escarbas, near Barbezieux, while
his wife, as a result of the duel left Angouleme for Paris. M. de Bargeton had been of good
physique, but "injured by youthful excesses." He was commonplace, but a great gourmand. He
died of indigestion towards the close of 1821. [Lost Illusions.]

BARGETON (Madame de), nee Marie-Louise-Anais Negrepelisse, wife of the foregoing. Left a widow,
she married again, this time the Baron Sixte du Chatelet. (See that name.)

BARILLAUD, known by Frederic Alain whose suspicion he aroused with regard to Monegod. [The
Seamy Side of History.]

BARIMORE (Lady), daughter of Lord Dudley, and apparently the wife of Lord Barimore, although
it is a disputed question. Just after 1830, she helped receive at a function of Mlle. des Touches,
rue de la Chaussee-d'Antin, where Marsay told about his first love affair. [Another Study of
Woman.]

BARKER (William), one of Vautrin's "incarnations." In 1824 or 1825, under this assumed name,
he posed as one of the creditors of M. d'Estourny, making him endorse some notes of Cerizet's,
the partner of this M. d'Estourny. [Scenes from a Courtesan's Life.]

BARNHEIM, family in good standing at Bade. On the maternal side, the family of Mme. du Ronceret,
nee Schiltz, alias Schontz. [Beatrix.]

BARNIOL, Phellion's son-in-law. Head of an academy (in 1840), rue Saint-Hyacinthe-Saint-Michel
(now, rue Le Goff and rue Malebrache). A rather influential man in the Faubourg Saint-Jacques.
Visited the salon of Thuillier. [The Middle Classes.]

BARNIOL (Madame), nee Phellion, wife of the preceding. She had been under-governess in the
boarding school of the Mlles. Lagrave, rue Notre-Dame des Champs. [The Middle Classes.]

BARRY (John), a young English huntsman, well known in the district whence the Prince of Loudon
brought him to employ him at his own home. He was with this great lord in 1829, 1830. [Modeste
Mignon.]

BARTAS (Adrien de), of Angouleme. In 1821, he and his wife were very devoted callers at the
Bargetons. M. de Bartas gave himself up entirely to music, talking about this subject incessantly,
and courting invitations to sing with his heavy bass voice. He posed as the lover of Mme. de
Brebion, the wife of his best friend. M. de Brebion became the lover of Mme. de Bartas. [Lost
Illusions.]

BARTAS (Madame Josephine de), wife of the preceding, always called Fifine, "for short." [Lost
Illusions.]

BASTIENNE, Parisian modiste in 1821. Finot's journal vaunted her hats, for a pecuniary consideration,
and derogated those of Virginie, formerly praised. [Lost Illusions.]

BATAILLES (The), belonging to the bourgeoisie of Paris, traders of Marais, neighbors and friends
of the Baudoyers and the Saillards in 1824. M. Bataille was a captain in the National Guard,
a fact which he allowed no one to ignore. [The Government Clerks.]

BAUDENORD (Godefroid de), born in 1800. [A Distinguished Provincial at Paris.] His nobility
and breeding were perhaps not very orthodox. According to Mlle. Emilie de Fontaine, he was
of bad figure and stout, having but a single advantage--that of his brown locks. [The Ball
at Sceaux.] A cousin, by marriage, of his guardian, the Marquis d'Aiglemont, he was, like him,
ruined by the Baron de Nucingen in the Wortschin mine deal. At one time Beaudenord thought
of paying court to his pretty cousin, the Marquise d'Aiglemont. In 1827 he wedded Isaure d'Aldrigger
and, after having lived with her in a cosy little house on the rue de le Planche, he was obliged
to solicit employment of the Minister of Finance, a position which he lost on account of the
Revolution of 1830. However, he was reinstated through the influence of Nucingen, in 1836.
He now lived modestly with his mother-in-law, his unmarried sister-in-law, Malvina, his wife
and four children which she had given him, on the third floor, over the entresol, rue du Mont-Thabor.
[The Firm of Nucingen.]

BAUDENORD (Madame de), wife of the preceding. Born Isaure d'Aldrigger, in 1807, at Strasbourg.
An indolent blonde, fond of dancing, but a nonentity from both the moral and the intellectual
standpoints. [The Firm of Nucingen.]

BAUDOYER (Monsieur and Madame), formerly tanners at Paris, rue Censier. They owned their house,
besides having a country seat at l'Isle Adam. They had but one child, Isidore, whose sketch
follows. Mme. Baudoyer, born Mitral, was the sister of the bailiff of that name. [The Government
Clerks.]

BAUDOYER (Isidore), born in 1788; only son of M. and Mme. Baudoyer, tanners, rue Censier, Paris.
Having finished a course of study, he obtained a position in the Bureau of Finance, where,
despite his notorious incapacity--and through "wire-pulling"--he became head of the office.
In 1824, a head of the division, M. de La Billardiere died, when the meritorious clerk, Xavier
Rabourdin, aspired to succeed him; but the position went to Isidore Baudoyer, who was backed
by the power of money and the influence of the Church. He did not retain this post long; six
months thereafter he became a preceptor at Paris. Isidore Baudoyer lived with his wife and
her parents in a house on Palais Royale (now Place des Vosges), of which they were joint owners.
[The Government Clerks.] He dined frequently, in 1840, at Thuillier's, an old employe of the
Bureau of Finance, then domiciled at the rue Saint-Dominique-d'Enfer, who had renewed his acquaintance
with his old-time colleagues. [The Middle Classes.] In 1845, this man, who had been a model
husband and who made a great pretence of religion maintained Heloise Brisetout. He was then
mayor of the arrondissement of the Palais Royale. [Cousin Pons.]

BAUDOYER (Madame), wife of the preceding and daughter of a cashier of the Minister of Finance;
born Elisabeth Saillard in 1795. Her mother, an Auvergnat, had an uncle, Bidault, alias Gigonnet,
a short-time money lender in the Halles quarter. On the other side, her mother-in-law was the
sister of the bailiff Mitral. Thanks to these two men of means, who exercised a veritable secret
power, and through her piety, which put her on good terms with the clergy, she succeeded in
raising her husband up to the highest official positions--profiting also by the financial straits
of Clement Chardin des Lupeaulx, Secretary General of Finance. [The Government Clerks.]

BAUDOYER (Mademoiselle), daughter of Isidore Baudoyer and Elisabeth Saillard, born in 1812.
Reared by her parents with the idea of becoming the wife of the shrewd and energetic speculator
Martin Falleix, brother of Jacques Falleix the stock-broker. [The Government Clerks.]

BAUDRAND, cashier of a boulevard theatre, of which Gaudissart became the director about 1834.
In 1845 he was succeeded by the proletariat Topinard. [Cousin Pons.]

BAUDRY (Planat de), Receiver General of Finances under the Restoration. He married one of the
daughters of the Comte de Fontaine. He usually passed his summers at Sceaux, with almost all
his wife's family. [The Ball at Sceaux.]

BAUVAN (Comte de), one of the instigators of the Chouan insurrection in the department d'Ille-et-Vilaine,
in 1799. Through a secret revelation made to his friend the Marquis de Montauran on the part
of Mlle. de Verneuil, the Comte de Bauvan caused, indirectly, the Massacre des Bleus at Vivetiere.
Later, surprised in an ambuscade by soldiers of the Republic, he was made a prisoner by Mlle.
de Verneuil and owed his life to her; for this reason he became entirely devoted to her, assisting
as a witness at her marriage with Montauran. [The Chouans.]

BAUVAN (Comtesse de), in all likelihood the wife of the foregoing, whom she survived. In 1822
she was manager of a Parisian lottery bureau which employed Madame Agatha Bridau, about the
same time. [A Bachelor's Establishment.]

BAUVAN (Comte and Comtesse de), father and mother of Octave de Bauvan. Relics of the old Court,
living in a tumble-down house on the rue Payenne at Paris, where they died, about 1815, within
a few months of each other, and before the conjugal infelicity of their son. (See Octave de
Bauvan.) Probably related to the two preceding. [Honorine.]

BAUVAN (Comte Octave de), statesman and French magistrate. Born in 1787. When twenty-six he
married Honorine, a beautiful young heiress who had been reared carefully at the home of his
parents, M. and Mme. de Bauvan, whose ward she was. Two or three years afterwards she left
the conjugal roof, to the infinite despair of the comte, who gave himself over entirely to
winning her back again. At the end of several years he succeeded in getting her to return to
him through pity, but she died soon after this reconciliation, leaving one son born of their
reunion. The Comte de Bauvan, completely broken, set out for Italy about 1836. He had two residences
at Paris, one on rue Payenne, an heirloom, the other on Faubourg Saint-Honore, which was the
scene of the domestic reunion. [Honorine.] In 1830, the Comte de Bauvan, then president of
the Court of Cassation, with MM. de Granville and de Serizy, tried to save Lucien de Rubempre
from a criminal judgment, and, after the suicide of that unhappy man, he followed his remains
to the grave. [Scenes from a Courtesan's life.]

BAUVAN (Comtesse Honorine de), wife of the preceding. Born in 1794. Married at nineteen to
the Comte Octave de Bauvan. After having abandoned her husband, she was in turn, while expecting
a child, abandoned by her lover, some eighteen months later. She then lived a very retired
life in the rue Saint-Maur, yet all the time being under the secret surveillance of the Comte
de Bauvan who paid exorbitant prices for the artificial flowers which she made. She thus derived
from him a rather large part of the sustenance which she believed she owed only to her own
efforts. She died, reunited to her husband, shortly after the Revolution of July, 1830. Honorine
de Bauvan lost her child born out of wedlock, and she always mourned it. Mature at the time
of the Restoration. She was the mistress of the police-officer Peyrade, by whom she had a daughter,
Lydie, whom he acknowledged. The last home of Mlle. Beaumesnil was on rue de Tournon. It was
there that she suffered the loss by theft of her valuable diamonds, through Charles Crochard,
her real lover. This was at the beginning of the reign of Louis Philippe. [The Middle Classes.
Scenes from a Courtesan's Life. A Second Home.]

BEAUPIED, or Beau-Pied, an alias of Jean Falcon. (See that name.)

BEAUPRE (Fanny), an actress at the Theatre de la Porte-Saint-Martin, Paris, time of Charles
X. Young and beautiful, in 1825, she made a name for herself in the role of marquise in a melodrama
entitled "La Famille d'Anglade." At this time she had replaced Coralie, then dead, in the affections
of Camusot the silk-merchant. It was at Fanny Beaupre's that Oscar Husson, one of the clerks
of lawyer Desroches, lost in gaming the sum of five hundred francs belonging to his employer,
and that he was discovered lying dead-drunk on a sofa by his uncle Cardot. [A Start in Life.]
In 1829 Fanny Beaupre, for a money consideration, posed as the best friend of the Duc d'Herouville.
[Modeste Mignon.] In 1842, after his liaison with Mme. de la Baudraye, Lousteau lived maritally
with her. [The Muse of the Department.] A frequent inmate of the mansion magnificently fitted
up for Esther Gobseck by the Baron de Nucingen, she knew all the fast set of the years 1829
and 1830. [Scenes from a Courtesan's Life.]

BEAUSEANT (Marquis and Comte de), the father and eldest brother of the Vicomte de Beauseant,
husband of Claire de Bourgogne. [The Deserted Woman.] In 1819, the marquis and the comte dwelt
together in their house, rue Saint-Dominique, Paris. [Father Goriot.] While the Revolution
was on, the marquis had emigrated. The Abbe de Marolles had dealings with him. [An Episode
under the Terror.]

BEAUSEANT (Marquise de). In 1824 a Marquise de Beauseant, then rather old, is found to have
dealings with the Chaulieus. It was probably the widow of the marquis of this name, and the
mother of the Comte and Vicomte de Beauseant. [Letters of Two Brides.] The Marquise de Beauseant
was a native of Champagne, coming of a very old family. [The Deserted Woman.]

BEAUSEANT (Vicomte de), husband of Claire de Bourgogne. He understood the relations of his
wife with Miguel d'Ajuda-Pinto, and, whether he liked it or not, he respected this species
of morganatic alliance recognized by society. The Vicomte de Beauseant had his residence in
Paris on the rue de Grenelle in 1819. At that time he kept a dancer and liked nothing better
than high living. He became a marquis on the death of his father and eldest brother. He was
a polished man, courtly, methodical, and ceremonious. He insisted upon living selfishly. His
death would have allowed Mme. de Beauseant to wed Gaston de Nueil. [Father Goriot. The Deserted
Woman.]

BEAUSEANT (Vicomtesse de), born Clair de Bourgogne, in 1792. Wife of the preceding and cousin
of Eugene de Rastignac. Of a family almost royal. Deceived by her lover, Miguel d'Ajuda-Pinto,
who, while continuing his intimacy with her, asked and obtained the hand of Berthe de Rochefide,
the vicomtesse left Paris secretly before this wedding and on the morning following a grand
ball which was given at her home where she shone in all her pride and splendor. In 1822 this
"deserted woman" had lived for three years in the most rigid seclusion at Courcelles near Bayeux.
Gaston de Nueil, a young man of three and twenty, who had been sent to Normandy for his health,
succeeded in making her acquaintance, was immediately smitten with her and, after a long seige,
became her lover. This was at Geneva, whither she had fled. Their intimacy lasted for nine
years, being broken by the marriage of the young man. She was equally intimate with Grandlieu,
and the General de Montriveau. Rastignac, then poor at the time of his start in the world,
also received cards to her receptions. [Father Goriot. The Deserted Woman. Albert Savarus.]

BEAUSSIER, a bourgeois of Issoudun under the Restoration. Upon seeing Joseph Bridau in the
diligence, while the artist and his mother were on a journey in 1822, he remarked that he would
not care to meet him at night in the corner of a forest--he looked so much like a highwayman.
That same evening Beaussier, accompanied by his wife, came to call at Hochon's in order to
get a nearer view of the painter. [A Bachelor's Establishment.]

BEAUSSIER the younger, known as Beaussier the Great; son of the preceding and one of the Knights
of Idlesse at Issoudun, commanded by Maxence Gilet, under the Restoration. [A Bachelor's Establishment.]

BEAUVISAGE, physician of the Convent des Carmelites at Blois, time of Louis XVIII. He was known
by Louise de Chaulieu and by Renee de Maucombe, who were reared in the convent. According to
Louise de Chaulieu, he certainly belied his name. [Letters of Two Brides.]

BEAUVISAGE, at one time tenant of the splendid farm of Bellache, pertaining to the Gondreville
estate at Arcis-sur-Aube. The father of Phileas Beauvisage. Died about the beginning of the
nineteenth century. [The Gondreville Mystery. The Member for Arcis.]

BEAUVISAGE (Madame), wife of the preceding. She survived him for quite a long period and helped
her son Phileas win his success. [The Member for Arcis.]

BEAUVISAGE (Phileas), son of Beauvisage the farmer. Born in 1792. A hosier at Arcis-sur-Aube
during the Restoration. Mayor of the town in 1839. After a preliminary defeat he was elected
deputy at the time when Sallenauve sent in his resignation, in 1841. An ardent admirer of Crevel
whose affectations he aped. A millionaire and very vain, he would have been able, according
to Crevel, to advance Mme. Hulot, for a consideration, the two hundred thousand francs of which
that unhappy lady stood in so dire a need about 1842. [Cousin Betty. The Member for Arcis.]

BEAUVISAGE (Madame), born Severine Grevin in 1795. Wife of Phileas Beauvisage, whom she kept
in complete subjugation. Daughter of Grevin the notary of Arcis-sur-Aube, Senator Malin de
Gondreville's intimate friend. She inherited her father's marvelous faculty of discretion;
and, though diminutive in stature, reminded one forcibly, in her face and ways, of Mlle. Mars.
[The Member for Arcis.]

BEAUVISAGE (Cecile-Renee), only daughter of Phileas Beauvisage and Severine Grevin. Born in
1820. Her natural father was the Vicomte Melchior de Chargeboeuf who was sub-prefect of Arcis-sur-Aube
at the commencement of the Restoration. She looked exactly like him, besides having his aristocratic
airs. [The Member for Arcis.]

BEAUVOIR (Charles-Felix-Theodore, Chevalier de), cousin of the Duchesse de Maille. A Chouan
prisoner of the Republic in the chateau de l'Escarpe in 1799. The hero of a tale of marital
revenge related by Lousteau, in 1836, to Mme. de la Baudraye, the story being obtained --so
the narrator said--from Charles Nodier. [The Muse of the Department.]

BECANIERE (La), surname of Barbette Cibot. (See that name.)

BECKER (Edme), a student of medicine who dwelt in 1828 at number 22, rue de la Montagne-Sainte-Genevieve--the
residence of the Marquis d'Espard. [The Commission in Lunacy.]

BEDEAU, office boy and roustabout for Maitre Bordin, attorney to the Chatelet in 1787. [A Start
in Life.]

BEGA, surgeon in a French regiment of the Army of Spain in 1808. After having privately accouched
a Spaniard under the espionage of her lover, he was assassinated by her husband, who surprised
him in the telling of this clandestine operation. The foregoing adventure was told Mme. de
la Baudraye, in 1836, by the Receiver of Finances, Gravier, former paymaster of the Army. [The
Muse of the Department.]

BEGRAND (La), a dancer at the theatre of Porte-Sainte-Martin, Paris, in 1820.* Mariette, who
made her debut at this time, also scored a success. [A Bachelor's Establishment.]

*   She shone for more than sixty years as a famous choreographical
    artist in the boulevards.

BELLEFEUILLE (Mademoiselle de), assumed name of Caroline Crochard.

BELLEJAMBE, servant of Lieutenant-Colonel Husson in 1837. [A Start in Life.]

BELOR (Mademoiselle de), young girl of Bordeaux living there about 1822. She was always in
search of a husband, whom, for some cause or other, she never found. Probably intimate with
Evangelista. [A Marriage Settlement.]

BEMBONI (Monsignor), attache to the Secretary of State at Rome, who was entrusted with the
transmission to the Duc de Soria at Madrid of the letters of Baron de Macumer his brother,
a Spanish refugee at Paris in 1823, 1824. [Letters of Two Brides.]

BENARD (Pieri). After corresponding with a German for two years, he discovered an engraving
by Muller entitled the "Virgin of Dresden." It was on Chinese paper and made before printing
was discovered. It cost Cesar Birotteau fifteen hundred francs. The perfumer destined this
engraving for the savant Vauquelin, to whom he was under obligations. [Cesar Birotteau.]

BENASSIS (Doctor), born about 1779 in a little town of Languedoc. He received his early training
at the College of Soreze, Tarn, which was managed by the Oratorians. After that he pursued
his medical studies at Paris, residing in the Latin quarter. When twenty-two he lost his father,
who left him a large fortune; and he deserted a young girl by whom he had had a son, in order
to give himself over to the most foolish dissipations. This young girl, who was thoroughly
well meant and devoted to him, died two years after the desertion despite the most tender care
of her now contrite lover. Later Benassis sought marriage with another young girl belonging
to a Jansenist family. At first the affair was settled, but he was thrown over when the secret
of his past life, hitherto concealed, was made known. He then devoted his whole life to his
son, but the child died in his youth. After wavering between suicide and the monastery of Grande-Chartreuse,
Doctor Benassis stopped by chance in the poor village of l'Isere, five leagues from Grenoble.
He remained there until he had transformed the squalid settlement, inhabited by good-for-nothing
Cretins, into the chief place of the Canton, bustling and prosperous. Benassis died in 1829,
mayor of the town. All the populace mourned the benefactor and man of genius. [The Country Doctor.]

BENEDETTO, an Italian living at Rome in the first third of the nineteenth century. A tolerable
musician, and a police spy, "on the side." Ugly, small and a drunkard, he was nevertheless
the lucky husband of Luigia, whose marvelous beauty was his continual boast. After an evening
spent by him over the wine-cups, his wife in loathing lighted a brasier of charcoal, after
carefully closing all the exits of the bedchamber. The neighbors rushing in succeeded in saving
her alone; Benedetto was dead. [The Member for Arcis.]

BERENICE, chambermaid and cousin of Coralie the actress of the Panorama and Gymnase Dramatique.
A large Norman woman, as ugly as her mistress was pretty, but tender and sympathetic in direct
proportion to her corpulence. She had been Coralie's childhood playmate and was absolutely
bound up in her. In October, 1822, she gave Lucien de Rubempre, then entirely penniless, four
five-franc pieces which she undoubtedly owed to the generosity of chance lovers met on the
boulevard Bonne-Nouvelle. This sum enabled the unfortunate poet to return to Angouleme. [Lost
Illusions. A Distinguished Provincial at Paris.]

BERGERIN was the best doctor at Saumur during the Restoration. He attended Felix Grandet in
his last illness. [Eugenie Grandet.]

BERGMANN (Monsieur and Madame), Swiss. Venerable gardeners of a certain Comte Borromeo, tending
his parks located on the two famous isles in Lake Major. In 1823 they owned a house at Gersau,
near Quatre-Canton Lake, in the Canton of Lucerne. For a year back they had let one floor of
this house to the Prince and Princesse Gandolphini, --personages of a novel entitled, "L'Ambitieux
par Amour," published by Albert Savarus in the Revue de l'Est, in 1834. [Albert Savarus.]

BERNARD. (See Baron de Bourlac.)

BERNUS, diligence messenger carrying the passengers, freight, and perhaps, the letters of Saint-Nazaire
to Guerande, during the time of Charles X. and Louis Philippe. [Beatrix.]

BERQUET, workman of Besancon who erected an elevated kiosk in the garden of the Wattevilles,
whence their daughter Rosalie could see every act and movement of Albert Savarus, a near neighbor.
[Albert Savarus.]

BERTHIER (Alexandre), marshal of the Empire, born at Versailles in 1753, dying in 1815. He
wrote, as Minister of War at the close of 1799, to Hulot, then in command of the Seventy-second
demi-brigade, refusing to accept his resignation and giving him further orders. [The Chouans.]
On the evening of the battle of Jena, October 13, 1806, he accompanied the Emperor and was
present at the latter's interview with the Marquis de Chargeboeuf and Laurence de Cinq-Cygne,
special envoys to France to implore pardon for the Simeuses, the Hauteserres, and Michu who
had been condemned as abductors of Senator Malin de Gondreville. [The Gondreville Mystery.]

BERTHIER, Parisian notary, successor of Cardot, whose assistant head-clerk he had been and
whose daughter Felicite (or Felicie) he married. In 1843 he was Mme. Marneffe's notary. At
the same time he had in hand the affairs of Camusot de Marville; and Sylvain Pons often dined
with him. Master Berthier drew up the marriage settlement of Wilhelm Schwab with Emilie Graff,
and the copartnership articles between Fritz Brunner and Wilhelm Schwab. [Cousin Betty. Cousin
Pons.]

BERTHIER (Madame), nee Felicie Cardot, wife of the preceding. She had been wronged by the chief-clerk
in her father's office. This young man died suddenly, leaving her enceinte. She then espoused
the second clerk, Berthier, in 1837, after having been on the point of accepting Lousteau.
Berthier was cognizant of all the head-clerk's doings. In this affair both acted for a common
interest. The marriage was measurably happy. Madame Berthier was so grateful to her husband
that she made herself his slave. About the end of 1844 she welcomed very coldly Sylvain Pons,
then in disgrace in the family circle. [The Muse of the Department. Cousin Pons.]

BERTON, tax-collector at Arcis-sur-Aube in 1839. [The Member for Arcis.]

BERTON (Mademoiselle), daughter of the tax-collector of Arcis-sur-Aube. A young, insignificant
girl who acted the satellite to Cecile Beauvisage and Ernestine Mollot. [The Member for Arcis.]

BERTON (Doctor), physician of Paris. In 1836 he lived on rue d'Enfer (now rue Denfert-Rochereau).
An assistant in the benevolent work of Mme. de la Chanterie, he visited the needy sick whom
she pointed out. Among others he attended Vanda de Mergi, daughter of the Baron de Bourlac--M.
Bernard. Doctor Berton was gruff and frigid. [The Seamy Side of History.]

BETHUNE (Prince de), the only man of fashion who knew "what a hat was" --to quote a saying
of Vital the hatter, in 1845. [The Unconscious Humorists.]

BEUNIER & CO., the firm Bixiou inquired after in 1845, near Mme. Nourrisson's. [The Unconscious
Humorists.]

BIANCHI. Italian. During the first Empire a captain in the sixth regiment of the French line,
which was made up almost entirely of men of his nationality. Celebrated in his company for
having bet that he would eat the heart of a Spanish sentinel, and winning that bet. Captain
Bianchi was first to plant the French colors on the wall of Tarragone, Spain, in the attack
of 1808. But a friar killed him. [The Maranas.]

BIANCHON (Doctor), a physician of Sancerre, father of Horace Bianchon, brother of Mme. Popinot,
the wife of Judge Popinot. [The Commission in Lunacy.]

BIANCHON (Horace), a physician of Paris, celebrated during the times of Charles X. and Louis
Philippe; an officer of the Legion of Honor, member of the Institute, professor of the Medical
Faculty, physician-in-charge, at the same time, of a hospital and the Ecole Polytechnique.
Born at Sancerre, Cher, about the end of the eighteenth century. He was "interne" at the Cochin
Hospital in 1819, at which time he boarded at the Vauquer Pension where he knew Eugene de Rastignac,
then studying law, and Goriot and Vautrin. [Father Goriot.] Shortly thereafter, at Hotel Dieu,
he became the favored pupil of the surgeon Desplein, whose last days he tended. [The Atheist's
Mass.] Nephew of Judge Jean-Jules Popinot and relative of Anselme Popinot, he had dealings
with the perfumer Cesar Birotteau, who acknowledged indebtedness to him for a prescription
of his famous hazelnut oil, and who invited him to the grand ball which precipitated Birotteau's
bankruptcy. [Cesar Birotteau. The Commission in Lunacy.] Member of the "Cenacle" in rue des
Quatre-Vents, and on intimate terms with all the young fellows composing this clique, he was
consequently enabled, to an extent, to bring Daniel d'Arthez to the notice of Rastignac, now
Under-Secretary of State. He nursed Lucien de Rubempre who was wounded in a duel with Michel
Chrestien in 1822; also Coralie, Lucien's mistress, and Mme. Bridau in their last illnesses.
[The Government Clerks.] In Provins in 1828, with the same Desplein and Dr. Martener, he gave
the most assiduous attention to Pierrette Lorrain. [Pierrette.] In this same year of 1828 he
had a momentary desire to become one of an expedition to Morea. He was then physician to Mme.
de Listomere, whose misunderstanding with Rastignac he learned and afterwards related. [A Study
of Woman.] Again in company with Desplein, in 1829, he was called in by Mme. de Nucingen with
the object of studying the case of Baron de Nucingen, her husband, love-sick for Esther Gobseck.
In 1830, still with his celebrated chief, he was cited by Corentin to express an opinion on
the death of Peyrade and the lunacy of Lydie his daughter. Then, with Desplein and with Dr.
Sinard, to attend Mme. de Serizy, who it was feared would go crazy over the suicide of Lucien
de Rubempre. [Scenes from a Courtesan's Life.] Associated with Desplein, at this same time,
he cared for the dying Honorine, wife of Comte de Bauvan [Honorine.], and examined the daughter
of Baron de Bourlac--M. Bernard--who was suffering from a peculiar Polish malady, the plica.
[The Seamy Side of History.] In 1831 Horace Bianchon was the friend and physician of Raphael
de Valentin. [The Magic Skin.] In touch with the Comte de Granville in 1833, he attended the
latter's mistress, Caroline Crochard. [A Second Home.] He also attended Mme. du Bruel, then
mistress of La Palferine, who had injured herself by falling and striking her head against
the sharp corner of a fireplace. [A Prince of Bohemia.] In 1835 he attended Mme. Marie Gaston--Louise
de Chaulieu --though a hopeless case. [Letters of Two Brides.] In 1837 at Paris he accouched
Mme. de la Baudraye who had been intimate with Lousteau; he was assisted by the celebrated
accoucheur Duriau. [The Muse of the Department.] In 1838 he was Comte Laginski's physician.
[The Imaginary Mistress.] In 1840 Horace Bianchon resided on rue de la Montagne-Sainte-Genevieve,
in the house where his uncle, Judge Popinot, died, and he was asked to become one of the Municipal
Council, in place of that upright magistrate. But he declined, declaring in favor of Thuillier.
[The Middle Classes.] The physician of Baron Hulot, Crevel and Mme. Marneffe, he observed with
seven of his colleagues, the terrible malady which carried off Valerie and her second husband
in 1842. In 1843 he also visited Lisbeth Fisher in her last illness [Cousin Betty.] Finally,
in 1844, Dr. Bianchon was consulted by Dr. Roubaud regarding Mme. Graslin at Montegnac. [The
Country Parson.] Horace Bianchon was a brilliant and inspiring conversationalist. In 1819 he
personally arrested at Mme. Vauquer's boarding-house Jacques Collin, alias Vautrin, his old
galley-mate and personal enemy. Under the name of Gondureau, Bibi-Lupin had made overtures
to Mlle. Michonneau, one of Mme. Vauquer's guests, and through her he had obtained the necessary
proofs of the real identity of Vautrin who was then without the pale of the law, but who later,
May, 1830, became his successor as chief of secret police. [Father Goriot. Scenes from a Courtesan's
Life.]

BIDAULT (Monsieur and Madame), brother and sister-in-law of Bidault, alias Gigonnet; father
and mother of M. and Mme. Saillard, furniture-dealers under the Central Market pillars during
the latter part of the eighteenth and perhaps the beginning of the nineteenth centuries. [The
Government Clerks.]

BIDAULT, known as Gigonnet, born in 1755; originally an Auvergnat; uncle of Mme. Saillard on
the paternal side. A paper-merchant at one time, retired from business since the year II of
the Republic, he opened an account with a Dutchman called Sieur Werbrust, who was a friend
of Gobseck. In business relations with the latter, he was one of the most formidable usurers
in Paris, during the Empire, the Restoration and the first part of the July Government. He
dwelt in rue Greneta. [The Government Clerks. Gobseck.] Luigi Porta, a ranking officer retired
under Louis XVIII., sold all his back pay to Gigonnet. [The Vendetta.] Bidault was one of the
syndicate that engineered the bankruptcy of Birotteau in 1819. At this time he persecuted Mme.
Madou, a market dealer in filberts, who was his debtor. [Cesar Birotteau.] In 1824 he succeeded
in making his grand-nephew, Isidore Baudoyer, chief of the division under the Minister of Finance;
in this he was aided by Gobseck and Mitral, and worked on the General Secretary, Chardin des
Lupeaulx, through the medium of the latter's debts and the fact of his being candidate for
deputy. [The Government Clerks.] Bidault was shrewd enough; he saw through--and much to his
profit--the pretended speculation involved in the third receivership which was operated by
Nucingen in 1826. [The Firm of Nucingen.] In 1833 M. du Tillet advised Nathan, then financially
stranded, to apply to Gigonnet, the object being to involve Nathan. [A Daughter of Eve.] The
nick-name of Gigonnet was applied to Bidault on account of a feverish, involuntary contraction
of a leg muscle. [The Government Clerks.]

BIDDIN, goldsmith, rue de l'Arbe-Sec, Paris, in 1829; one of Esther Gobseck's creditors. [Scenes
from a Courtesan's Life.]

BIFFE (La), concubine of the criminal Riganson, alias Le Biffon. This woman, who was a sort
of Jacques Collin in petticoats, evaded the police, thanks to her disguises. She could ape
the marquise, the baronne and the comtesse to perfection. She had her own carriage and footmen.
[Scenes from a Courtesan's Life.]

BIFFON (Le), an alias of Riganson.

BIGORNEAU, sentimental clerk of Fritot's, the shawl merchant in the Bourse quarter, Paris,
time of Louis Philippe. [Gaudissart II.]

BIJOU (Olympe). (See Grenouville, Madame.)

BINET, inn-keeper in the Department of l'Orne in 1809. He was concerned in a trial which created
some stir, and cast a shadow over Mme. de la Chanterie, striking at her daughter, Mme. des
Tours-Minieres. Binet harbored some brigands known as "chauffeurs." He was brought to trial
for it and sentenced to five years' imprisonment. [The Seamy Side of History.]

BIROTTEAU (Jacques), a gardener hard by Chinon. He married the chambermaid of a lady on whose
estate he trimmed vines. Three boys were born to them: Francois, Jean and Cesar. He lost his
wife on the birth of the last child (1779), and himself died shortly after. [Cesar Birotteau.]

BIROTTEAU (Abbe Francois), eldest son of Jacques Birotteau; born in 1766; vicar of the church
of Saint-Gatien at Tours, and afterwards cure of Saint-Symphorien in the same city. After the
death of the Abbe de la Berge, in 1817, he became confessor of Mme. de Mortsauf, attending
her last moments. [The Lily of the Valley.] His brother Cesar, the perfumer, wrote him after
his--Cesar's--business failure in 1819, asking aid. Abbe Birotteau, in a touching letter, responded
with the sum of one thousand francs which represented all his own little hoard and, in addition,
a loan obtained from Mme. de Listomere. [Cesar Birotteau.] Accused of having inveigled Mme.
de Listomere to leave him the income of fifteen hundred francs, which she bequeathed him on
her death, Abbe Birotteau was placed under interdiction, in 1826, the victim of the terrible
hatred of the Abbe Troubert. [The Vicar of Tours.]

BIROTTEAU (Jean), second son of Jacques Birotteau. A captain in the army, killed in the historic
battle of La Trebia which lasted three days, June 17-19, 1799. [Cesar Birotteau.]

BIROTTEAU (Cesar), third son of Jacques Birotteau, born in 1779; dealer in perfumes in Paris
at number 397 rue Saint-Honore, near the Place Vendome, in the old shop once occupied by the
grocer Descoings, who was executed with Andre Chenier in 1794. After the eighteenth Brumaire,
Cesar Birotteau succeeded Sieur Ragon, and moved the source of the "Queen of Roses" to the
above address. Among his customers were the Georges, the La Billardieres, the Montaurans, the
Bauvans, the Longuys, the Mandas, the Berniers, the Guenics, and the Fontaines. These relations
with the militant Royalists implicated him in the plot of the 13th Vendemaire, 1795, against
the Convention; and he was wounded, as he told over and over, "by Bonaparte on the borders
of Saint-Roche." In May, 1800, Birotteau the perfumer married Constance-Barbe-Josephine Pillerault.
By her he had an only daughter, Cesarine, who married Anselme Popinot in 1822. Successively
captain, then chief of battalion in the National Guard and adjunct-mayor of the eleventh arrondissement,
Birotteau was appointed Chevalier of the Legion of Honor in 1818. To celebrate his nomination
in the Order, he gave a grand ball* which, on account of the very radical changes necessitated
in his apartments, and coupled with some bad speculations, brought about his total ruin; he
filed a petition in bankruptcy the year following. By stubborn effort and the most rigid economy,
Birotteau was able to indemnify his creditors completely, three years later (1822). But he
died soon after the formal court reinstating. He numbered among his patrons in 1818 the following:
the Duc and Duchesse de Lenoncourt, the Princesse de Blamont-Chauvry, the Marquise d'Espard,
the two Vandenesses, Marsay, Ronquerolles, and the Marquis d'Aiglemont. [Cesar Birotteau. A
Bachelor's Establishment.] Cesar Birotteau was likewise on friendly terms with the Guillaumes,
clothing dealers in the rue Saint-Denis. [At the Sign of the Cat and Racket.]

*   The 17th of December was really Thursday and not Sunday, as
    erroneously given.

BIROTTEAU (Madame), born Constance-Barbe-Josephine Pillerault in 1782. Married Cesar Birotteau
in May, 1800. Previous to her marriage she was head "saleslady" at the "Little Sailor"* novelty
shop, corner of Quai Anjou and rue des Deux Ponts, Paris. Her surviving relative and guardian
was her uncle, Claude-Joseph Pillerault. [Cesar Birotteau.]

*   This shop still exists at the same place, No. 43 Quai d'Anjou and
    40 rue des Deux-Ponts, being run by M. L. Bellevaut.

BIROTTEAU (Cesarine). (See Popinot, Madame Anselme.)

BIXIOU,* Parisian grocer, in rue Saint-Honore, before the Revolution in the eighteenth century.
He had a clerk called Descoings, who married his widow. The grocer Bixiou was the grandfather
of Jean-Jacques Bixiou, the celebrated cartoonist. [A Bachelor's Establishment.]

*   Pronounced "Bissiou."

BIXIOU, son of the preceding and father of Jean-Jacques Bixiou. He was a colonel of the Twenty-first
Regiment; killed at the battle of Dresden, on the 26th or 27th of August, 1813. [A Bachelor's
Establishment.]

BIXIOU (Jean-Jacques), famous artist; son of Colonel Bixiou who was killed at Dresden; grandson
of Mme. Descoings, whose first husband was the grocer Bixiou. Born in 1797, he pursued a course
of study at the Lyceum, to which he had obtained a scholarship. He had for friends Philippe
and Joseph Bridau, and Master Desroches. Later he entered the painter Gros's studio. Then in
1819, through the influence of the Ducs de Maufrigneuse and de Rhetore, whom he met at some
dancer's, he obtained a position with the Minister of Finance. He remained with this administration
until December, 1824, when he resigned. In this same year he was one of the best men for Philippe
Bridau, who married Flore Brazier, known as La Rabouilleuse, the widow of J.-J. Rouget. After
this woman's death, in 1828, he was led, disguised as a priest, to the residence of the Soulanges,
where he told the comte about the scandal connected with her death, knowingly caused by her
husband; he told, also, about the bad habits and vulgarities of Philippe Bridau, and thus caused
the breaking off of the marriage of this weather-beaten soldier with Mlle. Amelie de Soulanges.
A talented cartoonist, distinguished practical joker, and recognized as one of the kings of
bon mot, he led a free and easy life. He was on speaking terms with all the artists and all
the lorettes of his day. Among others he knew the painter, Hippolyte Schinner. He turned a
pretty penny, during the trial of De Fualdes and de Castaing, by illustrating in a fantastic
way the account of this trial. [A Bachelor's Establishment. The Government Clerks. The Purse.]
He designed some vignettes for the writing of Canalis. [Modeste Mignon.] With Blondet, Lousteau
and Nathan he was a habitue of the house of Esther Gobseck, rue Saint-Georges, in 1829, 1830.
[Scenes from a Courtesan's Life.] In a private room of a well-known restaurant, in 1836, he
wittily related to Finot, Blondet and Couture the source of Nucingen's fortune. [The Firm of
Nucingen.] In January, 1837, his friend Lousteau had him come especially to upbraid him, Lousteau,
on account of the latter's irregular ways with Mme. de la Baudraye, while she, concealed in
an ante-room, heard it all. This scene had been arranged beforehand; its object was to give
Lousteau a chance to declare, apparently, his unquenchable attachment for his mistress. [The
Muse of the Department.] In 1838 he attended the house-warming of Heloise Brisetout in rue
Chauchat. In the same year he was attendant at the marriage of Steinbock with Hortense Hulot,
and of Crevel with the widow Marneffe. [Cousin Betty.] In 1839 the sculptor Dorlange-Sallenauve
knew of Bixiou and complained of his slanders. [The Member for Arcis.] Mme. Schontz treated
him most cordially in 1838, and he had to pass for her "special," although their relations,
in fact, did not transcend the bounds of friendship. [Beatrix.] In 1840, at the home of Marguerite
Turquet, maintained by the notary Cardot, when Lousteau, Nathan and La Palferine were also
present, he heard a story by Desroches. [A Man of Business.] About 1844, Bixiou helped in a
high comedy relative to a Selim shawl sold by Fritot to Mistress Noswell. Bixiou himself had
purchased, in a shop with M. du Ronceret, a shawl for Mme. Schontz. [Gaudissart II.] In 1845
Bixiou showed Paris and the "Unconscious Humorists" to a Pyrrenean named Gazonal, in company
with Leon de Lora, a cousin of the countryman. At this time Bixiou dwelt at number 112 rue
Richelieu, sixth floor; when he had a regular position he had lived in rue de Ponthieu. [The
Unconscious Humorists.] In the rue Richelieu period he was the lover of Heloise Brisetout.
[Cousin Pons.]

BLAMONT-CHAUVRY (Princesse de), mother of Mme. d'Espard; aunt of the Duchesse de Langeais;
great aunt of Mme. de Mortsauf; a veritable d'Hozier in petticoats. Her drawing-room set the
fashion in Faubourg Saint-Germain, and the sayings of this feminine Talleyrand were listened
to as oracles. Very aged at the beginning of the reign of Louis XVIII., she was one of the
most poetic relics of the reign of Louis XV., the "Well-Beloved;" and to this nick-name--as
the records had it--she had contributed her full share. [The Thirteen.] Mme. Firmiani was received
by the princess on account of the Cadignans, to whom she was related on her mother's side.
[Madame Firmiani.] Felix de Vandenesse was admitted to her "At Homes," on the recommendation
of Mme. de Mortsauf; nevertheless he found in this old lady a friend whose affection had a
quality almost maternal. The princess was in the family conclave which met to consider an amorous
escapade of the Duchesse Antoinette de Langeais. [The Lily of the Valley. The Thirteen.]

BLANDUREAUS (The), wealthy linen merchants at Alencon, time of the Restoration. They had an
only daughter, to whom the President du Ronceret wished to marry his son. She, however, married
Joseph Blondet, the oldest son of Judge Blondet. This marriage caused secret hostility between
the two fathers, one being the other's superior in office. [Jealousies of a Country Town.]

BLONDET, judge at Alencon in 1824; born in 1758; father of Joseph and Emile Blondet. At the
time of the Revolution he was a public prosecutor. A botanist of note, he had a remarkable
conservatory where he cultivated geraniums only. This conservatory was visited by the Empress
Marie-Louise, who spoke of it to the Emperor and obtained for the judge the decoration of the
Legion of Honor. Following the Victurien d'Esgrignon episode, about 1825, Judge Blondet was
made an officer in the Order and chosen councillor at the Royal Court. Here he remained in
office no longer than absolutely necessary, retreating to his dear Alencon home. He married
in 1798, at the age of forty, a young girl of eighteen, who in consequence of this disparity
was unfaithful to him. He knew that his second son, Emile, was not his own; he therefore cared
only for the elder and sent the younger elsewhere as soon as possible. [Jealousies of a Country
Town.] About 1838 Fabien du Ronceret obtained credit in an agricultural convention for a flower
which old Blondet had given him, but which he exhibited as a product of his own green-house.
[Beatrix.]

BLONDET (Madame), wife of the preceding; born in 1780; married in 1798. She was intimate with
a prefect of Orne, who was the natural father of Emile Blondet. Distant ties bound her to the
Troisville family, and it was to them that she sent Emile, her favored son. Before her death,
in 1818, she commended him to her old-time lover and also to the future Madame de Montcornet,
with whom he had been reared. [Jealousies of a Country Town.]

BLONDET (Joseph), elder son of Judge Blondet of Alencon; born in that city about 1799. In 1824
he practiced law and aspired to become a substitute judge. Meanwhile he succeeded his father,
whose post he filled till his death. He was one of the numerous men of ordinary talent. [Jealousies
of a Country Town.]

BLONDET (Madame Joseph), nee Claire Blandureau, wife of Joseph Blondet, whom she married when
he was appointed judge at Alencon. She was the daughter of wealthy linen dealers in the city.
[Jealousies of a Country Town.]

BLONDET (Emile), born at Alencon about 1800; legally the younger son of Judge Blondet, but
really the son of a prefect of Orne. Tenderly loved by his mother, but hated by Judge Blondet,
who sent him, in 1818, to study law in Paris. Emile Blondet knew the noble family of d'Esgrignon
in Alencon, and for the youngest daughter of this illustrious house he felt an esteem that
was really admiration. [Jealousies of a Country Town.] In 1821 Emile Blondet was a remarkably
handsome young fellow. He made his first appearance in the "Debats" by a series of masterly
articles which called forth from Lousteau the remark that he was "one of the princes of criticism."
[A Distinguished Provincial at Paris.] In 1824 he contributed to a review edited by Finot,
where he collaborated with Lucien de Rubempre and where he was allowed full swing by his chief.
Emile Blondet had the most desultory of habits; one day he would be a boon companion, without
compunction, with those destined for slaughter on the day following. He was always "broke"
financially. In 1829, 1830, Bixiou, Lousteau, Nathan and he were frequenters of Esther's house,
rue Saint-Georges. [Scenes from a Courtesan's Life.] A cynic was Blondet, with little regard
for glory undefiled. He won a wager that he could upset the poet Canalis, though the latter
was full of assurance. He did this by staring fixedly at the poet's curls, his boots, or his
coat-tails, while he recited poetry or gesticulated with proper emphasis, fixed in a studied
pose. [Modeste Mignon.] He was acquainted with Mlle. des Touches, being present at her home
on one occasion, about 1830, when Henri de Marsay told the story of his first love affair.
He took part in the conversation and depicted the "typical woman" to Comte Adam Laginski. [The
Secrets of a Princess.] About 1833 Blondet presented Nathan to Mme. de Montcornet, at whose
home the young Countess Felix de Vandenesse made the acquaintance of the poet and was much
smitten with him for some time. [A Daughter of Eve.] In 1836 he and Finot and Couture chimed
in on the narrative of the rise of Nucingen, told with much zest by Bixiou in a private room
of a famous restaurant. [The Firm of Nucingen.] Eight or ten years prior to February, 1848,
Emile Blondet, on the brink of suicide, witnessed an entire transition in his affairs. He was
chosen a prefect, and he married the wealthy widow of Comte de Montcornet, who offered him
her hand when she became free. They had known and loved each other since childhood. [The Peasantry.]

BLONDET (Virginie), wife by second marriage of Emile Blondet; born in 1797; daughter of the
Vicomte de Troisville; granddaughter of the Russian Princesse Scherbelloff. She was brought
up at Alencon, with her future husband. In 1819 she married the General de Montcornet. Twenty
years later, a widow, she married the friend of her youth, who this long time had been her
lover. [Jealousies of a Country Town. The Secrets of a Princess. The Peasantry.] She and Mme.
d'Espard tried to convert Lucien de Rubempre to the monarchical side in 1821. [A Distinguished
Provincial at Paris.] She was present at Mlle. des Touches', about 1830, when Marsay told about
his first love, and she joined in the conversation. [Another Study of Woman.] She received
a rather mixed set, from an aristocratic standpoint, but here might be found the stars of finance,
art and literature. [The Member for Arcis.] Mme. Felix de Vandenesse saw Nathan the poet for
the first time and noticed him particularly at Mme. de Montcornet's, in 1834, 1835. [A Daughter
of Eve.] Mme. Emile Blondet, then Madame la Generale de Montcornet, passed the summer and autumn
of 1823 in Burgundy, at her beautiful estate of Aigues, where she lived a burdened and troubled
life among the many and varied types of peasantry. Remarried, and now the wife of a prefect,
eight years or so before February, 1848, time of Louis Philippe, she visited her former properties.
[The Peasantry.]

BLUTEAU (Pierre), assumed name of Genestas. [The Country Doctor.]

BOCQUILLON, an acquaintance of Mme. Etienne Gruget. In 1820, rue des Enfants-Rouges, Paris,
she mistook for him the stock-broker, Jules Desmarets, who was entering her door. [The Thirteen.]

BOGSECK (Madame van), name bestowed by Jacques Collin on Esther van Gobseck when, in 1825,
he gave her, transformed morally and intellectually, to Lucien de Rubempre, in an elegant flat
on rue Taitbout. [Scenes from a Courtesan's Life.]

BOIROUGE, president of the Sancerre Court at the time when the Baronne de la Baudraye held
social sway over that city. Through his wife, he was related to the Popinot-Chandiers, to Judge
Popinot of Paris, and to Anselme Popinot. He was hereditary owner of a house which he did not
need, and which he very gladly leased to the baronne for the purpose of starting a literary
society that, however, degenerated very soon into an ordinary clique. Actuated by jealousy,
President Boirouge was one of the principals in the defeat of Procureur Clagny for deputy.
He was reputed to be unchaste at repartee. [The Muse of the Department.]

BOIROUGE (Madame), nee Popinot-Chandier, wife of President Boirouge; stood well among the middle-class
of Sancerre. After having been leader in the opposition to Mme. de la Baudraye for nine years,
she induced her son Gatien to attend the Baudraye receptions, persuading herself that he would
soon make his way. Profiting by the visit of Bianchon to Sancerre, Mme. Boirouge obtained of
the famous physician, her relative, a gratuitous consultation by giving him full particulars
regarding some pretended nervous trouble of the stomach, in which complaint he recognized a
periodic dyspepsia. [The Muse of the Department.]

BOIROUGE (Gatien), son of President Boirouge; born in 1814; the junior "patito" of Mme. de
la Baudraye, who employed him in all sorts of small ways. Gatien Boirouge was made game of
by Lousteau, to whom he had confessed his love for that masterful woman. [The Muse of the Department.]

BOISFRANC (De), procureur-general, then first president of a royal court under the Restoration.
(See Dubut.)

BOISFRANC (Dubut de), president of the Aides court under the old regime; brother of Dubut de
Boisfrelon and of Dubut de Boislaurier. [The Seamy Side of History.]

BOISFRELON (Dubut de), brother of Dubut de Boisfranc and of Dubut de Boislaurier; at one time
councillor in Parliament; born in 1736; died in 1832 in the home of his niece, the Baronne
de la Chanterie. Godefroid succeeded him. M. de Boisfrelon had been one of the "Brotherhood
of Consolation." He was married, but his wife probably died before him. [The Seamy Side of
History.]

BOISLAURIER (Dubut de), junior brother of Dubut de Boisfranc and of Dubut de Boisfrelon. Commander-in-chief
of the Western Rebellion in 1808-1809, and designated then by the surname of Augustus. With
Rifoel, Chevalier du Vissard, he plotted the organization of the "Chauffeurs" of Mortagne.
Then, in the trial of the "brigands," he was condemned to death by default. [The Seamy Side
of History.]

BOIS-LEVANT, chief of division under the Minister of Finance in 1824, at the time when Xavier
Rabourdin and Isidore Baudoyer contested the succession of office in another division, that
of F. de la Billardiere. [The Government Clerks.]

BOLESLAS, Polish servant of the Comte and Comtesse Laginski, in rue de la Pepiniere, Paris,
between 1835 and 1842. [The Imaginary Mistress.]

BONAMY (Ida), aunt of Mlle. Antonia Chocardelle. At the time of Louis Philippe, she conducted,
on rue Coquenard (since 1848 rue Lamartine), "just a step or two from rue Pigalle," a reading-room
given to her niece by Maxime de Trailles. [A Man of Business.]

BONAPARTE (Napoleon), Emperor of the French; born at Ajaccio, August 15, 1768, or 1769, according
to varying accounts; died at St. Helena May 5, 1821. As First Consul in 1800 he received at
the Tuileries the Corsican, Bartholomeo di Piombo, and disentangled his countryman from the
latter's implication in a vendetta. [The Vendetta.] On the evening of the battle of Jena, October
13, 1806, he was met on that ground by Laurence de Cinq-Cygne, who had come post haste from
France, and to whom he accorded pardon for the Simeuses and the Hauteserres, compromised in
the abduction of Senator Malin de Gondreville. [The Gondreville Mystery.] Napoleon Bonaparte
was strongly concerned in the welfare of his lieutenant, Hyacinthe Chabert, during the battle
of Eylau. [Colonel Chabert.] In November, 1809, he was to have attended a grand ball given
by Senator Malin de Gondreville; but he was detained at the Tuileries by a scene--noised abroad
that same evening--between Josephine and himself, a scene which disclosed their impending divorce.
[Peace in the House.] He condoned the infamous conduct of the police officer Contenson. [The
Seamy Side of History.] In April, 1813, during a dress-parade on the Place du Carrousel, Paris,
Napoleon noticed Mlle. de Chatillonest, who had come with her father to see the handsome Colonel
d'Aiglemont, and leaning towards Duroc he made a brief remark which made the Grand Marshal
smile. [A Woman of Thirty.]

BONAPARTE (Lucien), brother of Napoleon Bonaparte; born in 1775; died in 1840. In June, 1800,
he went to the house of Talleyrand, the Foreign Minister, and there announced to him and also
to Fouche, Sieyes and Carnot, the victory of his brother at Montebello. [The Gondreville Mystery.]
In the month of October of the same year he was encountered by his countryman, Bartholomeo
di Piombo, whom he introduced to the First Consul; he also gave his purse to the Corsican and
afterwards contributed towards relieving his difficulties. [The Vendetta.]

BONFALOT, or BONVALOT (Madame), an aged relative of F. du Bruel at Paris. La Palferine first
met Mme. du Bruel in 1834 on the boulevard, and boldly followed her all the way to Mme. de
Bonfalot's, where she was calling. [A Prince of Bohemia.]

BONFONS (Cruchot de), nephew of Cruchot the notary and Abbe Cruchot; born in 1786; president
of the Court of First Instance of Saumur in 1819. The Cruchot trio backed by a goodly number
of cousins and allied to twenty families in the city, formed a party similar to that of the
olden-time Medicis at Florence; and also, like the Medicis, the Cruchots had their Pazzis in
the persons of the Grassins. The prize contested for between the Cruchots and the Grassins
was the hand of the rich heiress, Eugenie Grandet. In 1827, after nine years of suing, the
President Cruchot de Bonfons married the young woman, now left an orphan. Previous to this
he had been commissioned by her to settle in full, both principal and interest, with the creditors
of Charles Grandet's father. Six months after his marriage, Bonfons was elected councillor
to the Royal Court of Angers. Then after some years signalized by devoted service he became
first president. Finally chosen deputy for Saumur in 1832, he died within a week, leaving his
widow in possession of an immense fortune, still further augmented by the bequests of the Abbe
and the notary Cruchot. Bonfons was the name of an estate of the magistrate. He married Eugenie
only through cupidity. He looked like "a big, rusty nail." [Eugenie Grandet.]

BONFONS (Eugenie Cruchot de), only daughter of M. and Mme. Felix Grandet; born at Saumur in
1796. Strictly reared by a mother gentle and devout, and by a father hard and avaricious. The
single bright ray across her life was an absolutely platonic love for her cousin Charles Grandet.
But, once away from her, this young man was forgetful of her; and, on his return from the Indies
in 1827, a rich man, he married the young daughter of a nobleman. Upon this occurrence, Eugenie
Grandet, now an orphan, settled in full with the creditors of Charles' father, and then bestowed
her hand upon the President Cruchot de Bonfons, who had paid her court for nine years. At the
age of thirty-six she was left a widow without having ceased to be a virgin, following her
expressed wish. Sadly she secluded herself in the gloomy home of her childhood at Saumur, where
she devoted the rest of her life to works of benevolence and charity. After her father's death,
Eugenie was often alluded to, by the Cruchot faction, as Mlle. de Froidfond, from the name
of one of her holdings. In 1832 an effort was made to induce Mme. de Bonfons to wed with Marquis
de Froidfond, a bankrupt widower of fifty odd years and possessed of numerous progeny. [Eugenie
Grandet.]

BONGRAND, born in 1769; first an advocate at Melun, then justice of the peace at Nemours from
1814 to 1837. He was a friend of Doctor Mirouet's and helped educate Ursule Mirouet, protecting
her to the best of his ability after the death of the old physician, and aiding in the restitution
of her fortune which Minoret-Levrault had impaired by the theft of the doctor's will. M. Bongrand
had wanted to make a match between Ursule Mirouet and his son, but she loved Savinien de Portenduere.
The justice of the peace became president of the court at Melun, after the marriage of the
young lady with Savinien. [Ursule Mirouet.]

BONGRAND (Eugene), son of Bongrand the justice of the peace. He studied law at Paris under
Derville the attorney, this constituting all his course. He became public prosecutor at Melun
after the Revolution of 1830, and general prosecutor in 1837. Failing in his love suit with
Ursule Mirouet, he probably married the daughter of M. Levrault, former mayor of Nemours. [Ursule
Mirouet.]

BONNAC, a rather handsome young fellow, who was head clerk for the notary Lupin at Soulanges
in 1823. His accomplishments were his only dowry. He was loved in platonic fashion by his employer's
wife, Mme. Lupin, otherwise known as Bebelle, a fat ridiculous female without education. [The
Peasantry.]

BONNEBAULT, retired cavalry soldier, the Lovelace of the village of Blangy, Burgundy, and its
suburbs in 1823. Bonnebault was the lover of Marie Tonsard who was perfectly foolish about
him. He had still other "good friends" and lived at their expense. Their generosity did not
suffice for his dissipations, his cafe bills and his unbridled taste for billiards. He dreamed
of marrying Aglae Socquard, only daughter of Pere Socquard, proprietor of the "Cafe de la Paix"
at Soulanges. Bonnebault obtained three thousand francs from General de Montcornet by coming
to him to confess voluntarily that he had been commissioned to kill him for this price. The
revelation, with other things, lead the general to weary of his fierce struggle with the peasantry,
and to put up for sale his property at Aigues, which became the prey of Gaubertin, Rigou and
Soudry. Bonnebault was squint-eyed and his physical appearance did not belie his depravity.
[The Peasantry.]

BONNEBAULT (Mere), grandmother of Bonnebault the veteran. In 1823, at Conches, Burgandy, where
she lived, she owned a cow which she did not hesitate to pasture in the fields belonging to
General de Montcornet. The numerous depredations of the old woman, added to convictions for
many similar offences, caused the general to decide to confiscate the cow. [The Peasantry.]

BONNET (Abbe), Cure of Montegnac near Limoges from 1814 on. In this capacity, he assisted at
the public confession of his penitent, Mme. Graslin, in the summer of 1844. Upon leaving the
seminary of Saint-Sulpice, Paris, he was sent to this village of Montegnac, which he never
after wished to leave. Here, sometimes unaided, sometimes with the help of Mme. Graslin, he
toiled for a material and moral betterment, bringing about an entire regeneration of a wretched
country. It was he who brought the outlawed Tascheron back into the Church, and who accompanied
him to the very foot of the scaffold, with a devotion which caused his own very sensitive nature
much cringing. Born in 1788, he had embraced the ecclesiastical calling through choice, and
all his studies had been to that end. He belonged to a family of more than easy circumstancaes.
His father was a self-made man, stern and unyielding. Abbe Bonnet had an older brother, and
a sister whom he counseled with his mother to marry as soon as possible, in order to release
the young woman from the terrible paternal yoke. [The Country Parson.]

BONNET, older brother of Abbe Bonnet, who enlisted as a private about the beginning of the
Empire. He became a general in 1813; fell at Leipsic. [The Country Parson.]

BONNET (Germain), valet de chambre of Canalis in 1829, at the time when the poet went to Havre
to contest the hand of Modeste Mignon. A servant full of finesse and irreproachable in appearance,
he was of the greatest service to his master. He courted Philoxene Jacmin, chambermaid of Mme.
de Chaulieu. Here the pantry imitated the parlor, for the academician's mistress was the great
lady herself. [Modest Mignon.]

BONTEMS, a country landowner in the neighborhood of Bayeux, who feathered his nest well during
the Revolution, by purchasing government confiscations at his own terms. He was pronounced
"red cap," and became president of his district. His daughter, Angelique Bontems, married Granville
during the Empire; but at this time Bontems was dead. [A Second Home.]

BONTEMS (Madame), wife of the preceding; outwardly pious, inwardly vain; mother of Angelique
Bontems, whom she had reared in much the same attitude, and whose marriage with a Granville
was, in consequence, so unhappy. [A Second Home.]

BONTEMS (Angelique). (See Granville, Madame de.)

BORAIN (Mademoiselle), the most stylish costumer in Provins, at the time of Charles X. She
was commissioned by the Rogrons to make a complete wardrobe for Pierrette Lorrain, when that
young girl was sent them from Brittany. [Pierrette.]

BORDEVIN (Madame), Parisian butcher in rue Charlot, at the time when Sylvain Pons dwelt hard
by in rue de Normandie. Mme. Bordevin was related to Mme. Sabatier. [Cousin Pons.]

BORDIN, procureur at the Chatelet before the Revolution; then advocate of the Court of First
Instance of the Seine, under the Empire. In 1798 he instructed and advised with M. Alain, a
creditor of Monegod's. Both had been clerks at the procureur's. In 1806, the Marquis de Chargeboeuf
went to Paris to hunt for Master Bordin, who defended the Simeuses before the Criminal Court
of Troyes in the trial regarding the abduction and sequestration of Senator Malin. In 1809
he also defended Henriette Bryond des Tours-Minieres, nee La Chanterie, in the trial docketed
as the "Chauffeurs of Mortagne." [The Gondreville Mystery. The Seamy Side of History.] In 1816
Bordin was consulted by Mme. d'Espard regarding her husband. [The Commission in Lunacy.] During
the Restoration a banker at Alencon made quarterly payments of one hundred and fifty livres
to the Chevalier de Valois through the Parisian medium of Bordin. [Jealousies of a Country
Town.] For ten years Bordin represented the nobility. Derville succeeded him. [The Gondreville
Mystery.]

BORDIN (Jerome-Sebastien), was also procureur at the Chatelet, and, in 1806, advocate of the
Seine Court. He succeeded Master Guerbet, and sold his practice to Sauvagnest, who disposed
of it to Desroches. [A Start in Life.]

BORN (Comte de), brother of the Vicomtesse de Grandlieu. In the winter of 1829-1830, he is
discovered at the home of his sister, taking part in a conversation in which the advocate Derville
related the marital infelicities of M. de Restaud, and the story of his will and his death.
The Comte de Born seized the chance to exploit the character of Maxime de Trailles, the lover
of Mme. de Restaud. [Gobseck.]

BORNICHE, son-in-law of M. Hochon, the old miser of Issoudun. He died of chagrin at business
failures, and at not having received any assistance from his father or mother. His wife preceded
him but a short time to the tomb. They left a son and a daughter, Baruch and Adolphine, who
were brought up by their maternal grandfather, with Francois Hochon, another grandchild of
the goodman's. Borniche was probably a Calvinist. [A Bachelor's Establishment.]

BORNICHE (Monsieur and Madame), father and mother of the preceding. They were still living
in 1823, when their son and their daughter-in-law had been deceased some time. In April of
this year, old Mme. Borniche and her friend Mme. Hochon, who ruled socially in Issoudun, assisted
at the wedding of La Rabouilleuse with Jean-Jacques Rouget. [A Bachelor's Establishment.]

BORNICHE (Baruch), grandson of the preceding, and of M. and Mme. Hochon. Born in 1800. Early
left an orphan, he and his sister were reared by his grandfather on the maternal side. He had
been one of the accomplices of Maxence Gilet, and took part in the nocturnal raids of the "Knights
of Idlesse." When his conduct became known to his grandfather, in 1822, the latter lost no
time in removing him from Issoudun, sending him to Monegod's office, Paris, to study law. [A
Bachelor's Establishment.]

BORNICHE (Adolphine), sister of Baruch Borniche; born in 1804. Brought up almost a recluse
in the frigid, dreary house of her grandfather, Hochon, she spent most of her time peering
through the windows, in the hope of discovering some of the terrible things which--as Dame
Rumor had it--occurred in the home of Jean-Jacques Rouget, next door. She likewise awaited
with some impatience the arrival of Joseph Bridau in Issoudun, wishing to inspire some sentiment
in him, and taking the liveliest interest in the painter, on account of the monstrosities which
were attributed to him because of his being an artist. [A Bachelor's Establishment.]

BOUCARD, head-clerk of the attorney Derville in 1818, at the time when Colonel Chabert sought
to recover his rights with his wife who had been remarried to Comte Ferraud. [Colonel Chabert.]

BOUCHER, Besancon merchant in 1834, who was the first client of Albert Savarus in that city.
He assumed financial control of the "Revue de l'Est," founded by the lawyer. M. Boucher was
related by marriage to one of the ablest editors of great theological works. [Albert Savarus.]

BOUCHER (Alfred), eldest son of the preceding. Born in 1812. A youth, eager for literary fame,
whom Albert Savarus put on the staff of his "Revue de l'Est," giving him his themes and subjects.
Alfred Boucher conceived a strong admiration for the managing editor, who treated him as a
friend. The first number of the "Revue" contained a "Meditation" by Alfred. This Alfred Boucher
believed he was exploiting Savarus, whereas the contrary was the case. [Albert Savarus.]

BOUFFE (Marie), alias Vignol, actor born in Paris, September 4, 1800. He appeared about 1822
at the Panorama-Dramatique theatre, on the Boulevard du Temple, Paris, playing the part of
the Alcade in a three-act imbroglio by Raoul Nathan and Du Bruel entitled "L'Alcade dans l'embarras."
At the first night performance he announced that the authors were Raoul and Cursy. Although
very young at the time, this artist made his first great success in this role, and revealed
his talent for depicting an old man. The critique of Lucien de Rubempre established his position.
[A Distinguished Provincial at Paris.]

BOUGIVAL (La). (See Cabirolle, Madame.)

BOUGNIOL (Mesdemoiselles), proprietors of an inn at Guerande (Loire-Inferieure), at the time
of Louis Philippe. They had as guests some artist friends of Felicite des Touches--Camille
Maupin--who had come from Paris to see her. [Beatrix.]

BOURBONNE (De), wealthy resident of Tours, time of Louis XVIII. and Charles X. An uncle of
Octave de Camps. In 1824 he visited Paris to ascertain the cause of the ruin of his nephew
and sole heir, which ruin was generally credited to dissipations with Mme. Firmiani. M. de
Bourbonne, a retired musketeer in easy circumstances, was well connected. He had entry into
the Faubourg Saint-Germain through the Listomeres, the Lenoncourts and the Vandenesses. He
caused himself to be presented at Mme. Firmiani's as M. de Rouxellay, the name of his estate.
The advice of Bourbonne, which was marked by much perspicacity, if followed, would have extricated
Francois Birotteau from Troubert's clutches; for the uncle of M. de Camps fathomed the plottings
of the future Bishop of Troyes. Bourbonne saw a great deal more than did the Listomeres of
Tours. [Madame Firmiani. The Vicar of Tours.]

BOURDET (Benjamin), old soldier of the Empire, formerly serving under Philippe Bridau's command.
He lived quietly in the suburbs of Vatan, in touch with Fario. In 1822 he placed himself at
the entire disposal of the Spaniard, and also of the officer who previously had put him under
obligations. Secretly he served them in their hatred of and plots against Maxence Gilet. [A
Bachelor's Establishment.]

BOURGEAT, foundling of Saint-Flour. Parisian water-carrier about the end of the eighteenth
century. The friend and protector of the young Desplein, the future famous surgeon. He lived
in rue Quatre-Vents in an humble house rendered doubly famous by the sojourn of Desplein and
by that of Daniel d'Arthez. A fervent Churchman of unswerving faith. The future famous savant
(Desplein) watched by his bedside at the last and closed his eyes. [The Atheist's Mass.]

BOURGET, uncle of the Chaussard brothers. An old man who became implicated in the trial of
the Chauffeurs of Mortagne in 1809. He died during the taking of the testimony, while making
some confessions. His wife, also apprehended, appeared before the court and was sentenced to
twenty-two years' imprisonment. [The Seamy Side of History.]

BOURGNEUFS (The), a family ruined by the De Camps and living in poverty and seclusion at Saint-Germain
en Laye, during the early part of the nineteenth centruy. This family consisted of: the aged
father, who ran a lottery-office; the mother, almost always sick; and two delightful daughters,
who took care of the home and attended to the correspondence. The Bourgneufs were rescued from
their troubles by Octave de Camps who, prompted by Mme. Firmiani, and at the cost of his entire
property, restored to them the fortune made away with by his father. [Madame Firmiani.]

BOURGNIER (Du). (See Bousquier, Du.)

BOURIGNARD (Gratien-Henri-Victor-Jean-Joseph), father of Mme. Jules Desmarets. One of the "Thirteen"
and the former chief of the Order of the Devorants under the title of Ferragus XXIII. He had
been a laborer, but afterwards was a contractor of buildings. His daughter was born to an abandoned
woman. About 1807 he was sentenced to twenty years of hard labor, but he managed to escape
during a journey of the chain-gang from Paris to Toulon, and he returned to Paris. In 1820
he lived there under diverse names and disguises, lodging successively on rue des Vieux Augustins
(now rue d'Argout), corner of rue Soly (an insignificant street which disappeared when the
Hotel des Postes was rebuilt); then at number seven rue Joquelet; finally at Mme. E. Gruget's,
number twelve rue des Enfants-Rouges (now part of the rue des Archives running from rue Pastourelle
to rue Portefoin), changing lodgings at this time to evade the investigations of Auguste de
Maulincour. Stunned by the death of his daughter, whom he adored and with whom he held secret
interviews to prevent her becoming amenable to the law, he passed his last days in an indifferent,
almost idiotic way, idly watching match games at bowling on the Place de l'Observatoire; the
ground between the Luxembourg and the Boulevard de Montparnasse was the scene of these games.
One of the assumed names of Bourignard was the Comte de Funcal. In 1815, Bourignard, alias
Ferragus, assisted Henri de Marsay, another member of the "Thirteen," in his raid on Hotel
San-Real, where dwelt Paquita Valdes. Born in 1771. He fell in love with and married the daughter
of the Pole, Tarlowski, a colonel in the French Imperial Guard. By her he had a daughter, Vanda,
who became the Baronne de Mergi. A widower and reserved by nature, he came to Paris in 1829
to take care of Vanda, who was seized by a strange and very dangerous malady. After having
lived in the Quartier du Roule in 1838, with his daughter and grandson, he dwelt for several
years, in very straitened circumstances, in a tumble-down house on the Boulevard du Montparnasse,
where Godefroid, a recent initiate into the "Brotherhood of the Consolation" and under the
direction of Mme. de la Chanterie and her associates, came to his relief. Afterwards it was
discovered that the Baron de Bourlac was none other than the terrible magistrate who had pronounced
judgment on this noble woman and her daughter during the trial of the Chauffeurs of Mortagne
in 1809. Nevertheless, the aiding of the family was not abated in the least. Vanda was cured,
thanks to a foreign physician, Halpersohn, procured by Godefroid. M. de Bourlac was enabled
to publish his great work on the "Spirit of Modern Law." At Sorbonne a chair of comparative
legislation was created for him. At last he obtained forgiveness from Mme. de la Chanterie,
at whose feet he flung himself. [The Seamy Side of History.] In 1817 the Baron de Bourlac,
then procureur-general, and superior of Soudry the younger, royal procureur, helped, with the
assistance also of the latter, to secure for Sibilet the position of estate-keeper to the General
de Montcornet at Aigues. [The Peasantry.]

BOURNIER, natural son of Gaubertin and of Mme. Socquard, the wife of the cafe manager of Soulanges.
His existence was unknown to Mme. Gaubertin. He was sent to Paris where, under Leclercq, he
learned the printer's trade and finally became a foreman. Gaubertin then brought him to Ville-aux-Fayes
where he established a printing office and a paper known as "Le Courrier de l'Avonne", entirely
devoted to the interests of the triumvirate, Rigou, Gaubertin and Soudry. [The Peasantry.]

BOSQUIER (Du), or Croisier (Du), or Bourguier (Du), a descendant of an old Alencon family.
Born about 1760. He had been commissary agent in the army from 1793 to 1799; had done business
with Ouvrard, and kept a running account with Barras, Bernadotte and Fouche. He was at that
time one of the great folk of finance. Discharged by Bonaparte in 1800, he withdrew to his
natal town. After selling the Beauseant house, which he owned, for the benefit of his creditors,
he had remaining an income of not more than twelve hundred francs. About 1816 he married Mlle.
Cormon, a spinster who had been courted also by the Chevalier de Valois and Athanase Granson.
This marriage set him on his feet again financially. He took the lead in the party of the opposition,
established a Liberal paper called "Le Courrier de l'Orne," and was elected Receiver-General
of the Exchequer, after the Revolution of 1830. He waged bitter war on the white flag Royalists,
his hatred of them causing him secretly to condone the excesses of Victurnien d'Esgrignon,
until the latter involved him in an affair, when Bousquier had him arrested, thinking thus
to dispose of him summarily. The affair was smoothed over only by tremendous pressure. But
the young nobleman provoked Du Bousquier into a duel where the latter dangerously wounded him.
Afterwards Bousquier gave him in marriage the hand of his niece, Mlle. Duval, dowered with
three millions. [Jealousies of a Country Town.] Probably he was the father of Flavie Minoret,
the daughter of a celebrated Opera danseuse. But he never acknowledged this child, and she
was dowered by Princesse Galathionne and married Colleville. [The Middle Classes.]

BOSQUIER (Madame du), born Cormon (Rose-Marie-Victoire) in 1773. She was a very wealthy heiress,
living with her maternal uncle, the Abbe de Sponde, in an old house of Alencon (rue du Val-Noble),
and receiving, in 1816, the aristocracy of the town, with which she was related through marriage.
Courted simultaneously by Athanase Granson, the Chevalier de Valois and Du Bousquier, she gave
her hand to the old commissariat, whose athletic figure and passe libertinism had impressed
her vaguely. But her secret desires were utterly dashed by him; she confessed later that she
couldn't endure the idea of dying a maid. Mme. du Bousquier was very devout. She was descended
from the stewards of the ancient Ducs d'Alencon. In this same year of 1816, she hoped in vain
to wed a Troisville, but he was already married. She found it difficult to brook the state
of hostility declared between M. du Bousquier and the Esgrignons. [Jealousies of a Country Town.]

BOUTIN, at one time sergeant in the cavalry regiment of which Chabert was colonel. He lived
at Stuttgart in 1814, exhibiting white bears very well trained by him. In this city he encountered
his former ranking officer, shorn of all his possessions, and just emerging from an insane
asylum. Boutin aided him as best he could and took it upon himself to go to Paris and inform
Mme. Chabert of her husband's whereabouts. But Boutin fell on the field of Waterloo, and could
hardly have accomplished his mission. [Colonel Chabert.]

BOUVARD (Doctor), physician of Paris, born about 1758. A friend of Dr. Minoret, with whom he
had some lively tilts about Mesmer. He had adopted that system, while Minoret gainsaid the
truth thereof. These discussions ended in an estrangement, for some time, between the two cronies.
Finally, in 1829, Bouvard wrote Minoret asking him to come to Paris to assist in some conclusive
tests of magnetism. As a result of these tests, Dr. Minoret, materialist and atheist that he
was, became a devout Spiritualist and Catholic. In 1829 Dr. Bouvard lived on rue Ferou. [Ursule
Mirouet.] He had been as a father to Dr. Lebrun, physician of the Conciergerie in 1830, who,
according to his own avowal, owed to him his position, since he often drew from his master
his own ideas regarding nervous energy. [Scenes from a Courtesan's Life.]

BOUYONNET, a lawyer at Mantes, under Louis Philippe, who, urged by his confreres and stimulated
by the public prosecutor, "showed up" Fraisier, another lawyer in the town, who had been retained
in a suit for both parties at once. The result of this denunciation was to make Fraisier sell
his office and leave Mantes. [A Bachelor's Establishment. The Unconscious Humorists.]

BRANDON (Lady Marie-Augusta), mother of Louis and Marie Gaston, children born out of wedlock.
Together with the Vicomtesse de Beauseant she assisted, in company with Colonel Franchessini,
probably her lover, at the famous ball on the morning following which the duped mistress of
D'Ajuda-Pinto secretly left Paris. [The Member for Arcis.] In 1820, while living with her two
children in seclusion at La Grenadiere, in the neighborhood of Tours, she saw Felix de Vandenesse,
at the time when Mme. de Mortsauf died, and charged him with a pressing message to Lady Arabelle
Dudley. [The Lily of the Valley.] She died, aged thirty-six, during the Restoration, in the
house at La Grenadiere, and was buried in the Saint-Cyr Cemetery. Her husband, Lord Brandon,
who had abandoned her, lived in London, Brandon Square, Hyde Park, at this time. In Touraine
Lady Brandon was known only by the assumed name of Mme. Willemsens. [La Grenadiere.]

BRASCHON, upholsterer and cabinet-maker in the Faubourg Saint-Antoine, famous under the Restoration.
He did a considerable amount of work for Cesar Birotteau and figured among the creditors in
his bankruptcy. [Cesar Birotteau. Scenes from a Courtesan's Life.]

BRAULARD, born in 1782. The head claquer at the theatre of the Panorama-Dramatique, and then
at the Gymnase, about 1822. The lover of Mlle. Millot. At this time he lived in rue Faubourg
du Temple, in a rather comfortable flat where he gave fine dinners to actresses, managing editors
and authors--among others, Adele Dupuis, Finot, Ducange and Frederic du Petit-Mere. He was
credited with having gained an income of twenty thousand francs by discounting authors' and
other complimentary tickets. [A Distinguished Provincial at Paris.] When chief claquer, about
1843, he had in his following Chardin, alias Idamore [Cousin Betty], and commanded his "Romans"
at the Boulevard theatre, which presented operas, spectaculars and ballets at popular prices,
and was run by Felix Gaudissart. [Cousin Pons.]

BRAZIER, this family included the following: A peasant of Vatan (Indre), the paternal uncle
and guardian of Mlle. Flore Brazier, known as "La Rabouilleuse." In 1799 he placed her in the
house of Dr. Rouget on very satisfactory conditions for himself, Brazier. Rendered comparatively
rich by the doctor, he died two years before the latter, in 1805, from a fall received on leaving
an inn where he spent his time after becoming well-to-do. His wife, who was a very harsh aunt
of Flore's. Lastly the brother and brother-in-law of this girl's guardians, the real father
of "La Rabouilleuse," who died in 1799, a demented widower, in the hospital of Bourges. [A
Bachelor's Establishment.]

BRAZIER (Flore). (See Bridau, Madame Philippe.)

BREAUTEY (Comtesse de), a venerable woman of Provins, who maintained the only aristocratic
salon in that city, in 1827-1828. [Pierrette.]

BREBIAN (Alexandre de), member of the Angouleme aristocracy in 1821. He frequented the Bargeton
receptions. An artist like his friend Bartas, he also was daft over drawing and would ruin
every album in the department with his grotesque productions. He posed as Mme. de Bartas' lover,
since Bartas paid court to Mme. de Brebian. [Lost Illusions.]

BREBIAN (Charlotte de), wife of the preceding. Currently called "Lolotte." [Lost Illusions.]

BREINTMAYER, a banking house of Strasbourg, entrusted by Michu in 1803 with the transmission
of funds to the De Simeuses, young officers of the army of Conde. [The Gondreville Mystery.]

BREZACS (The), Auvergnats, dealers in general merchandise and the furnishings of chateaux during
the Revolution, the Empire and the Restoration. They had business dealings with Pierre Graslin,
Jean-Baptiste Sauviat and Martin Falleix. [The Country Parson. The Government Clerks.]

BRIDAU, father of Philippe and Joseph Bridau; one of the secretaries of Roland, Minister of
the Interior in 1792, and the right arm of succeeding ministers. He was attached fanatically
to Napoleon, who could appreciate him, and who made him chief of division in 1804. He died
in 1808, at the moment when he had been promised the offices of director general and councillor
of state with the title of comte. He first met Agathe Rouget, whom he made his wife, at the
home of the grocer Descoings, the man whom he tried to save from the scaffold. [A Bachelor's
Establishment.]

BRIDAU (Agathe Rouget, Madame), wife of the preceding; born in 1773. Legal daughter of Dr.
Rouget of Issoudun, but possibly the natural daughter of Sub-delegate Lousteau. The doctor
did not waste any affection upon her, and lost no time in sending her to Paris, where she was
reared by her uncle, the grocer Descoings. She died at the close of 1828. Of her two sons,
Philippe and Joseph, Mme. Bridau always preferred the elder, though he caused her nothing but
grief. [A Bachelor's Establishment.]

BRIDAU (Philippe), elder son of Bridau and Agathe Rouget. Born in 1796. Placed in the Saint-Cyr
school in 1813, he remained but six months, leaving it to become under-lieutenant of the cavalry.
On account of a skirmish of the advance guard he was made full lieutenant, during the French
campaign, then captain after the battle of La Fere-Champenoise, where Napoleon made him artillery
officer. He was decorated at Montereau. After witnessing the farewell at Fontainebleu, he came
back to his mother in July, 1814, being then hardly nineteen. He did not wish to serve the
Bourbons. In March, 1815, Philippe Bridau rejoined the Emperor at Lyons, accompanying him to
the Tuileries. He was promised a captaincy in a squadron of dragoons of the Guard, and made
officer of the Legion of Honor at Waterloo. Reduced to half-pay, during the Restoration, he
nevertheless preserved his rank and officer's cross. He rejoined General Lallemand in Texas,
returning from America in October, 1819, thoroughly degenerated. He ran an opposition newspaper
in Paris in 1820-1821. He led a most dissolute life; was the lover of Mariette Godeschal; and
attended all the parties of Tullia, Florentine, Florine, Coralie, Matifat and Camusot. Not
content with using the income of his brother Joseph, he stole a coffer entrusted to him, and
despoiled of her last savings Mme. Descoings, who died of grief. Involved in a military plot
in 1822, he was sent to Issoudun, under the surveillance of the police. There he created a
disturbance in the "bachelor's establishment" of his uncle, Jean-Jacques Rouget; killed in
a duel Maxence Gilet, the lover of Flore Brazier; brought about the girl's marriage with his
uncle; and married her himself when she became a widow in 1824. When Charles X. succeeded to
the throne, Philippe Bridau re-entered the army as lieutenant-colonel of the Duc de Maufrigneuse's
regiment. In 1827 he passed with this grade into a regiment of cavalry of the Royal Guard,
and was made Comte de Brambourg from the name of an estate which he had purchased. He was promised
further the office of commander in the Legion of Honor, as well as in the Order of Saint-Louis.
After having consciously caused the death of his wife, Flore Brazier, he tried to marry Amelie
de Soulanges, who belonged to a great family. But his manoeuvres were frustrated by Bixiou.
The Revolution of 1830 resulted in the loss to Philippe Bridau of a portion of the fortune
which he had obtained from his uncle by his marriage. Once more he entered military service,
under the July Government, which made him a colonel. In 1839 he fell in an engagement with
the Arabs in Africa. [A Bachelor's Establishment. Scenes from a Courtesan's Life.]

BRIDAU (Joseph), painter; younger brother of Philippe Bridau; born in 1799. He studied with
Gros, and made his first exhibit at the Salon of 1823. He received great stimulus from his
fellow-members of the "Cenacle," in rue Quatre-Vents, also from his master, from Gerard and
from Mlle. des Touches. Moreover he was a hard-worker and an artist of genius. He was decorated
in 1827, and about 1839, through the interest of the Comte de Serizy, for whose home he had
formerly done some work, he married the only daughter of a retired farmer, now a millionaire.
On the death of his brother Philippe, he inherited his house in rue de Berlin, his estate of
Brambourg, and his title of comte. [A Bachelor's Establishment. A Distinguished Provincial
at Paris. A Start in Life.] Joseph Bridau made some vignettes for the works of Canalis. [Modeste
Mignon.] He was intimate with Hippolyte Schinner, whom he had known at Gros' studio. [The Purse.]
Shortly after 1830, he was present at an "at home" at Mlle. des Touches, when Henri de Marsay
told about his first love affair. [Another Study of Woman.] In 1832 he rushed in to see Pierre
Grassou, borrowed five hundred francs of him, and told him to "cater to his talent" and even
to plunge into literature since he was nothing more than a poor painter. At this same time,
Joseph Bridau painted the dining-hall in the D'Arthez chateau. [Pierre Grassou.] He was a friend
of Marie Gaston, and was attendant at his marriage with Louise de Chaulieu, widow of Macumer,
in 1833. [Letters of Two Brides.] He also assisted at the wedding of Steinbock with Hortense
Hulot, and in 1838, at the instigation of Stidmann, clubbed in with Leon de Lora to raise four
thousand francs for the Pole, who was imprisoned for debt. He had made the portrait of Josepha
Mirah. [Cousin Betty.] In 1839, at Mme. Montcornet's, Joseph Bridau praised the talent and
character displayed by Dorlange, the sculptor. [The Member for Arcis.]

BRIDAU (Flore Brazier, Madame Philippe), born in 1787 at Vatan Indre, known as "La Rabouilleuse,"
on account of her uncle having put her to work, when a child, at stirring up (to "rabouiller")
the streamlets, so that he might find crayfishes. She was noticed on account of her great beauty
by Dr. Rouget of Issoudun, and taken to his home in 1799. Jean-Jacques Rouget, the doctor's
son become much enamored of her, but obtained favor only through his money. On her part she
was smitten with Maxence Gilet, whom she entertained in the house of the old bachelor at the
latter's expense. But everything was changed by the arrival of Philippe Bridau at Issoudun.
Gilet was killed in a duel, and Rouget married La Rabouilleuse in 1823. Left a widow soon after,
she married the soldier. She died in Paris in 1828, abandoned by her husband, in the greatest
distress, a prey to innumerable terrible complaints, the products of the dissolute life into
which Philippe Bridau had designedly thrown her. She dwelt then on rue du Houssay, on the fifth
floor. She left here for the Dubois Hospital in Faubourg Saint-Denis. [A Bachelor's Establishment.]

BRIDAU (Madame Joseph), only daughter of Leger, an old farmer, afterwards a multi-millionaire
at Beaumont-sur-Oise; married to the painter Joseph Bridau about 1839. [A Bachelor's Establishment.]

BRIGAUT (Major), of Pen-Hoel, Vendee; retired major of the Catholic Army which contested with
the French Republic. A man of iron, but devout and entirely unselfish. He had served under
Charette, Mercier, the Baron du Guenic and the Marquis de Montauran. He died in 1819, six months
after Mme. Lorrain, the widow of a major in the Imperial Army, whom he was said to have consoled
on the loss of her husband. Major Brigaut had received twenty-seven wounds. [Pierrette. The
Chouans.]

BRIGAUT (Jacques), son of Major Brigaut; born about 1811. Childhood companion of Pierrette
Lorrain, whom he loved in innocent fashion similar to that of Paul and Virginia, and whose
love was reciprocated in the same way. When Pierrette was sent to Provins, to the home of the
Rogrons, her relatives, Jacques also went to this town and worked at the carpenter's trade.
He was present at the death-bed of the young girl and immediately thereafter enlisted as a
soldier; he became head of a battalion, after having several times sought death vainly. [Pierrette.]

BRIGITTE. (See Cottin, Madame.)

BRIGITTE, servant of Chesnel from 1795 on. In 1824 she was still with him in rue du Bercail,
Alencon, at the time of the pranks of the young D'Esgrignon. Brigette humored the gormandizing
of her master, the only weakness of the goodman. [Jealousies of a Country Town.]

BRIGNOLET, clerk with lawyer Bordin in 1806. [A Start in Life.]

BRISETOUT (Heloise), mistress of Celestin Crevel in 1838, at the time when he was elected mayor.
She succeeded Josepha Mirah, in a little house on rue Chauchat, after having lived on rue Notre-Dame-de
Lorette. [Cousin Betty.] In 1844-1845 she was premiere danseuse in the Theatre du Boulevard,
when she was claimed by both Bixiou and Gaudissart, her manager. She was a very literary young
woman, much spoken of in Bohemian circles for elegance and graciousness. She knew all the great
artists, and favored her kinsman, the musician Garangeot. [Cousin Pons.] Towards the end of
the reign of Louis Philippe, she had Isidore Baudoyer for a "protector"; he was then mayor
of the arrondissement of Paris, which included the Palais Royale. [The Middle Classes.]

BRISSET, a celebrated physician of Paris, time of Louis Philippe. a materialist and successor
to Bichat, and Cabanis. At the head of the "Organists," opposed to Cameristus head of the "Vitalists."
He was called in consultation regarding Raphael de Valentin, whose condition was serious. [The
Magic Skin.]

BROCHON, a half-pay soldier who, in 1822, tended the horses and did chores for Moreau, manager
of Presles, the estate of the Comte de Serizy. [A Start in Life.]

BROSSARD (Madame), widow received at Mme. de Bargeton's at Angouleme in 1821. Poor but well-born,
she sought to marry her daughter, and in the end, despite her precise dignity and "sour-sweetness,"
she got along fairly well with the other sex. [Lost Illusions.]

BROSSARD (Camille du), daughter of the preceding. born in 1794. Fleshy and imposing. Posed
as a good pianist. Not yet married at twenty-seven. [Lost Illusions.]

BROSSETTE (Abbe), born about 1790; cure of Blangy, Burgundy, in 1823, at the time when General
de Montcornet was struggling with the peasantry. The abbe himself was an object of their defiance
and hatred. He was the fourth son of a good bourgeoisie family of Autun, a faithful prelate,
an obstinate Royalist and a man of intelligence. [The Peasantry.] In 1840 he became a cure
at Paris, in the faubourg Saint-Germain, and at the request of Mme. de Grandlieu, he interested
himself in removing Calyste du Guenic from the clutches of Mme. de Rochefide and restoring
him to his wife. [Beatrix.]

BROUET (Joseph), a Chouan who died of wounds received in the fight of La Pelerine or at the
siege of Fougeres, in 1799. [The Chouans.]

BROUSSON (Doctor), attended the banker Jean-Frederic Taillefer, a short time before the financier's
death. [The Red Inn.]

BRUCE (Gabriel), alias Gros-Jean, one of the fiercest Chouans of the Fontaine division. Implicated
in the affair of the "Chauffeurs of Mortagne" in 1809. Condemned to death for contumacy. [The
Seamy Side of History.]

BRUEL (Du), chief of division to the Ministers of the Interior, under the Empire. A friend
of Bridau senior, retired on the advent of Restoration. He was on very friendly terms with
the widow Bridau, coming each evening for a game of cards at her house, on rue Mazarine, with
his old-time colleagues, Claparon and Desroches. These three old employes were called the "Three
Sages of Greece" by Mmes. Bridau and Descoings. M. du Bruel was descended of a contractor ennobled
at the end of the reign of Louis XIV. He died about 1821. [A Bachelor's Establishment.]

BRUEL (Madame du), wife of the preceding. She survived him. She was the mother of the dramatic
author Jean-Francois du Bruel, christened Cursy on the Parisian bill-boards. Although a bourgeoisie
of strict ideas, Mme. du Bruel welcomed the dancer Tullia, who became her daughter-in-law.
[A Prince of Bohemia.]

BRUEL (Jean-Francois du), son of the preceding; born about 1797. In 1816 he obtained a place
under the Minister of Finance, thanks to the favor of the Duc de Navarreins. [A Bachelor's
Establishment.] He was sub-chief of Rabourdin's office when the latter, in 1824, contested
with M. Baudoyer for a place of division chief. [The Government Clerks.] In November, 1825,
Jean-Francois du Bruel assisted at a breakfast given at the "Rocher de Cancale" to the clerks
of Desroches' office by Frederic Marest who was treating to celebrate his incoming. He was
present also at the orgy which followed at Florentine's home. [A Start in Life.] M. du Bruel
successively rose to be chief of bureau, director, councillor of state, deputy, peer of France
and commander of the Legion of Honor; he received the title of count and entered one of the
classes in the Institute. All this was accomplished through his wife, Claudine Chaffaroux,
formerly the dancer, Tullia, whom he married in 1829. [A Prince of Bohemia. The Middle Classes.]
For a long time he wrote vaudeville sketches over the name of Cursy. Nathan, the poet, found
it necessary to unite with him. Du Bruel would make use of the author's ideas, condensing them
into small, sprightly skits which always scored successes for the actors. Du Bruel and Nathan
discovered the actress Florine. They were the authors of "L'Alcade dans l'embarras," an imbroglio
in three acts, played at the Theatre du Panorama-Dramatique about 1822, when Florine made her
debut, playing with Coralie and Bouffe, the latter under the name of Vignol. One of the premiere
danseuses of the Opera from 1817 to 1827. For several years she was the mistress of the Duc
de Rhetore [A Bachelor's Establishment.], and afterwards of Jean-Francois du Bruel, who was
much in love with her in 1823, and married her in 1829. She had then left the stage. About
1834 she met Charles Edouard de la Palferine and formed a violent attachment for him. In order
to please him and pose in his eyes as a great lady, she urged her husband to the constant pursuit
of honors, and finally achieved the title of countess. Nevertheless she continued to play the
lady of propriety and found entrance into bourgeoisie society. [A Prince of Bhoemia. A Distinguished
Provincial at Paris. Letters of Two Brides.] In 1840, to please Mme. Colleville, her friend,
she tried to obtain a decoration for Thuillier. [The Middle Classes.] Mme. du Bruel bore the
name of Tullia on the stage and in the "gallant" circle. She lived then in rue Chauchat, in
a house afterwards occupied by Mmes. Mirah and Brisetout, when Claudine moved after her marriage
to rue de la Victoire.

BRUNET, bailiff at Blagny, Burgundy, in 1823. He was also councillor of the Canton during the
Terror, having for practitioners Michel Vert alias Vermichel and Fourchon the elder. [The Peasantry.]

BRUNNER (Gedeon), father of Frederic Brunner. At the time of the French Restoration and of
Louis Philippe he owned the great Holland House at Frankford-on-the-Main. One of the early
railway projectors. He died about 1844, leaving four millions. Calvinist. Twice married. [Cousin
Pons.]

BRUNNER (Madame), first wife of Gedeon Brunner, and mother of Frederic Brunner. A relative
of the Virlaz family, well-to-do Jewish furriers of Leipsic. A converted Jew. Her dowry was
the basis of her husband's fortune. She died young, leaving a son aged but twelve. [Cousin Pons.]

BRUNNER (Madame), second wife of Gedeon Brunner. The only daughter of a German inn-keeper.
She had been very badly spoiled by her parents. Sterile, dissipated and prodigal, she made
her husband very unhappy, thus avenging the first Mme. Brunner. She was a step-mother of the
most abominable sort, launching her stepson into an unbridled life, hoping that debauchery
would devour both the child and the Jewish fortune. After ten years of wedded life she died
before her parents, having made great inroads upon Gedeon Brunner's property. [Cousin Pons.]

BRUNNER (Frederic), only son of Gedeon Brunner, born within the first four years of the century.
He ran through his maternal inheritance by silly dissipations, and then helped his friend Wilhelm
Schwab to make away with the hundred thousand francs his parents had left him. Without resources
and cast adrift by his father he went to Paris in 1835, where, upon the recommendation of Graff,
the inn-keeper, he obtained a position with Keller at six hundred francs per annum. In 1843
he was only two thousand francs ahead; but Gedeon Brunner having died, he became a multi-millionaire.
Frederic Brunner had been presented by Sylvain Pons to the Camusots de Marville; he would have
married their daughter had she not been the only child. The breaking off of this match involved
also, the relations of Pons with the De Marville family and resulted in the death of the musician.
[Cousin Pons.]

BRUNO, valet de chambre of Corentin at Passy, on rue des Vignes, in 1830. [Scenes from a Courtesan's
Life.] About 1840 he was again in the service of Corentin, who was now known as M. du Portail
and lived on rue Honore-Chevalier, at Paris. [The Middle Classes.] This name is sometimes spelled
Bruneau.

BRUTUS, proprietor of the Hotel des Trois-Maures in the Grand-Rue, Alencon, in 1799, where
Alphonse de Montauran met Mlle. de Verneuil for the first time. [The Chouans.]

BUNEAUD (Madame), ran a bourgeoisie boarding-house in opposition to Mme. Vauquer on the heights
of Sainte-Genevieve, Paris, in 1819. [Father Goriot.]

BUTIFER, noted hunter, poacher and smuggler, living in the village hard by Grenoble, where
Dr. Benassis located, during the Restoration. When the doctor arrived in the country, Butifer
drew a bead on him, in a corner of the forest. Later, however, he became entirely devoted to
him. He was charged by Genestas with the physical education of this officer's adopted son.
It may be that Butifer enlisted in Genestas' regiment, after the death of Dr. Benassis. [The
Country Doctor.]

BUTSCHA (Jean), head-clerk of Maitre Latournelle, a notary at Havre in 1829. Born about 1804.
The natural son of a Swedish sailor and a Demoiselle Jacmin of Honfleur. A hunchback. A type
of intelligence and devotion. Entirely subservient to Modeste Mignon, whom he loved without
hope; he aided, by many adroit methods, to bring about her marriage with Ernest de la Briere.
Butscha decided that this union would make the young lady happy. [Modeste Mignon.]

                                  C

CABIROLLE, in charge of the stages of Minoret-Levrault, postmaster of Nemours. Probably a widower,
with one son. About 1837, a sexagenarian, he married Antoinette Patris, called La Bougival,
who was over fifty, but whose income amounted to twelve hundred francs. [Ursule Mirouet.]

CABIROLLE, son of the preceding. In 1830 he was Dr. Minoret's coachman at Nemours. Later he
was coachman for Savinien de Portenduere, after the vicomte's marriage with Ursule Mirouet.
[Ursule Mirouet.]

CABIROLLE (Madame), wife of Cabirolle senior. Born Antoinette Patris in 1786, of a poor family
of La Bresse. Widow of a workman named Pierre alias Bougival; she was usually designated by
the latter name. After having been Ursule Mirouet's nurse, she became Dr. Minoret's servant,
marrying Cabirolle about 1837. [Ursule Mirouet.]

CABIROLLE (Madame), mother of Florentine, the danseuse. Formerly janitress on rue Pastourelle,
but living in 1820 with her daughter on rue de Crussol in a modest affluence assured by Cardot
the old silk-dealer, since 1817. According to Girondeau, she was a woman of sense. [A Start
in Life. A Bachelor's Establishment.]

CABIROLLE (Agathe-Florentine), known as Florentine; born in 1804. In 1817, upon leaving Coulon's
class, she was discovered by Cardot, the old silk-merchant, and established by him with her
mother in a relatively comfortable flat on rue de Crussol. After having been featured at the
Gaite theatre, in 1820, she danced for the first time in a spectacular drama entitled "The
Ruins of Babylon."* Immediately afterwards she succeeded Mariette as premiere danseuse at the
theatre of the Porte-Saint-Martin. Then in 1823 she made her debut at the Opera in a trio skit
with Mariette and Tullia. At the time when Cardot "protected" her, she had for a lover the
retired Captain Girondeau, and was intimate with Philippe Bridau, to whom she gave money when
in need. In 1825 Florentine occupied Coralie's old flat, now for some three years, and it was
at this place that Oscar Husson lost at play the money entrusted to him by his employer, Desroches
the attorney, and was surprised by his uncle, Cardot.

CABOT (Armand-Hippolyte), a native of Toulouse who, in 1800, established a hair-dressing salon
on the Place de la Bourse, Paris. On the advice of his customer, the poet Parny, he had taken
the name of Marius, a sobriquet which stuck to the establishment. In 1845 Cabot had earned
an income of twenty-four thousand francs and lived at Libourne, while a fifth Marius, called
Mougin, managed the business founded by him. [The Unconscious Humorists.]

CABOT (Marie-Anne), known as Lajeunesse, an old servant of Marquis Carol d'Esgrignon. Implicated
in the affair of the "Chauffeurs of Mortagne" and executed in 1809. [The Seamy Side of History.]

CACHAN, attorney at Angouleme under the Restoration. He and Petit-Claud had similar business
interests and the same clients. In 1830 Cachan, now mayor of Marsac, had dealings with the
Sechards. [Lost Illusions. Scenes from a Courtesan's Life.]

CADENET, Parisian wine-merchant, in 1840, on the ground-floor of a furnished lodging-house,
corner of rue des Postes and rue des Poules. Cerizet also dwelt there at that time. Cadenet,
who was proprietor of the house, had something to do with the transactions of Cerizet, the
"banker of the poor." [The Middle Classes.]

CADIGNAN (Prince de), a powerful lord of the former regime, father of the Duc de Maufrigneuse,
father-in-law of the Duc de Navarreins. Ruined by the Revolution, he had regained his properties
and income on the accession of the Bourbons. But he was a spendthrift and devoured everything.
He also ruined his wife. He died at an advanced age some time before the Revolution of July.
[The Secrets of a Princess.] At the end of 1829, the Prince de Cadignan, then Grand Huntsman
to Charles X., rode in a great chase where were also found, amid a very aristocratic throng,
the Duc d'Herouville, organizer of the jaunt, Canalis and Ernest de la Briere, all three of
whom were suitors for the hand of Modeste Mignon. [Modeste Mignon.]

CADIGNAN (Prince and Princesse de), son and daughter-in-law of the preceding. (See Maufrigneuse,
Duc and Duchesse de.)

CADINE (Jenny), actress at the Gymnase theatre, times of Charles X. and Louis Philippe. The
most frolicsome of women, the only rival of Dejazet. Born in 1814. Discovered, trained and
"protected" from thirteen years old on, by Baron Hulot. Intimate friend of Josepha Mirah. [Cousin
Betty.] Between 1835 and 1840, while maintained by Couture, she lived on rue Blanche in a delightful
little ground-floor flat with its own garden. Fabien du Ronceret and Mme. Schontz succeeded
her here. [Beatrix.] In 1845 she was Massol's mistress and lived on rue de la Victoire. At
this time, she apparently led astray in short order Palafox Gazonal, who had been taken to
her home by Bixiou and Leon de Lora. [The Unconscious Humorists.] About this time she was the
victim of a jewelry theft. After the arrest of the thieves her property was returned by Saint-Esteve--Vautrin--who
was then chief of the special service. [The Member for Arcis.]

CADOT (Mademoiselle), old servant-mistress of Judge Blondet at Alencon, during the Restoration.
She pampered her master, and, like him, preferred the elder of the magistrate's two sons. [Jealousies
of a Country Town.]

CALVI (Theodore), alias Madeleine. Born in 1803. A Corsican condemned to the galleys for life
on account of eleven murders committed by the time he was eighteen. A member of the same gang
with Vautrin from 1819 to 1820. Escaped with him. Having assassinated the widow Pigeau of Nanterre,
in May, 1830, he was rearrested and this time sentenced to death. The plotting of Vautrin,
who bore for him an unnatural affection, saved his life; the sentence was commuted. [Scenes
from a Courtesan's Life.]

CAMBON, lumber merchant, a deputy mayor to Benassis, in 1829, in a community near Grenoble,
and a devoted assistant in the work of regeneration undertaken by the doctor. [The Country Doctor.]

CAMBREMER (Pierre), fisherman of Croisic on the Lower-Loire, time of Louis Philippe, who, for
the honor of a jeopardized name, had cast his only son into the sea and afterwards remained
desolate and a widower on a cliff near by, in expiation of his crime induced by paternal justice.
[A Seaside Tragedy. Beatrix.]

CAMBREMER (Joseph), younger brother of Pierre Cambremer, father of Pierrette, called Perotte.
[A Seaside Tragedy.]

CAMBREMER (Jacques), only son of Pierre Cambremer and Jacquette Brouin. Spoiled by his parents,
his mother especially, he became a rascal of the worst type. Jacques Cambremer evaded justice
only by reason of the fact that his father gagged him and cast him into the sea. [A Seaside
Tragedy.]

CAMBREMER (Madame), born Jacquette Brouin, wife of Pierre Cambremer and mother of Jacques.
She was of Guerande; was educated; could write "like a clerk"; taught her son to read and this
brought about his ruin. She was usually spoken of as the beautiful Brouin. She died a few days
after Jacques. [A Seaside Tragedy.]

CAMBREMER (Pierrette), known as Perotte; daughter of Joseph Cambremer; niece of Pierre and
his goddaughter. Every morning the sweet and charming creature came to bring her uncle the
bread and water upon which he subsisted. [A Seaside Tragedy.]

CAMERISTUS, celebrated physician of Paris under Louis Philippe; the Ballanche of medicine and
one of the defenders of the abstract doctrines of Van Helmont; chief of the "Vitalists" opposed
to Brisset who headed the "Organists." He as well as Brisset was called in consultation regarding
a very serious malady afflicting Raphael de Valentin. [The Magic Skin.]

CAMPS (Octave de), lover then husband of Mme. Firmiani. She made him restore the entire fortune
of a family named Bourgneuf, ruined in a lawsuit by Octave's father, thus reducing him to the
necessity of making a living by teaching mathematics. He was only twenty-two years old when
he met Mme. Firmiani. He married her first at Gretna Green. The marriage at Paris took place
in 1824 or 1825. Before marriage, Octave de Camps lived on rue de l'Observance. He was a descendant
of the famous Abbe de Camps, so well known among bookmen and savants. [Madame Firmiani.] Octave
de Camps reappears as an ironmaster, during the reign of Louis Philippe. At this time he rarely
resided at Paris. [The Member for Arcis.]

CAMPS (Madame Octave de), nee Cadignan; niece of the old Prince de Cadignan; cousin of the
Duc de Maufrigneuse. In 1813, at the age of sixteen, she married M. Firmiani, receiver-general
in the department of Montenotte. M. Firmiani died in Greece about 1822, and she became Mme.
de Camps in 1824 or 1825. At this time she dwelt on rue du Bac and had entree into the home
of Princesse de Blamont-Chauvry, the oracle of Faubourg Saint-Germain. An accomplished and
excellent lady, loved even by her rivals, the Duchesse de Maufrigneuse, her cousin, Mme. de
Macumer--Louise de Chaulieu--and the Marquise d'Espard. [Madame Firmiani.] She welcomed and
protected Mme. Xavier Rabourdin. [The Government Clerks.] At the close of 1824 she gave a ball
where Charles de Vandenesse made the acquaintance of Mme. d'Aiglemont whose lover he became.
[A Woman of Thirty.] In 1834 Mme. Octave de Camps tried to check the slanders going the rounds
at the expense of Mme. Felix de Vandenesse, who had compromised herself somewhat on account
of the poet Nathan; and Mme. de Camps gave the young woman some good advice. [A Daughter of
Eve.] On another occasion she gave exceedingly good counsel to Mme. de l'Estorade, who was
afraid of being smitten with Sallenauve. [The Member for Arcis.] Mme. Firmiani, "that was,"
shared her time between Paris and the furnaces of M. de Camps; but she gave the latter much
the preference--at least so said one of her intimate friends, Mme. de l'Estorade. [The Member
for Arcis.]

CAMUSET, one of Bourignard's assumed names.

CAMUSOT, silk-merchant, rue des Bourdonnais, Paris, under the Restoration. Born in 1765. Son-in-law
and successor of Cardot, whose eldest daughter he had married. At that time he was a widower,
his first wife being a Demoiselle Pons, sole heiress of the celebrated Pons family, embroiderers
to the Court during the Empire. About 1834 Camusot retired from business, and became a member
of the Manufacturers' Council, deputy, peer of France and baron. He had four children. In 1821-1822
he maintained Coralie, who became so violently enamored of Lucien de Rubempre. Although she
abandoned him for Lucien, he promised the poet, after the actress' death, that he would purchase
for her a permanent plot in the cemetery of Pere-Lachaise. [A Distinguished Provincial at Paris.
A Bachelor's Establishment. Cousin Pons.] Later he was intimate with Fanny Beaupre for some
time. [The Muse of the Department.] He and his wife were present at Cesar Birotteau's big ball
in December, 1818; he was also chosen commissary-judge of the perfumer's bankruptcy, instead
of Gobenheim-Keller, who was first designated. [Cesar Birotteau.] He had dealings with the
Guillaumes, clothing merchants, rue Saint-Denis. [At the Sign of the Cat and Racket.]

CAMUSOT DE MARVILLE, son of Camusot the silk-merchant by his first marriage. Born about 1794.
During Louis Philippe's reign he took the name of a Norman estate and green, Marville, in order
to distinguish between himself and a half-brother. In 1824, then a judge at Alencon, he helped
render an alibi decision in favor of Victurnien d'Esgrignon, who really was guilty. [Cousin
Pons. Jealousies of a Country Town.] He was judge at Paris in 1828, and was appointed to replace
Popinot in the court which was to render a decision concerning the appeal for interdiction
presented by Mme. d'Espard against her husband. [The Commission in Lunacy.] In May, 1830, in
the capacity of judge of instruction, he prepared a report tending to the liberation of Lucien
de Rubempre, accused of assassinating Esther Gobseck. But the suicide of the poet rendered
the proposed measure useless, besides upsetting, momentarily, the ambitious projects of the
magistrate. [Scenes from a Courtesan's Life.] Camusot de Marville had been president of the
Court of Nantes. In 1844 he was president of the Royal Court of Paris and commander of the
Legion of Honor. At this time he lived in a house on rue de Hanovre, purchased by him in 1834,
where he received the musician Pons, a cousin of his. The President de Marville was elected
deputy in 1846. [Cousin Pons.]

CAMUSOT DE MARVILLE (Madame), born Thirion, Marie-Cecile-Amelie, in 1798. Daughter of an usher
of the Cabinet of Louis XVIII. Wife of the magistrate. In 1814 she frequented the studio of
the painter Servin, who had a class for young ladies. This studio contained two factions; Mlle.
Thirion headed the party of the nobility, though of ordinary birth, and persecuted Ginevra
di Piombo, of the Bonapartist party. [The Vendetta.] In 1818 she was invited to accompany her
father and mother to the famous ball of Cesar Birotteau. It was about the time her marriage
with Camusot de Marville was being considered. [Cesar Birotteau.] This wedding took place in
1819, and immediately the imperious young woman gained the upper hand with the judge, making
him follow her own will absolutely and in the interests of her boundless ambition. It was she
who brought about the discharge of young d'Esgrignon in 1824, and the suicide of Lucien de
Rubempre in 1830. Through her, the Marquis d'Espard failed of interdiction. However, Mme. de
Marville had no influence over her father-in-law, the senior Camusot, whom she bored dreadfully
and importuned excessively. She caused, also, by her evil treatment, the death of Sylvain Pons
"the poor relation," inheriting with her husband his fine collection of curios. He died young,
at a time when his parents had neither land nor title of Marville, and when they were in almost
straitened circumstances. [Cousin Pons.]

CAMUSOT DE MARVILLE (Cecile). (See Popinot, Vicomtesse.)

CANALIS (Constant-Cyr-Melchior, Baron de), poet--chief of the "Angelic" school--deputy minister,
peer of France, member of the French Academy, commander of the Legion of Honor. Born at Canalis,
Correze, in 1800. About 1821 he became the lover of Mme. de Chaulieu, who was constantly aiding
him to high positions, but who, at the same time, was always very exacting. Not long after,
Canalis is seen at the opera in Mme. d'Espard's box, being presented to Lucien de Rubempre.
From 1824 he was the fashionable poet. [Letters of Two Brides. A Distinguished Provincial at
Paris.] In 1829 he lived at number 29 rue Paradis-Poissoniere (now simply rue Paradis) and
was master of requests in the Council of State. This is the time when he was in correspondence
with Modeste Mignon and wished to espouse that rich heiress. Canalis took part in the conversation
and uttered a most vigorous tirade against Napoleon. [The Magic Skin. Another Study of Woman.]
In 1838 he married the daughter of Moreau (de l'Oise), who brought him a very large dowry.
[A Start in Life.] In October, 1840, he and Mme. de Rochefide were present at a performance
at the Varietes theatre, where that dangerous woman was encountered again after a lapse of
three years by Calyste du Guenic. [Beatrix.] In 1845 Canalis was pointed out in the Chamber
of Deputies by Leon de Lora to Palafox Gazonal. [The Unconscious Humorists.] In 1845, he consented
to act as second to Sallenauve in his duel with Maxime de Trailles. [The Member for Arcis.]

CANALIS (Baronne Melchior de), wife of the preceding and daughter of M. and Mme. Moreau (de
l'Oise). About the middle of the reign of Louis Philippe, she being then recently married,
she made a journey to Seine-et-Oise. She went first to Beaumont and Presles. Mme. de Canalis
with her daughter and the Academician, occupied Pierrotin's stage-coach. [A Start in Life.]

CANE (Marco-Facino), known as Pere Canet, a blind old man, an inmate of the Hospital des Quinze-Vingts,
who during the Restoration followed the vocation of musician, at Paris. He played the clarionet
at a ball of the working-people of rue de Charenton, on the occasion of the wedding of Mme.
Vaillant's sister. He said he was a Venetian, Prince de Varese, a descendant of the condottiere
Facino Cane, whose conquests fell into the hands of the Duke of Milan. He told strange stories
regarding his patrician youth. He died in 1820, more than an octogenarian. He was the last
of the Canes on the senior branch, and he transmitted the title of Prince de Varese to a relative,
Emilio Memmi. [Facino Cane. Massimilla Doni.]

CANTE-CROIX (Marquis de), under-lieutenant in one of the regiments which tarried at Angouleme
from November, 1807, to March, 1808, while on its way to Spain. He was a Colonel at Wagram
on July 6, 1809, although only twenty-six years old, when a shot crushed over his heart the
picture of Mme. de Bargeton, whom he loved. [Lost Illusions.]

CANTINET, an old glass-dealer, and beadle of Saint-Francois church, Marais, Paris, in 1845;
dwelt on rue d'Orleans. A drunken idler. [Cousin Pons.]

CANTINET (Madame), wife of preceding; renter of seats in Saint-Francois. Last nurse of Sylvain
Pons, and a tool to the interests of Fraisier and Poulain. [Cousin Pons.]

CANTINET, Junior, would have been made beadle of Saint-Francois, where his father and mother
were employed, but he preferred the theatre. He was connected with the Cirque-Olympique in
1845. He caused his mother sorrow, by a dissolute life and by forcible inroads on the maternal
purse. [Cousin Pons.]

CAPRAJA, a noble Venetian, a recognized dilettante, living only by and through music. Nicknamed
"Il Fanatico." Known by the Duke and Duchess Cataneo and their friends. [Massimilla Doni.]

CARABINE, assumed name of Seraphine Sinet, which name see.

CARBONNEAU, physician whom the Comte de Mortsauf spoke of consulting about his wife, in 1820,
instead of Dr. Origet, whom he fancied to be unsatisfactory. [The Lily of the Valley.]

CARCADO (Madame de), founder of a Parisian benevolent society, for which Mme. de la Baudraye
was appointed collector, in March, 1843, on the request of some priests, friends of Mme. Piedefer.
This choice resulted, noteworthily, in the re-entrance into society of the "muse," who had
been beguiled and compromised by her relations with Lousteau. [The Muse of the Department.]

CARDANET (Madame de), grandmother of Mme. de Senonches. [Lost Illusions.]

CARDINAL (Madame), Parisian fish-vender, daughter of one Toupillier, a carrier. Widow of a
well-known marketman. Niece of Toupillier the pauper of Saint-Sulpice, from whom in 1840, with
Cerizet's assistance, she tried to capture the hidden treasure. This woman had three sisters,
four brothers, and three uncles, who would have shared with her the pauper's bequest. The scheming
of Mme. Cardinal and Cerizet was frustrated by M. du Portail--Corentin. [The Middle Classes.]

CARDINAL (Olympe). (See Cerizet, Madame.)

CARDOT (Jean-Jerome-Severin), born in 1755. Head-clerk in an old silk-house, the "Golden Cocoon,"
rue des Bourdonnais. He bought the establishment in 1793, at the "maximum" moment, and in ten
years had made a large fortune, thanks to the dowry of one hundred thousand francs brought
him by his wife; she was a Demoiselle Husson, and gave him four children. Of these, the elder
daughter married Camusot, who succeeded his father-in-law; the second, Marianne, married Protez,
of the firm of Protez & Chiffreville; the elder son became a notary; the younger son, Joseph,
took an interest in Matifat's drug business. Cardot was the "protector" of the actress, Florentine,
whom he discovered and started. In 1822 he lived at Belleville in one of the first houses above
Courtille; he had then been a widower for six years. He was an uncle of Oscar Husson, and had
taken some interest in and helped the dolt, until an incident occurred that changed everything:
the old man discovered the young fellow asleep one morning, on one of Florentine's divans,
after an orgy wherein he had squandered the money entrusted to him by his employer, Desroches
the attorney. [At the Sign of the Cat and Racket.] He and his entire family were invited to
the great ball given by Cesar Birotteau, December 17, 1818. [Cesar Birotteau.]

CARDOT, elder son of the preceding. Parisian notary, successor of Sorbier. Born in 1794. Married
to a Demoiselle Chiffreville, of a family of celebrated chemists. Three children were born
to them: a son who in 1836 was fourth clerk in his father's business, and should have succeeded
him, but dreamed instead of literary fame; Felicie, who married Berthier; and another daughter,
born in 1824. The notary Cardot maintained Malaga, during the reign of Louis Philippe. [The
Muse of the Department. A Man of Business. Jealousies of a Country Town.] He was attorney for
Pierre Grassou, who deposited his savings with him every quarter. [Pierre Grassou.] He was
also notary to the Thuilliers, and, in 1840, had presented in their drawing-rooms, on rue Saint-Dominique
d'Enfer, Godeschal an aspirant for the hand of Celeste Colleville. After living on Place du
Chatelet, Cardot become one of the tenants of the house purchased by the Thuilliers, near the
Madeleine. [The Middle Classes.] In 1844 he was mayor and deputy of Paris. [Cousin Pons.]

CARDOT (Madame) nee Chiffreville, wife of Cardot the notary. Very devoted, but a "wooden" woman,
a "veritable penitential brush." About 1840 she lived on Place du Chatelet, Paris, with her
husband. At this time, the notary's wife took her daughter Felicie to rue des Martyrs, to the
home of Etienne Lousteau, whom she had planned to have for a son-in-law, but whom she finally
threw over on account of the journalist's dissipated ways. [The Muse of the Department.]

CARDOT (Felicie or Felicite). (See Berthier, Madame.)

CARIGLIANO (Marechal, Duc de), one of the illustrious soldiers of the Empire; husband of a
Demoiselle Malin de Gondreville, whom he worshipped, obeyed and stood in awe of, but who deceived
him. [At the Sign of the Cat and Racket.] In 1819, Marechal de Carigliano gave a ball where
Eugene de Rastignac was presented by his cousin, the Vicomtesse de Beauseant, at the time he
entered the world of fashion. [Father Goriot.] During the Restoration he owned a beautiful
house near the Elysee-Bourbon, which he sold to M. de Lanty. [Sarrasine.]

CARIGLIANO (Duchesse de), wife of the preceding, daughter of Senator Malin de Gondreville.
At the end of the Empire, when thirty-six years of age, she was the mistress of the young Colonel
d'Aiglemont, and of Sommervieux, the painter, almost at the same time; the latter had recently
wedded Augustine Guillaume. The Duchesse de Carigliano received a visit from Mme. de Sommervieux,
and gave her very ingenious advice concerning the method of conquering her husband, and binding
him forever to her by her coquetry. [At the Sign of the Cat and Racket.] In 1821-1822 she had
an opera-box near Mme. d'Espard. Sixte du Chatelet came to her to make his acknowledgments
on the evening when Lucien de Rubempre, a newcomer in Paris, cut such a sorry figure at the
theatre in company with Mme. de Bargeton. [A Distinguished Provincial at Paris.] It was the
Duchesse de Carigliano who, after a great effort, found a wife suited to General de Montcornet,
in the person of Mlle. de Troisville. [The Peasantry.] Mme. de Carigliano, although a Napoleonic
duchesse, was none the less devoted to the House of the Bourbons, being attached especially
to the Duchesse de Berry. Becoming imbued also with a high degree of piety, she visited nearly
every year a retreat of the Ursulines of Arcis-sur-Aube. In 1839 Sallenauve's friends counted
on the duchesse's support to elect him deputy. [The Member for Arcis.]

CARMAGNOLA (Giambattista), an old Venetian gondolier, entirely devoted to Emilio Memmi, in
1820. [Massimilla Doni.]

CARNOT (Lazare-Nicolas-Marguerite), born at Nolay--Cote-d'Or--in 1753; died in 1823. In June,
1800, while Minister of War, he was present in company with Talleyrand, Fouche and Sieyes,
at a council held at the home of the Minister of Foreign Affairs, rue du Bac, when the overthrow
of First Consul Bonaparte was discussed. [The Gondreville Mystery.]

CAROLINE (Mademoiselle), governess, during the Empire, of the four children of M. and Mme.
de Vandenesse. "She was a terror." [The Lily of the Valley.]

CAROLINE, chambermaid of the Marquis de Listomere, in 1827-1828, on rue Saint-Dominique-Saint-Germain,
Paris, when the marquis received a letter from Eugene de Rastignac intended for Delphine de
Nucingen. [A Study of Woman.]

CAROLINE, servant of the Thuilliers in 1840. [The Middle Classes.]

CARON, lawyer, in charge of the affairs of Mlle. Gamard at Tours in 1826. He acted against
Abbe Francois Birotteau. [The Vicar of Tours.]

CARPENTIER, formerly captain in the Imperial Army, retired at Issoudun during the Restoration.
He had a position in the mayor's office. He was allied by marriage to one of the strongest
families of the city, the Borniche-Hereaus. He was an intimate friend of the artillery captain,
Mignonnet, sharing with him his aversion for Commandant Maxence Gilet. Carpentier and Mignonnet
were seconds of Philippe Bridau in his duel with the chief of the "Knights of Idlesse." [A
Bachelor's Establishment.]

CARPI (Benedetto), jailer of a Venetian prison, where Facino Cane was confined between the
years 1760 and 1770. Bribed by the prisoner, he fled with him, carrying a portion of the hidden
treasure of the Republic. But he perished soon after, by drowning, while trying to cross the
sea. [Facino Cane.]

CARTHAGENOVA, a superb basso of the Fenice theatre at Venice. In 1820 he sang the part of Moses
in Rossini's opera, with Genovese and La Tinti. [Massimilla Doni.]

CARTIER, gardener in the Montparnasse quarter, Paris, during the reign of Louis Philippe. In
1838 he supplied flowers to M. Bernard--Baron de Bourlac--for his daughter Vanda. [The Seamy
Side of History.]

CARTIER (Madame), wife of the preceding; vender of milk, eggs and vegetables to Mme. Vauthier,
landlady of a miserable boarding-house on Boulevard Montparnasse, and also to M. Bernard, lessee
of real estate. [The Seamy Side of History.]

CASA-REAL (Duc de), younger brother of Mme. Balthazar Claes; related to the Evangelistas of
Bordeaux; of an illustrious family under the Spanish monarchy; his sister had renounced the
paternal succession in order to procure for him a marriage worthy of a house so noble. He died
young, in 1805, leaving to Mme. Claes, a considerable fortune in money. [The Quest of the Absolute.
A Marriage Settlement.]

CASTAGNOULD, mate of the "Mignon," a pretty, hundred-ton vessel owned by Charles Mignon, the
captain. In this he made several important and prosperous voyages, from 1826 to 1829. Castagnould
was a Provencal and an old servant of the Mignon family. [Modeste Mignon.]

CASTANIER (Rodolphe), retired chief of squadron in the dragoons, under the Empire. Cashier
of Baron de Nucingen during the Restoration. Wore the decoration of the Legion of Honor. He
maintained Mme. de la Garde--Aquilina--and on her account, in 1821, he counterfeited the banker's
name on a letter of credit for a considerable amount. John Melmoth, an Englishman, got him
out of this scrape by exchanging his own individuality for that of the old officer. Castanier
was thus all-powerful, but becoming promptly at outs with the proceeding, he adopted the same
tactics of exchange, transferring his power to a financier named Claparon. Castanier was a
Southerner. He had seen service from sixteen till nearly forty. [Melmoth Reconciled.]

CASTANIER (Madame), wife of the preceding, married during the first Empire. Her family--that
of the bourgeoisie of Nancy--fooled Castanier about the size of her dowry and her "expectations."
Mme. Castanier was honest, ugly and sour-tempered. She was separated from her husband, to his
relief, and for several years previous to 1821 lived in the suburbs of Strasbourg. [Melmoth
Reconciled.]

CASTERAN (De), a very ancient aristocracy of Normandy; related to William the Conqueror; allied
with the Verneuils, the Esgrignons and the Troisvilles. The name is pronounced "Cateran." A
Demoiselle Blanche de Casteran was the mother of Mlle. de Verneuil, and died Abbess of Notre-Dame
de Seez. [The Chouans.] In 1807 Mme. de la Chanterie, then a widow, was hospitably received
in Normandy by the Casterans. [The Seamy Side of History.] In 1822 a venerable couple, Marquis
and Marquise de Casteran visited the drawing-room of Marquis d'Esgrignon at Alencon. [Beatrix.]
A Comte de Casteran, son-in-law of the Marquis of Troisville, relative of Mme. de Montcornet,
was prefect of a department of Burgundy between 1820 and 1825. [The Peasantry.]

CATANEO (Duke), noble Sicilian, born in 1773; first husband of Massimilla Doni. Physically
ruined by early debaucheries, he was a husband only in name, living only by and through the
influence of music. Very wealthy, he had educated Clara Tinti, discovered by him when still
a child and a simple tavern servant. The young girl became, thanks to him, the celebrated prima
donna of the Fenice theatre, at Venice in 1820. The wonderful tenor Genovese, of the same theatre,
was also a protege of Duke Cataneo, who paid him a high salary to sing only with La Tinti.
The Duke Cataneo cut a sorry figure. [Massimilla Doni.]

CATANEO (Duchess), nee Massimilla Doni, wife of the preceding; married later to Emilio Memmi,
Prince de Varese. (See Princesse de Varese.)

CATHERINE, an old woman in the service of M. and Mme. Saillard, in 1824. [The Government Clerks.]

CATHERINE, chambermaid and foster sister of Laurence de Cinq-Cygne in 1803. A handsome girl
of nineteen. According to Gothard, Catherine was in all her mistress' secrets and furthered
all her schemes. [The Gondreville Mystery.]

CAVALIER, Fendant's partner; both were book-collectors, publishers and venders in Paris, on
rue Serpente in 1821. Cavalier traveled for the house, whose firm name appeared as "Fendant
and Cavalier." The two associates failed shortly after having published, without success, the
famous romance of Lucien de Rubempre, "The Archer of Charles IX.," which title they had changed
for one more fantastic. [A Distinguished Provincial at Paris.] In 1838, a firm of Cavalier
published "The Spirit of Modern Law" by Baron Bourlac, sharing the profits with the author.
[The Seamy Side of History.]

CAYRON, of Languedoc, a vender of parasols, umbrellas and canes, on rue Saint-Honore in a house
adjacent to that inhabited by Birotteau the perfumer in 1818. With the consent of the landlord,
Molineux, Cayron sublet two apartments over his shop to his neighbor. He fared badly in business,
suddenly disappearing a short time after the grand ball given by Birotteau. Cayron admired
Birotteau. [Cesar Birotteau.]

CELESTIN, valet de chambre of Lucien de Rubempre, on the Malaquais quai, in the closing years
of the reign of Charles X. [Scenes from a Courtesan's Life.]

CERIZET, orphan from the Foundling Hospital, Paris; born in 1802; an apprentice of the celebrated
printers Didot, at whose office he was noticed by David Sechard, who took him to Angouleme
and employed him in his own shop, where Cerizet performed triple duties of form-maker, compositor
and proof-reader. Presently he betrayed his master, and by leaguing with the Cointet Brothers,
rivals of David Sechard, he obtained possession of his property. [Lost Illusions.] Following
this he was an actor in the provinces; managed a Liberal paper during the Restoration; was
sub-prefect at the beginning of the reign of Louis Philippe; and finally was a "man of business."
In the latter capacity he was sentenced to two years' imprisonment for swindling. After business
partnership with Georges d'Estourny, and later with Claparon, he was stranded and reduced to
transcribing for a justice of the peace in the quartier Saint-Jacques. At the same time he
began lending money on short time, and by speculating with the poorer class he acquired a certain
competence. Although thoroughly debauched, Cerizet married Olympe Cardinal about 1840. At this
time he was implicated in the intrigues of Theodose de la Peyrade and in the interests of Jerome
Thuillier. Becoming possessed of a note of Maxime de Trailles in 1833, he succeeded by Scapinal
tactics in obtaining face value of the paper. [A Man of Business. Scenes from a Courtesan's
Life. The Middle Classes.]

CERIZET (Olympe Cardinal, Madame), wife of foregoing; born about 1824; daughter of Mme. Cardinal
the fish-dealer. Actress at the Bobino, Luxembourg, then at the Folies-Dramatiques, where she
made her debut in "The Telegraph of Love." At first she was intimate with the first comedian.
Afterwards she had Julien Minard for lover. From the father of the latter she received thirty
thousand francs to renounce her son. This money she used as a dowry and it aided in consummating
her marriage with Cerizet. [The Middle Classes.]

CESARINE, laundry girl at Alencon. Mistress of the Chevalier de Valois, and mother of a child
that was attributed to the old aristocrat. It was also said in the town, in 1816, that he had
married Cesarine clandestinely. These rumors greatly annoyed the chevalier, since he had hoped
at this time to wed Mlle. Cormon. Cesarine, the sole legatee of her lover, received an income
of only six hundred livres. [Jealousies of a Country Town.]

CESARINE, dancer at the Opera de Paris in 1822; an acquaintance of Philippe Bridau, who at
one time thought of breaking off with her on account of his uncle Rouget at Issoudun. [A Bachelor's
Establishment.]

CHABERT (Hyacinthe), Count, grand officer of the Legion of Honor, colonel of a cavalry regiment.
Left for dead on the battlefield of Eylau (February 7-8, 1807). He was healed at Heilsberg,
then locked up in an insane asylum at Stuttgart. Returning to France after the downfall of
the Empire, he lived, in 1818, in straitened circumstances, with the herdsman Vergniaud, an
old lieutenant of his regiment, on rue du Petit-Banquier, Paris. After having sought without
arousing scandal to make good his rights with Rose Chapotel, his wife, now married to Count
Ferraud, he sank again into poverty and was convicted of vagrancy. He ended his days at the
Hospital de Bicetre; they had begun at the Foundling Hospital. [Colonel Chabert.]

CHABERT (Madame), nee Rose Chapotel. (See Ferraud, Comtesse.)

CHABOISSEAU, an old bookseller, book-lender, something of a usurer, a millionaire living in
1821-1822 on quai Saint-Michel, where he discussed a business deal with Lucien de Rubembre,
who had been piloted there by Lousteau. [A Distinguished Provincial at Paris.] He was a friend
of Gobseck and of Gigonnet and with them he frequented, in 1824, the Cafe Themis. [The Government
Clerks.] During the reign of Louis Philippe he had dealings with the Cerizet-Claparon Company.
[A Man of Business.]

CHAFFAROUX, building-contractor, one of Cesar Birotteau's creditors [Cesar Birotteau]; uncle
of Claudine Chaffaroux who became Mme. du Bruel. Rich and a bachelor, he showered much affection
upon his niece; she had helped him to launch into business. He died in the second half of the
reign of Louis Philippe, leaving an income of forty thousand francs to the former danseuse.
[A Prince of Bohemia.] In 1840 he did some work on an unfinished house in the suburbs of the
Madeleine, purchased by the Thuilliers. [The Middle Classes.]

CHAMAROLLES (Mesdemoiselles), conducted a boarding-school for young ladies at Bourges, at the
beginning of the century. This school enjoyed a great reputation in the department. Here was
educated Anna Grosetete, who later married the third son of Comte de Fontaine; also Dinah Piedefer
who became Mme. de la Baudray. [The Muse of the Department.]

CHAMPAGNAC, charman of Limoges, a widower, native of Auvergne. In 1797 Jerome-Baptiste Sauviat
married Champagnac's daughter, who was at least thirty. [The Country Parson.]

CHAMPIGNELLES (De), an illustrious Norman family. In 1822 a Marquis de Champignelles was the
head of the leading house of the country at Bayeux. Through marriage this family was allied
with the Navarreins, the Blamont-Chauvries, and the Beauseants. Marquis de Champignelles introduced
Gaston de Nueil to Mme. de Beauseant's home. [The Deserted Woman.] A M. de Champignelles presented
Mme. de la Chanterie to Louis XVIII., at the beginning of the Restoration. The Baronne de la
Chanterie was formerly a Champignelles. [The Seamy Side of History.]

CHAMPION (Maurice), a young boy of Montegnac, Haute-Vienne, son of the postmaster of that commune;
employed as stable-boy at Mme. Graslin's, time of Louis Philippe. [The Country Parson.]

CHAMPLAIN (Pierre), vine-dresser, a neighbor of the crazy Margaritis, at Vouvray in 1831. [Gaudissart
the Great.]

CHAMPY (Madame de), name given to Esther Gobseck.

CHANDOUR (Stanislas de), born in 1781; one of the habitues of the Bargeton's drawing-room at
Angouleme, and the "beau" of that society. In 1821 he was decorated. He obtained some success
with the ladies by his sarcastic pleasantries in the fashion of the eighteenth century. Having
spread about town a slander relating to Mme. de Bargeton and Lucien de Rubempre, he was challenged
by her husband and was wounded in the neck by a bullet, which wound brought on him a kind of
chronic twist of the neck. [Lost Illusions.]

CHANDOUR (Amelie de), wife of the preceding; charming conversationalist, but troubled with
an unacknowledged asthma. In Angouleme she posed as the antagonist of her friend, Mme. de Bargeton.
[Lost Illusions.]

CHANOR, partner of Florent, both being workers and dealers in bronze, rue des Tournelles, Paris,
time of Louis Philippe. Wenceslas Steinbock was at first an apprentice and afterwards an employe
of the firm. [Cousin Betty.] In 1845, Frederic Brunner obtained a watch-chain and a cane-knob
from the firm of Florent & Chanor. [Cousin Pons.]

CHANTONNIT, mayor of Riceys, near Besancon, between 1830 and 1840. He was a native of Neufchatel,
Switzerland, and a Republican. He was involved in a lawsuit with the Wattevilles. Albert Savarus
pleaded for them against Chantonnit. [Albert Savarus.]

CHAPELOUD (Abbe), canon of the Church of Saint-Gatien at Tours. Intimate friend of the Abbe
Birotteau, to whom he bequeathed on his death-bed, in 1824, a set of furniture and a library
of considerable value which had been ardently coveted by the naive priest. [The Vicar of Tours.]

CHAPERON (Abbe), Cure of Nemours, Seine-et-Marne, after the re-establishment of religious worship
following the Revolution. Born in 1755, died in 1841, in that city. He was a friend of Dr.
Minoret and helped educate Ursule Mirouet, a niece of the physician. He was nicknamed "the
Fenelon of Gatinais." His successor was the cure of Saint-Lange, the priest who tried to give
religious consolation to Mme. d'Aiglemont, a prey to despair. [Ursule Mirouet.]

CHAPOTEL (Rose), family name of Mme. Chabert, who afterwards became Comtesse Ferraud, which
name see.

CHAPOULOT (Monsieur and Madame), formerly lace-dealers of rue Saint-Denis in 1845. Tenants
of the house, rue de Normandie, where lived Pons and Schmucke. One evening, when M. and Mme.
Chapoulot accompanied by their daughter Victorine were returning from the Theatre de l'Ambigu-Comique,
they met Heloise Brisetout on the landing, and a little conjugal scene resulted. [Cousin Pons.]

CHAPUZOT (Monsieur and Madame), porters of Marguerite Turquet, known as Malaga, rue des Fosses-du-Temple
at Paris in 1836; afterwards her servants and her confidants when she was maintained by Thaddee
Paz. [The Imaginary Mistress.]

CHAPUZOT, chief of division to the prefecture of police in the time of Louis Philippe. Visited
and consulted in 1843 by Victorin Hulot on account of Mme. de Saint-Esteve. [Cousin Betty.]

CHARDIN (Pere), old mattress-maker, and a sot. In 1843 he acted as a go-between for Baron Hulot
under the name of Pere Thoul, and Cousin Betty, who concealed from the family the infamy of
its head. [Cousin Betty.]

CHARDIN, son of the preceding. At first a watchman for Johann Fischer, commissariat for the
Minister of War in the province of Oran from 1838 to 1841. Afterwards claqueur in a theatre
under Braulard, and designated at that time by the name of Idamore. A brother of Elodie Chardin
whom he procured for Pere Thoul in order to release Olympe Bijou whose lover he himself was.
After Olympe Bijou, Chardin paid court in 1843 to a young premiere of the Theatre des Funambules.
[Cousin Betty.]

CHARDIN (Elodie), sister of Chardin alias Idamore; lace-maker; mistress of Baron Hulot--Pere
Thoul--in 1843. She lived then with him at number 7 rue des Bernardins. She had succeeded Olympe
Bijou in the old fellow's affections. [Cousin Betty.]

CHARDON, retired surgeon of the army of the Republic; established as a druggist at Angouleme
during the Empire. He was engrossed in trying to cure the gout, and he also dreamed of replacing
rag-paper with paper made from vegetable fibre, after the manner of the Chinese. He died at
the beginning of the Restoration at Paris, where he had come to solicit the sanction of the
Academy of Science, in despair at the lack of result, leaving a wife and two children poverty-stricken.
[Lost Illusions.]

CHARDON (Madame), nee Rubempre, wife of the preceding. The final branch of an illustrious family.
Saved from the scaffold in 1793 by the army surgeon Chardon who declared her enceinte by him
and who married her despite their mutual poverty. Reduced to suffering by the sudden death
of her husband, she concealed her misfortunes under the name of Mme. Charlotte. She adored
her two children, Eve and Lucien. Mme. Chardon died in 1827. [Lost Illusions. Scenes from a
Courtesan's Life.]

CHARDON (Lucien). (See Rubempre, Chardon de).

CHARDON (Eve). (See Sechard, Madame David.)

CHARELS (The), worthy farmers in the outskirts of Alencon; the father and mother of Olympe
Charel who became the wife of Michaud, the head-keeper of General de Montcornet's estate. [The
Peasantry.]

CHARGEBOEUF (Marquis de), a Champagne gentleman, born in 1739, head of the house of Chargeboeuf
in the time of the Consulate and the Empire. His lands reached from the department of Seine-et-Marne
into that of the Aube. A relative of the Hauteserres and the Simeuses whom he sought to erase
from the emigrant list in 1804, and whom he assisted in the lawsuit in which they were implicated
after the abduction of Senator Malin. He was also related to Laurence de Cinq-Cygne. The Chargeboeufs
and the Cinq-Cygnes had the same origin, the Frankish name of Duineff being their joint property.
Cinq-Cygne became the name of the junior branch of the Chargeboeufs. The Marquis de Chargeboeuf
was acquainted with Talleyrand, at whose instance he was enabled to transmit a petition to
First-Consul Bonaparte. M. de Chargeboeuf was apparently reconciled to the new order of things
springing out of the year '89; at any rate he displayed much politic prudence. His family reckoned
their ancient titles from the Crusades; his name arose from an equerry's exploit with Saint
Louis in Egypt. [The Gondreville Mystery.]

CHARGEBOEUF (Madame de), mother of Bathilde de Chargeboeuf who married Denis Rogron. She lived
at Troyes with her daughter during the Restoration. She was poor but haughty. [Pierrette.]

CHARGEBOEUF (Bathilde de), daughter of the preceding; married Denis Rogron. (See Rogron, Madame.)

CHARGEBOEUF (Melchior-Rene, Vicomte de), of the poor branch of the Chargeboeufs. Made sub-prefect
of Arcis-sur-Aube in 1815, through the influence of his kinswoman, Mme. de Cinq-Cygne. It was
there that he met Mme. Severine Beauvisage. A mutual attachment resulted, and a daughter called
Cecile-Renee was born of their intimacy. [The Member for Arcis.] In 1820 the Vicomte de Chargeboeuf
removed to Sancerre where he knew Mme. de la Baudraye. She would probably have favored him,
had he not been made prefect and left the city. [The Muse of the Department.]

CHARGEBOEUF (De), secretary of attorney-general Granville at Paris in 1830; then a young man.
Entrusted by the magistrate with the details of Lucien de Rubempre's funeral, which was carried
through in such a way as to make one believe that he had died a free man and in his own home,
on quai Malaquais. [Scenes from a Courtesan's Life.]

CHARGEGRAIN (Louis), inn-keeper of Littray, Normandy. He had dealings with the brigands and
was arrested in the suit of the Chauffeurs of Mortagne, in 1809, but acquitted. [The Seamy
Side of History.]

CHARLES, first name of a rather indifferent young painter, who in 1819 boarded at the Vauquer
pension. A tutor at college and a Museum attache; very jocular; given to personal witticisms,
which were often aimed at Goriot. [Father Goriot.]

CHARLES, a young prig who was killed in a duel of small arms with Raphael de Valentin at Aix,
Savoy, in 1831. Charles had boasted of having received the title of "Bachelor of shooting"
from Lepage at Paris, and that of doctor from Lozes the "King of foils." [The Magic Skin.]

CHARLES, valet de chambre of M. d'Aiglemont at Paris in 1823. The marquis complained of his
servant's carelessness. [A Woman of Thirty.]

CHARLES, footman to Comte de Montcornet at Aigues, Burgundy, in 1823. Through no good motive
he paid court to Catherine Tonsard, being encouraged in his gallantries by Fourchon the girl's
maternal grandfather, who desired to have a spy in the chateau. In the peasants' struggle against
the people of Aigues, Charles usually sided with the peasants: "Sprung from the people, their
livery remained upon him." [The Peasantry.]

CHARLOTTE, a great lady, a duchess, and a widow without children. She was loved by Marsay then
only sixteen and some six years younger than she. She deceived him and he resented by procuring
her a rival. She died young of consumption. Her husband was a statesman. [Another Study of Woman.]

CHARLOTTE (Madame), name assumed by Mme. Chardon, in 1821 at Angouleme, when obliged to make
a living as a nurse. [Lost Illusions.]

CHATELET (Sixte, Baron du), born in 1776 as plain Sixte Chatelet. About 1806 he qualified for
and later was made baron under the Empire. His career began with a secretaryship to an Imperial
princess. Later he entered the diplomatic corps, and finally, under the Restoration, M. de
Barante selected him for director of the indirect taxes at Angouleme. Here he met and married
Mme. de Bargeton when she became a widow in 1821. He was the prefect of the Charente. [Lost
Illusions. A Distinguished Provincial at Paris.] In 1824 he was count and deputy. [Scenes from
a Courtesan's Life.] Chatelet accompanied General Marquis Armand de Montriveau in a perilous
and famous excursion into Egypt. Temporarily enamored of Lucien de Rubempre, she attached him
to her party in a journey to Paris made necessary by provincial slanders and ambition. There
she abandoned her youthful lover at the instigation of Chatelet and of Mme. d'Espard. [Lost
Illusions. A Distinguished Provincial at Paris.] In 1824, Mme. du Chatelet attended Mme. Rabourdin's
evening reception. [The Government Clerks.] Under the direction of Abbe Niolant (or Niollant),
Madame du Chatelet, orphaned of her mother, had been reared a little too boyishly at l'Escarbas,
a small paternal estate situated near Barbezieux. [Lost Illusions.]

CHATILLONEST (De), an old soldier; father of Marquise d'Aiglemont. He was hardly reconciled
to her marriage with her cousin, the brilliant colonel. [A Woman of Thirty.] The device of
the house of Chatillonest (or Chastillonest) was: Fulgens, sequar ("Shining, I follow thee").
Jean Butscha had put this device beneath a star on his seal. [Modest Mignon.]

CHAUDET (Antoine-Denis), sculptor and painter, born in Paris in 1763, interested in the birth
of Joseph Bridau's genius. [A Bachelor's Establishment.]

CHAULIEU (Henri, Duc de), born in 1773; peer of France; one of the gentlemen of the Court of
Louis XVIII. and of that of Charles X., principally in favor under the latter. After having
been ambassador from France to Madrid, he became Minister of Foreign Affairs at the beginning
of 1830. He had three children: the eldest was the Duc de Rhetore; the second became Duc de
Lenoncourt-Givry through his marriage with Madeleine de Mortsauf; the third, a daughter, Armande-Louise-Marie,
married Baron de Macumer and, left a widow, afterwards married the poet Marie Gaston. [Letters
of Two Brides. Modeste Mignon. A Bachelor's Establishment.] The Duc de Chaulieu was on good
terms with the Grandlieus and promised them to obtain the title of marquis for Lucien de Rubempre,
who was aspiring to the hand of their daughter Clotilde. The Duc de Chaulieu resided in Paris
in very close relations with these same Grandlieus of the elder branch. More than once he took
particular interest in the family's affairs. He employed Corentin to clear up the dark side
of the life of Clotilde's fiance. [Scenes from a Courtesan's Life.] Some time before this M.
de Chaulieu made one of the portentous conclave assembled to extricate Mme. de Langeais, a
relative of the Grandlieus, from a serious predicament. [The Thirteen.]

CHAULIEU (Eleonore, Duchesse de), wife of the preceding. She was a friend of M. d'Aubrion and
sought to influence him to bring about the marriage of Mlle. d'Aubrion with Charles Grandet.
[Eugenie Grandet.] For a long time she was the mistress of the poet Canalis, several years
her junior. She protected him, helping him on in the world, and in public life, but she was
very jealous and kept him under strict surveillance. She still retained her hold of him at
fifty years. Mme. de Chaulieu gave her husband the three children designated in the duc's biography.
Her hauteur and coquetry subdued most of her maternal sentiments. During the last year of the
second Restoration, Eleonore de Chaulieu followed on the way to Normandy, not far from Rosny,
a chase almost royal where her sentiments were fully occupied. [Letters of Two Brides.]

CHAULIEU (Armande-Louise-Marie de), daughter of Duc and Duchesse de Chaulieu. (See Marie Gaston,
Madame.)

CHAUSSARD (The Brothers), inn-keepers at Louvigny, Orne; old game-keepers of the Troisville
estate, implicated in a trial known as the "Chauffeurs of Mortagne" in 1809. Chaussard the
elder was condemned to twenty years' hard labor, was sent to the galleys, and later was pardoned
by the Emperor. Chaussard junior was contumacious, and therefore received sentence of death.
Later he was cast into the sea by M. de Boislaurier for having been traitorous to the Chouans.
A third Chaussard, enticed into the ranks of the police by Contenson, was assassinated in a
nocturnal affair. [The Seamy Side of History.]

CHAVONCOURT (De), Besancon gentleman, highly thought of in the town, representing an old parliamentary
family. A deputy under Charles X., one of the famous 221 who signed the address to the King
on March 18, 1830. He was re-elected under Louis Philippe. Father of three children but possessing
a rather slender income. The family of Chavoncourt was acquainted with the Wattevilles. [Albert
Savarus.]

CHAVONCOURT (Madame de), wife of the preceding and one of the beauties of Besancon. Born about
1794; mother of three children; managed capably the household with its slender resources. [Albert
Savarus.]

CHAVONCOURT (De), born in 1812. Son of M. and Mme. de Chavoncourt of Besancon. College-mate
and chum of M. de Vauchelles. [Albert Savarus.]

CHAVONCOURT (Victoire de), second child and elder daughter of M. and Mme. de Chavoncourt. Born
between 1816 and 1817. M. de Vauchelles desired to wed her in 1834. [Albert Savarus.]

CHAVONCOURT (Sidonie de), third and last child of M. and Mme. de Chavoncourt of Besancon. Born
in 1818. [Albert Savarus.]

CHAZELLE, clerk under the Minister of Finance, in Baudoyer's bureau, in 1824. A benedict and
wife-led, although wishing to appear his own master. He argued without ceasing upon subjects
and through causes the idlest with Paulmier the bachelor. The one smoked, the other took snuff;
this different way of taking tobacco was one of the endless themes between the two. [The Government
Clerks.]

CHELIUS, physician of Heidelberg with whom Halpersohn corresponded, during the reign of Louis
Philippe. [The Seamy Side of History.]

CHERVIN, a police-corporal at Montegnac near Limoges in 1829. [The Country Parson.]

CHESNEL, or Choisnel, notary at Alencon, time of Louis XVIII. Born in 1753. Old attendant of
the house of Gordes, also of the d'Esgrignon family whose property he had protected during
the Revolution. A widower, childless, and possessed of a considerable fortune, he had an aristocratic
clientele, notably that of Mme. de la Chanterie. On every hand he received that attention which
his good points merited. M. du Bousquier held him in profound hatred, blaming him with the
refusal which Mlle. d'Esgrignon had made of Du Bousquier's proffered hand in marriage, and
another check of the same nature which he experienced at first from Mlle. Cormon. By a dexterous
move in 1824 Chesnel succeeded in rescuing Victurnien d'Esgrignon, though guilty, from the
Court of Assizes. The old notary succumbed soon after this event. [The Seamy Side of History.
Jealousies of a Country Town.]

CHESSEL (De), owner of the chateau and estate of Frapesle near Sache in Touraine. Friend of
the Vandenesses; he introduced their son Felix to his neighbors, the Mortsaufs. The son of
a manufacturer named Durand who became very rich during the Revolution, but whose plebeian
name he had entirely dropped; instead he adopted that of his wife, the only heiress of the
Chessels, an old parliamentary family. M. de Chessel was director-general and twice deputy.
He received the title of count under Louis XVIII. [The Lily of the Valley.]

CHESSEL (Madame de), wife of the preceding. She made up elaborate toilettes. [The Lily of the
Valley.] In 1824 she frequented Mme. Rabourdin's Paris home. [The Government Clerks.]

CHEVREL (Monsieur and Madame), founders of the house of the "Cat and Racket," rue Saint-Denis,
at the close of the eighteenth century. Father and mother of Mme. Guillaume, whose husband
succeeded to the management of the firm. [At the Sign of the Cat and Racket.]

CHEVREL, rich Parisian banker at the beginning of the nineteenth century. Probably brother
and brother-in-law of the foregoing. He had a daughter who married Maitre Roguin. [At the Sign
of the Cat and Racket.]

CHIAVARI (Prince de), brother of the Duke of Vissembourg; son of Marechal Vernon. [Beatrix.]

CHIFFREVILLE (Monsieur and Madame), ran a very prosperous drug-store and laboratory in Paris
during the Restoration. Their partners were MM. Protez and Cochin. This firm had frequent business
dealings with Cesar Birotteau's "Queen of Roses"; it also supplied Balthazar Claes. [Cesar
Birotteau. The Quest of the Absolute.]

CHIGI (Prince), great lord of Rome in 1758. He boasted of having "made a soprano out of Zambinella"
and disclosed the fact to Sarrasine that this creature was not a woman. [Sarrasine.]

CHISSE (Madame de), great aunt of M. du Bruel; a grasping old Provincial at whose home the
retired dancer Tullia, now Mme. du Bruel, was fortunate to pass a summer in a rather hypocritical
religious penance. [A Prince of Bohemia.]

CHOCARDELLE (Mademoiselle), known as Antonia; a Parisian courtesan during the reign of Louis
Philippe; born in 1814. Maxime de Trailles spoke of her as a woman of wit; "She's a pupil of
mine, indeed," said he. About 1834, she lived on rue Helder and for fifteen days was the mistress
of M. de la Palferine. [Beatrix. A Prince of Bohemia.] For a time she operated a reading-room
that M. de Trailles had established for her on rue Coquenard. Like Marguerite Turquet she had
"well soaked the little d'Esgrignon." [A Man of Business.] In 1838 she was present at the "house-warming"
to Josepha Mirah on rue de la Ville-l'Eveque. [Cousin Betty.] In 1839 she accompanied her lover
Maxime de Trailles to Arcis-sur-Aube to aid him in his official transactions relating to the
legislative elections. [The Member for Arcis.]

CHOIN (Mademoiselle), good Catholic who built a parsonage on some land at Blangy bought expressly
by her in the eighteenth century; the property was acquired later by Rigou. [The Peasantry.]

CHOLLET (Mother), janitress of a house on rue du Sentier occupied by Finot's paper in 1821.
[A Distinguished Provincial at Paris.]

CHRESTIEN (Michel), Federalist Republican; member of the "Cenacle" of rue des Quatre-Vents.
In 1819 he and his friends were invited by the widow Bridau to her home to celebrate the return
of her elder son Philippe from Texas. He posed as a Roman senator in a historic picture. The
painter Joseph Bridau was a friend of his. [A Bachelor's Establishment.] About 1822 Chrestien
fought a duel with Lucien Chardon de Rubempre on account of Daniel d'Arthez. He was a great
though unknown statesman. He was killed at Saint-Merri cloister on June 6, 1832, where he was
defending ideas not his own. [A Distinguished Provincial at Paris.] He became foolishly enamored
of Diane de Maufrigneuse, but did not confess his love save by a letter addressed to her just
before he went to his death at the barricade. He had saved the life of M. de Maufrigneuse in
the Revolution of July, 1830, through love for the duchesse. [The Secrets of a Princess.]

CHRISTEMIO, creole and foster-father of Paquita Valdes, whose protector and body-guard he constituted
himself. The Marquis de San-Real caused his death for having abetted the intimacy between Paquita
and Marsay. [The Thirteen.]

CHRISTOPHE, native of Savoy; servant of Mme. Vauquer on rue Neuve-Saint-Genevieve, Paris, in
1819. He alone was with Rastignac at the funeral of Goriot, accompanying the body as far as
Pere-Lachaise in the priest's carriage. [Father Goriot.]

CIBOT, alias Galope-Chopine, also called Cibot the Great. A Chouan implicated in the Breton
insurrection of 1799. Decapitated by his cousin Cibot, alias Pille-Miche, and by Marche-a-Terre
for having unthinkingly betrayed the brigand position to the "Blues." [The Chouans.]

CIBOT (Barbette), wife of Cibot, alias Galope-Chopine. She went over to the "Blues" after her
husband's execution, and vowed through vengeance to devote her son, who was still a child,
to the Republican cause. [The Chouans.]

CIBOT (Jean), alias Pille-Miche; one of the Chouans of the Breton insurrection of 1799; cousin
of Cibot, alias Galope-Chopine, and his murderer. Pille-Miche it was, also, who shot and killed
Adjutant Gerard of the 72d demi-brigade at the Vivetiere. From 1818 to 1845 he was tailor-janitor
in a house in rue de Normandie, belonging to Claude-Joseph Pillerault, where dwelt Pons and
Schmucke, the two musicians, time of Louis Philippe. Poisoned by the pawn-broker Remonencq,
Cibot died at his post in April, 1845, on the same day of Sylvain Pons' demise. [Cousin Pons.]

CIBOT (Madame). (See Remonencq, Madame.)

CICOGNARA, Roman Cardinal in 1758; protector of Zambinella. He caused the assassination of
Sarrasine who otherwise would have slain Zambinella. [Sarrasine.]

CINQ-CYGNE, the name of an illustrious family of Champagne, the younger branch of the house
of Chargeboeuf. These two branches of the same stock had a common origin in the Duineffs of
the Frankish people. The name of Cinq-Cygne arose from the defence of a castle made, in the
absence of their father, by five (cinq) daughters all remarkably fair. On the blazon of the
house of Cinq-Cygne is placed for device the response of the eldest of the five sisters when
summoned to surrender: "We die singing!" [The Gondreville Mystery.]

CINQ-CYGNE (Comtesse de), mother of Laurence de Cinq-Cygne. Widow at the time of the Revolution.
She died in the height of a nervous fever induced by an attack on her chateau at Troyes by
the populace in 1793. [The Gondreville Mystery.]

CINQ-CYGNE (Marquis de), name of Adrien d'Hauteserre after his marriage with Laurence de Cinq-Cygne.
(See Hauteserre, Adrien d'.)

CINQ-CYGNE (Laurence, Comtesse, afterwards Marquise de), born in 1781. Left an orphan at the
age of twelve, she lived, at the last of the eighteenth and the first of the nineteenth century,
with her kinsman and tutor M. d'Hauteserre at Cinq-Cygne, Aube. She was loved by both her cousins,
Paul-Marie and Marie-Paul de Simeuse, and also by the younger of her tutor's two sons, Adrien
d'Hauteserre, whom she married in 1813. Laurence de Cinq-Cygne struggled valiantly against
a cunning and redoubtable police-agency, the soul of which was Corentin. The King of France
approved the charter of the Count of Champagne, by virtue of which, in the family of Cinq-Cygne,
a woman might "ennoble and succeed"; therefore the husband of Laurence took the name and the
arms of his wife. Although an ardent Royalist she went to seek the Emperor as far as the battlefield
of Jena, in 1806, to ask pardon for the two Simeuses and the two Hauteserres involved in a
political trial and condemned to hard labor, despite their innocence. Her bold move succeeded.
The Marquise de Cinq-Cygne gave her husband two children, Paul and Berthe. This family passed
the winter season at Paris in a magnificent mansion on Faubourg du Roule. [The Gondreville
Mystery.] In 1832 Mme. de Cinq-Cygne, at the instance of the Archbishop of Paris, consented
to call on the Princesse de Cadignan who had reformed. [The Secrets of a Princess.] In 1836
Mme. de Cinq-Cygne was intimate with Mme. de la Chanterie. [The Seamy Side of History.] Under
the Restoration, and principally during Charles X.'s reign, Mme. de Cinq-Cygne exercised a
sort of sovereignty over the Department of the Aube which the Comte de Gondreville counterbalanced
in a measure by his family connections and through the generosity of the department. Some time
after the death of Louis XVIII. she brought about the election of Francois Michu as president
of the Arcis Court. [The Member for Arcis.]

CINQ-CYGNE (Jules de), only brother of Laurence de Cinq-Cygne. He emigrated at the outbreak
of the Revolution and died for the Royalist cause at Mayence. [The Gondreville Mystery.]

CINQ-CYGNE (Paul de), son of Laurence de Cinq-Cygne and of Adrien d'Hauteserre; he became marquis
after his father's death. [The Gondreville Mystery.]

CINQ-CYGNE (Berthe de). (See Maufrigneuse, Mme. Georges de.)

CIPREY of Provins, Seine-et-Marne; nephew of the maternal grandmother of Pierrette Lorrain.
He formed one of the family council called together in 1828 to decide whether or not the young
girl should remain underneath Denis Rogron's roof. This council replaced Rogron with the notary
Auffray and chose Ciprey for vice-guardian. [Pierrette.]

CLAES-MOLINA (Balthazar), Comte de Nourho; born at Douai in 1761 and died in the same town
in 1832; sprung from a famous family of Flemish weavers, allied to a very noble Spanish family,
time of Philip II. In 1795 he married Josephine de Temninck of Brussels, and lived happily
with her until 1809, at which time a Polish officer, Adam de Wierzchownia, seeking shelter
at the Claes mansion, discussed with him the subject of chemical affinity. From that time on
Balthazar, who formerly had worked in Lavoisier's laboratory, buried himself exclusively in
the "quest of the absolute." He expended seven millions in experiments, leaving his wife to
die of neglect. From 1820 to 1825* he was a tax-collector in Brittany--duties performed by
his elder daughter who had secured the position for him in order to divert him from his barren
labors. During this time she rehabilitated the family fortunes. Balthazar died, almost insane,
crying "Eureka!" [The Quest of the Absolute.]

*   Given erroneously in original text as 1852.--J.W.M.

CLAES (Josephine de Temninck, Madame), wife of Balthazar Claes; born at Brussels in 1770, died
at Douai in 1816; a native Spaniard on her mother's side; commonly called Pepita. She was small,
crooked and lame, with heavy black hair and glowing eyes. She gave her husband four children:
Marguerite, Felicie, Gabriel (or Gustave) and Jean-Balthazar. She was passionatley devoted
to her husband, and died of grief over his neglect of her for the scientific experiments which
never came to an end. [The Quest of the Absolute.] Mme. Claes counted among her kin the Evangelistas
of Bordeau. [A Marriage Settlement.]

CLAES (Marguerite), elder daughter of Balthazar Claes and Josephine de Temninck. (See Solis,
Madame de.)

CLAES (Felicie), second daughter of Balthazar Claes and of Josephine de Temninck; born in 1801.
(See Pierquin, Madame.)

CLAES (Gabriel or Gustave), third child of Balthazar Claes and of Josephine de Temninck; born
about 1802. He attended the College of Douai, afterwards entering the Ecole Polytechnique,
becoming an engineer of roads and bridges. In 1825 he married Mlle. Conyncks of Cambrai. [The
Quest of the Absolute.]

CLAES (Jean-Balthazar) last child of Balthazar Claes and Josephine de Temninck; born in the
early part of the nineteenth century. [The Quest of the Absolute.]

CLAGNY (J.-B. de), public prosecutor at Sancerre in 1836. A passionate admirer of Dinah de
la Baudraye. He got transferred to Paris when she returned there, and became successively the
substitute for the general prosecutor, attorney-general and finally attorney-general to the
Court of Cassation. He watched over and protected the misguided woman, consenting to act as
godfather to the child she had by Lousteau. [The Muse of the Department.]

CLAGNY (Madame de), wife of the preceding. To use an expression of M. Gravier's, she was "ugly
enough to chase a young Cossack" in 1814. Mme. de Clagny associated with Mme. de la Baudraye.
[The Muse of the Department.]

CLAPARON, clerk for the Minister of the Interior under the Republic and Empire. Friend of Bridau,
Sr., after whose death he continued his cordial relations with Mme. Bridau. He gave much attention
to Philippe and Joseph on their mother's account. Claparon died in 1820. [A Bachelor's Establishment.]

CLAPARON (Charles), son of the preceding; born about 1790. Business man and banker (rue de
Provence); at first a commercial traveler; an aide of F. du Tillet in transactions of somewhat
shady nature. He was invited to the famous ball given by Cesar Birotteau in honor of Cesar's
nomination to the Legion of Honor and the release of French possessions. [A Bachelor's Establishment.
Cesar Birotteau.] In 1821, at the Bourse in Paris, he made a peculiar bargain with the cashier
Castanier, who transferred to him, in exchange for his own individuality, the power which he
had received from John Melmoth, the Englishman. [Melmoth Reconciled.] He was interested in
the third liquidation of Nucingen in 1826, a settlement which made the fortune of the Alsatian
banker whose "man of straw" he was for some time. [The Firm of Nucingen.] He was associated
with Cerizet who deceived him in a deal about a house sold to Thuillier. Becoming bankrupt
he embarked for America about 1840. He was probably condemned for contumacy on account of swindling.
[A Man of Business. The Middle Classes.]

CLAPART, employe to the prefecture of the Seine during the Restoration, at a salary of twelve
hundred francs. Born about 1776. About 1803 he married a widow Husson, aged twenty-two. At
that time he was employed in the Bureau of Finance, at a salary of eighteen hundred francs
and a promise of more. But his known incapacity held him down to a secondary place. At the
fall of the Empire he lost his position, obtaining his new one on the recommendation of the
Comte de Serizy. Mme. Husson had by her first husband a child that was Clapart's evil genius.
In 1822 his family occupied an apartment renting for two hundred and fifty francs at number
seven rue de la Cerisaie. There he saw much of the old pensioner Poiret. Clapart was killed
by the Fieschi attack of July 28, 1835. [A Start in Life.]

CLAPART (Madame), wife of the preceding; born in 1780; one of the "Aspasias" of the Directory,
and famous for her acquaintance with one of the "Pentarques." He married her to Husson the
contractor, who made millions but who became bankrupt suddenly through the First Consul, and
suicided in 1802. At that time she was mistress of Moreau, steward of M. de Serizy. Moreau
was in love with her and would have made her his wife, but just then was under sentence of
death and a fugitive. Thus it was that in her distress she married Clapart, a clerk in the
Bureau of Finance. By her first husband Mme. Clapart had a son, Oscar Husson, whom she was
bound up in, but whose boyish pranks caused her much trouble. During the first Empire Mme.
Clapart was a lady-in-waiting to Mme. Mere--Letitia Bonaparte. [A Start in Life.]

CLARIMBAULT (Marechal de), maternal grandfather of Mme. de Beauseant. He had married the daughter
of Chevalier de Rastignac, great-uncle of Eugene de Rastignac. [Father Goriot.]

CLAUDE, an idiot who died in the village of Dauphine in 1829, nursed and metamorphosed by Dr.
Benassis. [The Country Doctor.]

CLERETTI, an architect of Paris who was quite the fashion in 1843. Grindot, though decadent
at this time, tried to compete with him. [Cousin Betty.]

CLERGET (Basine), laundress at Angouleme during the Restoration, who succeeded Mme. Prieur
with whom Eve Chardon had worked. Basine Clerget concealed David Sechard and Kolb when Sechard
was pursued by the Cointet brothers. [Lost Illusions.]

CLOUSIER, retired attorney of Limoges; justice of the peace at Montegnac after 1809. He was
in touch with Mme. Graslin when she moved there about 1830. An upright, phlegmatic man who
finally led the contemplative life of one of the ancient hermits. Abbe Gudin said a mass, in
the forest, for the repose of Jean Cochegrue, and others slain by the "Blues." [The Chouans.]

COCHET (Francoise), chambermaid of Modeste Mignon at Havre in 1829. She received the answers
to the letters addressed by Modeste to Canalis. She had also faithfully served Bettina-Caroline,
Modeste's elder sister who took her to Paris. [Modeste Mignon.]

COCHIN (Emile-Louis-Lucien-Emmanuel), employe in Clergeot's division of the Bureau of Finance
during the Restoration. He had a brother who looked after him in the administration. At this
time Cochin was also a silent partner in Matifat's drug-store. Colleville invented an anagram
on Cochin's name; with his given names it made up "Cochenille." Cochin and his wife were in
Birotteau's circle, being present with their son at the famous ball given by the perfumer.
In 1840, Cochin, now a baron, was spoken of by Anselme Popinot as the oracle of the Lombard
and Bourdonnais quarters. In 1826 his parents tried to obtain for him the hand of Mlle. Matifat.
[Cesar Birotteau. The Firm of Nucingen.]

COFFINET, porter of a house belonging to Thuillier on rue Saint-Dominique-d'Enfer, Paris, in
1840. His employer put him to work in connection with the "Echo de la Bievre," when Louis-Jerome
Thuillier became editor-in-chief of this paper. [The Middle Classes.]

COFFINET, (Madame), wife of the preceding. She looked after Theodose de la Peyrade's establishment.
[The Middle Classes.]

COGNET, inn-keeper at Issoudun during the Restoration. House of the "Knights of Idlesse" captained
by Maxence Gilet. A former groom; born about 1767; short, thickset, wife-led, one-eyed. [A
Bachelor's Establishment.]

COGNET (Madame), known as Mother Cognet, wife of the preceding; born about 1783. A retired
cook of a good house, who on account of her "Cordon bleu" talents, was chosen to be the Leonarde
of the Order which had Maxence Gilet for chief. A tall, swarthy woman of intelligent and pleasant
demeanor. [A Bachelor's Establishment.]

COINTET (Boniface), and his brother Jean, ran a thriving printing-office at Angouleme during
the Restoration. He ruined David Sechard's shop by methods hardly honorable. Boniface Cointet
was older than Jean, and was usually called Cointet the Great. He put on the devout. Extremely
wealthy, he became deputy, was made a peer of France and Minister of Commerce in Louis Philippe's
coalition ministry. In 1842 he married Mlle. Popinot, daughter of Anselme Popinot. [Lost Illusions.
The Firm of Nucingen.] On May, 1839, he presided at the sitting of the Chamber of Deputies
when the election of Sallenauve was ratified. [The Member for Arcis.]

COINTET (Jean), younger brother of the preceding; known as "Fatty" Cointet; was foreman of
the printing-office, while his brother ran the business end. Jean Cointet passed for a good
fellow and acted the generous part. [Lost Illusions.]

COLAS (Jacques), a consumptive child of a village near Grenoble, who was attended by Dr. Benassis.
His passion was singing, for which he had a very pure voice. Lived with his mother who was
poverty-stricken. Died in the latter part of 1829 at the age of fifteen, shortly after the
death of his benefactor, the physician. A nephew of Moreau, the old laborer. [The Country Doctor.]

COLLEVILLE, son of a talented musician, once leading violin of the Opera under Francoeur and
Rebel. He himself was first clarionet at the Opera-Comique, and at the same time chief clerk
under the Minister of Finance, and, in additon, book-keeper for a merchant from seven to nine
in the mornings. Great on anagrams. Made deputy-chief clerk in Baudoyer's bureau when the latter
was promoted to division chief. He was preceptor at Paris six months later. In 1832 he became
secretary to the mayor of the twelfth Arrondissement and officer of the Legion of Honor. At
that time Colleville lived with his wife and family on rue d'Enfer. He was Thuillier's most
intimate friend. She made a love match and between 1816 and 1826 bore five children, each of
whom resembled and may actually have had a different father: 1st. A daughter born in 1816,
who favored Colleville. 2d. A son, Charles, cut out for a soldier, born during his mother's
acquaintance with Charles de Gondreville, under-lieutenant of the dragoons of Saint-Chamans.
3d. A son, Francois, destined for business, born during Mme. Colleville's intimacy with Francois
Keller, the banker. 4th. A daughter, Celeste born in 1821, of whom Thuillier, Colleville's
best friend, was the godfather--and father in partibus. (See Phellion, Mme. Felix.) 5th. A
son, Theodore, or Anatole, born at a period of religious zeal. Madame Colleville was a Parisian,
piquant, winning and pretty, as well as clever and ethereal. She made her husband very happy.
He owed all his advancement to her. In the interests of their ambition she granted momentary
favor to Chardin des Lupeaulx, the Secretary-General. On Wednesdays she was at home to artists
and distinguished people. [The Government Clerks. Cousin Betty. The Middle Classes.]

COLLIN (Jacques), born in 1779. Reared by the Fathers of the Oratory. He went as far as rhetoric,
at school, and was then put in a bank by his aunt, Jacqueline Collin. Accused, however, of
a crime probably committed by Franchessini, he fled the country. Later he was sent to the galleys
where he remained from 1810 to 1815, when he escaped and came to Paris, stopping under the
name of Vautrin at the Vauquer pension. There he knew Rastignac, then a young man, became interested
in him, and tried to bring about his marriage with Victorine Taillefer, for whom he procured
a rich dowry by causing her brother to be slain in a duel with Franchessini. Bibi-Lupin, chief
of secret police, arrested him in 1819 and returned him to the bagne, whence he escaped again
in 1820, reappearing in Paris as Carlos Herrera, honorary canon of the Chapter of Toledo. At
this time he rescued Lucien de Rubempre from suicide, and took charge of the young poet. Accused,
with the latter, of having murdered Esther Gobseck, who in truth was poisoned, Jacques Collin
was acquitted of this charge, and ended by becoming chief of secret police under the name of
Saint-Esteve, in 1830. He held this position till 1845. He finally became wealthy, having an
income of twelve thousand francs, three hundred thousand francs inherited from Lucien de Rubempre,
and the profits of a green-leather manufactory at Gentilly. Under this name he hoodwinked the
cunning Cerizet, inducing that "man of business" to endorse some notes for him. [Scenes from
a Courtesan's Life.] He was also nick-named "Trompe-la-Mort."

COLLIN, (Jacqueline), aunt of Jacques Collin, whom she had reared; born at Java. In her youth
she was Marat's mistress, and afterwards had relations with the chemist, Duvignon, who was
condemned to death for counterfeiting in 1799. During this intimacy she attained a dangerous
knowledge of toxicology. From 1800 to 1805 she was a clothing dealer; and from 1806 to 1808
she spent two years in prison for having influenced minors. From 1824 to 1830 Mlle. Collin
exerted a strong influence over Jacques, alias Vautrin, toward his life of adventure without
the pale of the law. Her strong point was disguises. In 1839 she ran a matrimonial bureau on
rue de Provence, under the name of Mme. de Saint-Esteve. She often borrowed the name of her
friend Mme. Nourrisson, who, during the time of Louis Philippe, made a pretence of business
more or less dubious on rue Neuve-Saint-Marc. She had some dealings with Victorin Hulot, at
whose instance she brought about the overthrow of Mme. Marneffe, mistress, and afterwards wife,
of Crevel. Under the name of Asie, Jacqueline Collin made an excellent cook for Esther Gobseck,
whom she was ordered by Vautrin to watch. [Scenes from a Courtesan's Life. Cousin Betty. The
Unconscious Humorists.]

COLLINET, grocer at Arcis-sur-Aube, time of Louis Philippe. Elector for the Liberals headed
by Colonel Giguet. [The Member for Arcis.]

COLLINET (Francois-Joseph), merchant of Nantes. In 1814 the political changes brought about
his business failure. He went to America, returning in 1824 enriched, and re-established. He
had caused the loss of twenty-four thousand francs to M. and Mme. Lorrain, small retailers
of Pen-Hoel, and father and mother of Major Lorrain. But, on his return to France, he restored
to Mme. Lorrain, then a widow and almost a septuagenarian, forty-two thousand francs, being
capital and interest of his indebtedness to her. [Pierrette.]

COLONNA, aged Italian at Genoa, during the later part of the eighteenth century. He had reared
Luigia Porta under the name of Colonna and as his own son, from the age of six until the time
when the young man enlisted in the French army. [The Vendetta.]

COLOQUINTE, given name of a pensioner who was "office boy" in Finot's newspaper office in 1820.
He had been through the Egyptian campaign, losing an arm at the Battle of Montmirail. [A Bachelor's
Establishment. A Distinguished Provincial at Paris.]

COLORAT (Jerome), estate-keeper for Mme. Graslin at Montegnac; born at Limoges. Retired soldier
of the Empire; ex-sergeant in the Royal Guard; at one time estate-keeper for M. de Navarreins,
before entering Mme. Graslin's service. [The Country Parson.]

CONSTANCE, chambermaid for Mme. de Restaud in 1819. Through her old Goriot knew about everything
that was going on at the home of his elder daughter. This Constance, sometimes called Victorie,
took money to her mistress when the latter needed it. [Father Goriot.]

CONSTANT DE REBECQUE (Benjamin), born at Lausanne in 1767, died at Paris, December 8, 1830.
About the end of 1821 he is discovered in Dauriat's book-shop at Palais-Royal, where Lucien
de Rubempre noticed his splendid head and spiritual eyes. [A Distinguished Provincial at Paris.]

CONTI (Gennaro), musical composer; of Neapolitan origin, but born at Marseilles. Lover of Mlle.
des Touches--Camille Maupin--in 1821-1822. Afterwards he paid court to Marquise Beatrix de
Rochefide. [Lost Illusions. Beatrix.]

CONYNCKS, family of Bruges, who were maternal ancestors of Marguerite Claes. In 1812 this young
girl at sixteen was the living image of a Conyncks, her grandmother whose portrait hung in
Balthazar Claes' home. A Conyncks, also of Bruges but later established at Cambrai, was granduncle
of the children of Balthazar Claes, and was appointed their vice-guardian after the death of
Mme. Claes. He had a daughter who married Gabriel Claes. [The Quest of the Absolute.]

COQUELIN (Monsieur and Madame), hardware dealers, successors to Claude-Joseph Pillerault in
a store on quai de la Ferraille, sign of the Golden Bell. Guests at the big ball given by Cesar
Birotteau. After getting the invitation, Mme. Coquelin ordered a magnificent gown for the occasion.
[Cesar Birotteau.]

COQUET, chief of bureau to the Minister of War, in Lebrun's division in 1838. Marneffe was
his successor. Coquet had been in the service of the administration since 1809, and had given
perfect satisfaction. He was a married man and his wife was still living at the time when he
was displaced. [Cousin Betty.]

CORALIE (Mademoiselle), actress at the Panorama-Dramatique and at the Theatre du Gymnase, Paris,
time of Louis XVIII. Born in 1803 and brought up a Catholic, she was nevertheless of distinct
Jewish type. She died in August, 1822. Her mother sold her at fifteen to young Henri de Marsay,
whom she abhorred and who soon deserted her. She was then maintained by Camusot, who was not
obnoxious. She fell in love with Lucien de Rubempre at first sight, surrendering to him immediately
and being faithful to him until her dying breath. The glory and downfall of Coralie dated from
this love. An original criticism of the young Chardon established the success of "L'Alcade
dans l'Embarras," at the Marais, and brought to Coralie, one of the principals in the play,
an engagement at Boulevard Bonne-Nouvelle, with a salary of twelve thousand francs. But here
the artist stranded, the victim of a cabal, despite the protection of Camille Maupin. At first
she was housed on rue de Vendome, afterwards in a more modest lodging where she died, attended
and nursed by her cousin, Berenice. She had sold her elegant furniture to Cardot, Sr., on leaving
the apartment on rue de Vendome, and in order to avoid moving it, he installed Florentine there.
Coralie was the rival of Mme. Perrin and of Mlle. Fleuriet, whom she resembled and whose destiny
should have been her own. The funeral service of Coralie took place at noon in the little church
of Notre-Dame de Bonne-Nouvelle. Camusot promised to purchase a plot of ground for her in the
cemetery of Pere-Lachaise. [A Start in Life. A Distinguished Provincial at Paris. A Bachelor's
Establishment.]

CORBIGNY (De), prefect of Loire-et-Cher, in 1811. Friend of Mme. de Stael who authorized him
to place Louis Lambert, at her expense, in the College of Vendome. He probably died in 1812.
[Louis Lambert.]

CORBINET, notary at Soulanges, Burgundy, in 1823, and at one time an old patron of Sibilet's.
The Gravelots, lumber dealers, were clients of his. Commissioned with the sale of Aigues, when
General de Montcornet became wearied with developing his property. At one time known as Corbineau.
[The Peasantry.]

CORBINET, court-judge at Ville-aux-Fayes in 1823; son of Corbinet the notary. He belonged,
body and soul, to Gaubertin, the all-powerful mayor of the town. [The Peasantry.]

CORBINET, retired captain, postal director at Ville-aux-Fayes in 1823; brother of Corbinet,
the notary. The last daughter of Sibilet, the copy-clerk, was engaged to him when she was sixteen.
[The Peasantry.]

CORENTIN, born at Vendome in 1777; a police-agent of great genius, trained by Peyrade as Louis
David was by Vien. A favorite of Fouche's and probably his natural son. In 1799 he accompanied
Mlle. de Verneuil sent to lure and betray Alphonse de Montauran, the young chief of the Bretons
who were risen against the Republic. For two years Corentin was attached to this strange girl
as a serpent to a tree. [The Chouans.] In 1803 he and his chief, Peyrade, were entrusted with
a difficult mission in the department of Aube, where he had to search the home of Mlle. de
Cinq-Cygne. She surprised him at the moment when he was forcing open a casket, and struck him
a blow with her riding whip. This he avenged cruelly, involving, despite their innocence, the
Hauteserres and the Simeuses, friends and cousins of the young girl. This was during the affair
of the abduction of Senator Malin. About the same time he concluded another delicate mission
to Berlin to the satisfaction of Talleyrand, the Minister of Foreign Affairs. [The Gondreville
Mystery.] From 1824 to 1830, Corentin was pitted against the terrible Jacques Collin, alias
Vautrin, whose friendly plans in behalf of Lucien de Rubempre he thwarted so cruelly. Corentin
it was who rendered futile the contemplated marriage of the aspirant with Clotilde de Grandlieu,
bringing about as a consequence the absolute ruin of the "distinguished provincial at Paris."
He rusticated at Passy, rue des Vignes, about May, 1830. Under Charles X., Corentin was chief
of the political police of the chateau. [Scenes from a Courtesan's Life.] For more than thirty
years he lived on rue Honore-Chevalier under the name of M. du Portail. He sheltered Lydie,
daughter of his friend, Peyrade, after the death of the old police-agent. About 1840 he brought
about her marriage with Theodose de la Peyrade, nephew of Peyrade, after having upset the plans
of the very astute young man, greatly in love with Celeste Colleville's dowry. Corentin--M.
du Portail--then installed the chosen husband of his adopted child into his own high official
duties. [The Middle Classes.]

CORMON (Rose-Marie-Victoire). (See Bousquier, Madame du.)

CORNEVIN, an old native of Perche; foster-father of Olympe Michaud. He was with the Chouans
in 1794 and 1799. In 1823 he was servant at Michaud's. [The Peasantry.]

CORNOILLER (Antoine), game-keeper at Saumur; married the sturdy Nanon then fifty-nine years
old, after the death of Grandet, about 1827, and became general overseer of lands and properties
of Eugenie Grandet. [Eugenie Grandet.]

CORNOILLER (Madame). (See Nanon.)

COTTEREAU, well-known smuggler, one of the heads of the Breton insurrection. In 1799 he was
principal in a rather stormy scene at the Vivetiere, when he threatened the Marquis de Montauran
with swearing allegiance to the First Consul if he did not immediately obtain noteworthy advantages
in payment of seven years of devoted service to "the good cause." "My men and I have a devilish
importunate creditor," said he, slapping his stomach. One of the brothers of Jean Cottereau,
was nick-named the "Chouan," a title used by all the Western rebels against the Republic. [The
Chouans.]

COTTIN (Marechal), Prince of Wissembourg; Duke of Orfano; old soldier of the Republic and the
Empire; Minister of War in 1841; born in 1771. He was obliged to bring great shame upon his
old friend and companion-in-arms, Marshal Hulot, by advising him of the swindling of the commissariat,
Hulot d'Ervy. Marshal Cottin and Nucingen were witnesses at the wedding of Hortense Hulot and
Wenceslas Steinbock. [Cousin Betty.]

COTTIN (Francine), a Breton woman, probably born at Fougeres in 1773; chambermaid and confidante
of Mlle. de Verneuil, who had been reared by Francine's parents. Childhood's friend of Marche-a-Terre,
with whom she used her influence to save the life of her mistress during the massacre of the
"Blues" at the Vivitiere in 1799. [The Chouans.]

COUDRAI (Du), register of mortgages at Alencon, time of Louis XVIII. A caller at the home of
Mlle. Cormon, and afterwards at that of M. du Bousquier, who married "the old maid." One of
the town's most open-hearted men; his only faults were having married a rich old lady who was
unendurable, and the habit of making villainous puns at which he was first to laugh. In 1824
M. du Coudrai was poverty-stricken; he had lost his place on account of voting the wrong way.
[Jealousies of a Country Town.]

COUPIAU, Breton courier from Mayenne to Fougeres in 1799. In the struggle between the "Blues"
and the Chouans he took no part, but acted as circumstances demanded and for his own interests.
Indeed he offered no resistance when the "Brigands" stole the government chests. Coupiau was
nick-named Mene-a-Bien by Marche-a-Terre the Chouan. [The Chouans.]

COUPIAU (Sulpice), Chouan and probably the father of Coupiau the messenger. Killed in 1799
in the battle of La Pelerine or at the seige of Fougeres. [The Chouans.]

COURAND (Jenny), florist; mistress of Felix Gaudissart in 1831. At that time she lived in Paris
on rue d'Artois. [Gaudissart the Great.]

COURCEUIL (Felix), of Alencon, retired army surgeon of the Rebel forces of the Vendee. In 1809
he furnished arms to the "Brigands." Involved in the trial known as "Chauffeurs of Mortagne."
Condemned to death for contumacy. [The Seamy Side of History.]

COURNANT, notary at Provins in 1827; rival of Auffray, the notary; of the Opposition; one of
the few public-spirited men of the little town. [Pierrette.]

COURTECUISSE, game-keeper of the Aigues estate in Burgundy under the Empire and Restoration
until 1823. Born about 1777; at first in the service of Mlle. Laguerre; discharged by General
de Montcornet for absolute incapacity, and replaced by keepers who were trusty and true. Courtecuisse
was a little fellow with a face like a full moon. He was never so happy as when idle. On leaving
he demanded a sum of eleven hundred francs which was not due him. His master indignantly denied
his claim at first, but yielded the point, however, on being threatened with a lawsuit, the
scandal of which he wished to avoid. Courtecuisse, out of a job, purchased from Rigou for two
thousand francs the little property of La Bachelerie, enclosed in the Aigues estate, and wearied
himself, without gain, in the management of his land. He had a daughter who was tolerably pretty
and eighteen years old in 1823. At this time she was in the service of Mme. Mariotte the elder,
at Auxerre. Courtecuisse was given the sobriquet of "Courtebotte"--short-boot. [The Peasantry.]

COURTECUISSE (Madame), wife of the preceding; in abject fear of the miser, Gregoire Rigou,
mayor of Blangy, Burgundy. [The Peasantry.]

COURTEVILLE (Madame de), cousin of Comte de Bauvan on the maternal side; widow of a judge of
the Seine Court. She had a very beautiful daughter, Amelie, whom the comte wished to marry
to his secretary, Maurice de l'Hostal. [Honorine.]

COURTOIS, Marsac miller, near Angouleme during the Restoration. In 1821 rumor had it that he
intended to wed a miller's widow, his patroness, who was thirty-two years old. She had one
hundred thousand francs in her own right. David Sechard was advised by his father to ask the
hand of this rich widow. At the end of 1822 Courtois, now married, sheltered Lucien de Rubempre,
returning almost dead from Paris. [Lost Illusions.]

COURTOIS (Madame), wife of the preceding, who cared sympathetically for Lucien de Rubempre,
on his return. [Lost Illusions.]

COUSSARD (Laurent). (See Goussard, Laurent.)

COUTELIER, a creditor of Maxime de Trailles. The Coutelier credit, purchased for five hundred
francs by the Claparon-Cerizet firm, came to thirty-two hundred francs, seventy-five centimes,
capital, interest and costs. It was recovered by Cerizet by means of a strategy worthy of a
Scapin. [A Man of Business.]

COUTURE, a kind of financier-journalist of an equivocal reputation; born about 1797. One of
Mme. Schontz's earliest friends; and she alone remained faithful to him when he was ruined
by the downfall of the ministry of March 1st, 1840. Couture was always welcome at the home
of the courtesan, who dreamed, perhaps, of making him her husband. But he presented Fabien
du Ronceret to her and the "lorette" married him. In 1836, in company with Finot and Blondet,
he was present in a private room of a well-known restaurant when Jean-Jacques Bixiou related
the origin of the Nucingen fortune. At the time of his transient wealth Couture splendidly
maintained Jenny Cadine. At one time he was celebrated for his waistcoats. He had no known
relationship with the widow Couture. [Beatrix. The Firm of Nucingen.] The financier drew upon
himself the hatred of Cerizet for having deceived him in a deal about the purchase of lands
and houses situated in the suburbs of the Madeleine, an affair in which Jerome Thuillier was
afterwards concerned. [The Middle Classes.]

COUTURE (Madame), widow of an ordonnance-commissary of the French Republic. Relative and protectress
of Mlle. Victorine Taillefer with whom she lived at the Vauquer pension, in 1819. [Father Goriot.]

COUTURIER (Abbe), curate of Saint-Leonard church at Alencon, time of Louis XVIII. Spiritual
adviser of Mlle. Cormon, remaining her confessor after her marriage with Du Bousquier, and
influencing her in the way of excessive penances. [Jealousies of a Country Town.]

CREMIERE, tax-collector at Nemours during the Restoration. Nephew by marriage of Dr. Minoret,
who had secured the position for him, furnishing his security. One of the three collateral
heirs of the old physician, the two others being Minoret-Levrault, the postmaster, and Massin-Levrault,
copy-clerk to the justice of the peace. In the curious branching of these four Gatinais bourgeois
families--the Minorets, the Massins, the Levraults and the Cremieres--the tax collector belonged
to the Cremiere-Cremiere branch. He had several children, among others a daughter named Angelique.
After the Revolution of July, 1830, he became municipal councillor. [Ursule Mirouet.]

CREMIERE (Madame), nee Massin-Massin, wife of the tax-collector, and niece of Dr. Minoret--that
is, daughter of the old physician's sister. A stout woman with a muddy blonde complexion splotched
with freckles. Passed for an educated person on account of her novel-reading. Her lapsi linguoe
were maliciously spread abroad by Goupil, the notary's clerk, who labelled them, "Capsulinguettes";
indeed, Mme. Cremiere thus translated the two Latin words. [Ursule Mirouet.]

CREMIERE-DIONIS, always called Dionis, which name see.

CREVEL (Celestin), born between 1786 and 1788; clerked for Cesar Birotteau the perfumer--first
as second clerk, then as head-clerk when Popinot left the house to set up in business for himself.
After his patron's failure in 1819, he purchased for five thousand seven hundred francs, "The
Queen of Roses," making his own fortune thereby. During the reign of Louis Philippe he lived
on his income. Captain, then chief of battalion in the National Guard; officer of the Legion
of Honor; mayor of one of the arrondissements of Paris, he ended up by being a very great personage.
He had married the daughter of a farmer of Brie; became a widower in 1833, when he gave himself
over to a life of pleasure. He maintained Josepha, who was taken away from him by his friend,
Baron Hulot. To avenge himself he tried to win Mme. Hulot. He "protected" Heloise Brisetout.
Finally he was smitten with Mme. Marneffe, whom he had for mistress and afterwards married
when she became a widow in 1843. In May of this same year, Crevel and his wife died of a horrible
disease which had been communicated to Valerie by a negro belonging to Montes the Brazilian.
In 1838 Crevel lived on rue des Saussaies; at the same time he owned a little house on rue
du Dauphin, where he had prepared a secret chamber for Mme. Marneffe; this last house he leased
to Maxime de Trailles. Besides these Crevel owned: a house on rue Barbet de Jouy; the Presles
property bought of Mme. de Serizy at a cost of three million francs. He caused himself to be
made a member of the General Council of Seine-et-Oise. By his first marriage he had an only
daughter, Celestine, who married Victorin Hulot. [Cesar Birotteau. Cousin Betty.] In 1844-1845
Crevel owned a share in the management of the theatre directed by Gaudissart. [Cousin Pons.]

CREVEL (Celestine), only child of the first marriage of the preceding. (See Hulot, Mme. Victorin.)

CREVEL (Madame Celestin), born Valerie Fortin in 1815; natural daughter of the Comte de Montcornet,
marshal of France; married, first Marneffe, an employe in the War Office, with whom she broke
faith by agreement with the clerk; and second, Celestin Crevel. She bore Marneffe a child,
a stunted, scrawny urchin named Stanislas. An intimate friend of Lisbeth Fischer who utilized
Valerie's irresistible attractions for the satisfying of her hatred towards her rich relatives.
At this time Mme. Marneffe belonged jointly to Marneffe, to the Brazilian Montes, to Steinbock
the Pole, to Celestin Crevel and to Baron Hulot. Each of these she held responsible for a child
born in 1841, and which died on coming into the world. By prearrangement, she was surprised
with Hulot by the police-commissioners, during this period, in Crevel's cottage on rue du Dauphin.
After having lived with Marneffe on rue du Doyenne in the house occuped by Lisbeth Fischer
--"Cousin Betty"--she was installed by Baron Hulot on rue Vaneau; then by Crevel in a mansion
on rue Barbet-de-Jouy. She died in 1843, two days prior to Celestin. She perished while trying
to "cajole God"--to use her own expression. She bequeathed, as a restitution, 300,000 francs
to Hector Hulot. Valerie Marneffe did not lack spirit. Claude Vignon, the great critic, especially
appreciated this woman's intellectual depravity. [Cousin Betty.]

CROCHARD, Opera dancer in the second half of the eighteenth century. Director of theatrical
evolutions. He commanded a band of assailants upon the Bastile, July 14, 1789; became an officer,
a colonel, dying of wounds received at Lutzen, May 2, 1813. [A Second Home.]

CROCHARD (Madame), widow of the preceding. Before the Revolution she had sung with her husband
in the chorus. In 1815 she lived wretchedly with her daughter Caroline, following the embroiderer's
trade, in a house on rue du Tourniquet-Saint-Jean, which belonged to Molineux. Wishing to find
a protector for her daughter, Caroline, Mme. Crochard favored the attentions of the Comte de
Granville. He rewarded her with a life-annuity of three thousand francs. She died, in 1822,
in a comfortable lodging on rue Saint-Louis at Marais. She constantly wore on her breast the
cross of chevalier of the Legion of Honor conferred on her husband by the Emperor. The widow
Crochard, watched by an eager circle, received, at her last moments, a visit from Abbe Fontanon,
confessor of the Comtesse de Granville, and was greatly troubled by the prelate's proceedings.
[A Second Home.]

CROCHARD (Caroline), daughter of the proceding; born in 1797. For several years during the
Restoration she was the mistress of Comte de Granville; at that time she was known as Mlle.
de Bellefeuille, from the name of a small piece of property at Gatinais given to the young
woman by an uncle of the comte who had taken a liking to her. Her lover installed her in an
elegant apartment on rue Taitbout, where Esther Gobseck afterwards lived. Caroline Crochard
abandoned M. de Granville and a good position for a needy young fellow named Solvet, who ran
through with all her property. Sick and poverty-stricken in 1833, she lived in a wretched two-story
house on rue Gaillon. She gave the Comte de Granville a son, Charles, and a daughter, Eugenie.
[A Second Home.]

CROCHARD (Charles), illegitimate child of Comte de Granville and Caroline Crochard. In 1833
he was apprehended for a considerable theft, when he appealed to his father through the agency
of Eugene de Granville, his half-brother. The comte gave the latter money enough to clear up
the miserable business, if such were possible. [A Second Home.] The theft in question was committed
at the home of Mlle. Beaumesnil. He carried off her diamonds. [The Middle Classes.]

CROISIER (Du). (See Bousquier, Du.)

CROIZEAU, former coachmaker to Bonaparte's Imperial court; had an income of about forty thousand
francs; lived on rue Buffault; a widower without children. He was a constant visitor at Antonia
Chocardelle's reading-room on rue Coquenard, time of Louis Philippe, and he offered to marry
the "charming woman." [A Man of Business.]

CROTTAT (Monsieur and Madame), retired farmers; parents of the notary Crottat, assassinated
by some thieves, among them being the notorious Dannepont, alias La Pouraille. The trial of
this crime was called in May, 1830. [Scenes from a Courtesan's Life.] They were well-to-do
folk and, according to Cesar Birotteau who knew them, old man Crottat was as "close as a snail."
[Cesar Birotteau.]

CROTTAT (Alexandre), head-clerk of Maitre Roguin, and his successor in 1819, after the flight
of the notary. He married the daughter of Lourdois, the painting-contractor. Cesar Birotteau
thought for a time of making him his son-in-law. He called him, familiarly, "Xandrot." Alexandre
Crottat was a guest at the famous ball given by the perfumer in December, 1818. He was in friendly
relations with Derville, the attorney, who commissioned him with a sort of half-pay for Colonel
Chabert. He was also Comtesse Ferraud's notary at this time. [Cesar Birotteau. Colonel Chabert.]
In 1822 he was notary to Comte de Serizy. [A Start in Life.] He was also notary to Charles
de Vandenesse; and one evening, at the home of the marquis, he made some awkward allusions
which undoubtedly recalled unpleasant memories to his client and Mme. d'Aiglemont. Upon his
return home he narrated the particulars to his wife, who chided him sharply. [A Woman of Thirty.]
Alexandre Crottat and Leopold Hannequin signed the will dictated by Sylvain Pons on his death-bed.
[Cousin Pons.]

CRUCHOT (Abbe), priest of Saumur; dignitary of the Chapter of Saint-Martin of Tours; brother
of Cruchot, the notary; uncle of President Cruchot de Bonfons; the Talleyrand of his family;
after much angling he induced Eugenie Grandet to wed the president in 1827. [Eugenie Grandet.]

CRUCHOT, notary at Saumur during the Restoration; brother of Abbe Cruchot; uncle of President
Cruchot de Bonfons. He as well as the prelate was much concerned with making the match between
his nephew and Eugenie Grandet. The young girl's father entrusted M. Cruchot with his usurious
dealings and probably with all his money matters. [Eugenie Grandet.]

CURIEUX (Catherine). (See Farrabesche, Madame.)

CYDALISE, magnificent woman of Valognes, Normandy, who launched out in Paris in 1840 to make
capital out of her beauty. Born in 1824, she was then only sixteen. She served as an instrument
for Montes the Brazilian who, in order to avenge himself on Mme. Marneffe--now Mme. Crevel--inoculated
the young girl with a terrible disease through one of his negroes. He in turn obtained it from
Cydalise and transmitted it to the faithless Valerie who died as also did her husband. Cydalise
probably accompanied Montes to Brazil, the only place where this horrible ailment is curable.
[Cousin Betty.]

                                  D

DALLOT, mason in the suburbs of l'Isle-Adam in the early days of the Restoration, who was to
marry a peasant woman of small wit named Genevieve. After having courted her for the sake of
her little property, he deserted her for a woman of more means and also of a sharper intelligence.
This separation was so cruel a blow to Genevieve that she became idiotic. [Farewell.]

DANNEPONT, alias La Pouraille, one of the assassins of M. and Mme. Crottat. Imprisoned for
his crime in 1830 at the Conciergerie, and under sentence of capital punishment; an escaped
convict who had been sought on account of other crimes by the police for five years past. Born
about 1785 and sent to the galleys at the age of nineteen. There he had known Jacques Collin--Vautrin.
Riganson, Selerier and he formed a sort of triumvirate. A short, skinny, dried-up fellow with
a face like a marten. [Scenes from a Courtesan's Life.]

DAUPHIN, pastry-cook of Arcis-sur-Aube; well-known Republican. In 1830, in an electoral caucus,
he questioned Sallenauve, a candidate for deputy, about Danton. [The Member for Arcis.]

DAURIAT, editor and bookman of Paris, on Palais-Royale, Galleries de Bois during the Restoration.
He purchased for three thousand francs a collection of sonnets "Marguerites" from Lucien de
Rubempre, who had scored a book of Nathan's. But he did not publish the sonnets until a long
time afterwards, and with a success that the author declared to be posthumous. Dauriat's shop
was the rendezvous of writers and politicians of note at this time. [A Distinguished Provincial
at Paris. Scenes from a Courtesan's Life.] Dauriat, who was Canalis' publisher, was asked in
1829 by Modeste Mignon for personal information concerning the poet, to which he made a rather
ironical reply. In speaking of celebrated authors Dauriat was wont to say, "I have made Canalis.
I have made Nathan." [Modeste Mignon.]

DAVID (Madame), woman living in the outskirts of Brives, who died of fright on account of the
Chauffeurs, time of the Directory. [The Country Parson.]

DELBECQ, secretary and steward of Comte Ferraud during the Restoration. Retired attorney. A
capable, ambitious man in the service of the countess, whom he aided to rid herself of Colonel
Chabert when that officer claimed his former wife. [Colonel Chabert.]

DENISART, name assumed by Cerizet.

DERVILLE, attorney at Paris, rue Vivienne, from 1819 to 1840. Born in 1794, the seventh child
of an insignificant bourgeois of Noyon. In 1816 he was only second clerk and dwelt on rue des
Gres, having for a neighbor the well-known usurer Gobseck, who later advanced him one hundred
and fifty thousand francs at 15 per cent., with which he purchased the practice of his patron,
a man of pleasure now somewhat short of funds. Through Gobseck he met his future wife, Jenny
Malvaut; through the same man he learned the Restaud secrets. In the winter of 1829-1830 he
told of their troubles to the Vicomtesse de Grandlieu. Derville had re-established the fortune
of the feminine representative of the Grandlieu's younger branch, at the time of the Bourbon's
re-entry, and therefore was on a friendly footing at her home. [Gobseck.] He had been a clerk
at Bordin's. [A Start in Life. The Gondreville Mystery.] He was attorney for Colonel Chabert
who sought his conjugal rights with Comtesse Ferraud. He became keenly interested in the old
officer, aiding him and being greatly grieved when, some years later, he found him plunged
into idiocy in the Bicetre hospital. [Colonel Chabert.] Derville was also attorney for Comte
de Serizy, Mme. de Nucingen and the Ducs de Grandlieu and de Chaulieu, whose entire confidence
he possessed. In 1830, under the name of Saint-Denis, he and Corentin inquired of the Sechards
at Angouleme concerning the real resources of Lucien de Rubempre. [Father Goriot. Scenes from
a Courtesan's Life.]

DERVILLE (Madame), born Jenny Malvaut; wife of Derville the attorney; young Parisian girl,
though born in the country. In 1826 she lived alone, but maintaining a virtuous life, supported
by her work. She was on the fifth floor of a gloomy house on rue Montmartre, where Gobseck
had called to collect a note signed by her. He pointed her out to Derville, who married her
without a dowry. Later she inherited from an uncle, a farmer who had become wealthy, seventy
thousand francs with which she aided her husband to cancel his debt with Gobseck. [Gobseck.]
Being anxious for an invitation to the ball given by Birotteau, she paid a rather unexpected
visit to the perfumer's wife. She made much of the latter and of Mlle. Birotteau, and was invited
with her husband to the festivities. It appears that some years before her marriage she had
worked as dressmaker for the Birotteaus. [Cesar Birotteau.]

DESCOINGS (Monsieur and Madame), father-in-law and mother-in-law of Dr. Rouget of Issoudun.
Dealers in wool, acting as selling agents for owners, and buying agents for fleece merchants
of Berry. They also bought state lands. Rich and miserly. Died during the Republic within two
years of each other and before 1799. [A Bachelor's Establishment.]

DESCOINGS, son of the preceding; younger brother of Mme. Rouget, the doctor's wife; grocer
at Paris, on rue Saint-Honore, not far from Robespierre's quarters. Descoings had married for
love the widow of Bixiou, his predecessor. She was twelve years his senior but well preserved
and "plump as a thrush after harvest." Accused of foreclosing, he was sent to the scaffold,
in company with Andre Chenier, on the seventh Thermidor of year 2, July 25, 1794. The death
of the grocer caused a greater sensation than did that of the poet. Cesar Birotteau moved the
plant of the perfumery "Queen of Roses" into Descoings' shop around 1800. The successor of
the executed man managed his business badly; the inventor of the the "Eau Carminative" went
bankrupt. [A Bachelor's Establishment.]

DESCOINGS (Madame), born in 1744; widow of two husbands, Bixiou and Descoings, the latter succeeding
the former in the grocer shop on rue Saint-Honore, Paris. Grandmother of Jean-Jacques Bixiou,
the cartoonist. After the death of M. Bridau, chief of division in the Department of the Interior,
Mme. Descoings, now a widow, came in 1819 to live with her niece, the widow Bridau, nee Agathe
Rouget, bringing to the common fund an income of six thousand francs. An excellent woman, known
in her day as "the pretty grocer." She ran the household, but had likewise a decided mania
for lottery, and always for the same numbers; she "nursed a trey." She ended by ruining her
niece who had blindly entrusted her interests to her, but Mme. Descoings repaid for her foolish
doings by an absolute devotion,--all the while continuing to place her money on the evasive
combinations. One day her hoardings were stolen from her mattress by Philippe Bridau. On this
account she was unable to renew her lottery tickets. Then it was that the famous trey turned
up. Madame Descoings died of grief, December 31, 1821. Had it not been for the theft she would
have become a millionaire. [A Bachelor's Establishment.]

DESFONDRILLES, substitute judge at Provins during the Restoration; made president of the court
of that town, time of Louis Philippe. An old fellow more archaeologist than judge, who found
delight in the petty squabbles under his eyes. He forsook Tiphaine's party for the Liberals
headed by lawyer Vinet. [Pierrette.]

DESLANDES, surgeon of Azay-le-Rideau in 1817. Called in to bleed Mme. de Mortsauf, whose life
was saved by this operation. [The Lily of the Valley.]

DESMARETS (Jules), Parisian stock-broker under the Restoration. Hardworking and upright, being
reared in sternness and poverty. When only a clerk he fell in love with a charming young girl
met at his patron's home, and he married her despite the irregularity connected with her birth.
With the money he obtained by his wife's mother he was able to purchase the position of the
stock-broker for whom he had clerked; and for several years he was very happy in a mutual love
and a liberal competence--an income of two hundred and fifty thousand francs. In 1820 he and
his wife lived in a large mansion on rue Menars. In the early years of his wedded life he killed
in a duel --though unknown to his wife--a man who had vilified Mme. Desmarets. The flawless
happiness which abode with this well-mated couple was cut short by the death of the wife, mortally
wounded by a doubt, held for a moment only by her husband, concerning her faithfulness. Desmarets,
bereaved, sold his place to Martin Falleix's brother and left Paris in despair. [The Thirteen.]
M. and Mme. Desmarets were invited to the famous ball given by Cesar Birotteau in 1818. After
the bankruptcy of the perfumer, the broker kindly gave him useful tips about placing funds
laboriously scraped together towards the complete reimbursing of the creditors. [Cesar Birotteau.]

DESMARETS (Madame Jules), wife of the preceding; natural daughter of Bourignard alias Ferragus,
and of a married woman who passed for her godmother. She had no civil status, but when she
married Jules Desmarets her name, Clemence, and her age were publicly announced. Despite herself,
Mme. Desmarets was loved by a young officer of the Royal Guard, Auguste de Maulincour. Mme.
Desmaret's secret visits to her father, a man of mystery, unknown to her husband, caused the
downfall of their absolute happiness. Desmarets thought himself deceived, and she died on account
of his suspicions, in 1820 or 1821. The remains of Clemence were placed at first in Pere Lachaise,
but afterwards were disinterred, incinerated and sent to Jules Desmarets by Bourignard, assisted
by twelve friends who thus thought to dull the edge of the keenest of conjugal sorrows. [The
Thirteen.] M. and Mme. Desmarets were often alluded to as M. and Mme. Jules. At the ball given
by Cesar Birotteau, Mme. Desmarets shone as the most beautiful woman, according to the perfumer's
wife herself. [Cesar Birotteau.]

DESMARETS, Parisian notary during the Restoration; elder brother of the broker, Jules Desmarets.
The notary was set up in business by his younger brother and grew rich rapidly. He received
his brother's will. He accompanied him to Mme. Desmarets' funeral. [The Thirteen.]

DESPLEIN, famous surgeon of Paris, born about the middle of the eighteenth century. Sprung
of a poor provincial family, he spent a youth full of suffering, being enabled to pass his
examinations only through assistance rendered him by his neighbor in poverty, Bourgeat the
water-carrier. For two years he lived with him on the sixth floor of a wretched house on rue
des Quatre-Vents, where later was established the "Cenacle" with Daniel d'Arthez as host--on
which account the house came to be spoken of as the "bowl for great men." Desplein, evicted
by his landlord whom he could not pay, lodged next with his friend the Auvergnat in the Court
de Rohan, Passage du Commerce. Afterwards, when an "intern" at Hotel-Dieu, he remembered the
good deeds of Bourgeat, nursed him as a devoted son, and, in the time of the Empire, established
in honor of this simple man who professed religious sentiments a quarterly mass at Saint-Sulpice,
at which he piously assisted, though himself an outspoken atheist. [The Atheist's Mass.] In
1806 Desplein had predicted speedy death for an old fellow then fifty-six years old, but who
was still alive in 1846. [Cousin Pons.] The surgeon was present at the death caused by despair
of M. Chardon, an old military doctor. [Lost Illusions.] Desplein attended the last hours of
Mme. Jules Desmarets, who died in 1820 or 1821; also of the chief of division, Flamet de la
Billardiere, who died in 1824. [The Thirteen. The Government Clerks.] In March, 1828, at Provins,
he performed an operation of trepanning on Pierrette Lorrain. [Pierrette.] In the same year
he undertook a bold operation upon Mme. Philippe Bridau whose abuse of strong drink had induced
a "magnificent malady" that he believed had disappeared. This operation was reported in the
"Gazette des Hopitaux;" but the patient died. [A Bachelor's Establishment.] In 1829 Desplein
was summoned on behalf of Vanda de Mergi, daughter of Baron de Bourlac. [The Seamy Side of
History.] In the latter part of the same year he operated successfully upon Mme. Mignon for
blindness. In February, 1830, on account of the foregoing, he was a witness at Modeste Mignon's
wedding with Ernest de la Briere. [Modeste Mignon.] In the beginning of the same yaer, 1830,
he was called by Corentin to visit Baron de Nucingen, love-sick for Esther Gobseck; and Mme.
de Serizy ill on account of the suicide of Lucien de Rubempre. [Scenes from a Courtesan's Life.]
He and his assistant, Bianchon, waited on Mme. de Bauvan, who was on the verge of death at
the close of 1830 and beginning of 1831. [Honorine.] Desplein had an only daughter whose marriage
in 1829 was arranged with the Prince of Loudon.

DESROCHES, clerk of the Minister of the Interior under the Empire; friend of Bridau Senior,
who had procured him the position. He was also on friendly terms with the chief's widow, at
whose home he met, nearly every evening, his colleagues Du Bruel and Claparon. A dry, crusty
man, who would never become sub-chief, despite his ability. He earned only one thousand eight
hundred francs by running a department for stamped paper. Retired after the second return of
Louis XVIII., he talked of entering as chief of bureau into an insurance company with a graduated
salary. In 1821, despite his scarcely tender disposition, Desroches undertook with much discretion
and confidence to extricate Philippe Bridau out of a predicament--the latter having made a
"loan" on the cash-box of the newspaper for which he was working; he brought about his resignation
without any scandal. Desroches was a man of good "judgment." He remained to the last a friend
of the widow Bridau after the death of MM. du Bruel and Claparon. He was a persistent fisherman.
[A Bachelor's Establishment.]

DESROCHES (Madame), wife of the preceding. A widow, in 1826, she sought the hand of Mlle. Matifat
for her son, Desroches the attorney. [The Firm of Nucingen.]

DESROCHES, son of the two foregoing; born about 1795, reared strictly by a very harsh father.
He went into Derville's office as fourth clerk in 1818, and on the following year passed to
the second clerkship. He saw Colonel Chabert at Derville's. In 1821 or 1822 he purchased a
lawyer's office with bare title on rue de Bethizy. He was shrewd and quick and therefore was
not long in finding a clientele composed of litterateurs, artists, actresses, famous lorettes
and elegant Bohemians. He was counsellor for Agathe and Joseph Bridau, and also gave excellent
advice to Philippe Bridau who was setting out for Issoudun about 1822. [A Bachelor's Establishment.
Colonel Chabert. A Start in Life.] Desroches was advocate for Charles de Vandenesse, pleading
against his brother Felix; for the Marquise d'Espard, seeking interdiction against her husband;
and for the Secretary-General Chardin des Lupeaulx, with whom he counseled astutely. [A Woman
of Thirty. The Commission in Lunacy. The Government Clerks.] Lucien de Rubempre consulted Desroches
about the seizure of the furniture of Coralie, his mistress, in 1822. [A Distinguished Provincial
at Paris.] Vautrin appreciated the attorney; he said that the latter would be able to "recover"
the Rubempre property, to improve it and make it capable of yielding Lucien an income of thirty
thousand francs, which would probably have allowed him to wed Clotilde de Grandlieu. [Scenes
from a Courtesan's Life.] In 1826 Desroches made a short-lived attempt to marry Malvina d'Aldrigger.
[The Firm of Nucingen.] About 1840 he related, at Mlle. Turquet's--Malaga's--home, then maintained
by Cardot the notary, and in the presence of Bixiou, Lousteau and Nathan, who were invited
by the tabellion, the tricks employed by Cerizet to obtain the face value of a note out of
Maxime de Trailles. [A Man of Business.] Indeed, Desroches was Cerizet's lawyer when the latter
had a quarrel with Theodose de la Peyrade in 1840. He also looked after the interests of the
contractor, Sauvaignou, at the same time. [The Middle Classes.] Desroches' office was probably
located for a time on rue de Buci. [A Bachelor's Establishment.]

DESROYS, clerk with the Minister of Finance in Baudoyer's bureau, under the Restoration. The
son of a Conventionalist who had not favored the King's death. A Republican; friend of Michel
Chrestien. He did not associate with any of his colleagues, but kept his manner of life so
concealed that none knew where he lived. In December, 1824, he was discharged because of his
opinions concerning the denunciation of Dutocq. [The Government Clerks.]

DESROZIERS, musician; prize-winner at Rome; died in that city through typhoid fever in 1836.
Friend of the sculptor Dorlange, to whom he recounted the story of Zambinella, the death of
Sarrasine and the marriage of the Count of Lanty. Desroziers gave music lessons to Marianina,
daughter of the count. The musician employed his friend, who was momentarily in need of money,
to undertake a copy of a statue of Adonis, which reproduced Zambinella's features. This copy
he sold to M. de Lanty. [The Member for Arcis.]

DESROZIERS, printer at Moulins, department of the Allier. After 1830 he published a small volume
containing the works of "Jan Diaz, son of a Spanish prisoner, and born in 1807 at Bourges."
This volume had an introductory sketch on Jan Diaz by M. de Clagny. [The Muse of the Department.]

DEY (Comtesse de), born about 1755. Widow of a lieutenant-general retired to Carentan, department
of the Manche, where she died suddenly in November, 1793, through a shock to her maternal sensibilities.
[The Conscript.]

DEY (Auguste, Comte de), only son of Mme. de Dey. Made lieutenant of the dragoons when only
eighteen, and followed the princes in emigration as a point of honor. He was idolized by his
mother, who had remained in France in order to preserve his fortune for him. He participated
in the Granville expedition. Imprisoned as a result of this affair, he wrote Mme. de Dey that
he would arrive at her home, disguised and a fugitive, within three days' time. But he was
shot in the Morbihan at the exact moment when his mother expired from the shock of having received
instead of her son the conscript Julien Jussieu. [The Conscript.]

DIARD (Pierre-Francois), born in the suburbs of Nice; the son of a merchant-provost; quartermaster
of the Sixth regiment of the line, in 1808, then chief of battalion in the Imperial Guard;
retired with this rank on account of a rather severe wound received in Germany; afterwards
an administrator and business man; excessive gambler. Husband of Juana Mancini who had been
the mistress of Captain Montefiore, Diard's most intimate friend. In 1823, at Bordeaux, Diard
killed and robbed Montefiore, whom he met by accident. Upon his return home he confessed his
crime to his wife who vainly besought him to commit suicide; and she herself finally blew out
his brains with a pistol shot. [The Maranas.]

DIARD (Maria-Juana-Pepita), daughter of La Marana, a Venetian courtesan, and a young Italian
nobleman, Mancini, who acknowledged her. Wife of Pierre-Francois Diard whom she accepted on
her mother's request, after having given herself to Montefiore who did not wish to marry her.
Juana had been reared very strictly in the Spanish home of Perez de Lagounia, at Tarragone,
and she bore her father's name. She was the descendant of a long line of courtesans, a feminine
branch that had never made legal marriages. The blood of her ancestors was in her veins; she
showed this involuntarily by the way in which she yielded to Montefiore. Although she did not
love her husband, yet she remained entirely faithful to him, and she killed him for honor's
sake. She had two children. [The Maranas.]

DIARD (Juan), first child of Mme. Diard. Born seven months after his mother's marriage, and
perhaps the son of Montefiore. He was the image of Juana, who secretly petted him extravagantly,
although she pretended to like her younger son the better. By a "species of admirable flattery"
Diard had made Juan his choice. [The Maranas.]

DIARD (Francisque), second son of M. and Mme. Diard, born in Paris. A counterpart of his father,
and the favorite--only outwardly--of his mother. [The Maranas.]

DIAZ (Jan), assumed name of Mme. Dinah de la Baudraye. He was a Cremiere-Dionis, but was always
known by the latter name. A shrewd, double-faced individual, who was secretly a partner with
Massin-Levrault the money-lender. He concerned himself with the inheritance left by Dr. Minoret,
giving advice to the three legatees of the old physician. After the Revolution of 1830, he
was elected mayor of Nemours, instead of M. Levrault, and about 1837 he became deputy. He was
then received at court balls, in company with his wife, and Mme. Dionis was "enthroned" in
the village because of her "ways of the throne." The couple had at least one daughter. [Ursule
Mirouet.] Dionis breakfasted familiarly with Rastignac, Minister of Public Works, from 1839
to 1845. [The Member for Arcis.]

DOGUEREAU, publisher on rue de Coq, Paris, in 1821, having been established since the first
of the century; retired professor of rhetoric. Lucien de Rubempre offered him his romance,
"The Archer of Charles IX.," but the publisher would not give him more than four hundred francs
for it, so the trade was not concluded. [A Distinguished Provincial at Paris.]

DOISY, porter of the Lepitre Institution, quarter du Marais, Paris, about 1814, at the time
when Felix de Vandenesse came there to complete his course of study. This young man contracted
a debt of one hundred francs on Doisy's account, which resulted in a very severe reprimand
from his mother. [The Lily of the Valley.]

DOMINIS (Abbe de), priest of Tours during the Restoration; preceptor of Jacques de Mortsauf.
[The Lily of the Valley.]

DOMMANGET, an accoucheur-physician, famous in Paris at the time of Louis Philippe. In 1840
he was called in to visit Mme. Calyste du Guenic, whom he had accouched, and who had taken
a dangerous relapse on learning of her husband's infidelity. She was nursing her son at this
time. On being taken into her confidence, Dommanget treated and cured her ailment by purely
moral methods. [Beatrix.]

DONI (Massimilla). (See Varese, Princesse de.)

DORLANGE (Charles), first name of Sallenauve, which name see.

DORSONVAL (Madame), bourgeoise of Saumur, acquainted with M. and Mme. de Grassins at the time
of the Restoration. [Eugenie Grandet.]

DOUBLON (Victor-Ange-Hermenegilde), bailiff at Angouleme during the Restoration. He acted against
David Sechard on behalf of the Cointet brothers. [Lost Illusions.]

DUBERGHE, wine-merchant of Bordeaux from whom Nucingen purchased in 1815, before the battle
of Waterloo, 150,000 bottles of wine, averaging thirty sous to the bottle. The financier sold
them for six francs each to the allied armies, from 1817 to 1819. [The Firm of Nucingen.]

DUBOURDIEU, born about 1805; a symbolic painter of the Fouierist school; decorated. In 1845
he was met at the corner of rue Nueve-Vivienne by his friend Leon de Lora, when he expressed
his ideas on art and philosophy to Gazonal and Bixiou, who were with the famous landscape-painter.
[The Unconscious Humorists.]

DUBUT of Caen, merchant connected with MM. de Boisfranc, de Boisfrelon and de Boislaurier who
were also Dubuts, and whose grandfather was a dealer in linens. Dubut of Caen was involved
in the trial of the Chauffeurs of Mortagne, in 1809, and sentenced to death for contumacy.
During the Restoration, on account of his devotion to the Royal cause, he had hoped to obtain
the succession to the title of M. de Boisfranc. Louis XVIII. made him grand provost, in 1815,
and later public prosecutor under the coveted name; finally he died as first president of the
court. [The Seamy Side of History.]

DUCANGE (Victor), novelist and playwright of France: born in 1783 at La Haye; died in 1833;
one of the collaborators on "Thirty Years," or "A Gambler's Life," and the author of "Leonide."
Victor Ducange was present at Braulard's, the head-claquer's, in 1821, at a dinner where were
also Adele Dupois, Frederic Dupetit-Mere and Mlle. Millot, Braulard's mistress. [A Distinguished
Provincial at Paris.]

DUDLEY (Lord), statesman; one of the most distinguished of the older English peers living in
Paris after 1816; husband of Lady Arabella Dudley; natural father of Henri de Marsay, to whom
he paid small attention, and who became the lover of Arabella. He was "profoundly immoral."
He reckoned among his illegitimate progeny, Euphemia Porraberil, and among the women he maintained
a certain Hortense who lived on rue Tronchet. Before removing to France, Lord Dudley lived
in his native land with two sons born in wedlock, but who were astonishingly like Marsay. [The
Lily of the Valley. The Thirteen. A Man of Business.] Lord Dudley was present at Mlle. des
Touches, shortly after 1830, when Marsay, then prime minister, told of his first love affair,
these two statesmen exchanged philosophical reflections. [Another Study of Woman.] In 1834
he chanced to be present at a grand ball given by his wife, when he gambled in a salon with
bankers, ambassadors and retired ministers. [A Daughter of Eve.]

DUDLEY (Lady Arabella), wife of the preceding; member of an illustrious English family that
was free of any mesalliance from the time of the Conquest; exceedingly wealthy; one of those
almost regal ladies; the idol of the highest French society during the Restoration. She did
not live with her husband to whom she had left two sons who resembled Marsay, whose mistress
she had been. In some way she succeeded in taking Felix de Vandenesse away from Mme. de Mortsauf,
thus causing that virtuous woman keen anguish. She was born, so she said, in Lancashire, where
women die of love. [The Lily of the Valley.] In the early years of the reign of Charles X.,
at least during the summers, she lived at the village of Chatenay, near Sceaux. [The Ball at
Sceaux.] Raphael de Valentin desired her and would have sought her but for the fear of exhausting
the "magic skin." [The Magic Skin.] In 1832 she was among the guests at a soiree given by Mme.
d'Espard, where the Duchesse de Maufrigneuse was maligned in the presence of Daniel d'Arthez,
in love with her. [The Secrets of a Princess.] She was quite jealous of Mme. Felix de Vandenesse,
the wife of her old-time lover, and in 1834-35 she manoeuvred, with Mme. de Listomere and Mme.
d'Espard to make the young woman fall into the arms of the poet Nathan, whom she wished to
be even homelier than he was. She said to Mme. Felix de Vandenesse: "Marriage, my child, is
our purgatory; love our paradise." [A Daughter of Eve.] Lady Dudley, vengeance-bent, caused
Lady Brandon to die of grief. [Letters of Two Brides.]

DUFAU, justice of the peace in a commune in the outskirts of Grenoble, where Dr. Benassis was
mayor under the Restoration. Then a tall, bony man with gray locks and clothed in black. He
aided materially in the work of regeneration accomplished by the physician in the village.
[The Country Doctor.]

DUFAURE (Jules-Armand-Stanislaus), attorney and French politician; born December 4, 1798, at
Saujon, Charente-Inferieure; died an Academician at Rueil in the summer of 1881; friend and
co-disciple of Louis Lambert and of Barchou de Penhoen at the college of Vendome in 1811. [Louis
Lambert.]

DUMAY (Anne-Francois-Bernard), born at Vannes in 1777; son of a rather mean lawyer, the president
of a revolutionary tribunal under the Republic, and a victim of the guillotine subsequent to
the ninth Thermidor. His mother died of grief. In 1799 Anne Dumay enlisted in the army of Italy.
On the overthrow of the Empire, he retired with the rank of Lieutenant, and came in touch with
Charles Mignon, with whom he had become acquainted early in his military career. He was thoroughly
devoted to his friend, who had once saved his life at Waterloo. He gave great assistance to
the commercial enterprises of the Mignon house, and faithfully looked after the interests of
Mme. and Mlle. Mignon during the protracted absence of the head of the family, who was suddenly
ruined. Mignon came back from America a rich man, and he made Dumay share largely in his fortune.
[Modeste Mignon.]

DUMAY (Madame), nee Grummer, wife of the foregoing; a pretty little American woman who married
Dumay while he was on a journey to America on behalf of his patron and friend Charles Mignon,
during the Restoration. Having had the misfortune to lose several children at birth, and deprived
of the hope of others, she became entirely devoted to the two Mignon girls. She as well as
her husband was thoroughly attached to that family. [Modeste Mignon.]

DUPETIT-MERE (Frederic), born at Paris in 1785 and died in 1827; dramatic author who enjoyed
his brief hour of fame. Under the name of Frederic he constructed either singly, or in collaboration
with Ducange, Rougemont, Brazier and others, a large number of melodramas, vaudevilles, and
fantasies. In 1821 he was present with Ducange, Adele Dupuis and Mlle. Millot at a dinner at
Braulard's, the head-claquer. [A Distinguished Provincial at Paris.]

DUPLANTY (Abbe), vicar of Saint-Francois church at Paris; at Schmucke's request he administered
extreme unction to the dying Pons, in April, 1845, who understood and appreciated his goodness.
[Cousin Pons.]

DUPLAY (Madame), wife of a carpenter of rue Honore at whose house Robespierre lived; a customer
of the grocer Descoings, whom she denounced as a forestaller. This accusation led to the grocer's
imprisonment and execution. [A Bachelor's Establishment.]

DUPOTET, a sort of banker established at Croisic under the Restoration. He had on deposit the
modest patrimony of Pierre Cambremer. [A Seaside Tragedy.]

DUPUIS, notary of the Saint-Jacques quarter, time of Louis Philippe; affectedly pious; beadle
of the parish. He kept the savings of a lot of servants. Theodose de la Peyrade, who drummed
up trade for him in this special line, induced Mme. Lambert, the housekeeper of M. Picot, to
place two thousand five hundred francs, saved at her employer's expense, with this virtuous
man, who immediately went into bankruptcy. [The Middle Classes.]

DUPUIS (Adele), Parisian actress who for a long time and brilliantly held the leading roles
and creations at the Gaite theatre. In 1821 she dined with the chief claquer, Braulard, in
company with Ducange, Frederic Dupetit-Mere and Mlle. Millot. [A Distinguished Provincial at
Paris.]

DURAND, real name of the Chessels. This name of Chessel had been borrowed by Mme. Durand, who
was born a Chessel.

DURET (Abbe), cure of Sancerre during the Restoration; aged member of the old clerical school.
Excellent company; a frequenter of the home of Mme. de la Baudraye, where he satisfied his
penchant for gaming. With much finesse Duret showed this young woman the character of M. de
la Baudraye in its true light. He counseled her to seek in literature relief from the bitterness
of her wedded life. [The Muse of the Department.]

DURIAU, a celebrated accoucheur of Paris. Assisted by Bianchon he delivered Mme. de la Baudraye
of a child at the home of Lousteau, its father, in 1837. [The Muse of the Department.]

DURIEU, cook and house servant at the chateau de Cinq-Cygne, under the Consulate. An old and
trusted servant, thoroughly devoted to his mistress, Laurence de Cinq-Cygne, whose fortunes
he had always followed. He was a married man, his wife being general housekeeper in the establishment.
[The Gondreville Mystery.]

DUROC (Gerard-Christophe-Michel), Duc de Frioul; grand marshal of the palace of Napoleon; born
at Pont-a-Mousson, in 1772; killed on the battlefield in 1813. On October 13, 1806, the eve
of the battle of Jena, he conducted the Marquis de Chargeboeuf and Laurence de Cinq-Cygne to
the Emperor's presence. [The Gondreville Mystery.] In April, 1813, he was at a dress-parade
at the Carrousel, Paris, when Napoleon addressed him, regarding Mlle. de Chatillonest, noted
by him in the throng, in language which made the grand marshal smile. [A Woman of Thirty.]

DURUT (Jean-Francois), a criminal whom Prudence Servien helped convict to hard labor by her
testimony in the Court of Assizes. Durut took oath to Prudence, before the same tribunal, that,
once free, he would kill her. However, he was executed at the bagne of Toulon four years later
(1829). Jacques Collin, alias Vautrin, to obtain Prudence's affections, boasted of having freed
her from Durut, whose threat held her in perpetual terror. [Scenes from a Courtesan's Life.]

DUTHEIL (Abbe), one of the two vicars-general of the Bishop of Limoges during the Restoration.
One of the lights of the Gallican clergy. Made a bishop in August, 1831, and promoted to archbishop
in 1840. He presided at the public confession of Mme. Graslin, whose friend and advisor he
was, and whose funeral procession he followed in 1844. [The Country Parson.]

DUTOCQ, born in 1786. In 1814 he entered the Department of Finance, succeeding Poiret senior
who was displaced in the bureau directed by Rabourdin. He was order clerk. Idle and incapable,
he hated his chief and caused his overthrow. Very despicable and very prying, he tried to make
his place secure by acting as spy in the bureau. Chardin des Lupeaulx, the secretary-general,
was advised by him of the slightest developments. After 1816, Dutocq outwardly affected very
pronounced religious tendencies because he believed them useful to his advancement. He eagerly
collected old engravings, possessing complete "his Charlet," which he desired to give or lend
to the minister's wife. At this time he dwelt on rue Saint-Louis-Saint-Honore (in 1854 this
street disappeared) near Palais Royal, on the fifth floor of an enclosed house, and boarded
in a pension of rue de Beaune. [The Government Clerks.] In 1840, retired, he clerked for a
justice of the peace of the Pantheon municipality, and lived in Thuillier's house, rue Saint-Dominique
d'Enfer. He was a bachelor and had all the vices which, however, he religiously concealed.
He kept in with his superiors by fawning. He was concerned with the villainous intrigues of
Cerizet, his copy-clerk, and with Theodose de la Peyrade, the tricky lawyer. [The Middle Classes.]

DUVAL, wealthy forge-master of Alencon, whose daughter the grand-niece of M. du Croisier (du
Bousquier), was married in 1830 to Victurnien d'Esgrignon. Her dowry was three million francs.
[Jealousies of a Country Town.]

DUVAL, famous professor of chemistry at Paris in 1843. A friend of Dr. Bianchon, at whose instance
he analyzed the blood of M. and Mme. Crevel, who were infected by a peculiar cutaneous disease
of which they died. [Cousin Betty.]

DUVIGNON. (See Lanty, de.)

DUVIVIER, jeweler at Vendome during the Empire. Mme. de Merret declared to her husband that
she had purchased of this merchant an ebony crucifix encrusted with silver; but in truth she
had obtained it of her lover, Bagos de Feredia. She swore falsely on this very crucifix. [La
Grande Breteche.]

                                  E

EMILE, a "lion of the most triumphant kind," of the acquaintance of Mme. Komorn--Countess Godollo.
One evening in 1840 or 1841 this woman, in order to avoid Theodose de la Peyrade, on the Boulevard
des Italiens, took the dandy's arm and requested him to take her to Mabille. Head of a very
ancient family of the Francs, the Karawls who came from the North to conquer the Gauls, and
who were entrusted with the defence of a French highway. The Esgrignons, quasi-princes under
the house of Valois and all-powerful under Henry IV., were very little known at the court of
Louis XVIII.; and the marquis, ruined by the Revolution, lived in rather reduced circumstances
at Alencon in an old gable-roofed house formerly belonging to him, which had been sold as common
property, and which the faithful notary Chesnel had repurchased, together with certain portions
of his other estates. The Marquis d'Esgrignon, though not having to emigrate, was still obliged
to conceal himself. He participated in the Vendean struggle against the Republic, and was one
of the members of the Committee Royal of Alencon. In 1800, at the age of fifty, in the hope
of perpetuating his race, he married Mlle. de Nouastre, who died in child-birth, leaving the
marquis an only son. M. d'Esgrignon always overlooked the escapades of this child, whose reputation
was preserved by Chesnel; and he passed away shortly after the downfall of Charles X., saying:
"The Gauls triumph." [The Chouans. Jealousies of a Country Town.]

ESGRIGNON (Madame d') nee Nouastre; of blood the purest and noblest; married at twenty-two,
in 1800, to Marquis Carol d'Esgrignon, a man of fifty. She soon died at the birth of an only
son. She was "the prettiest of human beings; in her person were reawakened the charms --now
fanciful--of the feminine figures of the sixteenth century." [Jealousies of a Country Town.]

ESGRIGNON (Victurnien, Comte, then Marquis d'), only son of Marquis Carol d'Esgrignon; born
about 1800 at Alencon. Handsome and intelligent, reared with extreme indulgence and kindness
by his aunt, Mlle. Armande d'Esgrignon, he gave himself over without restraint to all the whims
usual to the ingenuous egoism of his age. From eighteen to twenty-one he squandered eighty
thousand francs without the knowledge of his father and his aunt; the devoted Chesnel footed
all the bills. The youthful d'Esgrignon was systematically urged to wrong-doing by an ally
of his own age, Fabien du Ronceret, a perfidious fellow of the town whom M. du Croisier employed.
About 1823 Victurnien d'Esgrignon was sent to Paris. Firmiani and the Comtesse de Serizy; at
the opera and at the embassies--being welcomed on account of his good name and seeming fortune.
It was not long until he became the lover of the Duchesse de Maufrigneuse, ruined himself for
her and ended by forging a note against M. du Croisier for one hundred thousand francs. His
aunt took him back quickly to Alencon, and by a great effort he was rescued from legal proceedings.
Following this he fought a duel with M. du Croisier, who wounded him dangerously. Nevertheless,
shortly after the death of his father, Victurnien d'Esgrignon married Mlle. Duval, niece of
the retired contractor. He did not give himself over to his wife, but instead betook himself
to his former gay life of a bachelor. [Jealousies of a Country Town. Letters of Two Brides.]
According to Marguerite Turquet "the little D'Esgrignon was well soaked" by Antonia. [A Man
of Business.] In 1832 Victurnien d'Esgrignon declared before a numerous company at Mme. d'Espard's
that the Princesse de Cadignan--Mme. de Maufrigneuse--was a dangerous woman. "To her I owe
the disgrace of my marriage," he added. Daniel d'Arthez, who was then in love with this woman,
was present at the conversation. [The Secrets of a Princess.] In 1838 Victurnien d'Esgrignon
was present with some artists, lorettes and men about town, at the opening of the house on
rue de la Ville-Eveque given to Josepha Mirah, by the Duc d'Herouville. The young marquis himself
had been Josepha's lover; Baron Hulot and he had been rivals for her on another occasion. [Cousin
Betty.]

ESGRIGNON (Marie-Armande-Claire d'), born about 1775; sister of Marquis Carol d'Esgrignon and
aunt of Victurnien d'Esgrignon to whom she had been as a mother, with an absolute tenderness.
In his old age her father had married for a second time, and to the young daughter of a tax
collector, ennobled by Louis XIV. She was born of this union which was looked upon as a horrible
mesalliance, and although the marquis loved her dearly he regarded her as an alien. He made
her weep for joy, one day, by saying solemnly: "You are an Esgrignon, my sister." Emile Blondet,
reared at Alencon, had known and loved her in his childhood, and often later he praised her
beauty and good qualities. On account of her devotion to her nephew she refused M. de la Roche-Guyon
and the Chevalier de Valois, also M. du Bousquier. She gave the fullest proof of her genuinely
maternal affection for Victurnien, when the latter committed the crime at Paris, which would
have placed him on the prisoner's bench of the Court of Assizes, but for the clever work of
Chesnel. She outlived her brother, given over "to her religion and her over-thrown beliefs."
About the middle of Louis Philippe's reign Blondet, who had come to Alencon to obtain his marriage
license, was again moved on the contemplation of that noble face. The device of the d'Espards
was: "Des partem leonis." The Negrepelisses were militant Catholics, ruined at the time of
the Church wars, and afterwards considerably enriched by the despoiling of a family of Protestant
merchants, the Jeanrenauds whose head had been hanged after the revocation of the Edict of
Nantes. This property, so badly acquired, became wondrously profitable to the Negrepelisses-d'Espards.
Thanks to his fortune, the grandfather of the marquis was enabled to wed a Navarreins-Lansac,
an extremely wealthy heiress; her father was of the younger branch of the Grandlieus. In 1812
the Marquis d'Espard married Mlle. de Blamont-Chauvry, then sixteen years of age. He had two
sons by her, but discord soon arose between the couple. Her silly extravagances forced the
marquis to borrow. Here he devoted himself to the education of his boys and to the composition
of a great work; "The Picturesque History of China," the profits of which, combined with the
savings resultant from an austere manner of living, allowed him to pay in twelve years' time
to the legatees of the suppliant Jeanrenauds eleven hundred thousand francs, representing the
value--time of Louis XIV.--of the property confiscated from their ancestors. This book was
written, so to speak, in collaboration with Abbe Crozier, and its financial results aided greatly
in comforting the declining years of a ruined friend, M. de Nouvion. In 1828 Mme. d'Espard
tried to have a guardian appointed for her husband by ridiculing the noble conduct of the marquis.
But the defendant won his rights at court. [The Commission in Lunacy.] Lucien de Rubempre,
who entertained Attorney-General Granville with an account of this suit, probably was instrumental
in causing the judgment to favor M. d'Espard. Thus he drew upon himself the hatred of the marquise.
[Scenes from a Courtesan's Life.]

ESPARD (Camille, Vicomte d'), second son of Marquis d'Espard; born in 1815; pursued his studies
at the college of Henri IV., in company with his elder brother, the Comte Clement de Negrepelisse.
He studied rhetoric in 1828. [The Commission in Lunacy.]

ESPARD (Chevalier d'), brother of Marquis d'Espard, whom he wished to see interdicted, in order
that he might be made curator. His face was thin as a knife-blade, and he was frigid and severe.
Judge Popinot said he reminded him somewhat of Cain. He was one of the deepest personages to
be found in the Marquise d'Espard's drawing-room, and was the political half of that woman.
[The Commission in Lunacy. Deserted by her husband in 1816, she was at the age of twenty-two
mistress of herself and of her fortune, an income of twenty-six thousand francs. At first she
lived in seclusion; then in 1820 she appeared at court, gave some receptions at her own home,
and did not long delay about becoming a society woman. Cold, vain and coquettish she knew neither
love nor hatred; her indifference for all that did not directly concern her was profound. She
never showed emotion. She had certain scientific formulas for preserving her beauty. She never
wrote but spoke instead, believing that two words from a woman were sufficient to kill three
men. More than once she made epigrams to peers or deputies which the courts of Europe treasured.
In 1828 she still passed with the men for youthful. Mme. d'Espard lived at number 104 rue du
Faubourg Saint-Honore. [The Commission in Lunacy.] She was a magnificent Celimene. She displayed
such prudence and severity on her separation from her husband that society was at a loss to
account for this disagreement. She was surrounded by her relatives, the Navarreins, the Blamont-Chauvrys
and the Lenoncourts; ladies of the highest social position claimed her acquaintance. She was
a cousin of Mme. de Bargeton, who was rehabilitated by her on her arrival from Angouleme in
1821, and whom she introduced into Paris, showing her all the secrets of elegant life and taking
her away from Lucien de Rubempre. Later, when the "Distinguished Provincial" had won his way
into high society, she, at the instance of Mme. de Montcornet, enlisted him on the Royalist
side. [A Distinguished Provincial at Paris.] In 1824 she was at an Opera ball to which she
had come through an anonymous note, and, leaning on the arm of Sixte du Chatelet, she met Lucien
de Rubempre whose beauty struck her and whom she seemed, indeed, not to remember. The poet
had his revenge for her former disdain, by means of some cutting phrases, and Jacques Collin--Vautrin--masked,
caused her uneasiness by persuading her that Lucien was the author of the note and that he
loved her. [Scenes from a Courtesan's Life.] The Chaulieus were intimate with her at the time
when their daughter Louise was courted by Baron de Macumer. [Letters of Two Brides.] Despite
the silent opposition of the Faubourg Saint-Germain, after the Revolution of 1830, the Marquise
d'Espard did not close her salon, since she did not wish to renounce her Parisian prestige.
In this she was seconded by one or two women in her circle and by Mlle. des Touches. [Another
Study of Woman.] She was at home Wednesdays. In 1833 she attended a soiree at the home of the
Princesse de Cadignan, where Marsay disclosed the mystery surrounding the abduction of Senator
Malin in 1806. [The Gondreville Mystery.] Notwithstanding an evil report circulated against
her by Mme. d'Espard, the princesse told Daniel d'Arthez that the marquise was her best friend;
she was related to her. [The Secrets of a Princess.] Actuated by jealousy for Mme. Felix de
Vandenesse, Mme. d'Espard fostered the growing intimacy between the young woman and Nathan
the poet; she wished to see an apparent rival compromised. In 1835 the marquise defended vaudeville
entertainments against Lady Dudley, who said she could not endure them. [A Daughter of Eve.]
In 1840, on leaving the Italiens, Mme. d'Espard humiliated Mme. de Rochefide by snubbing her;
all the women followed her example, shunning the mistress of Calyste du Guenic. [Beatrix.]
In short the Marquise d'Espard was one of the most snobbish people of her day. Her disposition
was sour and malevolent, despite its elegant veneer.

ESTIVAL (Abbe d'), provincial priest and Lenten exhorter at the church of Saint-Jacques du
Haut-Pas, Paris. According to Theodose de la Peyrade, who pointed him out to Mlle. Colleville,
he was devoted to predication in the interest of the poor. By spirituality and unction he redeemed
a scarcely agreeable exterior. [The Middle Classes.]

ESTORADE (Baron, afterwards Comte de l'), a little Provincial gentleman, father of Louis de
l'Estorade. A very religious and very miserly man who hoarded for his son. He lost his wife
about 1814, who died of grief through lack of hope of ever seeing her son again --having heard
nothing of him after the battle of Leipsic. M. de l'Estorade was an excellent grandparent.
He died at the end of 1826. [Letters of Two Brides.]

ESTORADE (Louis, Chevalier, then Vicomte and Comte de l') son of the preceding; peer of France;
president of the Chamber in the Court of Accounts; grand officer of the Legion of Honor; born
in 1787. After having been excluded from the conscription under the Empire, for a long time,
he was enlisted in 1813, serving on the Guard of Honor. At Leipsic he was captured by the Russians
and did not reappear in France until the Restoration. He suffered severely in Siberia; at thirty-seven
he appeared to be fifty. Pale, lean, taciturn and somewhat deaf, he bore much resemblance to
the Knight of the Rueful Countenance. He succeeded, however, in making himself agreeable to
Renee de Maucombe whom he married, dowerless, in 1824. Urged on by his wife who became ambitious
after becoming a mother, he left Crampade, his country estate, and although a mediocre he rose
to the highest offices. [Letters of Two Brides. The Member for Arcis.]

ESTORADE (Madame de l'), born Renee de Maucombe in 1807, of a very old Provencal family, located
in the Gemenos Valley, twenty kilometres from Marseilles. She was educated at the Carmelite
convent of Blois, where she was intimate with Louise de Chaulieu. The two friends always remained
constant. For several years they corresponded, writing about life, love and marriage, when
Renee the wise gave to the passionate Louise advice and prudent counsel not always followed.
In 1836 Mme. de l'Estorade hastened to the country to be present at the death-bed of her friend,
now become Mme. Marie Gaston. Renee de Maucombe was married at the age of seventeen, upon leaving
the convent. She gave her husband three children, though she never loved him, devoting herself
to the duties of motherhood. [Letters of Two Brides.] In 1838-39 the serenity of this sage
person was disturbed by meeting Dorlange-Sallenauve. She believed he sought her, and she must
needs fight an insidious liking for him. Mme. de Camps counseled and enlightened Mme. de l'Estorade,
with considerable foresight, in this delicate crisis. Some time later, when a widow, Mme. de
l'Estorade was on the point of giving her hand to Sallenauve, who became her son-in-law. [The
Member for Arcis.] In 1841 Mme. de l'Estorade remarked of M. and Mme. Savinien de Portenduere:
"Theirs is the most perfect happiness that I have ever seen!" [Ursule Mirouet.]

ESTORADE (Armand de l'), elder son of M. and Mme. de l'Estorade; godson of Louise de Chaulieu,
who was Baronne de Macumer and afterwards Mme. Marie Gaston. Born in December, 1825; educated
at the college of Henri IV. At first stupid and meditative, he awakened afterwards, was crowned
at Sorbonnne, having obtained first prize for a translation of Latin, and in 1845 made a brilliant
showing in his thesis for the degree of doctor of laws. [Letters of Two Brides. The Member
for Arcis.]

ESTORADE (Rene de l'), second child of M. and Mme. de l'Estorade. Bold and adventurous as a
child. He had a will of iron, and his mother was convinced that he would be "the cunningest
sailor afloat." [Letters of Two Brides.]

ESTORADE (Jeanne-Athenais de l'), daughter and third child of M. and Mme. de l'Estorade. Called
"Nais" for short. Married in 1847 to Charles de Sallenauve. (See Sallenauve, Mme. Charles de.)

ESTOURNY (Charles d'), a young dandy of Paris who went to Havre during the Restoration to view
the sea, obtained entrance into the Mignon household and eloped with Bettina-Caroline, the
elder daughter. He afterwards deserted her and she died of shame. In 1827 Charles d'Estourny
was sentenced by the police court for habitual fraud in gambling. [Modeste Mignon.] A Georges-Marie
Destourny, who styled himself Georges d'Estourny, was the son of a bailiff, at Boulogne, near
Paris, and was undoubtedly identical with Charles d'Estourny. For a time he was the protector
of Esther van Gobseck, known as La Torpille. He was born about 1801, and, after having obtained
a splendid education, had been left without resources by his father, who was forced to sell
out under adverse circumstances. Georges d'Estourny speculated on the Bourse with money obtained
from "kept" women who trusted in him. After his sentence he left Paris without squaring his
accounts. He had aided Cerizet, who afterwards became his partner. He was a handsome fellow,
open-hearted and generous as the chief of robbers. On account of the knaveries which brough
him into court, Bixiou nicknamed him "Tricks at Cards." [Scenes from a Courtesan's Life. A
Man of Business.]

ETIENNE & CO., traders at Paris under the Empire. In touch with Guillaume, clothier of rue
Saint-Denis, who foresaw their failure and awaited "with anxiety as at a game of cards." [At
the Sign of the Cat and Racket.]

EUGENE, Corsican colonel of the Sixth regiment of the line, which was made up almost entirely
of Italians--the first to enter Tarragone in 1808. Colonel Eugene, a second Murat, was extraordinarily
brave. He knew how to make use of the species of bandits who composed his regiment. [The Maranas.]

EUGENIE, assumed name of Prudence Servien, which name see.

EUPHRASIE, Parisian courtesan, time of the Restoration and Louis Philippe. A pretty, winsome
blonde with blue eyes and a melodious voice; she had an air of the utmost frankness, yet was
profoundly depraved and expert in refined vice. In 1821 she transmitted a terrible and fatal
disease to Crottat, the notary. At that time she lived on rue Feydeau. Euphrasie pretended
that in her early youth she had passed entire days and nights trying to support a lover who
had forsaken her for a heritage. With the brunette, Aquilina, Euphrasie took part in a famous
orgy, at the home of Frederic Taillefer, on rue Joubert, where were also Emile Blondet, Rastignac,
Bixiou and Raphael de Valentin. Later she is seen at the Theatre-Italien, in company with the
aged antiquarian, who had sold Raphael the celebrated "magic skin"; she was running through
with the old merchant's treasures. [Melmoth Reconciled. The Magic Skin.]

EUROPE, assumed name of Prudence Servien, which name see.

EVANGELISTA (Madame), born Casa-Real in 1781, of a great Spanish family collaterally descended
from the Duke of Alva and related to the Claes of Douai; a creole who came to Bordeaux in 1800
with her husband, a large Spanish financier. In 1813 she was left a widow, with her daughter.
She paid no thought to the value of money, never knowing how to resist a whim. So one morning
in 1821 she was forced to call on the broker and expert, Elie Magus, to get an estimate on
the value of her magnificent diamonds. She became wearied of life in the country, and therefore
favored the marriage of her daughter with Paul de Manerville, in order that she might follow
the young couple to Paris where she dreamed of appearing in grand style and of a further exercise
of her power. For that matter she displayed much astuteness in arranging the details of this
marriage, at which time Maitre Solonet, her notary, was much taken with her, desiring to wed
her, and defending her warmly against Maitre Mathias the lawyer for the Manervilles. Beneath
the exterior of an excellent woman she knew, like Catherine de Medicis, how to hate and wait.
[A Marriage Settlement.]

EVANGELISTA (Natalie), daughter of Mme. Evangelista; married to Paul de Manerville. (See that
name.)

EVELINA, young girl of noble blood, wealthy and cultured, of a strict Jansenist family; sought
in marriage by Benassis, in the beginning of the Restoration. Evelina reciprocated Benassis'
love, but her parents opposed the match. Evelina died soon after gaining her freedom and the
doctor did not survive her long. [The Country Doctor.]

                                  F

FAILLE & BOUCHOT, Parisian perfumers who failed in 1818. They gave an order for ten thousand
phials of peculiar shape to hold a new cosmetic, which phials Anselme Popinot purchased for
four sous each on six months' time, with the intention of filling them with the "Cephalic Oil"
invented by Cesar Birotteau. [Cesar Birotteau.]

FALCON (Jean), alias Beaupied, or more often Beau-Pied, sergeant in the Seventy-second demi-brigade
in 1799, under the command of Colonel Hulot. Jean Falcon was the clown of his company. Formerly
he had served in the artillery. [The Chouans.] In 1808, still under the command of Hulot, he
was one in the army of Spain and in the troops led by Murat. In that year he was witness of
the death of Bega, the French surgeon, assassinated by a Spaniard. [The Muse of the Department.]
In 1841 he was body-servant of his old-time colonel, now become a marshal. For thirty years
he had been in his employ. [Cousin Betty.]

FALCON (Marie-Cornelie), famous singer of the Opera; born at Paris on January 28, 1812. On
July 20, 1832, she made a brilliant debut in the role of Alice, in "Robert le Diable." She
also created with equal success the parts of Rachel in "La Juive" and Valentine in "The Huguenots."
In 1836 the composer Conti declared to Calyste du Guenic that he was madly enamored of this
singer, "the youngest and prettiest of her time." He even wished to marry her--so he said--but
this remark was probably a thrust at Calyste, who was smitten with the Marquise de Rochefide,
whose lover the musician was at this time. [Beatrix.] Cornelie Falcon disappears from the scene
in 1840, after a famous evening when, before a sympathetic audience, she mourned on account
of the ruin of her voice. She married a financier, M. Malencon, and is now a grandmother. Mme.
Falcon has given, in the provinces, her name to designate tragic "sopranos." "La Vierge de
l'Opera," interestingly delineated by M. Emmanuel Gonzales, reveals--according to him--certain
incidents in her career.

FALLEIX (Martin), Auvergnat coppersmith on rue du Faubourg Saint-Antoine, Paris; born about
1796; he had come from the country with his kettle under his arm. He was patronized by Bidault,
alias Gigonnet, who advanced him capital though at heavy interest. The usurer also introduced
him to Saillard, the cashier of the Minister of Finance, who with his savings enabled him to
open a foundry. Martin Falleix obtained a brevet for invention and a gold medal at the Exposition
of 1824. Mme. Baudoyer undertook his education, deciding he would do for a son-in-law. On his
side he worked for the interests of his future father-in-law. [The Government Clerks.] About
1826 he discussed on the Bourse, with Du Tillet, Werbrust and Claparon, the third liquidation
of Nucingen, which solidly established the fortune of that celebrated Alsatian banker. [The
Firm of Nucingen.]

FALLEIX (Jacques), brother of the preceding; stock-broker, one of the shrewdest and richest,
the successor of Jules Desmarets and stock-broker for the firm of Nucingen. On rue Saint-George
he fitted up a most elegant little house for his mistress, Mme. du Val-Noble. He failed in
1829, the victim of one of the Nucingen liquidations. [The Government Clerks. The Thirteen.
Scenes from a Courtesan's Life.]

FANCHETTE, servant of Doctor Rouget at Issoudun, at the close of the eighteenth century; a
stout Berrichonne who, before the advent of La Cognette, was thought to be the best cook in
town. [A Bachelor's Establishment.]

FANJAT, physician and something of an alienist; uncle of Comtesse Stephanie de Vandieres. She
was supposed to have perished in the disaster of the Russian campaign. He found her near Strasbourg,
in 1816, a lunatic, and took her to the ancient convent of Bon-Hommes, in the outskirts of
l'Isle Adam, Seine-et-Oise, where he tended her with a tender care. In 1819 he had the sorrow
of seeing her expire as a result of a tragic scene when, recovering her reason all at once,
she recognized her former lover Philippe de Sucy, whom she had not seen since 1812. [Farewell.]

FANNY, aged servant in the employ of Lady Brandon, at La Grenadiere under the Restoration.
She closed the eyes of her mistress, whom she adored, then conducted the two children from
that house to one of a cousin of hers, an old retired dressmaker of Tours, rue de la Guerche
(now rue Marceau), where she intended to live with them; but the elder of the sons of Lady
Brandon enlisted in the navy and placed his brother in college, under the guidance of Fanny.
[La Grenadiere.]

FANNY, young girl of romantic temperament, fair and blonde, the only daughter of a banker of
Paris. One evening at her father's house she asked the Bavarian Hermann for a "dreadful German
story," and thus innocently led to the death of Frederic Taillefer who had in his youth committed
a secret murder, now related in his hearing. [The Red Inn.]

FARIO, old Spanish prisoner of war at Issoudun during the Empire. After peace was declared
he remained there making a small business venture in grains. He was of Grenada and had been
a peasant. He was the butt of many scurvy tricks on the part of the "Knights of Idlesse," and
he avenged himself by stabbing their leader, Maxence Gilet. This attempted assassination was
momentarily charged to Joseph Bridau. Fario finally obtained full satisfaction for his vindictive
spirit by witnessing a duel where Gilet fell mortally wounded by the hand of Philippe Bridau.
Gilet had previously become disconcerted by the presence of the grain-dealer on the field of
battle. [A Bachelor's Establishment.]

