 There is no reason, however, why in this important
branch of learning, which, as we may say, comes home to the bosom of every man, one Alma Mater
should surpass another; since at both the intellects of men are almost exclusively occupied
for years in tying their abominable white chokers, so as to look as like tavern waiters as
possible.

Another thing: if a gentleman sticks a pin in his choker, you may be sure it has not a head
as big as a potatoe, and is not a sort of Siamese Twin pin, connected by a bit of chain, or
an imitation precious stone, or Mosaic gold concern. If he wears studs, they are plain, and
have cost not less at the least than five guineas the set. Neither does he ever make a High
Sheriff of himself, with chains dangling over the front of his waistcoat, or little pistols,
seals, or trinketry appearing below his waistband, as much as to say, "if you only knew what
a watch I have inside!" Nor does he sport trumpery rings upon raw-boned fingers; if he wears
rings, you may depend upon it that they are of value, that they are sparingly distributed,
and that his hand is not a paw.

A man of fashion never wears Woodstock gloves, or gloves with double stitches, or eighteen-penny
imitation French kids: his gloves, like himself and every thing about him, are the real thing.
Dressy young men of fashion sport primrose kids in the forenoon; and, although they take care
to avoid the appearance of snobbery by never wearing the same pair a second day, yet, after
all, primrose kids in the forenoon are not the thing, not in keeping, not quiet enough: we
therefore denounce primrose kids, and desire to see no more of them.

If you are unfortunate enough to be acquainted with a snob, you need not put yourself to the
unnecessary expense of purchasing an almanac for the ensuing year: your friend the snob will
answer that useful purpose completely to your satisfaction. For example, on Thursdays and Sundays
he shaves and puts on a clean shirt, which he exhibits as freely as possible in honour of the
event: Mondays and Fridays you will know by the vegetating bristles of his chin, and the disappearance
of the shirt cuffs and collar. These are replaced on Tuesdays and Saturdays by supplementary
collar and cuffs, which, being white and starched, form a pleasing contrast with that portion
of the original chemise, vainly attempted to be concealed behind the folds of a three-and-six-penny
stock. Wednesdays and Fridays you cannot mistake; your friend is then at the dirtiest, and
his beard at the longest, anticipating the half-weekly wash and shave: on quarter-day, when
he gets his salary, he goes to a sixpenny barber and has his hair cut.

A gentleman, on the contrary, in addition to his other noble inutilities, is useless as an
almanac. He is never half shaven nor half shorn: you never can tell when he has had his hair
cut, nor has he his clean-shirt days, and his days of foul linen. He is not merely outwardly
propre, but asperges his cuticle daily with "oriental scrupulosity:" he is always and ever,
in person, manner, dress, and deportment, the same, and has never been other than he now appears.

You will say, perhaps, this is all very fine; but give me the money the man of fashion has
got, and I will be as much a man of fashion as he: I will wear my clothes with the same ease,
and be as free, unembarrassed, degagé, as the veriest Bond Street lounger of them all. Friend,
thou mayest say so, or even think so, but I defy thee: snobbery, like murder, will out; and,
if you do not happen to be a gentleman born, we tell you plainly you will never, by dint of
expense in dress, succeed in "topping the part."

We have been for many years deeply engaged in a philosophical enquiry into the origin of the
peculiar attributes characteristic of the man of fashion. A work of such importance, however,
we cannot think of giving to the world, except in the appropriate envelope of a ponderous quarto:
just now, by way of whetting the appetite of expectation, we shall merely observe, that, after
much pondering, we have at last discovered the secret of his wearing his garments "with a difference,"
or, more properly, with an indifference, unattainable by others of the human species. You will
conjecture, haply, that it is because he and his father before him have been from childhood
accustomed to pay attention to dress, and that habit has given them that air which the occasional
dresser can never hope to attain: or that, having the best artistes, seconded by that beautiful
division of labour of which we have spoken heretofore, he can attain an evenness of costume,
an undeviating propriety of toggery--not at all: the whole secret consists in never paying,
nor intending to pay, his tailor!

Poor devils, who, under the Mosaic dispensation, contract for three suits a-year, the old ones
to be returned, and again made new; or those who, struck with more than money madness, go to
a tailor, cash in hand, for the purpose of making an investment, are always accustomed to consider
a coat as a representative of so much money, transferred only from the pocket to the back.
Accordingly, they are continually labouring under the depression of spirits arising from a
sense of the possible depreciation of such a valuable property. Visions of showers of rain,
and March dust, perpetually haunt their morbid imaginations. Greasy collars, chalky seams,
threadbare cuffs, (three warnings that the time must come when that tunic, for which five pounds
ten have been lost to them and their heirs for ever, will be worth no more than a couple of
shillings to an old-clothesman in Holywell Street,) fill them, as they walk along the Strand,
with apprehensions of anticipated expenditure. They walk circumspectly, lest a baker, sweep,
or hodman, stumbling against the coat, may deprive its wearer of what to him represents so
much ready money. These real and imaginary evils altogether prohibit the proprietor of a paid-up
coat wearing it with any degree of graceful indifference.

