These unconscious wishes, according to Freud, motivate our dreams, our queer and apparently
accidental actions, such as slips of the tongue and other "mistakes", the yet queerer and much
more serious "neurotic symptoms" that appear in some people, and even a vast deal of our serious
endeavor in life. All the great springs of action are sought in the unconscious. The biologist,
consciously, is driven by his desire to know the world of plants and animals, but what really
motivates him, on this view, is his childish sex curiosity, thwarted, driven back upon itself,
and finding a substitute outlet in biological study. And so, in one way or another, with every
one of us.

All this seems to depart pretty far from sober reality, and especially from proved fact. It
involves a very forced interpretation of child life, an interpretation that could never have
arisen from a direct study of children, but which has seemed useful in the psychoanalysis of
maladjusted adults. It is a far cry from the facts that Freud seeks to explain, to the conception
of the infantile unconscious with which he endeavors to explain them.

Freud's conception of life and its tendencies is much too narrow. There is not half enough
room in his scheme of things for life as it is willed and lived. There is not room in it even
for all the instincts, nor for the "native likes and dislikes"; and there is still less room
for the will to live, in {568} the sense of the zest for all forms of activity, each for its
own sake as a form of vital activity. Any scheme of motivation, which traces all behavior back
to a few formulated wishes, is much too abstract, as was illustrated just above in the case
of the helpful act.

Freud is apparently guilty of yet another error, in supposing that any specific wish, ungratified,
lives on as the same, identical, precise wish. A very simple instance will make clear the point
of this criticism. Suppose that the first time you definitely mastered the fact that "3 times
7 are 21", it was in a certain schoolroom, with a certain teacher and a certain group of schoolfellows.
You were perhaps animated at that moment by the desire to secure the approval of that teacher
and to shine before those schoolfellows. Does it follow, then, that every time you now make
use of that bit of the multiplication table, you are "unconsciously" gratifying that wish of
long ago? To believe that would be to neglect all that we have learned of "shortcircuiting"
and of the "substitute stimulus" generally. [Footnote: See p. 338.] That wish of long ago played
its part in linking the response to the stimulus, but the linkage became so close that that
precise wish was no longer required. The same response has been made a thousand times since,
with other wishes in the game, and when the response is made to-day, a new wish is in the game.
It is the same with the biologist. Suppose, for the sake of argument, what probably is true
in only a fraction of the cases, that the biologist's first interest in making any minute study
of animals arose from sex curiosity. As soon, however, as he engaged in any real study of animals,
substitute stimuli entered and got attached to his exploring responses; and to suppose that
that identical wish of long ago is still subconsciously active, whenever the biologist takes
his microscope in hand, is to throw out all {569} these substitute stimuli and their attachments
to many new responses, and to see in a very complex activity only one little element.

In making use of the conception of the unconscious to assist us in interpreting human conduct,
we are thus exposed to two errors. First, finding a motive which was not analyzed out by the
individual, and which was only vaguely and implicitly conscious, and formulating that motive
in an explicit way, we are then liable to the error of supposing that the motive must have
been explicitly present, not indeed in consciousness but in the unconscious; whereas the whole
truth is exhausted when we say that it was consciously but only implicitly present--active,
but not active all alone. Second, having traced out how a certain act was learned, we are apt
to suppose that its history is repeated whenever it is performed afresh--that the wishes and
ideas that were essential to its original performance must be unconsciously present whenever
it is once more performed--neglecting thus the fact that what is retained and renewed consists
of responses, rather than experiences. What is renewed when a learned act is performed is not
the history of the act, but the act itself. In a new situation, the act is part of a new performance,
and its motivation is to some degree new.

Though his theories are open to criticism, Freud has made important contributions to the study
of personality. The same can be said of other schools of psycho-pathology. Jung and Adler deserve
mention as representing varieties of psychoanalysis that differ more or less radically from
that of Freud. Outside of the psychoanalytic school altogether, Janet and Morton Prince have
added much to psychological knowledge from their studies of dissociated and maladjusted personalities.
In endeavoring to assist the maladjusted individual, all these schools have much in common,
since they all seek to bring to his attention elements in his personality {570} of which he
is not clearly aware. Clear consciousness of implicit or dissociated elements in one's personality
often proves to be a step towards a firmer organization of the personality and towards a better
adjustment to the conditions of life.

{571}

EXERCISES

1. Outline the chapter.

2. Mention some personal traits that appear when the individual
   is dealing with inanimate things, and some that only appear in
   dealing with other persons.

3. Construct a "rating scale" for the trait of independence, as
   follows. Think of some one who is extremely independent, and call
   him A; of some one who is at the opposite extreme and call him E;
   of some one standing halfway, and call him C; and fill in the
   positions B and D with other persons standing between A and C and
   between C and E, in this matter of independence. You now have a
   sort of measuring rod, with the five persons A, B, C, D and E
   marking degrees of the trait. To rate any other individual,
   consider where he belongs on this scale--whether even with A, with
   B, etc.

4. How does the embarrassing "self-consciousness" of one who is
   speaking in public differ from simple consciousness of self?

5. Consider what was conscious and what unconscious in the following
   case of "shell shock": A sharpshooter had a certain peekhole in the
   front of the trench through which he was accustomed to take aim at
   the enemy. The enemy evidently spotted him, for bullets began to
   strike close by as soon as ever he got up to shoot. He stood this
   for a time, and then suddenly lost the sight of his right eye,
   which he used in aiming.

6. Explain the difference between unconscious action of the
   dissociated type and of the implicit type.

REFERENCES

For attempts to utilize psychological methods in the study of personality, see F. L. Wells,
Mental Adjustments, 1917; also Chapter 11 in Watson's Psychology, 1919.

Much interesting psychological material, along with a good deal of philosophical discussion,
is contained in James's chapter on the "Consciousness of Self" in Vol. I of his Principles
of Psychology, 1890.

For a discussion of the unconscious, see the symposium on Subconscious Phenomena, 1910, participated
in by Münsterberg, Ribot, Janet, Jastrow, Hart and Prince.

On dissociation, see Morton Prince's Dissociation of a Personality.

