Besides, it may be further observed, that gross minds are only to be moved by forcible representations.
To rouse the thoughtless, objects must be presented, calculated to produce tumultuous emotions;
the unsubstantial, picturesque forms which a contemplative man gazes on, and often follows
with ardour till he is mocked by a glimpse of unattainable excellence, appear to them the light
vapours of a dreaming enthusiast, who gives up the substance for the shadow. It is not within
that they seek amusement; their eyes are seldom turned on themselves; consequently their emotions,
though sometimes fervid, are always transient, and the nicer perceptions which distinguish
the man of genuine taste, are not felt, or make such a slight impression as scarcely to excite
any pleasurable sensations. Is it surprising then that they are often overlooked, even by those
who are delighted by the same images concentrated by the poet?

But even this numerous class is exceeded, by witlings, who, anxious to appear to have wit and
taste, do not allow their understandings or feelings any liberty; for, instead of cultivating
their faculties and reflecting on their operations, they are busy collecting prejudices; and
are predetermined to admire what the suffrage of time announces as excellent, not to store
up a fund of amusement for themselves, but to enable them to talk.

These hints will assist the reader to trace some of the causes why the beauties of nature are
not forcibly felt, when civilization, or rather luxury, has made considerable advances--those
calm sensations are not sufficiently lively to serve as a relaxation to the voluptuary, or
even to the moderate pursuer of artificial pleasures. In the present state of society, the
understanding must bring back the feelings to nature, or the sensibility must have such native
strength, as rather to be whetted than destroyed by the strong exercises of passion.

That the most valuable things are liable to the greatest perversion, is however as trite as
true:--for the same sensibility, or quickness of senses, which makes a man relish the tranquil
scenes of nature, when sensation, rather than reason, imparts delight, frequently makes a libertine
of him, by leading him to prefer the sensual tumult of love a little refined by sentiment,
to the calm pleasures of affectionate friendship, in whose sober satisfactions, reason, mixing
her tranquillizing convictions, whispers, that content, not happiness, is the reward of virtue
in this world.

HINTS.

[Chiefly designed to have been incorporated in the Second Part of the Vindication of the Rights
of Woman.]

HINTS.

1.

INDOLENCE is the source of nervous complaints, and a whole host of cares. This devil might
say that his name was legion.

2.

It should be one of the employments of women of fortune, to visit hospitals, and superintend
the conduct of inferiors.

3.

It is generally supposed, that the imagination of women is particularly active, and leads them
astray. Why then do we seek by education only to exercise their imagination and feeling, till
the understanding, grown rigid by disuse, is unable to exercise itself--and the superfluous
nourishment the imagination and feeling have received, renders the former romantic, and the
latter weak?

4.

Few men have risen to any great eminence in learning, who have not received something like
a regular education. Why are women expected to surmount difficulties that men are not equal to?

5.

Nothing can be more absurd than the ridicule of the critic, that the heroine of his mock-tragedy
was in love with the very man whom she ought least to have loved; he could not have given a
better reason. How can passion gain strength any other way? In Otaheite, love cannot be known,
where the obstacles to irritate an indiscriminate appetite, and sublimate the simple sensations
of desire till they mount to passion, are never known. There a man or woman cannot love the
very person they ought not to have loved--nor does jealousy ever fan the flame.

6.

It has frequently been observed, that, when women have an object in view, they pursue it with
more steadiness than men, particularly love. This is not a compliment. Passion pursues with
more heat than reason, and with most ardour during the absence of reason.

7.

Men are more subject to the physical love than women. The confined education of women makes
them more subject to jealousy.

8.

Simplicity seems, in general, the consequence of ignorance, as I have observed in the characters
of women and sailors--the being confined to one track of impressions.

9.

I know of no other way of preserving the chastity of mankind, than that of rendering women
rather objects of love than desire. The difference is great. Yet, while women are encouraged
to ornament their persons at the expence of their minds, while indolence renders them helpless
and lascivious (for what other name can be given to the common intercourse between the sexes?)
they will be, generally speaking, only objects of desire; and, to such women, men cannot be
constant. Men, accustomed only to have their senses moved, merely seek for a selfish gratification
in the society of women, and their sexual instinct, being neither supported by the understanding
nor the heart, must be excited by variety.

10.

We ought to respect old opinions; though prejudices, blindly adopted, lead to error, and preclude
all exercise of the reason.

The emulation which often makes a boy mischievous, is a generous spur; and the old remark,
that unlucky, turbulent boys, make the wisest and best men, is true, spite of Mr. Knox's arguments.
It has been observed, that the most adventurous horses, when tamed or domesticated, are the
most mild and tractable.

11.

The children who start up suddenly at twelve or fourteen, and fall into decays, in consequence,
as it is termed, of outgrowing their strength, are in general, I believe, those children, who
have been bred up with mistaken tenderness, and not allowed to sport and take exercise in the
open air. This is analogous to plants: for it is found that they run up sickly, long stalks,
when confined.

12.

Children should be taught to feel deference, not to practise submission.

13.

It is always a proof of false refinement, when a fastidious taste overpowers sympathy.

14.

Lust appears to be the most natural companion of wild ambition; and love of human praise, of
that dominion erected by cunning.

15.

"Genius decays as judgment increases." Of course, those who have the least genius, have the
earliest appearance of wisdom.

16.

A knowledge of the fine arts, is seldom subservient to the promotion of either religion or
virtue. Elegance is often indecency; witness our prints.

17.

There does not appear to be any evil in the world, but what is necessary. The doctrine of rewards
and punishments, not considered as a means of reformation, appears to me an infamous libel
on divine goodness.

18.

Whether virtue is founded on reason or revelation, virtue is wisdom, and vice is folly. Why
are positive punishments?

19.

Few can walk alone. The staff of Christianity is the necessary support of human weakness. But
an acquaintance with the nature of man and virtue, with just sentiments on the attributes,
would be sufficient, without a voice from heaven, to lead some to virtue, but not the mob.

20.

I only expect the natural reward of virtue, whatever it may be. I rely not on a positive reward.

The justice of God can be vindicated by a belief in a future state--but a continuation of being
vindicates it as clearly, as the positive system of rewards and punishments--by evil educing
good for the individual, and not for an imaginary whole. The happiness of the whole must arise
from the happiness of the constituent parts, or this world is not a state of trial, but a school.

21.

The vices acquired by Augustus to retain his power, must have tainted his soul, and prevented
that increase of happiness a good man expects in the next stage of existence. This was a natural
punishment.

22.

The lover is ever most deeply enamoured, when it is with he knows not what--and the devotion
of a mystic has a rude Gothic grandeur in it, which the respectful adoration of a philosopher
will never reach. I may be thought fanciful; but it has continually occurred to me, that, though,
I allow, reason in this world is the mother of wisdom--yet some flights of the imagination
seem to reach what wisdom cannot teach--and, while they delude us here, afford a glorious hope,
if not a foretaste, of what we may expect hereafter. He that created us, did not mean to mark
us with ideal images of grandeur, the baseless fabric of a vision--No--that perfection we follow
with hopeless ardour when the whisperings of reason are heard, may be found, when not incompatible
with our state, in the round of eternity. Perfection indeed must, even then, be a comparative
idea--but the wisdom, the happiness of a superior state, has been supposed to be intuitive,
and the happiest effusions of human genius have seemed like inspiration--the deductions of
reason destroy sublimity.

23.

I am more and more convinced, that poetry is the first effervescence of the imagination, and
the forerunner of civilization.

24.

When the Arabs had no trace of literature or science, they composed beautiful verses on the
subjects of love and war. The flights of the imagination, and the laboured deductions of reason,
appear almost incompatible.

25.

Poetry certainly flourishes most in the first rude state of society. The passions speak most
eloquently, when they are not shackled by reason. The sublime expression, which has been so
often quoted, [Genesis, ch. 1, ver. 3.] is perhaps a barbarous flight; or rather the grand
conception of an uncultivated mind; for it is contrary to nature and experience, to suppose
that this account is founded on facts--It is doubtless a sublime allegory. But a cultivated
mind would not thus have described the creation--for, arguing from analogy, it appears that
creation must have been a comprehensive plan, and that the Supreme Being always uses second
causes, slowly and silently to fulfil his purpose. This is, in reality, a more sublime view
of that power which wisdom supports: but it is not the sublimity that would strike the impassioned
mind, in which the imagination took place of intellect. Tell a being, whose affections and
passions have been more exercised than his reason, that God said, Let there be light! and there
was light; and he would prostrate himself before the Being who could thus call things out of
nothing, as if they were: but a man in whom reason had taken place of passion, would not adore,
till wisdom was conspicuous as well as power, for his admiration must be founded on principle.

26.

Individuality is ever conspicuous in those enthusiastic flights of fancy, in which reason is
left behind, without being lost sight of.

27.

The mind has been too often brought to the test of enquiries which only reach to matter--put
into the crucible, though the magnetic and electric fluid escapes from the experimental philosopher.

28.

Mr. Kant has observed, that the understanding is sublime, the imagination beautiful--yet it
is evident, that poets, and men who undoubtedly possess the liveliest imagination, are most
touched by the sublime, while men who have cold, enquiring minds, have not this exquisite feeling
in any great degree, and indeed seem to lose it as they cultivate their reason.

29.

The Grecian buildings are graceful--they fill the mind with all those pleasing emotions, which
elegance and beauty never fail to excite in a cultivated mind--utility and grace strike us
in unison--the mind is satisfied--things appear just what they ought to be: a calm satisfaction
is felt, but the imagination has nothing to do--no obscurity darkens the gloom--like reasonable
content, we can say why we are pleased--and this kind of pleasure may be lasting, but it is
never great.

30.

When we say that a person is an original, it is only to say in other words that he thinks.
"The less a man has cultivated his rational faculties, the more powerful is the principle of
imitation, over his actions, and his habits of thinking. Most women, of course, are more influenced
by the behaviour, the fashions, and the opinions of those with whom they associate, than men."
(Smellie.)

When we read a book which supports our favourite opinions, how eagerly do we suck in the doctrines,
and suffer our minds placidly to reflect the images which illustrate the tenets we have embraced?
We indolently or quietly acquiesce in the conclusion, and our spirit animates and connects
the various subjects. But, on the contrary, when we peruse a skilful writer, who does not coincide
in opinion with us, how is the mind on the watch to detect fallacy? And this coolness often
prevents our being carried away by a stream of eloquence, which the prejudiced mind terms declamation--a
pomp of words.--We never allow ourselves to be warmed; and, after contending with the writer,
are more confirmed in our own opinion, as much perhaps from a spirit of contradiction as from
reason.--Such is the strength of man!

31.

It is the individual manner of seeing and feeling, pourtrayed by a strong imagination in bold
images that have struck the senses, which creates all the charms of poetry. A great reader
is always quoting the description of another's emotions; a strong imagination delights to paint
its own. A writer of genius makes us feel; an inferior author reason.

32.

Some principle prior to self-love must have existed: the feeling which produced the pleasure,
must have existed before the experience.

THE END.

1. Obvious punctuation errors repaired.

2. This text contains blank space and lines of "--" and "*" characters. These are replicated
from the printed pages, presumably they indicate censored text from the original source.

3. The listed errata at the beginning of Volume 1 and Volume 4 have been applied to the text.

4. The text as printed used incipits and 'long s' font. The incipits have not been replicated
in this version, but can be viewed on 'long s' HTML version of the text or the page images
linked from the HTML versions.

5. Corrections: Volume 1, Page 33, "accuteness" changed to "acuteness" Volume 1, Page 51, "unfortutunate"
changed to "unfortunate" Volume 1, Page 57, "resource" changed to "recourse" Volume 1, Page
90, "hunted" changed to "shunted" Volume 1, Page 103, "carreer" changed to "career" Volume
1, Page 161, "plased" changed to "pleased" Volume 2, Page 116, "and and" changed to "and" Volume
3, Page 35, "a r" changed to "air" Volume 3, Page 81, "he he" changed to "he" Volume 3, Page
120, "explananations" changed to "explanations"