After this beginning Dibutades went on to perfect his art. He made medallions and busts, and
decorated the beautiful Grecian structures with his work, and work in bas-relief became the
most beautiful ornamentation of the splendid temples and theatres of Greece. He also founded
a school for modelling at Sicyon, and became so famous an artist that several Greek cities
claim the honor of having been his birthplace.

The bas-relief made from Kora's outline was preserved in the Nymphæum at Corinth for almost
two hundred years, but was then destroyed by fire. She married her lover, and he became a famous
artist at Corinth.

We have said that accounts of individual artists exist from about 700 B.C.; but these accounts
are of so general a character and so wanting in detail that I shall pass on about two hundred
years, after saying a few words of the advance made in the arts of sculpture, and mentioning
a few of the examples which remain from that early time, which is called the Archaic period.
This expression not only means an ancient period of art, but carries also the idea of an obsolete
art--of something that is not only ancient, but something that is no longer practised in the
same manner or by the same people as existed in this ancient or archaic time. During this archaic
period a beginning was made in many branches of plastic art. There were statues in metal and
marble, bas-reliefs in various kinds of stone and marble, as well as some chryselephantine
statues. This kind of work is often said to have been invented by Phidias, but the truth seems
to be that he was not its inventor, but carried it to great perfection. These chryselephantine
statues were made of wood and then covered with ivory and gold; the ivory was used for the
flesh parts of the statue, and gold for the drapery and ornaments of the figure, and the finished
work was very brilliant in its effect.

The principal subjects represented in the sculpture of the archaic period were connected with
the religion of the Greeks, which is known to us as mythology. Most statues were of the gods,
but portrait statues were not unknown, and the custom of setting up statues of the victors
in the Greek games dates back to this very early time. This was a custom which afforded a large
field for sculptors to work in, and must have had a great influence to give life and progress
to their art.

Of the remains of this art very interesting things have been written, but I shall speak only
of a few such objects of which pictures can be given to aid you in understanding about them.
Among the earliest reliefs that have been preserved are those now in the Museum of the Louvre,
at Paris, which were found in the ruins of a Doric temple at Assos (Fig. 15).

The various designs upon these marbles seem to have no connection with each other, and are
executed in a rude manner. The most interesting one represents Heracles, or Hercules, struggling
with a Triton (Fig. 16).

The female figures represent Nereids, who are terrified by seeing Heracles in contest with
the sea-monster. There are many proofs that these reliefs belong to a very ancient day.

An interesting relief from the temple of Selinus represents Heracles striding off with a pole
across his shoulders, to which are hung two Cecrops who had robbed and tormented him (Fig. 17).

A very fine work is also from Selinus, and represents Actæon torn by his dogs. The mythological
story was that Zeus, or Jupiter, was angry with Actæon because he wished to marry Semele, and
the great god commanded Artemis, or Diana, to throw a stag's skin over Actæon, so that his
own dogs would tear him. In the relief Artemis stands at the left (Fig. 18).

