THE MIRROR OF LITERATURE, AMUSEMENT, AND INSTRUCTION

VOL. XIII, No. 363.] SATURDAY, MARCH 28, 1829. [PRICE 2d.

GUY'S CLIFF.

    "A home of pleasure, a place meet for the Muses."--LELAND.

Warwick--what olden glories and tales of other times are associated with this county. How many
of its sites are connected with high-minded men and great and glorious actions. To the antiquary,
the poet, and the philosopher, every foot is hallowed ground; and even the cold calculations
of the commercial speculator treat with regard a county whose manufactures add to the stock
of national wealth and importance. How many stories of love, war, and chivalry are told of
its halls, castles, and monasteries, their lords and ladies and maidens of high birth. Kenilworth
and STRATFORD--Leicester, SHAKSPEARE and Warwick--like long trails of light, all flit before
us in this retrospective dream of the days of "merry England."

Guy's Cliff is situated about one mile and a half north-east of Warwick. Here the river Avon
winds through fertile meadows; and on its western bank, a combination of rock and wood, singularly
picturesque, invited at an early period the reveries of superstitious seclusion and poetical
fancy. It is supposed that here was an oratory, and a cell for the hermit, in Saxon times;
and it is certain that a hermit dwelt in this lovely recess in the reigns of Edward III. and
Henry IV. This is the spot to which the renowned Guy, Earl of Warwick, is said to have retired
after his duel with the Danish Colbrond;[1] and here his neglected countess, the fair Felicia,
is reported to have interred his remains. It appears that Henry V. visited Guy's Cliff, and
was so charmed with its natural beauties, and, probably, so much interested by the wild legend
connected with the place, that he determined to found a chantry for two priests here. But war
and an early death prevented the performance of this, among many other pious and benevolent
intentions ascribed to the heroic Henry. Such a chantry was, however, founded in the first
year of Henry VI. by Richard Beauchamp, Earl of Warwick; but the chapel and some contiguous
buildings were not completed till after the earl's decease. In this delightful retreat lived
John Rous, the antiquary, as a chantry priest.

    [1] See MIRROR, vol xiii. p. 114.

About the middle of the eighteenth century, this estate passed to a private gentleman, who
built a handsome mansion here. But the chief attractions are the natural beauties of the grounds--as
the rock, on which the house and chapel are built. Here is shown a cave, devoutly believed
by neighbouring peasants to be that which Guy "hewed with his own hands," and in which he lived

    Like a Palmer poore.

The chapel founded by Richard Beauchamp was a plain, substantial edifice. The founder caused
to be carved from the solid rock on which this chapel abuts, a rude statue of the famous Earl
Guy, about eight feet in height. It would appear, from a print in Dugdale's Warwickshire, that
this figure was well preserved in the seventeenth century.

       *       *       *       *       *

ANCIENT CROSSES IN ENGLAND.

(For the Mirror.)

        "She doth stray about
  By holy crosses, where she kneels and prays
  For happy wedlock hours."

  SHAKSPEARE.

