"Well then," said Charles, "if you will not follow my advice, at least you have no occasion
to say it was I who persuaded you to take out the horses."--"I shall not even mention your
name: but come, let us waste no more time, in regretting an action that cannot be recalled,
we had better try by our future conduct, to make some reparation for the past."--So saying,
he took his cousin by the arm, and they were together leaving the room, when Mr. Elliot entered.
The young lads drew back in dismay; Mr. Elliot ran to embrace his son. "You see me here, my
dear boy, sooner than you expected; but fortunately the business that called me hence, was
concluded much earlier than I could have imagined." Some few minutes had elapsed, before George
could gain courage to answer his father, at length he said, "you are convinced, my dear sir,
that your company has always given me pleasure, but to day it causes me pain, for I have just
been guilty of a fault that will I fear deprive me of your confidence." George here related
to his father, all that had passed, except carefully concealing the part his cousin had acted;
when he had finished, Mr. Elliot thus addressed him, "I am charmed with your noble conduct,
my dear boy, and most willingly forgive the error you have committed, because I believe your
repentance to be sincere, and am convinced you have told me the exact truth. Listen, now, to
the consequences that would have ensued, had you concealed it: I was in the adjoining apartment,
and heard the whole conversation that passed between yourself and Charles; so, had you, as
he wickedly advised, had recourse to a falsehood, it would not have deceived me, but only have
proved that you were unworthy my care and affection: whereas, I now rejoice in the virtuous
resolution of a son thus rendered dearer to me than ever. Always speak the truth, and be assured
it is the easiest and surest way of extricating yourself from every difficulty.--As for you,
Sir," continued Mr. Elliot turning to Charles, "I shall not take the trouble of punishing the
meanness and depravity of your conduct, because I fear that any punishment I could inflict,
would have little effect on a liar: I shall immediately send you back to your parents, with
an account of this day's transactions, at the same time advising them to find some place far
distant from all who belong to you, and where, under a severe discipline, you may be made to
repent of your wickedness, and I hope in time recalled to that virtuous conduct from which
you have now so miserably erred."

Mr. Elliot then taking his son by the hand led him out of the parlour, and left Charles at
leisure to reflect on the sad consequences of a habit of lying.

         *         *         *         *         *

This story being finished, Mrs. Harley said, it is not necessary my dear Anne, that I should
comment on the subject of which you have been reading; the advantages arising from a strict
adherence to truth are too obvious not to be immediately perceived, and I trust, from the principles
I have always endeavoured to instil into your young mind, that you will ever prefer the fair
and open path she points out, to the intricate labyrinths of despicable falshood.

Anne. Indeed, mamma, if ever I should be tempted to tell an untruth, I will think of this story,
and then, I am sure I shall reject it, even though I were certain it would remain undiscovered.

Mrs. Harley. Do not imagine that would ever be the case, as it is impossible for children,
however artful, long to dissemble their actions or even thoughts from persons interested about
them.

I will now conclude my account of Europe.

FIFTH LESSON.

