Frontispiece: Chief Joseph.  Courtesy of The American Bureau of Ethnology.]

BOYS' BOOK OF

INDIAN WARRIORS

AND

HEROIC INDIAN WOMEN

BY

EDWIN L. SABIN

PHILADELPHIA

GEORGE W. JACOBS & COMPANY

PUBLISHERS

Copyright, 1918, by

George W. Jacobs & Company

All rights reserved

Printed in U. S. A.

  Alas! for them, their day is o'er,
  Their fires are out on hill and shore;
  No more for them the wild deer bounds,
  The plough is on their hunting grounds;
  The pale man's axe rings through their woods,
  The pale man's sail skims o'er their floods,
      Their pleasant springs are dry;
    *   *   *   *   *   *

          CHARLES SPRAGUE.

FOREWORD

When the white race came into the country of the red race, the red race long had had their
own ways of living and their own code of right and wrong.  They were red, but they were thinking
men and women, not mere animals.

The white people brought their ways, which were different from the Indians' ways.  So the two
races could not live together.

To the white people, many methods of the Indians were wrong; to the Indians, many of the white
people's methods were wrong.  The white people won the rulership, because they had upon their
side a civilization stronger than the loose civilization of the red people, and were able to
carry out their plans.

The white Americans formed one nation, with one language; the red Americans formed many nations,
with many languages.

The Indian fought as he had always fought, and ninety-nine times out of one hundred he firmly
believed that he was enforcing the right.  The white man fought after his own custom and sometimes
after the Indian's custom also; and not infrequently he knew that he was enforcing a wrong.

Had the Indians been enabled to act all together, they would have held their land, just as
the Americans of today would hold their land against the invader.

Of course, the Indian was not wholly right, and the white man was not wholly wrong.  There
is much to be said, by either, and there were brave chiefs and warriors on both sides.

This book is written according to the Indian's view of matters, so that we may be better acquainted
with his thoughts.  The Indians now living do not apologize for what their fathers and grandfathers
did.  A man who defends what he believes are his rights is a patriot, whether they really are
his rights, or not.

CONTENTS

CHAPTER

     I  PISKARET THE ADIRONDACK CHAMPION (1644)
        How He Scouted Against the Iroquois

    II  PISKARET THE ADIRONDACK CHAMPION (1645-1647)
        How He Brought Peace to the Forests

   III  OPECHANCANOUGH, SACHEM OF THE PAMUNKEYS (1607-1644)
        Who Fought at the Age of One Hundred

    IV  KING PHILIP THE WAMPANOAG (1662-1676)
        The Terror of New England

     V  THE SQUAW SACHEM OF POCASSET (1675-1676)
        And Canonchet of the Big Heart

    VI  THE BLOODY BELT OF PONTIAC (1760-1763)
        When It Passed Among the Red Nations

   VII  THE BLOODY BELT OF PONTIAC (1763-1769)
        How an Indian Girl Saved Fort Detroit

  VIII  LOGAN THE GREAT MINGO (1725-1774)
        And the Evil Days that Came Upon Him

    IX  CORNSTALK LEADS THE WARRIORS (1774-1777)
        How He and Logan Strove and Died

     X  LITTLE TURTLE OF THE MIAMIS (1790-1791)
        He Wins Great Victories

    XI  LITTLE TURTLE FEARS THE BIG WIND (1792-1812)
        And It Blows Him into Peace

   XII  THE VOICE FROM THE OPEN DOOR (1805-1811)
        How It Traveled Through the Land

  XIII  BRIGADIER GENERAL TECUMSEH (1812-1813)
        The Rise and Fall of a Star

   XIV  THE RED STICKS AT HORSESHOE BEND (1813-1814)
        And the Wonderful Escape of Chief Menewa

    XV  BLACK-HAWK THE SAC PATRIOT (1831-1838)
        The Indian Who Did Not Understand

   XVI  THE BIRD-WOMAN GUIDE (1805-1806)
        Sacagawea Helps the White Men

  XVII  THE LANCE OF MAHTOTOHPA (1822-1837)
        Hero Tales by Four Bears the Mandan

 XVIII  A SEARCH FOR THE BOOK OF HEAVEN (1832)
        The Long Trail of the Pierced Noses

   XIX  A TRAVELER TO WASHINGTON (1831-1835)
        Wijunjon, the "Big Liar" of the Assiniboins

    XX  THE BLACKFEET DEFY THE CROWS (1834)
        "Come and Take Us!"

   XXI  THE STRONG MEDICINE OF KONATE (1839)
        The Story of the Kiowa Magic Staff

  XXII  RED CLOUD STANDS IN THE WAY (1865-1909)
        The Sioux Who Closed the Road of the Whites

 XXIII  STANDING BEAR SEEKS A HOME (1877-1880)
        The Indian Who Won the White Man's Verdict

  XXIV  SITTING BULL THE WAR MAKER (1876-1881)
        An Unconquered Leader

   XXV  CHIEF JOSEPH GOES TO WAR (1877)
        And Out-Generals the United States Army

  XXVI  THE GHOST DANCERS AND THE RED SOLDIERS (1889-1890)
        And Sitting Bull's Last Medicine

LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS

Chief Joseph . . . . . . . . . . . Frontispiece

King Philip (missing from book)

Pontiac, The Red Napoleon

An Indian Brave

Young Kiowa Girl (missing from book)

Red Cloud

Standing Bear

Sitting Bull

BOYS' BOOK OF INDIAN WARRIORS

CHAPTER I

PISKARET THE ADIRONDACK CHAMPION (1644)

HOW HE SCOUTED AGAINST THE IROQUOIS

It was in early spring, about the year 1644, that the warrior Piskaret of the Adirondack tribe
of the Algonkins set forth alone from the island Allumette in the Ottawa River, Canada, to
seek his enemies the Iroquois.

For there long had been bitter, bitter war between the vengeful Algonkins[1] and the cruel
Hurons on the one side, and the proud, even crueler Five Nations of the Iroquois on the other
side.  At first the Adirondacks had driven the Mohawks out of lower Canada and into northern
New York; but of late all the Algonkins, all the Hurons, and the French garrisons their allies,
had been unable to stem the tide of the fierce Iroquois, rolling back into Canada again.

"Iri-a-khoiw" was the Algonkin name for them, meaning "adder."  The French termed them "Mingos,"
from another Algonkin word meaning "stealthy."  The English and Dutch colonists in America
knew them as the Five Nations.  Their own title was "People of the Long House," as if the five
nations were one family housed all together under one roof.

The Mohawks, the Senecas, the Onondagas, the Oneidas and the Cayugas--these composed the Iroquois
league of the Five Nations against the world of enemies.  The league rapidly spread in power,
until the dreaded Iroquois were styled the Romans of the West.

But nearly three hundred years ago they were only beginning to rise. Their home was in central
New York, from the Mohawk country at the Hudson River west to the Seneca country almost to
Lake Erie.  In this wide tract were their five principal towns, fortified by ditches and log
palisades.  From here they carried war south clear to the Cherokees of Tennessee, west clear
into the land of the Illinois, and north to the Algonkins at Quebec of the lower St. Lawrence
River.

Twelve or fifteen thousand people they numbered.  Mohawks, Senecas, Onondagas, Oneidas and
Cayugas still survive, as many as ever and ranking high among the civilized Indians of North
America.

The Hurons lived to the northwest, in a smaller country along the shores of Georgian Bay of
southeastern Lake Huron, in Canada.

"Hurons" they were called by the French, meaning "bristly" or "savage haired," for they wore
their coarse black hair in many fantastic cuts, but the favorite fashion was that of a stiff
roach or mane extending from the forehead to the nape of the neck, like the bristles of a wild
boar's back or the comb of a rooster.  By the Algonkins they were called "serpents," also.
Their own name for themselves was "Wendat," or "People of the Peninsula"--a word which the
English wrote as "Wyandot."

They were of the Iroquois family, but for seventy-five years and more they had been at war
with their cousins of the south.  They, too, had their principal fortified towns, and their
league, of four independent nations and four protected nations, numbering twenty thousand.
Like those of the Iroquois, some of their bark houses were five hundred feet long, for twenty
families.  Yet of this powerful people there remain today only about four hundred Hurons, near
Quebec, and as many Wyandots in Canada and the former Indian Territory of Oklahoma.

The Algonkins lived farther north, along the Ottawa River, and the St. Lawrence to the east.
"Place of spearing eel and fish from a canoe," is the best that we may get from the word "Algonkin."
The "Raised Hair" people did the French first term them, because they wore their hair pompadoured.
But Adirondack was a Mohawk word, "Hatirontaks," "Eaters of Trees," accusing the Adirondacks
of being so hungry in winter that they ate bark.

In summer the men went naked; in winter they donned a fur cape.  They were noted warriors,
hunters and fishers, and skillful in making shell ornaments.  As the "Nation of the Island"
also were they known to the French explorers, because their headquarters were upon that large
island of Allumette in the Ottawa River above present Ottawa of Canada.

The several tribes of Algonkins found by the French in Canada were only a small portion of
those American Indians speaking in the Algonquian tongue.  The immense Algonquian family covered
North America from the Atlantic to the Mississippi, and reached even to the Rocky Mountains.
The Indians met by the Pilgrim Fathers were Algonquians; King Philip was an Algonquian; the
Shawnees of Tecumseh were Algonquians; the Sacs and Foxes of Chief Black-hawk were Algonquians;
the Chippewas of Canada and the Winnebagos from Wisconsin are Algonquians; so are the Arapahos
and Cheyennes of the plains and the Blackfeet of Montana.

The bark lodges of the Algonkins were round and peaked like a cone, instead of being long and
ridged like those of the Iroquois and Hurons. Of the Algonkins of Canada there are sixteen
hundred, today; there are no Adirondacks, under that name.

Now in 1644 the proud Iroquois hated the Algonkins, hated the Hurons, and had hated the French
for thirty-five years, since the brave gentleman adventurer, Samuel de Champlain, having founded
Quebec in 1608, had marched against them with his armor, his powder and ball, and the triumphantly
whooping enemy.

The Iroquois never forgave the French for this.  And indeed a truly savage warfare it had become,
here in this northern country on either side of the border between New York and Canada: where
the winters were long and piercingly cold, where hunger frequently stalked, where travel was
by canoe on the noble St. Lawrence, the swift Ottawa, the Richelieu, the lesser streams and
lakes, and by snowshoe or moccasin through the heavy forests; where the Indians rarely failed
to torture their captives in manner too horrid to relate; and where the only white people were
300 French soldiers, fur-traders, laborers, priests and nuns, mainly at Quebec, and new Montreal,
on the St. Lawrence, and the little trading-post of Three Rivers, half way between the two.

Algonkins and Hurons were accepting the French as allies.  They listened, sometimes in earnest,
sometimes in cunning, to the teachings of those "Black Robes," the few fearless priests who
sought them out. The priests, bravest of the brave, journeyed unarmed and far, even among the
scornful Iroquois, enduring torture by fire and knife, the torment of mosquitoes, cold and
famine, and draughty, crowded bark houses smotheringly thick with damp wood smoke.

In spite of cross and sword, (trying to tame them,) the Iroquois were waxing ever bolder. 
They were well supplied with match-lock guns obtained by the Mohawks from the Dutch of the
Hudson River.  From their five towns ruled by a grand council of fifty chiefs they constantly
sent out their raiding parties into the north.  These, darting half-crouched in single file
through the dark timber, creeping silently in their canoes by road of the dark rivers, suddenly
fell like starved wolves upon whomsoever they sighted, be that near Quebec itself; killed them,
or captured them, to hustle them away, break their bones, burn their bodies, eat of them; and
returned for more.

Algonkins and Hurons were cruel, too, and crafty; but they were being beaten by greater craft
and better arms.

So now we come again to Piskaret, of the Adirondacks, whose home was upon that large island
of Allumette, governed by the haughty Algonkin chief Le Borgne, or The One-Eye.

Simon Piskaret was his full name as recorded in the mission books, for he and others of Allumette
Island had been baptised by the priests. But with them this was much a method of getting protection,
food and powder from these French; and an old writer of 1647 says that Piskaret was a Christian
only by "appearance and policy."

However, the case of the Algonkins and the Hurons was growing very desperate.  They risked
their lives every time they ventured into the forests, and Piskaret was ashamed of being cooped
in.  Once the Adirondacks had been mighty.  Hot desire to strike another blow flamed high in
his heart.  Therefore in this early spring of 1644, ere yet the snows were fairly melted, he
strode away, alone, with snowshoes, bent upon doing some great deed.

His course was southeast, from the river Ottawa to cross the frozen St. Lawrence, and speed
onward 100 miles for the Lake Champlain country of the New York-Canada border line, where he
certainly would find the Iroquois.

By day and night he traveled, clad in his moccasins and fur mantle. Then when he reached the
range of the Iroquois he reversed his snowshoes, so that they pointed backward.  The Iroquois
who might see his trail would know that these were the prints of Algonkin snowshoes, but they
would think that here had been only an Algonkin hastening home.  If they followed, they would
be going in one direction and he in another!

His progress was slower, now, for it is hard to make time in snowshoes pointing backward; and
presently he took pains to pick a way by keeping to the ridges and the south slopes from which
the snow had melted.  His eyes and ears needs must be alert; no sharper woodsmen ever lived,
than the keen wolfish Iroquois.

At last, in the forest, he came upon Iroquois sign; next, peering and listening and sniffing,
he smelled wood smoke; and stealing on, from tree to tree, he discovered the site of an Iroquois
winter village, set in a clearing amidst the timber.

For the rest of that day he hid out; that night, after all had quieted, with war-club and knife
ready he slipped like a shadow in among the very lodges.  Not even a dog sensed him as he stood
questing about for another hiding place.

Aha, he had it!  Both the Hurons and the Iroquois laid in large stocks of fire wood, by forming
piles of logs slanted together on end; and in one pile, here, was an opening through which
he might squeeze into the center space, there to squat as under a tent.  The ground in the
village had been scraped bare of snow; he would leave no tracks.

Having thus experimented and arranged, Piskaret drew a long breath, grasped his war-club, and
stealthily pushing aside the loose birch-bark door-flap of the nearest lodge, peeped inside.
By the ember light he saw that every Iroquois, man and woman, was fast asleep, under furs,
on spruce boughs around the fire.

Now Piskaret swiftly entered, without a sound killed them all, scalped them, and fled to his
wood-pile.

Early in the grayness of morning he heard a great cry, swelling louder and louder until the
forest echoed.  It was a cry of grief and of rage. The strangely silent lodge had been investigated
and his bloody work was known.  Feet thudded past his wood-pile, hasty figures brushed against
it, as the best warriors of the village bolted for the timber, to circle until they found the
tracks of their enemy.  But if they found any snowshoe tracks made by a stranger, these led
out, not in.

So that day the Iroquois pursued furiously and vainly, while Piskaret crouched snug in his
wood-pile, listened to the clamor, and laughed to himself.

At evening the weary Iroquois returned, foiled and puzzled.  Their nimblest trailers had not
even sighted the bold raider.  This night Piskaret again waited until all was quiet; again
he ventured forth, slipped inside a lodge, killed and scalped, and retreated to his wood-pile.

And again, with the morning arose that shrill uproar of grief and vengeance and the warriors
scurried into the forest.

By evening the Iroquois were not only mystified but much alarmed.  Who was this thing that
struck in the night and left no trail?  An evil spirit had come among them--roosted perhaps
in the trees!

If a squaw had removed a log or two from the pile Piskaret would have been torn to pieces,
but fortune still stayed with him and he was not molested save by cold and hunger.

Tonight, however, the Iroquois chattered affrightedly until late; and when, after the noises
had died away, Piskaret, cramped and chilled but eager, for a third time stole through the
darkness to a lodge, he knew that his game was up.  In this lodge two watchers had been posted--one
at either end; and they were awake.

The same in the next lodge, and the next.  Wherever he applied his eye to a crack in the bark
walls, he saw two sentries, armed and alert--until finally he arrived at a lodge wherein one
of the sentries, the one near the door, was squatted drowsy and half asleep.

So Piskaret softly placed his bundle of scalps where he might find it instantly, on a sudden
threw aside the birch-bark door-flap, struck terribly with his club, yelled his war-cry that
all might hear, grabbed his bundle of scalps and ran hard for the forest.  From every lodge
the Iroquois poured in pursuit.

All the rest of this night he ran, making northward, with the Iroquois pelting and whooping
after; but the records say that he was the swiftest runner in the North--therefore he had little
fear of being overtaken.

All the next day he ran, only now and then pausing, to show himself, and yell, and tempt the
Iroquois onward; for he had another plan.  At night-fall there were but six Iroquois left on
his trail, and these were about worn out.

Now in the gathering darkness, noting his enemies falter, Piskaret sprang aside to a hollow
tree and hid himself again.  The tired Iroquois straggled near, and when they lost the trail
they willingly quit, in order to roll in their bear-skins and sleep until the light of morning.

Whereupon, after granting them a little time, Piskaret crept out, killed every one of them,
added their six scalps to his package, and having rested until day, sped north, with his dreadful
trophies, to report at the island of Allumette.

That this is a true story of the famous Adirondack warrior Piskaret may be proved by the old
French chronicles of those very times.

[1] The noun Algonkin, meaning an Indian, is also spelled Algonquin. But the adjective from
this noun is spelled Algonquian when applied to Indians, and Algonkian when applied to a time
or period in geology.  From lip to lip the story of his lone trail was repeated through the
bark lodges of the Algonkins, and the long houses of the fierce Hurons, and even among the
gentle nuns and gaunt priests of the brave mission settlements upon the lower St. Lawrence River.

But the nuns and priests did not favor such bloody deeds, which led only to more.  Their teachings
were all of peace rather than war between men.  Yet each and every one of them was as bold
as Piskaret, and to bring about peace would gladly go as far as he, and farther.

Now he did not lack followers.  In the early spring of 1645, scarce a twelve-month after his
famous lone scout, he took with him six other "Christian" Algonkin warriors, again to hunt
the Iroquois.

Upon the large island in the St. Lawrence River, just below the mouth of the Algonkin's River
Ottawa, the fort and mission of Montreal had been built, much to the rage of the roving Iroquois.
It was the farthest up-river of the French settlements, and in the midst of the Iroquois favorite
scouting grounds.

So bitter were the Iroquois, that all the fall and all the winter Montreal had been in a state
of siege.

Tired of such one-sided warfare, Piskaret resolved to strike another blow.  The broad St. Lawrence
was fast locked by the winter's ice.  His small party dragged their three canoes over the level
snowy surface, and on eastward across a tongue of timbered land, to the River Richelieu.  This
connects Lake Champlain of New York and the St. Lawrence in Canada.

The Richelieu, flowing black and deep, had opened.  It was the water-trail of the Iroquois,
and especially of the Mohawks.  By it they made their forays north to the St. Lawrence and
the camps of their enemies.

Every thicket along its banks and every curve in its course was likely to be an ambush; but
the fearless Piskaret party ascended clear to Lake Champlain itself.  Here they landed upon
an island, concealed themselves and their canoes in the wintry forest, and waited.

One day they heard a gun-shot.  Some Iroquois were about, upon the lake or upon the mainland.

"Come," spoke Piskaret, to his party.  "Let us eat.  It may be the last time, for we will have
to die instead of run."

After they had eaten, they saw two canoes making straight for the island.  Each canoe held
seven Iroquois.  That counted up fourteen, or two to one.

However, the Piskaret party had the advantage of position.  They hid in the bushes at the place
for which the canoes were heading.

"Let us each choose a man in the first canoe," directed Piskaret, "and take sure aim, and fire
together."

The volley by the Algonkins was so deadly that every one of the six balls killed an Iroquois.
The seventh warrior dived overboard, and escaped by swimming to the other canoe.  That had
been swift work.

But the Iroquois were brave.  Of the Mohawk tribe, these.  Instead of turning about, to get
help, the eight warriors, whooping in rage, paddled furiously along the shore, to land at another
spot and give battle.

Piskaret's Algonkins ran hard to head them off, and met the canoe again.  At the shore one
of the Iroquois sighted them, and stood up to fire.  They shot him, so that he tumbled overboard
and capsized the canoe.

The seven Mohawks were now in the water; but the water was shallow, and splashing through,
they bored right in, like bulldogs.

The Piskaret Algonkins had need to shoot fast and true.  The Mohawks feared nothing, and despised
Algonkins.  Besides, they now knew that Piskaret was before them, and his scalp they considered
a great prize.

The Mohawks lost this battle.  Before they could gain shelter, of their seven four had been
killed, two had been captured, and there was only one who escaped.

No time was to be lost.  The sounds of the battle probably had been heard.

"We have done well," said Piskaret.  "Now we may run."

So they launched their canoes, and with two prisoners and eleven scalps they plied their paddles
at best speed for the Richelieu.

Down the Richelieu, and down the St. Lawrence, nothing disagreeable happened, save that, when
one of the Mohawks (a large, out-spoken warrior) defied the Algonkins to do their worst upon
him, and called them weaklings, he was struck across the mouth, to silence him.

"Where are you taking us, then?"

