In the beginning of 1794 Wordsworth, returned from his wanderings, came to visit his sister
at Halifax, his head still in a whirl with revolutionary fervours.  He was wandering about
among his friends with no certain dwelling-place, no fixed plan of life, his practical purposes
and his opinions, political, philosophical, and religious, all alike at sea. But whatever else
might remain unsettled, the bread-and-butter question, as Coleridge calls it, could not.  The
thought of orders, for which his friends intended him, had been abandoned; law he abominated;
writing for the newspaper press seemed the only resource.  In this seething state of mind he
sought once more his sister’s calming society, and the two travelled together on foot from
Kendal to Grasmere, from Grasmere to Keswick, ‘through the most delightful country that was
ever seen.’

Towards the close of this year (1794) Wordsworth would probably have gone to London to take
up the trade of a writer for the newspapers.  From this however he was held back for a time
by the duty of nursing his friend Raisley Calvert, who lay dying at Penrith.  Early in 1795
the young man died, leaving to his friend, the young Poet, a legacy of £900.  The world did
not then hold Wordsworth for a poet, and had received with coldness his first attempt, ‘Descriptive
Sketches and an Evening Walk,’ published two years before.  But the dying youth had seen further
than the world, and felt convinced that his friend, if he had leisure given him to put forth
his powers, would do something which would make the world his debtor.  With this view he bequeathed
him the small sum above named.  And seldom has such a bequest borne ampler fruit.  ‘Upon the
interest of the £900, £400 being laid out in annuity, with £200 deducted from the principal,
and £100 a legacy to my sister, and £100 more which “The Lyrical Ballads” have brought me,
my sister and I have contrived to live seven years, nearly eight.’  So wrote Wordsworth in
1805 to his friend Sir George Beaumont.  Thus at this juncture of the Poet’s fate, when to
onlookers he must have seemed both outwardly and inwardly well-nigh bankrupt, Raisley Calvert’s
bequest came to supply his material needs, and to his inward needs his sister became the best
earthly minister.  For his mind was ill at ease.  The high hopes awakened in him by the French
Revolution had been dashed, and his spirit, darkened and depressed, was on the verge of despair.
He might have become such a man as he has pictured in the character of ‘The Solitary.’  But
a good Providence brought his sister to his side and saved him.  She discerned his real need
and divined the remedy.  By her cheerful society, fine tact, and vivid love for nature she
turned him, depressed and bewildered, alike from the abstract speculations and the contemporary
politics in which he had got immersed, and directed his thoughts towards truth of poetry, and
the face of nature, and the healing that for him lay in these.

By intercourse with her and wanderings together in delightful places of his native country,
he was gradually led back

   ‘To those sweet counsels between head and heart
   Whence genuine knowledge grew.’

