It is evident from James Russell Lowell's "Fable for Critics" that the personalities of his
contemporaries troubled him: he could not see over their heads. In 1837 Sumner went to Europe
and we find from his letters to Judge Story, George S. Hillard, and others, that he had already
obtained a vantage ground from which the civilized world lay before him, as all New England
does from the top of Mount Washington. He goes into a French law court, and analyzes the procedure
of French justice in a letter which has the value of an historical document. He noticed that
Napoleon was still spoken of as l'Empereur, although there was a king in France,--a fact pregnant
with future consequences. He remained in Paris until he was a complete master of the French
language, and attended one hundred and fifty lectures at the university and elsewhere. He enjoyed
the grand opera and the acting in French theatres; nor did he neglect to study Italian art.
He was making a whole man of himself; and it seemed as if an unconscious instinct was guiding
him to his destiny.

Fortunate was the old Sheriff to have such a son; but Charles Sumner was also fortunate to
have had a father who was willing to save and economize for his benefit. Otherwise he might
have been a sheriff himself.

Judge Story's letters of introduction opened the doors wide to him in England. In the course
of ten months he became acquainted with almost every distinguished person in the United Kingdom.
He never asked for introductions, and he never presented himself without one. He was handed
from one mansion to another all the way from London to the Scotch Highlands. Only twenty-seven
years of age, he was treated on an equality by men ten to fifteen years his senior; and he
proved himself equal to their expectations. No American except Lowell has ever made such a
favorable impression in England as Sumner; but this happened in Sumner's youth, while Lowell
in his earlier visits attracted little attention.

It is perfectly true that if he had been the son of an English sheriff this would not have
happened; but he encountered the same obstacles in Boston society that he would have done under
similar conditions in Great Britain. The doors of Wentworth House and Strachan Park were open
to him, but those of Beacon Street were closed,--and perhaps it was better for him on the whole
that they were.

Sumner's letters from Europe are at least as interesting as those written by any other American.
Such breadth of vision is not often united with clearness and accuracy of detail. All his letters
ought to be published in a volume by themselves. Sumner returned to America the following year
and settled himself quietly and soberly to his work as a lawyer. He was not a success, however,
as a practitioner in the courts, unless he could plead before a bench of judges. In the Common
Pleas an ordinary pettifogger would often take a case away from him. He could not, if he would,
have practised those seductive arts by which Rufus Choate drew the jury into his net, in spite
of their deliberate intentions to the contrary. Yet, Sumner's reputation steadily improved,
so that when Longfellow came to live in Cambridge he found Sumner delivering lectures at the
Harvard Law-School, where he might have remained the rest of his life, if he had been satisfied
with a merely routine employment, and the fortunes of the republic had not decided differently.

The attraction between Sumner and Longfellow was immediate and permanent. It was owing more
perhaps to the essential purity of their natures, than to mutual sympathy in regard to art
and literature; although Longfellow held Sumner's literary judgment in such respect that he
rarely published a new poem without first subjecting his work to Sumner's criticism.

Those who admired Sumner at this time, for his fine moral and intellectual qualities, had no
adequate conception of the far nobler quality which lay concealed in the depths of his nature.
Charles Sumner was a hero,--one to whom life was nothing in comparison with his duty.

It was in the anti-Irish riot of June, 1837, that he first gave evidence of this. Nothing was
more hateful to him than race prejudice, and what might be called international malignity,
which he believed was the most frequent cause of war.

As soon as Sumner was notified of the disturbance, he hastened to the scene of action, seized
on a prominent position, and attempted to address the insurgents; but his pacific words only
excited them to greater fury. They charged on him and his little group of supporters, knocked
him down and trampled on him. Dr. S. G. Howe, who stood near by, a born fighter, protected
Sumner's prostrate body, and finally carried him to a place of safety, although twice his own
size. Sumner took his mishap very coolly, and, as soon as he could talk freely, addressed his
friends on the evils resulting from race prejudice.

This incident may have led Sumner to the choice of a subject for his Fourth of July oration
in 1845. The title of this address was "The True Grandeur of Nations," but its real object
was one which Sumner always had at heart, and never relinquished the hope of,--namely, the
establishment of an international tribunal, which should possess jurisdiction over the differences
and quarrels between nations, and so bring warfare forever to an end. The plan is an impracticable
one, because the decisions of a court only have validity if it is able to enforce them, and
how could the decisions of an international tribunal have value in case the parties concerned
declined to accept them? It would only result in waging war in order to prevent war. Yet, of
all the Fourth of July orations that were delivered in the nineteenth century, Sumner's and
Webster's are the only two that have survived; and the "True Grandeur of Nations" has recently
been published by the London Peace Society as an argument in favor of their philanthropic movement.

Sumner was now in the prime of manhood, and a rarely handsome man. He had an heroic figure,
six feet two inches in height, and well proportioned in all respects. His features, too large
and heavy in his youth, had become strong and regular, and although he had not acquired that
leonine look of reserved power with which he confronted the United States Senate, his expression
was frank and fearless. As L. Maria Child, who heard him frequently, said, he seemed to be
as much in his place on the platform as a statue on its pedestal. His gestures had not the
natural grace of Phillips's or the more studied elegance of Everett, but he atoned for these
deficiencies by the manly earnestness of his delivery. He made an impression on the highly
cultivated men and women who composed his audience which they always remembered.

The question has often been raised by the older abolitionists, "Why did not Sumner take an
earlier interest in the anti-slavery struggle?" The answer is twofold. That he did not join
the Free-soilers in 1844 was most probably owing to the influence of Judge Story, who had already
marked Sumner out for the Supreme Bench, and wished him to concentrate his energies in that
direction. His friends, too, at this time--Hillard, Felton, Liebe, and even Longfellow--were
either opposed to introducing the slavery question into politics or practically indifferent to it.

On the other hand, Sumner never could agree with Garrison's position on this question. He held
the Constitution in too great respect to admit that it was an agreement with death and a government
with the devil. He believed that the founders of the Constitution were opposed to slavery,
and that the expression, "persons held to labor," was good evidence of this. One of his finest
orations in the Senate was intended to prove this point. Furthermore he perceived the futility
of Garrison's idea--and this was afterwards disproved by the war--that if it were not for the
National Government the slaves would rise in rebellion and so obtain their freedom. He always
asserted that slavery would be abolished under the Constitution or not at all. Like Abraham
Lincoln he waited for his time to come.

Charles Sumner was the reply that Massachusetts made to the Fugitive Slave Law, and a telling
reply it was. Unlike his legal contemporaries he recognized the law as a revolutionary act
which, unless it was successfully opposed, would strike a death-blow at American freedom. He
saw that it could only be met by counter-revolution, and he prepared his mind for the consequences.
It was only at such a time that so uncompromising a statesman as Sumner could have entered
into political life; for the possibility of compromise had passed away with the suspension
of the writ of habeas corpus, and Sumner's policy of "no compromise" was the one which brought
the slavery question to a successful issue. For fifteen years in Congress he held to that policy
as faithfully as a planet to its course, and those who differed with him were left in the rear.

Sumner's first difference was with his conservative friends, and especially with his law-partner,
George S. Hillard, a brilliant man in his way, and for an introductory address without a rival
in Boston. Hillard was at heart as anti-slavery as Sumner, and his wife had even assisted fugitive
slaves, but he was swathed in the bands of fashionable society, and he lacked the courage to
break loose from them. He adhered to the Whigs and was relegated to private life. They parted
without acrimony, and Sumner never failed to do his former friend a service when he found an
opportunity.

His difference with Felton was of a more serious kind. Emerson, perhaps, judged Felton too
severely,--a man of ardent temperament who was always in danger of saying more than he intended.

Sumner's election to the Senate was a chance in ten thousand. It is well known that at first
he declined to be a candidate. He did not think he was fitted for the position, and when Caleb
Gushing urged him to court the favor of fortune he said: "I will not leave my chair to become
United States Senator." Whatever vanity there might be in the man, he was entirely free from
the ambition for power and place.

There were several prominent public men at the time who would have given all they owned for
the position, but they were set aside for the man who did not want it,--the bold jurist who
dared to set himself against the veteran statesmen of his country. It reads like a Bible-tale,
or the story of Cincinnatus taken from his plow to become dictator.

