In Louise, again, it was the orchestra, cleverly steered by Sir THOMAS BEECHAM through the
difficult score for the choruses, that sustained us through the banalities of an opera which
has only one dramatic moment--when her father hastens the eviction of Louise by throwing a
chair at her, very well aimed by Mr. ROBERT RADFORD, who only just missed his mark. I suppose
it is hopeless to expect that the makers of "Grand" Opera (whose sense of humour is seldom
their strong point) will consent to allow the trivialities of ordinary speech in everyday life
("How do you do?" "Thank you, I am not feeling my best," and so on) to be said--if they must
find expression of some sort--and not sung.

By way of contrast to the modern realism which makes so unlikely a material for serious opera,
the fantastic irresponsibility of The Magic Flute came as a great relief. Its simpler music,
serenely sampling the whole gamut of emotions, grave to gay, offered equal chances (all taken)
to the pure love-singing of Miss AGNES NICHOLLS as Pamina, and Mr. MAURICE D'OISLY as Tamino,
the light-hearted frivolity of Papageno (Mr. RANALOW), and the solemn pontifics (de profundissimis)
of Mr. FOSTER RICHARDSON'S Sarastro. A most delightful and refreshing performance.

O.S.

       *       *       *       *       *

JAZZ--TWO VIEWS.

  Terpsichore, tired of the "trot,"
  And letting the waltz go to pot,
    In the glorious Jazz
    Most undoubtedly has
  Discovered the pick of the lot.

  There was an exuberant "coon"
  Who invented a horrible tune
    For a horrible dance
    Which suggested the prance
  Of a half-epileptic baboon.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "The Prime Minister threw aside precedent to such an extent that
    he got out of his depth and went on his knees when we were on the
    rocks."--Letter in "The Globe."

When we get out of our depth we never think of kneeling on the bottom.

       *       *       *       *       *

AT THE PLAY.

"VICTORY."

MR. MACDONALD HASTINGS has invented, and committed, yet another new sin--that of attempting
to do a CONRAD novel into a three-act play. Fifteen, possibly; but three? We hardly think.
What every Conradist knows is that you can't compress that master of subtlety without losing
the master's dominant quality--atmosphere; that it's not so much the things he says but the
queer way and the odd order in which he says them that matter. He is not precisely a filmable
person.

And yet, all things considered, the potter has produced a tolerable pot, and we may write down
his fault of extreme foolhardiness as venial. What, however, Mr. CONRAD himself thought of
the rehearsals, if he attended them--but perhaps we need not go into that.

It is easy to see the attraction, for the players, of the series of star parts provided by
the exciting story. You have first the eccentric, misjudged Swede, Heyst (the adapter makes
him an Englishman, perhaps wisely, as our stage takes no account of Swedes), come from self-banishment
on a far Pacific island--a complex Conradian personality. Then his arch-enemy, Schomberg, lieutenant
of reserve, shady hotel-keeper, sensualist and craven, with his insane malice. To these enter
as pretty a company of miscreants as ever sailed the Southern seas: the sinister Jones, misogynist
to the point of fine frenzy, nonconformist in the matter of card-playing, and thereafter frank
bandit with a high ethic as to the superiority of plain robbery under arms over mere vulgar
swindling--a gentleman with a code, in fact; his strictly incomparable "secretary," Ricardo
of the rolling eyes and gait and deathly treacherous knife, philogynist sans phrase; and Pedro,
their groom, a reincarnated Caliban. It may also be noted that Heyst has a freak servant, the
disappearing Wang, whom the adapter uses, I suppose legitimately, as a kind of clown. And then,
finally, there is a charming and unusual heroine, Lena, still in her teens, but of real flesh
and blood, innocent and persecuted, daughter of a drunken fiddler (deceased), herself fiddling
in a tenth-rate orchestra at Schomberg's hotel, wherein it is not intended that the music shall
be the chief attraction to the guests.

Heyst is Perseus to Lena's Andromeda, carrying her off to his island out of lust's way. But
dragon Schomberg has a sting left in his malicious tale, told to the unlikely trio of scoundrels,
to the effect that Heyst has ill-gotten treasure hoarded on his island. Dragon Ricardo persuades
his chief to the adventure of attaching it. A fine brew of passion and action forsooth: Lena
passionately adoring; the aloof Heyst passing suddenly from indifference to ardour; the bestial
Ricardo in pursuit of his startled quarry; and gentleman Jones intent on non-existent booty
and rapt out of him self by cynical fury at the discovery of an unsuspected woman in the case.
And while Mr. CONRAD in his novel drives all these to a relentless doom Mr. HASTINGS contrives
a happy ending, which goes perilously near an anticlimax, with the hero on his knees and the
heroine pointing up to heaven and claiming a "victory" quite other than their creator intended.
But then he knew perfectly well that nobody wants to come to see Miss MARIE LÖHR killed.

On the whole I can't think the cast was up to its extremely difficult task, if you estimate
that task, as it seems to me you must, to be the reproducing of the original Victory characters.
Perhaps Mr. SAM LIVESEY'S Ricardo was the nearest, though the primitive savagery of his wooing
had to be toned down in the interests of propriety. Mr. GAYER MACKAY made his Jones interesting
and plausible in the quieter opening movements. In the intended tragic spasms one felt that
he became rather comic than sinister. Not his fault, I think. He had no room or time to work
up his part. That should also apply to Mr. GARRY'S Schomberg, though he doesn't seem to have
tried to fit himself into the skin of that entertaining villain. Mr. MURRAY CARRINGTON had
an exceedingly tough task with his Heyst. But was he even as detached and eccentric as the
average modern don? Certainly he was not the man of mystery of the original pattern, but rather
the amiable comely film-hero.

Miss LÖHR had her interesting moments, the best of them, perhaps, in the First Act. In her
big scene, where the knife is to be won from Ricardo, she was no doubt hampered by the tradition
that it is necessary to play down to the carefully cultivated imbecility of the audience in
order that they should not misunderstand the most obvious points. It's not flattering to us,
but it can't be helped. Probably we deserve it. But need she have been quite so refined? Only
very occasionally does she remember that Lena is fine matter in a "common" mould, which is
surely of the essence of the situation. I do seriously recommend a re-reading of what should
be a character full of blood, which is ever so much more amusing than sawdust, however charmingly
encased. I feel sure she could shock and at the same time please the groundlings if she let
herself go.

And where, by the way, did she get that charmingly-cut skirt in the Second Act? She certainly
hadn't it in her bundle when she left the hotel. And yet the stage-manager will go to the trouble,
for the sake of a quite misguided realism, of making the hotel orchestra play against the dialogue
as if the persistent coughing of the audience were not sufficient handicap to his team.

Miss BALVAIRD-HEWETT gave a clever rendering of the hotel-keeper's sombre Frau; and Mr. GEORGE
ELTON contributed an excellent Chinese servant.

But you can't, you really can't, get a gallon into a pint pot, however strenuous the potter.

T.

       *       *       *       *       *

HYGIENIC STRATEGY.

    "What has to be done is to draw a sanitary cordon to bar the road
    to Bolshevism."--M. PICHON in the French Chamber.

The need of this policy is strengthened by the simultaneous announcement that the Bolsheviks
have crossed the Bug on a wide front.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Mr. ---- has for twenty-one years been illustrating 'A Saunter
    Through Kent.'"--Sunday Pictorial.

The artist seems to have caught the spirit of his subject.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "This was seconded by Mr. Mackinder, who said the barque of
    British trade had to steer a perilous course between the scylla of
    the front Opposition bench and the charybodies as represented by
    the Government."--Western Daily Press.

This is the first intimation we have yet received of any noticeable tendency to penurious economy
on the part of the Government.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

THE COUNTER-REVOLUTIONARY COLLAR.

Mr. Bingley-Spyker pleaded surprise. He pointed out that he had been in bed for a fortnight,
"laid aside," as he said, "through the prevailing epidemic." In the meantime the revolution
had taken place, and he had heard nothing about it.

"Well," said the President gruffly, "we carn't 'elp that, can we, comrades? While this 'ere
citizen 'as been restin' in the lap o' luxury, so to speak, we workers 'ave been revolutin'.
An' that's all there is to it."

"But fair play," persisted Mr. Bingley-Spyker gently, "is a jewel. At least so I have always
understood."

"Not so much of it, me lad," interrupted the President sharply. "Now then, comrade, wot's the
charge?"

An unkempt person stepped up to the front and, clearing his throat with some emphasis, began:--

"About ten-thirty this morning I see this gentleman--"

"What? " The interruption came simultaneously from several members of the tribunal.

"--this party walkin' down Whitehall casual-like, as if the place belonged to 'im instead of
to us. 'What ho!' I says to myself, 'this 'ere chap looks like a counter-revolution'ry;' and
with that I comes closer to 'im. Sure enough he was wearin' a 'igh collar, about three inches
'igh, I should say, all white an' shiny, straight from the lorndry. I could 'ardly believe
my eyes."

"Never mind your eyes, comrade," the President said; "tell us what you did."

"I accosted 'im and said, 'Ere, citizen, wot do you mean by wearin' a collar like that?'"

"An' what was the reply?"

"He looked at me 'aughty-like, an' says, 'Get away, my man, or I shall call the police.' An'
thereupon I said, 'P'r'aps you don't know it, citizen, but I am the p'lice, an', wot's more,
I arrest you for wearin' a white collar, contrairy to the regulations in that case made an'
perwided.'"

"Very good, comrade," murmured the President, "very good indeed. Did he seem surprised?"

"Knocked all of a 'eap. So I took him into custody and brought him along."

"You did well, comrade. The Tribunal thanks you. Step down now, me lad, and don't make too
much noise. Now then, prisoner, you've 'eard the charge; what have you got to say about it?"

"Only this," said Mr. Bingley-Spyker firmly, "that I am not guilty."

"Not guilty?" shouted the President. "Why, you've got the blooming thing on now!"

"Yes," said the prisoner mildly. "But observe."

Somewhat diffidently he removed his collar and held it up to view. "You call this a clean,
white, shiny collar? Well, it's not. Fawn-colour, if you like; speckled--yes; but white--clean?
No! Believe me," continued Mr. Bingley-Spyker, warming to his subject, "it's years since I've
had a genuinely clean collar from my laundry. Mostly they are speckled. And the specks are
usually in a conspicuous position; one on each wing is a favourite combination. I grant you
these can be removed by a penknife, but imperfectly and with damage to the fabric. When what
I may call the main portion of the collar is affected, the speckled area may occasionally be
concealed by a careful disposition of one's tie. But not often. The laundress, with diabolical
cunning, takes care to place her trade-mark as near the top rim as possible. I have not by
any means exhausted the subject," he concluded, "but I think I have said enough to clear myself
of this particular charge."

It seemed then to Mr. Bingley-Spyker that all the members of the Tribunal were shouting together.
On the whole he gathered that he had not improved his position. He had been "attacking the
proletariat."

"'Ard-working gyurls," panted a woman-member excitedly, "toilin' and moilin' at wash-tubs and
mangles for the likes of 'im! It's a rope collar he wants, Mr. President. Make it a 'anging
matter, I should."

"Silence, comrades!" commanded the President. "Let me deal with 'im. Prisoner, the Tribunal
finds you guilty of wearing a collar, contrary to the regulations. Collars are the 'all-marks
of a slave civilization; they 'ave no place in a free state. The sentence of the Court is that
you be committed to a State laundry for ten years, with 'ard labour, principally at mangles.
Remove the prisoner."

So they removed Mr. Bingley-Spyker....

He was glad when he woke up to find himself in his own room in his own Government office at
Whitehall, with the afternoon sun streaming deliciously through the windows. Involuntarily
he felt for his collar.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE HANWELLIAD.

  When I come into my kingdom, which will happen very soon,
  I shall ride a milk-white palfrey from the Mountains of the Moon;
  He's caparisoned and costly, but he did his bit of work
  In a bridle set with brilliants, which he used to beat the Turk.

  Then they called their Uncle Edward and they blew without a check,
  Keeping time with much precision, down the back of Uncle's neck,
  Till he fled to get an iceberg, which he providently found
  Half on land and half in water, so he couldn't well be drowned.

  Oh, his gait was very silent, very sinuous and slow--
  He had learnt it from a waiter whom he met about Soho;
  He was much the best tactician of the migratory band
  And he earned a decent living as a parcel packed by hand.

  "Sergeant James," we said, "how goes it?" but the Sergeant looked askance;
  Not for him the mazy phalanx or the military dance;
  He could only sit and suffer, with a most portentous frown,
  While a crowd of little gipsies turned the whole thing upside down.

  Aunt Maria next surprised us: for her massive back was grooved,
  And her adenoids gave trouble, so we had them all removed;
  If we hadn't done it neatly she'd have gone and joined the dead,
  As it is she hops politely while she walks upon her head.

  So we'll all fill up a cheque-form on some celebrated Banks--
  It's a pity that a cheque-form should be made so much of blanks--
  And we'll give the Bank of England all the credit that is due
  To her hoards of gold and silver; and I wish they weren't so few.

       *       *       *       *       *

