She turned away. It was Ronder now who was "up"...and a little pulling- down would do him no
sort of harm. There were a few little things she was longing, herself, to tell him. A few home-truths.
Then, half-way down the High Street, she met Julia Preston, and didn't they have a lot to say
about it all!

Meanwhile Joan, in another moment, was at her door. What had happened? Oh, what had happened?
Had he been brought back dying and bleeding? Had that horrible man set upon him, there in the
High Street, while every one was about? Was the doctor there, Mr. Puddifoot? Would there perhaps
have to be an operation? This would kill her father. The disgrace.... She let herself in with
her latch-key and stood in the familiar hall. Everything was just as it had always been, the
clocks ticking. She could hear the Cathedral organ faintly through the wall. The drawing-room
windows were open, and she could hear the birds, singing at the sun, out there in the Precincts.
Everything as it always was. She could not understand. Gladys appeared from the kitchen.

"Oh, Gladys, here is the fruit.... Has father come in?"

"I don't know, miss."

"You haven't heard him?"

"No, miss. I've been upstairs, 'elping with the beds."

"Oh--thank you, Gladys."

The terror slipped away from her. Then it was all right. Ellen Stiles had, as usual, exaggerated.
After all, she had not been there. She had heard it only at second-hand. She hesitated for
a moment, then went to the study door. Outside she hesitated again, then she went in.

To her amazement her father was sitting, just as he had always sat, at his table. He looked
up when she entered, there was no sign upon him of any trouble. His face was very white, stone-white,
and it seemed to her that for months past the colour had been draining from it, and now at
last all colour was gone. A man wearing a mask. She could fancy that he would put up his hands
and suddenly slip it from him and lay it down upon the table. The eyes stared through it, alive,
coloured, restless.

"Well, Joan, what is it?"

She stammered, "Nothing, father. I only wanted to see--whether--that--"

"Yes? Is any one wanting to see me?"

"No--only some one told me that you...I thought--"

"You heard that I chastised a ruffian in the town? You heard correctly. I did. He deserved
what I gave him."

A little shiver shook her.

"Is that all you want to know?"

"Isn't there anything, father, I can do?"

"Nothing--except leave me just now. I'm very busy. I have letters to write."

She went out. She stood in the hall, her hands clasped together. What was she to do? The worst
that she had ever feared had occurred. He was mad.

She went into the drawing-room, where the sun was blazing as though it would set the carpet
on fire. What was she to do? What ought she to do? Should she fetch Puddifoot or some older
woman like Mrs. Combermere, who would be able to advise her? Oh, no. She wanted no one there
who would pity him. She felt a longing, urgent desire to keep him always with her now, away
from the world, in some corner where she could cherish and love him and allow no one to insult
and hurt him. But madness! To her girlish inexperience this morning's acts could be nothing
but madness. There in the middle of the High Street, with every one about, to do such a thing!
The disgrace of it! Why, now, they could never stay in Polchester.... This was worse than everything
that had gone before. How they would all talk, Canon Ronder and all of them, and how pleased
they would be!

At that she clenched her hands and drew herself up as though she were defying the whole of
Polchester. They should not laugh at him, they should not dare!...

But meanwhile what immediately was she to do? It wasn't safe to leave him alone. Now that he
had gone so far as to knock some one down in the principal street, what might he not do? What
would happen if he met Canon Ronder? Oh! why had this come? What had they done to deserve this?

What had he done when he had always been so good?

She seemed for a little distracted. She could not think. Her thoughts would not come clearly.
She waited, staring into the sun and the colour. Quietness came to her. Her life was now his.
Nothing counted in her life but that. If they must leave Polchester she would go with him wherever
he must go, and care for him. Johnny! For one terrible instant he seemed to stand, a figure
of flame, outside there on the sun-drenched grass.

Outside! Yes, always outside, until her father did not need her any more. Then, suddenly she
wanted Johnny so badly that she crumpled up into one of the old arm-chairs and cried and cried
and cried. She was very young. Life ahead of her seemed very long. Yes, she cried her heart
out, and then she went upstairs and washed her face and wrote to Falk. She would not telegraph
until she was quite sure that she could not manage it by herself.

The wonderful morning changed to a storm of wind and rain. Such a storm! Down in the basement
Cook could scarcely hear herself speak! As she said to Gladys, it was what you must expect
now. They were slipping into Autumn, and before you knew, why, there would be Winter! Nothing
odder than the sudden way the Seasons took you! But Cook didn't like storms in that house.
"Them Precincts 'ouses, they're that old, they'd fall on top of you as soon as whistle Trefusis!
For her part she'd always thought this 'ouse queer, and it wasn't any the less queer since
all these things had been going on in it." It was at this point that the grocery "boy" arrived
and supposed they'd 'eard all about it by that time. All about what? Why, the Archdeacon knocking
Samuel 'Ogg down in the 'Igh Street that very morning! Then, indeed, you could have knocked
Cook down, as she said, with a whisper. Collapsed her so, that she had to sit down and take
a cup of tea, the kettle being luckily on the boil. Gladys had to sit down and take one too,
and there they sat, the grocer's boy dismissed, in the darkening kitchen, their heads close
together, and starting at every hiss of the rain upon the coals. The house hung heavy and dark
above them. Mad, that's what he must be, and going mad these past ever so many months. And
such a fine man too! But knocking people down in the street, and 'im such a man for his own
dignity! 'Im an Archdeacon too. 'Ad any one ever heard in their lives of an Archdeacon doing
such a thing? Well, that settled Cook. She'd been in the house ten solid years, but at the
end of the month she'd be off. To sit in the house with a madman! Not she! Adultery and all
the talk had been enough, but she had risked her good name and all, just for the sake of that
poor young thing upstairs, but madness!--no, that was another pair of shoes.

Now Gladys was peculiar. She'd given her notice, but hearing this, she suddenly determined
to stay. That poor Miss Joan! Poor little worm! So young and innocent--shut up all alone with
her mad father. Gladys would see her through--

"Why, Gladys," cried Cook, "what will your young feller you're walkin' with say?"

"If 'e don't like it 'e can lump it," said Gladys. "Lord, 'ow this house does rattle!"

All the afternoon of that day Brandon sat, never moving from his study- table. He sat exultant.
Some of the shame had been wiped away. He could feel again the riotous happiness that had surged
up in him as he struck that face, felt it yield before him, saw it fade away into dust and
nothingness. That face that had for all these months been haunting him, at last he had banished
it, and with it had gone those other leering faces that had for so long kept him company. His
room was dark, and it was always in the dark that they came to him--Hogg's, the drunken painter's,
that old woman's in the dirty dress.

And to-day they did not come. If they came he would treat them as he had treated Hogg. That
was the way to deal with them!

His heart was bad, fluttering, stampeding, pounding and then dying away. He walked about the
room that he might think less of it. Never mind his heart! Destroy his enemies, that's what
he had to do--these men and women who were the enemies of himself, his town and his Cathedral.

Suddenly he thought that he would go out. He got his hat and his coat and went into the rain.
He crossed the Green and let himself into the Cathedral by the Saint Margaret Chapel door,
as he had so often done before.

The Cathedral was very dark, and he stumbled about, knocking against pillars and hassocks.
He was strange here. It was as though he didn't know the place. He got into the middle of the
nave, and positively he didn't know where he was. A faint green light glimmered in the East
end. There were chairs in his way. He stood still, listening.

He was lost. He would never find his way out again. His Cathedral, and he was lost! Figures
were moving everywhere. They jostled him and said nothing. The air was thick and hard to breathe.
Here was the Black Bishop's Tomb. He let his fingers run along the metal work. How cold it
was! His hand touched the cold icy beard! His hand stayed there. He could not remove it. His
fingers stuck.

He tried to cry out, and he could say nothing. An icy hand, gauntleted, descended upon his
and held it. He tried to scream. He could not.

He shouted. His voice was a whisper. He sank upon his knees. He fainted, slipping to the ground
like a man tired out.

There, half an hour later, Lawrence found him.

Chapter IV

The Last Tournament

On the morning of the Chapter Meeting Ronder went in through the West door, intending to cross
the nave by the Cloisters. Just as he closed the heavy door behind him there sprang up, close
to him, as though from nowhere at all, that horrible man Davray. Horrible always to Ronder,
but more horrible now because of the dreadful way in which he had, during the last few months,
gone tumbling downhill. There had been, until lately, a certain austerity and even nobility
in the man's face. That was at last completely swept away. This morning he looked as though
he had been sleeping out all night, his face yellow, his eyes bloodshot, his hair tangled and
unkempt, pieces of grass clinging to his well-worn grey flannel suit.

"Good morning, Canon Ronder," he said.

"Good morning," Ronder replied severely, and tried to pass on. But the man stood in his way.

"I'm not going to keep you," he said. "I know what your business is this morning. I wouldn't
keep you from it for a single moment. I know what you're going to do. You're going to get rid
of that damned Archdeacon. Finish him for once and all. Stamp on him so that he can never raise
up his beautiful head again. I know. It's fine work you've been doing ever since you came here,
Canon Ronder. But it isn't you that's been doing it. It's the Cathedral."

"Please let me pass," said Ronder. "I haven't any time just now to spare."

"Ah, that hurts your pride. You like to think it's you who's been the mighty fine fellow all
this time. Well, it isn't you at all. It's the Cathedral. The Cathedral's jealous, you know--don't
like its servants taking all the credit to themselves. Pride's dangerous, Canon Ronder. In
a year or two's time, when you're feeling pretty pleased with yourself, you just look back
on the Archdeacon's history for a moment and consider it. It may have a lesson for you. Good
morning, Canon Ronder. Pleased to have met you."

