"I am afraid I still--"

"Allow me to tell you all about myself," I said. And I did.

I was a little nervous as to how he would take it, but the event justified me. When I opened
my paper next evening I found the following words:--

"Ran across John Smith of Ravenscourt Park yesterday afternoon. Chatting with him about one
thing and another, he told me something of the methods he has employed to bring about his present
celebrity in that salubrious suburb. He has never, it appears, written a book, collaborated
in a review, appeared in a night-club, lunched at the Bitz, sat on a committee, or been summoned
as a witness in a sensational divorce case. His record, I fancy, must be one of the most thoroughly
unique in Greater London."

There was no photograph of John Smith, but, biting partly into this paragraph and partly into
another on the opposite side of the column, was one of Mortimer Despenser, the new film star,
featured in Scented Sin, which really did almost as well. Dear old Du Beurre!

EVOE.

       *       *       *       *       *

MUSIC À LA MODE.

  There was a young singer whose moans
  Struck a chill to her auditors' bones;
      So she had to explain
      That she wasn't in pain,
  But was trying to sing quarter-tones.

  There once was a basso, a swain
  Who came from the rolling Ukraine;
      He could sing double D
      From breakfast till tea
  Without any symptom of strain.

  There was a benevolent peer
  Who wished to make Art less severe,
      So he learned the Jazz drum
      And bids fair to become
  The black man's most terrible fear.

  There once was a critic whose bane
  Was his dread of a style that was plain,
      So, resolved to refresh us,
      He strove to be precious,
  But sank to the nether inane.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "AMATEUR SNOOKER POOL CHAMPIONSHIP: S.H. FRY DEFLATED."--Provincial
    Paper.

It was noticed even during the Billiard competition that he never really got the wind up.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "The chief obstacle to the development of water-power is usually the
    question of finance, and if the scheme will not hold water from that
    point of view it is not likely to float."--Electrical Review.

And if it holds too much water it is certain to sink. No doubt you remember (since they are
so difficult to forget) the two volumes in which he dealt faithfully (and a bit over) with
the manners of his countrymen in the land of their fathers. I have heard, and can well believe,
that some of Mr. EVANS' own people were moved by this tribute even to the extent of threatening
its author with personal violence. And now he has turned from Welsh Wales to English London,
and gives us in My Neighbours (MELROSE) a further collection of sketches pleasantly calculated
to prove that the general detestability of his compatriots remains unchanged by their migration
from a whitewashed cottage to a villa in Suburbia. Whatever you may think of Mr. EVANS' work,
whether it attracts or violently repels, there can be no question of its devastating skill.
His sketches, no more than a few pages in length, contain never an idle word, and the phrases
bite like vitriol. Moreover he employs an idiom that is (I conjecture) a direct transcription
from native speech, which adds enormously to the effect. Understand me, not for worlds would
I commend these volumes haphazard to the fastidious; I only say they are clever, arresting
and violently individual. Also that, if you have not so far met the work of Mr. EVANS, here
is your opportunity, in a volume that shows it at its best, or worst. Half-an-hour's reading
will give you an excellent idea of it. At the end of that time you will probably send either
to the chemist for a restorative or to the bookseller for the two previous volumes.