My schooling was not peculiar; there was nothing "holier than thou" in my bringing up.  My
father, being a Roman Catholic convert from the Episcopalian Church, sent me to Notre Dame,
Indiana, to be educated; and there, to be sure, I read the "Lives of the Saints," aspired to
be a saint, and put pebbles in my small shoes to "mortify the flesh," because I was told that
a good priest, Father Hudson--whom I all but worshipped--used to do so.  But even at Notre
Dame, and much more in Denver, I was homesick for the farm; and at last I was allowed to return
to Jackson to be cared for by my Protestant relatives.  They sent me to a Baptist school till
I was seventeen.  And when I was recalled to Denver, because of the failure of my father's
health, I went to work to help earn for the household, with no strong attachment for any church
and with no recognized membership in any.

I suppose there is no one who does not look back upon his past and wonder what he should have
become in life if this or that crucial event had not occurred to set his destiny.  It seems
to me that if it had not been for the sudden death of my father I, too, might have found our
jungle beast a domestic tabby, and have fed it its prey without realizing what I was about.
I should have been a lawyer, I know; for I had had the ambition from my earliest boyhood, and
I had been confirmed in it by my success in debating at school.  (Once, at Notre Dame, I spoke
for a full hour in successful defence of the proposition that Colorado was the "greatest state
in the Union," and proved at least that I had a lawyer's "wind.")  But I should probably have
been a lawyer who has learned his pleasant theories of life in the colleges. And on the night
that my father died, the crushing realities of poverty put out an awful and compelling hand
on me, and my struggle with them began.

I was eighteen years old, the eldest of four children.  I had been "writing proofs" in the
Denver land office, for claimants who had filed on Government land; and I had saved $150 of
my salary before my work there ceased.  I found, after my father's death, that this $150 was
all we had in the world, and $130 of it went for funeral expenses.  His life had been insured
for $15,000, and we believed that the premiums had all been paid, but we could not find the
last receipt; the agent denied having received the payment; the policy had lapsed on the day
before my father's death; and we got nothing.  Our furniture had been mortgaged; we were allowed
only enough of it to furnish a little house on Santa Fé Avenue; and later we moved to a cottage
on lower West Colfax Avenue, in which Negroes have since lived.

I went to work at a salary of $10 a month, in a real estate office--as office boy--and carried
a "route" of newspapers in the morning before the office opened, and did janitor work at night
when it closed.  After a month of that, I got a better place, as office boy, with a mining
company, at a salary of $25 a month.  And finally, my younger brother found work in a law office
and I "swapped jobs" with him--because I wished to study law!

It was the office of Mr. R. D. Thompson, who still practises in Denver; and his example as
an incorruptibly honest lawyer has been one of the best and strongest influences of my life.

I had that one ambition--to be a lawyer.  Associated with it I seem to have had an unusual
curiosity about politics.  And where I got either the ambition or the curiosity, I have no
idea.  My father's mother was a Greenleaf,[1] and related to the author of "Greenleaf on Evidence,"
but my father himself had nothing of the legal mind.  As a boy, living in Mississippi, he had
joined the Confederate army when he was preparing for the University of Virginia, had attained
the rank of captain, had become General Forrest's private secretary, and had written--or largely
helped to write--General Forrest's autobiography. He was idealistic, enthusiastic, of an inventive
genius, with a really remarkable command of English, and an absorbing love of books.  My mother's
father was a Barr, from the north of Ireland, a Scotch-Irish Presbyterian, her mother was a
Woodfalk of Jackson County, Tennessee, a Methodist.  The members of the family were practical,
strong-willed, able men and women, but with no bent, that I know of, toward either law or politics.

And yet, one of the most vivid memories of my childhood in Jackson is of attending a political
rally with my grandfather and hearing a Civil War veteran declaim against Republicans who "waved
the bloody shirt"--a memory so strong that for years afterward I never saw a Republican without
expecting to see the gory shirt on his back, and wondering vaguely why he was not in jail.
When I came to Denver, where the Republicans were dominant, I felt myself in the land of the
enemy.  And when I "swapped" myself into Mr. Thompson's office, I was surprised to find that
my employer, though a Republican from Pittsburg, was so human that one of the first things
he did was to give me a suit of clothes. If there is anything more ridiculously dangerous than
to blind a child's mind with such prejudices, I do not know what it is.

However, my own observations of what was going on about me were already opening my eyes.  I
had read, in the newspapers, of how the Denver Republicans won the elections by fraud--by ballot-box
stuffing and what not--and I had followed one "Soapy" Smith on the streets, from precinct to
precinct, with his gang of election thieves, and had seen them vote not once but five times
openly.  I had seen a young man, whom I knew, knocked down and arrested for "raising a disturbance"
when he objected to "Soapy" Smith's proceeding; and the policeman who arrested him did it with
a smile and a wink.

When I came to Mr. Thompson to ask him how he, a Republican, could countenance such things,
he assured me that much of what I had been reading and hearing of election frauds was a lie--the
mere "whine" of the defeated party--and I saw that he believed what he said.  I knew that he
was an honest, upright man; and I was puzzled.  What puzzled me still more was this: although
the ministers in the churches and "prominent citizens" in all walks of life denounced the "election
crooks" with the most laudable fervor, the election returns showed that the best people in
the churches joined the worst people in the dives to vote the same ticket, and vote it "straight."
And I was most of all puzzled to find that when the elections were over, the opposition newspaper
ceased its scolding, the voice of ministerial denunciation died away, and the crimes of the
election thieves were condoned and forgotten.

I was puzzled.  I saw the jungle of vice and party prejudice, but I did not yet see "the Cat."
I saw its ears and its eyes there in the underbrush, but I did not know what they were.  I
thought they were connected with the Republican party.

And then I came upon some more of the brute's anatomy.  Members of the Legislature in Denver
were accused of fraud in the purchase of state supplies, and--some months later--members of
the city government were accused of committing similar frauds with the aid of civic officials
and prominent business men.  It was proved in court, for example, that bills for $3 had been
raised to $300, that $200 had been paid for a bundle of hay worth $2, and $50 for a yard of
cheesecloth worth five cents; barrels of ink had been bought for each legislator, though a
pint would have sufficed; and an official of the Police Department was found guilty of conniving
with a gambler named "Jim" Marshall to rob an express train.  I watched the cases in court.
I applauded at the meetings of leading citizens who denounced the grafters and passed resolutions
in support of the candidates of the opposition party.  I waited to see the criminals punished.
And they were not punished. Their crimes were not denied.  They were publicly denounced by
the courts and by the investigating committees, but somehow, for reasons not clear, they all
went scot-free, on appeals.  Some mysterious power protected them, and I, in the boyish ardor
of my ignorance, concluded that they were protected by the Republican "bloody shirt"--and I
rushed into that (to me) great confederation of righteousness and all-decent government, the
Democratic party.

It would be laughable to me now, if it were not so "sort of sad."

Meanwhile, I was busy about the office, copying letters, running errands, carrying books to
and from the court rooms, reading law in the intervals, and at night scrubbing the floors.
I was pale, thin, big-headed, with the body of an underfed child, and an ambition that kept
me up half the night with Von Holst's "Constitutional Law," Walker's "American Law," or a sheepskin
volume of Lawson's "Leading Cases in Equity."  I was so mad to save every penny I could earn
that instead of buying myself food for luncheon, I ate molasses and gingerbread that all but
turned my stomach; and I was so eager to learn my law that I did not take my sleep when I could
get it.  The result was that I was stupid at my tasks, moody, melancholy, and so sensitive
that my employer's natural dissatisfaction with my work put me into agonies of shame and despair
of myself.  I became, as the boys say, "dopy."  I remember that one night, after I had scrubbed
the floors of our offices, I took off the old trousers in which I had been working, hung them
in a closet, and started home; and it was not until the cold wind struck my bare knees that
I realized I was on the street in my shirt.  Often, when I was given a brief to work up for
Mr. Thompson, I would slave over it until the small hours of the morning and then, to his disgust--and
my unspeakable mortification--find that my work was valueless, that I had not seized the fundamental
points of the case, or that I had built all my arguments on some misapprehension of the law.

Worse than that, I was unhappy at home.  Poverty was fraying us all out.  If it was not exactly
brutalizing us, it was warping us, breaking our healths, and ruining our dispositions.  My
good mother--married out of a beautiful Southern home where she had lived a life that (as I
remembered it) was all horseback rides and Negro servants--had started out bravely in this
debasing existence in a shanty, but it was wearing her out.  She was passing through a critical
period of her life, and she had no care, no comforts.  I have often since been ashamed of myself
that I did not sympathize with her and understand her, but I was too young to understand, and
too miserable myself to sympathize.  It seemed to me that my life was not worth living--that
every one had lost faith in me--that I should never succeed in the law or anything else--that
I had no brains--that I should never do anything but scrub floors and run messages.  And after
a day that had been more than usually discouraging in the office and an evening of exasperated
misery at home, I got a revolver and some cartridges, locked myself in my room, confronted
myself desperately in the mirror, put the muzzle of the loaded pistol to my temple, and pulled
the trigger.

The hammer snapped sharply on the cartridge; a great wave of horror and revulsion swept over
me in a rush of blood to my head, and I dropped the revolver on the floor and threw myself
on my bed.

By some miracle the cartridge had not exploded; but the nervous shock of that instant when
I felt the trigger yield and the muzzle rap against my forehead with the impact of the hammer--that
shock was almost as great as a very bullet in the brain.  I realized my folly, my weakness;
and I went back to my life with something of a man's determination to crush the circumstances
that had almost crushed me.

Why do I tell that?  Because there are so many people in the world who believe that poverty
is not sensitive, that the ill-fed, overworked boy of the slums is as callous as he seems dull.
Because so many people believe that the weak and desperate boy can never be anything but a
weak and vicious man.  Because I came out of that morbid period of adolescence with a sympathy
for children that helped to make possible one of the first courts established in America for
the protection as well as the correction of children.  Because I was never afterward as afraid
of anything as of my own weakness, my own cowardice--so that when the agents of the Beast in
the courts and in politics threatened me with all the abominations of their rage if I did not
commit moral suicide for them, my fear of yielding to them was so great that I attacked them
more desperately than ever.

It was about this time, too, that I first saw the teeth and the claws of our metaphorical man-eater.
That was during the conflict between Governor Waite and the Fire and Police Board of Denver.
He had the appointment and removal of the members of this Board, under the law, and when they
refused to close the public gambling houses and otherwise enforce the laws against vice in
Denver, he read them out of office. They refused to go, and defied him, with the police at
their backs.  He threatened to call out the militia and drive them from the City Hall. The
whole town was in an uproar.

One night, in the previous summer, I had followed the excited crowds to Coliseum Hall to hear
the Governor speak, and I had seen him rise like some old Hebrew prophet, with his long white
beard and patriarchal head of hair, and denounce iniquity and political injustice and the oppressions
of the predatory rich.  He appealed to the Bible in a calm prediction that, if the reign of
lawlessness did not cease, in time to come "blood would flow in the land even unto the horses'
bridles." (And he earned for himself, thereby, the nickname of "Bloody Bridles" Waite.)

Now it began to appear that his prediction was about to come true; for he called out the militia,
and the Board armed the police.  My brother was a militiaman, and I kept pace with him as his
regiment marched from the Armouries to attack the City Hall.  There were riflemen on the towers
and in the windows of that building; and on the roofs of the houses for blocks around were
sharpshooters and armed gamblers and the defiant agents of the powers who were behind the Police
Board in their fight.  Gatling guns were rushed through the streets; cannon were trained on
the City Hall; the long lines of militia were drawn up before the building; and amid the excited
tumult of the mob and the eleventh-hour conferences of the Committee of Public Safety, and
the hurry of mounted officers and the marching of troops, we all waited with our hearts in
our mouths for the report of the first shot. Suddenly, in the silence that expected the storm,
we heard the sound of bugles from the direction of the railroad station, and at the head of
another army--a body of Federal soldiers ordered from Fort Logan by President Cleveland, at
the frantic call of the Committee of Public Safety--a mounted officer rode between the lines
of militia and police, and in the name of the President commanded peace.

The militia withdrew.  The crowds dispersed.  The police and their partisans put up their guns,
and the Beast, still defiant, went back sullenly to cover.  Not until the Supreme Court had
decided that Governor Waite had the right and the power to unseat the Board--not till then
was the City Hall surrendered; and even so, at the next election (the Beast turning polecat),
"Bloody Bridles" Waite was defeated after a campaign of lies, ridicule, and abuse, and the
men whom he had opposed were returned to office.

I had eyes, but I did not see.  I thought the whole quarrel was a personal matter between the
Police Board and Governor Waite, who seemed determined merely to show them that he was master;
and if my young brother had been shot down by a policeman that night, I suppose I should have
joined in the curses upon poor old "Bloody Bridles."

However, my prospects in the office had begun to improve.  I had had my salary raised, and
I had ceased doing janitor work.  I had become more of a clerk and less of an office boy. 
A number of us "kids" had got up a moot court, rented a room to meet in, and finally obtained
the use of another room in the old Denver University building, where, in the gaslight, we used
to hold "quiz classes" and defend imaginary cases. (That, by the way, was the beginning of
the Denver University Law School.)  I read my Blackstone, Kent, Parsons--working night and
day--and I began really to get some sort of "grasp of the law."  Long before I had passed my
examinations and been called to the bar, Mr. Thompson would give me demurrers to argue in court;
and, having been told that I had only a pretty poor sort of legal mind, I worked twice as hard
to make up for my deficiencies.  I argued my first case, a damage suit, when I was nineteen.
And at last there happened one of those lucky turns common in jury cases, and it set me on my feet.

A man had been held by the law on several counts of obtaining goods under false pretences.
He had been tried on the first count by an assistant district attorney, and the jury had acquitted
him.  He had been tried on the second count by another assistant, who was one of our great
criminal lawyers, and the jury had disagreed.  There was a debate as to whether it was worth
while to try him for a third time, and I proposed that I should take the case, since I had
been working on it and thought there was still a chance of convicting him.  They let me have
my way, and though the evidence in the third charge was the same as before--except as to the
person defrauded--the jury, by good luck, found against him.  It was the turning point in my
struggle.  It gave me confidence in myself; and it taught me never to give up.

And now I began to come upon "the Cat" again.

I knew a lad named Smith, whom I considered a victim of malpractice at the hands of a Denver
surgeon whose brother was at the head of one of the great smelter companies of Colorado.  The
boy had suffered a fracture of the thigh-bone, and the surgeon--because of a hasty and ill-considered
diagnosis, I believed--had treated him for a bruised hip.  The surgeon, when I told him that
the boy was entitled to damages, called me a blackmailer--and that was enough.  I forced the
case to trial.

I had resigned my clerkship and gone into partnership with a fine young fellow whom I shall
call Charles Gardener[2]--though that was not his name--and this was to be our first case.
We were opposed by Charles J. Hughes, Jr., the ablest corporation lawyer in the state; and
I was puzzled to find the officers of the gas company and a crowd of prominent business men
in court when the case was argued on a motion to dismiss it.  The judge refused the motion,
and for so doing--as he afterward told me himself--he was "cut" in his Club by the men whose
presence in the court had puzzled me.  After a three weeks' trial, in which we worked night
and day for the plaintiff--with X-ray photographs and medical testimony and fractured bones
boiled out over night in the medical school where I prepared them--the jury stood eleven to
one in our favour, and the case had to be begun all over again.  The second time, after another
trial of three weeks, the jury "hung" again, but we did not give up.  It had been all fun for
us--and for the town.  The word had gone about the streets: "Go up and see those two kids fighting
the corporation heavyweights.  It's more fun than a circus."  And we were confident that we
could win; we knew that we were right.

One evening after dinner, when we were sitting in the dingy little back room on Champa Street
that served us as an office, A. M. Stevenson--"Big Steve"--politician and attorney for the
Denver City Tramway Company, came shouldering in to see us--a heavy-jowled, heavy-waisted,
red-faced bulk of good-humour--looking as if he had just walked out of a political cartoon.
"Hello, boys," he said jovially. "How's she going?  Making a record for yourselves up in court,
eh? Making a record for yourselves.  Well!"

He sat down and threw a foot up on the desk and smiled at us, with his inevitable cigarette
in his mouth--his ridiculously inadequate cigarette.  (When he puffed it, he looked like a
fat boy blowing bubbles.)  "Wearing yourselves out, eh?  Working night and day?  Ain't you
getting about tired of it?"

"We got eleven to one each time," I said.  "We'll win yet."

"Uh-huh.  You will, eh?"  He laughed amusedly.  "One man stood out against you each time, wasn't
there?"

There was.

"Well," he said, "there always will be.  You ain't going to get a verdict in this case.  You
can't.  Now I'm a friend of you boys, ain't I?  Well, my advice to you is you'd better settle
that case.  Get something for your work.  Don't be a pair of fools.  Settle it."

"Why can't we get a verdict?" we asked.

He winked a fat eye.  "Jury'll hang.  Every time.  I'm here to tell you so.  Better settle it." [3]

We refused to.  What was the use of courts if we could not get justice for this crippled boy?
What was the use of practising law if we could not get a verdict on evidence that would convince
a blind man?  Settle it?  Never!

So they went to our client and persuaded the boy to give up.

"Big Steve," attorney for the tramway company!  The gas company's officers in court!  The business
men insulting the judge in his Club! The defendant's brother at the head of one of the smelter
companies!  I began to "connect up" "the Cat."

Gardener and I held a council of war.  If it was possible for these men to "hang" juries whenever
they chose, there was need of a law to make something less than a unanimous decision by a jury
sufficient to give a verdict in civil cases.  Colorado needed a "three-fourths jury law." Gardener
was a popular young man, a good "mixer," a member of several fraternal orders, a hail-fellow-well-met,
and as interested as I was in politics.  He had been in the insurance business before he took
up law, and he had friends everywhere.  Why should he not go into politics?--as he had often
spoken of doing.

In the intervals of the Smith suit, we had had a case in which a mother, whose child had been
killed by a street car, had been unable to recover damages from the tramway company, because
the company claimed, under the law, that her child was worthless alive or dead; and there was
need of a statute permitting such as she to recover damages for distress and anguish of mind.
We had had another case in which a young factory worker had been injured by the bursting of
an emery wheel; and the law held that the boy was guilty of "contributory negligence" because
he had continued to work at the wheel after he had found a flaw in it--although he had had
no choice except to work at it or leave the factory and find employment elsewhere.  There was
need of a law giving workmen better protection in such circumstances.  Why should not Gardener
enter the Legislature and introduce these bills?--which I was eager to draft.  Why not, indeed!
The state needed them; the people wanted them; the courts were crippled and justice was balked
because of the lack of them.  Here was an opportunity for worthy ambition to serve the community
and help his fellow-man.

