I was the youngest child of three; but before I had attained my tenth year, I was an only one.
I had always been the favourite of both my parents, and now I was their idol. They hung upon
my existence, as a shipwrecked mariner clings to the last floating fragment of the gallant
bark that bore him; they lived, but while they held by me, in the rough tossings of the ocean
of life. I was not slow to discover my value in their estimation, or to exercise, in its fullest
extent, the capricious tyranny of conscious power. Almost the earliest impression which my
ripening mind received, was a regal immunity from error--I could do no wrong.

My education was not neglected. Alas! the only use I have ever made of what I acquired, has
been to gild my vices when acted, or refine upon the manner of acting them while in contemplation.
I look back, at this moment, to the period of my life I am describing, as prosperous men recall
the day-spring of their fortunes. They, from the proud eminence on which they stand, trace,
step by step, in retrospective view, the paths by which they ascended; and I, looking through
the dark vista of my by-gone years, behold the fatal series of crimes and follies that stained
their progress, stretching to my boyhood. The gay and frolic irregularities, as they were gently
termed, of that untamed age, were the turbid source of the waters of misery in which I am now
engulphed, I was a lawless planet, running at will; and the orbit I described laid waste more
than one fair region of peace and happiness.

My father had a brother, his elder by many years; a man of stern and rigid character, as I
then considered him; but, as I would now call him, of upright, firm, and honourable principle.
He loved my father, but did not love his weakness; and the display of it, in his indulgence
towards me, was the cause of many a serious, if not sometimes angry, debate between them. Well
do I remember (for it rankled like poison in my swelling heart) a declaration he once made
in my presence. It was a fine autumnal evening, and he was seated with my father and mother
in a balcony, which opened from the library-window upon a spacious lawn. I entered the room,
and advanced towards them, unconscious, of course, that their conversation had been about me;
but my uncle looking at me with a severe expression of countenance, and at the same time addressing
his brother, exclaimed, "Well, James, neither you nor I may live to see it; but if the grace
of God, or his own better reflection, as he grows older, do not work a change in this young
squire, a duel, Jack Ketch, or a razor, will work his exit some day or other."

My father smiled--I saw my mother wipe away a tear--at that moment I could have struck my uncle
dead. I muttered a few words--I knew not what, and left the room. Boy as I was, (for I had
barely completed my seventeenth year,) I felt all the vindictive passions of manhood kindling
within me. It seemed as if a sentence had been passed upon me, the more terrible, because a
secret voice whispered to me, it was prophetic! That impression never forsook me!

I questioned my father haughtily, a few days afterwards, as to the reasons of his brother for
thus speaking of me; and I even dared to insinuate, that, had he felt what a father should,
he would have resented the indignity. He answered me (I write it with shame and contrition)
most mildly, most affectionately. The gentle being--I see him now, as he tenderly took my hand--apologized
to me--to me! who ought to have stood trembling in his presence! I followed up my blow. With
cold, but subtle malignity. I played off my revenge towards my uncle, through the idolatry
of my father's love towards myself. I barbarously gave him a choice of misery; for I disdainfully
replied, that he must henceforth determine, whether he would lose a brother or a son, as I
had determined to remain no longer under his roof, unless I had the assurance that I should
never again see my uncle there. He looked at me. My God! what a look it was! so full of meek
sorrow and appalling obedience! Without uttering a word, he sat down to his writing-table.
The tears fell upon his paper; but they did not blot out a few bitter words addressed to his
brother, which severed for ever in this world two noble hearts; cast, indeed, in different
moulds, but which kindred blood had cemented, in the close bonds of fraternal love, for more
than forty years.

This was my first revenge. But was I satisfied? No!

It was only a few months afterwards, that chance threw in my way a daughter of my uncle's.
I met her at the house of a common friend, who knew and deplored the unhappy schism which prevailed
between the two brothers. He was equally attached to both, and I believe pleased himself with
the idea, that an occasional intercourse between the younger branches of the families, might,
some day or other, bring about a reconciliation between the heads. My cousin Harriet was a
year older than myself. She was in her nineteenth, I in my eighteenth year. I loved her. Yes;
the first feeling that glowed within my bosom was that of love. She was beautiful--fascinating--accomplished--amiable--and
I loved her. It was not long before I was satisfied. I had kindled a reciprocal passion in
her breast. The mute eloquence of her look and manner was only the harbinger of that same thrilling
eloquence, which fell from her tongue when I won the declaration of her affection.

Her father knew we met at this friend's house; but whether he was told, or whether he penetrated,
the secret of our attachment, I never learned. I only know, that, at the very moment when separation
was madness, his mandate went forth, prohibiting all farther intercourse between us, and that
it was obeyed. Not by me; for I was incapable of submission: but by my gentle Harriet, who
thought herself incapable of disobeying. We met no more where we had been wont to meet; and
my young heart's spring of happiness seemed for ever withered.

But here again, I began to reflect, my path was crossed--my hopes were blighted--by my uncle.
I heard, too, that his tongue had been free with my name; that the blistering censure of his
austere virtue had fallen upon my actions. I writhed under the contumely. My wounded spirit
was insatiate for vengeance. I meditated, deeply, how I could inflict it, so as to strike the
blow where he was most vulnerable. I did not brood long over my dark purpose. The love I still
bore his daughter, was now mingled with the hatred I bore towards himself; and I exulted in
the thought, that I should perhaps be able to gratify, at one and the same moment, two of the
fiercest passions of my nature--lust and revenge!

I SUCCEEDED!

In these two words let me shroud a tale of horror. Harriet was my victim! Ask not how. I triumphed!
She fell! An angel might have fallen as she did, and lost no purity. But her stainless heart
was too proud in virtue to palter and equivocate with circumstances. She never rose from what
she deemed her bridal bed. And ere twenty summers had fanned her cheek, the grave-worm banqueted
upon its loveliness.

This was my first crime. The recollection of it is engraven upon my memory by an awful catastrophe.
The night wind that sung her funeral dirge, howled with dismal fury through the burning ruins
of my paternal mansion. Yes! that very night, as if it were in mercy to them, my father and
my mother both perished in the flames which reduced the house itself to cinders. They were
seen at the windows of their bedchamber, shrieking for aid; but before any could be procured,
the flooring gave way, and they sunk at once into the yawning furnace that roared beneath.
Their remains, when afterwards dug out, were a few shovelsfull of blackened ashes; except my
father's right hand, which was found clasped in that of my mother, and both unconsumed. I followed
these sad relics to the sepulchre. But with the tears I shed, there was blended a feeble consolation
at the thought they had died before they knew the fate of Harriet; and a frightful joy, that
another pang was added to the wretchedness of my uncle.

I can well remember what a feeling of loneliness and desolation now took possession of me.
Time, however, rolled on; and I grew callous, if not reconciled. I could not disguise from
myself that the more select circles of society were closed against me; or, if I found my way
into them, some blushing whisper was quickly circulated, which created a solitude around me.

It was during this period, and while I was squandering thousands to achieve the conquest of
shadows, that I succeeded in fixing an intimacy with a family equal to my own in station, and
superior to it in fortune. The eldest daughter was an heiress of large expectations, and my
proposals of marriage were favourably received. I might almost say that Matilda was mine; when
one day I received a letter from her father, peremptorily forbidding my visits. I was thunderstruck.
I hastened to the house, and demanded an explanation. It was given in few words. I was referred
to my uncle for any information I required.

This blow struck me down. I had run through my patrimonial estate; but hoped, by my marriage
with Matilda, to repair my shattered fortune. Three weeks after it was known that the match
was broken off, I was a prisoner for debt in the King's Bench! I breathed no curses upon the
cause of this sudden reverse of fortune, but--I swore revenge, in silence; and I kept my oath.
I languished away six months, a captive debtor; and then, taking the benefit of the act, I
walked forth a beggar, to prey upon the world at large! I had studied, during that time, in
an admirable school, where I found professors in every art by which fools are gulled, and knaves
foiled with their own weapons. I was an apt scholar, and returned to the bosom of society,
an adept in the science of polished depredation. Translate this into the language of the Old
Bailey, and I became a swindler by profession. Like the eagle, however, I was a bird of prey
that soared into the highest regions, and rarely stooped to strike the meaner tribes of my
species. I had not lost, with the trappings of my birth, the manners and address of the sphere
in which I had moved; and these were now my stock in trade for carrying on my new vocation.

Among the children of misfortune with whom I associated in prison, was Charles Fitzroy; a bankrupt
in every thing but exhaustless invention, and unconquerable perseverance. Give him the free
use of his limbs, and with matchless dexterity he would make the contributions of the morning
furnish out the riotous expenses of the evening. It was his boast, that he would breakfast
with an empty pocket, and dine with a purse that should defray the carouse of a dozen friends.
And I have known him fulfil his boast, with a heart as light, too, as became a man who thus
made the credulous fools of the world his bankers.

I was needy, desperate, and an outcast; and I linked my destiny with Fitzroy's. He had my confidence;
such confidence as confederates in knavery can bestow. When he obtained his liberty, which
he did shortly after my own was accomplished, he introduced me to his companions; men who,
like himself, lived by plundering the unwary, and who looked up to him as their Magnus Apollo.
I was soon initiated in all their mysteries; and played my part to admiration at the gaming-table,
on the race course, and in the ring.

Fitzroy was master of the secret that festered near my heart; the increased and increasing
hatred towards my uncle. I regarded him as my evil genius; for not only had he thwarted me
in two of the dearest objects of my life; but his prediction of my boyhood had clung to me
like a poisoned garment. I could not shake it off; and now, more than ever, it seemed accomplishing
itself with rapid strides. It made me mad when I reflected upon the polluted channels through
which my precarious means flowed, and thought of the luxurious enjoyments which his opulence
commanded. It was true, I had dashed his cup with bitterness; but it was no less true, that
it still flowed with sweets, while mine was brimming with gall. Fitzroy would often talk to
me upon this subject, and devise schemes for a successful inroad upon his purse. At length
a plan was matured between us, in which I could not appear, but which Fitzroy, and a picked
few of our associates, undertook to execute.

My uncle had always been passionately fond of the course, and prided himself upon his stud
of racers. He betted largely, and was generally fortunate, probably because he selected his
men with a wary eye. The race course, then, was the arena chosen for the enterprise; but admirable
as were the projected plans, and skilfully as they were executed, such was his luck, or so
profound were his calculations, that they failed five successive seasons. Fitzroy, however,
was one of those men who, when satisfied that what they engage in ought to succeed, according
to the means employed, only derive fresh vigour from every fresh defeat. He played his game
a sixth time, and won. The same day that saw my uncle rise with thousands, saw him seek his
pillow at night, a frantic beggar! He was too proud a man, too honourable, I will add, not
to throw down his last guinea, in satisfaction of such demands. He never suspected villany
in the business. He paid his losses, therefore; and in less than a week afterwards, an inquest
sat upon his body, which was found at the bottom of his own fish pond.

I had my share of this infernal plunder; but so ravenous had been my appetite for revenge,
that not one pang of remorse disturbed the riotous enjoyments in which it was lavished. On
the contrary, the very consciousness that it was my uncle's money I squandered, gave a zest
to every excess, and seemed to appease the gnawing passions which had so long tormented me.
In two or three years, however, boundless extravagance, and the gaming-table, stripped me of
my last shilling. It was in one of the frenzied moments of this profligate reverse of fortune,
that I committed the crime for which, if to-morrow dawned upon me, I should be publicly arraigned.

Fitzroy had been fortunate the whole night. I had thrown with constant bad luck. He had pocketed
some hundreds; I had lost more than I could pay. I asked him for a temporary loan of fifty
pounds, to make good what I owed, and stake the small remaining sum for the chance of retrieving
all. He refused me. It was the first time he had ever done so. But he not only refused me,
he taunted me with sarcastic reproofs for my folly, and muttered something about the uselessness
of assisting a man who, if he had thousands, would scatter them like dust. He should have chosen
a fitter moment to exhort me, than when I was galled by my losses, and by his denial of my
request. I was heated with wine too; and half mad with despair, half mad with drink, I sprang
upon him, tore him to the earth, and before the by-standers could interfere to separate us,
I had buried a knife, which I snatched from a table near me, up to the handle in his heart!
He screamed--convulsively grappled me by the throat---and expired! His death-gripe was so fierce
and powerful, that I believe had we been alone, his murderer would have been found strangled
by his side. It was with difficulty that the horror-struck witnesses of this bloody scene could
force open his clenched hands time enough to let me breathe.

I have done! I remember, as if it were but yesterday, the silent response which my heart made,
when my uncle pronounced that withering sentence on me. "No!" was my indignant exclamation;
"I may deserve a hundred public deaths; but if I know myself, I would never undergo one!--NOR
WILL I." When that which I have written shall be read--other hopes and fears--other punishments,
perchance, than man can awaken or inflict--will await me. My first crime--my first revenge,
and my last, I have recorded; my last crime others must tell, when they speak of the murderer
and SUICIDE,

  JAMES MORLEY.

There is little doubt that scarcely a moment intervened between his writing his name, and placing
the pistol to his heart; for when he was discovered, the pen was lying on the paper, as if
it had been laid down only for an instant.

       *       *       *       *       *

RETROSPECTIVE GLEANINGS.

       *       *       *       *       *

REGAL TABLET.

(Concluded from page 166.)

CHARLES II.

restored 29th May, 1669, ended 6th Feb. 1685.

Popes.

Alexander VII.,            1655. Clement IX.,               1667. Clement X.,             
1670. Innocent XI.,              1676.

Emperor of Germany.

Leopold I.,                1658.

France.

Louis XIV.,                1643.

Spain.

Philip IV.,                1620. Charles II.,               1665.

Portugal.

Alonzo VI.,                1656. Pedro II.,                 1683.

Denmark

Frederic III.,             1648. Christian V.,              1670.

Sweden.

Charles XI.,               1660.

       *       *       *       *       *

JAMES II.

began his reign 6th Feb. 1685, abdicated 13th Feb. 1689.

Contemporaries all as in the last reign.

       *       *       *       *       *

WILLIAM AND MARY

began their reign 13th Feb. 1689, ended 8th March, 1702.

Popes.

Innocent XI.,              1676. Alexander VIII.,           1689. Innocent XII.,          
1691. Clement XI.,               1700.

Charles II.,               1665. Philip V.,                 1700.

Portugal.

Pedro II.,                 1683.

Denmark.

Christian V.,              1670. Frederic IV.,              1699.

Sweden.

Charles XI.,               1660. Charles XII.,              1697.

Prussia.

Frederic I.,               1701.

       *       *       *       *       *

ANNE

began her reign 8th March, 1702, ended 1st Aug. 1714.

Popes.

Clement XI.,               1700.

Emperors of Germany.

Leopold I.,                1658. Joseph I.,                 1705. Charles VI.,               1711.

France.

Louis XIV.,                1643.

Spain.

Philip V.,                 1700.

Portugal.

Pedro II.,                 1683. John V.,                   1706.

Denmark.

Frederic IV.,              1699.

Sweden.

Charles XII.               1697.

Prussia.

Frederic I.,               1701. Frederic William I.,       1713.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Illustrious House of Brunswick.

GEORGE I.

began his reign 1st Aug. 1714, ended 11th June, 1727.

Popes.

Clement XI.,               1700. Innocent XIII.,            1721. Benedict XIII.,            1723.

Emperor of Germany.

Charles VI.,               1711.

Russia.

Peter I.,                  1724. Catherine I.,              1725. Peter II.,                 1727.

France.

Louis XIV.,                1643. Louis XV.,                 1715.

Spain.

Philip V.,                 1700.

Portugal. Ulrica,                    1718. Frederic,                  1720.

Prussia.

Frederic William I.,       1713.

     *       *       *       *       *

GEORGE II.

began his reign 11th June, 1727, ended 25th Oct. 1760.

Popes.

Benedict XIII.,            1723. Clement XII.,              1730. Benedict XIV.,          
1740. Clement XIII.,             1758.

Emperors of Germany.

Charles VI.,               1711. Charles VII.,              1740. Francis I.,                1745.

Russia.

