We can look upon a road from two different points of view.  One regards it as dividing us from
the object of our desire; in that case we count every step of our journey over it as something
attained by force in the face of obstruction.  The other sees it as the road which leads us
to our destination; and as such it is part of our goal.  It is already the beginning of our
attainment, and by journeying over it we can only gain that which in itself it offers to us.
This last point of view is that of India with regard to nature.  For her, the great fact is
that we are in harmony with nature; that man can think because his thoughts are in harmony
with things; that he can use the forces of nature for his own purpose only because his power
is in harmony with the power which is universal, and that in the long run his purpose never
can knock against the purpose which works through nature.

In the west the prevalent feeling is that nature belongs exclusively to inanimate things and
to beasts, that there is a sudden unaccountable break where human-nature begins.  According
to it, everything that is low in the scale of beings is merely nature, and whatever has the
stamp of perfection on it, intellectual or moral, is human-nature.  It is like dividing the
bud and the blossom into two separate categories, and putting their grace to the credit of
two different and antithetical principles.  But the Indian mind never has any hesitation in
acknowledging its kinship with nature, its unbroken relation with all.

The fundamental unity of creation was not simply a philosophical speculation for India; it
was her life-object to realise this great harmony in feeling and in action.  With mediation
and service, with a regulation of life, she cultivated her consciousness in such a way that
everything had a spiritual meaning to her.  The earth, water and light, fruits and flowers,
to her were not merely physical phenomena to be turned to use and then left aside.  They were
necessary to her in the attainment of her ideal of perfection, as every note is necessary to
the completeness of the symphony.  India intuitively felt that the essential fact of this world
has a vital meaning for us; we have to be fully alive to it and establish a conscious relation
with it, not merely impelled by scientific curiosity or greed of material advantage, but realising
it in the spirit of sympathy, with a large feeling of joy and peace.

The man of science knows, in one aspect, that the world is not merely what it appears to be
to our senses; he knows that earth and water are really the play of forces that manifest themselves
to us as earth and water--how, we can but partially apprehend. Likewise the man who has his
spiritual eyes open knows that the ultimate truth about earth and water lies in our apprehension
of the eternal will which works in time and takes shape in the forces we realise under those
aspects.  This is not mere knowledge, as science is, but it is a preception of the soul by
the soul.  This does not lead us to power, as knowledge does, but it gives us joy, which is
the product of the union of kindred things.  The man whose acquaintance with the world does
not lead him deeper than science leads him, will never understand what it is that the man with
the spiritual vision finds in these natural phenomena.  The water does not merely cleanse his
limbs, but it purifies his heart; for it touches his soul.  The earth does not merely hold
his body, but it gladdens his mind; for its contact is more than a physical contact--it is
a living presence.  When a man does not realise his kinship with the world, he lives in a prison-house
whose walls are alien to him.  When he meets the eternal spirit in all objects, then is he
emancipated, for then he discovers the fullest significance of the world into which he is born;
then he finds himself in perfect truth, and his harmony with the all is established.  In India
men are enjoined to be fully awake to the fact that they are in the closest relation to things
around them, body and soul, and that they are to hail the morning sun, the flowing water, the
fruitful earth, as the manifestation of the same living truth which holds them in its embrace.
Thus the text of our everyday meditation is the Gayathri, a verse which is considered to be
the epitome of all the Vedas.  By its help we try to realise the essential unity of the world
with the conscious soul of man; we learn to perceive the unity held together by the one Eternal
Spirit, whose power creates the earth, the sky, and the stars, and at the same time irradiates
our minds with the light of a consciousness that moves and exists in unbroken continuity with
the outer world.

It is not true that India has tried to ignore differences of value in different things, for
she knows that would make life impossible.  The sense of the superiority of man in the scale
of creation has not been absent from her mind.  But she has had her own idea as to that in
which his superiority really consists.  It is not in the power of possession but in the power
of union. Therefore India chose her places of pilgrimage wherever there was in nature some
special grandeur or beauty, so that her mind could come out of its world of narrow necessities
and realise its place in the infinite.  This was the reason why in India a whole people who
once were meat-eaters gave up taking animal food to cultivate the sentiment of universal sympathy
for life, an event unique in the history of mankind.

India knew that when by physical and mental barriers we violently detach ourselves from the
inexhaustible life of nature; when we become merely man, but not man-in-the-universe, we create
bewildering problems, and having shut off the source of their solution, we try all kinds of
artificial methods each of which brings its own crop of interminable difficulties.  When man
leaves his resting-place in universal nature, when he walks on the single rope of humanity,
it means either a dance or a fall for him, he has ceaselessly to strain every nerve and muscle
to keep his balance at each step, and then, in the intervals of his weariness, he fulminates
against Providence and feels a secret pride and satisfaction in thinking that he has been unfairly
dealt with by the whole scheme of things.

But this cannot go on for ever.  Man must realise the wholeness of his existence, his place
in the infinite; he must know that hard as he may strive he can never create his honey within
the cells of his hive; for the perennial supply of his life food is outside their walls.  He
must know that when man shuts himself out from the vitalising and purifying touch of the infinite,
and falls back upon himself for his sustenance and his healing, then he goads himself into
madness, tears himself into shreds, and eats his own substance.  Deprived of the background
of the whole, his poverty loses its one great quality, which is simplicity, and becomes squalid
and shamefaced.  His wealth is no longer magnanimous; it grows merely extravagant.  His appetites
do not minister to his life, keeping to the limits of their purpose; they become an end in
themselves and set fire to his life and play the fiddle in the lurid light of the conflagration.
Then it is that in our self-expression we try to startle and not to attract; in art we strive
for originality and lose sight of truth which is old and yet ever new; in literature we miss
the complete view of man which is simple and yet great, but he appears as a psychological problem
or the embodiment of a passion that is intense because abnormal and because exhibited in the
glare of a fiercely emphatic light which is artificial.  When man's consciousness is restricted
only to the immediate vicinity of his human self, the deeper roots of his nature do not find
their permanent soil, his spirit is ever on the brink of starvation, and in the place of healthful
strength he substitutes rounds of stimulation.  Then it is that man misses his inner perspective
and measures his greatness by its bulk and not by its vital link with the infinite, judges
his activity by its movement and not by the repose of perfection--the repose which is in the
starry heavens, in the ever-flowing rhythmic dance of creation.

The first invasion of India has its exact parallel in the invasion of America by the European
settlers.  They also were confronted with primeval forests and a fierce struggle with aboriginal
races.  But this struggle between man and man, and man and nature lasted till the very end;
they never came to any terms.  In India the forests which were the habitation of the barbarians
became the sanctuary of sages, but in America these great living cathedrals of nature had no
deeper significance to man.  The brought wealth and power to him, and perhaps at times they
ministered to his enjoyment of beauty, and inspired a solitary poet.  They never acquired a
sacred association in the hearts of men as the site of some great spiritual reconcilement where
man's soul has its meeting-place with the soul of the world.

I do not for a moment wish to suggest that these things should have been otherwise.  It would
be an utter waste of opportunities if history were to repeat itself exactly in the same manner
in every place.  It is best for the commerce of the spirit that people differently situated
should bring their different products into the market of humanity, each of which is complementary
and necessary to the others.  All that I wish to say is that India at the outset of her career
met with a special combination of circumstances which was not lost upon her.  She had, according
to her opportunities, thought and pondered, striven and suffered, dived into the depths of
existence, and achieved something which surely cannot be without its value to people whose
evolution in history took a different way altogether.  Man for his perfect growth requires
all the living elements that constitute his complex life; that is why his food has to be cultivated
in different fields and brought from different sources.

Civilisation is a kind of mould that each nation is busy making for itself to shape its men
and women according to its best ideal.  All its institutions, its legislature, its standard
of approbation and condemnation, its conscious and unconscious teachings tend toward that object.
The modern civilisation of the west, by all its organised efforts, is trying to turn out men
perfect in physical, intellectual, and moral efficiency.  There the vast energies of the nations
are employed in extending man's power over his surroundings, and people are combining and straining
every faculty to possess and to turn to account all that they can lay their hands upon, to
overcome every obstacle on their path of conquest.  They are ever disciplining themselves to
fight nature and other races; their armaments are getting more and more stupendous every day;
their machines, their appliances, their organisations go on multiplying at an amazing rate.
This is a splendid achievement, no doubt, and a wonderful manifestation of man's masterfulness
which knows no obstacle, and which has for its object the supremacy of himself over everything
else.

The ancient civilisation of India had its own ideal of perfection towards which its efforts
were directed.  Its aim was not attaining power, and it neglected to cultivate to the utmost
its capacities, and to organise men for defensive and offensive purposes, for co-operation
in the acquisition of wealth and for military and political ascendancy.  The ideal that India
tried to realise led her best men to the isolation of a contemplative life, and the treasures
that she gained for mankind by penetrating into the mysteries of reality cost her dear in the
sphere of worldly success.  Yet, this also was a sublime achievement,--it was a supreme manifestation
of that human aspiration which knows no limit, and which has for its object nothing less than
the realisation of the Infinite.

There were the virtuous, the wise, the courageous; there were the statesmen, kings and emperors
of India; but whom amongst all these classes did she look up to and choose to be the representative
of men?

They were the rishis.  What were the rishis?  They who having
attained the supreme soul in knowledge were filled with wisdom,
and having found him in union with the soul were in perfect
harmony with the inner self; they having realised him in the
heart were free from all selfish desires, and having experienced
him in all the activities of the world, had attained calmness.
The rishis were they who having reached the supreme God from all
sides had found abiding peace, had become united with all, had
entered into the life of the Universe. [Footnote:
/**
  Samprāpyainam rishayo jñānatripatāh
  Kritātmānō vītarāgāh praçantāh
  tē sarvagam sarvatah prāpya dhīrāh
  Yuktātmānah sarvamēvāviçanti.
*/
]

Thus the state of realising our relationship with all, of entering into everything through
union with God, was considered in India to be the ultimate end and fulfilment of humanity.

Man can destroy and plunder, earn and accumulate, invent and discover, but he is great because
his soul comprehends all.  It is dire destruction for him when he envelopes his soul in a dead
shell of callous habits, and when a blind fury of works whirls round him like an eddying dust
storm, shutting out the horizon. That indeed kills the very spirit of his being, which is the
spirit of comprehension.  Essentially man is not a slave either of himself or of the world;
but he is a lover.  His freedom and fulfilment is in love, which is another name for perfect
comprehension.  By this power of comprehension, this permeation of his being, he is united
with the all-pervading Spirit, who is also the breath of his soul.  Where a man tries to raise
himself to eminence by pushing and jostling all others, to achieve a distinction by which he
prides himself to be more than everybody else, there he is alienated from that Spirit.  This
is why the Upanishads describe those who have attained the goal of human life as "peaceful"
[Footnote: Praçantāh] and as "at-one-with- God," [Footnote: Yuktātmānah] meaning that they
are in perfect harmony with man and nature, and therefore in undisturbed union with God.  He
who is bent upon accumulating riches is unable, with his ego continually bulging, to pass through
the gates of comprehension of the spiritual world, which is the world of perfect harmony; he
is shut up within the narrow walls of his limited acquisitions.

Hence the spirit of the teachings of Upanishad is: In order to find him you must embrace all.
In the pursuit of wealth you really give up everything to gain a few things, and that is not
the way to attain him who is completeness.

Some modern philosophers of Europe, who are directly or indirectly indebted to the Upanishads,
far from realising their debt, maintain that the Brahma of India is a mere abstraction, a negation
of all that is in the world.  In a word, that the Infinite Being is to be found nowhere except
in metaphysics.  It may be, that such a doctrine has been and still is prevalent with a section
of our countrymen.  But this is certainly not in accord with the pervading spirit of the Indian
mind.  Instead, it is the practice of realising and affirming the presence of the infinite
in all things which has been its constant inspiration.

We are enjoined to see whatever there is in the world as being enveloped by God. [Footnote:
Içāvāsyamidam sarvam yat kiñcha jagatyāñ jagat.]

I bow to God over and over again who is in fire and in water, who permeates the whole world,
who is in the annual crops as well as in the perennial trees.  [Footnote: Yo dēvō'gnau y'ōpsu
y'ō viçvambhuvanamāvivēça ya ōshadhishu yō  vanaspatishu tasmai dēvāya namōnamah.]

Can this be God abstracted from the world?  Instead, it signifies not merely seeing him in
all things, but saluting him in all the objects of the world.  The attitude of the God-conscious
man of the Upanishad towards the universe is one of a deep feeling of adoration.  His object
of worship is present everywhere.  It is the one living truth that makes all realities true.
This truth is not only of knowledge but of devotion.  'Namonamah,'--we bow to him everywhere,
and over and over again.  It is recognised in the outburst of the Rishi, who addresses the
whole world in a sudden ecstasy of joy: Listen to me, ye sons of the immortal spirit, ye who
live in the heavenly abode, I have known the Supreme Person whose light shines forth from beyond
the darkness. [Footnote: Çrinvantu viçve amritasya putrā ā ye divya dhāmāni tasthuh vedāhametam
purusham mahāntam āditya varņam tamasah parastāt.]  Do we not find the overwhelming delight
of a direct and positive experience where there is not the least trace of vagueness or passivity?

Buddha who developed the practical side of the teaching of Upanishads, preached the same message
when he said, With everything, whether it is above or below, remote or near, visible or invisible,
thou shalt preserve a relation of unlimited love without any animosity or without a desire
to kill.  To live in such a consciousness while standing or walking, sitting or lying down
till you are asleep, is Brahma vihāra, or, in other words, is living and moving and having
your joy in the spirit of Brahma.

What is that spirit?  The Upanishad says, The being who is in his essence the light and life
of all, who is world-conscious, is Brahma.  [Footnote: Yaçchāyamasminnākāçē tējōmayō'mritamayah
purushah sarvānubhūh.]  To feel all, to be conscious of everything, is his spirit.  We are
immersed in his consciousness body and soul.  It is through his consciousness that the sun
attracts the earth; it is through his consciousness that the light-waves are being transmitted
from planet to planet.

Not only in space, but this light and life, this all-feeling being is in our souls.  [Footnote:
Yaçchāyamasminnātmani tējōmayō'mritamayah purushah sarvānubhūh.]  He is all-conscious in space,
or the world of extension; and he is all-conscious in soul, or the world of intension.

Thus to attain our world-consciousness, we have to unite our feeling with this all-pervasive
infinite feeling.  In fact, the only true human progress is coincident with this widening of
the range of feeling.  All our poetry, philosophy, science, art and religion are serving to
extend the scope of our consciousness towards higher and larger spheres.  Man does not acquire
rights through occupation of larger space, nor through external conduct, but his rights extend
only so far as he is real, and his reality is measured by the scope of his consciousness.

We have, however, to pay a price for this attainment of the freedom of consciousness.  What
is the price?  It is to give one's self away.  Our soul can realise itself truly only by denying
itself.  The Upanishad says, Thou shalt gain by giving away [Footnote: Tyaktēna bhuñjīthāh],
Thou shalt not covet. [Footnote: Mā gridhah]

In Gita we are advised to work disinterestedly, abandoning all lust for the result.  Many outsiders
conclude from this teaching that the conception of the world as something unreal lies at the
root of the so-called disinterestedness preached in India.  But the reverse is true.

The man who aims at his own aggrandisement underrates everything else.  Compared to his ego
the rest of the world is unreal.  Thus in order to be fully conscious of the reality of all,
one has to be free himself from the bonds of personal desires.  This discipline we have to
go through to prepare ourselves for our social duties--for sharing the burdens of our fellow-beings.
Every endeavour to attain a larger life requires of man "to gain by giving away, and not to
be greedy."  And thus to expand gradually the consciousness of one's unity with all is the
striving of humanity.

The Infinite in India was not a thin nonentity, void of all content.  The Rishis of India asserted
emphatically, "To know him in this life is to be true; not to know him in this life is the
desolation of death."  [Footnote: Iha chēt avēdit atha satyamasti, nachēt iha avēdit mahatī
vinashtih.]  How to know him then?  "By realising him in each and all."  [Footnote: Bhūtēshu
bhūtēshu vichintva.]  Not only in nature but in the family, in society, and in the state, the
more we realise the World- conscious in all, the better for us.  Failing to realise it, we
turn our faces to destruction.

It fills me with great joy and a high hope for the future of humanity when I realise that there
was a time in the remote past when our poet-prophets stood under the lavish sunshine of an
Indian sky and greeted the world with the glad recognition of kindred.  It was not an anthropomorphic
hallucination.  It was not seeing man reflected everywhere in grotesquely exaggerated images,
and witnessing the human drama acted on a gigantic scale in nature's arena of flitting lights
and shadows.  On the contrary, it meant crossing the limiting barriers of the individual, to
become more than man, to become one with the All. It was not a mere play of the imagination,
but it was the liberation of consciousness from all the mystifications and exaggerations of
the self.  These ancient seers felt in the serene depth of their mind that the same energy
which vibrates and passes into the endless forms of the world manifests itself in our inner
being as consciousness; and there is no break in unity.  For these seers there was no gap in
their luminous vision of perfection.  They never acknowledged even death itself as creating
a chasm in the field of reality.  They said, His reflection is death as well as immortality.
[Footnote: Yasya chhāyāmritam yasya mrityuh.]  They did not recognise any essential opposition
between life and death, and they said with absolute assurance, "It is life that is death."
[Footnote: Prāno mrityuh.]  They saluted with the same serenity of gladness "life in its aspect
of appearing and in its aspect of departure"-- That which is past is hidden in life, and that
which is to come. [Footnote: Namō astu āyatē namō astu parāyatē.  Prānē ha bhūtam bhavyañcha.]
They knew that mere appearance and disappearance are on the surface like waves on the sea,
but life which is permanent knows no decay or diminution.

Everything has sprung from immortal life and is vibrating with life, [Footnote: Yadidan kiñcha
praņa ejati nihsritam.] for life is immense.  [Footnote: Prāno virāt.]

This is the noble heritage from our forefathers waiting to be claimed by us as our own, this
ideal of the supreme freedom of consciousness.  It is not merely intellectual or emotional,
it has an ethical basis, and it must be translated into action.  In the Upanishad it is said,
The supreme being is all-pervading, therefore he is the innate good in all.  [Footnote: Sarvavyāpī
sa bhagavān tasmāt sarvagatah çivah.]  To be truly united in knowledge, love, and service with
all beings, and thus to realise one's self in the all-pervading God is the essence of goodness,
and this is the keynote of the teachings of the Upanishads: Life is immense!  [Footnote: Prāņo
virāt.]

II

SOUL CONSCIOUSNESS

We have seen that it was the aspiration of ancient India to live and move and have its joy
in Brahma, the all-conscious and all- pervading Spirit, by extending its field of consciousness
over all the world.  But that, it may be urged, is an impossible task for man to achieve. 
If this extension of consciousness be an outward process, then it is endless; it is like attempting
to cross the ocean after ladling out its water.  By beginning to try to realise all, one has
to end by realising nothing.

But, in reality, it is not so absurd as it sounds.  Man has every day to solve this problem
of enlarging his region and adjusting his burdens.  His burdens are many, too numerous for
him to carry, but he knows that by adopting a system he can lighten the weight of his load.
Whenever they feel too complicated and unwieldy, he knows it is because he has not been able
to hit upon the system which would have set everything in place and distributed the weight
evenly.  This search for system is really a search for unity, for synthesis; it is our attempt
to harmonise the heterogeneous complexity of outward materials by an inner adjustment.  In
the search we gradually become aware that to find out the One is to possess the All; that there,
indeed, is our last and highest privilege.  It is based on the law of that unity which is,
if we only know it, our abiding strength.  Its living principle is the power that is in truth;
the truth of that unity which comprehends multiplicity.  Facts are many, but the truth is one.
The animal intelligence knows facts, the human mind has power to apprehend truth.  The apple
falls from the tree, the rain descends upon the earth--you can go on burdening your memory
with such facts and never come to an end.  But once you get hold of the law of gravitation
you can dispense with the necessity of collecting facts ad infinitum.  You have got at one
truth which governs numberless facts.  This discovery of truth is pure joy to man--it is a
liberation of his mind.  For, a mere fact is like a blind lane, it leads only to itself--it
has no beyond. But a truth opens up a whole horizon, it leads us to the infinite.  That is
the reason why, when a man like Darwin discovers some simple general truth about Biology, it
does not stop there, but like a lamp shedding its light far beyond the object for which it
was lighted, it illumines the whole region of human life and thought, transcending its original
purpose.  Thus we find that truth, while investing all facts, is not a mere aggregate of facts--it
surpasses them on all sides and points to the infinite reality.

As in the region of knowledge so in that of consciousness, man must clearly realise some central
truth which will give him an outlook over the widest possible field.  And that is the object
which the Upanishad has in view when it says, Know thine own Soul.  Or, in other words, realise
the one great principal of unity that there is in every man.

All our egoistic impulses, our selfish desires, obscure our true vision of the soul.  For they
only indicate our own narrow self. When we are conscious of our soul, we perceive the inner
being that transcends our ego and has its deeper affinity with the All.

Children, when they begin to learn each separate letter of the alphabet, find no pleasure in
it, because they miss the real purpose of the lesson; in fact, while letters claim our attention
only in themselves and as isolated things, they fatigue us.  They become a source of joy to
us only when they combine into words and sentences and convey an idea.

Likewise, our soul when detached and imprisoned within the narrow limits of a self loses its
significance.  For its very essence is unity.  It can only find out its truth by unifying itself
with others, and only then it has its joy.  Man was troubled and he lived in a state of fear
so long as he had not discovered the uniformity of law in nature; till then the world was alien
to him.  The law that he discovered is nothing but the perception of harmony that prevails
between reason which is of the soul of man and the workings of the world.  This is the bond
of union through which man is related to the world in which he lives, and he feels an exceeding
joy when he finds this out, for then he realises himself in his surroundings.  To understand
anything is to find in it something which is our own, and it is the discovery of ourselves
outside us which makes us glad.  This relation of understanding is partial, but the relation
of love is complete. In love the sense of difference is obliterated and the human soul fulfils
its purpose in perfection, transcending the limits of itself and reaching across the threshold
of the infinite. Therefore love is the highest bliss that man can attain to, for through it
alone he truly knows that he is more than himself, and that he is at one with the All.

This principal of unity which man has in his soul is ever active, establishing relations far
and wide through literature, art, and science, society, statecraft, and religion.  Our great
Revealers are they who make manifest the true meaning of the soul by giving up self for the
love of mankind.  They face calumny and persecution, deprivation and death in their service
of love. They live the life of the soul, not of the self, and thus they prove to us the ultimate
truth of humanity.  We call them Mahātmās, "the men of the great soul."

It is said in one of the Upanishads: It is not that thou lovest thy son because thou desirest
him, but thou lovest thy son because thou desirest thine own soul.  [Footnote: Na vā arē putrasya
kāmāya putrah priyō bhavati, ātmanastu kāmāya putrah priyō bhavati.]  The meaning of this is,
that whomsoever we love, in him we find our own soul in the highest sense.  The final truth
of our existence lies in this.  Paramātmā, the supreme soul, is in me, as well as in my son,
and my joy in my son is the realisation of this truth.  It has become quite a commonplace fact,
yet it is wonderful to think upon, that the joys and sorrows of our loved ones are joys and
sorrows to us--nay they are more.  Why so?  Because in them we have grown larger, in them we
have touched that great truth which comprehends the whole universe.

It very often happens that our love for our children, our friends, or other loved ones, debars
us from the further realisation of our soul.  It enlarges our scope of consciousness, no doubt,
yet it sets a limit to its freest expansion. Nevertheless, it is the first step, and all the
wonder lies in this first step itself.  It shows to us the true nature of our soul.  From it
we know, for certain, that our highest joy is in the losing of our egoistic self and in the
uniting with others. This love gives us a new power and insight and beauty of mind to the extent
of the limits we set around it, but ceases to do so if those limits lose their elasticity,
and militate against the spirit of love altogether; then our friendships become exclusive,
our families selfish and inhospitable, our nations insular and aggressively inimical to other
races.  It is like putting a burning light within a sealed enclosure, which shines brightly
till the poisonous gases accumulate and smother the flame. Nevertheless it has proved its truth
before it dies, and made known the joy of freedom from the grip of darkness, blind and empty
and cold.

According to the Upanishads, the key to cosmic consciousness, to God-consciousness, is in the
consciousness of the soul.  To know our soul apart from the self is the first step towards
the realisation of the supreme deliverance.  We must know with absolute certainty that essentially
we are spirit.  This we can do by winning mastery over self, by rising above all pride and
greed and fear, by knowing that worldly losses and physical death can take nothing away from
the truth and the greatness of our soul.  The chick knows when it breaks through the self-centered
isolation of its egg that the hard shell which covered it so long was not really a part of
its life.  That shell is a dead thing, it has no growth, it affords no glimpse whatever of
the vast beyond that lies outside it.  However pleasantly perfect and rounded it may be, it
must be given a blow to, it must be burst through and thereby the freedom of light and air
be won, and the complete purpose of bird life be achieved.  In Sanskrit, the bird has been
called the twice-born.  So too the man who has gone through the ceremony of the discipline
of self-restraint and high thinking for a period of at least twelve years; who has come out
simple in wants, pure in heart, and ready to take up all the responsibilities of life in a
disinterested largeness of spirit. He is considered to have had his rebirth from the blind
envelopment of self to the freedom of soul life; to have come into living relation with his
surroundings; to have become at one with the All.

I have already warned my hearers, and must once more warn them against the idea that the teachers
of India preached a renunciation of the world and of self which leads only to the blank emptiness
of negation.  Their aim was the realisation of the soul, or, in other words, gaining the world
in perfect truth. When Jesus said, "Blessed are the meek, for they shall inherit the earth,"
he meant this.  He proclaimed the truth that when man gets rid of his pride of self then he
comes into his true inheritance.  No more has he to fight his way into his position in the
world; it is secure for him everywhere by the immortal right of his soul.  Pride of self interferes
with the proper function of the soul which is to realise itself by perfecting its union with
the world and the world's God.

In his sermon to Sádhu Simha Buddha says, It is true, Simha, that I denounce activities, but
only the activities that lead to the evil in words, thoughts, or deeds.  It is true, Simha,
that I preach extinction, but only the extinction of pride, lust, evil thought, and ignorance,
not that of forgiveness, love, charity, and truth.

The doctrine of deliverance that Buddha preached was the freedom from the thraldom of Avidyā.
Avidyā is the ignorance that darkens our consciousness, and tends to limit it within the boundaries
of our personal self.  It is this Avidyā, this ignorance, this limiting of consciousness that
creates the hard separateness of the ego, and thus becomes the source of all pride and greed
and cruelty incidental to self-seeking.  When a man sleeps he is shut up within the narrow
activities of his physical life.  He lives, but he knows not the varied relations of his life
to his surroundings,--therefore he knows not himself.  So when a man lives the life of Avidyā
he is confined within his self.  It is a spiritual sleep; his consciousness is not fully awake
to the highest reality that surrounds him, therefore he knows not the reality of his own soul.
When he attains Bodhi, i.e. the awakenment from the sleep of self to the perfection of consciousness,
he becomes Buddha.

