CHRISTMAS NIGHT.--This afternoon they took her away from her room. As soon as I might, I went
down to the library, and there she lay, in her coffin, dressed in exactly the same clothes
she wore when she stood at the other end of the same room on the 6th of October last, as Clara's
chief bridesmaid. Her face was radiant with happy excitement then; it was the same face now,
with the dignity of death and the peace of God upon it.

They told me the first mourner to come was the dog. He came uninvited, and stood up on his
hind legs and rested his fore paws upon the trestle, and took a last long look at the face
that was so dear to him, then went his way as silently as he had come. HE KNOWS.

At mid-afternoon it began to snow. The pity of it--that Jean could not see it! She so loved
the snow.

The snow continued to fall. At six o'clock the hearse drew up to the door to bear away its
pathetic burden. As they lifted the casket, Paine began playing on the orchestrelle Schubert's
"Impromptu," which was Jean's favorite. Then he played the Intermezzo; that was for Susy; then
he played the Largo; that was for their mother. He did this at my request. Elsewhere in my
Autobiography I have told how the Intermezzo and the Largo came to be associated in my heart
with Susy and Livy in their last hours in this life.

From my windows I saw the hearse and the carriages wind along the road and gradually grow vague
and spectral in the falling snow, and presently disappear. Jean was gone out of my life, and
would not come back any more. Jervis, the cousin she had played with when they were babies
together--he and her beloved old Katy--were conducting her to her distant childhood home, where
she will lie by her mother's side once more, in the company of Susy and Langdon.

DECEMBER 26TH. The dog came to see me at eight o'clock this morning. He was very affectionate,
poor orphan! My room will be his quarters hereafter.

The storm raged all night. It has raged all the morning. The snow drives across the landscape
in vast clouds, superb, sublime--and Jean not here to see.

2:30 P.M.--It is the time appointed. The funeral has begun. Four hundred miles away, but I
can see it all, just as if I were there. The scene is the library in the Langdon homestead.
Jean's coffin stands where her mother and I stood, forty years ago, and were married; and where
Susy's coffin stood thirteen years ago; where her mother's stood five years and a half ago;
and where mine will stand after a little time.

FIVE O'CLOCK.--It is all over.

When Clara went away two weeks ago to live in Europe, it was hard, but I could bear it, for
I had Jean left. I said WE would be a family. We said we would be close comrades and happy--just
we two. That fair dream was in my mind when Jean met me at the steamer last Monday; it was
in my mind when she received me at the door last Tuesday evening. We were together; WE WERE
A FAMILY! the dream had come true--oh, precisely true, contentedly, true, satisfyingly true!
and remained true two whole days.

And now? Now Jean is in her grave!

In the grave--if I can believe it. God rest her sweet spirit!

     1.  Katy Leary, who had been in the service of the Clemens
     family for twenty-nine years.

     2.  Mr. Gabrilowitsch had been operated on for appendicitis.

THE TURNING-POINT OF MY LIFE

I

If I understand the idea, the BAZAR invites several of us to write upon the above text. It
means the change in my life's course which introduced what must be regarded by me as the most
IMPORTANT condition of my career. But it also implies--without intention, perhaps--that that
turning-point ITSELF was the creator of the new condition. This gives it too much distinction,
too much prominence, too much credit. It is only the LAST link in a very long chain of turning-points
commissioned to produce the cardinal result; it is not any more important than the humblest
of its ten thousand predecessors. Each of the ten thousand did its appointed share, on its
appointed date, in forwarding the scheme, and they were all necessary; to have left out any
one of them would have defeated the scheme and brought about SOME OTHER result. It know we
have a fashion of saying "such and such an event was the turning-point in my life," but we
shouldn't say it. We should merely grant that its place as LAST link in the chain makes it
the most CONSPICUOUS link; in real importance it has no advantage over any one of its predecessors.

Perhaps the most celebrated turning-point recorded in history was the crossing of the Rubicon.
Suetonius says:

Coming up with his troops on the banks of the Rubicon, he halted for a while, and, revolving
in his mind the importance of the step he was on the point of taking, he turned to those about
him and said, "We may still retreat; but if we pass this little bridge, nothing is left for
us but to fight it out in arms."

This was a stupendously important moment. And all the incidents, big and little, of Caesar's
previous life had been leading up to it, stage by stage, link by link. This was the LAST link--merely
the last one, and no bigger than the others; but as we gaze back at it through the inflating
mists of our imagination, it looks as big as the orbit of Neptune.

You, the reader, have a PERSONAL interest in that link, and so have I; so has the rest of the
human race. It was one of the links in your life-chain, and it was one of the links in mine.
We may wait, now, with bated breath, while Caesar reflects. Your fate and mine are involved
in his decision.

While he was thus hesitating, the following incident occurred. A person remarked for his noble
mien and graceful aspect appeared close at hand, sitting and playing upon a pipe. When not
only the shepherds, but a number of soldiers also, flocked to listen to him, and some trumpeters
among them, he snatched a trumpet from one of them, ran to the river with it, and, sounding
the advance with a piercing blast, crossed to the other side. Upon this, Caesar exclaimed:
"Let us go whither the omens of the gods and the iniquity of our enemies call us. THE DIE IS CAST."

So he crossed--and changed the future of the whole human race, for all time. But that stranger
was a link in Caesar's life-chain, too; and a necessary one. We don't know his name, we never
hear of him again; he was very casual; he acts like an accident; but he was no accident, he
was there by compulsion of HIS life-chain, to blow the electrifying blast that was to make
up Caesar's mind for him, and thence go piping down the aisles of history forever.

