She sprang lightly to her feet and stood over me as I knelt before her. "And I came here to
be made love to, Stephen! I came here to be loved! And you talk that nonsense! You remind me
of everything--wretched!"

She lifted up her hands and then struck down with them, a gesture of infinite impatience. Her
face as she bent to me was alive with a friendly anger, her eyes suddenly dark. "You duffer!"
she repeated....

§ 10

Discovery followed hard upon that meeting. I had come over to Martens with some book as a pretext;
the man had told me that Lady Mary awaited me in her blue parlor, and I went unannounced through
the long gallery to find her. The door stood a little ajar, I opened it softly so that she
did not hear me, and saw her seated at her writing-desk with her back to me, and her cheek
and eyebrow just touched by the sunlight from the open terrace window. She was writing a note.
I put my hand about her shoulder, and bent to kiss her as she turned. Then as she came round
to me she started, was for a moment rigid, then thrust me from her and rose very slowly to
her feet.

I turned to the window and became as rigid, facing Justin. He was standing on the terrace,
staring at us, with a face that looked stupid and inexpressive and--very white. The sky behind
him, appropriately enough, was full of the tattered inky onset of a thunderstorm. So we remained
for a lengthy second perhaps, a trite tableau vivant. We two seemed to hang helplessly upon
Justin, and he was the first of us to move.

He made a queer, incomplete gesture with one hand, as if he wanted to undo the top button of
his waistcoat and then thought better of it. He came very slowly into the room. When he spoke
his voice had neither rage nor denunciation in it. It was simply conversational. "I felt this
was going on," he said. And then to his wife with the note of one who remarks dispassionately
on a peculiar situation. "Yet somehow it seemed wrong and unnatural to think such a thing of you."

His face took on something of the vexed look of a child who struggles with a difficult task.
"Do you mind," he said to me, "will you go?"

I took a moment for my reply. "No," I said. "Since you know at last---- There are things to
be said."

"No," said Mary, suddenly. "Go! Let me talk to him."

"No," I said, "my place is here beside you."

He seemed not to hear me. His eyes were fixed on Mary. He seemed to think he had dismissed
me, and that I was no longer there. His mind was not concerned about me, but about her. He
spoke as though what he said had been in his mind, and no doubt it had been in his mind, for
many days. "I didn't deserve this," he said to her. "I've tried to make your life as you wanted
your life. It's astonishing to find--I haven't. You gave no sign. I suppose I ought to have
felt all this happening, but it comes upon me surprisingly. I don't know what I'm to do." He
became aware of me again. "And you!" he said. "What am I to do? To think that you--while I
have been treating her like some sacred thing...."

The color was creeping back into his face. Indignation had come into his voice, the first yellow
lights of rising jealousy showed in his eyes.

"Stephen," I heard Mary say, "will you leave me to talk to my husband?"

"There is only one thing to do," I said. "What is the need of talking? We two are lovers, Justin."
I spoke to both of them. "We two must go out into the world, go out now together. This marriage
of yours--it's no marriage, no real marriage...."

I think I said that. I seem to remember saying that; perhaps with other phrases that I have
forgotten. But my memory of what we said and did, which is so photographically clear of these
earlier passages that I believe I can answer for every gesture and nearly every word that I
have set down, becomes suddenly turbid. The high tension of our first confrontation was giving
place to a flood of emotional impulse. We all became eager to talk, to impose interpretations
and justifications upon our situation. We all three became divided between our partial attention
to one another and our urgent necessity to keep hold of our points of view. That I think is
the common tragedy of almost all human conflicts, that rapid breakdown from the first cool
apprehension of an issue to heat, confusion, and insistence. I do not know if indeed we raised
our voices, but my memory has an effect of raised voices, and when at last I went out of the
house it seemed to me that the men-servants in the hall were as hushed as beasts before a thunderstorm,
and all of them quite fully aware of the tremendous catastrophe that had come to Martens. And
moreover, as I recalled afterwards with astonishment, I went past them and out into the driving
rain unprotected, and not one of them stirred a serviceable hand....

What was it we said? I have a vivid sense of declaring not once only but several times that
Mary and I were husband and wife "in the sight of God." I was full of the idea that now she
must inevitably be mine. I must have spoken to Justin at times as if he had come merely to
confirm my view of the long dispute there had been between us. For a while my mind resisted
his extraordinary attitude that the matter lay between him and Mary, that I was in some way
an interloper. It seemed to me there was nothing for it now but that Mary should stand by my
side and face Justin with the world behind him. I remember my confused sense that presently
she and I would have to go straight out of Martens. And she was wearing a tea-gown, easy and
open, and the flimsiest of slippers. Any packing, any change of clothing, struck me as an incredible
anti-climax. I had visions of our going forth, hand in hand. Outside was the soughing of a
coming storm, a chill wind drove a tumult of leaves along the terrace, the door slammed and
yawned open again, and then came the rain. Justin, I remember, still talking, closed the door.
I tried to think how I could get to the station five miles away, and then what we could do
in London. We should seem rather odd visitors to an hotel--without luggage. All this was behind
my valiant demand that she should come with me, and come now.

And then my mind was lanced by the thin edge of realization that she did not intend to come
now, and that Justin was resolved she should not do so. After the first shock of finding herself
discovered she had stood pale but uncowed before her bureau, with her eyes rather on him than
on me. Her hands, I think, were behind her upon the edge of the writing flap, and she was a
little leaning upon them. She had the watchful alert expression of one who faces an unanticipated
but by no means overwhelming situation. She cast a remark to me. "But I do not want to come
with you," she said. "I have told you I do not want to come with you." All her mind seemed
concentrated upon what she should do with Justin. "You must send him away," he was saying.
"It's an abominable thing. It must stop. How can you dream it should go on?"

"But you said when you married me I should be free, I should own myself! You gave me this house----"

"What! To disgrace myself!"

I was moved to intervene.

"You must choose between us, Mary," I cried. "It is impossible you should stay here! You cannot
stay here."

She turned upon me, a creature at bay. "Why shouldn't I stay here? Why must I choose between
two men? I want neither of you. I want myself. I'm not a thing. I'm a human being. I'm not
your thing, Justin--nor yours, Stephen. Yet you want to quarrel over me--like two dogs over
a bone. I am going to stay here--in my house! It's my house. I made it. Every room of it is
full of me. Here I am!"

She stood there making this magnificently extravagant claim; her eyes blazing blue, her hair
a little dishevelled with a strand across her cheek.

Both I and Justin spoke together, and then turned in helpless anger upon one another. I remember
that with the clumsiest of weak gestures he bade me begone from the house, and that I with
a now rather deflated rhetoric answered I would go only with Mary at my side. And there she
stood, less like a desperate rebel against the most fundamental social relations than an indignant
princess, and demanded of us and high heaven, "Why should I be fought for? Why should I be
fought for?"

And then abruptly she gathered her skirts in her hand and advanced. "Open that door, Stephen,"
she said, and was gone with a silken whirl and rustle from our presence.

We were left regarding one another with blank expressions.

Her departure had torn the substance out of our dispute. For the moment we found ourselves
left with a new situation for which there is as yet no tradition of behavior. We had become
actors in that new human comedy that is just beginning in the world, that comedy in which men
still dispute the possession and the manner of the possession of woman according to the ancient
rules, while they on their side are determining ever more definitely that they will not be
possessed....

We had little to say to one another,--mere echoes and endorsements of our recent declarations.
"She must come to me," said I. And he, "I will save her from that at any cost."

That was the gist of our confrontation, and then I turned about and walked along the gallery
towards the entrance, with Justin following me slowly. I was full of the wrath of baffled heroics;
I turned towards him with something of a gesture. Down the perspective of the white and empty
gallery he appeared small and perplexed. The panes of the tall French windows were slashed
with rain....

§ 11

I forget now absolutely what I may have expected to happen next. I cannot remember my return
to my father's house that day. But I know that what did happen was the most unanticipated and
incredible experience of my life. It was as if the whole world of mankind were suddenly to
turn upside down and people go about calmly in positions of complete inversion. I had a note
from Mary on the morning after this discovery that indeed dealt with that but was otherwise
not very different from endless notes I had received before our crisis. It was destroyed, so
that I do not know its exact text now, but it did not add anything material to the situation,
or give me the faintest shadow to intimate what crept close upon us both. She repeated her
strangely thwarting refusal to come away and live with me. She seemed indignant that we had
been discovered--as though Justin had indulged in an excess of existence by discovering us.
I completed and despatched to her a long letter I had already been writing overnight in which
I made clear the hopeless impossibility of her attitude, vowed all my life and strength to
her, tried to make some picture of the happiness that was possible for us together, sketched
as definitely as I could when and where we might meet and whither we might go. It must have
made an extraordinary jumble of protest, persuasion and practicality. It never reached her;
it was intercepted by Justin.

I have gathered since that after I left Martens he sent telegrams to Guy and Philip and her
cousin Lord Tarvrille. He was I think amazed beyond measure at this revelation of the possibilities
of his cold and distant wife, with a vast passion of jealousy awaking in him, and absolutely
incapable of forming any plan to meet the demands of his extraordinary situation. Guy and Philip
got to him that night, Tarvrille came down next morning, and Martens became a debate. Justin
did not so much express views and intentions as have them extracted from him; it was manifest
he was prepared for the amplest forgiveness of his wife if only I could be obliterated from
their world. Confronted with her brothers, the two men in the world who could be frankly brutal
to her, Mary's dignity suffered; she persisted she meant to go on seeing me, but she was reduced
to passionate tears.

Into some such state of affairs I came that morning on the heels of my letter, demanding Lady
Mary of a scared evasive butler.

Maxton and Tarvrille appeared: "Hullo, Stratton!" said Tarvrille, with a fine flavor of an
agreeable chance meeting. Philip had doubts about his greeting me, and then extended his reluctant
hand with a nervous grin to excuse the delay.

"I want to see Lady Mary," said I, stiffly.

"She's not up yet," said Tarvrille, with a hand on my shoulder. "Come and have a talk in the
garden."

We went out with Tarvrille expanding the topic of the seasons. "It's a damned good month, November,
say what you like about it." Philip walked grimly silent on my other hand.

"And it's a damned awkward situation you've got us into, Stratton," said Tarvrille, "say what
you like about it."

"It isn't as though old Justin was any sort of beast," he reflected, "or anything like that,
you know. He's a most astonishing decent chap, clean as they make them."

"This isn't a beastly intrigue," I said.

"It never is," said Tarvrille genially.

"We've loved each other a long time. It's just flared out here."

"No doubt of that," said Tarvrille. "It's been like a beacon to all Surrey."

"It's one of those cases where things have to be readjusted. The best thing to do is for Mary
and me to go abroad----"

"Yes, but does Mary think so?"

"Look here!" said Philip in a voice thick with rage. "I won't have Mary divorced. I won't.
See? I won't."

"What the devil's it got to do with you?" I asked with an answering flash of fury.

Tarvrille's arm ran through mine. "Nobody's going to divorce Mary," he said reassuringly. "Not
even Justin. He doesn't want to, and nobody else can, and there you are!"

"But we two----"

"You two have had a tremendously good time. You've got found out--and there you are!"

"This thing has got to stop absolutely now," said Philip and echoed with a note of satisfaction
in his own phrasing, "absolutely now."

"You see, Stratton," said Tarvrille as if he were expanding Philip's assertion, "there's been
too many divorces in society. It's demoralizing people. It's discrediting us. It's setting
class against class. Everybody is saying why don't these big people either set about respecting
the law or altering it. Common people are getting too infernally clear-headed. Hitherto it's
mattered so little.... But we can't stand any more of it, Stratton, now. It's something more
than a private issue; it's a question of public policy. We can't stand any more divorces."

He reflected. "We have to consider something more than our own personal inclinations. We've
got no business to be here at all if we're not a responsible class. We owe something--to ourselves."

It was as if Tarvrille was as concerned as I was for this particular divorce, as if he struggled
with a lively desire to see me and Mary happily married after the shortest possible interval.
And indeed he manifestly wasn't unsympathetic; he had the strongest proclivity for the romantic
and picturesque, and it was largely the romantic picturesqueness of renunciation that he urged
upon me. Philip for the most part maintained a resentful silence; he was a clenched anger against
me, against Mary, against the flaming possibilities that threatened the sister of Lord Maxton,
that most promising and distinguished young man.

Of course their plans must have been definitely made before this talk, probably they had made
them overnight, and probably it was Tarvrille had given them a practicable shape, but he threw
over the whole of our talk so satisfying a suggestion of arrest and prolonged discussion that
it never occurred to me that I should not be able to come again on the morrow and renew my
demand to see Mary. Even when next day I turned my face to Martens and saw the flag had vanished
from the flagstaff, it seemed merely a token of that household's perturbation. I thought the
house looked oddly blank and sleepy as I drew near, but I did not perceive that this was because
all the blinds were drawn. The door upon the lawn was closed, and presently the butler came
to open it. He was in an old white jacket, and collarless. "Lady Mary!" he said. "Lady Mary
has gone, sir. She and Mr. Justin went yesterday after you called."

"Gone!" said I. "But where?"

"I think abroad, sir."

"Abroad!"

"I think abroad."

"But---- They've left an address?"

"Only to Mr. Justin's office," said the man. "Any letters will be forwarded from there."

I paused upon the step. He remained stiffly deferential, but with an air of having disposed
of me. He reproved me tacitly for forgetting that I ought to conceal my astonishment at this
disappearance. He was indeed an admirable man-servant. "Thank you," said I, and dropped away
defeated from the door.

I went down the broad steps, walked out up the lawn, and surveyed house and trees and garden
and sky. To the heights and the depths and the uttermost, I knew now what it was to be amazed....

§ 12

I had felt myself an actor in a drama, and now I had very much the feeling an actor would have
who answers to a cue and finds himself in mid-stage with the scenery and the rest of the cast
suddenly vanished behind him. By that mixture of force and persuasion which avails itself of
a woman's instinctive and cultivated dread of disputes and raised voices and the betrayal of
contention to strangers, by the sheer tiring down of nerves and of sleepless body and by threats
of an immediate divorce and a campaign of ruin against me, these three men had obliged Mary
to leave Martens and go with them to Southampton, and thence they took her in Justin's yacht,
the Water-Witch, to Waterford, and thence by train to a hired house, an adapted old castle
at Mirk near Crogham in Mayo. There for all practical purposes she was a prisoner. They took
away her purse, and she was four miles from a pillar-box and ten from a telegraph office. This
house they had taken furnished without seeing it on the recommendation of a London agent, and
in the name of Justin's solicitor. Thither presently went Lady Ladislaw, and an announcement
appeared in the Times that Justin and Lady Mary had gone abroad for a time and that no letters
would be forwarded.

I have never learnt the particulars of that abduction, but I imagine Mary astonished, her pride
outraged, humiliated, helpless, perplexed and maintaining a certain outward dignity. Moreover,
as I was presently to be told, she was ill. Guy and Philip were, I believe, the moving spirits
in the affair; Tarvrille was their apologetic accomplice, Justin took the responsibility for
what they did and bore the cost, he was bitterly ashamed to have these compulsions applied
to his wife, but full now of a gusty fury against myself. He loved Mary still with a love that
was shamed and torn and bleeding, but his ruling passion was that infinitely stronger passion
than love in our poor human hearts, jealousy. He was prepared to fight for her now as men fight
for a flag, tearing it to pieces in the struggle. He meant now to keep Mary. That settled,
he was prepared to consider whether he still loved her or she him....

Now here it may seem to you that we are on the very verge of romance. Here is a beautiful lady
carried off and held prisoner in a wild old place, standing out half cut off from the mainland
among the wintry breakers of the west coast of Ireland. Here is the lover, baffled but insistent.
Here are the fierce brothers and the stern dragon husband, and you have but to make out that
the marriage was compulsory, irregular and, on the ground of that irregularity, finally dissoluble,
to furnish forth a theme for Marriott Watson in his most admirable and adventurous vein. You
can imagine the happy chances that would have guided me to the hiding-place, the trusty friend
who would have come with me and told the story, the grim siege of the place--all as it were
sotto voce for fear of scandal--the fight with Guy in the little cave, my attempted assassination,
the secret passage. Would to heaven life had those rich simplicities, and one could meet one's
man at the end of a sword! My siege of Mirk makes a very different story from that.

In the first place I had no trusted friend of so extravagant a friendship as such aid would
demand. I had no one whom it seemed permissible to tell of our relations. I was not one man
against three or four men in a romantic struggle for a woman. I was one man against something
infinitely greater than that, I was one man against nearly all men, one man against laws, traditions,
instincts, institutions, social order. Whatever my position had been before, my continuing
pursuit of Mary was open social rebellion. And I was in a state of extreme uncertainty how
far Mary was a willing agent in this abrupt disappearance. I was disposed to think she had
consented far more than she had done to this astonishing step. Carrying off an unwilling woman
was outside my imaginative range. It was luminously clear in my mind that so far she had never
countenanced the idea of flight with me, and until she did I was absolutely bound to silence
about her. I felt that until I saw her face to face again, and was sure she wanted me to release
her, that prohibition held. Yet how was I to get at her and hear what she had to say? Clearly
it was possible that she was under restraint, but I did not know; I was not certain, I could
not prove it. At Guildford station I gathered, after ignominious enquiries, that the Justins
had booked to London. I had two days of nearly frantic inactivity at home, and then pretended
business that took me to London, for fear that I should break out to my father. I came up revolving
a dozen impossible projects of action in my mind. I had to get into touch with Mary, at that
my mind hung and stopped. All through the twenty-four hours my nerves jumped at every knock
upon my door; this might be the letter, this might be the telegram, this might be herself escaped
and come to me. The days passed like days upon a painful sick-bed, grey or foggy London days
of an appalling length and emptiness. If I sat at home my imagination tortured me; if I went
out I wanted to be back and see if any communication had come. I tried repeatedly to see Tarvrille.
I had an idea of obtaining a complete outfit for an elopement, but I was restrained by my entire
ignorance of what a woman may need. I tried to equip myself for a sudden crisis by the completest
preparation of every possible aspect. I did some absurd and ill-advised things. I astonished
a respectable solicitor in a grimy little office behind a queer little court with trees near
Cornhill, by asking him to give advice to an anonymous client and then putting my anonymous
case before him. "Suppose," said I, "it was for the plot of a play." He nodded gravely.

My case as I stated it struck me as an unattractive one.

"Application for a Writ of Habeas Corpus," he considered with eyes that tried to remain severely
impartial, "by a Wife's Lover, who wants to find out where she is.... It's unusual. You will
be requiring the husband to produce her Corpus.... I don't think--speaking in the same general
terms as those in which you put the circumstances, it would be likely to succeed.... No."

Then I overcame a profound repugnance and went to a firm of private detectives. It had occurred
to me that if I could have Justin, Tarvrille, Guy or Philip traced I might get a clue to Mary's
hiding-place. I remember a queer little office, a blusterous, frock-coated creature with a
pock-marked face, iron-grey hair, an eyeglass and a strained tenor voice, who told me twice
that he was a gentleman and several times that he would prefer not to do business than to do
it in an ungentlemanly manner, and who was quite obviously ready and eager to blackmail either
side in any scandal into which spite or weakness admitted his gesticulating fingers. He alluded
vaguely to his staff, to his woman helpers, "some personally attached to me," to his remarkable
underground knowledge of social life--"the illicit side." What could he do for me? There was
nothing, I said, illicit about me. His interest waned a little. I told him that I was interested
in certain financial matters, no matter what they were, and that I wanted to have a report
of the movements of Justin and his brothers-in-law for the past few weeks and for a little
time to come. "You want them watched?" said my private enquiry agent, leaning over the desk
towards me and betraying a slight squint. "Exactly," said I. "I want to know what sort of things
they are looking at just at present."

"Have you any inkling----?"

"None."

"If our agents have to travel----"

I expressed a reasonable generosity in the matter of expenses, and left him at last with a
vague discomfort in my mind. How far mightn't this undesirable unearth the whole business in
the course of his investigations? And then what could he do? Suppose I went back forthwith
and stopped his enquiries before they began! I had a disagreeable feeling of meanness that
I couldn't shake off; I felt I was taking up a weapon that Justin didn't deserve. Yet I argued
with myself that the abduction of Mary justified any such course.

As I was still debating this I saw Philip. He was perhaps twenty yards ahead of me, he was
paying off a hansom which had just put him down outside Blake's. "Philip," I cried, following
him up the steps and overtaking him and seizing his arm as the commissionaire opened the door
for him. "Philip! What have you people done with Mary? Where is Mary?"

He turned a white face to me. "How dare you," he said with a catch of the breath, "mention
my sister?"

I spoke in an undertone, and stepped a little between him and the man at the door in order
that the latter might not hear what I said. "I want to see her," I expostulated. "I must see
her. What you are doing is not playing the game. I've got to see her."

"Let go of my arm, sir!" cried he, and suddenly I felt a whirlwind of rage answering the rage
in his eyes. The pent-up exasperation of three weeks rushed to its violent release. He struck
me in the face with the hand that was gripped about his umbrella. He meant to strike me in
the face and then escape into his club, but before he could get away from me after his blow
I had flung out at him, and had hit him under the jawbone. My blow followed his before guard
or counter was possible. I hit with all my being. It was an amazing flare up of animal passion;
from the moment that I perceived he was striking at me to the moment when both of us came staggering
across the door-mat into the dignified and spacious hall-way of Blake's, we were back at the
ancestral ape, and we did exactly what the ancestral ape would have done. The arms of the commissionaire
about my waist, the rush of the astonished porter from his little glass box, two incredibly
startled and delighted pages, and an intervening member bawling out "Sir! Sir!" converged to
remind us that we were a million years or so beyond those purely arboreal days....

We seemed for a time to be confronted before an audience that hesitated to interfere. "How
dare you name my sister to me?" he shouted at me, and brought to my mind the amazing folly
of which he was capable. I perceived Mary's name flung to the four winds of heaven.

"You idiot, Philip!" I cried. "I don't know your sister. I've not seen her--scarcely seen her
for years. I ask you--I ask you for a match-box or something and you hit me."

"If you dare to speak to her----!"

"You fool!" I cried, going nearer to him and trying to make him understand. But he winced and
recoiled defensively. "I'm sorry," I said to the commissionaire who was intervening. "Lord
Maxton has made a mistake."

"Is he a member?" said someone in the background, and somebody else suggested calling a policeman.
I perceived that only a prompt retreat would save the whole story of our quarrel from the newspapers.
So far as I could see nobody knew me there except Philip. I had to take the risks of his behavior;
manifestly I couldn't control it. I made no further attempt to explain anything to anybody.
Everyone was a little too perplexed for prompt action, and so the advantage in that matter
lay with me. I walked through the door, and with what I imagined to be an appearance of the
utmost serenity down the steps. I noted an ascending member glance at me with an expression
of exceptional interest, but it was only after I had traversed the length of Pall Mall that
I realized that my lip and the corner of my nostril were both bleeding profusely. I called
a cab when I discovered my handkerchief scarlet, and retreated to my flat and cold ablutions.
Then I sat down to write a letter to Tarvrille, with a clamorous "Urgent, Please forward if
away" above the address, and tell him at least to suppress Philip. But within the club that
blockhead, thinking of nothing but the appearances of our fight and his own credit, was varying
his assertion that he had thrashed me, with denunciations of me as a "blackguard," and giving
half a dozen men a highly colored, improvised, and altogether improbable account of my relentless
pursuit and persecution of Lady Mary Justin, and how she had left London to avoid me. They
listened, no doubt, with extreme avidity. The matrimonial relations of the Justins had long
been a matter for speculative minds.

And while Philip was doing this, Guy, away in Mayo still, was writing a tender, trusting, and
all too explicit letter to a well-known and extremely impatient lady in London to account for
his continued absence from her house. "So that is it!" said the lady, reading, and was at least
in the enviable position of one who had confirmatory facts to impart....

And so quite suddenly the masks were off our situation and we were open to an impertinent world.
For some days I did not realize what had happened, and lived in hope that Philip had been willing
and able to cover his lapse. I went about with my preoccupation still, as I imagined, concealed,
and with an increasing number of typed letters from my private enquiry agent in my pocket containing
inaccurate and worthless information about the movements of Justin, which appeared to have
been culled for the most part from a communicative young policeman stationed at the corner
nearest to the Justins' house, or expanded from Who's Who and other kindred works of reference.
The second letter, I remember, gave some particulars about the financial position of the younger
men, and added that Justin's credit with the west-end tradesmen was "limitless," points upon
which I had no sort of curiosity whatever....

I suppose a couple of hundred people in London knew before I did that Lady Mary Justin had
been carried off to Ireland and practically imprisoned there by her husband because I was her
lover. The thing reached me at last through little Fred Riddling, who came to my rooms in the
morning while I was sitting over my breakfast. "Stratton!" said he, "what is all this story
of your shaking Justin by the collar, and threatening to kill him if he didn't give up his
wife to you? And why do you want to fight a duel with Maxton? What's it all about? Fire-eater
you must be! I stood up for you as well as I could, but I heard you abused for a solid hour
last night, and there was a chap there simply squirting out facts and dates and names. Got
it all.... What have you been up to?"

He stood on my hearthrug with an air of having called for an explanation to which he was entitled,
and he very nearly got one. But I just had some scraps of reserve left, and they saved me.
"Tell me first," I said, delaying myself with the lighting of a cigarette, "the particulars
... as you heard them."

Riddling embarked upon a descriptive sketch, and I got a minute or so to think.

"Go on," I said with a note of irony, when he paused. "Go on. Tell me some more. Where did
you say they have taken her; let us have it right."

By the time his little store had run out I knew exactly what to do with him. "Riddling," said
I, and stood up beside him suddenly and dropped my hand with a little added weight upon his
shoulder, "Riddling, do you know the only right and proper thing to do when you hear scandal
about a friend?"

"Come straight to him," said Riddling virtuously, "as I have done."

"No. Say you don't believe it. Ask the scandal-monger how he knows and insist on his telling
you--insist. And if he won't--be very, very rude to him. Insist up to the quarrelling point.
Now who were those people?"

"Well--that's a bit stiff.... One chap I didn't know at all."

"You should have pulled him up and insisted upon knowing who he was, and what right he had
to lie about me. For it's lying, Riddling. Listen! It isn't true that I'm besieging Lady Mary
Justin. So far from besieging her I didn't even know where she was until you told me. Justin
is a neighbor of my father's and a friend of mine. I had tea with him and his wife not a month
ago. I had tea with them together. I knew they were going away, but it was a matter of such
slight importance to me, such slight importance"--I impressed this on his collarbone--"that
I was left with the idea that they were going to the south of France. I believe they are in
the south of France. And there you are. I'm sorry to spoil sport, but that's the bleak unromantic
truth of the matter."

"You mean to say that there is nothing in it all?"

"Nothing."

He was atrociously disappointed. "But everybody," he said, "everybody has got something."

"Somebody will get a slander case if this goes on. I don't care what they've got."

"Good Lord!" he said, and stared at the rug. "You'll take your oath----" He glanced up and
met my eye. "Oh, of course it's all right what you say." He was profoundly perplexed. He reflected.
"But then, I say Stratton, why did you go for Maxton at Blake's? That I had from an eye-witness.
You can't deny a scrap like that--in broad daylight. Why did you do that?"

"Oh that's it," said I. "I begin to have glimmerings. There's a little matter between myself
and Maxton...." I found it a little difficult to improvise a plausible story.

"But he said it was his sister," persisted Riddling. "He said so afterwards, in the club."

"Maxton," said I, losing my temper, "is a fool and a knave and a liar. His sister indeed! Lady
Mary! If he can't leave his sister out of this business I'll break every bone of his body."
... I perceived my temper was undoing me. I invented rapidly but thinly. "As a matter of fact,
Riddling, it's quite another sort of lady has set us by the ears."

Riddling stuck his chin out, tucked in the corners of his mouth, made round eyes at the breakfast
things and, hands in pockets, rocked from heels to toes and from toes to heels. "I see Stratton,
yes, I see. Yes, all this makes it very plain, of course. Very plain.... Stupid thing, scandal
is.... Thanks! no, I won't have a cigarette."

And he left me presently with an uncomfortable sense that he did see, and didn't for one moment
intend to restrain his considerable histrionic skill in handing on his vision to others. For
some moments I stood savoring this all too manifest possibility, and then my thoughts went
swirling into another channel. At last the curtain was pierced. I was no longer helplessly
in the dark. I got out my Bradshaw, and sat with the map spread out over the breakfast things
studying the routes to Mayo. Then I rang for Williams, the man I shared with the two adjacent
flat-holders, and told him to pack my kit-bag because I was suddenly called away.

§ 13

Many of the particulars of my journey to Ireland have faded out of my mind altogether. I remember
most distinctly my mood of grim elation that at last I had to deal with accessible persons
again....

The weather was windy and violent, and I was sea-sick for most of the crossing, and very tired
and exhausted when I landed. Williams had thought of my thick over-coat and loaded me with
wraps and rugs, and I sat in the corner of a compartment in that state of mental and bodily
fatigue that presses on the brows like a painless headache. I got to some little junction at
last where I had to wait an hour for a branch-line train. I tasted all the bitterness of Irish
hospitality, and such coffee as Ireland alone can produce. Then I went on to a station called
Clumber or Clumboye, or some such name, and thence after some difficulty I got a car for my
destination. It was a wretched car in which hens had been roosting, and it was drawn by a steaming
horse that had sores under its mended harness.

An immense wet wind was blowing as we came over the big hill that lies to the south of Mirk.
Everything was wet, the hillside above me was either intensely green sodden turf or great streaming
slabs of limestone, seaward was a rocky headland, a ruin of a beehive shape, and beyond a vast
waste of tumbling waters unlit by any sun. Not a tree broke that melancholy wilderness, nor
any living thing but ourselves. The horse went stumblingly under the incessant stimulation
of the driver's lash and tongue....

"Yonder it is," said my man, pointing with his whip, and I twisted round to see over his shoulder,
not the Rhine-like castle I had expected, but a long low house of stone upon a headland, backed
by a distant mountain that vanished in a wild driven storm of rain as I looked. But at the
sight of Mirk my lassitude passed, my nerves tightened, and my will began to march again. Now,
thought I, we bring things to an issue. Now we come to something personal and definite. The
vagueness is at an end. I kept my eyes upon the place, and thought it more and more like a
prison as we drew nearer. Perhaps from that window Mary was looking for me now. Had she wondered
why I did not come to her before? Now at any rate I had found her. I sprang off the car, found
a bell-handle, and set the house jangling.

The door opened, and a little old man appeared with his fingers thrust inside his collar as
though he were struggling against strangulation. He regarded me for a second, and spoke before
I could speak.

"What might you be wanting?" said he, as if he had an answer ready.

"I want to see Lady Mary Justin," I said.

"You can't," he said. "She's gone."

"Gone!"

"The day before yesterday she went to London. You'll have to be getting back there."

"She's gone to London."

"No less."

"Willingly?"

The little old man struggled with his collar. "Anyone would go willingly," he said, and seemed
to await my further commands. He eyed me obliquely with a shadow of malice in his eyes.

It was then my heart failed, and I knew that we lovers were beaten. I turned from the door
without another word to the janitor. "Back," said I to my driver, and got up behind him.

