A particular sort may be described as hounds which, when hunting or pursuing, run forward with
a frequent eye to the discoveries of the rest of the pack, because they have no confidence
in themselves. Another sort is over-confident--not letting the cleverer members of the pack
go on ahead, but keeping them back with nonsensical clamour. Others will wilfully hug every
false scent, (20) and with a tremendous display of eagerness, whatever they chance upon, will
take the lead, conscious all the while they are playing false; (21) whilst another sort again
will behave in a precisely similar style out of sheer ignorance. (22) It is a poor sort of
hound which will not leave a stale line (23) for want of recognising the true trail. So, too,
a hound that cannot distinguish the trail leading to a hare's form, and scampers over that
of a running hare, hot haste, is no thoroughbred. (24)

 (20) Al. "seem to take pleasure in fondling every lie."

 (21) Or, "fully aware themselves that the whole thing is a make-
    believe."

 (22) Or, "do exactly the same thing because they do not know any
    better."

 (23) {ek ton trimmon}. Lit. "keep away from beaten paths," and
    commonly of footpaths, but here apparently of the hare's habitual
    "run," not necessarily lately traversed, still less the true line.

 (24) Lit. "A dog who on the one hand ignores the form track, and on
    the other tears swiftly over a running track, is not a well-bred
    dog." Al. {ta eunaia}, "traces of the form"; {ta dromaia}, "tracks
    of a running hare." See Sturz. s.v. {dromaios}.

When it comes to the actual chase, some hounds will show great ardour at first starting, but
presently give up from weakness of spirit. Others will run in too hastily (25) and then balk;
and go hopelessly astray, as if they had lost the sense of hearing altogether.

 (25) So L. & S., {upotheousin} = "cut in before" the rest of the pack
    and over-run the scent. Al. "flash in for a time, and then lose
    the scent."

Many a hound will give up the chase and return from mere distaste for hunting, (26) and not
a few from pure affection for mankind. Others with their clamorous yelping on the line do their
best to deceive, as if true and false were all one to them. (27) There are others that will
not do that, but which in the middle of their running, (28) should they catch the echo of a
sound from some other quarter, will leave their own business and incontinently tear off towards
it. (29) The fact is, (30) they run on without clear motive, some of them; others taking too
much for granted; and a third set to suit their whims and fancies. Others simply play at hunting;
or from pure jealousy, keep questing about beside the line, continually rushing along and tumbling
over one another. (31)

 (26) Or, {misotheron}, "out of antipathy to the quarry." For
    {philanthropon} cf. Pollux, ib. 64; Hermog. ap. L. Dind.

 (27) Or, "unable apparently to distinguish false from true." See
    Sturz, s.v. {poieisthai}. Cf. Plut. "de Exil." 6. Al. "Gaily
    substituting false for true."

 (28) "In the heat of the chase."

 (29) "Rush to attack it."

 (30) The fact is, there are as many different modes of following up
    the chase almost as there are dogs. Some follow up the chase
    {asaphos}, indistinctly; some {polu upolambanousai}, with a good
    deal of guess-work; others again {doxazousai}, without conviction,
    insincerely; others, {peplasmenos}, out of mere pretence, pure
    humbug, make-believe, or {phthoneros}, in a fit of jealousy,
    {ekkunousi}, are skirters; al. {ekkinousi}, Sturz, quit the scent.

 (31) Al. "unceasingly tearing along, around, and about it."

The majority of these defects are due to natural disposition, though some must be assigned
no doubt to want of scientific training. In either case such hounds are useless, and may well
deter the keenest sportsman from the hunting field. (32)

 (32) Or, "Naturally, dogs like these damp the sportsman's ardour, and
    indeed are enough to sicken him altogether with the chase."

The characters, bodily and other, exhibited by the finer specimens of the same breed, (33)
I will now set forth.

 (33) Or, "The features, points, qualities, whether physical or other,
    which characterise the better individuals." But what does Xenophon
    mean by {tou autou genous}?

IV

In the first place, this true type of hound should be of large build; and, in the next place,
furnished with a light small head, broad and flat in the snout, (1) well knit and sinewy, the
lower part of the forehead puckered into strong wrinkles; eyes set well up (2) in the head,
black and bright; forehead large and broad; the depression between the eyes pronounced; (3)
ears long (4) and thin, without hair on the under side; neck long and flexible, freely moving
on its pivot; (5) chest broad and fairly fleshy; shoulder-blades detached a little from the
shoulders; (6) the shin-bones of the fore-legs should be small, straight, round, stout and
strong; the elbows straight; ribs (7) not deep all along, but sloped away obliquely; the loins
muscular, in size a mean between long and short, neither too flexible nor too stiff; (8) flanks,
a mean between large and small; the hips (or "couples") rounded, fleshy behind, not tied together
above, but firmly knitted on the inside; (9) the lower or under part of the belly (10) slack,
and the belly itself the same, that is, hollow and sunken; tail long, straight, and pointed;
(11) thighs (i.e. hams) stout and compact; shanks (i.e. lower thighs) long, round, and solid;
hind-legs much longer than the fore-legs, and relatively lean; feet round and cat-like. (12)

 (1) Pollux, v. 7; Arrian, "Cyn." iv.

 (2) {meteora}, prominent.?See Sturz, s.v.

 (3) {tas diakriseis batheias}, lit. "with a deep frontal sinus."

 (4) Reading {makra}, or if {mikra}, "small."

 (5) Al. "well rounded."

 (6) "Shoulder blades standing out a little from the shoulders"; i.e.
    "free."

 (7) i.e. "not wholly given up to depth, but well curved"; depth is not
    everything unless the ribs be also curved. Schneid. cf. Ov. "Met."
    iii. 216, "et substricta gerens Sicyonius ilia Ladon," where the
    poet is perhaps describing a greyhound, "chyned like a bream." See
    Stonehenge, pp. 21, 22. Xenophon's "Castorians" were more like the
    Welsh harrier in build, I presume.

 (8) Or, "neither soft and spongy nor unyielding." See Stoneh., p. 23.

 (9) "Drawn up underneath it," lit. "tucked up."

 (10) Al. "flank," "flanks themselves."

 (11) Or, as we should say, "stern." See Pollux, v. 59; Arrian, v. 9.

 (12) See Stonehenge, p. 24 foll.

Hounds possessed of these points will be strong in build, and at the same time light and active;
they will have symmetry at once and pace; a bright, beaming expression; and good mouths.

In following up scent, (13) see how they show their mettle by rapidly quitting beaten paths,
keeping their heads sloping to the ground, smiling, as it were to greet the trail; see how
they let their ears drop, how they keep moving their eyes to and fro quickly, flourishing their
sterns. (14) Forwards they should go with many a circle towards the hare's form, (15) steadily
guided by the line, all together. When they are close to the hare itself, they will make the
fact plain to the huntsman by the quickened pace at which they run, as if they would let him
know by their fury, by the motion of head and eyes, by rapid changes of gait and gesture, (16)
now casting a glance back and now fixing their gaze steadily forward to the creature's hiding-place,
(17) by twistings and turnings of the body, flinging themselves backwards, forwards, and sideways,
and lastly, by the genuine exaltation of spirits, visible enough now, and the ecstasy of their
pleasure, that they are close upon the quarry.

 (13) Lit. "Let them follow up the trail."

 (14) Lit. "fawning and wagging their tails."

 (15) Lit. "bed" or "lair."

 (16) Or, "by rapid shiftings of attitude, by looks now thrown backward
    and now forwards to the..." Reading {kai apo ton anablemmaton
    kai emblemmaton ton epi tas kathedras tou l.}, or if with L. D.,
    {kai apo ton a. kai emblemmaton eis ton ulen kai anastremmaton ton
    epi tas k.}, transl. "now looking back at the huntsman and now
    staring hard into the covert, and again right-about-face in the
    direction of the hare's sitting-place."

 (17) Lit. "form"; "the place where puss is seated."

Once she is off, the pack should pursue with vigour. (18) They must not relax their hold, but
with yelp and bark full cry insist on keeping close and dogging puss at every turn. Twist for
twist and turn for turn, they, too, must follow in a succession of swift and brilliant bursts,
interrupted by frequent doublings; while ever and again they give tongue and yet again till
the very welkin rings. (19) One thing they must not do, and that is, leave the scent and return
crestfallen to the huntsman. (20)

 (18) Lit. "let them follow up the chase vigorously, and not relax,
    with yelp and bark."

 (19) {dikaios}, Sturz, "non temere"; "and not without good reason."
    Al. "a right good honest salvo of barks."

 (20) Lit. "Let them not hark back to join the huntsman, and desert the
    trail."

Along with this build and method of working, hounds should possess four points. They should
have pluck, sound feet, keen noses, and sleek coats. The spirited, plucky hound will prove
his mettle by refusing to leave the chase, however stifling the weather; a good nose is shown
by his capacity for scenting the hare on barren and dry ground exposed to the sun, and that
when the orb is at the zenith; (21) soundness of foot in the fact that the dog may course over
mountains during the same season, and yet his feet will not be torn to pieces; and a good coat
means the possession of light, thick, soft, and silky hair. (22)

 (21) i.e. "at mid-day"; or, "in the height of summer"; al. "during the
    dog-days"; "at the rising of the dog-star."

 (22) See Pollux, ib. 59; Arrian, vi. 1.

As to the colour proper for a hound, (23) it should not be simply tawny, nor absolutely black
or white, which is not a sign of breeding, but monotonous--a simplicity suggestive of the wild
animal. (24) Accordingly the red dog should show a bloom of white hair about the muzzle, and
so should the black, the white commonly showing red. On the top of the thigh the hair should
be straight and thick, as also on the loins and on the lower portion of the stern, but of a
moderate thickness only on the upper parts.

 (23) See Stonehenge, p. 25; Darwin, op. cit. ii. 109.

 (24) But see Pollux, ib. 65, who apparently read {gennaion touto to
    aploun alla therides}; al. Arrian, vi. See Jaques de Fouilloux,
    "La Venerie" (ap. E. Talbot, "Oeuvres completes de Xenophon,"
    traduction, ii. 318).

There is a good deal to be said for taking your hounds frequently into the mountains; not so
much for taking them on to cultivated land. (25) And for this reason: the fells offer facilities
for hunting and for following the quarry without interruption, while cultivated land, owing
to the number of cross roads and beaten paths, presents opportunities for neither. Moreover,
quite apart from finding a hare, it is an excellent thing to take your dogs on to rough ground.
It is there they will become sound of foot, and in general the benefit to their physique in
working over such ground will amply repay you. (26)

 (25) Or, "pretty often, and less frequently over."

 (26) Lit. "they must be benefited in their bodies generally by working
    over such ground."

They should be taken out in summer till mid-day; in winter from sunrise to sundown; in autumn
any time except mid-day; and in spring any time before evening. These times will hit the mean
of temperature. (27)

 (27) Or, "You may count on a moderate temperature at these times."

V

The tracks of hares are long in winter owing to the length of night, and short for the opposite
reason during summer. In winter, however, their scent does not lie in early morning, when the
rime is on the ground, or earth is frozen. (1) The fact is, hoar frost by its own inherent
force absorbs its heat, whilst black frost freezes it. (2)

 (1) Or, "when there is hoar frost or black frost" (lit. "ice").

 (2) Or, "the ice congeals them," "encases as it were in itself the
    heat," i.e. the warm scent; aliter, "causes the tracks to freeze
    at the top."

The hounds, moreover, with their noses nipped by the cold, (3) cannot under these conditions
(4) use their sense of smell, until the sun or the mere advance of day dissolves the scent.
Then the noses of the hounds recover, and the scent of the trail begins to exhale itself perceptibly.
(5)

 (3) Reading {malkiosai}, Cobet, "N. Lect." 131. "Mnem." 3, 306;
    Rutherford, "N. Phry." p. 135. = "nipped, or numb with cold." For
    vulg. {malakiosai} = "whose noses are tender," see Lenz ad loc.

 (4) Lit. "when the tracks are in this case."

 (5) As it evaporates. Aliter, "is perceptible to smell as it is wafted
    by the breeze to greet them."

Heavy dews also will obliterate scent by its depressing effect; (6) and rains occurring after
long intervals, while bringing out odours from the earth, (7) will render the soil bad for
scent until it dries again. Southerly winds will not improve scent--being moisture-laden they
disperse it; whereas northerly winds, provided the scent has not been previously destroyed,
tend to fix and preserve it. Rains will drown and wash it away, and so will drizzle; while
the moon by her heat (8)--especially a full moon--will dull its edge; in fact the trail is
rarest--most irregular (9)--at such times, for the hares in their joy at the light with frolic
and gambol (10) literally throw themselves high into the air and set long intervals between
one footfall and another. Or again, the trail will become confused and misleading when crossed
by that of foxes. (11)

 (6) Cf. Plut. "Q. Nat." 917 F, ap. Schneid.

 (7) Cf. Theophr. "C. Pl." xix. 5, 6; xx. 4.

 (8) Reading {to thermo}. Aristot. "Gen. An." iv. 10. Zeune cf. Plut.
    "Symp." iii. 10, 657. Macrob. "Sat." vii. 16; Athen. 276 E. Al.
    {to thermon}. See Lenz ad loc., "the moon, especially a full moon,
    dulls the heat (or odour) of the tracks."

 (9) Cf. Poll. v. 67; ib. 66.

 (10) "Playing with one another, in the rivalry of sport."

 (11) Lit. "when foxes have gone through before."

