and the diacritic breve is represented by [)x]]

S. P. E

Tract No. III

A FEW PRACTICAL SUGGESTIONS

By

Logan Pearsall Smith

MDCCCCXX

EDITORIAL

CO-OPERATION OF MEMBERS, ETC.

REPORT TO EASTER, 1920

A FEW PRACTICAL SUGGESTIONS

The principles of the Society for Pure English were stated in general terms in its preliminary
pamphlet; since, however, many questions have been asked about the application of these principles,
a few suggestions about special points may be found useful. The Society does not attempt to
dictate to its members; it does, however, put forward its suggestions as worthy of serious
consideration; and, since they have received the approval of the best scientific judgement,
it is hoped that they will be generally acceptable.

Some of them, when blankly stated, may seem trivial and unimportant; but we neither expect
nor desire to make any sudden and revolutionary changes. A language is an established means
of communication, sanctioned by the general consent, and cannot be transformed at will. Language
is, however, of itself always changing, and if there is hesitation between current usages,
then choice becomes possible, and individuals may intervene with good effect; for only by their
preferences can the points in dispute be finally settled. It is important, therefore, that
these preferences should be guided by right knowledge, and it is this right knowledge which
the Society makes it its aim to provide. While, therefore, any particular ruling may seem unimportant,
the principle on which that ruling is based is not so; and its application in any special case
will help to give it authority and force. The effect of even a small number of successful interventions
will be to confirm right habits of choice, which may then, as new opportunities arise, be applied
to further cases. Among the cases of linguistic usage which are varying and unfixed at the
present time, and in which therefore a deliberate choice is possible, the following may be
mentioned:

I. The Naturalization of Foreign Words.

There is no point on which usage is more uncertain and fluctuating than in regard to the words
which we are always borrowing from foreign languages. Expression generally lags behind thought,
and we are now more than ever handicapped by the lack of convenient terms to describe the new
discoveries, and new ways of thinking and feeling by which our lives are enriched and made
interesting. It has been our national custom in the past to eke out our native resources by
borrowing from other languages, especially from French, any words which we found ready to our
needs; and until recent times, these words were soon made current and convenient by being assimilated
and given English shapes and sounds. We still borrow as freely as ever; but half the benefit
of this borrowing is lost to us, owing to our modern and pedantic attempts to preserve the
foreign sounds and shapes of imported words, which make their current use unnecessarily difficult.
Owing to our false taste in this matter many words which have been long naturalized in the
language are being now put back into their foreign forms, and our speech is being thus gradually
impoverished. This process of de-assimilation generally begins with the restoration of foreign
accents to such words as have them in French; thus 'role' is now written 'rôle'*[A]; 'debris',
'débris'; 'detour', 'détour'; 'depot', 'dépôt'; and the old words long established in our language,
'levee', 'naivety', now appear as 'levée', and 'naïveté'. The next step is to italicize these
words, thus treating them as complete aliens, and thus we often see rôle, dépôt, &c. The very
old English word 'rendezvous' is now printed rendezvous, and 'dilettante' and 'vogue' sometimes
are printed in italics. Among other words which have been borrowed at various times and more
or less naturalized, but which are now being driven out of the language, are the following:
confrere, congee, cortege, dishabille, distrait, ensemble, fête, flair, mellay (now mêlée),
nonchalance, provenance, renconter, &c. On the other hand, it is satisfactory to note that
'employee' appears to be taking the place of 'employé'.

[Footnote A: For the words marked with an asterisk see notes on page 10.]

The printing in italics and the restoration of foreign accents is accompanied by awkward attempts
to revert to the foreign pronunciation of these words, which of course much lessens their usefulness
in conversation. Sometimes this, as in nuance, or timbre* practically deprives us of a word
which most of us are unable to pronounce correctly; sometimes it is merely absurd, as in 'envelope',
where most people try to give a foreign sound to a word which no one regards as an alien, and
which has been anglicized in spelling for nearly two hundred years.

Members of our Society will, we hope, do what is in their power to stop this process of impoverishment,
by writing and pronouncing as English such words as have already been naturalized, and when
a new borrowing appears in two forms they will give their preference to the one which is most
English. There are some who may even help to enrich the language by a bolder conquest of useful
terms, and although they may suffer ridicule, they will suffer it in a good cause, and will
only be sharing the short-lived denunciation which former innovators incurred when they borrowed
so many concise and useful terms from France and Italy to enlarge and adorn our English speech.
If we are to use foreign words (and, if we have no equivalents, we must use them) it is certainly
much better that they should be incorporated in our language, and made available for common
use. Words like 'garage' and 'nuance' and 'naivety' had much better be pronounced and written
as English words, and there are others, like 'bouleverse' and 'bouleversement', whose partial
borrowing might well be made complete; and a useful word like malaise could with advantage
reassume the old form 'malease' which it once possessed.

II. Alien Plurals.

The useless and pedantic process of de-assimilation takes other forms, one of the most common
of which is the restoring their foreign plural forms to words borrowed from Greek, Latin, and
Italian. No common noun is genuinely assimilated into our language and made available for the
use of the whole community until it has an English plural, and thousands of indispensable words
have been thus incorporated. We no longer write of ideæ, chori, asyla, musea, sphinges, specimina
for ideas, choruses, asylums, museums, sphinxes, specimens, and the notion of returning to
such plurals would seem barbarous and absurd. And yet this very process is now going on, and
threatens us with deplorable results. Sanatoria, memoranda, gymnasia are now replacing sanatorium,
memorandums, and gymnasiums; automata, formulae, and lacunae are taking the place of automatons,
formulas, and lacunas; indices and apices of indexes and apexes, miasmata of miasmas or miasms;
and even forms like lexica, rhododendra, and chimeræ have been recently noted in the writings
of authors of repute.

Some of these words are no doubt exceptions. Memoranda is preferable when used collectively,
but the English plural is better in such a phrase as 'two different memorandums'. Automata,
too, is sometimes collective; and lacuna always carries the suggestion of its classical meaning,
which makes half the meaning of the word. So again, when the classical form is a scientific
term, it is convenient and well to preserve its differentiation, e.g. formulae in science,
or foci and indices in mathematics; but such uses create exceptions, and these should be recognized
as exceptions, to a general rule that wherever there is choice then the English form is to
be preferred: we should, for instance, say bandits and not banditti.

III. ae and oe.

The use of ae and oe in English words of classical origin was a pedantic innovation of the
sixteenth century: in most words of common use ae and oe have been replaced by the simple e,
and we no longer write prævious, æternal, æra, æmulate, c[oe]lestial, [oe]conomy, &c. Since,
however, those forms have a learned appearance, they are being now restored in many words which
had been freed from them; medieval is commonly written mediæval; primæval and co-æval are beginning
to make their appearance; peony is commonly written pæony, and the forms sæcular, chimæra,
hyæna[1] and præternatural have recently been noted. As this is more than a mere change in
orthography, being in fact a part of the process of de-assimilation, members of our Society
would do well to avoid the use of the archaic forms in all words which have become thoroughly
English, and which are used without thought of their etymology. The matter is not so simple
with regard to words of Latin or Greek derivation which are only understood by most people
through their etymology; and for these it may be well to keep their etymologically transparent
spelling, as ætiology, [oe]strus, &c. Whether learned words of this kind, and classical names
such as Cæsar, Æschylus, &c., should be spelt with vowels ligatured or divided (Caesar, Aeschylus),
is a point about which present usage varies; and that usage does not always represent the taste
of the writers who employ it. Mr. Horace Hart, in his Rules for Compositors and Readers at
the University Press, Oxford, ruled that the combinations ae and oe should each be printed
as two letters in Latin and Greek words and in English words of classical derivation, but this
last injunction is plainly deduced from the practice of editors of Latin texts, and is an arbitrary
rule in the interest of uniformity: it has the sanction and influence of the Clarendon Press,
but is not universally accepted. Thus Dr. Henry Bradley writes, 'This question does not seem
to me to be settled by the mere fact that all recent classical editors reject the ligatures,
just as most of them reject other aids to pronunciation which the ancients had not, such as
j, v, for consonantal i, u. Many printers have conformed the spelling of English words in this
respect to the practice of editors of Latin texts. I confess my own preference is for adhering
to the English tradition of the ligature, not only in English words, but even in Latin or Greek
names quoted in an English context. If we write ae, oe in Philae, Adelphoe, we need the diæresis
in Aglaë, Pholoë, and a name like Aeaea looks very funny in an English context. The editors
of Latin texts are perfectly right in discarding the ligatures; but so they are also in writing
Iuuenalis; Latin is one thing and English is another.'

[Footnote 1: Shakespeare would have assisted the Hyena in her attempt to naturalize herself
in England:

'I will laugh like a Hyen, and that when thou art inclined to sleep.' A.Y.L., IV. i. 156. [ED.]]

IV. Dying Words.

Our language is always suffering another kind of impoverishment which is somewhat mysterious
in its causes and perhaps impossible to prevent. This is the kind of blight which attacks many
of our most ancient, beautiful, and expressive words, rendering them first of all unsuitable
for colloquial use, though they may be still used in prose. Next they are driven out of the
prose vocabulary into that of poetry, and at last removed into that limbo of archaisms and
affectations to which so many beautiful but dead words of our language have been unhappily
banished. It is not that these words lose their lustre, as many words lose it, by hackneyed
use and common handling; the process is exactly opposite; by not being used enough, the phosphorescence
of decay seems to attack them, and give them a kind of shimmer which makes them seem too fine
for common occasions. But once a word falls out of colloquial speech its life is threatened;
it may linger on in literature, but its radiance, at first perhaps brighter, will gradually
diminish, and it must sooner or later fade away, or live only as a conscious archaism. The
fate of many beautiful old words like teen and dole and meed has thus been decided; they are
now practically lost to the language, and can probably never be restored to common use.[2]
It is, however, an interesting question, and one worthy of the consideration of our members,
whether it may be possible, at its beginning, to stop this process of decay; whether a word
at the moment when it begins to seem too poetical, might not perhaps be reclaimed for common
speech by timely and not inappropriate usage, and thus saved, before it is too late, from the
blight of over-expressiveness which will otherwise kill it in the end.

[Footnote 2: But concerning the words dole and meed see Tract II On English Homophones. Both
these words have suffered through homophony. Dole is a terrible example. 1, a portion = deal;
2, grief = Fr. deuil, Lat. dolor; 3, deceit, from the Latin dolus, Gk. [Greek: dolos]. All
three have been in wide use and have good authority; but neither 2 (which is presumably that
which the writer intends) nor 3 can be restored, nor is it desirable that they should be, the
sound having been specially isolated to a substantive and verb in the sense of No. 1.

Meed is likewise lost by homophony with 1 mead = meadow and 2 mead = metheglin: and it is a
very serious loss. No. 1 is almost extinct except among farmers and hay merchants, but the
absurd ambiguity of No. 2 is effective.

Teen, the writer's third example, has shown recent signs of renewed vitality in literature. [Ed.]]

The usage in regard to these tainted words varies a good deal, though probably not so much
as people generally think: some of them, like delve and dwell, still linger on in metaphors;
and people will still speak of delving into their minds, and dwelling in thought, who would
never think of delving in the garden, or dwelling in England; and we will call people swine*
or hounds, although we cannot use these words for the animals they more properly designate.
We can speak of a swift* punishment, but not a swift bird, or airplane, or steamer, and we
shun a thought, but not a bore; and many similar instances could be given. Perhaps words of
this kind cannot be saved from the unhappy doom which threatens them. It is not impossible,
on the other hand, that, by a slight conscious effort, some of these words might still be saved;
and there may be, among our members, persons of sufficient courage to suffer, in a pious cause,
the imputation of preciosity and affectation which such attempts involve. To the consideration
of such persons we could recommend words like maid, maiden, damsel, weep, bide, sojourn, seek,
heinous, swift, chide*, and the many other excellent and expressive old words which are now
falling into colloquial disuse.

There is one curious means by which the life of these words may be lengthened and by which,
possibly, they may regain a current and colloquial use. They can be still used humorously and
as it were in quotation marks; words like pelf, maiden, lad, damsel, and many others are sometimes
used in this way, which at any rate keeps them from falling into the limbo of silence. Whether
any of them have by this means renewed their life would be an interesting subject of inquiry;
it is said that at Eton the good old word usher, used first only for humorous effect, has now
found its way back into the common and colloquial speech of the school.

V. Dialectal and Popular Words.

Whether words may, by conscious effort, be preserved in colloquial usage is an unsolved question,
though perhaps our Society may help to solve it; there is, however, another and more certain
benefit which its members, or at any rate such of them as are writers, may confer upon the
language. There are many excellent words spoken in uneducated speech and dialect all about
us, which would be valuable additions to our standard vocabulary if they could be given currency
in it. Many of these are dying words like bide, dight, blithe, malison, vengeance, and since
these are still spoken in other classes, it might be less difficult to restore them to educated
speech. Others are old words like thole and nesh and lew and mense and foison and fash and
douce, which have never been accepted into the standard English, or have long since vanished
from it, in spite of their excellence and ancient history, and in spite of the fact that they
have long been in current use in various districts. Others are new formations, coined in the
ever-active mint of uneducated speech, and many of these, coming as they do full of freshness
and vigour out of the vivid popular imagination--words like harum-scarum, gallivant, cantankerous,
and pernickety--or useful monosyllables and penny pieces of popular speech like blight and
nag and fun--have already found their way into standard English. But there are many others
which might with advantage be given a larger currency. This process of dialectal regeneration,
as it is called, has been greatly aided in the past by men of letters, who have given a literary
standing to the useful and picturesque vocabulary of their unlettered neighbours, and thus
helped to reinforce with vivid terms our somewhat abstract and faded standard speech. We owe,
for instance, words like lilt and outcome to Carlyle; croon, eerie, gloaming have become familiar
to us from Burns's poems, and Sir Walter Scott added a large number of vivid local terms both
to our written and our spoken language. In the great enrichment of the vocabulary of the romantic
movement by means of words like murk, gloaming, glamour, gruesome, eerie, eldritch, uncanny,
warlock, wraith--all of which were dialect or local words, we find a good example of the expressive
power of dialect speech, and see how a standard language can be enriched by the use of popular
sources. All members of our Society can help this process by collecting words from popular
speech which are in their opinion worthy of a larger currency; they can use them themselves
and call the attention of their friends to them, and if they are writers, they may be able,
like the writers of the past, to give them a literary standing. If their suggestions are not
accepted, no harm is done; while, if they make a happy hit and bring to public notice a popular
term or idiom which the language needs and accepts, they have performed a service to our speech
of no small importance.

L.P.S.

NOTES TO THE ABOVE

Rôle. The italics and accent may be due to consciousness of roll. The French word will never
make itself comfortable in English if it is homophonous with roll.

Timbre. This word is in a peculiar condition. In the French it has very various significations,
but has come to be adopted in music and acoustics to connote the quality of a musical sound
independent of its pitch and loudness, a quality derived from the harmonics which the fundamental
note intensifies, and that depends on the special form of the instrument. The article Clang
in the Oxford Dictionary quotes Professor Tyndall regretting that we have no word for this
meaning, and suggesting that we should imitate the awkward German klang-farbe. We have no word
unless we forcibly deprive clangour of its noisy associations. We generally use timbre in italics
and pronounce it as French; and since the word is used only by musicians this does not cause
much inconvenience to them, but it is because of its being an unenglish word that it is confined
to specialists: and truly if it were an English word the quality which it denotes would be
spoken of more frequently, and perhaps be even more differentiated and recognized, though it
is well known to every child. Now how should this word be Englished? Is the spelling or the
pronunciation to stand? So that if our professors and doctors of music were brave, they would
speak and write tamber, which would be not only English but perfectly correct etymologically.

But this is just where what is called 'the rub' comes in. It would, for a month or two, look
so peculiar a word that it might require something like a coup d'état to introduce it. And
yet the schools of music in London could work the miracle without difficulty or delay.

Swine. Americans still use the word pig in its original sense of the young of the hog and sow;
though they will say chickens for poultry. In England we talk of pigs and chickens when we
mean swine and poultry. Chaucer has

    His swyn his hors his stoor and his pultreye.

The verb to pig has kept to its meaning, though it has developed another: the substantive probably
got loose through its generic employment in composite words, e.g. guinea-pig, sea-pig, &c.;
and having acquired a generic use cannot lose it again. But it might perhaps be worth while
to distinguish strictly between the generic and the special use of the word pig, and not call
a sow a pig, nor a hen a chicken. So hog and sow might still have their pigs and be all of
them swine.

Swift. Perhaps it is going too far to say that 'swift' is colloquial only in metaphorical applications,
we might speak of 'a swift bowler' without exciting surprise; but it is expedient to restore
this word to general use, and avoid the use of fast for denotation of speed. 'To stand fast'
is very well, but 'to run fast' is thoroughly objectionable. Such a use destroys the sense
of firmness which the word is needed and well qualified to denote.

Chide. This word probably needs its past tense and participle to be securely fixed before it
will be used. It is perhaps wholly the uncertainty of these that has made the word to be avoided.
Chid and chidden should be taught, and chode and chided condemned as illiterate.

NOTE ON 'DYING WORDS'

Diderot in his Lettre sur les Sourds et Muets deplores the loss of good old terms in the French
of his day; he writes:

'Je blâme cette noblesse prétendue qui nous a fait exclure de notre langue un grand nombre
d'expressions énergiques. Les Grecs, les Latins qui ne connoissoient gueres cette fausse délicatesse,
disoient en leur langue ce qu'ils vouloient, et comme ils le vouloient. Pour nous, à force
de rafiner, nous avons appauvri la nôtre, & n'ayant souvent qu'un terme propre à rendre une
idée, nous aimons mieux affoiblir l'idée que de ne pas employer un terme noble.[3] Quelle perte
pour ceux d'entre nos Écrivains qui ont l'imagination forte, que celle de tant de mots que
nous revoyons avec plaisir dans Amyot & dans Montagne. Ils ont commencé par être rejettés du
beau style, parce qu'ils avoient passé dans le peuple; & ensuite rebutés par le peuple même,
qui à la longue est toujours le singe des Grands, ils sont devenus tout-à-fait inusités.'... [ED.]

[Footnote 3: Noble. Genteel would not be a fair translation, but it gives the meaning. Littré
quotes: 'Il ne nommera pas le boulanger de Crésus, le palefrenier de Cyrus, le chaudronnier
Macistos; il dit grand panetier, écuyer, armurier, avertissant en note que cela est plus noble.']

*       *       *       *       *

CO-OPERATION OF MEMBERS

The method by which this Society proposes to work is to collect expert opinion on matters wherein
our present use is indeterminate or unsatisfactory, and thus to arrive at a general understanding
and consensus of opinion which might be relied on to influence practice.

