That year was a bad year, a year of world-wide economic disorganization. Through their want
of intelligent direction the great "Trust" of American ironmasters, a gang of energetic, narrow-minded
furnace owners, had smelted far more iron than the whole world had any demand for. (In those
days there existed no means of estimating any need of that sort beforehand.) They had done
this without even consulting the ironmasters of any other country. During their period of activity
they had drawn into their employment a great number of workers, and had erected a huge productive
plant. It is manifestly just that people who do headlong stupid things of this sort should
suffer, but in the old days it was quite possible, it was customary for the real blunderers
in such disasters, to shift nearly all the consequences of their incapacity. No one thought
it wrong for a light-witted "captain of industry" who had led his workpeople into overproduction,
into the disproportionate manufacture, that is to say, of some particular article, to abandon
and dismiss them, nor was there anything to prevent the sudden frantic underselling of some
trade rival in order to surprise and destroy his trade, secure his customers for one's own
destined needs, and shift a portion of one's punishment upon him. This operation of spasmodic
underselling was known as "dumping." The American ironmasters were now dumping on the British
market. The British employers were, of course, taking their loss out of their workpeople as
much as possible, but in addition they were agitating for some legislation that would prevent--not
stupid relative excess in production, but "dumping"--not the disease, but the consequences
of the disease. The necessary knowledge to prevent either dumping or its causes, the uncorrelated
production of commodities, did not exist, but this hardly weighed with them at all, and in
answer to their demands there had arisen a curious party of retaliatory-protectionists who
combined vague proposals for spasmodic responses to these convulsive attacks from foreign manufacturers,
with the very evident intention of achieving financial adventures. The dishonest and reckless
elements were indeed so evident in this movement as to add very greatly to the general atmosphere
of distrust and insecurity, and in the recoil from the prospect of fiscal power in the hands
of the class of men known as the "New Financiers," one heard frightened old-fashioned statesmen
asserting with passion that "dumping" didn't occur, or that it was a very charming sort of
thing to happen. Nobody would face and handle the rather intricate truth of the business. The
whole effect upon the mind of a cool observer was of a covey of unsubstantial jabbering minds
drifting over a series of irrational economic cataclysms, prices and employment tumbled about
like towers in an earthquake, and amidst the shifting masses were the common work-people going
on with their lives as well as they could, suffering, perplexed, unorganized, and for anything
but violent, fruitless protests, impotent. You cannot hope now to understand the infinite want
of adjustment in the old order of things. At one time there were people dying of actual starvation
in India, while men were burning unsalable wheat in America. It sounds like the account of
a particularly mad dream, does it not? It was a dream, a dream from which no one on earth expected
an awakening.

To us youngsters with the positiveness, the rationalism of youth, it seemed that the strikes
and lockouts, the overproduction and misery could not possibly result simply from ignorance
and want of thought and feeling. We needed more dramatic factors than these mental fogs, these
mere atmospheric devils. We fled therefore to that common refuge of the unhappy ignorant, a
belief in callous insensate plots--we called them "plots"--against the poor.

You can still see how we figured it in any museum by looking up the caricatures of capital
and labor that adorned the German and American socialistic papers of the old time.

Section 2

I had cast Nettie off in an eloquent epistle, had really imagined the affair was over forever--"I've
done with women," I said to Parload--and then there was silence for more than a week.

Before that week was over I was wondering with a growing emotion what next would happen between us.

I found myself thinking constantly of Nettie, picturing her--sometimes with stern satisfaction,
sometimes with sympathetic remorse--mourning, regretting, realizing the absolute end that had
come between us. At the bottom of my heart I no more believed that there was an end between
us, than that an end would come to the world. Had we not kissed one another, had we not achieved
an atmosphere of whispering nearness, breached our virgin shyness with one another? Of course
she was mine, of course I was hers, and separations and final quarrels and harshness and distance
were no more than flourishes upon that eternal fact. So at least I felt the thing, however
I shaped my thoughts.

Whenever my imagination got to work as that week drew to its close, she came in as a matter
of course, I thought of her recurrently all day and dreamt of her at night. On Saturday night
I dreamt of her very vividly. Her face was flushed and wet with tears, her hair a little disordered,
and when I spoke to her she turned away. In some manner this dream left in my mind a feeling
of distress and anxiety. In the morning I had a raging thirst to see her.

That Sunday my mother wanted me to go to church very particularly. She had a double reason
for that; she thought that it would certainly exercise a favorable influence upon my search
for a situation throughout the next week, and in addition Mr. Gabbitas, with a certain mystery
behind his glasses, had promised to see what he could do for me, and she wanted to keep him
up to that promise. I half consented, and then my desire for Nettie took hold of me. I told
my mother I wasn't going to church, and set off about eleven to walk the seventeen miles to
Checkshill.

It greatly intensified the fatigue of that long tramp that the sole of my boot presently split
at the toe, and after I had cut the flapping portion off, a nail worked through and began to
torment me. However, the boot looked all right after that operation and gave no audible hint
of my discomfort. I got some bread and cheese at a little inn on the way, and was in Checkshill
park about four. I did not go by the road past the house and so round to the gardens, but cut
over the crest beyond the second keeper's cottage, along a path Nettie used to call her own.
It was a mere deer track. It led up a miniature valley and through a pretty dell in which we
had been accustomed to meet, and so through the hollies and along a narrow path close by the
wall of the shrubbery to the gardens.

In my memory that walk through the park before I came upon Nettie stands out very vividly.
The long tramp before it is foreshortened to a mere effect of dusty road and painful boot,
but the bracken valley and sudden tumult of doubts and unwonted expectations that came to me,
stands out now as something significant, as something unforgettable, something essential to
the meaning of all that followed. Where should I meet her? What would she say? I had asked
these questions before and found an answer. Now they came again with a trail of fresh implications
and I had no answer for them at all. As I approached Nettie she ceased to be the mere butt
of my egotistical self-projection, the custodian of my sexual pride, and drew together and
became over and above this a personality of her own, a personality and a mystery, a sphinx
I had evaded only to meet again.

