OUR ARTISTS IN ITALY.

WILLIAM PAGE.

Among artists, William Page is a painter.

This proposition may seem, to the great public which has so long and so well known him and
his works, somewhat unnecessary. There are few who are not familiar with his paintings. Whether
these seem great or otherwise, whether the Venus be pure or gross, we may not here discuss;
the public has, and will have, many estimates; yet on one point there is no difference of opinion,
apparently. The world willingly calls him whose hand wrought these pictures a painter. It has
done so as a matter of course; and we accept the title.

But perhaps the title comes to us from this man's studio, charged with a significance elevating
it above the simply self-evident, and rendering it worthy of the place we have given it as
a germ proposition.

Not every one who uses pigments can say, "I also am a painter." To him who would make visible
the ideal, there are presented the marble, the pencil, and the colors; and should he employ
either of these, just in proportion to his obedience to the laws of each will he be a sculptor,
a designer, or a painter; and the revelations in stone, in light and shade, or on canvas, shall
be his witnesses forevermore,--witnesses of him not only as an artist, in view of his relation
to the ideal world, but as possessing a right to the especial title conferred by the means
which he has chosen to be his interpreter.

The world has too much neglected these means of interpretation. It has condemned the science
which would perfect the art, as if the false could ever become the medium of the true. The
art of painting has suffered especially from the influence of mistaken views.

Nor could it be otherwise. Color-manifestation, of all art-utterance, is the least simple.
It requires the fulfilment of a greater number of conditions than are involved in any other
art. He who has selected colors as his medium cannot with impunity neglect form; light and
shade must be to him as important as they are to the designer in chiaro-scuro; while above
all are the mystery and power of color.

There is perplexity in this. The science of form seems to be vast enough for any man's genius.
No more than he accomplishes is demanded of the genuine sculptor. His life has been grand with
noble fulfilments. We, and all generations, hold his name in the sacred simplicity which has
ever been the sign of the consummate. Men say, Phidias, Praxiteles, and know that they did
greatly and sufficiently.

Yet with the science which these men had we combine elements equally great, and still truth
demands the consummate. Hence success in painting has been the rarest success which the world
has known. If we search its history page by page, the great canvas-leaves written over with
innumerable names yield us less than a score of those who have overcome the difficulties of
its science, through that, achieving art, and becoming painters.

Yes, many men have painted, many great artists have painted, without earning the title which
excellence gives. Overbeck, the apostle artist, whose rooms are sacred with the presence of
the divine, never earned that name. Nor did thousands who before him wrought patiently and
earnestly.

We think that we have among us a man who has earned it.

What does this involve? Somewhat more than the ability critically to distinguish colors and
to use them skilfully.

Although practice may discipline and develop this power, there must exist an underlying physiological
fitness, or all study and experience will be unavailing. In many persons, the organization
of the eye is such that there can be no correct perception of the value, relation, and harmony
of hues. There exists often an utter inability to perceive differences between even the primary
colors.

The late sculptor Bartholomew declared himself unable to decide which of two pieces of drapery,
the one crimson and the other green, was the crimson. Nor was this the result of inexperience.
He had been for years familiar not only with Nature's coloring, but with the works of the best
schools of art, and had been in continual contact with the first living artists.

The instances of this peculiar blindness are exceptional, yet not more so than is the perfection
of vision which enables the eye to discriminate accurately the innumerable tints derived from
the three primitives.

Nothing can be finer than the sense of identity and harmony resulting from this exquisite organization.
We have been told that there is a workman at the Gobelin manufactory who can select twenty-two
thousand tints of the material employed in the construction of its famous tapestries. This
capability is, of course, almost wholly dependent upon rare physical qualifications; yet it
is the basis, the very foundation of a painter's power.

Still, it is but the foundation. An "eye for color" never yet made any man a colorist.

Perhaps there can be no severer test of this faculty of perception than the copying of excellent
pictures. And among the few successful copies which have been produced, Page's stand unsurpassed.

The ability to perceive Nature, when translated into art, is, however, a possession which this
painter shares with many. Nor is he alone in the skill which enables him to realize upon his
own canvas the effects which some master has rendered.

It is in the presence of Nature itself that a power is demanded with which mechanical superiority
and physical qualifications have little to do. Here the man stands alone,--the only medium
between the ideal and the outward world, wherefrom he must choose the signs which alone are
permitted to become the language of his expression. None can help him, as before he was helped
by the man whose success was the parent of his own. Here is no longer copying.

In the first place, is to be found the limit of the palette. Confining ourselves to the external,
what, of all the infinitude of phenomena to which the vision is related, so corresponds to
the power of the palette that it may become adequately representative thereof?

Passing over many minor points in which there seems to be an imperfect relation between Nature's
effects and those of pigments, we will briefly refer to the great discrepancy occasioned by
the luminosity of light. In all the lower effects of light, in the illumination of Nature and
the revelation of colored surfaces, in the exquisite play and power of reflected light and
color, and in the depth and richness of these when transmitted, we find a noble and complete
response on the palette. But somewhere in the ascending scale a departure from this happy relation
begins to be apparent. The color-properties of light are no longer the first. Another element--an
element the essential nature of which is absorbed in the production of the phenomena of color--now
asserts itself. Hitherto the painter has dealt with light indirectly, through the mediatorship
of substances. The rays have been given to him, broken tenderly for his needs;--ocean and sky,
mountain and valley, draperies and human faces, all things, from stars to violets, have diligently
prepared for him, as his demands have arisen, the precious light. And while he has restrained
himself to the representation of Nature subdued to the limit of his materials, he has been
victorious.

Turner, in whose career can be found almost all that the student needs for example and for
warning, is perhaps the best illustration of wise temperance in the choice of Nature to be
rendered into art. Nothing can be finer than some of those early works wrought out in quiet
pearly grays,--the tone of Nature in her soberest and tenderest moods. In these, too, may be
observed those touches of brilliant color,--bits of gleaming drapery, perhaps,--prophetic flecks
along the gray dawn. Such pictures are like pearls; but art demands amber, also.

When necessity has borne the artist out of this zone, the peaceful domain of the imitator,
he finds himself impelled to produce effects which are no longer the simple phases of color,
but such as the means at his disposal fail to accomplish. In the simpler stages of coloring,
when he desired to represent an object as blue or red, it was but necessary to use blue or
red material. Now he has advanced to a point where this principle is no longer applicable.
The illuminative power of light compels new methods of manipulation.

As examples of a thorough comprehension of the need of such a change in the employment of means,
of the character of that change, of the skill necessary to embody its principles, and of utter
success in the result, we have but to suggest the name and works of Titian.

But the laws which Titian discovered have been unheeded for centuries; and they might have
remained so, had not the mind of William Page felt the necessity of their revival and use.
To him there could be no chance-work. Art must have laws as definite and immutable as those
of science; indeed, the body in which the spirit of art is developed, and through which it
acts, must be science itself. He saw, that, if exact imitation of Nature be taken as the law
in painting, there must inevitably occur the difficulty to which we have before referred,--that,
above a certain point, paint no longer undergoes transfiguration, thereby losing its character
as mere coloring material,--that, if the ordinary tone of Nature be held as the legitimate
key-note, the scope of the palette would be exhausted before success could be achieved.

Any one of Turner's latest pictures may serve to illustrate the nature of this difficulty.
Although in his early practice he was remarkable for his judicious restraint, it is evident
that the splendors of the higher phenomena of light had for him unlimited fascination; and
he may be traced advancing cautiously through that period of his career which was marked by
the influence of Claude, toward what he hoped would prove, and perhaps believed to be, a realization
of such splendors.

It must have been observed by those who have studied his later pictures, that, while the low
passages of the composition are wonderfully fine and representative, all the higher parts,
those supposed or intended to stand for the radiance of dazzling light, fail utterly in representative
capacity. There is an abundance of the most brilliant pigment, but it is still paint,--unmitigated
ochre and white lead. The spectator is obliged to recede from the picture until distance enables
the eye to transmute the offending material and reconcile the conflicting passages.

To accomplish the result of rendering the quality and effect of high light was one of the problems
to which Mr. Page years ago turned his attention; and he found its solution in the transposition
of the scale. The pitch of Nature could not be adopted as the immutable in art. That were impossible,
unless art presumed to cope with Nature.

More than he, no man could respect the properties and qualities of the visible world. His ideas
of the truthful rendering of that which became the subject of his pencil might seem preposterous
to those who knew not the wonderful significancy which he attached to individual forms and
tints. Yet, in imitation, where is the limit? What is possible? Must there be any sacrifice?

Evidently there must be; and of course it follows that the less important must be sacrificed.
Nature herself has taught the artist that the most variable of all her phenomena is that of
tone. Other truths of Nature have a character of permanency which the artist cannot modify
without violating the first principles of art. He is required to render the essential; and
to render the essential of that which art cannot sacrifice, if it would, and continue art,
he foregoes the non-essential and evanescent.

Not only is this permitted,--it is demanded. It is a law through which alone success is attainable.
In obedience to it, Mr. Page adopts a key somewhat lower than that of Nature as a point of
departure, using his degrees of color frugally, especially in the ascending scale. With this
economy, when he approaches the luminous effects of Nature, he finds, just where any other
palette would be exhausted, upon his own a reserve of high color. With this, seeking only a
corresponding effect of light in that lower tone which assumes no rivalry with the infinite
glory of Nature, he attains to a representation fully successful.

We would not have it understood that a mere transposition of the scale is all that is required
to accomplish such a result; only this,--that in no other way can such a result be secured.
To color well, to color so that forms upon the canvas give back tints like those of the objects
which have served as models, is only half the work. Quality, as well as color, must be attained.
Local, reflected, and transmitted color can be imitated; but as in the attempt to represent
light its luminousness is the element which defeats the artist, so, throughout Nature, quality,
texture, are the elements which most severely test his power.

Could any indispensable truth be considered secondary, it might be assumed that rendering truthfully
the qualities of Nature is the first and highest of art. The forms and colors of objects vary
infinitely. It might be said that the law of all existence is, in these two particulars, that
of change. From the time a human being is born until it disappears in the grave, from the day
when the first leaves break the mould to that which sees the old tree fall, the form of each
has been modified hourly.

But that which differentiates objects more completely than any other property is quality. The
sky over us, and the waters of the earth, are subject to infinite variations. Yet, whether
in the tiny drop that trembles at the point of a leaf or in the vast ocean-globe of our planet,
in the torpor of forest-ponds or in the wrath of cataracts, water never loses its quality of
wetness,--the open sky never that of dryness. These two characteristics are of course entirely
the reverse of each other,--as unlike as are the properties of transparency and opacity,--which
they involve.

So, throughout Nature, one truth, that of texture, is the distinguishing; and this distinctive
element is that which cannot be sacrificed; for through it are Nature's finest laws manifested.
And the painter finds in his obedience to her demands his highest power over the material which
serves him in his efforts to embody the true and the beautiful.

It is, then, this which compels us to estimate Mr. Page a painter,--a man especially organized
for his profession,--chosen by its demands,--set apart, by his wonderful adaptation to its
requirements, from all the world. In virtue of this specialty, the necessity arose early in
his life to seek excellence in his department of art,--to search the depths of its philosophy
and discover its vital principles,--to analyze its methods and expose its errors. It led him
to investigate the relation between the phenomena of Nature and the effects of painting; it
guided him to a clear perception of the laws of art-translation; above all, it compelled him
to practise what he believed to be the true.

Thus much of the painter;--now what of the artist?

It does not necessarily follow, that, because a man is a great painter, he is also a great
artist. Yet we may safely infer, that, if he has been true in one department of the several
which constitute art, he cannot have been false in others. Should there be a shortcoming, it
must be that of a man whose mission does not include that wherein he fails. Fidelity to himself
is all we should demand. We say this for those who are disposed to depreciate what an artist
actually accomplishes, because in some one point Turner or Overbeck surpasses him. Nor do we
say it apologetically. The man, who, basing his action upon the evident purpose of the organization
which God has given him, fulfils his destiny, requires no apology.

We have seen something of the faithfulness which has marked Mr. Page's pursuit of excellence
in the external of his art. He has wrought that which proves his claim to a broader title than
that of painter. Were it not for the vagueness which involves the appellation of historical
painter, it might be that. Even were we obliged to confine our interest and study to the portraiture
which he has executed, we might, in view of its remarkable character, designate it as historical.

Than a really great portrait, no work of art can be more truly historical. We feel the subjectiveness
of compositions intended to transmit facts to posterity,--and unless we know the artist, we
are at a loss as to the degree of trust which we may place in his impressions. A true portrait
is objective. The individuality of the one whom it represents was the ruling force in the hour
of its production; and to the spirit of a household, a community, a kingdom, or an age, that
individuality is the key. There is, too, in a genuine portrait an internal evidence of its
authenticity. No artist ever was great enough to invent the combination of lines, curves, and
planes which composes the face of a man. There is the accumulated significance of a lifetime,--subtile
traces of failures or of victories wrought years ago. How these will manifest themselves, no
experience can point out, no intuition can foresee or imagine. The modifications are infinite,
and each is completely removed from the region of the accidental.

But, although details and their combinations in the human face and form cannot be wrought from
the imagination, the truthfulness or falsity of their representation is instantly evident.
It is because of this, that the unity of a portrait carries conviction of its truth and of
the unimpeachability of its evidence, that this phase of art becomes so valuable as history.
Compared with the worth of Titian's Philip II.,--the Madrid picture, of which Mr. Wild has
an admirable study,--what value can be attached to any historical composition of its period?

It has not been the lot of Mr. Page to paint a mighty man, so inlocked with the rugged forces
of his age. His sitters have come from more peaceful, nobler walks of life,--and their portraits
are beloved even more than they are admired. Not yet are they the pride of pompous galleries,
but the glory and saintliness of homes.

Could we enter these homes, and discuss freely the character of their treasures, we would gladly
linger in the presence of the more precious. But so inseparably associated are they with their
originals, so much more nearly related to them than to the artist, that no fitting analysis
can be made of the representation without involving that of the individual represented.

Three portraits have, however, such wonderful excellence, and through this excellence have
become so well known, that we may be forgiven for alluding to them. In a former paper, the
writer spoke of the portrait of a man in his divinest development. The first of these three
works is the representation of a woman, and is truly "somewhat miraculous." It is a face rendered
impressive by the grandest repose,--a repose that pervades the room and the soul,--a repose
not to be mistaken for serenity, but which is power in equilibrium. No brilliancy of color,
no elaboration of accessories, no intricacy of composition attracts the attention of the observer.
There is no need of these. But he who is worthy of the privilege stands suddenly conscious
of a presence such as the world has rarely known. He feels that the embodiment before him is
the record of a great Past, as well as the reflection of a proud Present,--a Past in which
the soul has ever borne on through and above all obstacles of discouragement and temptation
to a success which was its inheritance. He sees, too, the possibilities of the near Future;
how from that fine equipoise the soul might pass out into rare manifestations, appearing in
the sweetness and simplicity of a little child, in the fearful tumultuousness of a Lady Macbeth,
in the passionate tenderness of a Romeo, or in the Gothic grandeur of a Scotch sorceress,--in
the love of kindred, in the fervor of friendship, and in the nobleness of the truest womanhood.

Another portrait--can it have been painted in this century?--presents a widely different character.
We have seen the rendering of a nature made too solemn by the possession of genius to admit
of splendor of coloring. This picture is that of ripe womanhood, manifesting itself in the
fulness of summer's goldenest light. Color, in all its richness as color, in all its strength
as a representative agent, in all its glory as the minister of light, in all its significance
as the sign and expression of plenitude of life,--life at one with Nature;--thus we remember
it, as it hung upon the wall of that noble room in the Roman home of Crawford.

A later portrait, and one artistically the finest of Mr. Page's productions, although executed
in Rome, has found a home in Cambridge. Here no grave subdual of color was called for, nor
was there any need of its fullest power,--but, instead thereof, we have color in the purity
of its pearl expression. A mild lustre, inexpressibly clear, seems to pervade the picture,
and beam forth the revelation of a white soul. Shadows there are none,--only still softer light,
to carry back the receding forms. But interest in technicalities is lost in the nobler sense
of sweet influences. We are at peace in the presence of a peace which passeth all understanding.
We are holy in the ineffable light of immortal holiness. We are blessed in the consciousness
of complete harmony.

Surely, none but a great painter could have achieved such success; surely, no mere painter
could thus have appealed to us.

These works we have chosen to represent the artist's power in the direction of portraiture,--not
only because of their wonderful merit as embodiments of individualism, but to illustrate a
law which has not yet had its due influence in art, but which must be the very life of its
next revival, when painting shall be borne up until it marks the century.

We refer to the expressional power of color,--not the conventional significance whereby certain
colors have been associated arbitrarily with mental conditions. This last has often violated
all the principles of natural relation; yet no fact is more generally accepted than this,--that
colors, from the intensity of the primitives to the last faint tints derived therefrom, bear
fixed and demonstrable relations to the infinite moods and phases of human life. As among themselves
the hues of the palette exist in immutable conditions of positive affinity or repulsion, so
are they all related to the soul as definitely in harmony or in discord. There has been imperfect
recognition of this at various times in the history of painting since the age of Giotto,--the
most notable examples having occurred in the Venetian school.

But even in that golden age of art, this property of color was but rarely perceived and called
into use under the guidance of principles. Still, the sense of the value and the harmonies
of colors was so keen among the Venetian artists, that, intuitively, subjects were chosen which
required an expression admitting of the most lavish use and magnificent display of color.

Paul Veronese, the splendor of whose conceptions seemed ever to select the pomp and wealth
of banquets and ceremonies,--Giorgione, for whom the world revolved in an atmosphere of golden
glory,--each had a fixed ideal of noble coloring; and it is questionable whether either ever
modified that ideal for the sake of any expressional purpose.

Titian, from whom no property or capability of color was concealed, could not forego the power
which he secured through obedience to the law of its relation to the human soul. Were we asked
which among pictures is most completely illustrative of this obedience, we should answer, "The
Entombment," in the Louvre. Each breadth of color mourns,--sky and earth and all the conscious
air are laden with sorrow.

In portraiture, however, the great master was inclined to give the full perfection of the highest
type of coloring. That rich glow which is bestowed by the Venetian sun did, indeed, seem typical
of the life beneath it; and Titian may have been justified in bringing thither those who were
the recipients of his favors. One only did he not invite,--Philip II.; him he placed, dark
and ominous, against a sky barred with blood.

Is it in virtue of conformity to law, and under the government of the principles of correspondence,
that Mr. Page has wrought with mind and hand?

Otherwise it cannot be; for, in the three portraits to which allusion has been made, such subtile
distinctions of character find expression in equally subtile differences of tint, that no touch
could have been given from vague apprehensions of truth. No ambiguity perplexes the spectator;
he beholds the inevitable.

Other works than those of portraiture have won for Mr. Page the attention of the world. This
attention has elicited from individuals praise and dispraise, dealt out promptly, and with
little qualification. But we have looked in vain for some truly appreciative notice of the
so-called historical pictures executed by this artist. We do not object to the prompt out-speaking
of the public. So much is disposed of, when the mass has given or withheld its approval. We
know whether or not the work appeals to the hearts of human beings. Often, too, it is the most
nearly just of any which may be rendered. Usually, the conclusions of the great world are correct,
while its reasonings are absurd. Its decisions are immediate and clear; its arguments, subsequent
and vague.

This measure, however, cannot be meted to all artists. A painter may appeal to some wide, yet
superficial sympathy, and attain to no other excellence.

That Mr. Page might have found success in this direction will not be denied by any one who
has seen the engraving of a girl and lamb, from one of his early works. It is as sweet and
tenderly simple as a face by Francia. But not only did he refuse to confine himself to this
style of art, as, when that engraving is before us, we wish he had done,--he passed out of
and away from it. And those phases which followed have been such as are the least fitted to
stand the trial of public exhibition. His pictures do not command the eye by extraordinary
combinations of assertive colors,--nor do they, through great pathos, deep tenderness, or any
overcharged emotional quality, fascinate and absorb the spectator.

Much of the middle portion of this artist's professional life is marked by changes. It was
a period of growth,--of continual development and of obvious transition. Not infrequently,
the transition seemed to be from the excellent to the crude. Nevertheless, we doubt not, that,
through all vicissitudes, there has been a steady and genuine growth of Mr. Page's best artistic
power, and that he has been true to his specialty.

We should like to believe that the Venetian visit of 1853 was the closing of one period of
transition, and the beginning of a new era in Mr. Page's artistic career. It is pleasant to
think of the painter's pilgrimage to that studio of Titian, Venice,--for it was all his,--not
in nebulous prophetic youth,--not before his demands had been revealed to his consciousness,--not
before those twenty long years of solitary, hard, earnest work,--but in the full ripeness of
manhood, when prophecy had dawned into confident fulfilment, when the principles of his science
had been found, and when of this science his art had become the demonstration. It was fine
to come then, and be for a while the guest of Titian.

There is evidence that he began after this visit to do what for years he had been learning
to do,--yet, of course, as is ever the case with the earnest man, doing as a student, as one
who feels all truth to be of the infinite.

The result has been a series of remarkable pictures. There are among these the specimens of
portraiture, a few landscapes, and a number of ideal, or, as they have been called, historical
works. Of these last named there is somewhat to be said; and those to which we shall refer
are selected for the purpose of illustrating principles, rather than for that of description.
These are all associated with history. There are three representations of Venus, and several
renderings of Scriptural subjects.

If these pictures are valuable, they are so in virtue of elements which can be appreciated.
To present these elements to the world, to appeal to those who can recognize them, is, it is
fair to assume, the object of exposition. Not merely praise, but the more wholesome meed of
justice, is the desire of a true artist; and as we deal with such a one, we do not hesitate
to speak of his works as they impress us.

First of all, in view of the artist's skill as a painter, it is well to regard the external
of his work. Here, in both Scriptural and mythological subjects, there is little to condemn.
The motives have been bravely and successfully wrought out; the work is nobly, frankly done.
The superiority of methods which render the texture and quality of objects becomes apparent.
There is no attempt at illusion; yet the representation of substances and spaces is faultless,--as,
for instance, the sky of the "Venus leading forth the Trojans." Nor have we seen that chaste,
pearly lustre of the most beautiful human skin so well rendered as in the bosom of the figure
which gleams against the blue.

But there is a pretension to more than technical excellence in the mythological works; there
is a declaration of physical beauty in the very idea; in both these and the Scriptural there
is an assumption of historical value.

While we believe that the problem of physical beauty can be solved and demonstrated, and the
representations of Venus can be proved to possess or to lack the beautiful, we choose to leave
now, as we should be compelled to do after discussion, the decision of the question to those
who raise it. It is of little avail to prove a work of art beautiful,--of less, to prove it
ugly. Spectators and generations cannot be taken one by one and convinced. But where the operation
of judgment is from the reasoning rather than from the intuitive nature, facts, opinions, and
impressions may exert healthful influences.

The Venus of Page we cannot accept,--not because it may be unbeautiful, for that might be but
a shortcoming,--not because of any technical failure, for, with the exception of weakness in
the character of waves, nothing can be finer,--not because it lacks elevated sentiment, for
this Venus was not the celestial,--but because it has nothing to do with the present, neither
is it of the past, nor related in any wise to any imaginable future.

The present has no ideal of which the Venus of the ancients is a manifestation. Other creations
of that marvellous Greek mind might be fitly used to symbolize phases of the present. Hercules
might labor now; there are other stables than the Augean; and not yet are all Hydras slain.
Armor is needed; and a Vulcan spirit is making the anvil ring beneath the earth-crust of humanity.
But Venus, the voluptuous, the wanton,--no sensuousness pervading any religion of this era
finds in her its fitting type and sign. She, her companions, and her paramours, with the magnificent
religion which evolved them, were entombed centuries ago; and no angel has rolled the stone
from the door of their sepulchre. They are dead; the necessity which called the Deistic ideal
into existence is dead; the ideal itself is dead, since Paul preached in Athens its funeral sermon.

As history of past conditions, no value can be attached to representations produced in subsequent
ages. In this respect all these pictures must be false. The best can only approximate truth.
Yet his two pictures of Scriptural subjects--one from the remoteness of Hebrew antiquity, the
other from the early days of Christianity--are most valuable even as history: not the history
of the flight from Egypt, nor that of the flight into Egypt, but the history of what these
mighty events have become after the lapse of many centuries.

Herein lies the difference between Mythology and Christianity: the one arose, culminated, and
perished, soul and body, when the shadow of the Cross fell athwart Olympus; the other is immortal,--immortal
as is Christ, immortal as are human souls, of which it is the life. No century has been when
it has not found, and no century can be when it will not find, audible and visible utterance.
The music of the "Messiah" reveals the relation of its age to the great central idea of Christianity.
Frà Angelico, Leonardo, Bach, Milton, Overbeck, were the revelators of human elevation, as
sustained by the philosophy of which Christ was the great interpreter.

Therefore, to record that elevation, to be the historian of the present in its deepest significance,
the noblest occupation. Dwelling, as an artist must dwell, in the deep life of his theme, his
work must go forth utterly new, alive, and startling.

Thus did we find the "Flight into Egypt" a picture full of the spirit of that marvellous age,
hallowed by the sweet mystery which all these years have given. Who of those who were so fortunate
as to see this work of Mr. Page will ever forget the solemn, yet radiant tone pervading the
landscape of sad Egypt, along which went the fugitives? Nothing ever swallowed by the insatiable
sea, save its human victims, is more worthy of lament than this lost treasure.

Thus, too, is the grandest work of Mr. Page's life, the Moses with hands upheld above the battle.
Were we on the first page instead of the last, we could not refrain from describing it. Yet
in its presence the impulse is toward silence. We feel, that, viewed even in its mere external,
it is as simple and majestic as the Hebrew language. The far sky, with its pallid moon,--the
deep, shadowy valley, with its ghostly warriors,--the group on the near mountain, with its
superb youth, its venerable age, and its manhood too strong and vital for the destructive years;--in
the presence of such a creation there is time for a great silence.

KNITTING SALE-SOCKS.

"He's took 'ith all the sym't'ms,--thet 's one thing sure! Dretful pain in hez back an' l'ins,
legs feel 's ef they hed telegraph-wires inside 'em workin' fur dear life, head aches, face
fevered, pulse at 2.40, awful stetch in the side, an' pressed fur breath. You guess it's neuralogy,
Lurindy? I do'no' nothin' abeout yer high-flyin' names fur rheumatiz. I don't guess so!"

"But, Aunt Mimy, what do you guess?" asked mother.

"I don' guess nothin' at all,--I nigh abeout know!"

"Well,--you don't think it's"----

"I on'y wish it mebbe the veryaloud,--I on'y wish it mebbe. But that's tew good luck ter happen
ter one o' the name. No, Miss Ruggles, I--think--it's--the raal article at first hand."

"Goodness, Aunt Mimy! what"----

"Yes, I du; an' you'll all hev it stret through the femily, every one; you needn't expect ter
go scot-free, Emerline, 'ith all your rosy cheeks; an' you'll all hev ter stay in canteen a
month ter the least; an' ef you're none o' yer pertected by vaticination, I reckon I"----

"Well, Aunt Mimy, if that's your opinion, I'll harness the filly and drive over for Dr. Sprague."

"Lor'! yer no need ter du thet, Miss Ruggles,--I kin kerry yer all through jest uz well uz
Dr. Sprague, an' a sight better, ef the truth wuz knowed. I tuk Miss Deacon Smiler an' her
hull femily through the measles an' hoopin'-cough, like a parcel o' pigs, this fall. They du
say Jane's in a poor way an' Nathan'l's kind o' declinin'; but, uz I know they say it jest
ter spite me, I don' so much mind. You a'n't gwine now, be ye?"

"There's safety in a multitude of counsellors, you know, Aunt Mimy, and I think on the whole
I had best."

"Wal! ef that's yer delib'rate ch'ice betwixt Dr. Sprague an' me, ye kin du ez ye like. I never
force my advice on no one, 'xcept this,--I'd advise Emerline there ter throw them socks inter
the fire; there'll never none o' them be fit ter sell, 'nless she wants ter spread the disease.
Wal, I'm sorry yer 've concluded ter hev thet old quack Sprague; never hed no more diplomy
'n I; don' b'lieve he knows cow-pox from kine, when he sees it. The poor young man's hed his
last well day, I'm afeard. Good-day ter ye; say good-bye fur me ter Stephen. I'll call ag'in,
ef ye happen ter want any one ter lay him eout."

And, staying to light her little black pipe, she jerked together the strings of her great scarlet
hood, wrapped her cloak round her like a sentinel at muster, and went puffing down the hill
like a steamboat.

Aunt Mimy Ruggles wasn't any relation to us, I wouldn't have you think, though our name was
Ruggles, too. Aunt Mimy used to sell herbs, and she rose from that to taking care of the sick,
and so on, till once Dr. Sprague having proved that death came through her ignorance, she had
to abandon some branches of her art; and she was generally roaming round the neighborhood,
seeking whom she could devour in the others. And so she came into our house just at dinner-time,
and mother asked her to sit by, and then mentioned Cousin Stephen, and she went up to see him,
and so it was.

Now it can't be pleasant for any family to have such a thing turn up, especially if there's
a pretty girl in it; and I suppose I was as pretty as the general run, at that time,--perhaps
Cousin Stephen thought a trifle prettier; pink cheeks, blue eyes, and hair the color and shine
of a chestnut when it bursts the burr, can't be had without one 's rather pleasant-looking;
and then I'm very good-natured and quick-tempered, and I've got a voice for singing, and I
sing in the choir, and a'n't afraid to open my mouth. I don't look much like Lurindy, to be
sure; but then Lurindy's an old maid,--as much as twenty-five,--and don't go to singing-school.--At
least, these thoughts ran through my head as I watched Aunt Mimy down the hill.--Lurindy a'n't
so very pretty, I continued to think,--but she's so very good, it makes up. At sewing-circle
and quilting and frolics, I'm as good as any; but somehow I'm never any 'count at home; that's
because Lurindy is by, at home. Well, Lurindy has a little box in her drawer, and there's a
letter in it, and an old geranium-leaf, and a piece of black silk ribbon that looks too broad
for anything but a sailor's necktie, and a shell. I don't know what she wants to keep such
old stuff for, I'm sure.

We're none so rich,--I suppose I may as well tell the truth, that we're nearly as poor as poor
can be. We've got the farm, but it's such a small one that mother and I can carry it on ourselves,
with now and then a day's help or a bee,--but a bee's about as broad as it is long,--and we
raise just enough to help the year out, but don't sell. We've got a cow and the filly and some
sheep; and mother shears and cards, and Lurindy spins,--I can't spin, it makes my head swim,--and
I knit, knit socks and sell them. Sometimes I have needles almost as big as a pipe-stem, and
choose the coarse, uneven yarn of the thrums, and then the work goes off like machinery. Why,
I can knit two pair, and sometimes three, a day, and get just as much for them as I do for
the nice ones,--they're warm. But when I want to knit well, as I did the day Aunt Mimy was
in, I take my best blue needles and my fine white yarn from the long wool, and it takes me
from daybreak till sundown to knit one pair. I don't know why Aunt Jemimy should have said
what she did about my socks; I'm sure Stephen hadn't been any nearer them than he had to the
cabbage-bag Lurindy was netting, and there wasn't such a nice knitter in town as I, everybody
will tell you. She always did seem to take particular pleasure in hectoring and badgering me
to death.

Well, I wasn't going to be put down by Aunt Mimy, so I made the needles fly while mother was
gone for the doctor. By-and-by I heard a knock up in Stephen's room,--I suppose he wanted something,--but
Lurindy didn't hear it, and I didn't so much want to go, so I sat still and began to count
out loud the stitches to my narrowings. By-and-by he knocked again.

"Lurindy," says I, "a'n't that Steve a-knocking?"

"Yes," says she,--"why don't you go?"--for I had been tending him a good deal that day.

"Well," says I, "there's a number of reasons; one is, I'm just binding off my heel."

Lurindy looked at me a minute, then all at once she smiled.

"Well, Emmy," says she, "if you like a smooth skin more than a smooth conscience, you're welcome,"--and
went up-stairs herself.

I suppose I had ought to 'a' gone, and I suppose I'd ought to wanted to have gone, but somehow
it wasn't so much fear as that I didn't want to see Stephen himself now. So Lurindy stayed
up chamber, and was there when mother and the doctor come. And the doctor said he feared Aunt
Mimy was right, and nobody but mother and Lurindy must go near Stephen, (you see, he found
Lurindy there,) and they must have as little communication with me as possible. And his boots
creaked down the back-stairs, and then he went.

Mother came down a little while after, for some water to put on Stephen's head, which was a
good deal worse, she said; and about the middle of the evening I heard her crying for me to
come and help them hold him,--he was raving. I didn't go very quick; I said, "Yes,--just as
soon as I've narrowed off my toe"; and when at last I pushed back my chair to go, mother called
in a disapproving voice and said that they'd got along without me and I'd better go to bed.

Well, after I was in bed I began to remember all that had happened lately. Somehow my thoughts
went back to the first time Cousin Stephen came to our place, when I was a real little girl,
and mother'd sent me to the well and I had dropped the bucket in, and he ran straight down
the green slippery stones and brought it up, laughing. Then I remembered how we'd birds-nested
together, and nutted, and come home on the hay-carts, and how we'd been in every kind of fun
and danger together; and how, when my new Portsmouth lawn took fire, at Martha Smith's apple-paring,
he caught me right in his arms and squeezed out the fire with his own hands; and how, when
he saw once I had a notion of going with Elder Hooper's son James, he stepped aside till I
saw what a nincom Jim Hooper was, and then he appeared as if nothing had happened, and was
just as good as ever; and how, when the ice broke on Deacon Smith's pond, and I fell in, and
the other boys were all afraid, Steve came and saved my life again at risk of his own; and
how he always seemed to think the earth wasn't good enough for me to walk on; and how I'd wished,
time and again, I might have some way to pay him back; and here it was, and I'd failed him.
Then I remembered how I'd been to his place in Berkshire,--a rich old farm, with an orchard
that smelled like the Spice Islands in the geography, with apples and pears and quinces and
peaches and cherries and plums,--and how Stephen's mother, Aunt Emeline, had been as kind to
me as one's own mother could be. But now Aunt Emeline and Uncle 'Siah were dead, and Stephen
came a good deal oftener over the border than he'd any right to. Today, he brought some of
those new red-streaks, and wanted mother to try them; next time, they'd made a lot more maple-sugar
on his place than he wanted; and next time, he thought mother's corn might need hoeing, or
it was fine weather to get the grass in: I don't know what we should have done without him.
Then I thought how Stephen looked, the day he was pall-bearer to Charles Payson, who was killed
sudden by a fall,--so solemn and pale, nowise craven, but just up to the occasion, so that,
when the other girls burst out crying at sight of the coffin and at thought of Charlie, I cried,
too,--but it was only because Stephen looked so beautiful. Then I remembered how he looked
the other day when he came, his cheeks were so red with the wind, and his hair, those bright
curls, was all blown about, and he laughed with the great hazel eyes he has, and showed his
white teeth;--and now his beauty would be spoiled, and he'd never care for me again, seeing
I hadn't cared for him. And the wind began to come up; and it was so lonesome and desolate
in that little bed-room down-stairs, I felt as if we were all buried alive; and I couldn't
get to sleep; and when the sleet and snow began to rattle on the pane, I thought there wasn't
any one to see me and I'd better cry to keep it company; and so I sobbed off to dreaming at
last, and woke at sunrise and found it still snowing.

Next morning, I heard mother stepping across the kitchen, and when I came out, she said Lurindy'd
just gone to sleep; they'd had a shocking night. So I went out and watered the creatures and
milked Brindle, and got mother a nice little breakfast, and made Stephen some gruel. And then
I was going to ask mother if I'd done so very wrong in letting Lurindy nurse Stephen, instead
of me; and then I saw she wasn't thinking about that; and besides, there didn't really seem
to be any reason why she shouldn't;--she was a great deal older than I, and so it was more
proper; and then Stephen hadn't ever said anything to me that should give me a peculiar right
to nurse him more than other folks. So I just cleared away the things, made everything shine
like a pin, and took my knitting. I'd no sooner got the seam set than I was called to send
something up on a contrivance mother'd rigged in the back-entry over a pulley. And then I had
to make a red flag, and find a stick, and hang it out of the window by which there were the
most passers. Well, I did it; but I didn't hurry,--I didn't get the flag out till afternoon;
somehow I hated to, it always seemed such a low-lived disease, and I was mortified to acknowledge
it, and I knew nobody'd come near us for so long,--though goodness knows I didn't want to see
anybody. Well, when that was done, Lurindy came down, and I had to get her something to eat,
and then she went up-stairs, and mother took her turn for some sleep; and there were the creatures
to feed again, and what with putting on, and taking off, and tending fires, and doing errands,
and the night's milking, and clearing the paths, I didn't knit another stitch that day, and
was glad enough, when night came, to go to bed myself.

Well, so we went on for two or three days. I'd got my second sock pretty well along in that
time,--just think! half a week knitting half a sock!--and was setting the heel, when in came
Aunt Mimy.

"I a'n't afeard on it," says she; "don't you be skeert. I jest stepped in ter see ef the young
man wuz approachin' his eend."

"No," said I, "he isn't, any more than you are, Aunt Mimy."

"Any more 'n I be?" she answered. "Don't you lose yer temper, Emerline. We're all approachin'
it, but some gits a leetle ahead; it a'n't no disgrace, ez I knows on. What yer doin' of? Knittin'
sale-socks yet? and, my gracious! still ter work on the same pair! You'll make yer fortin',
Emerline!"

I didn't say anything, I was so provoked.

"I don' b'lieve you know heow ter take the turns w'en yer mother a'n't by to help," she continued.
"Can't ye take up the heel? Widden ev'ry fourth. Here, let me! You won't? Wal, I alluz knowed
you wuz mighty techy, Emerline Ruggles, but ye no need ter fling away in thet style. Neow I'll
advise ye ter let socks alone; they're tew intricate fur sech ez you. Mitt'ns is jest abeout
'ithin the compass uv your mind,--mitt'ns, men's single mitt'ns, put up on needles larger 'n
them o' yourn be, an' by this rule. Seventeen reounds in the wrist,--tew an' one's the best
seam"----

"Now, Miss Jemimy, just as if I didn't know how to knit mittens!"

"Wal, it seems you don't," said she, "though I don' deny but you may know heow ter give 'em;
an' ez I alluz like ter du w'at good I kin, I'm gwine ter show ye."

"Show away," says I; "but I'll be bound, I've knit and sold and eaten up more mittens than
ever you put your hands in!"

"Du tell! I'm glad to ha' heern you've got sech a good digestion," says she, hunting up a piece
of paper to light her pipe. "Wal, ez I wuz sayin'," says she, "tew an' one's the best seam,
handiest an' 'lastickest; twenty stetches to a needle, cast up so loose thet the fust one's
ter one eend uv the needle an' the last ter t'other eend,--thet gives a good pull."

"I guess your smoke will hurt Stephen's head," said I, thinking to change her ideas.

"Oh, don't you bother abeout Stephen's head; ef it can't stan' thet,'t a'n't good fur much.
Wal, an' then you set yer thumb an' knit plain, 'xcept a seam-stetch each side uv yer thumb;
an' you widden tew stetches, one each side,--s'pose ye know heow ter widden? an' narry?--ev'ry
third reound, tell yer 've got nineteen stetches acrost yer thumb; then ye knit, 'ithout widdenin',
a matter uv seven or eight reounds more,----you listenin', Emerline?"

"Lor', Miss Jemimy, don't you know better than to ask questions when I'm counting? Now I've
got to go and begin all over again."

"Highty-tighty, Miss! You're a weak sister, ef ye can't ceount an' chat, tew. Wal, ter make
a long matter short, then ye drop yer thumb onter some thread an' cast up seven stetches an'
knit reound fur yer hand, an' every other time you narry them seven stetches away ter one,
fur the gore."

"Dear me, Aunt Mimy! do be quiet a minute! I believe mother's a-calling."

"I'll see," said Aunt Mimy,--and she stepped to the door and listened.

"No," says she, coming back on tiptoe,--"an' you didn't think you heern any one neither. It's
ruther small work fur ter be foolin' an old woman. Hows'ever, I don' cherish grudges; so, ez
I wuz gwine ter say, ye knit thirty-six reounds above wheer ye dropped yer thumb, an' then
ye toe off in ev'ry fifth stetch, an' du it reg'Iar, Emerline; an' then take up yer thumb on
tew needles, an' on t'other you pick up the stetches I told yer ter cast up, an' knit twelve
reounds, an' thumb off 'ith narryin' ev'ry third"----

"Well, Miss Jemimy, I guess I shall know how to knit mittens, now!"

"Ef ye don't, 't a'n't my fault. When you've fastened off the eends, you roll 'em up in a damp
towel, an' press 'em 'ith a middlin' warm iron on the wrong side. There!"

After this, Miss Mimy smoked awhile in silence, satisfied and gratified. At last she knocked
the ashes out of her pipe.

"Wal," says she, "I must be onter my feet. I'd liked ter seen yer ma, but I won't disturb her,
an' you can du ez well. Yer ma promised me a mess o' tea, an' I guess I may ez well take it
neow ez any day."

"Why, Miss Mimy," said I, "there a'n't above four or five messes left, and we can't get any
more till I sell my socks."

"Wal, never mind, then, you can le' me take one, an' mebbe I kin make up the rest at Miss Smilers's."

So I went into the pantry to get it, and Aunt Mimy followed me, of course.

"Them's nice-lookin' apples," said she. "Come from Stephen's place? Poor young man, he won't
never want 'em! S'pose he won't hev no objection ter my tryin' a dozen,"--and she dropped that
number into her great pocket.

"Nice-lookin' butter, tew," said she. "Own churnin'? Wal, you kin du sunthin', Emerline. W'en
I wuz a heousekeeper, I used ter keep the femily in butter an' sell enough to Miss Smith--she
thet wuz Mary Breown--ter buy our shoes, all off uv one ceow. S'pose I take this pat?"

I was kind of dumfoundered at first; I forgot Aunt Mimy was the biggest beggar in Rockingham
County.

"No," says I, as soon as I got my breath, "I sha'n't suppose any such thing. You're as well
able to make your butter as I am to make it for you."

"Wal, Emerline Ruggles! I alluz knowed you wuz close ez the bark uv a tree; it's jest yer father's
narrer-contracted sperrit; you don' favor yer ma a speck. She's ez free ez water."

"If mother's a mind to give away her eye-teeth, it don't follow that I should," said I; "and
I won't give you another atom; and you just clear out!"

"Wal, you kin keep yer butter, sence you're so sot on it, an' I'll take a leetle dust o' pork
instead."

"Let's see you take it!" said I.

"I guess I'll speak 'ith yer ma. I shall git a consider'ble bigger piece, though I don't like
ter add t' 'er steps."

"Now look here, Miss Mimy," says I,--"if you'll promise not to ask for another thing, and to
go right away, I'll get you a piece of pork."

So I went down cellar, and fished round in the pork-barrel and found quite a respectable piece.
Coming up, just as my head got level with the floor, what should I see but Miss Jemimy pour
all the sugar into her bag and whip the bowl back on the shelf, and turn round and face me
as innocent as Moses in the bulrushes. After she had taken the pork, she looked round a minute
and said,--

"Wal, arter all, I nigh upon forgot my arrant. Here's a letter they giv' me fur Lurindy, at
the post-office; ev'rybody else's afeard ter come up here";--and by-and-by she brought it up
from under all she'd stowed away there. "Thet jest leaves room," says she.

"For what?" says I.

"Fur tew or three uv them eggs."

I put them into her bag and said,

"Now you remember your promise, Aunt Mimy!"

"Lor' sakes!" says she, "you're in a mighty berry ter git me off. Neow you've got all you kin
out uv me, the letter, 'n' the mitt'ns, I may go, may I? I niver see a young gal so furrard
'ith her elders in all my born days! I think Stephen Lee's well quit uv ye, fur my part, ef
he hed to die ter du it. I don't 'xpect ye ter thank me fur w'at instruction I gi'n ye;--there's
some folks I niver du 'xpect nothin' from; you can't make a silk pus out uv a sow's ear. W'at
ye got thet red flag out the keepin'-room winder fur? 'Cause Lurindy's nussin' Stephen? Wal,
good-day!"

And so Aunt Mimy disappeared, and the pat of butter with her.

I called Lurindy and gave her the letter, and after a little while I heard my name, and Lurindy
was sitting on the top of the stairs with her head on her knees, and mother was leaning over
the banisters. Pretty soon Lurindy lifted up her head, and I saw she had been crying, and between
the two I made out that Lurindy'd been engaged a good while to John Talbot, who sailed out
of Salem on long voyages to India and China; and that now he'd come home, sick with a fever,
and was lying at the house of his aunt, who wasn't well herself; and as he'd given all his
money to help a shipmate in trouble, she couldn't hire him a nurse, and there he was; and,
finally, she'd consider it a great favor, if Lurindy would come down and help her.

Now Lurindy'd have gone at once, only she'd been about Stephen, so that she'd certainly carry
the contagion, and might be taken sick herself, as soon as she arrived; and mother couldn't
go and take care of John, for the same reason; and there was nobody but me. Lurindy had a half-eagle
that John had given her once to keep; and I got a little bundle together and took all the precautions
Dr. Sprague advised; and he drove me off in his sleigh, and said, as he was going about sixteen
miles to see a patient, he'd put me on the cars at the nearest station. Well, he stopped a
minute at the post-office, and when he came out he had another letter for Lurindy. I took it,
and, after a moment, concluded I'd better read it.

"What are you about?" says the Doctor; "your name isn't Lurindy, is it?"

"I wish it was," says I, "and then I shouldn't be here."

"Oh! you're sorry to leave Stephen?" says he. "Well, you can comfort yourself with reflecting
that Lurindy's a great deal the best nurse."

As if that was any comfort! If Lurindy was the best nurse, she'd ought to have had the privilege
of taking care of her own lover, and not of other folks's. Besides, for all I knew, Stephen
would be dead before ever I came back, and here I was going away and leaving him! Well, I didn't
feel so very bright; so I read the letter. The Doctor asked me what ailed John Talbot. I thought,
if I told him that Miss Jane Talbot wrote now so that Lurindy shouldn't come, and that he was
sick just as Stephen was, he wouldn't let me go. So I said I supposed he'd burnt his mouth,
like the man in the South, eating cold pudding and porridge; men always cried out at a scratch.
And he said, "Oh, do they?" and laughed.

After about two hours' driving, there came a scream as if all the panthers in Coos County were
let loose to yell, and directly we stopped at a little place where a red flag was hung out.
I asked the Doctor if they'd got the small-pox here, too; but before he could answer, the thunder
running along the ground deafened me, and in a minute he had put me inside the cars and was off.

I was determined I wouldn't appear green before so many folks, though I'd never seen the cars
before; so I took my seat, and paid my fare to Old Salem, and looked about me. Pretty soon
a woman came bustling in from somewhere, and took the seat beside me. There she fidgeted round
so that I thought I should have flown.

"Miss," says she, at length, "will you close your window? I never travel with a window open;
my health's delicate."

I tried to shut it, but it wouldn't go up or down, till a gentleman put out his cane and touched
it, and down it slid, like Signor Blitz. It did seem as if everything about the cars went by
miracle. I thanked him, but I found afterward it would have been more polite not to have spoken.
After that woman had done everything she could think of to plague and annoy the whole neighborhood,
she got out at Ipswich, and somebody met her that looked just like our sheriff; and I shouldn't
be a bit surprised to hear that she'd gone to jail. When she got out, somebody else got in,
and took the same seat.

"Miss," says she, "will you have the goodness to open your window? this air is stifling."

And she did everything that the other woman didn't do. When she found I wouldn't talk, she
turned to the young gentleman and lady that sat opposite, and that looked as if there was a
great deal too much company in the cars, and found they wouldn't talk either, and at last she
caught the conductor and made him talk.

AH this while we were swooping over the country in the most terrific manner. I thought how
frightened mother and Lurindy'd be, if they should see me. It was no use trying to count the
cattle or watch the fences, and the birch-trees danced rigadoons enough to make one dizzy,
and we dashed through everybody's back-yard, and ran so close up to the kitchens that we could
have seen what they had for dinner, if we had stayed long enough; and finally I made up my
mind that the engine had run away with the driver, and John Talbot would never have me to tend
him; and I began to wonder, as I saw the sparks and cinders and great clouds of steam and smoke,
if those tornadoes that smash round so out West in the newspapers weren't just passenger-trains,
like us, off the track,--when all at once it grew as dark as midnight.

"Now," says I to myself, "it's certain. They've run the thing into the ground. However, we
can't go long now."

And just as I was thinking about Korah and his troop, I remembered what the Doctor had told
me about Salem Tunnel, and it began to grow lighter, and we began to go slower, and I picked
up my wits and looked about me again. I had only time to notice that the young gentleman and
lady looked very much relieved, and to shake my shawl from the clutch of the woman beside me,
when we stopped at Salem, safe and sound.

I had a good deal of trouble to find Miss Talbot's house, but find it I did; and the first
thing she gave me was a scolding for coming, thinking I was Lurindy, and her tongue wasn't
much cooler when she found I wasn't; and then finally she said, as long as I was there, I might
stay; and I went right up to see John, and a sight he was!

It was about three months I stayed and took the greater part of the care of him. Sometimes
in the midnight, when he was quite beside himself, and dreaming out loud, it was about as good
as a story-book to hear him. He told me of some great Indian cities where there were men in
white, with skins swarthier than old red Guinea gold, and with great shawls all wrought in
palm-leaves of gold and crimson bound on their heads, who could sink a ship with their lacs
of rupees; and of islands where the shores came down to the water's edge and unrolled like
a green ribbon, and brooks came sparkling down behind them, and great trees hung above like
banners, and beautiful women came off on rafts and skiffs loaded with fruit,--the islands set
like jewels on the back of the sea, and the sky covered them with light and hung above them
bluer than the hangings of the Tabernacle, and they sent long rivers of spice out on the air
to entice the sailor back,--islands where night never came. Sometimes, when he talked on so,
I remembered that I'd felt rather touched up when I found that Lurindy'd had a sweetheart all
this time, and mother knew it, and they'd never told me, and I wondered how it happened. Now
it came across me, that, quite a number of years before, Lurindy had gone to Salem and worked
in the mills. She didn't stay long, because it didn't agree with her,--the neighbors said,
because she was lazy. Lurindy lazy, indeed! There a'n't one of us knows how to spell the first
syllable of that word. But that's where she must have got acquainted with John Talbot. He'd
been up at our place, too; but I was over to Aunt Emeline's, it seems. But one night, about
this time, I thought he was dying, he'd got so very low; and I thought how dreadful it was
for Lurindy never to see him again, and how it was all my selfish fault, and how maybe he wouldn't
'a' died, if he'd had her to have taken care of him; and I suppose no convicted felon ever
endured more remorse than I did, sitting and watching that dying man all that long and lonely
night. But with the morning he was better,--they always are a great deal worse when they are
getting well from it; he laughed when the doctor came, and said he guessed he'd weathered that
gale; and by-and-by he got well.

He meant to have gone up and seen Lurindy, after all, but his ship was ready for sea just as
he was; and I thought it was about as well, for he wasn't looking his prettiest. And so he
declared I was the neatest little trimmer that ever trod water, and he believed he should know
a Ruggles by the cut of her jib, (I wonder if he'd have known Aunt Mimy,) and if ever he went
master, he'd name his ship for me, and call it the Sister of Charity. And he kissed me on both
cheeks, and looked serious enough when he sent his love to Lurindy, and went away; and no sooner
was he gone than Miss Talbot said I'd better have the doctor myself; and I didn't sit up again
for about three weeks.

All this time I hadn't heard a word from home, and, for all I knew, Stephen might be dead and
buried. I didn't feel so very light-hearted, you may be sure, when one day Miss Talbot brought
me a letter. It was from mother, and it seemed Stephen'd only had a bad fever, and had been
up and gone home for more than a week. So I wrote back, as soon as I could, all about John,
and how he'd gone to sea again, and how Miss Talbot, who set sights by John, was rather lonely,
and I thought I'd keep her company a little longer, and try a spell in the mills, seeing that
our neighbors didn't think a girl had been properly accomplished till she'd had a term or two
in the factory. The fact was, I didn't want to go home just then; I thought, maybe, if I waited
a bit, my face would get back to looking as it used to. So I worked in the piece-room, light
work and good pay, sent mother and Lurindy part of my wages, and paid my board to Miss Talbot.
She'd become quite attached to me, and I to her, for all she was such an old-maidish thing;
but I'd got to thinking an old maid wasn't such a very bad thing, after all. Fourth of July
came at last, and the mills were closed, and I went with some of the other girls on an excursion
down the harbor; and when I got home, Miss Talbot told me my Cousin Stephen had been down to
see me, and had been obliged to go home in the last train. I wondered why Stephen didn't stay,
and then it flashed upon me that she'd told him all about it, and he didn't want to see me
afterwards. I knew mother and Lurindy suspected why I didn't come home, and now, thinks I,
they know; but I asked no questions.

When September came, I saw it wasn't any use delaying, and I might as well go back to knitting
sale-socks then as any time. However, I didn't go till October. You needn't think I'd stayed
away from the farm all that time, while the tender things were opening, the tiny top-heavy
beans pushing up, the garden-sarse greening, the little grass-blades two and two,--while all
the young creatures were coming forward, the chickens breaking the shell, and the gosling-storm
brewing and dealing destruction,--while the strawberries were growing ripe and red up in the
high field, and the hay and clover were getting in,--you needn't think I'd stayed away from
all that had been pleasant in my life, without many a good heart-ache; and when at last I saw
the dear old gray house again, all weather-beaten and homely, standing there with its well-sweep
among the elms, I fairly cried. Mother and Lurindy ran out to meet me, when they saw the stage
stop, and after we got into the house it seemed if they would never get done kissing me. And
mother stirred round and made hot cream-biscuits for tea, and got the best china, and we sat
up till nigh midnight, talking, and I had to tell everything John did and said and thought
and looked, over and over again.

By-and-by I unpacked my trunk, and there was a little parcel in the bottom of it, and I pulled
it up.

"There, Lurindy," says I, "John told me to tell you to have your wedding-dress ready against
he came home,--he's gone mate,--and here it is." And I unrolled the neatest brown silk you
ever saw, just fit for Lurindy, she's so pale and genteel, and threw it into her lap. I'd stayed
the other month to get enough to buy it.

The first thing Lurindy did, by way of thanks, was to burst into tears and declare she never
could take it, that she never should marry now; and the more I urged her, the more she cried.
But at last she said she'd accept it conditionally,--and the condition was, I should be married
when she was.

"Well," says I, "agreed, if you'll provide the necessary article; because I can't very well
marry my shadow, and I don't know any one else that would be fool enough to have such a little
fright."

At that Lurindy felt all the worse, and it took all the spirits I had to build up hers and
mother's. I suppose I was sorry to see they felt so bad, (and they hadn't meant that I should,)
because it gave the finishing stroke to my conviction; and after I was in bed, I grew sorrier
still; and if I cried, 't wasn't on account of myself, but I saw how Lurindy 'd always feel
self-accused, though she hadn't ought to, whenever she looked at me, and how all her life she'd
feel my scarred face like a weight on her happiness, and think I owed it to John, and how intolerable
such an obligation, though it was only a fancied one, would be; and I saw, too, that it all
came from my not going up-stairs that first time when Stephen knocked,--because if I had gone,
I should have been there when the doctor came, and Lurindy 'd have gone to have taken care
of John herself, and it would have been her face that was ruined instead of mine; and though
it was a great deal better that it should be mine, still she'd have been easier in her mind;--and
so thinking and worrying, I fell asleep.

Next day was baking-day, and Stephen was coming in the afternoon, and it was almost five o'clock
when we got cleared up, and I went up-stairs to change my dress. I thought 't wasn't any use
to trim myself out in bows and ruffles now, so I just put on my brown gingham and a white linen
collar; but Lurindy came and tied a pink ribbon at my throat, and fixed my hair herself, and
looked down and said,--

"Well, I don't see but you're about as pretty as ever you was."

That almost finished me; but I contrived to laugh, and got down-stairs. Mother 'd run over
to the village to get some yarn to knit up, for she 'd used all our own wool. It was getting
dark, and I had just brought in another log, and hung the kettle on the crane. The log hadn't
taken fire yet, and there was only a light glimmer, from the coals, on the ceiling. I heard
the back-door-latch click, and thought it was mother, and commenced humming in the middle of
a tune, as if I'd been humming the rest and had just reached that part; but the figure standing
there was a sight too tall for mother.

"Oh, Stephen," says I,--and my heart jumped in my throat, but I just swallowed it down, and
thanked Heaven that the evening was so dark,--"is that you?"

"Yes," says he, stepping forward, and putting out his hands, and making as if he would kiss
me. Just for a minute I hung back, then I went and gave him my hand in a careless way.

"Yes," says he; "and I can't say that you seem so very glad to see me."

"Oh, yes," I answered, "I am glad. Did you drive over?"

"Well," says he, "maybe you are; but I should call it a mighty cool reception, after almost
a year's absence. However, I suppose it's the best manners not to show any cordiality; you've
had a chance to learn more politeness down at Salem than we have up here in the country."

I was a little struck up by Stephen's running on so,--he was generally so quiet, and said so
little, and then in such short sentences. But in a minute I reckoned he thought I was nervous,
and was trying to put me at my ease,--and he knew of old that the best way to do that was to
rouse my temper.

"I ha'n't seen anybody at Salem better-mannered 'n mother and Lurindy," said I.

"Come home for Thanksgiving?" asked Stephen, hanging up his coat.

I kept still a minute, for I couldn't for the life of me see what I had to give thanks for.
Then it came over me what a cheery, comfortable home this was, and how Stephen would always
be my kind, warm-hearted friend, and how thankful I ought to be that my life had been spared,
and that I was useful, that I'd made such good friends as I had down to Salem, and that I wasn't
soured against all mankind on account of my misfortune.

"Yes, Stephen," says I, "I've come home for Thanksgiving; and I have a great deal to give thanks
for."

"So have I," said he.

"Stephen," says I, "I don't exactly know, but I shouldn't wonder if I'd had a change of heart."

"Don't know of anybody that needed it less," says Stephen, warming his hands. "However, if
it makes you any more comfortable, I sha'n't object; except the part of it that belongs to
me,--I sha'n't have that changed."

The fire'd begun to brighten now, and the room was red and pleasant-looking; still I knew he
couldn't see me plainly, and I waited a minute, and lingered round, pretending I was doing
something, which I wasn't; I hated to break the old way of things; and then I took the tongs
and blew a coal and lighted the dip and held it up, as if I was looking for something. Pretty
soon I found it; it was a skein of linen thread I was going to wind for Lurindy. Then I got
the swifts and came and sat down in front of the candle.

"There," says I, "the swifts is broken. What shall I do?"

"I'll hold the thread, if that's your trouble," says Stephen, and came and sat opposite to
me while I wound.

I wondered whether he was looking at me, but I didn't durst look up,--and then I couldn't,
if my life had depended upon it. At last we came to the end; then I managed to get a glance
edgeways. He hadn't been looking at all, I don't believe, till that very moment, when he raised
his eyes.

"Are folks always so sober, when they've had a change of heart?" he asked, with his pleasant smile.

"They are, when they've had a change of face," I was going to say; but just then mother came
in with her bundle of yarn, and Lurindy came down, and there was such a deal of welcoming and
talking, that I slipped round and laid the table and had the tea made before they thought of
it. I'd about made up my mind now that Stephen would act as if nothing had happened, and pretend
to like me just the same, because he was so tender-hearted and couldn't bear to hurt my feelings
nor anybody's; and I'd made up my mind, too, that, as soon as he gave me a chance, I'd tell
him I was set against marriage: leastwise, I wouldn't have him, because I wouldn't have any
man marry me out of pity; and the more I cared for him, the more I couldn't hamper an ugly
face on him forever. So, you see, I had quite resolved, that, cost me what it would, I'd say
'No,' if Stephen asked me. Well, it's a very good thing to make resolutions; but it's a great
deal better to break them, sometimes.

Having come to my conclusions, I grew as merry as any of them; and when mother put two spoons
into Stephen's cup, I told him he was going to have a present. And he said he guessed he knew
what it was; and I said it must be a mitten, I'd heard that Martha Smith had taken to knitting
lately; and he confounded Martha Smith. Mother and Lurindy were very busy talking about the
yarn, and how Mr. Fisher wanted the next socks knit; and Stephen asked me what that dish was
beside me. I said, it was lemon-pie, and the top-crust was made of kisses, and would he have
some? And he said, he didn't care for anybody's kisses but mine, and he believed he wouldn't.
And I told him the receipt of this came from the Queen's own kitchen. And he said, he didn't
know that the Queen of England was any better than the Queen of Hearts. Then I said, I supposed
he remembered how the latter lady was served by the Knave of Hearts in 'Mother Goose'? And
he replied, that he wasn't going to be Jack-at-a-pinch for anybody. And so on, till mother
finished tea.

After tea, I sat up to the table and ended some barley-trimming that I'd just learned how to
make; and as the little kernels came tumbling out from under my fingers, Stephen sat beside
and watched them as if it was a field of barley, growing, reaped, and threshed under his eyes.
By-and-by I finished it; and then, rummaging round in the table-drawer, I found the sock that
I was knitting, waiting at the very stitch where I left it, 'most a year ago.

"Well, if that isn't lucky!" said I. And I sat down on a stool by the fireside, determined
to finish that sock that night; and no sooner had I set the needles to dancing, like those
in the fairy-story, than open came the kitchen-door again, and in, out of the dark, stepped
Aunt Mimy.

"Good-evenin', Miss Ruggles!" says she. "Heow d' ye du, Emerline? hope yer gwine ter stay ter
hum a spell. Why, Stephen, 's this you? Quite a femily-party, I declare fur't! Wai, Miss Ruggles,
I got kind o' tired settin' in the dark, an', ez I looked out an' see the dips blazin' in yer
winder, thinks I, I'll jest run up an' see w'at's ter pay."

"Why, there's only one dip," says Lurindy.

"Wal, thet's better 'n none," answered Miss Mimy.

I had enough of the old Adam left in me to be riled at her way of begging as much as ever I
was; but I saw that Stephen was amused; he hadn't ever happened to be round, when Aunt Mimy
was at her tricks.

"No, Miss Ruggles," continued she, "I thank the Lord I ha'n't got a complainin' sperrit, an'
hed jest ez lieves see by my neighbor's dip ez my own, an', mebbe ye 'll say, a sight lieveser."

And then Miss Mimy pulled out a stocking without beginning or end, and began to knit as fast
as she could rattle, after she 'd fixed one needle in a chicken-bone, and pinned the chicken-bone
to her side.

"Wal, Emerline," says she, "I s'pose ye've got so grand down ter the mills, thet, w'at 'ith
yer looms an' machines an' tic-doloreux, ye won't hev nothin' ter say ter the old way uv knittin'
socks."

"Does this look like it, Aunt Mimy?" says I, shaking my needles by way of answer. "I'm going
to finish this pair to-night."

"Oh," says she, "you be, be you? Wal, ef I don't e'en a'most vum it's the same one! ef ye ha'n't
been nigh abeout a hull year a-knittin' one pair uv socks!"

"How do you know they're the same pair?" asked I.

"By a mark I see you sot in 'em ter the top, ef ye want ter know, afore I thought it would
be hangin' by the eyelids the rest uv yer days. Wal, I never 'xpected ye'd be much help ter
yer mother; ye're tew fond uv hikin' reound the village."

"Indeed, Miss Mimy," said Lurindy, kind of indignant, "she's always been the greatest help
to mother."

"I don't know how I should have made both ends meet this year, if it hadn't been for her wages,"
said mother.

Stephen was whittling Miss Mimy's portrait on the end of a stick, and laughing. I was provoked
with mother and Lurindy for answering the thing, and was just going to speak up, when I caught
Stephen's eye, and thought better of it. Pretty soon Aunt Mimy produced a bundle of herbs from
her pocket, and laid them on the table.

"Oh, thank you, Aunt Jemimy," says mother. "Pennyroyal and catnip's always acceptable."

"Yes," said Aunt Mimy. "An' I'll take my pay in some uv yer dried apples. Heow much does Fisher
give fur socks, Miss Ruggles?" she asked, directly.

"Fifty cents and I find,--fifteen and he finds."

"An' ye take yer pay out uv the store? Varry reasonable. I wuz thinkin' uv tryin' my han' myself;--business's
ruther dull, folks onkimmon well this fall. Heow many strings yer gwine ter give me fur the yarbs?"

Then mother went up garret to get the apples and spread the herbs to dry, and Lurindy wanted
some different needles, and went after her. Stephen'd just heaped the fire, and the great blaze
was tumbling up the chimney, and Miss Mimy lowered her head and looked over her great horn-bowed
spectacles at me.

"Wal, Emerline Ruggles," says she, after a while, going back to her work, "you've lost all
your pink cheeks!"

I suppose it took me rather sudden, for all at once a tear sprung and fell right down my work.
I saw it glistening on the bright needles a minute, and then my eyes filmed so that I felt
there was more coming, and I bent down to the fire and made believe count my narrowings. After
all, Aunt Mimy was kind of privileged by everybody to say what she pleased. But Stephen didn't
do as every one did, always.

"Emmie's beauty wasn't all in her pink cheeks, Miss Mimy," I heard him say, as I went into
the back-entry to ask mother to bring down the mate of my sock.

"Wal, wherever it was, there's precious little of it left!" said she, angry at being took up,
which maybe she never was before in her life.

"You don't agree with her friends," said he, cutting in the stick the great mole on the side
of her nose; "they all think she's got more than ever she had."

Mother tossed me down the mate, and I went back.

"Young folks," said Aunt Mimy, after two or three minutes' silence, "did ye ever hear tell
o' 'Miah Kemp?"

"Any connection of old Parson Kemp in the other parish?" asked Stephen.

"Yes," said Aunt Mimy,--"his brother. Wal, w'en I wuz a young gal, livin' ter hum,--my father
wuz ez wealthy ez any farmer thereabeouts, ye know,--I used ter keep company 'ith 'Miah Kemp.
'Miah wuz a stun-mason, the best there wuz in the deestrik, an' the harnsomest boy there tew,--though
I say it thet shouldn't say it,--he hed close-curlin' black hair, an' an arm it done ye good
ter lean on. Wal, one spring-night,--I mind it well,--we wuz walkin' deown the lane together,
an' the wind wuz blowin', the laylocks wuz in bloom, an' all overhead the lane wuz rustlin'
'ith the great purple plumes in the moonlight, an' the air wuz sweeter 'ith their breath than
any air I've ever taken sence, an' ez we wuz walkin', 'Miah wuz askin' me fur ter fix eour
weddin'-day. Wal, w'en he left me at the bars, I agreed we'd be merried the fifteenth day uv
July comin', an' I walked hum; an' I mind heow I wondered ef Eve wuz so happy in Paradise,
or ef Paradise wuz half so beautiful ez thet scented lane. The nex' mornin', ez I wuz milkin',
the ceow tuk fright an' begun ter cut up, an' she cut up so thet I run an' she arter me,--an'
the long an' the short uv it wuz thet she tossed me, an' w'en they got me up they foun' I hedn't
but one eye. Wal, uv course, my looks wuz sp'iled,--fur I'd been ez pretty'z Emerline wuz,--you
wuz pretty once, Emerline,--an' I sent 'Miah Kemp word I'd hev no more ter du 'ith him nor
any one else neow. 'Miah, he come ter see me; but I wuz detarmined, an' I stuck ter my word.
He did an' said everything thet mortal man could,--thet he loved me better'n ever, an' thet
't would be the death uv him, an' tuk on drefful. But w'en he'd got through, I giv' him the
same answer, though betwixt ourselves it a'most broke my heart ter say it. I kep' a stiff upper-lip,
an' he grew desp'rate, an' tuk all sorts uv dangerous jobs, blastin' rocks an' haulin' stuns.
One night,--'t wuz jest a year from the night I'd walked 'ith him in thet lane,--I wuz stan'in'
by the door, an' all ter once I heerd a noise an' crash ez ef all the thunderbolts in the Almighty's
hand hed fallen together, an' I run deown the lane an' met the men bringin' up sunthin' on
an old door. They hed been blastin' Elder Payson's rock, half-way deown the new well, an' the
mine hedn't worked, an' 'Miah'd gone deown ter see w'at wuz in it; an' jest ez he got up ag'in,
off it went, an' here he wuz 'ith a great splinter in his chist,--ef the rest uv it wuz him.
They couldn't kerry him no furder, an' sot him deown; an' there wuz all the trees a-wavin'
overhead ag'in, an' all the sweet scents a-beatin' abeout the air, jest uz it wuz a year ago
w'en he parted from me so strong an' whole an' harnsome; all the fleowers wuz a-blossomin',
all the winds wuz blowin' an' this lump uv torn flesh an' broken bones wuz 'Miah. I laid deown
on the grass beside him, an' put my lips close to hisn, an' I could feel the breath jest stirrin'
between; an' the doctor came an' said 't warn't no use; an' they threw a blanket over us, an'
there I laid tell the sun rose an' sparkled in the dew an' the green leaves an' the purple
bunches, an' the air came frolickin' fresh an' sweet abeout us; an' though I'd knowed it long,
layin' there in the dark, neow I see fur sartain thet there warn't no breath on them stiff
lips, an' the forehead was cold uz the stuns beneath us, an' the eyes wuz fixed an' glazed
in thet las' look uv love an' tortur' an' reproach thet he giv' me. They say I went distracted;
an' I du b'lieve I've be'n cracked ever sence."

Here Aunt Mimy, who had told her whole story without moving a muscle, commenced rocking violently
back and forth.

"I don't often remember all this," says she, after a little, "but las' spring it all flushed
over me; an' w'en I heerd heow Emerline'd be'n sick,--I hear a gre't many things ye do' no'
nothin' abeout, children,--I thought I'd tell her, fust time I see her."

"What made you think of it last spring?" asked Stephen.

"The laylocks wuz in bloom," said Miss Mirny,--"the laylocks wuz in bloom."

Just then mother came down with the apples, and some dip-candles, and a basket of broken victuals;
and Miss Mimy tied her cloak and said she believed she must be going. And Stephen went and
got his hat and coat, and said,--

"Miss Mimy, wouldn't you like a little company to help you carry your bundles? Come, Emmie,
get your shawl."

So I ran and put on my things, and Stephen and I went home with Aunt Mimy.

"Emmie," says Stephen, as we were coming back, and he'd got hold of my hand in his, where I'd
taken his arm, "what do you think of Aunt Mimy now?"

"Oh," says I, "I'm sorry I've ever been sharp with her."

"I don't know," said Stephen. "'Ta'n't in human nature not to pity her; but then she brought
her own trouble on herself, you see."

"Yes," said I.

"I don't know how to blast rocks," says Stephen, when we'd walked a little while without saying
anything,--"but I suppose there is something as desperate that I can do."

"Oh, you needn't go to threatening me!" thinks I; and, true enough, he hadn't any need to.

"Emmie," says he, "if you say 'No,' when I ask you to have me, I sha'n't ask you again."

"Well?" says I, after a step or two, seeing he didn't speak.

"Well?" says he.

"I can't say 'Yes' or 'No' either, till you ask me," said I.

He stopped under the starlight and looked in my eyes.

"Emmie," says he, "did you ever doubt that I loved you?"

"Once I thought you did," said I; "but it's different now."

"I do love you," said he, "and you know it."

"Me, Stephen?" said I,--"with my face like a speckled sparrow's egg?"

"Yes, you," said he; and he bent down and kissed me, and then we walked on.

By-and-by Stephen said, When would I come and be the life of his house and the light of his
eyes? That was rather a speech for Stephen; and I said, I would go whenever he wanted me. And
then we went home very comfortably, and Stephen told mother it was all right, and mother and
Lurindy did what they'd got very much into the habit of doing,--cried; and I said, I should
think I was going to be buried, instead of married; and Stephen took my knitting-work away,
and said, as I had knit all our trouble and all our joy into that thing, he meant to keep it
just as it was; and that was the end of my knitting sale-socks.

I suppose, now I've told you so far, you'd maybe like to know the rest. Well, Lurindy and John
were married Thanksgiving morning; and just as they moved aside, Stephen and I stepped up and
took John and Aunt Mimy rather by surprise by being married too.

"Wal," says Aunt Mimy, "ef ever you hang eout another red flag, 't won't be because Lurindy's
nussin' Stephen!"

I don't suppose there's a happier little woman in the State than me. I should like to see her,
if there is. I go over home pretty often; and Aunt Mimy makes just as much of my baby--I've
named him John--as mother does; and that's enough to ruin any child that wasn't a cherub born.
And Miss Mimy always has a bottle of some new nostrum of her own stilling every time she sees
any of us; we've got enough to swim a ship, on the top shelf of the pantry to-day, if it was
all put together. As for Stephen, there he comes now through the huckleberry-pasture, with
the baby on his arm; he seems to think there never was a baby before; and sometimes--Stephen's
such a homebody--I'm tempted to think that maybe I've married my own shadow, after all. However,
I wouldn't have it other than it is. Lurindy, she lives at home the most of the time; and once
in a while, when Stephen and mother and I and she are all together, and as gay as larks, and
the baby is creeping round, swallowing pins and hooks and eyes as if they were blueberries,
and the fire is burning, and the kettle singing, and the hearth swept clean, it seems as if
heaven had actually come down, or we'd all gone up without waiting for our robes; it seems
as if it was altogether too much happiness for one family. And I've made Stephen take a paper
on purpose to watch the ship-news; for John sails captain of a fruiter to the Mediterranean,
and, sure enough, its little gilt figure-head that goes dipping in the foam is nothing else
than the Sister of Charity.

SCUPPAUG.

The crowd was decidedly a heterogeneous one on the edge of which I stood at eight o'clock,
A.M., one scorching July morning, under an awning at the end of a rickety pier, waiting for
the excursion-steamer which was to convey us to the distant sand-banks over which the clear
waters lap, away down below the green-sloped highlands of Neversink,--sea-shoal banks, from
which silvery fishes were warning us off with their waving fins.

Now the crowd, being a heterogeneous one, as I have said, had the vulgar element pervading
it to a dominant extent. It consisted mainly of such "common people," indeed, that no person
of exquisite refinement would have thought of feeling his way through it, unless his hands
were protected by what Aminadab Sleek calls "little goat-gloves." And yet there is another
style of mitten, a large, unshapely, bloated knuckle-fender, stuffed with curled hair, that
might be far more appropriate to the operation of shouldering in among such "muscular Christians"
as the majority around, on the occasion to which I refer.

In the resorts to which habitual tipplers have recourse for consolation of the spirituous kind,
a cheap variety is usually on hand to meet exigencies,--the exigency of a commercial crisis,
for instance, when the last lonely dime of the drinker is painfully extracted from the pocket,
to be replaced by seven inconsiderable cents. This abomination is termed "all sorts" by the
publican and his indispensable sinner. It is the accumulation of the drainage of innumerable
gone drinks,--fancy and otherwise. The exquisite in the "little goat-gloves" would not hob-nob
with me in that execrable beverage; no more would I with him; and yet one of its components
may be the aristocratic Champagne. In the social elements of a water-excursion-party may be
found the "all sorts" of a particular kind of city-life,--the good of it and the bad of it,
with a dash of something that is very low. But I am going to talk about the thing as I found
it,--the rough side of the social mill-stone; and, seeing that I have suffered nothing by contact
with it, I suppose no harm will come to such as listen to the little I have got to say on the
subject.

A benevolent desire to launch far and wide the already well-spread reputation of the New York
rowdy impels the present writer to declare his conviction, that, should Physiology offer a
premium for the production of a perfect and unmitigated specimen of polisson, Experience would
seek for it among the choice representatives of the class in question,--ay, and find it, too.
Nor would the ardor of search be chilled by the suggestion of scarcity conveyed in the practical
sarcasm of the sly old cynic, when he scorched human nature with a horn lantern by instituting
a search with it on the sun-bright highways for an unauthenticated type of man. And yet the
rowdy, like many another ugly and repulsive thing, may have his use. In the East Indies, it
is customary to keep a live turtle in the wayside water-tanks which are so precious in that
thirsty land, the movements of the animal, as well as the industry with which it devours all
noxious particles which chance may have conveyed into the waters, serving to keep them in a
condition of purity and health. The rowdy is the turtle in the tank,--so far, at least, as
being an ugly beast to look at and a great promoter of commotion,--by which latter service
he keeps the community alive to the presence of impure particles in the social element, if
he does not assist in getting rid of them. An alligator in an aquarium might furnish a better
comparison for him in other respects.

Of this class there are many branches; but the one with which I have to deal at present is
to be studied to most advantage by visiting some pier of the great river-frontage of New York,
to which excursion-boats rush emulously at appointed hours, crossing and jostling each other
with proper respect for their individual rights as free commoners of the well-tilled waters.
Here, as, with audacious disregard of the chance-medley of smashed guards and obliterated paddle-boxes,
the great water-wagons graze wheels upon the ripple-paved turnpike of the river, the steamboat-runner,
squalidly red from the effects of last night's carouse, and reeking sensibly of the alcoholic
"morning call," may be recognized by the native manner in which he makes the pier peculiarly
his own,--by the inflammatory character--which unremitting dissipation has imparted to the
inhaling apparatus of his unclassical features,--by the filthy splendor of his linen, which
a low-buttoning waistcoat, gorgeous and dirty likewise, unbosoms disadvantageously to the gaze
of the beholder,--by the invariable "diamond" pin, of gift-book style, with which the juncture
of the first-mentioned integument is effected, if not adorned,--and, above all, by the massive
guards and guy-chains with which his watch is hitched on to the belaying arrangements of Chatham
Street garments, the original texture and tint of which have long been superseded by predominant
grease. Hand and elbow with the professional city-rowdy the steamboat-runner is ever to be
found: at the cribs, where the second-rate men of the "fancy" hold their secret meetings; clinging
about the doors of the Court of Sessions, where, as eavesdroppers,--for they are known to the
door-keeper, and rejected from the friendship of that stern officer,--they strive, with ear
at keyhole, to catch a word or two which may give them a clue to the probable fate of "Jim,"
who is in the dock there, on his trial for homicide or some such light peccadillo; loitering
round the dog-pit institutions, where the quadrupeds look so amazingly like men and the men
like quadrupeds,--especially in that one where the eye of taste may be gratified by the supernatural
symmetry of the stuffed bull-terriers in glass cases, the enormity of which specimens is accounted
for by the gentlemanly proprietor, who tells us that "the man as stuffed 'em never stuffed
anythink else afore, only howls."

I suppose it must have been the tacit acknowledgment of some superiority by me inappreciable,
that accorded to one individual of the small assemblage of roughs under notice a decidedly
influential position among the congenial spirits hovering around. The superior blanchness of
this person's linen would seem to indicate that his association with mere runners was but occasional
and for commercial ends. Also might that conclusion have been deduced from the immaculacy of
his cream-white Panama hat. That was a jaunty article, with upturned brim, the pride of which
was discernible in the very simplicity with which it sat, unadulterated by band or trimmings,
upon the closely cropped, mole-colored head of the wearer. Thirty dollars, at least, must have
been its marketable value. Instead of being fitted with chain-tackle, the watch of this superior
person maintained its connection with the open air by means of a broad watered ribbon plummeted
straight down his leg with a seal hardly inferior in size to a deep-sea lead. This daring recurrence
to first principles is much to be observed, of late, among the choice spirits of the so-called
"sporting" fraternity of New York.

This man, as I supposed, and as I subsequently heard from my friend Locus, of the police, who
came upon the pier, was not a runner now, but had risen from that respectable rank by large
exercise of the virtues so intimately associated with it. In attributing an exalted position
to him I was right. He was the keeper of a house of entertainment for emigrants in one of the
down-town tributaries to Broadway, where tickets could also be had for California and most
other parts of the world, at an advance of not more than one-third on the rates charged at
the regular steamboat-offices. Considering the respectability of this person's occupation,
I was surprised when Locus referred to him, familiarly, as "Flashy Joe," adding that he was
widely known, if not respected, and that he would, probably, be entitled some day to have his
portrait placed in a gallery of which he, Locus, knew, but into which my aesthetic researches
have not hitherto led me.

There was another noticeable character in the rough part of the heterogeneous crowd. This man,
while on a footing of the greatest intimacy with the runners, was far inferior to them in the
matter of dress. Locus, in reply to my queries, informed me that he was a professional oyster-opener;
but, judging from his appearance in general, I should have guessed that he was a professional
oyster-catcher also,--a human dredge, employed chiefly at the bottom of the sea. A perfect
Hercules in build, "Lobster Bob," as Locus called him, made his appearance on the wharf with
two enormous creels of oysters, one balanced on each hip, with the careless ease of unconscious
strength, His costume consisted solely of a ragged blue cotton shirt and trousers, immense
knobby cowskin boots white with age, and a mouldy drab felt hat. The button-less blue shirt
flapped widely open from his brawny chest; and his shirt-sleeves, rolled up to the shoulder,
gave full display to a pair of arms of a mould not usually to be found outside the prize-ring,
and but seldom within the sanctuary of that magic circle. As if in compensation for the merely
nominal allowance of costume tolerated by this crustacean professor, his chest and arms were
entirely covered with a wild arabesque of tattoo-work, in blue and red. Many and original artists
must have been employed in the embellishment of Robert's tawny hide. The one to whose sense
of the fitness of things was intrusted the illustration of his right arm had seized boldly
upon the oval protuberance of the biceps, a few skilfully disposed dots and dashes upon which
had converted it into a face which was no bad reproduction of Bob's own. On the broad flexors
of his sun-bronzed fore-arm there blazed a grand device which might have puzzled a whole college
of heralds to interpret,--a combination of eagles and banners and shields, coruscating with
stars and radiant with stripes. But more suggestive than any of these shams was the stern reality
of a purple scar which ran round the back of his neck, from ear to ear. More than one man must
have been hurt, when that scar was made.

Notwithstanding the bull-dog projection of this formidable giant's lower jaw, there sometimes
beamed on his face that good-natured expression often observable in men whose unusual muscular
development places them on a footing of physical superiority to those with whom they shoulder
along the road of life. When the runners "chaffed" him, nevertheless, it was in a mild way,
and with manifest respect for his muscle,--a sentiment in no way diminished when he suddenly
clutched one of the least cautious among them by the nape of the neck, and held him out at
arm's-length, for some seconds, over the drowny water that kept lazily licking at the green
moss on the old stakes of the rickety pier.

Even unto the Prince of Darkness, saith proverbial philosophy, let us concede his due. If,
then, a single ray of good illuminates at some happy moment the dark spirit of these roughs,
let it be recorded with that bare, unfledged truth which is so much better a bird than uncandor
with the finest of feathers upon him.

Feeling his way into the circle with a stick, there came a poor blind man, of diminutive stature,
squeezing beneath his left arm a suffocating accordion, which, every now and then, as he stumbled
against the uneven planks of the wharf, gave a querulous squeak, doleful in its cadence as
the feeble quavers evoked by Mr. William Davidge, comedian, from the asthmatic clarionet of
Jem Bags, in the farce of the "Wandering Minstrel."

"Come, b'hoys!" cried Lobster Bob, "let's have a squeeze of music from Billy, afore the boat
comes up"; and, plumping down one of his creels in the middle of the crowd, he lifted up the
musician, and seated him upon the rough, cold oysters,--a throne fitter, certainly, for a follower
of Neptune than a votary of Apollo. One of the roughs danced an ungraceful measure to the music
of the accordion, mimicking, as he did so, the queer contortions into which the musician twisted
his features in perfect harmony with his woful strains. All of them were gentle to the blind
man, though, as if his darkness had brought to them a ray of light; and presently one of them
takes off the musician's cap, drops into it a silver dime, and goes the rounds of the throng
with many jocose appeals in favor of the owner, to whom he presently returns it in a condition
of silver lining analogous to, but more substantial than that of the poet's cloud.

But now the poor music of the accordion was quite extinguished by the bellowing of the brazen
horns of the "cotillon band" on the deck of our expected steamer, as she rounded to from the
upper piers at which she had been taking in excursionists. This caused a stir in the crowd
under the awning, many of whom were fathers of families taking their wives and children out
for a rare holiday. The smallest babies had not been left at home, but were there in all their
primary scarletude, set off by the whitest of lace-frilled caps trimmed with the bluest of
ribbons. And now came the time for these small choristers to take up the "wondrous tale"; for
the big horns had ceased to wrangle, and the crushing and rushing of the crowd woke up infancy
to a sense of its wrongs and a consciousness of the necessity for action.

There were some nice-looking girls around, neatly dressed, too, though by no means in their
Sunday-best; for la petite New-Yorkaise is aware of the mishaps to be encountered by those
who venture far out to sea in ships. They had sweethearts with them, for the most part, or
brothers, or cousins, mayhap: but they were sadly neglected by these protectors, as we stood
under the awning on the pier; for the male mind was full of fishing, and the male hands were
employed in making up tackle with a most unscientific kind of skill.

And now the final rush came, as the steamer made fast alongside the outermost of the boats
already lying at the pier, across the decks of which our heterogeneous crowd began to make
its way with as little scrambling as possible, on account of the petticoat-hoops, which are
capital monitors in a turmoil. Women swayed their babies like balancing-poles, as they tottered
along the gangway-plank. Men tried to secure themselves from being brushed into eternity by
the powerful sweep of skirts. My own personal reminiscence of this transit from the wharf to
the gallant bark of our choice is melancholy and vague, being marked chiefly to memory by the
complicated curse bestowed upon me by a hideous old Irish-woman, whose oranges I accidentally
upset in the crowd, and by whom I was subsequently derided with buffo song and scurrilous dance
as long as the steamer remained within hearing and sight.

Away we are steaming down the bay, at last, a motley party of men, women, and children of all
sizes and sorts: husbands, wives, milliners and their lovers; young men who have brought no
young women with them, because they have come for fishing and fishing only; and advanced fathers,
who, making a virtue of having brought out wife and child for a holiday, now leave them a good
deal to take care of themselves, and devote all their energies to being pleasant as remotely
from them as circumstances will allow. Roughs, to the number of a dozen or so, mostly steamboat-runners
and their congeners, are of the party, headed by Flashy Joe. Lobster Bob has set up his oyster-plank
in a central situation. Venders of unfresh-looking refreshments have established themselves
on board; and the bar-keeper, near the forecastle, is preparing himself for the worst.

By-and-by I noticed a good-looking specimen of Young New York on board, and was introduced
to him by a cigar. He was a handsome boy, with dark, oval face, and Arabian eyes. The silky
black line that just marked the curve of his upper lip gave promise of a splendid moustache;
his closely crisped black hair was but just visible below the rim of his jaunty straw hat,
the band of which was a tasselled cord of crimson silk; while his lithe figure was suggested
rather than displayed by the waving lines of his loose brown jacket with tapering gigot sleeves.
His low-cut shirt-collar and narrow silken neck-tie were in the style called "English," as
quite decidedly, also, were his cross-barred trousers of balloony build; nor, although thus
flinging himself for diversion into the vortex of the lower crowd, had he foregone the luxury
of tan-colored kid gloves and patent-leather shoes. He was a bright boy, and precocious as
a lady-killer; for, already, before we had left far behind us the pleasant slopes of Bay Ridge,
with its peeping villa-parapets of brown and white, and its umbrageous masses of chromatic
green, he had evidently engaged the affections of an espiègle little straw-bonnet-maker, who
did her hair something like his own, in a close-curled crop, and had her pretty little person
safely shut up in a high-necked dress.

That young lady had a suitor with her, who was clearly not a sweetheart, however, by a good
deal, but merely a follower tolerated for the day, and on the score of convenience only. He
was a tall, gaunt, pale young man, with long hands and feet, slouching shoulders and narrow
chest, and a strange, indescribable nullity of expression dwelling upon his features. He did
not appear to be encouraged much by little Straw-Goods, whose mind was probably occupied with
prospective possibilities of being led out to the festive dance by Young New York. Altogether,
he was an unsatisfactory-looking young man, his unfinished look reminding one of raw material,
though it would have been hard to say for what.

But the band had now ceased mellowing out the favorite medley which begins with "Casta Diva"
and runs over into the lovely cadences of "Gentle Annie"; and the abrupt transition from that
mournful strain to a light cotillon air warned four hundred holiday-people that the festive
dance was about to begin on the wide floor between the engine-room and the saloon. Cotillons
are a leading pastime among the people; and as the water was pretty smooth down the bay, and
a splendid breeze rushed aft between-decks, many laughing girls and well-dressed matronly women
now made their appearance on the floor. Dancing without noise is a luxury as yet uncalled for.
Dancers must have music, we know,--and what is music, but wild noise caught and trained? But
these cotillons were unnecessarily boisterous, on account of the roughs, who, looked upon as
outsiders by the better-behaved portion of the throng, got up a wild war-step of their own
on the skirts of the legitimate dance, dishonestly appropriating to their coarse movements
the music intended for it alone, as they stamped and shouted, and wheeled round with a ludicrous
affectation of grace, in the space between the dancers and the bulkheads of the deck. One of
these roughs, a drunken, young fellow of wiry build, whose hair, face, eyes, nose, ears, and
hands were all of the color of tomato-catchup, might have made an excellent low comedian, had
destiny led him upon the "boards." He had just been complaining to his companions that his
hand had been refused for the dance by a girl at whom he pointed the red finger of wrath,--a
pale, but very interesting seamstress, who was whirling about with a much decenter young man
than the red one is ever likely to be. And then he nobly took his revenge by the clever, but
unprincipled way in which he caricatured the rather remarkable dancing of the young man who
was the object of his hate, and whose style of movement it would not be consistent with this
writer's duty to deny was amenable to severity, and must, in any society, have subjected him
who indulged in it to the scorn of the flouter and the contempt of all high-minded men.

All through the dance, it was a thing to be remembered, how superior in deportment the women
were to the men. Probably it was from a natural instinct for grace, and abhorrence of the ludicrous,
that they merely skimmed through the figures, without any of the demonstrations displayed by
their beaux. It was pleasant to look at the nice little straw-goods damsel with the boyish
hair, and to mark the contrast between her kitten glidings and the premeditated atrocities
of Raw Material, as he wove and unwove his ungainly legs before her, in a manner appalling
to witness. She had only a common palm-leaf fan, I remarked,--worth, probably, about two cents.
But Young New York, as he waited patiently for the deadly ocean-malady to fall upon Raw Material,
who was unquestionably a subject for it, and was drinking, besides, drew tightly up his tan-colored
gloves, and, twirling with finger and thumb the air just about where it must some day be displaced
by the future tendrils of the coming moustache, affirmed upon oath his intention of presenting
her with a fan more worthy of her well-kept little hand, ere kind Fortune could have time to
drop another excursion-ticket into her work-basket.

Should the solemn question arise as to how I knew that one of these young women was in the
straw-bonnet line, another a milliner, a third a dress-maker, and so forth, I will answer it
by stating that the left forefinger of the seamstress, long since vulcanized into a little
file, furnishes the infallible sign which indicates the class. To the practised eye, the varieties
are known by many a token: by the smart little close-grained cereal bonnet which little Straw-Goods
put away before she came into the dance; by the spicy creation of silk and ribbons which roosts
demurely, like a cedar-bird, on the back hair of the pale girl, who is a milliner; by the superior
manner in which the hoops are disguised in the structure surrounding that blonde young wife
with the pink baby, who is a dressmaker. Let the lofty read studiously the signs that in the
heavens are portentous of storm or of shine; I, who am of commoner clay, must content myself
with deciphering those that are of earth.

But a "sea-change" was upon us. Last night there was a tornado of rain and thunder and wind,
and the effects of the latter were now perceptible, as we began to rock through the ground-swell
off Sandy Hook, and down past the twin light-houses on the high, sunny ridges of Neversink.
The music ceased, the dancers deserted the 'tween-decks floor, and, as the rocking of the boat
increased, there arose in the direction of the ladies' cabin audible suggestions of woe.

And now the twin beacon-towers of Neversink were far, far behind, having taken a position with
regard to us which may be described, in military phrase, as an échelon movement upon our flank,
and we went surging through a fleet of little green fishing-boats, manned each by a single
fisherman in a red shirt, whose two horny hands appeared to be a couple too few for the hauling
in of the violet and silver porgies, with which the well of his little green craft was alive
and flapping. In the middle of this fleet we rounded to, the anchor was let go, and we were
hard and fast upon the Fishing-Banks.

The first thing done, on these excursions, by those who come to fish,--which includes nearly
all the men,--is to establish a claim somewhere along the railing of the steamer, by attaching
to it a strong whip-cord fishing-line, with a leaden sinker and hook of moderate size,--the
latter lashed on, in most instances, with a disregard for art which must be intensely disgusting
to any man whose piscatorial memories are associated with the wily salmon and the epicurean
trout. Triangular tin boxes are brought along by the fishermen to hold their bait, which consists
of soft clams, liberally sprinkled with salt to keep them in a wholesome condition for the
afternoon take. Attaching a line to any part of the rail or combings, or to any projecting
point of the boat, establishes the droit de pêche at that particular spot,--a right respected
with such rigorous etiquette, that the owner may then go his way with confidence, to inspect
the resources of the bar, or join the gay throng of dancers between-decks.

There must be something singularly fascinating in this curious pastime of fishing with a hand-line
from the jumping-off places of a steamboat or pier. Doubtless it is from a defective sympathetic
organization that the writer of these pages does not himself "seem to see it." Nevertheless,
I look upon the illusion with a respect almost bordering upon fear, although not quite in that
spirit of veneration which moves illogical savages to fall down and worship the stranger lunatic
whom chance has led to their odorous residences. Dwelling one summer on the New Jersey shore,
I used to loiter, day after day, upon a deserted wharf, at the end of which was ever to be
seen a broad-beamed fisherman, sitting upon an uncomfortably wooden chair, from which he dabbled
perpetually with his whip-cord line in the shallow water that washed the slimy face-timbers
of the wharf. There he sat, day after day, and all day, and, for aught I know, all through
the summer-night, a big-timbered, sea-worthy man, reading contentedly a daily paper of local
growth, and pulling up never a better bit of sea-luck than the puny, mean-spirited fishling
called by unscientific persons the burgall. I would at any time have freely given ten cents
for the privilege of overhauling old broad-beam's carpet-bag, which he always placed before
him on the string-piece, with a view, I suppose, of frustrating anything like a guerrilla plunder-movement
upon his widely extended rear. Ay, there must be something strangely entrancing in dragging
the shoal waters with a hand-line, for unsuspicious, easily duped members of the acanthopterygian
tribe of fishes,--under which alarming denomination come, I believe, nearly all the finny fellows
to be met with on these sand-banks, from the bluefish to the burgall. Only think how stuck
up they would be above the lowly mollusks of the same waters, if they knew themselves as Acanthopterygii,
and were aware that their great-grandfather was an Acanthopteryx before them, and so away back
in the age of waters that once were over all! "Very ancient and fish-like" is their genealogy,
to be sure!

In the far-away days, when Neversink was, but the twin beacon-towers that now watch upon its
heights were not,--when Sandy Hook was a hook only, and not a telegraph-station, from which
the first glimpse of an inward-bound argosy is winked by lightning right in at the window of
the down-town office where Mercator sits jingling the coins in his trousers' pockets,--in those
days, the only excursion-boats that rocked upon the ground-swell over the pale, sandy reaches
of the Fishing-Banks were the tiny barklets that shot out on calm days from the sweeping coves,
with their tawny tarred-and-feathered crews: for of such grotesque result of the decorative
art of Lynch doth ever remind me the noble Indian warrior in his plumes and paint. Unfitted,
by the circumscribed character of their sea-craft, their tackle, and their skill, for pushing
their enterprise out into the deeper water, where the shark might haply say to the horse-mackerel,--"Come,
old horse, let you and me hook ourselves on, and take these foolish tawny fellows and their
brown cockle-shell down into the under-tow,"--they supplied their primitive wants by enticing
from the shallows the beautiful, sunny-scaled shoal-fish, well named by ichthyologists Argyrops,
the "silver-eyed." But the poor Indian, who knew no Greek,--poor old savage, lament for him
with a scholarly eheu!--called this shiner of the sea, in his own barbarous lingo, Scuppaug.
Can any master of Indian dialects tell us whether that word, too, means "him of the silver
eye"? If it does, revoke, O student, your shrill eheu for the Greekless and untrousered savage
of the canoe, suppress your feelings, and go steadily into rhabdomancy with several divining-rods,
in search of the Pierian spring which must surely exist somewhere among the guttural districts
of the Ojibbeway tongue.

And here there is diversion for philologist as well as fisherman; for while the latter is catching
the fish, the former may seize on the fact, that in this word, Scuppaug, is to be found the
origin of the two separate names by which Argyrops, the silver-eyed, is miscalled in local
vernacular. True to the national proclivity for clipping names, the fishermen of Rhode Island
appeal to him by the first syllable only of his Indian one,--for in the waters thereabout he
is talked of by the familiar abbreviation, Scup. But to the excursionists and fishermen of
New York he is known only as Porgy, or Paugie, a form as obviously derived from the last syllable
of his Indian name as the emphatic "siree" of our greatest orators is from the modest monosyllable
"sir." Porgy seems to be the accepted form of the word; but letters of the old, unphonetic
kind are poor guides to pronunciation. And a beautiful, clean-scaled fish is Porgy,--whose
g, by-the-by, as I learned from a funny man in the heterogeneous crowd, is pronounced "hard,
as in 'git eowt.'" A lovely fish is he, as he comes dripping up the side of the vessel from
his briny pastures. Silver is the pervading gleam of his oval form; but while he is yet wet
and fresh, the silver is flushed with a chromatic radiance of gold, and violet, and pale metallic
green, all blending and harmonizing like the mother-o'-pearl lustre in some rare sea-shell.
The true value of this fish is not of a commercial kind, for he cannot be deemed particularly
exquisite in a gastronomic sense; neither is he staple as a provision of food. His virtue lies
in the inducement offered to him by the citizen of moderate means, who, for a trifling outlay,
can secure for himself and family the invigorating influence of the salt sea-breezes, by having
a run down outside the Hook any fine day in summer, with an object. The average weight of the
porgy of these banks may be set down at about a pound.

Five minutes after we came to anchor, there must have been at least two hundred and fifty whip-cord
lines stretching out into the three-fathom water from every available rail and fender of the
old boat. Most of the men had brought their tackle with them, and their tin canisters of bait.
To those who had not, the articles were ready at hand; for speculators had mingled in the crowd,
one of whom affixed his "shingle" to a post between-decks, setting forth,--"Fishing-Lines and
Hooks, with Sinkers and Bait,"--the latter consisting of clams in the shell, contained in a
barrel big enough for the supply of the whole flotilla of green boats and red shirts, which
still hung around us like swallows in the wake of an osprey. Two or three of our excursionists--men,
perhaps, whose minds indulged in dear memories of a brook that babbles by a mill--had fishing-rods
with them, and made great ado with scientific lunges and casts, producing much discord, indeed,
by flicking away wildly outside their proper sea-limits. Most industrious among the hand-fishers
I remarked a small, spare man, who, under the careful supervision of a buxom young wife in
a "loud" tartan silk, baited no hook nor broke water with his lead until he had first folded
and put carefully away between the handle and lid of the family prog-basket his tight little
black frock-coat, and passed his small legs through the tough creases of a pair of stout blue
"Denim" overalls. These, pulled up to his neck, and hitched on there with shoulder-straps,
served for waistcoat and trousers and all, imparting to him the cool atmospheric effect so
much admired in that curious picture of Gainsborough's, known to connoisseurs as "The Blue
Boy." Then he fished the waters with a will; and it was but a scurvy remark of Flashy Joe,
who said that "it was about an even chance whether he took porgy or porgy took him." But it
seems to me that this unskilled labor of fishing from a steamboat must be epidemic, if not
contagious; for even Young New York, who in the early forenoon doubted visibly his discretion
at having got himself into such an ugly scrape as an "excursion-spree," put off his delicate
gloves, and set to hauling, hand over hand, as if for a bet.

But I believe I have committed a breach of etiquette in giving precedence to Scuppaug over
the skipper, a very large and thoroughly pickled old man, who now bustled deliberately about
the decks, with as few clothes on his broad back and stern-post legs as were consistent with
decorum and with the requirements of those by-laws of society which extend even to Sandy Hook
and the rest of the Jerseys, as well as to the fishing-banks that shoal out from the same.
Strictly speaking, this old man of our part of the sea was not the captain of the boat, but
the pilot, who takes command of her when she abandons her proper line on the rivers, and ventures
to that "far Cathay" of city-navigators indefinitely spoken of as "outside the Hook." The smooth-water
captain of the steamer, who was nobody to talk of now, was a slim, pale young man, in a black
dresscoat, tall, silky hat, and shoes of a material which has long years ago been patented,
on account of its matchless ability to shine. This commander remained permanently within the
"office," where he was probably very poorly by himself during all this "high old time." The
stout old pilot was the real skipper; and now that the vessel had come to anchor, he turned
from his lighter duties to the grave pastime of the day, and fished earnestly through a large
hole in the paddlebox,--the porgies that came to his allurements arriving at their destination
by a series of flapping manoeuvres from blade to blade of the wheel. For so burly a man, and
one with such a chest for the stowage of sea-breezes and monsoons, the skipper was provided
with a wonderfully small voice, suggesting, as he lectured upon sea-fishing to the novices
who were getting into "snarls" with their tackle hard by where he sat, the circumstance of
a tree-toad discoursing from the hollow of a brave old oak.

"If you want to ketch good fish," said he, sententiously, to Young New York, whose hook persisted
in baiting itself with his thumb,--"if you want to ketch reel snorters, you must have a heavy
line, heavy lead, and gimp tackle. Then take your own time, haul in, hand over hand, and no
matter what the heft, you'll be sure to fetch him."

Young New York produced from his breast-pocket the blue enamelled case in which reposed his
ivory tablets, and, seating himself upon the chain-box, wrote down with golden pencil the dictum
of the sage.

Notwithstanding the storm of yesterday, from which the discontented foreboded a stampede of
the fish to deeper waters, porgies to an extraordinary amount were soon heaped on the decks,
at the feet of each fisherman, the more careful of whom put them into baskets or barrels. But
in general they were thrown carelessly on the deck, with a string passed through their gills
to keep them from straying out of their proper lots. When these bright fishes are lying the
deck, it is curious to watch them flushing and gasping there, with that singular, dubious expression
of mouth peculiar to fishes out of water, as if more struck by the absence of that element
than by their novel position among the accessories of dry life. Now and then a blackfish was
hauled in,--an event greeted with a loud cheer from all parts of the boat. When a very large
one was announced, people came rushing from all quarters to see it; but the greatest tribute
to largeness in a fish that I remember anywhere to have seen was the altered expression on
the face of a baby some six months old, whose features settled permanently down into the collapse
of imbecility, from the moment of the arrival on the upper deck of a blackfish two feet long.

By this time the scene on the forecastle was quite a picture of the Dutch school. Grouped everywhere
among the fish and fishers were matronly women and unbonneted damsels, most of them with handkerchiefs
tied upon their heads; for they had got over their sea-sickness, now, and were coming by twos
and threes from the saloon, to breathe a little fresh air and look on at the sport. One pretty,
Jewish-looking girl, wrapped in a red and white shawl, was sitting on the big anchor near the
bows, and three or four others looked quite picturesque, as they reclined on the heavy coils
of the great cable. More central to the picture than was at all advantageous to it sat our
friend Raw Material, with his head jammed recklessly into the capstan, abandoning himself to
his misery. For the inevitable malady had fallen upon him among the first; and as he sat there,
helpless and without hope, upon one of those life-preserving stools that remind one, by their
shape, of the "properties" of Saturn in the mythology of old, he looked like Languor on an
hour-glass, timing the duration of Woe. All along the bulwarks on both sides of the boat, men
and boys were crowding upon each other, casting out and hauling in their lines with unflagging
spirit. Slim city-children, blistered wholesomely as to their legs, from knee to ankle, by
the sun and the salt air, harnessed themselves to little heaps of fish, and were driven about
the upper deck in various fashionable styles, including four-in-hand and tandem, by other slim
city-children, whose lower extremities had been treated in the same beneficial manner by the
same eminent physicians. The musicians had laid away their cornopeans and other cunningly twisted
horns upon the broad disk of the big drum, in a dark alcove between-decks, and were fishing
savagely in German and broken English, according to the nationality with which their affairs
happened to get entangled. Even the colored chef de cuisine, a muscular mulatto, with a beard
of a rash disposition, coming out on wrong parts of his face in little eruptive pustules of
black wool, sported his lines out of the galley-airholes, and his porgies were simmering in
the pan while their memories were yet green in the submarine parishes from which they came.
Have these finny creatures their full revenge upon fishermankind, when a smack sinks foundered
into the swallowing deep? Do the midnight revellers in the sea-caverns call out in broad Scuppaug
to the attendant mermaid for a "half-dozen large-sized jolterheads on the half monkey-jacket?"
To these queries I hope that Poetical Justice, if still living, will forward a reply at her
earliest convenience. Porgy now began to pervade the air with an astringent perfume of the
sea: none of your Fulton Market smells of stagnating fish, but a clean, wholesome, coralline
odor, such as we may imagine supplied to the Peris "beneath the dark sea" by the scaly fellows
in the toilet line down there, who are likely to keep it for sale in conch-shells,--quarts
and pints. Porgy prevailed to that extent, in fact, that it came to be talked of, by-and-by,
as a circulating medium; and a hard-fisted mechanic averred his intention of compensating his
landlady for his board with porgy, for the week that was passing away.

For some time, luck appeared to favor the starboard side of the boat, at which the take was
much greater than at the other. Hence, discontent began to crawl in at the port-gangways, and
the fishermen on that side were gradually edging over to the other, to look for a chance of
stealing in their lines clandestinely between the ranks. This led to an interchange of bad
compliments, as well as to a very perceptible slanting of the deck, and the captain piped out
to the hands to shift the chain-box. And by this action was resolved for me a riddle with regard
to the properties and uses of a prematurely stout man of fabulous girth, who had been dimly
revealed to me, once or twice in the course of the voyage, through some long vista of the 'tween-decks,
but seemed always to melt into air,--or, more probably, oil,--upon any advance being made to
a closer inspection. Now, as a couple of the deck-hands hauled and howled unsuccessfully at
the unwieldy chain-box, this mysterious person suddenly appeared, as if spirited up, and, throwing
himself stomach on to the loaded vehicle, shot across with it to the other side of the deck
with wonderful velocity, retiring, then, with a gliding movement, so as to preserve the rectitude
of the deck, which now seemed inclined to slope rather too much the other way. I will not undertake
to say, for certain, that the stout man was paid for doing this; but, as his hands were small
and remarkably white, indications that he toiled not with them, and as he made his appearance
on deck only when movable ballast was wanted, I am bound to suppose that he secured a living
by sitting heavily and throwing himself on for weight, in circumstances under which such actions
command a standard value.

Three hours having gone by since we came to anchor, the healthful toil of fishing in the salt
sea produced its natural result,--a ravenous appetite for food and drink; and a common consent
to partake of refreshments now began to develop itself. The wives had much to do with this,
as they detailed themselves along the railings, influencing their husbands with hints about
the hamper and flask. For most of the family-people had brought their provisions with them;
and, in many cases, the basket was flanked by a stone jar which looked as if it might contain
lager-beer,--as, in several instances, it did. Where there were many small children in a party,
however, I noticed that the beverage obtained from the jar was milk,--real Orange County cow-produce,
let us hope, and none of that sickly town-abomination, the vending of which ought to be made
by our legislators a felony, at least. Ham-sandwiches, greatly enhanced in flavor by the circumstance
of their outer surfaces being impressed with a reverse of yesterday's news, from the contact
of the pieces of newspaper in which they were wrapped up, formed the staple of the feast. Large
bowls of the various, seasonable berries were also in request; and all the shady places of
the ship were soon occupied by families, who distributed themselves in independent groups,
as people do in the sylvan localities dedicated to picnics. All were hungry and happy, all
better in mind and body,--illustrating the wise providence of the instinct that whispers to
the over-wrought artisan and bids him go sometimes forth on a summer's day to the woods and
waters,--a move which the marine character of the subject impels me to speak of nautically,
but reverently, as taking himself and family into the graving-dock of Nature, for the necessary
repairs.

Some of the girls now stole slyly about among the lines, and popped the baits timidly into
the blue water. The pale seamstress, who has quite a rose-flush on her cheek now, has hooked
a good-sized porgy, and her screams in this terrible predicament have brought several smart
young men to her rescue. Another girl, pretty and well-dressed,--in the glove-making line,
as I guess from the family she is with, all of whom, from paterfamilias to baby, are begloved
in a manner entirely irrespective of expense,--is kneeling pensively on the stern-benches of
the upper deck, paying out the line with confidence in herself, but evidently hoping for masculine
assistance in the process of hauling it in.

And where were our dear friends, the roughs, all this time? and how came it that they were
so quiet? They have been asleep,--snoring off the effects of last night's diversions, and fortifying
their constitutions against the influences to come. Ever since the music ceased playing, these
fellows have been rolled away, singly or in heaps, in crooked corners, into which they seem
to fit naturally. But now they began to rally, waking up and stretching themselves and yawning,--the
last two actions appearing to be the leading operations of a rowdy's toilet; and, gathering
round Lobster Bob, who has been steadily employed in opening oysters for all who have a midsummer
faith in those mollusks, they commenced rapidly swallowing great quantities of the various
kinds, which they seasoned to an alarming extent with coarse black pepper and brownish salt.
The fierce thirst, which, with these men, is not a consequence, because it is a thing that
was and is and ever will be, was brought vividly to their minds by this unnecessary adstimulation;
and now the bar-keeper, whose lager-beer was wellnigh exhausted, from its connection with ham-sandwiches,
had enough to do to furnish them with whiskey, of which stimulant there was but too large a
supply on hand. The consequence of this was soon apparent in the ugly hilarity with which the
rowdies entered upon the enjoyment of the afternoon. First, in spite of the remonstrances of
the Teuton whose proper chattel it was, they seized upon the large drum, with which they made
an astounding din in the public promenades of the vessel, abetted, I am sorry to say, by some
who ought to have known better,--and did, probably, before the whiskey had curdled their wits.
In this proceeding, as in all their movements, they were marshalled by Flashy Joe, whose comparatively
spruce appearance, when he came on board in the morning, had been a good deal deteriorated
by broken slumbers in places not remote from coals, and by the subsequent course of drinks.
Quiet people were beginning to express some dissatisfaction with the noise made by these fellows,
who, however, kept pretty much by themselves, as yet, and had got only to the musical stage
of the proceedings, chorusing with unearthly yells a song contributed to the harmony of the
afternoon by the first ruffian, the burden of which ran,--

  "When this old hat was ny-oo, my boys,
  When this old hat was ny-oo-ooo!"

No voice in this chorus dwelt more decidedly by itself than the shrill one belonging to the
small, spare man already spoken of as having a buxom young wife and blue cotton overalls. During
his wife's adjournment to the ladies' cabin, this person, I am obliged to record, had become
boisterously drunk,--a condition in which the contradictory elements that make up the characters
of most men are generally developed to an instructive extent. In his first paroxysm, the fighting
man within him was all aroused, as is generally the case with diminutive men, when under the
influence of drink. Already he had tucked his sleeves up to fight a large German musician,
who could have put him into the bell of his brass-horn and played him out, without much trouble.

At this moment the buxom young wife descended suddenly from the upper deck by the forecastle-ladder,
like Nemesis from a thunder-cloud, and, seizing upon the small warbler, to whom she administered
a preliminary shake which must have sadly changed the current of his ideas, drove him ignominiously
before her toward the stern of the vessel, rapping him occasionally about the ears with the
hard end of her fan, to keep him on a straight course. Persons who traced the matter farther
said that he was driven all the way to the upper deck, pushed with gentle violence into a state-room,
the door locked upon him, and the key pocketed by the lady, who said triumphantly, as she walked
away,--"That's the Sultan's place for him, I guess!" The moral to this little episode is but
a horn-book one, and without any pretension to didactic force: That respectable citizens, like
the small, spare man, would do well, on excursion-trips or elsewhere, to avoid whiskey and
black-guards; and that wives might be saved a deal of trouble by keeping their eyes permanently
on their husbands, when the latter are of uncertain ways.

This little domestic drama had hardly been played out, when a more serious one--almost a tragedy--was
enacted on the forecastle. It originated in the misconduct of the red man, who, seized with
a desire to catch porgies, went a short way to work for tackle, by snatching away the line
of a peaceable, but stout Frenchman, who was paralyzed for a moment by the novelty of the thing,
but, immediately recovering himself, expressed his dissent by smashing an earthen-ware dish,
containing a great mess of raw clams for bait, upon the head of the red man, as he stooped
over the railing to fish. This led to a general fight, in which blood flowed freely, and the
roughs were getting rather the upper-hand. Knives were drawn by some of the Germans and others
in self-defence, and great consternation reigned in the afterpart of the boat and the neighborhood
of the ladies' cabin. Then the slim captain of the boat--the one in the black dress-coat--hurriedly
whispered something to Lobster Bob, who rushed away aft, where the fight was now agglomerating,
headed by the red man and Flashy Joe, both covered with blood, and looking like demons, as
they wrestled and bit through the Crowd. Just as they hustled past a large chest intended for
the stowage of life-preservers, Lobster Bob kicked the lid of it open with a bang, and, seizing
up the red man, neck and crop, with his huge, tattooed hands, dropped him into it and shut
down the lid, which was promptly sat upon by the large, stout, smiling man already favorably
spoken of in these pages, who suddenly made his appearance from nowhere in particular. The
picture of contentment, he sat there like one who knew how, caressing slowly his large knees
with his short, plump hands, until the cries from the chest began to wax feeble, when he slowly
arose, vanished, and I never saw him again. The red rowdy was then dragged, half-suffocated,
from his imprisonment, and as much life as he ought ever to be intrusted with restored to him
by the stout old skipper, who was at hand with a couple of buckets full of cold salt-water,
with which he drenched him liberally, as he slunk away. A diversion thus effected, the disturbance
was quelled. All was quiet in a short time, and the word was passed to heave the anchor and
'bout ship for home.

On the way back, we took a pleasant course inside the Hook, which brought the charming scenery
of the Jersey shore and of Staten Island before us, as a pleasant drop-curtain on the melodrama
just closed. The music again struck up, and dancing was resumed with fresh vigor,--the waltzing
of all other couples being quite eclipsed by that of Young New York and little Straw-Goods,
who had effectually got rid of her tipsy persecutor ever since the ground-swell, and was keeping
rather in the background of late, with a sober-minded lady whom she called "aunty." With the
exception of the few who took to whiskey and bad company, all appeared contented, and the better
for their sea-holiday. The very musicians played with greater spirit than they did before,
owing, perhaps, to their remarkable success in the porgy-fishery. One of the horn-players,
far too knowing to let his fish out of sight, has propped his music-book up against a pyramid
of them, as upon a desk. The good-looking man who plays upon the double-bass is equally prudent
with regard to his trophies, which he has hung up around the post on which is pinned the score
to which he looks for directions when it becomes necessary to bind together with string-music
the pensive interchanges of the sax-horn and bassoon.

And now, as our vessel neared the wharf from which we had started while the sun was yet in
the east, I looked forward to see what signs of the times were astir on the forecastle. All
had deserted it, and were tending aft, with their tackle, their fish, and their prog-baskets,--all,
at least, except Raw Material, of whom we enjoyed now an uninterrupted view, as he sat in his
old position, with his head jammed obstinately into the capstan. But how was this?--he was
round at the opposite side of it now; and I puzzled myself for a moment, thinking whether this
change of bearings could be accounted for by the fact of the boat being headed the other way.

But Young New York, who is far more nautical than I am, and has a big brother in one of the
yacht-clubs, derided the idea, and said he must have gone round with the handspikes, when the
anchor was hove.

And there he remained, as we went our way,--a modern Spartan slave in a kind of marine pillory,--conveying
to the red-legged children of Gotham, as they toddled ashore, a useful lesson on the doubtful
relations existing between whiskey and pleasure.

COBBLER KEEZAR'S VISION.

THE FIRST ATLANTIC TELEGRAPH.

"In the name of the Prophet:--Figs!"

"Eh, bien, Sare! wiz you Field and ze uzzers! Zey is ver' good men, sans doute, an' zey know
how make ze money; mais--gros matérialistes, I tell you, Sare! Vat zen? I sall sink I know,
I! Oui, Monsieur, I, César Prévost, who has ze honneur to stand before you,--I am ze original
inventeur of ze Télégraphique Communication wiz Europe!"

It was about the period when, with the fast world of cities, De Sauty was beginning to become
type of an "ism"; already the attention of excitement-hunters had travelled far from Trinity
Bay, and Cyrus Field had yielded his harvest. Nevertheless, to me, who had just come to town
from a quiet country seclusion into which news made its entry teredo-fashion only, the performances
of the Agamemnon and Niagara were matters of fresh and vivid interest. So I purchased Mr. Briggs's
book, and went to Guy's, to cut the leaves over a steak and a bottle of Edinburgh ale. It was
while I was thus engaged that the little Frenchman had accosted me, calling my attention to
his wares with such perfect courtesy, such airy grace, that I was forced to look at his baskets.
And looking, I was induced to lay down my book and examine them more closely; for they were
really pretty,--made of extremely white and delicate wood, showing an exquisite taste in their
design, and being neatly and carefully finished. Then it was, that, having apparently noticed
the title of my book, M. César Prévost had used the language above quoted, and with such empressement
of manner, that my attention was diverted from his wares to himself. I looked at him with some
curiosity.

He was a little old Frenchman, lean as a haunch of dried venison, and scarcely less dark in
complexion,--though his color was nearer that of rappee snuff, and had not the rich blood-lined
purple of venison. His face was wofully meagre, and seemed scored and overlaid with care-marks.
Nevertheless, there was an energetic, nervous, almost humorsome mobility about his mouth; while
his little beady black eyes, quick, warm, scintillant, had ten times the life one would have
expected to find keeping company with his fifty years. In dress, he was very threadbare, and,
sooth to say, not over-clean; yet he was jaunty, and moved with the air of a man much better
clad. I was impressed with his appearance, and especially with his voice, which was vibrant,
firm, and excellently intoned. It is my foible, perhaps, but I am always charmed with bonhommie,
I class originality among the cardinal virtues, and I am as eager in the chase after eccentricity
as a veteran fox-hunter is in pursuit of Reynard. M. César promised a compensative proportion
of all three qualities, could I only "draw him out"; and besides, he was not like Mr. Canning's
"Knife-Grinder,"--for, evidently, he had a story to tell.

Observing my scrutiny, he smiled; a singular, ironical smile it was, yet without a particle
of bitterness or of cynicism.

"Eh, bien!" said he; "you stare, Monsieur! you sink me an excentrique. Vraiment! I am use to
zat,--I am use to have persons smile reeseeblement, to tap zere fronts, an' spek of ze strait-jackets.
Never fear,--I am toujours harmless! Mais, Monsieur, it is true, vat I tell you: I am ze original
inventeur of ze Atlantic Telegraph! You mus' not comprehend me, Sare, to intend somesing vat
persons call ze Telegraph,--such like ze Electric Telegraph of Monsieur Morse,--a vulgaire
sing of ze vire and ze acid. Mon Dieu, non! far more perfect,--far more grrand,--far more original!
Ze acid may burn ze finger,--ze vire vill become rrusty,--ze isolation subject always to ze
atmosphere. Ah, bah! Vat make you in zat event? As ze pure lustre of ze diamant of Golconde
to ze distorted rays of a morsel of bottle-glass, so my grrand invention to ze modes of ze
telegraph in vogue at present!"

"Monsieur, you shall tell me about it," said I, pointing to a seat on the other side of the
table; "sit down there, and tell me about your invention, and in your native language,--that
is, if you can spare the time to do so, and to drink a glass of Bordeaux with me."

He accepted my invitation as a gentleman would, sipped his wine like a connoisseur, passed
me a few compliments, such as any French gentleman might toss to you, if you had asked him
to join you in a glass of wine in one of his city's cafés, and then proceeded with his story.
My translation gives but a faint echo of the impression made upon me by his life, vigor, and
originality; but still I have striven to do him as little injustice as possible.

"Monsieur, it is ten years since I accomplished, put in practice, and evoked practical results
from this international communication, which your two peoples have failed to establish, in
spite of all their money, their great ships, and the united wisdom of their savans. I am a
Frenchman, Monsieur,--and, you know, France is the congenial soil of Science. In that country,
where they laugh ever and se jouent de tout, Science is sacred;--the Academy has even pas of
the army; honors there are higher prized than the very wreaths of glory. Among the votaries
of Science in France, César Prévost was the humblest,--serviteur, Monsieur. Nevertheless, though
my place was only in the outermost porch of the temple, I was a faithful, devoted, self-sacrificing
worshipper of the goddess; and therefore, because earnest fidelity has ever its crown of reward,
it happened to me to make a grand discovery,--a discovery more momentous, it may be, than that
of gunpowder or the telescope,--ten million hundred times more worth than the vaunted great
achievement of M. le Professeur Morse. Not that its whole import came to me at once. No, Monsieur,
it is full twenty years now since the first light of it glimmered upon César Prévost's mind,
and he gave ten years of his life to it--ten faithful years--before it was perfect to his satisfaction.
Ah, Monsieur, and 'tis more than one year now that I have been what you see me, in consequence
of it. Eh, bien! I shall die so,--rightly,--but my discovery shall live forever.

"But pardon, Monsieur,--I see that you are impatient. You shall immediately hear all I have
to say,--after I have, in a few words, given you a brief insight into the nature of my invention.
Come, then!--Has it ever occurred to Monsieur to reflect upon that something which we call
Sympathy? The philosophers, you know, and the physiologists, the followers of that coquin,
Mesmer, and the bêtes Spiritualists, as they now dub themselves,--these have written, talked,
and speculated much about it. I doubt not these fellows have aided Monsieur in perplexing his
brain respecting the diverse, the world-wide ramifications of this physiological problem. The
limits, indeed, of Sympathy have not been, cannot be, rightly set or defined; and there are
those who embrace under such a capitulation half the dark mysteries that bother our heads when
we think of Life's under-current,--instinct,--clairvoyance,--trance,--ecstasy,--all the dim
and inner sensations of the Spirit, where it touches the Flesh as perceptibly, but as unseen
and unanalyzed, as the kiss of the breeze at evening. Sans doute, Monsieur, 'tis very wonderful,
all this,--and then, also, 'tis very convenient. Our ships must have a steersman, you know.
And, par exemple, unless we call it sympathetic, that strange susceptibility which we see in
many persons, detect in ourselves sometimes, what name have we to give it at all? Unless we
call it sympathy, how shall we define those mysterious premonitions, shadowy warnings, solemn
foretokens, that fall upon us now and then as the dew falls upon the grass-leaf, that make
our blood to shiver and our flesh to quake, and will not by any means permit themselves to
be passed by or nullified? 'T is a fact that is irrepressible; and, in persons with imagination
of morbid tendency, this spontaneous sympathy takes a hold so strong as to present visibly
the image about which there is concern,--and, behold! your veritable spectre is begotten! So,
again, of your 'love at first sight,' comme on dit,--that inevitable attraction which one person
exerts towards another, in spite, it may be, both of reason and judgment. If this be not child
of sympathy, what parentage shall we assign it? And antipathy, Monsieur, the medal's reverse,--your
bête noire, for instance,--expound me that! Why do you so shudder at sight of this or that
innocent object? You cannot reason it away,--'t is always there; you cannot explain it, nor
diagnose its symptoms,--'t is a part of you, governed by the same laws that govern your 'elective
affinities' throughout. But note, Monsieur! You and I and man in general are not alone in this:
the whole organic world--nay, some say the entire universe, inorganic as well as organic--is
subject to these impalpable sympathetic forces. Is the hypothesis altogether fanciful of chemical
election and rejection,--of the kiss and the kick of the magnet? Your Sensitive-Plant, your
Dionea, your Rose of Jericho, your Orinoco-blossom that sets itself afloat in superb faith
that the ever-moving waters will bring it to meet its mate and lover,--are not these instances
of sympathy? And tell me by what means your eye conquers the furious dog that would bite you,--tell
me how that dog is able to follow your traces, and to find the quail or the fox for you,--tell
me how the cat chills the bird it would spring upon,--how the serpent fascinates its victim
with a flash of its glittering eye. Our 'dumb beasts' yet have a language of their own, unguessed
of us, yet perfectly intelligible to them,--how? We call this, Instinct. Eh, bien, Monsieur!
what is Instinct, but Sympathy?

"Bah! it amounts to nothing, all this, if we only look at it in such relations. For centuries
have stupides bothered their brains about such matters, seeking to account for them. As well
devote one's time to puzzling over 'Aelia Laelia'! Mysteries were not meant to be put in the
spelling-books, Monsieur. Ah, bah! a far different path did César Prévost pursue! He studied
these phenomena, not to explain them,--being too wise to dream of living par amours with such
barren virgins as are Whence and Why (your Bacon was very shrewd, Monsieur). What cared I about
causes? Let Descartes, and Polignac, and Reid, and Cudworth, et id omne genus, famish themselves
in this desert; but ask it not of César Prévost! He is always considerate to the impossible.
He says this, always:--Here we have certain interesting phenomena; their causes are involved
in mystery impenetrable; their esoteric nature is beyond the reach of any microscope;--what
then? My Heaven! let us do what we can with them. Let us seek out their relations; let us investigate
the laws regulating their interdependence,--if there be such laws; and aprés, let us inquire
if there be any practical results obtainable from such relations and laws.

"You follow me, Monsieur? Eh, bien! This was the system, and César Prévost came speedily to
one law,--a law so important, that, like Aaron's serpent, it put all the rest out of sight
forever, engrossing thereafter his whole attention. This law, which pervades the entire animal
economy, and is of course important in proportion to its universality, is as follows:--The
sympathetic harmony between animals, other things being equal, is IN INVERSE PROPORTION to
their rank in that scale of comparison in which man is taken as the maximum of perfection.
Consequently, man is most deficient in this instinctive something, which, for lack of a better
term, I have ventured to style 'sympathetic harmony,' while the simplest organization has it
most developed. This last, you perceive, Monsieur, is only inductively true;--when we get below
a certain stage in the scale, we find the difficulties of observation increase in a larger
ratio than the augmented sympathy, and so we are not compensated; 't is, for instance, like
the telescope, where, after you have reached a certain power, the deficiency of light overbalances
the degree of multiplication. Knowing this, my first aim was to find out what animal would
suit best,--what one that could be easily observed was most susceptible, most sympathetic.
'T was a long labor, Monsieur; I shall not tire you with the details. Enough that I found in
the snail the instrument I needed,--and in the snail of the Rocky Mountains the most perfect
of his kind. You smile, Monsieur. Eh, bien! 't is not philosophic to laugh at the means by
which one achieves something. Smile how you will, 't is a fact that in the snail which is so
common and grows to such an enormous size in the valleys and on the slopes of your great Cordilleras
I found an animal combining a maximum of sympathetic harmony with the greatest facility of
being observed, the best health and habits, and the utmost simplicity of prononcée manifestation.
But, you ask, what seek I, then? My Heaven, Monsieur! there was the grand Idea,--the Idea upon
which I build my pride,--the Idea that is mine! When it came to me, Monsieur, this Idea, a
great calm filled all my soul, and I felt then the spirit of Kepler, when he said he could
wait during centuries to be recognized, since the laws he had demonstrated were eternal and
immutable as the Great God Himself! Yes, Monsieur! For in that crude, undeveloped Idea were
already germinating the wonders of an achievement grander than any of Schwartz, or Guttenberg,
or Galileo. Oh, this beautiful, grand simplicity of Science, which was able, from the snail
itself, the very type and symbol and byword of torpidity and inaction, to evolve what was to
conquer time and space,--to outrun the wildest imaginings of Puck himself!"

----What a coltish fire of enthusiasm pranced in the worthy little Frenchman's veins, to be sure!

"Eh, bien! Now, distance made no matter; it was forever subdued. I could as soon send messages
to the Sun itself as to my next-door neighbor! Smile on, Monsieur! César Prévost shall not
be piqued at your incredulity. He also was amazed, prostrated, when all the stupendous consequences
of his discovery first flashed upon his mind; and it was very long before he could rid his
mind of the notion that he was become victim to the phantasms of a ridiculous dream. Eh, bien!
't was very simple, once analyzed. Know one fact, and you have all. And this one fact, so simple,
yet so grand, was just this:--That a male and female snail, having been once, by contact, put
in communication with one another, so as to become what magnetizers call en rapport the one
with the other, continue ever after to sympathize, no matter what space may divide them. 'T
is in a nutshell, you perceive,--and giving me the entire principle of an unlimited telegraphic
communication. All that was to do was to systematize it. Tedious work, you may conceive, Monsieur;
yet I did not shrink from it, nor find it irksome, for my assured result was ever leading me
onward. Ah, bah! what did I not dream then?--Passons!

"I was not rich, and so, to save the trouble and expense of importing my snails to Paris,--vast
trouble and expense, of course, since my experiments were so numerous,--I came across the Atlantic,
and fixed myself at a point near St. Louis, where I could study in peace and have the subjects
of my experiments close at hand. I used to pay the trappers liberally to get my snails for
me, instructing them how to gather and how to transport them; and to divert all suspicion from
my real objects, I pretended to be a gourmet, who used the snails solely for gastronomic purposes,--whereby,
Monsieur," said César Prévost, with a humorous smile, "I was unfortunate enough to inspire
the hearty garçons with a supreme contempt for me, and they used to say I 'vas not bettaire
zan one blarsted Digger Injun!' Mon Dieu! what martyrs the votaries of Science have been, always!

"Eh, bien! I shall not bother you with my experiments. In brief, let me give you only results,
so as to be just comprehensible. Given my law, I had to find, first, the manner exactly in
which snails manifest their sympathy, the one for the other,--c'est à dire, how Snail A tells
you that something is happening to his comrade, Snail B. There was a constant law for this,
hard to find, but I achieved it. Second, to make my telegraph perfect, and pat my system beyond
the touch of accident, I had to discover how to destroy the rapport between Snails A and B.
Unless I could do this, I could never be sure my instruments were perfectly isolated, so to
speak. 'Twas a difficult task, Monsieur; for the snail is the most constant in its attachments
of all the animal kingdom, and I have known them to die, time and again, because their mates
had died,--

  "'Pining away in a green and yaller melancholie,'

"as your grand poet has it, Monsieur. Still, I succeeded, and I am very proud to announce it;--'twas
a great feat, indeed--no less than to subvert an instinct! Third, I found out the way to keep
them perfectly isolated, so as to prevent any subvention of a higher influence from weakening
or destroying the previous rapport. Fourth, what sort of influence brought to bear upon Snail
B would be sympathetically indicated most palpably in Snail A. So, Monsieur, you may fancy
I had my hands full.

"But I succeeded, after long labor. Then I spent much time in seeking to perfect an Alphabetical
System, and also a Recording Apparatus, capable of exactly setting forth the quality of the
sympathy manifested, as well as the number of the manifestations. When these things were all
perfected, I should have a complete system of Telegraph, which no circumstances of time, distance,
or atmosphere could impair, which would put on record its every step, and permit no opportunity
for error or for accident.

"Eh, bien! Man proposes,--God disposes. Monsieur, when I began my experiments, when I devoted
myself, my energies, and my life itself to developing and utilizing my discovery, my motives
were purely, exclusively scientific. My sole aim was to win the position of an eminent savant,
who, by conferring a signal benefit upon the race, should merit the common applause of mankind.
But, as time wore on, as my labors began to be successful, as the grand possibilities of my
achievement arrayed themselves before me, other dreams usurped my brain. I, the inventor of
this thing, so glorious in its aspect, so incomputable in its results,--was I to permit myself
to go without reward? Fame? Ah, bah! what bread would Fame butter? 'Twas a bubble, a name,
an empty, profitless sound, this coquin of Fame! 'Proximus sum egomet mihi,' says Terence,--or,
as your English proverb has it, 'Charity begins at home.' I bethought me of the usual fate
of discoverers and inventors,--neglected, scoffed at, ill-used, left to starve. The blesser
of the world with infinite riches must nibble his crust au sixième. Why, then? Because, in
their sublime eagerness to serve others, they forget to care for themselves. Eh, bien! One
must still keep his powder dry, said your great Protector. This discovery was to double the
effectiveness of men's hands,--therefore, was grandly to enrich them. But could it not be also
made a notable instrument for wealth in one man's hands? Ah! brave thought! How, if, none the
less resolved to give man eventually the benefit of my Idea, I should yet keep it in abeyance,
till I had made my own sufficient profit out of it? It could be done;--surely, to use it well
were less difficult than to have invented it. So dreams of wealth and luxury began to fill
my brain. I would enrich myself till I had become a power, emphatically,--till all purchasable
things were within my reach. Then I should likewise become a benefactor of the race; for my
intentions were liberal, and intelligence sustained adequately can effect miracles. Then, when
I had made myself veritably the Apostle of Riches, I would put the capstone to man's debt to
me, by endowing him with knowledge in the uses of this great instrument whereby I had made
myself so great. Ah, Monsieur, you see, Haroun Alraschid had set me on his throne for an hour
by way of jest, and I imagined myself Caliph in Bagdad forever!

"Full of such purposes, and of the fiery impatience of yearning begotten of them, I hastened
to bring my work to efficiency for use. I had worked in silence, alone, secretly; for I dreaded
to have my discovery guessed, my aims anticipated and foreclosed upon. But, hasten how I would,
the processes were too slow for my means,--and just when, like the alchemist, my crucible promised
the grand projection, came the dreaded explosion. My money exhausted itself! I found myself,
a stranger in a strange land, without a dollar. Eh, bien, Monsieur! 't is not in César Prévost
to despair. Ah, in those days, especially, had I a heart big with the strength of hope! To
accomplish my ends, a partner was needed at best, money or no money; so now it was only necessary
for me to find one who to the essential qualities of heart and brain conjoined a purse of sufficient
size. Before long, I came across the very man. Monsieur, when I recall the past, I behold many
instances where I erred and was foolish; but the single bitter reflection I have is, that my
own ruin involved the ruin of John Meavy, my partner and good comrade. I remember what he was
when I found him,--happy, prosperous, large-hearted,--in every sense a noble man. I ruined
him! Ah, could I but--Eh, bien! 't is too late, now; he is dead; requiescat! I have the bliss
to know he found no fault with the end.--Passons!

"When I first knew John Meavy, he was a merchant, living with the quiet ease of a well-to-do
bachelor. Though he had been brought up to trade, the stain of money was not upon him. Generous,
charitable, liberal of thought, he was the gentlest enthusiast in other men's behalf that ever
the sun shone on. It was the fact that he possessed fifty thousand dollars and was trustworthy
that first drew rue towards him; but I had not known him long ere I gave him my ardent love,
and thereafter thoughts of wealth were pleasant to me as much for his sake as for my own. John
was a student, and a lover of Science, as well as a man of trade; and, in the first moments
of our intercourse, I took care to let drop words that I knew would attract his curiosity and
interest. Like all you Americans, John Meavy was a man of perfect faith in all that regarded
'Progress,' and especially did he believe in the infinite perfectibility of Science in the
hands of an energetic people. This was the chord upon which I played, and the responsive note
was easily evoked. He sought me out, came to me eagerly, and, by degrees, I divulged to him
all my plans. He was ambitious to work for mankind, and I convinced him that I could give him
the means to do so. My faith, Monsieur! that John Meavy had not one least morsel of selfishness
in all his character! How far was he from dreaming of wealth for its own sake, and for the
voluptuous surroundings with which my fancy enlarged upon it! No, indeed,--my invention to
John Meavy was nothing; but, as a means to profit you and me and the rest of us, 't was a thing
of the grandest import. So, at first, he would not have had us keep our secret for a day; but
I--by a sophistry that is only sophistic when we add to the consideration man's impotent and
easily perverted will--brought him into my plans, showing him what an instrument for good vast
riches would be in his hands. And he was the more easily persuaded because of the very grand
purity of his nature. Sans doute, he felt it to be altogether true, what I told him, that,
in his hands, a hundred million dollars would be worth more to mankind at large than the whole
French kingdom. Mais, Monsieur, you cannot own a hundred millions and be good. As well expect
to find the same virtue in London that prevails in a quiet country-town. You cannot filter
oceans, Monsieur, and the dead fish in them will cause a stink. But I did not know this till
afterwards.

"So, having inoculated John, I bestowed upon him my confidence without reserve; for I knew
he was one to appreciate such treatment, and would repay me in kind. 'Here it all is, mon ami,'
said I; 'this is my invention; these the means for reducing it to practice; money is all I
need. If you will join me, and provide the funds required, we will enter into a partnership
for ten years, enrich ourselves, and then give it to all the world.'

"'Ten years! must the world wait so long?'

"'The world has waited six thousand years for this century, camarade. We shall require so long
to enrich ourselves. And then, remember,--the longer they are kept out of it, the more perfect
will our invention be, and, consequently, the greater their profit from it. Science has suffered
too much already by its seven-months' children, my good friend. Eh, bien! What say you? Will
you be my partner?'

"'Yes, César. 'T is a noble scheme, such as only a noble man could originate. But, Prévost,
do not speak to me of an equal partnership. I must not pattern after my country's way of overlooking
the inventor. Let us go into business upon this basis:--Prévost one share, John Meavy one share,
Invention one share.'

"'Bah! John Meavy!' I cried. 'If I have discovered something, so also have you, namely: a pocket
deep enough, a heart honest enough, and a faith strong enough to make that something available;--I
expected sooner to find the philosopher's-stone than all these, good friend. No, John Meavy,--if
you share with me, you share equally. Then I shall be sure that you are equally interested
with myself; so we shall succeed.'

"Eh, bien! We arranged it; and that very day, after I had pointed out to John the state of
my experiments, my noble comrade took me with him to his place of business, put all his books
open before me, explained exactly the condition of his affairs, and concluded by giving me
a check for five thousand dollars. 'There,' said he, 'take that, pay your debts, provide for
yourself, and go on and reduce your invention to the practical working you speak about. Meantime,
I will wind up my business in readiness to join you. Six months from now, the firm of Prévost
and Meavy, established to-day, will begin business together.'

"Mon pauvre John Meavy!

"Eh bien, Monsieur!" resumed the little Frenchman, after a short pause,--"one cannot help one's
self, after it is too late. Allons, donc!--I had lately, thinking over the matter in the light
of my intense desire to begin a career, and under the pressure of urgent poverty, given up
the notion of bringing my invention to absolute perfection as a system of telegraphing. Instead
of elaborating a complete alphabet, I proposed to carry into effect a substitute already perfected,
one simple almost beyond belief, needing few preparations, involving trifling cost, and capable
of being made immediately operative. Further experience has taught me that the very same means,
aided by a little deeper generalization, and an arbitrary set of signals, would have given
me an entire alphabet. But just now I had no time to extend my experiments, needing all my
time to make sure and acquire skill in what was already achieved. I must insure against the
chance of mistake; for when we were applying our invention to the acquisition of money, any
error would necessarily be fatal.

"The six months went rapidly by, and before they were over I was all ready. But John said,
'Wait!' He saw no need of hurry; and his affairs were not quite settled. Eh, bien! I tranquillized
my eager, impatient soul by gaining an insight into the art of book-keeping and the theory
and practice of trade. At last the probationary period expired, and, prompt to the hour, my
comrade announced his readiness to begin our business. The friends of John Meavy were reluctant
to have him leave St. Louis. They did not know what enterprise he was about to join in; but
they heard that I had some share in it, and they did not scruple to hint that I might be an
adventurer, who would 'diddle' him out of his money. However, John only smiled, and told me
all they said, in his frank way, as if it were some good joke. So, finally, we took leave of
St. Louis, and came to New York, to organize the great house of Meavy & Prévost: John bearing
his share in the concern, forty odd thousand dollars, with many letters to persons of eminence
and influence; and I carefully seeing to my share,--a few scientific works, some valuable chemical
apparatus, and two dozen jars full of Rocky Mountain snails! Eh, bien, Monsieur! my stock in
trade was magnifique, in comparison with that with which my compatriot Girard commenced business.

"By John's advice, we began our operations in a plain, quiet way, as exporters of breadstuffs.
This we did, first, that the firm might make itself well enough known, and gain the confidence
of the Bourse, so that the doors might be open to our subsequent operations; that I, secondly,
might learn the business, and secure the proper recognition as John's partner. Meantime, John
was making himself familiar with the way to practise my invention; and both of us, gaining
daily assurance of our power by reason of the discovery, were also daily increasing in love
and confidence for each other. Happy days, those, Monsieur! Eh, bien! had the invention only
proved a fiction then!

"In another six months we had matured our plans, and, as our present business seemed lamentably
slow in the light of my gigantic projects, I was eager enough to begin work in earnest. I had
proved our telegraph thoroughly, and, ere I set out for London, to establish there a branch
of the house of John Meavy & Co., I advised my good comrade to venture largely, so as to turn
our capital over as often as possible, for there was no room for doubt or fear. But John did
not guess how high I dreamed of rising in fortune; he had no ambition to rival the Rothschilds.

"Monsieur, let me explain to you now the system of work we had agreed upon, and each slightest
detail of which was perfectly familiar to us from constant manipulation, so that mistake or
mishap, from any conceivable cause, was utterly impossible.

"Our business, nominally the buying of breadstuffs for exportation, was really one of speculation
upon the New York market as affected by the European markets,--a species of brokerage, which,
ostensibly and in the eyes of the world attended by great risk, was really a thing of specifically
safe and certain profits, thanks to the telegraphic system, the secret of which we alone possessed.
In our tentative efforts, we fixed upon flour as the best-adapted subject for our experiments,
being a commodity simple to deal with, and requiring fewer complications in our arrangements
than anything else. But, in my own private mind, I had resolved, that, as soon as our capital
had grown large enough, and our credit was become sufficiently extensive, we would change our
business to that of buying and selling cotton, as a better speculative; or, perhaps, would
enter upon that grand arena of sudden fortune and sudden ruin, the stock-market. For the present,
however, flour suited us well enough. It is well known, that, at that time, much more than
at present, the price of breadstuffs in New York was regulated by the price in Liverpool. But
Monsieur is not a merchant, I think? Eh, bien!--then I must take care to make myself intelligible.
You know, Monsieur, that, in the stock-market especially, and more or less in every other kind
of speculation, the greater part of the transactions are fictitious, to a certain extent. Par
exemple: you buy or you sell so many barrels of flour, at such a price, on time, as it is called,--that
is, you engage to receive, or to deliver, so many barrels, at the prices and in the times agreed
upon, in the hope, that, before the period of your contract comes round, prices will have so
varied as to enable you to buy, or sell, the quantity bargained for, upon terms that will give
you a profit. In a word, you simply agree to run the risk of a change of prices such as to
give you a profitable return. The operation is identical with that of betting that such a card
will be turned, or that such a horse will win in a race, or such a candidate be elected President.
On 'Change we are charitable enough to suppose each speculator possessed of data such as to
make his venture seem reasonable to himself. This is the system, and, though very like gambling,
it has the advantage of presenting to men of small means the chance of large profits, provided
they are willing to run the risk; since, while with a capital of ten thousand dollars I could
make an actual purchase of only two thousand barrels of flour at five dollars a barrel, the
profit on which, at an advance of twenty-five cents per barrel, would be very small,--by risking
all my money upon a single venture, and leaving myself a 'margin' of fifty cents to cover the
greatest probable decline in price per barrel, I may purchase 'on time' all of twenty thousand
barrels, the profit upon which, at the same rate, would be equal to fifty per cent of my entire
capital. This is the legitimate system by which such rapid fortunes are made and lost upon
'Change. Now suppose, that, operating in this way, you are in possession of a secret means
of intelligence, instantaneous, to be relied on, peculiar to yourself,--does not Monsieur perceive
that it insures one a fortune incalculable, and to be made within the shortest time? If I to-day
learn that to-morrow's steamer will bring news that cotton has advanced one cent a pound, of
course I am justified in buying cotton to the utmost extent that my capital and credit will
afford me means, being sure of selling it to-morrow at a higher price; and if I am continually
in the receipt of similar information, I can turn my capital over fifty times in a year, and
double it every time. There is actually no limit to the possible fortune of a man who is so
favored, provided he conjoins prudence and boldness to his manner of transacting business.
The supplying of such secret and unshared information to the firm of John Meavy & Co. was the
end of my invention, Monsieur. I was to go to Liverpool, and act as signaller, while he was
to stay in New York, receive the information, and buy or sell in accordance with it.

"Our apparatus was very simple. At each terminus of our line, so to speak, we had a room, inaccessible
save to ourselves. These rooms, darkened, and carefully kept at a fixed temperature, contained
nothing, save, in one corner of each, a chronometer regulated with precision, and, in opposite
corners, a set of boxes, containing each a snail. At the signalling end, at a fixed hour, which
the chronometer gives with the greatest accuracy, and when I know that my partner, by agreement,
will be present at the other end to receive intelligence, I go into my room, informed as to
the condition of the Liverpool market, and prepared to transmit particulars of the same to
him. Here are two boxes, divided into three compartments each, and a male snail in each compartment.
If flour is down, offering a chance for profit in New York upon 'time' sales, I approach the
box marked minus, the three snails of which are called x, y, and z. I take up a little tube,--such
a one as is used by chemists to drop infinitesimal portions of any liquid; I dip this into
a vial marked No. 1, containing a solution of salt in water,--there is a row of these vials,
the solution in each being of a different strength,--and then, with the moistened tube, I touch
snail x, or snail y, or snail z, or any two of them, or all three, once, twice, three times,
or repeatedly, according to the news I wish to signal,--noting the effect of the poison, and
recording the particulars in a book kept for the purpose,--recording them with a nicety of
intelligent discrimination such as can be obtained only by long and practised observation.
I send an abstract of this record by every mail to my partner, so as to verify our results
and to detect immediately any derangement. At his end of our line the brave John Meavy waits
before two similar boxes, in each compartment of which is a female snail. He is a skilled observer,
and his quick eve beholds snails a, b, c exactly (through sympathy) repeating the effects I
am producing in x, y, z,--though the distance between them is over three thousand miles! He
knows the meaning of these slight effects, and, going upon 'Change, buys or sells with a perfect
assurance of profit.

"Such was my telegraph, in its rudest outline; but I had systematized it to a degree of far
greater nicety. I provided entirely against man's imperfect and defective powers of observation.
These movements and squirmings, which in snails x, y, z, were the effect of a physical cause,
(salt-water.) were, in snails a, b, c, the result of sympathy for x, y, z, as I have said,--a
result constant, determinate, and always to be depended upon. That is the law of their rapport,--not
a theory, but a law, established by long, exhaustive, and conclusive experimentation. The reason
for it I cannot assign,--did not pretend to investigate; but the fact I had ascertained: x,
y, z, so touched, squirm, contract, and expand their articulations, and exude from their pores
a certain slimy sweat, of agony it may be,--anyhow, a slimy exudation comes from them, --and,
simultaneously, and just as much in kind, degree, quality, everything, snails a, b, c repeat
the process. Such is the law, constant as gravitation. Consequently, all that the operator
has to concern himself about is, to understand that so many touches, with fluid of such intensity,
to so many snails, and repeated so often, produce such and such an effect upon them, as, collectively
considered, to convey, through a, b, c, a certain piece of information. Knowing this, skill
in manipulation and accurate memory are all the qualities he requires to conjoin to such knowledge.
But the observer has a much more delicate office to perform, and, until I invented my recording
apparatus, the functions of this post could be discharged only roughly and imperfectly, so
evanescent and complex the manifestations. But I discovered a chemical observer, employing
tests that nothing could escape, nor anything deceive. The clock that indicates the hour for
receipt of news puts in motion the filaments of certain delicate machinery connected with the
boxes wherein are a, b, c. These snails are placed upon a gauze-like substance, which, though
firm enough to support them undisturbed, permits both their natural excretions, and their exudations
under excitement, to filter through readily. As soon as the hour comes, the machinery moves,
and there begins to pass the recording paper, so to speak, which I invented,--a paper not meant
to receive any vulgar mechanical impression, but one which, to the instructed eye, and by the
aid of the microscope, sets forth in plain language the nature of the functional disturbance
in each snail, its quality, its intensity, and its duration. I do not exaggerate, Monsieur.
This paper, in a word, is chemically prepared, saturated in a substance that renders it perfectly
sympathetic to whatever fluid exudes from the snail, and thus, and by means of its motion,
it records the quantity and quality of the impression with unvarying accuracy. The observing
hour over, the clock-work stops, the paper is examined, and the result recorded carefully.
Par exemple: I touch snail x, once, twice, three times, with the weak solution, No. 1; John
Meavy, receiving this fact, through the sympathetic report of snail a, the chemical paper,
and the microscope, reads, as plainly as if it had been printed in pica type: 'Flour declined
threepence.' If the fluid used is stronger, the touches more numerous, and bestowed upon y
and z also,--then the decline or advance is proportionately great. Is it not a grandly simple
thing, this telegraph of mine, Monsieur?"

----I was dazzled, perplexed,--so entirely new, strange, incredible was all this to me; but
I expressed to the little Frenchman, in what terms I could command, my profound sense of his
genius and originality.

"Eh, bien! I went to Europe," resumed he, "and John Meavy, my brave comrade, stayed in New
York, buying and selling flour, and turning over his capital with a rapidity of success that
surprised everybody; while his modest demeanor, his chivalry of manner, and his noble generosity
won the admission of all, that Prosperity chose well, when she elected John for her favorite.

"At the end of a year we were worth nearly half a million of dollars, and our credit was perfect.
Then, however, John wrote for me to come home. He was engaged to be married, he said, wanted
me to be present at the ceremony, and wished my aid in effecting some changes in our mode of
business. I was not unwilling, for I also had some suggestions to make. I was tired of my place
as operator; I yearned to quit my post of simple spectator, and to plunge head-foremost into
the strife of money-getting. Apart from my irksome position, I felt myself more fit for John's
post than he was. As the capital we worked with increased, John waxed cautious, and, most illogically,
announced himself afraid to venture, --as if his risk were not as great with ten thousand as
with a million! This did not suit me. I felt myself capable of using money as mere counters,
I divested it of all the terrors of magnitude, and thus I knew I could do as much in proportion
with five million dollars as with five dollars. And the result, I was perfectly aware, would
be to those achieved by John as the elephant in his normal strength compares with the elephant
whose strength is to his size as the flea's strength to his size. John could take the flea's
leap with five dollars, but was satisfied with the elephant's leap with five million dollars.

"So I took the next steamer, reached New York safely, and was most cordially welcomed by my
noble John Meavy, who seemed exuberant with the happiness in store for him. Before he would
say a word about business, he insisted upon taking me to his betrothed's, and introduced me
to his lovely Cornelia. He had chosen well, Monsieur: his bride was worthy a throne; she was
worthy John Meavy himself,--a woman refined, charming, entirely perfect. At John's solicitation,
I was his groomsman; I accompanied him upon his wedding-tour; and mine was the last hand he
clasped, as he stood on the steamer's deck, on his way to Europe to take my place at the head
of the Liverpool house. How many kind words he lavished upon me! how many a good and kindly
piece of advice he murmured in my ear at that farewell moment! Ah! I do not think John wished
to go thither; he was ever a home-body; and I am sure his wife disliked it much. But they saw
it was my desire, they seemed to regard me as the builder-up of their fortunes, and they yielded
without a murmur. Bête that I was! Yet I was not selfish, Monsieur. Building up in dreams my
fortune Babel-high, I built up also ever the fortune of John Meavy and his peerless wife to
a point just as near the clouds. Eh, bien! it amounted to nothing in the end, all this; but--I
was not selfish!

"Our business was nominally the old one; but, in fact, in accordance with the new arrangements
John and I had agreed upon, I was to begin cotton-speculation, and John was to keep me informed
regarding the fluctuations of the Liverpool market in that staple. My first efforts, though
successful of necessity, were small, I wished John to gain confidence in my mode of conducting
the business, before I ventured upon more extensive operations.

"Meantime, John's letters put me in continual fine spirits. He kept his telegraphic apparatus
at home, and so was much with Cornelia. He and his wife, he said, were very happy; people could
not love one another more than they did. He blessed me a thousand times, because my invention
had taken him to New York, and so had enabled him to meet Cornelia. But--ah, these 'buts,'
Monsieur!--if you will search long enough the brightest, the clearest blue sky, you will always
find some little speck, some faint film of cloud,--'t is your 'but,' Monsieur!--John fancied
his wife was not altogether so happy as it was possible for her to be. She did not like the
cold, colorless Liverpool, nor the foggy people there. She pined a little, perhaps, for old
home-associations, wrote John. Could I not think of some means to increase her content? I knew
the human heart so well; I was such a genius, moreover. Ah, bah! Monsieur, 't is the old song:
I felt myself capable of sweeping the little cloud from the sky also, as I had done everything
else,--I, this sublime genius! Monsieur, a moment look upon him, this genius, this triple blind
fool! Eh, bien! I considered:--Cornelia, like all tender, susceptible people, owes much to
little things. She will not have to remain there long; meantime, can I not revive in her mind
the associations to which she is used, and so both make her happy and bless my good comrade,
John Meavy? How, then? Once, during John's wedding-trip, we had stopped one evening in a little
country-town, and while we were there, talking pleasantly by the open window, a mocking-bird,
caged before a house across the way, had struck up a perfect symphony of his rich and multitudinous
song. Cornelia was delighted beyond measure, and seemed to yearn for the bird. John tried to
buy it; but it was a pet; its owners were well-to-do, and would not sell: so Cornelia had to
go away without it, and I fancied she was greatly chagrined, though, of course, she said nothing,
and seemed soon to forget it. So now the notion came to me:--I will send Cornelia a mocking-bird.
Its music will charm her,--its notes will recall a thousand sounds of home,--it will give her
occupation, something to think about and to care for, until more important cares intervene,--and
so it will help to banish this triste mood of ennui. Eh, bien! I soon had a very fine bird.
Ah, Monsieur, I cannot tell you what a fine bird was that fellow,--Don Juan his name,--such
an arch-rascal! such a merry eye he had! such a proud, Pompadour throat! such volumes of song!
such splendid powers of mimicry! I kept him with me a week to test his gifts, and I began to
envy Cornelia her treasure,--he was so tame, so bold, so intelligent. In that week, by whistling
to him in my leisure hours, I taught him to perform almost perfectly that lively aria of Meyerbeer's,
'Folle è quei che l'oro aduna,' and also to mimic beautifully the chirping of a cricket. Well,
I sent Don Juan out, and received due information of his safe arrival. The medicine acted like
a charm. Cornelia wrote me a grateful letter, full of enthusiastic praises of 'her pet, her
darling, the dearest, sweetest, cutest little bird that ever anybody owned.' And I was more
than rewarded by the heartfelt thanks of my noble John Meavy. Diantre! had I only wrung the
thing's neck!

"Eh, bien! The period upon which I calculated for my grand speculative coup had nearly arrived.
Owing to a variety of circumstances, the cotton-market had for some months been in a very perturbed
condition; and I, who had closely scrutinized its aspects, felt sure that before long there
would be some decided movement that would make itself felt to all the financial centres. This
movement I resolved to profit by, in order to achieve riches at a single stroke. I had recommended
John to increase his observations, and keep me carefully preadvised of every change. But I
did not tell him how extensively I meant to operate, for I knew 't would make him anxious,
and, moreover, I wished to dazzle him with a sudden magnificent achievement. Well, things slowly
drew towards the point I desired. There was a certain war in embryo, I thought, the inevitable
result of which would be to beat down the price of cotton to a minimum. Would the war come
off? A steamer arrived with such news as made it certain that another fortnight would settle
the question. How anxiously, how tremulously I watched my telegraph then,--noting down all
the fluctuations so faithfully reported to me by John Meavy,--all my brain on fire with visions
of unwonted, magnificent achievement! For two days the prices wavered and rippled to and fro,
like the uncertain rippling of the waters at turning of the tide. Then, on the morning of the
third day, the long-expected change was announced, and in a way that startled me, prepared
though I was,--so violent was the decline. Down, down, down, down to the very lowest! reported
my faithful snails. I did not need to consult the sympathetic paper, for the agonized writhings
of the poor animals spoke plainly enough to the naked eye. I seized my hat, rushed to my office,
and began my grand coup. Eh, bien! I shall not go into details. Suffice it to say, for three
days I was in communication with cotton men all over the country; and, without becoming known
abroad as the party at work, I sold 'on time' such a quantity of 'the staple' that my operations
had the effect to put down the prices everywhere; and if John Meavy's report were correct,
our profits during those three days would exceed three millions of dollars! Having now done
all I could, and feeling completely worn out, I went home, for the first time since the news,
flung myself upon a bed, and slept an unbroken sleep during twenty-four hours. After that,
refreshed and gay, I went once more to the operating-room to see what further reports had arrived
since I had received the decisive intelligence. Decisive, indeed! Monsieur, when I looked through
the glass lids into the boxes, there lay my snails, stiff and dead! Not only my faithful ones,
a, b, c, but likewise the plus ones, d, e, f! Yes, there they lay, plus and minus, each in
his compartment, convulsed and distorted, as if their last agonies had been terrible to endure!
Stiff and dead! Mon Dieu, Monsieur! and I had pledged the name and credit of the house of John
Meavy and Co. to an extent from which there could be no recovery, if aught untoward had happened!
Eh, bien. Monsieur! César Prévost is fortunate in a very elastic temperament. Yet I did not
dare think of John Meavy. However, if the thing was done, it was too late for remedy now. Eh,
bien! I would wait. Meantime, I carefully examined to see if any cause was discoverable to
have produced these deaths. None. 'T was irresistible, then, that the cause was at John's end.
What? An accident,--perhaps, nervous, he had dosed them too heavily; but--I dared not think
about it,--I would only--wait!

"Eh, bien, Monsieur! It would be seven days yet before I could get news. I waited,--waited
calmly and composedly. Mon Dieu! they talk of heroism in leading a forlorn hope,--César Prévost
was a hero for those eight days. I do not think about them even now.

"On the third day came a steamer with news of uncertain import, but on the whole favorable.
By the same advice a letter reached me from my old comrade, John Meavy: his affairs were prosperous,
he and his wife very happy, and Don Juan more charming than ever.

"Monsieur, the fourth day came,--the fifth,--the sixth,--the seventh,--finding me still waiting.
No one, to see me, could have guessed I had not slept for a week. Eh, bien! I will not dwell
upon it!

"The morning of the eighth day came. I breakfasted, read my paper, smoked my cigar, and walked
leisurely to my counting-room. I answered the letters. I sauntered round to bank, paid a note
that had fallen due, got a check cashed, and, having counted the money and secured it in my
pocket-book, I walked out and stood upon the bank-steps, talking with a business-friend, who
inquired after John Meavy. 'T was a pleasant theme to converse about, this,--for me!

"A news-boy came running down Wall Street, with papers under his arm. 'Here you are!' he cried.
'Extray! Steamer just in! Latest news from Europe! All 'bout the new alliance! Consols firm,--cotton
riz! Extray, Sir?'

"I bought one, and the boy ran off as I paid him and snatched the paper from his hand.

"'You gave that rascal a gold dollar for a half-dime,' said my friend.

"'Did I?'

"A gold dollar! I wondered very quaintly what he would say, when, in a few days, he heard of
the failure of John Meavy & Co. for three millions of dollars. A gold dollar!

"Eh, bien, Monsieur! I shall not dwell upon it. Enough,--we were ruined. I had played my grand
coup, and lost. For myself, nothing. But--John Meavy! Oh, Monsieur, I could not think! I went
to my office, and sat there all day, stupid, only twirling my watch-key, and repeating to myself,--'A
gold dollar! a gold dollar!' The afternoon had nearly gone when one of my clerks roused me:--'A
letter for you, Mr. Prévost; it came by the steamer to-day.'

"Monsieur," said the little Frenchman, producing a well-worn pocket-book, and taking out from
it a tattered, yellow sheet, which he unfolded before me,--"Monsieur, you shall read that letter."

It was this:--

"MY DEAR CESAR:--

"You must blame me and poor Don Juan for the suspension of your Telegraph. I write, myself,
to tell you how careless I have been; for poor John is in such a state of agitation, and seems
to fear such calamities, that I will not let him write;--though what evil can come of it, beyond
the inconvenience, I cannot see, nor will he tell me. You must answer this immediately, so
as to prove to John that nothing has gone wrong; and so give me a chance to scold this good
husband of mine for his vain and womanish apprehensions. But let me tell you how it happened
to the poor snails,--Don Juan is so tame, that I do not pretend to keep him shut up in his
cage, but let him fly about our sitting-room, just as he pleases. The next room to this, you
know, is the one where we kept the snails. I have been helping John with these for some time,
and it is my custom, when he goes on 'Change, to look after the ugly creatures, and especially
to open the boxes and give them air. Well, this morning,--you must not scold me, César, for
I have wept enough for my carelessness, and as I write am trembling all over like a leaf,--this
morning, I went into the snail-room as usual, opened the boxes, noted how well all six looked,
and then, going to the window, stood there for some minutes, looking out at the people across
the way preparing for the illumination to-night, (for we are going to have peace at last, and
every one is so rejoiced!) and forgetting entirely that I had left open both the door of this
room and that of the sitting-room also, until I heard the flutter of Don Juan's wings behind
me. I turned, and was horror-stricken to find him perched on the boxes, and pecking away at
the poor snails, as if they were strawberries! I screamed, and ran to drive him off, but I
was too late,--for, just as I caught him, the greedy fellow picked up and swallowed the last
one of the entire six! I felt almost like killing him, then; but I could not,--nor could you
have done it, César, had you but seen the arch defiance of his eye, as he fluttered out of
my hands, flew back to his cage, and began to pour forth a whole world of melody!

"My dear César, I know my carelessness was most culpable, but it cannot be so bad as John fears.
Oh, if anything should happen now, by my fault, when we are so prosperous and happy, I could
never forgive myself! Do write to me as soon as possible, and relieve the anxiety of

"Affectionately yours, CORNELIA."

The little Frenchman looked at me with a glance half sad, half comical, as I returned the letter
to him.

"Eh, bien, Monsieur!" said he, shrugging his shoulders,--"you've heard my story. 'Twas fate,--what
could one do?"

"But that is not all,--John Meavy,"--said I.

The little Frenchman looked very grave and sad.

"Monsieur, my brave camarade, John Meavy, had been brought up in a stern school. His ideas
of credit and of mercantile honor were pitched very high indeed. He imagined himself disgraced
forever, and--he did not survive it."

"You do not mean"----

"I mean, Monsieur, that I lost the bravest and truest and most generous friend that ever man
had, when John Meavy died. And that dose of Prussic Acid should properly have gone to me, whose
fault it all was, instead of to him, so innocent. Eh, bien, Monsieur! his lot was the happiest,
after all."

"But Cornelia?" said I, after a pause.

The little Frenchman rose, with a quiet and graceful air, full of sadness, yet of courtesy;
and I knew then that he was no longer my guest and entertainer, but once more the chapman with
his wares.

"Monsieur, Cornelia is under my protection. You will comprehend that--after that--she has not
escaped with impunity. Some little strings snapped in the harp. She is touchée, here," said
he, resting one finger lightly upon his forehead,--"but 'tis all for the best, sans doute.
She is quiet, peaceable,--and she does not remember. She sits in my house, working, and the
bird sings to her ever. 'Tis a gallant bird, Monsieur. And though I am poor, I can yet make
some provision for her comfort. She has good taste, and is very industrious. These baskets
are all of her make; when I have no other employ, I sell them about, and use the money for
her. Eh, bien! 'tis a small price,--fifty cents; if Monsieur will purchase one, he will possess
a basket really handsome, and will have contributed something to the comfort of one of the
Good God's protégées. Mille remerciements, Monsieur,--for this purchase,--for your entertainment,--for
your courtesy!

"Bon jour, Monsieur!"

       *       *       *       *       *

About half an hour after this, I had occasion to traverse one of the corridors of Barnan's
Hotel, when I saw a group of gentlemen, most of whom sported "Atlantic Cable Charms" on their
watchchains, gathered about a person who had secured their rapt attention to some story he
was narrating.

"Eh, bien, Messieurs!" I heard him say, in a peculiar naïve broken English, "it would be yet
seven days before I could get ze news,--and--I wait. Oui! calmlie, composedlie, with insouciance
beyond guess, I wait"--

"I wonder," said I to myself, as I passed on, "I wonder if M. César Prévost's account of his
remarkable invention of the First Atlantic Telegraph have not some subtile connection with
his desire to find as speedy and remunerative a sale as possible for his pretty baskets!"

LADY BYRON.

It is seldom that a woman becomes the world's talk but by some great merit or fault of her
own, or some rare qualification so bestowed by Nature as to be incapable of being hidden. Great
genius, rare beauty, a fitness for noble enterprise, the venturous madness of passion, account
for ninety-nine cases in the hundred of a woman becoming the subject of general conversation
and interest. Lady Byron's was the hundredth case. There was a time when it is probable that
she was spoken of every day in every house in England where the family could read; and for
years the general anxiety to hear anything that could be told of her was almost as striking
in Continental society and in the United States as in her own country. Yet she had neither
genius, nor conspicuous beauty, nor "a mission," nor any quality of egotism which could induce
her to brave the observation of the world for any personal aim. She had good abilities, well
cultivated for the time when she was young; she was rather pretty, and her countenance was
engaging from its expression of mingled thoughtfulness and brightness; she was as lady-like
as became her birth and training; and her strength of character was so tempered with modesty
and good taste that she was about the last woman that could have been supposed likely to become
celebrated in any way, or, yet more, to be passionately disputed about and censured, in regard
to her temper and manners: yet such was her lot. No breath of suspicion ever dimmed her good
repute, in the ordinary sense of the expression: but to this day she is misapprehended, wherever
her husband's genius is adored; and she is charged with precisely the faults which it was most
impossible for her to commit. For the original notoriety she was not answerable; but for the
protracted misapprehension of her character she was. She early decided that it was not necessary
or desirable to call the world into council on her domestic affairs; her husband's doing it
was no reason why she should; and for nearly forty years she preserved a silence, neither haughty
nor sullen, but merely natural, on matters in which women usually consider silence appropriate.
She never inquired what effect this silence had on public opinion in regard to her, nor countenanced
the idea that public opinion bore any relation whatever to her private affairs and domestic
conduct. Such independence and such reticence naturally quicken the interest and curiosity
of survivors; and they also stimulate those who knew her as she was to explain her characteristics
to as many as wish to understand them, after disputing about them for the lifetime of a whole
generation.

Anne Isabella Noel Milbanke (that was her maiden name) was an only child. Her father, Sir Ralph
Milbanke, was the sixth baronet of that name. Her mother was a Noel, daughter of Viscount and
Baron Wentworth, and remotely descended from royalty,--that is, from the youngest son of Edward
I. After the death of Lady Milbanke's father and brother, the Barony of Wentworth was in abeyance
between the daughter of Lady Milbanke and the son of her sister till 1856, when, by the death
of that cousin, Lord Scarsdale, Lady Byron became possessed of the inheritance and title. During
her childhood and youth, however, her parents were not wealthy; and it was understood that
Miss Milbanke would have no fortune till the death of her parents, though her expectations
were great. Though this want of immediate fortune did not prove true, the report of it was
probably advantageous to the young girl, who was sought for other things than her fortune.
When Lord Byron thought of proposing, the friend who had brought him to the point of submitting
to marriage objected to Miss Milbanke on two grounds,--that she had no fortune, and that she
was a learned lady. The gentleman was as wrong in his facts as mischievous in his advice to
the poet to many. Miss Milbanke had fortune, and she was not a learned lady. Such men as the
two who held a consultation on the points, whether a man entangled in intrigues and overwhelmed
with debts should release himself by involving a trusting girl in his difficulties, and whether
the girl should be Miss Milbanke or another, were not likely to distinguish between the cultivated
ability of a sensible girl and the pedantry of a blue-stocking; and hence, because Miss Milbanke
was neither ignorant nor silly, she was called a learned lady by Lord Byron's associates. He
bore testimony, in due time, to her agreeable qualities as a companion,--her brightness, her
genial nature, her quiet good sense; and we heard no more of her "learning" and "mathematics,"
till it suited her enemies to get up a theory of incompatibility of temper between her and
her husband. The fact was, she was well-educated, as education was then, and had the acquirements
which are common in every house among the educated classes of English society.

She was born in 1792, and passed her early years chiefly on her father's estates of Halnaby,
near Darlington, Yorkshire, and Seaham, in Durham. She retained a happy recollection of her
childhood and youth, if one may judge by her attachment to the old homes, when she had lost
the power of attaching herself, in later life, to any permanent home. When an offer of service
was made to her, some years since, by a person residing on the Northumberland coast, the service
she asked was that a pebble might be sent her from the beach at Seaham, to be made into a brooch,
and worn for love of the old place.

Her father, as a Yorkshire baronet, spent his money freely. A good deal of it went in election-expenses,
and the hospitality of the house was great. It was too orderly and sober and old-fashioned
for Lord Byron's taste, and he quizzed it accordingly; but he admitted the kindliness of it,
and the amiability which made guests glad to go there and sorry to come away. His special records
of Miss Milbanke's good-humor, spirit, and pleasantness indicate the source of subsequent misrepresentations
of her. Till he saw it, he could not conceive that order and dutifulness could coexist with
liveliness and great charms of mind and manners; and when the fact was out of sight, he went
back to his old notion, that affectionate parents and dutiful daughters must be dull, prudish,
and tiresome.

"Bell" was beloved as only daughters are, but so unspoiled as to be sought in marriage as eagerly
as if she had been a merry member of a merry tribe. Lord Byron himself offered early, and was
refused, like many other suitors. Her feelings were not the same, however, to him as to others.
It is no wonder that a girl not out of her teens should be captivated by the young poet whom
the world was beginning to worship for his genius as very few men are worshipped in their prime,
and who could captivate young and old, man, woman, and child, when he chose to try. As yet,
his habits of life and mind had not told upon his manners, conversation, and countenance as
they did afterwards. The beauty of his face, the reserved and hesitating grace of his manner,
and the pith and strength of such conversation as he was tempted into might well win the heart
of a girl who was certainly far more fond of poetry than of mathematics. Yet she refused him.
Perhaps she did not know him enough. Perhaps she did not know her own feelings at the moment.
She afterwards found that she had always loved him. His renewed offers at the close of two
years made her very happy. She was drawing near the end of her portion of life's happiness;
and she seems to have had no suspicion of the baselessness of her natural and innocent bliss.
It is probable that nobody about her knew, any more than herself, how and why Lord Byron offered
to her a second time, till Moore published the facts in his "Life" of the poet. The thrill
of disgust which ran through every good heart, on reading the story, made all sympathizers
ask how she could bear to learn how she had been treated in the confidences of profligates.
Perhaps she had known it long before, as her husband had repeatedly tried his powers of terrifying
and depressing her; but, at all events, she could bear anything,--not only with courage and
in silence, but with calmness and inexhaustible mercy. According to Moore's account, a friend
of Byron's urged him to marry, as a remedy for the melancholy restlessness and disorder of
his life; "and, after much discussion, he consented." The next proceedings were in character
with this "consent." Byron named Miss Milbanke: the friend objected, on the grounds of her
possession of learning and supposed want of fortune; and Byron actually commissioned his adviser
to propose for him to the lady he did not prefer. She refused him; and then future proceedings
were determined by his friend's admiration of the letter he had got ready for Miss Milbanke.
It was such a pretty letter, it would be a pity not to send it. So it was sent.

If she could have known, as she hung over that letter, what eyes had read lines that should
have been her own secret property, and as what kind of alternative the letter had been prepared,
what a different life might hers have been! But she could not dream of being laid hold of as
a speculation in that style, and she was happy,--as women are for once in their lives, and
as she deserved to be. There was another alternative, besides that of two ladies to be weighed
in the balance. Byron was longing to go abroad again, and he would have preferred that to marrying;
but the importunity of his friends decided him for marriage. In a short time, and for a short
time, Miss Milbanke's influence was too strong for his wayward nature and his pernicious friends
to resist. His heart was touched, his mind was soothed, and he thought better of women, and
perhaps of the whole human race, than he had ever done before. He wrote to Moore, who owned
he had "never liked her," and who boded evil things from the marriage, that she was so good
that he wished he was better,--that he had been quite mistaken in supposing her of "a very
cold disposition." These gentlemen had heard of her being regarded as "a pattern lady in the
North"; and they had made up an image of a prude and a blue in their own minds, which Byron
presently set himself to work to pull down. He wrote against Moore's notion of her as "strait-laced,"
in a spirit of justice awakened by his new satisfactions and hopes: but there are in the narrative
no signs of love on his part,--nothing more than an amiable complacency in the discovery of
her attachment to him.

The engagement took place in September, 1814, and the marriage in the next January. Moore saw
him in the interval, and had no remaining hope, from that time, that Byron could ever make
or find happiness in married life. He was satisfied that love was, in Byron's case, only an
imagination; and he pointed to a declaration of Byron's, that, when in the society of the woman
he loved, even at the happiest period of his attachment, he found himself secretly longing
to be alone. Secretly during the courtship, but not secretly after marriage.

"Tell me, Byron," said his wife, one day, not long after they were married, and he was moodily
staring into the fire,--"am I in your way?"

"Damnably," was the answer.

It will be remembered by all readers that the reason he assigned for the good terms on which
he remained with his half-sister, Mrs. Leigh, was that they seldom or never saw each other.

When Moore saw him in London, he was in a troubled state of mind about his affairs. His embarrassments
were so pressing that he meditated breaking off the match; but it was within a month of the
wedding-day, and he said he had gone too far to retract.--How it was that Sir Ralph Milbanke
did not make it his business to ascertain all the conditions of a union with a man of Byron's
reputation it is difficult to imagine. Every movement of the idolized poet was watched, anecdotes
of his life and ways were in all mouths; and a prudent father, if encouraging his addresses
at all, should naturally have ascertained the chances of his daughter having an honorable and
happy home. Sir Ralph probably thought so, when there were ten executions in the house in the
first few months after the marriage. Those difficulties, however, did not affect the happiness
of the marriage unfavorably. The wife was not the less of the heroic temperament for being
"a pattern young lady." She was one whose spirit was sure to rise under pressure, and who was
always most cheerful when trouble called forth her energies on behalf of others. Liberal with
her own property, making light of privation, full of clear and practical resource in emergency,
she won her husband's admiration in the midst of the difficulties into which he had plunged
her. For a time he was not ashamed of that admiration; and his avowals of it are happily on record.

They were married on the second of January. The wedding-day was miserable. Byron awoke in one
of his melancholy moods, and wandered alone in the grounds till called to be married. His wayward
mind was full of all the associations that were least congenial with the day. His thoughts
were full of Mary Chaworth, and of old scenes in his life, which he fancied he loved because
he was now leaving them behind. He declared that his poem of "The Dream" was a true picture
of his wedding-morning; and there are circumstances, not told in his "Life," which render this
probable. After the ceremony and breakfast, the young couple left Seaham for Sir Ralph's seat
at Halnaby. Towards dusk of that winter-day, the carriage drove up to the door, where the old
butler stood ready to receive his young lady and her bridegroom. The moment the carriage-door
was opened, the bridegroom jumped out and walked away. When his bride alighted, the old servant
was aghast. She came up the steps with the listless gait of despair. Her face and movements
expressed such utter horror and desolation, that the old butler longed to offer his arm to
the lonely young creature, as an assurance of sympathy and protection. Various stories got
abroad as to the cause of this horror, one probably as false as another; and, for his own part,
Byron met them by a false story of Miss Milbanke's lady's-maid having been stuck in, bodkin-wise,
between them. As Lady Byron certainly soon got over the shock, the probability is that she
satisfied herself that he had been suffering under one of the dark moods to which he was subject,
both constitutionally and as the poet of moods.

It is scarcely possible at our time of day to make sufficient allowance for such a woman having
entered upon such a marriage, in spite of the notoriety of the risks. Byron was then the idol
of much more than the literary world. His poetry was known by heart by multitudes of men and
women who read very little else; and one meets, at this day, elderly men, who live quite outside
of the regions of literature, who believe that there never could have been such a poet before,
and would say, if they dared, that there will never be such another again. He appeared at the
moment when society was restless and miserable, and discontented with the Fates and the universe
and all that it contained. The general sensibility had not for long found any expression in
poetry. Literature seemed something quite apart from experience, and with which none but a
particular class had any concern. At such a time, when Europe lay desolate under the ravage
and incessant menace of the French Empire,--when England had an insane King, a profligate Regent,
an atrocious Ministry, and a corrupt Parliament,--when the war drained the kingdom of its youth,
and every class of its resources,--when there was chronic discontent in the manufacturing districts,
and hunger among the rural population, with a perpetual extension of pauperism, swallowing
up the working and even the middle classes,--when everybody was full of anxiety, dread, or
a reactionary recklessness,--there suddenly appeared a new strain of poetry which seemed to
express every man's mood. Every man took up the song. Byron's musical woe resounded through
the land. People who had not known exactly what was the matter with them now found that life
was what Byron said it was, and that they were sick of it. I can well remember the enthusiasm,--the
better, perhaps, for never having shared it. At first I was too young, and afterwards I found
too much of moods and too little of matter to create any lasting attachment to his poetry.
But the music of it rang in all ears, and the rush of its popularity could not be resisted
by any but downright churlish persons. I remember how ladies, in morning calls, recited passages
of Byron to each other,--and how gentlemen, in water-parties, whispered his short poems to
their next neighbor. If a man was seen walking with his head down and his lips moving, he was
revolving Byron's last romance; and children who began, to keep albums wrote, in double lines
on the first page, some stanza which caught them by its sound, if they were not up to its sense.
On some pane in every inn-window there was a scrap of Byron; and in young ladies' portfolios
there were portraits of the poet, recognizable, through all bad drawing and distortion, by
the cast of the beautiful features and the Corsair style. Where a popularity like this sprang
up, there must be sufficient reason for it to cause it to involve more or less all orders of
minds; and the wisest and most experienced men, and the most thoroughly trained scholars, fell
into the general admiration, and keenly enjoyed so melodious an expression of a general state
of feeling, without asking too pertinaciously for higher views and deeper meanings. Old Quakers
were troubled at detecting hidden copies and secret studies of Byron among young men and maidens
who were to be preserved from all stimulants to the passions; and they were yet more troubled,
when, looking to see what the charm was which so wrought upon the youth of their sect, they
found themselves carried away by it, beyond all power to forget what they had read. The idolatry
of the poet, which marked that time, was an inevitable consequence of the singular aptness
of his utterance. His dress, manners, and likings were adopted, so far as they could be ascertained,
by hundreds of thousands of youths who were at once sated with life and ambitious of fame,
or at least of a reputation for fastidious discontent; young ladies declared that Byron was
everything that was great and good; and even our best literature of criticism shows how respectful
and admiring the hardest reviewers grew, after the poet had become the pet and the idol of
all England. At such a time, how should "Bell" Milbanke resist the intoxication,--even before
the poet addressed himself particularly to her? A great reader in the quietness of her home,
where all her tastes were indulged,--a lover of poetry, and so genial and sympathizing as to
be always sure to be filled with the spirit of her time,--how could she fail to idolize Byron
as others did? And what must have been her exaltation, when he told her that the welfare of
his whole life depended upon her! Between her exaltation, her love, her sympathy, and her admiration,
she might well make allowance for his eccentricities first, and for worse afterwards. Thus,
probably, it was that she got over the shock of that wedding-drive, and was again the bright,
affectionate, trusting and winning woman whom he had described before and was to describe again
to his skeptical friend Moore.

Before six weeks were over, he wrote to Moore (after some previous hankerings) that he should
go abroad soon, "and alone, too." He did not go then. In April the death of Lord Wentworth
occurred, causing Sir Ralph and Lady Milbanke to take the name of Noel, according to Lord Wentworth's
will, and assuring the prospect of ultimate accession of wealth. Meantime, the new expenses
of his married life, entered upon without any extrication from old debts, caused such embarrassment,
that, after many other humiliations had been undergone, he offered his books for sale. As Lady
Byron maintained a lifelong silence about the sufferings of her married life, little is known
of that miserable year beyond what all the world saw: executions in the house; increasing gloom
and recklessness in the husband; a bright patience and resoluteness in the wife; and an immense
pity felt by the poet's adorers for his trials by a persecuting Fate. During the summer and
autumn, his mention of his wife to his correspondents became less frequent and more formal.
His tone about his approaching "papaship" tells nothing. He was not likely to show to such
men any good or natural feelings on the occasion. In December, his daughter, Augusta Ada, was
born; and early in January, he wrote to Moore so melancholy a "Heigho!" on occasion of his
having been married a year, as to incite that critical observer to write him an inquiry about
the state of his domestic spirits. The end was near, and the world was about to see its idol
and his wife tested in moral action of a very stringent kind.

By means of the only publication ever made or authorized by Lady Byron on the subject of her
domestic life, her vindication of her parents, contained in the Appendix of Moore's "Life"
of the poet, we know, that, during her confinement, Lord Byron's nearest relatives were alarmed
by tokens of eccentricity so marked, that they informed her, as soon as she was recovered,
that they believed him insane. His confidential servant bore the same testimony; and she naturally
believed it, when she resumed her place in the household, and saw how he was going on. On the
sixth of January, the day after he wrote the "Heigho!" to Moore, he desired his wife, in writing,
to go to her parents on the first day that it was possible for her to travel. Her physicians
would not let her go earlier than the fifteenth; and on that day she went. She never saw her
husband again.

She had, in agreement with his family, consulted Dr. Baillie on her husband's behalf; and he,
supposing the insanity to be real, advised, before seeing Lord Byron, that she should obey
his wish about absenting herself, as an experiment,--and that, in the interval, she should
converse only on light and cheerful topics. She observed these directions, and, in the spirit
of them, wrote two letters, on the journey, which bore no marks of the trouble which existed
between them. These letters were afterwards used, even circulated, to create a belief that
Lady Byron had been suddenly persuaded to desert her husband, though he at least was well aware
that the fact was not so. It soon appeared that he was not insane. Such was the decision of
physicians, relatives, and presently of Lady Byron herself. While there was any room for supposing
disease to be the cause of his conduct, she and her parents were anxious to use all tenderness
with him, and devote themselves to his welfare; but when it became necessary to consider him
sane, his wife declared that she could not return to him.

It is not necessary to dwell on the imputations Lord Byron spread abroad at the time, and his
biographer afterwards, against the parents of his wife, and everybody belonging to them who
could be supposed to have the slightest influence over Lady Byron's views or feelings. Those
allegations were publicly shown by her to be false, nearly thirty years ago. I refer to them
now solely because they were the occasion of the only public disclosure Lady Byron ever voluntarily
made on any part of the subject of her married life. It is needless to exhibit how different
in this respect was the conduct of her husband and his friends.

It became known by that statement, after some years, that, when Lady Noel went to London, to
see what could and ought to be done, she obtained good legal opinions on the case, so far as
she knew it. Those opinions declared Lady Byron fully justified in refusing to rejoin her husband.
The parents, however, never knew the whole; and it was on yet more substantial grounds that
Lady Byron formed her resolution. The facts were submitted, as the world has since known, as
an A.B. case, to Dr. Lushington and Sir Samuel Romilly; and those able lawyers and good men
peremptorily decided, that the wife, whoever she might be, must never see her husband again.
When they learned whose case it was, they not only gave their full sanction to her refusal
to return, but declared that they would never countenance in any way a change in that resolution.
Dr. Lushington's statement to this effect appears in the Appendix to Moore's "Life," as a part
of Lady Byron's vindication of her parents.

It was very hard on her to be compelled to speak at all. For six years she had kept silence
utterly, bearing all imputations without reply. But when it was brought to her notice that
her parents were charged with the gravest offences by her husband's biographer, after the death
of both, and when no other near relative was in existence, she had no choice. She must exonerate
them. The testimony was, as she said, "extorted" from her. The respect which had been felt
for her during the first years of silence was not impaired by this disclosure; but it was by
one which occurred a few years later. A statement on her domestic affairs was published, in
her name, in a magazine of large circulation.[A] It did not really explain anything, while
it seemed to break through a dignified reserve which had won a high degree of general esteem.
It was believed that feminine weakness had prevailed at last; and her reputation suffered accordingly
with many who had till then regarded her with favor and even reverence.

[Footnote A: New Monthly Magazine, 1836.]

This was the climax of the hardship of her case. She had no concern whatever with this act
of publication. It was one of poor Campbell's disastrous pranks. He could not conceive how
he could have done such a thing, and was desperately sorry; but there was little good in that.
The mischief was done which could never be thoroughly repaired. She once more suffered in silence;
for she was not weak enough to complain of irremediable evils. Nine years afterwards she wrote
to a friend, who had been no less unjustifiably betrayed,--"I am grieved for you, as regards
the actual position; but it will come right. I was myself made to appear responsible for a
publication by Campbell, most unfairly, some years ago; so that, if I had not imagination enough
to enter into your case, experience would have taught me to do so."

Those who are old enough to remember the year 1816 will easily recall the fluctuations of opinion
which took place as to the merits of the husband and the wife, whose separation was as interesting
to ten thousand households as any family event of their own. Then, and for a few years after,
was Lady Byron the world's talk,--innocently, most reluctantly, and unavoidably.

At first, while her influence left its impression on his mind, Lord Byron did her some sort
of justice,--fitful and partial, but very precious to her then, no doubt,--and almost as precious
now to the friends who understood her. It was not till he was convinced that she would never
return, not till he began to quail under the world's ill opinion, and especially, not till
he felt secure that he might rely on his wife's fidelity and mercy, her silence and magnanimity,
that he changed his tone to one of aspersion and contempt, and his mode of attack to that of
charming, amusing, or inflaming the public with verses against her and her friends. We have
his own testimony to her domestic merits in the interval between the parting and his lapse
into a state of malignant feeling.

To us, this is enough; and nothing that he wrote afterwards, in angry and spiteful moods, can
have the slightest effect on our impression of her: but the case was otherwise at the time.
Lord Byron's praise of her to Moore was not known till the "Life" appeared; whereas pieces
like "The Chanty Ball," coming out from time to time, made the world suppose that Lady Byron
was one of those people, satirized in all literatures, who violate domestic duty, and make
up for it by philanthropic effort and display. It is the prevalence of this impression to this
day which makes it necessary to present the reality of the case after the lapse of many years.
During Lady Byron's life, no one had a right to speak, if she chose to be silent; but the more
modest and shrinking she was in regard to her own vindication, the stronger is the appeal to
the fidelity of her friends to see that her reputation does not suffer through her magnanimity.
We have guidance here in her own course in the case of her parents. Abhorrent as all publicity
was to her, she felt and avowed the obligation to publish those facts of her life in which
their reputation was concerned. The duty is far more easy, but not less imperative, to practise
the same fidelity in regard to her, now that the truth can be told of her without shocking
her modesty. We may hear some commonplaces about the feelings of the dead and the sensibilities
of survivors, as always happens in such cases: but the sensibilities of survivors ought to
relate, in the first place, to the fair fame of the dead; and the feelings of the dead, having
been duly respected during life, merge after death into the general beauty of the self-sacrificing
character which would not utter the word by which the adverse judgment of the world might have
been reversed in a moment. While, at this day, she is regarded as the cause of her husband's
sins, by her coldness, formality, and what not,--fidelity and love to her memory absolutely
require, not fresh disclosures of a private character, but a new presentment of the evidence
long ago given to the world by herself and by her husband's very partial biographer. This is
what I have done, after thirty years more of life have proved the quality of her mind and heart.

As she loved early, she loved steadily and forever. It was through that love that her magnanimity
was so transcendent. When Lord Byron was dying, he said to his confidential servant, Fletcher,
"Go to Lady Byron,--you will see her, and say"----and here his voice faltered, and for nearly
twenty minutes he muttered words which it was impossible to catch. The man was obliged to tell
him that he had not understood a syllable. Byron's distress was great; but, as he said, it
was too late. Fletcher, on his return to England, did "go to Lady Byron," and did see her:
but she could only pace the room in uncontrollable agitation, striving to obtain voice to ask
the questions which were surging in her heart. She could not speak, and he was obliged to leave
her. To those with whom she conversed freely, and to whom she wrote familiarly, it was strangely
interesting to hear, or to read, lines and phrases from Byron's poems dropped, like native
speech, from her tongue or her pen. Those well-remembered lines or phrases seemed new, and
were wonderfully moving, when coming from her to whom they must have been so much more than
to any one else. How she surmounted such acts as the publication of "Fare thee well!" and certain
others of his safe appeals to the public, no one could exactly understand. That she forgave
them, and loved him to the end, is enough for us to know; for our interest is in the greatness
of her heart, and not in the littleness of his. As we have seen, her parents died a few years
after her return to them for protection.

GETTING HOME AGAIN.

It is a good thing, said an aged Chinese Travelling Philosopher, for every man, sooner or later,
to get back again to his own tea-cup. And Ling Ching Ki Hi Fum (for that was the name of the
profound old gentleman who said it) was right. Travel may be "the conversion of money into
mind,"--and happy the man who has turned much coin into that precious commodity,--but it is
a good thing, after being tossed about the world from the Battery to Africa,--that dry nurse
of lions, as Horace calls her,--to anchor once more beside the old familiar tea-urn on the
old familiar tea-table. This is the only "steamy column" worth hailing with a glad welcome
after long absence from home, and fully entitled to be heartily applauded for its "bubbling
and loud-hissing" propensities.

We are not a Marco Polo or a William de Rubruquis, and we have no wonders to tell of the Great
Mogul or the Great Cham. We did not sail for Messrs. Pride, Pomp, Circumstance, and Company;
consequently, we have no great exploits to recount. We have been wrecked at sea only once in
our many voyages, and, so far as we know our own tastes, do not care to solicit aid again to
be thrown into the same awkward situation. But for a time we have been

  "Placed far amid the melancholy main,"

and now we are among our own tea-cups. This is happiness enough for a cold winter's night.
Mid-ocean, and mid tea-cups! Stupendous change, let us tell you, worthy friend, who never yet
set sail where sharks and other strange sea-cattle bob their noses above the brine,--who never
lived forty days in the bowels of a ship, unable to hold your head up to the captain's bluff
"good morning" or the steward's cheery "good night." Sir Philip Sidney discourses of a riding-master
he encountered in Vienna, who spoke so eloquently of the noble animal he had to deal with,
that he almost persuaded Sir Philip to wish himself a horse. We have known ancient mariners
expatiate so lovingly on the frantic enjoyments of the deep sea, that very youthful listeners
have for the time resolved to know no other existence. If the author of the "Arcadia" had been
permitted to become a prancing steed, he might, after the first exhilarating canter, have lamented
his equine state. How many a first voyage, begun in hilarious impatience, has caused a bitter
repentance! The sea is an overrated element, and we have nothing to say in its favor. Because
we are out of its uneasy lap to-night, we almost resemble in felicity Richter's Walt, who felt
himself so happy, that he was transported to the third heaven, and held the other two in his
hand, that he might give them away. To-morrow morning we shall not hear that swashing, scaring
sound directly overhead on the wet deck, which has so often murdered our slumbers. Delectable
the sensation that we don't care a rope's-end "how many knots" we are going, and that our ears
are so far away from that eternal "Ay, ay, Sir!" "The whales," says old Chapman, speaking of
Neptune, "exulted under him, and knew their mighty king." Let them exult, say we, and be blowed,
and all due honor to their salt sovereign! but of their personal acquaintance we are not ambitious.
We have met them now and then in the sixty thousand miles of their watery playing-places we
have passed over, and they are not pretty to look at. Roll on, et cetera, et cetera,--and so
will we, for the present, at least, as far out of your reach as possible.

Yes, wise denizen of the Celestial Empire, it is a good, nay, a great thing, to return even
to so small a home-object as an old tea-cup. As we lift the bright brim to our so long absent
lips, we repeat it. As we pour out our second, our third, and our fourth, we say it again.
Ling Ching, you were right!

And now, as the rest of the household have all gone up bed-ward, and left us with their good-night
tones,

  "Like flowers' voices, if they could but speak,"

we dip our pen into the cocked hat of the brave little bronze warrior who has fed us many a
year with ink from the place where his brains ought to be. Pausing before we proceed to paper,
we look around on our household gods. The coal bursts into crackling fits of merriment, as
we thrust the poker between the iron ribs of the grate. It seems to say, in the jolliest possible
manner of which it is capable, "Oh, go no more a-roaming, a-roaming, across the windy sea!"
How odd it seems to be sitting here again, listening to the old clock out there in the entry!
Often we seemed to hear it during the months that have flown away, when we knew that "our ancient"
was standing sentinel for Time in another hemisphere. One night, dark and stormy on the Mediterranean,
as we lay wakeful and watchful in the little steamer that was bearing us painfully through
the noisy tempest towards Saint Peter's and the Colosseum, suddenly, above the tumult of the
voyage, our household monitor began audibly and regularly, we thought, to mark the seconds.
Then it must have been only fancy. Now it is something more, and we know that our mahogany
friend is really wagging his brassy beard just outside the door. We remember now, as we lay
listening that rough night at sea, how Milton's magic sounding line came to us beating a sad
melody with the old clock's imagined tramp,--

  "The Lars and Lemures moan with midnight plaint."

Let the waves bark to-night far out on "the desolate, rainy seas,"--the old clock is all right
in the entry!

Landed, and all safe at last! our much-abused, lock-broken, unhinged portmanteau unpacked and
laid ignobly to rest under the household eaves! Stay a moment,--let us pitch our inky passport
into the fire. How it writhes and grows black in the face! And now it will trouble its owner
no more forever. It was a foolish, extravagant companion, and we are glad to be rid of it.
One little blazing fragment lifts itself out of the flame, and we can trace on the smouldering
relic the stamp of Austria. Go back again into the grate, and perish with the rest, dark blot!

"We look round our quiet apartment, and wonder if it be all true, this getting home again.
We stir the fire once more to assure ourself that we are not somewhere else,--that the street
outside our window is not known as Jermyn Street in the Haymarket,--or the Via Babuino near
the Pincio,--or Princes Street, near the Monument. How do we determine that we are not dreaming,
and that we shall not wake up to-morrow morning and find ourself on the Arno? Perhaps we are
not really back again where there are no

  "Eremites and friars,
  White, black, and gray, with all their trumpery."

Perhaps we are a flamingo, a banyan-tree, or a mandarin. But there stands the tea-cup, and
our identity is sure!

Here at last, then, for a live certainty! But how strange it all seems, resting safely in our
easy slippers, to recall some of the far-off scenes so lately present to us! Yesterday was
it, or a few weeks ago, that this "excellent canopy," our modest roof, dwelt three thousand
miles away to the westward of us? At this moment stowed away in a snuggery called our own;
and then--how brief a period it seems! what a small parenthesis in time--putting another man's
latch-key into another man's door, night after night, in a London fog, and feeling for the
unfamiliar aperture with all the sensation of an innocent housebreaker! Muffled here in the
oldest of dressing-gowns, that never lifted its blessed arms ten rods from the spot where it
was born; and only a few weeks ago lolling out of C.R.'s college-window at Oxford, counting
the deer, as they nibbled the grass, and grouped themselves into beautiful pictures on the
sward of ancient Magdalen!

As we look into the red fire in the grate, we think of the scarlet coats we saw not long ago
in Stratford,--when E.F., kindest of men and merriest of hosts, took us to the "meet." We gaze
round the field again, and enjoy the enlivening scene. White-haired and tall, our kind-hearted
friend walks his glossy mare up and down the turf. His stalwart sons, with sport imbrowned,
proud of their sire, call our attention to the sparkle in the old man's eye. We are mounted
on a fiery little animal, and are half-frightened at the thought of what she may do with us
when the chase is high. Confident that a roll is inevitable, and that, with a dislocated neck,
enjoyment would be out of the question, we pull bridle, and carefully dismount, hoping not
to attract attention. Whereat all our jolly English cousins beg to inquire, "What's the row?"
We whisper to the red-coated brave prancing near us, that "we have changed our mind, and will
not follow the hunt to-day,--another time we shall be most happy,--just now we are not quite
up to the mark,--next week we shall be all right again," etc., etc. One of the lithe hounds,
who seems to have steel springs in his hind legs, looks contemptuously at the American stranger,
and turns up his long nose like a moral insinuation. Off they fly! we watch the beautiful cavalcade
bound over the brook and sweep away into the woodland passes. Then we saunter down by the Avon,
and dream away the daylight in endless visions of long ago, when sweet Will and his merry comrades
moved about these pleasant haunts. Returning to the hall, we find we have walked ten miles
over the breezy country, and knew it not,--so pleasant is the fragrant turf that has been often
pressed by the feet of Nature's best-beloved high-priest! Round the mahogany tree that night
we hear the hunters tell the glories of their sport,--how their horses, like Homer's steeds,

  "Devoured up the plain";

and we can hear now, in imagination, the voices of the deep-mouthed hounds rising and swelling
among the Warwick glens.

Neither can we forget, as we sit here musing, whose green English carpet, down in Kent, we
so lately rested on under the trees,--nor how we wandered off with the lord of that hospitable
manor to an old castle hard by his grounds, and climbed with him to the turret-tops,--nor how
we heard him repeople in fancy the aged ruin, as we leaned over the wall and looked into the
desolate court-yard below. The world has given audience to this man, thought we, for many a
year; but one who has never heard the sound of his laughing voice knows not half his wondrous
power. When he reads his "Christmas Carol," go far to hear him, judicious friend, if you happen
to be in England, and let us all hope together that we shall have that keen gratification next
year in America. To know him is to love and esteem him tenfold more than if you only read of him.

Let us bear in mind, too, how happily the hours went by with us so recently in the vine-embowered
cottage of dear L.H., the beautiful old man with silver hair,--

  "As hoary frost with spangles doth attire
  The mossy branches of an oak."

The sound of the poet's voice was like the musical fall of water in our ears, and every sentence
he uttered then is still a melody. As we sit dreamily here, he speaks to us again of "life's
morning march, when his bosom was young," and of his later years, when his struggles were many
and keen, and only his pen was the lever which rolled poverty away from his door. We can hear
him, as we pause over this leaf, as we heard the old clock that night at sea. He tells us of
his cherished companions, now all gone,--of Shelley, and Keats, and Charles Lamb, whom he loved,--of
Byron, and Coleridge, and the rest. As we sit at his little table, he hands us a manuscript,
and says it is the "Endymion," John Keats's gift to himself. He reads to us from it some of
his favorite lines, and the tones of his voice are very tender over his dead friend's poem.
As we pass out of his door that evening, the moon falls on his white locks, his thin hand rests
for a moment on our shoulder, and we hear him say very kindly, "God bless you!"

In London, not long after this, we meet again the bard of "Rimini," and his discourse is still
sweet as any dulcimer. Another old man is with him, a poet also, whose songs are among the
bravest in England's Helicon. We observe how these two friends love each other, and as they
stand apart in the anteroom, the eldest with his arm around his brother bard, we think it is
a very pleasant sight, and not to be forgotten ever. And when, a few months later, we are among
the Alpine hills, and word comes to us that L.H. is laid to rest in Kensal Green Churchyard,
we are grateful to have looked upon his cheerful countenance, and to have heard him say, "God
bless you!"

We cry your mercy, gayest of cities, with your bright Bois de Boulogne, and your splendid café's!
We do not much affect your shows, but we cannot dismiss forever the cheerful little room, cloud-environed
almost, up to which we have so often toiled, after days of hard walking among the gaudy streets
of the French capital. One pleasant scene, at least, rises unbidden, as we recall the past.
It is a brisk, healthy morning, and we walk in the direction of the Tuileries. Bending our
steps toward the Palace, (it is yet early, and few loiterers are abroad in the leafy avenues,)
we observe a group of three persons, not at all distinguished in their appearance, having a
roystering good time in the Imperial Garden. One of them is a little boy, with a chubby, laughing
face, who shouts loudly to his father, a grave, thoughtful gentleman, who runs backwards, endeavoring
to out-race his child. The mother, a fair-haired woman, with her bonnet half loose in the wind,
strives to attract the boy's attention and win him to her side. They all run and leap in the
merry morning-air, and, as we watch them more nearly, we know them to be the royal family out
larking before Paris is astir. Play on, great Emperor, sweet lady, and careless boy-prince!
You have hung up a picture in our gallery of memory, very pleasant to look at, this cold night
in America. May you always be as happy as when you romped together in the garden!

The days that are fled still knock at the door and enter. We are walking on the banks of the
Esk, toward a friendly dwelling in Lasswade,--Mavis Bush they call the pretty place at the
foot of the hill. A slight figure, clad in black, waits for us at the garden-gate, and bids
us welcome in accents so kindly, that we, too, feel the magic influence of his low, sweet voice,--an
effect which Wordsworth described to us years before as eloquence set to music. The face of
our host is very pale, and, when he puts his thin arm within ours, we feel how frail a body
may contain a spirit of fire. We go into his modest abode and listen to his wonderful talk,
wishing all the while that the hours were months, that we might linger there, spellbound, day
and night, before the master of our English tongue. He proposes a ramble across the meadows
to Roslin Chapel, and on the way he discourses of the fascinating drug so painfully associated
with his name in literature,--of Christopher North, in whose companionship he delighted among
the Lakes,--of Elia, whom he recalled as the most lovable man among his friends, and whom he
has well described elsewhere as a Diogenes with the heart of a Saint John. In the dark evening
he insists upon setting out with us on our return to Edinburgh. When it grows late, and the
mists are heavy on the mountains, we stand together, clasping hands of farewell in the dim
road, the cold Scotch hills looming up all about us. As the small figure of the English Opium-Eater
glides away into the midnight distance, our eyes strain after him to catch one more glimpse.
The Esk roars, and we hear his footsteps no longer.

The scene changes, as the clock strikes in the entry. We are lingering in the piazza of the
Winged Lion, and the bronze giants in their turret overlooking the square raise their hammers
and beat the solemn march of Time. As we float away through the watery streets, old Shylock
shuffles across the bridge,--black barges glide by us in the silent canals,--groups of unfamiliar
faces lean from the balconies,--and we hear the plashing waters lap the crumbling walls of
Venice, with its dead Doges and decaying palaces.

Again we stir the fire, and feel it is home all about us. But we like to sit here and think
of that rosy evening, last summer, when we came walking into Interlachen, and beheld the ghost-like
figure of the Jungfrau issuing out of her cloudy palace to welcome the stars,--of a cool, bright,
autumnal morning on the western battlements overlooking Genoa, the blue Mediterranean below
mirroring the silent fleet that lay so motionless on its bosom,--of a midnight visit to the
Colosseum with a band of German students, who bore torches in and out of the time-worn arches,
and sang their echoing songs to the full moon,--of days, how many and how magical! when we
awoke every morning to say, "We are in Rome!"

But it grows late, and it is time now to give over these reflections. So we wind up our watch,
and put out the candle.

       *       *       *       *       *

A DRY-GOODS JOBBER IN 1861.

What is a dry-goods jobber? No wonder you ask. You have been hunting, perhaps, for our peripatetic
postoffice, and have stumbled upon Milk Street and Devonshire Street and Franklin Street. You
are almost ready to believe in the lamp of Aladdin, that could build palaces in a night. Looking
up to the stately and costly structures which have usurped the place of once familiar dwellings,
and learning that they are, for the most part, tenanted by dry-goods jobbers, you feel that
for such huge results there must needs be an adequate cause, and so you ask, What is a dry-goods
jobber?

It is more than a curious question. For parents desirous of finding their true sphere for promising
and for unpromising sons, it is eminently a practical question. It is a question comprehensive
of dollars and cents,--also of bones and sinews, of muscles, nerves, and brains, of headache,
heartache, and the cyclopaedia of being, doing, and enduring. An adequate answer to such a
question must needs ask your indulgence, for it cannot be condensed into a very few words.

A dry-goods jobber is a wholesale buyer and seller, for cash or for approved credit, of all
manner of goods, wares, and materials, large and small, coarse and fine, foreign and domestic,
which pertain to the clothing, convenience, and garnishing, by night and by day, of men, women,
and children: from a button to a blanket; from a calico to a carpet; from stockings to a head-dress;
from an inside handkerchief to a waterproof; from a piece of tape to a thousand bales of shirtings;
not forgetting linen, silk, or woollen fabrics, for drapery or upholstery, for bed or table,
including hundreds of items which time would fail me to recite. All these the dry-goods jobber
provides for his customer, the retailer, who in his turn will dispense them to the consumer.

A really competent and successful dry-goods jobber, in the year of grace, one thousand, eight
hundred and sixty-one, is a new creation. He is begotten of the times. Of him, as truly as
of the poet, and with yet more emphasis, it must be said, He is born, not made. He is a poet,
a philosopher, an artist, an engineer, a military commander, an advocate, an attorney, a financier,
a steam-engine, a telegraph-operator, a servant-of-all-work, a Job, a Hercules, and a Bonaparte,
rolled into one.

"Exaggeration!" do you say? Not at all.--You asked for information? You shall have it, to your
heart's content.

To a youth, for a time interrupted in his preparation for college, I said,--

Never mind; this falls in exactly with my well-considered plan. You shall go into a dry-goods
store till your eyes recover strength; it will be the best year's schooling of your life.

"How so?" was the dubious answer; "what can I learn there?"

Learn? Everything,--common sense included, which is generally excluded from the University
curriculum: for example, time, place, quantity, and the worth of each. You shall learn length,
breadth, and thickness; hard and soft; pieces and yards; dozens and the fractions thereof;
order and confusion, cleanliness and dirt,--to love the one and hate the other; materials,
colors, and shades of color; patience, manners, decency in general; system and method, and
the relation these sustain to independence; in short, that there is a vast deal more out of
books than in books; and, finally, that the man who knows only what is in books is generally
a lump of conceit, and of about as much weight in the scales of actual life as the ashes of
the Alexandrian library, or the worms in any parchments that may have survived that conflagration.

"Whew!" was his ejaculation; "I didn't know there was so much."

I dare say not. Most of your limited days have passed under the training of men who are in
the like predicament,--whose notion of the chief end of man is, to convert lively boys into
thick dictionaries,--and who honestly believe that the chief want of the age is your walking
dictionary. Any other type of humanity, they tell us, "won't pay." Much they know of what will
and what won't pay! This comes of partial education,--of one-sided, of warped, and biased education.
It puts one out of patience, this arrogance of the University, this presuming upon the ignorance
of the million, this assertion of an indispensable necessity to make the boy of the nineteenth
century a mere expert in some subdivision of one of the sciences. The obstinacy of an hereditary
absolutism, which the world has outgrown, still lingers in our schools of learning. Let us
admit the divine right of Science, admit the fitness of a limited number of our youth to become
high-priests in her temple, but no divine right of fossil interpreters of Science to compel
the entire generation to disembowel their sons and make of these living temples mere receptacles
of Roman, Grecian, or Egyptian relics. We don't believe that "mummy is medicinal," the Arabian
doctor Haly to the contrary notwithstanding. If it ever was, its day has gone by. Therefore
let all sensible people pray for a Cromwell,--not to pull down University Science, but to set
up the Commonwealth of Common Sense, to subordinate the former to the latter, and to proclaim
an education for our own age and for its exigencies. Your dry-goods jobber stands in violent
contrast to your University man in the matter of practical adaptation. His knowledge is no
affair of dried specimens, but every particle of it a living knowledge, ready, at a moment's
warning, for all or any of the demands of life.

You are perhaps thinking,--"Yes, that is supposable, because the lessons learned by the jobber
are limited to the common affairs of daily life, are not prospective; because, belonging only
to the passing day, they are easily surveyed on all sides, and their full use realized at once;
in short, a mere matter of buying and selling goods: a very inferior thing, as compared with
the dignified and scholarly labors of the student."

How mistaken this estimate is will appear, as we advance to something like a comprehensive
survey of the dry-goods jobber's sphere.

First, then, he is a buyer of all manner of goods, wares, and materials proper to his department
in commerce. He is minutely informed in the history of raw materials. He knows the countries
from which they come,--the adaptation of soils and climates to their raising,--the skill of
the cultivators,--the shipping usages,--the effect of transportation by land and sea on raw
materials, and on manufactured articles,--with all the mysteries of insurance allowances and
usages, the debentures on exportation, and the duties on importation, in his own and in other
lands. His forecast is taxed to the utmost, as to what may be the condition of his own market,
six, twelve, or eighteen months from the time of ordering goods, both as to the quantity which
may be in market, and as to the fashion, which is always changing,--and also as to the condition
of his customers to pay for goods, which will often depend upon the fertility of the season.
As respects home-purchases, he is compelled to learn, or to suffer for the want of knowing,
that the difference between being a skilful, pleasant buyer and the opposite is a profit or
loss of from five to seven and a half or ten per cent.,--or, in other words, the difference,
oftentimes, between success and ruin, between comfort and discomfort, between being a welcome
and a hated visitor, between being honored as an able merchant and contemned as a mean man
or an unmitigated bore.

Is your curiosity piqued to know wherein buyers thus contrasted may differ? They differ endlessly,
like the faces you meet on the street. Thus, one man is born to an open, frank, friendly, and
courteous manner; another is cold, reserved, and suspicious. One is prompt, hilarious, and
provocative of every good feeling, whenever you chance to meet; the other is slow, morose,
and fit to waken every dormant antipathy in your soul. An able buyer is, or becomes, observing
to the last degree. He knows the slightest differences in quality and in style, and possesses
an almost unerring taste,--knows the condition of the market,--knows every holder of the article
he wants, and the lowest price of each. He knows the peculiarities of the seller,--his strong
points and his weak points, his wisdom and his foibles, his very temperament, and how it is
acted upon by his dinner or the want of it. He knows the estimate put upon his own note by
that seller. He knows what his note will sell for in the street. He knows to a feather's weight
the influence of each of these items upon the mind of the seller of whom he wishes to make
a purchase. Talk about diplomacy!--there's not a man in any court in Europe who knows his position,
his fulcrum, and his lever, and the use he can make of them, as this man knows. He can unravel
any combination, penetrate any disguise, surmount any obstacle. Beyond all other men, he knows
when to talk, and when to refrain from talking,--how to throw the burden of negotiation on
the seller,--how to get the goods he wants at his own price, not at his asking, but on the
suggestion of the seller, prompted by his own politely obvious unwillingness to have the seller
part with his merchandise at any price not entirely acceptable to himself.

The incompetent man, on the other hand, is presuming, exacting, and unfeeling. He not only
desires, but asserts the desire, in the very teeth of the seller, to have something which that
seller has predetermined that he shall not have. He fights a losing game from the start. He
will probably begin by depreciating the goods which he knows, or should know, that the seller
has reason to hold in high esteem. He will be likely enough to compare them to some other goods
which he knows to be inferior. He will thus arouse a feeling of dislike, if not of anger, where
his interest should teach him to conciliate and soothe; and if he sometimes carry his point,
his very victory is in effect a defeat, since it procures him an increased antipathy. This
the judicious buyer never does. He repudiates, as a mere half-truth, and a relic of barbarism,
the maxim, "There is no friendship in trade."

"But," you are asking, "do only those succeed who are born to these extraordinary endowments?
And those who do succeed, are they, in fact, each and all of them, such wonderfully capable
men as you have described?"

If by success you mean mere money-making, it is not to be denied that some men do that by an
instinct, little, if at all, superior to that of the dog who smells out a bone. There are exceptions
to all rules; and there are chances in all games, even in games of skill. Lord Timothy Dexter,
as he is facetiously called, shipped warming-pans to the West Indies, in defiance of all geographical
objections to the venture, and made money by the shipment,--not because warming-pans were wanted
there, but because the natives mistook and used them for molasses-ladles. It must be owned
that a portion of the successful ones are lucky,--that a portion of them use the blunt weapon
of an indomitable will, as an efficient substitute for the finer edge of that nice tact and
good manners which they lack. Their very rudeness seems to commend them to the rude natures
which confound refinement with trickery and assume that brutality must needs be honest.

But there are other things to be said of buying. The dry-goods jobber frequents the auction-room.
If you have never seen a large sale of dry-goods at auction, you have missed one of the remarkable
incidents of our day. You are not yet aware of how much an auctioneer and two or three hundred
jobbers can do and endure in the short space of three hours. You must know that fifty or a
hundred thousand dollars' worth of goods may easily change owners in that time. You are not
to dream of the leisurely way of disposing of somebody's household-furniture or library, which
characterizes the doings of one or two of our fellow-citizens who manage such matters within
speaking distance of King's Chapel: but are rather to picture to yourself a congregation of
three hundred of the promptest men in our Atlantic cities, with a sprinkling of Westerners
quite as wide awake for bargains, each of them having marked his catalogue; an auctioneer who
considers the sale of a hundred lots an hour his proper rôle, and who is able to see the lip,
eye, or finger of the man whose note he covets, in spite of all sounds, signs, or opaque bodies.
The man of unquiet nerves or of exacting lungs would do well to leave that arena to the hard-heads
and cool-bloods who can pursue their aim and secure their interests: undisturbed either by
the fractional rat-a-tat-tat of the auctioneer's "Twenty-seven af--naf--naf--naf,--who'll give
me thirty?" or by the banter and comicalities which a humor-loving auctioneer will interject
between these bird-notes, without changing his key, or arresting his sale a moment. If you
would see the evidence of comprehensive and minute knowledge, of good taste, quick wit, sound
judgment, and electrical decision, attend an auction-sale in New York some morning. There will
be no lack of fun to season the solemnity of business, nor of the mixture of courtesy and selfishness
usual in every gathering, whether for philanthropic, scientific, or commercial purposes. Many
dry-goods jobbers will attend the sale with no intention of buying, but simply to note the
prices obtained, and, having traced the goods to their owners, to get the same in better order
and on better terms; the commission paid to the auctioneer being divided, or wholly conceded
by the seller to the buyer, according to his estimate of the note.

A dry-goods buyer will sometimes spend a month in New York, the first third or half of which
he will devote to ascertaining what goods are in the market, and what are to arrive; also to
learning the mood of the English, French, and Germans who hold the largest stocks. Sometimes
these gentlemen will make an early trial of their goods at auction. Unsatisfactory results
will rouse their phlegm or fire, and they declare they will not send another piece of goods
to auction, come what may. For local or temporary reasons, buyers sometimes persist in holding
back till the season is so far advanced that the foreign gentlemen become alarmed. Their credits
in London, Paris, and Amsterdam are running out; they are anxious to make remittances; and
then ensues one of those dry-goods panics so characteristic of New York and its mixed multitude;
an avalanche of goods descends upon the auction-rooms, and prices drop ten, twenty, forty per
cent., it may be, and the unlucky or short-sighted men who made early purchases are in desperate
haste to run off their stocks before the market is irreparably broken down. Whether, therefore,
to buy early or late, in large or in small quantities, at home or abroad,--are questions beset
with difficulty. He who imports largely may land his goods in a bare market and reap a golden
harvest, or in a market so glutted with goods that the large sums he counts out to pay the
duties may be but a fraction of the loss he knows to be inevitable.

In addition to the problems belonging to time and place of purchasing, to quantities and prices,
there is a host of other problems begotten of styles, of colors, of assortments, of texture
and finish, of adaptation to one market or another. The profit on a case of goods is often
sacrificed by the introduction or omission of one color or figure, the presence or absence
of which makes the merchandise desirable or undesirable. Little less than omniscience will
suffice to guard against the sometimes sudden, and often most unaccountable, freaks of fashion,
whose fiat may doom a thing, in every respect admirably adapted to its intended use, to irretrievable
condemnation and loss of value. And when you remember that the purchases of dry-goods must
be made in very large quantities, from a month to six or even twelve months before the buyer
can sell them, and that his sales are many times larger than his capital, and most of them
on long credit, you have before you a combination of exigencies hardly to be paralleled elsewhere.

The crisis of 1857 brought a general collapse. Scores and scores of jobbers failed; very few
dared to buy goods. Mills were compelled to run on short time, or to cease altogether. The
country became bare of the common necessaries of life. In process of time trade rallied. Manufacturing
recommenced; orders for goods poured in; and for a twelve-month and more the manufacturer has
had it all his own way. His goods are all sold ahead, months ahead of his ability to manufacture.
He makes his own price, and chooses his customer. This operates not unkindly on the jobbers
who are wealthy and independent; but for those who have but lately begun to mount the hill
of difficulty, it offers one more impediment. For, to men who have a great many goods to sell,
it is a matter of moment to secure the customers who can buy in large quantities, and whose
notes will bring the money of banks or private capitalists as soon as offered. Against such
buyers, men of limited means and of only average business-ability have but a poor chance. There
will always be some articles of merchandise in the buying or selling of which they cannot compete.

When a financial crisis overtakes the community, we hear much and sharp censure of all speculation.
Speculators, one and all, are forthwith consigned to an abyss of obloquy. The virtuous public
outside of trade washes its hands of all participation in the iniquity. This same virtuous
public knows very little of what it is talking about. What is speculation? Shall we say, in
brief and in general, that it consists in running risks, in taking extra-hazardous risks, on
the chance of making unusually large profits? Is it that men have abandoned the careful ways
of the fathers, and do not confine themselves to small stores, small stocks, and cash transactions?
And do you know who it is that has compelled this change? That same public who denounce speculation
in one breath, and in the next clamor for goods at low prices, and force the jobber into large
stores and large sales at small profits as the indispensable condition of his very existence.

Those who thus rail at speculation are generally quite unaware that their own inexorable demand
for goods at low prices is one of the principal efficient causes of that of which they complain.
They do not know that the capacious maw of the insatiable public is yearly filled with millions
on millions of shirtings and sheetings, and other articles of prime necessity, without one
farthing of profit to the jobber. The outside world reason from the assumption, that the jobber
might, but will not, avoid taking considerable risks. They do not consider, for they do not
know, how entirely all is changed from the days and circumstances in which a very small business
would suffice to maintain the merchant. They do not consider, that, an immense amount of goods
being of compulsion sold without profit, a yet other huge amount must be so sold as to compensate
for this. Nor do they consider that the possibility of doing this is often contingent upon
the buyer's carefully calculated probability of a rise in the article he is purchasing. Many
a time is the jobber enabled and inclined to purchase largely only by the assurance that from
the time of his purchase the price will be advanced.

The selling of dry-goods is another department in high art about which the ignorance of outsiders
is ineffable. I was once asked, in the way of courtesy and good neighborhood, to call on a
clergyman in our vicinity,--which I did. Desirous of doing his part in the matter of good fellowship
and smooth conversation, he began thus:--

"Well, now, Mr. Smith, you know all about business: I suppose, if I were to go into a store
to buy goods, nineteen men out of twenty would cheat me, if they could; wouldn't they?"

"No, Sir!" I answered, with a swelling of indignation at the injustice, a mingling of pity
for the ignorance, and a foreboding of small benefit from the preaching of a minister of the
gospel who knew so little of the world he lived in. "No, Sir; nineteen men in twenty would
not cheat you, if they could; for the best of all reasons,--it would be dead against their
own interest."

Not a day passes but the question is asked by our youths who are being initiated in the routine
of selling goods,--"Is this honest? Is that honest? Is it honest to mark your goods as costing
more than they do cost? Is it honest to ask one man more than you ask another? Ought not the
same price to be named to every buyer? Isn't it cheating to get twenty-five per cent. profit?
Can a man sell goods without lying? Are men compelled to lie and cheat a little in order to
earn an honest living?" What is the reason that these questions will keep coming up? That they
can no more be laid than Banquo's ghost? Here are some of the reasons. First, and foremost,
multitudes of young men, whose parents followed the plough, the loom, or the anvil, have taken
it into their heads, that they will neither dig, hammer, nor ply the shuttle. To soil their
hands with manual labor they cannot abide. The sphere of commerce looks to their longing eyes
a better thing than lying down in green pastures, or than a peaceful life beside still waters,
procured by laborious farming, or by any mechanical pursuit. Clean linen and stylish apparel
are inseparably associated in their minds with an easy and elegant life, and so they pour into
our cities, and the ranks of the merchants are filled, and over-filled, many times. Once, the
merchant had only to procure an inviting stock, and his goods sold themselves. He did not go
after customers; they came to him; and it was a matter of favor to them to supply their wants.
Now, all that is changed. There are many more merchants than are needed; buyers are in request;
and buyers whose credit is the best, to a very great extent, dictate the prices at which they
will buy. The question is no longer, How large a profit can I get? but, How small a profit
shall I accept? The competition for customers is so fierce that the seller hardly dares ask
any profit, for fear his more anxious neighbor will undersell him. In order to attract customers,
one thing after another has been made "a leading article," a bait to be offered at cost or
even less than cost,--that being oftentimes the condition on which alone the purchaser will
make a beginning of buying.

"Jenkins," cried an anxious seller, "you don't buy anything of me, and I can sell you as cheap
as any. Here's a bale of sheetings now, at eight cents, will do you good."

"How many have you got?"

"Oh, plenty."

"Well, how many?"

"Fifteen bales."

"Well, I'll take them."

"Come in and buy something more."

"No, nothing more to-day."

There was a loss of seventy-five dollars, and he did not dare buy more.

It will be obvious that the selling a part of one's goods at less than cost enhances the necessity
of getting a profit on the rest. But how to do this, under the sharp scrutiny of a buyer who
knows that his own success, not to say his very existence, depends upon his paying no profit
possible to be avoided,--no profit, at all events, not certainly paid by some sharp neighbor
who is competing with him for the same trade?

"But is there anything in all this," you are asking, "to preclude the jobber's telling the
truth?" Nothing. "Anything to preclude strict honesty?" Nothing. "Why, then, do the questions
you have quoted continually recur?"

I answer: In order to get his share of the best custom in his line, the dry-goods jobber has
taken a store in the best position in town, at a rent of from three to fifty thousand dollars
a year; has hired men and boys at all prices, from fifty dollars to five thousand,--and enough
of these to result in an aggregate of from five to fifty thousand dollars a year for help,
without which his business cannot be done. Add to this the usual average for store-expenses
of every name, and for the family-expenses of two, five, or seven partners, and you find a
dry-goods firm under the necessity of getting out of their year's sales somewhere from fifteen
to a hundred and fifty thousand dollars profit, before they shall have saved one cent to meet
the losses of an unfavorable season.

Now, though there is nothing even in all these urgencies to justify a single lie or fraud,
there is much to sharpen a man's wits to secure the sale of his goods,--much to educate him
in all manner of expedients to baffle the inquiries of customers who would be offended, if
they could discover that he ever charged them the profit without which he could never meet
his expenses. And the jobber's problem is complicated by the folly, universally prevalent among
buyers, of expecting some partiality or peculiarity of favor over their neighbors who are just
as good as themselves. Every dry-goods jobber knows that his customer's foolish hope and expectation
often demand three absurdities of him: first, the assurance that he has the advantage over
all other jobbers in a better stock of goods, better bought; secondly, that he has a peculiar
friendship for himself; and thirdly, that, though of other men he must needs get a profit,
in his special instance he shall ask little or none; and that, such is his regard for him,
it is a matter of no moment whether he live in Lowell or Louisiana, in New Bedford or Nebraska,
or whether he pay New England bank-notes within thirty days, or wild-cat money and wild lands,
which may be converted into cash, with more or less expense and loss, somewhere between nine
months and nine-and-twenty years.

And yet the uninitiated "can't understand how an honest merchant can have two prices for the
same goods." An honest man has but one price for the same goods, and that is the cash price.
All outside of that is barter,--goods for notes. His first inquiry is, What is the market-value
of the note offered? True, he knows that many of the notes he takes cannot be sold at all;
but he also knows that the notes he is willing to take will in the aggregate be guarantied
by a reservation of one, two, or three per cent., and that the note of the particular applicant
for credit will tend to swell or to diminish the rate; and he cannot afford to exchange his
goods for any note, except at a profit which will guaranty its payment when due,--which, in
other words, will make the note equal in value to cash.

Now it is just because all business-contingencies cannot be worked into an unvarying form,
as regular as the multiplication-table, and as plain to the apprehension of all men, that a
vast amount of lying and of dishonesty is imputed, where it does not exist. Merchants are much
like other men,--wise and unwise, far-sighted and short-sighted, selfish and unselfish, honest
and dishonest. But that they are as a class more dishonest than other men is so far from being
true, that I much doubt if we should overstrain the matter, if we should affirm that they are
the most honest class of men in the community. There is much in their training which contributes
directly, and most efficiently, to this result. Their very first lessons are in feet and inches,
in pounds and ounces, in exact calculations, in accounts and balances. Carelessness, mistakes,
inaccuracies, they are made to understand, are unpardonable sins. The boy who goes into a store
learns, for the first time, that half a cent, a quarter of a cent, an eighth of a cent, may
be a matter of the gravest import. He finds a thorough book-keeper absolutely refusing himself
rest till he has detected an error of ten cents in a business of six months. And every day's
experience enforces the lesson. It is giving what is due, and claiming what is due, from year's
end to year's end. Among merchants it is matter of common notoriety, that the prompt and exact
adherence to orders insisted on by merchants, and prompt advice of receipt of business and
of progress, cannot be expected from our worthy brethren at the bar. (The few honorable exceptions
are respectfully informed that they are not referred to.) We do not expect them to weigh or
measure the needless annoyance to which they often subject us, because they have never been,
like ourselves, trained to the use of weights and measures; and therefore we are not willing
to stigmatize them as dishonest, though they do, in fact, often steal our time and strength
and patience, by withholding an answer to a business-letter.

None but those who are in the business know the assiduous attention with which the dry-goods
jobber follows up his customers. None but they know the urgent necessity of doing this. The
jobber may have travelled a thousand miles to make his customer's acquaintance, and to prevail
upon him to come to Boston to make his purchases; and some neighbor, who boards at the hotel
he happens to make his resting-place, lights upon him, shows him attention, tempts him with
bargains not to be refused, prevails upon him to make the bulk of his purchases of him, before
his first acquaintance even hears of his arrival. To guard against disappointments such as
this, the jobber sends his salesmen to live at hotels, haunts the hotels himself, studies the
hotel-register far more assiduously than he can study his own comfort, or the comfort of his
wife and children. Of one such jobber it was said, facetiously,--"He goes the round of all
the hotels every morning with a lantern, to wake up his customers." I had an errand one day
at noon to such a devotee. Inquiring for him in the counting-room, I was told by his book-keeper
to follow the stairs to the top of the store, and I should find him. I mounted flight after
flight to the attic, and there I found, not only the man, but also one or two of his customers,
surrounding a huge packing-case, upon which they had extemporized a dinner, cold turkey and
tongue, and other edibles, taken standing, with plenty of fun for a dessert. The next time
we happened to meet, I said,--"So you take not only time, but also customers, by the forelock!"

"Yes, to be sure," was his answer; "let 'em go to their hotel to dinner in the middle of a
bill, and somebody lights upon 'em, and carries 'em off to buy elsewhere; or they begin to
remember that it is a long way home, feel homesick, slip off to New York as being so far on
the way, and that's the last you see of 'em. No, we're bound to see 'em through, and no let-up
till they've bought all they've got on their memorandum."

We have not yet touched the question of credit. To whom shall the jobber sell his goods? It
is the question of questions. Many a man who has bought well, who in other respects has sold
well, who possessed all the characteristics which recommend a man to the confidence and to
the good-will of his fellows, has made shipwreck of his fortunes because of his inability to
meet this question. He sold his goods to men who never paid him. To say that in this the most
successful jobbers are governed by an instinct, by an intuitive conviction which is superior
to all rules of judgment, would be to allege what it would be difficult to prove. It would
be less difficult to maintain that every competent merchant, however unconscious of the fact,
has a standard of judgment by which he tries each applicant for credit. There are characteristics
of men who can safely be credited, entirely familiar to his thoughts. He looks upon the man
and instantly feels that he is or is not the man for him. He thinks his decision an instinct,
or an intuition, because, through much practice, these mental operations have become so rapid
as to defy analysis. Not being infallible, he sometimes mistakes; and when he so mistakes,
he will be sure to say,--I made that loss because I relied too much upon this characteristic,
or because I did not allow its proper weight to the absence of some other,--because I thought
his shrewdness or his honesty, his enterprise or his economy, would save him: implying that
he had observed some non-conformity to his standard, but had relied upon some excellency in
excess to make up for it.

What are the perplexities which beset the question, To whom shall the jobber sell his goods?
They are manifold; and some of them are peculiar to our country. Our territory is very extensive;
our population very heterogeneous; the economy and close calculation which recommend a man
in Massachusetts may discredit him in Louisiana. The very countenance is often a sure indication
of character and of capacity, when it is one of a class and a region whose peculiarities we
thoroughly understand; but coming to us from other classes and regions, we are often at fault,--more
especially in these latter days, when all strong-mindedness is presumed to be foreshadowed
in a stiff beard. Time was when something could be inferred from a lip, a mouth, a chin,--when
character could be found in the contour and color of a cheek; but that time has passed. The
time was, when, among a homogeneous people, a few time-honored characteristics were both relied
on and insisted on: for example, good parentage, good moral character, a thorough training,
and superior capacity, joined to industry, economy, sound judgment, and good manners. But Young
America has learned to make light of some of these, and to dispense altogether with others of them.

Once the buyer was required to prove himself an honest, worthy, and capable man. If he wanted
credit, he must humbly sue for it, and prove himself deserving of it; and no man thought of
applying for it who was not prepared to furnish irrefragable evidence. Once, a reference to
some respectable acquaintance would serve the purpose; and neighbors held themselves bound
to tell all they knew. The increase of merchants, and fierce competition for customers, have
changed this. Men now regard their knowledge of other men as a part of their capital or stock-in-trade.
Their knowledge has been acquired at much cost of labor and money; and they hold themselves
absolved from all obligation to give away what they have thus expensively acquired. Moreover,
their confidence has sometimes been betrayed, and their free communications have been remorselessly
used to their disadvantage. Alas, it cannot be denied that even dry-goods jobbers, with all
their extraordinary endowments, are not quite perfect! for some of them will "state the thing
that is not," and others "convey" their neighbor's property into their own coffers: men who
prefer gain to godliness, and mistake much money for respectability.

There are very few men, in certain sections of the country, who will absolutely refuse to give
a letter of introduction to a neighbor on the simple ground of ill-desert. Men dread the ill-will
of their neighbor, and particularly the ill-will of an unscrupulous neighbor; so, when such
a neighbor asks a letter, they give it. I remember such a one bringing a dozen or more letters,
some of which contained the highest commendation. The writer of one of these letters sent a
private note, through the mail, warning one of the persons addressed against the bearer of
his own commendatory letter. Those who had no warning sold, and lost. It would be difficult
to find a man, however unworthy, who could not, from some quarter, obtain a very respectable
letter of introduction. One of the greatest rogues that ever came to Boston brought letters
from two of the foremost houses in New York to two firms second to none in Boston. Neither
of these gentlemen was in fault in the matter; the train had been laid by some obliging cousin
in a banking-house in London.

In making up our account of the difficulties with which a dry-goods jobber has to deal, in
conducting a successful business, it must be distinctly stated, that on no man can he count
for information which will, however remotely or slightly, compromise the interest of the one
inquired of. Never, perhaps, was it so true as now, that "the seller has need of a hundred
eyes." The competent jobber uses his eyes first of all upon the person of the man who desires
to buy of him. He questions him about himself, with such directness or indirectness as instinct
and experience dictate. He learns to discriminate between the sensitiveness of the high-toned
honest man and the sensitiveness of the rogue. Many men of each class are inclined to resent
and resist the catechism. Strange as it may seem, the very men who would inexorably refuse
a credit to those who should decline to answer their inquiries are the men most inclined to
resent any inquiry about themselves. While they demand the fullest and most particular information
from their customers, they wonder that others will not take them on their own estimate of themselves.

The jobber next directs his attention to the buyer's knowledge of goods: of their quality,
their style, their worth in market, and their fitness for his own market; all of which will
come to light, as he offers to his notice the various articles he has for sale. He will improve
the opportunity to draw him out in general conversation, so guiding it as to touch many points
of importance, and yet not so as to betray a want of confidence. He sounds him as to his knowledge
of other merchants at home and in the city; takes the names of his references,--of several,
if he can get them; puts himself in communication with men who know him, both at his home and
in the city. If he can harmonize the information derived from all these sources into a consistent
and satisfactory whole, he will then do his utmost to secure his customer, both by selling
him his goods at a profit so small that he need have little fear of any neighbor's underselling
him, and also by granting every possible accommodation as to the time and manner of payment.

A moderately thoughtful man will by this time begin to think the elements of toil and of perplexity
already suggested sufficient for the time and strength of any man, and more than he would wish
to undertake. But experience alone could teach him in how many ways indulged customers can
and do manage to make the profit they pay so small, and the toil and vexation they occasion
so great, that the jobber is often put upon weighing the question, Should I not be richer without
them? Thus, for example, some of them will affect to doubt that the jobber wishes to sell to
them, and propose, as a test, that he shall let them have some choice article at the cost,
or at less than the cost, now on one pretext, and now on another,--intimating an indisposition
to buy, if they cannot be indulged in that one thing. If they carry their point, that exceptional
price is thenceforth claimed as the rule. Another day the concession will be asked on something
else; and by extending this game so as to include a number of jobbers, these shrewd buyers
will manage to lay in an assorted stock on which there will have been little or no profit to
the sellers. To cap the climax of vexation, these persons will very probably come in, after
not many days, and propose to cash their notes at double interest off. Only an official of
the Inquisition could turn the thumb-screw so many times, and so remorselessly.

But we have yet to consider the collection of debts. The jobber who has not capital so ample
as to buy only for cash is expected invariably to settle his purchases by giving his note,
payable at bank on a fixed day. He pays it when due, or fails. Not so with his customers: multitudes
of them shrink from giving a note payable at bank, and some altogether refuse to do so. They
wish to buy on open account; or to give a note to be paid at maturity, if convenient,--otherwise
not. The number of really prompt and punctual men, as compared with those who are otherwise,
is very small. The number of those who never fail is smaller still. The collection-laws are
completely alike, probably, in no two States. Some of them appear to have been constructed
for the accommodation, not of honest creditors, but of dishonest debtors. In others, they are
such as to put each jobber in fear of every other,--a first attachment taking all the property,
if the debt be large enough, leaving little or nothing, usually, for those who have been willing
to give the debtor such indulgence as might enable him to pay in full, were it granted by all
his creditors.

No jobber can open his letters in the morning in the certainty of finding no tidings of a failure.
No jobber, leaving his breakfast-table, can assure his wife and children, sick or well, that
he will dine or sup with them; any one of a dozen railroad-trains may, for aught he knows,
be sweeping him away to some remote point, to battle with the mischances of trade, the misfortunes
of honest men, or the knavery of rogues and the meshes of the law. Once in the cars, he casts
his eye around in uneasy expectation of finding some one or more of his neighbors bound on
the same errand. While yet peering over the seats in front of him, he is unpleasantly startled
by a slap on the shoulder, and, "Ah, John! bound East? What's in the wind? Any ducks in these
days?" "Why,--yes,--no,--that is, I'm going down along,--little uncertain how far,--depends
on circumstances." "So, so,--I see,--mum's the word." Well, neither is quite ready to trust
the other,--neither quite ready to know the worst; so long as a blow is suspended, it may not
fall; and so, with desperate exertions, they change the subject, converse on things indifferent,--or
subside into more or less moody meditations upon their respective chances and prospects.

Any jobber who has seen service will tell you stories without number of these vexatious experiences,
sometimes dashed with the comical in no common measure. He will tell you of how they arrived
at the last town on the railroad, some six or seven of them; of how not a word had been lisped
of their destination; of the stampede from the railroad-station to the tavern; of the spirited
bids for horses and wagons; of the chop-fallen disappointment of the man for whom no vehicle
remained; of his steeple-chase a-bareback; and of their various successes with writs and officers,
in their rush for the store of the delinquent debtor. Of three such Jehus, the story goes,
that, two of them having bought the monopoly of the inside of the only vehicle, and, in so
doing, as they thought, having utterly precluded any chance for the third, their dauntless
competitor instantly mounted with the driver, commenced negotiations for the horse, which speedily
resulted in a purchase, and thereupon detached the horse from the vehicle, drove on, and effected
a first attachment, which secured his debt.

The occurrence of "a bad year" compels many a jobber to abandon his store and home for one,
two, or three months together, and visit his customers scattered all over the land, to make
collections. Then it is that the power of persuasion, if possessed, is brought into efficient
use; discrimination, too, is demanded; good judgment, and power of combination. For a debt
that cannot be paid in money may possibly be paid partly in money, or in merchandise of some
sort, and in part secured; and, among the securities offered, to choose those which will involve
the least delay is generally no easy matter.

To those who, without experience, are commencing a jobbing-business, a capital of thirty, forty,
or fifty thousand dollars seems an inexhaustible fund. Experience teaches that an incautious
and unskilful man may easily bury even the largest of these sums in a single season. If not
actually lost, it has in effect ceased to be capital, because it cannot be collected, and the
notes he has taken are such as will not be discounted.

Success in the jobbing-business makes such demand on talent and capacity as outsiders seldom
dream of. Half-a-dozen Secretaries of State, with a Governor and a President thrown in, would
not suffice to constitute a first-class jobbing-firm. The general or special incompetency of
these distinguished functionaries in their several spheres may probably be covered by the capacity
of their subordinates. The President of these United States--of late years, at all events--is
not supposed to be in a position to know whether the will is or is not "a self-determining
power." But no jobbing-firm can thus cloak its deficiencies, or shirk its responsibilities.
Goods must be bought, and sold, and paid for; and a master-spirit in each department, capable
of penetrating to every particular, and of controlling every subordinate, cannot be dispensed
with. He must know that every man to whom he delegates any portion of his work is competent
and trustworthy. He must be able to feel that the thing which he deputes to each will be as
surely and as faithfully done as though done by his own hand. No criticism is more common or
more depreciatory than that "Such a one will not succeed, because he has surrounded himself
with incompetent men."

It is much to be regretted that it cannot be said, that no man can succeed in the jobbing-business
who is not a model of courtesy. Unhappily, our community has not yet reached that elevation.
But this may with truth be affirmed,--that many a man fails for the want of courtesy, and for
the want of that good-will to his fellows from which all real courtesy springs. There is small
chance for any man to succeed who does not command his own spirit. There is no chance whatever
for an indolent man; and, in the long run, little or no chance for the dishonest man. The same
must be said for the timid and for the rash man. Nor can we offer any encouragement to the
intermittent man. From year's end to year's end, the dry-goods jobber finds himself necessitated
to be studying his stock and his ledger. He knows, that, while men sleep, the enemy will be
sowing tares. In his case, the flying moments are the enemy, and bad stock and bad debts are
the tares. To weed out each of these is his unceasing care. And as both the one and the other
are forever choking the streams of income which should supply the means of paying his own notes,
his no less constant care is to provide such other conduits as shall insure him always a full
basin at the bank. Nobody but a jobber can know the vexation of a jobber who cannot find money
to cash his notes when they are beginning to be thrown into the market at a price a shade lower
than his neighbor's notes are sold at.

In conclusion, a few material facts should be stated.

As a general proposition, it is not to be denied, that those who are in haste to get rich will
find in the dry-goods jobbing-business many temptations and snares into which one may easily
fall. A young man who is not fortified by a faithful home-training, and by sound religious
principle, will be likely enough to degenerate into a heartless money-maker.

While the young man who has been well trained at home, who appreciates good manners, good morals,
and good books, will derive immense advantage in acquiring that quick discernment, that intuitive
apprehension of the rights and of the pleasure of others, and that nice tact, which characterize
the highest style of merchants,--he who has not been thus prepared will be more than likely
to mistake brusquerie for manliness, and brutality for the sublime of independence. As in a
great house there are vessels unto honor and also unto dishonor, so in the purlieus of the
dry-goods trade there are gentlemen who would honor and adorn any society, and also men whose
manners would shame Hottentots,--whose language, innocent of all preference for Worcester or
Webster, a terror to all decent ideas, like scarecrows in corn-fields, is dressed in the cast-off
garments of the refuse of all classes.

Success in retailing does not necessarily qualify a man to succeed in the dry-goods jobbing-business.
The game is played on a much larger scale; it includes other chances, and demands other qualifications,
natural and acquired. Instances are not wanting of men who, in the smaller towns, had made
to themselves a name and acquired an honorable independence, sinking both capital and courage
in their endeavors to manage the business of a city-jobber.

It should be well remembered, that, while it is not indispensable to success in the jobbing-business
that each partner should be an expert in every department of the business, in buying, selling,
collecting, paying, and book-keeping, it is absolutely necessary that each should be such in
his own department,--and that the firm, as a unit, should include a completely competent man
for each and every one of these departments. The lack of the qualities which are indispensable
to any one of these may, and probably will, prove an abyss deep enough to ingulf the largest
commercial ship afloat.

Finally, to avoid disappointment, the man who would embark in the dry-goods trade should make
up his mind to meet every variety of experience known to mortals, and to be daunted by nothing.
He will assuredly find fair winds and head winds, clear skies and cloudy skies, head seas and
cross seas as well as stern seas. A wind that justifies studding-sails may change, without
premonition, to a gale that will make ribbons of top-sails and of storm-sails. The best crew
afloat cannot preclude all casualties, or exclude sleepless nights and cold sweats now and
then; but a quick eye, a cool head, a prompt hand, and indomitable perseverance will overcome
almost all things.

THE OLD HOMESTEAD.

THE PROFESSOR'S STORY. "I don't want to see anything belonging to that young man."

"Waäl, no,--they a'n't good for much 'xcep' to look at. 'F y' ever rid on that seddle once,
y' wouldn' try it ag'in, very spry,--not 'f y' c'd haälp y'rsaälf.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE GREAT LAKES.

If, as is believed by many statisticians, the census of 1860 should show that the centre of
population and power in these United States is steadily advancing westward, and that by the
year 1880 it will be at some point on the Great Lakes, then, certainly, the history and resources
of those inland seas cannot fail to be interesting to the general reader.

It happens that the Indian traditions of this region possess more of the coherence of history
than those of other parts of the country; and, as preserved by Schoolcraft and embalmed in
the poetry of Longfellow, they show well enough by the side of the early traditions of other
primitive peoples. The conquest of the Lake-shore region by San-ge-man and his Ojibwas may
be as trustworthy a tale as the exploits of Romulus and Remus; and when we emerge into the
light of European record, we find the Jesuit missionaries preaching the gospel at St. Ignace
and the Sault St. Mary almost as early as the so-called Cavaliers were planting tobacco at
Jamestown, or the Pilgrims smiting the heathen at Plymouth.

The first white persons who penetrated into the Upper Lake region were two young fur-traders
who left Montreal for that purpose in 1654, and remained two years among the Indian tribes
on those shores. We are not informed of the details of this journey; but it appears that they
returned with information relative to Lake Superior, and perhaps Lake Michigan and Green Bay;
for in 1659 the fur-traders are known to have extended their traffic to that bay. The first
settlement of Wisconsin may be dated in 1665, when Claude Allouez established a mission at
La Pointe on Lake Superior. This was before Philadelphia was founded by William Penn.

The first account we have of a voyage on Lake Michigan was by Nicholas Perrot, who, accompanied
by some Pottawattomies, passed from Green Bay to Chicago, in 1670. Two years afterwards the
same voyage was undertaken by Allouez and Dablon. They stopped at the mouth of the Milwaukie
River, then occupied by Kickapoo Indians. In 1673, Fathers Marquette and Joliet went from Green
Bay to the Neenah or Fox River, and, descending the Wisconsin, discovered the Mississippi on
the 17th of June.

In 1679, La Salle made his voyage up the Lakes in the Griffin, the first vessel built above
the Falls of Niagara. This vessel, the pioneer of the great fleet which now whitens those waters,
was about sixty tons burden, and carried five guns and thirty-four men. La Salle loaded her
at Green Bay with a cargo of furs and skins, and she sailed on the 18th of September for Niagara,
where she never arrived, nor was any news of her ever received. The Griffin, with her cargo,
was valued at sixty thousand livres. Thus the want of harbors on Lake Michigan began to be
felt nearly two hundred years ago; and the fate of the Griffin was only a precursor of many
similar calamities since.

About 1760 was the end of what may be called the religious epoch in the history of the Northwest,
when the dominion passed from French to English hands, and the military period commenced. This
lasted about fifty years, during which time the combatants were French, English, Indians, and
Americans. Much blood was shed in desultory warfare. Detroit, Mackinac, and other posts were
taken and retaken; in fact, there never was peace in that land till after the naval victory
of Perry in 1813, when the command of the Lakes passed to the Americans.

Our military and naval expeditions in the Northwest were, however, remarkably unfortunate in
that war. For want of a naval force on the Lakes,--a necessity which had been pointed out to
the Government by William Hull, then Governor of the Northwest Territory, before the declaration
of war,--the posts of Chicago, Mackinac, and Detroit were taken by the British and their Indian
allies in 1812, and kept by them till the next year, when the energy and perseverance of Perry
and his Rhode-Islanders created a fleet upon Lake Erie, and swept the British vessels from
that quarter.

In 1814, an American squadron of six brigs and schooners sailed from Lake Erie to retake the
post of Mackinac. Colonel Croghan commanded the troops, which were landed under cover of the
guns of the squadron. They were attacked in the woods on the back of the island by the British
and Indians. Major Holmes, who led the Americans, was killed, and his men retreated in confusion
to the ships, which took them on board and sailed away. The attack having failed, Captain Sinclair,
who commanded the squadron, returned to Lake Erie with the brigs Niagara and Saint Lawrence
and the schooners Caledonia and Ariel, leaving the Scorpion and Tigress to operate against
the enemy on Lake Huron. The British schooner Nancy, being at Nattawasaga, under the protection
of a block-house mounting two twenty-four pounders, the American schooners proceeded to attack
her, and, after a short action, destroyed the vessel and the block-house, the British escaping
in their boats. Soon, after, the American schooners returned to the neighborhood of St. Joseph,
where they were seen by some Indians, who reported at Mackinac that they were about five leagues
apart. An expedition was directly fitted out to capture them; and Major Dickson, commander
of the post, and Lieutenant Worsley, who had retreated from the block-house above-mentioned,
started with one hundred men in four boats.

On the third of September, at six o'clock, P.M., they found the Tigress at anchor, and came
within one hundred yards unobserved, when a smart fire of grape and musketry was opened upon
them. They advanced, and, two boats hoarding her on each side, she was carried, after a short
contest, in which the British lost seven men, killed and wounded, and the Americans, out of
a crew of twenty-eight, had three killed and two wounded. The prisoners having been sent to
Mackinac, the Tigress was got under way the next day, still keeping the American colors flying,
and proceeded in search of the Scorpion. On the fifth, they came in sight of her, and, as those
on board knew nothing of what had happened to the Tigress, were suffered to approach within
two miles. At daylight the next morning, the Tigress was again got under way, and running alongside
her late consort, the British carried her by boarding, after a short scuffle, in which four
of the Scorpion's crew were killed and wounded, and one of the British wounded. The schooners
were fine new vessels, of one hundred tons burden each, and had on board large quantities of
arms and ammunition.

This account of the earliest naval action on the Upper Lakes is taken from a British source;
for, as may well be imagined, it has never found its way into any American Naval History or
Fourth of July Oration.

It appears as if the American Government, during the War of 1812, either from ignorance of
the value of the Northwest, or, as some think, from a fear lest it might, if conquered, become
free territory, were very inefficient in their efforts in that direction. As, however, the
same imbecility was displayed in other quarters, for example, at Washington, where they allowed
the capital to be taken by a handful of British troops, and as the Yankee who was in the fight
said, "They didn't seem to take no interest," we must acquit the administration of Mr. Madison
of anything worse than going to war without adequate preparation.

After the War of 1812 was over, the Northwestern Territory was held by our Government by a
kind of military occupation for some twenty years, when, the Indian title having been extinguished,
white settlers began to occupy Northern Illinois and Wisconsin. The Sacs and Foxes, having
repented of their surrender of this fair country, reentered it in 1832, but after a short contest
were expelled and driven westward, and the working period commenced. Large cities have sprung
up on the Lake shores, and the broad expanse of Lake Michigan is now whitened by a thousand
sails; and even the rocky cliffs of Superior echo the whistle of the propeller, instead of
the scream of the bald eagle.

Perhaps the ship-owners of the Atlantic cities are hardly aware of the growth of this Lake
commerce within the last twenty years, and that it is now nearly equal in amount to the whole
foreign trade of the country. Before entering on the statistics of this trade, however, we
will give a brief description of the Lakes themselves.[A]

[Footnote A: We are indebted for our facts and details to Lapham's Wisconsin, Foster and Whitney's
Report, Agassiz's Lake Superior, and works of similar character.]

Lake Superior, the largest expanse of fresh water on the globe, is 355 miles in length, 160
in breadth, with a depth of 900 feet. It contains 32,000 square miles of surface, which is
elevated 627 feet above the surface of the ocean, while portions of its bed are several hundred
feet below it. Its coast is 1500 miles in extent, with irregular, rocky shores, bold headlands,
and deep bays. It contains numerous islands, one of which, Isle Royale, has an area of 230
square miles. The shores of this lake are rock-bound, sometimes rising into lofty cliffs and
pinnacles, twelve or thirteen hundred feet high. Where the igneous rocks prevail, the coast
is finely indented; where the sandstones abound, it is gently curved. Lake Superior occupies
an immense depression, for the most part excavated out of the soft and yielding sandstone.
Its configuration on the east and north has been determined by an irregular belt of granite,
which forms a rim, effectually resisting the further action of its waters. The temperature
of the water in summer is about 40°.

Lake Huron connects with Superior by the St. Mary's River, and is 260 miles long and 160 broad;
its circumference is 1100 miles, its area 20,400. Georgian Bay, 170 miles long and 70 broad,
forms the northeast portion, and lies within British jurisdiction. Saginaw, a deep and wide-mouthed
bay, is the principal indentation on the western coast. The rim of this lake is composed mostly
of detrital rocks, which are rarely exposed. In the northern portion of the lake, the trap-rocks
on the Canada side intersect the coast. The waters are as deep as those of Superior, and possess
great transparency. They rarely attain a higher temperature than 50°, and, like those of Superior,
have the deep-blue tint of the ocean. The northern coast of Lake Huron abounds in clusters
of islands; Captain Bayfield is said to have landed on 10,000 of them, and to have estimated
their number at 30,000.

Lake Michigan, called by the early voyagers Lac des Illinois, is next in size to Superior,
being 320 miles in length and 100 in breadth, with a circumference, including Green Bay, of
1300 miles. It contains 22,000 miles of surface, with a depth of 900 feet in the deeper parts,
though near the shore it grows gradually shoal. The rocks which compose its rim are of a sedimentary
nature, and afford few indentations for harbors. The shores are low, and lined in many places
with immense sand-banks. Green Bay, or Bale des Puans of the Jesuits, on the west coast, is
100 miles long and 20 broad. Great and Little Traverse Bays occur on the eastern coast, and
Great and Little Bays des Noquets on the northern. One cluster of islands is found at the outlet
of the main lake, and another at that of Green Bay. Lake Michigan is the only one of the Great
Lakes which lies wholly within American jurisdiction.

Lake Erie is 240 miles in length, 60 in breadth, and contains an area of 9,600 square miles.
It lies 565 feet above the sea-level, and is the shallowest of all the Lakes, being only 84
feet in mean depth. Its waters, in consequence, have the green color of the sea in shallow
bays and harbors. It is connected with Lake Huron by the St. Clair River and Lake, a shallow
expanse of water, twenty miles wide, and by Detroit River.

Lake Ontario is 180 miles in length and 55 in breadth, containing 6,300 square miles. It is
connected with Lake Erie by the Niagara River, and also by the Welland Canal, which admits
the passage of vessels of large burden. This lake lies at a lower level than the others, being
only 230 feet above the sea. It is, however, about 500 feet in depth.

The whole area of these lakes is over 90,000 miles, and the area of land drained by them, 335,515
miles.

The presence of this great body of water modifies the range of the thermometer, lessening the
intensity of the cold in winter and of the heat in summer, and gives a temperature more uniform
on the Lake coasts than is found in a corresponding latitude on the Mississippi. Hardly a day
passes, during the summer, without a more or less striking exhibition of this kind. The same
phenomena of rapidly varying refraction may often be witnessed at sunset, when the sun, sinking
into the lake, undergoes a most striking series of changes. At one moment it is drawn out into
a pear-like shape; the next it takes an elliptical form; and just as it disappears, the upper
part of its disk becomes elongated into a ribbon of light, which seems to float for a moment
upon the surface of the water.

Thunder-storms of great violence are not unusual, and sudden gusts of wind spring up on the
Lakes, and those who navigate them pass sometimes instantaneously from a current of air blowing
briskly in one direction into one blowing with equal force from the opposite quarter. The lower
sails of a vessel are sometimes becalmed, while a smart breeze fills the upper.

The storms which agitate the Lakes, though less violent than the typhoons of the Indian Ocean
or the hurricanes of the Atlantic, are still very dangerous to mariners; and, owing to the
want of sea-room, and the scarcity of good harbors, shipwrecks are but too common, and frequently
attended with much loss of life. A short, ugly sea gets up very quickly after the wind begins
to blow hard, and subsides with equal celerity when the wind goes down.

The fluctuations in the level of the waters of these lakes have attracted much attention among
scientific observers; and as early as 1670, Father Dablon, in his "Relations," says,--"As to
the tides, it is difficult to lay down any correct rule. That the currents set almost constantly
in one direction, namely, towards the Lake of the Illinois, [Michigan,] which does not prevent
their ordinary rise and fall; 2d. That they almost invariably set against the wind,--sometimes
with as much force as the tides at Quebec,--and we have seen ice moving against the wind as
fast as boats under full sail; 3d. That among these currents we have discovered the emission
of a quantity of water which seems to spring up from the bottom."

Father Dablon is of opinion that the waters of Lake Superior enter into the Straits by a subterranean
passage. This theory, he says, is necessary to explain two things, namely: 1st. What, then,
becomes of the surplus water? 2d. The difficulty of explaining whence come the waters of Huron
and Michigan. Very few rivers flow into these lakes, and their volume of water is such as to
fortify the belief that it must be supplied through the subterranean river entering the Straits.

A large number of facts have been collected by Messrs. Foster and Whitney on the subject of
these oscillations of the Lake level; and, in fact, these phenomena have been for a long time
familiar to the residents on the Lake shores. They are generally attributed by scientific men
to atmospheric disturbances, which, by increasing or diminishing the atmospheric pressure,
produce a corresponding rise or fall in the water-level. These are the sudden and irregular
fluctuations.

The gradual fluctuations are probably caused by the variable amount of rain which falls in
the vast area of country drained by the Lakes. Thus, at Fort Brady, where the mean of five
years' observations is 29.68 inches, the extremes are 36.92 and 22.44.

An idea has been long prevalent among the old residents, derived from the Indians, that there
is a variation of the Lake surface which extends over a period of fourteen years,--that is,
the Lakes rise for seven years, and fall for seven years. The records kept by accurate observers
at various points on the Lakes for the last ten years do not seem to confirm this theory; but
it has been well established by the recent observations of Colonel Graham, at both ends of
Lake Michigan, that there is a semi-diurnal lunar tide on that lake of at least one third of
a foot.

The evaporation from this great water-surface must be immense. It has been estimated at 11,800,000,000,000
cubic feet per annum; and in this way alone can we account for the difference between the volume
of water which enters the Lakes and that which leaves them at the Falls of Niagara. Immense
as is the quantity of water which pours over the Falls, it is small in comparison with the
floods which combine to make up the Upper Lakes.

In the year 1832, about the close of the Black Hawk War, the tonnage of the Lakes was only
7,000 tons. In 1845 it had increased to 132,000 tons, and in 1858 it was 404,301 tons. Or,
if we take Chicago, the chief city of the Lakes, we find that her imports and exports were,--

  Imports.                     Exports.
  In 1836,              $   325,203                 $    1,000
  "  1851,               24,410,400                  5,395,471
  "  1859, estimated     60,000,000                 24,280,890

In the year 1858, there were on the Lakes,--

  American vessels, 1,194.  Tonnage, 399,443
  Canadian   "        321.     "      59,580

  Value of American tonnage on the
  Lakes,                         $16,000,000

  Value of Lake commerce, import
  and exports,                  $600,000,000

  Number of seamen employed,          13,000

Taking the island of Mackinac as the geographical centre of this navigation, we find the distances
as follows:--

  Miles.
  From Mackinac to head of Lake Superior    550
  "       "      " Chicago                  350
  "       "      " East end of Georgian
  Bay                  300
  "       "      " Buffalo                  700
  "       "      " Gulf of St. Lawrence   1,600

Or ninety thousand miles of lakes and rivers, extending half across the continent.

The following table shows the amount of tonnage belonging to different cities in 1857:--

  Tons.                        Tons.
  New York,        1,377,424    Charleston,     56,430
  Boston,            447,966    Detroit,        57,707
  Bath,              189,932    New Bedford,   152,799
  Baltimore,         191,618    New Orleans,   173,167
  Providence,         15,152    Cleveland,      63,361
  Philadelphia,      211,380    Chicago,        67,316
  Buffalo,           100,226    Milwaukie,      22,339

This shows that Chicago had in 1857, being then twenty-five years old, a larger tonnage than
Charleston, the capital of the Palmetto Kingdom; and Milwaukie, still younger than Chicago,
owned a larger amount of tonnage than the old and wealthy city of Providence.

In 1857, the export of grain from the Lake ports was sixty-five million bushels; in 1860, it
was estimated at one hundred millions.

The coal-trade of Cleveland, in 1858, was 129,000 tons. A large amount was also shipped from Erie.

In 1858, the salt-trade of the Lakes amounted to more than six hundred thousand barrels, most
of which was shipped from the port of Oswego on Lake Ontario.

The lumber received at Chicago in 1858 amounted to: Boards, 273,000,000 feet; shingles, 254,000,000;
lath, 45,000,000: worth $2,442,500.

The present navigable outlets to this great commerce are three in number. First, the Erie Canal,
from Buffalo to Albany, which, in its enlarged form, takes probably two-thirds of the productions
of the Lake regions. Second, the River St. Lawrence, which, by means of the Welland Canal,
secures a good share of the trade. Third, the Illinois and Michigan Canal, which conveys large
quantities of lumber, salt, and other heavy goods to the Illinois River and the Mississippi.
Of course, more or less produce is taken to the seaboard by the railroads; but, even if they
could compete in price with water-carriage, it is evident that they are incapable of moving
the surplus grain of the Northwest, as it now is. Another great navigable outlet to the Lakes
is needed, so that vessels of the largest class may sail from the elevators of Chicago to the
Liverpool docks without breaking bulk; and in reference to this, a survey has recently been
made by Thomas C. Clarke, under the direction of the Canadian Government, for a ship-navigation
between Montreal and Lake Huron, by way of the Ottawa River, Lake Nipissing, and French River.
The Report shows that the cost of the work for vessels of one thousand tons burden would be
twelve million dollars,--and that it would cut off a distance nearly equal to the whole length
of Lakes Erie and Ontario, thus saving from three hundred and fifty to four hundred miles of
navigation. In view of the fact that the navigation of St. Clair and Erie is the most troublesome
and dangerous part of the voyage, this plan certainly deserves attention.

It is easy to see what a prolific nursery of seamen this Lake commerce must be, and how valuable
a resource in a war with any great naval power. It is a resource which was wholly wanting to
us in the War of 1812, when Commodore Perry had to bring his sailors from the seaboard with
great difficulty and expense. In any future war with England, supposing such an unhappy event
to take place, our great numerical superiority upon the Lakes in both vessels and sailors would
not only insure our supremacy there, but also afford a large surplus of men for our ocean marine.

But it may be said that these men are only fresh-water sailors, after all, and are not to be
relied upon for ocean-navigation. We know there used to be a notion prevailing, that neither
Lake vessels nor Lake men would do for salt water; but in 1856, the schooner Dean Richmond
took a cargo of wheat from Chicago to Liverpool, beating a large fleet of ocean craft from
Quebec across the Atlantic, and otherwise behaving so well as to cause the sale of the vessel
in England. This voyage encouraged others to try the experiment, and in 1859 from thirty to
forty Lake vessels loaded for ocean ports.

That this trade will be very much increased there is no doubt, since it affords occupation
for the Lake marine in the winter, when the Lake ports are closed by ice.

On the western shore of Lake Michigan there are large settlements of Norwegians and Swedes,
many of whom follow the Lakes as fishermen and sailors. Descendants of the old Northern sea-kings,
they are as hardy and adventurous here as in their Scandinavian homes, and run their vessels
earlier and later in the season than other men are willing to do.

Science might have anticipated, however, that vessels built for fresh-water navigation, and
loaded at Lake ports, would have an advantage on the ocean over those loaded on salt water.
As is the density of the water of any sea, so is the displacement, or the sinking of the vessel
therein. Therefore a vessel can carry a larger cargo in salt water than she can in fresh; and
so, a Lake craft, loading at Chicago as deep as she can swim, will find herself, when she reaches
the ocean, much more buoyant and lively. So, also, as, the more sail a vessel carries, the
deeper she penetrates the water, it follows, that, the more dense the water, the more sail
she can carry.

In proof of these statements, the "Merchants' Magazine" tells us, that English vessels bound
up the Black Sea take smaller cargoes than those going to the Mediterranean, because, the former
being much less salt than the latter, vessels are less buoyant thereon, and can carry less.
This difference in buoyancy will probably be enough to offset the higher seas and rougher weather
of the Atlantic.

Thus it appears that this great basin extends through so many degrees of latitude that its
lakes and streams connect with the mineral regions and pine forests of the North, the wheat-
and corn-lands and cattle-ranges of the Middle States, and the cotton-and sugar-plantations
of the South.

The pine forests of Maine, it is well known, have been for some time failing, under the great
demand upon them; and the only resource will soon be in those of Wisconsin, Minnesota, and
Michigan, from which many cargoes have been already sent to the Atlantic ports. The amount
of lumber made in these pineries in 1860 is estimated at twelve hundred million feet, worth
between eight and nine millions of dollars. Most of this goes to the country west of the Lakes,--to
Chicago, to St. Louis, and even down the river to New Orleans. Since railroads have penetrated
the great prairies and made them habitable, the demand for pine lumber has greatly increased
both for building and fencing; and it has been estimated, that, if every quarter-section of
land in Iowa and Illinois were surrounded with a "three-board" fence, it would consume every
foot of pine-timber in Michigan.

As to the copper and iron mines of Lake Superior, many dabblers in fancy stocks are but too
well acquainted with them, and many burned fingers testify against those investments of capital.
Still, the amount of mineral is immense, and the quality of the purest; and these mines will
no doubt pay well, if worked with skill and capital.

Since 1845, one hundred and sixteen copper-mining companies have been organized in Michigan,
under the general law of the State; and the amount of capital invested in them is estimated
at six millions of dollars. Most of this is lost. On the other hand, the "Cliff" and "Minnesota"
mines have returned over two millions of dollars in dividends. The latter is said to have paid,
in 1858, a dividend of $300,000 on a paid-up capital of $66,000. Mining is a lottery, and this
brilliant prize cannot conceal the fact that blanks fall to the lot of by far the more numerous
part of the ticket-holders.

The opening of the Sault Canal has very much aided in developing the resources of the Upper
Peninsula. In 1845, the Lake Superior fleet consisted of three schooners. In 1860, one hundred
vessels passed through the canal, loaded with supplies for the mining country, and returned
with cargoes of copper and iron ore and fish. The copper is smelted in Detroit, Cleveland,
and Boston. In 1859, 3,000 tons were landed in Detroit, producing from 60 to 70 per cent of
ingot copper, being among the purest ores in the world.

The iron ore of this region is also of extraordinary purity; and for all purposes where great
strength and tenacity are required, it is unrivalled, as the following table, showing the relative
strength, per square inch, as compared with other kinds of iron, will prove:--

  Best Swedish ...... 58.184
  English cable...... 59.105
  Essex Co., N.Y..... 59.962
  Lancaster, Pa...... 58.661
  Common English .... 30.000
  Best Russia ....... 76.069
  Lake Superior ..... 89.582

With such iron to be had of American manufacture, why should we use a rotten English article
for car-wheels and boiler-plates, and so sacrifice the lives of thousands every year? Because,
by an unwise legislation, the foreign article is made a little cheaper to the American consumer.

There are ten large forges in operation in Michigan, with a capital of over two millions of
dollars; and the shipments of ore from Marquette in 1859 were over 75,000 tons. The country
back of Marquette is full of mountains of iron ore, yielding 60 or 70 per cent, of pure metal,
sufficient to supply the world for ages.

Traces have been found, through the whole of this copper-region, of a rude species of mining
practised here long before it became known to the whites. The existing races of Indians had
not even a tradition by whom it was done; and the excavations were unknown to them, until pointed
out by the white man. Messrs. Foster and Whitney, in their survey of the copper-lands, found
a pine-stump ten feet in circumference, which must have grown, flourished, and died since the
mound of earth upon which it stood was thrown out. Mr. Knapp discovered, in 1848, a deserted
mine or excavation, in which, under eighteen feet of rubbish, he found a mass of native copper
weighing over six tons, resting on billets of oak supported by sleepers of the same material.
The ancient miners had evidently raised the mass about five feet, and then abandoned it. Around
it, among the accumulation of rubbish, were found a large number of stone hammers, and some
copper chisels, but no utensils of iron. In some instances, explorers have been led to select
valuable mining-sites by the abundance of these stone hammers found about the ground. Traces
of tumuli have also been found in these regions, which would seem to indicate some connection
between these ancient miners and the mound-builders of the Mississippi Valley,--especially
as in those western mounds copper rings have frequently been found.

The economical value of the Lake fisheries is considerable. The total catch of white-fish,
trout, and pickerel, the only kinds which are packed, to any extent, was estimated for 1859
at 110,000 barrels, worth about $880,000. These find a market through the States of Ohio, Kentucky,
Indiana, and Illinois; besides a large quantity which are consumed in a fresh state, in the
Lake cities and towns.

The White-Fish, (Coregonus Albus,) which is the most valuable of all, somewhat resembles the
shad in appearance and taste. It is taken in seines and other nets,--never with the hook. The
white-fish of Lake Superior are larger, fatter, and of finer flavor than any others. In this
lake they have sometimes been taken weighing fifteen pounds. At the Sault they are taken in
the rapids with dip-nets, by the Chippewas who live in that vicinity, and are of very fine
flavor; those of Detroit River and the Straits of Mackinac are also very good; but when you
go south, into Lake Erie or Michigan, the quality of the fish deteriorates. Few travellers
ever taste a white-fish in perfection. As eaten upon hotel-tables at Buffalo or Chicago, it
is a poor and tasteless fish. But, as found at the old French boarding-houses at Mackinac or
the Sault, or, better still, cooked fresh from the icy waters on the rocky shores of Superior,
it is, to our thinking, the best fish that swims,--better than the true salmon or brook-trout.
The famous fish once so plenty in Otsego Lake, but now nearly extinct, was a Coregonus, and
first cousin to this one of the Great Lakes.

So Sebago Lake, near Portland, some fifty years ago, boasted of a delicious red-fleshed trout,
of large size, which has in these latter times, from netting or some other improper fishing,
nearly or quite disappeared from those waters, leaving upon the palates of old anglers the
remembrance of a flavor higher and richer than anything now remaining.

The Lake Trout, or Mackinac Salmon, is the largest of the family of Salmonidoe, growing, it
is said, sometimes to the weight of one hundred pounds. From twenty to thirty pounds is not
uncommon, which is much larger than the average of Salmo Salar, the true salmon. Truth compels
us to add, however, that our salmon of the Lakes is inferior to his kinsman of the salt water;
though, as in the case of the white-fish, he has been slandered by ignorant people, such as
newspaper letter-writers, and the like. When taken from the clear, cold waters of Lake Huron
or the Straits, and boiled as nearly alive as humanity will permit, Salmo Namaycush is nearly
equal to the true salmon; but after two or three days in ice, "how stale, flat, and unprofitable!"

The Muskelunge (Esox Estor) is peculiar to this basin, and is the largest of the pickerels,
weighing from ten to eighty pounds. It is a very handsome and game fish, and is the king, or
tyrant, of the water, devouring without mercy everything smaller than itself; though its favorite
food is the white-fish, which, perhaps, accounts for the superior flavor of this huge pike,
which is one of the very best of fresh-water fishes.

Another excellent fish for the table is the Pike-Perch, (Lucio-Perca) or Glass-Eyed Pike, from
his large, brilliant eyes. In Ohio, it is called the salmon, and by the Canadians the pickerel,
while, with singular perversity, they persist in calling our pickerel a pike. It is a very
firm, well-flavored fish, weighing from two to ten pounds, and is found in all the Great Lakes.

Professor Agassiz was the first to describe a large and valuable species of pike, which he
found in Lake Superior,--the Northern Pike (Esox Boreus). This is the most common species of
pike in the St. Lawrence basin, though usually confounded with the common pickerel (Esox Reticulatus).
It grows to the size of fifteen or twenty pounds, and is a better table-fish than Esox Reticulatus.
It may be distinguished by the rows of spots sides, of a lighter color than the ground upon
which they are arranged. It differs from the Muskelunge in having the lower jaw full of teeth;
whereas in the Muskelunge the anterior half of the lower jaw is toothless.

All the streams which empty into Lake Superior, those of the north shore of Lake Huron, the
west shore of Lake Michigan as far as Lake Winnebago, and all the streams of Lake Ontario,
contain the Speckled Trout (Salmo Fontinalis); while they are not found in the streams on the
southern coasts of Lake Michigan, or (so far as we know) in the streams of Lake Erie. What
can determine this limitation of the range of the species? It cannot be latitude, since trout
are found in Pennsylvania and Virginia. It is not longitude, since they occur in the head-waters
of the Iowa rivers. So Professor Agassiz found that Lake Superior contained species which were
not to be found in the other lakes, and that the other lakes, again, contained species which
did not occur in Lake Superior. He says, in his work on Lake Superior,

"It is the great question of the unity or plurality of creations; it is not less the question
of the origin of animals from single pairs or in large numbers; and, strange to say, a thorough
examination of the fishes of Lake Superior, compared with those of the adjacent waters, is
likely to throw more light upon such questions, than all traditions, however ancient, however
near in point of time to the epoch of Creation itself."

In Lake Superior is likewise found that remarkable salmon, the Siscowet,--which is so fat and
luscious as to be uneatable in a fresh state, and requires to be salted to render it fit for
food. It commands a much higher price by the barrel than the lake-trout or white-fish, and
is rarely to be met with out of the Lake cities.

In this basin is also found the Gar-Pike, (Lepidosteus,) a singular animal, which is the only
living representative of the fishes that existed in the early ages of the earth's history,--and
which, by its formidable array of teeth, its impenetrable armor, and its swiftness and voracity,
gives us some idea of the terrible creatures which peopled the waters of that period.

We have thus hastily sketched the character and indicated the resources of that great Northwest,
which, little more than fifty years ago a wilderness, is now a cluster of republics holding
more than the balance of power in the Union. Idle speculatists, terrified by the violence of
South Carolina, and believing that on her withdrawal the sky is to fall, are already predicting
the dismemberment of East and West. But we think the chance of it is growing less, year by
year. The two are now bound indissolubly together by lines of railroad, which, during a part
of the year, are the most convenient outlet of the West toward the sea. Those States, just
as they are arriving at a controlling influence in the affairs of a great and powerful nation,
are hardly likely to seclude themselves from the rest of the world in what would, from its
position, be at best an insignificant republic.

       *       *       *       *       *

E PLURIBUS UNUM.

       *       *       *       *       *

REVIEWS AND LITERARY NOTICES.

Personal History of Lord Bacon, From Unpublished Papers. By WILLIAM HEPWORTH DIXON, of the
Inner Temple. Boston: Ticknor & Fields. 12mo. pp. 424.

The life of Bacon, as it has been ordinarily written, presents contrasts so strange, that thoughtful
readers have been compelled either to doubt the accuracy of the narrative, or to admit that
in his case Nature departed from her usual processes, and embodied antithesis in a man. The
character suggested by the events of his life has long been in direct opposition to the character
impressed on his writings; and Macaulay, who gave to the popular opinion its most emphatic
and sparkling expression, increased this difference by exaggerating the opposite elements of
the human epigram, and ended in manufacturing the most brilliant monstrosity that ever bore
the name of a person. Lord Campbell followed with a biography having all the appearance of
conscientious research and judicial impartiality, but which was really nothing more than a
weak translation of Macaulay's vivid sentences into such English "as it had pleased God to
endow him withal." Bacon, to all inquiring men, still remained outside of the statements of
both; and after the lapse of nearly two centuries, the slight biographical sketch by his chaplain,
Dr. Rawleigh, conveyed a juster idea of the man than all the biographies by which it had been
succeeded, but not superseded.

Mr. Dixon's "Personal History of Lord Bacon" is the first attempt to vindicate his fame by
original research into unpublished documents. It is a mortifying reflection to all who speak
the English tongue, that this task should have been deferred so long. There has been no lack
of such research in regard to insignificant individuals who have been accidentally connected
with events which come within the cognizance of English historians; but the greatest Englishman
among all English politicians and statesmen since the Norman Conquest has heretofore been honored
with no biographer who considered him worthy the labor which has been lavished on inferior
men. The readers of Macaulay's four volumes of English history have often expressed their amazement
at his minute knowledge of the political mediocrities of the time of James II. and William
III. He spared neither time nor labor in collecting and investigating facts regarding comparatively
unknown persons who happened to be connected with his subject; but in his judgment of a man
who, considered simply as a statesman, was infinitely greater than Halifax or Dauby, he depends
altogether on hearsay, and gives that hearsay the worst possible appearance. In his article
on Bacon, he not merely evinces no original research, but he so combines the loose statements
he takes for granted, that, in his presentation of them, they make out a stronger case against
Bacon than is warranted by their fair interpretation. Indeed, leaving out the facts which Macaulay
suppresses or is ignorant of, and taking into account only those which he includes, his judgment
of Bacon is still erroneous. Long before we read Mr. Dixon's book, we had reversed Macaulay's
opinion merely by scrutinizing, and restoring to their natural relations, Macaulay's facts.

But Mr. Dixon's volume, while in style and matter it is one of the most interesting and entertaining
books of the season, is especially valuable for the new light it sheds on the subject by the
introduction of original materials. These materials, to be sure, were within the reach of any
person who desired to write an impartial biography; but Mr. Dixon no less deserves honor for
withstanding the prejudice that Bacon's moral character was unquestionably settled as base,
and for daring to investigate anew the testimony on which the judgment was founded. And there
can be no doubt that he has dispelled the horrible chimera, that the same man can be thoroughly
malignant or mean in his moral nature and thoroughly beneficent or exalted in his intellectual
nature. While we do not doubt that depravity and intelligence can make an unholy alliance,
we do doubt that the intelligence thus prompted can exhibit, to an eye that discerns spirits,
all the vital signs of benevolence. If, in the logic of character, Iago or Jerry Sneak be in
the premises, it is impossible to find Bacon in the conclusion.

The value of Mr. Dixon's book consists in its introduction of new facts to illustrate every
questionable incident in Bacon's career. It is asserted, for instance, that Bacon, as a member
of Parliament, was impelled solely by interested motives, and opposed the government merely
to force the government to recognize his claims to office. Mr. Dixon brings forward facts to
prove that his opposition is to be justified on high grounds of statesmanship; that he was
both a patriot and a reformer; that great constituencies were emulous to make him their representative;
that in wit, in learning, in reason, in moderation, in wisdom, in the power of managing and
directing men's minds and passions, he was the first man in the House of Commons; that the
germs of great improvements are to be found in his speeches; that, when he was overborne by
the almost absolute power of the Court, his apparent sycophancy was merely the wariness of
a wise statesman; that Queen Elizabeth eventually acknowledged his services to the country,
and, far from neglecting him, repeatedly extended to him most substantial marks of her favor.
This portion of Mr. Dixon's volume, founded on state-papers, will surprise both the defamers
and the eulogists of Bacon. It contains facts of which both Macaulay and Basil Montagu were
ignorant.

Of Bacon's relations with Essex we never had but one opinion. All the testimony brought forward
to convict Bacon of treachery to Essex seemed to us inconclusive. The facts, as stated by Macaulay
and Lord Campbell, do not sustain their harsh judgment. A parallel may be found in the present
political condition of our own country. Let us suppose Senator Toombs so fortunate as to have
had a wise counsellor, who for ten years had borne to him the same relation which Bacon bore
to Essex. Let us suppose that it was understood between them that both were in favor of the
Union and the Constitution, and that nothing was to be done to forward the triumph of their
party which was not strictly legal. Then let us suppose that Mr. Toombs, from the impulses
of caprice and passion, had secretly established relations with desperate disunionists, and
had thus put in jeopardy not only the interests, but the lives, of those who were equally his
friends and the friends of the Constitution. Let us further suppose that he had suddenly placed
himself at the head of an armed force to overturn the United States government at Washington,
while he was still a Senator from Georgia, sworn to support the Constitution of the United
States, and that his cheated friend and counsellor had just left the President of the United
States, after a long conference, in which he had attempted to show, to an incredulous listener,
that Senator Toombs was a devoted friend to the Union, though dissatisfied with some of the
members of the Administration. This is a very faint illustration of the political relations
between Essex and Bacon, admitting the generally received facts on which Bacon is execrated
as false to his friend. Mr. Dixon adduces new facts which completely justify Bacon's conduct.
If Bacon, like Essex, had been ruled by his passions, he would have been a far fiercer denouncer
of Essex's treason. He had every reason to be enraged. He was a wise man duped by a foolish
one. He was in danger of being implicated in a treason which he abhorred, through the perfidy
of a man who was generally considered as his friend and patron, and who was supposed to act
from his advice. As Bacon doubtless knew what we now for the first time know, every candid
reader must be surprised at the moderation of his course. Essex would not have hesitated to
shoot or stab Bacon, had Bacon behaved to him as he had behaved to Bacon. But we pardon, it
seems, the most hateful and horrible selfishness which springs from the passions; our moral
condemnation is reserved for that faint form of selfishness which may be suspected to have
its source in the intellect.

In regard to the other charges against Bacon, we think that Mr. Dixon has brought forward evidence
which must materially modify the current opinions of Bacon's personal character. He has proved
that Bacon, as a practical statesman, was in advance of his age, rather than behind it. He
has proved that his philosophy penetrated his politics, and that he gave wise advice, and recommended
large, liberal, and humane measures to a generation which could not appreciate them. He has
proved that he did everything that a man in his situation could do for the cause of truth and
justice which did not necessitate his retirement from public life. The abuses by which he may
have profited he not only did not defend, but tried to reform. Among the statesmen of his day
he appears not only intellectually superior, but conventionally respectable,--a fact which
would seem to be established by the bare statement, that he died wretchedly poor, while most
of them died enormously rich.

But Mr. Dixon, in his advocacy of Bacon, overlooks the circumstance, that no man could hold
high office under James I., without complying with abuses calculated to damage his reputation
with posterity. We have no doubt that Bacon's compliance was connected with considerations
which Mr. Dixon entirely ignores. Far from discriminating between Bacon the philosopher and
Bacon the politician, we have always thought that they were intimately connected. Bacon's Method,
the thing on which, as a philosopher, he especially prided himself, was defective. It left
out that power by which all discoveries have since his time been made, namely, scientific genius.
Its successful working depended on an immense collection of facts, which no individual, and
no society of individuals, could possibly make. He himself was never weary of asserting that
the Method could never produce its beneficent effects, unless it were assisted by the revenues
of a nation. Of the course which physical science really followed he had no prevision. Copernicus,
Kepler, Galileo, Gilbert, he never appreciated. He was an intellectual autocrat, who had matured
his own scheme of interpreting Nature, and thought, that, if it were systematically carried
out, the inmost secrets of Nature could he mastered. His desire to be Lord Chancellor of England
was subsidiary to his larger desire to be Lord Chancellor of Nature herself. He hoped, by managing
James and Buckingham, to flatter them into aiding, by the revenues of the State, his grand
philosophical scheme. Combine the facts which Mr. Dixon has disinterred with the facts which
every thoughtful reader of Bacon's philosophical works already knows, and the vindication of
Bacon as a man is complete.

We are inclined to think that he failed in both of the objects of his highest ambition. His
philosophic Method is demonstrably a failure; his attempt to convert James and Buckingham to
his views resulted in his own unjust disgrace with contemporaries and posterity. The truth
is, that, cool, serene, comprehensive, and unimpassioned as he appears, he was from his youth
actuated by a fanaticism which seems less intense than the fanaticism of a man like Cromwell
only because it was infinitely more broad. Had he succeeded in the design he proposed to himself,
his intellectual domination would not be confined to England, or the kingdoms of the civilized
world, but would be commensurate with the whole domain of Nature and man.

We are so grateful to Mr. Dixon for what he has done, that we are not disposed to quarrel with
him for what he has left undone. He has added such a mass of incontrovertible facts to the
materials which must enter into the future biography of Bacon, that his book cannot fail to
exact cordial praise from the most captious critics. Bacon, in his aspirations and purposes,
was a very much greater man than he appears in Mr. Dixon's biography; but still to Mr. Dixon
belongs the credit of rescuing his personal reputation from undeserved ignominy. If we add
to this his vivid pictures of the persons and events of the Elizabethan age, and his bright,
sharp, and brief way of flashing his convictions and discoveries on the mind of the reader,
we indicate merits which will make his volume generally and justly popular. The letters of
Lady Ann Bacon, the mother of the philosopher and statesman-letters for which we are indebted
to Mr. Dixon's exhaustive research--would alone be sufficient to justify the publication of
his interesting book.

Autobiography of Dr. Alexander Carlyle, Minister of Inveresk. With Memorials of the Men and
Events of his Time. Boston: Ticknor & Fields. 12mo. pp. 480.

Who was he? and what was he like?--Sir Walter Scott answered these interrogatories more than
thirty years ago, in this wise. He says, in his "Review of the Life and Works of John Home,"--"Dr.
Carlyle was, for a long period, clergyman of Musselburgh; his character was as excellent as
his conversation was amusing and instructive; his person and countenance, even at a very advanced
age, were so lofty and commanding, as to strike every artist with his resemblance to the Jupiter
Tonans of the Pantheon."

Sixty years ago, this old Scottish clergyman sat down, one January day, in Musselburgh, and
began to write his "Autobiography." He had lived seventy-nine years among scenes of great interest,
and had known men of remarkable genius. He wrote and died. The manuscript he left has been
often read and enjoyed by clever men and women, who in their turn have gone to the churchyard
to sleep with the venerable old man the story of whose life they had perused. Sir Walter himself
once caught a glimpse of the time-stained sheets. All are now dead who could by any chance
he pained by the publication of facts in which their relatives look part long years ago. So
the world has now another volume to add to the store of biography, and the future historian
will have another treasury of facts from which to illumine his pages.

Himself the son of a clergyman, Alexander Carlyle had a good school-drilling in Prestonpans,
where he was born. One of the stories of his childhood is very amusing, inasmuch as it pictures
a dozen old women listening to young Alexander, aged six, who reads the Song of Solomon to
them in a graveyard, he all the while perched on a tombstone. My Lord Grange was the principal
man in Prestonpans parish; and Master Carlyle, with his excellent father, had great reverence
for the patron who had been the cause of the family's transplantation from Annandale. My Lady
was a very lively person, daughter of the man who shot President Lockhart in the dark because
he had infuriated him in an arbitration case in the court. This great family attracted the
boyish wonder of young Carlyle, and some of the gossiping stories that he heard in his father's
house made his juvenile ears tingle. Poor Lady Grange! Quarrelling with her husband one day,
on his return from London, where pretty Fanny Lindsay, who kept a coffee-house in the Haymarket,
had bewitched him, she never knew peace again. Her temper, never very soothing or placable,
got entire possession of her life, and she rained stormy gusts of passion on her guilty lord.
He trembled and endured, till he found a razor concealed under his wife's pillow, and then
he determined to remove his violent helpmeet to a safe seclusion. By main force, with the aid
of accomplices, he seized the lady in his house in Edinburgh, and bore her through Stirling
to the Highlands. Thence she was taken to St. Kilda's desolate island, far off in the Western
Ocean, and there kept for the remainder of her days, scantily furnished with only the coarsest
fare. Her condition was most wretched to the last. In those days, licentiousness and religious
enthusiasm were not incompatible associates, and Lord Grange frequently spent his evenings
with the Minister of Prestonpans, praying, and settling high points of Calvinism with the old
pastor. Good Mrs. Carlyle used to complain that they did not part without wine, and that late
hours were consequent upon the claret they liberally imbibed after their pious discussions.

Dr. Doddridge's famous Colonel Gardiner came to reside in Minister Carlyle's parish, and told
the story of his remarkable conversion, with his own lips, to the clergyman. The hook which
turned him from his wicked career was Gurnall's "Christian Armor," a volume placed many years
before, by a mother's hand, in his trunk, and until then neglected. Young Carlyle hoard Gardiner
tell the story of his change of life several times to different sets of people, and he thought
Doddridge had marred the tale by introducing the incident of a blaze of light, which the Colonel
himself never spoke of having seen, when he related his conversion.

When Alexander was eleven years old, he took a little journey with his father and another clergyman
by the name of Jardine; and the two pious, elderly gentlemen, having a great turn for fun and
buffoonery, made sport wherever they went. Turning their wigs hind-part foremost, and making
faces, they delighted in diverting the children they encountered on the way.

Of many of the incidents of the Porteous Mob young Carlyle was a witness. He was in the Tolbooth
Church, at Edinburgh, when Robertson, a condemned smuggler, who was brought in to listen to
the discourse and prayers before execution, made his escape. The congregation were coming into
church while all the bells were ringing, when the criminal, watching his opportunity, sprang
suddenly over a pew, and was next heard of in Holland. When, a few weeks afterwards, Wilson,
another smuggler, was executed, Carlyle, with some of his school-fellows, was in a window on
the north side of the Grass-Market, and heard Porteous order his guard to fire on the people.
A young lad, who had been killed by a slug entering his head, was brought into the house where
the boys were on that occasion.

In the summer of 1737, young Carlyle might have been seen during the evening hours walking
anxiously about the Prestonpans fields. That season he had lost one of his fellow-pupils and
dearest friends, and they had often agreed together that whichever might die first should appear
there to the other, and reveal the secrets beyond the barrier. And so the survivor paced the
meadows, hoping to meet his old companion, who never appeared. In November of that year he
was at college, and his acquaintance with Robertson, afterwards the eminent historian, then
began. John Home, celebrated at a later period as the author of "Douglas," also became an intimate
friend. He now decided to choose a profession, and had wellnigh concluded an agreement with
two surgeons to study theirs, when he became disgusted with the meanness of the doctors, who
had bought for dissection the body of a child of a poor tailor for six shillings, the price
asked being six shillings and sixpence, from which they made the needy man abate the sixpence.
Turning from the niggardly surgeons, he enrolled his name as a student of divinity, and was
frequently in Edinburgh attending the lectures at Divinity Hall. Wonderfully cheap was the
living in those days, when, at the Edinburgh ordinaries, a good dinner could be had for fourpence,
small beer included. John Witherspoon, years after a member of the American Congress, then
a frank, generous young fellow, was a companion of Carlyle at this period, and they often went
fishing together in the streams near Gifford Hall.

The city of Glasgow, whither young Carlyle had gone to pursue his studies, was at this time
far inferior in point of commerce to what it afterwards became. The tobacco-trade with the
American colonies and the traffic in sugar and rum with the West Indies were the chief branches
of business. Carlyle did not find the merchants of those days interesting or learned people,
though they held a weekly club, where they discussed the nature and principle of trade, and
invited Alexander to join it. But he found life in Glasgow very dull, and was constantly complaining
that there was neither a teacher of French nor of music in the town. There was but one concert
during the two winters he spent there. Post-chaises and hackney-coaches were unknown, their
places being supplied by three or four old sedan-chairs, which did a brisk business in carrying
midwives about in the night, and old ladies to church and the dancing-assemblies. The principal
merchants began their business early in the morning, and took dinner about noon with their
families at home. Afterwards they resorted to the coffee-house, to read the newspapers and
enjoy a bowl of punch. Until an arch fellow from Dublin came to be master of the chief coffee-house,
nine o'clock was the hour for these worthy mercantile gentlemen to be at home in the evening.
The seductive Irish stranger began his wiles by placing a few nice cold relishing things on
the table, and so gradually led the way to hot suppers and midnight symposia. Towards the end
of his college-session, Carlyle was introduced to a club which gave him great satisfaction.
The principal member was Robert Simson, the celebrated mathematician. Simson was a great humorist,
and was particularly averse to the company of ladies. Matthew Stewart, afterwards Professor
of Mathematics at Edinburgh, was a constant attendant at this club.

On the breaking out of the Rebellion of 1745, the young divinity-student, having returned to
Edinburgh, joined the Volunteers, and entered warmly into all the bustle and business of those
exciting days. In the Battle of Prestonpans he took part, and was active to the end. When Prince
Charles Edward issued a proclamation of pardon to the Volunteers, Carlyle went down to the
Abbey Court to see him. The Prince mounted his horse, while the young man stood by, and rode
away to the east side of Arthur's Seat. Charles was at that time a good-looking gentleman,
of about five feet ten inches, with dark red hair and black eyes.

One Monday morning in October, a hundred and fifteen years ago, young Carlyle set out for Rotterdam,
on his way to Leyden, to join the British students there. Among them he found Charles Townshend
and John Wilkes, names afterwards famous in English politics. With Wilkes he became intimate,
and many a spirited talk they had together in their daily rambles.

But we cannot dwell upon the incidents of Carlyle's student-life on the Continent. Soon after
his return to Scotland he made acquaintance with Smollett, whose lively, agreeable manners
rendered him universally popular. Thomson, the author of "The Seasons," and Armstrong the poet,
were also at this time among his friends. In 1746 he preached his first sermon before the Presbytery
of Haddington, and got "universal approbation," especially from one young lady, to whom he
had been long attached. Robertson the historian and Home the dramatist were now among his neighbors,
and no doubt used their influence in getting the young clergyman a living. He finally settled
at Inveresk, where his life was a very pleasant round of cares and duties. Hume, Adam Smith,
Blair, Smollett, and Robertson now figure largely in his personal record, so that he had no
lack of genial companions. Adam Smith he describes as "a very absent man in society, moving
his lips, talking to himself, and smiling, in the midst of large companies." Robertson was
a very different person, and held all the conversation-threads in his own fingers, forgetting,
alas! sometimes, that he had not been present in many a scene which he described as an eye-witness.

Carlyle went some distance on the way toward London with Home, when he carried his tragedy
of "Douglas" for examination to the critics. Six other clergymen, accompanied the precious
manuscript on that expedition, and the fun was prodigious. Garrick read the play and pronounced
it totally unfit for the stage! "Douglas" was afterwards brought out in Edinburgh with unbounded
success. David Hume ran about crying it up as the first performance he world had seen for half
a century.

Carlyle's visit to Shenstone is very graphically described in the "Autobiography." The poet
was then "a large, heavy, fat man, dressed in white clothes and silver lace." One night in
Edinburgh, Dr. Robertson gave a small supper-party to "the celebrated Dr. Franklin," and Carlyle
met him that evening at table. They came together afterwards several times.

But we must refer our readers to the book itself, our limits not allowing more space for a
glance at one of the most entertaining works in modern biography.

The Laws of Race, as connected with Slavery. By the Author of "The Law of the Territories,"
"Rustic Rhymes," etc. Philadelphia: W.P. Hazard. 1860. 8vo. pp. 70.

There is no lack of talk and writing among us on political topics; but there is great lack
of independent and able thought concerning them. The disputes and the manoeuvres of parties
interfere with the study and recognition of the active principles which silently mould the
national character and history. The double-faced platforms of conventions, the loose manifestoes
of itinerant candidates for the Presidency, the rhetorical misrepresentations of "campaign
documents," form the staple of our political literature.

The writer of the pamphlet before us is one of the few men who not only think for themselves,
nut whose thoughts deserve attention. His essay on "The Law of the Territories" was distinguished
not more by its sound reasoning than by the candor of its statements and the calmness of its
tone and temper. If his later essay, on "The Laws of Race, as connected with Slavery," be on
the whole less satisfactory, this is to be attributed, not to any want in it of the same qualities
of thought and style as were displayed in his earlier work, but to the greater complexify and
difficulty of the subject itself. The question of Race, so far as it affects actual national
conditions, is one of the deepest and most intricate which can be presented to the student
of politics. It is impossible to investigate it without meeting with difficulties which in
the present state of knowledge cannot be solved, or without opening paths of speculation which
no human foresight can trace to their end. This is, indeed, no reason for not attempting its
discussion; and Mr. Fisher, in treating it in its relation to Slavery, has done good work,
and has brought forward important, though much neglected considerations. He endeavors to place
the whole subject of the relations of the white and the black races in this country on philosophic
grounds, and to deduce the principles which must govern them from the teachings of ethnological
science, or, in other words, from natural laws which human device can neither abrogate nor alter.

From these teachings he derives the three following conclusions.

"The white race must of necessity, by reason of its superiority, govern the negro, wherever
the two live together.

"The two races can never amalgamate, and form a new species of man, but must remain forever
distinct,--though mulattoes and other grades always exist, because constantly renewed.

"Each race has a tendency to occupy exclusively that portion of the country suited to its nature."

If true, these conclusions are of the utmost importance. They are higher laws, which "must
rule our politics and our destiny, either by the Constitution or over it, either with the Union
or without it; and no wit or force of man is strong enough to resist them." It is to the exposition
of the results which follow from these conclusions, assuming them to be true, that the larger
part of the present essay is devoted.

That these propositions express, or at least point the way to essential truths, we are fully
persuaded. But we are not ready to accept all the inferences which the author draws from them,
or to admit that they afford sufficient basis for some of his minor assumptions.

Arguing from his first conclusion, the author draws the inference that "slavery is the necessary
result" of the nature of the black and of the white man. "The negro is by nature indolent and
improvident." "He is also ignorant." "He requires restraint and guidance"; "otherwise he would
sink into helpless, hopeless vice, idleness, and misery." But in these words, and in others
to the same purport, Mr. Fisher assumes that the nature of the black is incapable of such improvement
as to make what he calls the necessary condition of servitude needless in the interest of either
race. We are surprised that so good a reasoner should speak of the ignorance of the black as
a natural disqualification for independence, and the more so, because, in another passage,
Mr. Fisher says, with truth, "We darken his mind with ignorance." That some form of subjection
of the negro may be necessary for a time that extends far into the future is a point we will
not dispute; but that slavery, as that word is generally understood, is the necessary result
of his nature and of our nature we believe to be utterly untrue. The whole history of American
slavery, far from exhibiting the negro as incapable of improvement, shows him making a slow
and irregular advance in the development of intellectual and moral qualities, under circumstances
singularly unfavorable. It is the plea of the advocates of the slave-trade, that the black
is civilized by contact with the white. The plea is not without truth. It is the universal
testimony of slave-owners, and the common observation of travellers, that the city and house
slaves, that is, those who are brought into most constant and close relations with the whites,
show higher mental development than those who are confined to the fields. The experiment of
education, continued for more than one generation, has never been tried. The black is in many
of his endowments inferior to the white; but until he and his children and his children's children
have shown an incapacity to be raised by a suitable training, honestly given, to an intellectual
and moral condition that shall fit them for self-dependence, we have no right to assert that
slavery is a necessary condition, if in the meaning of necessary we include the idea of permanence.
It is not needful to present here other objections to this sweeping assertion. They are old,
well-known, and unanswerable. In the States that lie on the Gulf of Mexico the negro "has found
a congenial climate and obtained a permanent foothold." "The negro multiplies there; the white
man dwindles and decays." We should be glad to quote at length the striking pages in which
Mr. Fisher shows the prospect of the ultimate and not distant ascendency of the black race
in this new Africa. The considerations he presents are of vital consequence to the South, of
consequence only less than vital to the North. But by the side of "New-Africa" are States and
Territories in which the black race has little or no foothold. Free, civilized, and prosperous
communities are brought face to face, as it were, with the mixed and degenerating populations
of the Slave country. In the Free States the white race is increasing in numbers and advancing
in prosperity with unexampled rapidity. In the Slave States the black race is growing in far
greater proportion than the white, the most important elements of prosperity are becoming exhausted,
and the forces of civilization are incompetent to hold their own against the ever-increasing
weight of barbarism. Shall this new Africa push its boundaries beyond their present limits?
Shall more territory be yielded to the already wide-spread African, race? It is not the question,
whether the unoccupied spaces of the South and West shall be settled by Northern white emigrants
with their natural property, or by Southern white emigrants with their legal property,--and
there an end; but it is the question, whether New England or New Africa shall extend her limits,--whether
the country shall be occupied a century hence by a civilized or by a barbarous race. Every
rood of ground yielded to the pretensions of the masters of slaves is so much of the heirloom
of freedom and of civilization lost without hope of recovery. Slavery is transient.

As an institution, such as it has developed itself in our Southern States, it has already,
given tokens of decay. But the qualities of race are so slowly affected by change as to admit
of being called constant and permanent. The predominant influence of the blacks in the Cotton
States is already (even putting aside the results of slavery) exhibiting itself in the lowering
of the whites. These States are becoming uninhabitable for the whites,--not by reason of climate,
or of slavery as an institution, but by reason of the operation of the inevitable increase
of the slaves. They must have the land, and the stronger race will be driven out by the weaker,
on account of the preponderance of their numbers and the vis inertice of their natures. There
is no room in the United States, or in any of their unsettled territory, for the expansion
of this transatlantic Africa. Where the black race is now settled it will stay, but it must
be confined within its present limits.

We do not look upon the simple secession of the Slave States, or of any one of them, as dangerous,
so far as the extension of slavery is concerned,--rather, on the contrary, as likely to end
the great debate by securing all unoccupied territory to the North, to freedom, and to the
white races. It is only, if an attempt should be made, for the sake of what is miscalled peace,
and for the sake of the Union, to conciliate the misguided and unfortunate people of the South
by compromise or concession, that we fear the consequences.

The responsibility under which we are to act is not for our own moral convictions alone, but
also for the happiness of all future times. There is no room for concession, no space for compromise,
in the settlement of the question of the prevalence of the black or of the white race on this
continent,--in other words, the prevalence of liberty and Christianity and all their attendant
blessings, or that of ignorance and barbarism with their train. "We will decide this question,"
says Mr. Fisher, whose words were written before the necessity for decision was so distinctly
presented as at present, "we will decide it, if we can, as a united people; but if we cannot,
if cotton and slavery and the negro have already weakened our Southern brethren by their spells
and enchantments, so that the South cannot decide according to the traditions and impulses
of our race, then we of the North will still decide it, as by right we may,--by right of reason,
of race, and of law."

The Conduct of Life. By R.W. EMERSON Boston: Ticknor & Fields. 16mo. pp. 288.

It is a singular fact, that Mr. Emerson is the most steadily attractive lecturer in America.
Into that somewhat cold-waterish region adventurers of the sensation kind come down now and
then with a splash, to become disregarded King Logs before the next season. But Mr. Emerson
always draws. A lecturer now for something like a quarter of a century, one of the pioneers
of the lecturing system, the charm of his voice, his manner, and his matter has never lost
its power over his earlier hearers, and continually winds new ones in its enchanting meshes.

We call it a singular fact, because we Yankees are thought to be fond of the spread-eagle style,
and nothing can be more remote from that than his. We are reckoned a practical folk, who would
rather hear about a new air-tight stove than about Plato; yet our favorite teacher's practicality
is not in the least of the Poor Richard variety. If he have any Buncombe constituency, it is
that unrealized commonwealth of philosophers which Plotinus proposed to establish; and if he
were to make an almanac, his directions to farmers would be something like this:--"OCTOBER:
Indian Summer; now is the time to get in your early Vedas." What, then, is his secret? Is it
not that he out-Yankees us all? that his range includes us all? that he is equally at home
with the potato-disease and original sin, with pegging shoes and the Over-soul? that, as we
try all trades, so has he tried all cultures? and above all, that his mysticism gives us a
counterpoise to our super-practicality?

There is no man living to whom, as a writer, so many of us feel and thankfully acknowledge
so great an indebtedness for ennobling impulses,--none whom so many cannot abide. What does
he mean? ask these last. Where is his system? What is the use of it all? What the deuse have
we to do with Brahma? Well, we do not propose to write an essay on Emerson at the fag-end of
a February "Atlantic," with Secession longing for somebody to hold it, and Chaos come again
in the South Carolina teapot. We will only say that we have found grandeur and consolation
in a starlit night without caring to ask what it meant, save grandeur and consolation; we have
liked Montaigne, as some ten generations before us have done, without thinking him so systematic
as some more eminently tedious (or shall we say tediously eminent?) authors; we have thought
roses as good in their way as cabbages, though the latter would have made a better show in
the witness-box, if cross-examined as to their usefulness; and as for Brahma, why, he can take
care of himself, and won't bite us at any rate.

The bother with Mr. Emerson is, that, though he writes in prose, he is essentially a poet.
If you undertake to paraphrase what he says, and to reduce it to words of one syllable for
infant minds, you will make as sad work of it as the good monk with his analysis of Homer in
the "Epistolae Obscurorum Virorum." We look upon him as one of the few men of genius whom our
age has produced, and there needs no better proof of it than his masculine faculty of fecundating
other minds. For choice and pith of language he belongs to a better age than ours, and might
rub shoulders with Fuller and Browne,--though he does use that abominable word, reliable. His
eye for a fine, telling phrase that will carry true is like that of a backwoodsman for a rifle;
and he will dredge you up a choice word from the ooze of Cotton Mather himself. A diction at
once so rich and so homely as his we know not where to match in these days of writing by the
page; it is like homespun cloth-of-gold. The many cannot miss his meaning, and only the few
can find it. It is the open secret of all true genius. What does he mean, quotha? He means
inspiring hints, a divining-rod to your deeper nature, "plain living and high thinking." We
meant only to welcome this book, and not to review it. They need no invitation to Emerson.
"Would you know," says Goethe, "the ripest cherries? Ask the boys and the blackbirds." He does
not advise you to inquire of the crows.

RECENT AMERICAN PUBLICATIONS

RECEIVED BY THE EDITORS OF THE ATLANTIC MONTHLY.

Struggle for Life. By the Author of "Seven Stormy Sundays," etc. Boston. Walker, Wise, & Co.
12mo. pp. 311. $1.00.

The Laws of Race, as connected with Slavery. By the Author of "The Law of the Territories,"
etc. Philadelphia. Willis P. Hazard. 8vo. paper, pp. 70. 38 cts.

On the Study of Words. Lectures addressed (originally) to the Pupils of the Diocesan Training-School,
Winchester. By Richard Chenevix Trench, D.D. A New Edition, enlarged and revised. New York.
W.J. Widdleton. 12mo. pp. 249. 75 cts.

Sermons preached in Westminster Abbey. By Richard Chenevix Trench. New York. W.J. Widdleton.
12mo. pp. 368. $1.00.

Kormak, an Icelandic Romance of the Tenth Century. In Six Cantos. Boston. Walker, Wise, & Co.
16mo. pp. 118. 75 cts.

Optimism, the Lesson of Ages. A Compendium of Democratic Theology. Written by Benjamin Blood.
Boston. Bela Marsh. 12mo. pp. 132. 60 cts.

Ninety Days' Worth of Europe. By Edward E. Hale. Boston. Walker, Wise, & Co. 16mo. pp. 224. 75 cts.

Result of Some Researches among the British Archives for Information relative to the Founders
of New England, made in the Years 1858, '59, and '60. By Samuel G. Drake. Boston. Published
at the Office of the New England Historical Register. Small 4to. pp. 131. $1.50. New York.
D. Appleton & Co. 8vo. pp. 788, vii. $3.00.

The Silver Penny Series. Comprising Six Volumes, neatly put up in a Box, for Children. Boston.
Walker, Wise, & Co. 24mo. 25 cts. each.

The Odyssey of Homer, with the Hymns, Epigrams, and Battle of the Frogs and Mice. Literally
translated, with Explanatory Notes, by Theodore Alois Buckley, B.A. New York. Harper L Brothers.
16mo. pp. 432. 75 cts.

Herodotus. Recensuit Josephus Williams Blakesley, S.T.B. New York. Harper & Brothers. 32mo.
2 vols. pp. 362 and 364. $1.50.

Hymns for Mothers and Children. Compiled by the Author of "Violet," "Daisy," etc. Boston. Walker,
Wise, & Co. 12mo. pp. 287. $1.25.

Martin's Natural History. Translated from the Thirty-Fifth German Edition. By Sarah A. Myers.
Containing Two Hundred and Sixty-Two beautifully-colored Illustrations. Second Series. New
York. Phinney, Blakeman, & Mason. 12mo. pp. 490. $1.50. III. New York. Sheldon & Co. 12mo.
pp. 525. $1.50.

Studies from Life. By the Author of "John Halifax," etc. New York. Harper & Brothers. 16mo.
pp. 290. 75 cts.

Hallam's Middle Ages. Boston Library Edition. Boston. Crosby, Nichols, Lee, & Co. Crown 8vo.
3 vols. $3.75.

The Printer-Boy; or, How Ben Franklin made his Mark. An Example for Youth. By William M. Thayer.
Boston. J.E. Tilton & Co. 18mo. pp. 261. 75 cts.

The Diary of George Washington, from 1789 to 1791; embracing the Opening of the First Congress,
and his Tours through New England, Long Island, and the Southern States, together with his
Journal of a Tour to the Ohio, in 1753. Edited by Benson J. Lossing. New York. Charles B. Richardson
& Co. 12mo. pp. 248. $1.00

Songs for the Sorrowing. By H.N. With an Introduction, by Wm. R. Williams, D.D. New York. Phinney,
Blakeman, & Mason, 12mo. pp. 284. $1.00.

Chambers's Encyclopaedia. A Dictionary of Universal Knowledge for the People. Part 22. Edited
by his Son, Whinlow C. Watson. New York. D. Appleton & Co. 12mo. pp. 557. $1.50.

Up the River. By Jacob Abbott. New York. Harper & Brothers. 18mo. pp. 192. 50 cts.

Coins, Medals, and Seals, Ancient and Modern. Illustrated and described by W.C. Prime. New
York. Harper & Brothers. Small 4to. pp. 292. $3.00.

Principles of Physics; or, Natural Philosophy. Designed for the Use of Colleges and Schools.
By Benjamin Silliman, Jr. Philadelphia. H.C. Peck & Theodore Bliss. 12mo. pp. 700. $2.00.

What we Eat. An Account of the most Common Adulterations of Food and Drink, with Simple Tests
by which many of them may be detected. By Thomas H. Hoskins, M.D. Boston. T.O.H.P. Burnham.
12mo. pp. 218. 63 cts.

Correspondence of Fräulein Günderode and Bettine von Arnim. Boston. T.O.H.P. Burnham. 12mo.
pp. 344. $1.00.

The Personal History of Lord Bacon. From Unpublished Documents. $1.25. Boston. Ticknor & Fields.
12mo. pp. 480. $1.50.

The Life and Times of Philip Schuyler. By Benson J. Lossing. New York. Mason Brothers. 12mo.
pp. 502. $1.50.

The Works of Francis Bacon. Collected and edited by James Spedding, M.A., Robert Leslie Ellis,
M.A., and Douglas Denon Heath. Volume XIII. Being Volume III. of the Literary and Professional
Works. Boston. Brown & Taggard. 12mo. pp. 418. $1.50.

Twelve Discourses. By Henry M. Dexter. Boston. Printed for the Pine Street Fair. 16mo. pp.
219. $1.25.

