"I wish," said Dorr, half to himself, "the child was with her cousin Ruth. If she could make
her a woman like herself!"

"You are kind," Lamar forced out, thinking of what might have been a year ago.

Dorr had forgotten. He had just kissed little Ruth at the door-step, coming away: thinking,
as he walked up to camp, how her clear thought, narrow as it was, was making his own higher,
more just; wondering if the tears on her face last night, when she got up from her knees after
prayer, might not help as much in the great cause of truth as the life he was ready to give.
He was so used to his little wife now, that he could look to no hour of his past life, nor
of the future coming ages of event and work, where she was not present,--very flesh of his
flesh, heart of his heart. A gulf lay between them and the rest of the world. It was hardly
probable he could see her as a woman towards whom another man looked across the gulf, dumb,
hopeless, defrauded of his right.

"She sent you some flowers, by the way, John,--the last in the yard,--and bade me be sure and
bring you down with me. Your own colors, you see?--to put you in mind of home,"--pointing to
the crimson asters flaked with snow.

The man smiled faintly: the smell of the flowers choked him: he laid them aside. God knows
he was trying to wring out this bitter old thought: he could not look in Dorr's frank eyes
while it was there. He must escape to-night: he never would come near them again, in this world,
or beyond death,--never! He thought of that like a man going to drag through eternity with
half his soul gone. Very well: there was man enough left in him to work honestly and bravely,
and to thank God for that good pure love he yet had. He turned to Dorr with a flushed face,
and began talking of Floy in hearty earnest,--glancing at Ben coming up the hill, thinking
that escape depended on him.

"I ordered your man up," said Captain Dorr. "Some canting Abolitionist had him open-mouthed
down there."

The negro came in, and stood in the corner, listening while they talked. A gigantic fellow,
with a gladiator's muscles. Stronger than that Yankee captain, he thought,--than either of
them: better breathed,--drawing the air into his brawny chest. "A man and a brother." Did the
fool think he didn't know that before? He had a contempt for Dave and his like. Lamar would
have told you Dave's words were true, but despised the man as a crude, unlicked bigot. Ben
did the same, with no words for the idea. The negro instinct in him recognized gentle blood
by any of its signs,--the transparent animal life, the reticent eye, the mastered voice: he
had better men than Lamar at home to learn it from. It is a trait of serfdom, the keen eye
to measure the inherent rights of a man to be master. A negro or a Catholic Irishman does not
need "Sartor Resartus" to help him to see through any clothes. Ben leaned, half-asleep, against
the wall, some old thoughts creeping out of their hiding-places through the torpor, like rats
to the sunshine: the boatman's slang had been hot and true enough to rouse them in his brain.

"So, Ben," said his master, as he passed once, "your friend has been persuading you to exchange
the cotton-fields at Cedar Creek for New-York alleys, eh?"

"Ki!" laughed Ben, "white darkey. Mind ole dad, Mars' John, as took off in der swamp? Um asked
dat Linkinite ef him saw dad up Norf. Guess him's free now. Ki! ole dad!"

"The swamp was the place for him," said Lamar. "I remember."

"Dunno," said the negro, surlily: "him's dad, af'er all: tink him's free now,"--and mumbled
down into a monotonous drone about

  "Oh yo, bredern, is yer gwine ober Jordern?"

Half-asleep, they thought,--but with dull questionings at work in his brain, some queer notions
about freedom, of that unknown North, mostly mixed with his remembrance of his father, a vicious
old negro, that in Pennsylvania would have worked out his salvation in the under cell of the
penitentiary, but in Georgia, whipped into heroism, had betaken himself into the swamp, and
never returned. Tradition among the Lamar slaves said he had got off to Ohio, of which they
had as clear an idea as most of us have of heaven. At any rate, old Kite became a mystery,
to be mentioned with awe at fish-bakes and barbecues. He was this uncouth wretch's father,--do
you understand? The flabby-faced boy, flogged in the cotton-field for whining after his dad,
or hiding away part of his flitch and molasses for months in hopes the old man would come back,
was rather a comical object, you would have thought. Very different his, from the feeling with
which you left your mother's grave,--though as yet we have not invented names for the emotions
of those people. We'll grant that it hurt Ben a little, however. Even the young polypus, when
it is torn from the old one, bleeds a drop or two, they say. As he grew up, the great North
glimmered through his thought, a sort of big field,--a paradise of no work, no flogging, and
white bread every day, where the old man sat and ate his fill.

The second point in Ben's history was that he fell in love. Just as you did,--with the difference,
of course: though the hot sun, or the perpetual foot upon his breast, does not make our black
Prometheus less fierce in his agony of hope or jealousy than you, I am afraid. It was Nan,
a pale mulatto house-servant, that the field-hand took into his dull, lonesome heart to make
life of, with true-love defiance of caste. I think Nan liked him very truly. She was lame and
sickly, and if Ben was black and a picker, and stayed in the quarters, he was strong, like
a master to her in some ways: the only thing she could call hers in the world was the love
the clumsy boy gave her. White women feel in that way sometimes, and it makes them very tender
to men not their equals. However, old Mrs. Lamar, before she died, gave her house-servants
their free papers, and Nan was among them. So she set off, with all the finery little Floy
could give her: went up into that great, dim North. She never came again.

The North swallowed up all Ben knew or felt outside of his hot, hated work, his dread of a
lashing on Saturday night. All the pleasure left him was 'possum and hominy for Sunday's dinner.
It did not content him. The spasmodic religion of the field-negro does not teach endurance.
So it came, that the slow tide of discontent ebbing in everybody's heart towards some unreached
sea set in his ignorant brooding towards that vague country which the only two who cared for
him had found. If he forgot it through the dogged, sultry days, he remembered it when the overseer
scourged the dull tiger-look into his eyes, or when, husking corn with the others at night,
the smothered negro-soul, into which their masters dared not look, broke out in their wild,
melancholy songs. Aimless, unappealing, yet no prayer goes up to God more keen in its pathos.
You find, perhaps, in Beethoven's seventh symphony the secrets of your heart made manifest,
and suddenly think of a Somewhere to come, where your hope waits for you with late fulfilment.
Do not laugh at Ben, then, if he dully told in his song the story of all he had lost, or gave
to his heaven a local habitation and a name.

From the place where he stood now, as his master and Dorr walked up and down, he could see
the purplish haze beyond which the sentry had told him lay the North. The North! Just beyond
the ridge. There was a pain in his head, looking at it; his nerves grew cold and rigid, as
yours do when something wrings your heart sharply: for there are nerves in these black carcasses,
thicker, more quickly stung to madness than yours. Yet if any savage longing, smouldering for
years, was heating to madness now in his brain, there was no sign of it in his face. Vapid,
with sordid content, the huge jaws munching tobacco slowly, only now and then the beady eye
shot a sharp glance after Dorr. The sentry had told him the Northern army had come to set the
slaves free; he watched the Federal officer keenly.

"What ails you, Ben?" said his master. "Thinking over your friend's sermon?"

Ben's stolid laugh was ready.

"Done forgot dat, Mars'. Wouldn't go, nohow. Since Mars' sold dat cussed Joe, gorry good times
't home. Dam' Abolitioner say we ums all goin' Norf,"--with a stealthy glance at Dorr.

"That's more than your philanthropy bargains for, Charley," laughed Lamar.

The men stopped; the negro skulked nearer, his whole senses sharpened into hearing. Dorr's
clear face was clouded.

"This slave question must be kept out of the war. It puts a false face on it."

"I thought one face was what it needed," said Lamar. "You have too many slogans. Strong government,
tariff, Sumter, a bit of bunting, eleven dollars a month. It ought to be a vital truth that
would give soul and vim to a body with the differing members of your army. You, with your ideal
theory, and Billy Wilson with his 'Blood and Baltimore!' Try human freedom. That's high and
sharp and broad."

Ben drew a step closer.

"You are shrewd, Lamar. I am to go below all constitutions or expediency or existing rights,
and tell Ben here that he is free? When once the Government accepts that doctrine, you, as
a Rebel, must be let alone."

The slave was hid back in the shade.

"Dorr," said Lamar, "you know I'm a groping, ignorant fellow, but it seems to me that prating
of constitutions and existing rights is surface talk; there is a broad common-sense underneath,
by whose laws the world is governed, which your statesmen don't touch often. You in the North,
in your dream of what shall be, shut your eyes to what is. You want a republic where every
man's voice shall be heard in the council, and the majority shall rule. Granting that the free
population are educated to a fitness for this,--(God forbid I should grant it with the Snake-hunters
before my eyes!)--look here!"

He turned round, and drew the slave out into the light: he crouched down, gaping vacantly at them.

"There is Ben. What, in God's name, will you do with him? Keep him a slave, and chatter about
self-government? Pah! The country is paying in blood for the lie, to-day. Educate him for freedom,
by putting a musket in his hands? We have this mass of heathendom drifted on our shores by
your will as well as mine. Try to bring them to a level with the whites by a wrench, and you'll
waken out of your dream to a sharp reality. Your Northern philosophy ought to be old enough
to teach you that spasms in the body-politic shake off no atom of disease,--that reform, to
be enduring, must be patient, gradual, inflexible as the Great Reformer. 'The mills of God,'
the old proverb says, 'grind surely.' But, Dorr, they grind exceeding slow!"

Dorr watched Lamar with an amused smile. It pleased him to see his brain waking up, eager,
vehement. As for Ben, crouching there, if they talked of him like a clod, heedless that his
face deepened in stupor, that his eyes had caught a strange, gloomy treachery,--we all do the
same, you know.

"What is your remedy, Lamar? You have no belief in the right of Secession, I know," said Dorr.

"It's a bad instrument for a good end. Let the white Georgian come out of his sloth, and the
black will rise with him. Jefferson Davis may not intend it, but God does. When we have our
Lowell, our New York, when we are a self-sustaining people instead of lazy land-princes, Ben
here will have climbed the second of the great steps of Humanity. Do you laugh at us?" said
Lamar, with a quiet self-reliance. "Charley, it needs only work and ambition to cut the brute
away from my face, and it will leave traits very like your own. Ben's father was a Guinea fetich-worshipper;
when we stand where New England does, Ben's son will be ready for his freedom."

"And while you theorize," laughed Dorr, "I hold you a prisoner, John, and Ben knows it is his
right to be free. He will not wait for the grinding of the mill, I fancy."

Lamar did not smile. It was womanish in the man, when the life of great nations hung in doubt
before them, to go back so constantly to little Floy sitting in the lap of her old black maumer.
But he did it,--with the quick thought that to-night he must escape, that death lay in delay.

While Dorr talked, Lamar glanced significantly at Ben. The negro was not slow to understand,--with
a broad grin, touching his pocket, from which projected the dull end of a hand-saw. I wonder
what sudden pain made the negro rise just then, and come close to his master, touching him
with a strange affection and remorse in his tired face, as though he had done him some deadly
wrong.

"What is it, old fellow?" said Lamar, in his boyish way. "Homesick, eh? There's a little girl
in Georgia that will be glad to see you and your master, and take precious good care of us
when she gets us safe again. That's true, Ben!" laying his hand kindly on the man's shoulder,
while his eyes went wandering off to the hills lying South.

"Yes, Mars'," said Ben, in a low voice, suddenly bringing a blacking-brush, and beginning to
polish his master's shoes,--thinking, while he did it, of how often Mars' John had interfered
with the overseers to save him from a flogging,--(Lamar, in his lazy way, was kind to his slaves,)--thinking
of little Mist' Floy with an odd tenderness and awe, as a gorilla might of a white dove: trying
to think thus,--the simple, kindly nature of the negro struggling madly with something beneath,
new and horrible. He understood enough of the talk of the white men to know that there was
no help for him,--none. Always a slave. Neither you nor I can ever know what those words meant
to him. The pale purple mist where the North lay was never to be passed. His dull eyes turned
to it constantly,--with a strange look, such as the lost women might have turned to the door,
when Jesus shut it: they forever outside. There was a way to help himself? The stubby black
fingers holding the brush grew cold and clammy,--noting withal, the poor wretch in his slavish
way, that his master's clothes were finer than the Northern captain's, his hands whiter, and
proud that it was so,--holding Lamar's foot daintily, trying to see himself in the shoe, smoothing
down the trousers with a boorish, affectionate touch,--with the same fierce whisper in his
ear, Would the shoes ever be cleaned again? would the foot move to-morrow?

It grew late. Lamar's supper was brought up from Captain Dorr's, and placed on the bench. He
poured out a goblet of water.

"Come, Charley, let's drink. To Liberty! It is a war-cry for Satan or Michael."

They drank, laughing, while Ben stood watching. Dorr turned to go, but Lamar called him back,--stood
resting his hand on his shoulder: he never thought to see him again, you know.

"Look at Ruth, yonder," said Dorr, his face lighting. "She is coming to meet us. She thought
you would be with me."

Lamar looked gravely down at the low field-house and the figure at the gate. He thought he
could see the small face and earnest eyes, though it was far off, and night was closing.

"She is waiting for you, Charley. Go down. Good night, old chum!"

If it cost any effort to say it, Dorr saw nothing of it.

"Good night, Lamar! I'll see you in the morning."

He lingered. His old comrade looked strangely alone and desolate.

"John!"

"What is it, Dorr?"

"If I could tell the Colonel you would take the oath? For Floy's sake."

The man's rough face reddened.

"You should know me better. Good bye."

"Well, well, you are mad. Have you no message for Ruth?"

There was a moment's silence.

"Tell her I say, God bless her!"

Dorr stopped and looked keenly in his face,--then, coming back, shook hands again, in a different
way from before, speaking in a lower voice,--

"God help us all, John! Good night!"--and went slowly down the hill.

It was nearly night, and bitter cold. Lamar stood where the snow drifted in on him, looking
out through the horizon-less gray.

"Come out o' dem cold, Mars' John," whined Ben, pulling at his coat.

As the night gathered, the negro was haunted with a terrified wish to be kind to his master.
Something told him that the time was short. Here and there through the far night some tent-fire
glowed in a cone of ruddy haze, through which the thick-falling snow shivered like flakes of
light. Lamar watched only the square block of shadow where Dorr's house stood. The door opened
at last, and a broad, cheerful gleam shot out red darts across the white waste without; then
he saw two figures go in together. They paused a moment; he put his head against the bars,
straining his eyes, and saw that the woman turned, shading her eyes with her hand, and looked
up to the side of the mountain where the guard-house lay,--with a kindly look, perhaps, for
the prisoner out in the cold. A kind look: that was all. The door shut on them. Forever: so,
good night, Ruth!

He stool there for an hour or two, leaning his head against the muddy planks, smoking. Perhaps,
in his coarse fashion, he took the trouble of his manhood back to the same God he used to pray
to long ago. When he turned at last, and spoke, it was with a quiet, strong voice, like one
who would fight through life in a manly way. There was a grating sound at the back of the shed:
it was Ben, sawing through the wicket, the guard having lounged off to supper. Lamar watched
him, noticing that the negro was unusually silent. The plank splintered, and hung loose.

"Done gone, Mars' John, now,"--leaving it, and beginning to replenish the fire.

"That's right, Ben. We'll start in the morning. That sentry at two o'clock sleeps regularly."

Ben chuckled, heaping up the sticks.

"Go on down to the camp, as usual. At two, Ben, remember! We will be free to-night, old boy!"

The black face looked up from the clogging smoke with a curious stare.

"Ki! we'll be free to-night, Mars'!"--gulping his breath.

Soon after, the sentry unlocked the gate, and he shambled off out into the night. Lamar, left
alone, went closer to the fire, and worked busily at some papers he drew from his pocket: maps
and schedules. He intended to write until two o'clock; but the blaze dying down, he wrapped
his blanket about him, and lay down on the heaped straw, going on sleepily, in his brain, with
his calculations.

The negro, in the shadow of the shed, watched him. A vague fear beset him,--of the vast, white
cold,--the glowering mountains,--of himself; he clung to the familiar face, like a man drifting
out into an unknown sea, clutching some relic of the shore. When Lamar fell asleep, he wandered
uncertainly towards the tents. The world had grown new, strange; was he Ben, picking cotton
in the swamp-edge?--plunging his fingers with a shudder in the icy drifts. Down in the glowing
torpor of the Santilla flats, where the Lamar plantations lay, Ben had slept off as maddening
hunger for life and freedom as this of to-day; but here, with the winter air stinging every
nerve to life, with the perpetual mystery of the mountains terrifying his bestial nature down,
the strength of the man stood up: groping, blind, malignant, it may be; but whose fault was
that? He was half-frozen: the physical pain sharpened the keen doubt conquering his thought.
He sat down in the crusted snow, looking vacantly about him, a man, at last,--but wakening,
like a new-born soul, into a world of unutterable solitude. Wakened dully, slowly; sitting
there far into the night, pondering stupidly on his old life; crushing down and out the old
parasite affection for his master, the old fears, the old weight threatening to press out his
thin life; the muddy blood heating, firing with the same heroic dream that bade Tell and Garibaldi
lift up their hands to God, and cry aloud that they were men and free: the same,--God-given,
burning in the imbruted veins of a Guinea slave. To what end? May God be merciful to America
while she answers the question! He sat, rubbing his cracked, bleeding feet, glancing stealthily
at the southern hills. Beyond them lay all that was past; in an hour he would follow Lamar
back to--what? He lifted his hands up to the sky, in his silly way sobbing hot tears. "Gor-a'mighty,
Mars' Lord, I'se tired," was all the prayer he made. The pale purple mist was gone from the
North; the ridge behind which love, freedom waited, struck black across the sky, a wall of
iron. He looked at it drearily. Utterly alone: he had always been alone. He got up at last,
with a sigh.

"It's a big world,"--with a bitter chuckle,--"but der's no room in it fur poor Ben."

He dragged himself through the snow to a light in a tent where a voice in a wild drone, like
that he had heard at negro camp-meetings, attracted him. He did not go in: stood at the tent-door,
listening. Two or three of the guard stood around, leaning on their muskets; in the vivid fire-light
rose the gaunt figure of the Illinois boatman, swaying to and fro as he preached. For the men
were honest, God-fearing souls, members of the same church, and Dave, in all integrity of purpose,
read aloud to them,--the cry of Jeremiah against the foul splendors of the doomed city,--waving,
as he spoke, his bony arm to the South. The shrill voice was that of a man wrestling with his
Maker. The negro's fired brain caught the terrible meaning of the words,--found speech in it:
the wide, dark night, the solemn silence of the men, were only fitting audience.

The man caught sight of the slave, and, laying down his book, began one of those strange exhortations
in the manner of his sect. Slow at first, full of unutterable pity. There was room for pity.
Pointing to the human brute crouching there, made once in the image of God,--the saddest wreck
on His green foot-stool: to the great stealthy body, the revengeful jaws, the foreboding eyes.
Soul, brains,--a man, wifeless, homeless, nationless, hawked, flung from trader to trader for
a handful of dirty shinplasters. "Lord God of hosts," cried the man, lifting up his trembling
hands, "lay not this sin to our charge!" There was a scar on Ben's back where the lash had
buried itself: it stung now in the cold. He pulled his clothes tighter, that they should not
see it; the scar and the words burned into his heart: the childish nature of the man was gone;
the vague darkness in it took a shape and name. The boatman had been praying for him; the low
words seemed to shake the night:--

"Hear the prayer of Thy servant, and his supplications! Is not this what Thou hast chosen:
to loose the bands, to undo the heavy burdens, and let the oppressed go free? O Lord, hear!
O Lord, hearken and do! Defer not for Thine own sake, O my God!"

"What shall I do?" said the slave, standing up.

The boatman paced slowly to and fro, his voice chording in its dull monotone with the smothered
savage muttering in the negro's brain.

"The day of the Lord cometh; it is nigh at hand. Who can abide it? What saith the prophet Jeremiah?
'Take up a burden against the South. Cry aloud, spare not. Woe unto Babylon, for the day of
her vengeance is come, the day of her visitation! Call together the archers against Babylon;
camp against it round about; let none thereof escape. Recompense her: as she hath done unto
my people, be it done unto her. A sword is upon Babylon: it shall break in pieces the shepherd
and his flock, the man and the woman, the young man and the maid. I will render unto her the
evil she hath done in my sight, saith the Lord.'"

It was the voice of God: the scar burned fiercer; the slave came forward boldly,--

"Mars'er, what shall I do?"

"Give the poor devil a musket," said one of the men. "Let him come with us, and strike a blow
for freedom."

He took a knife from his belt, and threw it to him, then sauntered off to his tent.

"A blow for freedom?" mumbled Ben, taking it up.

"Let us sing to the praise of God," said the boatman, "the sixty-eighth psalm," lining it out
while they sang,--the scattered men joining, partly to keep themselves awake. In old times
David's harp charmed away the demon from a human heart. It roused one now, never to be laid
again. A dull, droning chant, telling how the God of Vengeance rode upon the wind, swift to
loose the fetters of the chained, to make desert the rebellious land; with a chorus, or refrain,
in which Ben's wild, melancholy cry sounded like the wail of an avenging spirit:--

  "That in the blood of enemies
    Thy foot imbrued may be:
  And of thy dogs dipped in the same
    The tongues thou mayest see."

The meaning of that was plain; he sang it lower and more steadily each time, his body swaying
in cadence, the glitter in his eye more steely.

Lamar, asleep in his prison, was wakened by the far-off plaintive song: he roused himself,
leaning on one elbow, listening with a half-smile. It was Naomi they sang, he thought,--an
old-fashioned Methodist air that Floy had caught from the negroes, and used to sing to him
sometimes. Every night, down at home, she would come to his parlor-door to say good-night:
he thought he could see the little figure now in its white nightgown, and hear the bare feet
pattering on the matting. When he was alone, she would come in, and sit on his lap awhile,
and kneel down before she went away, her head on his knee, to say her prayers, as she called
it. Only God knew how many times he had remained alone after hearing those prayers, saved from
nights of drunken debauch. He thought he felt Floy's pure little hand on his forehead now,
as if she were saying her usual "Good night, Bud." He lay down to sleep again, with a genial
smile on his face, listening to the hymn.

"It's the same God," he said,--"Floy's and theirs."

Outside, as he slept, a dark figure watched him. The song of the men ceased. Midnight, white
and silent, covered the earth. He could hear only the slow breathing of the sleeper. Ben's
black face grew ashy pale, but he did not tremble, as he crept, cat-like, up to the wicket,
his blubber lips apart, the white teeth clenched.

"It's for Freedom, Mars' Lord!" he gasped, looking up to the sky, as if he expected an answer.
"Gor-a'mighty, it's for Freedom!" And went in.

A belated bird swooped through the cold moonlight into the valley, and vanished in the far
mountain-cliffs with a low, fearing cry, as though it had passed through Hades.

They had broken down the wicket: he saw them lay the heavy body on the lumber outside, the
black figures hurrying over the snow. He laughed low, savagely, watching them. Free now! The
best of them despised him; the years past of cruelty and oppression turned back, fused in a
slow, deadly current of revenge and hate, against the race that had trodden him down. He felt
the iron muscles of his fingers, looked close at the glittering knife he held, chuckling at
the strange smell it bore. Would the Illinois boatman blame him, if it maddened him? And if
Ben took the fancy to put it to his throat, what right has he to complain? Has not he also
been a dweller in Babylon? He hesitated a moment in the cleft of the hill, choosing his way,
exultantly. He did not watch the North now; the quiet old dream of content was gone; his thick
blood throbbed and surged with passions of which you and I know nothing: he had a lost life
to avenge. His native air, torrid, heavy with latent impurity, drew him back: a fitter breath
than this cold snow for the animal in his body, the demon in his soul, to triumph and wallow
in. He panted, thinking of the saffron hues of the Santilla flats, of the white, stately dwellings,
the men that went in and out from them, quiet, dominant,--feeling the edge of his knife. It
was his turn to be master now! He ploughed his way doggedly through the snow,--panting, as
he went,--a hotter glow in his gloomy eyes. It was his turn for pleasure now: he would have
his fill! Their wine and their gardens and----He did not need to choose a wife from his own
color now. He stopped, thinking of little Floy, with her curls and great listening eyes, watching
at the door for her brother. He had watched her climb up into his arms and kiss his cheek.
She never would do that again! He laughed aloud, shrilly. By God! she should keep the kiss
for other lips! Why should he not say it?

Up on the hill the night-air throbbed colder and holier. The guards stood about in the snow,
silent, troubled. This was not like a death in battle: it put them in mind of home, somehow.
All that the dying man said was, "Water," now and then. He had been sleeping, when struck,
and never had thoroughly wakened from his dream. Captain Poole, of the Snake-hunters, had wrapped
him in his own blanket, finding nothing more could be done. He went off to have the Colonel
summoned now, muttering that it was "a damned shame." They put snow to Lamar's lips constantly,
being hot and parched; a woman, Dorr's wife, was crouching on the ground beside him, chafing
his hands, keeping down her sobs for fear they would disturb him. He opened his eyes at last,
and knew Dorr, who held his head.

"Unfasten my coat, Charley. What makes it so close here?"

Dorr could not speak.

"Shall I lift you up, Captain Lamar?" asked Dave Hall, who stood leaning on his rifle.

He spoke in a subdued tone, Babylon being far off for the moment. Lamar dozed again before
he could answer.

"Don't try to move him,--it is too late," said Dorr, sharply.

The moonlight steeped mountain and sky in a fresh whiteness. Lamar's face, paling every moment,
hardening, looked in it like some solemn work of an untaught sculptor. There was a breathless
silence. Ruth, kneeling beside him, felt his hand grow slowly colder than the snow. He moaned,
his voice going fast,--

"At two, Ben, old fellow! We'll be free to-night!"

Dave, stooping to wrap the blanket, felt his hand wet: he wiped it with a shudder.

"As he hath done unto My people, be it done unto him!" he muttered, but the words did not comfort
him.

Lamar moved, half-smiling.

"That's right, Floy. What is it she says? 'Now I lay me down'----I forget. Good night. Kiss
me, Floy."

He waited,--looked up uneasily. Dorr looked at his wife: she stooped, and kissed his lips.
Charley smoothed back the hair from the damp face with as tender a touch as a woman's. Was
he dead? The white moonlight was not more still than the calm face.

Suddenly the night-air was shattered by a wild, revengeful laugh from the hill. The departing
soul rushed back, at the sound, to life, full consciousness. Lamar started from their hold,--sat
up.

"It was Ben," he said, slowly.

In that dying flash of comprehension, it may be, the wrongs of the white man and the black
stood clearer to his eyes than ours: the two lives trampled down. The stern face of the boatman
bent over him: he was trying to stanch the flowing blood. Lamar looked at him: Hall saw no
bitterness in the look,--a quiet, sad question rather, before which his soul lay bare. He felt
the cold hand touch his shoulder, saw the pale lips move.

"Was this well done?" they said.

Before Lamar's eyes the rounded arch of gray receded, faded into dark; the negro's fierce laugh
filled his ear: some woful thought at the sound wrung his soul, as it halted at the gate. It
caught at the simple faith his mother taught him.

Dorr gently drew down the uplifted hand. He was dead.

"It was a manly soul," said the Northern captain, his voice choking, as he straightened the
limp hair.

"He trusted in God? A strange delusion!" muttered the boatman.

Yet he did not like that they should leave him alone with Lamar, as they did, going down for
help. He paced to and fro, his rifle on his shoulder, arming his heart with strength to accomplish
the vengeance of the Lord against Babylon. Yet he could not forget the murdered man sitting
there in the calm moonlight, the dead face turned towards the North,--the dead face, whereon
little Floy's tears should never fall. The grave, unmoving eyes seemed to the boatman to turn
to him with the same awful question. "Was this well done?" they said. He thought in eternity
they would rise before him, sad, unanswered. The earth, he fancied, lay whiter, colder,--the
heaven farther off; the war, which had become a daily business, stood suddenly before him in
all its terrible meaning. God, he thought, had met in judgment with His people. Yet he uttered
no cry of vengeance against the doomed city. With the dead face before him, he bent his eyes
to the ground, humble, uncertain,--speaking out of the ignorance of his own weak, human soul.

"The day of the Lord is nigh," he said; "it is at hand; and who can abide it?"

MOUNTAIN PICTURES.

INDIVIDUALITY.

At a certain depth, as has already been intimated in our literature, all bosoms communicate,
all hearts are one. Hector and Ajax, in Homer's great picture, stand face to face, each with
advanced foot, with levelled spear, and turgid sinew, eager to kill, while on either side ten
thousand slaughterous wishes poise themselves in hot breasts, waiting to fly with the flying
weapons; yet, though the combatants seem to surrender themselves wholly to this action, there
is in each a profound element that is no party to these hostilities. It is the pure nature
of man. Ajax is not all Greek, nor is Hector wholly Trojan: both are also men; and to the extent
of their mutual participation in this pure and perpetual element of Manhood, they are more
than friends, more than relatives,--they are of identical spirit. For there is an imperishable
nature of Man, ever and everywhere the same, of which each particular man is a testimony and
representation. As the solid earth underruns the "dissociating sea"--Oceano dissociabili--and
joins in one all sundered lands, so does this nature dip beneath the dividing parts of our
being, and make of all men one simple and inseparable humanity. In love, in friendship, in
true conversation, in all happiness of communion between men, it is this unchangeable substratum
or substance of man's being that is efficient and supreme: out of divers bosoms, Same calls,
and replies to Same with a great joy of self-recognition. It is only in virtue of this nature
that men understand, appreciate, admire, trust each other,--that books of the earliest times
remain true in the latest,--that society is possible; and he in whom the virtue of it dwells
divinely is admitted to the secret confidence of all bosoms, lives in all times, and converses
with each soul and age in its own vernacular. Socrates looked beyond the gates of death for
happy communion with Homer and all the great; but already we interchange words with these,
whenever we are so sweetly prospered as to become, in some good degree, identical with the
absolute nature of man.

Not only, moreover, is this immortal substance of man's being common and social, but it is
so great and venerable that no one can match it with an equal report. All the epithets by which
we would extol it are disgraced by it, as the most brilliant artificial lights become blackness
when placed between the eye and the noonday sun. It is older, it is earlier in existence than
the earliest star that shone in heaven; and it will outlive the fixed stars that now in heaven
seem fixed forever. There is nothing in the created universe of which it was not the prophecy
in its primal conception; there is nothing of which it is not the interpretation and ultimatum
in its final form. The laws which rule the world as forces are, in it, thoughts and liberties.
All the grand imaginations of men, all the glorified shapes, the Olympian gods, cherubic and
seraphic forms, are but symbols and adumbrations of what it contains. As the sun, having set,
still leaves its golden impress on the clouds, so does the absolute nature of man throw up
and paint, as it were, on the sky testimonies of its power, remaining itself unseen. Only,
therefore, is one a poet, as he can cause particular traits and events, without violation of
their special character, or concealment of their peculiar interest, to bear the deep, sweet,
and infinite suggestion of this. All princeliness and imperial worth, all that is regal, beautiful,
pure in men, comes from this nature; and the words by which we express reverence, admiration,
love, borrow from it their entire force: since reverence, admiration, love, and all other grand
sentiments, are but modes or forms of noble unification between men, and are therefore shown
to spring from that spiritual unity of which persons are exponents; while, on the other hand,
all evil epithets suggest division and separation. Of this nature all titles of honor, all
symbols that command homage and obedience on earth, are pensioners. How could the claims of
kings survive successions of Stuarts and Georges, but for a royalty in each peasant's bosom
that pleads for its poor image on the throne?

In the high sense, no man is great save he that is a large continent of this absolute humanity.
The common nature of man it is; yet those are ever, and in the happiest sense, uncommon men,
in whom it is liberally present.

But every man, besides the nature which constitutes him man, has, so to speak, another nature,
which constitutes him a particular individual. He is not only like all others of his kind,
but, at the same time, unlike all others. By physical and mental feature he is distinguished,
insulated; he is endowed with a quality so purely in contrast with the common nature of man,
that in virtue of it he can be singled out from hundreds of millions, from all the myriads
of his race. So far, now, as one is representative of absolute humanity, he is a Person; so
far as, by an element peculiar to himself, he is contrasted with absolute humanity, he is an
Individual. And having duly chanted our Credo concerning man's pure and public nature, let
us now inquire respecting this dividing element of Individuality,--which, with all the force
it has, strives to cut off communication, to destroy unity, and to make of humanity a chaos
or dust of biped atoms.

Not for a moment must we make this surface nature of equal estimation with the other. It is
secondary, very secondary, to the pure substance of man. The Person first in order of importance;
the Individual next,--

  "Proximus huic, longo sed proximus intervallo,"--

  "next with an exceeding wide remove."

Take from Epaminondas or Luther all that makes him man, and the rest will not be worth selling
to the Jews. Individuality is an accompaniment, an accessory, a red line on the map, a fence
about the field, a copyright on the book. It is like the particular flavors of fruits,--of
no account but in relation to their saccharine, acid, and other staple elements. It must therefore
keep its place, or become an impertinence. If it grow forward, officious, and begin to push
in between the pure nature and its divine ends, at once it is a meddling Peter, for whom there
is no due greeting but "Get thee behind me, Satan." If the fruit have a special flavor of such
ambitious pungency that the sweets and acids cannot appear through it, be sure that to come
at this fruit no young Wilhelm Meister will purloin keys. If one be so much an Individual that
he wellnigh ceases to be a Man, we shall not admire him. It is the same in mental as in physical
feature. Let there, by all means, be slight divergence from the common type; but by all means
let it be no more than a slight divergence. Too much is monstrous: even a very slight excess
is what we call ugliness. Gladly I perceive in my neighbor's face, voice, gait, manner, a certain
charm of peculiarity; but if in any the peculiarity be so great as to suggest a doubt whether
he be not some other creature than man, may he not be neighbor of mine!

A little of this surface nature suffices; yet that little cannot be spared. Its first office
is to guard frontiers. We must not lie quite open to the inspection or invasion of others:
yet, were there no medium of unlikeness interposed between one and another, privacy would be
impossible, and one's own bosom would not be sacred to himself. But Nature has secured us against
these profanations; and as we have locks to our doors, curtains to our windows, and, upon occasion,
a passport system on our borders, so has she cast around each spirit this veil to guard it
from intruding eyes, this barrier to keep away the feet of strangers. Homer represents the
divinities as coming invisibly to admonish their favored heroes; but Nature was beforehand
with the poet, and every one of us is, in like manner, a celestial nature walking concealed.
Who sees you, when you walk the street? Who would walk the street, did be not feel himself
fortressed in a privacy that no foreign eyes can enter? But for this, no cities would be built.
Society, therefore, would be impossible, save for this element, which seems to hinder society.
Each of us, wrapt in his opaque individuality, like Apollo or Athene in a blue mist, remains
hidden, if he will; and therefore do men dare to come together.

But this superficial element, while securing privacy to the pure nature, also aids it to expression.
It emphasizes the outlines of Personality by gentle contrast. It is like the shadow in the
landscape, without which all the sunbeams of heaven could not reveal with precision a single
object. Assured lovers resort to happy banter and light oppositions, to give themselves a sweeter
sense of unity of heart. The child, with a cunning which only Nature has taught, will sometimes
put a little honey of refusal into its kisses before giving them; the maiden adds to her virgin
blooms the further attraction of virgin coyness and reserve; the civilizing dinner-table would
lose all its dignity in losing its delays; and so everywhere, delicate denial, withholding
reserve have an inverse force, and add a charm of emphasis to gift, assent, attraction, and
sympathy. How is the word Immortality emphasized to our hearts by the perpetual spectacle of
death! The joy and suggestion of it could, indeed, never visit us, had not this momentary loud
denial been uttered in our ears. Such, therefore, as have learned to interpret these oppositions
in Nature, hear in the jarring note of Death only a jubilant proclamation of life eternal;
while all are thus taught the longing for immortality, though only by their fear of the contrary.
And so is the pure universal nature of man affirmed by these provocations of contrast and insulation
on the surface. We feel the personality far more, and far more sweetly, for its being thus
divided from our own. From behind this veil the pure nature comes to us with a kind of surprise,
as out of another heaven. The joy of truth and delight of beauty are born anew for us from
each pair of chanting lips and beholding eyes; and each new soul that comes promises another
gift of the universe. Whoever, in any time or under any sky, sees the worth and wonder of existence,
sees it for me; whatever language he speak, whatever star he inhabit, we shall one day meet,
and through the confession of his heart all my ancient possessions will become a new gain;
he shall make for me a natal day of creation, showing the producing breath, as it goes forth
from the lips of God, and spreads into the blue purity of sky, or rounds into the luminance
of suns; the hills and their pines, the vales and their blooms, and heroic men and beauteous
women, all that I have loved or reverenced, shall come again, appearing and trooping out of
skies never visible before. Because of these dividing lines between souls, each new soul is
to all the others a possible factor of heaven.

Such uses does individuality subserve. Yet it is capable of these ministries only as it does
indeed minister. All its uses are lost with the loss of its humility and subordinance. It is
the porter at the gate, furthering the access of lawful, and forbidding the intrusion of unlawful
visitors to the mansion; who becomes worse than useless, if in surly excess of zeal he bar
the gate against all, or if in the excess of self-importance he receive for himself what is
meant for his master, and turn visitors aside into the porter's lodge. Beautiful is virgin
reserve, and true it is that delicate half-denial reinforces attraction; yet the maiden who
carries only No upon her tongue, and only refusal in her ways, shall never wake before dawn
on the day of espousal, nor blush beneath her bridal veil, like Morning behind her clouds.
This surface element, we must remember, is not income and resource, but an item of needful,
and, so far as needful, graceful and economical expenditure. Excess of it is wasteful, by causing
Life to pay for that which he does not need, by increase of social fiction, and by obstruction
of social flow with the fructifications which this brings, not to be spared by any mortal.
Nay, by extreme excess, it may so cut off and sequester a man, that no word or aspect of another
soul can reach him; he shall see in mankind only himself, he shall hear in the voices of others
only his own echoes. Many and many a man is there, so housed in his individuality, that it
goes, like an impenetrable wall, over eye and ear; and even in the tramp of the centuries he
can find hint of nothing save the sound of his own feet. It is a frequent tragedy,--but profound
as frequent.

One great task, indeed the great task of good-breeding is, accordingly, to induce in this element
a delicacy, a translucency, which, without robbing any action or sentiment of the hue it imparts,
shall still allow the pure human quality perfectly and perpetually to shine through. The world
has always been charmed with fine manners; and why should it not? For what are fine manners
but this: to carry your soul on your lip, in your eye, in the palm of your hand, and yet to
stand not naked, but clothed upon by your individual quality,--visible, yet inscrutable,--given
to the hearts of others, yet contained in your own bosom,--nobly and humanly open, yet duly
reticent and secured from invasion? Polished manners often disappoint us; good manners never.

The former may be taken on by indigent souls: the latter imply a noble and opulent nature.
And wait you not for death, according to the counsel of Solon, to be named happy, if you are
permitted fellowship with a man of rich mind, whose individual savor you always finely perceive,
and never more than finely,--who yields you the perpetual sense of community, and never of
confusion, with your own spirit. The happiness is all the greater, if the fellowship be accorded
by a mind eminently superior to one's own; for he, while yet more removed, comes yet nearer,
seeming to be that which our own soul may become in some future life, and so yielding us the
sense of our own being more deeply and powerfully than it is given by the consciousness in
our own bosom. And going forward to the supreme point of this felicity, we may note that the
worshipper, in the ecstasy of his adoration, feels the Highest to be also Nearest,--more remote
than the borders of space and fringes of heaven,--more intimate with his own being than the
air he breathes or the thought be thinks; and of this double sense is the rapture of his adoration,
and the joy indeed of every angel, born.

Divineness appertains to the absolute nature of man; piquancy and charm to that which serves
and modifies this. Infinitude and immortality are of the one; the strictest finiteness belongs
to the other. In the first you can never be too deep and rich; in the second never too delicate
and measured. Yet you will easily find a man in whom the latter so abounds as not only to shut
him out from others, but to absorb all the vital resource generated in his own bosom, leaving
to the pure personality nothing. The finite nature fares sumptuously every day; the other is
a heavenly Lazarus sitting at the gate.

Of such individuals there are many classes; and the majority of eccentric men constitute one
class. If a man have very peculiar ways, we readily attribute to him a certain depth and force,
and think that the polished citizen wants character in comparison. Probably it is not so. Singularity
may be as shallow as the shallowest conformity. There are numbers of such from whom if you
deduct the eccentricity, it is like subtracting red from vermilion or six from half a dozen.
They are grimaces of humanity,--no more. In particular, I make occasion to say, that those
oddities, whose chief characteristic it is to slink away from the habitations of men, and claim
companionship with musk-rats, are, despite Mr. Thoreau's pleasant patronage of them, no whit
more manly or profound than the average citizen, who loves streets and parlors, and does not
endure estrangement from the Post-Office. Mice lurk in holes and corners; could the cat speak,
she would say that they have a genius only for lurking in holes. Bees and ants are, to say
the least, quite as witty as beetles, proverbially blind; yet they build insect cities, and
are as invincibly social and city-loving as Socrates himself.

Aside, however, from special eccentricity, there are men, like the Earl of Essex, Bacon's soi-disant
friend, who possess a certain emphatic and imposing individuality, which, while commonly assumed
to indicate character and force, is really but the succedaneum for these. They are like oysters,
with extreme stress of shell, and only a blind, soft, acephalous body within. These are commonly
great men so long as little men will serve; and are something less than little ever after.
As an instance of this, I should select the late chief magistrate of this nation. His whole
ability lay in putting a most imposing countenance upon commonplaces. He made a mere air seem
solid as rock. Owing to this possibility of presenting all force on the outside, and so creating
a false impression of resource, all great social emergencies are followed by a speedy breaking
down of men to whom was generally attributed an able spirit; while others of less outward mark,
and for this reason hitherto unnoticed, come forward, and prove to be indeed the large vessels
of manhood accorded to that generation.

Our tendency to assume individual mark as the measure of personality is flattered by many of
the books we read. It is, of course, easier to depict character, when it is accompanied by
some striking individual hue; and therefore in romances and novels this is conferred upon all
the forcible characters, merely to favor the author's hand: as microscopists feed minute creatures
with colored food to make their circulations visible. It is only the great master who can represent
a powerful personality in the purest state, that is, with the maximum of character and the
minimum of individual distinction; while small artists, with a feeble hold upon character,
habitually resort to extreme quaintnesses and singularities of circumstance, in order to confer
upon their weak portraitures some vigor of outline. It takes a Giotto to draw readily a nearly
perfect O; but a nearly perfect triangle any one can draw. Shakspeare is able to delineate
a Gentleman,--one, that is, who, while nobly and profoundly a man, is so delicately individualized,
that the impression of him, however vigorous and commanding, cannot be harsh: Shakspeare is
equal to this task, but even so very able a painter as Fielding is not. His Squire Western
and Parson Adams are exquisite, his Allworthy is vapid: deny him strong pigments of individualism,
and he is unable to portray strong character. Scott, among British novelists, is, perhaps,
in this respect most Shakspearian, though the Colonel Esmond of Thackeray is not to be forgotten;
but even Scott's Dandie Dinmonts, or gentlemen in the rough, sparkle better than his polished
diamonds. Yet in this respect the Waverley Novels are singularly and admirably healthful, comparing
to infinite advantage with the rank and file of novels, wherein the "characters" are but bundles
of quaintnesses, and the action is impossible.

Written history has somewhat of the same infirmity with fictitious literature, though not always
by the fault of the historian. Far too little can it tell us respecting those of whom we desire
to know much; while, on the other hand, it is often extremely liberal of information concerning
those of whom we desire to know nothing. The greatest of men approach a pure personality, a
pure representation of man's imperishable nature; individual peculiarity they far less abound
in; and what they do possess is held in transparent solution by their manhood, as a certain
amount of vapor is always held by the air. The higher its temperature, the more moisture can
the atmosphere thus absorb, exhibiting it not as cloud, but only as immortal azure of sky:
and so the greater intensity there is of the pure quality of man, the more of individual peculiarity
can it master and transform into a simple heavenliness of beauty, of which the world finds
few words to say. Men, in general, have, perhaps, no more genius than novelists in general,--though
it seems a hard speech to make,--and while profoundly impressed by any manifestation of the
pure genius of man, can observe and relate only peculiarities and exceptional traits. Incongruities
are noted; congruities are only felt. If a two-headed calf be born, the newspapers hasten to
tell of it; but brave boys and beautiful girls by thousands grow to fulness of stature without
mention. We know so little of Homer and Shakspeare partly because they were Homer and Shakspeare.
Smaller men might afford more plentiful materials for biography, because their action and character
would be more clouded with individualism. The biography of a supreme poet is the history of
his kind. He transmits himself by pure vital impression. His remembrance is committed, not
to any separable faculty, but to a memory identical with the total being of men. If you would
learn his story, listen to the sprites that ride on crimson steeds along the arterial highways,
singing of man's destiny as they go.

THE GERMAN BURNS.

The extreme southwestern corner of Germany is an irregular right-angle, formed by the course
of the Rhine. Within this angle and an hypothenuse drawn from the Lake of Constance to Carlsruhe
lies a wild mountain-region--a lateral offshoot from the central chain which extends through
Europe from west to east--known to all readers of robber-romances as the Black Forest. It is
a cold, undulating upland, intersected with deep valleys which descend to the plains of the
Rhine and the Danube, and covered with great tracts of fir-forest. Here and there a peak rises
high above the general level, the Feldberg attaining a height of five thousand feet. The aspect
of this region is stern and gloomy: the fir-woods appear darker than elsewhere; the frequent
little lakes are as inky in hue as the pools of the High Alps; and the meadows of living emerald
give but a partial brightness to the scenery. Here, however, the solitary traveller may adventure
without fear. Robbers and robber-castles have long since passed away, and the people, rough
and uncouth as they may at first seem, are as kindly-hearted as they are honest. Among them
was born--and in their incomprehensible dialect wrote--Hebel, the German Burns.

We dislike the practice of using the name of one author as the characteristic designation of
another. It is, at best, the sign of an imperfect fame, implying rather the imitation of a
scholar than the independent position of a master. We can, nevertheless, in no other way indicate
in advance the place which the subject of our sketch occupies in the literature of Germany.
A contemporary of Burns, and ignorant of the English language, there is no evidence that he
had ever even heard of the former; but Burns, being the first truly great poet who succeeded
in making classic a local dialect, thereby constituted himself an illustrious standard, by
which his successors in the same path must be measured. Thus, Bellman and Béranger have been
inappropriately invested with his mantle, from the one fact of their being song-writers of
a democratic stamp. The Gascon, Jasmin, better deserves the title; and Longfellow, in translating
his "Blind Girl of Castèl-Cuillè," says,--

  "Only the lowland tongue of Scotland might
  Rehearse this little tragedy aright":--

a conviction which we have frequently shared, in translating our German author.

It is a matter of surprise to us, that, while Jasmin's poems have gone far beyond the bounds
of France, the name of John Peter Hebel--who possesses more legitimate claims to the peculiar
distinction which Burns achieved--is not only unknown outside of Germany, but not even familiarly
known to the Germans themselves. The most probable explanation is, that the Alemannic dialect,
in which he wrote, is spoken only by the inhabitants of the Black Forest and a portion of Suabia,
and cannot be understood, without a glossary, by the great body of the North-Germans. The same
cause would operate, with greater force, in preventing a translation into foreign languages.
It is, in fact, only within the last twenty years that the Germans have become acquainted with
Burns,--chiefly through the admirable translations of the poet Freiligrath.

To Hebel belongs the merit of having bent one of the harshest of German dialects to the uses
of poetry. We doubt whether the lyre of Apollo was ever fashioned from a wood of rougher grain.
Broad, crabbed, guttural, and unpleasant to the ear which is not thoroughly accustomed to its
sound, the Alemannic patois was, in truth, a most unpromising material. The stranger, even
though he were a good German scholar, would never suspect the racy humor, the naïve, childlike
fancy, and the pure human tenderness of expression which a little culture has brought to bloom
on such a soil. The contractions, elisions, and corruptions which German words undergo, with
the multitude of terms in common use derived from the Gothic, Greek, Latin, and Italian, give
it almost the character of a different language. It was Hebel's mother-tongue, and his poetic
faculty always returned to its use with a fresh delight which insured success. His German poems
are inferior in all respects.

Let us first glance at the poet's life,--a life uneventful, perhaps, yet interesting from the
course of its development. He was born in Basle, in May, 1760, in the house of Major Iselin,
where both his father and mother were at service. The former, a weaver by trade, afterwards
became a soldier, and accompanied the Major to Flanders, France, and Corsica. He had picked
up a good deal of stray knowledge on his campaigns, and had a strong natural taste for poetry.
The qualities of the son were inherited from him rather than from the mother, of whom we know
nothing more than that she was a steady, industrious person. The parents lived during the winter
in the little village of Hausen, in the Black Forest, but with the approach of spring returned
to Basle for their summer service in Major Iselin's house.

The boy was but a year old when his father died, and the discipline of such a restless spirit
as he exhibited in early childhood seems to have been a task almost beyond the poor widow's
powers. An incorrigible spirit of mischief possessed him. He was an arrant scape-grace, plundering
cupboards, gardens, and orchards, lifting the gates of mill-races by night, and playing a thousand
other practical and not always innocent jokes. Neither counsel nor punishment availed, and
the entire weight of his good qualities, as a counterbalance, barely sufficed to prevent him
from losing the patrons whom his bright, eager, inquisitive mind attracted. Something of this
was undoubtedly congenital, and there are indications that the strong natural impulse, held
in check only by a powerful will and a watchful conscience, was the torment of his life. In
his later years, when he filled the posts of Ecclesiastical Counsellor and Professor in the
Gymnasium at Carlsruhe, the phrenologist Gall, in a scientific séance, made an examination
of his head. "A most remarkable development of"----, said Gall, abruptly breaking off, nor
could he be induced to complete the sentence. Hebel, however, frankly exclaimed,--"You certainly
mean the thievish propensity. I know I have it by nature, for I continually feel its suggestions."
What a picture is presented by this confession! A pure, honest, and honorable life, won by
a battle with evil desires, which, commencing with birth, ceased their assaults only at the
brink of the grave! A daily struggle, and a daily victory!

Hebel lost his mother in his thirteenth year, but was fortunate in possessing generous patrons,
who contributed enough to the slender means he inherited to enable him to enter the Gymnasium
at Carlsruhe. Leaving this institution with the reputation of a good classical scholar, he
entered the University of Erlangen as a student of theology. Here his jovial, reckless temperament,
finding a congenial atmosphere, so got the upperhand that he barely succeeded in passing the
necessary examination, in 1780. At the end of two years, during which time he supported himself
as a private tutor, he was ordained, and received a meagre situation as teacher in the Academy
at Lörrach, with a salary of one hundred and forty dollars a year! Laboring patiently in this
humble position for eight years, he was at last rewarded by being transferred to the Gymnasium
at Carlsruhe, with the rank of Sub-Deacon. Hither, the Markgraf Frederick of Baden, attracted
by the warmth, simplicity, and genial humor of the man, came habitually to listen to his sermons.
He found himself, without seeking it, in the path of promotion, and his life thenceforth was
a series of sure and moderate successes. His expectations, indeed, were so humble that they
were always exceeded by his rewards. When Baden became a Grand Duchy, with a constitutional
form of government, it required much persuasion to induce him to accept the rank of Prelate,
with a seat in the Upper House. His friends were disappointed, that, with his readiness and
fluent power of speech, he took so little part in the legislative proceedings. To one who reproached
him for this timidity he naively wrote,--"Oh, you have a right to talk: you are the son of
Pastor N. in X. Before you were twelve years old, you heard yourself called Mr. Gottlieb; and
when you went with your father down the street, and the judge or a notary met you, they took
off their hats, you waiting for your father to return the greeting, before you even lifted
your cap. But I, as you well know, grew up as the son of a poor widow in Hausen; and when I
accompanied my mother to Schopfheim or Basle, and we happened to meet a notary, she commanded,
'Peter, jerk your cap off, there's a gentleman!'--but when the judge or the counsellor appeared,
she called out to me, when they were twenty paces off, 'Peter, stand still where you are, and
off with your cap quick, the Lord Judge is comin'!' Now you can easily imagine how I feel,
when I recall those times,--and I recall them often,--sitting in the Chamber among Barons,
Counsellors of State, Ministers, and Generals, with Counts and Princes of the reigning House
before me." Hebel may have felt that rank is but the guinea-stamp, but he never would have
dared to speak it out with the defiant independence of Burns. Socially, however, he was thoroughly
democratic in his tastes; and his chief objection to accepting the dignity of Prelate was the
fear that it might restrict his intercourse with humbler friends.

His ambition appears to have been mainly confined to his theological labors, and he never could
have dreamed that his after-fame was to rest upon a few poems in a rough mountain-dialect,
written to beguile his intense longing for the wild scenery of his early home. After his transfer
to Carlsruhe, he remained several years absent from the Black Forest; and the pictures of its
dark hills, its secluded valleys, and their rude, warm-hearted, and unsophisticated inhabitants,
became more and more fresh and lively in his memory. Distance and absence turned the quaint
dialect to music, and out of this mild home-sickness grew the Alemannic poems. A healthy oyster
never produces a pearl.

These poems, written in the years 1801 and 1802, were at first circulated in manuscript among
the author's friends. He resisted the proposal to collect and publish them, until the prospect
of pecuniary advantage decided him to issue an anonymous edition. The success of the experiment
was so positive that in the course of five years four editions appeared,--a great deal for
those days. Not only among his native Alemanni, and in Baden and Würtemberg, where the dialect
was more easily understood, but from all parts of Germany, from poets and scholars, came messages
of praise and appreciation. Jean Paul (Richter) was one of Hebel's first and warmest admirers.
"Our Alemannic poet," he wrote, "has life and feeling for everything,--the open heart, the
open arms of love; and every star and every flower are human in his sight.... In other, better
words,--the evening-glow of a lovely, peaceful soul slumbers upon all the hills he bids arise;
for the flowers of poetry he substitutes the flower-goddess Poetry herself; he sets to his
lips the Swiss Alp-horn of youthful longing and joy, while pointing with the other hand to
the sunset-gleam of the lofty glaciers, and dissolved in prayer, as the sound of the chapel-bells
is flung down from the mountains."

Contrast this somewhat confused rhapsody with the clear, precise, yet genial words wherewith
Goethe welcomed the new poet. He instantly seized, weighed in the fine balance of his ordered
mind, and valued with nice discrimination, those qualities of Hebel's genius which had but
stirred the splendid chaos of Richter with an emotion of vague delight. "The author of these
poems," says he, in the Jena "Literaturzeitung," (1804,) "is about to achieve a place of his
own on the German Parnassus. His talent manifests itself in two opposite directions. On the
one hand, he observes with a fresh, cheerful glance those objects of Nature which express their
life in positive existence, in growth and in motion, (objects which we are accustomed to call
lifeless,) and thereby approaches the field of descriptive poetry; yet he succeeds, by his
happy personifications, in lifting his pictures to a loftier plane of Art. On the other hand,
he inclines to the didactic and the allegorical; but here, also, the same power of personification
comes to his aid, and as, in the one case, he finds a soul for his bodies, so, in the other,
he finds a body for his souls. As the ancient poets, and others who have been developed through
a plastic sentiment for Art, introduce loftier spirits, related to the gods,--such as nymphs,
dryads, and hamadryads,--in the place of rocks, fountains, and trees: so the author transforms
these objects into peasants, and countrifies [verbauert] the universe in the most naïve, quaint,
and genial manner, until the landscape, in which we nevertheless always recognize the human
figure, seems to become one with man in the cheerful enchantment exercised upon our fancy."

This is entirely correct, as a poetic characterization. Hebel, however, possesses the additional
merit--no slight one, either--of giving faithful expression to the thoughts, emotions, and
passions of the simple people among whom his childhood was passed. The hearty native kindness,
the tenderness, hidden under a rough exterior, the lively, droll, unformed fancy, the timidity
and the boldness of love, the tendency to yield to temptation, and the unfeigned piety of the
inhabitants of the Black Forest, are all reproduced in his poems. To say that they teach, more
or less directly, a wholesome morality, is but indifferent praise; for morality is the cheap
veneering wherewith would-be poets attempt to conceal the lack of the true faculty. We prefer
to let our readers judge for themselves concerning this feature of Hebel's poetry.

The Alemannic dialect, we have said, is at first harsh to the ear. It requires, indeed, not
a little practice, to perceive its especial beauties; since these consist in certain quaint,
playful inflections and elisions, which, like the speech of children, have a fresh, natural,
simple charm of their own. The changes of pronunciation, in German words, are curious. K becomes
a light guttural ch, and a great number of monosyllabic words--especially those ending in ut
and üh--receive a peculiar twist from the introduction of e or ei: as gut, früh, which become
guet, früeih. This seems to be a characteristic feature of the South-German dialects, though
in none is it so pronounced as in the Alemannic. The change of ist into isch, hast into hesch,
ich into i, dich into de, etc., is much more widely spread, among the peasantry, and is readily
learned, even by the foreign reader. But a good German scholar would be somewhat puzzled by
the consolidation of several abbreviated words into a single one, which occurs in almost every
Alemannic sentence: for instance, in woni he would have some difficulty in recognizing wo ich;
ságene does not suggest sage ihnen, nor uffeme, auf einem.

These singularities of the dialect render the translation of Hebel's poems into a foreign language
a work of great difficulty. In the absence of any English dialect which possesses corresponding
features, the peculiar quaintness and raciness which they confer must inevitably be lost. Fresh,
wild, and lovely as the Schwarzwald heather, they are equally apt to die in transplanting.
How much they lose by being converted into classical German was so evident to us (fancy, "Scots
who have with Wallace bled"!) that we at first shrank from the experiment of reproducing them
in a language still farther removed from the original. Certainly, classical English would not
answer; the individual soul of the poems could never be recognized in such a garb. The tongue
of Burns can be spoken only by a born Scot; and our Yankee, which is rather a grotesque English
than a dialect, is unfortunately so associated with the coarse and the farcical--Lowell's little
poem of "'Zekel's Courtship" being the single exception--that it seems hardly adapted to the
simple and tender fancies of Hebel. Like the comedian whose one serious attempt at tragic acting
was greeted with roars of laughter, as an admirable burlesque, the reader might, in such a
case, persist in seeing fun where sentiment was intended.

In this dilemma, it occurred to us that the common, rude form of the English language, as it
is spoken by the uneducated everywhere, without reference to provincial idioms, might possibly
be the best medium. It offers, at least, the advantage of simplicity, of a directness of expression
which overlooks grammatical rules, of natural pathos, even,--and therefore, so far as these
traits go, may reproduce them without detracting seriously from the original. Those other qualities
of the poems which spring from the character of the people of whom and for whom they were written
must depend, for their recognition, on the sympathetic insight of the reader. We can only promise
him the utmost fidelity in the translation, having taken no other liberty than the substitution
of common idiomatic phrases, peculiar to our language, for corresponding phrases in the other.
The original metre, in every instance, has been strictly adhered to.

The poems, only fifty-nine in number, consist principally of short songs or pastorals, and
narratives. The latter are written in hexameter, but by no means classic in form. It is a rough,
irregular metre, in which the trochees preponderate over the dactyls: many of the lines, in
fact, would not bear a critical scansion. We have not scrupled to imitate this irregularity,
as not inconsistent with the plain, ungrammatical speech of the characters introduced, and
the homely air of even the most imaginative passages. The opening poem is a charmingly wayward
idyl, called "The Meadow," (Die Wiese,) the name of a mountain-stream, which, rising in the
Feldberg, the highest peak of the Black Forest, flows past Hausen, Hebel's early home, on its
way to the Rhine. An extract from it will illustrate what Jean Paul calls the "hazardous boldness"
of Hebel's personifications:--

  Beautiful "Meadow," daughter o' Feldberg, I
    welcome and greet you.
  Listen: I'm goin' to sing a song, and all in
    y'r honor,
  Makin' a music beside ye, follerin' wherever
    you wander.
  Born unbeknown in the rocky, hidden heart
    o' the mountain,
  Suckled o' clouds and fogs, and weaned by
    the waters o' heaven,
  There you slep' like a babblin' baby, a-kep'
    in the bed-room,
  Secret, and tenderly cared-for: and eye o'
    man never saw you,--
  Never peeked through a key-hole and saw
    my little girl sleepin'
  Sound in her chamber o' crystal, rocked in
    her cradle o' silver.
  Neither an ear o' man ever listened to hear
    her a-breathin',
  No, nor her voice all alone to herself
    a-laughin' or cryin'.
  Only the close little spirits that know every
    passage and entrance,
  In and out dodgin', they brought ye up and
    teached ye to toddle,
  Gev' you a cheerful natur', and larnt you
    how to be useful:
  Yes, and their words didn't go into one ear
    and out at the t'other.
  Stand on your slippery feet as soon as may
    be, and use 'em,
  That you do, as you slyly creep from your
    chamber o' crystal
  Out o' doors, barefoot, and squint up to
    heaven, mischievously smilin'.
  Oh, but you're pretty, my darlin', y'r eyes
    have a beautiful sparkle!
  Isn't it nice, out o' doors? you didn't guess
    't was so pleasant?
  Listen, the leaves is rustlin', and listen, the
    birdies a-singin'!
  "Yes," says you, "but I'm goin' furder, and
    can't stay to hear 'm:
  Pleasant, truly, 's my way, and more so the
    furder I travel."

  Only see how spry my little one is at her
    jumpin'!
  "Ketch me!" she shouts, in her fun,--"if
    you want me, foller and ketch me!"
  Every minute she turns and jumps in another
    direction.

  There, you'll fall from the bank! You see,
       she's done it: I said so.
  Didn't I say it? And now she wobbles
       furder and furder,
  Creepin' along on all-fours, then off on her
       legs she's a-toddlin',--
  Slips in the bushes,--"Hunt me!"--and
       there, on a sudden, she peeks out.
  Wait, I'm a-comin'! Back o' the trees I
       hear her a-callin':
  "Guess where I am!"--she's whims of her
       own, a plenty, and keeps 'em.
  But, as you go, you're growin' han'somer,
       bigger, and stronger.
  Where the breath o' y'r breathin' falls, the
       meadows is greener,
  Fresher o' color, right and left, and the
       weeds and the grasses
  Sprout up as juicy as can be, and posies o'
       loveliest colors
  Blossom as brightly as wink, and bees come
       and suck 'em.
  Water-wagtails come tiltin',--and, look!
       there's the geese o' the village!
  All are a-comin' to see you, and all want to
       give you a welcome;
  Yes, and you're kind o' heart, and you
       prattle to all of 'em kindly;
  "Come, you well-behaved creeturs, eat and
       drink what I bring you,--
  I must be off and away: God bless you,
       well-behaved creeturs!"[A]

[Footnote A: As the reader of German may be curious to see a specimen of the original, we give
this last passage, which contains, in a brief compass, many distinctive features of the Alemannic
dialect:--

  "Nei so lucg me doch, wie cha mi Meiddeli springe!
  'Chunnsch mi über,' seits und lacht, 'und witt
       mi, se hol mi!'
  All' wil en andere Weg, und alliwil anderi
       Sprüngli!
  Fall mer nit sel Reiuli ab!--Do hemmer's, i sags io--
  Hani's denn nit gseit? Doch gauckelet's witers
       und witers,
  Groblet uf alle Vieren, und stellt si wieder uf
       d' Beinli,
  Schlieft in d' Hürst--iez such mer's eisl--dört
       güggelet's use,
  Wart, i chumm! Druf rüefts mer wieder hinter
       de Bäume:
  'Roth wo bin i iez!'--und het si urige Phatest.
  Aber wie de gosch, wirsch sichtli grösser und
       schöner.
  Wo di liebligen Othern weiht, so färbt si der Rase
  Grüener rechts und links, es stöhn in saftige
       Triebe
  Gras und Chrüter uf, es stöhn in frischere Gstalte
  Farbigi Blüemli do, und d' Immli chömmen und
       suge.
  'S Wasserstelzli chunnt, und lueg doch,'s Wuli
       vo Todtnau!
  Alles will di bschauen, und Alles will di bigrüsse,
  Und di fründlig Herz git alle fründligi Rede:
  'Chömmet ihr ordlige Thierli, do hender, esset
       und trinket!
  Witers goht mi Weg, Gsegott, ihr ordlige Thierli!'"
]

The poet follows the stream through her whole course, never dropping the figure, which is adapted,
with infinite adroitness, and with the play of a fancy as wayward and unrestrained as her own
waters, to all her changing aspects. Beside the Catholic chapel of Fair-Beeches she pauses
to listen to the mass; but farther down the valley becomes an apostate, and attends the Lutheran
service in the Husemer church. Stronger and statelier grown, she trips along with the step
of a maiden conscious of her own beauty, and the poet clothes her in the costume of an Alemannic
bride, with a green kirtle of a hundred folds, and a stomacher of Milan gauze, "like a loose
cloud on a morning sky in spring-time." Thus equipped, she wanders at will over the broader
meadows, around the feet of vineyard-hills, visits villages and churches, or stops to gossip
with the lusty young millers. But the woman's destiny is before her; she cannot escape it;
and the time is drawing near when her wild, singing, pastoral being shall be absorbed in that
of the strong male stream, the bright-eyed son of the Alps, who has come so far to woo and win her.

  Daughter o' Feldberg, half-and-half I've got
       a suspicion
  How as you've virtues and faults enough now
       to choose ye a husband.
  Castin' y'r eyes down, are you? Pickin' and
       plattin' y'r ribbons?
  Don't be so foolish, wench!--She thinks I
       know nothin' about it,
  How she's already engaged, and each is
       a-waitin' for t'other.
  Don't I know him, my darlin', the lusty
       young fellow, y'r sweetheart?

  Over powerful rocks, and through the hedges
       and thickets,
  Right away from the snowy Swiss mountains
       he plunges at Rheineck
  Down to the lake, and straight ahead swims
       through it to Constance,
  Sayin': "'T's no use o' talkin', I'll have
       the gal I'm engaged to!"

  But, as he reaches Stein, he goes a little more slowly,
  Leavin' the lake where he's decently washed his feet and his body.
  Diessenhofen don't please him,--no, nor the convent beside it.
  For'ard he goes to Schaffhausen, onto the rocks at the corner;
  There he says: "It's no use o' talkin', I'll git to my sweetheart:
  Body and life I'll stake, cravat and embroidered suspenders."
  Woop! but he jumps! And now he talks to hisself, goin' furder,
  Giddy, belike, in his head, but pushes for'ard to Rheinau,
  Eglisau, and Kaiserstuhl, and Zurzach, and Waldshut,--
  All are behind him, passin' one village after another
  Down to Grenzach, and out on the broad and beautiful bottoms
  Nigh unto Basle; and there he must stop and look after his license.

         *       *       *       *       *

  Look! isn't that y'r bridegroom a-comin' down yonder to meet you?--
  Yes, it's him, it's him, I hear't, for his voice is so jolly!
  Yes, it's him, it's him,--with his eyes as blue as the heavens,
  With his Swiss knee-breeches o' green, and suspenders o' velvet,
  With his shirt o' the color o' pearl, and buttons o' crystal,
  With his powerful loins, and his sturdy back and his shoulders,
  Grand in his gait, commandin', beautiful, free in his motions,
  Proud as a Basle Councilman,--yes, it's the big boy o' Gothard![B]

[Footnote B: The Rhine.]

The daring with which Hebel countrifies (or, rather, farmerizes, to translate Goethe's--word
more literally) the spirit of natural objects, carrying his personifications to that point
where the imaginative borders on the grotesque, is perhaps his strongest characteristic. His
poetic faculty, putting on its Alemannic costume, seems to abdicate all ambition of moving
in a higher sphere of society, but within the bounds it has chosen allows itself the utmost
range of capricious enjoyment. In another pastoral, called "The Oatmeal Porridge," he takes
the grain which the peasant has sown, makes it a sentient creature, and carries it through
the processes of germination, growth, and bloom, without once dropping the figure or introducing
an incongruous epithet. It is not only a child, but a child of the Black Forest, uttering its
hopes, its anxieties, and its joys in the familiar dialect. The beetle, in his eyes, becomes
a gross, hard-headed boor, carrying his sacks of blossom-meal, and drinking his mug of XX morning-dew;
the stork parades about to show his red stockings; the spider is at once machinist and civil
engineer; and even the sun, moon, and morning-star are not secure from the poet's familiarities.
In his pastoral of "The Field-Watchmen," he ventures to say,--

  Mister Schoolmaster Moon, with y'r forehead wrinkled with teachin',
  With y'r face full o' larnin', a plaster stuck on y'r cheek-bone,
  Say, do y'r children mind ye, and larn their psalm and their texes?

We much fear that this over-quaintness of fancy, to which the Alemannic dialect gives such
a racy flavor, and which belongs, in a lesser degree, to the minds of the people who speak
that dialect, cannot be successfully clothed in an English dress. Let us try, therefore, a
little poem, the sentiment whereof is of universal application:--

  THE CONTENTED FARMER.

  I guess I'll take my pouch, and fill
  My pipe just once,--yes, that I will!
  Turn out my plough and home'ards go:
  Buck thinks, enough's been done, I know.

  Why, when the Emperor's council's done,
  And he can hunt, and have his fun,
  He stops, I guess, at any tree,
  And fills his pipe as well as me.

  But smokin' does him little good:
  He can't have all things as he would.
  His crown's a precious weight, at that:
  It isn't like my old straw hat.

  He gits a deal o' tin, no doubt,
  But all the more he pays it out;
  And everywheres they beg and cry
  Heaps more than he can satisfy.

  And when, to see that nothin' 's wrong,
  He plagues hisself the whole day long,
  And thinks, "I guess I've fixed it now,"
  Nobody thanks him, anyhow.

  And so, when in his bloody clo'es
  The Gineral out o' battle goes,
  He takes his pouch, too, I'll agree,
  And fills his pipe as well as me.

  But in the wild and dreadfle fight,
  His pipe don't taste ezackly right:
  He's galloped here and galloped there,
  And things a'n't pleasant, anywhere.

  And sich a cursin': "Thunder!" "Hell!"
  And "Devil!" (worse nor I can tell:)
  His grannydiers in blood lay down,
  And yonder smokes a burnin' town.

  And when, a-travellin' to the Fairs,
  The merchant goes with all his wares,
  He takes a pouch o' th' best, I guess,
  And fills and smokes his pipe, no less.

  Poor devil, 't isn't good for you!
  With all y'r gold, you've trouble, too.
  Twice two is four, if stocks'll rise:
  I see the figgers in your eyes.

  It's hurry, worry, tare and tret;
  Ye ha'n't enough, the more ye get,--
  And couldn't use it, if ye had:
  No wonder that y'r pipe tastes bad!

  But good, thank God! and wholesome's mine:
  The bottom-wheat is growin' fine,
  And God, o' mornin's, sends the dew,
  And sends his breath o' blessin', too.

  And, home, there's Nancy bustlin' round:
  The supper's ready, I'll be bound,
  And youngsters waitin'. Lord! I vow
  I dunno which is smartest, now.

  My pipe tastes good; the reason's plain:
  (I guess I'll fill it once again:)
  With cheerful heart, and jolly mood,
  And goin' home, all things is good.

Hebel's narrative poems abound with the wayward pranks of a fancy which seems a little too
restive to be entirely controlled by his artistic sense; but they possess much dramatic truth
and power. He delights in the supernatural element, but approaches it from the gentler human
side. In "The Carbuncle," only, we find something of that weird, uncanny atmosphere which casts
its glamour around the "Tam O'Shanter" of Burns. A more satisfactory illustration of his peculiar
qualities is "The Ghost's Visit on the Feldberg,"--a story told by a loafer of Basle to a group
of beer-drinkers in the tavern at Todtnau, a little village at the foot of the mountain. This
is, perhaps, the most popular of Hebel's poems, and we therefore translate it entire. The superstition
that a child born on Sunday has the power of seeing spirits is universal among the German peasantry.

  THE GHOST'S VISIT ON THE FELDBERG.

  Hark ye, fellows o' Todtnau, if ever I told
       you the Scythe-Ghost[C]
  Was a spirit of Evil, I've now got a different
       story.
  Out of the town am I,--yes, that I'll honestly
       own to,--
  Related to merchants, at seven tables free to
       take pot-luck.
  But I'm a Sunday's child; and wherever the ghosts
       at the cross-roads
  Stand in the air, in vaults, and cellars, and
       out-o'-way places,--
  Guardin' hidden money with eyes like fiery
       sauce-pans,
  Washin' with bitter tears the spot where
       somebody's murdered,
  Shovellin' the dirt, and scratchin' it over
       with nails all so bloody,--
  Clear as day I can see, when it lightens.
       Ugh! how they whimper!
  Also, whenever with beautiful blue eyes the
       heavenly angels,
  Deep in the night, in silent, sleepin'
       villages wander,
  Peekin' in at the windows, and talkin'
       together so pleasant,
  Smilin' one at the t'other, and settin'
       outside o' the house-doors,
  So that the pious folks shall take no harm
       while they're sleepin':
  Then ag'in, when in couples or threes they
       walk in the grave-yard,
  Talkin' in this like: "There a faithful
       mother is layin';
  And here's a man that was poor, but took no
       advantage o' no one:
  Take your rest, for you're tired,--we'll waken
       ye up when the time comes!"
  Clearly I see by the light o' the stars, and I
       hear them a-talkin'.
  Many I know by their names, and speak to,
       whenever I meet 'em,
  Give 'em the time o' day, and ask 'em, and
       answer their questions.
  "How do ye do?" "How's y'r watch?"
       "Praise God, it's tolerable, thank you!"
  Believe it, or not! Well, once on a time my
       cousin, he sent me
  Over to Todtnau, on business with all sorts o'
       troublesome people,
  Where you've coffee to drink, and biscuit
       they give you to soak in 't.
  "Don't you stop on the road, nor gabble
       whatever comes foremost,"
  Hooted my cousin at startin', "nor don't you
       let go o' your snuff-box,
  Leavin' it round in the tavern, as gentlemen
       do, for the next time."
  Up and away I went, and all that my cousin
       he'd ordered
  Fairly and squarely I fixed. At the sign o'
       the Eagle in Todtnau
  Set for a while; then, sure o' my way, tramped
       off ag'in, home'ards,
  Nigh by the village, I reckoned,--but found
       myself climbin' the Feldberg,
  Lured by the birdies, and down by the brooks
       the beautiful posies:
  That's a weakness o' mine,--I ran like a fool
       after such things.
  Now it was dusk, and the birdies hushed up,
       settin' still on the branches.
  Hither and yonder a starlie stuck its head
       through the darkness,
  Peekin' out, as oncertain whether the sun was
       in bed yet,--
  Whether it mightn't come, and called to the
       other ones: "Come now!"
  Then I knowed I was lost, and laid myself
       down,--I was weary:
  There, you know, there's a hut, and I found
       an armful o' straw in 't.
  "Here's a go!" I thinks to myself, "and I
       wish I was safely
  Cuddled in bed to home,--or 't was midnight,
       and some little spirit
  Somewhere popped out, as o' nights when it's
       twelve they're accustomed,
  Passin' the time with me, friendly, till winds
       that blow early o' mornin's
  Blow out the heavenly lights, and I see the
       way back to the village."
  Now, as thinkin' in this like, I felt all over my
       watch-face,--
  Dark as pitch all around,--and felt with my
       finger the hour-hand,
  Found it was nigh onto 'leven, and hauled my
       pipe from my pocket,
  Thinkin': "Maybe a bit of a smoke'll keep
       me from snoozin'":
  Thunder! all of a sudden beside me was two
       of 'em talkin',
  Like as they'd business together! You'd
       better believe that I listened.
  "Say, a'n't I late a-comin'? Because there
       was, over in Mambach,
  Dyin', a girl with pains in the bones and terrible
       fever:
  Now, but she's easy! I held to her mouth the
       drink o' departure,
  So that the sufferin' ceased, and softly lowered
       the eyelids,
  Sayin': 'Sleep, and in peace,--I'll waken
       thee up when the time comes!'
  Do me the favor, brother: fetch in the basin o'
       silver
  Water, ever so little: my scythe, as you see,
       must be whetted."
  "Whetted?" says I to myself, "and a spirit?"
       and peeked from the window.
  Lo and behold, there sat a youngster with
       wings that was golden;
  White was his mantle, white, and his girdle
       the color o' roses,
  Fair and lovely to see, and beside him two
       lights all a-burnin'.
  "All the good spirits," says I, "Mr. Angel,
       God have you in keepin'!"
  "Praise their Master, the Lord," said the angel;
       "God thank you, as I do!"
  "Take no offence, Mr. Ghost, and by y'r good
       leave and permission,
  Tell me, what have you got for to mow?"
       "Why, the scythe!" was his answer.
  "Yes," says I, "for I see it; and that is my
       question exackly,
  What you're goin' to do with the scythe."
       "Why, to mow!" was his answer.
  Then I ventur'd to say: "And that is my question
       exackly,
  What you're goin' to mow, supposin' you're
       willin' to tell me."
  "Grass! And what is your business so late up
       here in the night-time?"
  "Nothin' special," I answered; "I'm burnin'
       a little tobacco.
  Lost my way, or most likely I'd be at the
       Eagle, in Todtnau.
  But to come to the subject, supposin' it isn't
       a secret,
  Tell me, what do you make o' the grass?"
       And he answered me: "Fodder!"
  "Don't understand it," says I; "for the Lord
       has no cows up in heaven."
  "Not precisely a cow," he remarked, "but
       heifers and asses.
  Seest, up yonder, the star?" and he pointed
       one out with his finger.
  "There's the ass o' the Christmas-Child, and
       Fridolin's heifers,[D]
  Breathin' the starry air, and waitin' for grass
       that I bring 'em:
  Grass doesn't grow there,--nothin' grows but
       the heavenly raisins,
  Milk and honey a-runnin' in rivers, plenty as
       water:
  But they're particular cattle,--grass they
       must have every mornin',
  Mouthfuls o' hay, and drink from earthly
       fountains they're used to.
  So for them I'm a-whettin' my scythe, and
       soon must be mowin':
  Wouldn't it be worth while, if politely you'd
       offer to help me?"
  So the angel he talked, and this way I answered
       the angel:
  "Hark ye, this it is, just: and I'll go wi' the
       greatest o' pleasure.
  Folks from the town know nothin' about it:
       we write and we cipher,
  Reckon up money,--that we can do!--and
       measure and weigh out,
  Unload, and on-load, and eat and drink without
       any trouble.
  All that we want for the belly, in kitchen,
       pantry, and cellar,
  Comes in lots through every gate, in baskets
       and boxes,
  Runs in every street, and cries at every
       corner:
  'Buy my cherries!' and 'Buy my butter!'
       and 'Look at my salad!'
  'Buy my onions!' and 'Here's your carrots!'
       and 'Spinage and parsley!'
  'Lucifer matches! Lucifer matches!' 'Cabbage
       and turnips!'
  'Here's your umbrellas!' 'Caraway-seed and
       juniper-berries!
  Cheap for cash, and all to be traded for sugar
       and coffee!'
  Say, Mr. Angel, didst ever drink coffee?
       how do you like it?"
  "Stop with y'r nonsense!" then he said, but
       he couldn't help laughin';
  "No, we drink but the heavenly air, and eat
       nothin' but raisins,
  Four on a day o' the week, and afterwards five
       on a Sunday.
  Come, if you want to go with me, now, for
       I'm off to my mowin',
  Back o' Todtnau, there on the grassy holt by
       the highway."
  "Yes, Mr. Angel, that will I truly, seein'
       you're willin':
  Seems to me that it's cooler: give me y'r
       scythe for to carry:
  Here's a pipe and a pouch,--you're welcome
       to smoke, if you want to."
  While I was talkin', "Poohoo!" cried the
       angel. A fiery man stood,
  Quicker than lightnin', beside me. "Light us
       the way to the village!"
  Said he. And truly before us marched, a-burnin',
       the Poohoo,
  Over stock and rock, through the bushes, a
       travellin' torch-light.
  "Handy, isn't it?" laughin', the angel said.
      --"What are ye doin'?
  Why do you nick at y'r flint? You can light
       y'r pipe at the Poohoo.
  Use him whenever you like: but it seems to
       me you're a-frightened,--
  You, and a Sunday's-child, as you are: do you
       think he will bite you?"
  "No, he ha'n't bit me; but this you'll allow
       me to say, Mr. Angel,--
  Half-and-half I mistrust him: besides, my tobacco's
       a-burnin'.
  That's a weakness o' mine,--I'm afeard o'
       them fiery creeturs:
  Give me seventy angels, instead o' this big
       burnin' devil!"
  "Really, it's dreadfle," the angel says he,
       "that men is so silly,
  Fearful o' ghosts and spectres, and skeery
       without any reason.
  Two of 'em only is dangerous, two of 'em hurtful
       to mankind:
  One of 'em's known by the name o' Delusion,
       and Worry the t'other.
  Him, Delusion, 's a dweller in wine: from
       cans and decanters
  Up to the head he rises, and turns your sense
       to confusion.
  This is the ghost that leads you astray in forest
       and highway:
  Undermost, uppermost, hither and yon the
       ground is a-rollin',
  Bridges bendin', and mountains movin', and
       everything double.
  Hark ye, keep out of his way!" "Aha!"
       I says to the angel,
  "There you prick me, but not to the blood: I
       see what you're after.
  Sober am I, as a judge. To be sure, I emptied
       my tankard
  Once, at the Eagle,--once,--and the landlord
       'll tell you the same thing,
  S'posin' you doubt me. And now, pray, tell
       me who is the t'other?"
  "Who is the t'other? Don't know without
       askin'?" answered the angel.
  "He's a terrible ghost: the Lord forbid you
       should meet him!
  When you waken early, at four or five in the
       mornin',
  There he stands a-waitin' with burnin eyes
       at y'r bed-side,
  Gives you the time o' day with blazin switches
       and pinchers:
  Even prayin' don't help, nor helps all your
       Ave Marias!
  When you begin 'em, he takes your jaws and
       claps 'em together;
  Look to heaven, he comes and blinds y'r eyes
       with his ashes;
  Be you hungry, and eat, he pizons y'r soup
       with his wormwood;
  Take you a drink o' nights, he squeezes gall
       in the tankard;
  Run like a stag, he follows as close on y'r trail
       as a blood-hound;
  Creep like a shadow, be whispers: 'Good! we
       had best take it easy';
  Kneels at y'r side in the church, and sets at
       y'r side in the tavern.
  Go wherever you will, there's ghosts a-hoverin'
       round you.
  Shut your eyes in y'r bed, they mutter:
       'There 's no need o' hurry;
  By-and-by you can sleep, but listen! we've
       somethin' to tell you:
  Have you forgot how you stoled? and how
       you cheated the orphans?
  Secretly sinned?'--and this, and t'other;
       and when they have finished,
  Say it over ag'in, and you get little good o'
       your slumber."
  So the angel he talked, and, like iron under
       the hammer,
  Sparked and spirited the Poohoo. "Surely,"
       I says to the angel,
  "Born on a Sunday was I, and friendly with
       many a preacher,
  Yet the Father protect me from these!" Says
       he to me, smilin':
  "Keep y'r conscience pure; it is better than
       crossin' and blessin'.
  Here we must part, for y'r way turns off and
       down to the village.
  Take the Poohoo along, but mind! put him
       out, in the meadow,
  Lest he should run in the village, settin' fire
       to the stables.
  God be with you and keep you!" And then
       says I: "Mr. Angel,
  God, the Father, protect you! Be sure, when
       you come to the city,
  Christmas evenin', call, and I'll hold it an
       honor to see you:
  Raisins I'll have at your service, and hippocras,
       if you like it.
  Chilly 's the air, o' evenin's, especially down
       by the river."
  Day was breakin' by this, and right there was
       Todtnau before me!
  Past, and onward to Basle I wandered, i' the
       shade and the coolness.
  When into Mambach I came, they bore a dead
       girl to the grave-yard,
  After the Holy Cross, and the faded banner o'
       Heaven,
  With the funeral garlands upon her, with sobbin'
       and weepin'.
  Ah, but she 'd heard what he said! he'll
       waken her up when the time comes.
  Afterwards, Tuesday it was, I got safely back
       to my cousin;
  But it turned out as he said,--I'd somewhere
       forgotten my snuff-box!

[Footnote C: Dengle-Geist, literally, "Whetting-Spirit." The exact meaning of dengeln is to
sharpen a scythe by hammering the edge of the blade, which was practised before whetstones
came in use.]

[Footnote D: According to an old legend, Fridolin (a favorite saint with the Catholic population
of the Black Forest) harnessed two young heifers to a mighty fir-tree, and hauled it into the
Rhine near Säckingen, thereby damming the river and forcing it to take a new course, on the
other side of the town.]

In this poem the hero of the story unconsciously describes himself by his manner of telling
it,--a reflective action of the dramatic faculty, which Browning, among living poets, possesses
in a marked degree. The "moral" is so skilfully inwoven into the substance of the narrative
as to conceal the appearance of design, and the reader has swallowed the pill before its sugar-coating
of fancy has dissolved in his mouth. There are few of Hebel's poems which were not written
for the purpose of inculcating some wholesome lesson, but in none does this object prominently
appear. Even where it is not merely implied, but directly expressed, he contrives to give it
the air of having been accidentally suggested by the theme. In the following, which is the
most pointedly didactic of all his productions, the characteristic fancy still betrays itself:--

  THE GUIDE-POST.

  D' ye know the road to th' bar'l o' flour?
    At break o' day let down the bars,
  And plough y'r wheat-field, hour by hour,
    Till sundown,--yes, till shine o' stars.

  You peg away, the livelong day,
    Nor loaf about, nor gape around;
  And that's the road to the thrashin'-floor,
    And into the kitchen, I'll be bound!

  D' ye know the road where dollars lays?
    Follow the red cents, here and there:
  For if a man leaves them, I guess,
    He won't find dollars anywhere.

  D' ye know the road to Sunday's rest?
    Jist don't o' week-days be afeard;
  In field and workshop do y'r best,
    And Sunday comes itself, I've heerd.
  On Saturdays it's not fur off,
     And brings a basketful o' cheer,--
  A roast, and lots o' garden-stuff,
     And, like as not, a jug o' beer!

  D' ye know the road to poverty?
     Turn in at any tavern-sign:
  Turn in,--it's temptin' as can be:
     There's bran'-new cards and liquor fine.

  In the last tavern there's a sack,
     And, when the cash y'r pocket quits,
  Jist hang the wallet on y'r back,--
     You vagabond! see how it fits!

  D' ye know what road to honor leads,
     And good old age?--a lovely sight!
  By way o' temperance, honest deeds,
     And tryin' to do y'r dooty right.

  And when the road forks, ary side,
     And you're in doubt which one it is,
  Stand still, and let y'r conscience guide:
     Thank God, it can't lead much amiss!

  And now, the road to church-yard gate
     You needn't ask! Go anywhere!
  For, whether roundabout or straight,
     All roads, at last, 'll bring you there.

  Go, fearin' God, but lovin' more!--
     I've tried to be an honest guide,--
  You'll find the grave has got a door,
     And somethin' for you t'other side.

We could linger much longer over our simple, brave old poet, were we sure of the ability of
the reader approximately to distinguish his features through the veil of translation. In turning
the leaves of the smoky book, with its coarse paper and rude type,--which suggests to us, by-the-by,
the fact that Hebel was accustomed to hang a book, which he wished especially to enjoy, in
the chimney, for a few days,--we are tempted by "The Market-Women in Town," by "The Mother
on Christmas-Eve," "The Morning-Star," and the charming fairy-story of "Riedliger's Daughter,"
but must be content to close our specimens, for the present, with a song of love,--"Hans und
Verene,"--under the equivalent title of

  JACK AND MAGGIE.

  There's only one I'm after,
     And she's the one, I vow!
  If she was here, and standin' by,
  She is a gal so neat and spry,
        So neat and spry,
     I'd be in glory now!

  It's so,--I'm hankerin' for her,
     And want to have her, too.
  Her temper's always gay, and bright,
  Her face like posies red and white,
        Both red and white,
     And eyes like posies blue.

  And when I see her comin',
     My face gits red at once;
  My heart feels chokin'-like, and weak,
  And drops o' sweat run down my cheek,
        Yes, down my cheek,--
     Confound me for a dunce!

  She spoke so kind, last Tuesday,
     When at the well we met:
  "Jack, give a lift! What ails you? Say!
  I see that somethin' 's wrong to-day:
        What's wrong to-day?"
     No, that I can't forget!

  I know I'd ought to tell her,
     And wish I'd told her then;
  And if I wasn't poor and low,
  And sayin' it didn't choke me so,
        (It chokes me so,)
     I'd find a chance again.

  Well, up and off I'm goin':
     She's in the field below:
  I'll try and let her know my mind;
  And if her answer isn't kind,
        If 't isn't kind,
     I'll jine the ranks, and go!

  I'm but a poor young fellow,
     Yes, poor enough, no doubt:
  But ha'n't, thank God, done nothin' wrong,
  And be a man as stout and strong,
        As stout and strong,
     As any roundabout.

  What's rustlin' in the bushes?
     I see a movin' stalk:
  The leaves is openin': there's a dress!
  O Lord, forbid it! but I guess--
        I guess--I guess
     Somebody's heard me talk!

  "Ha! here I am! you've got me!
     So keep me, if you can!
  I've guessed it ever since last Fall,
  And Tuesday morn I saw it all,
        I saw it all!
     Speak out, then, like a man!

  "Though rich you a'n't in money,
     Nor rich in goods to sell,
  An honest heart is more than gold,
  And hands you've got for field and fold,
         For house and fold,
      And--Jack--I love you well!"

  "O Maggie, say it over!
     O Maggie, is it so?
  I couldn't longer bear the doubt:
  'Twas hell,--but now you've drawed me out,
       You've drawed me out!
    And will I? Won't I, though!"

The later years of Hebel's life quietly passed away in the circle of his friends at Carlsruhe.
After the peculiar mood which called forth the Alemannic poems had passed away, he seems to
have felt no further temptation to pursue his literary success. His labors, thenceforth, were
chiefly confined to the preparation of a Biblical History, for schools, and the editing of
the "Rhenish House-Friend," an illustrated calendar for the people, to which he gave a character
somewhat similar to that of Franklin's "Poor Richard." His short, pithy narratives, each with
its inevitable, though unobtrusive moral, are models of style. The calendar became so popular,
under his management, that forty thousand copies were annually printed. He finally discontinued
his connection with it, in 1819, in consequence of an interference with his articles on the
part of the censor.

In society Hebel was a universal favorite. Possessing, in his personal appearance, no less
than in his intellect, a marked individuality, he carried a fresh, vital, inspiring element
into every company which he visited. His cheerfulness was inexhaustible, his wit keen and lambent
without being acrid, his speech clear, fluent, and genial, and his fund of anecdote commensurate
with his remarkable narrative power. He was exceedingly frank, joyous, and unconstrained in
his demeanor; fond of the pipe and the beer-glass; and as one of his maxims was, "Not to close
any door through which Fortune might enter," he not only occasionally bought a lottery-ticket,
but was sometimes to be seen, during the season, at the roulette-tables of Baden-Baden. One
of his friends declares, however, that he never obtruded "the clergyman" at inappropriate times!

In person he was of medium height, with a body of massive Teutonic build, a large, broad head,
inclined a little towards one shoulder, the eyes small, brown, and mischievously sparkling,
the hair short, crisp, and brown, the nose aquiline, and the mouth compressed, with the commencement
of a smile stamped in the corners. He was careless in his gait, and negligent in his dress.
Warm-hearted and tender, and especially attracted towards women and children, the cause of
his celibacy always remained a mystery to his friends.

The manner of his death, finally, illustrated the genuine humanity of his nature. In September,
1826, although an invalid at the time, he made a journey to Mannheim for the sake of procuring
a mitigation of the sentence of a condemned poacher, whose case appealed strongly to his sympathy.
His exertions on behalf of the poor man so aggravated his disease that he was soon beyond medical
aid. Only his corpse, crowned with laurel, returned to Carlsruhe. Nine years afterwards a monument
was erected to his memory in the park attached to the Ducal palace. Nor have the inhabitants
of the Black Forest failed in worthy commemoration of their poet's name. A prominent peak among
the mountains which inclose the valley of his favorite "Meadow" has been solemnly christened
"Hebel's Mount"; and a flower of the Forest--the Anthericum of Linnaeus--now figures in German
botanies as the Hebelia Alemannica.

THE FORESTER. Perhaps he has the profoundest passion for it of any one living; and had the
human sentiment been as tender from the first, and as pervading, we might have had pastorals
of which Virgil and Theocritus would have envied him the authorship, had they chanced to be
his contemporaries. As it is, he has come nearer the antique spirit than any of our native
poets, and touched the fields and groves and streams of his native town with a classic interest
that shall not fade. Some of his verses are suffused with an elegiac tenderness, as if the
woods and fields bewailed the absence of their forester, and murmured their griefs meanwhile
to one another,--responsive like idyls. Living in close companionship with Nature, his Muse
breathes the spirit and voice of poetry; his excellence lying herein: for when the heart is
once divorced from the senses and all sympathy with common things, then poetry has fled, and
the love that sings.

The most welcome of companions, this plain countryman. One shall not meet with thoughts invigorating
like his often; coming so scented of mountain and field breezes and rippling springs, so like
a luxuriant clod from under forest-leaves, moist and mossy with earth-spirits. His presence
is tonic, like ice-water in dog-days to the parched citizen pent in chambers and under brazen
ceilings. Welcome as the gurgle of brooks, the dripping of pitchers,--then drink and be cool!
He seems one with things, of Nature's essence and core, knit of strong timbers, most like a
wood and its inhabitants. There are in him sod and shade, woods and waters manifold, the mould
and mist of earth and sky. Self-poised and sagacious as any denizen of the elements, he has
the key to every animal's brain, every plant, every shrub; and were an Indian to flower forth,
and reveal the secrets hidden in his cranium, it would not be more surprising than the speech
of our Sylvanus. He must belong to the Homeric age,--is older than pastures and gardens, as
if he were of the race of heroes, and one with the elements. He, of all men, seems to be the
native New-Englander, as much so as the oak, the granite ledge, our best sample of an indigenous
American, untouched by the Old Country, unless he came down from Thor, the Northman; as yet
unfathered by any, and a nondescript in the books of natural history.

A peripatetic philosopher, and out of doors for the best parts of his days and nights, he has
manifold weather and seasons in him, and the manners of an animal of probity and virtues unstained.
Of our moralists he seems the wholesomest; and the best republican citizen in the world,--always
at home, and minding his own affairs. Perhaps a little over-confident sometimes, and stiffly
individual, dropping society clean out of his theories, while standing friendly in his strict
sense of friendship, there is in him an integrity and sense of justice that make possible and
actual the virtues of Sparta and the Stoics, and all the more welcome to us in these times
of shuffling and of pusillanimity. Plutarch would have made him immortal in his pages, had
he lived before his day. Nor have we any so modern as be,--his own and ours; too purely so
to be appreciated at once. A scholar by birthright, and an author, his fame has not yet travelled
far from the banks of the rivers he has described in his books; but I hazard only the truth
in affirming of his prose, that in substance and sense it surpasses that of any naturalist
of his time, and that he is sure of a reading in the future. There are fairer fishes in his
pages than any now swimming in our streams, and some sleep of his on the banks of the Merrimack
by moonlight that Egypt never rivalled; a morning of which Memnon might have envied the music,
and a greyhound that was meant for Adonis; some frogs, too, better than any of Aristophanes.
Perhaps we have had no eyes like his since Pliny's time. His senses seem double, giving him
access to secrets not easily read by other men: his sagacity resembling that of the beaver
and the bee, the dog and the deer; an instinct for seeing and judging, as by some other or
seventh sense, dealing with objects as if they were shooting forth from his own mind mythologically,
thus completing Nature all round to his senses, and a creation of his at the moment. I am sure
he knows the animals, one by one, and everything else knowable in our town, and has named them
rightly as Adam did in Paradise, if he be not that ancestor himself. His works are pieces of
exquisite sense, celebrations of Nature's virginity, exemplified by rare learning and original
observations. Persistently independent and manly, he criticizes men and times largely, urging
and defending his opinions with the spirit and pertinacity befitting a descendant of him of
the Hammer. A head of mixed genealogy like his, Franco-Norman crossed by Scottish and New-England
descent, may be forgiven a few characteristic peculiarities and trenchant traits of thinking,
amidst his great common sense and fidelity to the core of natural things. Seldom has a head
circumscribed so much of the sense of Cosmos as this footed intelligence,--nothing less than
all out-of-doors sufficing his genius and scopes, and, day by day, through all weeks and seasons,
the year round.

If one would find the wealth of wit there is in this plain man, the information, the sagacity,
the poetry, the piety, let him take a walk with him, say of a winter's afternoon, to the Blue
Water, or anywhere about the outskirts of his village-residence. Pagan as he shall outwardly
appear, yet he soon shall be seen to be the hearty worshipper of whatsoever is sound and wholesome
in Nature,--a piece of russet probity and sound sense that she delights to own and honor. His
talk shall be suggestive, subtile, and sincere, under as many masks and mimicries as the shows
he passes, and as significant,--Nature choosing to speak through her chosen mouth-piece,--cynically,
perhaps, sometimes, and searching into the marrows of men and times he chances to speak of,
to his discomfort mostly, and avoidance. Nature, poetry, life,--not politics, not strict science,
not society as it is,--are his preferred themes: the new Pantheon, probably, before he gets
far, to the naming of the gods some coming Angelo, some Pliny, is to paint and describe. The
world is holy, the things seen symbolizing the Unseen, and worthy of worship so, the Zoroastrian
rites most becoming a nature so fine as ours in this thin newness, this worship being so sensible,
so promotive of possible pieties,--calling us out of doors and under the firmament, where health
and wholesomeness are finely insinuated into our souls,--not as idolaters, but as idealists,
the seekers of the Unseen through images of the Invisible.

I think his religion of the most primitive type, and inclusive of all natural creatures and
things, even to "the sparrow that falls to the ground,"--though never by shot of his,--and,
for whatsoever is manly in man, his worship may compare with that of the priests and heroes
of pagan times. Nor is he false to these traits under any guise,--worshipping at unbloody altars,
a favorite of the Unseen, Wisest, and Best. Certainly he is better poised and more nearly self-reliant
than other men.

Perhaps he deals best with matter, properly, though very adroitly with mind, with persons,
as he knows them best, and sees them from Nature's circle, wherein he dwells habitually. I
should say he inspired the sentiment of love, if, indeed, the sentiment he awakens did not
seem to partake of a yet purer sentiment, were that possible,--but nameless from its excellency.
Friendly he is, and holds his friends by bearings as strict in their tenderness and consideration
as are the laws of his thinking,--as prompt and kindly equitable,--neighborly always, and as
apt for occasions as he is strenuous against meddling with others in things not his.

I know of nothing more creditable to his greatness than the thoughtful regard, approaching
to reverence, by which he has held for many years some of the best persons of his time, living
at a distance, and wont to make their annual pilgrimage, usually on foot, to the master,--a
devotion very rare in these times of personal indifference, if not of confessed unbelief in
persons and ideas.

He has been less of a housekeeper than most, has harvested more wind and storm, sun and sky;
abroad night and day with his leash of keen scents, bounding any game stirring, and running
it down, for certain, to be spread on the dresser of his page, and served as a feast to the
sound intelligences, before he has done with it. We have been accustomed to consider him the
salt of things so long that they must lose their savor without his to season them. And when
he goes hence, then Pan is dead, and Nature ailing throughout.

His friend sings him thus, with the advantages of his Walden to show him in Nature:--

  "It is not far beyond the Village church,
  After we pass the wood that skirts the road,
  A Lake,--the blue-eyed Walden, that doth smile
  Most tenderly upon its neighbor Pines;
  And they, as if to recompense this love,
  In double beauty spread their branches forth.
  This Lake has tranquil loveliness and breadth,
  And, of late years, has added to its charms;
  For one attracted to its pleasant edge
  Has built himself a little Hermitage,
  Where with much piety he passes life.

  "More fitting place I cannot fancy now,
  For such a man to let the line run off
  The mortal reel,--such patience hath the Lake,
  Such gratitude and cheer is in the Pines.
  But more than either lake or forest's depths
  This man has in himself: a tranquil man,
  With sunny sides where well the fruit is ripe,
  Good front and resolute bearing to this life,
  And some serener virtues, which control
  This rich exterior prudence,--virtues high,
  That in the principles of Things are set,
  Great by their nature, and consigned to him,
  Who, like a faithful Merchant, does account
  To God for what he spends, and in what way.
  Thrice happy art thou, Walden, in thyself!
  Such purity is in thy limpid springs,--
  In those green shores which do reflect in thee,
  And in this man who dwells upon thy edge,
  A holy man within a Hermitage.
  May all good showers fall gently into thee,
  May thy surrounding forests long be spared,
  And may the Dweller on thy tranquil marge
  There lead a life of deep tranquillity,
  Pure as thy Waters, handsome as thy Shores,
  And with those virtues which are like the Stars!"

METHODS OF STUDY IN NATURAL HISTORY.

VII.

I come now to an obscure part of my subject, very difficult to present in a popular form, and
yet so important in the scientific investigations of our day that I cannot omit it entirely.
I allude to what are called by naturalists Collateral Series or Parallel Types. These are by
no means difficult to trace, because they are connected by seeming resemblances, which, though
very likely to mislead and perplex the observer, yet naturally suggest the association of such
groups. Let me introduce the subject with the statement of some facts.

There are in Australia numerous Mammalia, occupying the same relation and answering the same
purposes as the Mammalia of other countries. Some of them are domesticated by the natives,
and serve them with meat, milk, wool, as our domesticated animals serve us. The Australian
Mammalia are peculiar to the region where they are found, and are all linked together by two
remarkable structural features which distinguish them from all other Mammalia and unite them
under one head as the so-called Marsupials. They bring forth their young in an imperfect condition,
and transfer them to a pouch, where they remain attached to the teats of the mother till their
development is as far advanced as that of other Mammalia at the time of their birth; and they
are further characterized by an absence of that combination of transverse fibres forming the
large bridge which unites the two hemispheres of the brain in all the other members of their
class. Here, then, is a series of animals parallel with ours, separated from them by anatomical
features, but so united with them by form and external features that many among them have been
at first associated together.

This is what Cuvier has called subordination of characters, distinguishing between characters
that control the organization and those that are not essentially connected with it. The skill
of the naturalist consists in detecting the difference between the two, so that he may not
take the more superficial features as the basis of his classification, instead of those important
ones which, though often less easily recognized, are more deeply rooted in the organization.
It is a difference of the same nature as that between affinity and analogy, to which I have
alluded before, when speaking of the ingrafting of certain features of one type upon animals
of another type, thus producing a superficial resemblance, not truly characteristic. In the
Reptiles, for instance, there are two groups,--those devoid of scales, with naked skin, laying
numerous eggs, but hatching their young in an imperfect state, and the Scaly Reptiles, which
lay comparatively few eggs, but whose young, when hatched, are completely developed, and undergo
no subsequent metamorphosis. Yet, notwithstanding this difference in essential features of
structure, and in the mode of reproduction and development, there is such an external resemblance
between certain animals belonging to the two groups that they were associated together even
by so eminent a naturalist as Linnaeus. Compare, for instance, the Serpents among the Scaly
Reptiles with the Caecilians among the Naked Reptiles. They have the same elongated form, and
are both destitute of limbs; the head in both is on a level with the body, without any contraction
behind it, such as marks the neck in the higher Reptiles, and moves only by the action of the
back-bone; they are singularly alike in their external features, but the young of the Serpent
are hatched in a mature condition, while the young of the type to which the Caecilians belong
undergo a succession of metamorphoses before attaining to a resemblance to the parent. Or compare
the Lizard and the Salamander, in which the likeness is perhaps even more striking; for any
inexperienced observer would mistake one for the other. Both are superior to the Serpents and
Caecilians, for in them the head moves freely on the neck and they creep on short imperfect
legs. But the Lizard is clothed with scales, while the body of the Salamander is naked, and
the young of the former is complete when hatched, while the Tadpole born from the Salamander
has a life of its own to live, with certain changes to pass through before it assumes its mature
condition; during the early part of its life it is even destitute of legs, and has gills like
the Fishes. Above the Lizards and Salamanders, highest in the class of Reptiles, stand two
other collateral types,--the Turtles at the head of the Scaly Reptiles, the Toads and Frogs
at the Lead of the Naked Reptiles. The external likeness between these two groups is perhaps
less striking than between those mentioned above, on account of the large shield of the Turtle.
But there are Turtles with a soft covering, and there are some Toads with a hard shield over
the head and neck at least, and both groups are alike distinguished by the shortness and breadth
of the body and by the greater development of the limbs as compared with the lower Reptiles.
But here again there is the same essential difference in the mode of development of their young
as distinguishes all the rest. The two series may thus be contrasted:--

Naked Reptiles. Toads and Frogs, Salamanders, Caecilians.

Scaly Reptiles. Turtles, Lizards, Serpents.

Such corresponding groups or parallel types, united only by external resemblance, and distinguished
from each other by essential elements of structure, exist among all animals, though they are
less striking among Birds on account of the uniformity of that class. Yet even there we may
trace such analogies,--as between the Palmate or Aquatic Birds, for instance, and the Birds
of Prey, or between the Frigate Bird and the Kites. Among Fishes such analogies are very common,
often suggesting a comparison even with land animals, though on account of the scales and spines
of the former the likeness may not be easily traced. But the common names used by the fishermen
often indicate these resemblances, --as, for instance, Sea-Vulture, Sea-Eagle, Cat-Fish, Flying-Fish,
Sea-Porcupine, Sea-Cow, Sea-Horse, and the like. In the branch of Mollusks, also, the same
superficial analogies are found. In the lowest class of this division of the Animal Kingdom
there is a group so similar to the Polyps, that, until recently, they have been associated
with them,--the Bryozoa. They are very small animals, allied to the Clams by the plan of their
structure, but they have a resemblance to the Polyps on account of a radiating wreath of feelers
around the upper part of their body: yet, when examined closely, this wreath is found to be
incomplete; it does not, form a circle, but leaves an open space between the two ends, where
they approach each other, so that it has a horseshoe outline, and partakes of the bilateral
symmetry characteristic of its type and on which its own structure is based. These series have
not yet been very carefully traced, and young naturalists should turn their attention to them,
and be prepared to draw the nicest distinction between analogies and true affinities among animals.

VIII.

After this digression, let us proceed to a careful examination of the natural groups of animals
called Families by naturalists,--a subject already briefly alluded to in a previous chapter.
Families are natural assemblages of animals of less extent than Orders, but, like Orders, Classes,
and Branches, founded upon certain categories of structure, which are as distinct for this
kind of group as for all the other divisions in the classification of the Animal Kingdom.

That we may understand the true meaning of these divisions, we must not be misled by the name
given by naturalists to this kind of group. Here, as in so many other instances, a word already
familiar, and that had become, as it were, identified with the special sense in which it had
been used, has been adopted by science and has received a new signification. When naturalists
speak of Families among animals, they do not allude to the progeny of a known stock, as we
designate, in common parlance, the children or the descendants of known parents by the word
family; they understand by Families natural groups of different kinds of animals, having no
genetic relations so far as we know, but agreeing with one another closely enough to leave
the impression of a more or less remote common parentage. The difficulty here consists in determining
the natural limits of such groups, and in tracing the characteristic features by which they
may be defined; for individual investigators differ greatly as to the degree of resemblance
existing between the members of many Families, and there is no kind of group which presents
greater diversity of circumscription in the classifications of animals proposed by different
naturalists than these so-called Families.

It should be remembered, however, that, unless a sound criterion be applied to the limitation
of Families, they, like all other groups introduced into zoölogical systems, must forever remain
arbitrary divisions, as they have been hitherto. A retrospective glance at the progress of
our science during the past century, in this connection, may perhaps help us to solve the difficulty.
Linnaeus, in his System of Nature, does not admit Families; he has only four kinds of groups,--Classes,
Orders, Genera, and Species. It was among plants that naturalists first perceived those general
traits of resemblance which exist everywhere among the members of natural families, and added
this kind of group to the framework of their system. In France, particularly, this method was
pursued with success; and the improvements thus introduced by the French botanists were so
great, and rendered their classification so superior to that of Linnaeus, that the botanical
systems in which Families were introduced were called natural systems, in contradistinction
especially to the botanical classification of Linnaeus, which was founded upon the organs of
reproduction, and which received thenceforth the name of the sexual system of plants. The same
method so successfully used by botanists was soon introduced into Zoölogy by the French naturalists
of the beginning of this century,--Lamarck, Latreille, and Cuvier. But, to this day, the limitation
of Families among animals has not yet reached the precision which it has among plants, and
I see no other reason for the difference than the absence of a leading principle to guide us
in Zoölogy.

Families, as they exist in Nature, are based upon peculiarities of form as related to structure;
but though a very large number of them have been named and recorded, very few are characterized
with anything like scientific accuracy. It has been a very simple matter to establish such
groups according to the superficial method that has been pursued, for the fact that they are
determined by external outline renders the recognition of them easy and in many instances almost
instinctive; but it is very difficult to characterize them, or, in other words, to trace the
connection between form and structure. Indeed, many naturalists do not admit that Families
are based upon form; and it was in trying to account for the facility with which they detect
these groups, while they find it so difficult to characterize them, that I perceived that they
are always associated with peculiarities of form. Naturalists have established Families simply
by bringing together a number of animals resembling each other more or less closely, and, taking
usually the name of the Genus to which the best known among them belongs, they have given it
a patronymic termination to designate the Family, and allowed the matter to rest there, sometimes
without even attempting any description corresponding to those by which Genus and Species are
commonly defined.

For instance, from Canis, the Dog, Canidae has been formed, to designate the whole Family of
Dogs, Wolves, Foxes, etc. Nothing can be more superficial than such a mode of classification;
and if these groups actually exist in Nature, they must be based, like all the other divisions,
upon some combination of structural characters peculiar to them. We have seen that Branches
are founded upon the general plan of structure, Classes on the mode of executing the plan,
Orders upon the greater or less complication of a given mode of execution, and we shall find
that form, as determined by structure, characterizes Families. I would call attention to this
qualification of my definition; since, of course, when speaking of form in this connection,
I do not mean those superficial resemblances in external features already alluded to in my
remarks upon Parallel or Collateral Types. I speak now of form as controlled by structural
elements; and unless we analyze Families in this way, the mere distinguishing and naming them
does not advance our science at all. Compare, for instance, the Dogs, the Seals, and the Bears.
These are all members of one Order,--that of the Carnivorous Mammalia. Their dentition is peculiar
and alike in all, (cutting teeth, canine teeth, and grinders,) adapted for tearing and chewing
their food; and their internal structure bears a definite relation to their dentition. But
look at these animals with reference to form. The Dog is comparatively slender, with legs adapted
for running and hunting his prey; the Bear is heavier, with shorter limbs; while the Seal has
a continuous uniform outline adapted for swimming. They form separate Families, and are easily
recognized as such by the difference in their external outline; but what is the anatomical
difference which produces the peculiarity of form in each, by which they have been thus distinguished?
It lies in the structure of the limbs, and especially in that of the wrist and fingers. In
the Seal the limbs are short, and the wrists are on one continuous line with them, so that
it has no power of bending the wrist or the fingers, and the limbs, therefore, act like flappers
or oars. The Bear has a well-developed paw with a flexible wrist, but it steps on the whole
sole of the foot, from the wrist to the tip of the toe, giving it the heavy tread so characteristic
of all the Bears. The Dogs, on the contrary, walk on tip-toe, and their step, though firm,
is light, while the greater slenderness and flexibility of their legs add to their nimbleness
and swiftness. By a more extensive investigation of the anatomical structure of the limbs in
their connection with the whole body, it could easily be shown that the peculiarity of form
in these animals is essentially determined by, or at least stands in the closest relation to,
the peculiar structure of the wrist and fingers.

Take the Family of Owls as distinguished from the Falcons, Kites, etc. Here the difference
of form is in the position of the eyes. In the Owl, the sides of the head are prominent and
the eye-socket is brought forward. In the Falcons and Kites, on the contrary, the sides of
the head are flattened and the eyes are set back. The difference in the appearance of the birds
is evident to the most superficial observer; but to call the one Strigidae and the other Falconidae
tells us nothing of the anatomical peculiarities on which this difference is founded.

These few examples, selected purposely among closely allied and universally known animals,
may be sufficient to show, that, beyond the general complication of the structure which characterizes
the Orders, there is a more limited element in the organization of animals, bearing chiefly
upon their form, which, if it have any general application as a principle of classification,
may well be considered as essentially characteristic of the Families. There are certainly closely
allied natural groups of animals, belonging to the same Order, but including many Genera, which
differ from each other chiefly in their form, while that form is determined by peculiarities
of structure which do not influence the general structural complication upon which Orders are
based, or relate to the minor details of structure on which Genera are founded. I am therefore
convinced that form is the criterion by which Families may be determined. The great facility
with which animals may be combined together in natural groups of this kind without any special
investigation of their structure, a superficial method of classification in which zoölogists
have lately indulged to a most unjustifiable degree, convinces me that it is the similarity
of form which has unconsciously led such shallow investigators to correct results, since upon
close examination it is found that a large number of the Families so determined, and to which
no characters at all are assigned, nevertheless bear the severest criticism founded upon anatomical
investigation.

The questions proposed to themselves by all students who would characterize Families should
be these: What are, throughout the Animal Kingdom, the peculiar patterns of form by which Families
are distinguished? and on what structural features are these patterns based? Only the most
patient investigations can give us the answer, and it will be very long before we can write
out the formulae of these patterns with mathematical precision, as I believe we shall be able
to do in a more advanced stage of our science. But while the work is in progress, it ought
to be remembered that a mere general similarity of outline is not yet in itself evidence of
identity of form or pattern, and that, while seemingly very different forms may be derived
from the same formula, the most similar forms may belong to entirely different systems, when
their derivation is properly traced. Our great mathematician, in a lecture delivered at the
Lowell Institute last winter, showed that in his science, also, similarity of outline does
not always indicate identity of character. Compare the different circles,--the perfect circle,
in which every point of the periphery is at the same distance from the centre, with an ellipse
in which the variation from the true circle is so slight as to be almost imperceptible to the
eye; yet the latter, like all ellipses, has its two foci by which it differs from a circle,
and to refer it to the family of circles instead of the family of ellipses would be overlooking
its true character on account of its external appearance; and yet ellipses may be so elongated,
that, far from resembling a circle, they make the impression of parallel lines linked at their
extremities. Or we may have an elastic curve in which the appearance of a circle is produced
by the meeting of the two ends; nevertheless it belongs to the family of elastic curves, in
which may even be included a line actually straight, and is formed by a process entirely different
from that which produces the circle or the ellipse.

But it is sometimes exceedingly difficult to find the relation between structure and form in
Families, and I remember a case which I had taken as a test of the accuracy of the views I
entertained upon this subject, and which perplexed and baffled me for years. It was that of
our fresh-water Mussels, the Family of Unios. There is a great variety of outline among them,--some
being oblong and very slender, others broad with seemingly square outlines, others having a
nearly triangular form, while others again are almost circular; and I could not detect among
them all any feature of form that was connected with any essential element of their structure.
At last, however, I found this test-character, and since that time I have had no doubt left
in my mind that form, determined by structure, is the true criterion of Families. In the Unios
it consists of the rounded outline of the anterior end of the body reflected in a more or less
open curve of the shell, bending more abruptly along the lower side with an inflection followed
by a bulging, corresponding to the most prominent part of the gills, to which alone, in a large
number of American Species of this Family, the eggs are transferred, giving to this part of
the shell a prominence which it has not in any of the European Species. At the posterior end
of the body this curve then bends upwards and backwards again, the outline meeting the side
occupied by the hinge and ligament, which, when very short, may determine a triangular form
of the whole shell, or, when equal to the lower side and connected with a great height of the
body, gives it a quadrangular form, or, if the height is reduced, produces an elongated form,
or, finally, a rounded form, if the passage from one side to the other is gradual. A comparison
of the position of the internal organs of different Species of Unios with the outlines of their
shells will leave no doubt that their form is determined by the structure of the animal.

A few other and more familiar examples may complete this discussion. Among Climbing Birds,
for instance, which are held together as a more comprehensive group by the structure of their
feet and by other anatomical features, there are two Families so widely different in their
form that they may well serve as examples of this principle. The Woodpeckers (Picidae) and
the Parrots (Psittacidae), once considered as two Genera only, have both been subdivided, in
consequence of a more intimate knowledge of their generic characters, into a large number of
Genera; but all the Genera of Woodpeckers and all the Genera of the Parrots are still held
together by their form as Families, corresponding as such to the two old Genera of Picus and
Psittacus. They are now known as the Families of Woodpeckers and Parrots; and though each group
includes a number of Genera combined upon a variety of details in the finish of special parts
of the structure, such as the number of toes, the peculiarities of the bill, etc., it is impossible
to overlook the peculiar form which is characteristic of each. No one who is familiar with
the outline of the Parrot will fail to recognize any member of that Family by a general form
which is equally common to the diminutive Nonpareil, the gorgeous Ara, and the high-crested
Cockatoo. Neither will any one, who has ever observed the small head, the straight bill, the
flat back, and stiff tail of the Woodpecker, hesitate to identify the family form in any of
the numerous Genera into which this group is now divided. The family characters are even more
invariable than the generic ones; for there are Woodpeckers which, instead of the four toes,
two turning forward and two backward, which form an essential generic character, have three
toes only, while the family form is always maintained, whatever variations there may be in
the characters of the more limited groups it includes.

The Turtles and Terrapins form another good illustration of family characters. They constitute
together a natural Order, but are distinguished from each other as two Families very distinct
in general form and outline. Among Fishes I may mention the Family of Pickerels, with their
flat, long snout, and slender, almost cylindrical body, as contrasted with the plump, compressed
body and tapering tail of the Trout Family. Or compare, among Insects, the Hawk-Moths with
the Diurnal Butterfly, or with the so-called Miller,--or, among Crustacea, the common Crab
with the Sea-Spider, or the Lobsters with the Shrimps,--or, among Worms, the Leeches with the
Earth-Worms,--or, among Mollusks, the Squids with the Cuttle-Fishes, or the Snails with the
Slugs, or the Periwinkles with the Limpets and Conchs, or the Clam with the so-called Venus,
or the Oyster with the Mother-of-Pearl shell,--everywhere, throughout the Animal Kingdom, difference
of form points at difference of Families.

There is a chapter in the Natural History of Animals that has hardly been touched upon as yet,
and that will be especially interesting with reference to Families. The voices of animals have
a family character not to be mistaken. All the Canidae bark and howl: the Fox, the Wolf, the
Dog have the same kind of utterance, though on a somewhat different pitch. All the Bears growl,
from the White Bear of the Arctic snows to the small Black Bear of the Andes. All the Cats
miau, from our quiet fireside companion to the Lions and Tigers and Panthers of the forest
and jungle. This last may seem a strange assertion; but to any one who has listened critically
to their sounds and analyzed their voices, the roar of the Lion is but a gigantic miau, bearing
about the same proportion to that of a Cat as its stately and majestic form does to the smaller,
softer, more peaceful aspect of the Cat. Yet, notwithstanding the difference in their size,
who can look at the Lion, whether in his more sleepy mood as he lies curled up in the corner
of his cage, or in his fiercer moments of hunger or of rage, without being reminded of a Cat?
And this is not merely the resemblance of one carnivorous animal to another; for no one was
ever reminded of a Dog or Wolf by a Lion. Again, all the Horses and Donkeys neigh; for the
bray of the Donkey is only a harsher neigh, pitched on a different key, it is true, but a sound
of the same character,--as the Donkey himself is but a clumsy and dwarfish Horse. All the Cows
low, from the Buffalo roaming the prairie, the Musk-Ox of the Arctic ice-fields, or the Jack
of Asia, to the Cattle feeding in our pastures. Among the Birds, this similarity of voice in
Families is still more marked. We need only recall the harsh and noisy Parrots, so similar
in their peculiar utterance. Or take as an example the web-footed Family,--do not all the Geese
and the innumerable host of Ducks quack? Does not every member of the Crow Family caw, whether
it be the Jackdaw, the Jay, the Magpie, the Rook in some green rookery of the Old World, or
the Crow of our woods, with its long, melancholy caw that seems to make the silence and solitude
deeper? Compare all the sweet warblers of the Songster Family,--the Nightingales, the Thrushes,
the Mocking-Birds, the Robins; they differ in the greater or less perfection of their note,
but the same kind of voice runs through the whole group. These affinities of the vocal systems
among animals form a subject well worthy of the deepest study, not only as another character
by which to classify the Animal Kingdom correctly, but as bearing indirectly also on the question
of the origin of animals. Can we suppose that characteristics like these have been communicated
from one animal to another? When we find that all the members of one zoological Family, however
widely scattered over the surface of the earth, inhabiting different continents and even different
hemispheres, speak with one voice, must we not believe that they have originated in the places
where they now occur with all their distinctive peculiarities? Who taught the American Thrush
to sing like his European relative? He surely did not learn it from his cousin over the waters.
Those who would have us believe that all animals have originated from common centres and single
pairs, and have been distributed from such common centres over the world, will find it difficult
to explain the tenacity of such characters and their recurrence and repetition under circumstances
that seem to preclude the possibility of any communication, on any other supposition than that
of their creation in the different regions where they are now found. We have much yet to learn
in this kind of investigation, with reference not only to Families among animals, but to nationalities
among men also. I trust that the nature of languages will teach us as much about the origin
of the races as the vocal systems of the animals may one day teach us about the origin of the
different groups of animals. At all events, similarity of vocal utterance among animals is
not indicative of identity of Species; I doubt, therefore, whether similarity of speech proves
community of origin among men.

The similarity of motion in Families is another subject well worth the consideration of the
naturalist: the soaring of the Birds of Prey,--the heavy flapping of the wings in the Gallinaceous
Birds,--the floating of the Swallows, with their short cuts and angular turns,--the hopping
of the Sparrows,--the deliberate walk of the Hens and the strut of the Cocks,--the waddle of
the Ducks and Geese,--the slow, heavy creeping of the Land-Turtle,--the graceful flight of
the Sea-Turtle under the water,--the leaping and swimming of the Frog,--the swift run of the
Lizard, like a flash of green or red light in the sunshine,--the lateral undulation of the
Serpent,--the dart of the Pickerel,--the leap of the Trout,--the rush of the Hawk-Moth through
the air,--the fluttering flight of the Butterfly,--the quivering poise of the Humming-Bird,--the
arrow-like shooting of the Squid through the water, --the slow crawling of the Snail on the
land,--the sideway movement of the Sand-Crab,--the backward walk of the Crawfish,--the almost
imperceptible gliding of the Sea-Anemone over the rock,--the graceful, rapid motion of the
Pleurobrachia, with its endless change of curve and spiral. In short, every Family of animals
has its characteristic action and its peculiar voice; and yet so little is this endless variety
of rhythm and cadence both of motion and sound in the organic world understood, that we lack
words to express one-half its richness and beauty.

IX.

The well-known meaning of the words generic and specific may serve, in the absence of a more
precise definition, to express the relative importance of those groups of animals called Genera
and Species in our scientific systems. The Genus is the more comprehensive of the two kinds
of groups, while the Species is the most precisely defined, or at least the most easily recognized,
of all the divisions of the Animal Kingdom. But neither the term Genus nor Species has always
been taken in the same sense. Genus especially has varied in its acceptation, from the time
when Aristotle applied it indiscriminately to any kind of comprehensive group, from the Classes
down to what we commonly call Genera, till the present day. But we have already seen, that,
instead of calling all the various kinds of more comprehensive divisions by the name of Genera,
modern science has applied special names to each of them, and we have now Families, Orders,
Classes, and Branches above Genera proper. If the foregoing discussion upon the nature of these
groups is based upon trustworthy principles, we must admit that they are all founded upon distinct
categories of characters,--the primary divisions, or the Branches, on plan of structure, the
Classes upon the manner of its execution, the Orders upon the greater or less complication
of a given mode of execution, the Families upon form; and it now remains to be ascertained
whether Genera also exist in Nature, and by what kind of characteristics they may be distinguished.
Taking the practice of the ablest naturalists in discriminating Genera as a guide in our estimation
of their true nature, we must, nevertheless, remember that even now, while their classifications
of the more comprehensive groups usually agree, they differ greatly in their limitation of
Genera, so that the Genera of some authors correspond to the Families of others, and vice versa.
This undoubtedly arises from the absence of a definite standard for the estimation of these
divisions. But the different categories of structure which form the distinctive criteria of
the more comprehensive divisions once established, the question is narrowed down to an inquiry
into the special category upon which Genera may be determined; and if this can be accurately
defined, no difference of opinion need interfere hereafter with their uniform limitation. Considering
all these divisions of the Animal Kingdom from this point of view, it is evident that the more
comprehensive ones must be those which are based on the broadest characters,--Branches, as
united upon plan of structure, standing of course at the head; next to these the Classes, since
the general mode of executing the plan presents a wider category of characters than the complication
of structure on which Orders rest; after Orders come Families, or the patterns of form in which
these greater or less complications of structure are clothed; and proceeding in the same way
from more general to more special considerations, we can have no other category of structure
as characteristic of Genera than the details of structure by which members of the same Family
may differ from each other, and this I consider as the only true basis on which to limit Genera,
while it is at the same time in perfect accordance with the practice of the most eminent modern
zoologists. It is in this way that Cuvier has distinguished the large number of Genera he has
characterized in his great Natural History of the Fishes, in connection with Valenciennes.
Latreille has done the same for the Crustacea and Insects; and Milne Edwards, with the coöperation
of Haime, has recently proceeded upon the same principle in characterizing a great number of
Genera among the Corals. Many others have followed this example, but few have kept in view
the necessity of a uniform mode of proceeding, or, if they have done their researches have
covered too limited a ground, to be taken into consideration in a discussion of principles.
It is, in fact, only when extending over a whole Class that the study of Genera acquires a
truly scientific importance, as it then shows in a connected manner, in what way, by what features,
and to what extent a large number of animals are closely linked together in Nature. Considering
the Animal Kingdom as a single complete work of one Creative Intellect, consistent throughout,
such keen analysis and close criticism of all its parts have the same kind of interest, in
a higher degree, as that which attaches to other studies undertaken in the spirit of careful
comparative research. These different categories of characters are, as it were, different peculiarities
of style in the author, different modes of treating the same material, new combinations of
evidence bearing on the same general principles. The study of Genera is a department of Natural
History which thus far has received too little attention even at the hands of our best zoologists,
and has been treated in the most arbitrary manner; it should henceforth be made a philosophical
investigation into the closer affinities which naturally bind in minor groups all the representatives
of a natural Family.

Genera, then, are groups of a more restricted character than any of those we have examined
thus far. Some of them include only one Species, while others comprise hundreds; since certain
definite combinations of characters may be limited to a single Species, while other combinations
may be repeated in many. We have striking examples of this among Birds: the Ostrich stands
alone in its Genus, while the number of Species among the Warblers is very great. Among Mammalia
the Giraffe also stands alone, while Mice and Squirrels include many Species. Genera are founded,
not, as we have seen, on general structural characters, but on the finish of special parts,
as, for instance, on the dentition. The Cats have only four grinders in the upper jaw and three
in the lower, while the Hyenas have one more above and below, and the Dogs and Wolves have
two more above and two more below. In the last, some of the teeth have also flat surfaces for
crushing the food, adapted especially to their habits, since they live on vegetable as well
as animal substances. The formation of the claws is another generic feature. There is a curious
example with reference to this in the Cheetah, which is again a Genus containing only one Species.
It belongs to the Cat Family, but differs from ordinary Lions and Tigers in having its claws
so constructed that it cannot draw them back under the paws, though in every other respect
they are like the claws of all the Cats. But while it has the Cat-like claw, its paws are like
those of the Dog, and this singular combination of features is in direct relation to its habits,
for it does not lie in wait and spring upon its prey like the Cat, but hunts it like the Dog.

While Genera themselves are, like Families, easily distinguished, the characters on which they
are founded, like those of Families, are difficult to trace. There are often features belonging
to these groups which attract the attention and suggest their association, though they are
not those which may be truly considered generic characters. It is easy to distinguish the Genus
Fox, for instance, by its bushy tail, and yet that is no true generic character; the collar
of feathers round the neck of the Vultures leads us at once to separate them from the Eagles,
but it is not the collar that truly marks the Genus, but rather the peculiar structure of the
feathers which form it. No Bird has a more striking plumage than the Peacock, but it is not
the appearance merely of its crest and spreading fan that constitutes a Genus, but the peculiar
structure of the feathers. Thousands of examples might be quoted to show how easily Genera
may be singled out, named, and entered in our systems, without being duly characterized, and
it is much to be lamented that there is no possibility of checking the loose work of this kind
with which the annals of our science are daily flooded.

It would, of course, be quite inappropriate to present here any general revision of these groups;
but I may present a few instances to illustrate the principle of their classification, and
to show on what characters they are properly based. Among Reptiles, we find, for instance,
that the Genera of our fresh-water Turtles differ from each other in the cut of their bill,
in the arrangement of their scales, in the form of their claws, etc. Among Fishes, the different
Genera included under the Family of Perches are distinguished by the arrangement of their teeth,
by the serratures of their gill-covers, and of the arch to which the pectoral fins are attached,
by the nature and combination of the rays of their fins, by the structure of their scales,
etc. Among Insects, the various Genera of the Butterflies differ in the combination of the
little rods which sustain their wings, in the form and structure of their antennae, of their
feet, of the minute scales which cover their wings, etc. Among Crustacea, the Genera of Shrimps
vary in the form of the claws, in the structure of the parts of the mouth, in the articulations
of their feelers, etc. Among Worms, the different Genera of the Leech Family are combined upon
the form of the disks by which they attach themselves, upon the number and arrangement of their
eyes, upon the structure of the hard parts with which the mouth is armed, etc. Among Cephalopods,
the Family of Squids contains several Genera distinguished by the structure of the solid shield
within the skin of the back, by the form and connection of their fins, by the structure of
the suckers with which their arms are provided, by the form of their beak, etc. In every Class,
we find throughout the Animal Kingdom that there is no sound basis for the discrimination of
Genera except the details of their structure; but in order to define them accurately an extensive
comparison of them is indispensable, and in characterizing them only such features should be
enumerated as are truly generic; whereas in the present superficial method of describing them,
features are frequently introduced which belong not only to the whole Family, but even to the
whole Class which includes them.

X.

There remains but one more division of the Animal Kingdom for our consideration, the most limited
of all in its circumscription,--that of Species. It is with the study of this kind of group
that naturalists generally begin their investigations. I believe, however, that the study of
Species as the basis of a scientific education is a great mistake. It leads us to overrate
the value of Species, and to believe that they exist in Nature in some different sense from
other groups; as if there were something more real and tangible in Species than in Genera,
Families, Orders, Classes, or Branches. The truth is, that to study a vast number of Species
without tracing the principles that combine them under more comprehensive groups is only to
burden the mind with disconnected facts, and more may be learned by a faithful and careful
comparison of a few Species than by a more cursory examination of a greater number. When one
considers the immense number of Species already known, naturalists might well despair of becoming
acquainted with them all, were they not constructed on a few fundamental patterns, so that
the study of one Species teaches us a great deal for all the rest. De Candolle, who was at
the same time a great botanist and a great teacher, told me once that he could undertake to
illustrate the fundamental principles of his science with the aid of a dozen plants judiciously
selected, and that it was his unvarying practice to induce students to make a thorough study
of a few minor groups of plants, in all their relations to one another, rather than to attempt
to gain a superficial acquaintance with a large number of species. The powerful influence he
has had upon the progress of Botany vouches for the correctness of his views. Indeed, every
profound scholar knows that sound learning can be attained only by this method, and the study
of Nature makes no exception to the rule. I would therefore advise every student to select
a few representatives from all the Classes, and to study these not only with reference to their
specific characters, but as members also of a Genus, of a Family, of an Order, of a Class,
and of a Branch. He will soon convince himself that Species have no more definite and real
existence in Nature than all the other divisions of the Animal Kingdom, and that every animal
is the representative of its Branch, Class, Order, Family, and Genus as much as of its Species,
Specific characters are only those determining size, proportion, color, habits, and relations
to surrounding circumstances and external objects. How superficial, then, must be any one's
knowledge of an animal who studies it only with relation to its specific characters! He will
know nothing of the finish of special parts of the body,--nothing of the relations between
its form and its structure,--nothing of the relative complication of its organization as compared
with other allied animals,--nothing of the general mode of execution,--nothing of the plan
expressed in that mode of execution. Yet, with the exception of the ordinal characters, which,
since they imply relative superiority and inferiority, require, of course, a number of specimens
for comparison, his one animal would tell him all this as well as the specific characters.

All the more comprehensive groups, equally with Species, have a positive, permanent, specific
principle, maintained generation after generation with all its essential characteristics. Individuals
are the transient representatives of all these organic principles, which certainly have an
independent, immaterial existence, since they outlive the individuals that embody them, and
are no less real after the generation that has represented them for a time has passed away
than they were before.

From a comparison of a number of well-known Species belonging to a natural Genus, it is not
difficult to ascertain what are essentially specific characters. There is hardly among Mammalia
a more natural Genus than that which includes the Rabbits and Hares, or that to which the Rats
and Mice are referred. Let us see how the different Species differ from one another. Though
we give two names in the vernacular to the Genus Hare, both Hares and Rabbits agree in all
the structural peculiarities which constitute a Genus; but the different Species are distinguished
by their absolute size when full-grown,--by the nature and color of their fur,--by the size
and form of the ear,--by the relative length of their legs and tail,--by the more or less slender
build of their whole body,--by their habits, some living in open grounds, others among the
bushes, others in swamps, others burrowing under the earth,--by the number of young they bring
forth,--by their different seasons of breeding,--and by still minor differences, such as the
permanent color of the hair throughout the year in some, while in others it turns white in
winter. The Rats and Mice differ in a similar way: there being large and small Species,--some
gray, some brown, others rust-colored,--some with soft, others with coarse hair; they differ
also in the length of the tail, and in having it more or less covered with hair,--in the cut
of the ears, and their size,--in the length of their limbs, which are slender and long in some,
short and thick in others,--in their various ways of living,--in the different substances on
which they feed,--and also in their distribution over the surface of the earth, whether circumscribed
within certain limited areas or scattered over a wider range. What is now the nature of these
differences by which we distinguish Species? They are totally distinct from any of the categories
on which Genera, Families, Orders, Classes, or Branches are founded, and may readily be reduced
to a few heads. They are differences in the proportion of the parts and in the absolute size
of the whole animal, in the color and general ornamentation of the surface of the body, and
in the relations of the individuals to one another and to the world around. A farther analysis
of other Genera would show us that among Birds, Reptiles, Fishes, and, in fact, throughout
the Animal Kingdom, Species of well-defined natural Genera differ in the same way. We are therefore
justified in saying that the category of characters on which Species are based implies no structural
differences, but presents the same structure combined under certain minor differences of size,
proportion, and habits. All the specific characters stand in direct reference to the generic
structure, the family form, the ordinal complication of structure, the mode of execution of
the Class, and the plan of structure of the Branch, all of which are embodied in the frame
of each individual in each Species, even though all these individuals are constantly dying
away and reproducing others; so that the specific characters have no more permanency in the
individuals than those which characterize the Genus, the Family, the Order, the Class, and
the Branch. I believe, therefore, that naturalists have been entirely wrong in considering
the more comprehensive groups to be theoretical and in a measure arbitrary, an attempt, that
is, of certain men to classify the Animal Kingdom according to their individual views, while
they have ascribed to Species, as contrasted with the other divisions, a more positive existence
in Nature. No further argument is needed to show that it is not only the Species that lives
in the individual, but that every individual, though belonging to a distinct Species, is built
upon a precise and definite plan which characterizes its Branch,--that that plan is executed
in each individual in a particular way which characterizes its Class,--that every individual
with its kindred occupies a definite position in a series of structural complications which
characterizes its Order,--that in every individual all these structural features are combined
under a definite pattern of form which characterizes its Family,--that every individual exhibits
structural details in the finish of its parts which characterize its Genus,--and finally that
every individual presents certain peculiarities in the proportion of its parts, in its color,
in its size, in its relations to its fellow-beings and surrounding things, which constitute
its specific characters; and all this is repeated in the same kind of combination, generation
after generation, while the individuals die. If we accept these propositions, which seem to
me self-evident, it is impossible to avoid the conclusion that Species do not exist in Nature
in any other sense than the more comprehensive groups of the zoological systems.

There is one question respecting Species that gives rise to very earnest discussions in our
day, not only among naturalists, but among all thinking people. How far are they permanent,
and how far mutable? With reference to the permanence of Species, there is much to be learned
from the geological phenomena that belong to our own period, and that bear witness to the invariability
of types during hundreds of thousands of years at least. I hope to present a part of this evidence
in a future article upon Coral Reefs, but in the mean time I cannot leave this subject without
touching upon a point of which great use has been made in recent discussions. I refer to the
variability of Species as shown in domestication.

The domesticated animals with their numerous breeds are constantly adduced as evidence of the
changes which animals may undergo, and as furnishing hints respecting the way in which the
diversity now observed among animals has already been produced. It is my conviction that such
inferences are in no way sustained by the facts of the case, and that, however striking the
differences may be between the breeds of our domesticated animals, as compared with the wild
Species of the same Genus, they are of a peculiar character entirely distinct from those that
prevail among the latter, and are altogether incident to the circumstances under which they
occur. By this I do not mean the natural action of physical conditions, but the more or less
intelligent direction of the circumstances under which they live. The inference drawn from
the varieties introduced among animals in a state of domestication, with reference to the origin
of Species, is usually this: that what the farmer does on a small scale Nature may do on a
large one. It is true that man has been able to produce certain changes in the animals under
his care, and that these changes have resulted in a variety of breeds. But in doing this, he
has, in my estimation, in no way altered the character of the Species, but has only developed
its pliability to the will of man, that is, to a power similar in its nature and mode of action
to that power to which animals owe their very existence. The influence of man upon Animals
is, in other words, the action of mind upon them; and yet the ordinary mode of arguing upon
this subject is, that, because the intelligence of man has been able to produce certain varieties
in domesticated animals, therefore physical causes have produced all the diversities among
wild ones. Surely, the sounder logic would be to infer, that, because our finite intelligence
can cause the original pattern to vary by some slight shades of difference, therefore an infinite
intelligence must have established all the boundless diversity of which our boasted varieties
are but the faintest echo. It is the most intelligent farmer that has the greatest success
in improving his breeds; and if the animals he has so fostered are left to themselves without
that intelligent care, they return to their normal condition. So with plants: the shrewd, observing,
thoughtful gardener will obtain many varieties from his flowers; but those varieties will fade
out, if left to themselves. There is, as it were, a certain degree of pliability and docility
in the organization both of animals and plants, which may be developed by the fostering care
of man, and within which he can exercise a certain influence; but the variations which he thus
produces are of a peculiar kind, and do not correspond to the differences of the wild Species.
Let us take some examples to illustrate this assertion.

Every Species of wild Bull differs from the others in its size; but all the individuals correspond
to the average standard of size characteristic of their respective Species, and show none of
those extreme differences of size so remarkable among our domesticated Cattle. Every Species
of wild Bull has its peculiar color, and all the individuals of one Species share in it: not
so with our domesticated Cattle, among which every individual may differ in color from every
other. All the individuals of the same Species of wild Bull agree in the proportion of their
parts, in the mode of growth of the hair, in its quality, whether fine or soft: not so with
our domesticated Cattle, among which we find in the same Species overgrown and dwarfish individuals,
those with long and short legs, with slender and stout build of the body, with horns or without,
as well as the greatest variety in the mode of twisting the horns,--in short, the widest extremes
of development which the degree of pliability in that Species will allow.

A curious instance of the power of man, not only in developing the pliability of an animal's
organization, but in adapting it to suit his own caprices, is that of the Golden Carp, so frequently
seen in bowls and tanks as the ornament of drawing-rooms and gardens. Not only an infinite
variety of spotted, striped, variegated colors has been produced in these Fishes, but, especially
among the Chinese, so famous for their morbid love of whatever is distorted and warped from
its natural shape and appearance, all sorts of changes have been brought about in this single
Species. A book of Chinese paintings showing the Golden Carp in its varieties represents some
as short and stout, others long and slender,--some with the ventral side swollen, others hunch-backed,--some
with the mouth greatly enlarged, while in others the caudal fin, which in the normal condition
of the Species is placed vertically at the end of the tail and is forked like those of other
Fishes, has become crested and arched, or is double, or crooked, or has swerved in some other
way from its original pattern. But in all these variations there is nothing which recalls the
characteristic specific differences among the representatives of the Carp Family, which in
their wild state are very monotonous in their appearance all the world over.

Were it appropriate to accumulate evidence here upon this subject, I could bring forward many
more examples quite as striking as those above mentioned. The various breeds of our domesticated
Horses present the same kind of irregularities, and do not differ from each other in the same
way as the wild Species differ from one another. Or take the Genus Dog: the differences between
its wild Species do not correspond in the least with the differences observed among the domesticated
ones. Compare the differences between the various kinds of Jackals and Wolves with those that
exist between the Bull-Dog and Greyhound, for instance, or between the St. Charles and the
Terrier, or between the Esquimaux and the Newfoundland Dog. I need hardly add that what is
true of the Horses, the Cattle, the Dogs, is true also of the Donkey, the Goat, the Sheep,
the Pig, the Cat, the Rabbit, the different kinds of barn-yard fowl,--in short, of all those
animals that are in domesticity the chosen companions of man.

In fact, all the variability among domesticated Species is due to the fostering care, or, in
its more extravagant freaks, to the fancies of man, and it has never been observed in the wild
Species, where, on the contrary, everything shows the closest adherence to the distinct, well-defined,
and invariable limits of the Species. It surely does not follow, that, because the Chinese
can, under abnormal conditions, produce a variety of fantastic shapes in the Golden Carp, therefore
water, or the physical conditions established in the water, can create a Fish, any more than
it follows, that, because they can dwarf a tree, or alter its aspect by stunting its growth
in one direction and forcing it in another, therefore the earth, or the physical conditions
connected with their growth, can create a Pine, an Oak, a Birch, or a Maple. I confess that
in all the arguments derived from the phenomena of domestication, to prove that all animals
owe their origin and diversity to the natural action of the conditions under which they live,
the conclusion does not seem to me to follow logically from the premises. And the fact that
the domesticated animals of all races of men, equally with the white race, vary among themselves
in the same way and differ in the same way from the wild Species, makes it still more evident
that domesticated varieties do not explain the origin of Species, except, as I have said, by
showing that the intelligent will of man can produce effects which physical causes have never
been known to produce, and that we must therefore look to some cause outside of Nature, corresponding
in kind, though so different in degree, to the intelligence of man, for all the phenomena connected
with the existence of animals in their wild state. So far from attributing these original differences
among animals to natural influences, it would seem, that, while a certain freedom of development
is left, within the limits of which man can exercise his intelligence and his ingenuity, not
even this superficial influence is allowed to physical conditions unaided by some guiding power,
since in their normal state the wild Species remain, so far as we have been able to discover,
entirely unchanged,--maintained, it is true, in their integrity by the circumstances that were
established for their support by the power that created both, but never altered by them. Nature
holds inviolable the stamp that God has set upon his creatures; and if man is able to influence
their organization in some slight degree, it is because the Creator has given to his relations
with the animals he has intended for his companions the same plasticity which he has allowed
to every other side of his life, in virtue of which he may in some sort mould and shape it
to his own ends, and be held responsible also for its results.

The common sense of a civilized community has already pointed out the true distinction in applying
another word to the discrimination of the different kinds of domesticated animals. They are
called Breeds, and Breeds among animals are the work of man;--Species were created by God.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE STRASBURG CLOCK.

  Many and many a year ago,--
  To say how many I scarcely dare,--
  Three of us stood in Strasburg streets,
  In the wide and open square,
  Where, quaint and old and touched with the gold
  Of a summer morn, at stroke of noon
  The tongue of the great Cathedral tolled,
  And into the church with the crowd we strolled
  To see their wonder, the famous Clock.
  Well, my love, there are clocks a many,
  As big as a house, as small as a penny;
  And clocks there be with voices as queer
  As any that torture human ear,--
  Clocks that grunt, and clocks that growl,
  That wheeze like a pump, and hoot like an owl,
  From the coffin shape with its brooding face
  That stands on the stair, (you know the place,)
  Saying, "Click, cluck," like an ancient hen,
  A-gathering the minutes home again,
  To the kitchen knave with its wooden stutter,
  Doing equal work with double splutter,
  Yelping, "Click, clack," with a vulgar jerk,
  As much as to say, "Just see me work!"

  But of all the clocks that tell Time's bead-roll,
  There are none like this in the old Cathedral;
  Never a one so bids you stand
  While it deals the minutes with even hand:
  For clocks, like men, are better and worse,
  And some you dote on, and some you curse;
  And clock and man may have such a way
  Of telling the truth that you can't say nay.

  So in we went and stood in the crowd
  To hear the old clock as it crooned aloud,
  With sound and symbol, the only tongue
  The maker taught it while yet 't was young.
  And we saw Saint Peter clasp his hands,
  And the cock crow hoarsely to all the lands,
  And the Twelve Apostles come and go,
  And the solemn Christ pass sadly and slow;
  And strange that iron-legged procession,
  And odd to us the whole impression,
  As the crowd beneath, in silence pressing,
  Bent to that cold mechanic blessing.

  But I alone thought far in my soul
  What a touch of genius was in the whole,
  And felt how graceful had been the thought
  Which for the signs of the months had sought,
  Sweetest of symbols, Christ's chosen train;
  And much I pondered, if he whose brain
  Had builded this clock with labor and pain
  Did only think, twelve months there are,
  And the Bible twelve will fit to a hair;
  Or did he say, with a heart in tune,
  Well-loved John is the sign of June,
  And changeful Peter hath April hours,
  And Paul the stately, October bowers,
  And sweet, or faithful, or bold, or strong,
  Unto each one shall a month belong.

  But beside the thought that under it lurks,
  Pray, do you think clocks are saved by their works?

ARTHUR HUGH CLOUGH.

To win such love as Arthur Hugh Clough won in life, to leave so dear a memory as he has left,
is a happiness that falls to few men. In America, as in England, his death is mourned by friends
whose affection is better than fame, and who in losing him have met with an irreparable loss.
Outside the circle of his friends his reputation had no large extent; but though his writings
are but little known by the great public of readers, they are prized by all those of thoughtful
and poetic temper to whose hands they have come, as among the most precious and original productions
of the time. To those who knew him personally his poems had a special worth and charm, as the
sincere expression of a character of the purest stamp, of rare truthfulness and simplicity,
not less tender than strong, and of a genius thoroughly individual in its form, and full of
the promise of a large career. He was by Nature endowed with subtile and profound powers of
thought, with feeling at once delicate and intense, with lively and generous sympathies, and
with conscientiousness so acute as to pervade and control his whole intellectual disposition.
Loving, seeking, and holding fast to the truth, he despised all falseness and affectation.
With his serious and earnest thinking was joined the play of a genial humor and the brightness
of poetic fancy. Liberal in sentiment, absolutely free from dogmatism and pride of intellect,
of a questioning temper, but of reverent spirit, faithful in the performance not only of the
larger duties, but also of the lesser charities and the familiar courtesies of life, he has
left a memory of singular consistency, purity, and dignity. He lived to conscience, not for
show, and few men carry through life so white a soul.

A notice of Mr. Clough understood to be written by one who knew him well gives the outline
of his life.

"Arthur Hugh Clough was educated at Rugby, to which school he went very young, soon after Dr.
Arnold had been elected head-master. He distinguished himself at once by gaining the only scholarship
which existed at that time, and which was open to the whole school under the age of fourteen.
Before he was sixteen he was at the head of the fifth form, and, as that was the earliest age
at which boys were then admitted into the sixth, had to wait for a year before coming under
the personal tuition of the headmaster. He came in the next (school) generation to Stanley
and Vaughan, and gained a reputation, if possible, even greater than theirs. At the yearly
speeches, in the last year of his residence, when the prizes are given away in the presence
of the school and the friends who gather on such occasions, Arnold took the almost unexampled
course of addressing him, (when he and two fags went up to carry off his load of splendidly
bound books,) and congratulating him on having gained every honor which Rugby could bestow,
and having also already distinguished himself and done the highest credit to his school at
the University. He had just gained a scholarship at Balliol, then, as now, the blue ribbon
of undergraduates.

"At school, although before all things a student, he had thoroughly entered into the life of
the place, and before he left had gained supreme influence with the boys. He was also one of
the best swimmers in the school, his weakness of ankle being no drawback here, and in his last
half passed the crucial test of that day, by swimming from Swift's (the bathing-place of the
sixth) to the mill on the Leicester road, and back again, between callings over.

"He went to reside at Oxford when the whole University was in a ferment. The struggle of Alma
Mater to humble or cast out the most remarkable of her sons was at its height. Ward had not
yet been arraigned for his opinions, and was a fellow and tutor of Balliol, and Newman was
in residence at Oriel, and incumbent of St. Mary's.

"Clough's was a mind which, under any circumstances, would have thrown itself into the deepest
speculative thought of its time. He seems soon to have passed through the mere ecclesiastical
debatings to the deep questions which lay below them. There was one lesson--probably one only--which
he had never been able to learn from his great master, namely, to acknowledge that there are
problems which intellectually are not to be solved by man, and before these to sit down quietly.
Whether it were from the harass of thought on such matters which interfered with his regular
work, or from one of those strange miscarriages in the most perfect of examining machines,
which every now and then deprive the best men of the highest honors, to the surprise of every
one Clough missed his first class. But he completely retrieved this academical mishap shortly
afterwards by gaining an Oriel fellowship. In his new college, the college of Pusey, Newman,
Keble, Marriott, Wilberforce, presided over by Dr. Hawkins, and in which the influence of Whately,
Davidson, and Arnold had scarcely yet died out, he found himself in the very centre and eye
of the battle. His own convictions were by this time leading him far away from both sides in
the Oxford contest; he, however, accepted a tutorship at the college, and all who had the privilege
of attending them will long remember his lectures on logic and ethics. His fault (besides a
shy and reserved manner) was that he was much too long-suffering to youthful philosophic coxcombry,
and would rather encourage it by his gentle 'Ah! you think so?' or, 'Yes, but might not such
and such be the case?'"

Clough was at Oxford in 1847,--the year of the terrible Irish famine, and with others of the
most earnest men at the University he took part in an association which had for its object
"Retrenchment for the sake of the Irish." Such a society was little likely to be popular with
the comfortable dignitaries or the luxurious youth of the University. Many objections, frivolous
or serious as the case might be, were raised against so subversive a notion as that of the
self-sacrifice of the rich for the sake of the poor. Disregarding all personal considerations,
Clough printed a pamphlet entitled, "A Consideration of Objections against the Retrenchment
Association," in which he met the careless or selfish arguments of those who set themselves
against the efforts of the society. It was a characteristic performance. His heart was deeply
stirred by the harsh contrast between the miseries of the Irish poor and the wasteful extravagance
of living prevalent at Oxford. He wrote with vehement indignation against the selfish pleas
of the indifferent and the thoughtless possessors of wealth, wasters of the goods given them
as a trust for others. His words were chiefly addressed to the young men at the University,--and
they were not without effect. Such views of the rights and duties of property as he put forward,
of the claims of labor, and of the responsibilities of the aristocracy, had not been often
heard at Oxford. He was called a Socialist and a Radical, but it mattered little to him by
what name he was known to those whose consciences were not touched by his appeal. "Will you
say," he writes toward the end of this pamphlet, "this is all rhetoric and declamation? There
is, I dare say, something too much in that kind. What with criticizing style and correcting
exercises, we college tutors perhaps may be likely, in the heat of composition, to lose sight
of realities, and pass into the limbo of the factitious,--especially when the thing must be
done at odd times, in any case, and, if at all, quickly. But if I have been obliged to write
hurriedly, believe me, I have obliged myself to think not hastily. And believe me, too, though
I have desired to succeed in putting vividly and forcibly that which vividly and forcibly I
felt and saw, still the graces and splendors of composition were thoughts far less present
to my mind than Irish poor men's miseries, English poor men's hardships, and your unthinking
indifference. Shocking enough the first and the second, almost more shocking the third." It
was published in 1848, and though it at once secured a circle of warm admirers, and the edition
was very soon exhausted, it "is assuredly deserving of a far higher popularity than it has
ever attained." The poem was reprinted in America, at Cambridge, in 1849, and it may be safely
asserted that its merit was more deeply felt and more generously acknowledged by American than
by English readers. The fact that its essential form and local coloring were purely and genuinely
English, and thus gratified the curiosity felt in this country concerning the social habits
and ways of life in the mother-land, while on the other hand its spirit was in sympathy with
the most liberal and progressive thought of the age, may sufficiently account for its popularity
here. But the lovers of poetry found delight in it, apart from these characteristics,--in its
fresh descriptions of Nature, its healthy manliness of tone, its scholarly construction, its
lively humor, its large thought quickened and deepened by the penetrating imagination of the poet.

"Any one who has read it will acknowledge that a tutorship at Oriel was not the place for the
author. The intense love of freedom, the deep and hearty sympathy with the foremost thought
of the time, the humorous dealing with old formulas and conventionalisms grown meaningless,
which breathe in every line of the 'Bothie,' show this clearly enough. He would tell in after-life,
with much enjoyment, how the dons of the University, who, hearing that he had something in
the press, and knowing that his theological views were not wholly sound, were looking for a
publication on the Articles, were astounded by the appearance of that fresh and frolicsome
poem. Oxford (at least the Oriel common room) and he were becoming more estranged daily. How
keenly he felt the estrangement, not from Oxford, but from old friends, about this time, can
be read only in his own words." It is in such poems as the "Qua Cursum Ventus," or the sonnet
beginning, "Well, well,--Heaven bless you all from day to day!" that it is to be read. These,
with a few other fugitive pieces, were printed, in company with verses by a friend, as one
part of a small volume entitled, "Ambarvalia," which never attained any general circulation,
although containing some poems which will take their place among the best of English poetry
of this generation.

  "Qua Cursum Ventus.

"In 1848-49 the revolutionary crisis came on Europe, and Clough's sympathies drew him with
great earnestness into the struggles which were going on. He was in Paris directly after the
barricades, and in Rome during the siege, where he gained the friendship of Saffi and other
leading Italian patriots." A part of his experiences and his thoughts while at Rome are interwoven
with the story in his "Amours de Voyage," a poem which exhibits in extraordinary measure the
subtilty and delicacy of his powers, and the fulness of his sympathy with the intellectual
conditions of the time. It was first published in the "Atlantic Monthly" for 1858, and was
at once established in the admiration of readers capable of appreciating its rare and refined
excellence. The spirit of the poem is thoroughly characteristic of its author, and the speculative,
analytic turn of his mind is represented in many passages of the letters of the imaginary hero.

Or, again,--

  "Ah, the key of our life, that passes all wards,
          opens all locks,
  Is not I will, but I must. I must,--I must,
         --and I do it."

"To keep on doing right,--not to speculate only, but to act, not to think only, but to live,"--was,
it has been said, characteristic of the leading men at Oxford during this period. "It was not
so much a part of their teaching as a doctrine woven into their being." And while they thus
exercised a moral not less than an intellectual influence over their contemporaries and their
pupils, they themselves, according to their various tempers and circumstances, were led on
into new paths of inquiry or of life. Some of them fell into the common temptations of an English
University career, and lost the freshness of energy and the honesty of conviction which first
inspired them; others, holding their places in the established order of things, were able by
happy faculties of character to retain also the vigor and simplicity of their early purposes;
while others again, among whom was Clough, finding the restraints of the University incompatible
with independence, gave up their positions at Oxford to seek other places in which they could
more freely search for the truth and express their own convictions.

It was not long after his return from Italy that he became Professor of English Language and
Literature at University College, London. He filled this place, which was not in all respects
suited to him, until 1852. After resigning it, he took various projects into consideration,
and at length determined to come to America with the intention of settling here, if circumstances
should prove favorable. In November, 1852, he arrived in Boston. He at once established himself
at Cambridge, proposing to give instruction to young men preparing for college, or to take
on in more advanced studies those who had completed the collegiate course. He speedily won
the friendship of those whose friendship was best worth having in Boston and its neighborhood.
His thorough scholarship, the result of the best English training, and his intrinsic qualities
caused his society to be sought and prized by the most cultivated and thoughtful men. He had
nothing of insular narrowness, and none of the hereditary prejudices which too often interfere
with the capacity of English travellers or residents among us to sympathize with and justly
understand habits of life and of thought so different from those to which they have been accustomed.
His liberal sentiments and his independence of thought harmonized with the new social conditions
in which he found himself, and with the essential spirit of American life. The intellectual
freedom and animation of this country were congenial to his disposition. From the beginning
he took a large share in the interests of his new friends. He contributed several remarkable
articles to the pages of the "North American Review" and of "Putnam's Magazine," and he undertook
a work which was to occupy his scanty leisure for several years, the revision of the so-called
Dryden's Translation of Plutarch's Lives. Although the work was undertaken simply as a revision,
it turned out to involve little less labor than a complete new translation, and it was so accomplished
that henceforth it must remain the standard version of this most popular of the ancient authors.

But all that made the presence of such a man a great gain to his new friends made his absence
felt by his old ones as a great loss. In July, 1853, he received the announcement that a place
had been obtained for him by their efforts in the Education Department of the Privy Council,
and he was so strenuously urged to return to England, that, although unwilling to give up the
prospect of a final settlement in America, he felt that it was best to go home for a time.
Some months after his return he was married to the granddaughter of the late Mr. William Smith,
M.P. for Norwich. He established himself in a house in London, and settled down to the hard
routine-work of his office. In a private letter written not long after his return, he said,--"As
for myself, whom you ask about, there is nothing to tell about me. I live on contentedly enough,
but feel rather unwilling to be re-Englished, after once attaining that higher transatlantic
development. However, il faut s'y soumettre, I presume,--though I fear I am embarked in the
foundering ship. I hope to Heaven you'll get rid of slavery, and then I shouldn't fear but
you would really 'go ahead' in the long run. As for us and our inveterate feudalism, it is
not hopeful."

In another letter about this time, he wrote,--"I like America all the better for the comparison
with England on my return. Certainly I think you are more right than I was willing to admit,
about the position of the poorer classes here. Such is my first reimpression. However, it will
wear off soon enough, I dare say; so you must make the most of my admissions."

Again, a little later, he wrote,--"I do truly hope that you will get the North erelong thoroughly
united against any further encroachments. I don't by any means feel that the slave-system is
an intolerable crime, nor do I think that our system here is so much better; but it is clear
to me that the only safe ground to go upon is that of your Northern States. I suppose the rich-and-poor
difficulties must be creeping in at New York, but one would fain hope that European analogies
will not be quite accepted even there."

His letters were reflections of himself,--full of thought, fancy, and pleasant humor, as well
as of affectionateness and true feeling. Their character is hardly to be given in extracts,
but a few passages may serve to illustrate some of these qualities.

"Ambrose Philips, the Roman Catholic, who set up the new St. Bernard Monastery at Charnwood
Forest, has taken to spirit-rappings. He avers, inter alia, that a Buddhist spirit in misery
held communication with him through the table, and entreated his confessor, Father Lorraine,
to say three masses for him. Pray, convey this to T---- for his warning. For, moreover, it
remains uncertain whether Father Lorraine did say the masses; so that perhaps T----'s deceased
co-religionist is still in the wrong place."

Some time after his return, he wrote,--"Really, I may say I am only just beginning to recover
my spirits after returning from the young and hopeful and humane republic, to this cruel, unbelieving,
inveterate old monarchy. There are deeper waters of ancient knowledge and experience about
one here, and one is saved from the temptation of flying off into space; but I think you have,
beyond all question, the happiest country going. Still, the political talk of America, as one
hears it here, is not always true to the best intentions of the country, is it?"

Writing on a July day from his office in Whitehall, he says, after speaking of the heat of
the weather,--"Time has often been compared to a river: if the Thames at London represent the
stream of traditional wisdom, the comparison will indeed be of an ill odor; the accumulated
wisdom of the past will be proved upon analogy to be as it were the collected sewage of the
centuries; and the great problem, how to get rid of it."

In March, 1854, he wrote,--"People talk a good deal about that book of Whewell's on the Plurality
of Worlds. I recommend Fields to pirate it. Have you seen it? It is to show that Jupiter, Venus,
Saturn, etc., are all pretty certainly uninhabitable,--being (Jupiter, Saturn, etc., to wit)
strange washy limbos of places, where at the best only mollusks (or, in the case of Venus,
salamanders) could exist. Hence we conclude we are the only rational creatures, which is highly
satisfactory, and, what is more, quite Scriptural. Owen, on the other hand, I believe, and
other scientific people, declare it a most presumptuous essay,-- conclusions audacious, and
reasoning fallacious, though the facts are allowed; and in that opinion I, on the ground that
there are more things in heaven and earth than are dreamt of in the inductive philosophy, incline
to concur."

Of his work he wrote,--"Well, I go on in the office, operose nihil agenda, very operose, and
very nihil too. For lack of news, I send you a specimen of my labors."--"We are here going
on much as usual, --occupied with nothing else but commerce and the money-market. I do not
think any one is thinking audibly of anything else."--"I have read with more pleasure than
anything else that I have read lately Kane's Arctic Explorations, i.e., his second voyage,
which is certainly a wonderful story. The whole narrative is, I think, very characteristic
of the differences between the English and the American-English habits of command and obedience."

In the autumn of 1857, after speaking of some of the features of the Sepoy revolt, he said,--"I
don't believe Christianity can spread far in Asia, unless it will allow men more than one wife,--which
isn't likely yet out of Utah. But I believe the old Brahmin 'Touch not and taste not, and I
am holier than thou, because I don't touch and taste,' may be got rid of. As for Mahometanism,
it is a crystallized monotheism, out of which no vegetation can come. I doubt its being good
even for the Central negro."

March, 1859. "Excuse this letter all about my own concerns. I am pretty busy, and have time
for little else: such is our fate after forty. My figure 40 stands nearly three months behind
me on the roadway, unwept, unhonored, and unsung, an octavum lustrum bound up and laid on the
shelf. 'So-and-so is dead,' said a friend to Lord Melbourne of some author. 'Dear me, how glad
I am! Now I can bind him up.'"

It was not until 1859 that the translation of Plutarch, begun six years before, was completed
and published. It had involved much wearisome study, and gave proof of patient, exact, and
elegant scholarship. Clough's life in the Council-Office was exceedingly laborious, and for
several years his work was increased by services rendered to Miss Nightingale, a near relative
of his wife. He employed "many hours, both before and after his professional duties were over,
to aid her in those reforms of the military administration to which she has devoted the remaining
energies of her overtasked life." For this work he was the better fitted from having acted,
during a period of relief from his regular employment, as Secretary to a Military Commission
appointed by Government shortly after the Crimean War to examine and report upon the military
systems of some of the chief Continental nations. But at length his health gave way under the
strain of continuous overwork. He had for a long time been delicate, and early in 1861 he was
obliged to give up work, and was ordered to travel abroad. He went to Greece and Constantinople,
and enjoyed greatly the charms of scenery and of association which he was so well fitted to
appreciate. But the release from work had come too late. He returned to England in July, his
health but little improved. In a letter written at that time he spoke of Lord Campbell's death,
which had just occurred. "Lord Campbell's death is rather the characteristic death of the English
political man. In the Cabinet, on the Bench, and at a dinner-party, busy, animated, and full
of effort to-day, and in the early morning a vessel has burst. It is a wonder they last so
long." But of himself he says, in words of striking contrast,--"My nervous energy is pretty
nearly spent for to-day, so I must come to a stop. I have leave till November, and by that
time I hope I shall be strong again for another good spell of work." After a happy three weeks
in England, he went abroad again, and spent some time with his friends the Tennysons in Auvergne
and among the Pyrenees. In September he was joined by his wife in Paris, and thence went with
her through Switzerland to Italy. He had scarcely reached Florence before he became alarmingly
ill with symptoms of a low malaria fever. His exhausted constitution never rallied against
its attack. He sank gradually away, and died on the 13th of November. That hope is accomplished;--

  "For sure in the wide heaven there is room
  For love, and pity, and for helpful deeds."

He was buried in the little Protestant cemetery at Florence, a fit resting-place for a poet,
the Protestant Santa Croce, where the tall cypresses rise over the graves, and the beautiful
hills keep guard around.

"Every one who knew Clough even slightly," says one of his oldest friends, "received the strongest
impression of the unusual breadth and massiveness of his mind. Singularly simple and genial,
he was unfortunately cast upon a self-questioning age, which led him to worry himself with
constantly testing the veracity of his own emotions. He has delineated in four lines the impression
which his habitual reluctance to converse on the deeper themes of life made upon those of his
friends who were attracted by his frank simplicity. In one of his shorter poems he writes,--

  'I said, My heart is all too soft;
  He who would climb and soar aloft
  Must needs keep ever at his side
  The tonic of a wholesome pride.'

That expresses the man in a very remarkable manner. He had a kind of proud simplicity about
him singularly attractive, and often singularly disappointing to those who longed to know him
well. He had a fear, which many would think morbid, of leaning much on the approbation of the
world. And there is one remarkable passage in his poems in which he intimates that men who
live on the good opinion of others might even be benefited by a crime which would rob them
of that evil stimulant:--

  'Why, so is good no longer good, but crime
  Our truest, best advantage, since it lifts us
  Out of the stifling gas of men's opinion
  Into the vital atmosphere of Truth,
  Where He again is visible, though in anger.'

"So eager was his craving for reality and perfect sincerity, so morbid his dislike even for
the unreal conventional forms of life, that a mind quite unique in simplicity and truthfulness
represents itself in his poems as

  'Seeking in vain, in all my store,
  One feeling based on truth.'

"Indeed, he wanted to reach some guaranty for simplicity deeper than simplicity itself. We
remember his principal criticism on America, after returning from his residence in Massachusetts,
was, that the New-Englanders were much simpler than the English, and that this was the great
charm of New-England society. His own habits were of the same kind, sometimes almost austere
in their simplicity. Luxury he disliked, and sometimes his friends thought him even ascetic.

"This almost morbid craving for a firm base on the absolute realities of life was very wearing
in a mind so self-conscious as Clough's, and tended to paralyze the expression of a certainly
great genius. He heads some of his poems with a line from Wordsworth's great ode, which depicts
perfectly the expression often written in the deep furrows which sometimes crossed and crowded
his massive forehead:--

  'Blank misgivings of a creature moving about
       in worlds not realized.'

"Nor did Clough's great powers ever realize themselves to his contemporaries by any outward
sign at all commensurate with the profound impression which they produced in actual life. But
if his powers did not, there was much in his character that did produce its full effect upon
all who knew him. He never looked, even in time of severe trial, to his own interest or advancement.
He never flinched from the worldly loss which his deepest convictions brought on him. Even
when clouds were thick over his own head, and the ground beneath his feet seemed crumbling
away, he could still bear witness to an eternal light behind the cloud, and tell others that
there is solid ground to be reached in the end by the weary feet of all who will wait to be strong.

WHAT SHALL WE DO WITH THEM?

We have many precedents upon the part of the "Guardian of Civilization," which may or may not
guide us. Not to return to that age "whereunto the memory of man runneth not to the contrary,"
"the day of King Richard our grandfather," and to the Wars of the Roses, we will begin with
the happy occasion of the Restoration of King Charles of merry and disreputable fame. Since
he came back to his kingdoms on sufferance and as a convenient compromise between anarchy and
despotism, he could hardly afford the luxury of wholesale proscription. What the returning
Royalists could, they did. It was obviously unsafe, as well as ungrateful, to hang General
Monk in presence of his army, many of whom had followed the "Son of the Man" from Worcester
Fight in hot pursuit, and had hunted him from thicket to thicket of Boscobel Wood. But to dig
up the dead Cromwell and Ireton, to suspend them upon the gallows, to mark out John Milton,
old and blind, for poverty and contempt, was both safe and pleasant. And civilization was guarded
accordingly. One little bit of comfort, however, was permitted. Scotland had been the Virginia
of his day, and Charles had the satisfaction of hearing that the Whigs, who had betrayed and
sold his father, and who had (a far worse offence) made himself listen to three-hours' sermons,
were chased like wild beasts among the hills, after the defeat of Bothwell Brigg. But what
Charles could not do was permitted to his brother. After the rebellion of Monmouth was put
down, the West of England was turned to mourning. From the princely bastard who sued in agony
and vain humiliation, to the clown of Devon forced into the rebel ranks,--from the peer who
plotted, to the venerable and Christian woman whose sole crime was sheltering the houseless
and starving fugitive, there was given to the vanquished no mercy but the mercy of Jeffreys,
no tenderness but the tenderness of Kirk.

But the House of Stuart was not always to represent the side of victory. Thirty years after
the Rout of Sedgemoor, the son of James, whose name was clouded by rumor with the same stain
of spuriousness as that of his unfortunate cousin, was proclaimed by the Earl of Mar. The Jacobites
were forced to drink to the dregs the cup of bitterness they had so gladly administered to
others. Over Temple Bar and London Bridge the heads of the defeated rebels bore witness to
the guardianship of civilization as understood in the eighteenth century.

Another thirty years brings us to the landing of Moidart, the rising of the clans, the fall
of Edinburgh and Carlisle, the "Bull's Run" at Prestonpans, and the panic of London. If we
are anxious to guard our civilization according to Hanoverian precedents, there is one name
commonly given to the Commander-in-chief at Culloden which Congress should add to the titles
it is preparing against McClellan's successful advance. The "Butcher Cumberland" not only hounded
on his troops with the tempting price of thirty thousand pounds for the Pretender dead or alive,
but every adherent of the luckless Jefferson Davis of that day was in peril of life and wholesale
confiscation. The House of Hanover not only broke the backbone of the Rebellion, but mangled
without mercy its remains.

We come now, in another thirty years, to the next struggle of England with a portion of her
people. It is impossible, as well as unfair, to say what might have been done with "Mr. Washington,
the Virginia colonel," and Mr. Franklin, the Philadelphia printer, had they not been able to
determine their own destiny. We can only surmise, by referring to two well-known localities
in New York, the "Old Sugar-House" and the "Jersey Prison-Ship," how paternally George III
was disposed then to resume his rights. And without disposition to press historic parallels,
we cannot but compare Arnold and Tryon's raid along the south shore of Connecticut with a certain
sail recently made up the Tennessee River to the foot of the Muscle Shoals by the command of
a modern Connecticut officer.

But as we were spared the necessity of testing the royal clemency to the submitted Provinces
of North America, we had better pass on twenty years to the era of the Act of Union between
Great Britain and Ireland. In this country the Irishman need not "fear to speak of '98," and
in this country he still treasures the memory of the whippings and pitch-caps of Major Beresford's
riding-house, and other pleasant souvenirs of the way in which, sixty years ago, loyalty dealt
with rebellion. There is no inherent proneness to treason in the Hibernian nature, as Corcoran
and the Sixty-Ninth can bear witness; nor is Pat so fond of a riot that he cannot with fair
play be a--well, a good citizen. Yet at home he has been so "civilized" by his British guardian
as to be in a chronic state of discontent and fretfulness.

We must, however, hasten to our latest precedent,--England in India. The Sepoy Rebellion had
some features in common with our own. It was inaugurated by premeditated military treachery.
It seized upon a large quantity of Government munitions of war. It only asked "to be let alone."
It found the Government wholly unprepared. But it was the uprising of a conquered people. The
rebels were in circumstances, as in complexion, much nearer akin to that portion of our Southern
citizens which has not rebelled, and which has lost no opportunity of seeking our lines "to
take the oath of allegiance" or any other little favor which could be found there. We do not
defend their atrocities, although a plea in mitigation might be put in, that these "were wisely
planned to break the spell which British domination had woven over the native mind of India,"
and that they were part of that decided and desperate policy which was designed to forever
bar the way of reconstruction. But toward the recaptured rebels there was used a course for
which the only precedent, so far as we know, was furnished by that highly civilized guardian,
the Dey of Algiers. These prisoners of war were in cold blood tied to the muzzles of cannon
and blown into fragments. The illustrated papers of that most Christian land which is overcome
with the barbarity of sinking old hulks in a channel through which privateers were wont to
escape our blockade furnished effective engravings "by our own artist" of the scene. Wholesale
plunder and devastation of the chief city of the revolt followed. The rebellion was put down,
and put down, we may say, without any unnecessary tenderness, any womanish weakness for the rebels.

We have thus established what we believe is called by theologians a catena of precedents, coming
down from the days of the Commonwealth to our own time. It covers about the whole period of
New England history. And we next propose to ask the question, how far it may be desirable to
be bound by such indisputable authority.

Is it too late to reopen the question, and to retry the issue between sovereign and rebel,
less with respect to ancient and immemorial usage, and more according to eternal principle?
We answer, No. The same power that enables us to master this rebellion will give us original
and final jurisdiction over it.

But one principle asserts itself out of the uniform coarse of history. The restoration of the
lawful authority over rebels does not restore them to their old status. They are at the pleasure
of the conquering power. Rights of citizenship, having been abjured, do not return with the
same coercion which demands duties of citizenship. Thus, to illustrate on an individual scale,
every wrong-doer is ipso facto a rebel. He forfeits, according to due course of law, a measure
of his privileges, while constrained to the same responsibility of obedience. His property
is not exempt from taxes because he is in prison, but his right of voting is gone; he cannot
bear arms, but he must keep the peace, he must labor compulsorily, and attend such worship
as the State provides. In short, he becomes a ward of the State, while not ceasing to be a
member. His inalienable rights to life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness were inalienable
only so long as he remained obedient and true to the sovereign. Now this is equally true on
the large scale as on the small. The only difficulty is to apply it to broad masses of men
and to States.

It may not be expedient to try South Carolina collectively, but we contend that the application
of the principle gives us the right. Corporate bodies have again and again been punished by
suspension of franchise, while held to allegiance and duties.

The simple question for us is, What will it be best to do? The South may save us the trouble
of deciding for the present a part of the many questions that occur. We may put down the Confederate
Government, and take military occupation. We cannot compel the Southerners to hold elections
and resume their share in the Government. It can go on without them. The same force which reopens
the Mississippi can collect taxes or exact forfeitures along its banks. If Charleston is sullen,
the National Government, having restored its flag to Moultrie and Sumter, can take its own
time in the matter of clearing out the channel and rebuilding the light-houses. If a secluded
neighborhood does not receive a Government postmaster, but is disposed to welcome him with
tarry hands to a feathery bed, it can be left without the mails. The rebel we can compel to
return to his duties; if necessary, we can leave him to get back his rights as he best may.

But we are the representatives of a great political discovery. The American Union is founded
on a fact unknown to the Old World. That fact is the direct ratio of the prosperity of the
parts to the prosperity of the whole. It is the principle upon which in every community our
life is built. We cannot, therefore, afford to have any part of the land languishing and suffering.
We are fighting, not for conquest, for we mean to abjure our power the moment we safely can,--not
for vengeance, for those with whom we fight are our brethren. We are compelled by a necessity,
partly geographical and partly social, into restoring a Union politically which never for a
day has actually ceased.

Let us advert to one fact very patent and significant. We have heard of nearly all our successes
through Rebel sources. Even where it made against them, they could not help telling us (we
do not say the truth, for that is rather strong, but) the news. Never did two nations at war
know one-tenth part as much of each other's affairs. Like husband and wife, the two parts of
the country cannot keep secrets from one another, let them try ever so hard. And the end of
all will be that we shall know and respect one another a great deal better for our sharp encounter.

But this necessity of union demands of the Government, imperatively demands, that it take whatever
step is necessary to its own preservation. It is as with a ship at sea,--all must pull together,
or somebody must go overboard. There can be no such order of things as an agreed state of mutiny,--forecastle
seceding from cabin, and steerage independent of both.

Not only is rebellion to be put down, therefore, but to be kept from coming up again. It is
obvious to every one, not thoroughly blinded by party, how it did come up. The Gulf States
were coaxed out, the Border States were bullied or conjured out. A few leading men, who had
made the science of political management their own, got the control of the popular mind. One
great secret of their success was their constant assumption that what was to be done had been
done already. It is the very art of the veteran seducer, who ever persuades his victim that
return is impossible, in order that he may actually make it so. North Carolina, as one expressively
said, "found herself out of the Union she hardly knew how." Virginia was dragged out. Tennessee
was forced out. Missouri was declared out. Kentucky was all but out. Maryland hung in the crisis
of life and death under the guns of Fort McHenry. In South Carolina alone can it be said that
any fair expression of the popular will was on the Secession side. The Rebellion was the work
of a governing class, all whose ideas and hopes were the aggrandizement of their own order.
Terrorism opened the way, reckless lying made the game sure. If any one is inclined to doubt
this, let him look at the sway which Robespierre and his few associates exercised in Paris.
Some seventy executions delivered that great city from its nightmare agony of months. A dozen
resolute, united men, with arms and without scruples, could seize almost any New England village
for a time, provided they knew just what they wanted to do. Decision and energy are master-keys
to almost most all doors not fortified by Hobbs's patent locks. A party of tipsy Americans
one night stormed a Parisian guard-house, disarmed the sentry, and sent the guard flying in
desperate fear, thinking that a general émente was in progress. Now one issue of the Rebellion
must be to put down, not only this governing class, but also the system from which it springs.
We have no such class at the North. We can have no such class. The very collision of interests,
the rivalries of trade, the thousand-and-one social relations, all neutralize each other, are
checks and counterchecks, which, like the particles in a vessel of water, always tend toward
the level of an equilibrium. Two men meet in their lodge as Odd-Fellows, but they are opponents
on "town-meeting day." Two partners in business are, one the most bitter of Calvinists, and
the other the most progressive of Universalists. Dr. A. and the Rev. Mr. B. pull asunder the
men whom 'Change unites. But with the Southerner of the governing class it is not so. One sympathy,
more potent than any other can be, leagues them all. All are masters of the Helot race upon
which their success and station are built. It is a living relation, the most powerful and vital
which can bind men together, that sense of authority borne by the few over the many.

The Norman barons after the Conquest, the Spanish conquerors in Mexico and Peru, the Englishmen
of the days of Clive and Hastings in India, are all examples of that thorough concentration
of strength which must arise in the conflicts of races. Republics have fallen through their
standing armies. The proprietary class at the South was the most dangerous of standing armies,
for it was disciplined to the use of power night and day. The overthrow of the Rebellion will
to a great degree ruin this class. But since it is one not founded on birth or culture, but
simply on white blood and circumstance, (for no Secessionist is so fierce as your converted
Northerner,) it cannot fall like the Norman nobility in the Wars of the Roses, or waste by
operation of climate like the masters of Mexico and Hindostan. It renews itself whenever it
touches slave-soil. That gives it life. We contend that Government must for its own preservation
go to the root of the matter. And we cannot see that there is any Constitutional difficulty.
There are probably not ten slave-proprietors in the South whom it has not the right to arrest,
try, and hang, for high-treason. Of course, every one can see the practical difficulty, as
well as the manifest folly, of doing this. But if it has that right toward these individuals,
it certainly may say, by Act of Congress, if we choose, that it will not waive it except upon
conditions which shall secure it from any further trouble. It seems to us fully within our
power. And we will use an illustration that may help to show what we mean. President Lincoln
has no right to require of any citizen of the United States that he take the temperance-pledge.
But suppose a murderer who has taken life in a fit of drunkenness applies for pardon to the
Executive. The Executive, Governor or President, as the case may be, may surely then impose
that condition before commuting the sentence or releasing the prisoner. Now the Nation stands
toward the Rebels in a like attitude. It may be good policy to take them back as fast as they
submit, it may be Christian magnanimity to make the way as easy as possible for their return,
but they have no right to come back to anything but a prison and hard labor for life. Many
of them have trebly forfeited their lives,--as traitors, as deserters from the naval and military
service, and as paroled prisoners who have broken their parole. And therefore we say, since
we cannot deal with all the individuals, we must deal with the masses, and that in their corporate
capacity. If South Carolina is a sovereign State, is in the Union as a feudal chief in his
king's court, with power to carry from York to Lancaster and from Lancaster to York his subject
vassals, then South Carolina has dared the hazard of rebellion, and her political head is forfeit.

It is next to be asked, what these conditions are to be. And that is not to be answered in
a breath. That they can have but one result, emancipation, is a foregone conclusion; but the
mode of reaching it is not so easily determined. A cotton-loaded ship took fire at sea. It
would have been easy to pump in water enough to drown the fire. But the captain said, "No,"
for that would swell the bales to such an extent as to open every seam and start every timber.
So with, the ship now carrying King Cotton: you may indeed quench the fire, but you may possibly
turn the ship inside out into the bargain.

But something we have a right to insist on. We have it, over and above the Constitutional right
shown just now, upon the broad principle of necessity. Slavery has proved itself a nuisance.
Just as we say to the owner of a bone-boiling establishment, "You poison the air; we cannot
live here; you must go farther off,"--and if a fever break out which can be clearly traced
to that source, we say it emphatically: so now Slavery having proved itself pestilential, we
say, "March!"

We are not disposed, à la Staten Island, to burn down our yellow-feverish neighbor's house.
We will give everybody time to pack up. We will make up a little purse for any specially hard
case which the removal may show. But stay and be plague-stricken we will no longer; nor are
we disposed to spend our whole income in burning sulphur, saltpetre, and charcoal to keep out
infection. And certainly, when by neglect to pay ground-rent, or other illegality, the owner
of our nuisance has forfeited his right to stay, no mortal can blame us for taking the strictest
and most decisive steps known to the law to remove him.

AGNES OF SORRENTO.

CHAPTER XXVII.

THE SAINT'S REST.

Agnes entered the city of Rome in a trance of enthusiastic emotion, almost such as one might
imagine in a soul entering the heavenly Jerusalem above. To her exalted ideas she was approaching
not only the ground hallowed by the blood of apostles and martyrs, not merely the tombs of
the faithful, but the visible "general assembly and church of the first-born which are written
in heaven." Here reigned the appointed representative of Jesus,--and she imagined a benignant
image of a prince clothed with honor and splendor, who was yet the righter of all wrongs, the
redresser of all injuries, the friend and succorer of the poor and needy; and she was firm
in a secret purpose to go to this great and benignant father, and on her knees entreat him
to forgive the sins of her lover, and remove the excommunication that threatened at every moment
his eternal salvation. For she trembled to think of it,--a sudden accident, a thrust of a dagger,
a fall from his horse might put him forever beyond the pale of repentance,--he might die unforgiven,
and sink to eternal pain.

If any should wonder that a Christian soul could preserve within itself an image so ignorantly
fair, in such an age, when the worldliness and corruption in the Papal chair were obtruded
by a thousand incidental manifestations, and were alluded to in all the calculations of simple
common people, who looked at facts with a mere view to the guidance of their daily conduct,
it is necessary to remember the nature of Agnes's religious training, and the absolute renunciation
of all individual reasoning which from infancy had been laid down before her as the first and
indispensable prerequisite of spiritual progress. To believe,--to believe utterly and blindly,--not
only without evidence, but against evidence,--to reject the testimony even of her senses, when
set against the simple affirmation of her superiors,--had been the beginning, middle, and end
of her religious instruction. When a doubt assailed her mind on any point, she had been taught
to retire within herself and repeat a prayer; and in this way her mental eye had formed the
habit of closing to anything that might shake her faith as quickly as the physical eye closes
at a threatened blow. Then, as she was of a poetic and ideal nature, entirely differing from
the mass of those with whom she associated, she had formed that habit of abstraction and mental
reverie which prevented her hearing or perceiving the true sense of a great deal that went
on around her. The conversations that commonly were carried on in her presence had for her
so little interest that she scarcely heard them. The world in which she moved was a glorified
world,--wherein, to be sure, the forms of every-day life appeared, but appeared as different
from what they were in reality as the old mouldering daylight view of Rome is from the warm
translucent glory of its evening transfiguration.

So in her quiet, silent heart she nursed this beautiful hope of finding in Rome the earthly
image of her Saviour's home above, of finding in the head of the Church the real image of her
Redeemer,--the friend to whom the poorest and lowliest may pour out their souls with as much
freedom as the highest and noblest. The spiritual directors who had formed the mind of Agnes
in her early days had been persons in the same manner taught to move in an ideal world of faith.
The Mother Theresa had never seen the realities of life, and supposed the Church on earth to
be all that the fondest visions of human longing could paint it. The hard, energetic, prose
experience of old Jocunda, and the downright way with which she sometimes spoke of things as
a trooper's wife must have seen them, were repressed and hushed, down, as the imperfect faith
of a half-reclaimed worldling,--they could not be allowed to awaken her from the sweetness
of so blissful a dream. In like manner, when Lorenzo Sforza became Father Francesco, he strove
with earnest prayer to bury his gift of individual reason in the same grave with his family
name and worldly experience. As to all that transpired in the real world, he wrapped himself
in a mantle of imperturbable silence; the intrigues of popes and cardinals, once well known
to him, sank away as a forbidden dream; and by some metaphysical process of imaginative devotion
he enthroned God in the place of the dominant powers, and taught himself to receive all that
came from them in uninquiring submission, as proceeding from unerring wisdom. Though he had
begun his spiritual life under the impulse of Savonarola, yet so perfect had been his isolation
from all tidings of what transpired in the external world that the conflict which was going
on between that distinguished man and the Papal hierarchy never reached his ear. He sought
and aimed as much as possible to make his soul like the soul of one dead, which adores and
worships in ideal space, and forgets forever the scenes and relations of earth; and he had
so long contemplated Rome under the celestial aspects of his faith, that, though the shock
of his first confession there had been painful, still it was insufficient to shake his faith.
It had been God's will, he thought, that where he looked for aid he should meet only confusion,
and he bowed to the inscrutable will, and blindly adored the mysterious revelation. If such
could be the submission and the faith of a strong and experienced man, who can wonder at the
enthusiastic illusions of an innocent, trustful child?

Agnes and her grandmother entered the city of Rome just as the twilight had faded into night;
and though Agnes, full of faith and enthusiasm, was longing to begin immediately the ecstatic
vision of shrines and holy places, old Elsie commanded her not to think of anything further
that night. They proceeded, therefore, with several other pilgrims who had entered the city,
to a church specially set apart for their reception, connected with which were large dormitories
and a religious order whose business was to receive and wait upon them, and to see that all
their wants were supplied. This religious foundation is one of the oldest in Rome; and it is
esteemed a work of especial merit and sanctity among the citizens to associate themselves temporarily
in these labors in Holy Week. Even princes and princesses come, humble and lowly, mingling
with those of common degree, and all, calling each other brother and sister, vie in kind attentions
to these guests of the Church.

When Agnes and Elsie arrived, several of these volunteer assistants were in waiting. Agnes
was remarked among all the rest of the company for her peculiar beauty and the rapt enthusiastic
expression of her face.

Almost immediately on their entrance into the reception-hall connected with the church, they
seemed to attract the attention of a tall lady dressed in deep mourning, and accompanied by
a female servant, with whom she was conversing on those terms of intimacy which showed confidential
relations between the two.

"See!" she said, "my Mona, what a heavenly face is there!--that sweet child has certainly the
light of grace shining through her. My heart warms to her."

"Indeed," said the old servant, looking across, "and well it may,--dear lamb come so far! But,
Holy Virgin, how my head swims! How strange!--that child reminds me of some one. My Lady, perhaps,
may think of some one whom she looks like."

"Mona, you say true. I have the same strange impression that I have seen a face like hers,
but who or where I cannot say."

"What would my Lady say, if I said it was our dear Prince?--God rest his soul!"

"Mona, it is so,--yes," added the lady, looking more intently,--"how singular!--the very traits
of our house in a peasant-girl! She is of Sorrento, I judge, by her costume,--what a pretty
one it is! That old woman is her mother, perhaps. I must choose her for my care,--and, Mona,
you shall wait on her mother."

So saying, the Princess Paulina crossed the hall, and, bending affably over Agnes, took her
hand and kissed her, saying,--

"Welcome, my dear little sister, to the house of our Father!"

Agnes looked up with strange, wondering eyes into the face that was bent to hers. It was sallow
and sunken, with deep lines of ill-health and sorrow, but the features were noble, and must
once have been, beautiful; the whole action, voice, and manner were dignified and impressive.
Instinctively she felt that the lady was of superior birth and breeding to any with whom she
had been in the habit of associating.

"Come with me," said the lady; "and this--your mother"--she added.

"She is my grandmother," said Agnes.

"Well, then, your grandmother, sweet child, shall be attended by my good sister Mona here."

The Princess Paulina drew the hand of Agnes through her arm, and, laying her hand affectionately
on it, looked down and smiled tenderly on her.

"Are you very tired, my dear?"

"Oh, no! no!" said Agnes,--"I am so happy, so blessed to be here!"

"You have travelled a long way?"

"Yes, from Sorrento; but I am used to walking,--I did not feel it to be long,--my heart kept
me up,--I wanted to come home so much."

"Home?" said the Princess.

"Yes, to my soul's home,--the house of our dear Father the Pope."

The Princess started, and looked incredulously down for a moment; then noticing the confiding,
whole-hearted air of the child, she sighed and was silent.

"Come with me above," she said, "and let me attend a little to your comfort."

"How good you are, dear lady!" said Agnes.

"I am not good, my child,--I am only your unworthy sister in Christ"; and as the lady spoke,
she opened the door into a room where were a number of other female pilgrims seated around
the wall, each attended by a person whose peculiar care she seemed to be.

At the feet of each was a vessel of water, and when the seats were all full, a cardinal in
robes of office entered, and began reading prayers. Each lady present, kneeling at the feet
of her chosen pilgrim, divested them carefully of their worn and travel-soiled shoes and stockings,
and proceeded to wash them. It was not a mere rose-water ceremony, but a good hearty washing
of feet that for the most part had great need of the ablution. While this service was going
on, the cardinal read from the Gospel how a Greater than they all had washed the feet of His
disciples, and said, "If I, your Lord and Master, have washed your feet, ye also ought to wash
one another's feet." Then all repeated in concert the Lord's Prayer, while each humbly kissed
the feet she had washed, and proceeded to replace the worn and travel-soiled shoes and stockings
with new and strong ones, the gift of Christian love. Each lady then led her charge into a
room where tables were spread with a plain and wholesome repast of all such articles of food
as the season of Lent allowed. Each placed her protégée at table, and carefully attended to
all her wants at the supper, and afterwards dormitories were opened for their repose.

The Princess Paulina performed all these offices for Agnes with a tender earnestness which
won upon her heart. The young girl thought herself indeed in that blessed society of which
she had dreamed, where the high-born and the rich become through Christ's love the servants
of the poor and lowly,--and through all the services she sat in a sort of dream of rapture.
How lovely this reception into the Holy City! how sweet thus to be taken to the arms of the
great Christian family, bound together in the charity which is the bond of perfectness!

"Please tell me, dear lady," said Agnes, after supper, "who is that holy man that prayed with us?"

"Oh, he--he is the Cardinal Capello," said the Princess.

"I should like to have spoken with him," said Agnes.

"Why, my child?"

"I wanted to ask him when and how I could get speech with our dear Father the Pope,--for there
is somewhat on my mind that I would lay before him."

"My poor little sister," said the Princess, much perplexed, "you do not understand things.
What you speak of is impossible. The Pope is a great king."

"I know he is," said Agnes,--"and so is our Lord Jesus,--but every soul may come to him."

"I cannot explain to you now," said the Princess,--"there is not time to-night. But I shall
see you again. I will send for you to come to my house, and there talk with you about many
things which you need to know. Meanwhile, promise me, dear child, not to try to do anything
of the kind you spoke of until I have talked with you."

"Well, I will not," said Agnes, with a glance of docile affection, kissing the hand of the
Princess.

The action was so pretty,--the great, soft, dark eyes looked so fawn-like and confiding in
their innocent tenderness, that the lady seemed much moved.

"Our dear Mother bless thee, child!" she said, laying her hand on her head, and stooping to
kiss her forehead.

She left her at the door of the dormitory.

The Princess and her attendant went out of the church-door, where her litter stood in waiting.
The two took their seats in silence, and silently pursued their way through the streets of
the old dimly-lighted city and out of one of its principal gates to the wide Campagna beyond.
The villa of the Princess was situated on an eminence at some distance from the city, and the
night-ride to it was solemn and solitary. They passed along the old Appian Way over pavements
that had rumbled under the chariot-wheels of the emperors and nobles of a by-gone age, while
along their way, glooming up against the clear of the sky, were vast shadowy piles,--the tombs
of the dead of other days. All mouldering and lonely, shaggy and fringed with bushes and streaming
wild vines through which the night-wind sighed and rustled, they might seem to be pervaded
by the restless spirits of the dead; and as the lady passed them, she shivered, and, crossing
herself, repeated an inward prayer against wandering demons that walk in desolate places.

Timid and solitary, the high-born lady shrank and cowered within herself with a distressing
feeling of loneliness. A childless widow in delicate health, whose paternal family had been
for the most part cruelly robbed, exiled, or destroyed by the reigning Pope and his family,
she felt her own situation a most unprotected and precarious one, since the least jealousy
or misunderstanding might bring upon her, too, the ill-will of the Borgias, which had proved
so fatal to the rest of her race. No comfort in life remained to her but her religion, to whose
practice she clung as to her all; but even in this her life was embittered by facts to which,
with the best disposition in the world, she could not shut her eyes. Her own family had been
too near the seat of power not to see all the base intrigues by which that sacred and solemn
position of Head of the Christian Church had been traded for as a marketable commodity. The
pride, the indecency, the cruelty of those who now reigned in the name of Christ came over
her mind in contrast with the picture painted by the artless, trusting faith of the peasant-girl
with whom she had just parted. Her mind had been too thoroughly drilled in the non-reflective
practice of her faith to dare to put forth any act of reasoning upon facts so visible and so
tremendous,--she rather trembled at herself for seeing what she saw and for knowing what she
knew, and feared somehow that this very knowledge might endanger her salvation; and so she
rode homeward cowering and praying like a frightened child.

"Does my Lady feel ill?" said the old servant, anxiously.

"No, Mona, no,--not in body."

"And what is on my Lady's mind now?"

"Oh, Mona, it is only what is always there. To-morrow is Palm Sunday, and how can I go to see
the murderers and robbers of our house in holy places? Oh, Mona, what can Christians do, when
such men handle holy things? It was a comfort to wash the feet of those poor simple pilgrims,
who tread in the steps of the saints of old; but how I felt when that poor child spoke of wanting
to see the Pope!"

"Yes," said Mona, "it's like sending the lamb to get spiritual counsel of the wolf."

"See what sweet belief the poor infant has! Should not the head of the Christian Church be
such as she thinks? Ah, in the old days, when the Church here in Rome was poor and persecuted,
there were popes who were loving fathers and not haughty princes."

"My dear Lady," said the servant, "pray, consider, the very stones have ears. We don't know
what day we may be turned out, neck and heels, to make room for some of their creatures."

"Well, Mona," said the lady, with some spirit, "I'm sure I haven't said any more than you have."

"Holy Mother! and so you haven't, but somehow things look more dangerous when other people
say them.--A pretty child that was, as you say; but that old thing, her grandmother, is a sharp
piece. She is a Roman, and lived here in her early days. She says the little one was born hereabouts;
but she shuts up her mouth like a vice, when one would get more out of her."

"Mona, I shall not go out to-morrow; but you go to the services, and find the girl and her
grandmother, and bring them out to me. I want to counsel the child."

"You may be sure," said Mona, "that her grandmother knows the ins and outs of Rome as well
as any of us, for all she has learned to screw up her lips so tight"

"At any rate, bring her to me, because she interests me."

"Well, well, it shall be so," said Mona.

CHAPTER XXVIII.

PALM SUNDAY.

The morning after her arrival in Rome, Agnes was awakened from sleep by a solemn dropping of
bell-tones which seemed to fill the whole air, intermingled dimly at intervals with long-drawn
plaintive sounds of chanting. She had slept profoundly, overwearied with her pilgrimage, and
soothed by that deep lulling sense of quiet which comes over one, when, after long and weary
toils, some auspicious goal is at length reached. She had come to Rome, and been received with
open arms into the household of the saints, and seen even those of highest degree imitating
the simplicity of the Lord in serving the poor. Surely, this was indeed the house of God and
the gate of heaven; and so the bell-tones and chants, mingling with her dreams, seemed naturally
enough angel-harpings and distant echoes of the perpetual adoration of the blessed. She rose
and dressed herself with a tremulous joy. She felt full of hope that somehow--in what way she
could not say--this auspicious beginning would end in a full fruition of all her wishes, an
answer to all her prayers.

"Well, child," said old Elsie, "you must have slept well; you look fresh as a lark."

"The air of this holy place revives me," said Agnes, with enthusiasm.

"I wish I could say as much," said Elsie. "My bones ache yet with the tramp, and I suppose
nothing will do but we must go out now to all the holy places, up and down and hither and yon,
to everything that goes on. I saw enough of it all years ago when I lived here."

"Dear grandmother, if you are tired, why should you not rest? I can go forth alone in this
holy city. No harm can possibly befall me here. I can join any of the pilgrims who are going
to the holy places where I long to worship."

"A likely story!" said Elsie. "I know more about old Rome than you do, and I tell you, child,
that you do not stir out a step without me; so if you must go, I must go too,--and like enough
it's for my soul's health. I suppose it is," she added, after a reflective pause.

"How beautiful it was that we were welcomed so last night!" said Agnes,--"that dear lady was
so kind to me!"

"Ay, ay, and well she might be!" said Elsie, nodding her head. "But there's no truth in the
kindness of the nobles to us, child. They don't do it because they love us, but because they
expect to buy heaven by washing our feet and giving us what little they can clip and snip off
from their abundance."

"Oh, grandmother," said Agnes, "how can you say so? Certainly, if any one ever spoke and looked
lovingly, it was that dear lady."

"Yes, and she rolls away in her carriage, well content, and leaves you with a pair of new shoes
and stockings,--you, as worthy of a carriage and a palace as she."

"No, grandmamma; she said she should send for me to talk more with her."

"She said she should send for you?" said Elsie. "Well, well, that is strange, to be sure!--that
is wonderful!" she added, reflectively. "But come, child, we must hasten through our breakfast
and prayers, and go to see the Pope, and all the great birds with fine feathers that fly after
him."

"Yes, indeed!" said Agnes, joyfully. "Oh, grandmamma, what a blessed sight it will be!"

"Yes, child, and a fine sight enough he makes with his great canopy and his plumes and his
servants and his trumpeters;--there isn't a king in Christendom that goes so proudly as he."

"No other king is worthy of it," said Agnes. "The Lord reigns in him."

"Much you know about it!" said Elsie, between her teeth, as they started out.

The streets of Rome through which they walked were damp and cellar-like, filthy and ill-paved;
but Agnes neither saw nor felt anything of inconvenience in this: had they been floored, like
those of the New Jerusalem, with translucent gold, her faith could not have been more fervent.

Rome is at all times a forest of quaint costumes, a pantomime of shifting scenic effects of
religious ceremonies. Nothing there, however singular, strikes the eye as out-of-the-way or
unexpected, since no one knows precisely to what religious order it may belong, or what individual
vow or purpose it may represent. Neither Agnes nor Elsie, therefore, was surprised, when they
passed through the door-way to the street, at the apparition of a man covered from head to
foot in a long robe of white serge, with a high-peaked cap of the same material drawn completely
down over his head and face. Two round holes cut in this ghostly head-gear revealed simply
two black glittering eyes, which shone with that singular elfish effect which belongs to the
human eye when removed from its appropriate and natural accessories. As they passed out, the
figure rattled a box on which was painted an image of despairing souls raising imploring hands
from very red tongues of flame, by which it was understood at once that he sought aid for souls
in Purgatory. Agnes and her grandmother each dropped therein a small coin and went on their
way; but the figure followed them at a little distance behind, keeping carefully within sight
of them.

By means of energetic pushing and striving, Elsie contrived to secure for herself and her grandchild
stations in the piazza in front of the church, in the very front rank, where the procession
was to pass. A motley assemblage it was, this crowd, comprising every variety of costume of
rank and station and ecclesiastical profession,--cowls and hoods of Franciscan and Dominican,--picturesque
headdresses of peasant-women of different districts,--plumes and ruffs of more aspiring gentility,--mixed
with every quaint phase of foreign costume belonging to the strangers from different parts
of the earth;--for, like the old Jewish Passover, this celebration of Holy Week had its assemblage
of Parthians, Medes, Elamites, dwellers in Mesopotamia, Cretes, and Arabians, all blending
in one common memorial.

Amid the strange variety of persons among whom they were crowded, Elsie remarked the stranger
in the white sack, who had followed them, and who had stationed himself behind them,--but it
did not occur to her that his presence there was other than merely accidental.

And now came sweeping up the grand procession, brilliant with scarlet and gold, waving with
plumes, sparkling with gems,--it seemed as if earth had been ransacked and human invention
taxed to express the ultimatum of all that could dazzle and bewilder,--and, with a rustle like
that of ripe grain before a swaying wind, all the multitude went down on their knees as the
cortege passed. Agnes knelt, too, with clasped hands, adoring the sacred vision enshrined in
her soul; and as she knelt with upraised eyes, her cheeks flushed with enthusiasm, her beauty
attracted the attention of more than one in the procession.

"There is the model which our master has been looking for," said a young and handsome man in
a rich dress of black velvet, who, by his costume, appeared to hold the rank of first chamberlain
in the Papal suite.

The young man to whom he spoke gave a bold glance at Agnes and answered,--

"Pretty little rogue, how well she does the saint!"

"One can see, that, with judicious arrangement, she might make a nymph as well as a saint,"
said the first speaker.

"A Daphne, for example," said the other, laughing.

"And she wouldn't turn into a laurel, either," said the first. "Well, we must keep our eye
on her." And as they were passing into the church-door, he beckoned to a servant in waiting
and whispered something, indicating Agnes with a backward movement of his hand.

The servant, after this, kept cautiously within observing distance of her, as she with the
crowd pressed into the church to assist at the devotions.

Long and dazzling were those ceremonies, when, raised on high like an enthroned God, Pope Alexander
VI. received the homage of bended knee from the ambassadors of every Christian nation, from
heads of all ecclesiastical orders, and from generals and chiefs and princes and nobles, who,
robed and plumed and gemmed in all the brightest and proudest that earth could give, bowed
the knee humbly and kissed his foot in return for the palm-branch which he presented. Meanwhile,
voices of invisible singers chanted the simple event which all this splendor was commemorating,--how
of old Jesus came into Jerusalem meek and lowly, riding on an ass,--how His disciples cast
their garments in the way, and the multitude took branches of palm-trees to come forth and
meet Him,--how He was seized, tried, condemned to a cruel death,--and the crowd, with dazzled
and wondering eyes following the gorgeous ceremonial, reflected little how great was the satire
of the contrast, how different the coming of that meek and lowly One to suffer and to die from
this triumphant display of worldly-pomp and splendor in His professed representative.

But to the pure all things are pure, and Agnes thought only of the enthronement of all virtues,
of all celestial charities and unworldly purities in that splendid ceremonial, and longed within
herself to approach so near as to touch the hem of those wondrous and sacred garments. It was
to her enthusiastic imagination like the unclosing of celestial doors, where the kings and
priests of an eternal and heavenly temple move to and fro in music, with the many-colored glories
of rainbows and sunset clouds. Her whole nature was wrought upon by the sights and sounds of
that gorgeous worship,--she seemed to burn and brighten like an altar-coal, her figure appeared
to dilate, her eyes grew deeper and shone with a starry light, and the color of her cheeks
flushed up with a vivid glow,--nor was she aware how often eyes were turned upon her, nor how
murmurs of admiration followed all her absorbed, unconscious movements. "Ecco! Eccola!" was
often repeated from mouth to mouth around her, but she heard it not.

When at last the ceremony was finished, the crowd rushed again out of the church to see the
departure of various dignitaries. There was a perfect whirl of dazzling equipages, and glittering
lackeys, and prancing horses, crusted with gold, flaming in scarlet and purple, retinues of
cardinals and princes and nobles and ambassadors all in one splendid confused jostle of noise
and brightness.

Suddenly a servant in a gorgeous scarlet livery touched Agnes on the shoulder, and said, in
a tone of authority,--

"Young maiden, your presence is commanded."

"Who commands it?" said Elsie, laying her hand on her grandchild's shoulder fiercely.

"Are you mad?" whispered two or three women of the lower orders to Elsie at once; "don't you
know who that is? Hush, for your life!"

"I shall go with you, Agnes," said Elsie, resolutely.

"No, you will not," said the attendant, insolently. "This maiden is commanded, and none else."

"He belongs to the Pope's nephew," whispered a voice in Elsie's ear. "You had better have your
tongue torn out than say another word." Whereupon, Elsie found herself actually borne backward
by three or four stout women.

Agnes looked round and smiled on her,--a smile full of innocent trust,--and then, turning,
followed the servant into the finest of the equipages, where she was lost to view.

Elsie was almost wild with fear and impotent rage; but a low, impressive voice now spoke in
her ear. It came from the white figure which had followed them in the morning.

"Listen," it said, "and be quiet; don't turn your head, but hear what I tell you. Your child
is followed by those who will save her. Go your ways whence you came. Wait till the hour after
the Ave Maria, then come to the Porta San Sebastiano, and all will be well."

When Elsie turned to look she saw no one, but caught a distant glimpse of a white figure vanishing
in the crowd.

She returned to her asylum, wondering and disconsolate, and the first person whom she saw was
old Mona.

"Well, good morrow, sister!" she said. "Know that I am here on a strange errand. The Princess
has taken such a liking to you that nothing will do but we must fetch you and your little one
out to her villa. I looked everywhere for you in church this morning. Where have you hid yourselves?"

"We were there," said Elsie, confused, and hesitating whether to speak of what had happened.

"Well, where is the little one? Get her ready; we have horses in waiting. It is a good bit
out of the city."

"Alack!" said Elsie, "I know not where she is."

"Holy Virgin!" said Mona, "how is this?"

Elsie, moved by the necessity which makes it a relief to open the heart to some one, sat down
on the steps of the church and poured forth the whole story into the listening ear of Mona.

"Well, well, well!" said the old servant, "in our days, one does not wonder at anything,--one
never knows one day what may come the next,--but this is bad enough!"

"Do you think," said Elsie, "there is any hope in that strange promise?"

"One can but try it," said Mona.

"If you could but be there then," said Elsie, "and take us to your mistress."

"Well, I will wait, for my mistress has taken an especial fancy to your little one, more particularly
since this morning, when a holy Capuchin came to our house and held a long conference with
her, and after he was gone I found my lady almost in a faint, and she would have it that we
should start directly to bring her out here, and I had much ado to let her see that the child
would do quite as well after services were over. I tired myself looking about for you in the
crowd."

The two women then digressed upon various gossiping particulars, as they sat on the old mossy,
grass-grown steps, looking up over house-tops yellow with lichen, into the blue spring air,
where flocks of white pigeons were soaring and careering in the soft, warm sunshine. Brightness
and warmth and flowers seemed to be the only idea natural to that charming weather, and Elsie,
sad-hearted and foreboding as she was, felt the benign influence. Rome, which had been so fatal
a place to her peace, yet had for her, as it has for every one, potent spells of a lulling
and soothing power. Where is the grief or anxiety that can resist the enchantment of one of
Rome's bright, soft, spring days?

CHAPTER XXIX.

THE NIGHT-RIDE.

The villa of the Princess Paulina was one of those soft, idyllic paradises which lie like so
many fairy-lands around the dreamy solitudes of Rome. They are so fair, so wild, so still,
these villas! Nature in them seems to run in such gentle sympathy with Art that one feels as
if they had not been so much the product of human skill as some indigenous growth of Arcadian
ages. There are quaint terraces shadowed by clipped ilex-trees whose branches make twilight
even in the sultriest noon; there are long-drawn paths, through wildernesses where cyclamens
blossom in crimson clouds among crushed fragments of sculptured marble green with the moss
of ages, and glossy-leaved myrtles put forth their pale blue stars in constellations under
the leafy shadows. Everywhere is the voice of water, ever lulling, ever babbling, and taught
by Art to run in many a quaint caprice,--here to rush down marble steps slippery with sedgy
green, there to spout up in silvery spray, and anon to spread into a cool, waveless lake, whose
mirror reflects trees and flowers far down in some visionary underworld. Then there are wide
lawns, where the grass in spring is a perfect rainbow of anemones, white, rose, crimson, purple,
mottled, streaked, and dappled with ever varying shade of sunset clouds. There are soft, moist
banks where purple and white violets grow large and fair, and trees all interlaced with ivy,
which runs and twines everywhere, intermingling its dark, graceful leaves and vivid young shoots
with the bloom and leafage of all shadowy places.

In our day, these lovely places have their dark shadow ever haunting their loveliness: the
malaria, like an unseen demon, lies hid in their sweetness. And in the time we are speaking
of, a curse not less deadly poisoned the beauties of the Princess's villa,--the malaria of fear.

The gravelled terrace in front of the villa commanded, through the clipped arches of the ilex-trees,
the Campagna with its soft, undulating bands of many-colored green, and the distant city of
Rome, whose bells were always filling the air between with a tremulous vibration. Here, during
the long sunny afternoon while Elsie and Monica were crooning together on the steps of the
church, the Princess Paulina walked restlessly up and down, looking forth on the way towards
the city for the travellers whom she expected.

Father Francesco had been there that morning and communicated to her the dying message of the
aged Capuchin, from which it appeared that the child who had so much interested her was her
near kinswoman. Perhaps, had her house remained at the height of its power and splendor, she
might have rejected with scorn the idea of a kinswoman whose existence had been owing to a
mésalliance; but a member of an exiled and disinherited family, deriving her only comfort from
unworldly sources, she regarded this event as an opportunity afforded her to make expiation
for one of the sins of her house. The beauty and winning graces of her young kinswoman were
not without their influence in attracting a lonely heart deprived of the support of natural
ties. The Princess longed for something to love, and the discovery of a legitimate object of
family affection was an event in the weary monotony of her life; and therefore it was that
the hours of the afternoon seemed long while she looked forth towards Rome, listening to the
ceaseless chiming of its bells, and wondering why no one appeared along the road.

The sun went down, and all the wide plain seemed like the sea at twilight, lying in rosy and
lilac and purple shadowy bands, out of which rose the old city, solemn and lonely as some enchanted
island of dream-land, with a flush of radiance behind it and a tolling of weird music filling
all the air around. Now they are chanting the Ave Maria in hundreds of churches, and the Princess
worships in distant accord, and tries to still the anxieties of her heart with many a prayer.
Twilight fades and fades, the Campagna becomes a black sea, and the distant city looms up like
a dark rock against the glimmering sky, and the Princess goes within and walks restlessly through
the wide halls, stopping first at one open window and then at another to listen. Beneath her
feet she treads a cool mosaic pavement where laughing Cupids are dancing. Above, from the ceiling,
Aurora and the Hours look down in many-colored clouds of brightness. The sound of the fountains
without is so clear in the intense stillness that the peculiar voice of each one can be told.
That is the swaying noise of the great jet that rises from marble shells and falls into a wide
basin, where silvery swans swim round and round in enchanted circles; and the other slenderer
sound is the smaller jet that rains down its spray into the violet-borders deep in the shrubbery;
and that other, the shallow babble of the waters that go down the marble steps to the lake.
How dreamlike and plaintive they all sound in the night stillness! The nightingale sings from
the dark shadows of the wilderness; and the musky odors of the cyclamen come floating ever
and anon through the casement, in that strange, cloudy way in which flower-scents seem to come
and go in the air in the night season.

At last the Princess fancies she hears the distant tramp of horses' feet, and her heart beats
so that she can scarcely listen: now she hears it,--and now a rising wind, sweeping across
the Campagna, seems to bear it moaning away. She goes to a door and looks out into the darkness.
Yes, she hears it now, quick and regular,--the beat of many horses' feet coming in hot haste
along the road. Surely the few servants whom she has sent cannot make all this noise! and she
trembles with vague affright. Perhaps it is a tyrannical message, bringing imprisonment and
death. She calls a maid, and bids her bring lights into the reception-hall. A few moments more,
and there is a confused stamping of horses' feet approaching the house, and she hears the voices
of her servants. She runs into the piazza, and sees dismounting a knight who carries Agnes
in his arms pale and fainting. Old Elsie and Monica, too, dismount, with the Princess's men-servants;
but, wonderful to tell, there seems besides them to be a train of some hundred armed horsemen.

The timid Princess was so fluttered and bewildered that she lost all presence of mind, and
stood in uncomprehending wonder, while Monica pushed authoritatively into the house, and beckoned
the knight to bring Agnes and lay her on a sofa, when she and old Elsie busied themselves vigorously
with restoratives.

The Lady Paulina, as soon as she could collect her scattered senses, recognized in Agostino
the banished lord of the Sarelli family, a race who had shared with her own the hatred and
cruelty of the Borgia tribe; and he in turn had recognized a daughter of the Colonnas.

He drew her aside into a small boudoir adjoining the apartment.

"Noble lady," he said, "we are companions in misfortune, and so, I trust, you will pardon what
seems a tumultuous intrusion on your privacy. I and my men came to Rome in disguise, that we
might watch over and protect this poor innocent, who now finds asylum with you."

"My Lord," said the Princess, "I see in this event the wonderful working of the good God. I
have but just learned that this young person is my near kinswoman; it was only this morning
that the fact was certified to me on the dying confession of a holy Capuchin, who privately
united my brother to her mother. The marriage was an indiscretion of his youth; but afterwards
he fell into more grievous sin in denying the holy sacrament, and leaving his wife to die in
misery and dishonor, and perhaps for this fault such great judgments fell upon him. I wish
to make atonement in such sort as is yet possible by acting as a mother to this child."

"The times are so troublous and uncertain," said Agostino, "that she must have stronger protection
than that of any woman. She is of a most holy and religious nature, but as ignorant of sin
as an angel who never has seen anything out of heaven; and so the Borgias enticed her into
their impure den, from which, God helping, I have saved her. I tried all I could to prevent
her coming to Rome, and to convince her of the vileness that ruled here; but the poor little
one could not believe me, and thought me a heretic only for saying what she now knows from
her own senses."

The Lady Paulina shuddered with fear.

"Is it possible that you have come into collision with the dreadful Borgias? What will become
of us?"

"I brought a hundred men into Rome in different disguises," said Agostino, "and we gained over
a servant in their household, through whom I entered and carried her off. Their men pursued
us, and we had a fight in the streets, but for the moment we mustered more than they. Some
of them chased us a good distance. But it will not do for us to remain here. As soon as she
is revived enough, we must retreat towards one of our fastnesses in the mountains, whence,
when rested, we shall go northward to Florence, where I have powerful friends, and she has
also an uncle, a holy man, by whose counsels she is much guided."

"You must take me with you," said the Princess, in a tremor of anxiety.

"Not for the world would I stay, if it be known you have taken refuge here. For a long time
their spies have been watching about me; they only wait for some occasion to seize upon my
villa, as they have on the possessions of all my father's house. Let me flee with you. I have
a brother-in-law in Florence who hath often urged me to escape to him till times mend,--for,
surely, God will not allow the wicked to bear rule forever."

"Willingly, noble lady, will we give you our escort,--the more so that this poor child will
then have a friend with her beseeming her father's rank. Believe me, lady, she will do no discredit
to her lineage. She was trained in a convent, and her soul is a flower of marvellous beauty.
I must declare to you here that I have wooed her honorably to be my wife, and she would willingly
be so, had not some scruples of a religious vocation taken hold on her, to dispel which I look
for the aid of the holy father, her uncle."

"It would be a most fit and proper thing," said the Princess, "thus to ally our houses, in
hope of some good time to come which shall restore their former standing and possessions. Of
course some holy man must judge of the obstacle interposed by her vocation; but I doubt not
the Church will be an indulgent mother in a case where the issue seems so desirable."

"If I be married to her," said Agostino, "I can take her out of all these strifes and confusions
which now agitate our Italy to the court of France, where I have an uncle high in favor with
the King, and who will use all his influence to compose these troubles in Italy, and bring
about a better day."

While this conversation was going on, bountiful refreshments had been provided for the whole
party, and the attendants of the Princess received orders to pack all her jewels and valuable
effects for a sudden journey.

As soon as preparations could be made, the whole party left the villa of the Princess for a
retreat in the Alban Mountains, where Agostino and his band had one of their rendezvous. Only
the immediate female attendants of the Princess, and one or two men-servants, left with her.
The silver plate, and all objects of particular value, were buried in the garden. This being
done, the keys of the house were intrusted to a gray-headed servant, who with his wife had
grown old in the family.

It was midnight before everything was ready for starting. The moon cast silver gleams through
the ilex-avenues, and caused the jet of the great fountain to look like a wavering pillar of
cloudy brightness, when the Princess led forth Agnes upon the wide veranda. Two gentle, yet
spirited little animals from the Princess's stables were there awaiting them, and they were
lifted into their saddles by Agostino.

"Fear nothing, Madam," he said, observing how the hands of the Princess trembled; "a few hours
will put us in perfect safety, and I shall be at your side constantly."

Then lifting Agnes to her seat, he placed the reins in her hand.

"Are you rested?" he asked.

It was the first time since her rescue that he had spoken to Agnes. The words were brief, but
no expressions of endearment could convey more than the manner in which they were spoken.

"Yes, my Lord," said Agnes, firmly, "I am rested."

"You think you can bear the ride?"

"I can bear anything, so I escape," she said.

The company were now all mounted, and were marshalled in regular order. A body of armed men
rode in front; then came Agnes and the Princess, with Agostino between them, while two or three
troopers rode on either side; Elsie, Monica, and the servants of the Princess followed close
behind, and the rear was brought up in like manner by armed men.

The path wound first through the grounds of the villa, with its plats of light and shade, its
solemn groves of stone-pines rising like palm-trees high in air above the tops of all other
trees, its terraces and statues and fountains,--all seeming so lovely in the midnight stillness.

"Perhaps I am leaving all this forever," said the Princess.

"Let us hope for the best," said Agostino. "It cannot be that God will suffer the seat of the
Apostles to be subjected to such ignominy and disgrace much longer. I am amazed that no Christian
kings have interfered before for the honor of Christendom. I have it from the best authority
that the King of Naples burst into tears when he heard of the election of this wretch to be
Pope. He said that it was a scandal which threatened the very existence of Christianity. He
has sent me secret messages divers times expressive of sympathy, but he is not of himself strong
enough. Our hope must lie either in the King of France or the Emperor of Germany: perhaps both
will engage. There is now a most holy monk in Florence who has been stirring all hearts in
a wonderful way. It is said that the very gifts of miracles and prophecy are revived in him,
as among the holy Apostles, and he has been bestirring himself to have a General Council of
the Church to look into these matters. When I left Florence, a short time ago, the faction
opposed to him broke into the convent and took him away. I myself was there."

"What!" said Agnes, "did they break into the convent of the San Marco? My uncle is there."

"Yes, and he and I fought side by side with the mob who were rushing in."

"Uncle Antonio fight!" said Agnes, in astonishment.

"Even women will fight, when what they love most is attacked," said the knight.

He turned to her, as he spoke, and saw in the moonlight a flash from her eye, and an heroic
expression on her face, such as he had never remarked before; but she said nothing. The veil
had been rudely torn from her eyes; she had seen with horror the defilement and impurity of
what she had ignorantly adored in holy places, and the revelation seemed to have wrought a
change in her whole nature.

"Even you could fight, Agnes," said the knight, "to save your religion from disgrace."

"No," said she; "but," she added, with gathering firmness, "I could die. I should be glad to
die with and for the holy men who would save the honor of the true faith. I should like to
go to Florence to my uncle. If he dies for his religion, I should like to die with him."

"Ah, live to teach it to me!" said the knight, bending towards her, as if to adjust her bridle-rein,
and speaking in a voice scarcely audible. In a moment he was turned again towards the Princess,
listening to her.

"So it seems," she said, "that we shall be running into the thick of the conflict in Florence."

"Yes, but my uncle hath promised that the King of France shall interfere. I have hope something
may even now have been done. I hope to effect something myself."

Agostino spoke with the cheerful courage of youth. Agnes glanced timidly up at him. How great
the change in her ideas! No longer looking on him as a wanderer from the fold, an enemy of
the Church, he seemed now in the attitude of a champion of the faith, a defender of holy men
and things against a base usurpation. What injustice had she done him, and how patiently had
he borne that injustice! Had he not sought to warn her against the danger of venturing into
that corrupt city? Those words which so much shocked her, against which she had shut her ears,
were all true; she had found them so; she could doubt no longer. And yet he had followed her,
and saved her at the risk of his life. Could she help loving one who had loved her so much,
one so noble and heroic? Would it be a sin to love him? She pondered the dark warnings of Father
Francesco, and then thought of the cheerful, fervent piety of her old uncle. How warm, how
tender, how life-giving had been his presence always! how full of faith and prayer, how fruitful
of heavenly words and thoughts had been all his ministrations!--and yet it was for him and
with him and his master that Agostino Sarelli was fighting, and against him the usurping head
of the Christian Church. Then there was another subject for pondering during this night-ride.
The secret of her birth had been told her by the Princess, who claimed her as kinswoman. It
had seemed to her at first like the revelations of a dream; but as she rode and reflected,
gradually the idea shaped itself in her mind. She was, in birth and blood, the equal of her
lover, and henceforth her life would no more be in that lowly plane where it had always moved.
She thought of the little orange-garden at Sorrento, of the gorge with its old bridge, the
Convent, the sisters, with a sort of tender, wondering pain. Perhaps she should see them no
more. In this new situation she longed once more to see and talk with her old uncle, and to
have him tell her what were her duties.

Their path soon began to be a wild clamber among the mountains, now lost in the shadow of groves
of gray, rustling olives, whose knotted, serpent roots coiled round the rocks, and whose leaves
silvered in the moonlight whenever the wind swayed them. Whatever might be the roughness and
difficulties of the way, Agnes found her knight ever at her bridle-rein, guiding and upholding,
steadying her in her saddle when the horse plunged down short and sudden descents, and wrapping
her in his mantle to protect her from the chill mountain-air. When the day was just reddening
in the sky, the whole troop made a sudden halt before a square stone tower which seemed to
be a portion of a ruined building, and here some of the men dismounting knocked at an arched
door. It was soon swung open by a woman with a lamp in her hand, the light of which revealed
very black hair and eyes, and heavy gold earrings.

"Have my directions been attended to?" said Agostino, in a tone of command. "Are there places
made ready for these ladies to sleep?"

"There are, my Lord," said the woman, obsequiously,--"the best we could get ready on so short
a notice."

Agostino came up to the Princess. "Noble Madam," he said, "you will value safety before all
things; doubtless the best that can be done here is but poor, but it will give you a few hours
for repose where you may be sure of being in perfect safety."

So saying, he assisted her and Agnes to dismount, and Elsie and Monica also alighting, they
followed the woman into a dark stone passage and up some rude stone steps. She opened at last
the door of a brick-floored room, where beds appeared to have been hastily prepared. There
was no furniture of any sort except the beds. The walls were dusty and hung with cobwebs. A
smaller apartment opening into this had beds for Elsie and Monica.

The travellers, however, were too much exhausted with their night-ride to be critical, the
services of disrobing and preparing for rest were quickly concluded, and in less than an hour
all were asleep, while Agostino was busy concerting the means for an immediate journey to Florence.

CHAPTER XXX.

"LET US ALSO GO, THAT WE MAY DIE WITH HIM."

Father Antonio sat alone in his cell in the San Marco in an attitude of deep dejection. The
open window looked into the garden of the convent, from which steamed up the fragrance of violet,
jasmine, and rose, and the sunshine lay fair on all that was without. On a table beside him
were many loose and scattered sketches, and an unfinished page of the Breviary he was executing,
rich in quaint tracery of gold and arabesques, seemed to have recently occupied his attention,
for his palette was wet and many loose brushes lay strewed around. Upon the table stood a Venetian
glass with a narrow neck and a bulb clear and thin as a soap-bubble, containing vines and blossoms
of the passion-flower, which he had evidently been using as models in his work.

The page he was illuminating was the prophetic Psalm which describes the ignominy and sufferings
of the Redeemer. It was surrounded by a wreathed border of thorn-branches interwoven with the
blossoms and tendrils of the passion-flower, and the initial letters of the first two words
were formed by a curious combination of the hammer, the nails, the spear, the crown of thorns,
the cross, and other instruments of the Passion; and clear, in red letter, gleamed out those
wonderful, mysterious words, consecrated by the remembrance of a more than mortal anguish,--"My
God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me?"

The artist-monk had perhaps fled to his palette to assuage the throbbings of his heart, as
a mourning mother flies to the cradle of her child; but even there his grief appeared to have
overtaken him, for the work lay as if pushed from him in an access of anguish such as comes
from the sudden recurrence of some overwhelming recollection. He was leaning forward with his
face buried in his hands, sobbing convulsively.

The door opened, and a man advancing stealthily behind laid a hand kindly on his shoulder,
saying softly, "So, so, brother!"

Father Antonio looked up, and, dashing his hand hastily across his eyes, grasped that of the
new-comer convulsively, and saying only, "Oh, Baccio! Baccio!" hid his face again.

The eyes of the other filled with tears, as he answered gently,--

"Nay, but, my brother, you are killing yourself. They tell me that you have eaten nothing for
three days, and slept not for weeks; you will die of this grief."

"Would that I might! Why could not I die with him as well as Fra Domenico? Oh, my master! my
dear master!"

"It is indeed a most heavy day to us all," said Baccio della Porta, the amiable and pure-minded
artist better known to our times by his conventual name of Fra Bartolommeo. "Never have we
had among us such a man; and if there be any light of grace in my soul, his preaching first
awakened it, brother. I only wait to see him enter Paradise, and then I take farewell of the
world forever. I am going to Prato to take the Dominican habit, and follow him as near as I may."

"It is well, Baccio, it is well," said Father Antonio; "but you must not put out the light
of your genius in those shadows,--you must still paint for the glory of God."

"I have no heart for painting now," said Baccio, dejectedly. "He was my inspiration, he taught
me the holier way, and he is gone."

At this moment the conference of the two was interrupted by a knocking at the door, and Agostino
Sarelli entered, pale and disordered.

"How is this?" he said, hastily. "What devils' carnival is this which hath broken loose in
Florence? Every good thing is gone into dens and holes, and every vile thing that can hiss
and spit and sting is crawling abroad. What do the princes of Europe mean to let such things be?"

"Only the old story," said Father Antonio,--"Principes convenerunt in unum adversus Dominum,
adversus Christum ejus."

So much were all three absorbed in the subject of their thoughts, that no kind of greeting
or mark of recognition passed among them, such as is common when people meet after temporary
separation. Each spoke out from the fulness of his soul, as from an overflowing bitter fountain.

"Was there no one to speak for him,--no one to stand up for the pride of Italy,--the man of
his age?" said Agostino.

"There was one voice raised for him in the council," said Father Antonio. "There was Agnolo
Niccolini: a grave man is this Agnolo, and of great experience in public affairs, and he spoke
out his mind boldly. He told them flatly, that, if they looked through the present time or
the past ages, they would not meet a man of such a high and noble order as this, and that to
lay at our door the blood of a man the like of whom might not be born for centuries was too
impious and execrable a thing to be thought of. I'll warrant me, he made a rustling among them
when he said that, and the Pope's commissary--old Romalino--then whispered and frowned; but
Agnolo is a stiff old fellow when he once begins a thing,--he never minded it, and went through
with his say. It seems to me he said that it was not for us to quench a light like this, capable
of giving lustre to the faith even when it had grown dim in other parts of the world,--and
not to the faith alone, but to all the arts and sciences connected with it. If it were needed
to put restraint on him, he said, why not put him into some fortress, and give him commodious
apartments, with abundance of books, and pen, ink, and paper, where he would write books to
the honor of God and the exaltation of the holy faith? He told them that this might be a good
to the world, whereas consigning him to death without use of any kind would bring on our republic
perpetual dishonor."

"Well said for him!" said Baccio, with warmth; "but I'll warrant me, he might as well have
preached to the north wind in March, his enemies are in such a fury."

"Yes, yes," said Antonio, "it is just as it was of old: the chief priests and Scribes and Pharisees
were instant with loud voices, requiring he should be put to death; and the easy Pilates, for
fear of the tumult, washed their hands of it."

"And now," said Agostino, "they are putting up a great gibbet in the shape of a cross in the
public square, where they will hang the three holiest and best men of Florence!"

"I came through there this morning," said Baccio, "and there were young men and boys shouting,
and howling, and singing indecent songs, and putting up indecent pictures, such as those he
used to preach against. It is just as you say. All things vile have crept out of their lair,
and triumph that the man who made them afraid is put down; and every house is full of the most
horrible lies about him,--things that they said he confessed."

"Confessed!" said Father Antonio,--"was it not enough that they tore and tortured him seven
times, but they must garble and twist the very words that he said in his agony? The process
they have published is foully falsified,--stuffed full of improbable lies; for I myself have
read the first draught of all he did say, just as Signor Ceccone took it down as they were
torturing him. I had it from Jacopo Manelli, canon of our Duomo here, and he got it from Ceccone's
wife herself. They not only can torture and slay him, but they torture and slay his memory
with lies."

"Would I were in God's place for one day!" said Agostino, speaking through his clenched teeth.
"May I be forgiven for saying so."

"We are hot and hasty," said Father Antonio, "ever ready to call down fire from heaven,--but,
after all, 'the Lord reigneth, let the earth rejoice.' 'Unto the upright there ariseth light
in the darkness.' Our dear father is sustained in spirit and full of love. Even when they let
him go from the torture, he fell on his knees, praying for his tormentors."

"Good God! this passes me!" said Agostino, striking his hands together. "Oh, wherefore hath
a strong man arms and hands, and a sword, if he must stand still and see such things done?
If I had only my hundred mountaineers here, I would make one charge for him to-morrow. If I
could only do something!" he added, striding impetuously up and down the cell and clenching
his fists. "What! hath nobody petitioned to stay this thing?"

"Nobody for him," said Father Antonio. "There was talk in the city yesterday that Fra Domenico
was to be pardoned; in fact, Romalino was quite inclined to do it, but Battista Albert talked
violently against it, and so Romalino said, 'Well, a monk more or less isn't much matter,'
and then he put his name down for death with the rest. The order was signed by both commissaries
of the Pope, and one was Frà Turiano, the general of our order, a mild man, full of charity,
but unable to stand against the Pope."

"Mild men are nuisances in such places", said Agostino, hastily; "our times want something
of another sort."

"There be many who have fallen away from him even in our house here," said Father Antonio,--"as
it was with our blessed Lord, whose disciples forsook him and fled. It seems to be the only
thought with some how they shall make their peace with the Pope."

"And so the thing will be hurried through to-morrow," said Agostino, "and when it's done and
over, I'll warrant me there will be found kings and emperors to say they meant to have saved
him. It's a vile, evil world, this of ours; an honorable man longs to see the end of it. But,"
he added, coming up and speaking to Father Antonio, "I have a private message for you."

"I am gone this moment," said Baccio, rising with ready courtesy; "but keep up heart, brother."

So saying, the good-hearted artist left the cell, and Agostino said,--

"I bring tidings to you of your kindred. Your niece and sister are here in Florence, and would
see you. You will find them at the house of one Gherardo Rosselli, a rich citizen of noble blood."

"Why are they there?" said the monk, lost in amazement.

You must know, then, that a most singular discovery hath been made by your niece at Rome. The
sister of her father, being a lady of the princely blood of Colonna, hath been assured of her
birth by the confession of the priest that married him; and being driven from Rome by fear
of the Borgias, they came hither under my escort, and wait to see you. So, if you will come
with me now, I will guide you to them."

"Even so," said Father Antonio.

CHAPTER XXXI.

MARTYRDOM.

In a shadowy chamber of a room overlooking the grand square of Florence might be seen, on the
next morning, some of the principal personages of our story. Father Antonio, Baccio della Porta,
Agostino Sarelli, the Princess Paulina, Agnes, with her grandmother, and mixed crowd of citizens
and ecclesiastics who all spoke in hushed and tremulous voices, as men do in the chamber of
mourners at a funeral. The great, mysterious bell of the Campanile was swinging with dismal,
heart-shaking toll, like a mighty voice from the spirit-world; and it was answered by the tolling
of all the bells in the city, making such wavering clangors and vibrating circles in the air
over Florence that it might seem as if it were full of warring spirits wrestling for mastery.

Toll! toll! toll! O great bell of the fair Campanile! for this day the noblest of the wonderful
men of Florence is to offered up. Toll! for an era is going out,--the era of her artists, her
statesmen, her poets, and her scholars. Toll! for an era is coming in,--the era of her disgrace
and subjugation and misfortune!

The stepping of the vast crowd in the square was like the patter of a great storm, and the
hum of voices rose up like the murmur of the ocean; but in the chamber all was so still that
one could have heard the dropping of a pin.

Under the balcony of this room were seated in pomp and state the Papal commissioners, radiant
in gold and scarlet respectability; and Pilate and Herod, on terms of the most excellent friendship,
were ready to act over again the part they had acted fourteen hundred years by before. Now
has arrived the moment when the three followers of the Man of Calvary are to be degraded from
the fellowship of His visible Church.

Father Antonio, Agostino, and Baccio stood forth in the balcony, and, drawing in their breath,
looked down, as the three men of the hour, pale and haggard with imprisonment and torture,
were brought up amid the hoots and obscene jests of the populace. Savonarola first was led
before the tribunal, and there, with circumstantial minuteness, endued with all his priestly
vestments, which again, with separate ceremonies of reprobation and ignominy, were taken from
him. He stood through it all serene as stood his Master when stripped of His garments on Calvary.
There is a momentary hush of voices and drawing in of breaths in the great crowd. The Papal
legate takes him by the hand and pronounces the words, "Jerome Savonarola, I separate thee
from the Church Militant and the Church Triumphant."

He is going to speak.

"What says he?" said Agostino, leaning over the balcony.

Solemnly and clear that impressive voice which so often had thrilled the crowds in that very
square made answer,--

"From the Church Militant you may divide me; but from the Church Triumphant, no,--that is above
your power!"--and a light flashed out in his face as if a smile from Christ had shone down
upon him.

"Amen!" said Father Antonio; "he hath witnessed a good confession,"--and turning, he went in,
and, burying his face in his hands, remained in prayer.

"When like ceremonies had been passed through with the others, the three martyrs were delivered
to the secular executioner, and, amid the scoffs and jeers of the brutal crowd, turned their
faces to the gibbet.

"Brothers, let us sing the Te Deum," said Savonarola.

"Do not so infuriate the mob," said the executioner,--"for harm might be done."

"At least let us repeat it together," said he, "lest we forget it."

When the lurid fires were lighted which blazed red and fearful through that crowded square,
all in that silent chamber fell on their knees, and Father Antonio repeated prayers for departing
souls.

To the last, that benignant right hand which had so often pointed the way of life to that faithless
city was stretched out over the crowd in the attitude of blessing; and so loving, not hating,
praying with exaltation, and rendering blessing for cursing, the souls of the martyrs ascended
to the great cloud of witnesses above.

CHAPTER XXXII.

CONCLUSION.

A few days after the death of Savonarola, Father Antonio was found one morning engaged in deep
converse with Agnes.

The Princess Paulina, acting for her family, desired to give her hand to the Prince Agostino
Sarelli, and the interview related to the religious scruples which still conflicted with the
natural desires of the child.

"Tell me, my little one," said Father Antonio, "frankly and truly, dost thou not love this
man with all thy heart?"

"Yes, my father, I do," said Agnes; "but ought I not to resign this love for the love of my
Saviour?"

"I see not why," said the monk. "Marriage is a sacrament as well as holy orders, and it is
a most holy and venerable one, representing the divine mystery by which the souls of the blessed
are united to the Lord. I do not hold with Saint Bernard, who, in his zeal for a conventual
life, seemed to see no other way of serving God but for all men and women to become monks and
nuns. The holy order is indeed blessed to those souls whose call to it is clear and evident,
like mine; but if there be a strong and virtuous love for a worthy object, it is a vocation
unto marriage, which should not be denied."

"So, Agnes," said the knight, who had stolen into the room unperceived, and who now boldly
possessed himself of one of her hands--"Father Antonio hath decided this matter," he added,
turning to the Princess and Elsie, who entered, "and everything having been made ready for
my journey into France, the wedding ceremony shall take place on the morrow, and, for that
we are in deep affliction, it shall be as private as may be."

And so on the next morning the wedding ceremony took place, and the bride and groom went on
their way to France, where preparations befitting their rank awaited them.

Old Elsie was heard to observe to Monica, that there was some sense in making pilgrimages,
since this to Rome, which she had undertaken so unwillingly, had turned out so satisfactory.

In the reign of Julius II., the banished families who had been plundered by the Borgias were
restored to their rights and honors at Rome; and there was a princess of the house of Sarelli
then at Rome, whose sanctity of life and manners was held to go back to the traditions of primitive
Christianity, so that she was renowned not less for goodness than for rank and beauty.

In those days, too, Raphael, the friend of Frà Bartolommeo, placed in one of the grandest halls
of the Vatican, among the Apostles and Saints, the image of the traduced and despised martyr
whose ashes had been cast to the winds and waters in Florence. His memory lingered long in
Italy, so that it was even claimed that miracles were wrought in his name and by his intercession.
Certain it is, that the living words he spoke were seeds of immortal flowers which blossomed
in secret dells and obscure shadows of his beautiful Italy.

       *       *       *       *       *

EXODUS.

      Hear ye not how, from all high points of Time,--
        From peak to peak adown the mighty chain
      That links the ages,--echoing sublime
        A Voice Almighty,--leaps one grand refrain,
    Wakening the generations with a shout,
    And trumpet-call of thunder,--Come ye out!

      Out from old forms and dead idolatries;
        From fading myths and superstitious dreams;
      From Pharisaic rituals and lies,
        And all the bondage of the life that seems!
    Out,--on the pilgrim path, of heroes trod,
    Over earth's wastes, to reach forth after God!

      The Lord hath bowed His heaven, and come down!
        Now, in this latter century of time,
      Once more His tent is pitched on Sinai's crown!
        Once more in clouds must Faith to meet Him climb!
  Once more His thunder crashes on our doubt
  And fear and sin,--"My people! come ye out!

    "From false ambitions and base luxuries;
      From puny aims and indolent self-ends;
    From cant of faith, and shams of liberties,
      And mist of ill that Truth's pure daybeam bends:
  Out, from all darkness of the Egypt-land,
  Into My sun-blaze on the desert sand!

    "Leave ye your flesh-pots; turn from filthy greed
      Of gain that doth the thirsting spirit mock;
    And heaven shall drop sweet manna for your need,
      And rain clear rivers from the unhewn rock!
  Thus saith the Lord!" And Moses--meek, unshod--
  Within the cloud stands hearkening to his God!

    Show us our Aaron, with his rod in flower!
      Our Miriam, with her timbrel-soul in tune!
    And call some Joshua, in the Spirit's power,
      To poise our sun of strength at point of noon!
  God of our fathers! over sand and sea,
  Still keep our struggling footsteps close to Thee!

       *       *       *       *       *

THEN AND NOW IN THE OLD DOMINION.

The history of Virginia opens with a romance. No one will be surprised at this, for it is a
habit histories have. There is Plymouth Rock, for example; it would be hard to find anything
more purely romantic than that.

"Such, then," we reflected, "is History! If Plymouth Rock turns out to be a myth, why may not
Columbus or Santa Claus or Napoleon, or anything or anybody?" Since then we have been skeptical
about history even where it seems most probable; at times doubt whether Rip Van Winkle really
slept twenty years without turning over; are annoyed with misgivings as to whether our Western
pioneers Boone, Crockett, and others, did keep bears in their stables for saddle-horses, and
harness alligators as we do oxen. So we doubted the story of John Smith and Pocahontas with
which Virginia opens. In one thing we had already caught that State making a mythical statement:
it was named by Queen Elizabeth Virginia in honor of her own virgin state,--which, if Cobbett
is to be believed, was also a romance. Well, America was named after a pirate, and Sir Walter
Raleigh, who suggested the name of the Virgin Queen, was fond of a joke.

But notwithstanding the suspicion with which we entered upon the investigation, we are convinced
that the romance of Pocahontas is true. As only a portion of the story of this Indian maiden,
"the colonial angel," as she was termed by the settlers, is known, and that not generally with
exactness, we will reproduce it here.

It will be remembered that Pocahontas, when about thirteen years of age, saved the young English
captain, John Smith, from the death which her father, Powhatan, had resolved he should suffer.
As the tomahawk was about to descend on his head, the girl rushed forward and clasped that
head in her arms. The stern heart of Powhatan relented, and he consented that the captive should
live to make tomahawks for him and beads and bells for Pocahontas. Afterward Powhatan agreed
that Smith should return to Jamestown, on condition of his sending him two guns and a grindstone.
Soon, after this Jamestown with all its stores was destroyed by fire, and the colonists came
near perishing from cold and hunger. Half of them died; and the rest were saved only by Pocahontas,
who appeared in the midst of their distress, bringing bread, raccoons, and venison.

John Smith and his companions after this explored a large portion of the State, and a second
time came to rest at the home of Powhatan and his beautiful daughter. The name of the place
was Werowocomoco. His visit this time fell on the eve of the coronation of Powhatan. The king,
being absent when Smith came, was sent for; meanwhile Pocahontas called together a number of
Indian maidens to get up a dramatic entertainment and ballet for the handsome young Englishman
and his companions. They made a fire in a level field, and Smith sat on a mat before it. A
hideous noise and shrieking were suddenly heard in the adjoining woods. The English snatched
up their arms, apprehending foul play. Pocahontas rushed forward, and asked Smith to slay her
rather than suspect her of perfidy; so their apprehensions were quieted. Then thirty young
Indian maidens issued suddenly from the wood, all naked except a cincture of green leaves,
their bodies painted. Pocahontas was a complete picture of an Indian Diana: a quiver hung on
her shoulder, and she held a bow and arrow in her hand; she wore, also, on her head a beautiful
pair of buck's horns, an otter's skin at her girdle, and another on her arm. The other nymphs
had antlers on their heads and various savage decorations. Bursting from the forest, they circled
around the fire and John Smith, singing and dancing for an hour. They then disappeared into
the wood as suddenly as they had come forth. When they reappeared, it was to invite Smith to
their habitations, where they danced around him again, singing, "Love you not me? Love you
not me?" They then feasted him richly, and, lastly, with pine-knot torches lighted him to his
finely decorated apartments.

Captain John Smith was, without doubt, an imperial kind of man. His personal appearance was
fine, his sense and tact excellent, his manners both cordial and elegant. There is no doubt,
as there is no wonder, that the Indian maiden felt some tender palpitations on his account.
Once again, when, owing to some misunderstanding, Powhatan had decreed the death of all the
whites, Pocahontas spent the whole pitch-dark night climbing hills and toiling through pathless
thickets, to save Smith and his friends by warning them of the imminent danger. Smith offered
her many beautiful presents on this occasion, evidently not appreciating the sentiment that
was animating her. To this offer of presents she replied with tears; and when their acceptance
was urged, Smith himself relates, that, "with the teares running downe her cheeks, she said
she durst not be seen to have any, for, if Powhatan should know it, she were but dead; and
so she ran away by herself, as she came."

There is no doubt what the Muse of History ought to do here: were she a dame of proper sensibilities,
she would have Mr. John Smith married to Miss P. Powhatan as soon as a parson could be got
from Jamestown. Were it a romance, this would be the result. As it is, we find Smith going
off to England in two years, and living unmarried until his death; and Pocahontas married to
the Englishman John Rolfe, for reasons of state, we fear,--a link of friendship between the
Reds and the Whites being thought desirable. She was of course Christianized and baptized,
as any one may see by Chapman's picture in the Rotunda at Washington, unless Zouave criticism
has demolished it. Immediately she went with her husband to England. At Brentford, where she
was staying,. Captain John Smith went to visit her. Their meeting was significant and affecting.
"After a modest salutation, without uttering a word, she turned away and hid her face as if
displeased.". She remained thus motionless for two or three hours. Who can know what struggles
passed through the heart of the Indian bride at this moment,--emotions doubly unutterable to
this untaught stranger? It seems that she had been deceived by Rolfe and his friends into thinking
that Smith was dead, under the conviction that she could not be induced to marry him, if she
thought Smith alive. After her long, sad silence, before mentioned, she came forward to Smith
and touchingly reminded him, there in the presence of her husband and a large company, of the
kindness she had shown him in her own country, saying, "You did promise Powhatan what was yours
should be his, and he the like to you; you called him 'Father,' being in his land a stranger,
and for the same reason so I must call you." After a pause, during which she seemed to be under
the influence of strong emotion, she said, "I will call you Father, and you shall call me Child,
and so I will be forever and ever your countrywoman." Then she added, slowly and with emphasis,
"They did tell us always you were dead, and I knew no other till I came to Plimoth; yet Powhatan
did command Uttamattomakin to seeke you and know the truth, because your countrymen will lie
much." It was not long after this interview that Pocahontas died: she never returned to Virginia.
Her death occurred in 1617. The issue of her marriage was one child, Thomas Rolfe; so it is
through him that the First Families of Virginia are so invariably descended from the Indian
Princess. Captain Smith lived until 1631, and, as we have said, never married. He was a noble
and true man, and Pocahontas was every way worthy to be his wife; and one feels very ill-natured
at Rolfe and Company for the cruel deception which, we must believe, was all that kept them
asunder, and gave to the story of the lovely maiden its almost tragic close.

One can scarcely imagine a finer device for Virginia to have adopted than that of the Indian
maiden protecting the white man from the tomahawk. But, alas! with the departure of Smith the
soul seems to have left the Colony. The beautiful lands became a prey to the worn-out English
gentry, who spent their time cheating the simple-hearted red men. These called themselves gentlemen,
because they could do nothing. In a classification of seventy-eight persons at Jamestown we
are informed that there were "four carpenters, twelve laborers, one blacksmith, one bricklayer,
one sailor, one barber, one mason, one tailor, one drummer, one chirurgeon, and fifty-four
gentlemen." To this day there seems to be a large number in that vicinity who have no other
occupation than that of being gentlemen, and it is evidently in many cases just as much as
they can do.

When Pocahontas died, the last link was broken between the Indian and the settler. Unprovoked
wars of extermination were begun to dispossess these children of Nature of the very breasts
of their mother, which had sustained them so long and so peacefully. For a century the Indian's
name for Virginian was "Longknife." The very missionaries robbed him with one hand whilst baptizing
him with the other. One story concerning the missionaries strikes us as sufficiently characteristic
of the wit of the Indian and the temper of the period to be preserved. There was a branch of
the Catawbas on the Potomac, in which river are to be found the best shad in the world. The
missionaries who settled among this tribe taught them that it would be a good investment in
their soul-assurance to catch large quantities of the shad for them, the missionaries. The
Indians earnestly set themselves to the work; their reverend teachers taking the fish and sending
them off secretly to various settlements in Virginia and Maryland, and making thereby large
sums of money. The Indians worked on for several months without receiving any compensation,
and the missionaries were getting richer and richer,--when by some means the red men discovered
the trick, and routed the holy men from their neighborhood. Many years afterward the Catholics
made an effort to establish a mission with this same tribe. The priest who first addressed
them took as his text, "Ho, every one that thirsteth, come ye to the waters,"--and went on
in figurative style to describe the waters of life. When the sermon was ended, the Indians
held a council to consider what they had just heard, and finally sent three of their number
to the missionaries, who said, "White men, you speak in fine words of the waters of life; but
before we decide on what we have heard, we wish to know whether any shad swim in those waters."

It is very certain that Christianity, as illustrated by the Virginians, did not make a good
impression on these savages. They were always willing to compare their own religion with that
of the whites, and generally regarded the contrast as in their favor. One of them said to Colonel
Barnett, the commissioner to run the boundary-line of lands ceded by the Indians, "As to religion,
you go to your churches, sing loud, pray loud, and make great noise. The red people meet once
a year at the feast of New Corn, extinguish all their fires and kindle up a new one, the smoke
of which ascends to the Great Spirit as a grateful incense and sacrifice. Now what better is
your religion than ours?" One of the chiefs, it is said, received an Episcopal divine who wished
to indoctrinate him into the mystery of the Trinity. The Indian, who was a "model of deportment,"
heard his argument; and then, when he was through, began in turn to indoctrinate the divine
in his faith, speaking of the Great Spirit, whose voice was the thunder, whose eye was the
sun. The clergyman interrupted him rather rudely, saying, "But that is not true,--that is all
heathen trash!" The chief turned to his companions and said gravely, "This is the most impolite
man I have ever met; he has just declared that he has three gods, and now will not let me have
one!"

The valley of Virginia, its El Dorado in every sense, had a different settlement, and by a
different people. They were, for the most part, Germans, of the same class with those that
settled in the great valleys of Pennsylvania, and who have made so large a portion of that
State into a rich ingrain-carpet of cultivation upon a floor of limestone. One day the history
of the Germans of Pennsylvania and Virginia will be written, and it will be full of interest
and value. They were the first strong sinews strung in the industrial arm of the Colonies to
which they came; and although mingled with nearly every European race, they remain to this
day a distinct people. A partition-wall rarely broken down has always inclosed them, and to
this, perhaps, is due that slowness of progress which marks them. The restless ambition of
Le Grand Monarque and the cruelties of Turenne converted the beautiful valley of the Rhine
into a smoking desert, and the wretched peasantry of the Palatinate fled from their desolated
firesides to seek a more hospitable home in the forests of New York and Pennsylvania, and thence,
somewhat later, found their way into Virginia. The exodus of the Puritans has had more celebrity,
but was scarcely attended with more hardship and heroism. The greater part of the German exiles
landed in America stripped of their all. They came to the forests of the Susquehanna and the
Shenandoah armed only with the woodman's axe. They were ignorant and superstitious, and brought
with them the legends of their fatherland. The spirits of the Hartz Mountains and the genii
of the Black Forest, which Christianity had not been able entirely to exorcise, were transferred
to the wild mountains and dark caverns of the Old Dominion, and the same unearthly visitants
which haunted the old castles of the Rhine continued their gambols in some deserted cabin on
the banks of the Sherandah (as the Shenandoah was then called). Since these men left their
fatherland, a great Literature and Philosophy have breathed like a tropic upon that land, and
the superstitions have been wrought into poetry and thought; but that raw material of legend
which in Germany has been woven into finest tissues on the brain-looms of Wieland, Tieck, Schiller,
and Goethe, has remained raw material in the great valley that stretches from New York to Upper
Alabama. Whole communities are found which in manners and customs are much the same with their
ancestors who crossed the ocean. The horseshoe is still nailed above the door as a protection
against the troublesome spook, and the black art is still practised. Rough in their manners,
and plain in their appearance, they yet conceal under this exterior a warm hospitality, and
the stranger will much sooner be turned away from the door of the "chivalry" than from that
of the German farmer. Seated by his blazing fire, with plenty of apples and hard cider, the
Dutchman of the Kanawha enjoys his condition with gusto, and is contented with the limitations
of his fence. We have seen one within two miles of the great Natural Bridge who could not direct
us to that celebrated curiosity; his wife remarking, that "a great many people passed that
way to the hills, but for what she could not see: for her part, give her a level country."

The first German settler who came to Virginia was one Jacob Stover, who went there from Pennsylvania,
and obtained a grant of five thousand acres of land on the Shenandoah. Stover was very shrewd,
and does not at all justify the character we have ascribed to his race: there is a story that
casts a suspicion on his proper Teutonism. The story runs, that, on his application to the
colonial governor of Virginia for a grant of land, he was refused, unless he could give satisfactory
assurance that he would have the land settled with the required number of families within a
given time. Being unable to do this, he went over to England, and petitioned the King himself
to direct the issuing of his grant; and in order to insure success, had given human names to
every horse, cow, hog, and dog he owned, and which he represented as heads of families, ready
to settle the land. His Majesty, ignorant that the Williams, Georges, and Susans seeking royal
consideration were some squeaking in pig-pens, others braying in the luxuriant meadows for
which they petitioned, issued the huge grant; and to-day there is serious reason to suppose
that many of the wealthiest and oldest families around Winchester are enjoying their lands
by virtue of titles given to ancestral flocks and herds.

The condition of Virginia for the period immediately preceding the Revolution was one which
well merits the consideration of political philosophers. For many years the extent of the territory
of the Old Dominion was undecided, no lines being fixed between that State and Ohio and Pennsylvania.
Virginia claimed a large part of both these States as hers; and, indeed, there seems to be
in that State an hereditary unconsciousness of the limits of her dominion. The question of
jurisdiction superseded every other for the time, and the formal administration of the law
itself ceased. There is a period lasting through a whole generation in which society in the
western part of the State went on without courts or authorities. There was no court but of
public opinion, no administration but of the mob. Judges were ermined and juries impanelled
by the community when occasion demanded. Kercheval, who grew from that vicinity and state of
things, and whose authority is excellent, says,--"They had no civil, military, or ecclesiastical
laws,--at least, none were enforced; yet we look in vain for any period, before or since, when
property, life, and morals were any better protected." A statement worth pondering by those
who tell us that man is nought, government all. The tongue-lynchings and other punishments
inflicted by the community upon evil-doers were adapted to the reformation of the culprit or
his banishment from the community. The punishment for idleness, lying, dishonesty, and ill-fame
generally, was that of "hating the offender out," as they expressed it. This was about equivalent
to the [Greek: atimia] among the Greeks. It was a public expression, in various ways, of the
general indignation against any transgressor, and commonly resulted either in the profound
repentance or the voluntary exile of the person against whom it was directed: it was generally
the fixing of any epithet which was proclaimed by each tongue when the sinner appeared,--e.g.,
Foultongue, Lawrence, Snakefang. The name of Extra-Billy Smith is a quite recent case of this
"tongue-lynching." It was in these days of no laws, however, that the practice of duelling
was imported into Virginia. With this exception, the State can trace no evil results to the
period when society was resolved into its simplest elements. Indeed, it was at this time that
there began to appear there signs of a sturdy and noble race of Americanized Englishmen. The
average size of the European Englishman was surpassed. A woman was equal to an Indian. A young
Virginian one day killed a buffalo on the Alleghany Mountains, stretched its skin over ribs
of wood, and on the boat so made sailed the full length of the Ohio and Mississippi Rivers.
But this development was checked by the influx of "English gentry," who brought laws and fashions
from London. The old books are full of the conflicts which these fastidious gentlemen and ladies
had with the rude pioneer customs and laws. What, then, could Miss Softdown do with the silks
and breastpins brought from London? "Let her wear deer-skin and arrow-head," said the natives.
But Miss Softdown soon had her way. Still more were these new families shocked, when, on ringing
for some newly purchased negro domestic, the said negro came into the parlor nearly naked.
Then began one of the most extended controversies in the history of Virginia,--the question
being, whether out-door negroes should wear clothes, and domestics dress like other people.
The popular belief, in which it seems the negroes shared, was, that the race would perish,
if subjected to clothing the year round. The custom of negro men going about in puris naturalibus
prevailed to a much more recent period than is generally supposed.

One by one, the barbarisms of Old Virginia were eradicated, and the danger was then that effeminacy
would succeed; but a better class of families began to come from England, now that the Colony
was somewhat prepared for them. These aimed to make Virginia repeat England: it might have
repeated something worse, and in the end has. About one or two old mansions in Maryland and
Virginia the long silvery grass characteristic of the English park is yet found: the seed was
carefully brought from England by those gentlemen who came under Raleigh's administration,
and who regarded their residence in these Colonies as patriotic self-devotion. On one occasion,
the writer, walking through one of these fields, startled an English lark, which rose singing
and soaring skyward. It sang a theme of the olden time. Governor Spottswood brought with him,
when he came, a number of these larks, and made strenuous efforts to domesticate them in the
neighborhood of Fredericksburg, Virginia. He did not succeed. Now and then we have heard of
one's being seen, companionless. It is a sad symbol of that nobler being who tried to domesticate
himself in Virginia, the fine old English gentleman. He is now seen but little oftener than
the silver grass and the lark which he brought with him. But let no one think, whilst ridiculing
those who can now only hide their poor stature under the lion-skin of F-F-V-ism, that the race
of old Virginia gentlemen is a mythic race. Through the fair slopes of Eastern Virginia we
have wandered and counted the epitaphs of as princely men and women as ever trod this continent.
Yonder is the island, floating on the crystal Rappahannock, which, instead of, as now, masking
the guns which aim at Freedom's heart, once bore witness to the noble Spottswood's effort to
realize for the working-man a Utopia in the New World. Yonder is the house, on the same river,
frowning now with the cannon which defend the slave-shamble, (for the Richmond railroad passes
on its verge,) where Washington was reared to love justice and honor; and over to the right
its porch commands a marble shaft on which is written, "Here lies Mary, the Mother of Washington."
A little lower is the spot where John Smith gave the right hand to the ambassadors of King
Powhatan. In that old court-house the voice of Patrick Henry thundered for Liberty and Union.
Time was when the brave men on whose hearts rested the destinies of the New World made this
the centre of activity and rule upon the continent; they lived and acted here as Anglo-Saxon
blood should live and act, wherever it bears its rightful sceptre; but now one walks here as
through the splendid ruins of some buried Nineveh, and emerges to find the very sunlight sad,
as it reveals those who garnish the sepulchres of their ancestors with one hand, whilst with
the other they stone and destroy the freedom and institutions which their fathers lived to
build and died to defend.

And this, alas! is the first black line in the sketch of Virginia as it now is. The true preface
to the present edition of Virginia, which, unhappily, has been for many years stereotyped,
may be found in a single entry of Captain John Smith's journal:--

"August, 1619. A Dutch man-of-war visited Jamestown and sold the settlers twenty negroes, the
first that have ever touched the soil of Virginia."

They have scarcely made it "sacred soil." A little entry it is, of what seemed then, perhaps,
an unimportant event,--but how pregnant with evil!

The very year in which that Dutch ship arrived with its freight of slaves at Jamestown, the
Mayflower sailed with its freight of freemen for Plymouth.

Let us pause a moment and consider the prospects and opportunities which opened before the
two bands of pilgrim. How hard and bleak were the shores that received the Mayflower pilgrims!
Winter seemed the only season of the land to which they had come; when the snow disappeared,
it was only to reveal a landscape of sand and rock. To have soil they must pulverize rock.
Nature said to these exiles from a rich soil, with her sternest voice,--"Here is no streaming
breast: sand with no gold mined: all the wealth you get must be mined from your own hearts
and coined by your own right hands!"

How different was it in Virginia! Old John Rolfe, the husband of Pocahontas, writing to the
King in 1616, said,--"Virginia is the same as it was, I meane for the goodness of the scate,
and the fertilenesse of the land, and will, no doubt, so continue to the worlds end,--a countrey
as worthy of good report as can be declared by the pen of the best writer; a countrey spacious
and wide, capable of many hundred thousands of inhabitants." It must be borne in mind that
Rolfe's idea of an inhabitant's needs was that he should own a county or two to begin with,
which will account for his moderate estimate of the number that could be accommodated upon
a hundred thousand square miles. He continues,--"For the soil, most fertile to plant in; for
ayre, fresh and temperate, somewhat hotter in summer, and not altogether so cold in winter
as in England, yet so agreable is it to our constitutions that now 't is more rare to hear
of a man's death than in England; for water, most wholesome and verie plentifull; and for fayre
navigable rivers and good harbors, no countrey in Christendom, in so small a circuite, is so
well stored." Any one who has passed through the State, or paid any attention to its resources,
may go far beyond the old settler's statement. Virginia is a State combining, as in some divinely
planned garden, every variety of soil known on earth, resting under a sky that Italy alone
can match, with a Valley anticipating in vigor the loam of the prairies: up to that Valley
and Piedmont stretch throughout the State navigable rivers, like fingers of the Ocean-hand,
ready to bear to all marts the produce of the soil, the superb vein of gold, and the iron which,
unlocked from mountain-barriers, could defy competition. But in her castle Virginia is still,
a sleeping beauty awaiting the hero whose kiss shall recall her to life. Comparing what free
labor has done for the granite rock called Massachusetts, and what slave labor has done for
the enchanted garden called Virginia, one would say, that, though the Dutch ship that brought
to our shores the Norway rat was bad, and that which brought the Hessian fly was worse, the
most fatal ship that ever cast anchor in American waters was that which brought the first twenty
negroes to the settlers of Jamestown. Like the Indian in her own aboriginal legend, on whom
a spell was cast which kept the rain from falling on him and the sun from shining on him, Virginia
received from that Dutch ship a curse which chained back the blessings which her magnificent
resources would have rained upon her, and the sun of knowledge shining everywhere has left
her to-day more than eighty thousand white adults who cannot read or write.

It was at an early period as manifest as now that a slave population implied and rendered necessary
a large poor-white population. And whilst the pilgrims of Plymouth inaugurated the free-school
system in their first organic law, which now renders it impossible for one sane person born
in their land to be unable to read and write, Virginia was boasting with Lord Douglas in "Marmion,"

  "Thanks to Saint Bothan, son of mine
  Could never pen a written line." God keep us from both!" Most fearfully has the
prayer been answered. In Berkeley's track nearly all the succeeding ones
went on. Henry A. Wise boasted in Congress that no newspaper was printed
in his district, and he soon became governor.

It gives but a poor description of the "poor-white trash" to say that they cannot read. The
very slaves cannot endure to be classed on their level. They are inconceivably wretched and
degraded. For every rich slave-owner there are some eight or ten families of these miserable
tenants. Both sexes are almost always drunk.

There is no better man than the Anglo-Saxon man who labors; there is no worse animal than the
same man when bred to habits of idleness. When Watts wrote,

  "Satan finds some mischief still
  For idle hands to do,"

he wrote what is much truer of his own race than of any other. This law has been the Nemesis
of the young Virginian. His descent demands excitement and activity; and unless he becomes
emasculated into a clay-eater, he obtains the excitement that his ancestors got in war, and
the New-Englander gets in work, in gaming, horse-racing, and all manner of dissipation. His
life verifies the proverb, that the idle brain is the Devil's workshop. He is trained to despise
labor, for it puts him on a level with his father's slaves. At the University of Virginia one
may see the extent of demoralization to which eight generations of idleness can bring English
blood. There the spree, the riot, and we might almost say the duel, are normal. About five
years ago we spent some time at Charlottesville. The evening of our arrival was the occasion
of witnessing some of the ways of the students. A hundred or more of them with blackened or
masked faces were rushing about the college yard; a large fire was burning around a stake,
upon which was the effigy of a woman. A gentleman connected with the University, with whom
we were walking, informed us that the special occasion of this affair was, that a near relative
of Mrs. Stowe's, a sister, perhaps, had that day arrived to visit her relative, Mrs. McGuffey.
The effigy of Mrs. Stowe was burned for her benefit. The lady and her friends were very much
alarmed, and left on the early train next morning, without completing their visit.

"They will close up by all getting dead-drunk," said our friend, the Professor.

"But," we asked, "why does not the faculty at once interfere in this disgraceful procedure?"

"They have got us lately," he replied, "where we are powerless. Whenever they wish a spree,
they tackle it on to the slavery question, and know that their parents will pardon everything
to the spirit of the South when it is burning the effigy of Mrs. Stowe or Charles Sumner, or
the last person who furnishes a chance for a spree. To arrest them ends only in casting suspicion
of unsoundness on the professor who does it."

Virginia has had, for these same causes, no religious development whatever. The people spend
four-and-a-half fifths of their time arguing about politics and religion,--questions of the
latter being chiefly as to the best method of being baptized, or whether sudden conversions
are the safest,--but they never take a step forward in either. Archbishop Purcell, of Cincinnati,
stated to us, that, once being in Richmond, he resolved to give a little religious exploration
to the surrounding country. About seven miles out from the city he saw a man lying down,--the
Virginian's natural posture,--and approaching, he made various inquiries, and received lazy
Yes and No replies. Presently he inquired to what churches the people in that vicinity usually
went.

"Well, not much to any."

"What are their religious views?"

"Well, not much of any."

"Well, my friend, may I inquire what are your opinions on religious subjects?"

"The man, yet reclining," said the Archbishop, "looked at me sleepily a moment, and replied,--

"'My opinion is that them as made me will take care of me.'"

The Archbishop came off discouraged; but we assured him that the man was far ahead of many
specimens we had met. We never see an opossum in Virginia--a fossil animal in most other places--but
it seems the sign of the moral stratification around. There are many varieties of opossum in
Virginia,--political and religious: Saturn, who devours his offspring, has not come to Virginia
yet.

Old formulas have, doubtless, to a great extent, lost their power there also, but there is
not vitality enough to create a higher form. For no new church can ever be anywhere inaugurated
in this world until the period has come when its chief corner-stone can be Humanity. Till then
the old creeds in Virginia must wander like ghosts, haunting the old ruins which their once
exquisite churches have become. Nothing can be more picturesque, nothing more sad, than these
old churches,--every brick in them imported from Old England, every prayer from the past world
and its past need: the high and wide pews where the rich sat lifted some feet above the seats
of the poor represent still the faith in a God who subjects the weak to the strong. These old
churches, rarely rebuilt, are ready now to become rocks imbedding fossil creeds. In these old
aisles one walks, and the snake glides away on the pavement, and the bat flutters in the high
pulpit, whilst moss and ivy tenderly enshroud the lonely walls; and over all is written the
word DESOLATION. Symbol it is of the desolation which caused it, even the trampled fanes and
altars of the human soul,--the temple of God, whose profanation the church has suffered to
go on unrebuked, till now both must crumble into the same grave.

       *       *       *       *       *

AMERICAN CIVILIZATION. The building three or four hundred miles of road in the Scotch Highlands
in 1726 to 1749 effectually tamed the ferocious clans, and established public order.

Our Southern States have introduced confusion into the moral sentiments of their people, by
reversing this rule in theory and practice, and denying a man's right to his labor. The distinction
and end of a soundly constituted man is his labor. Use is inscribed on all his faculties. Use
is the end to which he exists. As the tree exists for its fruit, so a man for his work. A fruitless
plant, an idle animal, is not found in the universe. They are all toiling, however secretly
or slowly, in the province assigned them, and to a use in the economy of the world,--the higher
and more complex organizations to higher and more catholic service; and man seems to play a
certain part that tells on the general face of the planet,--as if dressing the globe for happier
races of his own kind, or, as we sometimes fancy, for beings of superior organization.

But thus use, labor of each for all, is the health and virtue of all beings. ICH DIEN, I serve,
is a truly royal motto. And it is the mark of nobleness to volunteer the lowest service,--the
greatest spirit only attaining to humility. Nay, God is God because he is the servant of all.
Well, now here comes this conspiracy of slavery,--they call it an institution, I call it a
destitution,--this stealing of men and setting them to work,--stealing their labor, and the
thief sitting idle himself; and for two or three ages it has lasted, and has yielded a certain
quantity of rice, cotton, and sugar. And standing on this doleful experience, these people
have endeavored to reverse the natural sentiments of mankind, and to pronounce labor disgraceful,
and the well-being of a man to consist in eating the fruit of other men's labor. Labor: a man
coins himself into his labor,--turns his day, his strength, his thought, his affection into
some product which remains as the visible sign of his power; and to protect that, to secure
that to him, to secure his past self to his future self, is the object of all government. There
is no interest in any country so imperative as that of labor; it covers all, and constitutions
and governments exist for that,--to protect and insure it to the laborer. All honest men are
daily striving to earn their bread by their industry. And who is this who tosses his empty
head at this blessing in disguise, the constitution of human nature, and calls labor vile,
and insults the faithful workman at his daily toil? I see for such madness no hellebore,--for
such calamity no solution but servile war, and the Africanization of the country that permits it.

At this moment in America the aspects of political society absorb attention. In every house,
from Canada to the Gulf, the children ask the serious father,--"What is the news of the war
to-day? and when will there be better times?" The boys have no new clothes, no gifts, no journeys;
the girls must go without new bonnets; boys and girls find their education, this year, less
liberal and complete. All the little hopes that heretofore made the year pleasant are deferred.
The state of the country fills us with anxiety and stern duties. We have attempted to hold
together two states of civilization: a higher state, where labor and the tenure of land and
the right of suffrage are democratical; and a lower state, in which the old military tenure
of prisoners or slaves, and of power and land in a few hands, makes an oligarchy: we have attempted
to hold these two states of society under one law. But the rude and early state of society
does not work well with the later, nay, works badly, and has poisoned politics, public morals,
and social intercourse in the Republic, now for many years.

The times put this question,--Why cannot the best civilization be extended over the whole country,
since the disorder of the less civilized portion menaces the existence of the country? Is this
secular progress we have described, this evolution of man to the highest powers, only to give
him sensibility, and not to bring duties with it? Is he not to make his knowledge practical?
to stand and to withstand? Is not civilization heroic also? Is it not for action? has it not
a will? "There are periods," said Niebuhr, "when something much better than, happiness and
security of life is attainable." We live in a new and exceptional age. America is another word
for Opportunity. The evil you contend with has taken alarming proportions, and you still content
yourself with parrying the blows it aims, but, as if enchanted, abstain from striking at the cause.

If the American people hesitate, it is not for want of warning or advices. The telegraph has
been swift enough to announce our disasters. The journals have not suppressed the extent of
the calamity. Neither was there any want of argument or of experience. If the war brought any
surprise to the North, it was not the fault of sentinels on the watch-towers, who had furnished
full details of the designs, the muster, and the means of the enemy. Neither was anything concealed
of the theory or practice of slavery. To what purpose make more big books of these statistics?
There are already mountains of facts, if any one wants them. But people do not want them. They
bring their opinions into the world. If they have a comatose tendency in the brain, they are
pro-slavery while they live; if of a nervous sanguineous temperament, they are abolitionists.
Then interests were never persuaded. Can you convince the shoe interest, or the iron interest,
or the cotton interest, by reading passages from Milton or Montesquieu? You wish to satisfy
people that slavery is bad economy. Why, the "Edinburgh Review" pounded on that string, and
made out its case forty years ago. A democratic statesman said to me, long since, that, if
he owned the State of Kentucky, he would manumit all the slaves, and be a gainer by the transaction.
Is this new? No, everybody knows it. As a general economy it is admitted. But there is no one
owner of the State, but a good many small owners. One man owns land and slaves; another owns
slaves only. Here is a woman who has no other property,--like a lady in Charleston I knew of,
who owned fifteen chimney-sweeps and rode in her carriage. It is clearly a vast inconvenience
to each of these to make any change, and they are fretful and talkative, and all their friends
are; and those less interested are inert, and, from want of thought, averse to innovation.
It is like free trade, certainly the interest of nations, but by no means the interest of certain
towns and districts, which tariff feeds fat; and the eager interest of the few overpowers the
apathetic general conviction of the many. Banknotes rob the public, but are such a daily convenience
that we silence our scruples, and make believe they are gold. So imposts are the cheap and
right taxation; but by the dislike of people to pay out a direct tax, governments are forced
to render life costly by making them pay twice as much, hidden in the price of tea and sugar.

In this national crisis, it is not argument that we want, but that rare courage which dares
commit itself to a principle, believing that Nature is its ally, and will create the instruments
it requires, and more than make good any petty and injurious profit which it may disturb. There
never was such a combination as this of ours, and the rules to meet it are not set down in
any history. We want men of original perception and original action, who can open their eyes
wider than to a nationality, namely, to considerations of benefit to the human race, can act
in the interest of civilization. Government must not be a parish clerk, a justice of the peace.
It has, of necessity, in any crisis of the State, the absolute powers of a Dictator. The existing
Administration is entitled to the utmost candor. It is to be thanked for its angelic virtue,
compared with any executive experiences with which we have been familiar. But the times will
not allow us to indulge in compliment. I wish I saw in the people that inspiration which, if
Government would not obey the same, it would leave the Government behind, and create on the
moment the means and executors it wanted. Better the war should more dangerously threaten us,--should
threaten fracture in what is still whole, and punish us with burned capitals and slaughtered
regiments, and so exasperate the people to energy, exasperate our nationality. There are Scriptures
written invisibly on men's hearts, whose letters do not come out until they are enraged. They
can be read by war-fires, and by eyes in the last peril.

We cannot but remember that there have been days in American history, when, if the Free States
had done their duty, Slavery had been blocked by an immovable barrier, and our recent calamities
forever precluded. The Free States yielded, and every compromise was surrender, and invited
new demands. Here again is a new occasion which Heaven offers to sense and virtue. It looks
as if we held the fate of the fairest possession of mankind in our hands, to be saved by our
firmness or to be lost by hesitation.

The one power that has legs long enough and strong enough to cross the Potomac offers itself
at this hour; the one strong enough to bring all the civility up to the height of that which
is best prays now at the door of Congress for leave to move. Emancipation is the demand of
civilization. That is a principle; everything else is an intrigue. This is a progressive policy,--puts
the whole people in healthy, productive, amiable position,--puts every man in the South in
just and natural relations with every man in the North, laborer with laborer.

We shall not attempt to unfold the details of the project of emancipation. It has been stated
with great ability by several of its leading advocates. I will only advert to some leading
points of the argument, at the risk of repeating the reasons of others.[B]

[Footnote B: I refer mainly to a Discourse by the Rev. M.D. Conway, delivered before the "Emancipation
League," in Boston, in January last.]

The war is welcome to the Southerner: a chivalrous sport to him, like hunting, and suits his
semi-civilized condition. On the climbing scale of progress, he is just up to war, and has
never appeared to such advantage as in the last twelve-month. It does not suit us. We are advanced
some ages on the war-state,--to trade, art, and general cultivation. His laborer works for
him at home, so that he loses no labor by the war. All our soldiers are laborers; so that the
South, with its inferior numbers, is almost on a footing in effective war-population with the
North. Again, as long as we fight without any affirmative step taken by the Government, any
word intimating forfeiture in the rebel States of their old privileges under the law, they
and we fight on the same side, for Slavery. Again, if we conquer the enemy,--what then? We
shall still have to keep him under, and it will cost as much to hold him down as it did to
get him down. Then comes the summer, and the fever will drive our soldiers home; next winter,
we must begin at the beginning, and conquer him over again. What use, then, to take a fort,
or a privateer, or get possession of an inlet, or to capture a regiment of rebels?

But one weapon we hold which is sure. Congress can, by edict, as a part of the military defence
which it is the duty of Congress to provide, abolish slavery, and pay for such slaves as we
ought to pay for. Then the slaves near our armies will come to us: those in the interior will
know in a week what their rights are, and will, where opportunity offers, prepare to take them.
Instantly, the armies that now confront you must run home to protect their estates, and must
stay there, and your enemies will disappear.

There can be no safety until this step is taken. We fancy that the endless debate, emphasized
by the crime and by the cannons of this war, has brought the Free States to some conviction
that it can never go well with us whilst this mischief of Slavery remains in our politics,
and that by concert or by might we must put an end to it. But we have too much experience of
the futility of an easy reliance on the momentary good dispositions of the public. There does
exist, perhaps, a popular will that the Union shall not be broken,--that our trade, and therefore
our laws, must have the whole breadth of the continent, and from Canada to the Gulf. But, since
this is the rooted belief and will of the people, so much the more are they in danger, when
impatient of defeats, or impatient of taxes, to go with a rush for some peace, and what kind
of peace shall at that moment be easiest attained: they will make concessions for it,--will
give up the slaves; and the whole torment of the past half-century will come back to be endured
anew.

Neither do I doubt, if such a composition should take place, that the Southerners will come
back quietly and politely, leaving their haughty dictation. It will be an era of good feelings.
There will be a lull after so loud a storm; and, no doubt, there will be discreet men from
that section who will earnestly strive to inaugurate more moderate and fair administration
of the Government, and the North will for a time have its full share and more, in place and
counsel. But this will not last,--not for want of sincere good-will in sensible Southerners,
but because Slavery will again speak through them its harsh necessity. It cannot live but by
injustice, and it will be unjust and violent to the end of the world.

The power of Emancipation is this, that it alters the atomic social constitution of the Southern
people. Now their interest is in keeping out white labor; then, when they must pay wages, their
interest will be to let it in, to get the best labor, and, if they fear their blacks, to invite
Irish, German, and American laborers. Thus, whilst Slavery makes and keeps disunion, Emancipation
removes the whole objection to union. Emancipation at one stroke elevates the poor white of
the South, and identifies his interest with that of the Northern laborer.

Now, in the name of all that is simple and generous, why should not this great right be done?
Why should not America be capable of a second stroke for the well-being of the human race,
as eighty or ninety years ago she was for the first? an affirmative step in the interests of
human civility, urged on her, too, not by any romance of sentiment, but by her own extreme
perils? It is very certain that the statesman who shall break through the cobwebs of doubt,
fear, and petty cavil that lie in the way, will be greeted by the unanimous thanks of mankind.
Men reconcile themselves very fast to a bold and good measure, when once it is taken, though
they condemned it in advance. A week before the two captive commissioners were surrendered
to England, every one thought it could not be done: it would divide the North. It was done,
and in two days all agreed it was the right action. And this action which costs so little (the
parties injured by it being such a handful that they can very easily be indemnified) rids the
world, at one stroke, of this degrading nuisance, the cause of war and ruin to nations. This
measure at once puts all parties right. This is borrowing, as I said, the omnipotence of a
principle. What is so foolish as the terror lest the blacks should be made furious by freedom
and wages? It is denying these that is the outrage, and makes the danger from the blacks. But
justice satisfies everybody,--white man, red man, yellow man, and black man. All like wages,
and the appetite grows by feeding.

But this measure, to be effectual, must come speedily. The weapon is slipping out of our hands.

I hope it is not a fatal objection to this policy that it is simple and beneficent thoroughly,
which is the attribute of a moral action. An unprecedented material prosperity has not tended
to make us Stoics or Christians. But the laws by which the universe is organized reappear at
every point, and will rule it. The end of all political struggle is to establish morality as
the basis of all legislation. It is not free institutions, 't is not a republic, 't is not
a democracy, that is the end,--no, but only the means. Morality is the object of government.
We want a state of things in which crime shall not pay. This is the consolation on which we
rest in the darkness of the future and the afflictions of to-day, that the government of the
world is moral, and does forever destroy what is not.

It is the maxim of natural philosophers, that the natural forces wear out in time all obstacles,
and take place: and 't is the maxim of history, that victory always falls at last where it
ought to fall; or, there is perpetual march and progress to ideas. But, in either case, no
link of the chain can drop out. Nature works through her appointed elements; and ideas must
work through the brains and the arms of good and brave men, or they are no better than dreams.

       *       *       *       *       *

Since the above pages were written, President Lincoln has proposed to Congress that the Government
shall coöperate with any State that shall enact a gradual abolishment of Slavery. In the recent
series of national successes, this Message is the best. It marks the happiest day in the political
year. The American Executive ranges itself for the first time on the side of freedom. If Congress
has been backward, the President has advanced. This state-paper is the more interesting that
it appears to be the President's individual act, done under a strong sense of duty. He speaks
his own thought in his own style. All thanks and honor to the Head of the State! The Message
has been received throughout the country with praise, and, we doubt not, with more pleasure
than has been spoken. If Congress accords with the President, it is not yet too late to begin
the emancipation; but we think it will always be too late to make it gradual. All experience
agrees that it should be immediate. More and better than the President has spoken shall, perhaps,
the effect of this Message be,--but, we are sure, not more or better than he hoped in his heart,
when, thoughtful of all the complexities of his position, he penned these cautious words.

       *       *       *       *       *

  COMPENSATION.

  In the strength of the endeavor,
  In the temper of the giver,
  In the loving of the lover,
    Lies the hidden recompense.

  In the sowing of the sower,
  In the fleeting of the flower,
  In the fading of each hour,
    Lurks eternal recompense.

A MESSAGE OF JEFF DAVIS IN SECRET SESSION.

CONJECTURALLY REPORTED BY H. BIGLOW.

To the Editors of the ATLANTIC MONTHLY.

Jaalam, 10th March, 1862.

GENTLEMEN,--My leisure has been so entirely occupied with the hitherto fruitless endeavour
to decypher the Runick inscription whose fortunate discovery I mentioned in my last communication,
that I have not found time to discuss, as I had intended, the great problem of what we are
to do with slavery, a topick on which the publick mind in this place is at present more than
ever agitated. What my wishes and hopes are I need not say, but for safe conclusions I do not
conceive that we are yet in possession of facts enough on which to bottom them with certainty.
Acknowledging the hand of Providence, as I do, in all events, I am sometimes inclined to think
that they are wiser than we, and am willing to wait till we have made this continent once more
a place where freemen can live in security and honour, before assuming any further responsibility.
This is the view taken by my neighbour Habakkuk Sloansure, Esq., the president of our bank,
whose opinion in the practical affairs of life has great weight with me, as I have generally
found it to be justified by the event, and whose counsel, had I followed it, would have saved
me from an unfortunate investment of a considerable part of the painful economies of half a
century in the Northwest-Passage Tunnel. After a somewhat animated discussion with this gentleman,
a few days since, I expanded, on the audi alteram partem principle, something which he happened
to say by way of illustration, into the following fable.

  FESTINA LENTE.

  Once on a time there was a pool
  Fringed all about with flag-leaves cool
  And spotted with cow-lilies garish,
  Of frogs and pouts the ancient parish.
  Alders the creaking redwings sink on,
  Tussocks that house blithe Bob o' Lincoln.
  Hedged round the unassailed seclusion,
  Where muskrats piled their cells Carthusian;
  And many a moss-embroidered log,
  The watering-place of summer frog,
  Slept and decayed with patient skill,
  As watering-places sometimes will.

  Now in this Abbey of Theleme,
  Which realized the fairest dream
  That ever dozing bull-frog had,
  Sunned on a half-sunk lily-pad,
  There rose a party with a mission
  To mend the polliwogs' condition,
  Who notified the selectmen
  To call a meeting there and then.
  "Some kind of steps." they said, "are needed;
  They don't come on so fast as we did:
  Let's dock their tails; if that don't make 'em
  Frogs by brevet, the Old One take 'em!
  That boy, that came the other day
  To dig some flag-root down this way,
  His jack-knife left, and 't is a sign
  That Heaven approves of our design:
  'T were wicked not to urge the step on,
  When Providence has sent the weapon."

  Old croakers, deacons of the mire,
  That led the deep batrachiain choir,
  Uk! Uk! Caronk! with bass that might
  Have left Lablache's out of sight,
  Shook knobby heads, and said, "No go!
  You'd better let 'em try to grow:
  Old Doctor Time is slow, but still
  He does know how to make a pill."

  But vain was all their hoarsest bass,
  Their old experience out of place,
  And, spite of croaking and entreating,
  The vote was carried in marsh-meeting.

  "Lord knows," protest the polliwogs,
  "We're anxious to be grown-up frogs;
  But do not undertake the work
  Of Nature till she prove a shirk;
  'T is not by jumps that she advances,
  But wins her way by circumstances:
  Pray, wait awhile, until you know
  We're so contrived as not to grow;
  Let Nature take her own direction,
  And she'll absorb our imperfection;
  You mightn't like 'em to appear with,
  But we must have the things to steer with."

  "No," piped the party of reform,
  "All great results are ta'en by storm;
  Fate holds her best gifts till we show
  We've strength to make her let them go:
  No more reject the Age's chrism,
  Your cues are an anachronism;
  No more the Future's promise mock,
  But lay your tails upon the block,
  Thankful that we the means have voted
  To have you thus to frogs promoted."

  The thing was done, the tails were cropped,
  And home each philotadpole hopped,
  In faith rewarded to exult,
  And wait the beautiful result.
  Too soon it came; our pool, so long
  The theme of patriot bull-frogs' song,
  Next day was reeking, fit to smother,
  With heads and tails that missed each other,--
  Here snoutless tails, there tailless snouts:
  The only gainers were the pouts.

  MORAL.

  From lower to the higher next,
  Not to the top, is Nature's text;
  And embryo Good, to reach full stature,
  Absorbs the Evil in its nature.

I think that nothing will ever give permanent peace and security to this continent but the
extirpation of Slavery therefrom, and that the occasion is nigh; but I would do nothing hastily
or vindictively, nor presume to jog the elbow of Providence. No desperate measures for me till
we are sure that all others are hopeless,--flectere si nequeo SUPEROS, Acheronta movebo. To
make Emancipation a reform instead of a revolution is worth a little patience, that we may
have the Border States first, and then the non-slaveholders of the Cotton States with us in
principle,--a consummation that seems to me nearer than many imagine. Fiat justitia, ruat coelum,
is not to be taken in a literal sense by statesmen, whose problem is to get justice done with
as little jar as possible to existing order, which has at least so much of heaven in it that
it is not chaos. I rejoice in the President's late Message, which at last proclaims the Government
on the side of freedom, justice, and sound policy.

As I write, comes the news of our disaster at Hampton Roads. I do not understand the supineness
which, after fair warning, leaves wood to an unequal conflict with iron. It is not enough merely
to have the right on our side, if we stick to the old flint-lock of tradition. I have observed
in my parochial experience (haud ignarus mali) that the Devil is prompt to adopt the latest
inventions of destructive warfare, and may thus take even such a three-decker as Bishop Butler
at an advantage. It is curious, that, as gunpowder made armour useless on shore, so armour
is having its revenge by baffling its old enemy at sea,--and that, while gunpowder robbed land-warfare
of nearly all its picturesqueness to give even greater stateliness and sublimity to a sea-fight,
armour bids fair to degrade the latter into a squabble between two iron-shelled turtles.

Yours, with esteem and respect,

HOMER WILBUR, A.M.

P.S. I had wellnigh forgotten to say that the object of this letter is to inclose a communication
from the gifted pen of Mr. Biglow.

  I sent you a messige, my friens, t' other day,
  To tell you I'd nothin' pertickler to say:
  'T wuz the day our new nation gut kin' o' stillborn,
  So't wuz my pleasant dooty t' acknowledge the corn,
  An' I see clearly then, ef I didn't before,
  Thet the augur in inauguration means bore.
  I needn't tell you thet my messige wuz written
  To diffuse correc' notions in France an' Gret Britten,
  An' agin to impress on the poppylar mind
  The comfort an' wisdom o' goin' it blind,--
  To say thet I didn't abate not a hooter
  O' my faith in a happy an' glorious futur',
  Ez rich in each soshle an' p'litickle blessin'
  Ez them thet we now hed the joy o' possessin',
  With a people united, an' longin' to die
  For wut we call their country, without askin' why,
  An' all the gret things we concluded to slope for
  Ez much within reach now ez ever--to hope for.
  We've all o' the ellermunts, this very hour,
  Thet make up a fus'-class, self-governin' power:
  We've a war, an' a debt, an' a flag; an' ef this
  Ain't to be inderpendunt, why, wut on airth is?
  An' nothin' now henders our takin' our station
  Ez the freest, enlightenedest, civerlized nation,
  Built up on our bran'-new politickle thesis
  Thet a Guv'ment's fust right is to tumble to pieces,--
  I say nothin' henders our takin' our place
  Ez the very fus'-best o' the whole human race,
  A-spittin' tobacker ez proud ez you please
  On Victory's bes' carpets, or loafin' at ease
  In the Tool'ries front-parlor, discussin' affairs
  With our heels on the backs o' Napoleon's new chairs,
  An' princes a-mixin' our cocktails an' slings,--
  Excep', wal, excep' jest a very few things,
  Sech ez navies an' armies an' wherewith to pay,
  An' gittin' our sogers to run t' other way,
  An' not be too over-pertickler in tryin'
  To hunt up the very las' ditches to die in.

  Ther' are critters so base thet they want it explained
  Jes' wut is the totle amount thet we've gained,
  Ez ef we could maysure stupenjious events
  By the low Yankee stan'ard o' dollars an' cents:
  They seem to forgit, thet, sence last year revolved,
  We've succeeded in gittin' seceshed an' dissolved,
  An' thet no one can't hope to git thru dissolootion
  'Thout sonic kin' o' strain on the best Constitootion.
  Who asks for a prospec' more flettrin' an' bright,
  When from here clean to Texas it's all one free fight?
  Hain't we rescued from Seward the gret leadin' featurs
  Thet makes it wuth while to be reasonin' creaturs?
  Hain't we saved Habus Coppers, improved it in fact,
  By suspending the Unionists 'stid o' the Act?
  Ain't the laws free to all? Where on airth else d' ye see
  Every freeman improvin' his own rope an' tree?

  It's ne'ssary to take a good confident tone
  With the public; but here, jest amongst us, I own
  Things looks blacker 'n thunder. Ther' 's no use denyin'
  We're clean out o' money, an' 'most out o' lyin',--
  Two things a young nation can't mennage without,
  Ef she wants to look wal at her fust comin' out;
  For the fust supplies physickle strength, while the second
  Gives a morril edvantage thet's hard to be reckoned:
  For this latter I'm willin' to du wut I can;
  For the former you'll hev to consult on a plan,--
  Though our fust want (an' this pint I want your best views on)
  Is plausible paper to print I.O.U.s on.
  Some gennlemen think it would cure all our cankers
  In the way o' finance, ef we jes' hanged the bankers;
  An' I own the proposle 'ud square with my views,
  Ef their lives wuzn't all thet we'd left 'em to lose.
  Some say thet more confidence might be inspired,
  Ef we voted our cities an' towns to be fired,--
  A plan thet 'ud suttenly tax our endurance,
  Coz 't would be our own bills we should git for th' insurance;
  But cinders, no metter how sacred we think 'em,
  Mightn't strike furrin minds ez good sources of income,
  Nor the people, perhaps, wouldn't like the eclaw
  O' bein' all turned into paytriots by law.
  Some want we should buy all the cotton an' burn it,
  On a pledge, when we've gut thru the war, to return it,--
  Then to take the proceeds an' hold them ez security
  For an issue o' bonds to be met at maturity
  With an issue o' notes to be paid in hard cash
  On the fus' Monday follerin' the 'tarnal Allsmash:
  This hez a safe air, an', once hold o' the gold,
  'Ud leave our vile plunderers out in the cold,
  An' might temp' John Bull, ef it warn't for the dip he
  Once gut from the banks o' my own Massissippi.
  Some think we could make, by arrangin' the figgers,
  A hendy home-currency out of our niggers;
  But it wun't du to lean much on ary sech staff,
  For they're gittin' tu current a'ready, by half.
  One gennleman says, ef we lef' our loan out
  Where Floyd could git hold on 't, he'd take it, no doubt;
  But 't ain't jes' the takin', though 't hez a good look,
  We mus' git sunthin' out on it arter it's took,
  An' we need now more 'n ever, with sorrer I own,
  Thet some one another should let us a loan,
  Sence a soger wun't fight, on'y jes' while he draws his
  Pay down on the nail, for the best of all causes,
  'Thout askin' to know wut the quarrel's about,--
  An' once come to thet, why, our game is played out.
  It's ez true ez though I shouldn't never hev said it
  Thet a hitch hez took place in our system o' credit;
  I swear it's all right in my speeches an' messiges,
  But ther' 's idees afloat, ez ther' is about sessiges:
  Folks wun't take a bond ez a basis to trade on,
  Without nosin' round to find out wut it's made on,
  An' the thought more an' more thru the public min' crosses
  Thet our Treshry hez gut 'mos' too many dead hosses.
  Wut's called credit, you see, is some like a balloon,
  Thet looks while it's up 'most ez harnsome 'z a moon,
  But once git a leak in 't an' wut looked so grand
  Caves righ' down in a jiffy ez flat ez your hand.
  Now the world is a dreffle mean place, for our sins,
  Where ther' ollus is critters about with long pins
  A-prickin' the globes we've blowcd up with sech care,
  An' provin' ther' 's nothin' inside but bad air:
  They're all Stuart Millses, poor-white trash, an' sneaks,
  Without no more chivverlry 'n Choctaws or Creeks,
  Who think a real gennleman's promise to pay
  Is meant to be took in trade's ornery way:
  Them fellers an' I couldn' never agree;
  They're the nateral foes o' the Southun Idee;
  I'd gladly take all of our other resks on me
  To be red o' this low-lived politikle 'con'my!

  Now a dastardly notion is gittin' about
  Thet our bladder is bust an' the gas oozin' out,
  An' onless we can mennage in some way to stop it,
  Why, the thing's a gone coon, an' we might ez wal drop it.
  Brag works wal at fust, but it ain't jes' the thing
  For a stiddy inves'ment the shiners to bring,
  An' votin' we're prosp'rous a hundred times over
  Wun't change bein' starved into livin' on clover.
  Manassas done sunthin' tow'rds drawin' the wool
  O'er the green, anti-slavery eyes o' John Bull:
  Oh, warn't it a godsend, jes' when sech tight fixes
  Wuz crowdin' us mourners, to throw double-sixes!
  I wuz tempted to think, an' it wuzn't no wonder,
  Ther' wuz reelly a Providence,--over or under,--
  When, all packed for Nashville, I fust ascertained
  From the papers up North wut a victory we'd gained,
  'T wuz the time for diffusin' correc' views abroad
  Of our union an' strength an' relyin' on God;
  An', fact, when I'd gut thru my fust big surprise,
  I much ez half b'lieved in my own tallest lies,
  An' conveyed the idee thet the whole Southun popperlace
  Wuz Spartans all on the keen jump for Thermopperlies,
  Thet set on the Lincolnites' bombs till they bust,
  An' fight for the priv'lege o' dyin' the fust;
  But Roanoke, Bufort, Millspring, an' the rest
  Of our recent starn-foremost successes out West,
  Hain't left us a foot for our swellin' to stand on,--

  We've showed too much o' wut Buregard calls abandon,
  For all our Thermopperlies (an' it's a marcy
  We hain't hed no more) hev ben clean vicy-varsy,
  An' wut Spartans wuz lef' when the battle wuz done
  Wuz them thet wuz too unambitious to run.

  Oh, ef we hed on'y jes' gut Reecognition,
  Things now would ha' ben in a different position!
  You'd ha' hed all you wanted: the paper blockade
  Smashed up into toothpicks,--unlimited trade
  In the one thing thet's needfle, till niggers, I swow,
  Hed ben thicker 'n provisional shinplasters now,--
  Quinine by the ton 'ginst the shakes when they seize ye,--
  Nice paper to coin into C.S.A. specie;
  The voice of the driver'd be heerd in our land,
  An' the univarse scringe, ef we lifted our hand:
  Wouldn't thet be some like a fulfillin' the prophecies,
  With all the fus' fem'lies in all the best offices?
  'T wuz a beautiful dream, an' all sorrer is idle,--
  But ef Lincoln would ha' hanged Mason an' Slidell!
  They ain't o' no good in European pellices,
  But think wut a help they'd ha' ben on their gallowses!
  They'd ha' felt they wuz truly fulfillin' their mission,
  An', oh, how dog-cheap we'd ha' gut Reecognition!

  But somehow another, wutever we've tried,
  Though the the'ry's fust-rate, the facs wun't coincide:
  Facs are contrary 'z mules, an' ez hard in the mouth,
  An' they allus hev showed a mean spite to the South.
  Sech bein' the case, we hed best look about
  For some kin' o' way to slip our necks out:
  Le''s vote our las' dollar, ef one can be found,
  (An', at any rate, votin' it hez a good sound,)--
  Le''s swear thet to arms all our people is flyin',
  (The critters can't read, an' wun't know how we're lyin',)--
  Thet Toombs is advancin' to sack Cincinnater,
  With a rovin' commission to pillage an' slarter,--
  Thet we've throwed to the winds all regard for wut's lawfle,
  An' gone in for sunthin' promiscu'sly awfle.
  Ye see, hitherto, it's our own knaves an' fools
  Thet we've used,--those for whetstones, an't' others ez tools,--
  An' now our las' chance is in puttin' to test
  The same kin' o' cattle up North an' out West.
  I----But, Gennlemen, here's a despatch jes' come in
  Which shows thet the tide's begun turnin' agin,--
  Gret Cornfedrit success! C'lumbus eevacooated!
  I mus' run down an' hev the thing properly stated,
  An' show wut a triumph it is, an' how lucky
  To fin'lly git red o' thet cussed Kentucky,--
  An' how, sence Fort Donelson, winnin' the day
  Consists in triumphantly gittin' away.

REVIEWS AND LITERARY NOTICES.

The Sisters, Inisfail, and other Poems. By AUBREY DE VERE. London.

Whatever Mr. De Vere writes is welcomed by a select audience. Not taking rank among the great
masters of English poetry, he yet possesses a genuine poetic faculty which distinguishes him
from "the small harpers with their glees" who counterfeit the true gift of Nature. In refined
and delicate sensibility, in purity of feeling, in elevation of tone, there is no English writer
of verse at the present day who surpasses him. The fine instinct of a poet is united in him
with the cultivated taste of a scholar. There is nothing forced or spasmodic in his verse;
it is the true expression of character disciplined by thought and study, of fancy quickened
by ready sympathies, of feeling deepened and calmed by faith. As is the case with most English
poets since Wordsworth, he invests the impressions received from the various aspects of Nature
with moral associations, and with fine spiritual insight he seeks out the inner meaning of
the external life of the earth. No one describes more truthfully than he those transient beauties
of Nature which in their briefness and their exquisite variety of change elude the coarse grasp
of the common observer, and too frequently pass half unnoticed and unfelt even by those whose
temperament is susceptive of their inspiring influences, but whose thoughts are occupied with
the cares and business of living. But it is especially as the poet of Ireland, and of the Roman
Church, that Mr. De Vere presents himself to us in this last volume; and while, consequently,
the subject and treatment of many of the poems contained in it give to them a special rather
than a universal interest, the patriotic spirit and the fervor of faith manifest in them appeal
powerfully to the sympathies of readers in other countries and of other creeds. "'Inisfail'
may be regarded as a sort of National Chronicle, cast in a form partly lyrical, partly narrative....
Its aim is to record the past alone, and that chiefly as its chances might have been sung by
those old bards, who, consciously or unconsciously, uttered the voice which comes from a people's
heart." In this attempt Mr. De Vere has had an uncommon measure of success. The strings of
the Irish harp sound with the cadences of fitting harmonies under his hand, as he sings of
the sorrows and the joys of Ireland, of the wild storms and the rare sunshine of her pathetic
history,--as he denounces vengeance on her oppressors, or blesses the saints and the heroes
who have made the land dear and beautiful to its children. The key-note of the series of poems
which form this poetic chronicle is struck in the fine verses with which it begins, entitled
"History," and of which our space allows us to quote but the opening stanza:--

  "At my casement I sat by night, while the wind far off in dark valleys
  Voluminous gathered and grew, and waxing swelled to a gale;
  An hour I heard it, or more, ere yet it sobbed on my lattice:
  Far off, 't was a People's moan; hard by, but a widow's wail.
  Atoms we are, we men: of the myriad sorrow around us
  Our littleness little grasps; and the selfish in that have no part:
  Yet time with the measureless chain of a world-wide mourning hath
     wound us;
  History but counts the drops as they fall from a Nation's heart."

One of the most vigorous poems in the volume is that called "The Bard Ethell," and which represents
this bard of the thirteenth century telling in his old age of himself and his country, of his
memories, and of the wrongs that he and his land had alike suffered:--

  "I am Ethell, the son of Conn;
    Here I live at the foot of the hill;
  I am clansman to Brian, and servant to none;
    Whom I hated, I hate; whom I loved, love still."

Here is a passage from near the end of this poem:--

  "Ah me, that man who is made of dust
    Should have pride toward God! 'T is an angel's sin!
  I have often feared lest God, the All-Just,
    Should bend from heaven and sweep earth clean,
  Should sweep us all into corners and holes,
  Like dust of the house-floor, both bodies and
    souls;
  I have often feared He would send some
    wind
  In wrath, and the nation wake up stone-blind!
  In age or youth we have all wrought ill."

But a large part of the volume before us is made up of poems that do not belong to this Irish
series, and the readers of the "Atlantic" will find in it several pieces which they will recognize
with pleasure as having first appeared in our own pages, and which, once read, were not to
be readily forgotten. Mr. De Vere has expressed in several passages his warm sympathy in our
national affairs, and his clear appreciation of the great cause, so little understood abroad,
which we of the North are engaged in upholding and maintaining. And although in these days
of war there is little reading of poetry, and little chance that this volume will find the
welcome it deserves and would receive in quieter times in America, we yet trust that it will
meet with worthy readers among those who possess their souls in quietness in the midst of the
noise of arms, and to such we heartily commend it.

A Book about Doctors. By J. CORDY JEAFFRESON, Author of "Novels and Novelists," "Crewe Else,"
etc., etc. New York: Rudd & Carleton. 12mo.

Mr. Jeaffreson is not usually either a brilliant or a sensible man with pen in hand, albeit
he dates from "Rolls Chambers, Chancery Lane." He is apt to select slow coaches, whenever he
attempts a ride. His "Novels and Novelists" is a sad move in the "deadly lively" direction,
and his "Crewe Rise" has not risen to much distinction among the reading crew. In those volumes
of departed rubbish he sinks very low, whenever he essays to mount; but his dulness is innoxious,
for few there be who can say, "We have read him." His "Book about Doctors" is the best literary
venture he has yet made. It is not a dull volume. The anecdotes so industriously collected
keep attention alert, and one feels inclined to applaud Mr. Jeaffreson as the leaves of his
book are turned.

Everything about Doctors is interesting. Here are a few Bible verses which it will do no harm
to quote in connection with Mr. Jeaffreson's volume:--

  "Honor a physician with the honor due
  unto him for the uses which you have made
  of him: for the Lord hath created him."

  "For of the Most High cometh healing, and
  he shall receive honor of the king."

  "The skill of the physician shall lift up his
  head; and in the sight of great men he shall
  be in admiration."

  "The Lord hath created medicines out of
  the earth; and he that is wise will not abhor
  them."

It was no unwise thing in Mr. Jeaffreson to bring so many noble men together, as it were into
one family. What "names embalmed" one meets with in the collection! Here are Sydenham, Goldsmith,
Smollett, Sir Thomas Browne, and a golden line of other Doctors, nearly all the way down to
our own time. (Our well-beloved M.D. [Monthly Diamond] contributor is too young to be included.)
Keats is among the worthies, although he got no farther into the mysteries than the apothecary's
counter. Meeting with this interesting series of splendid medicine-men leads us to muse a good
deal about the Faculty, and to re-read several good anecdotes about the great symptom-watchers
of the past and the present day.

When Sir Richard Blackmore asked the great Sydenham, "Prince of English physicians," what he
would advise him for medical reading, he is said to have replied, "Read Don Quixote, Sir."
Sensible and witty old man!

We are struck with the cheerful character of nearly all the M.D.s mentioned in the volume,
and are constantly reminded of the advice we once read of an old Doctor to a young one:--"Moreover,
let me tell you, my young doctor friend, that a cheerful face, and step, and neckcloth, and
button-hole, and an occasional hearty and kindly joke, a power of executing and setting a-going
a good laugh, are stock in our trade not to be despised."

"I may give an instance," says the same good-natured physician, "when a joke was more and better
than itself. A comely young wife, the 'cynosure' of her circle, was in bed, apparently dying
from swelling and inflammation of the throat, an inaccessible abscess stopping the way; she
could swallow nothing; everything had been tried. Her friends were standing round the bed in
misery and helplessness. 'Try her wi' a compliment,' said her husband, in a not uncomic despair.
She had genuine humor, as well as he; and an physiologists know, there is a sort of mental
tickling which is beyond and above control, being under the reflex system, and instinctive
as well as sighing. She laughed with her whole body, and burst the abscess, and was well."

Mr. Jeaffreson's book might be better, but it might be worse. We cannot forgive him for his
"Novels and Novelists" and his "Crewe Rise," two works which go far to prove their author a
person of indefatigable incoherency; but we thank him for the industry which brought together
so much that is very readable about Doctors.

John Brent. By THEODORE WINTHROP, Author of "Cecil Dreeme." Boston: Ticknor & Fields. 16mo.

It is probable that we have not yet completely appreciated the value of the bright and noble
life which a wretched Rebel sharp-shooter extinguished in the disastrous fight of Great Bethel.
"John Brent" is a book which gives us important aid in the attempt to form an adequate conception
of Winthrop's character. Its vivid pages shine throughout with the author's brave and tender
spirit. "Cecil Dreeme" was an embodiment of his thoughts, observations, and imaginations; "John
Brent" shows us the inbred poetry and romance of the man in the grander form of action. The
scene is placed in the wild Western plains of America, among men entirely free from the restraints
of conventional life; and the book has a buoyancy and brisk vitality, a dashing, daring, and
jubilant vigor, such as we are not accustomed to in ordinary romances of American life. Sir
Philip Sidney is the type of the Anglo-Saxon hero; but we think that Winthrop was fully his
match in delicacy and intrepidity, in manly courage, and in sweet, instinctive tenderness.
As to style, the American far exceeds the Englishman. A certain conventional artifice and dainty
affectation clouded the clear and beautiful nature of Sidney, when he wrote. The elaborate
embroidery of thought, the stiff and cumbrous Elizabethan dress of language, with all its ruffles
and laces, make the "Arcadia" an imperfect exponent of Sidney's nature. His intense thoughts,
delicate emotions, and burning passions are half concealed in the form he adopts for their
expression. But Winthrop is as fresh, natural, strong, and direct in his language as in his
life. He used words, not for ornament, but for expression. Every phrase is stamped by a die
supplied by reflection or feeling, and not a paragraph in "John Brent" differs in spirit from
the practical heroism which urged the author to expose himself to certain death at Great Bethel.
The condensed, lucid, picturesque, and sharp-cut sentences, flooded with will, show the nature
of the man,--a man who announced no sentiments and principles he was not willing to sacrifice
himself to disseminate or defend. A living energy of soul glows over the whole book,--swift,
fiery, brave, wholesome, sincere, impatient of all physical obstacles to the operation of thought
and affection, and eager to make stubborn facts yield to the impatient pressure of spiritual
purpose.

