Laughter rippled into silence. A hush descended upon the company, which stood now at gaze,
considering the imposing and unbidden guest. Slowly the legate, followed by the two Roman youths,
advanced down the hall, the soft pad of his slippered feet and the rustle of his silken robes
being at first the only sound. On he came, until he stood before the shallow dais, where in
a massively carved chair sat the Infante of Portugal, mistrustfully observing him. Affonso
Henriques scented here an enemy, an ally of his mother's, the bearer of a fresh declaration
of hostilities. Therefore of deliberate purpose he kept his seat, as if to stress the fact
that here he was the master.

"Lord Cardinal," he greeted the legate, "be welcome to my land of Portugal."

The cardinal bowed stiffly, resentful of this reception. In his long journey across the Spains,
princes and nobles had flocked to kiss his hand, and bend the knee before him, seeking his
blessing. Yet this mere boy, beardless save for a silky down about his firm young cheeks, retained
his seat and greeted him with no more submissiveness than if he had been the envoy of some
temporal prince.

"I am the representative of our Holy Father," he announced, in a voice of stern reproof. "I
am from Rome, with these my well-beloved nephews."

"From Rome?" quoth Affonso Henriques. For all his length of limb and massive thews he could
be impish upon occasion. He was impish now. "Although no good has ever yet come to me from
Rome, you make me hopeful. His Holiness will have heard of the preparations I am making for
a war against the Infidel that shall carry the Cross where new stands the Crescent, and sends
me perhaps, a gift of gold or assist me in this holy work."

The mockery of it stung the legate sharply. His sallow, ascetic face empurpled.

"It is not gold I bring you," he answered, "but a lesson in the faith which you would seem
to have forgotten. I am come to teach you your Christian duty, and to require of you immediate
reparation of the sacrilegious wrongs you have done. The Holy Father demands of you the instant
re-instatement of the Bishop of Coimbra, whom you have driven out with threats of violence,
and the degradation of the cleric you blasphemously appointed Bishop in his stead."

"And is that all?" quoth the boy, in a voice dangerously quiet.

"No." Fearless in his sense of right, the legate towered before him. "It is demanded of you
further that you instantly release the lady, your mother, from the unjust confinement in which
you hold her."

"That confinement is not unjust, as all here can witness," the Infante answered. "Rome may
believe it, because lies have been carried to Rome. Dona Theresa's life was a scandal, her
regency an injustice to my people. She and the infamous Lord of Trava lighted the torch of
civil war in these dominions. Learn here the truth, and carry it to Rome. Thus shall you do
worthy service."

But the prelate was obstinate and proud.

"That is not the answer that our Holy Father awaits."

"It is the answer that I send."

"Rash, rebellious youth, beware!" The cardinal's anger flamed up, and his voice swelled. "I
come armed with spiritual weapons of destruction. Do not abuse the patience of Mother Church,
or you shall feel the full weight of her wrath released against you."

Exasperated, Affonso Henriques bounded to his feet, his face livid now with passion, his eyes
ablaze.

"Out! Away!" he cried. "Go, my lord, and go quickly, or as God watches us I will add here and
now yet another sacrilege to those of which you accuse me."

The prelate gathered his ample robes about him. If pale, he was entirely calm once more. With
stern dignity, he bowed to the angry youth, and so departed, but with such outward impassivity
that it would have been difficult to say with whom lay the victory. If Affonso Henriques thought
that night that he had conquered, morning was to shatter the illusion.

He was awakened early by a chamberlain at the urgent instances of Emigio Moniz, who was demanding
immediate audience. Affonso Henriques sat up in bed, and bade him to be admitted.

The elderly knight and faithful counsellor came in, treading heavily. His swarthy face was
overcast, his mouth set in stern lines under its grizzled beard.

"God keep you, lord," was his greeting, so lugubriously delivered as to sound like a pious,
but rather hopeless, wish.

"And you, Emigio," answered him the Infante. "You are early astir. What is the cause?"

"III tidings, lord." He crossed the room, unlatched and flung wide a window. "Listen," he bade
the prince.

On the still morning air arose a sound like the drone of some gigantic hive, or of the sea
when the tide is making. Affonso Henriques recognized it for the murmur of the multitude.

"What does it mean?" he asked, and thrust a sinewy leg from the bed.

"It means that the Papal Legate has done all that he threatened, and something more. He has
placed your city of Coimbra under a ban of excommunication. The churches are closed, and until
the ban is lifted no priest Will be found to baptize, marry, shrive or perform any other Sacrament
of Holy Church. The people are stricken with terror, knowing that they share the curse with
you. They are massing below at the gates of the alcazar, demanding to see you that they may
implore you to lift from them the horror of this excommunication."

Affonso Henriques had come to his feet by now, and he stood there staring at the old knight,
his face blenched, his stout heart clutched by fear of these impalpable, blasting weapons that
were being used against him.

"My God!" he groaned, and asked: "What must I do?"

Moniz was preternaturally grave. "It is of the first importance that the people should be pacified."

"But how?"

"There is one way only--by a promise that you will submit to the will of the Holy Father, and
by penance seek absolution for yourself and your city."

A red flush swept into the young cheeks that had been so pale.

"What?" he cried, his voice a roar. "Release my mother, depose Zuleyman, recall that fugitive
recreant who cursed me, and humble myself to seek pardon at the hands of this insolent Italian
cleric? May my bones rot, may I roast for ever in hell-fire if I show myself such a craven!
And do you counsel it, Emigio--do you really counsel that?" He was in a towering rage.

"Listen to that voice," Emigio answered him, and waved a hand to the open window. "How else
will you silence it?"

Affonso Henriques sat down on the edge of the bed, and took his head in his hands. He was checkmated--and
yet....

He rose and beat his hands together, summoning chamberlain and pages to help him dress and arm.

"Where is the legate lodged?" he asked Moniz.

"He is gone," the knight answered him. "He left at cock-crow, taking the road to Spain along
the Mondego--so I learnt from the watch at the River Gate."

"How came they to open for him?"

"His office, lord, is a key that opens all doors at any hour of day or night. They dared not
detain or delay him."

"Ha!" grunted the Infante. "We will go after him, then." And he made haste to complete his
dressing. Then he buckled on his great sword, and they departed.

In the courtyard of the alcazar, he summoned Sancho Nunes and a half-dozen men-at-arms to attend
him, mounted a charger and with Emigio Moniz at his side and the others following, he rode
out across the draw-bridge into the open space that was thronged with the clamant inhabitants
of the stricken city.

A great cry went up when he showed himself--a mighty appeal to him for mercy and the remission
of the curse. Then silence fell, a silence that invited him to answer and give comfort.

He reined in his horse, and standing in his stirrups very tall and virile, he addressed them.

"People of Coimbra," he announced, "I go to obtain this city's absolution from the ban that
has been laid upon it. I shall return before sunset. Till then do you keep the peace."

The voice of the multitude was raised again, this time to hail him as the father and protector
of the Portuguese, and to invoke the blessing of Heaven upon his handsome head.

Riding between Moniz and Nunes, and followed by his glittering men-at-arms, he crossed the
city and took the road along the river by which it was known that the legate had departed.
All that morning they rode briskly amain, the Infante fasting, as he had risen, yet unconscious
of hunger and of all else but the purpose that was consuming him. He rode in utter silence,
his face set, his brows stern; and Moniz, watching him furtively the while, wondered what thoughts
were stirring in that rash, impetuous young brain, and was afraid.

Towards noon at last they overtook the legate's party. They espied his mule-litter at the door
of an inn in a little village some ten miles beyond the foothills of the Bussaco range. The
Infante reined up sharply, a hoarse, fierce cry escaping him, akin to that of some creature
of the wild when it espies its prey.

Moniz put forth a hand to seize his arm.

"My lord, my lord," he cried, fearfully. "What is your purpose?"

The prince looked him between the eyes, and his lips curled in a smile that was not altogether
sweet.

"I am going to beg Cardinal Corrado to have compassion on me," he answered, subtly mocking,
and on that he swung down from his horse, and tossed the reins to a man-at-arms.

Into the inn he clanked, Moniz and Nunes following closely. He thrust aside the vinter who,
not knowing him, would have hindered him, great lord though he seemed, from disturbing the
holy guest who was honouring the house. He strode on, and into the room where the Cardinal
with his noble nephews sat at dinner.

At sight of him, fearing violence, Giannino and Pierluigi came instantly to their feet, their
hands upon their daggers. But Cardinal da Corrado sat unmoved. He looked up, a smile of ineffable
gentleness upon his ascetic face.

"I had hoped that you would come after me, my son," he said. "If you come a penitent, then
has my prayer been heard."

"A penitent!" cried Affonso Henriques. He laughed wickedly, and plucked his dagger from its sheath.

Sancho Nunes, in terror, set a detaining hand upon his prince's arm.

"My lord," he cried in a voice that shook, "you will not strike the Lord's anointed--that were
to destroy yourself for ever."

"A curse," said Affonso Henriques, "perishes with him that uttered it." He could reason loosely,
you see, this hot-blooded, impetuous young cutter of Gordian knots. "And it imports above all
else that the curse should be lifted from my city of Coimbra."

"It shall be, my son, as soon as you show penitence and a Christian submission to the Holy
Father's will," said the undaunted Cardinal.

"God give me patience with you," Affonso Henriques answered him. "Listen to me now, lord Cardinal."
And he leaned forward on his dagger, burying the point of it some inches into the deal table.
"That you should punish me with the weapons of the Faith for the sins that you allege against
me I can understand and suffer. There is reason in that, perhaps. But will you tell me what
reasons there can be in punishing a whole city for an offence which, if it exists at all, is
mine alone?--and in punishing it by a curse so terrible that all the consolations of religion
are denied those true children of Mother Church, that no priestly office may be performed within
the city, that men and women may not approach the altars of the Faith, that they must die unshriven
with their sins upon them, and so be damned through all eternity? Where is the reason that
urges this?"

