LOVE'S PILGRIMAGE

A NOVEL

Upton Sinclair

NEW YORK AND LONDON

CONTENTS

PART I

Love's Entaglement

BOOK I    THE VICTIM BOOK II   THE SNARE BOOK III  THE VICTIM HESITATES BOOK IV   THE VICTIM
APPROACHES BOOK V    THE BAIT IS SEIZED BOOK VI   THE CORDS ARE TIGHTENED BOOK VII  THE CAPTURE
IS COMPLETED

PART II

Love's Captivity

BOOK VIII THE CAPTIVE BOUND BOOK IX   THE CAPTIVE IN LEASH BOOK X    THE END OF THE TETHER
BOOK XI   THE TORTURE-HOUSE BOOK XII  THE TREADMILL BOOK XIII THE MASTERS OF THE SNARE BOOK
XIV  THE PRICE OF RANSOM BOOK XV   THE CAPTIVE FAINTS BOOK XVI  THE BREAK FOR FREEDOM

LOVE'S PILGRIMAGE

PART I

Loves Entanglement

BOOK I

THE VICTIM

It was in a little woodland glen, with a streamlet tumbling through it. She sat with her back
to a snowy birch-tree, gazing into the eddies of a pool below; and he lay beside her, upon
the soft, mossy ground, reading out of a book of poems.

"Ah!" said she. "I always loved that. Let us be Corydon and Thyrsis!"

He smiled. "They were both of them men," he said.

"Let us change it," she responded--"just between ourselves!"

"Very well--Corydon!" said he.

Then, after a moment's thought, she added, "But we didn't have the cottage."

"No," said he--"nor even the dinner!"

Section 1. It was the Highway of Lost Men. They shivered, and drew their shoulders together
as they walked, for it was night, and a cold, sleety rain was falling. The lights from saloons
and pawn-shops fell upon their faces--faces haggard and gaunt with misery, or bloated with
disease and sin. Some stared before them fixedly; some gazed about with furtive and hungry
eyes as they shuffled on. Here and there a policeman stood in the shelter, swinging his club
and watching them as they passed. Music called to them from dives and dance-halls, and lighted
signs and flaring- colored pictures tempted them in the entrances of cheap museums and theatres;
they lingered before these, glad of even a moment's shelter. Overhead the elevated trains pounded
by; and from the windows one could see men crowded about the stoves in the rooms of lodging-houses,
where the steam from their garments made a blur in the air.

Down this highway walked a lad, about fifteen years of age, pale of face, and with delicate
and sensitive features. His overcoat was buttoned tightly about his neck, and his hands thrust
into his pockets; he gazed around him swiftly as he walked. He came to this place every now
and then, but he never grew used to what he saw.

He eyed the men who passed him; and when he came to a saloon he would push open the door and
gaze about. Sometimes he would enter, and hurry through, to peer into the compartments in the
back; and then go out again, giving a wide berth to the drinkers, and shrinking from their
glances. Once a girl appeared in a doorway, and smiled and nodded to him; he started and hurried
out, shuddering. Her wanton black eyes haunted him, hinting unimaginable things.

Then, on a corner, he stopped and spoke to a policeman. "Hello!" said the man, and shook his
head--"No, not this time." So the boy went on; there were several miles of this Highway, and
each block of it the same.

At last, in a dingy bar-room, with saw-dust strewn upon the floor, and the odor of stale beer
and tobacco-smoke in the air--here suddenly the boy sprang forward, with a cry: "Father!" And
a man who sat with bowed head in a corner gave a start, and lifted a white face and stared
at him. He rose unsteadily to his feet, and staggered to the other, and fell upon his shoulder,
sobbing, "My son! My son!"

How many times had Thyrsis heard those words--in how many hours of anguish! They sank into
the deeps of him, waking echoes like the clang of a bell: they voiced all the terror and grief
of defeated life--"My son! My son!"

The man clung to him, weeping, and pouring out the flood of his shame. "I have fallen again--I
am lost--I am lost!"

The occupants of the place were watching the scene with dull curiosity; and the boy was trembling
like a wild deer trapped.

"Yes, father, yes! Let us go home."

"Home--home, my son? Will you take me home? Oh, I couldn't bear to go!"

"But you must come home."

"Do you mean that you still love me, son?"

"Yes, father, I still love you. I want to try to help you. Come with me."

Then the boy would gaze about and ask, "Where is your hat?"

"Hat, my son? I don't know. I have lost it." The boy would see his torn and mud-stained clothing,
and the poor old pitiful face, with the eyes blood-shot and swollen, and the skin, that had
been rosy, and was now a ghastly, ashen gray. He would choke back his feelings, and grip his
hands to keep himself together.

"Come, father, take my hat, and let us go."

"No, my son. I don't need any hat. Nothing can hurt me--I am lost! Lost!"

So they would go out, arm in arm; and while they made their progress up the Highway, the man
would pour out his remorse, and tell the story of his weeks of horror.

Then, after a mile or so, he would halt.

"My son!"

"What is it, father?"

"I must stop here, son."

"Why, father?"

"I must have something to drink."

"No, father!"

"But, my boy, I can't go on! I can't walk! You don't know what I'm suffering!"

"No, father!"

"I've got the money left--I'm not asking you. I'll come right with you--on my word of honor
I will!"

And so they would fight it out--all the way back to the lodging-house where they lived, and
where the mother sat and wept. And here they would put him to bed, and lock up his clothing
to keep him in; and here, with drugs and mineral-waters, and perhaps a doctor to help, they
would struggle with him, and tend him until he was on his feet again. Then, with clothing newly-brushed
and face newly-shaven he would go back to the world of men; and the boy would go back to his
dreams.

Section 2. Such was the life of Thyrsis, from earliest childhood to maturity. His father's
was a heritage of gentle breeding and high traditions--his forefathers were cavaliers, and
had served the State. And now it had come to this--to hall bedrooms in lodging-houses, and
a life-and-death grapple with destruction! And when Thyrsis came to study the problem, he found
that it was a struggle without hope; his father was a man in a trap.

He was what people called a "drummer". He was dependent for his living upon the favor of certain
merchants--men for the most part of low ideals, who came to the city in search of their low
pleasures. One met them by waiting about in the lobbies of hotels, and in the bar-rooms which
they frequented; and always the first sign of fellowship with them was to have a drink. And
this was the field on which the battle had to be fought!

He would hold out for months--half a year, perhaps--drinking lemonade and putting up with their
raillery. And then he would begin with ginger-ale; and then it would come to beer; and then
to whiskey. He was always devising new plans to control himself; always persuading himself
that he had solved the problem. He would not drink in the morning; he would not drink until
after dinner; he would not drink alone--and so on without end. His whole life was drink, and
all his thoughts were of drink--the odor of it always in his nostrils, the image of it always
before his eyes.

And the grimness of his fate lay here--that it was by his best qualities that he was betrayed.
If he had been hard and mercenary, like some of those who preyed upon him, there might have
been hope. But he was generous and free-hearted, a slave to his impulses of friendship. And
this was what made the struggle such a cruel one to Thyrsis; it was like the sight of some
noble animal basely snared.

From his earliest days the boy had watched these forces working themselves out. The gentleman
and the "drummer" fought for supremacy, and step by step the soul of the man was fashioned
to the work he did. To succeed with his customers he must share their ideas and their tastes;
and so he was bitter against reformers, who interfered with the gaieties of the city, with
no consideration for the tastes of "buyers." But then, on the other hand, would come a time
of renunciation, when he would be all enthusiasm for temperance.

He was full of old-fashioned ideas, which would take the quaintest turns of reactionism; his
politics were summed up in the phrase that he "would rather vote for a nigger than a Republican";
but then, in the same breath, he would announce some fine and noble sentiment, out of the traditions
of a forgotten past. He was the soul of courtesy to women, and of loyalty to friends. He worshipped
General Lee and the old time "Virginia gentleman"; and those with whom he lived, and for whose
unclean profits he sold himself, never guessed the depths of his contempt for all they stood
for. They had the dollars, they were on top; but some day the nemesis of Good-breeding would
smite them--the army of the ghosts of Gentility would rise, and with "Marse Robert" and "Jeb"
Stuart at their head, would sweep away the hordes of commercialdom.

Thyrsis saw a great deal of this forgotten chivalry. His nursery had been haunted by such musty
phantoms; and when he first came to the Northern city, he stayed at a hotel which was frequented
by people who lived in this past--old ladies who were proud and prim, and old gentlemen who
were quixotic and humorous, young ladies who were "belles," and young gentlemen who aspired
to be "blades". It was a world that would have made happy the soul of any writer of romances;
but to Thyrsis in earliest childhood the fates had given the gift of seeing beneath the shams
of things, and to him this dead Aristocracy cried out loudly for burial. There was an incredible
amount of drunkenness, and of debauchery scarcely hidden; there was pretense strutting like
a peacock, and avarice skulking like a hound; there were jealousy, and base snobbery, and raging
spite, and a breath of suspicion and scandal hanging like a poisonous cloud over everything.
These people came and went, an endless procession of them; they laughed and danced and gossiped
and drank their way through the boy's life, and unconsciously he judged them, and hated them
and feared them. It was not by such that his destiny was to be shaped.

Most of them were poor; not an honest poverty, but a sham and artificial poverty--the inability
to dress as others did, and to lose money at "bridge" and "poker", and to pay the costs of
their self-indulgences. As for Thyrsis and his parents, they always paid what they owed; but
they were not always able to pay it when they owed it, and they suffered all the agonies and
humiliations of those who did not pay at all. There was scarcely ever a week when this canker
of want did not gnaw at them; their life was one endless and sordid struggle to make last year's
clothing look like new, and to find some boarding-house that was cheaper and yet respectable.
There was endless wrangling and strife and worry over money; and every year the task was harder,
the standards lower, the case more hopeless.

There were rich relatives, a world of real luxury up above--the thing that called itself "Society".
And Thyrsis was a student and a bright lad, and he was welcome there; he might have spread
his wings and flown away from this sordidness. But duty held him, and love and memory held
him still tighter. For his father worshipped him, and craved his help; to the last hour of
his dreadful battle, he fought to keep his son's regard--he prayed for it, with tears in his
eyes and anguish in his voice. And so the boy had to stand by. And that meant that he grew
up in a torture-house, he drank a cup of poison to its bitter dregs. To others his father was
merely a gross little man, with sordid ideas and low tastes; but to Thyrsis he was a man with
the terror of the hunted creatures in his soul, and the furies of madness cracking their whips
about his ears.

There was only one ending possible--it worked itself out with the remorseless precision of
a machine. The soul that fought was smothered and stifled, its voice grew fainter and feebler;
the agony and the shame grew hotter, the suffering more cruel, the despair more black. Until
at last they found him in a delirium, and took him to a private hospital; and thither went
Thyrsis, now grown to be a man, and sat in a dingy reception-room, and a dingy doctor came
to him and said, "Do you wish to see the body?" And Thyrsis answered, in a low voice, "No."

Section 3. So it was that the soul of this lad had grown sombre, and taken to brooding upon
the mysteries of fate. Life was no jest and no holiday, it was no place for shams and self-deceptions.
It was a place where cruel enemies set traps for the unwary; a field where blind and merciless
forces ranged, unhindered by man or God.

Thyrsis could not have told how soon in life this sense had come to him. In his earliest childhood
he had known that his father was preyed upon, just as certainly as any wild thing in the forest.
At first the enemies had been saloon-keepers, and wicked men who tempted him to drink with
them. The names of these men were household words to him, portents of terror; they peopled
his imagination as epic figures, such as Black Douglas must have been to the children of the
Northern Border.

But then, with widening intelligence, it became certain social forces, at first dimly apprehended.
It was the god of "business"--before which all things fair and noble went down. It was "business"
that kept vice triumphant in the city; it was because of "business" that the saloons could
not be closed even on Sunday, so that the father might be at home one day in seven. And was
it not in search of "business" that he was driven forth to loaf in hotel-lobbies and bar-rooms?

Who was to blame for this, Thyrsis did not know; but certain men made profit of it--and these,
too, were ignoble men. He knew this; for now and then his father's employers would honor the
little family with some kind of an invitation, and they would have to swallow their pride and
go. So Thyrsis grew up, with the sense of a great evil loose in the world; a wrong, of which
the world did not know. And within him grew a passionate longing to cry aloud to others, to
open their eyes to this truth!

Outwardly he was like other boys, eager and cheerful, even boisterous; but within was this
hidden thing, which brooded and questioned. Life had made him into an ascetic. He must be stern,
even merciless, with himself--because of the fear that was in him, and in his mother as well.
The fear that self-indulgence might lay its grisly paws upon him! The fear that he, too, might
fall into the trap!

It was not merely that he never touched stimulants; he had an instinct against all things that
were softening and enervating, all things that tempted and enslaved. For him was the morning-air,
and the shock of cold water, and the hardness of the wild things of the open. Other people
did not feel this way; other people pampered themselves and defiled themselves--and so Thyrsis
went apart. He lived quite alone with his thoughts, he had never a chum, scarcely even any
friends. Where in the long procession of lodging and boarding-houses and summer-resorts should
he meet people who knew what he knew about life? Where in all the world should he meet them,
save in the books of great men in times past?

There was not much of what is called "culture" in his family; no music at all, and no poetry.
But there were novels, and there were libraries where one could get more of these, so Thyrsis
became a devourer of stories; he would disappear, and they would find him at meal-times, hidden
in a clump of bushes, or in a corner behind a sofa--anywhere out of the world. He read whole
libraries of adventure: Mayne-Reid and Henty, and then Cooper and Stevenson and Scott. And
then came more serious novels--"Don Quixote" and "Les Miserables," George Eliot, whom he loved,
and Dickens, whose social protest thrilled him; and chiefest of all Thackeray, who moulded
his thought. Thackeray knew the world that he knew, Thackeray saw to the heart of it; and no
high-souled lad who had read him and worshipped him was ever after to be lured by the glamor
of the "great" world--a world whose greatness was based upon selfishness and greed.

Thyrsis knew no foreign language, and fate or instinct kept him from those writers who jested
with uncleanness; so he was virginal, and pure in all his imaginings. Other lads exchanged
confidences in forbidden things, they broke down the barriers and tore away the veils; but
Thyrsis had never breathed a word about matters of sex to any living creature. He pondered
and guessed, but no one knew his thoughts; and this was a crucial thing, the secret of much
of his aloofness.

Section 4. In one of the early boarding-houses there had been a little girl, and the families
had become intimate. But the two children disliked each other, and kept apart all they could.
Thyrsis was domineering and imperious, and things must always be his way. He was given to rebellion,
whereas Corydon was gentle and meek, and submitted to confinements and prohibitions in a quite
disgraceful manner. She was a pretty little girl, with great black eyes; and because she was
silent and shy, he set her down as "stupid", and went his way.

They spent a summer in the country together, where Thyrsis possessed himself of a sling-shot,
and took to collecting the skins of squirrels and chipmunks. Corydon was horrified at this;
and by way of helping her to overcome her squeamishness he would make her carry home the bleeding
corpses. He took to raising, young birds, also, and soon had quite an aviary--two robins, and
a crow, and a survivor from a brood of "cherry-birds." The feeding of these nestlings was no
small task, but Thyrsis went fishing when the spirit moved him, secure in the certainty that
the calls of the hungry creatures would keep Corydon at home.

This was the way of it, until Corydon began to blossom into a young lady, beautiful and tenderly-fashioned.
Thyrsis still saw her now and then, and he made attempts to share his higher joys with her.
He had become a lover of poetry; once they walked by the seashore, and he read her "Alexander's
Feast", thrilling with delight in its resounding phrases:

   "Break his bands of sleep asunder,
    And rouse him like a rattling peal of thunder!"

But Corydon had never heard of Timotheus, and she had not been taught to exploit her emotions.
She could only say that she did not understand it very well.

And then, on another occasion, Thyrsis endeavored to tell her about Berkeley, whom he had been
reading. But Corydon did not take to the sensational philosophy either; she would come back
again and again to the evasion of old Dr. Johnson--"When I kick a stone, I know the stone is
there!"

This girl was like a beautiful flower, Thyrsis told himself--like all the flowers that had
gone before her, and all those that would come after, from generation to generation. She fitted
so perfectly into her environment, she grew so calmly and serenely; she wore pretty dresses,
and helped to serve tea, and was graceful and sweet--and with never an idea that there was
anything in life beyond these things. So Thyrsis pondered as he went his way, complacent over
his own perspicacity; and got not even a whiff of smoke from the volcano of rebellion and misery
that was seething deep down in her soul!

The choosers of the unborn souls had played a strange fantasy here; they had stolen one of
the daughters of ancient Greece, and set her down in this metropolis of commercialdom. For
Corydon might have been Nausikaa herself; she might have marched in the Panathenaic procession,
with one of the sacred vessels in her hands; she might have run in the Attic games, bare-limbed
and fearless. Hers was a soul that leaped to the call of joy, that thrilled at the faintest
touch of beauty. Above all else, she was born for music--she could have sung so that the world
would have remembered it. And she was pent in a dingy boarding-house, with no point of contact
with anything about her--with no human soul to whom she could whisper her despair!

They sent her to a public-school, where the sad-eyed drudges of the traders came to be drilled
for their tasks. They harrowed her with arithmetic and grammar, which she abhorred; they taught
her patriotic songs, about a country to which she did not belong. And also, they sent her to
Sunday-school, which was worse yet. She had the strangest, instinctive hatred of their religion,
with all that it stood for. The sight of a clergyman with his vestments and his benedictions
would make her fairly bristle with hostility. They talked to her about her sins, and she did
not know what they meant; they pried into the state of her soul, and she shrunk from them as
if they had been hairy spiders. Here, too, they taught her to sing--droning hymns that were
a mockery of all the joys of life.

So Corydon devoured her own heart in secret; and in time a dreadful thing came to happen--the
stagnant soul beginning to fester. One day the girl, whose heart was the quintessence of all
innocence, happened to see a low word scribbled upon a fence. And now--they had urged her to
discover sins, and she discovered them. Suppose that word were to stay in her mind and haunt
her--suppose that she were not able to forget it, try as she would! And of course she tried;
and the more she tried, the less she succeeded; and so came the discovery that she was a lost
soul and a creature of depravity! The thought occurred to her, that she might go on to think
of other words, and to think of images and actions as well; she might be unable to forget any
of them--her mind might become a storehouse of such horrors! And so the maiden out of ancient
Greece would lie awake all night and wrestle with fiends, until she was bathed in a perspiration.

Section 5. About this time Thyrsis was making his debut as an author. He had discovered a curious
knack in himself, a turn for making verses of a sort which were pleasing to children. They
came from some little corner of his consciousness, he scarcely knew how; but there was a paper
that was willing to buy them, and to pay him the princely sum of five dollars a week! This
would pay for his food and his hall bedroom, or for board at some farm in the summer; and so
for several years Thyrsis was free.

He told a falsehood about his age, and entered college, and buried himself up to the eyes in
work. This was a college in a city, and a poor college, where the students all lived at home,
and had nothing to do but study; and so Thyrsis missed all that beneficent illumination known
as "student-life." He never hurrahed at foot-ball contests, nor did he dress himself in honorific
garments, nor stupify himself at "smokers." Being democratic, and without thought of setting
himself up over others, he was unaware of his greatest opportunities, and when they invited
him into a fraternity, he declined. Once or twice he found himself roaming the streets at night
with a crowd of students, emitting barbaric screechings; but this made him feel silly, and
so he lagged behind and went home.

The college served its purpose, in introducing him to the world of knowledge; but that did
not take long, and afterwards it was all in his way. The mathematics were a discipline, and
in them he rejoiced as a strong man to run a race; and this was true also of the sciences,
and of history--the only trouble was that he would finish the text-books in the first few weeks,
and after that there was nothing to do save to compose verses in class, and to make sketches
of the professors. But as for the "languages" and the "literatures" they taught him--in the
end Thyrsis came to forgive them, because he saw that they did not know what languages and
literatures were. On this account he took to begging leave of absence on grounds of his poverty;
and then he would go home and spend his days and nights in learning.

One could get so much for so little, in this wonderful world of mind! For eight cents he picked
up a paper volume of Emerson's "Essays"; and in this shrewd and practical nobility was so much
that he was seeking in life! And then he stumbled upon a fifteen-cent edition of "Sartor Resartus",
and took that home and read it. It was like the clash of trumpets and cymbals to him; it made
his whole being leap. Hour after hour he read, breathless, like a man bewitched, the whole
night through. He would cry aloud with delight, or drop the book and pound his knee and laugh
over the demoniac power of it. The next day he began the "French Revolution"; and after that,
alas, he found there was no more--for Carlyle had turned his back upon democracy, and so Thyrsis
turned his back upon Carlyle.

For this was one of the forces which had had to do with the shaping of his thought. Beginning
in the public-schools he had learned about his country--the country which was his, if not Corydon's.
He had read in its history--Irving's "Life of Washington," and ten great volumes about Lincoln;
so he had come to understand that salvation is of the people, and that those things which the
people do not do--those things have not yet been done. So no one could deceive him, or lead
him astray; he might laugh with the Tories, and even love them for their foibles--quaint old
Samuel Johnson, for instance, because he was poor and sturdy, and had stood by his trade of
bookman; but at bottom Thyrsis knew that all these men were gilding a corpse. Wordsworth and
Tennyson, Browning and Swinburne --he followed each one as far as their revolutionary impulse
lasted; and after that there was no more in them for him. Even Ruskin, who taught him the possibilities
of English prose, and opened his eyes to the form and color of the world of nature--even Ruskin
he gave up, because he was a philanthropist and not a democrat.

Thyrsis had been brought up as a devout Episcopalian. They had dressed him in scarlet and white
to carry the train of the bishop at confirmation, and had sent him to an afternoon service
every day throughout Lent. Early in life he had stumbled on a paper copy of Paine's "Age of
Reason," and he read it with horror, and then conducted a private auto da fe. But the questions
of the book stayed with him, and as years passed they clamored more loudly. What would have
happened, astronomically, if the sun had stood still? And how many different species would
have had to go into the ark? And what was the size of a whale's gullet, and the probable digestive
powers of a whale's stomach?

And then came more fundamental difficulties. Could there, after all, be such a duty as faith
in any intellectual matter? Could there be any revelation superior to reason--must not reason
have once decided that it was a revelation, or was not? And what of all the other "revelations",
which all the other peoples of the world accepted? And then again, if Jesus had been God, could
he really have been tempted? To be God and man at the same time--did that not mean both to
know and not to know? And was there any way conceivable for anything to be God, in which everything
else was not God?

These perplexities and many others the boy took to his clerical adviser, a man who loved him
dearly, and who gave him some volumes of the "Bampton lectures" to read. Here was the defense
of Christianity, conducted by authorities, and with scholarship and dignity; and Thyrsis found
to his dismay that the only convincing parts of their books were where they gave a resume of
the arguments of their opponents. He learned in this way many difficulties that had not yet
occurred to him; and when he had got through with the reading his mind was made up. If any
man were to be damned for not believing such things, then it was his duty as a thinker to be
damned; and so he bade farewell to the Church--something which was sad, in a way, for his mother
had been planning him for a bishop!

Section 6. But Thyrsis was throwing away many chances these days. He went into the higher regions
to spend his Christmas holidays; and instead of being tactful and agreeable, he buried himself
in a corner of the library all day long. For Thyrsis had made the greatest discovery yet--he
had found out Shakespeare! At school they had taught him "English" by means of "to be or not
to be", and they had sought to trap him at examinations by means of "man's first disobedience
and the fruit"; and so for years they had held him back from the two great glories of our literature.
But now, by accident, he stumbled into "The Tempest"; and after that he read every line of
the plays in two weeks.

He lost his soul in that wonderland; he walked and thought no more like the men of earth--he
dwelt with those lords and princes of the soul, and learned to speak their language.

There were a few days left in those wondrous holidays; and these went to Milton. There was
a set of his works, enormously expensive, which had been made and purchased with no idea that
any human being would ever read them. But Thyrsis read them, and so all the beauty of the binding
was justified.

And afterwards, when he came to the palace that "rose like an exhalation", all of Thyrsis'
soul rose with it. One summer's day he stood on a high mountain with a railroad in the valley,
and saw a great freight-engine stop still and pour out its masses of dense black smoke. It
rose in the breathless air, straight as a column, high and majestic; and Thyrsis thought of
that line. It carried him out into the heavens, and he knew that a flash of poetry such as
that is the meeting of man's groping hand with God's.

It was about here that a strange adventure came to him. It was midwinter, and he went out,
long after midnight, to walk in a beautiful garden. A dry powdery snow crunched beneath his
feet, and overhead the stars gleamed and quivered, so bright that he felt like stretching out
his hands to them. The world lay still, and awful in its beauty; and here suddenly, unsuspected--unheralded,
and quite unsought--there came to Thyrsis a strange and portentous experience, the first of
his ecstasies.

He could not have told whether he walked or sat down, whether he spoke or was silent; he lost
all sense of his own existence--his consciousness was given up to the people of his dreams,
the companions and lovers of his fancy. The cold and snow were gone, and there was a moonlit
glade in a forest; and thither they came, one by one, friendly and human, yet in the full panoply
of their splendor and grace. There were Shelley and Milton, and the gentle and troubled Hamlet,
and the sorrowful knight of la Mancha, with the irrepressible Falstaff to hearten them all;
a strangely-assorted company, yet royal spirits all of them, and no strangers to each other
in their own world. And here they gathered and conversed, each in his own vein and from his
own impulse, with gracious fancy and lofty vision and heart-easing mirth. And ah, how many
miles would one have travelled to be with them!

That was the burden which this gift laid upon Thyrsis. He soon discovered that these visions
of wonder came but once, and that when they were gone, they were gone forever. And he must
learn to grapple with them as they fled, to labor with them and to hold them fast, at the cost
of whatever heartbreaking strain. Thus alone could men have even the feeblest reflexion of
their beauty--upon which to feed their souls forever after.

Section 7. These things came at the same time as another development in Thyrsis' life, likewise
portentous and unexpected. Boyhood was gone, and manhood had come. There was a bodily change
taking place in him--he became aware of it with a start, and with the strangest and most uncomfortable
thrills. He did not know what to make of it, or what to do about it; nor did he know where
to turn for advice.

He tried to put it aside, as a thing of no importance. But it would not be put aside--it was
of vast importance. He discovered new desires in himself, impulses that dominated him in a
most disturbing way. He found that he took a new interest in women and young girls; he wanted
to linger near them, and their glances caused him strange emotions. He resented this, as an
invasion of his privacy; it was inconsistent with his hermit-instinct. Thyrsis wished no women
in his life save the muses with their star-sewn garments. He had been fond of a line from a
sonnet to Milton:

   "Thy soul was like a Star, and dwelt apart."

But instead of this, what awful humiliations! In a summer-resort where he found himself, there
was a girl of not very gentle breeding, somewhat pudgy and with a languishing air. She liked
to have boys snuggle down by her; and so Thyrsis spent the whole of one evening, sitting in
a summer-house with an arm about her waist, dissolved in a sort of moon-calf sentimentalism.
And then he passed the rest of the night wandering about in the forest cursing himself, with
tears of shame and vexation in his eyes.

He was so ignorant about these matters that he did not even know if the changes that had taken
place in him were normal, or whether they were doing him harm. He made up his mind that he
must have advice; as it was unthinkable that he should speak about such shameful things with
any grown person, he bethought himself of a classmate in college who was an earnest and sober
man. This friend, much older than Thyrsis, was the son of an evangelical clergyman, and was
headed for the ministry himself. His name was Warner, and Thyrsis had helped him in arranging
for some religious meetings at the college. Warner had been shocked by his theological irregularities;
but they were still friends, and now Thyrsis sought a chance to exchange confidences with him.

The opportunity came while they were strolling down an avenue near the college, and a woman
passed them, a woman with bold and hard features, and obviously-painted cheeks. She smiled
at a group of students just ahead, and one of them turned and walked off arm in arm with her.

"Good heavens!" exclaimed Warner. "Did you see that?"

"Yes," said Thyrsis. "Who is she?"

"She comes from a house just around the corner."

"But who is she?"

"Why--she's a street-walker."

"A street-walker!"

This brought to Thyrsis' mind a problem that had been haunting him for a year or two. Always
when he walked about the streets at night there were women who smiled at him and whispered.
And he knew that these were bad women, and shrunk from them. But just what did they mean?

"What does she do?" he asked again.

"Why, don't you know what a street-walker is?"

"Not very well," said Thyrsis.

It took some time for him to get the desired information, because the other could not realize
the depths of his ignorance. "They sell themselves to men," he said.

"But what for?" asked Thyrsis. "You don't mean that they--they let them---"

"They have intercourse together. Of course."

Thyrsis was almost dumb with dismay. "But I should think they would have children!" he exclaimed.

"Good Lord, man!" laughed the other. "Where do you keep yourself, anyway?"

But Thyrsis was too much shaken to think of being ashamed. This was a most appalling revelation
to him--it opened quite a new vista of life's possibilities.

"But why should they do such things?" he cried.

"They earn their living that way," said the other.

"But why that way?"

"I don't know. They are that kind of women, I suppose."

And so Warner went on to expound to him the facts of prostitution, and all the abysses of human
depravity that lie thereabouts. And incidentally the boy got a chance to ask his questions,
and to get a common-sense view of his perplexities. Also he got some understanding of human
nature, and of the world in which he lived.

Here was Warner, a man of twenty-four, and of a devout, if somewhat dull and plodding conscientiousness;
and the last eight or nine years of his' life had been one torment because of the cravings
of lust. He had never committed an act of unchastity--or at least he told Thyrsis that he had
not. But he was never free from the impulse, and he had no conception of the possibility of
being free. His desire was a purely brute one--untouched by any intellectual or spiritual,
or even any sentimental color. He desired woman, as woman--it mattered not what woman. How
low his impulses took him Thyrsis realized with a shudder from one remark that he made--that
his poverty did not help him to live virtuously, for about the docks and in the workingmen's
quarters there were women who would sell themselves for fifty cents a night.

This man's whole life was determined by that craving; in fact it seemed to Thyrsis that his
God had made the universe with relation to it--a heaven to reward him if he abstained, and
a hell to punish him if he yielded. It was because of this that he clung to the church, and
shrunk from any dallying with "rationalism". He disapproved of the theatre, because it appealed
to these cravings; he disapproved of all pictures and statues of the nude human form, because
the sight of them overmastered him. For the same reason he shrunk from all impassioned poetry,
and from dancing, and even from non-religious music. He was rigid in his conformance to all
the social conventions, because they served the purpose of saving him and his young women-friends
from temptation; and he looked forward to the completion of a divinity-course as his goal,
because then he would be able to settle down and marry, and so at last to gratify his desires.
He stated this quite baldly, quoting the authority of St. Paul, that it was "better to marry
than to burn."

This conversation brought Thyrsis to a realization that there was a great deal in the world
that was not found in the poetry of Tennyson and Longfellow; and so he began to pry into the
souls of others of his fellow-students.

Section 8. Warner had given him the religious attitude; and now he went after the scientific.
There was a tall, eager-faced young man, who proclaimed himself a disciple of Haeckel and Herbert
Spencer, and even went so far as to quote Schopenhauer in class. Walking home together one
day, these two fell to arguing the freedom of the will, and the nature of motives and desires,
and what power one has over them; and so Thyrsis made the startling discovery that this young
man, having accepted the doctrine of "determinism," had drawn therefrom the corollary that
he had to do what he wanted to do, and so was powerless to resist his sex-impulses. For the
past year this youth, a fine, intellectual and honest student, had gone at regular intervals
to visit a prostitute; and with entirely scientific and cold-blooded precision he outlined
to Thyrsis the means he took to avoid contracting disease. Thyrsis listened, feeling as he
might have felt in a slaughter-house; and when, returning to the deterministic hypothesis,
he asked how it was that he had managed to escape this "necessity", he was told that it must
be because he was of a weaker and less manly constitution.

And there was yet another type: a man with whom there was no difficulty in bringing up the
subject, for the reason that he was always bringing it up himself. Thyrsis sat next to him
in a class in Latin, and noticed that whenever the text contained any hint at matters of sex--which
was not infrequent in Juvenal and Horace-- this man would look at him with a grin and a sly
wink. And sometimes Thyrsis would make a casual remark in conversation, and the man would twist
it out of its meaning, or make a pun out of it--to find some excuse for his satyr's leer. So
at last Thyrsis was moved to say to him--"Don't you ever realize what a state you've got your
mind into?"

"How do you mean?" asked the man.

"Why, everything in the world seems to suggest obscenity to you. You're always looking for
it and always finding it--you don't seem to care about anything else."

The other was interested in that view of it, and he acknowledged with mild amusement that it
was true; apparently it was a novelty to him to discuss such matters seriously. He told Thyrsis
that he could not remember having ever restrained a sexual impulse in his life. He thought
of lust in connection with every woman he met, and his mind was a storehouse of smut. And yet
he was not a bad fellow, in other ways; he handsome, and a good deal of an athlete, and was
planning to be a physician. "You'll find most all the fellows are the same," he said.

Not long after this, Thyrsis was selected to represent his college on a debating-team, and
he went away to another city and was invited to a fraternity-house; and here, suddenly, he
discovered how much of "college-life" he had been missing. This was a fashionable university,
and he met the sons of wealthy parents. About a score of them lived in this fraternity-house,
without any sort of supervision or restraint. They ate in a beautiful oak-panelled dining-room
adorned with drinking-steins; and throughout the meal they treated their visitor to such an
orgy of obscenity as he had never dreamed of in his life before. Thyrsis was trapped and could
not get away; and it seemed to him when he rose from the table that there was nothing left
clean in all God's universe. These boys appeared to vie with each other in blasphemous abandonment;
and it was not simply wantonness--it was sprawling and disgusting filthiness.

One of this group took Thyrsis driving, and was led to talk. Here was a youth whose father
was the president of a great manufacturing-enterprise, and supplied him with unlimited funds;
which money the boy used to divert himself in the pursuit of young women. Sometimes he had
stooped so low as manicure-girls and shop-clerks and stenographers; but for the most part he
sought actresses and chorus-girls--they had more intelligence and spirit, he explained, they
were harder to win. He had his way with them, partly because he was handsome and clever, but
mainly because he was the keeper of the keys of opportunity. It was his to dispense auto-rides
and champagne-suppers, and flowers and jewels, and all things else that were desirable in life.

Thyrsis was appalled at the hardness and the utter ruthlessness of this man--he saw him as
a young savage turned loose to prey in a civilized community. He had the most supreme contempt
for his victims--that was what they were made for, and he paid them their price. Nor was this
just because they were women, it was a matter of class; the young man had a mother and sisters,
to whom he applied quite other standards. But Thyrsis found himself wondering how long, with
this contagion raging among the fathers and the sons, it would be possible to keep the mothers
and the daughters sterilized.

Section 9. These discoveries came one by one; but Thyrsis saw enough at the outset to make
it clear that the time had come for him to gird up his loins. The choice of Hercules was before
him; and he did not intend that the course of his life was to be decided by these cravings
of the animal within him.

From the grosser sorts of temptation he was always saved by the fastidiousness of his temperament;
the thought of a woman who sold herself for money could never bring him anything but shuddering.
But all about his lodging-house lived the daughters of the poor, and these were a snare for
his feet. It seemed to him as if this craving came to a man in regular pulses; he could go
for weeks, serene and happy in his work--and then suddenly would come the restlessness, and
he would go out into the night and wander about the streets for hours, impelled by a futile
yearning for he knew not what--the hope of something clean in the midst of uncleanliness, of
some adventure that would be not quite shameful to a poet's fancy. And then, after midnight,
he would steal home, baffled and sick at heart, and wet his pillow with hot and bitter tears!

So unbearable to him was the thought of such perils that he was impelled to seek his old friend
the clergyman, who had lost him over the ancient Hebrew mythologies, and now won him back by
his living moral force. With much embarrassment and stammering Thyrsis managed to give a hint
of what troubled him; and the man, whose life was made wholly of love for others, opened his
great heart and took Thyrsis in.

He told him of his own youthful struggle--a struggle which had resulted in victory, for he
had never known a woman. And he put all the facts before the boy, made clear to him the all-determining
importance of the issue:

   "Choose well, your choice is
    Brief and yet endless!"

On the one hand was slavery and degradation and disease; and on the other were all the heights
of the human spirit. For if one saved and stored this mighty sex-energy, it became transmuted
to the gold of intellectual and emotional power. Such was the universal testimony of the masters
of the higher life--

   "My strength is as the strength of ten
    Because my heart is pure."

And this was no blind asceticism; it was simply a choosing of the best. It was not a denial
of love, but on the contrary a consecration of love. Some day Thyrsis would meet the woman
he was to cleave to, and he would expect her to come to him a virgin; and he must honor her
as much--he must save the fire and fervor of his young desire for his life's great consummation.

Such was the ideal; and these two men made a compact between them, that once every month Thyrsis
would write and tell of his success or failure. And this amateur confessional was a mighty
motive to the lad--he knew that he could never tell a lie, and the thought of telling the truth
was like a sword hanging over him. There were hours of trial, when he stood so close to the
edge of the precipice that this alone was what kept him clear.

Section 10. The summer had come, and Thyrsis had gone away to live in a country village, and
was reading Keats and Shelley, and the narrative poems of Scott. There came a soft warm evening,
when all the world seemed a-dream; and he had been working hard, and there came to him a yearning
for the stars. He went out, and was strolling through the streets of the village, when he saw
a girl come out of one of the houses. She was younger than he, graceful of form, and pretty.
The lamp-light flashed on her bright cheeks, and she smiled at him as she passed. And Thyrsis'
heart gave a great leap, and the blood surged to his face; he turned and looked, and saw that
she was gazing over her shoulder at him.

He stopped, and turned to follow, his meditations all gone, and gone his resolutions. A trembling
seized him, and every nerve of him tingled. He could feel his heart as if it were underneath
his throat.

In a moment more he was beside the girl. "May I join you?" he asked, and she replied with a nod.

Thyrsis moved beside her and took her arm in his. A moment later they came to a place where
the road was dark, and he put his arm about her waist; she made no resistance.

"I--I've seen you often before," she said.

"Yes," he replied, "I have seen you." And he suddenly remembered a remark that he had heard
about her. There was a large summer-hotel in this neighborhood, which as usual had brought
all the corruptions of the city in its train; and a youth whom Thyrsis had met there had pointed
out the girl with the remark, "She's a little beast."

And this idea, as it came to him, swept him away in a fierce tide of madness; he bent suddenly
down and whispered into her ear. They were words that never in Thyrsis' life had passed his
lips before.

The girl pushed him away; but she laughed.

"You don't mind, do you?" exclaimed Thyrsis, his heart thumping like a hammer.

"Listen," he whispered, bending towards her. "Let us go and take a walk. Let us go where no
one will see us."

"Where?" she asked.

"Out into the country," he said.

"Not now," she replied. "Some other time."

"No, now!" exclaimed Thyrsis, desperately. "Now!"

They had been moving slowly; they came to a place where a great tree hung over the road, shadowing
it; and there they stopped, as by one impulse.

"Listen to me," he whispered, swiftly. "Listen. You don't know how anxious I have been to meet
you. It's true--indeed it's true!"

He paused. "Yes," said the girl, "and I have been wanting to meet you. Didn't you ever see
me nod to you?"

And suddenly Thyrsis put his arms about her, and pressed her to him. The touch of her bosom
sent the blood driving through his veins in torrents of fire; he no longer knew or cared what
he said, or what he did.

"Listen to me," he raced on. "Listen to me! Nobody will know! And you are so beautiful, so
beautiful! I love you!" The words burned his lips, but he forced himself to say them, again
and again--"I love you!"

The girl was gazing around her nervously. "Not now," she exclaimed. "Not to-night. To-morrow
I will meet you, to-morrow night, and go with you."

"No," cried Thyrsis, "not to-morrow night, but now!" And he clasped her yet more tightly, with
all his strength. "Listen," he panted, his breath on her cheek. "I love you! I cannot wait
till to-morrow-- I could not bear it. I am all on fire! I should not know what to do!"

The girl gazed about her again in uncertainty, and Thyrsis swept on in his swift, half-incoherent
exclamations. He would take no refusal; for half his madness was terror of himself, and he
knew it. And then suddenly, as he cried out to her, the girl whispered, faintly, "All right!"
And his heart gave a throb that hurt him.

"I'll tell you," she went on, hastily, "I was going to the store for something, and they expect
me home. But wait here till I get back, and then I'll go with you."

"You mean it?" whispered Thyrsis. "You mean it?"

"Yes, yes," she answered.

"And it will be soon?"

"Yes, soon."

"All right," said he. "But first give me a kiss." As she held up her face, Thyrsis pressed
her to him, and kissed her again and again, until her cheeks were aflame. At last he released
her, and she turned swiftly and darted up the street.

Section 11. And after she was gone the boy stood there motionless, not stirring even a hand.
A full minute passed, and the color went out of his cheeks, and the fire out of his veins,
and he could hardly stand erect. His head sunk lower and lower, until suddenly he whispered
hoarsely, under his breath, "Oh, my God! Oh, my God!"

He looked up at the sky, his face ghastly white; and there came from his throat a low moan,
like that of a wounded animal. Suddenly he turned, and fled away down the street.

He went on and on, block after block; but then, all at once, he stopped again and faced about.
He gripped his hands until the nails cut him, and shut his teeth together like a steel-trap.
"No, no!" he muttered. "No--you coward!"

He turned and began to march, grimly, as a soldier might; he went back, and stopped on the
spot from which he had come; and there he stood, like a statue. So one minute passed, then
another; and at last a shadow moved in the distance, and a step came near. It was the girl.

"Here I am," she whispered, laughing.

"Yes," said Thyrsis. "I have something I must say to you, please."

She noticed the change in a flash, and she stopped. "What's the matter?"

"I don't know just how to tell you," said Thyrsis, in a low, quivering voice. "I've been a
hound, and now I don't want to be a cad. But I'm sorry for what we were talking about."

"You mean what you were talking about, don't you?" demanded the girl, her eyes flashing.

Thyrsis dropped his glance. "Yes," he said. "I am a cur. I beg your pardon. I am so ashamed
of myself that I don't know what to do. But, oh, I was crazy. I couldn't help it! and I--I'm
so sorry!" There were tears in his voice.

"Humph," said the girl, "it's all right."

"No," said Thyrsis, "it's all wrong. It's dreadful--it's horrible. I don't know what I should
have done---"

"Well, you better not do it any more, that's all," said she. "I'm sure you needn't worry about
me--I'll take care of myself."

Thyrsis looked at her again; she was no longer beautiful. Her face was coarse, and her anger
did not make it any better. His humility made no impression.

"It is so wrong---" he began; but she interrupted him.

"Preaching won't help it any," she said. "I don't want to hear it. Good-bye."

So she turned and walked away; and Thyrsis stood there, white, and shuddering, until at last
he started and strode off. Clear through the town he went, and out into the black country beyond,
seeing nothing, caring about nothing. He flung himself down by the roadside, and lay there
moaning for hours: "My God, my God, what shall I do?"

Section 12. It was nearly morning when he came back and crept upstairs to his room; and here
he sat by the bedside, gazing at the haggard face in the glass. At such times as this he discovered
a something in his features that filled him with shuddering; he discovered it in his words,
and in the very tone of his voice--the sins of the fathers were being visited upon the children!
What an old, old story it was to him--this anguish and remorse! These ecstasies of resolution
that vanished like a cloud-wrack--these protestations and noble sentiments that counted for
naught in conduct! And his was to be the whole heritage of impotence and futility; he, too,
was to struggle and agonize--and to finish with his foot in the trap!

This idea was like a white-hot goad to him. After such an experience there would be several
months of toil and penance, and of savage self-immolation. It was hard to punish a man who
had so little; but Thyrsis managed to find ways. For several months at a time he would go without
those kinds of food that he liked; and instead of going to bed at one o'clock he would read
the New Testament in Greek for an hour. He would leap out of bed in the morning and plunge
into cold water; and at night, when he felt a longing upon him, he would go out and run for hours.

He took to keeping diaries and writing exhortations to himself. Because he could no longer
use the theological prayers he had been taught, he fashioned new invocations for himself: prayers
to the unknown sources of his vision, to the new powers of his own soul--"the undiscovered
gods," as he called them.

All of which things made a subtle change in his attitude to Corydon, whom he still met occasionally.
Corydon was now a young lady, beautiful, even stately, with an indescribable atmosphere of
gentleness and purity about her. All things unclean shrunk from her presence; and so in times
of distress he liked to be with her. He would drop vague hints as to sufferings and temptations,
and told her that she seemed like a "goddess" to him.

Corydon received this with some awe, but with more perplexity. She could not understand why
anyone should struggle so much, or why a youth should take such a sombre view of things. But
she was perfectly willing to seem like a "goddess" to anyone, and she was glad if that helped
him. She was touched when he read her a poem of his own, a poem which he held very precious.
He called it

   "A song of the young-eyed Cherubim
    In the days of the making of man."

And in it he had set forth the view of life that had come to him--

   "The quest of the spirit's gain--
      Lured by the graces of pleasure,
    And lashed by the furies of pain.
      Thy weakness shall sigh for an Eden,
    But the sword shall flame at the gate;
      For far is the home of thy vision
    And strong is the hand of thy fate!"

Section 13. Though Thyrsis had no time to realize it, it was in this long and bitter struggle
that he won whatever power he had in his future life. It was here that he learned "to hold
his will above him as his law", and to defy the world for the sake of his ideal. And then,
too, this toil was the key that opened to him the treasure-house of a new art--which was music.

Until he was nearly out of college Thyrsis had scarcely heard any music at all. Church-hymns
he had learned, and a few songs in school. But now in poetry and other books he met with references
to composers, and to the meaning of great music; and the things that were described there were
the things he loved, and he began to feel a great eagerness to get at them. As a first step
he bought a mandolin, and set to work to teach himself to play, a task at which he wrought
with great diligence. At the same time a friend had bought a guitar, and the two set to work
to play duets. The first preliminary was the getting of the instruments in tune; and not knowing
that the mandolin is an octave higher than the guitar, they spent a great deal of time and
broke a great many guitar-strings.

As the next step, Thyrsis went to hear a great pianist, and sat perplexed and wondering. There
was a girl next to him who sobbed, and Thyrsis watched her as he might have watched a house
on fire. Only once the pianist pleased him--when he played a pretty little piece called somebody's
"impromptu", in which he got a gleam of a "tune." Poor Thyrsis went and got that piece, and
took it home to study it, with the help of the mandolin; but, alas, in the maze of notes he
could not even find the "tune."

But if he could not understand the music, he could read books about it; he read a whole library--criticism
of music, analysis of music, histories of music, composers of music; and so gradually he learned
the difference between a sarabande and a symphony, and began to get some idea of what he went
out for to hear. At first, at the concerts, all he could think of was to crane his neck and
recognize the different instruments; he heard whole symphonies, while doing nothing but watching
for the "movements," and making sure he hadn't skipped any. One heartless composer ran two
movements into one, and so Thyrsis' concert came out one piece short at the end, and he sat
gazing about him in consternation when the audience rose to go. Afterwards he read long dissertations
about each symphony before he went, and he would note down the important points and watch for
them. The critic would expatiate upon "the long-drawn dissonance forte, that marks the close
of the working-out portion"; and Thyrsis would watch for that long-drawn dissonance, and be
wondering if it was never coming--when suddenly the whole symphony would come to an end! Or
he would read about a "quaint capering measure led off by the bassoons," or a "frantic sweep
of the violins over a trombone melody," and he would watch for these events with eyes and ears
alert, and if he found them--eureka!

But such things could not last forever; for Thyrsis had a heart full of eagerness and love,
and of such is the soul of music. And just then was a time when he was sick and worn--when
it seemed to him that the burden of his life was more than he could bear. He was haunted by
the thought that he would lose his long battle, that he would go under and go down; and then
it was that chance took him to a concert which closed with the great "C-Minor Symphony."

Thyrsis had read a life of Beethoven, and he knew that here was one of the hero-souls--a man
who had grappled with the fiends, and passed through the valley of death. And now he read accounts
of this titan symphony, and learned that it was a battle of the human spirit with despair.
He read Beethoven's words about the opening theme--"So knocks fate upon the door!" And a fierce
and overwhelming longing possessed him to get at the soul of that symphony.

He went to the concert, and heard nothing of the rest of the music, but sat like a man in a
dream; and when the time came for the symphony, he was trembling with excitement. There was
a long silence; and then suddenly came the first theme--those fearful hammer-strokes that cannot
be thought without a shudder. They beat upon Thyrsis' very heart-strings, and he sat appalled;
and straight out he went upon the tide of that mighty music-passion--without knowing it, without
knowing how. He forgot that he was trying to understand a symphony; he forgot where he was,
and what he was; he only knew that gigantic phantoms surged within him, that his soul was a
hundred times itself. He never guessed that an orchestra was playing a second theme; he only
knew that he saw a light gleam out of the storm, that he heard a voice, pitiful, fearful, beautiful
beyond utterance, crying out to the furies for mercy; and that then the storm closed over it
with a roar. Again and again it rose; Thyrsis did not know that this was the "working-out portion"
that had forever been his bane. He only knew that it struggled and fought his fight, that it
pleaded and sobbed, and rose higher and higher, and began to rejoice--and that then came the
great black phantom-shape sweeping over it; and the iron hammer-strokes of Fate beat down upon
it, crushed it and trampled it into annihilation. Again and again this happened, while Thyrsis
sat clutching the seat, and shaking with wonder and excitement. Never in his experience had
there been anything so vast, so awful; it was more than he could bear, and when the first movement
came to an end--when the soul's last hope was dead--he got up and rushed out. People who passed
him on the streets must have thought that he was crazy; and afterwards, that day and forever,
he lived all his soul's life in music.

As a result of this Thyrsis paid all his bank-account for a violin, and went to see a teacher.

"You are too old," the teacher said.

But Thyrsis answered, "I will work as no one ever worked before."

"We all do that," replied the other, with a smile. And so they began.

And so all day long, with fingers raw, and arms and back shuddering with exhaustion, Thyrsis
sat and practiced, the spirit of Music beckoning him on. It was in a boarding-house, and there
was a nervous old man in the next room, and in the end Thyrsis had to move. By the time he
went away to the country, he was able to play a melody in tune; and then he would take some
one that had fascinated him, and practice it and practice it night and day. He would take his
fiddle every morning at eight and stride out into the forest, and there he would stay all day
with the squirrels. They told him once how a new arrival, driving over in the hotel 'bus at
early dawn, had passed an old Italian woman toiling up a hill and singing for dear life the
"Tannhauser March." It chanced that the new arrival was a musician, and he leaned out and asked
the old woman where she had learned it. And this was her explanation;

"Dey ees a crazy feller in de woods--he play it all day for tree weeks!"

Section 14. By this time Thyrsis had finished at college, passing comfortably near the bottom
of his class, and had betaken himself to a university as a graduate student. He was duly registered
for a lot of courses, and spent his time when he should have been at the lectures, sitting
in a vacant class-room reading the book that had fascinated him last. His note-book began at
that time to show two volumes a day on an average, and once or twice he stopped at night to
wonder how it had actually been possible for him to read poetry fourteen hours a day for a
whole week and not be tired.

He taught himself German, and that led to another great discovery--he made the acquaintance
of Goethe. The power of that mighty spirit took hold of him, so that he prayed to him when
he was lonely, and kept the photograph of the young poet in his pocket, to gaze at it as at
a lover. The great eyes came to haunt him so that one night he awoke crying out, because he
had dreamed he was going to meet Goethe.

In the catalog of the university there were listed a number of courses in "rhetoric and English
composition". They were for the purpose of teaching one how to write, and the catalog set forth
convincingly the methods whereby this was done. Thyrsis wished to know all there was to know
about writing, and so ne enrolled himself for an advanced course, and went for an hour every
day and listened to expositions of the elements of sentence-structure by Prof. Osborne, author
of "American Prose Writers" and "The Science of Rhetoric". The professor would give him a theme,
and bid him bring in a five-hundred word composition. Perhaps it was that Thyrsis was lacking
in the play-spirit; at any rate he could not write convincingly on the subject of "The Duty
of the College Man to Support Athletics." He struggled for a month against his own impotence,
and then went to see his instructor.

"I think," he said, "I shall have to drop Course A."

The professor gazed over his spectacles at him.

"Why?"

"I don't think I am getting any good out of it."

"But how can you tell what good you are getting?"

"I don't seem to feel that I am," said Thyrsis, deprecatingly.

"It is not to be supposed that you would feel it," said the other--"not at this early stage.
You must wait."

"But I don't like the method, sir."

"What's wrong with the method?"

Thyrsis was embarrassed. He was not sure, he said; but he did not think that writing could
be taught. Anyway, one had first to have something worth saying--

"Are you laboring under the delusion that you know anything about writing?" demanded the professor.
(He had written across Thyrsis' last composition the words, "Feeble and trivial".)

"Why, no," began the boy.

"Because if you are, let me disabuse your mind at once. There is no one in the class who knows
less about writing than yourself."

"I think," said Thyrsis, "it's because I can't bring myself to write in cold blood. I have
to be interested. I'm sure that is the trouble."

"I'm sure," said the other, "that the trouble is that you think you know too much."

"I'm sorry, sir," said Thyrsis, humbly. "I've tried my best---"

"It is my business to teach students to write. I've given my life to that, and I think I know
something about it. But you think you know more than I do. That's all."

And so they parted. Thyrsis kept a vivid recollection of this interview, for the reason that
at a later stage of his career he came into contact with Prof. Osborne again, and got another
glimpse of the authoritarian attitude towards the art of letters.

Section 15. Thyrsis had not many friends at college, and none at all at the university. He
had no time to make any; and besides, there was a certain facetious senior who had caught him
hurrying through the corridors one day, declaring in excitement that---

   "Banners yellow, glorious, golden,
    On its roof did float and flow!"

But he had long ago ceased to hope for a friend, or to care what anybody thought about him;
it was clear to him by this time that he had made himself into a poet, and was doomed to be
unhappy. His mother had given up all hope of seeing him a bishop, and they had compromised
upon a judgeship; but here at the university there was a law-school, and he met the students,
and saw that this, too, could not be. These "lawyers" were not seeking knowledge for the love
of it--they were studying a trade, by which they could rise in the world. They were not going
out to do battle for truth and justice--they were perfecting themselves in cunning, so that
they might be of help in money-disputes; they were sharpening their wits, to make them useful
tools for the opening of treasure-chests. And this attitude to life was written all over their
personalities; they seemed to Thyrsis a coarse and roistering crew, and he shrunk from them
in repugnance.

He went his own impetuous way. He stayed at the university until he had taught himself French
and Italian, as well as German, and had read all the best literature in those languages. And
likewise he heard all the best music, and went about full of it day and night. By this time
he had definitely beaten his devils, and had come to be master of himself; and though nobody
guessed anything about it, there was a new marvel going on within him--he had, in a spiritual
sense, become pregnant.

There were many signs by which this state might have been known. He went quite alone, and spoke
to no man; he was self-absorbed, and walked about with his eyes fixed on vacancy; he was savage
when disturbed, and guarded his time unscrupulously. He had given up the very last of the formalities
of life--he no longer attended any lectures, or wore cuffs, and he would not talk at meal-times.
He took long walks at impossible hours, and he was fond of a certain high hill where the storms
blew. These things had been going on for a year; and now the book that had been coming to ripeness
in his mind was ready to be born.

It had its origin in the reading of history, and the fronting of old tyranny in its cruel forms.
Thyrsis had come to hate Christianity for many things by that time, but most of all he hated
it because it taught the bastard virtue of Obedience. Thyrsis obeyed no man--he lived his life;
and the fiery ardor with which he lived it was taking form in his mind as a personality. He
was dreaming a hero who should be Resistance incarnate; the passionate assertion of man's right
and of man's defiance.

It was in the days of ferocity in Italy, the days of the despot and the bravo; and Thyrsis'
hero was a minstrel, a mighty musician whose soul was free. And he sung in the despot's hall,
and wooed the despot's daughter. This was the minstrel of "Zulieka"---

   "His ladder of song was slight,
    But it reached to her window's height;
    Each verse so frail was the silken rail,
    From which her soul took flight."

Thyrsis went about quite drunk with the burning words with which the minstrel won the lady,
and tore her free from the mockeries of convention, and that divinity that doth hedge about
a princess. He bore her away, locked tightly in his arms, and all his own--into the great lonely
mountains; and there lived the minstrel and the princess, the lord and the lady of an outlaw
band. But the outlaws were cruel, and the minstrel sought goodness; and so there was a struggle,
and he and the lady went yet deeper into the black forest, where they dwelt alone in a hut,
he a prince of hunters and she a princess of love. But the outlaws led the despot to the place,
and there was a battle; the princess was slain, and the minstrel escaped in the darkness. All
night he roamed the forest, and in the morning he lay by the roadside with a bow in his hand,
and when the despot rode by he rose and drove the shaft through his heart. Then they captured
him, and tortured him, and he died with a song of mockery and defiance upon his lips.

Section 16. Now, when these things first came to Thyrsis, he whispered in awe that it would
be a life-time before he could write them. And a year passed thus, while every emotion of his
life poured itself into some part of that story, and every note of music that he heard came
out of the minstrel's heart. At last the time came when he was so full of it that he could
no longer find peace; when the wonder of it was such that he walked along the street laughing,
and with tears in his eyes. Then he said to himself, "It must be done! Now! Now!" And he looked
about him as a woman might, seeking some place for her labor.

That was in the late winter, when the professors at the university, and all his relatives and
acquaintances, had given him up as a hopeless case. He had stopped all his writing for money--he
had a hundred dollars laid by, and that would suffice him; and he was wandering about whispering
to himself: "The spring-time! The spring-time! For it must be in the country!" When April had
come he could stand it no longer--he must go! So he left all behind him, and set out for a
place in the wilderness.

When he reached it, he found a lake that was all ice, and mountains that were all snow; the
country people, who had never seen a poet, and knew not the subtle difference between inspiration
and insanity, heard with wonder that he was going out into the woods. But he set out alone,
through the snowy forest and along the lake-shore, to find some place far away, where he could
build a hut, or even put up a tent; and when he was miles from the village, he came suddenly
on a little wonderland that made his heart leap like the wild deer in the brake. Here was a
dreamland palace, a vision beyond all thinking--a little shanty built of logs! It stood in
a pretty dell, with a mountain streamlet dashing through it, and the mighty forest hiding it,
and the lake spread out in front of it. It was all wet snow, and freezing rain, and mud and
desolation; but Thyrsis saw the summer that was to be, and he sat down upon a stone and gazed
at it, and laughed and sang for wonder and joy.

Then he fled back to the village, and found the owner of the earthly rights to this paradise,
and hired it for a little gold; and then he moved out, in spite of the snow. At last his soul
was free!

Twice a week they brought him provisions, and there he stayed. At first he nearly froze at
night, and he had to write with his gloves on; but he did not feel the cold, because of the
fire within. He climbed the mountains and yelled with the mad wind, and tramped through the
bare, rocking forest, singing his minstrel songs. And all these days he walked with God, and
there was no world at all save the world of nature. Millions of young-hearted things sprang
up out of the ground to welcome him; the forests shook out their dazzling sheen, and the wild
birds went mad in the mornings. All the time Thyrsis was writing, writing--thrilling with his
ecstasy, and pouring out all his soul. He kept a little diary these days, and for weeks there
was but one entry--"The book! The book!"

And then one day came a letter from his mother, saying that she was coming to the village nearby
to spend the summer; also that Corydon's mother was coming, and that Corydon would be with her!

BOOK II

THE SNARE

The streamlet tinkled on. She sat, gazing about her at each familiar tree and rock. And meanwhile
he was reading again from the book--

   "Here, too, our shepherd-pipes we first assay'd!"

"Is that from 'Thyrsis'?" she asked. "Read me those lines that we used, to love so much."

And so he turned the page, and read again--

   "A fugitive and gracious light he seeks,
      Shy to illumine; and I seek it, too.
        This does not come with houses or with gold,
      With place, with honor, and a flattering crew:
       'Tis not in the world's market bought and sold--
            But the smooth-slipping weeks
    Drop by, and leave its seeker still untired;
      Out of the heed of mortals he is gone,
      He wends unfollow'd, he must house alone;
    Yet on he fares, by his own heart inspired."

Section 1. On the train Corydon was writing a letter to a friend, to say where she was going,
and that Thyrsis was there. "I don't expect to see anything of him," she wrote. "He grows more
egotistical and more contemptuous every day, and I cordially dislike him."

But when a man has spent three or four weeks with no company save the squirrels and the owls,
there comes over him a mood of sociability, when the sight of a friendly face is an event.
Thyrsis had now written several chapters of his book, and the first fury of his creative impulse
had spent itself. So when Corydon stepped from the train, she found him waiting there to greet
her; and he told her that he was laying in supplies for a feast, and that on the morrow she
and her mother were to come out and see his fairy-palace and have a picnic dinner.

They came; and the May put on her finest raiment for their greeting. The sun shone warm and
bright, and there was a humming and stirring in grass and thicket; one could feel the surge
of the spring-time growth as a living flood. There was a glory of young green over the hill-sides,
and a quivering sheen of white in the aspens and birches. Corydon clasped her hands and cried
out in rapture when she saw it.

And Thyrsis, picturesque in his old corduroy trousers and his grey flannel shirt, played the
host. He showed them his domestic establishment--wherein things were set in order for the first
time since he had come. He told all his adventures: how the cold had crept in at night, and
he had to fiddle to keep his courage up; how he had slept in a canvas-cot for the first time,
and piled all the bedding on top, and wondered that he was cold; how he had left the pail with
the freshly-roasted beef on the piazza, and a wild cat had carried off pail and all. He made
fun of his amateur house-keeping-- he would forget things and let them burn, or let the fire
go out; and he had tried living altogether on cold food, to the great perplexity of his stomach.

Then he gave a demonstration of his hard-won culinary skill. He boiled rice and raisins, and
fried bacon and eggs; and they had fresh bread and butter, and jam and pickles, and a festive
cake. And after they had feasted, Thyrsis stretched himself and leaned back against the trunk
of a tree, and gazed up at the sky, quoting the words of a certain one-eyed Kalandar, son of
a king, "Verily, this indeed is life! 'Tis pity 'tis fleeting!"

Afterwards he took Corydon for a walk. They climbed the hill where he came to battle with the
stormwinds, and to watch the sunsets and the moon rising over the lake. And then they went
down into the glen, where the mountain streamlet tumbled. Here had been wood-sorrel, and a
carpet of the white trillium; and now there was adder's tongue, quaint and saucy, and columbine,
and the pale dusty corydalis. There was soft new moss underfoot, and one walked as if in a temple.

Thyrsis pointed out a seat beside a deep bubbling pool. "Here's where I sit and write," he said.

"And how comes the book?" asked Corydon.

"Oh, I'm hammering at it--that's the best I can say."

"What is it?"

"Why--it's a story. I suppose it'll be called a romance, though I don't like the word."

Corydon pondered for a moment. "I wouldn't expect you to be writing anything romantic," she said.

Thyrsis, occupied with his own thoughts, observed, "I might call it a revolutionary romance."

"What is it about?"

He hesitated. "It happens in the middle ages," he said. "There's a minstrel and a princess."

"That sounds interesting," said Corydon.

Now in the period of pregnancy the artist's mood is one of secretiveness. But afterwards there
comes a time for promulgation and rejoicing; and already there had been hints of this in the
mind of Thyrsis. The great secret that he was cherishing--what would be the world's reception
of it? And now suddenly a wild idea came to him. He had heard somewhere that it is the women
who read fiction. And was not Corydon a perfect specimen of the average middle-class young
lady, and therefore of that mysterious potentiality, "the public", to which he must appeal?
Why not see what she would think of it?

He took the plunge. "Would you like me to read it to you?" he asked.

"Why, certainly," she replied, and then added, gently, "If it wouldn't be a desecration."

"Oh, no," said Thyrsis. "You see, when it's been printed, all sorts of people will read it."

So he went back to the house and brought the precious manuscript; and he placed Corydon in
the seat of inspiration, and sat beside her and read.

In many ways this was a revolutionary romance. Thyrsis had not spent any of his time delving
into other people's books for "local color"; he was not relying for his effects upon gabardines
and hauberks, and a sprinkling of "Yea, sires," and "prithees." His castle was but the vaguely
outlined background of a stage upon which living hearts wrought out their passions. One saw
the banquet-hall, with its tapestries and splendor, and the master of it, the man of force;
there were swift scenes that gave one a glimpse of the age-long state of things--

   "Right forever on the scaffold,
    Wrong forever on the throne."

There was a quarrel, and a cruel sentence about to be executed; and then the minstrel came.
His fame had come before him, and so the despot, in half-drunken playfulness, left the deciding
of the quarrel to him. He was brought to the head of the table, and the princess was led in;
and so these two met face to face.

Here Thyrsis paused, and asked, "Are you interested?"

"Go on, go on," said Corydon.

So he read about his princess, who was the embodiment of all the virtues of the unknown goddess
of his fancy. She was proud yet humble, aloof yet compassionate, and above all ineffably beautiful.
And as for the minstrel--

   "The minstrel was fair and young.
    His heart was of love and fire."

He took his harp, and first he pacified the quarrel, and then he sang to the lady. He sang
of love, and the poet's vision of beauty; but most of all he sang of the free life of the open.
He sang of the dreams and the spirit-companions of the minstrel, and of the wondrous magic
that he wields--

   "Secrets of all future ages
      Hover in mine ecstasy;
    Treasures never known to mortals
      Hath my fancy hid for thee!"

He sang the spells that he would weave for her, the far journeys she should take--

   "For thy soul a river flowing
      Swiftly, over golden sands,
    With the singing of the steersman
      Stealing into wonderlands!"

Section 2. This song was as far as Thyrsis had written, and he paused. Corydon was sitting
with her hands clasped, and a look of enthrallment upon her face. "Oh, beautiful! beautiful!"
she cried.

A thrill of pleasure went through the poet. "You like it, then?" he said.

"Oh, I like it!" she answered. And then she gazed at him, with wide-open eyes of amazement.
"But you! You!" she exclaimed.

"Why not I?" he asked.

"How in the world did you do it? Where did you get it from?"

"It is mine," said Thyrsis, quickly.

"But I can't imagine it! I had no idea you were interested in such things!"

"But how could you know what I am interested in?"

"I see how you live--apart from everybody. And you spend all your time in books!"

Thyrsis suddenly recollected something which had amused him very much. Corydon had been reading
"Middlemarch," and had told him that Dr. Casaubon reminded her of him. "And so I'm still just
a bookworm to you!" he laughed.

"But isn't your interest in things always intellectual?" she asked.

"Then you suppose I'm doing this just as an exercise in technique?" he countered.

"It's taken me quite by surprise," said Corydon.

"We have three faculties in us," Thyrsis propounded--"intellect, feeling, and will; and to
be a complete human being, we have to develop all of them."

"But you spend so much time piling up learning!"

"I need to know a great many things," he said. "I'm not conscious of studying anything I don't
need for my purpose."

"What is the purpose?" she asked.

He touched the precious manuscript. "This," he said.

There was a pause.

"But you lose so much when you cut yourself off from the world," said Corydon. "And there are
other people, whom you might help."

"People don't need my help; or at least, they don't want it."

"But how can you know that--if you never go among them?"

"I can judge by the lives they live."

"Ah!" exclaimed Corydon, quickly, "but people aren't to blame for the lives they live!"

"Why not?" he asked.

"Because--they can't help them. They are bound fast."

"They should break loose."

"That is easy for you to say," said Corydon. "You have no ties."

"I did have them--I might have them still. But I broke them."

"Ah, but you are a man!"

"What difference does that make?"

"It makes all the difference in the world. You can earn money, you can go away by yourself.
But suppose you were a girl--shut up in a home, and told that that was your 'sphere'?"

"I'd fight," said Thyrsis--"I'd break my way out somehow, never fear. If one doesn't break
out, it simply means that his desire is not strong enough."

Thyrsis had been surprised at the depth of Corydon's interest in his manuscript; he had not
supposed that she would be so susceptible to anything of the imagination. And now he was surprised
to see that her hands were clenched tightly, and that she sat staring ahead of her intently.

"Are you dissatisfied with your life?" he asked.

"Is there anything in it that I could be satisfied with?" she cried.

"I had no idea of that," he said.

"No," she replied; "that only shows how stupid you can be!"

"But--you never showed any signs--"

"Didn't you know that I was trying to prepare for college last year?"

"Yes; but you gave it up."

"What could I do? I had no help--no encouragement. I was groping like a blind person. And I
told you about it."

"But I told you what to study," objected Thyrsis.

"Yes," said the girl; "but how could I do it? You know how to study--you've been taught. But
I don't know anything, and I don't know how to find anything out. I began on the Latin, but
I didn't even know how the words should be pronounced."

"Nobody else knows that," observed Thyrsis, somewhat inconsequently.

"It was all so dull and dreary," she went on--"everything they would have had me learn. I wanted
things that had life in them, things that were beautiful and worth while--like this book of
yours, for instance."

"I am really delighted that you like it," said Thyrsis, touched by that.

"Tell me the rest of it," she said.

Section 3. Thyrsis told his story at some length; in the ardor of her sympathy his imagination
took fire, and he told it eloquently, he discovered new beauties in it that he had not seen
before. And Corydon listened with growing delight and amazement.

"So that is the way you spend your time!" she exclaimed.

"That is the way," he said.

"And that is why you live like a hermit!"

"Yes, that is why."

"And you think that you would lose your vision if you went among people?"

"I know that I should."

"But how do you know?"

"I know because I have tried. You don't realize how hard I have to work over a thing like this.
I have carried it in my mind for a year; I have lived for nothing else--I have literally had
no other interest in the world. Every sentence I have read to you has been the product of work
added to work--of one impulse piled upon another--of thinking and criticizing and revising.
Just the little bit I have done has taken me a whole month, and I have hardly stopped to eat;
it's been my first thought in the morning and my last at night. And when the mood of it comes
to me, then I work in a kind of frenzy that lasts for hours and even days; and if I give up
in the middle and fall back, then I have to do it all over again. It's like toiling up a mountain-side."

"I see," whispered Corydon. "And then, do you expect to have no human relationships as long
as you live?"

Thyrsis pondered for a moment. "Did you ever read Mrs. Browning's poem, 'A Musical Instrument'?"
he asked.

"No," she answered.

"It's a most beautiful poem," he said; "and it's hardly ever quoted or read, that I can find.
It tells how the great god Pan came down by the river-bank, and cut one of the reeds to make
himself a pipe.

Thyrsis paused. "Do you see what it means?" he asked.

"Yes," said Corydon, "I see."

"'Making a poet out of a man!' That is one of the finest lines I know. And that's the way I
feel about it--I have given up all other duties in the world. If I can write one book, or even
one poem, that will be an inspiration to men in the future--why, then I have done far more
than I could do by a lifetime given to helping people around me."

"I never understood before," said Corydon.

"That is the idea the minstrel tries to voice to the princess. At first he pours out his soul
to her; but then, when he finds that she loves him, he is afraid, and tries to persuade her
not to come with him. He tells her how lonely and stern his life is; and she has been born
to a gentle life--she has her station and her duty in the world. But the more he pleads the
hardness of his life, the more she sees she must go with him. Even if the end be death to her,
still she will be an inspiration to him, and give wings to his music. 'Be silent,' she tells
him--'let me fling myself away for a song! To do one deed that the world remembers, to utter
one word that lives forever--that is worth all the failure and the agony that can come to one
woman in her lifetime!'"

Corydon sat with her hands clasped. "Yes," she said, "that is the way she would feel!"

"I'm glad to hear you say that," remarked the other. "I must make it real; and I've been afraid
about it. Would she really go with him?"

"She would go if she loved him," said Corydon.

"If she loved him. But she must love his art still more."

"She must love him," said Corydon.

Thyrsis shook his head. "It would not do for her to go with him for that," he said.

"Why not? Doesn't he love her?"

"Yes; but he is afraid to tell her so. They dare not let that sway them."

"I don't understand. Why not?"

"Because personal love is a limited thing, and comparatively an ignoble thing."

"I don't see how there can be anything more noble than true love between a man and a woman,"
declared Corydon.

"It depends on what you mean by 'true' love," replied Thyrsis. "If two people love each other
for their own sakes, and go together, they soon come to know each other, and then they are
satisfied--and their growth is at an end. What I conceive is that two people must lose themselves,
and all thought of themselves, in their common love for something higher--for some great ideal,
some purpose, some vision of perfection. And they seek this together, and they rejoice in finding
it, each for the other; and so they have always progress and growth--they stand for something
new to each other every day of their lives. To such love there is no end, and no chance of
weariness or satiety."

"I had never thought of it just so," said the girl. "But surely there must be a personal love
in the beginning."

"I don't know," he responded. "I hadn't thought about that. I'm afraid I'm impersonal by nature."

"Yes," she said, "that's what has puzzled me. Don't you love human beings?"

"Not as a rule," he confessed.

"But then--what is it you are interested in? Yourself?"

"People tell me that's the case. And there's a sense in which it's true--I'm wrapped up in
the thought of myself as an art-work. I've a certain vision of the possibilities of my own
being, and I'm trying to realize it. And if I do, then I can write books and communicate it
to other people, so that they can judge it, and see if it's any better than the vision they
have. It is a higher kind of unselfishness, I think."

"I see," said Corydon. "It's not easy to understand."

"No one understands it," he replied. "People are taught that they must sacrifice themselves
for others; and they do it, blindly and stupidly, and never ask if the other person is worthy
of the sacrifice--and still less if they themselves have anything worth sacrificing."

Corydon had clenched her hands suddenly. "How I hate the religion of self-sacrifice!" she cried.

"Mine is a religion of self-development," said Thyrsis. "I am sacrificing myself for what other
people ought to be."

Section 4. They came back after a time, to the subject of love; and to the ideal of it which
Thyrsis meant to set forth in the book. It was the duty of every soul to seek the highest potentiality
of which it had vision; and as one did that for himself, so he did it for the person he loved.
There could be no higher love than this--to treat the thing beloved as one's self, to be perpetually
dissatisfied with it, to scourge it to new endeavor, to hold it in immortal discontent.

This was a point about which they argued with eager excitement. To Thyrsis, love itself was
a prize to be held before the loved one; whereas Corydon argued that love must exist before
such a union could be thought of. Her cheeks flushed and her eyes shone as she maintained the
thesis that the princess could not go with the minstrel unless his love was given to her irrevocably.

"If you mean by love a sense of oneness in the pursuit of an ideal, then I agree with you,"
said Thyrsis. "But if you mean what love generally means--a mutual admiration, the worshipping
of another personality--then I don't."

"And are lovers not even to be interesting to each other?" cried Corydon.

But the poet did not shrink even from that. "I don't think a woman could be interesting to
me--except in so far as she was growing. And she must always know that if she stopped growing,
she would cease to be interesting. That is not a matter of anybody's will, it seems to me--it
is a fact of soul-chemistry."

"I don't think you will find many women to love you on that basis," said Corydon.

"I never expected to find but one," was Thyrsis' reply; "and I may not find even one."

She sat watching him for a moment. "I had never realized the sublimity of your egotism," she
said. "It would never occur to you to judge anyone else by your own standards, would it?"

"That is very well put," laughed Thyrsis. "As a matter of fact, I have a maxim that I count
all things lost in the world but my own soul."

"Why is that?"

"Because I can depend on my own soul; and I have not yet met anything else in life of which
I can say that."

Again there was a pause. "You are as hard as iron!" exclaimed the girl.

"I am harder than anything you can find for your simile," he answered. "I know simply that
there is no force existing that can turn me from my task."

"You might meet some woman who would fascinate you."

"Perhaps," he replied. "I have done things I'm ashamed of, and I've a wholesome fear of doing
more of them. But I know that that woman, whoever she might be, would wake up some morning
and find me missing."

Then for a while he sat staring at the eddies in the pool below. "I have a vision of another
kind of woman," he said--"a woman to whom my ideal would be the same compelling force that
it is to me--a living thing that would drive her, that she was both master of, and slave to,
as I am. So that she would feel no fears, and ask no favors! So that she would not want mercy,
nor ask pledges--but just give herself, as I give myself, and take the chances of the game.
Don't you think there may be just one such woman in the world?"

"Perhaps," was the reply. "But then--mightn't a woman be sure of your ideal, but not of you?"

"As to that," said Thyrsis, "she would have to know me.

"As to that," said Corydon, "she would have to love you."

And Thyrsis smiled. "As in most arguments," he said, "it's mainly a matter of definitions."

Section 5. At this point there came a call from the distance, and Corydon started. "There is
mother," she exclaimed. "How the afternoon has flown!"

"And must you go home now?" he asked.

"I'm afraid so," she replied. "We have a long row."

"I'm sorry," he said. "I wanted to advise you about books to read. You must let me help you
to find what you are seeking."

"Ah," said Corydon, "if you only will!"

"I will do anything I can," he said. "I am ashamed of not having helped you before."

They had risen and started towards the house. "Can't you come to-morrow, and we can talk it
over," he said.

"But I thought you were going to work," she objected.

"I can spare another day," he replied. "A rest won't hurt me, I know. And it's been a real
pleasure to talk to you this afternoon."

So they settled it; and Thyrsis saw them off in the boat, and then he went back to the little
cabin.

On the steps he stood still. "Corydon!" he muttered. "Little Corydon!"

That was always the way he thought of her; not only because he had known her when she was a
child, but because this expressed his conception of her--she was so gentle and peaceable and
meek. She was now eighteen, and he was only twenty, but he felt towards her as a grandfather
might. But now had come this new revelation, that astonished him. She had been deeply stirred
by his work--she had loved it; and this was no affectation, it was out of her inmost heart.
And she was not really contented at all--she had quite a hunger for life in her!

It had been like an explosion; the barriers had been destroyed between them, and he saw her
as she really was. And he could hardly believe it--all through the adventures that followed
he would find himself standing in the same kind of daze, whispering to himself-- "Corydon!
Little Corydon!"

He did not try to do any work that evening. He thought about her, and the problem of her life.
She had stirred him strangely; he saw her beautiful with a new kind of beauty. He resolved
that he would put her upon the way to some of the joy she sought.

She came early the next morning, and they sat by the lake-shore and talked. They talked about
the things she needed to study, and how she should study them; about the books she had read
and the books she was to read next. And from this they went on to a hundred questions of literature
and philosophy and life. They became eager and excited; their thoughts took wings, and they
lost all sense of time and place. There were so many things to be discussed!

Corydon, in spite of all her anti-clericalism, believed in immortality; she laid claim to intuitions
and illuminations concerning it. And to Thyrsis, on the other hand, the idea of immortality
was the consummation of all unfaith. To him life was a bubble upon the stream of time, a shadow
of clouds upon the mountains; there was nothing about it that could be or should be immortal.

"The act of faith," he cried, "is to give ourselves into the arms of life, to take it as it
comes, to rejoice in its infinite unfoldment, the 'plastic dance of circumstance'; to behold
the budding flower and the new-born suns as equal expressions of the joy of becoming. But people
are weak, they love themselves, and they set themselves up as the centre of existence!"

But Corydon was personal, and loved life; and she stood out that death was unthinkable--that
she had the sense of infinity within her. Thyrsis strove to make her see that one was to wreak
one's hunger for infinity at each moment, and not put it off to any future age; that life was
a thing for itself, and needed no sequel to justify it. "It is a free gift, and we have no
claim upon it; we must take it on the terms of the giver."

From that they came to religion. Thyrsis loved the forms of the old faiths, because of the
poetry there was in them; and so he wrestled with Corydon's paganism. He tried to show her
how one could read "Paradise Lost" and the English prayer-book, precisely as one read Virgil
and Homer; to which Corydon answered that she had been to Sunday-school.

"But you once believed in Santa Claus!" he retorted. "And does that make you quarrel with him
now? Every time you read a novel, don't you pretend to believe in people who never existed?"

He went on to show her how much she lost of the sublime and inspiring things of the past. He
took the story of Jesus. It mattered not in the least if it was fiction or fact--it was there,
as an achievement of the human spirit. He showed her the man of the gospels--not the stained-glass
god with royal robes and shining crown, but the humble workingman, with his dream of a heaven
nearby, and a father who loved his children without distinction. He went about among the poor
and humble, the world's first revolutionist; teaching the supremacy of the soul--a doctrine
which was to be as dynamite beneath the pillars of all established institutions. He lived as
a tramp and an outcast, and he died the death of a criminal; and now those who had murdered
him were using his doctrines to enslave the world!--All this was a new idea to Corydon, and
she resolved forthwith that she would begin her readings with the New Testament.

Section 6. So it went, until Thyrsis looked up with a start, and saw that the shadows were
falling. It was five o'clock, and they had not stopped to eat! Even so, they had no time to
cook, but made a cold meal--and talked all the time they were eating.

Then Corydon said, "I must start for home."

"You won't want any supper," said Thyrsis. "Let's see the sunset first."

"But mother will be expecting me," she objected.

"She'll know you're all right," he replied.

So they climbed the hill, and sat and watched the sunset and the rising full moon. The air
was clear, and the sky like opal, and the pale, pearly tints of the clouds were ravishing to
behold. To Thyrsis it seemed that these colors were an image of the soul that was disclosed
to him. He would have been at a loss for words to describe the extraordinary sense of purity
that Corydon gave to him; it was not simply her maidenhood--it was something far more rare
than that. Here was an utterly perfect human soul; a soul without speck or blemish--without
a base idea, with no trace of a vanity, unaware what a pretense might be. The joy and wonder
of life welled spontaneously in her, she moved to a noble impulse as a cloud moves before the
wind. She was like a creature from the skies they were watching.

And here, in the silver moonlight, a memorable hour came to them. Thyrsis told her of his consecration,
and why he lived his hermit-life. He had known for years that he was not as other men; and
now every hour it was becoming clearer to him. He shrunk from the word, because it had been
desecrated by the world; but it was Genius. More and more frequently there was coming to him
this strange ecstasy, the source of which he could not guess; it was like the giving way of
flood-gates within him--the pouring in of a tide of wonder and joy. It made him tremble like
a leaf, it made him cry aloud and fall down upon the ground exhausted. And yet, whatever the
strain might be, he never lost his grip upon himself; rather, all the powers of his mind seemed
to be multiplied--it seemed as if all existence became one with his soul.

Never before had he uttered a word of this to anyone. No one could understand the burden it
had laid upon him. For this was the thing that all the world was seeking, for the lack of which
the world was dying; and it was his to give or to withhold, to lose or to save. He had to forge
it and shape it, he had to embody it, to set it forth in images and symbols. And that meant
a terrific labor, a feat of mental and emotional endurance quite indescribable. He must hold
it, though it burned like fire; he must clutch it to his bosom, though it tore at his heart-strings.

"Sometimes," he said, "I fail and have to give up; and then I have nothing but a memory without
words--or perhaps a few broken phrases that seem mere nonsense. Then I am like a man who has
seen some loved one drowned or burned to death before his eyes. It is a thing so ineffable,
so precious; and some power seeks to tear it away from me, to bear it into oblivion forever.
I can't know, of course--it might come to some one else--or it might never come again. The
feeling I have is like that of a mother for an unborn child; if I do not give it life, no one
ever will. And don't you see--compared with that, what does anything else count? I would lie
down and be crushed to pieces, if that would help; truly, I would suffer less than I suffer
in what I try to do. And so, the things that other men care for--they simply don't exist for
me. I must have a little money, because I have to have something to eat, and a place to work
in. But I don't want position or fame--I don't shrink from any ridicule or humiliation. It
seems like a mad thing to say, but I have nothing to do either with men's evil or with their
good. I am not bound by any of their duties; I can't have any country or any home, I can't
have wife or children--I can hardly even have any friends. Don't you see?"

"Yes," whispered Corydon, deeply moved, "I see."

"Look," he went on--"see all the vice and misery in the world--the cruelty and greed and hate.
And see all the stupid and petty things, the narrow motives, the vanities and the jealousies!
And all that is because people haven't this thing that has come to me; they don't know the
possibilities of life, they lack the sense of its preciousness and sacredness. And they seek
and seek--and go astray! Take drunkenness, for instance; that brings them joy, but it's a false
scent, it leads them over a precipice. I've been down at the bottom of it--you know why I have
to go there, and what I've seen. And that is where the best of men's faculties go--yes, it's
literally true! The men who are dull and plodding, they are contented; it's the men who are
adventurous and aspiring who come to that precipice. I walk down an avenue and see the lines
of saloons with their gleaming lights, and that thought is like a scream of anguish in my soul;
there came a phrase to me once, that I wanted to cry out to people--'the graveyards of your
genius! the graveyards of your genius!'"

Corydon was gazing at his uplifted face. She said, "That is how Jesus must have felt, when
he wept over Jerusalem."

"Yes," said Thyrsis. "It is a new religion trying to be born. Only nowadays they don't persecute
you, they just ignore you. They don't hang you up on a cross and make you conspicuous and picturesque--
they ridicule you and let you starve. And that is what I face, you see. I've saved a hundred
dollars--just barely enough to buy me food until I've written the book!"

"And other people have so much!" cried Corydon.

"So much--and no idea what to do with it. They just fling it away, in a drunken frenzy. And
down below are the poor, who slave to make civilization possible. Such lives as they have to
live--I can't ever get the thought out of my mind, not in any happiest moment! I feel as if
I were a man who had escaped from a beleaguered city, and it all depended upon me to carry
the tidings and bring relief. I'm their one hope, and if I fail them I'm a traitor, an accursed
being! They are ignorant and helpless, and their cry comes to me like some great storm-wind
of grief and despair. Oh, some day I mean to utter words that will reach them--I can't fail!
I can't fail!"

"No!" whispered Corydon. "You must not fail!"

They sat in silence for a while.

"How I wish that I could help you!" she said.

"Who can tell?" he answered. "Perhaps you may. A true friend is a rare thing to find."

"I would do anything in the world to share in such a work."

"You really mean that? As hard as it is?"

"I would bear anything," she said. "I would go to the ends of the earth for it. I would fling
away the whole world--just as you have done."

"Ah, but are you strong enough? Could you stand it?"

"I don't know that--I'm only a child. But I wouldn't mind dying."

And so it came. It came as the dawn comes, unheralded, unheeded--spreading wider, till the
day is there. Months afterwards they talked about it, and Thyrsis asked, "When did I propose
to you?"

"I don't think you ever proposed to me," she answered. "It just came. It had to come--there
was no other way."

"But when did I first kiss you?" he asked.

"I don't know even that," she said, and pondered.

"Did I kiss you that night when we sat on the hill?" he asked.

"I wouldn't have known it if you had," said Corydon. "It was as natural for you to kiss me
as it was for me to draw my breath."

Section 7. The moon was high when they went down the hill, and he rowed her home. They were
silent with the awe that was upon them. They found the people at home in a panic, but they
scarcely knew this--and they scarcely troubled to explain.

Then Thyrsis went home, and spent half the night roaming about in excitement. And early in
the morning he was sitting on the edge of his canvas-cot, whispering to himself again, "Corydon!
Little Corydon!"

He could not think of work that day, but set out to walk to the village by the lonely mountain-road;
and half-way there he met the girl, coming in the other direction. There was a light of wonder
in her eyes; and also there was perplexity. For all that morning she had been whispering to
herself, "Thyrsis! Thyrsis!"

They sat by the roadside to talk it over.

"Corydon," he began, "I've been thinking about what we said last night, and it frightens me
horribly. And I want to ask you please not to think about it any more. I could not take anyone
else into my life--before God, I couldn't be so cruel. I have been shuddering at the thought
of it. Oh please, please, run away from me--before it is too late!"

"Is that the way it seems?" she asked.

"Corydon!" he cried. "I am a tormented man! There can't be any happiness in the world for me.
And you are so beautiful and so pure and so good--I simply dare not think of it! You must be
happy, Corydon!"

"I have never yet been happy," she said.

"Listen," he went on--"there is a stanza of Walter Scott's that came to me this morning--an
outlaw song. It seemed to sum up all my feeling about it:

   "'Maiden! a nameless life I lead,
      A nameless death I'll die;
    The fiend whose lantern lights the mead
      Were better mate than I!'"

Corydon sat staring ahead. "You can't frighten me away from you," she said, in a low voice.
"It isn't worth your while to try. But let me tell you what I came to say. I'm so ignorant
and so helpless--I didn't see how I could be of any use to you. And so I wanted to tell you
that you must do whatever seemed best to you--just don't count me at all. You see what I mean--I'm
not afraid for myself, but just for you. I couldn't bear the thought that I might be in your
way. I felt I had to come and tell you that, before you went back to your work."

Now Thyrsis had set out with mighty battlements reared about him; and not all the houris and
the courtesans of all the ages could have found a way to breach them. But before those simple
sentences of Corydon's, uttered in her gentle voice, and with her maiden's gaze of wonder--the
battlements crumbled and rocked.

And that was always the way of it. There were endless new explanations and new attitudes, new
excursions and discoveries. They would part with a certain understanding, but they never knew
with what view they would meet in the morning. They were swung from one extreme to the other,
from certitude to doubt, from joy to dismay and despair. And so, day after day they would sit
and talk, for uncounted hours. Corydon would come to the little cabin, or Thyrsis would come
to the village, and they would wander about the roads or the woods, forgetting their meals,
forgetting all the world. Once they wandered away into the mountains, and they sat until the
dusk closed round them; they were almost lost that night.

"Of course," Thyrsis had been saying, "we should not be married like other men and women."

"No," said Corydon, "of course not."

"We should be brother and sister," he said.

"Yes," she assented.

"And it would not be real marriage--I mean, it would be just for the world's eyes."

"So I don't see how it could hinder you," Corydon added. "Whatever I did that was wrong, you
would tell me. And then too, about money. I shouldn't be any burden; for I have twenty-five
dollars a month of my own."

"I had no idea of that," said Thyrsis.

"I've only had it for a year," said Corydon. "An aunt left me nearly four thousand dollars.
I can't touch the principal until I'm thirty, but I have the income, and that will buy me everything
I need. And so it would be just as if you didn't have me to think of."

"I don't think the money side matters so much," was his reply. "It's only this summer, you
see--until I've finished the book."

Section 8. The key to all the future was the book; but alas, the book was not coming on. How
could one write amid such excitement? This was a new kind of wine in Thyrsis' blood. This was
reality! And before it his dream-phantoms seemed to have dissolved into nothingness.

They would make a compact for so many days, and he would start to work; but he would find himself
thinking of Corydon, and new problems would arise, and he would take to writing her notes--and
finally realize in despair that he might as well go and see her.

Meantime Corydon would be wrestling with tasks of her own. They had talked over her development,
and agreed that what she needed was discipline. And because Thyrsis had read her some of Goethe's
lyrics, she had decided to begin with German. Thyrsis had wasted a great deal of time with
German courses in college, and so he was able to tell her everything not to do. He got her
a little primer of grammar, just enough to make clear the language-structure; and then he set
her to acquiring a vocabulary. He had little books full of words that he had prepared for himself,
and these she drilled into her brain, all day and nearly all night. She stopped for nothing
but to eat--in the woods when the weather was fair and in her room when it rained, she studied
words, words, words! And she made amazing progress--while Thyrsis was wrestling with his angels
she read Grimm's fairy tales, and some of Heyse's "Novellen," and "Hermann and Dorothea," and
"Wilhelm Tell."

But these were children's tasks, and her pilgrimage was one of despair. Above were the heights
where Thyrsis dwelt, inaccessible, almost invisible; and how many years must she toil to reach
them! She would come to him with tears in her eyes--tears of shame for her ignorance and her
stupidity. And then Thyrsis would kiss the tears away, and tell her how many brilliant and
clever women he had met, who had the souls of dolls behind all their display of culture.

So Corydon would escape that unhappiness--but alas, only to fall into another kind. For she
was a maiden, beautiful and tender, and ineffably precious to Thyrsis; and when they met, their
hands would come together--it was as natural for them to embrace as for the flowers to grow.
And this would lead to moods of weakness and satisfaction--not to that divine discontent, that
rage of impatience which Thyrsis craved. It seemed to him that Corydon grew more and more in
love with him, and more willing to cling to him; and he was savage because of his own complaisance.
They would spend hours, exchanging endearments and whispering youthful absurdities; and then,
the next day, he would write a note of protest, and Corydon would be wild with misery, and
would tear up his love-notes, and vow in tears that he should never touch her hand again. Now
and then he would try to suggest to her that what she needed for the fulfillment of her life
was not a madman like himself, but a husband who would love her and cherish her, as other women
were loved and cherished; and there was nothing in all the world that galled her quite so much
as this.

Section 9. There came a time when all these happenings could no longer be hid from parents.
This unthinkable "engagement" had to be announced, and the furies of grief and rage and despair
unchained. No one could realize the change that had come over Corydon--Cory-don, the meek and
long-suffering, who now was turned to granite, and immovable as the everlasting hills. As for
Thyrsis, all kinds of madness had come from him, and were expected from him. But even he was
appalled at the devastation which this thunderbolt caused.

"You have ruined your career! You have ruined your career!" was the cry that rang in his ears
all day. And he knew what the world meant by this. Young men of talent who wished to rise in
the world did not burden themselves with wives at the age of twenty; they waited until their
careers were safe--and meantime, if they felt the need, they satisfied their passions with
the daughters of the poor. And it was for some such "eligible man" as this that the world had
been preparing Corydon; it was to save her for his coming that her sheltered life had been
intended. Her beauty and tenderness would appeal to him, her innocence would bring a new thrill
to his jaded passions; and when he offered his hand, there would be no whisper of what his
past might have been, there would be no questions asked as to any vices or diseases he might
bring with him. There would be trousseaus and flowers and wedding-cake, rice and white ribbons
and a honeymoon-journey; and then an apartment in the city, or perhaps even a whole house,
with a butler and a carriage--who could tell? With wealth pouring into the metropolis from
North and West and South, such things fell often to beautiful and innocent maidens in sheltered
homes.

And here was this one, flinging herself away upon a penniless poet who could not support her,
and did not even propose to try! "Does he mean to get some work?" was the question; and gently
Corydon explained that they intended "to live as brother and sister." And that capped the climax--that
proved stark, raving madness, if it did not prove downright knavery and fraud.

In the end, being utterly baffled and helpless with dismay, the mothers turned upon each other;
for to each of them, the virtues of her own offspring being so apparent, it was clear that
this hideous tragedy must have come from the machinations of the other. One day Thyrsis and
his mother, walking down a road, met Corydon and her mother, upon a high hill where the winds
blew wildly; and here they poured out their grief, and hurled their impeachments against the
storm. To Thyrsis they assumed heroic proportions, they towered like queens of tragedy; in
after-history this was known as the Meeting of the Mothers, and he likened it to the great
contest in the Nibelungenlied between Brunhild and Kriemhild.

Then, on top of it all, there came another calamity. In the boarding-house with Corydon lived
some elderly ladies, who had a remarkable faculty for divining the evil deeds of other people.
They had divined the evil deeds of Corydon and Thyrsis, and one of them was moved to come to
Corydon's mother one day, and warn her lest others should divine them too. And so there was
more agony; the discovery was made that Corydon had become a social outcast to all the maids
and matrons of the summer population--a girl who went to visit a poet in his lonely cabin,
and stayed until unknown hours of the night. And so there came to Thyrsis a note saying that
Corydon must come no more to the cabin; and later in the day came Corydon herself, to bring
the tidings that a telegram had come from the city, and that she and her mother were to leave
the place the next day.

Thyrsis was aflame with anger, and was for going to the nearest parson and having the matter
settled there and then. But Corydon dissuaded him from this.

"I've been thinking it over," she said, "and it's best that I should go. You must finish the
book--everything depends upon that, and you know that if I came here now you couldn't do it.
But if I go away, there'll be nothing to disturb you. I can study meantime; and when we meet
in the city in the fall, everything will be clear before us."

She came and put herself in his arms. "You know, dear heart," she said, "it won't be easy for
me to go. But I'm sure it's for the best!"

And Thyrsis saw that she was right, and so they settled it. She spent that day with him--their
last day; and floods of tenderness welled up in their hearts, and the tears ran down their
cheeks. It was only now that she was going that Thyrsis realized how precious she had become
to him, and what a miracle of gentleness and trust she was.

They agreed that here, and not in the village, was the place for their parting. So they poured
out their love and devotion, and made their pledges for the future; and towards sundown he
kissed her good-bye, and put her in the boat, and stood watching until it was a mere speck
down the lake. Then he went back to the house, with a great cavern of loneliness in his soul.

And in spite of all resolves, he was up with the dawn next day, and walking to the village--he
must see her once again! He went to the depot with her, and upon the platform they said another
farewell; thereby putting a seal upon Corydon's damnation in the eyes of the maids and matrons
of the summer population.

BOOK III

THE VICTIM HESITATES

They had opened a wooden box which lay beside them.

"Ten years!" she said. "How they have faded!"

"And the creases are tight," said he; "they will be hard to read."

"Letters! letters!" she exclaimed--"some of them sixty pages long! How much would they make?"

"Perhaps a quarter of a million words," he said.

"What is to be done about it?"

"They must be selected, and then cut, and then trimmed and pruned."

"And will that leave any idea of it?"

He answered with a simile. "You wish to convey to a man how it feels to pound stone for twelve
hours in the sun. The only way you could really do it would be to take him and let him pound
for twelve hours. But he wouldn't stand for that."

"So you let him pound for one hour," said she, with a smile.

"I will put up a sign," he said--

   'HERE BEGINS THE STONE-POUNDING!'

And then those who are interested will come in and try it; and the rest will peer through the
fence and pass on."

To which she responded, "I would make the sign read,

   'ADMISSION TO LOVERS ONLY!'"

MY THYRSIS!

Oh, if I might only stay in a convent until you are ready to take me! Since I left you I find
myself possessed of cravings, which, if I indulged them, might bring me the fate of the Maid
of Neidpath!

Truly I have known some miserable moments. But I am trying very hard to cultivate a happy,
confident activity. The people here are aggressive, and I am afraid I have been rude, which
I never like to be. I just succeeded in getting away from a young man who wanted to walk to
the village with me. Do you know, it would drive me absolutely mad to talk to anyone now!

My soul has only one cry, and I could sometimes go out on the mountain-side and scream it aloud
to the winds. I fear I shall be a trifle wild, in fact utterly in pieces, until you come, with
that wonderful recipe of yours for binding me together, and making me complete. I think of
you in your house, and wish to God I were there, or out in the desert even, if you were with me.

When I passed through the city I felt exactly as if I were in Hades. The glaring lights and
the fearful rattle, the lazy, lounging men--I had dinner in a restaurant, in which all the
people seemed to be feeding demons! It has been distinctly shown me why so many people have
thought you a rude unmannerly boy! I don't know what people would think, if I had to be amongst
them long.

I have begun so many letters to you in my mind, and oh, the times I have told myself how much
I loved you! I have read your letters and slept with them under my pillow, like the veriest
love-lorn maiden. But all my happy thoughts are gone at present. It is distracting to me to
have to come into such close contact with people.

Oh, tell me, dearest one, what I shall have to do to control myself and preserve the peace
of my soul, until I go to you forever? I must not long to see you, it prevents me from studying.
If you might only come to me at one moment in the day, and give me one kiss, and then go away!
You see, I am conducting myself in a very unwise manner--and it is necessary I should study!
I should love to have an indomitable capacity for work, and eat only two meals a day, and never
have to think about my body.

I want to tell you what I feel, how utterly and absolutely I am yours, and how any image that
comes between you and me enrages me. If only you knew how I give myself up to you in thought,
word, and deed!--My one reason for acting now, is that I may show you something I have done,
my one thought is to be what you would wish me. No one, no one understands, or ever will, what
is in your heart and in mine--to be locked there for ages. There I have placed all my power
of love and religion and hope of the life that is to be. To you I give all my trust, all my
worship, you are the one link that binds me to myself and to God. Without you I feel now that
I should be a poor wanderer.

