The scenes of most of them are laid in the East,--of a few in Germany; but the robust method
of the German story-writer is apparent in each. We wish we could quote from one or two which
have particularly charmed us; but though this is impossible within any decent limits, we can
at least provoke the appetite of readers of all ages by the mere displaying of such titles
as these:--"The History of Caliph Stork"; "The Story of the Severed Hand"; "The Story of Little
Muck"; "Nosey the Dwarf"; "The Young Englishman"; "The Prophecy of the Silver Florin"; "The
Cold Heart," etc. What prospects for winter evenings are here! And while we can assure the
adult reader that the promise which these titles give of burlesque or humorous description,
and bold, romantic narrative, shall be more than kept, it may be well also to say, for the
comfort of those whom we hope to see buy the book for their children's sake, that the stories
in it are entirely free from certain objections which may be fairly urged against the "Arabian
Nights" as reading for young people. The "Arabian Days" have nothing to be ashamed of in the
nature of their entertainments.

The translation itself is a performance in a high degree creditable, not only to the German,
but to the English, scholarship of Mr. Curtis. We perceive scarcely any of that peculiar stiffness
of style which makes so many otherwise excellent translations painful to read,--the stiffness
as of one walking in new boots,--the result of dressing the words of one language in the grammatical
construction of another. Mr. Curtis gives us the sentiment and wit and fancy and humor and
oddity of the German's stories, but in an English way. Indeed, his is manly and graceful English,
such as we hope we are not now by any means seeing the last of.

To the right sort of reader, as we consider him, of the "Arabian Days," a word about the pictures
(for observe, that the proper name for the illustrations of a story-book is pictures) may be
fitly spoken.

There are no less than sixteen very nice pictures to this story-book,--well done, even for
Mr. Hoppin, artistically, and well conceived for the refreshing of the inner eye of him, her,
or it that reads. And we must be permitted, also, who have read this book by candle-light,
as only such a book should be read, to congratulate the readers who come after us upon the
good type and good paper in which the publishers have very properly produced it.

We hope and believe this publication will before long be given as a boon to the rising generation,
our second-cousins, across the water. They, however, cannot have it (as we fully intend that
certain small bodies, but huge feeders on fiction, among our acquaintance, shall have it) on
Christmas morning,--the dear old festival, that, as we write, is already near enough to warm
our hearts with anticipation.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Stratford Gallery: or the Shakspeare Sisterhood. Comprising Forty-five Ideal Portraits,
described by HENRIETTA LEE PALMER. Illustrated. New York: D. Appleton & Co.

This book is what it purports to be,--not a collection of elaborate essays devoted to metaphysical
analysis or to conjectural emendations of doubtful lines,--but a series of ideal portraits
of the women of Shakspeare's plays. The reader may fancy himself led by an intelligent cicerone
who pauses before each picture and with well-chosen words tells enough of the story to present
the heroine, and then gives her own conception of the character, with such hints concerning
manners and personal peculiarities as a careful study of the play may furnish. The narrations
are models of neatness and brevity, yet full enough to give a clear understanding of the situation
to any one unacquainted with it. The creations of Shakspeare have a wonderful completeness
and vitality; and yet the elements of character are often mingled so subtilely that the sharpest
critics differ widely in their estimates. Nothing can be more fascinating than to follow closely
the great dramatist, picking out from the dialogue a trait of form here, a whim of color there,
and at last combining them into an harmonious whole, with the truth of outline, hue, and bearing
preserved. Often as this has been done, there is room still for new observers, provided they
bring their own eyes to the task, and do not depend upon the dim and warped lenses of the commentators.

It is very rarely that we meet with so fresh, so acute, and so entertaining a student of Shakspeare
as the author of this volume. Her observations, whether invariably just or not, are generally
taken from a new stand-point. She is led to her conclusions rather by instinct than by reason.
She makes no apology for her judgments.

  "I have no reason but a woman's reason;
  I think her so because I think her so."

And it would not be strange, if womanly instinct were to prove oftentimes a truer guide in
following the waywardness or the apparent contradictions of a woman's nature than the cold
logical processes of merely intellectual men.

To the heroines who are most truly women the author's loyalty is pure and intense. Imogen,
the "chaste, ardent, devoted, beautiful" wife,--Juliet, whose "ingenuousness and almost infantile
simplicity" endear her to all hearts,--Miranda, that most ethereal creation, type of virgin
innocence,--Cordelia, with her pure, filial devotion,--are painted with loving, sympathetic
tenderness.

Altogether, this is a book which any admirer of the poet may read with pleasure; and especially
to those who have not ventured to think wholly for themselves it will prove a most useful and
agreeable companion.

It is a matter of regret that the characters of the greatest of dramatists should not have
been embodied by the greatest of painters. But no Michel Angelo, or Raphael, or Correggio,
has illustrated these wonderful creations; and the man who is capable of appreciating Miranda,
or Ophelia, or Desdemona, finds the ideal heads of the painters, of our day at least, tame,
vapid, and unsatisfactory. The heroine, as imaged in his mind, is arrayed in a loveliness which
limner never compassed. We cannot promise our readers that the engravings in this beautifully
printed and richly bound volume will prove to be exceptions to the usual rule. They are from
designs by English artists,--"Eminent Hands," in the popular phrase; the faces are often quite
striking and expressive, and, up to a certain point, characteristic; moreover, they are smoothly
finished, and will compare favorably with those in fashionable gift-books. Without being in
the least degree examples of a high style of Art in its absolute sense, they answer well the
purpose for which they were designed. Indeed, if they were more truly ideal, and, at the same
time, more truly human, they would doubtless be far less popular.

       *       *       *       *       *

Ernest Carroll, or Artist-Life in Italy. A Novel, in Three Parts. Boston; Ticknor & Fields. 1858.

