"There remains yet David; but he is my youngest son, and is watching the sheep."

David was too young to be thought of in this important business.  He was down in the hollow
with his shepherd's staff and dog and sling, playing upon his harp, and watching from afar
the fire and smoke and crowds, as he kept his father's flocks.

"Send and fetch him, for we will not sit down to the feast until he comes," was the stern reply.
The brothers were angry at this useless waste of time; but one of them was soon leaping down
the stony path to the valley, shouting with his hand to his mouth, and waving a stick in the
air to attract his young brother's attention.

The people waited in the sunshine, and soon they saw David, with his tunic pulled through his
leather belt so as to leave his legs free, running swiftly up the hill, for he was very fleet
of foot.  He came in his shepherd's torn and soiled garb, and had to wash at the brook before
he was fit to stand before the prophet.

When at length he drew near, Samuel saw a young man, not tall, but clearly of great strength,
with light hair, ruddy cheeks, and bright eyes; and he thought the youth very good to look
upon as he stood before him dressed in his striped tunic and leather girdle, from which hung
his shepherd's club, sling, and knife.  Samuel looked at his frank face, and as he looked God
said to him,--

"Arise, anoint him: for this is he."

Going forward, the old man bade the shepherd youth kneel down and uncover his head.  And David
did so, taking off his bright kerchief, little knowing what was about to happen.  Then raising
his horn before the astonished people, Samuel poured the sweet-smelling oil upon the young
man's head, saying as he did so that God had chosen this young man to be a prince in Israel.

Upon this the people raised a great shout of joy, and Samuel gave the signal for the feast
that was to follow.  Then the men all sat down on the ground about the large wood fire, while
the women came forward to serve them.

II.

David, the shepherd of Bethlehem, was not a mere boy when the prophet Samuel called him from
watching his sheep to pour scented oil upon his head, and tell him, before all the people of
the village, that he would one day be a prince in the land.  He was already a village hero,
for one day he had killed a lion that sprang upon one of his sheep as they fed in the valley
to the south, near the desert country.

He had also killed a bear that tried to seize one of his young lambs; for David was so strong
that he could break an iron bow with his hands, and so swift on his feet that he could catch
a wild deer in a race over good ground.  He was not so tall as his fighting brothers, but he
was stronger, and knew how to use the sword, bow, club, sling, and spear; for all the young
men of the villages learned the use of these weapons in their sports and games.

The lad was also fond of music, and could play and sing.  Sitting in the shade of a shadowy
rock, or at the mouth of a dark cave, as he watched his sheep wandering to and fro in the sunshine,
he often played strange music upon a rude harp made by himself; and he would sing songs of
his own making about the white flocks and herds, the green hills and cool streams, the red-cheeked
women at the well, and the young men of the village where he had his home.  He was called the
"sweet singer," and his skill on the harp was well known in the villages round about Bethlehem.

When he left his own village and went to live with Samuel's young men at Ramah, to learn to
read and write, he learned also to play upon the pipe and guitar, the tambourine and large
harp, and to sing, not songs of love and war, but praises of God and of His goodness to men.
Under the teaching of Samuel his heart opened towards God as a flower to the sun.  Yet he did
not always stay at Ramah, but often came back to his home, to help his father, and to watch
the sheep with his brothers, who thought him too forward and did not like him much.

King Saul was now very unhappy, for the aged prophet Samuel would not see him, and the king
felt that God was not with him; and he often had fits of sickness when he was in deep trouble,
and only music could soothe his mind.  Hearing that a harper was wanted for the king, one of
David's friends praised his playing, his wisdom, his bravery, and his good looks, saying that
God was with him; and when King Saul heard this he sent a messenger to Bethlehem for the shepherd-harper.
Now no one ever came before the king without a gift in his hand, so Jesse sent with David an
ass laden with a sack of wheat, a kid, and a skin of wine, as a present to King Saul.

With his ruddy cheeks, and his long fair hair falling upon his blue tunic, David pleased the
gloomy king as he stood before him; and when the youth played softly upon the harp, and sang
shepherd songs of love, passing from these into songs in praise of God, the king loved the
youth greatly, and sent word to his father that he would keep David beside him.

Jonathan, the king's son, and Michal, the king's daughter, also learnt to love the shepherd-singer
as he went in and out before the king. Then Saul made him one of his fighting chiefs, who stood
daily before him; and whenever his sickness came upon the king he called for the shepherd-harper,
and David played music both sad and gay until the cloud passed from the king's mind.  Sometimes
David stayed at Gibeah, where the king's house was, and sometimes at Bethlehem; and always
once a year he went home to the great family feast of the new moon, when all his father's relatives
were gathered together.

III.

The fighting between King Saul and the Philistine tribes, who lived near the seacoast, never
ceased; for the Philistines had made up their minds to make the men of Israel their servants,
and King Saul was determined that his people should be free.

Once upon a time the Philistines gathered their young men, and came, with their battle-flags
and drums, up the great Vale of Elah, the valley of oaks, to attack Saul's people.  Stopping
at the village of Succoth, they chose a secure place, and put up their black tents among the
thick bushes, camping about ten miles from the round hill of Bethlehem.

Then King Saul sent out messengers to sound the war-horns up and down the valleys, and gather
his fighting-men to drive back their old enemies.  Three of David's brothers grasped their
spears and bows, and joined King Saul with the men of the tribe of Judah; but David stayed
for the time at Bethlehem, to take care of his old father and the flocks.

In those days soldiers had to find their own food, and armies sat down before each other for
many days before they began to fight.  After a time Jesse sent David with asses laden with
corn and cakes for his brothers, and ten little cheeses for their captain; and David led them
through the hills and down the wide glen to the camping-place opposite Succoth, where the king's
men looked across the valley to their foes on the opposite slope, while the river ran between.

Then one day the Philistines sent out a champion, a giant named Goliath of Gath, who wore a
helmet of brass and a brazen coat of mail of very great weight.  This champion sent a boastful
challenge to the Israelites, bidding them send out a man to fight with him.  "If he be able
to fight with me, and to kill me, then will we be your servants," ran the message; "but if
I prevail against him, and kill him, then shall ye be our servants."

This challenge he repeated for forty days, but there was no man found among the men of Israel
who dared to go out against Goliath of Gath.

Then Saul made it known that whoever could kill Goliath should have great riches, should marry
the princess his daughter, and win great honour for himself and for his family.

Now when David reached the place with the food for his brothers, he was amazed to see that
the men of Israel were so much afraid, and he asked, "Who is this Philistine, that he should
defy the armies of the living God?"  And those who stood around told him how the giant warrior
had come out day after day, and how the king had promised to enrich the man who should slay him.

Then it was told to King Saul how David had come and had asked about the king's promise.  So
the king sent for the youth; and when he had been brought in, David said, "Let no man's heart
be troubled, for thy servant will go and fight with the Philistine."  But Saul said, "Thou
art not able to go out against him; for thou art but a youth, and he a man of war from his youth."

Then David told Saul how he had killed with his own hands a fierce lion, and a bear which had
stolen a lamb from the flock.  And Saul said, "Go, and the Lord be with thee."

The king then armed David with his own armour; but the mail was too heavy for the young man,
and he said, "I cannot fight with these, for I have not tested them."

When Goliath looked at David he was filled with scorn, and disdained him; for he was but a
youth, as any one could plainly see.  And with a frown upon his face he said angrily, "Am I
a dog, that thou comest to me with staves?

Upon this the giant came near to meet David; and the youth made haste and took a stone out
of his bag, and slung it with such skill and force that it smote Goliath in the forehead, and
sank so deeply that the huge warrior fell lifeless to the ground.  David then ran and stood
upon the body of the giant, and having no weapon except his sling, cut off Goliath's head with
his own sword.  When the Philistines saw that their champion had fallen, they turned and ran
without more ado.

Then with loud shouts the men of Israel rushed across the vale of oaks, shooting their arrows
as they ran, for they were good bowmen. Scattering the Philistines, they drove them back to
their own country, until they took refuge in their walled towns of Gath and Ekron.

After this the men of Israel returned to their enemy's camp at Succoth, and plundered the tents,
wagons, sacks, and baggage.  When this had been done they feasted and rejoiced over the victory,
and drove off the horses and cattle of their foes, carrying everything up to their own towns
and villages in the hills.  And from that day forward David was the hero of all the young men
of the army of Saul.

IV.

The tall, gloomy king now sent for David, the hero of the battle of Succoth, and leaning on
his spear among his chiefs, Saul told the young shepherd of Bethlehem that he must not return
any more to his father's house, for he was to be one of the chief captains of the army.  And
David was glad, for he loved fighting.  When Jonathan, the king's son, saw the young shepherd
standing daily among the chiefs in his father's tent, he took a strong liking for him; and
as time passed his soul was knit with David's, until he loved him as he loved himself.  And
the king was pleased that his son and David were such good friends.

One day Jonathan took David into his tent, and there the young men promised to be friends all
their lives till death should part them. Now David was very poor compared with the king's son,
and had only the rough clothing of a herdsman, thick and strong, but not beautiful; so Jonathan
took off his fine cloak, his gay tunic, his rich belt, and even his glittering sword and bow,
and put them all upon David, giving them freely to him as a present.  Then the king's son brought
out other clothes and weapons, and dressed himself once more like a soldier-prince.

And when the young men came out of the tent into the sunshine, both dressed like princes, the
people saw that they were as brothers; and the king saw it too, and thought that Jonathan was
very foolish.  But David was so strong and brave, and such a favourite with the tribesmen,
that the king set him over a troop of young men; and whenever Saul went out to fight, David
and his band went with him, and this greatly pleased the chiefs and the fighting-men of the army.

King Saul went on fighting with his old enemies the Philistines, who came up at certain seasons
of the year to plunder the land, and had to be chased down the long valleys, and back into
their walled towns again; but with David's help the king was now able to beat them as he had
never done before.  And each time they drove the Philistines down, the young men returned leaping,
running, dancing, and showing off their skill and strength on the way; and the villagers would
often come out to meet them, and rejoice also.

After one of these fights, as the tribesmen came back, with David riding beside the tall, dark
king, the young women of the towns came out and danced before them on the road.  Beating their
tambourines, they shouted wild songs in praise of the fighting-men, singing and answering each
other in turn after the manner of the Hebrews.  King Saul listened, and his brows grew dark
as he heard them praising his brave young captain more than himself.

"Saul hath slain his thousands," sweetly sang one band of maidens.

"And David his tens of thousands," answered another.

These girls little dreamed what harm they were doing with their light-hearted songs.  David
himself was pleased with the praise of the young women, as we might expect; but as the tall
king rode on he grew more angry, saying to himself as he spurred forward his horse, "What more
can he have but the kingdom itself?"  And he watched David from that day forward, to see whether
the young man was aiming at being king.

King Saul's sickness of mind returned from time to time, and day after day David stood before
him, playing upon his harp and singing the king's praises; but now Saul would not listen. 
David's music did not make him well as it had before, but rather worse, for he was full of
suspicion of his young chief, and hated the sight of him.  But the king's friends thought David's
music was the best thing to restore the king to health.

Now the dark-faced king was never without a weapon near his hand; and holding his long spear,
he would sit and listen to the young harper, now pleased, now angry, for he sometimes liked
David and sometimes hated him.  Twice he seized a little spear and flung it at him, crying
out that he would pin him to the wall; but his aim was bad.  Perhaps he did not mean to harm
him; but at all events David avoided the weapon and ran out.

The king in his sickness of mind next became afraid of his young captain.  Wishing to have
him out of his sight, he set him over a band of a thousand fighting-men, and bade him live
with them at a distance. But the men who were under David liked him more than ever.

King Saul now wished that David was dead, so fiercely did he hate him; but he did not think
it wise to kill him himself, so he made a plan to get him killed.  He offered him his daughter
Merab for a wife, if he would go down the hills and fight the Philistines in their own country;
and the crafty king said this, hoping that they would kill him.

Now David had no wish to marry Merab, but he loved fighting, so he went willingly, fought stoutly
with the Philistines, and came back alive. Then Saul broke his promise, and gave Merab to another
man, who gave him a rich present, as was the custom when a king's daughter was wedded; and
David was not sorry, for Michal, Merab's younger sister, loved the brave young captain, and
he loved her in return.

Saul was pleased when he heard of this; for he hoped David would be willing to go into greater
danger to win Michal as his wife.  And he sent a messenger to tell David that he was well pleased
with him, and would like him to marry Michal; and that as he was too poor to give the king
a present, he would not ask him for one.  But if he would kill one hundred Philistines within
a certain time, that would stand for a present.

We are not told what Michal thought of this cruel bargain, for Saul hoped and believed that
David would be killed, but David himself was well pleased.  He and his young men went down
the long valleys to the land of the Philistines, where they went about killing people, until
they had slain two hundred; and before the appointed time was up David returned to Saul once
more to tell him what he had done.

This was followed by days and nights of rejoicing among the young men of David's camp.  The
young women decked their hair with flowers, and danced to the sound of the timbrels, as they
praised the beauty and goodness of Michal, the king's daughter; and the young men danced and
shouted round the camp fires, praising David, the bridegroom, as a mighty man of valour.  Saul
was unwilling to give up Michal to the young captain; but he now feared him greatly, and could
not break his promise.  So David got the young princess Michal to be his wife; and after the
death of Saul and Jonathan, who were both slain in battle, he became king of the Israelites,
as Samuel, the prophet of the Lord, had foretold.

KING DAVID'S LITTLE BOY.

Sunshine fell upon the walls of King David's palace on Mount Zion.  The trees in the royal
gardens swayed in the breeze, and the doves fluttered up to the windows; but all was hushed
and still within. Black slaves glided to and fro with naked feet, and the women took off their
tinkling armlets and talked in whispers; for in a little chamber, with shaded window and curtained
door, a dark-eyed mother sat watching her child--the king's child--whose flushed cheeks showed
that he was very ill and near to death.

Now when he heard that his boy was so ill, the king, who was now a man of middle age, threw
himself upon the floor of his room in the bitterness of his grief and prayed to God to spare
the life of the child.

His friends came and stood round and spoke to him, trying to comfort him; but he would not
rise, nor let them raise him up, nor would he take any food.  So he passed the dark night in
praying and in sorrow, while the mother watched the child by the light of a small lamp, and
slaves stood outside the chamber door to keep silence.

The morning came, and sunshine fluttered on the trees in the king's gardens and on the hills
round the town.  Then the king asked for the child, but the answer was that he was no better;
and all the people saw that King David's grief was very great, and they wondered.  For the
monarch had fought in many cruel battles, and beaten his enemies, and caused the death of many
men and women, and even children, and he had done many cruel things in his lifetime.

He now had riches and honour and numerous children, and was the great king of Jerusalem, living
in a palace, with servants and horses and gardens and fountains, and he had brought the golden
ark of God to be near him in a purple tent on Mount Zion; but he had set his whole heart on
this fair-haired child, and the fear that the little one might die took the joy out of everything.

The peacocks on the walls and the doves on the roof missed the little child from the garden,
where he used to come and feed them.  For seven long days and seven longer nights the loving
mother watched him as he lay getting slowly worse; and the king's grief was so great that he
would not rise from the floor to eat by day or night, and when his slaves spoke to him he paid
no heed and would not answer.

He refused to put on the fresh clothing they brought for him, or to wash in the brass basins
of water held out to him, or to eat the food placed on the table at his side; but he lay on
the floor of his little room groaning, and praying to God for the little one.

After a week of suffering the little one passed away in the hushed room of the king's palace
at Jerusalem, and the weeping mother was led away from the bedside of her dead child.  Sorrowing
friends went to tell the king in his chamber; but when they came to the door of his room they
stopped and whispered, saying,--

"If he would not listen to us while the child yet lived, what will his grief be if we say that
the boy is dead?"

The king heard them talking, and looking up, saw from their faces what had happened.  Then
he asked if the child was dead, and they told him, expecting that he would break out into wild
grief; but he did not. Rising from the floor, where he had lain so long, he asked for water;
and his slaves washed him and brought clean, fresh clothing, and combed and oiled his hair.

He spoke to no one, but went out into the sunshine and the wind; and they watched to see what
he would do, and where he would go.  He did not linger among the shady walks of the king's
garden or by the ponds where the red lilies grew and the swans shook out their white plumes
in the sun.

His friends followed him as he went slowly out of the palace gardens and away to the great
tent of purple and crimson, which he liked to call the House of God, on Mount Zion; and they
stopped outside when he drew the rich curtains apart and went in.  There in the darkness he
knelt, and with hands upraised bowed his face to the ground before God as he poured out his
soul in prayer.

After a time the king came out of the great tent again, and his friends and servants followed
him as he returned to his palace.  He had not yet spoken, and they could not understand why
he did not weep and mourn for the child.  He asked for food, and they wondered yet more as
he ate from the dishes which the slaves brought him.

"What is this that thou doest?" asked one of his friends.  "While the child lived thou didst
weep for him, and wouldst take no food; and now that he is dead thou dost rise and eat."  Some
day I shall die and go to him, but he will not return to me."

Whether such thoughts as these comforted the mother's heart, we are not told; but the king
himself tried to comfort her.  After a time she had another little boy, and she called him
Solomon, "the peaceful one," for mothers chose the names in those days.  And as his nurse carried
him about the garden, clad in a little blue robe with white tassels, the people said that he
too was a beautiful child; and he grew up to be good and wise and handsome, and loved his mother
dearly.  And years afterwards this child became the great King Solomon, whom all men thought
so wise.

ELIJAH AND THE WIDOW'S SON.

Ahab, the wicked King of Israel, was sitting in his house at Samaria, when suddenly there appeared
before him a wild-looking man, with long hair and a cape of woolly sheepskin on his shoulders,
his rough tunic girdled with a broad belt of leather, and thick sandals on his feet. Elijah,
the Prophet of God, was his name.  Born and bred in the wild desert country, he now dwelt amid
the hills and valleys of Gilead, across the river Jordan, and he had come to warn the king
that trouble was in store for his kingdom.

"As God lives, before whom I stand," he said, with upraised hand, "there shall not be dew or
rain for years, but according to my word." And he said more, for this king was married to Jezebel,
a wicked princess of another nation, who had got her husband to set up images and altars to
Baal, a wooden idol, although he knew it was wrong. Also, to please his wife, Ahab had killed
the priests of God, and set up priests of Baal in their stead; and so when King Ahab heard
the words of the wild prophet he was both angry and afraid.

Elijah did not wait for an answer, but fled out of the king's house and out of the city; for
he knew that when King Ahab told his terrible wife of what he had said, she would send out
men to capture him, dead or alive.  She had tried to kill every prophet of God in the land,
and thought indeed that she had done so; but Obadiah, the king's officer, had hidden one hundred
in caves by the riverside, and kept them alive with bread and water.

So the wild prophet Elijah, with his sheepskin cape or mantle on his shoulders, fled away to
the lonely country of rocks and bushes, wild beasts and robbers.  But he had no fear, for he
had no riches to lose, and he always carried a stout staff in his hand; and no one ever refused
him shelter, for he was known everywhere as "the Man of God."

He fled eastwards, having received a message from God to go and hide in the deep valley of
the Cherith, a small stream running between high banks down to the river Jordan--a place of
caves where many ravens had their nests; and he had been told also that the black ravens would
feed him there with the food they brought.  There he hid himself from King Ahab's men, who
were searching the country for him; and the ravens brought him food morning and evening, and
he drank of the water of the brook until it dried up, for there was no rain.

When he could no longer live there he had another message from God, bidding him leave his hiding-place.
Climbing the wooded hills of Galilee, he started to go down the other side to the town of Zarephath,
by the seashore, where he would be out of King Ahab's country.  With his thick staff in his
hand and his woolly mantle on his shoulders, his head shaded by a shawl hanging down each side
of his face, he crossed the plains, and going up a cleft in the hills, passed between them
towards the coast--a journey of about seventy miles, that would take him at least four days,
for he would have to keep out of sight of the king's men.

Sleeping now in a cave, now in a friendly tent, avoiding villages and bands of men, the wild
prophet came to the fields outside Zarephath and waited; for the place was a walled town with
a low stone archway, and gatekeepers to question all who came in.

Now as he loitered among the trees a poor woman came out to gather broken branches to kindle
her fire, and the prophet called to her,--

"Bring me, I pray thee, a little water in a dish, that I may drink."

She looked at the man's strange figure, with the long black hair falling over his sheepskin
mantle, and turned away with her bundle of sticks, intending to bring a drink of water to him;
and when he saw that she was going home, he called again,--

"Bring me also a morsel of bread in thine hand."

The woman, who was dressed in the rough blue and red clothing of the country, with a few brass
coins in her hair, and glass beads round her neck, came nearer, and he saw from her face that
she was plainly in deep distress.

"As thy God liveth," she said earnestly, "I have not one cake left, but only a handful of meal
in a barrel, and a little oil in a cruse.  I am only gathering a few sticks, that I may go
home and bake one more cake for my son and myself, that we may eat it and then die."

"Fear not," replied the wild man in a gentle tone; "go and do as thou hast said: but make me
a little cake first, and bring it to me, and afterwards make a cake for thyself and thy son.
For thus saith the God of Israel, 'Thy barrel of meal shall not waste, nor thy cruse of oil
fail, until the day that He sendeth rain upon the earth.'"

The woman wondered at his strange words, but she believed the man, and went away to her poor
home; there she soon kindled a fire, and baked a little cake, and took it out to the hungry
prophet sitting outside the city gate.  Then she returned and baked another cake for herself
and her son.  And we are told that after that her barrel never lacked meal, neither did the
oil in her cruse fail, according as the prophet had said; and Elijah stayed with the woman
at her humble home.

Now it happened some time later that this widow's son fell sick and died, and his mother came
to Elijah in great distress.

THE SHUNAMMITE'S BOY.

After the work of Elijah was over and God had taken him up to heaven, there was another prophet
in Israel whose name was Elisha.  Now it happened that one day the prophet Elisha, sitting
upon his ass, with his rough cloak cast about him, came riding towards a little village named
Shunem.  He rode steadily onward up the steep and stony path in the afternoon heat, with his
servant walking behind him.

He had come all the way from his home on the wooded hill of Carmel.  He was tired and hungry,
and, as was his custom, he stopped at the house of a certain Shunammite woman.  Then alighting
from his ass, he went up the outside stair to a little chamber on the wall, which was always
ready to receive him, and there he and his servant Gehazi lay down to rest.

When morning came the prophet and his servant rose and breakfasted on bread and goat's milk,
and were about to go on their way; but before leaving, Elisha told Gehazi to bring up the Shunammite
woman, and the man called to her from the wall.  Coming up the stone stair, she stood at the
door of the little chamber, hiding her face, her dark hair covered by a white kerchief that
fell over a tunic of bright colours which reached down to her slippered feet.

"Thou hast been careful for us with all this care," the prophet said. "What is to be done for
thee?  Shall I ask a favour of the king for thee, or from the captain of his fighting-men?"

Elisha wished to make her some return for her kindness, and thought that she might like to
see her husband raised from the life of a village farmer to be an officer in the king's army.

"I wish to dwell among mine own people," she replied simply, meaning that she would rather
live where her tribe lived; and she turned away and left them.

When she was gone Elisha asked his servant if there was nothing he could do for her; and the
man answered that she had no son.  Gehazi knew it was the dearest wish of every Syrian woman
to have a son, and that the Shunammite's heart longed for one.

"Call her," said Elisha again; and the woman in her bright tunic, bound about her waist with
a silken scarf, again stood outside the door hiding her face.  And Elisha told her that the
time would surely come when she would hold a little son in her arms.  The woman replied in
a low voice,--

"Nay, my lord, thou man of God, do not mock me."

But Elisha said it would be so; and saddling his ass he rode away, with Gehazi following after him.

But the prophet's word came true, and the Shunammite's heart leaped with joy as she nursed
her little babe.  Years passed, and the courtyard echoed with the shouts of the merry child,
whose bare feet pattered all day about the sunny square, scaring the gray doves up to the housetop.
Holding by his mother's hand, he went up the stairs to the little chamber on the wall, where
the vine spread its broad leaves; and there he saw the table and the little bed, the red jar
of water and the cakes of bread waiting for the prophet of God.  And when he was five years
old, with ruddy cheeks and soft hair, he was beautiful as an angel of God.

Now one day, in the hot harvest weather, the little fellow ran away from the house down to
the field where his father and the reapers were at work; and he ran to and fro in the hot morning
sun, sometimes chasing the bright butterflies, sometimes following the men as they cut down
the grain with their sharp sickles.

But after a while he came to his father, calling, "O my head, my head!" for he had got sunstroke
with the great heat.  At once the old farmer bade one of his men carry the boy to his mother;
and he lay on her knee in a darkened room, crying out in an agony of pain and thirst, while
she tried as best she could to relieve his suffering.  But by noon all was still, and the stricken
mother carried his body up to the little chamber and laid it on the prophet's bed, and going
out gently closed the door.  Her heart was like lead as she went down the steps to her own
room, for all the light seemed to have gone out of her world, and now what was she to do?

Calling her husband up from the fields, the Shunammite woman asked him to send a servant to
her with an ass, that she might ride to Elisha at Carmel and return again.  The father did
not know what had happened to his boy, and asked why she wished to go that day, as it was neither
new moon nor Sabbath, her usual times for taking such a journey.

"It is well!" was all her reply, for her heart was crushed, and she had no words to utter.
So the ass was saddled, and she said to her servant,--

"Go forward; and do not slacken the riding unless I tell thee."

Then they went out of the village at a quick pace, and along the plain, among yellow harvest-fields,
and through the little streams, and over the Kishon River, and up into the wooded gorge leading
to the prophet's home on the green mount of Carmel.

"Yonder is the Shunammite woman; run and meet her," exclaimed Elisha to his servant, shading
his eyes from the sun with his hand, as he looked and saw her yet afar off, riding in haste.
Gehazi ran as he was told, and when they met he asked her in an anxious voice,--

"Is it well with thee?  Is it well with thy husband?  Is it well with the child?"

"It is well," she answered, for a mother's heart is strange at such a time; and she rode forward
in silence until she came to Elisha standing at his house door.  Getting off the ass, she threw
herself down before the prophet, and holding his feet, lay there with her face to the ground,
saying nothing.

Gehazi came forward to raise her.

"Let her alone," Elisha said, looking at the grief-stricken figure at his feet.  "Her soul
is vexed within her, and God hath hid the matter from me, and hath not told me."

When she heard these words she found her voice, and murmured, with her face to the ground,--

"Did I ask a son of my lord? and did I not say, 'Do not deceive me'?" Then her tears fell fast.
Elisha understood her at once.

"Gird up thy tunic with thy belt," he said, speaking to Gehazi, "and take my staff, and go.
Greet no man by the way, and answer no man's greeting; but lay it on the face of the child,"
handing him his staff as he spoke.  And the man started at once to run down the path from the
village.

"As God liveth, and as thy soul liveth, I will not leave thee," the mother murmured at the
prophet's feet.

She would not be content with a servant; she must have the prophet himself.  And when she rode
away Elisha was with her, going back again on the long ride of sixteen miles which she had
scarcely noticed, so loving was her mother's heart.

When they drew near the village of Shunem, Gehazi came out to meet them.

"The child is not awake," he said; but he got no answer.

Elisha went up alone to the little chamber, and there lay the beautiful child, still and quiet
upon the bed.  And the old man shut the door and prayed to God for him, and stretched himself
upon the child, hand to hand, eye to eye, mouth to mouth, until the child grew warm, and showing
signs of life, opened his eyes.  Then the prophet called to his servant to bring the Shunammite
woman.  She needed no calling.  Her foot was on the stair while he yet spoke, so quick is a
mother's heart, and she stood at the door of the little room, as she had often stood before,
gazing, but afraid to enter.

"Take up thy son," the prophet said.

