Several subheadings are rendered in the original in blackletter. In this e-book, these are
surrounded by equal signs.

Musical flat symbols are rendered in square brackets, e.g. [B-flat].]

MUSIC

AND SOME

HIGHLY MUSICAL PEOPLE:

CONTAINING BRIEF CHAPTERS ON

I. A DESCRIPTION OF MUSIC. II. THE MUSIC OF NATURE. III. A GLANCE AT THE HISTORY OF MUSIC.
IV. THE POWER, BEAUTY, AND USES OF MUSIC.

FOLLOWING WHICH ARE GIVEN SKETCHES OF THE LIVES OF

REMARKABLE MUSICIANS OF THE COLORED RACE.

=With Portraits,=

AND AN APPENDIX CONTAINING COPIES OF MUSIC COMPOSED BY COLORED MEN.

BY

JAMES M. TROTTER.

     "A man should hear a little music, read a little poetry, and
     see a fine picture, every day of his life, in order that
     worldly cares may not obliterate the sense of the beautiful
     which God has implanted in the human soul."--GOETHE.

     "'Tis thine to merit, mine to record."--HOMER.

FIFTH THOUSAND.

BOSTON: LEE AND SHEPARD, PUBLISHERS. NEW YORK: CHARLES T. DILLINGHAM. 1881.

COPYRIGHT, 1878, BY JAMES M. TROTTER.

 Jas. M. Trotter]

PREFACE.

The purposes of this volume will be so very apparent to even the most casual observer, as to
render an extended explanation here unnecessary. The author will therefore only say, that he
has endeavored faithfully to perform what he was convinced was a much-needed service, not so
much, perhaps, to the cause of music itself, as to some of its noblest devotees and the race
to which the latter belong.

The inseparable relationship existing between music and its worthy exponents gives, it is believed,
full showing of propriety to the course hereinafter pursued,--that of mingling the praises
of both. But, in truth, there was little need to speak in praise of music. Its tones of melody
and harmony require only to be heard in order to awaken in the breast emotions the most delightful.
And yet who can speak at all of an agency so charming in other than words of warmest praise?
Again: if music be a thing of such consummate beauty, what else can be done but to tender an
offering of praise, and even of gratitude, to those, who, by the invention of most pleasing
combinations of tones, melodies, and harmonies, or by great skill in vocal or instrumental
performance, so signally help us to the fullest understanding and enjoyment of it?

As will be seen by a reference to the introductory chapters, in which the subject of music
is separately considered, an attempt has been made not only to form by them a proper setting
for the personal sketches that follow, but also to render the book entertaining to lovers of
the art in general.

While grouping, as has here been done, the musical celebrities of a single race; while gathering
from near and far these many fragments of musical history, and recording them in one book,--the
writer yet earnestly disavows all motives of a distinctively clannish nature. But the haze
of complexional prejudice has so much obscured the vision of many persons, that they cannot
see (at least, there are many who affect not to see) that musical faculties, and power for
their artistic development, are not in the exclusive possession of the fairer-skinned race,
but are alike the beneficent gifts of the Creator to all his children. Besides, there are some
well-meaning persons who have formed, for lack of the information which is here afforded, erroneous
and unfavorable estimates of the art-capabilities of the colored race. In the hope, then, of
contributing to the formation of a more just opinion, of inducing a cheerful admission of its
existence, and of aiding to establish between both races relations of mutual respect and good
feeling; of inspiring the people most concerned (if that be necessary) with a greater pride
in their own achievements, and confidence in their own resources, as a basis for other and
even greater acquirements, as a landmark, a partial guide, for a future and better chronicler;
and, finally, as a sincere tribute to the winning power, the noble beauty, of music, a contemplation
of whose own divine harmony should ever serve to promote harmony between man and man,--with
these purposes in view, this humble volume is hopefully issued.

THE AUTHOR.

CONTENTS.

                                                                  PAGE

A DESCRIPTION OF MUSIC                                            7-11

THE MUSIC OF NATURE                                              12-21

A GLANCE AT THE HISTORY OF MUSIC                                 22-50

THE BEAUTY, POWER, AND USES OF MUSIC                             51-65

ELIZABETH TAYLOR GREENFIELD (the "Black Swan")                   66-87

THE LUCA FAMILY                                                 88-105

HENRY F. WILLIAMS                                              106-113

JUSTIN HOLLAND                                                 114-130

THOMAS J. BOWERS (the "American Mario")                        131-137

JAMES GLOUCESTER DEMAREST                                      138-140

THOMAS GREENE BETHUNE ("Blind Tom")                            141-159

THE HYERS SISTERS                                              160-179

FREDERICK ELLIOT LEWIS                                         180-191

NELLIE E. BROWN                                                192-208

SAMUEL W. JAMIESON                                             209-218

JOSEPH WHITE (preceded by a brief account of the
  Violin, pp. 219-223)                                         224-240

THE COLORED AMERICAN OPERA COMPANY                             241-252

THE JUBILEE SINGERS OF FISK UNIVERSITY                         253-269

THE GEORGIA MINSTRELS                                          270-282

PART SECOND.

INTRODUCTION                                                   285-288

RACHEL M. WASHINGTON                                           288-290

JAMES CASERAS                                                      300

JOHN T. DOUGLASS                                                   301

WALTER F. CRAIG                                                    301

WILLIAM APPO                                                       302

WILLIAM BRADY                                                  302-303

PETER P. O'FAKE                                                304-306

FRANK JOHNSON, AND HIS FAMOUS MILITARY BAND AND ORCHESTRA      306-309

JOSEPH G. ANDERSON                                             308-309

MADAM BROWN                                                        309

SARAH SEDGEWICK BOWERS                                         309-310

JOHN MOORE                                                     310-311

SAMUEL LUCAS                                                   312-313

WILLIAM H. STARR                                                   314

G.H.W. STEWART                                                     330

THE LAMBERT FAMILY                                             338-340

EDMUND DÉDÉ                                                    340-341

BASILE BARÈS                                                       341

SAMUEL SNAER                                                   341-343

PROF. A.P. WILLIAMS                                                343

E.V. MACARTY                                                   343-344

MAURICE J.B. DOUBLET                                           344-345

DENNIS AUGUSTE                                                     345

THE DUPRÉ FAMILY                                               347-348

CHARLES MARTINEZ                                                   348

THOMAS MARTIN                                                      349

OTHER MUSICAL PEOPLE OF--

PORTLAND (ME.)                                                     300

BOSTON                                                         288-298

WORCESTER                                                          300

NEW YORK                                                       301-304

NEWARK                                                             306

PHILADELPHIA                                                   306-311

PITTSBURGH                                                         311

CLEVELAND                                                      311-312

WASHINGTON (O.)                                                312-313

CHILLICOTHE (O.)                                               313-316

CINCINNATI                                                     316-321

CHICAGO                                                        321-323

THE MUSIC OF THE SOUTH                                         324-329

BALTIMORE                                                      329-330

LOUISVILLE                                                         330

ST. LOUIS                                                          330

HELENA                                                             330

MEMPHIS                                                            331

NASHVILLE                                                          331

NEW ORLEANS                                                    333-353

ILLUSTRATIONS.

 1. ELIZABETH TAYLOR GREENFIELD.

 2. THE LUCA FAMILY.

 3. HENRY F. WILLIAMS.

 4. JUSTIN HOLLAND.

 5. THOMAS J. BOWERS.

 6. THOMAS GREENE BETHUNE.

 7. THE HYERS SISTERS.

 8. FREDERICK ELLIOT LEWIS.

 9. NELLIE E. BROWN.

10. SAMUEL W. JAMIESON.

11. JOSEPH WHITE.

12. FISK UNIVERSITY.

MUSIC AND SOME HIGHLY MUSICAL PEOPLE.

I.

A DESCRIPTION OF MUSIC.

     "In the storm, in the smoke, in the fight, I come
     To help thee, dear, with my fife and my drum.
     My name is Music: and, when the bell
     Rings for the dead men, I rule the knell;
     And, whenever the mariner wrecked through the blast
     Hears the fog-bell sound, it was I who passed.
     The poet hath told you how I, a young maid,
     Came fresh from the gods to the myrtle shade;
     And thence, by a power divine, I stole
     To where the waters of the Mincius roll;
     Then down by Clitumnus and Arno's vale
     I wandered, passionate and pale,
     Until I found me at sacred Rome,
     Where one of the Medici gave me a home.
     Leo--great Leo!--he worshipped me,
     And the Vatican stairs for my feet were free.
     And, now I am come to your glorious land,
     Give me good greeting with open hand.
     Remember Beethoven,--I gave him his art,--
     And Sebastian Bach, and superb Mozart:
     Join those in my worship; and, when you go
     Wherever their mighty organs blow,
     Hear in them heaven's trumpets to men below."

     T.W. PARSONS.

What is music? Quite easy is it to answer after the manner of the dictionaries, and say, "Music
is (1) a number of sounds following each other in a natural, pleasing manner; (2) the science
of harmonious sounds; and (3) the art of so combining them as to please the ear." These are,
however, only brief, cold, and arbitrary definitions: music is far more than as thus defined.
Indeed, to go no farther in the description of this really sublime manifestation of the beautiful
would be to very inadequately express its manifold meanings, its helpful, delightful uses.
And yet the impressions made upon the mind and the depth of feeling awakened in the heart by
music are such as to render only a partial (a far from satisfying one) description of the same
possible, even to those most skilful and eloquent in the use of language; for, in fact, ordinary
language, after exhausting all of its many resources in portraying the mind's conceptions,
in depicting the heart's finer, deeper feelings, reveals, after all, its poverty, when sought
to describe effects so entrancing, and emotions so deep-reaching, as those produced by music.
No: the latter must be heard, it must be felt, its sweetly thrilling symphonies must touch
the heart and fill the senses, in order that it may be, in its fulness, appreciated; for then
it is that music is expressed in a language of most subtle power,--a language all its own,
and universal, bearing with it ever an exquisitely touching pathos and sweetness that all mankind
may feel.

And so I may not hope to bring here to the reader's mind more than a slight conception of what
music is. Nor does he stand in need of any labored effort to teach him the nature and power,
the beneficent attributes, of this beautiful art. With his own soul attuned to all the delightful
sounds of melody and harmony that everywhere about him, in nature and in art, he constantly
hears, the reader requires no great length of words in explanation of that which he so deeply
feels, and therefore already understands. Nevertheless, a due regard for the laws of unity,
as well as a sincere wish to make this volume, in all its departments, speak the befitting
words of tribute to the love-inspiring art of which it aims to treat,--words which, although
they may not have the merit of affording great instruction, may at least have that of furnishing
to the reader some degree of pleasure,--these are the motives that must serve as an excuse
for the little that follows.

I have sometimes thought that only the elevated and elegant language of poetry should be employed
in describing music: for music is poetry, and poetry is music; that is, in many of their characteristics
they are one and the same. But, to put this idea in another form, let us say that Music is
the beautiful sister of Poetry, that other soul-expressing medium; and who would create the
latter must commune with the former, and be able to bring to his uses the sweet and finishing
graces of her rhythmic forms. In early times, the qualities of the poet and musician were generally
actually united in the same person. The poet usually set to music, and in most instances sang,
his effusions.

I have said that music speaks a language all its own, and one that is universal. Bring together
a representation of all the nations of the earth, in which body there shall be a very Babel
of tongues. All will be confusion until the all-penetrating, the all-thrilling voice of music
is heard. At once, silence reigns; each ear quickly catches and recognizes the delicious sounds.
The language of each one in the concourse may be different: but with "music's golden tongue"
all are alike innately acquainted; each heart beats in sympathy with the delightful, absorbing
tones of melody; and all seem members of one nation.

Again: music may be called that strangely peculiar form of the beautiful, whose presence seems,
indeed is, appropriate on occasions the most diverse in character. Its aid is sought alike
to add to the joys of festive scenes, to soothe and elevate the heart on occasions of mourning,
and to enhance the solemnity, the excellence, of divine worship.

The poet Collins, aptly associating music with the good and beautiful, calls it the "heavenly
maid."

Martin Luther, himself a musical composer and performer of merit, paused in his great work
of religious reform to declare, "I verily think, and am not ashamed to say, that, next to divinity,
no art is comparable to music." And Disraeli utters this noble thought: "Were it not for music,
we might in these days say the beautiful is dead."

     "Touching musical harmony, whether by instrument or by
     voice, it being but of high and low in sounds a
     proportionable disposition, such, notwithstanding, is the
     force thereof, and so pleasing effects it hath in that part
     of man which is most divine, that some have thereby been
     induced to think that the soul itself is or hath in it
     harmony: a thing which delighteth all ages, and beseemeth
     all states; a thing as seasonable in grief as in joy; as
     decent being added unto actions of greatest weight and
     solemnity as being used when men most sequester themselves
     from action. The reason hereof is an admirable facility
     which music hath to express and represent to the mind, more
     inwardly than any other sensible means, the very steps and
     inflections of every way, the turns and varieties of all
     passion whereunto the mind is subject."[1]

     "I would fain know what music is. I seek it as a man seeks
     eternal wisdom. Yesterday evening I walked, late in the
     moonlight, in the beautiful avenue of lime-trees on the bank
     of the Rhine; and I heard a tapping noise and soft singing.
     At the door of a cottage, under the blooming lime-tree, sat
     a mother and her twin-babies: the one lay at her breast, the
     other in a cradle, which she rocked with her foot, keeping
     time to her singing. In the very germ, then, when the first
     trace of life begins to stir, music is the nurse of the
     soul: it murmurs in the ear, and the child sleeps; the tones
     are the companions of his dreams; they are the world in
     which he lives. He has nothing; the babe, although cradled
     in his mother's arms, is alone in the spirit: but tones find
     entrance into the half-conscious soul, and nourish it as
     earth nourishes the life of plants."[2]

[Footnote 1: Hooker.]

[Footnote 2: Bertini.]

II.

THE MUSIC OF NATURE.

     "The lark sings loud, and the throstle's song
       Is heard from the depths of the hawthorn dale;
     And the rush of the streamlet the vales among
       Doth blend with the sighs of the whispering gale."

     MATIN AND EVENING SONGS.

To the inventive genius of man must, of course, be attributed the present developments, and
the beautiful, diversified forms, existing in musical art. But, before man was, the great Author
of harmony had created what may be called the music of Nature.

Afterwards, the human ear, penetrated by sounds of melody issuing from wind, wave, or bird,
the rapt mind in strange and pleasing wonder contemplating the new and charming harmonies,--then
it was that man received his first impressions, and took his first lessons in delightful symphony.

Take from man all creative and performing power in music, leaving him only the ear to catch
and the mind to comprehend the sounds, and there would still be left to him God's own music,--the
music of Nature, which, springing as it did from eternity, shall last throughout eternity.

Passing what must appear to human comprehension as vague (an attempt at the contemplation of
which would be without profit in this connection), and what has been called the "music of the
spheres,"[3] we may proceed to briefly touch upon those forms of natural music which are ever
within our hearing, and which constantly afford us pleasure. The eye takes in the charming
prospect,--the trees dressed in beautiful green; the "grassy carpet," parted ever and anon
by a gliding, gurgling brooklet; the wild flower peeping up near the feet; a landscape of even
surface, or at times pleasingly undulated.

All these, the beauties of animate and inanimate Nature, pleasantly affect the senses. But
the chief influence there--the crowning glory of the groves--is the songs, the charming music
of the birds, as they warble from tree to tree, untrammelled by the forms of art, their sweetest
melodies. How often do their lightsome, inspiriting carollings ring out upon the morning air,
persuasively calling us from our couches to listen in delight to Nature's minstrelsy! "After
man," says a writer, "the birds occupy the highest rank in Nature's concerts. They make the
woods, the gardens, and the fields resound with their merry warbles. Their warbled 'shake'
has never been equalled by human gifts of voice, nor by art."

Indeed, it has been found that many of the songs of birds are sung in certain of the keys;
while a learned musical writer has produced a book in which are printed many samples of the
music often sung by birds. In very recent times it is stated, too, that birds have been taught
to sing some of the popular tunes of the day; this being accomplished by placing a bird in
a room for a while, allowing it to hear no other bird, and only the tune to be learned. Professor
Brown of Aiken, S.C., has mocking-birds which he has taught to sing such songs as "The Star-spangled
Banner" and "Yankee Doodle." These birds were to be taken to the Centennial Exhibition, to
there exhibit their marvellous skill.

A writer in "The Monthly Reader" thus speaks of that pretty singer the bullfinch:--

     "I heard a lady cry out to a little bird in a cage, 'Come,
     Bully, Bully, sweet little Bully Bullfinch, please give us
     just one more tune.'

     "And then, to my surprise, the little bird whistled the tune
     of 'Yankee Doodle' as well as I could have done it myself.

     "The lady then told me about the bird. It was a bullfinch.
     She had bought it in the little town of Fulda, in Germany,
     where there are schools for teaching these birds to sing.

     "When a bullfinch has learned to sing two or three tunes, he
     is worth from forty to sixty dollars; for he will bring that
     price in London or Boston or New York.

     "To teach them, the birds are put in classes of about six
     each, and kept for a time in a dark room. Here, when their
     food is given them, they are made to hear music. And so,
     when they have had their food, or when they want more food,
     they will sing, and try to sing a tune like that they have
     just heard; for perhaps they think it has something to do
     with what they eat."

But as, in presenting these examples of the musical teachableness of the "feathered songsters,"
I am entering the domain of music as an art, I will not further digress. Certain it is, too,
that these delightful musicians of Nature do not require the aid of the skill of man; nor is
it desirable, for the sake of musical effect at least, that their own wild, free, and glad-hearted
warblings should be changed. They are better as they are, affording as they do a pleasing contrast,
and adding freshness and variety to the many other forms of music. Some one, dwelling upon
the charming beauty of bird-music, has expressed in words of very excusable rapture the following
unique wish:--

     "Oh! had I but the power
       To set the proper words
     To all your glorious melodies,
       My sweet-voiced birds,

     When words and dainty music
       Would each to each belong,
     Together we might give the world
       A perfect song."

But I need not refer at greater length to these sweet harmonists of Nature, since scarce an
ear is so dull, and few hearts are so cold, as not to be charmed and cheered by their unceasing,
joyous melodies.

It might well be thought that flowers, those "fairy ministers of grace," with their delicately
tinted, variegated, perfect hues, that emit, in their sweet, delicious perfumes, what may be
called the "breath of heaven," possess in these delightful qualities full enough to instruct
and charm mankind. But there is a flower, it seems, that, inviting the aid of the evening zephyr,
adds sweet music to its other fascinating beauties. Let the poet Twombly sing of the music-giving--

     BLUE HAREBELL.

     Have ye ever heard in the twilight dim
           A low, soft strain
     That ye fancied a distant vesper-hymn,
           Borne o'er the plain
     By the zephyrs that rise on perfumed wing,
     When the sun's last glances are glimmering?

     Have ye heard that music, with cadence sweet
           And merry peal,
     Ring out like the echoes of fairy feet
           O'er flowers that steal?

     The source of that whispering strain I'll tell;
           For I have listened oft
     To the music faint of the blue harebell
           In the gloaming soft:
     'Tis the gay fairy-folk the peal who ring,
     At even-time, for their banqueting.

     And gayly the trembling bells peal out
           With gentle tongue;
     While elves and fairies career about
           'Mid dance and song.

It would be tedious to enumerate and dwell upon all the very numerous music-making agencies
of the natural world; and I shall therefore allude only to a few of those not already mentioned.

Many have heard the sounds of waterfalls, and know that from them issues a kind of majestic
music, which, to be appreciated, must be heard. Musicians of finely-cultivated ears have studied
the tones of waterfalls; and two of them, Messrs. A. and E. Heim, say that a mass of falling
water gives

     "The chord of C sharp, and also the non-accordant F. When C
     and D sound louder than the middle note, F is heard very
     fully, as a deep, dull, humming, far-resounding tone, with
     a strength proportionate to the mass of the falling water.
     It easily penetrates to a distance at which the other notes
     are inaudible. The notes C, E, G, F, belong to all rushing
     water, and in great falls are sometimes in different
     octaves. Small falls give the same notes one or two octaves
     higher. In the stronger falls, F is heard the most easily;
     in the weak ones, C. At the first attempt, C is most readily
     detected. Persons with musical cultivation, on attempting to
     sing near rapidly-moving water, naturally use the key of C
     sharp, or of F sharp if near a great fall."

Somewhat similar to waterfalls in the character of the tunes they produce (being distinguished,
however, generally, by a greater softness and more gentle flow) are the waves, that, handsome
in form, roll majestically shoreward, greeting the ear with a strange, dirge-like, yet, as
it seems to the writer, pleasing harmony.

Here is given a duet between the waves and zephyrs:--

     "We sit beneath the dreaming moon,
       And gaze upon the sea:
     Our hearts with Nature are in tune;
       List to her minstrelsy.
     The waves chant low and soft their song,
       And kiss the rocks in glee;
     While zephyrs their sweet lay prolong,--
       Their love-song to the sea."

There is a pretty, delicate music made by the rippling, gurgling brooklet, as its transparent
waters glide over its pebbly bottom. And there's the musical sea-shell. Place it to the ear,
and you shall catch, as if in the far distance, the reverberating roll of the billowy ocean
as it sings a mighty song.

And an anonymous writer (it does not seem that he had good cause for hiding his name) thus
discourses on the music of the sea:--

     "The gray, unresting sea,
       Adown the bright and belting shore
     Breaking in untold melody,
       Makes music evermore.

     Centuries of vanished time,
       Since this glad earth's primeval morn,
     Have heard the grand, unpausing chime,
       Momently new born.

     Like as in cloistered piles
       Rich bursts of massive sounds upswell,
     Ringing along dim-lighted aisles
       With spirit-trancing spell;

     So on the surf-white strand
       Chants of deep peal the sea-waves raise,
     Like voices from a viewless land
       Hymning a hymn of praise.

     By times, in thunder-notes,
       The booming billows shoreward surge;
     By times a silver laugh it floats;
       By times a low, soft dirge.

     Souls more ennobled grow
       Listing the worldly anthem rise;
     Discords are drowned in the great flow
       Of Nature's harmonies.

     Men change and 'cease to be,'
       And empires rise and grow and fall;
     But the weird music of the sea
       Lives, and outlives them all.

     The mystic song shall last
       Till time itself no more shall be;
     Till seas and shores have passed,
       Lost in eternity."

But the wind is one of Nature's chief musicians. Sometimes singing his own songs, or lending
his aid in awaking to musical life the leaves and boughs of the trees; whistling melodies among
the reeds; entering the recesses of a hollow column, and causing to issue from thence a pleasing,
flute-like sound; blowing his quiet, soothing lays in zephyrs; or rushing around our dwellings,
singing his tuneful yet minor refrain,--in these, and in even other ways, does this mighty
element of the Creator contribute to the production of melody in the world of nature. A writer
in "The Youth's Companion" speaks very entertainingly of "voices in trees." He says,--

     "Trees, when played upon by the wind, yield forth a variety
     of tones. Mrs. Hemans once asked Sir Walter Scott if he had
     noticed that every tree gives out its peculiar sound. 'Yes,'
     said he, 'I have; and I think something might be done by the
     union of poetry and music to imitate those voices, giving a
     different measure to the oak, the pine, the willow, &c.' The
     same journal from which we take this anecdote mentions, that
     in Henry Taylor's drama, 'Edwin the Fair,' there are some
     pleasing lines, where the wind is feigned to feel the want
     of a voice, and to woo the trees to give him one.

     "He applied to several: but the wanderer rested with the
     pine, because her voice was constant, soft, and lowly deep;
     and he welcomed in her a wild memorial of the ocean-cave,
     his birthplace. There is a fine description of a storm in
     'Coningsby,' where a sylvan language is made to swell the
     diapason of the tempest.

I shall close this chapter on the music of Nature by appending a beautiful reference to what
has been called "the music of the spheres." The lines form, as well, an elegant and elevated
description of and tribute to music in general. I regret that the author's name cannot be given.

     "The Father spake: in grand reverberations
       Through space rolled on the mighty music-tide;
     While to its low, majestic modulations
       The clouds of chaos slowly swept aside.

     The Father spake: a dream, that had been lying
       Hushed from eternity in silence there,
     Heard the pure melody, and, low replying,
       Grew to that music in the wondering air,--

     Grew to that music, slowly, grandly waking,
       Till, bathed in beauty, it became a world;
     Led by his voice, its spheric pathway taking,
       While glorious clouds their wings around it furled.

     Not yet has ceased that sound, his love revealing;
       Though, in response, a universe moves by:
     Throughout eternity its echo pealing,
       World after world awakes in glad reply.

     And wheresoever in his rich creation
       Sweet music breathes,--in wave, in bird, or soul,--
     'Tis but the faint and far reverberation
       Of that great tune to which the planets roll."

III.

A GLANCE AT THE HISTORY OF MUSIC.

     "Thespis, the first professor of our art,
     At country wakes sang ballads from a cart."

     DRYDEN.

Music is as old as the world itself. In some form or other, it has always existed. Ere man
learned to give vent to his emotions in tuneful voice, Nature, animate and inanimate, under
the hand of the Great Master, sang his praises. Of this we learn in the sacred writings; while
all about us, in the songs of birds, the musical sighing of the winds, the fall of waters,
and the many forms of the music of Nature, we have palpable evidence of its present existence,
and assurances of its most remote antiquity.

It would seem that not long after "God breathed into the nostrils of man the breath of life,
and he became a living soul," he learned to express the joys and yearnings of his soul in song
first, and then with some sort of musical instrument. And to man it was given, commencing with
the early ages, to develop the simple ejaculations or melodies of a praise-giving soul into
a beautiful, a noble art, replete at times with harmonic intricacies, and again with melodies
grand in their very simplicity; into a beneficent science, divine from its inception, which
has ever had as votaries many of earth's greatest minds, and has become a fountain of delight
to all mankind.

The history of the music of antiquity--that is, in an art-form--is nearly, if indeed not quite,
enveloped in mystery; and it were futile to profess to give an historical presentation of an
art from its birth, when documentary evidence of the same is lost.

We may, however, very reasonably suppose of music generally, that it must have been gradually
developed, having had its infancy, childhood, and youth; and that it grew slowly into present
scientific form with the advance of the centuries.

From all we can gather in regard to the early history of music as a system, it would appear
that it had its infancy in ancient Greece; although it is supposed by some that the Grecian
method was founded upon that of the still more ancient one of the Egyptians. Dr. Burgh, a learned
musical writer states that, of "the time before Christ, music was most cultivated and was most
progressive in Greece." The verses of the Greek poet Homer, who was himself a musician, abound
in beautiful allusions to and descriptions of this charming science; while in mythology are
recounted the wonderful musical achievements of the god Orpheus, who is said to have been so
skilled in music that the very rocks and trees followed in his wake of harmony.

The first artificial music of which the Bible speaks was that which was sung or played in praise
of the Creator,--sacred music. In fact, this noble quality of the soul was very rarely called
into exercise, save in the worship of the Deity, until many centuries had passed. Of music
before the Christian era, both vocal and instrumental, the books of the Old Testament often
speak. As to its exact character, we are left to conjecture, being, as before intimated, without
materials from which to form a judgment; but, in some form or other, there was, during that
period, abundance of what was called music.

The first mention of music, either vocal or instrumental, in the Scriptures, is made in Gen.
iv. 21: "Jubal was the father of all such as handle the harp and organ." Jubal was only seventh
in descent from Adam; and from this passage it is thought by some that he was the inventor
of instrumental music. In the year B.C. 1739, in Gen. xxxi. 27, Laban says to Jacob, "Wherefore
didst thou flee away from me, and didst not tell me, that I might have sent thee away with
mirth and with songs, with tabret and with harp?" This is the first mention in the Bible of
vocal music. King David, who has been called "the sweet singer of Israel," is said to have
been a skilful performer on the harp. By his magical touch upon its strings at a certain time,
he produced sounds so sweetly soothing as to drive away the "evil spirit" from Saul.

And here I append from the First of Chronicles, xiii. 8, a description of the music of the
"house of Israel:" "And David and all Israel played before God with all their might, and with
singing, and with harps, and with psalteries, and with timbrels, and with cymbals, and with
trumpets."

Josephus, the learned Jewish historian, states that the Egyptians had two hundred thousand
musicians playing at the dedication of the Temple of Solomon. This structure was of most wonderfully
immense dimensions: and it may have been that this enormous body of performers played in detachments
about the building; otherwise the statement would seem apocryphal.

The Egyptian musical instruments, it appears, were mostly of very rude construction: performance
upon them would not now, probably, be tolerated even in circles of the least musical culture.

Of these ancient instruments the Boston "Folio" thus speaks:--

     "The Egyptian flute was only a cow's-horn, with three or
     four holes in it; and their harp, or lyre, had only three
     strings. The Grecian lyre had only seven strings, and was
     very small, being held in one hand. The Jewish trumpets that
     made the walls of Jericho fall down were only rams'-horns:
     their flute was the same as the Egyptian. They had no other
     instrumental music but by percussion, of which the greatest
     boast was made of the psaltery,--a small triangular harp, or
     lyre, with wire strings, and struck with an iron needle or
     stick. Their sackbut was something like a bagpipe; the
     timbrel was a tambourine; and the dulcimer, a horizontal
     harp with wire strings, and struck with a stick like the
     psaltery."

The following interesting and able summary of the history of ancient Roman music is taken from
a recent number of "The Vox Humana:"--

     "Art love was not a distinguished characteristic of the
     ancient Romans; and we are not astonished, therefore, to
     find them borrowing music from Etruria, Greece, and Egypt;
     originating nothing, and (although the study was pursued by
     the emperors) never finding any thing higher in its practice
     than a sensuous gratification.

     "In the earliest days of Rome, the inhabitants were
     exclusively farmers or warriors; and their first temples
     were raised to Ceres or to Mars.

     "The priests of Ceres came originally from Asia Minor, and
     were called the Arval Brotherhood. Flute-playing was a
     prominent feature in their rites, and they were all
     proficient upon that instrument. Their number was limited to
     twelve.

     "The worship of Mars was conducted by the Salian priests,
     whom Numa summoned to Rome from Etruria. These also used the
     flute as an accessory to their sacrificial rites. In these
     primitive days of Rome, much was borrowed from the Etruscans
     in style and instruments of music.

     "The earliest songs of Rome were in praise of Romulus, and
     told the story of the twin-brothers and the divine origin of
     the city. They were sung by choruses of boys. Similar songs
     were sung during meals by the elders, with an accompaniment
     of flutes; these latter songs being especially directed to
     the young men, and inciting them to be worthy of the deeds
     of their ancestors.

     "Under the rule of the emperors, all these worthy
     compositions went to decay, and were replaced by a much more
     degrading school of music. At no time, however, was music
     considered a necessary part of the education of Roman youth.

     "There existed in the latter days of ancient Rome some
     music-schools; but the study was far less universally
     pursued than in Greece at the same epoch. The musical course
     has been given by Quintilian as follows:--

     "Theoretical: first, arithmetic, physics; second, harmony,
     rhythm, metrics.

     "Practical: composition, rhythm, melody, poetry.

     "Execution: playing instruments, singing, dramatic action;
     which makes a rather formidable array, even to modern eyes.

     "Among the Roman musical instruments, the flute was the most
     popular, and essentially national. We have already stated
     that it was used in the worship of their two chief deities:
     it was in secular use to a yet greater extent.

