Modern voice culture, in its practical aspect, is a struggle with throat stiffness. Everything
the student does, for the purpose of acquiring direct command of the voice, has some influence
in causing the throat to stiffen. Telling the student to hold the throat relaxed seldom effects
a cure; this direction includes a primary cause of tension,--the turning of attention to the
throat. All the teacher can do to counteract the stiffening influence is to give relaxing exercises.
These are in most cases efficacious so long as constructive instruction is abandoned, and the
relaxing of the throat is made the sole purpose of study. But soon after positive instruction
is resumed the tendency to stiffen reappears. As lesson follows after lesson, the stiffness
becomes gradually, imperceptibly more pronounced. At length the time again comes for relaxing
exercises.

A single repetition of this process, relaxing the throat and then stiffening it again, may
extend over several months of study. During this time the student naturally learns a great
deal about music and the artistic side of singing, and also improves the keenness of the sense
of hearing. This artistic development is necessarily reflected in the voice so soon as the
throat is again relaxed.

It usually happens that students change teachers about the time the voice has become unmanageably
stiff. In this condition the student, of course, sings rather badly. A marked improvement in
the singing generally results from the change of teachers. This is easy to understand because
the new teacher devotes his first efforts to relaxing the stiffened throat. Later on this improvement
is very likely to be lost, for the second teacher has nothing more of a positive nature to
offer than the first.

Vocal teachers in general seem to be aware of the fact that mechanical instruction causes the
student's throat to stiffen. A much-debated question is whether "local effort" is needed to
bring about the correct vocal action. The term local effort is used to describe the direct
innervation of the throat muscles. A logical application of the mechanical idea absolutely
demands the use of local effort. This is the main argument of the local-effort teachers.

Those teachers who discountenance local effort have only their own experience to guide them.
They simply know that local effort results in throat stiffness. Yet these teachers have nothing
to offer in place of the mechanical management of the vocal organs. Even though aware of the
evil results of local effort, they yet know of no other means of imparting the correct vocal
action. The weakness of the position of these teachers is well summed up by a writer in Werner's
Magazine for June, 1899: "To teach without local effort or local thought is to teach in the
dark. Every exponent of the non-local-effort theory contradicts his theory every time he tells
of it." To that extent this writer states the case correctly. Every modern vocal teacher believes
that the voice must be consciously guided in its muscular operations. Until this erroneous
belief is abandoned it is idle for a teacher to decry the use of local effort.

CHAPTER IV

THE TRUE MEANING OF VOCAL TRAINING

In all scientific treatises on the voice it is assumed that the voice has some specifically
correct mode of operation. Training the voice is supposed to involve the leading of the vocal
organs to abandon their natural and instinctive manner of operating, and to adopt some other
form of activity. Further, the assumption is made that the student of singing must cause the
vocal organs to adopt a supposedly correct manner of operating by paying direct attention to
the mechanical movements of tone-production. Both these assumptions are utterly mistaken. On
scientific analysis no difference is seen between the right and the wrong vocal action, such
as is assumed in the accepted Vocal Science. Psychological principles do not countenance the
idea of mechanical vocal management.

Yet the fact remains, as a matter of empirical observation, that there is a marked difference
between the natural voice and the correctly trained voice. What change takes place in the voice
as a result of correct training?

Singing is a natural function of the vocal organs. Learning to sing artistically does not involve
a departure from natural and instinctive processes. The training of the voice consists of the
acquirement of skill in the use of the vocal organs, and of nothing more.

Under normal conditions the vocal organs instinctively adjust themselves, by performing the
necessary muscular contractions, to fulfill the demands of the ear. In order that a perfect
musical tone be produced it is necessary in the first place that the ear be keen and well trained;
only such an ear can know the exact sound of a perfect tone, and so demand it of the voice.
Second, the vocal organs must make repeated efforts to produce the perfect tone, each response
approaching nearer to the mentally-conceived tone. Two elements are therefore involved in the
training of the voice; first, the cultivation of the sense of hearing; second, the acquirement
of skill in the use of the voice by the actual practice of singing.

Practical vocal teachers generally recognize the importance of both these elements of Voice
Culture. Only in one way do they fall short of fully realizing the value of ear training and
of practice guided by the ear;--they do not see that these two topics sum up the whole material
of vocal training. Unfortunately, the search after some imaginary means of direct vocal management
destroys, in all modern methods, most of the value of the real elements of voice culture.

A few citations from standard writers on the voice will show the estimation in which ear-training
is held. To begin with, the old Italian masters were fully alive to the necessity of cultivating
the sense of hearing, as witness Tosi: "One who has not a good ear should not undertake either
to instruct or to sing." This writer also says in the chapter headed "Observations for a student":
"Let him hear as much as he can the most celebrated singers, and likewise the most excellent
instrumental performers; because from the attention in hearing them one reaps more advantage
than from any instruction whatsoever."

Another early writer on the voice, the celebrated Adolph Bernhard Marx, speaks of the advantage
derived from the attentive listening to voices: "An important influence is exerted by the frequent
attentive hearing of good voices. Through this an idea of good tone is strengthened, which
gains an influence on the use and also on the training of the organs, not perhaps immediate,
but clearly seen in its results." (Die Kunst des Gesanges, Berlin, 1826.)

Among modern writers only a few need be mentioned. D. Frangçon-Davies remarks: "The training
of the ear is one half of the training of the voice." (The Singing of the Future.) Clara Kathleen
Rogers is even more emphatic in her statement: "Not to exercise our sense of hearing is to
rob it gradually of the habit of acting at all; whereas, if we keep it in exercise, it will
daily grow readier, finer, more acute, more analytical, and the ear will serve as an ever more
effective medium of reaction on the will." The following remark of the same writer points unmistakably
to an understanding of the evil results of the attempt to sing mechanically: "If the singer's
attention is directed to any part of the vocal instrument, or even to its motor, the breath,
his sense of sound, and his perception of either the beautiful or the bad elements in sound,
will grow fainter and fainter." (The Physiology of Singing.)

As for the purpose of cultivating the sense of hearing, this is also pointed out by several
prominent vocal theorists. One of the latest exponents of the traditional method of instruction
was Stéphen de la Madelaine, who remarks: "The first need of the voice is to be guided in its
exercise by an ear capable of appreciating naturally its least deviation." (Théorie complète
du Chant, Paris, 1852.)

One of the most recent authoritative writers on voice culture, Dr. Mills, speaks at length
of the necessity of guiding the voice by the sense of hearing. "We cannot too much insist on
both speaker and singer attending to forming a connection between his ear and his mouth cavity.
He is to hear that he may produce good tones, and the tones cannot be correctly formed if they
be not well observed. To listen to one's self carefully and constantly is a most valuable but
little practised art. The student should listen as an inexorable critic, accepting only the
best from himself." Dr. Mills touches on the psychological features of the connection between
voice and ear. "There can be no doubt that the nervous impulses that pass from the ear to the
brain are of all sensory messages the most important guides for the outgoing ones that determine
the necessary movements." Summing up the matter of ear-training and vocal guidance Dr. Mills
says: "The author would impress on all students of music, and of the voice as used in both
singing and speaking, the paramount importance of learning early to listen most attentively
to others when executing music; and above all to listen with the greatest care to themselves,
and never to accept any musical tone that does not fully satisfy the ear." (Voice Production
in Singing and Speaking, 1906.)

One more citation from Mrs. Rogers must suffice. "And now, in conclusion, let me once more
remind the singer that in practising these and all other vocal exercises the ear is the only
safe guide."

Given a fine natural voice and a trained musical ear, skill is acquired in the use of the voice
by the repetition of effort. The only necessity is for the singer to have a clear mental conception
of the effects to be obtained, and to listen attentively to the voice. With each repetition
of an exercise, whether on sustained tones, scale passages, crescendo and diminuendo, or whatever
else, the voice responds more smoothly and accurately to the mental demand. Each time the student
practises the exercise he listens to the tones and notes how they differ from the desired effect;
he strives the next time to correct this departure.

Psychological principles verify the proverb that practice makes perfect. This is true of all
complex activities. Through repeated performance the muscles, or rather the motor-nerve centers,
become habituated to complex activities. Coördinations gradually become perfect and automatic
because the nerve impulses naturally tend to take the well-worn paths. To this rule the voice
is no exception. Practice makes perfect, with the voice, as with every other muscular activity.

In practical Voice Culture the ear and the voice are normally trained together. The proper
function of the teacher is to guide the student in developing along the two lines. Listening
to his own voice is a valuable means for the student to develop his sense of hearing. It is
for the master to point out the salient qualities and faults in the pupil's tones in order
that the pupil may know what to listen for. As the ear gradually becomes keener and better
acquainted with the characteristics of perfect singing, it also becomes more exacting in its
demands on the voice. In its turn the voice steadily improves in its responsiveness to the ear.

Skill in using the voice involves something more than has thus far been considered under the
head of tone-production. Skill in singing is synonymous with finished vocal technique, and
the basis of technique is the correctly produced single tone. It is seen that a single tone
can be sung correctly when, first, the singer knows the sound of the perfect musical tone,
and second, the vocal organs are not hampered by muscular stiffness. When these conditions
are fulfilled nothing but practice is needed for the acquirement of technical skill.

Coloratura singing presents the highest development of vocal technique. Dazzling as the effects
of coloratura are, they are obtained by the combination of a few simple elements. Perfect command
of the single tone throughout the entire compass of the voice, with accurately graded crescendo
and diminuendo, the clear, rapid, and accurate transition from one note to another in the varying
degrees of staccato and legato,--these elements include the whole physical material of vocal
technique.

Training the voice is one concrete process. Its component features may be considered separately;
the cultivation of the sense of hearing, the acquirement of command of the single tone, and
the development of technical skill,--each may be considered apart from its companion processes.
But in actual practice the three elements of Voice Culture cannot be dissociated. The student
of singing progresses simultaneously along all three lines. Intelligently directed practice
in singing results in this simultaneous progress. As the voice depends for guidance on the
ear, so the ear benefits by the improvement of the voice. Each advance made by the voice toward
the perfect production of tone is marked by a greater facility in the technical use of the
voice. Correct tone-production cannot be directly acquired by the singing of single tones.
This practice would tend to stiffen the throat. Technique and tone-production must be developed
together.

There is a difference between the natural and the properly trained voice. As to the nature
of this difference the facts of empirical observation are borne out by the results of scientific
analysis. The natural voice is crude because it is unskilfully used. A lack of facility is
revealed in the untrained singer's handling of the voice. Intonations are imperfect; transitions
from note to note are rough; the whole effect indicates that the voice is not completely under
the command of the singer. Further, the sound of the individual tones betrays faults of production.
The tones are more or less throaty or nasal, or indicative of some degree of muscular tension.

A perfectly used voice, on the other hand, convinces the hearer that the singer has full command
of all the resources of the vocal organs. Each tone is a perfect musical sound, free from fault
or blemish. The voice moves from one note to another with ease and with purity of intonation.
All the gradations of loud and soft, all the lights and shades of sentiment or passion, seem
to respond directly to the singer's instinctive desire for musical expression. On the physical
side the singer's voice is felt by the hearer to be in a condition of balanced and harmonious
muscular activity.

When the possessor of a good natural voice goes through a proper course of vocal training,
the faults of production native to the untrained voice are gradually corrected. Wrong muscular
tension is imperceptibly relaxed. Little by little the student acquires facility in handling
the voice. Coincident with this progress is the advance toward the correct vocal action. The
transition from the natural to the perfect use of the voice is gradual and imperceptible. There
is no stage of progress at which the operations of the voice radically change in character.
At no time does the student change the manner of managing the voice. Effects difficult at first
gradually become easier, simply as the result of practice. This is the only change that the
voice undergoes in training.

One influence, and only one, can interfere with this normal development of the voice. This
is the involuntary and unconscious stiffening of the throat. In the normal practice of singing
nothing is involved which could cause the throat to stiffen. True, the first stages of study
are usually marked by a slight degree of stiffness, due solely to the lack of practice and
experience. This initial stiffness does not tend to become habitual; it disappears before the
student becomes aware of it, and leaves no permanent trace on the voice. That is, provided
mechanical instruction does not intervene, to introduce the tendency directly to stiffen the
throat.

As the initial stiffness disappears, and the vocal action gradually becomes smooth and automatic,
the voice begins to take on the characteristics of perfect tone-production. The voice rounds
out, the tones become free and true, and in perfect tune. No excessive throat tension being
present, the voice conforms to the correct empirical standard of tone-production. It gives
evidence to the ear of correct support and of open throat. The tones issue freely from the
mouth and convey no impression of throat or nose.

As a matter of experience it is known that vocal students generally make satisfactory progress
in the first few months of study. This is perfectly natural. It requires several months for
the normally constituted student to grasp the idea of mechanical vocal management. Gifted with
a fine voice, the natural impulse of any one is to sing. By singing naturally the voice is
bound to improve.

Just so soon as the student begins to understand the meaning of attempted mechanical guidance
of the voice, the evil effects of throat stiffness begin to be manifest. The more earnest and
intelligent students are often the worst sufferers from throat stiffness. They more readily
grasp the mechanical doctrines of modern methods and apply the mechanical idea more thoroughly.

There is in reality no problem of tone-production such as the accepted theory of Voice Culture
propounds. The voice does not require to be taught how to act. Tone-production was never thought
to involve any mechanical problem until the attention of vocalists was turned to the mechanical
operations of the voice. This dates, roughly speaking, from about 1800. Since that time the
whole tendency of Voice Culture has been mechanical. Nowadays the entire musical world is acquainted
with the idea that the voice must be directly guided; hardly any one has ever heard this belief
contradicted. To say that the voice needs no guidance other than the ear would seem utterly
preposterous to the average lover of singing. It is even highly probable that this statement
would not be understood. Yet there is strong evidence that the old Italian masters would have
had equal difficulty in grasping the idea of mechanical vocal management. How long it will
take for the vocal profession to be persuaded of the error of the mechanical idea only the
future can determine.

Probably the most important fact about vocal training is the following: The voice is benefited
by producing beautiful tones, and is injured by producing harsh sounds. A tone of perfect beauty
can be sung only when the vocal organs are free from unnecessary tension. The nearer the tones
approach to the perfection of beauty, the closer does the voice come to the correct action.
Healthy exercise of the voice, with the throat free from strain, strengthens and develops the
throat muscles. Harsh and unmusical sounds, produced by the voice, indicate that the throat
is in a condition of injurious tension. Singing under these circumstances strains and weakens
the muscles of the throat and injures the voice. The harsher the tones the worse they are for
the voice.

Beauty of tone is the only criterion of the correct vocal action. By listening to himself the
singer may know whether his tone-production is correct. If the tones are beautiful the tone-production
cannot be wrong. The ear must always decide. A normally constituted ear instinctively delights
in hearing beautiful sounds. While attentive listening renders the ear more keen and discriminating,
no vocal student of average gifts need be told the meaning of tonal beauty.

Instinct prompts the possessor of a fine natural voice and a musical ear to sing, and to sing
beautiful tones. No normally constituted student can take pleasure in the practice of mechanical
exercises. This form of study is repugnant to the musical sensibility. Vocal students want
to sing; they feel instinctively that the practice of mechanical exercises is not singing.
A prominent exponent of mechanical instruction complains: "I tell them to take breathing exercises
three times a day--but they all want to go right to singing songs." (Werner's Magazine, April,
1899.) These students are perfectly right. They know instinctively that the voice can be trained
only by singing. There is no connection between artistic singing and the practice of toneless
breathing exercises. "Five finger drills" and studies in broken scales of the types generally
used are also utterly unmusical. Mechanical drills, whether toneless or vocal, have little
effect other than to induce throat stiffness.

CHAPTER V

IMITATION THE RATIONAL BASIS OF VOICE CULTURE

It is generally assumed by vocal theorists that the voice cannot be trained by imitation. Browne
and Behnke state this belief definitely: "Singing cannot be learned exclusively by imitation."
(Voice, Song, and Speech.) Having ascertained the futility of the attempt to teach singing
mechanically, it is now in order to determine the truth or falsity of the statement that the
exercise of the imitative faculty alone does not suffice for the training of the voice.

In the first place, no one has ever thought of questioning the existence of an instinct of
vocal imitation. On the contrary, this instinct is everywhere recognized. In childhood we learn
to speak our mother tongue by imitating the speech of those about us. This ability the voice
normally possesses; spoken language could not otherwise exist. The voice can imitate a wide
range of sounds. If the perfect vocal tone can be shown to be included in this range of sounds,
then the voice can be trained by imitation.

Exceptional powers of vocal imitation are sometimes developed. Vaudeville performers are by
no means rare who can imitate the tones of the oboe, the clarinet, the muted trumpet, and several
other instruments. Imitation of the notes and songs of birds is also a familiar type of performance.
This peculiar gift of imitation results in each case from some special structure of the vocal
organs. One performer can imitate the reed instruments, another the lighter brasses, and so
on. Just what peculiar formation of the vocal organs is required for this type of imitative
ability need not be inquired here. All that need be noted is, that the vocal organs must be
so constructed as to be able to produce the particular quality of sound. Given this natural
ability on the part of the vocal organs, the power to produce the tone quality is developed
by repeated attempts at imitation. The possessor of the natural gift perfects this gift by
practice. For practice in the imitation of sounds to be effective it is necessary that the
ear be well acquainted with the tone quality to be reproduced. In addition, the practice must
be guided by the performer listening closely to the sounds produced by the vocal organs, and
constantly comparing these sounds to the tones of the instrument chosen for imitation.

