Reports of the Magicians and Astrologers of Nineveh and Babylon, p. 19, London, 1900.

Wolf, R.

Geschichte der Astronomie, Munich, 1877.

VI.--PHYSICS (ELECTRICITY)

Annalen der Physik, Leipzig. Edited by Dr. Paul Drude. (Note--Heavy, scientific, up-to-date.
Is apparently under the patronage of all the big physicists, such as Roentgen, etc.)

A tit della Associazione Elethotecnica Italiana (at Rome). A large bi-monthly magazine, strictly
technical, devoted largely to theoretical problems of electricity and allied subjects.

Bulletin International de VElectricitê et Journal de VElectricitê {réunis). A semi-monthly
four-page paper dealing with the technical application of electricity in its various fields.

Die Dissozuerung und Umwandlung chemischer Atome, by Dr. Johannes Stark, 1903. Price 150 m.
"A comprehensive view of the application of the electron theory to certain phenomena."--Nature,
May, 1904.

Die Kathodenstrahlen, by G. C. Schmidt, Brunswick, 1904.

"A concise and complete account of the properties of the cathode rays."--Nature, June, 1904.

Electrical Engineer.

Electrical Magazine.

Electricity. A weekly journal, published by the Electricity Newspaper Co., New York. Devoted
largely to questions of the practical application of electricity, but dealing also with the
theoretical side.

Elements of Electro-magnetic Theory, by S. J. Barnett, Le-land Stanford, Junior, University.
Macmillan & Co., 1904.

($3.)

Handbuch der Physik, by Dr. A. Winkelmann, Leipzig, 1904. "An indispensable storehouse of expert
knowledge."--Nature, July, 1904.

Hardin.

Rise and Development of the Liquefaction of Gases, New York, 1899.

La théorie de Maxwell et les oscillations hertziennes, la Télégraphie sans flt by H. Poincaré,
Paris, 1904 (price 2 fr.). Interesting studies of light, etc. An interesting brochure.--Revue
Scientifique, July, 1904.

Le radium et la radioactivité, by Paul Besson, Paris, 1904 (price 2 fr. 75). A good exposition
of the known properties of radium, marred, however, by an attempt to put in accord science
and religion--à propos du radium! --Revue Scientifique, July, 1904.

Lehrbuch der Physik, by Von O. D. Chwolson, St. Petersburg, 1904. 2 vols. out. First vol. covers
general physics and mechanics. Second vol. sound and radiant energy. "Excellent and quite comprehensive."--Science,
review.

Park, Benjamin.

The Intellectual Rise in Electricity, New York, 1895. This is a popular account of the progress
in the field of electricity from Gilbert to Franklin.

Radium and all About It, by S. Bottone, London, 1904. Published by Whittaker & Co. Price is.
"An accurate account of the most important phenomena."--Nature, June, 1904.

The Physical Review. A monthly journal of experimental and theoretical physics. Published for
Cornell University by the Macmillan Company. 263

Theory of Heat, by Thomas Preston, F.R.S. Second edition just out. Macmillan & Co., 185.

VII.-CHEMISTRY

American Chemical Journal. Edited by Ira Remsen, president of Johns Hopkins University. Published
monthly at Baltimore, Maryland. Price $5 per annum. A strictly technical journal.

Bacon, Roger.

Mirror of Alchemy, and Admirable Power of Art and Nature, London, 1597.

Bulletin de la Société Chimique de Paris. A monthly technical journal, treating all phases
of the science of chemistry.

Food Inspection and Analysis, by Albert E. Leach, S. B. (John Wiley & Sons, N. Y., $7.50).
Note. --This book is designed for the use of public analysts, health officers, food economists,
etc.

Hoefer, J. C. F.

Histoire de la chimie, Paris, 1866-1869. This gives biographical sketches of many of the great
chemists as well as the history of the development of chemistry.

Jahresbericht uber die Fortschritte der Chemie. A journal of the progress in chemistry, published
irregularly in Brunswick.

Kopp, H.

Geschichte der Chemie (4 vols.), Brunswick, 1843-1847. This is an exhaustive history of the
development of chemistry.

Lehrbuch der Stereochemie, by A. Werner, Jena, 1904, price 10 m. "Should be in the hands of
every organic chemist."--Nature for August, 1904.

Lemoine, Y. F.

La vitalism et l'aminisme de Stahl, Paris, 1864. This discusses fully Stahl's famous theories
of matter and life. Meyer, E. von.

A History of Chemistry from the Earliest Times to the Present Day, London, 1898. This treats
fully the subject of the phlogiston theory and its influence in the development of chemistry.
Muir, M. P.

Story of Alchemy and the Beginnings of Chemistry, London and New York, 1899. A popular account
of the development of the phlogiston theory from alchemy, giving explanations of the curious
beliefs and methods of working of the alchemists. Rodwell, G. F.

The Birth of Chemistry, London, 1874. Thompson, C. J. S.

The Mystery and Romance of Alchemy and Pharmacy, in the Scientific Press, London, 1897. This
is very interesting and readable. Thompson, T.

The History of Chemistry, London, 1830, 1831. Waite, Arthur Edward.

Lives of Alchemisttcal Philosophers, London, 1888. A biographical account of the most noted
alchemists. This is very complete. Waite has also collected a list of the principal works of
the alchemists, this list filling about thirty pages of fine print.

VIII.--GEOLOGY. BIOLOGY, PALEONTOLOGY

American Geologist.

American Museum of Natural History Bulletins, New York.

A merican Naturalist.

Annales de l'Institut Pasteur (18 fr. per annum). A monthly bulletin of the Pasteur Institute,
containing mostly technical articles, but also articles of interest to persons interested in
problems of immunization and immune sera.

Annales des sciences naturelles: zoologie et paléontologie, Paris. Monthly. London. A technical
magazine. Of little interest to the general reader.

Archiv fur Naturgeschichte. A journal of natural history published bi-monthly at Berlin.

Archiv fur Rassen-und--Gesellschaft--Biologie einschliefslich Rassen--und Gesell.-Hygiene.

Archives de biologie (quarterly), Liège.

Archives des sciences biologiques. St. Petersburg. Five numbers a year.

Archives Italiennes de biologie. Turin. Bi-monthly.

Biological Bulletin of the Marine Biological Laboratory, Wood's Holl, Massachusetts. Published
monthly by the laboratory. Managing editor, Prank R. Lillie. Scientific and technical--very good.

Biologie générale des bactéries, by E. Bodin, professor of bacteriology, University of Rennes,
Paris, 1904. Price 2 It. 50. Studies of bacteria in general treated in a semi-popular manner.
Some new ideas prepared to explain bacterial action in normal life--very good.--Revue Scientifique,
review, August, 1904.

Biometrika. A journal for the statistical study of biological problems (quarterly), 305. per
annum. Edited, in consultation with Francis Galton, by W. F. R. Weldon, Karl Pearson, and C.
B. Davenport. A bulky journal, beautifully illustrated with plates and line cuts. Largely technical,
but containing many articles of interest to general readers on laws of inheritance, hereditary
influences, etc.

Bulletin of the Geological Society of America. Published irregularly at Rochester.

Gcologische und Paloontologische Abhandlungen, Jena.

Johns Hopkins University, Memoirs from the Biological ^ Laboratory.

L'Échange Revue Linnienne, fondée par le Docteur Jacquet. Directeur, M. Pic. A monthly journal
of natural history, devoted largely to entomology--small and technical. Of interest to entomologists
only.

Les lois naturelles, par Félix le Danteg, charge du cours d'embryologie générale à la Sorbonne,
Paris, 1904. Price 6 fr. A study in biology. "The name corresponds exactly with the contents
of this admirable work."--Revue Scientifique, review, September, 1904.

Marine Biological Association of the United Kingdom, Plymouth.

Société Dauphinoise d'Ethnologie et d'Anthropologie. Quarterly bulletin. Grenoble.

Société Zoologique de France. Monthly bulletin.

Text-book of Geology, by Sir Archibald Geikie, a vols. Fourth edition. $10. Macmillan & Co., 1904.

Text-book of Paleontology (Macmillan, 1904, $3), by Carl A. von Zittel, University of Michigan.

The Geological Magazine, or Monthly Journal of Geology, edited by Henry Woodward, LL.D., F.R.S.,
etc. London, 15. éd. per copy. A high-class technical magazine.

The American Journal of Psychology, edited by G. Stanley Hall, E. C. Sanford, and E. B. Titchnener.
Published at Worcester, Massachusetts, monthly. A technical journal devoted to psychological
researches.

The Naturalist, London. A monthly journal for the north of England. Edited by J. Sheppard,
P.G.S., and T. W. Woodhead, F.L.S. Annual subscription, 65. 6d. A local journal, but containing
general articles of interest. Semi-popular.

The Quarterly Journal of Microscopical Science, edited by E. Ray Lankester, M.A., LL.D., F.R.S.

IX.--MEDICINE

American Journal of Insanity.

American Journal of the Medical Sciences, Philadelphia.

Annales medico-psychologiques, Paris.

Arbeiten aus dem leaiserlichen Gesundheitsamte. A journal of hygiene published irregularly
at Berlin.

Archiv fur Anatomie und Physiologic. A semi-monthly journal of the progress in anatomy and
physiology, published at Leipzig.

Archiv fur die gesammte Physiologie, Bonn.

British Medical Journal, London.

Immune Sera, by Professor A. Wassermann, M.D., trans, by Charles Bolduan, M.D., New York and
London, 1904. "We confidently commend this little book to all persons desirous of acquainting
themselves with the essential facts on the subject of immune sera."--Nature, July, 1904.

Lancet, London.

Leclerc, Lucien.

Histoire de la médecine arabe, 2 vols., Paris, 1876. This work is very complete and well written.

Medical Record, New York.

Medical Times, New York.

Pagel, Julius.

Einfuhrung in die Geschichte der Medicin, Berlin, 1898. This is not as exhaustive as Baas's
book, but is written in a much more readable style.

Park, Roswell.

Epitome of thf History of Medicine, Philadelphia, 1899.

Paul of AEgina.

The Works of, published by the Sydenham Society, London, 1841, are well worth reading, as giving
a clear understanding of the status of medicine in the seventh century.

Sprengal, K. P. J.

Histoire de la médecine depuis son origine jusqu'au dix-neuvième siècle, 8 vols., Paris, 1815-1820.
This is a French translation of the German work, and is more available than the original volumes.
It is, perhaps, the most exhaustive history of medicine ever attempted.

The Journal of Hygiene, edited by George H. F. Nuttall, M.D., Ph.D. A quarterly journal of
hygiene (2 is. per annum), containing many interesting articles on subjects connected with
hygiene and of interest to general readers.

The Journal of Physiology, edited by Sir Michael Foster, K.C.B., M.D., F.R.S., and J. N. Langley,
Sc.D., F.R.S. Issued quarterly. Price Ss. C. J. Clay & Sons, London.

X.--ANTHROPOLOGY AND ARCHAEOLOGY

American Anthropologist. F. W. Hodge, editor, Washington, D. C. Published quarterly for the
American Anthropological Association ($4.50 per annum). Technical (or semi-technical). "A medium
of communication between students of all branches of anthropology." Much space devoted to Indian
language, etc.--;a very good journal. American Journal of Archoology. American Journal of Sociology.

Archivo per V antropologia e V etnologia, Florence. Three numbers a year. A journal devoted
to anthropology and ethnology. Avebury, Lord (Sir John Lubbock).

The Origin of Civilization and the Primitive Condition of Man. Mental and social condition
of modern savages. New York, 1870. Brinton, Daniel Garrison, M.D.

The Basis of Social Relation, a Study in Ethnic Psycliol-ogy, edited by L. Farrand, New York,
1902. Clodd, Edward.

Myths and Dreams, London. 1885. Story of Primitive Man, 3d edition, London, 1897. The Childhood,
of tlte World. A simple account of man in early times. London, 1893. Dawkins, W. Boyd.

Early Man in Britain, London, 1880. Cave Hunting. Researches on the evidence of caves respecting
the early inhabitants of Europe. London, 1874. Dellenbaugh, Frederick S.

The North Americans of Yesterday, New York, 1901. Deniker, Joseph.

Races of Man. An outline of anthropology and ethnology. London, 1900. Grierson, P. J. H. Hamilton.

The Silent Trade. A contribution to the early history of human intercourse. London, 1903. Haeckel,
Dr. Ernst Heinrich.

Anthropogenic; oder Entwickelungsgeschichtc des Men-schen, 4th edition, 2 vols., Leipzig, 1891. 269

Müller, Friedrich.

Ethnographie; auf Grund des von K. von Scherzer gesammetten Materials. Vienna, 1868.

Murtillbt, Gabriel de.

Le préhistorique antiquité de Vhomme. Paris, 1883.

Powell, John Wesley.

"Relation of Primitive Peoples to Environment." In Smithsonian Institution Report. Washington,
1896. Reports of American Ethnology, in the annual reports of the U. S. Bureau of Ethnology
since 1877.

Quatrepages (A. de Q. de Brun).

Histoire générale des races humaines. Paris, 1889.

Ratzel, Friedrich.

The History of Mankind, 3 vols., trans, by A. J. Bubler, London, 1896-1898.

Revue de l'Ecole d'Anthropologie de Paris. Monthly. Published by the professors. Treats all
phases and branches of anthropology.

Science de l'homme et méthode anthropologique, by Alphonse Cels, Paris and Brussels, 1904.
7 francs. "As a highly abstract and suggestive exposition of the nature and scope of anthropology,
this book deserves a place in the library of the anthropologist."--Nature, September 24, 1904.

Société Académique d'Archéologie, Paris.