They descended between decks to hear divine service, and Corinne soon perceived that her idea
was without foundation, that Lord Nelville had not formed the solemn project she had at first
supposed. She then reproached herself with having feared such an event, and the embarrassment
of her present situation revived in her bosom; for all the company believed her to be the wife
of Lord Nelville, and she had not the courage to say a word that might either destroy or confirm
this idea. Oswald suffered as cruelly as she did; but in the midst of a thousand rare qualities,
there was much weakness and irresolution in his character. These defects are unperceived by
their possessor, and assume in his eyes a new form under every circumstance; he conceives it
alternately to be prudence, sensibility, or delicacy, which defers the moment of adopting a
resolution and prolongs a state of indecision; hardly ever does he feel that it is the same
character which attaches this kind of inconvenience to every circumstance.

Corinne, however, notwithstanding the painful thoughts that occupied her, received a deep impression
from the spectacle which she witnessed. Nothing, in truth, speaks more to the soul than divine
service performed on board a ship; and the noble simplicity of the reformed worship seems particularly
adapted to the sentiments which are then felt. A young man performed the functions of chaplain;
he preached with a mild but firm voice, and his figure bespoke the rigid principles of a pure
soul amidst the ardour of youth. That severity carries with it an idea of force, very suitable
to a religion preached among the perils of war. At stated moments, the English minister delivered
prayers, the last words of which all the assembly repeated with him. These confused but mild
voices proceeding from various distances kept alive interest and emotion. The sailors, the
officers, and the captain, knelt down several times, particularly at these words, "Lord, have
mercy upon us!" The sword of the captain, which dragged on the deck whilst he was kneeling,
called to mind that noble union of humility before God and intrepidity before man, which renders
the devotion of warriors so affecting; and whilst these brave people besought the God of armies,
the sea was seen through the port-holes, and sometimes the murmuring of the waves, at that
moment tranquil, seemed to say, "your prayers are heard." The chaplain finished, the service
by a prayer, peculiar to the English sailors. "May God," say they, "give us grace to defend
our happy Constitution from without, and to find on our return domestic happiness at home!"
How many fine sentiments are united in these simple words! The long and continued study which
the navy requires and the austere life led in a ship, make it a military cloister in the midst
of the waves; and the regularity of the most serious occupations is there only interrupted
by perils and death. The sailors, in spite of their rough, hardy manners, often express themselves
with much gentleness, and show a particular tenderness to women and children when they meet
them on board. We are the more touched with these sentiments, because we know with what coolness
they expose themselves to those terrible dangers of war and the sea, in the midst of which
the presence of man has something of the supernatural.

Corinne and Lord Nelville returned to the boat which was to bring them ashore; they beheld
the city of Naples, built in the form of an amphitheatre, as if to take part more commodiously
in the festival of nature; and Corinne, in setting her foot again upon Italian ground, could
not refrain from feeling a sentiment of joy. If Nelville had suspected this sentiment he would
have been hurt at it, and perhaps with reason; yet he would have been unjust towards Corinne,
who loved him passionately in spite of the painful impression caused by the remembrance of
a country where cruel circumstances had rendered her so unhappy. Her imagination was lively;
there was in her heart a great capacity for love; but talent, especially in a woman, begets
a disposition to weariness, a want of something to divert the attention, which the most profound
passion cannot make entirely disappear. The idea of a monotonous life, even in the midst of
happiness, makes a mind which stands in need of variety, to shudder with fear. It is only when
there is little wind in the sails, that we can keep close to shore; but the imagination roves
at large, although affection be constant; it is so, at least, till the moment when misfortune
makes every inconsistency disappear, and leaves but one thought and one grief in the mind.

Oswald attributed the reverie of Corinne solely to the embarrassment into which she had been
thrown by hearing herself called Lady Nelville; and reproaching himself for not having released
her from that embarrassment he feared she might suspect him of levity. He began therefore in
order to arrive at the long-desired explanation by offering to relate to her his own history.
"I will speak first," said he, "and your confidence will follow mine." "Yes, undoubtedly it
must," answered Corinne, trembling; "but tell me at what day--at what hour? When you have spoken,
I will tell you all."--"How agitated you are," answered Oswald; "what then, will you ever feel
that fear of your friend, that mistrust of his heart?" "No," continued Corinne; "it is decided;
I have committed it all to writing, and if you choose, to-morrow--" "To-morrow," said Lord
Nelville, "we are to go together to Vesuvius; I wish to contemplate with you this astonishing
wonder, to learn from you how to admire it; and in this very journey, if I have the strength,
I will make you acquainted with the particulars of my past life. My heart is determined; thus
my confidence will open the way to yours." "So you give me to-morrow," replied Corinne; "I
thank you for this one day. Ah! who knows whether you will be the same for me when I have opened
my soul to you? And how can I feel such a doubt without shuddering?"

Chapter iv.

The ruins of Pompei are near to Mount Vesuvius, and Corinne and Lord Neville began their excursion
with these ruins. They were both silent; for the moment approached which was to decide their
fate, and that vague hope they had so long enjoyed, and which accords so well with the indolence
and reverie that the climate of Italy inspires, was to be replaced by a positive destiny. They
visited Pompei together, the most curious ruin of antiquity. At Rome, seldom any thing is found
but the remains of public monuments, and these monuments only retrace the political history
of past ages; but at Pompei it is the private life of the ancients which offers itself to the
view, such as it was. The Volcano, which has covered this city with ashes, has preserved it
from the destroying hand of Time. Edifices, exposed to the air, never could have remained so
perfect; but this hidden relic of antiquity was found entire. The paintings and bronzes were
still in their pristine beauty; and every thing connected with domestic life is fearfully preserved.
The amphoræ are yet prepared for the festival of the following day; the flour which was to
be kneaded is still to be seen; the remains of a woman, are still decorated with those ornaments
which she wore on the holiday that the Volcano disturbed, and her calcined arms no longer fill
the bracelets of precious stones which still surround them. Nowhere is to be seen so striking
an image of the sudden interruption of life. The traces of the wheels are visible in the streets,
and the stones on the brink of the wells bear the mark of the cord which has gradually furrowed
them. On the walls of a guardhouse are still to be seen those misshapen characters, those figures
rudely sketched, which the soldiers traced to pass away the time, while Time was hastily advancing
to swallow them up.

When we place ourselves in the midst of the crossroads from which the city that remains standing
almost entire is seen on all sides, it seems to us as if we were waiting for somebody, as if
the master were coming; and even the appearance of life which this abode offers makes us feel
more sadly its eternal silence. It is with petrified lava that the greater part of these houses
are built, which are now swallowed up by other lava. Thus ruins are heaped upon ruins, and
tombs upon tombs. This history of the world, where the epochs are counted from ruin to ruin,
this picture of human life, which is only lighted up by the Volcanoes that have consumed it,
fill the heart with a profound melancholy. How long man has existed! How long he has suffered
and died! Where can we find his sentiments and his thoughts? Is the air that we breathe in
these ruins impregnated with them, or are they for ever deposited in heaven where reigns immortality?
Some burnt leaves of manuscripts, which have been found at Herculaneum, and Pompei, and which
scholars at Portici are employed to decipher, are all that remain to give us information of
those unhappy victims, whom the Volcano, that thunder-bolt of earth, has destroyed. But in
passing near those ashes, which art has succeeded in reanimating, we are afraid to breathe
lest a breath should carry away that dust where noble ideas are perhaps still imprinted.

The public edifices in the city itself of Pompei, which was one of the least important of Italy,
are yet tolerably fine. The luxury of the ancients had almost ever some object of public interest
for its aim. Their private houses are very small, and we do not see in them any studied magnificence,
though we may remark a lively taste for the fine arts in their possessors. Almost the whole
interior is adorned with the most agreeable paintings and mosaic pavements ingeniously worked.
On many of these pavements is written the word Salve. This word is placed on the threshold
of the door, and must not be simply considered as a polite expression, but as an invocation
of hospitality. The rooms are singularly narrow, and badly lighted; the windows do not look
on the street, but on a portico inside the house, as well as a marble court which it surrounds.
In the midst of this court is a cistern, simply ornamented. It is evident from this kind of
habitation that the ancients lived almost entirely in the open air, and that it was there they
received their friends. Nothing gives us a more sweet and voluptuous idea of existence than
this climate, which intimately unites man with nature; we should suppose that the character
of their conversation and their society, ought, with such habits, to be different from those
of a country where the rigour of the cold forces the inhabitants to shut themselves up in their
houses. We understand better the Dialogues of Plato in contemplating those porches under which
the ancients walked during one half of the day. They were incessantly animated by the spectacle
of a beautiful sky: social order, according to their conceptions, was not the dry combination
of calculation and force, but a happy assemblage of institutions, which stimulated the faculties,
unfolded the soul, and directed man to the perfection of himself and his equals.

Antiquity inspires an insatiable curiosity. Those men of erudition who are occupied only in
forming a collection of names which they call history, are certainly divested of all imagination.
But to penetrate the remotest periods of the past, to interrogate the human heart through the
intervening gloom of ages, to seize a fact by the help of a word, and by the aid of that fact
to discover the character and manners of a nation; in effect, to go back to the remotest time,
to figure to ourselves how the earth in its first youth appeared to the eyes of man, and in
what manner the human race then supported the gift of existence which civilization has now
rendered so complicated, is a continual effort of the imagination, which divines and discovers
the finest secrets that reflection and study can reveal to us. This occupation of the mind
Oswald found most fascinating, and often repeated to Corinne that if he had not been taken
up with the noblest interests in his own country, he could only have found life supportable
in those parts where the monuments of history supply the place of present existence. We must
at least regret glory when it is no longer possible to obtain it. It is forgetfulness alone
that debases the soul; but it may find an asylum in the past, when barren circumstances deprive
actions of their aim.

On leaving Pompei and returning to Portici, Corinne and Lord Nelville were surrounded by the
inhabitants, who cried to them loudly to come and see the mountain; so they call Vesuvius.
Is it necessary to name it? It is the glory of the Neapolitans and the object of their patriotic
feelings; their country is distinguished by this phenomenon. Oswald had Corinne carried in
a kind of palanquin as far as the hermitage of St Salvador, which is half way up the mountain,
and where travellers repose before they undertake to climb the summit. He rode by her side
to watch those who carried her, and the more his heart was filled with the generous thoughts
that nature and history inspire, the more he adored Corinne.

At the foot of Vesuvius the country is the most fertile and best cultivated that can be found
in the kingdom of Naples, that is to say, in the country of Europe most favoured of heaven.
The celebrated vine, whose wine is called Lacryma Christi, grows in this spot, and by the side
of lands which have been laid waste by the lava. One would say that nature has made a last
effort in this spot, so near the Volcano, and has decked herself in her richest attire before
her death. In proportion as we ascend the mountain, we discover on turning round, Naples, and
the beautiful country that surrounds it. The rays of the sun make the sea sparkle like precious
stones; but all the splendour of the creation is extinguished by degrees as we approach the
land of ashes and smoke which announces the vicinity of the Volcano. The ferruginous lava of
preceding years has traced in the earth deep and sable furrows, and all around them is barren.
At a certain height not a bird is seen to fly, at another, plants become very scarce, then
even the insects find nothing to subsist on in the arid soil. At length every living thing
disappears; you enter the empire of death, and the pulverised ashes alone roll beneath your
uncertain feet.

     Nè griggi nè armenti
     Guida bifolco, mai guida pastore

Neither flocks nor herds does the husbandman or the shepherd ever guide to this spot.

