A MERE ACCIDENT.

BY

GEORGE MOORE

AUTHOR OF "A MUMMER'S WIFE," "A MODERN LOVER," "A DRAMA IN MUSLIN," "SPRING DAYS," ETC.

Fifth Edition

TO

My Friends at Buckingham.

Nearly twenty years have gone since first we met, dear friends; time has but strengthened our
early affections, so for love token, for sign of the years, I bring you this book--these views
of your beautiful house and hills where I have spent so many happy days, these last perhaps
the happiest of all.

G. M.

CHAPTER I.

Three hundred yards of smooth, broad, white road leading from Henfield, a small town in Sussex.
The grasses are lush, and the hedges are tall and luxuriant. Restless boys scramble to and
fro, quiet nursemaids loiter, and a vagrant has sat down to rest though the bank is dripping
with autumn rain. How fair a prospect of southern England! Land of exquisite homeliness and
order; land of town that is country, of country that is town; land of a hundred classes all
deftly interwoven and all waxing to one class--England. Land encrowned with the gifts of peaceful
days--days that live in thy face and the faces of thy children.

See it. The outlying villas with their porches and laurels, the red tiled farm houses, and
the brown barns, clustering beneath the wings of beautiful trees--elm trees; see the flat plots
of ground of the market gardens, with figures bending over baskets of roots; see the factory
chimney; there are trees and gables everywhere; see the end of the terrace, the gleam of glass,
the flower vase, the flitting white of the tennis players; see the long fields with the long
team ploughing, see the parish church, see the embowering woods, see the squire's house, see
everything and love it, for everything here is England. It disappears in the woods which lean
across the fields towards the downs. The great bluff heights can be seen, and at the point
where the roads cross, where the tall trunks are listed with golden light, stands a large wooden
gate and a small box-like lodge. A lonely place in a densely-populated county. The gatekeeper
is blind, and his flute sounds doleful and strange, and the leaves are falling.

The private road is short and stony. Apparently space was found for it with difficulty, and
it got wedged between an enormous holly hedge and a stiff wooden paling. But overhead the great
branches fight upwards through a tortuous growth to the sky, and, as you advance, Thornby Place
continues to puzzle you with its medley of curious and contradictory aspects. For as the second
gate, which is in iron, is approached, your thoughts of rural things are rudely scattered by
sight of what seems a London mews. Reason with yourself. This very urban feature is occasioned
by the high brick wall which runs parallel with the stables, and this, as you pass round to
the front of the house, is hidden in the clothing foliage of a line of evergreen oaks; continuing
along the lawn, the trees bend about the house--a wash of Naples-yellow, a few sharp Italian
lines and angles. To complete the sketch, indicate the wings of the blown rooks on the sullen sky.

But our purpose lies deeper than that which inspires a water-colour sketch. We must learn when
and why that house was built; we must see how the facts reconcile its somewhat tawdry, its
somewhat suburban aspect, with the richer and more romantic aspects of the park. The park is
even now, though it be the middle of autumn, full of blowing green, and the brown circling
woods, full of England and English home life. That single tree in the foreground is a lime;
what a splendour of leafage it will be in the summer! Those four on the right are chestnuts,
and those far away, lying between us and the imperial downs, are elms; through that vista you
can see the grand line, the abrupt hollows, and the bit of chalk road cut zig-zag out of the
steep side. Then why the anomaly of Italian urns and pilasters; why not red Elizabethan gables
and diamond casements?

Why not? Because at the beginning of the century, when Brighton was being built, fragments
of architectural gossip were flying about Sussex, and one of these had found its way to, and
had rested in, the heart of the grandfather of the present owner: in a simple and bucolic way
he had been seized by a desire for taste and style, and the present building was the result.
Therefore it will be well to examine in detail the house which young John Norton of '86 was
so fond of declaring he could never see without becoming instantly conscious of a sense of
dislike, a hatred that he was fond of describing as a sort of constitutional complaint which
he was never quite free from, and which any view of the Rockery, or the pilasters of the French
bow-window, or indeed of anything pertaining to Thornby Place, called at once into an active
existence.

Thornby Place is but two stories high, and its spruce walls of Portland stone and ashlar work
rise sheer out of the green sward; in front, Doric columns support a heavy entablature, and
there are urns at the corners of the building. The six windows on the ground floor are topped
with round arches, and coming up the drive the house seems a perfect square. But this regularity
of structure has on the east side been somewhat interfered with by a projection of some thirty
or forty feet--a billiard room, in fine, which during John's minority Mrs Norton had thought
proper to add. But she had lived to rue her experiment, for to this young man, with his fretful
craving for beauty and exactness of proportion, it is an ever present source of complaint;
and he had once in a half humorous, half serious way, gone so far as to avail himself of the
"eyesore," as he called it, to excuse his constant absence from home, and as a pretence for
shutting himself up in his dear college, with his cherished Latin authors. It was partly for
the sake of avenging himself on his mother, whose decisive practicality jarred the delicate
music of a nature extravagantly ideal, that he so severely criticised all that she held sacred;
and his strictures fell heaviest on the bow window, looking somewhat like a temple with its
small pilasters supporting the rich cornice from which the dwarf vaulting springs. The loggia,
he admitted, although painfully out of keeping with the surrounding country, was not wholly
wanting in design, and he admired its columns of a Doric order, and likewise the cornice that
like a crown encompasses the house. The entrance is under the loggia; there are round arched
windows on either side, a square window under the roof, and the hall door is in solid oak studded
with ornamental nails.

On entering you find yourself in a common white-painted passage, and on either side of the
drawing-room and dining-room are four allegorical female heads: Spring, Summer, Autumn, and
Winter. Further on is the hall, with its short polished oak stairway sloping gently to a balcony;
and there are white painted pillars that support the low roof, and these pillars make a kind
of entrance to the passage which traverses the house from end to end. England--England clear
and spotless! Nowhere do you find a trace of dust or disorder. The arrangement of things is
somewhat mechanical. The curtains and wall-paper in the bedrooms are suggestive of trades people
and housemaids; no hastily laid aside book or shawl breaks the excessive orderliness. Every
piece of furniture is in its appointed place, and nothing testifies to the voluntariness of
the occupant, or the impulse prompted by the need of the moment. On the presses at the ends
of the passages, where is stored the house linen, cards are hung bearing this inscription:
"When washing the woodwork the servants are requested to use no soda without first obtaining
permission from Mrs Norton." This detail was especially distasteful to John; he often thought
of it when away, and it was one of the many irritating impressions which went to make up the
sum of his dislike of Thornby Place.

Mrs Norton is now crying her last orders to the servants; and although dressed elaborately
as if to receive visitors, she has not yet laid aside her basket of keys. She is in her forty-fifth
year. Her figure is square and strong, and not devoid of matronly charm. It approves a healthy
mode of life, and her quick movements are indicative of her sharp determined mind. Her face
is somewhat small for her shoulders, the temples are narrow and high, the nose is long and
thin, the cheek bones are prominent, the chin is small, but unsuggestive of weakness, the lips
are pinched, the complexion is flushed, and the eyes set close above the long thin nose are
an icy grey. Mrs Norton is a handsome woman. Her fashionably-cut silk fits her perfectly; the
skirt is draped with grace and precision, and the glossy shawl with the long soft fringe is
elegant and delightfully mundane. She raises her double gold eyeglasses, and, contracting her
forehead, stares pryingly about her; and so fashionable is she, and her modernity is so picturesque,
that for a moment you think of the entrance of a duchess in the first act of a piece by Augier
played on the stage of the Français.

Still holding her gold-rimmed glasses to her eyes, she descended the broad stairs to the hall,
and from thence she went into the library. There are two small bookcases filled with sombre
volumes, and the busts of Molière and Shakespeare attempt to justify the appellation. But there
is in the character, I was almost going to say in the atmosphere of the room, that same undefinable,
easily recognizable something which proclaims the presence of non-readers. The traces of three
or four days, at the most a week, which John occasionally spent at Thornby Place, were necessarily
ephemeral, and the weakness of Mrs Norton's sight rendered continuous reading impossible. Sometimes
Kitty Hare brought a novel from the circulating library to read aloud, and sometimes John forgot
one of his books, and a volume of Browning still lay on the table. The room was filled with
shadow and mournfulness, and in a dusty grate the fire smouldered.

Between this room and the drawing-room, in a recess formed by the bow window, Mrs Norton kept
her birds, and still peering through her gold-rimmed glasses, she examined their seed-troughs
and water-glasses, and, having satisfied herself as to their state, she entered the drawing-room.
There is little in this room; no pictures relieve the widths of grey colourless wall paper,
and the sombre oak floor is spaced with a few pieces of furniture--heavy furniture enshrouded
in grey linen cloths. Three French cabinets, gaudy with vile veneer and bright brass, are nailed
against the walls, and the empty room is reflected dismally in the great gold mirror which
faces the vivid green of the sward and the duller green of the encircling elms of the park.

Mrs Norton let her eyes wander, and sighing she went into the dining-room. The dining-room
is always the most human of rooms, and the dining-room in Thornby Place, although allied to
the other rooms in an absence of fancy in its arrangement, shows prettily in contrast to them
with its white cloth cheerful with flowers and ferns. The floor is covered with a tightly stretched
red cloth, the chairs are set in symmetrical rows; with the exception of a black clock there
is no ornament on the chimney-piece, and a red cloth screen conceals the door used by the servants.
Withdrawing her eye from the vague prospect before her, Mrs Norton played listlessly with the
tassel of one of the blinds. He was however still some distance away, and standing in the shelter
of the loggia she waited for him, watched the vague silhouette resolving itself into colour
and line. His face was round and florid, and it was set with sandy whiskers. As is generally
the case with those of his profession, he spoke fluently, his voice was melodious, and his
rapid answers and his bright eyes saved him from appearing commonplace. In addressing Mrs Norton
he used her Christian name.

"You are quite right, Lizzie, you are quite right; I shouldn't have done it: had I known what
a state the roads were in, I wouldn't have attempted it."

"What is the use of talking like that, as if you didn't know what these roads were like! "He
only got my note this morning," she mused. "I wonder if he will be able to persuade John to
return home." Mrs Norton, in her own hard, cold way, loved her son, but in truth she thought
more of the power of which he was the representative than of the man himself: the power to
take to himself a wife--a wife who would give an heir to Thornby Place. This was to be the
achievement of Mrs Norton's life, and the difficulties that intervened were too absorbing for
her to think much whether her son would find happiness in marriage; nor was it natural to her
to set much store on the refining charm and the uniting influences of mental sympathies. Had
she not passed the age when the sentimental emotions are liveliest? And the fibre was wanting
in her to take into much account the whispering or the silence of passion.

Mrs Norton saw in marriage nothing but the child, and in the child nothing but an heir--that
is to say, a male who would continue the name and traditions of Thornby Place. This would seem
to indicate a material nature, but such a misapprehension arises from the common habit of confusing
pure thought--thought which proceeds direct from the brain and lives uncoloured by the material
wants of life--with instincts whose complexity often causes them to appear as mental potentialities,
whereas they are but instincts, inherited promptings, and aversions more or less modified by
physical constitution and the material forces of the life in which the constitution has grown
up; and yet, though pure thought, that is to say the power of detaching oneself from the webs
of life and viewing men and things from a height, is the rarest of gifts, many are possessed
of sufficient intellectuality to enjoy with the brain apart from the senses. Mrs Norton was
such an one. After five o'clock tea she would ask Kitty to read to her, and drawing her shawl
about her shoulders, would readily abandon the intellectual side of her nature to the seductive
charm of the romantic story of James of Scotland; and while to the girl the heroism and chivalry
were a little clouded by the quaint turns of Rossetti's verse, to the woman these were added
delights, which her quiet penetrating understanding followed and took instant note of.

"Were mother and son ever so different?" was the common remark. The artistic was the side of
Mrs Norton's character that was unaffectedly kept out of sight, just as young John Norton was
careful to hide from public knowledge his strict business habits, and to expose, perhaps a
little ostentatiously, the spiritual impulses in which he was so deeply concerned: the subtle
refinement of sacred places, from the mystery of the great window with its mitres and croziers
to the sunlit path between the tombs where the children play, the curious and yet natural charm
that attendance in the sacristy had for him, the arrangement of the large oak presses, wherein
are stored the fine altar linen and the chalices, the distributing of the wine and water that
were not for bodily need, and the wearing of the flowing surplices, the murmuring of the Latin
responses that helped so wonderfully to enforce the impression of beautiful and refined life
which was his, and which he lived beyond the gross influences of the wholly temporal life which
he knew was raging almost but not quite out of hearing. But, however marked may be the accidental
variations of character, hereditary instincts are irresistible, and in obedience to them John
neglected nothing that concerned his pecuniary instincts. He was in daily communication with
his agent, and the financial position of every farmer, and the state of every farm on his property,
were not only known to him but were constantly borne in mind, and influenced him in that progressive
ordering of things which marked the administration of his property. He was furnished quarterly
with an account of all monies paid, to which were joined descriptive notes of each farm, showing
what alterations the past three months had brought, and setting forth the agricultural intentions
and abilities of the occupier.

John Norton waited the arrival of these accounts with a keen interest: they were a relish to
his life; and without experiencing any revulsion of feeling, he would lay down a portfolio
filled with photographs of drawings by Leonardo da Vinci--studies of drapery, studies of hands
and feet, realistic studies of thin-lipped women and ecstatic angels with the light upon their
high foreheads--and cheerfully, and even with a sense of satisfaction, he would untie the bald,
prosaic roll of paper, and seating himself at his window overlooking the long terrace, he would
add up the figures submitted to him, detecting the smallest arithmetical error, making note
of the least delay in payment of any money due, and questioning the slightest overpayment for
work done. The morning hours fled as he pursued his congenial task; and from time to time he
would let his thoughts wander from the teasing computation of the money that would be required
to make the repairs that a certain farmer had demanded, to the unworldly quiet of the sacristy;
he would think, and his thoughts contained an evanescent sense of the paradox, of the altar
linen he would have to fold and put away, and of the altar breads he would presently have to
write to London for; and meanwhile his eyes would follow in delight the black figures of the
Jesuits, who, with cassocks blowing and berrettas set firmly on their heads, walked up and
down the long gravel walks reading their breviaries.

And living thus, half in the persuasive charm of ceremonial, half in the hard procession of
account books, the last three years of John's life had passed. On coming of age he had spent
a few weeks at Thornby Place, but the place, and especially the country, had appeared to him
so grossly protestant--so entirely occupied with the material well-to-doness of life--that
he declared he longed to breathe again the breath of his beloved sacristy, that he must away
from that close and oppressive atmosphere of the flesh. Since then, with the exception of a
few visits of a few days he had lived at Stanton College, writing to his mother not of the
business which concerned his property, but of mental problems and artistic impulses. On business
matters he never consulted her; but he thought it fortunate that she should choose to spend
her jointure on Thornby Place, and so save him a great deal of expense in keeping up the house,
which, although he disliked it with a dislike that had grown inveterate, he was still unwilling
to allow to fall to ruins.

Mrs Norton, as has been said, was capable of understanding much in the abstract; so long as
things, and ideas of things, did not come within the circle of her practical life, they were
judged from a liberal standpoint, but so soon as they touched any personal consideration, they
were judged by a moral code that in no way corresponded to her intellectual comprehension of
the matter she so unhesitatingly condemned. But by this it must by no means be understood that
Mrs Norton wore her conscience easily--that it was a garment that could be shortened or lengthened
to suit all weathers. Our diagnosis of Mrs Norton's character involves no accusation of laxity
of principle. Mrs Norton was a woman with an intelligence, who had inherited in all its primary
force a code of morals that had grown up in the narrower minds of less gifted generations.
In talking to her you were conscious of two active and opposing principles: reason and hereditary
morality. I use "opposing" as being descriptive of the state of soul that would generally follow
from such mental contradiction, but in Mrs Norton no shocking conflict of thought was possible,
her mind being always strictly subservient to her instinctive standard of right and wrong.

And John had inherited the moral temperament of his mother's family, and with it his mother's
intelligence, nor had the equipoise been disturbed in the transmitting; his father's delicate
constitution in inflicting germs of disease had merely determined the variation represented
by the marked artistic impulses which John presented to the normal type of either his father's
or his mother's family. It would therefore seem that any too sudden corrective of defect will
result in anomaly, and, in the case under notice, direct mingling of perfect health with spinal
weakness had germinated into a marked yearning for the heroic ages, for the supernatural as
contrasted with the meanness of the routine of existence. And now before closing this psychical
investigation, and picking up the thread of the story, which will of course be no more than
an experimental demonstration of the working of the brain into which we are looking, we must
take note of two curious mental traits both living side by side, and both apparently negative
of the other's existence: an intense and ever pulsatory horror of death, a sullen contempt
and often a ferocious hatred of life. The stress of mind engendered by the alternating of these
themes of suffering would have rendered life an unbearable burden to John, had he not found
anchorage in an invincible belief in God, a belief which set in stormily for the pomp and opulence
of Catholic ceremonial, for the solemn Gothic arch and the jewelled joy of painted panes, for
the grace and the elegance and the order of hieratic life.

In a being whose soul is but the shadow of yours, a second soul looking towards the same end
as your soul, or in a being whose soul differs radically, and is concerned with other satisfactions
and other ideals, you will most probably find some part of the happiness of your dreams, but
in intercourse with one who is grossly like you, but who is absolutely different when the upper
ways of character are taken into account, there will be--no matter how inexorable are the ties
that bind--much fret and irritation and noisy clashing. It was so with John Norton and his
mother; even in the exercise of faculties that had been directly transmitted from one to the
other there had been angry collision. For example:--their talents for business were identical;
but while she thought the admirable conduct of her affairs was a thing to be proud of, he would
affect an air of negligence, and would willingly have it believed that he lived independent
of such gross necessities. Then his malady--for intense depression of the spirits was a malady
with him--offered an ever-recurring cause of misunderstanding. How irritating it was when he
lay shut up in his room, his soul looking down with murderous eyes on the poor worm that writhed
out its life in view of the pitiless stars, and longing with a fierce wild longing to shake
off the burning garment of consciousness, and plunge into the black happiness of the grave,
to hear Mrs Norton on the threshold uttering from time to time admonitory remarks.

"You should not give way to such feelings, sir; you should not allow yourself to be unhappy.
Look at me, am I unhappy? and I have more to bear with than you, but I am not always thinking
of myself.... I am in fairly good health, and I am always cheerful! Why are you not the same?
You bring it all upon yourself; I have no pity for you.... You should cease to think of yourself,
and try to do your duty."

John groaned when he heard this last word. He knew very well what his mother meant. He should
buy three hunters, he should marry. These were the anodynes that were offered to him in and
out of season. "Bad enough that I should exist! Why precipitate another into the gulf of being?"
"Consort with men whose ideal hovers between a stable boy and a veterinary surgeon;" and then,
amused by the paradox, John, to whom the chase was evocative of forests, pageantry, spears,
would quote some stirring verses of an old ballad, and allude to certain pictures by Rubens,
Wouvermans, and Snyders. "Why do you talk in that way?" "Why do you seek to make yourself ridiculous?"
Mrs Norton would retort.

Smiling just a little sorrowfully, John would withdraw, and on the following day he would leave
for Stanton College. And it was thus that Mrs Norton's temper scarred with deep wounds a nature
so pale and delicate, so exposed that it seemed as if wanting an outer skin; and as Thornby
Place appeared to him little more than a comprehensive symbol of what he held mean, even obscene
in life, his visits had grown shorter and fewer, until now his absence extended to the verge
of the second year, and besieged by the belief that he was contemplating priesthood, Mrs Norton
had written to her old friend, saying that she wanted to speak to him on matters of great importance.

"Well, you know it is difficult to get much at this season of the year. I have no intention
of committing any of the imprudences you anticipate. Oh, that boy is breaking my heart, and
none suspects it. If you knew how it annoys me when the Gardiners and the Prestons congratulate
me on having a son so well behaved. They know he looks after his property sharp enough, no
drinking, no bad company, no debts. Ah! they little know.... I would much sooner he were wild
and foolish: young men get over those kind of faults, but he will never get over his."

Mr Hare felt these views to be of a doubtful orthodoxy, but he did not press his opinion, and
contented himself with murmuring gently that for the moment he did not see that John's faults
were of a particularly aggravated character.

"You do not see that his faults should cause me any uneasiness! Perhaps it is very lucky he
is not here, or you might encourage him in them. I suppose you think he is doing quite right
in spending his life at Stanton College, aping a priest and talking about Gothic arches. Is
it a proper thing to transact all his business through a solicitor, and never to see his tenants?
Why does he not come and live at his own beautiful place? Why does he not take up his position
in the county? He is not a magistrate. Why does he not get married?... he is the last; there
is no one to follow him. But he never thinks of that--he is afraid that a woman might prove
a disturbing influence in his life ... he feels that he must live in an atmosphere of higher
emotions. That's the way he talks, and he is meditating, I assure you, a book on the literature
of the Middle Ages, on the works of bishops and monks who wrote Latin in the early centuries.
His mind, he says, is full of the cadences of that language. That's the way he writes. He never
asks me about his property, never consults me in anything. Here is a letter I received yesterday.
Listen:

"'The poverty of spiritual life amid the western pagans could not fail to encourage the growth
of new religious tendencies. An epoch of great spiritual activity had been succeeded by one
of complete stagnation. A glance at the literary progress of Rome since Tiberius will show
this emancipation from national and political considerations, the influence of cosmopolitanism
gave to the best specimens of Latin prose of the silver age such riches and variety of substance
and such individuality of expression, that Seneca and Tacitus and the letters of Pliny are
marked with many modern characteristics. Form and language appear in these writers only as
the instrument and the matter wherewith men of genius would express their intimate personality.
Here antique culture rises above itself, but, mark you, at the expense of all that is proper
to the Roman nation. Cosmopolitan Hellenism forces and breaks down the bars of classical traditions,
and, weary of restrictions these writers first sought personal satisfaction, and then addressed
themselves to scholars rather than the people.

"'But Hellenism found its medium in the Greek language, rich to satiety, and possessing a syntax
of such extraordinary flexibility, that it could follow all evolutions without being shaken
in its organism. It was in vain that the Latin literature sought to maintain its position by
harking back to the writers anterior to Cicero, those that Hellenism had not touched, and presenting
them as models of style; and thus a new school very fain of antiquity had sprung up, with Fronto
for its acknowledged chief--a school pre-occupied above all things by the form; obsolete words
set in a new setting, modern words introduced into old cadences to freshen them with a bright
and delightful varnish, in a word, a language under visible sign of decay ... yet how full
of dim idea and evanescent music--a sort of Indian summer, a season of dependency that looked
back on the splendours of Augustan yesterdays--an autumn forest.'

"Did you ever hear such rubbish, or affectation, whichever you like to call it? I should like
to know what all that's to do with mediaeval Latin. And then he goes on to complain of the
architecture of Stanton College.... It is, he says, base Tudor of the vilest kind. 'Practical
cookery' he calls it, 'antique sauce, sold by all chemists and grocers.' Do you know what he means?

"Very well, Lizzie, I will do what I can. I will go to-morrow.

CHAPTER II.

Mrs Norton had known William Hare all her life. She was the youngest daughter, he the youngest
son of equal Yorkshire families. Separated by about a mile of pasture and woodland, these families
had for generations lived unanimous lives. In England the hunting field, the grouse moor, the
croquet and tennis lawn, with its charming adjunct the five-o'clock tea-table, have made life
in certain classes almost communal; and Mrs Norton and William Hare had stood in white frocks
under Christmas trees and shared sweetmeats. He often thought of the first time he saw her,
wearing a skirt that fell below her ankles, with her hair done up. And she remembered his first
appearance in evening clothes, and how surprised and delighted she was to hear him ask her
if he might have the pleasure of a waltz.

He went to Oxford to take his degree; she was taken to London for the season, and towards the
end of the third year she married Mr Norton, and went to live at Thornby Place. Through the
excitement of the marriage arrangements, and the rapid impressions of her honeymoon, the thought
of having for neighbour the playmate of her youth had flitted across, but had not rested in,
her mind, and she did not realize the charm that it was for her until one afternoon, now more
than twenty years ago, a young curate, bespattered with the grey mud of the downs, had startled
her and her husband by addressing her as Lizzie. Lizzie she had remained to him, he was William
to her, and henceforth their lives had been indissolubly linked. Not a week had passed without
their seeing each other. There were visits to pay, there was hunting, and then habit intervened;
and for many years, in suffering, in joy, in hope, their thoughts had instinctively looked
to each other for reflective sympathy, and every remembrable event was full of mutual associations.
He had sat by her when, after the birth of her first and only child, she lay pale, beautiful,
and weak on a sofa by a window blown by the tide of summer scent; and the autumn of that same
year he had walked with her in the garden, where the leaves fell like the last illusion of
youth under the tears of an incurable grief; and staying in their walk they looked on the house
which was to be for evermore one of widowhood.

Had she ever loved him? Had he ever loved her? In moments of passionate loneliness she had
yearned for his protection; in moments of deep dejection he had dreamed of the happiness he
might have found with her; but in the broad day of their lives they had ever thought of each
other as friends. He had advised her on the management of her estate, on the education of her
son; and in his afflictions--in his widowerhood--when his children quickly followed their mother
to the grave, Mrs Norton's form, face, and words had steadied him, and had helped him to bear
with a life of crumbling ruin. Kitty was now the only one that remained to him.

Mrs Norton had had projects of wealth and title for her son, but his continued disdain of women
and the love of women had long since forced her to abandon her hopes, and now any one he might
select she would gladly welcome; but she whom Mrs Norton would have preferred to all others
was the daughter of her old friend. Her son had deserted her, and now all her affections were
centred in Kitty. Kitty was as much at Thornby Place as at the Rectory, and in the gaiety of
her bright eyes, and in the shine of her gold-brown hair--for ever slipping from the gold hair-pins
in frizzed masses--Mrs Norton continued her dreams of her son's marriage.

Mr Hare thought it harsh that his daughter should be so constantly taken from him, but the
parsonage was so lonely for Kitty, and there were luncheon and tennis parties at Thornby Place,
and Mrs Norton took the girl out for drives, and together they visited all the county families.
A suspicion of matchmaking sometimes crossed Mr Hare's mind, but it faded in the knowledge
that John was always at Stanton College; and to send this fair flower to his great--to his
only--friend, was a joy, and the bitterness of temporary loss was forgotten in the sweetness
of the sharing. He had suffered much; but these last years had been quiet, free from despair
at least, and he wished to drift a little longer with the tide of this time. Why strive to
hasten events? If this thing was to be, it would be. So he had thought of his daughter's marriage.
Fancies had long hung about the confines of his mind, but nothing had struck him with the full
force of a thought until suddenly he understood the exact purport of his mission to Stanton
College. He leaned forward as if he were going to tell the driver to return, but before he
could do so the lodge-keeper opened the great gate, and the hansom cab rattled under the archway.

Then he viewed the scheme in general outline and in remote detail. It was very simple. Lizzie
had been to Shoreham, and had taken Kitty away with her; he had been sent to Stanton College
to beg John Norton to return to Thornby Place, and to say what he could in favour of marriage
generally. This was very compromising. He had been deceived; Lizzie had deceived him. She had
no right to do such a thing; and, striving to determine on a line of conduct, Mr Hare examined
abstractedly the place he was passing through. And to see the sharp spire of the distant church
you had to look closely, and slanting slowly upwards the great plain drew a long and melancholy
line across the sky. The lower terrace was approached by an imposing flight of steps, there
were myriads of leaves in the air, and the college bell rang in its high red tower.

The high red walls of the college faced the dismal terraces, and the triple line of diamond-paned
and iron-barred windows stared upon the ugly Staffordshire landscape. Let us turn to the mouth
for a further indication of character. It was large, the lips were thick, but without a trace
of sensuality. They were dim in colour, they were undefined in shape, they were a little meaningless--no,
not meaningless, for they confirmed the psychological revelations of the receding temples.
And seeing it as it now is, you would not believe all the delightful detail that a ray of sunlight
awakens in that hideous brown monotony, soaked with rain and bedimmed with mist."

"Yes, I can quite understand that the college is not looking its best on a day like this. We
have had very wet weather lately."

"No doubt, and I am afraid these late rains have interfered with the harvest. The accounts
from the North are very alarming, but in Sussex, I suppose, everything was over at least two
months ago. Still even there the farmers have been losing money for some time back. I have
had to make some very heavy reductions. Pearson declared he could not possibly continue at
the present rent with corn as low as eight pounds a load. This is very serious, but it is very
difficult to arrive at the truth. When she is in a passion she hits on the very happiest concurrence
of words; and I must say she is right,--the architecture here is appallingly ugly; and I don't
think anything could be done to improve it, do you?"

"I can't say that I can suggest anything for the moment, but I thought it was for the sake
of the architecture, which I frankly confess I don't in the least admire, that you lived here."

"You thought it was for the sake of the architecture...."

"Then why do you not come home and spend Christmas with your mother!"

"Christmas! Well, I suppose I ought to. But it will be hard to bear with the plain Protestantism,
the smug materialism of Sussex at such a season; and when one thinks what the day is commemorative
of--"

"You surely do not mean that you would prefer to see the people starving? If your dislike of
Protestantism rests only on roast beef and plum pudding...."

"No, you don't understand. But I beg your pardon--I had really forgotten...."

"Never mind," said Mr Hare smiling; "continue: we were talking of roast beef and plum pudding--"

"Well, roast beef and plum pudding, say what you like, is a very complete figuration of the
Protestant ideal. Now let us think of Sussex.... The villas with their gables, and railings,
and laurels, the snug farm-houses, the market-gardening, but especially the villas, so representative
of a sleepy smug materialism.... Oh, it is horrible; I cannot think of Sussex without a revulsion
of feeling. Sussex is utterly opposed to the monastic spirit. Why, even the downs are easy,
yes, easy as one of the upholsterer's armchairs of the villa residences. And the aspect of
the county tallies exactly with the state of soul of its people. In that southern county all
is soft and lascivious; there is no wildness, none of that scenical grandeur which we find
in Scotland and Ireland, and which is emblematic of the yearning of man's soul for something
higher than this mean and temporal life."

There was rapture in John's eyes. With a quick movement of his hands he seemed to spurn the
entire materialism of Sussex. After a pause, he continued:

"There is no asceticism in Sussex, there is no yearning for anything higher or better. You--yes,
you and the whole place are, in every sense of the word, Conservative--that is to say, brutally
satisfied with the present ordering of things."

"Now, now, my dear John, by your own account Pearson is not by any means so satisfied with
the present condition of things as you yourself would wish him to be."

John laughed loudly, and it was clear that the paradox in no way displeased him.

"But we were speaking," he continued, "not of temporal, but of spiritual pains and penalties.
Now, anyone who did not know me--and none will ever know me--would think that I had not a care
in the world. Well, I have suffered as horribly, I have been tortured as cruelly, as ever poor
mortal was.... I have lain on the floor of my room, my heart dead within me, and moaned and
shrieked with horror."

"Horror of what?"

"Horror of death and a worse horror of life. Few amongst men ever realise the truth of things,
but there are rare occasions, moments of supernatural understanding or suffering (which are
two words for one and the same thing), when we see life in all its worm-like meanness, and
death in its plain, stupid loathsomeness. Two days out of this year live like fire in my mind.
I went to my uncle Richard's funeral. There was cold meat and sherry on the table; a dreadful
servant asked me if I would go up to the corpse-room. (Mark the expression.) I went. It lay
swollen and featureless, and two busy hags lifted it up and packed it tight with wisps of hay,
and mechanically uttered shrieks and moans.

"But, though the funeral was painfully obscene, it was not so obscene as the view of life I
was treated to last week....

"Last week I was in London; I went to a place they call the 'Colonies.' Till then I had never
realised the foulness of the human animal, but there even his foulness was overshadowed by
his stupidity. The masses, yes, I saw the masses, and I fed with them in their huge intellectual
stye. The air was filled with lines of the most inconceivable flags, lines upon lines of pale
yellow, and there were glass cases filled with pickle bottles, and there were piles of ropes
and a machine in motion, and in nooks there were some dreadful lay figures, and written underneath
them, 'Indian corn-seller,' 'Indian fish-seller.' And there was the Prince of Wales on horseback,
three times larger than life; and there were stuffed deer upon a rock, and a Polar bear, and
the Marquis of Lome underneath. In another room there were Indian houses, things in carved
wood, and over each large placards announcing the popular dinner, the buffet, the table d'hôte,
at half-a-crown; and there were oceans of tea, and thousands of rolls of butter, and in the
gardens the band played 'Thine alone' and 'Mine again.'

"It seemed as if all the back-kitchens and staircases in England had that day been emptied
out--life-tattered housewives, girls grown stout on porter, pretty-faced babies, heavy-handed
fathers, whistling boys in their sloppy clothes, and attitudes curiously evidencing an odious
domesticity....

"In the Greek and Roman life there was an ideal, and there was a great ideal in the monastic
life of the Middle Ages; but an ideal is wholly wanting in nineteenth century life. I am not
of these later days. I am striving to come to terms with life."

"And you think you can do that best by folding vestments and reviling humanity. I do not see
how you reconcile these opinions with the teaching of Christ--with the life of Christ."

"Oh, of course, if you are going to use those arguments against me, I have done; I can say
no more."

Mr Hare did not answer, and at the end of a long silence John said:

"But, what do you say, supposing I show you over the college now, and when that's done you
will come up to my room and we'll have a smoke before dinner?"

Mr Hare raised no objection, and the two men descended the staircase into the long stony corridor.
The quadrangle filled the diamond panes of the latticed windows with green, and the divine
walking to and fro was a spot of black. You do not understand me. Protestantism has always
been more reconciled to the presence of women in sacred places than we. We would wish them
beyond the precincts. And it is easy to imagine how the unspeakable feminality of those maid-servants
jars a beautiful impression--the altar towering white with wax candles, the benedictive odour
of incense, the richness of the vestments, treble voices of boys floating, and the sweetness
of a long day spent about the sanctuary with flowers and chalices in my hands, fade in a sense
of sullen disgust, in a revulsion of feeling which I will not attempt to justify."

Then his thoughts, straying back to sudden recollections of monastic usages and habits, he said:

"I should like to scourge them out of this place." And then, half playfully, half seriously,
and wholly conscious of the grotesqueness, he added:

"Yes, I am not at all sure that a good whipping would not do them good. They should be well
whipped. I believe that there is much to be said in favour of whipping."

Mr Hare did not answer. He listened like one in a dark and unknown place. But, as if unconscious
of the embarrassment he was creating, John told of the number of masses that were said daily,
and of the eagerness shown by the boys to obtain an altar. Altar service was rewarded by a
large piece of toast for breakfast.

They went up to the organ loft. But John did not court any very detailed criticism on his hymn,
and alluding to the fact that even in the fourth century accent was beginning to replace quantity,
he led the way to the sacristy.

And it was impossible to avoid noticing that the opening of the carved oaken presses, smelling
sweet and benignly of orris root and lavender, acted on John almost as a physical pleasure,
and also that his hands seemed nervous with delight as he unfolded the jewelled embroideries,
and smoothed out the fine linen of the under vestments; and his voice, too, seemed to gain
a sharp tenderness and emotive force, as he told how these were the gold vestments worn by
the bishop, and only on certain great feast-days, and that these were the white vestments worn
on days especially commemorative of the Virgin.

From the sacristy they went to the boys' library. John pointed out the excellent supply of
light literature that the bookcases contained.

"We take travels, history, fairy-tales--romances of all kinds, so long as sensual passion is
not touched upon at any length. Of course we don't object to a book in which just towards the
end the young man falls in love and proposes; but there must not be much of that sort of thing.
Here are Robert Louis Stevenson's works, 'Treasure Island,' 'Kidnapped,' &c., charming writer--a
neat pretty style, with a pleasant souvenir of Edgar Poe running through it all. You have no
idea how the boys enjoy his books."

"And don't you?"

"Oh no; I have just glanced at him: for my own reading, I can admit none who does not write
in the first instance for scholars, and then to the scholarly instincts in readers generally.
Here is Walter Pater. We have his Renaissance; studies in art and poetry--I gave it myself
to the library. We were so sorry we could not include that most beautiful book, 'Marius the
Epicurean.' We have some young men here of twenty and three and twenty, and it would be delightful
to see them reading it, so exquisite is its hopeful idealism; but we were obliged to bar it
on account of the story of Psyche, sweetly though it be told, and sweetly though it be removed
from any taint of realistic suggestion. Do you know the book?"

"I can't say I do."

"Then read it at once. It is a breath of delicious fragrance blown back to us from the antique
world; nothing is lost or faded, the bloom of that glad bright world is upon every page; the
wide temples, the lustral water--the youths apportioned out for divine service, and already
happy with a sense of dedication, the altars gay with garlands of wool and the more sumptuous
sort of flowers, the colour of the open air, with the scent of the beanfields, mingling with
the cloud of incense."

"But I thought you denied any value to the external world, that the spirit alone was worth
considering."

"The antique world knew how to idealise, and if they delighted in the outward form, they did
not leave it gross and vile as we do when we touch it; they raised it, they invested it with
a sense of aloofness that we know not of. Flesh or spirit, idealise one or both, and I will
accept them. But you do not know the book. You must read it. Never did I read with such rapture
of being, of growing to spiritual birth. It seemed to me that for the first time I was made
known to myself; for the first time the false veil of my grosser nature was withdrawn, and
I looked into the true ethereal eyes, pale as wan water and sunset skies, of my higher self.
Marius was to me an awakening; the rapture of knowledge came upon me that even our temporal
life might be beautiful; that, in a word, it was possible to somehow come to terms with life....
You must read it. For instance, can anyone conceive anything more perfectly beautiful than
the death of Flavian, and all that youthful companionship, and Marius' admiration for his friend's
poetry?... that delightful language of the third century--a new Latin, a season of dependency,
an Indian summer full of strange and varied cadences, so different from the monotonous sing-song
of the Augustan age; the school of which Fronto was the head. Indeed, it was Pater's book that
first suggested to me the idea of the book I am writing. But perhaps you do not know I am writing
a book.... Did my mother tell you anything about it?"

"Yes; she told me you were writing the history of Christian Latin."

"Yes; that is to say, of the language that was the literary, the scientific, and the theological
language of Europe for more than a thousand years."

And talking of his book rapidly, and with much boyish enthusiasm, John opened the doors of
the refectory. The long, oaken tables, the great fireplace, and the stained glass seemed to
delight him, and he alluded to the art classes of monastic life. The class-rooms were peeped
into, the playground was viewed through the lattice windows, and they went to John's room,
up a staircase curiously carpeted with lead.

John's rooms! a wide, bright space of green painted wood and straw matting. The walls were
panelled from floor to ceiling.

"And what is this?" said Mr Hare.

"Oh! that is a poem by Milo, his 'De Sobricate.' I heard that the manuscript was still preserved
in the convent of Saint Amand, near Tournai, and I sent and had a copy made for me. That was
the simplest way. You have no idea how difficult it is to buy the works of any Latin authors
except those of the Augustan age. Milo was a monk, and he lived in the eighth century. He was
a man of very considerable attainments, if he were not a very great poet. He was a contemporary
of Floras, who, by the way, was a real poet. Some of his verses are delightful, full of delicate
cadence and colour. The MS. under your hand is a poem by him--

    "'Montes et colles, silvaeque et flumina, fontes,
    Praeruptaeque rupes, pariter vallesque profondae
    Francorum lugete genus: quod munere christi,
    Imperio celsum jacet ecce in pulvere mersum.'

"That was written in the eighth century when the language was becoming terribly corrupt; when
it was hideous with popular idiom barbarously and recklessly employed. But even in that time
of autumnal decay and pallid bloom, a real poet such as Walahfrid Strabat could weave a garland
of grace and beauty; one, indeed, that lived through the chance of centuries in the minds of
men. It found numberless imitators and favour even with the Humanists, and it was reprinted
eight times in the seventeenth century. This poem is of especial interest to me on account
of the illustration it affords of a theory of my own concerning the unconsciousness of the
true artist. For breaking away from the literary habitudes of his time, which were to do the
gospels or the life of a  favourite saint into hexameters, he wrote a poem, 'Hortulus,' descriptive
of the garden of the monastery. The garden was all the world to the monks; it furnished them
at once with the pleasures and the necessaries of their lives. Walahfrid felt this; he described
his feelings, and he produced a chef d'oeuvre." Going over to the bookcase, John took down
a volume. He read:--

    "'Hoc nemus umbriferum pingit viridissima Rutae
    Silvula coeruleae, foliis quae praedita parvis,
    Umbellas jaculata brevis, spiramina venti
    Et radios Phoebi caules transmittit ad imos,
    Attactuque graves leni dispergit odores,
    Haec cum multiplici vigeat virtute medelae,
    Dicitur occultis apprime obstare venenis,
    Toxicaque invasis incommoda pellere fibris.'

"Now, can anything be more charming? True it is that pingit in the first line does not seem
to construe satisfactorily, and I am not certain that the poet may not have written fingit.
Fingit would not be pure Latin, but that is beside the question."

"Indeed it is. I must say I prefer the Georgics. I have known many strange tastes, but your
fancy for bad Latin is the strangest of all."

"Classical Latin, with the exception of Tacitus, is cold-blooded and self-satisfied. There
is no agitation, no fever; to me it is utterly without interest."

To the books and manuscripts the pictures on the walls afforded an abrupt contrast. No. 1.
"A Japanese Girl," by Monet. A poppy in the pale green walls; a wonderful macaw! Why does it
not speak in strange dialect? It trails lengths of red silk. Such red! The pigment is twirled
and heaped with quaint device, until it seems to be beautiful embroidery rather than painting;
and the straw-coloured hair, and the blond light on the face, and the unimaginable coquetting
of that fan....

No. 2. "The Drop Curtain," by Degas. The drop curtain is fast descending; only a yard of space
remains. What a yardful of curious comment, what satirical note on the preposterousness of
human existence! what life there is in every line; and the painter has made meaning with every
blot of colour! Look at the two principal dancers! They are down on their knees, arms raised,
bosoms advanced, skirts extended, a hundred coryphées are clustered about them. Leaning hands,
uplifted necks, painted eyes, scarlet mouths, a piece of thigh, arched insteps, and all is
blurred; vanity, animalism, indecency, absurdity, and all to be whelmed into oblivion in a
moment. Wonderful life; wonderful Degas!

No. 3. "A Suburb," by Monet. Snow! the world is white. The furry fluff has ceased to fall,
and the sky is darkling and the night advances, dragging the horizon up with it like a heavy,
deadly curtain. But the roof of the villa is white, and the green of the laurels shaken free
of the snow shines through the railings, and the shadows that lie across the road leading to
town are blue--yes, as blue as the slates under the immaculate snow.

No. 4. "The Cliff's Edge," by Monet. Blue? purple the sea is; no, it is violet; 'tis striped
with violet and flooded with purple; there are living greens, it is full of fading blues. The
dazzling sky deepens as it rises to breathless azure, and the soul pines for and is fain of
God. White sails show aloft; a line of dissolving horizon; a fragment of overhanging cliff
wild with coarse grass and bright with poppies, and musical with the lapsing of the summer waves.

There were in all six pictures--a tall glass filled with pale roses, by Renoir; a girl tying
up her garter, by Monet.

Through the bedroom door Mr Hare saw a narrow iron bed, an iron washhand-stand, and a prie-dieu.
A curious three-cornered wardrobe stood in one corner, and facing it, in front of the prie-dieu,
a life-size Christ hung with outstretched arms.

"Sit in the arm-chair. But tell me, what will you take to drink? Will you have a glass of champagne,
or a brandy and soda, or what do you say to an absinthe?"

"'Pon my word, you seem to look after yourself. You don't forget the inner man."

"I always keep a good supply of liquor; have a cigar?" And John passed to him a box of fragrant
and richly coloured Havanas.... Mr Hare took a cigar, and glanced at the table on which John
was mixing the drinks. It was a slip of marble, rested, café fashion, on iron supports.

"But that table is modern, surely?--quite modern!"

"Quite; it is a café table, but it does not offend my eye. You surely would not have me collect
a lot of old-fashioned furniture and pile it up in my rooms, Turkey carpets and Japaneseries
of all sorts; a room such as Sir Fred. Leighton would declare was intended to be merely beautiful."

Striving vainly to understand, Mr Hare drank his brandy and soda in silence. Presently he walked
over to the bookcases. I have been hard at work lately, and I think I know enough of the literature
of the Middle Ages to enable me to make a selection that will comprise everything of interest
to ordinary scholarship, and enough to form a sound basis to rest my own literary theories
upon. I begin by stating that there existed in the Middle Ages a universal language such as
Goethe predicted the future would again bring to us....

"Before the formation of the limbs, that is to say before the German and Roman languages were
developed up to the point of literary usage, the Latin language was the language of all nations
of the western world. But the day came, in some countries a little earlier, in some a little
later, when it was replaced by the national idioms. The different literatures of the West had
therefore been preceded by a Latin literature that had for a long time held out a supporting
hand to each. The language of this literature was not a dead language, It was the language
of government, of science, of religion; and a little dislocated, a little barbarised, it had
penetrated to the minds of the people, and found expression in drinking songs and street ditties.

"Such is the theme of my book; and it seems to me that a language that has played so important
a part in the world's history is well worthy of serious study.

"I show how Christianity, coming as it did with a new philosophy, and a new motive for life,
invigorated and saved the Latin language in a time of decline and decrepitude. For centuries
it had given expression, even to satiety, to a naive joy in the present; on this theme, all
that could be said had been said, all that could be sung had been sung, and the Rhetoricians
were at work with alliteration and refrain when Christianity came, and impetuously forced the
language to speak the desire of the soul. In a word, I want to trace the effect that such a
radical alteration in the music, if I may so speak, had upon the instrument--the Latin language."

"And with whom do you begin?"

"With Tertullian, of course."

"And what do you think of him?"

"Tertullian, one of the most fascinating characters of ancient or modern times. In my study
of his writings I have worked out a psychological study of the man himself as revealed through
them. His realism, I might say materialism, is entirely foreign to my own nature, but I cannot
help being attracted by that wild African spirit, so full of savage contradictions, so full
of energy that it never knew repose: in him you find all the imperialism of ancient times.
When you consider that he lived in a time when the church was struggling for utterance amid
the horrors of persecution, his mad Christianity becomes singularly attractive; a passionate
fear of beauty for reason of its temptations, a fear that turned to hatred, and forced him
at last into the belief that Christ was an ugly man."

"I know nothing of the monks of the eighth century and their poetry, but I do know something
of Tertullian, and you mean to tell me that you admire his style--those harsh chopped-up phrases
and strained antitheses."

"I should think I did. Phrases set boldly one against the other; quaint, curious, and full
of colour, the reader supplies with delight the connecting link, though the passion and the
force of the description lives and reels along. Listen:

"'Quae tunc spectaculi latitudo! quid admirer? quid rideam? ubi gaudeam? ubi exultem, spectans
tot ac tantos reges, qui in coelum recepti nuntiabantur, cum ipso Jove et ipsis suis testibus
in imis tenebris congemiscentes!--Tunc magis tragoedi audiendi, magis scilicet vocales in sua
propria calamitate; tunc histriones cognoscendi, solutiores multo per ignem; tunc spectandus
auriga, in flammea rota totus rubens, &c.'

"Show me a passage in Livy equal to that for sheer force and glittering colour. The phrases
are not all dove-tailed one into the other and smoothed away; they stand out."

"Indeed they do. And whom do you speak of next?"

"I pass on to St Cyprian and Lactantius; to the latter I attribute the beautiful poem of the
Phoenix."

"What! Claudian's poem?"

"No, but one infinitely superior. After Lactantius comes St Ambrose, St Jerome, and St Augustine.
The second does not interest me, and my notice of him is brief; but I make special studies
of the first and last. It was St Ambrose who introduced singing into the Catholic service.
He took the idea from the Arians. He saw the effect it had upon the vulgar mind, and he resolved
to combat the heresy with its own weapons. He composed a vast number of hymns. Only four have
come down to us, and they are as perfect in form as in matter. You will scarcely find anywhere
a false quantity or a hiatus. The Ambrosian hymns remained the type of all the hymnic poetry
of succeeding centuries. Even Prudentius, great poet as he was, was manifestly influenced in
the choice of metre and the composition of the strophe by the Deus Creator omnium....

"St Ambrose did more than any other writer of his time to establish certain latent tendencies
as characteristics of the Catholic spirit. His pleading in favour of ascetic life and of virginity,
that entirely Christian virtue, was very influential. He lauds the virgin above the wife, and,
indeed, he goes so far as to tell parents that they can obtain pardon of their sins by offering
their daughters to God. His teaching in this respect was productive of very serious rebellion
against what some are pleased to term the laws of Nature. But St Ambrose did not hesitate to
uphold the repugnance of girls to marriage as not only lawful but praiseworthy."

"I am afraid you let your thoughts dwell very much on such subjects."

"Really, do you think I do?" John's eyes brightened for a moment, and he lapsed into what seemed
an examination of conscience. Then he said, somewhat abruptly, "St Jerome I speak of, or rather
I allude to him, and pass on at once to the study of St Augustine--the great prose writer,
as Prudentius was the great poet, of the Middle Ages.

"Now, talking of style, I will admit that the eternal apostrophising of God and the incessant
quoting from the New Testament is tiresome to the last degree, and seriously prejudices the
value of the 'Confessions' as considered from the artistic standpoint. But when he bemoans
the loss of the friend of his youth, when he tells of his resolution to embrace an ascetic
life, he is nervously animated, and is as psychologically dramatic as Balzac."

"I have taken great pains with my study of St Augustine, because in him the special genius
of Christianity for the first time found a voice. All that had gone before was a scanty flowerage--he
was the perfect fruit. I am speaking from a purely artistic standpoint: all that could be done
for the life of the senses had been done, but heretofore the life of the soul had been lived
in silence--none had come to speak of its suffering, its uses, its tribulation. In the time
of Horace it was enough to sit in Lalage's bower and weave roses; of the communion of souls
none had ever thought. Let us speak of the soul! This is the great dividing line between the
pagan and Christian world, and St Augustine is the great landmark. In literature he discovered
that man had a soul, and that man had grown interested in its story, had grown tired of the
exquisite externality of the nymph-haunted forest and the waves where the Triton blows his
plaintive blast.

"The whole theory and practice of modern literature is found in the 'Confessions of St Augustine;'
and from hence flows the great current of psychological analysis which, with the development
of the modern novel, grows daily greater in volume and more penetrating in essence.... Is not
the fretful desire of the Balzac novel to tell of the soul's anguish an obvious development
of the 'Confessions'?"

"In like manner I trace the origin of the ballad, most particularly the English ballad, to
Prudentius, a contemporary of Claudian."

"You don't mean to say that you trace back our north-country ballads to, what do you call him?"

"Prudentius. I show that there is much in his hymns that recalls the English ballads."

"In his hymns?"

"Yes; in the poems that come under such denomination. I confess it is not a little puzzling
to find a narrative poem of some five hundred lines or more included under the heading of hymns;
it would seem that nearly all lyric poetry of an essentially Christian character was so designated,
to separate it from secular or pagan poetry. In Prudentius' first published work, 'Liber Cathemerinon,'
we find hymns composed absolutely after the manner of St Ambrose, in the same or in similar
metres, but with this difference, the hymns of Prudentius are three, four, and sometimes seven
times longer than those of St Ambrose. The Spanish poet did not consider, or he lost sight
of, the practical usages of poetry. He sang more from an artistic than a religious impulse.
That he delighted in the song for the song's own sake is manifest; and this is shown in the
variety of his treatment, and the delicate sense of music which determined his choice of metre.
His descriptive writing is full of picturesque expression. The fifth hymn, 'Ad Incensum Lucernae,'
is glorious with passionate colour and felicitous cadence, be he describing with precious solicitude
for Christian archaeology the different means of artistic lighting, flambeaux, candles, lamps,
or dreaming with all the rapture of a southern dream of the balmy garden of Paradise.

"But his best book to my thinking is by far, 'Peristephanon,' that is to say, the hymns celebrating
the glory of the martyrs.

"I was saying just now that the hymns of Prudentius, by the dramatic rapidity of the narrative,
by the composition of the strophe, and by their wit, remind me very forcibly of our English
ballads. Let us take the story of St Laurence, written in iambics, in verses of four lines
each. In the time of the persecutions of Valerian, the Roman prefect, devoured by greed, summoned
St Laurence, the treasurer of the church, before him, and on the plea that parents were making
away with their fortunes to the detriment of their children, demanded that the sacred vessels
should be given up to him. 'Upon all coins is found the head of the Emperor and not that of
Christ, therefore obey the order of the latter, and give to the Emperor what belongs to the
Emperor.'

"To this speech, peppered with irony and sarcasm, St Laurence replies that the church is very
rich, even richer than the Emperor, and that he will have much pleasure in offering its wealth
to the prefect, and he asks for three days to classify the treasures. Transported with joy,
the prefect grants the required delay. Laurence collects the infirm who have been receiving
charity from the church; and in picturesque grouping the poet shows us the blind, the paralytic,
the lame, the lepers, advancing with trembling and hesitating steps. Those are the treasures,
the golden vases and so forth, that the saint has catalogued and is going to exhibit to the
prefect, who is waiting in the sanctuary. The prefect is dumb with rage; the saint observes
that gold is found in dross; that the disease of the body is to be less feared than that of
the soul; and he developes this idea with a good deal of wit. The boasters suffer from dropsy,
the miser from cramp in the wrist, the ambitious from febrile heat, the gossipers, who delight
in tale-bearing, from the itch; but you, he says, addressing the prefect, you who govern Rome,[1]
suffer from the morbus regius (you see the pun). In revenge for thus slighting his dignity,
the prefect condemns St Laurence to be roasted on a slow fire, adding, 'and deny there, if
you will, the existence of my Vulcan.' Even on the gridiron Laurence does not lose his good
humour, and he gets himself turned as a cook would a chop.

"Now, do you not understand what I mean when I say that the hymns of Prudentius are an anticipation
of the form of the English ballad?... And in the fifth hymn the story of St Vincent is given
with that peculiar dramatic terseness that you find nowhere except in the English ballad. But
the most beautiful poem of all is certainly the fourteenth and last hymn. In a hundred and
thirty-three hendecasyllabic verses the story of a young virgin condemned to a house of ill-fame
is sung with exquisite sense of grace and melody. She is exposed naked at the corner of a street.
The crowd piously turns away; only one young man looks upon her with lust in his heart. He
is instantly struck blind by lightning, but at the request of the virgin his sight is restored
to him. Then follows the account of how she suffered martyrdom by the sword--a martyrdom which
the girl salutes with a transport of joy. The poet describes her ascending to Heaven, and casting
one last look upon this miserable earth, whose miseries seem without end, and whose joys are
of such short duration.

"Then his great poem 'Psychomachia' is the first example in mediaeval literature of allegorical
poetry, the most Christian of all forms of art.

"Faith, her shoulders bare, her hair free, advances, eager for the fight. The 'cult of the
ancient gods,' with forehead chapleted after the fashion of the pagan priests, dares to attack
her, and is overthrown. The legion of martyrs that Faith has called together cry in triumphant
unison.... Modesty (Pudicitia), a young virgin with brilliant arms, is attacked by 'the most
horrible of the Furies' (Sodomita Libido), who, with a torch burning with pitch and sulphur,
seeks to strike her eyes, but Modesty disarms him and pierces him with her sword. 'Since the
Virgin without stain gave birth to the Man-God, Lust is without rights in the world.' Patience
watches the fight; she is presently attacked by Anger, first with violent words, and then with
darts, which fall harmlessly from her armour. Accompanied by Job, Patience retires triumphant.
But at that moment, mounted on a wild and unbridled steed, and covered with a lionskin, Pride
(Superbia), her hair built up like a tower, menaces Humility (Mens humilis). Under the banner
of Humility are ranged Justice, Frugality, Modesty, pale of face, and likewise Simplicity.
Pride mocks at this miserable army, and would crush it under the feet of her steed. But she
falls in a ditch dug by Fraud. Humility hesitates to take advantage of her victory; but Hope
draws her sword, cuts off the head of the enemy, and flies away on golden wings to Heaven.

"Then Lust (Luxuria), the new enemy, appears. She comes from the extreme East, this wild dancer,
with odorous hair, provocative glance and effeminate voice; she stands in a magnificent chariot
drawn by four horses; she scatters violet and rose leaves; they are her weapons; their insidious
perfumes destroy courage and will, and the army, headed by the virtues, speaks of surrender.
But suddenly Sobriety (Sobrietas) lifts the standard of the Cross towards the sky. Lust falls
from her chariot, and Sobriety fells her with a stone. Then all her saturnalian army is scattered.
Love casts away his quiver. Pomp strips herself of her garments, and Voluptuousness (Voluptas)
fears not to tread upon thorns, &c. But Avarice disguises herself in the mask of Economy, and
succeeds in deceiving all hearts until she is overthrown finally by Mercy (Operatica). All
sorts of things happen, but eventually the poem winds up with a prayer to Christ, in which
we learn that the soul shall fall again and again in the battle, and that this shall continue
until the coming of Christ."

"'Tis very curious, very curious indeed. I know nothing of this literature."

"Very few do."

"And you have, I suppose, translated some of these poems?"

"I give a complete translation of the second hymn, the story of St Laurence, and I give long
extracts from the poem we have been speaking about, and likewise from 'Hamartigenia,' which,
by the way, some consider as his greatest work. And I show more completely, I think, than any
other commentator, the analogy between it and the 'Divine Comedy,' and how much Dante owed
to it.... Then the 'terza rima' was undoubtedly borrowed from the fourth hymn of the 'Cathemerinon.'"...

"You said, I think, that Prudentius was a contemporary of Claudian. Which do you think the
greater poet?"

"Prudentius by far. Claudian's Latin was no doubt purer and his verse was better, that is to
say, from the classical standpoint it was more correct."

"Is there any other standpoint?"

"Of course. There is pagan Latin and Christian Latin: Burns' poems are beautiful, and they
are not written in Southern English; Chaucer's verse is exquisitely melodious, although it
will not scan to modern pronunciation. In the earliest Christian poetry there is a tendency
to write by accent rather than by quantity, but that does not say that the hymns have not a
quaint Gothic music of their own. This is very noticeable in Sedulius, a poet of the fifth
century. His hymn to Christ is not only full of assonance, but of all kinds of rhyme and even
double rhymes. We find the same thing in Sedonius, and likewise in Fortunatus--a gay prelate,
the morality of whose life is, I am afraid, open to doubt...

"He had all the qualities of a great poet, but he wasted his genius writing love verses to
Radegonde. The story is a curious one. Radegonde was the daughter of the King of Thuringia;
she was made prisoner by Clotaire I., son of Clovis, who forced her to become his wife. On
the murder of her father by her husband, she fled and founded a convent at Poictiers. There
she met Fortunatus, who, it appears, loved her. It is of course humanly possible that their
love was not a guilty one, but it is certain that the poet wasted the greater part of his life
writing verses to her and her adopted daughter Agnes. In a beautiful poem in praise of virginity,
composed in honour of Agnes, he speaks in a very disgusting way of the love with which nuns
regard our Redeemer, and the recompence that awaits them in Heaven for their chastity. If it
had not been for the great interest attaching to his verse as an example of the radical alteration
that had been effected in the language, I do not think I should have spoken of this poet. Up
to his time rhyme had slipped only occasionally into the verse, it had been noticed and had
been allowed to remain by poets too idle to remove it, a strange something not quite understood,
and yet not a wholly unwelcome intruder; but in St Fortunatus we find for the first time rhyme
cognate with the metre, and used with certainty and brilliancy. In the opening lines of the
hymn, 'Vexilla Regis,' rhyme is used with superb effect....

"But for signs of the approaching dissolution of the language, of its absorption by the national
idiom, we must turn to St Gregory of Tours. He was a man of defective education, and the lingua
rustica of France as it was spoken by the people makes itself felt throughout his writings.
His use of iscere for escere, of the accusative for the ablative, one of St Gregory's favourite
forms of speech, pro or quod for quoniam, conformable to old French porceque, so common for
parceque. And while national idiom was oozing through grammatical construction, national forms
of verse were replacing the classical metres which, so far as syllables were concerned, had
hitherto been adhered to. As we advance into the sixth and seventh centuries, we find English
monks attempting to reproduce the characteristics of Anglo-Saxon alliterative verse in Latin;
and at the Court of Charlemagne we find an Irish monk writing Latin verse in a long trochaic
line, which is native in Irish poetry.

"Poets were plentiful at the court of Charlemagne. Now, Angilbert was a poet of exquisite grace,
and surprisingly modern is his music, which is indeed a wonderful anticipation of the lilt
of Edgar Poe. I compare it to Poe. Just listen:--

    "'Surge meo Domno dulces fac, fistula versus:
    David amat versus, surge et fac fistula versus.
    David amat vates, vatorum est gloria David
    Qua propter vates cuncti concurrite in unum
    Atque meo David dulces cantate camoenas.
    David amat vates, vatorum est gloria David.

"I should have flogged that monk--'ipsius,' oh, oh!--'vatorum.'... It really is too terrible."

John laughed, and was about to reply, when the clanging of the college bell was heard.

"I am afraid that is dinner-time."

"Afraid, I am delighted; you don't suppose that every one can live, chameleon-like, on air,
or worse still, on false quantities. Ha, ha, ha! And those pictures too. That snow is more
violet than white."

When dinner was over, John and Mr Hare walked out on the terrace. The carriage waited in the
wet in front of the great oak portal; the grey, stormy evening descended on the high roofs,
smearing the red out of the walls and buttresses, and melancholy and tall the red college seemed
amid its dwarf plantation, now filled with night wind and drifting leaves. Shadow and mist
had floated out of the shallows above the crests of the valley, and the lamps of the farm-houses
gleamed into a pale existence.

"And now tell me what I am to say to your mother. Will you come home for Christmas?"

"I suppose I must. I suppose it would seem so unkind if I didn't. I cannot account even to
myself for my dislike to the place. I cannot think of it without a revulsion of feeling that
is strangely personal."

"I won't argue that point with you, but I think you ought to come home."

"Why? Why ought I to come to Sussex, and marry my neighbour's daughter?"

"There is no reason that you should marry your neighbour's daughter, but I take it that you
do not propose to pass your life here."

"For the present I am concerned mainly with the problem of how I may make advances, how I may
meet life, as it were, half-way; for if possible I would not quite lose touch of the world.
I would love to live in its shadow, a spectator whose duty it is to watch and encourage, and
pity the hurrying throng on the stage. The church would approve this attitude, whereas hate
and loathing of humanity are not to be justified. But I can do nothing to hurry the state of
feeling I desire, except of course to pray. I have passed through some terrible moments of
despair and gloom, but these are now wearing themselves away, and I am feeling more at rest."

Then, as if from a sudden fear of ridicule, John said, laughing: "Besides, looking at the question
from a purely practical side, it must be hardly wise for me to return to society for the present.
I like neither fox-hunting, marriage, Robert Louis Stevenson's stories, nor Sir Frederick Leighton's
pictures; I prefer monkish Latin to Virgil, and I adore Degas, Monet, Manet, and Renoir, and
since this is so, and alas, I am afraid irrevocably so, do you not think that I should do well
to keep outside a world in which I should be the only wrong and vicious being? Why spoil that
charming thing called society by my unlovely presence?

"Selfishness! I know what you are going to say--here is my answer. I assure you I administer
to the best of my ability the fortune God gave me--I spare myself no trouble. I know the financial
position of every farmer on my estate, the property does not owe fifty pounds;--I keep the
tenants up to the mark; I do not approve of waste and idleness, but when a little help is wanted
I am ready to give it. And then, well, I don't mind telling you, but it must not go any further.
I have made a will leaving something to all my tenants; I give away a fixed amount in charity
yearly."

"I don't think I could live with a woman; there is something very degrading, something very
gross in such relations. To keep oneself unspotted, to feel conscious of no sense of stain,
to know, yes, to hear the heart repeat that this self--hands, face, mouth and skin--is free
from all befouling touch, is all one's own. I have always been strongly attracted to the colour
white, and I can so well and so acutely understand the legend that tells that the ermine dies
of gentle loathing of its own self, should a stain come upon its immaculate fur.... I should
not say a legend, for that implies that the story is untrue, and it is not untrue--so beautiful
a thought could not be untrue."

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 1: Qui Romam regis.]

CHAPTER III.

"Urns on corner walls, pilasters, circular windows, flowerage and loggia. What horrible taste,
and quite out of keeping with the landscape!" He rang the bell.

"How do you do, Master John!" cried the tottering old butler who had known him since babyhood.
"Very glad, indeed, we all are to see you home again, sir!"

Neither the appellation of Master John, nor the sight of the four paintings, Spring, Summer,
Autumn, and Winter, which decorated the walls of the passage, found favour with John, and the
effusiveness of Mrs Norton, who rushed out of the drawing-room, followed by Kitty, and embraced
her son, at once set on edge all his curious antipathies. Why this kissing, this approachment
of flesh? Of course she was his mother.... Then this smiling girl in the background! He would
have to amuse her and talk to her; what infinite boredom it would be! He trusted fervently
that her visit would not be a long one.

Then through what seemed to him the pollution of triumph, he was led into the library; and
he noticed, notwithstanding the presiding busts of Shakespeare and Milton, that there was but
one wretched stand full of books in the room, and that in the gloom of a far corner.

"I am speaking to you for your own good, my dear John, and I think it is very stubborn of you
to refuse to sleep on a feather-bed; if you don't like it, you can change it to-morrow."

The conversation fell, and in silence the speakers strove to master their irritation. Then
John, for politeness' sake, spoke of when he had last seen Kitty. It was about five years ago.
She had ridden her pony over to see them.

Mrs Norton talked of some people who had left the county, of a marriage, of an engagement,
of a mooted engagement; and she jerked in a suggestion that if John were to apply at once,
he would be placed on the list of deputy-lieutenants. Enumeration of the family influence--Lord
So-and-so, the cousin, was the Lord Lieutenant's most intimate friend.

"You are not even a J.P., but there will be no difficulty about that; and you have not seen
any of the county people for years.

"Now, sir, we have had quite enough of that, and I would advise you not to go on with any of
that nonsense here; you will be turned into dreadful ridicule."

"That's just why I wish to avoid them ... but you have no pity for me. Just fancy my having
to listen to them!

One of a thousand quarrels. The basis of each nature was common sense--shrewd common sense--but
such similarity of structure is in itself apt to lead to much violent shocking of opinion;
and to this end an adjuvant was found in the dose of fantasy, mysticism, idealism which was
inherent in John's character. "Why is he not like other people? Why will he waste his time
with a lot of rubbishy Latin authors? Why will he not take up his position in the county?"
Mrs Norton asked herself these questions as she fumed on the sofa.

"I wonder why she will continue to try to impose her will upon mine. I wonder why she has not
found out by this time the uselessness of her effort. He might offer them to God as penance
for his sins; if every evening passed like the present, it were a modern martyrdom. But had
they removed that horrid feather-bed? He went upstairs. The feather-bed had been removed. John
tossed to and fro staring at the birds and petals. Further on her two tame rooks cawed joyously,
and alighted on her shoulder.

"I wonder they don't fly away, and join the others in the trees."

"One did go away, and he came back nearly dead with hunger. But he is all right now, aren't
you, dear?" And the bird cawed, and rubbed its black head against its mistress' cheek.

"I don't like birds!"

"Don't like birds! Why, that seems as strange as if you said that you didn't like flowers."

"Mrs Norton told me, sir, that you would like to speak to me about them cottages on the Erringham
Farm," said the bailiff.

"Yes, yes, I must go over and see them to-morrow morning at ten o'clock. I intend to go thoroughly
into everything. How are they getting on with the cottages that were burnt down?"

"Rather slow, sir, the weather is so bad."

"But talking of fire, Burnes, I find that I can insure at a much cheaper rate at Lloyds' than
at most of the offices. I find that I shall make a saving of £20 a-year."

"That's worth thinking about, sir." He lived apart from them. It was difficult to say what
should be done with a farm for which a tenant could not be found even at a reduced rent. To
do so he drew his chair close to the library fire, and when Kitty came quickly into the room
with a flutter of skirts and a sound of laughter, he awoke from contemplation, and her singing
as she ascended the stairs jarred the dreams of cloister and choir which mounted from the pages
to his brain in clear and intoxicating rhapsody.

On the third of November Mrs Norton announced that the meet of the hounds had been fixed for
the fifteenth, and that there would be a hunt breakfast.

"Oh, my dear mother! you don't mean that they are coming here to lunch!"

"For the last twenty years all our side of the county has been in the habit of coming here
to lunch, but of course you can shut your doors to all your friends and acquaintances. No doubt
they will think you have come down here on purpose to insult them."

"Insult them! why should I insult them? I haven't seen them since I was a boy. I remember that
the hunt breakfast used to go on all day long. Every woman in the county used to come, and
they used to stay to tea, and you used to insist on a great number remaining to supper."

"Well, you can put a stop to all that now that you have consented to come to Thornby Place,
only I hope you don't expect me to remain here to see my friends insulted."

"But just think of the expense! and in these bad times. You know I cannot find a tenant for
the Woreington farm. I am afraid I shall have to provide the capital and farm it myself. Now,
in the face of such losses, don't you think that we should retrench?"

"Retrench! A few fowls and rounds of beef! You don't think of retrenching when you present
Stanton College with a stained glass window that costs five hundred pounds."

"Of course, if you like it, mother..."

"I like nothing but what you like, but I really think that for you to put down the hunt breakfast
the first time you honour us with a visit, would look very much as if you intended to insult
the whole county."

"It will be a day of misery for me!" replied John, laughing; "but I daresay I shall live through
it."

"I think you will like it very much," said Kitty. "There will be a lot of pretty girls here:
the Misses Green are coming from Worthing; the eldest is such a pretty girl, you are sure to
admire her. And the hounds and horses look so beautiful."

Mrs Norton and Kitty spoke daily of invitations, and later on of cooking and the various things
that were wanted. John continued to go through his accounts in the morning, and to read monkish
Latin in the evening; but he was secretly nervous, and he dreaded the approaching day. It ceased
to rain. Voices. "Oh! how sweet they look! oh, the dear dogs!"

"How sweet they are, look at their soft eyes," cried an old lady whose deity was a pug, and
whose back garden reeked of the tropics. "Look how good and kind they are; they would not hurt
anything; it is only wicked men who teach them to be ..." The old lady hesitated before the
word "bad," and murmured something about killing.

There was a lady with melting eyes, many children, and a long sealskin, and she availed herself
of the excuse of seeing the hounds to rejoin a young man in whom she was interested. There
was an old sportsman of seventy winters, as hale and as hearty as an oak, standing on the door-step,
and he made John promise to come over and see him. The girls strolled about in groups. As usual
young men were lacking. Looking at his watch, the huntsman pressed the sides of his horse,
and rode to draw the covers at the end of the park. The ladies followed to see the start, although
the mud was inches deep under foot. "Hu in, hu in," cried the huntsman. The whips trotted round
cracking their long whips. Not a sound was heard. Suddenly there was a whimper, "Hark to Woodland,"
cried the huntsman. The hounds rallied to the point, but nothing came of it. Apparently the
old bitch was at fault. The huntsman muttered something inaudible. But some few hundred yards
further on, in an outlying clump where no one would expect to find, a fox broke clean away.

The country is as flat as a smooth sea. Chanctonbury Ring stands up like a mighty cliff on
a northern shore; its crown of trees is grim. The abrupt ascents of Toddington Mount bear away
to the left, and tide-like the fields flow up into the great gulf between.

"He's making for the furze, but he'll never reach them; he got no start, and the ground is heavy."

Then the watchers saw the horsemen making their way up the chalky roads cut in the precipitous
side of the downs. Rain began to fall, umbrellas were put up, and all hurried home to lunch.
A bad attack of pleurisy. John was rolled up in an enormous mustard plaster--mustard and cayenne
pepper; it bit into the flesh. He roared with pain; he was slightly delirious; he cursed those
around him, using blasphemous language. Each interval of thought grew longer; the scabs of
forgetfulness were picked away, the red sore was exposed bleeding and bare. Remembrance in
the watches of the night, dawn fills the dark spaces of a window, meditations grow more and
more lucid. Christ hung on the cross, and far away the darkness was seared with flames and
demons. Peace is inherent in lofty arches, rapture in painted panes.... See the mitres and
crosiers, the blood-stained heavenly breasts, the loin-linen hanging over orbs of light....
Listen! ah! the voices of chanting boys, and out of the cloud of incense come Latin terminations,
and the organ still is swelling. Beauty, what was it but temptation? He winced before a conclusion
so repugnant to him, but the terrors of the verge on which he had so lately stood were still
upon him in all their force, and he crushed his natural feelings....

The manifestation of modern pessimism in John Norton has been described, and how its influence
was checked by constitutional mysticity has also been shown. Schopenhauer, when he overstepped
the line ruled by the Church, was instantly rejected. But mysticity saved him from plain paganism,
and the art of the Gothic cathedral grew dear to him. It was nearer akin to him, and he assuaged
his wounded soul in the ecstacies of incense and the great charms of Gregorian chant. Fear
smouldered in his very entrails, and doubt fumed and went out like steam--long lines and falling
shadows and slowly dispersing clouds. His life had been but a sin, an abomination, and the
fairest places darkened as the examination of conscience proceeded. With staring eyes and contracted
brows he saw the flames which await him who blasphemes. To the verge of those flames he had
drifted. If God in His infinite mercy had not withheld him?... He pictured himself lost in
fires and furies. Then looking up he saw the face of Christ, grown pitiless in final time--Christ
standing immutable amid His white million of youths....

And the worthlessness and the abjectness of earthly life struck him with awful and all-convincing
power, and this vision of the worthlessness of existence was clearer than any previous vision.
He paused. There was but one conclusion ... it looked down upon him like a star--he would become
a priest. All darkness, all madness, all fear faded, and with sure and certain breath he breathed
happiness; the sense of consecration nestled in its heart, and its light shone upon his face.

There was nothing in the past, but there is the sweetness of meditation in the present, and
in the future there is God. Like a fountain flowing amid a summer of leaves and song, the sweet
hours came with quiet and melodious murmur. In the great arm-chair of his ancestors he sits
thin and tall. Thin and tall. The great flames decorate the darkness, and the twilight sheds
upon the rose curtains, walking birds and falling petals. But his thoughts are dreaming through
long aisle and solemn arch, clouds of incense and painted panes.... The palms rise in great
curls like the sky; and amid the opulence of gold vestments, the whiteness of the choir, the
Latin terminations and the long abstinences, the holy oil comes like a kiss that never dies
... and in full glory of symbol and chant, the very savour of God descends upon him ... and
then he awakes, surprised to find such dreams out of sleep.

His resolve did not alter; he longed for health because it would bring the realisation of his
desire, and time appeared to him cruelly long. Nor could he think of the pain he inflicted
on his mother, so centred was he in this thought; he was blind to her sorrowing face, he was
deaf to her entreaty; he could neither feel nor see beyond the immediate object he had in mind,
and he spoke to her in despair of the length of months that separated him from consecration;
he speculated on the possibility of expediting that happy day by a dispensation from the Pope.
The moment he could obtain permission from the doctor he ordered his trunks to be packed, and
when he bid Mrs Norton and Kitty Hare good-bye, he exacted a promise from the former to be
present at Stanton College on Palm Sunday. He wished her to be present when he embraced Holy
Orders.

CHAPTER IV. Three times out of five when the women met at lunch, Mrs Norton said:

"Kitty, would you like to come out for a drive?"

Kitty answered, "I don't mind; just as you like, Mrs Norton."

After tea at five Kitty read for an hour, and in the evening she played the piano; and she
sometimes endeavoured to console her hostess by suggesting that people did change their minds,
and that John might not become a priest after all. Mrs Norton looked at the girl, and it was
often on her lips to say, "If you had only flirted, if you had only paid him some attentions,
all might have been different." But heart-broken though she was, Mrs Norton could not speak
the words. The girl looked so candid, so flowerlike in her guilelessness, that the thought
seemed a pollution. And in a few days Mr Hare sent for Kitty; and with her departed the last
ray of sunlight, and Thornby Place grew too sad and solitary for Mrs Norton.

She went to visit some friends; she spent Christmas at the Rectory; and in the long evenings
when Kitty had gone to bed, she opened her heart to her old friend. The last hope was gone;
there was nothing for her to look for now. John did not even write to her; she had not heard
from him since he left. It was very wrong of the Jesuits to encourage him in such conduct,
and she thought of laying the whole matter before the Pope. The order had once been suppressed;
she did not remember by what Pope; but a Pope had grown tired of their intrigues, and had suppressed
the order. She made these accusations in moments of passion, and immediately after came deep
regret.... How wrong of her to speak ill of her religion, and to a Protestant! If John did
become a priest it would be a punishment for her sins. But what was she saying? If John became
a priest, she should thank God for His great goodness. What greater honour could he bestow
upon her? Next day she took the train to Brighton, and went to confession; and that very same
evening she pleadingly suggested to Mr Hare that he should go to Stanton College, and endeavour
to persuade John to return home. The parson was of course obliged to decline. He advised her
to leave the matter in the hands of God, and Mrs Norton went to bed a prey to scruples of conscience
of all kinds.

She even began to think it wrong to remain any longer in an essentially Protestant atmosphere.
But to return to Thornby Place alone was impossible, and she begged for Kitty. The parson was
loth to part with his daughter, but he felt there was much suffering beneath the calm exterior
that Mrs Norton preserved. He could refuse her nothing, and he let Kitty go.

"There is no reason why you should not come and dine with us every day; but I shall not let
you have her back for the next two months."

"What day will you come and see us, father dear?" said Kitty, leaning out of the carriage window.

"On Thursday," cried the parson.

"Very well, we shall expect you," replied Mrs Norton; and with a sigh she sank back on the
cushions, and fell to thinking of her son.

At Thornby Place everything was soon discovered to be in a sad state of neglect. There was
much work to be done in the greenhouse, the azaleas were being devoured by insects, and the
leaves required a thorough washing. It was easy to see that the cats had not been regularly
fed, and one of the tame rooks had flown away. Remedying these disasters, Mrs Norton and Kitty
hurried to and fro. There was a ball at Steyning, and Mrs Norton consented to do the chaperon
for once; and the girl's dress was a subject of gossip for a month--for a fortnight an absorbing
occupation. Most of the people who had been at the hunt breakfast were at the ball, and Kitty
had plenty of partners. These suggested husbands to Mrs Norton, and she questioned Kitty; but
she did not seem to have thought of the ball except in the light of a toy which she had been
allowed to play with one evening. The young men she had met there had apparently interested
her no more than if they had been girls, and she regretted John only because of Mrs Norton.
Every morning she ran to see if there was a letter, so that it might be she who brought the
good news. But no letter came. Since Christmas John had written two short notes, and now they
were well on in April.

"Of course, but not a Jesuit...."

"And why? have you had a quarrel with the Jesuits?"

"Oh, no; never mind; I don't like to talk about it; not exactly a quarrel, but I have seen
a great deal of them lately, and I have found them out. I don't mean in anything wrong, but
the order is so entirely opposed to the monastic spirit.

"And you still are determined on becoming a priest?"

"Certainly, but not a Jesuit."

"What then?"

"A Carmelite. I have seen a great deal of these monks lately, and it is only they who preserve
some of the old spirit of the old ideal. To enter the Carmelite Chapel in Kensington is to
step out of the mean atmosphere of to-day into the lofty charm of the Middle Ages. The long
straight folds of habits falling over sandalled feet, the great rosaries hanging down from
the girdles, the smell of burning wax, the large tonsures, the music of the choir; I know nothing
like it. Last Sunday I heard them sing St Fortunatus' hymn,... the Vexilla regis heard in the
cloud of incense, and the wrath of the organ!... splendid are the rhymes! the first stanza
in U and O, the second in A, and the third in E; passing over the closed vowels, the hymn ascends
the scale of sound--"

"Now, John, none of that nonsense; how dare you, sir? Don't attempt to laugh at your mother."

"My dear mother, you must not think I am sneering because I speak of what is uppermost in my
mind. I have determined to become a Carmelite monk, and that is why I came down here."

Mrs Norton was very angry; her temper fumed, and she would have burst into violent words had
not the last words, "and that is why I came down here," frightened her into calmness.

"What do you mean?" she said, turning round in her chair. "You came down here to become a Carmelite
monk; what do you mean?"

John hesitated. He was clearly a little frightened, but having gone so far he felt he must
proceed. Besides, to-day, or to-morrow, sooner or later the truth would have to be told.

"You must be mad, sir; you mean to say that you intend to pull down the house of your ancestors
and turn it into a monastery?"

John drew a breath of relief, the worst was over now; she had spoken the fulness of his thought.
Yes, he was going to turn Thornby Place into a monastery.

"Yes," he said, "if you like to put it in that way. Yes, I am going to turn Thornby Place into
a monastery. Why shouldn't I? I am resolved never to marry; and I have no one except those
dreadful cousins to leave the place to. Why shouldn't I turn it into a monastery and become
a monk? I wish to save my soul."

Mrs Norton groaned.

"But you make me say more than I mean. To turn the place into a Gothic monastery, such a monastery
as I dreamed would not be possible, unless indeed I pulled the whole place down, and I have
not sufficient money to do that, and I do not wish to mortgage the property.

John stopped aghast at the sorrow he was causing, and he looked at his mother. She did not
speak. Her ears were full of merciless ruins; hope vanished in the white dust; and the house
with its memories sacred and sweet fell pitilessly: beams lying this way and that, the piece
of exposed wall with the well-known wall paper, the crashing of slates. How they fall! John's
heart was rent with grief, but he could not stay his determination any more than his breath.
Youth is a season of suffering, we cannot surrender our desire, and it lies heavy and burning
on our hearts. It is so easy for age, so hard for youth to make sacrifices. Youth is and must
be wholly, madly selfish; it is not until we have learnt the folly of our aims that we may
forget them, that we may pity the sufferings of others, that we may rejoice in the triumphs
of our friends. To the superficial therefore, John Norton will appear but the incarnation of
egotism and priggishness, but those who see deeper will have recognised that he is one who
has suffered bitterly, as bitterly as the outcast who lies dead in his rags beneath the light
of the policeman's lantern. Mental and physical wants!--he who may know one may not know the
other: is not the absence of one the reason of the other? Mental and physical wants! the two
planes of suffering whence the great divisions of mankind view and envy the other's destinies,
as we view a passing pageant, as those who stand on the decks of crossing ships gaze regretfully
back.

Those who have suffered much physical want will never understand John Norton; he will find
commiseration only from those who have realised à priori the worthlessness of existence, the
vileness of life; above all, from those who, conscious of a sense of life's degradation, impetuously
desire their ideal--the immeasurable ideal which lies before them, clear, heavenly, and crystalline;
the sea into which they would plunge their souls, but in whose benedictive waters they may
only dip their fingertips, and crossing themselves, pass up the aisle of human tribulation.
We suffer in proportion to our passions. But John Norton had no passion, say they who see passion
only in carnal dissipation. Yet the passions of the spirit are more terrible than those of
the flesh; the passion for God, the passion of revolt against the humbleness of life; and there
is no peace until passion of whatever kind has wailed itself out.

Foolish are they who describe youth as a time of happiness; it is one of fever and anguish.

Beneath its apparent calm, there was never a stormier youth than John's. The boy's heart that
grieves to death for a chorus-girl, the little clerk who mourns to madness for the bright life
that flashes from the point of sight of his high office stool, never felt more keenly the nervous
pain of desire and the lassitudes of resistance. You think John Norton did not suffer in his
imperious desire to pull down the home of his fathers and build a monastery! Mrs Norton's grief
was his grief, but to stem the impulse that bore him along was too keen a pain to be endured.
His desire whelmed him like a wave; it filled his soul like a perfume, and against his will
it rose to his lips in words. Even when the servants were present he could not help discussing
the architectural changes he had determined upon, and as the vision of the cloister, with its
reading and chanting monks, rose to his head, he talked, blinded by strange enthusiasm, of
latticed windows, and sandals. That the old could not exist in conjunction with the new order
of things never grew into the painful precision of thought in her mind. She saw but the show
side; she listened as to an account of private theatricals, and in spite of Mrs Norton's visible
grief, she was amused when John described himself walking at the head of his monks with tonsured
head and a great rosary hanging from a leather girdle.

"Alter and add to the front to represent the façade of a small cathedral. This can be done
by building out a projection the entire width of the building, and one storey in height. This
will be divided into three arched divisions, topped with small gables."

"What are gables, John?"

"Those are the gables. The centre one (forming entrance) being rather higher than the other
gables. The entrance would be formed with clustered columns and richly moulded pointed arches,
the door being solid, heavy oak, with large scroll and hammered iron hinges.

"The centre front and back would be carried up to form steep gables, the roof being heightened
to match. The large gable in front to have a large cross at apex."

"What is an apex? What words you do use."

John explained, Kitty laughed.

"The top I have indicated in the drawing. And to have a rose window. You see the rose window
in the drawing," said John, anticipating the question which was on Kitty's lips.

"Yes," said she, "but why don't you say a round window?"

Without answering John continued:

"The first floor fronts would be arcaded round with small columns with carved capitals and
pointed arches.

"At either corner of front, in lieu of present Ionic columns, carry up octagonal turrets with
pinnacles at top.

"You see them in the drawing. These are the octagonal turrets."

"And which are the pinnacles?"

"The ornaments at the top.

"From the centre of the roof carry up a square tower with battlemented parapets and pinnacles
at all corners, and flying buttresses from the turrets of the main buildings.

"The bow window at side will have the old casements removed, and have mullions and tracery
fixed and filled with cathedral glazings, and, instead of the present flat, a sloping roof
will be carried up and finished against the outer wall of the house. At either side of bay
window buttresses with moulded water-tables, plinths, &c.

"From these roofs and the front projections at intersection of small gables, carved gargoyles
to carry off water.

"Yes, but I am not a monk yet. No one ever heard of monks playing billiards; besides, that
dreadful addition of my mother's could not remain in its present form, it would be ludicrous
to a degree, whereas it can be converted very easily into a chapel. Beside, why should I be
tired of being a monk? Your father does not get tired of being a parson."

This reply, although singularly unconvincing, was difficult to answer, and the conversation
fell. And day by day, John's schemes strengthened and took shape, and he seemed to look upon
himself already as a Carmelite. He had even gone so far as to order a habit, it had arrived
a few days ago; and an architect, too, had come down from London. He was the ray of hope in
Mrs Norton's life. For although he had loudly commended the artistic taste exhibited in the
drawing, and expressed great wonderment at John's architectural skill, he had, nevertheless,
when questioned as to their practicability, declared the scheme to be wholly impossible. And
the reasons he advanced in support of his opinions were so conclusive that John was fain to
beg of him to draw up a more possible plan for the conversion of an Italian house into a Gothic
monastery.

Midnight: the house seems alive in the silence: night is on the world. The twilight sheds on
the walking birds, on the falling petals, and in the rich shadow the candle burns brightly.
The great bridal bed yawns, the lace pillows lie wide, the curtains hang dreamily in the hallowed
light. John leans over his drawings. Buttresses would take the place of columns. And then?"

And then life seemed to him void of meaning and light. Its appearance was singularly jarring,
shattering as it did his dream of the cloister, and up-building in fancy the horrid fabric
of marriage and domesticity.

Next morning, calm in mind, and happier, he went downstairs to the drawing-room, a small book
in his hand, an historical work of great importance by the Venerable Bede, intitled Vita beatorum
abbatum Wiremuthensium, et Girvensiuem, Benedicti Ceolfridi, Easteriwini, Sigfridi atque Hoetberti.
But he could not keep his attention fixed on the book, it appeared to him dreary and stupid.
His thoughts wandered. He thought of Kitty--of how beautiful she looked on the background of
red geraniums, with the soft yellow cat on her shoulder, and he wondered which of the four
great painters, Manet, Degas, Monet, or Renoir would have best rendered the brightness and
lightness, the intense colour vitality of that motive for a picture. He thought of her young
eyes, of the pale hands, of the sudden, sharp laugh; and finally he took up one of her novels,
"Red as a Rose is She." He read it, and found it very entertaining.

But the evening post brought him a letter from the architect's head clerk, saying that Mr ----
was ill, had not been to the office for the last three or four days, and would not be able
to go down to Sussex again before the end of the month. Very much annoyed, John spent the evening
thinking whom he could consult on the practicability of his last design for the front, and
next, morning he was surprised at not seeing Kitty at breakfast.

"Where is Kitty?" he asked abruptly.

"She is not feeling well; she has a headache, and will not be down to-day."

At the end of a long silence, John said:

"I think I will go into Brighton.... I must really see an architect."

"Oh, John, dear, you are not really determined to pull the house down?"

"There is no use, mother dear, in our discussing that subject; each and all of us must do the
best we can with life. And the best we can do is to try and gain heaven."

"Breaking your mother's heart, and making yourself ridiculous before the whole county, is not
the way to gain heaven."

"Oh, if you are going to talk like that...."

John went into the drawing-room to continue his reading, but the Latin bored him even more
than it had done yesterday. He took up the novel, but its enchantment was gone, and it appeared
to him in its tawdry, original vulgarity. He got on a horse and rode towards the downs, and
went up the steep ascents at a gallop. He stood amid the gorse at the top and viewed the great
girdle of blue encircling sea, and the long string of coast towns lying below him, and far
away. Lunch was on the table when he returned. After lunch, harassed by an obsession of architectural
plans, he went out to sketch. But it rained, and resisting his mother's invitation to change
his clothes, he sat down before the fire, damp without, and feverishly irritable within. He
vacillated an hour between his translation of St Fortunatus' hymn, Quem terra, pontus aethera,
and "Red as a Rose is She," which, although he thought it as reprehensible for moral as for
literary reasons, he was fain to follow out to the vulgar end. But he could interest himself
in neither hymn nor novel. For the authenticity of the former he now cared not a jot, and he
threw the book aside vowing that its hoydenish heroine was unbearable and he would read no more.

"I never knew a more horrible place to live in than Sussex.

He looked a little backwards into the blaze; he nibbled his pencil point. Wavering light and
wavering shade followed fast over the Roman profile, followed and flowed fitfully--fitfully
as his thoughts. She had thought it charming. How young she was, how glad and how innocent,
and how clever, her age being taken into consideration. She understood all you said. It would
not surprise him if she developed into something: but she would marry....

But why was he thinking of her? What concern had she in his life? A little slip of a girl--a
girl--a girl more or less pretty, that was all. And yet it was pleasant to hear her laugh.
That low, sudden laugh--she was pleasanter company than his mother, she was pleasant to have
in the house, she interrupted many an unpleasant scene. Then he remembered what his mother
had said. She had said that he was disappointed that she was ill, that he had missed her, that
... that it was because she was not there that he had found the day so intolerably wearisome.

Struck as with a dagger, the pain of the wound flowed through him piercingly; and as a horse
stops and stands trembling, for there is something in the darkness beyond, John shrank back,
his nerves vibrating like highly-strung chords; and ideas--notes of regret and lamentation
died in great vague spaces. Ideas fell.... Was this all; was this all he had struggled for;
was he in love? A girl, a girl ... was a girl to soil the ideal he had in view? No; he smiled
painfully. The sea of his thoughts grew calmer, the air grew dim and wan, a tall foundered
wreck rose pale and spectral, memories drifted. The anticipation filled his veins with fever.

CHAPTER V.

But if in the morning he were strong, Kitty was more beautiful than ever, and they walked out
in the sunlight. They walked out on the green sward, under the evergreen oaks where the young
rooks are swinging; out on the mundane swards into the pleasure ground; a rosery and a rockery;
the pleasure ground divided from the park by iron railings, the park encircled by the rich
elms, the elms shutting out the view of the lofty downs.

The meadows are yellow with buttercups, and the birds fly out of the gold. And the golden note
is prolonged through the pleasure grounds by the pale yellow of the laburnums, by the great
yellow of the berberis, by the cadmium yellow of the gorse, by the golden wallflowers growing
amid rhododendrons and laurels.

And the transparent greenery of the limes shivers, and the young rooks swinging on the branches
caw feebly.

And about the rockery there are purple bunches of lilac, and the striped awning of the tennis
seat touches with red the paleness of the English spring.

Pansies, pale yellow pansies!

The sun glinting on the foliage of the elms spreads a napery of vivid green, and the trunks
come out black upon the cloth of gold, and the larks fly out of the gold, and the sky is a
single sapphire, and two white clouds are floating. It is May time. Enraptured and in complete
forgetfulness of his vows, he looked at her, he felt his being quickening, and the dark dawn
of a late nubility radiated into manhood. "O to bathe my face in those perfumed waves! O to
kiss with a deep kiss the hollow of that cool neck!..." The thought came he know not whence
nor how, as lightning falls from a clear sky, as desert horsemen come with a glitter of spears
out of the cloud; there is a shock, a passing anguish, and they are gone.

He left her. So frightened was he at this sudden and singular obsession of his spiritual nature
by a lower and grosser nature, whose existence in himself was till now unsuspected, and of
whose life and wants in others he had felt, and still felt, so much scorn, that in the tumult
of his loathing he could not gain the calm of mind necessary for an examination of conscience.
He could not look into his mind with any present hope of obtaining a truthful reply to the
very eminent and vital question, how far his will had participated in that burning but wholly
inexcusable desire by which he had been so shockingly assailed.

That inner life, so strangely personal and pure, and of which he was so proud, seemed to him
now to be befouled, and all its mystery and inner grace, and the perfect possession which was
his sanctuary, lost to him for ever. For he could never quite forget the defiling thought;
it would always remain with him, and the consciousness of the stain would preclude all possibility
of that refining happiness, that attribute of cleanliness, which he now knew had long been
his. In his anger and self-loathing his rage turned against Kitty. It was always the same story--the
charm and ideality of man's life always soiled by woman's influence; so it was in the beginning,
so it shall be....

He stopped before the injustice of the accusation; he remembered her candour and her gracious
innocence, and he was sorry; and he remembered her youth and her beauty, and he let his thoughts
dwell upon her.

The verses seemed meaningless and tame, but they awoke vague impulses in him, and, his mind
filled by a dim dream of King David and Bathsheba, he opened his Bible and turned over the
pages, reading a phrase here and there until he had passed from story and psalm to the Song
of songs, and was finally stopped by--"I charge you, O daughters of Jerusalem, if ye find my
beloved, that ye tell him that I am sick of love."

He laid the book down and leaned back in his chair, and holding his temple with one hand (this
was his favourite attitude) he looked in the fire fixedly. He was ravaged by emotion. The magical
fervour of the words he had just read had revealed to him the depth of his passion.

But he would tear the temptation out of his heart. The conduct of his life had been long ago
determined upon. He had known the truth as if by instinct from the first; no life was possible
except an ascetic life, at least for him. And in this hour of weakness he summoned to his aid
all his ancient ideals: the solemnity and twilight of the arches, the massive Gregorian chant
which seems to be at once their voice and their soul, the cloud of incense melting upon the
mitres and sunsets, and the boys' treble hovering over an ocean of harmony. But although the
picture of his future life rose at his invocation it did not move him as heretofore, nor did
the scenes he evoked of conjugal grossness and platitude shock him to the extent he had expected.
The moral rebellion he succeeded in exciting was tepid, heartless, and ineffective, and he
was not moved by hate or fear until he remembered that God in His infinite goodness had placed
him for ever out of the temptation which he so earnestly sought to escape from. Kitty was a
Protestant. In a pang of despair, windows and organ collapsed like cardboard; incense and arches
vanished, and then rose again with the light of a more gracious vision upon them. For if the
dignity and desire of mere self-salvation had departed, all the lighter colours and livelier
joys of the conversion of others filled the sky of faith with morning tones and harmonies.
And then?... Salvation before all things, he answered in his enthusiasm;--something of the
missionary spirit of old time was upon him, and forgetful of his aisles, his arches, his Latin
authors, he went down stairs and asked Kitty to play a game of billiards.

But if he were her lover, if she were going to be his wife, he would have the right to offer
her every facility and encouragement to enter the Catholic Church--the true faith. Darkness
passes, and the birds are carolling the sun, flowers and trees are pranked with aerial jewellery,
the fragrance of the warm earth flows in your veins, your eyes are fain of the light above
and your heart of the light within. He would not jar his happiness by the presence of Mrs Norton,
even Kitty's presence was too actual a joy to be home. She drew him out of himself too completely,
interrupted the exquisite sense of personal enchantment which seemed to permeate and flow through
him with the sweetness of health returning to a convalescent on a spring day. He closed his
eyes, and his thoughts came and went like soft light and shade in a garden close; his happiness
was a part of himself, as fragrance is inherent in the summer time. The evil of the last days
had fallen from him, and the reaction was equivalently violent. Nor was he conscious of the
formal resignation he was now making of his dream, nor did he think of the distasteful load
of marital duties with which he was going to burden himself; all was lost in the vision of
beautiful companionship, a sort of heavenly journeying, a bright earthly way with flowers and
starlight--he a little in advance pointing, she following, with her eyes lifted to the celestial
gates shining in the distance. Sometimes his arms would be thrown about her. Sometimes he would
press a kiss upon her face. She was his, his, and he was her saviour. The evening died, the
room darkened, and John's dream continued in the twilight, and the ringing of the dinner bell
and the disturbance of dressing did not destroy his thoughts. Like fumes of wine they hung
about him during the evening, and from time to time he looked at Kitty.

But although he had so far surrendered himself, he did not escape without another revulsion
of feeling. A sudden realisation of what his life would be under the new conditions did not
fail to frighten him, and he looked back with passionate regret on his abandoned dreams. But
his nature was changed, abstention he knew was beyond his strength, and after many struggles,
each of which was feebler than the last, he determined to propose to Kitty on the first suitable
occasion.

Then came the fear of refusal. Often he was paralysed with pain, sometimes he would morbidly
allow his thoughts to dwell on the moment when he would hear her say, it was impossible, that
she did not and could not love him. The young grey light of the eyes would be fixed upon him;
she would speak her sorrow, and her thin hands would hang by her side in the simple attitude
that was so peculiar to her. And he mused willingly on the long meek life of grief that would
then await him. He would belong to God; his friar's frock would hide all; it would be the habitation,
and the Gothic walls he would raise, the sepulchre of his love....

"But no, no, she shall be mine," he cried out, moved in his very entrails. Why should she refuse
him? What reason had he to believe that she would not have him? He thought of how she had answered
his questions on this and that occasion, how she had looked at him; he recalled every gesture
and every movement with wonderful precision, and then he lapsed into a passionate consideration
of the general attitude of mind she evinced towards him. He arrived at no conclusion, but these
meditations were full of penetrating delight. Sometimes he was afflicted with an intense shyness,
and he avoided her; and when Mrs Norton, divining his trouble, sent them to walk in the garden,
his heart warmed to his mother, and he regretted his past harshness. It was Kitty; yes, it
was Kitty everywhere; even the blackbird darting through the laurels seemed to cry Kitty.

To propose! Time, place, and the words he should use had been carefully considered. After each
deliberation, a new decision had been taken: but when he came to the point, John found himself
unable to speak any one of the different versions he had prepared. Still he was very happy.
The days were full of sunshine and Kitty, and he mistook her light-heartedness for affection.
He had begun to look upon her as his certain wife, although no words had been spoken that would
suggest such a possibility. Outside of his imagination nothing was changed; he stood in exactly
the same relation to her as he had done when he returned from Stanton College, determined to
build a Gothic monastery upon the ruins of Thornby Place, and yet somehow he found it difficult
to realise that this was so.

"Shall I, shall I propose to her now?" thought John. But Kitty continued talking, and it was
difficult to interrupt her. The gravel grated under their feet; the rooks were flying about
the elms. At the end of the garden there was a circle of fig trees. A silent place, and John
vowed he would say the word there. But as they approached his courage died within him, and
he was obliged to defer his vows until they reached the green-house.

"So your time is fully occupied here."

"Well, what will you do?"

"Next winter I intend to go in for hunting. I have told a dealer to look out for a couple of
nice horses for me."

Kitty looked up, her grey eyes wide open. If John had told her that he had given the order
for a couple of crocodiles she could not have been more surprised.

"But hunting is over now; it won't begin again till next November. You will have to play lawn
tennis this summer."

"I have sent to London for a racquet and shoes, and a suit of flannels."

"Goodness me.... Well, that is a surprise! But you won't want the flannels; you might play
in the Carmelite's habit which came down the other day. How you do change your mind about things!"

"Do you never change your mind, Kitty?"

"Well, I don't know, but not so suddenly as you. Then you are not going to become a monk?"
He hated himself for his weakness. The weary burden of his love lay still upon him, and the
torture of utterance still menaced him from afar. The conversation had fallen. They were approaching
the greenhouse, and the cats ran to meet their patron. Sammy sprang on Kitty's shoulder.

"Oh, isn't he a beauty? stroke him, do."

John passed his hand along the beautiful yellow fur. Sammy rubbed his head against his mistress'
face, her raised eyes were as full of light as the pale sky, and the rich brown head and the
thin hands made a picture in the exquisite clarity of the English morning,--in the homeliness
of the English garden, with tall hollyhocks, espalier apple trees, and one labourer digging
amid the cabbages. Joy crystal as the morning itself illumined John's mind for a moment, and
then faded, and he was left lonely with the remembrance that his fate had still to be decided,
that it still hung in the scale. Presently Kitty said, "But you seem to have got over your
dislike to girls. I saw you talking a long while with Miss Orme the other day; and at the Meet
you seemed to admire her. She was the prettiest girl we had here."

"No, indeed she wasn't!"

"Who was, then?"

"You were."

Kitty looked up; and there was so much astonishment in her face that John in a sudden access
of fear said, "We had better make haste, the storm is coming on; we shall get wet through."

They ran towards the house. John reproached himself bitterly, but he made no further attempt
to screw his courage up to the point of proposing. His disappointment was followed by doubts.
Was his powerlessness a sign from God that he was abandoning his true vocation for a false
one? and a little shaken, he attempted to interest himself in the re-building of his house;
but the project had grown impossible to him, and he felt he could not embrace it again, with
any of the old enthusiasm at least, until he had been refused by Kitty. There were moments
when he almost yearned to hear her say that she could never love him. But in his love and religious
suffering the thought of bringing a soul home to the true fold remained a fixed light; he often
looked to it with happy eyes, and then if he were alone he fell on his knees and prayed. Prayer
like an opiate calmed his querulous spirit, and having told his beads--the great beads which
hung on his prie-dieu--he would go down stairs with peace in his heart, and finding Kitty,
he would ask her to walk with him in the garden, or they would stroll out on the tennis lawn,
racquet in hand.

One afternoon it was decided that they should go for a long walk. John suggested that they
should climb to the top of Toddington Mount, and view the immense plain which stretches away
in dim blue vapour and a thousand fields.

You see John and Kitty as they cross the wide park towards the vista in the circling elms,--she
swinging her parasol, he carrying stiffly his grave canonical cane. He still wears the long
black coat buttoned at the throat, but the air of hieratic dignity is now replaced by, or rather
it is glossed with, the ordinary passion of life. Both are like children, infinitely amused
by the colour of the grass and sky, by the hurry of the startled rabbit, by the prospect of
the long walk; and they taste already the wild charm of the downs, seeing and hearing in imagination
its many sights and sounds, the wild heather, the yellow savage gorse, the solitary winding
flock, the tinkling of the bell-wether, the cliff-like sides, the crowns of trees, the mighty
distance spread out like a sea below them with its faint and constantly dissolving horizon
of the Epsom Hills.

"I never can cross this plain, Kitty, without thinking of the Dover cliffs as seen in mid Channel;
this is a mere inland imitation of them."

"I have never seen the Dover cliffs; I have never been out of England, but the Brighton cliffs
give me an idea of what you mean."

"On your side--the Shoreham side--the downs rise in a gently sloping ascent from the sea."

"Yes, we often walk up there. You can see Brighton and Southwick and Worthing. Oh! it is beautiful!
I often go for a walk there with my friends, the Austen girls--you saw them here at the Meet."

"Yes, Mr Austen has a very nice property; it extends right into the town of Shoreham, does it not?"

"Yes, and right up to Toddington Mount, where we are going. But aren't you a little tired,
John? These roads are very steep."

"Out of breath, Kitty; let's stop for a minute or two." The country lay below them. They had
walked three miles, and Thornby Place and its elms were now vague in the blue evening. "We
must see one of these days if we cannot do the whole distance."

"What? right across the downs from Shoreham to Henfield?"

"Well, it is not more than eight miles; you don't think you could manage it?"

"I don't know, it is more than eight miles, and walking on the downs is not like walking on
the highroad. Father thinks nothing of it."

"We must really try it."

"What would you do if I were to get so tired that I could not go back or forward?"

"I would carry you."

They continued their climb.

"And you don't like the Jesuits any more, because they go in for matchmaking."

"They are too sly for me, I confess; I don't approve of priests meddling in family affairs.
But tell me the legend."

"Oh, how steep these roads are. At last, at last.

"Well, I never!" said Kitty, sitting herself on the spot that had been chosen for her, "you
do astonish me. You never heard of the legend of St Cuthman."

"No, do tell it to me."

"Well, I scarcely know how to tell it in ordinary words, for I learnt it in poetry."

"In poetry! In whose poetry?"

"Evy Austen put it into poetry, the eldest of the girls, and they made me recite it at the
harvest supper."

"Oh, that's awfully jolly--I never should have thought she was so clever. Evy is the dark-haired
one."

"Yes, Evy is awfully clever; but she doesn't talk much about it."

"Do recite it."

"I don't know that I can remember it all. You won't laugh if I break down."

"I promise."

    THE LEGEND OF ST CUTHMAN.

    "St Cuthman stood on a point which crowns
    The entire range of the grand South Downs;
    Beneath his feet, like a giant field,
    Was stretched the expanse of the Sussex Weald.
    'Suppose,' said the Saint,''twas the will of Heaven
    To cause this range of hills to be riven,
    And what were the use of prayers and whinings,
    Were the sea to flood the village of Poynings:
    'Twould be fine, no doubt, these Downs to level,
    But to do such a thing I defy the Devil!'
    St Cuthman, tho' saint, was a human creature,
    And his eye, a bland and benevolent feature,
    Remarked the approach of the close of day,
    And he thought of his supper, and turned away.
      Walking fast, he
    Had scarcely passed the
    First steps of his way, when he saw something nasty;
      'Twas tall and big,
      And he saw from its rig
    'Twas the Devil in full diabolical fig.
      There were wanting no proofs,
      For the horns and the hoofs
    And the tail were a fully convincing sight;
      But the heart of the Saint
      Ne'er once turned faint,
    And his halo shone with redoubled light.
      'Hallo, I fear
      You're trespassing here!'
    Said St Cuthman, 'To me it is perfectly clear,
    If you talk of the devil, he's sure to appear!'
      'With my spade and my pick
      I am come,' said old Nick,
    'To prove you've no power o'er a demon like me.
      I'll show you my power--
      Ere the first morning hour
    Thro' the Downs, over Poynings, shall roll in the sea.'
      'I'll give you long odds,'
      Cried the Saint, 'by the gods!
    I'll stake what you please, only say what your wish is.'
      Said the devil, 'By Jove!
      You're a sporting old cove!
      My pick to your soul,
      I'll make such a hole,
    That where Poynings now stands, shall be swimming the fishes.'
      'Done!' cried the Saint, 'but I must away
        I have a penitent to confess;
      In an hour I'll come to see fair play--
        In truth I cannot return in less.
    My bet will be won ere the first bright ray
    Heralds the ascension of the day.
    If I lose!--there will be the devil to pay!'
    He descended the hill with a firm quick stride,
    Till he reached a cell which stood on the side;
    He knocked at the door, and it opened wide,--
    He murmured a blessing and walked inside.
    Before him he saw a tear-stained face
    Of an elderly maiden of elderly grace;
    Who, when she beheld him, turned deadly pale,
    And drew o'er her features a nun's black veil.
    'Holy father!' she said, 'I have one sin more,
    Which I should have confessed sixty years before!
    I have broken my vows--'tis a terrible crime!
    I have loved you, oh father, for all that time!
    My passion I cannot subdue, tho' I try!
    Shrive me, oh father! and let me die!'
    'Alas, my daughter,' replied the Saint,
    'One's desire is ever to do what one mayn't,
    There was once a time when I loved you, too,
    I have conquered my passion, and why shouldn't you?
      For penance I say,
      You must kneel and pray
    For hours which will number seven;
      Fifty times say the rosary,
      (Fifty, 'twill be a poser, eh?)
    But by it you'll enter heaven;
      As each hour doth pass,
      Turn the hour glass,
    Till the time of midnight's near;
      On the stroke of midnight
      This taper light,
    Your conscience will then be clear.'
    He left the cell, and he walked until
    He joined Old Nick on the top of the hill.
    It was five o'clock, and the setting sun
    Showed the work of the Devil already begun.
    St Cuthman was rather fatigued by his walk,
    And caring but little for brimstone talk,
    He watched the pick crash through layers of chalk.
    And huge blocks went over and splitting asunder
    Broke o'er the Weald like the crashing of thunder.
    St Cuthman wished the first hour would pass,
    When St Ursula, praying, reversed the glass.
    'Ye legions of hell!' the Old Gentleman cried,
    'I have such a terrible stitch in the side!'
    'Don't work so hard,' said the Saint, 'only see,
    The sides of your dyke a heap smoother might be.'
    'Just so,' said the Devil, 'I've had a sharp fit,
    So, resting, I'll trim up my crevice a bit.'
    St Cuthman was looking prodigiously sly,
    He knew that the hours were slipping by.
      'Another attack!
      I've cramp at my back!
      I've needles and pins
      From my hair to my shins!
      I tremble and quail
      From my horns to my tail!
    I will not be vanquished, I'll work, I say,
    This dyke shall be finished ere break of day!'
    'If you win your bet, 'twill be fairly earned,'
    Said the Saint, and again was the hour-glass turned.
    And then with a most unearthly din
    The farther end of the dyke fell in;
    But in spite of an awful rheumatic pain
    The Devil began his work again.
    'I'll not be vanquished!' exclaimed the old bloke.
    'By breathing torrents of flame and smoke,
    Your dyke,' said the Saint, 'is hindered each minute,
    What can one expect when the Devil is in it?'
    Then an accident happened, which caused Nick at last
    To rage, fume, and swear; when the fourth hour had passed,
    On his hoof there came rolling a huge mass of quartz.
      Then quite out of sorts
      The bad tempered old cove
    Sent the huge mass of stone whizzing over to Hove.
    He worked on again, till a howl and a cry
    Told the Saint one more hour--the fifth--had gone by.
    'What's the row?' asked the Saint, 'A cramp in the wrist,
    I think for a while I had better desist.'
    Having rested a bit he worked at his chasm,
    Till, the hour having passed, he was seized with a spasm.
      He raged and he cursed,
      'I bore this at first,
    The rheumatics were awful, but this is the worst.'
      With awful rage heated,
      The demon defeated,
    In his passion used words that can't be repeated.
      Feeling shaken and queer,
      In spite of his fear,
    At the dyke he worked on until midnight drew near.
    But when the glass turned for the last time, he found
    That the head of his pick was stuck fast in the ground.
    'Cease now!' cried St Cuthman, 'vain is your toil!
    Come forth from the dyke! Leave your pick in the soil!
    You agreed to work 'tween sunset and morn,
    And lo! the glimmer of day is born!
      In vain was your fag,
      And your senseless brag.'
    Dizzy and dazed with sulphureous vapour,
    Old Nick was deceived by St Ursula's taper.
    'The dawn!' yelled the Devil, 'in vain was my boast,
    That I'd have your soul, for I've lost it, I've lost!'
    'Away!' cried St Cuthman, 'Foul fiend! away!
    See yonder approaches the dawn of day!
    Return to the flames where you were before,
    And molest these peaceful South Downs no more!'
    The old gentleman scowled but dared not stay,
    And the prints of his hoofs remain to this day,
    Where he spread his dark pinions and soared away.
      At St Ursula's cell
      Was tolling the bell,
    And St Cuthman in sorrow, stood there by her side.
      'Twas over at last,
      Her sorrows were past,
    In the moment of triumph St Ursula died.
      Tho' this was the ground,
      There never were found
    The tools of the Devil, his spade and his pick;
      But if you want proof
      Of the Legend, the hoof-
      Marks are still in the hillock last trod by Old Nick."

"Oh! that is jolly. Well, I never thought the girl was clever enough to write that. And there
are some excellent rhymes in it, 'passed he' rhyming with 'nasty,' and 'rosary' with 'poser,
eh;' and how well you recite it."

"Oh, I recited it better at the harvest supper; and you have no idea how the farmers enjoyed
it. They know the place so well, and it interested them on that account. They understood it all."

John sat as if enchanted,--by Kitty's almost childish grace, her enthusiasm for her friend's
poem, and her genuine enjoyment of it; by the abrupt hills, mysterious now in sunset and legend;
by the vast plains so blue and so boundless: out of the thought of the littleness of life,
of which they were a symbol, there came the thought of the greatness of love. She repeated
her question.

"What do you think, Kitty, would you like to have your fortune told?"

Kitty laughed. "It would be rather fun," she said. The silence about them was immense. Then
John spoke:

"What the gipsy said is quite true; I did not dare to tell you so before."

"What do you mean, John?"

"I mean that I am in love with you, will you love me?"

"You in love with me, John; it is quite absurd--I thought you hated girls."

"Never mind that, Kitty, say you will have me; make the gipsy's words come true."

"Gipsies' words always come true."

"Then you will marry me?"

"I never thought about marriage. When do you want me to marry you? I am only seventeen?"

"Oh! when you like, later on, only say you will be mine, that you will be mistress of Thornby
Place one day, that is all I want."

"Then you don't want to pull the house down any more."

"No, no; a thousand times no! Say you will be my wife one of these days."

"Very well then, one of these days...."  "And I may tell my mother of your promise to-night?...
It will make her so happy."

"Of course you may tell her, John, but I don't think she will believe it."

"Why should she not believe it?"

"I don't know," said Kitty, laughing, "but how funny, was it not, that the gipsy girl should
guess right?"

"Yes, it was indeed. I wanted to tell you before, but I hadn't the courage; and I might never
have found the courage if it had not been for that gipsy."

In his abundant happiness John did not notice that Kitty was scarcely sensible of the importance
of the promise she had given. And in silence he gazed on the landscape, letting it sink into
and fix itself for ever in his mind. Below them lay the great green plain, wonderfully level,
and so distinct were its hedges that it looked like a chessboard. Thornby Place was hidden
in vapour, and further away all was lost in darkness that was almost night.

"I am sorry we cannot see the house--your house," said John as they descended the chalk road.

"It seems so funny to hear you say that, John."

"Why? It will be your house some day."

"But supposing your Church will not let you marry me, what then...."

"There is no danger of that; a dispensation can always be obtained.

"What! Me?"

"That is not required."

"And did it cost you much to give up your ideas?"

John raised his eyes--it was a look that Balzac would have understood and would have known
how to interpret in some admirable pages of human suffering. "None will ever know how I have
suffered," he said sadly. "But now I am happy, oh! so happy, and my happiness would be complete
if.... Oh! if God would grant you grace to believe...."

"But I do believe. I believe in our Lord Christ who died to save us. Is not that enough?"

CHAPTER VI.

Like Juggernaut's car, Catholicism had passed over John's mind, crushing all individualism,
and leaving it but a wreck of quaking mysticism. Twenty times a day the spectre of his conscience
rose and with menacing finger threatened him with flames and demons. And his love was a source
of continual suffering. How often did he ask himself if he were surrendering his true vocation?
How often did he beg of God to guide him aright? But these mental agitations were visible to
no one. He preserved his calm exterior and the keenest eye detected in him only an ordinary
young man with more than usually strict business habits. He had appointments with his solicitor.
He consulted with him, he went into complex calculations concerning necessary repairs, and
he laid plans for the more advantageous letting of the farms.

His mother encouraged him to attend to his business. Her head was full of other matters. A
dispensation had to be obtained; it was said that the Pope was more than ever opposed to mixed
marriages. But no objection would be made to this one. It would be madness to object.... A
rich Catholic family at Henfield--nearly four thousand a-year--must not be allowed to become
extinct. Thornby Place was the link between the Duke of Norfolk and the So and So's. If those
dreadful cousins came in for the property, Protestantism would again be established at Thornby
Place. And what a pity that would be; and just at a time when Catholicism was beginning to
make headway in Sussex. And if John did not marry now he would never marry; of that she was
quite sure.

As may be imagined, these were not the arguments with which Mrs Norton sought to convince the
Rev. William Hare; they were those with which she besieged the Brompton Oratory, Farm Street,
and the Pro-Cathedral. She played one off against the other. The Jesuits were nettled at having
lost him, but it was agreeable to learn that the Carmelites had been no less unfortunate than
they. The Oratorians on the whole thought he was not in their "line"; and as their chance of
securing him was remote, they agreed that John would prove more useful to the Church as a married
man than as a priest. A few weeks later the Papal sanction was obtained.

The clause concerning the children affected Mr Hare deeply, but he was told that he must not
stand in the way of the happiness of two young people. He considered the question from many
points of view, but in the meantime Mrs Norton continued to deluge Kitty with presents, and
to talk to everybody of her son's marriage. The parson's difficulties were thereby increased,
and eventually he found he could not withhold his consent.

And as time went on, John seemed to take a more personal delight in life than he had done before.
He forgot his ancient prejudices if not his ancient ideals, and, as was characteristic of him,
he avoided thinking with any definiteness on the nature of the new life into which he was to
enter soon. His neighbours declared he was very much improved; and there were dinner parties
at Thornby Place. One of his great pleasures was to start early in the morning, and having
spent a long day with Kitty, to return home across the downs. The lofty, lonely landscape,
with its lengthy hills defined upon the flushes of July, came in happy contrast with the noisy
hours of tennis and girls; and standing on the gently ascending slopes, rising almost from
the wicket gate of the rectory, he would wave farewells to Kitty and the Austins. And in the
glittering morning, grey and dewy, when he descended these slopes to the strip of land that
lies between them and the sea, he would pause on the last verge where the barn stands. Squire
Austin's woods are in front, and they stretch by the town to the sleepy river with its spiderlike
bridge crossing the sandy marshes. The church spire and roofs show through each break in the
elm trees, and higher still the horizon of the sea is shimmering.

The rectory is rich brown brick and tiles. About it there is an ample farmyard. Mr Hare has
but the house and an adjoining field, the three great ricks are Mr Austin's; the sunlight is
upon them, and through the long shadows the cart horses are moving with the drays; and now
a hundred pigeons rise and are seen against the green velvet of the elms, and one bird's wings
are white upon the white sea.

Mr Hare is sitting in the verandah smoking, Kitty is attending to her birds.

"Good morning, John," she cried, "but I can't shake hands with you, my hands are dirty. Do
you talk to father, I haven't a moment. There is such a lot to do. You know the Miss Austins
are coming here to early dinner, and we have two young men coming from Worthing to play tennis.
The court isn't marked yet."

"I will help you to mark it."

"Very well, but I am not ready yet."

John lit a cigar, and he spoke of books to Mr Hare, whom he considered a gross Philistine,
although a worthy man. The shadows of the Virginia creeper fell on the red pavement, and Kitty's
light voice was heard on the staircase. Presently she appeared, and lifting the trailing foliage,
she spoke to him. She took him away, and the parson watched the white lines being marked on
the sward. He watched them walk by the iron railing that separated Little Leywood from Leywood,
the Squire's house. They passed through a small wooden gate into a bit of thick wood, and so
gained the drive. Mr Austin took John to see the horses, Kitty ran to see the girls who were
in their room dressing. How they chattered as they came down stairs, and with what lightness
and laughter they went to Little Leywood. Their interests were centred in John, and Kitty took
the foremost place as an engaged girl. After dinner young men arrived, and tennis was played
unceasingly. At six o'clock, tired and hot with air and exercise, all went in to tea--a high
tea. At seven John said he must be thinking of getting home; and happy and glad with all the
pleasant influences of the day upon them, Kitty and the Miss Austins accompanied him as far
as the farm gate. They were soon silhouettes, and ascending, they stood, tiny specks upon the
pink evening hours. The table-land swept about them in multitudinous waves; it was silent and
solitary as the sea. Lancing College, some miles distant, stood lonely as a lighthouse, and
beneath it the Ada flowed white and sluggish through the marshes, the long spine of the skeleton
bridge was black, and there, by that low shore, the sea was full of mist, and sea and shore
and sky were lost in opal and grey. Old Shoreham, with its air of commerce, of stagnant commerce,
stood by the sea. The tide was out, the sea gates were dry, only a few pools flashed silver
amid the ooze; and the masts of the tall vessels,--tall vessels aground in that strange canal
or rather dyke which runs parallel with and within a few yards of the sea for so many miles,--tapered
and leaned out over the sea banks, and the points of the top masts could be counted. Then on
the left hand towards Brighton, the sea streamed with purple, it was striped with green, and
it hung like a blue veil behind the rich trees of Leywood and Little Leywood, and the trees
and the fields were full of golden rays.

The lovers stood on a grassy plain; sheep were travelling over the great expanses of the valleys;
rooks were flying about. Looking over the plain you saw Southwick,--a gleam of gables, a gleam
of walls,--skirting a plantation; and further away still, Brighton lay like a pile of rocks
heaped about a low shore.

To the lovers life was now as an assortment of simple but beautiful flowers; and they passed
the blossoms to and fro and bound them into a bouquet. They talked of the Miss Austins, of
their flirtations, of the Rectory, of Thornby Place, of Italy, for there they were going next
month on their honeymoon. The turnip and corn lands were as inconceivable widths of green and
yellow satin rolling through the rich light of the crests into the richer shadow of the valleys.
And there there was a farm-house surrounded by buildings, surrounded by trees,--it looked like
a nest in its snug hollow; the smoke ascended blue and peacefully. It was the last habitation.
Beyond it the downs extend, in almost illimitable ranges ascending to the wild golden gorse,
to the purple heather.

We are on the burgh. The hills tumble this way and that; below is the great weald of Sussex,
blue with vapour, spotted with gold fields, level as a landscape by Hobbema; Chanctonbury Ring
stands up like a gaunt watcher; its crown of trees is pressed upon its brow, a dark and imperial
crown.

Overhead the sky is full of dark grey clouds; through them the sun breaks and sheds silver
dust over the landscape; in the passing gleams the green of the furze grows vivid. If you listen
you hear the tinkling of the bell-wether; if you look you see a solitary rabbit. A stunted
hawthorn stands by the circle of stone, and by it the lovers were sitting. He was talking to
her of Italy, of cathedrals and statues, for although he now loves her as a man should love,
he still saw his honeymoon in a haze of Botticellis, cardinals, and chants. They stood up and
bid each other good-bye, and waving hands they parted.

Night was coming on apace, a long way lay still before him, and he walked hastily; she being
nearer home, sauntered leisurely, swinging her parasol. The sweetness of the evening was in
her blood and brain, and the architectural beauty of the landscape--the elliptical arches of
the hills--swam before her. But she had not walked many minutes before a tramp, like a rabbit
out of a bush, sprang out of the furze where he had been sleeping. He was a gaunt hulking fellow,
six feet high.

"Now 'aven't you a copper or two for a poor fellow, Missie?"

Kitty started from him frightened. "No, I haven't, I have nothing ... go away."

He laughed hoarsely, she ran from him. "Now, don't run so fast, Missie, won't you give a poor
fellow something?"

"I have nothing."

"Oh, yes you 'ave; what about those pretty lips?"

A few strides brought him again to her side. He laid his hand upon her arm. She broke her parasol
across his face, he laughed hoarsely. She saw his savage beast-like eyes fixed hungrily upon
her. She fainted for fear of his look of dull tigerish cruelty. She fell....

When shaken and stunned and terrified she rose from the ground, she saw the tall gaunt figure
passing away like a shadow. The wild solitary landscape was pale and dim. In the fading light
it was a drawing made on blue paper with a hard pencil. The long undulating lines were defined
on the dead sky, the girdle of blue encircling sea was an image of eternity. All now was the
past, there did not seem to be a present. Her mind was rocked to and fro, and on its surface
words and phrases floated like sea weed.... To throw her down and ill-treat her. Her frock
is spoilt; they will ask her where she has been to, and how she got herself into such a state.

She rose to her feet, she staggered, her sight seemed to fail her. There was a darkness in
the summer evening which she could not account for; the ground seemed to slide beneath her
feet, the landscape seemed to be in motion and to be rolling in great waves towards the sea.
Would it precipitate itself into the sea, and would she be engulphed in the universal ruin?
O! the sea, how implacably serene, how remorselessly beautiful; green along the shore, purple
along the horizon! But the land was rolling to it. By Lancing College it broke seaward in a
soft lapsing tide, in front of her it rose in angry billows; and Leywood hill, green, and grand,
and voluted, stood up a great green wave against the waveless sea. The evening seemed to brighten,
the tumultuous landscape to grow still, To rob her, and of what?... of her watch; where was
it? It was gone. The happiness of a dying saint when he opens arms to heaven descended upon
her. Horror! She would die. O to die on the lonely hills, to lie stark and cold beneath the
stars! But no, she would not be found upon these hills. She would die and be seen no more.
O to die, to sink in that beautiful sea, so still, so calm, so calm--why would it not take
her to its bosom and hide her away? She would go to it, but she could not get to it; there
were thousands of men between her and it.... An icy shiver passed through her.

Then as her thoughts broke away, she thought of how she had escaped being murdered. How thankful
she ought to be--but somehow she is not thankful. And she was above all things conscious of
a horror of returning, of returning to where she would see men and women's faces ... men's
faces. And now with her eyes fixed on the world that awaited her, she stood on the hillside.
There was Brighton far away, sparkling in the dying light; nearer, Southwick showed amid woods,
winding about the foot of the hills; in front Shoreham rose out of the massy trees of Leywood,
the trees slanted down to the lawn and foliage and walls, made spots of white and dark green
upon a background of blue sea; further to the right there was a sluggish silver river, the
spine of the skeleton bridge, a spur of Lancing hill, and then mist, pale mist, pale grey mist.
The sheep, how sweet and quiet they looked, and the clover, how deliciously it smelt.... This
is Mr Austin's farm, and how well kept it is. There is the barn. And Evy and Mary, when would
they be married? Not so soon as she, she was going to be married in a month. In a month. She
repeated the words over to herself; she strove to collect her thoughts, and failing to do so,
she walked on hurriedly, she almost ran as if in the motion to force out of sight the thoughts
that for a moment threatened to define themselves in her mind. To listen was an infinite assuagement,
one that was overpoweringly sweet, and for some moments she almost forgot. But she woke from
her ecstacy in deadly fear and great pain, for coming along the hedgerow the voice of a man
was heard, and the children ran away. And she ran too, like a terrified fawn, trembling in
every limb, and sick with fear she sped across the meadows. The front door was open; she heard
her father calling. To see him she felt would be more than she could bear; she must hide from
his sight for ever, and dashing upstairs she double locked her door.

CHAPTER VII. Kitty had seen it under all aspects, she had lived in it many years: then why
does she look with strained eyes? Why does she shrink? Nothing has been changed. She starts
at the sight of these familiar objects! She trembles in the room which she thought of as a
haven of refuge. Why does she grasp the rail of the bed--why? She scarcely knows: something
that is at once remembrance and suspicion fills her mind. Is this her room?

The thought ended. She walked hurriedly to and fro, and as she passed the fuchsia in the window
a blossom fell.

She sat down and stared into dark space. She walked languidly and purposelessly to the wardrobe.
She stopped to pick a petal from the carpet. The sound of the last door was over, the retiring
footfall had died away in the distance, the last voice was hushed; the moon was shining on
the sea. A lovely scene, silver and blue; but how the girl's heart was beating! She sighed.
Her hands dropped, she did not even unbutton her collar. She could not. She resumed her walk,
she picked up a blossom that had fallen, she looked out on the pale white sea. There was moonlight
now in the room, a ghastly white spot was on the pillow. She was tired. The moonlight called
her. She lay down with her profile in the light.

But there were smell and features in the glare--the odour was that of the tramp's skin, the
features--a long thin nose, pressed lips, small eyes, a look of dull liquorish cruelty. And
this presence was beside her; she could not rid herself of it, she repulsed it with cries,
but it came again, and mocking, lay on the pillow.

Horrible, too horrible! She sprang from the bed. Was there anyone in her room? How still it
was! The mysterious moonlight, the sea white as a shroud, the sward so chill and death-like.
What! Did it move? Was it he? That fearsome shadow! Was she safe? Had they forgotten to bar
up the house? Her father's house! Horrible, too horrible, she must shut out this treacherous
light--darkness were better....

       *       *       *       *        *

The curtains are closed, but a ray glinting between the wall and curtain shows her face convulsed.
Something follows her: she knows not what, her thoughts are monstrous and obtuse. She dares
not look round, she would turn to see if her pursuer is gaining upon her, but some invincible
power restrains her.... Agony! O, the calm horror of this region! Ages ago the leaves fell,
and withered; ages ago; and now the skeleton arms, lifted in fantastic frenzy against the desert
skies, are as weird and symbolic as the hieroglyphics on the tombs below.

And through the torrid twilight of the approaching storm the cry of the hyena is heard.

Flowers hang on every side,--flowers as strange and as gorgeous as Byzantine chalices; flowers
narrow and fluted and transparent as long Venetian glasses; opaque flowers bulging and coloured
with gold devices like Chinese vases, flowers striped with cinnamon and veined with azure;
a million flower-cups and flower chalices, and in these as in censers strange and deadly perfumes
are melting, and the heavy fumes descend upon the girl, and they mix with the polluting odour
of the ancient sacrifices. She sinks, her arms are raised like those of a victim; she sinks
overcome, done to death or worse in some horrible asphyxiation.

The suffocating girl utters a thin wail. The vulture pauses, and is stationary on the white
and desert skies.

Then she finds herself in the pleasure grounds of Thornby Place. There are the evergreen oaks,
there is the rosary flaring all its wealth of red, purple, and white flowers, there is the
park encircled by elms, there is the vista filled in with the line of the lofty downs. For
a moment she is surprised, and fails to understand. Then she forgets the change of place in
new sensations of terror. For across the park something is coming, she knows not what; it will
pass her by. She watches a brown and yellow serpent, cubits high. Cubits high. It rears aloft
its tawny hide, scenting its prey. The great coiling body, the small head, small as a man's
hand, the black beadlike eyes shine out upon the intoxicating blue of the sky. The narrow long
head, the fixed black eyes are dull, inexorable desire, conscious of nothing beyond, and only
dimly conscious of itself. Will the snake pass by the hiding girl? She rushes to meet it. What
folly! She turns and flies.

She takes refuge in the rosary. It follows her, gathering its immense body into horrible and
hideous heights. How will she save herself? She gathers them in haste; her arms and hands are
streaming with blood, but she pays no heed, and as the snake surmounts one barricade, she builds
another. But in vain. And through the ruin of the roses she escapes from the stench and the
coils, and all the while the snake pursues her even into the fountain. The waves and the snake
close about her. When she glances behind her she sees the outline of the little coast town,
the snake is near her, and there is no one to whom she can call for help. But the sea is in
front of her, bound like a blue sash about the cliff's edge. In her hope breathes again, and
she smiles like one who thinks he is going to hear that he will not die, but as the old pain
returns when the last portion of the deceptive sentence is spoken, so despair came back to
her when remembrance pierced the cloud of hallucination, and told her that all was not a dream--there
was something that was worse than a dream.

She uttered a low cry, and she moaned. Centuries seemed to have passed, and yet the evil deed
remained. It was still night, but what would the day bring to her? There was no hope. Abstract
hope from life, and what blank agony you create!

She drew herself up on her bed, and lay with her face buried in the pillow. For the face was
beside her: the foul smell was in her nostrils, and the dull, liquorish look of the eyes shone
through the darkness. Then sleep came again, and she lay stark and straight as if she were
dead, with the light of the moon upon her face. And it is not until one whose face she cannot
recognize, and whose presence among the angels of Heaven she cannot comprehend, steals away
one of the garlands of white with which she was entwined, that the fatal stain becomes visible.
There lay the sea, joyous and sparkling in the light of the mounting sun, and the masts of
the vessels at anchor in the long water way. The tapering masts were faint on the shiny sky,
and now between them and about them a face seemed to be. Sometimes it was fixed on one, sometimes
it flashed like a will o' the wisp, and appeared a little to the right or left of where she
had last seen it. It was the face that was now buried in her very soul, and sometimes it passed
out of the sky into the morning mist, which still heaved about the edges of the woods; and
there she saw something grovelling, crouching, crawling,--a wild beast, or was it a man?

CHAPTER VIII. Then her face relaxed, the expression was one of pitiful despair, and that expression
gave way to a sense of nausea, expressed by a quick contraction of the eyes.

She listened to the splashing of the water, and its echoes were repeated indefinably through
her soul.

The maid left the room. Kitty's attention was attracted to her dress. It was torn, it was muddy,
there were bits of furze sticking to it.

She threw herself madly on the bed. She moved, pressing herself against the mattress as if
she would rub away, free herself from her loathed self. The sight of her hand was horrible
to her, and she covered it over hurriedly.

She slipped from the bed and locked the door. Again she was alone. An hour passed.

Her father came up. His footsteps on the stairs caused her intolerable anguish. On entering
the house she had hated to hear his voice, and now that hatred was intensified a thousandfold.
His voice sounded in her ears false, ominous, abominable. She could not have opened the door
to him, and the effort required to speak a few words, to say she was tired and wished to be
left alone, was so great that it almost cost her her reason. It was a great relief to hear
him go. She asked herself why she hated to hear his voice, but before she could answer a sudden
recollection of the tramp sprang upon her. Her nostrils recalled the smell, and her eyes saw
the long, thin nose and the dull liquorish eyes beside her on the pillow.

She got up and walked about the room, and its appearance contrasted with and aggravated the
fierceness of the fever of passion and horror that raged within her. The homeliness of the
teacups and the plates, the tin bath, painted yellow and white, so grotesque and so trim.

But not its water nor even the waves of the great sea would wash away remembrance. She pressed
her face against the pane. The wide sea, so peaceful, so serene! Oblivion, oblivion, O for
the waters of oblivion!

Then for an hour she almost forgot; sometimes she listened, and the shrill singing of the canary
was mixed with thoughts of her dead brothers and sisters, of her mother. She was waked from
her reveries by the farm bell ringing the labourers' dinner hour.

Night had been fearsome with darkness and dreams, but the genial sunlight and the continuous
externality of the daytime acted on her mind, and turned vague thoughts, as it were, into sentences,
printed in clear type. She often thought she was dead, and she favoured this idea, but she
was never wholly dead. She was a lost soul wandering on those desolate hills, the gloom descending,
and Brighton and Southwick and Shoreham and Worthing gleaming along the sea banks of a purple
sea. There were phantoms--there were two phantoms. One turned to reality, and she walked by
her lover's side, talking of Italy. Then he disappeared, and she shrank from the horrible tramp;
then both men grew confused in her mind, and in despair she threw herself on her bed. Raising
her eyes she caught sight of her prayer-book, but she turned from it moaning, for her misery
was too deep for prayer.

The lunch bell rang. She listened to the footsteps on the staircase; she begged to be excused,
and she refused to open the door. Both struggled for mastery and for the moment without disturbing
the equipoise.

But was she sure that she did? Yes, yes--she must not give way. She must resist.

John and Mr Hare looked at her. Suddenly she felt something on her neck. She put her hand up ...

And now with madness on her face she caught up a pair of scissors and cut off her hair: one
after the other the great tresses of gold and brown fell, until the floor was strewn with them.
His heart quailed at the face he saw.

For now had gone that imperceptible something which divides the life of the sane from that
of the insane, and he who had so long feared lest a woman might soil the elegant sanctity of
his life, disappeared forever from the mind of her whom he had learned to love, and existed
to her only as the foul dull brute who had outraged her on the hills.

"Kitty, Kitty darling!"

CHAPTER IX.

And the pity of it! The poor white thing lying like a shot dove, bleeding, and the dreadful
blood flowing over the red tiles....

Mr Hare was kneeling by his daughter when John, rushing forth, stopped and stood aghast.

"What is this? Say--speak, speak man, speak; how did this happen?"

"I cannot say, I do not know; she did not seem to know me; she ran away. Oh my God, I do not
understand; she seemed as if afraid of me, and she threw herself out of the window. But she
is not dead ..."

The word rang out in the silence, ruthlessly brutal in its significance. Mr Hare looked up,
his face a symbol of agony. "Oh, dead, how can you speak so ..."

John felt his being sink and fade like a breath, and then, conscious of nothing, he helped
to lift Kitty from the tiles. But it was her father who carried her upstairs. The blood flowed
from the terrible wound in the head. Dripped. The walls were stained. When she was laid upon
the bed, the pillow was crimson; and the maid-servant coming in, strove to staunch the wound
with towels. Kitty did not move.

Both men knew there was no hope. The maid-servant retired, and she did not close the door,
nor did she ask if the doctor should be sent for. One man held the bed rail, looking at his
dead daughter; the other sat by the window. That one was John Norton. They had been speaking
of Italy ... of Italy where they would have spent their honeymoon. Now she was dead! There
would be no honeymoon, no wife. How unreal, how impossible it all did seem, and yet it was
real, yes, real enough. There she lay dead; here is her room, and there is her book-case; there
are the photographs of the Miss Austins, here is the fuchsia with the pendent blossoms falling,
and her canary is singing. John glanced at the cage, and the song went to his brain, and he
was horrified, for there was no grief in his heart. There it was.... There. But his eyes wandered
from the place, for it was there he had seen the startled face, the half mad face which he
had seen afterwards at the window, quite mad. His wife! The thought struck him. Now he would
never have a wife. What was there for him to do? To turn his house into a Gothic monastery,
and himself into a monk. Very horrible and very bitter in its sheer grotesqueness was the thought.
It was as if in one moment he saw the whole of his life summarised in a single symbol, and
understood its vanity and its folly. Ah, there was nothing for him, no wife, no life.... The
tears welled up in his eyes; the shock which in its suddenness had frozen his heart, began
to thaw, and grief fell like a penetrating rain.

We learn to suffer as we learn to love, and it is not to-day, nor yet to-morrow, but in weeks
and months to come, and by slow degrees, that John Norton will understand the irreparableness
of his loss. There is a man upstairs who crouches like stone by his dead daughter's side; he
is motionless and pale as the dead, he is as great in his grief as an expression of grief by
Michael Angelo. The hours pass, he is unconscious of them; he sees not the light dying on the
sea, he hears not the trilling of the canary. He knows of nothing but his dead child, and that
the world would be nothing to give to have her speak to him once again. His is the humblest
and the worthiest sorrow, but such sorrow cannot affect John Norton. He has dreamed too much
and reflected too much on the meaning of life; his suffering is too original in himself, too
self-centred, and at the same time too much, based on the inherent misery of existence, to
allow him to project himself into and suffer with any individual grief, no matter how nearly
it might be allied to him and to his personal interest. He knew his weakness in this direction,
and now he gladly welcomed the coming of grief, for indeed he had felt not a little shocked
at the aridness of his heart, and frightened lest his eyes should remain dry even to the end.

Suddenly he remembered that the Miss Austins had said that they would call to-morrow early
for Kitty, to take her to Leywood to lunch.... They were going to have some tennis in the afternoon.
He too was expected there. They must be told what had occurred. It would be terrible if they
came calling for Kitty under her window, and she lying dead! This slight incident in the tragedy
wrung his heart, and the effort of putting the facts upon paper brought the truth home to him,
and lured and led him to see down the lifelong range of consequences. The doctor too, he thought,
must be warned of what had happened. And with the letter telling the sad story in his hand,
and illimitable sorrow in his soul, he went out in the evening air. It was just such an evening
as yester evening--a little softer, a little lovelier, perhaps; earth, sea, and sky appeared
like an exquisite vision upon whose lips there is fragrance, yet in whose eyes a glow of passion
still survives.

The beauty of the last hour of light is upon that crescent of sea, and the ships loll upon
the long strand, the tapering masts and slacking ropes vanish upon the pallid sky. There is
the old town, dusty, and dreamy, and brown, with neglected wharfs and quays; there is the new
town, vulgar and fresh with green paint and trees, and looking hungrily on the broad lands
of the Squire, the broad lands and the rich woods which rise up the hill side to the barn on
the limit of the downs. How beautiful the great green woods look as they sweep up a small expanse
of the downs, like a wave over a slope of sand. And there is a house with red gables where
the girls are still on the tennis lawn. John walked through the town; he told the doctor he
must go at once to the rectory. He walked to Leywood and left his letter with the lodge-keeper;
and then, as if led by a strange fascination, he passed through the farm gate and set out to
return home across the hills.

"She was here with me yesterday; how beautiful she looked, and how graceful were her laughter
and speech," he said, turning suddenly and looking down on the landscape; on the massy trees
contrasting with the walls of the town, the spine-like bridge crossing the marshy shore, the
sails of the mill turning over the crest of the hill. The night was falling fast, as a blue
veil it hung down over the sea, but the deep pure sky seemed in one spot to grow clear, and
suddenly the pale moon shone and shimmered upon the sea. The landscape gained in loveliness,
the sheep seemed like phantoms, the solitary barns like monsters of the night. And the hills
were like giants sleeping, and the long outlines were prolonged far away into the depths and
mistiness of space. Turning again and looking through a vista in the hills, John could see
Brighton, a pale cloud of fire, set by the moon-illumined sea, and nearer was Southwick, grown
into separate lines of light, that wandered into and lost themselves among the outlying hollows
of the hills; and below him and in front of him Shoreham lay, a blaze of living fire, a thousand
lights; lights everywhere save in one gloomy spot, and there John knew that his beloved was
lying dead. And further away, past the shadowy marshy shores, was Worthing, the palest of nebulae
in these earthly constellations; and overhead the stars of heaven shone as if in pitiless disdain.
The blown hawthorn bush that stands by the burgh leaned out, a ship sailed slowly across the
rays of the moon. Yesterday they parted here in the glad golden sunlight, parted for ever,
for ever.

"Yesterday I had all things--a sweet wife and happy youthful days to look forward to. To-day
I have nothing; all my hopes are shattered, all my illusions have fallen. Ah, why did I leave
my life of contemplation and prayer to enter into that of desire.... Ah, I knew, well I knew
there was no happiness save in calm and contemplation. Ah, well I knew; and she is gone, gone,
gone!"

We suffer differently indeed, but we suffer equally. The death of his sweetheart forces one
man to reflect anew on the slightness of life's pleasures and the depth of life's griefs. In
the peaceful valley of natural instincts and affections he had slept for a while, now he awoke
on one of the high peaks lit with the rays of intense consciousness, and he cried aloud, and
withdrew in terror at a too vivid realisation of self. The other man wept for the daughter
that had gone out of his life, wept for her pretty face and cheerful laughter, wept for her
love, wept for the years he would live without her. We know which sorrow is the manliest, which
appeals to our sympathy, but who can measure the depth of John Norton's suffering? It was as
vast as the night, cold as the stream of moonlit sea.

He did not arrive home till late, and having told his mother what had happened, he instantly
retired to his room. Dreams followed him. The hills were in his dreams. There were enemies
there; he was often pursued by savages, and he often saw Kitty captured; nor could he ever
evade their wandering vigilance and release her. Again and again he awoke, and remembered that
she was dead. Within the arm, in the pale hand extended, a great Eucharis lily had been laid,
its carved blossoms bloomed in unchanging stillness, and the whole scene was like a sad dream
in the whitest marble.

The calm chastity, the lonely loveliness, so sweetly removed from taint of passion, struck
John with all the emotion of art. He reproached himself for having dreamed of her rather as
a wife than as a sister, and then all art and all conscience went down as a broken wreck in
the wild washing sea of deep human love: he knelt by her bedside, and sobbed piteously, a man
whose life is broken. How black and sad, how homely and humble they seemed. This hour of beautiful
sorrow and roses, how long will it be remembered? The coffin sinks out of sight, out of sight
for ever, a snow-drift of delicate bloom descending into the earth. He took a ticket and went
to Brighton. As they steamed along a high embankment, he found himself looking into a little
suburban cemetery. The graves, the yews, the sharp church spire touching the range of the hills.
He watched the group in the distant corner, and its very remoteness and removal from his personal
knowledge and concern, moved him to passionate grief and tears....

He walked through the southern sunlight of the town to the long expanse of sea.

Under the impulse of his ravening grief, John watched the spectacle of the world's forgetfulness,
and the seeming obscenity horrified him even to the limits of madness. He cried that it might
pass from him. Solitude--the solemn peace of the hills, the appealing silence of a pine wood
at even; how holy is the idea of solitude, find it where you will. The Gothic pile, the apostles
and saints of the windows, the deep purples and crimsons, and the sunlight streaming through,
and the pathetic responses and the majesty of the organ do not take away, but enhance and affirm
the sensation of idea and God. The quiet rooms austere with Latin and crucifix; John could
see them. Fondly he allowed these fancies to linger, but through the dream a sense of reality
began to grow, and he remembered the narrowness of the life, when viewed from the material
side, and its necessary promiscuousness, and he thought with horror of the impossibility of
the preservation of that personal life, with all its sanctuary-like intensity, which was so
dear to him. He waved away all thought of priesthood, and walking quickly down the pier, looking
on the gay panorama of town and beach, he said, "The world shall be my monastery."

