With that long slender waist she should have danced so beautifully; he could imagine how her
head would droop back and show her throat, how her brows would become grave with great pleasure.
He wished she could come to his mother's dances, but he knew so well the rigid standards of
his own bourgeoisie that he felt displeased by his wish. It was impossible to ask a Miss Melville
to a dance unless one could say, 'She's the daughter of old Mr. Melville in Moray Place. Do
you not mind Melville, the wine merchant?' and specially impossible to ask this Miss Melville
unless one had some such certificate to attach to her vividness. But he wished he could dance
with her.

Ellen recalled him to the business of pity. She had thought of dances for no more than a minute,
though it had long been one of her dreams to enter a ballroom by a marble staircase (which
she imagined of a size and steepness really more suited to a water-chute), carrying a black
ostrich-feather fan such as she had seen Sarah Bernhardt pythoning about with in "La Dame aux
Camélias." This hour she had dedicated to Mr. Philip, and he knew it. She was thinking of him
with an intentness which was associated with an entire obliviousness of his personal presence,
just as a church circle might pray fervently for some missionary without attempting to visualise
his face; and though he missed this quaint meaning of her abstraction, he was well content
to watch it and nurse his private satisfaction. He was still aware that he was Mr. Philip of
the firm, so he was not going to tell her that for two nights after he had heard the decision
of the Medical Examiners he had cried himself to sleep, though he was fourteen past. But it
was exquisite to know that if he had told her she would have been moved to some glorious gesture
of pity. His imagination trembled at the thought of its glory as she turned to him with a benignity
that was really good enough, and said diffidently, because her ambition was such a holy thing
that she feared to speak of his: "Still, there are lots of things for you to do. I've heard...."

He was kindly and indulgent. "What have you heard?"

Ellen had, as her mother used to say, a great notion of politics. "Why, that you're going to
stand for Parliament."

"That's true enough," he said, swelling a little.

"Could anything be finer?" she breathed. "What are you going to do?"

"I'll have to contest two-three hopeless seats. Then they'll give me something safe."

"But what will you do?"

He didn't follow.

"What'll you do after that?" She towered above him, her cheeks flushed with intellectual passion.
"In Parliament, I mean. There's so much to do. Will it be housing? If it was me it would be
housing. But what are you going to do?"

"I'll sit as a Liberal," he said, with an air of quiet competence. "We've always been Liberals."

"Ach! Liberal!" she said, with the spirit of one who had cried, "Keep the Liberal out!" at
a Leith polling-booth and had been haled backwards by the hair from the person of Mr. Winston
Churchill. Mr. Philip laughed again and felt a kind of glow. He never could get over a feeling
that to discover a woman excited about an intellectual thing was like coming on her bathing;
her cast-off femininity affected him as a heap of her clothes on the beach might have done.
But the flash in her eyes died to the homelier fires of a more personal quarrel. "Is yon Mrs.
Powell's heavy feet coming up the stair?" she enquired.

"It is so. I asked her to do a chop for me, so that I won't need to dine on the train...."

"Mercy me! We'll see the fine cook she is!" She ran out to the landing (she had never known
he was so nice). Mr. Philip found that her absence acted curiously as a relief to an excitement
that was beginning to buzz in his head. Then she came back with the tray, her cheeks bright
and her mouth pursed, for she and the caretaker had been sandpapering each other's temperaments
with a few words. "Be thankful she thought to boil a potato. No greens. And I had to ask for
a bit bread. And the reason's not far to seek. She's had a drop again. It staggers me how your
father, who's so particular with the rest of us, stands such a body in the place."

He did not answer her. The moment had become one of pure enjoyment. There was no sense of strain
in his appreciation of her while she was putting down the tray, spreading out the plates, and
doing things that were all directed to giving him comfort. Their relationship felt absolutely
right.

"Will you have one of the bottles of Burgundy your father keeps for when he lunches in?" she said.

"I was just thinking I would," he answered, and went into his father's room. As he stooped
before the cupboard her voice reached him, fortuitously uplifted in "The Flowers of the Forest
are a' wede away." Now how did she look when she sang? It improved some people. He knelt for
a minute in front of the dusty cupboard, frowning fiercely at the bottles because it struck
him that she would stop singing when he went back, and he could think of no way of asking her
to go on that would not be, as he put it, infra dig. And sure enough, when he entered the room
a shy silence fell on her, which she broke by saying, "If you've not got the corkscrew there's
one on my pocket-knife." He used it, telling himself that it spared turning on the gas again
in the other room, and she stood behind him murmuring, "Yon's not a bad knife. Four blades
and a thing that takes stones out of a horse's hoof...."

He sat down to his meal, and she remained by the fireplace until he said, "Pray sit down, Miss
Melville, I wish I could ask you to join me...."

She obeyed because she was afraid she might be fretting him by standing there, and took the
seat on the other side of the table. The gas-jet was behind her, so to him there was a gold
halo about her head and her face was a dusky oval in which her eyes and the three-cornered
patch of her mouth were points of ardour. She had an animal's faculty for keeping quite still.
He felt a pricking appetite to force the moment on to something he could not quite previsage,
and found himself saying, "Will you have some Burgundy?"

She was shocked. "Oh no!"

He perceived that here was a matter of principle. But he felt, although principles were among
his conventions, not the least impulse to defer to it. Instead, the project of persuading her
to do something he felt she oughtn't to do flooded him with a tingling pleasure.

He said, "But it's so pretty!" He could not imagine why he should have said that, and yet he
knew when he had said it that he had hit on an argument that would weigh with her.

She sighed as who makes a concession. "Oh yes, it's pretty!" And then, to his perplexity, her
face fell into complete repose. She was absorbed in the red beauty in his glass.

It angered him, yet he still felt bland and coaxing. "You'll have a glass?"

"No, thank you."

"You'll surely have a taste?"

"Ah, no--"

"Just a drop...."

Their eyes met. He was peering into her face so that he could be sure she was looking at him,
and somehow the grimace seemed to be promising her infinite pleasure.

She muttered, "Well, just a drop!" and found herself laughing unhappily.

He passed her his glass.

"But what," she asked in dismay, "will you drink from?"

Almost irritably he clicked his tongue, though he still smiled. "Drink it up! Drink it up!"

She raised the glass to her lips and set her head back that the sin might have swift progress,
expecting the loveliest thing, like an ice, but warm and very worldly; and informed with solemn
pleasure too, for such colours are spilt on marble floors when the sun sets behind cathedral
windows, such colours come into the mind when great music is played or some deep voice speaks
Shakespeare....

"Ach!" she screamed, and banged the glass down on the table. "It's horrid! It draws the mouth!"
She started up and stood rubbing her knuckles into her cheeks and twisting her lips. She had
never thought wine was like this. It was not so much a drink as a blow in the mouth. And yet
somehow she felt ashamed of not liking it. "The matron at school used to give us something
for toothache that was as bad as this!" she said peevishly, and tears stood in her eyes.

Mr. Philip stood up, laughing. The crisis of his pleasure in persuading her to do the thing
which she hadn't wanted to do was his joy that she hadn't liked it when she had done it. And
suddenly one of the walls of the neat mental chamber in which he customarily stood fell in;
by the light that streamed in upon him he perceived that his ecstasy was only just beginning.
At last he knew what he wanted to do. With gusto he marked that Ellen too was conscious that
the incident was not at its close, for she was still wringing her hands, though the taste of
the wine must long have gone from her mouth, and was stammering miserably, "Well, if yon stuff's
a temptation to any poor folk--!" Again he felt that their relationship was on a proper footing;
he moved towards her, walking masterfully. Oh, it was going to be ecstasy.... There was a loud
knocking at the outer door.

III

She forgot all about the wine at once, he was so very big. And he looked as though he had gold
rings in his ears, although he hadn't; it was just part of his sea-going air.

He looked at her very hard and said as though it hardly mattered, "I want to see Mr. James.
My name's Yaverland."

"Will you step inside?" said Ellen, with her best English accent. "Mr. Philip's expecting you."
She was glad he had come, for he looked interesting, but she hoped he would not interrupt her
warm comfortable occupation of mothering Mr. Philip. To keep that mood aglow in herself she
stopped as they went along the passage and begged, "You'll not make him miss his train? He's
away to London to-night. He should leave here on the very clap of eight."

The stranger seemed, after a moment's silence, of which, since they stood in darkness, she
could not read the cause, to lay aside a customary indifference for the sake of the gravity
of the occasion. "Oh, certainly; he shall leave on the very clap of eight," he replied earnestly.

He spoke without an accent and was most romantically dark. Ellen wondered whether Mr. Philip
would like him--she had noticed that Mr. Philip didn't seem to fancy people who were very tall.
And she perceived with consternation as they entered the room that he had suddenly been overtaken
by one of his moods. He had taken up the tray and was trying to slip it into the cupboard,
which he might have seen would never hold it, and in any case was a queer place for a tray,
and stood there with it in his hands, brick-red and glowering at them. She was going to take
it from him when he dunted it down on the window-seat with a clatter. "What for can he not
go on with his good chop?" thought Ellen. "We're putting on grand company manners for this
bit chemist body, surely," and she pulled forward a chair for the stranger and sat down in
the corner with her note-book on her knee.

"You're Mr. Yaverland?" said Mr. Philip, shooting his chin forward and squaring his shoulders,
and looking as though his father were dead and he were the head of the firm.

"I'm Richard Yaverland. Mr. Frank Gibson said you might be good enough to see to my affairs
for me. I've got a letter from him...."

Decidedly the man had an air. He slid the letter across the table as if he did not care in
the least whether anybody ever picked it up and retreated into a courteous inattention. She
felt a little cross at Mr. Philip for not showing that Edinburgh too understands the art of
arrogance, for opening the letter so clumsily and omitting to say the nice friendly thing.
Well, if he was put about it was his own fault for not going on with the chop, it being well
known to all educated persons that one cannot work on an empty stomach. If this man would go
soon she would run down to Mrs. Powell and get her to heat up the chop again. She eyed him
anxiously to see if he looked the kind of person who left when one wanted him to, and found
herself liking him for the way he slouched in his chair, as though he wanted to mitigate as
much as possible his terrifying strength and immensity. What for did a fine man like him help
to make cordite, the material of militarism, which is the curse of the nations? She wished
he could have heard R.J. Campbell speak on peace the other night at the Synod Hall; it was
fine. But probably he was a Conservative, for these big men were often unprogressive. She examined
him carefully out of the corner of her eye to estimate the chances of his being brought into
the fold of reform by properly selected oratory. That at least was the character of contemplation
she intended, but though she was so young that she believed the enjoyment of any sensory impression
sheer waste unless it was popped into the mental stockpot and made the basis of some sustaining
moral soup, she found herself just looking at him. His black hair lay in streaks and rings
on his rain-wet forehead and gave him an abandoned and magical air, like the ghost of a drowned
man risen for revelry; his dark gold skin told a traveller's tale of far-off pleasurable weather;
and the bare hand that lay on his knee was patterned like a snake's belly with brown marks,
doubtless the stains of his occupation; and his face was marked with an expression that it
vexed her she could not put a name to, for if at her age she could not read human nature like
a book she never would. It was not hunger, for it was serene, and it was not greed, for it
was austere, and yet it certainly signified that he habitually made upon life some urgent demand
that was not wholly intellectual and that had not been wholly satisfied. As she wondered a
slight retraction of his chin and a drooping of his heavy eyelids warned her, by their likeness
to the controlled but embarrassed movements of a highly-bred animal approached by a stranger,
that he knew she was watching him, and she took her gaze away. But she had to look again, just
to confirm her feeling that however fanciful she might be about him his appearance would always
give some further food for her imagination; and presently, for though she was the least vain
person in the world she was the most egotistical, began to compare the large correctness of
his features with the less academic spontaneity of her own. "Lord! Why has everybody but me
got a straight nose!" she exclaimed to herself. "But it's all blethers to think that an indented
chin means character. How can a dunt in your bone have anything to do with your mind?" She
rubbed her own chin, which was a little white ball, and pushed it forward, glowering at his
great jaw. Then her examination ended. She noticed that all over his upper lip and chin there
was a faint bluish bloom, as if he had shaved closely and recently but the strong hair was
already pressing through again. That disgusted her, although she reminded herself that he could
not help it, that that was the way he was made. "There's something awful like an animal about
a man," she thought, and shivered.

