Ariosto, the Italian poet, tells a story of a fairy, whose fate obliged her to pass certain
seasons in the form of a snake. If anybody injured her during those seasons, he never after
shared in the rich blessings that were hers to give; but those who, in spite of her ugly looks,
pitied and cared for her, were crowned for the rest of their lives with good fortune, had all
their wishes granted, and became truly blessed.

"Such a spirit," adds the Deacon, "is Liberty. And neither we nor our country can be kept safe
without her. Since, too, Liberty cannot be kept safe without sincerity and manhood--"

There, my dears, this gives you a good start. Now go on with the sermon.

A CONGRESS OF BIRDS.

    Brooklyn, N.Y.

    DEAR JACK-IN-THE-PULPIT: I have something to tell you about some of
    your friends the birds, and perhaps your chicks can help answer the
    questions the anecdote raises.

    One summer evening of 1846, at Catskill Village, vast numbers of
    whip-poor-wills and swallows began to gather from all directions
    about an hour before sunset, and in a few minutes the sky was dark
    with their wings. They assembled above a high hill, and over the
    cemetery which was on this hill they circled and wheeled and mixed
    together, calling and twittering in a state of great excitement.
    They were so many that, standing anywhere in the cemetery, which
    covered about forty acres, one might have knocked them down by
    hundreds with an ordinary fishing-rod.

    The birds, though of such opposite natures, mingled in a friendly
    way, and seemed to be trying to settle some question of importance
    to both parties. Soon, the sun sank behind the mountains, and, while
    his last rays were fading, the birds went off in squads, as they had
    come, and all quickly disappeared.

    Whence they came, whither they went, and why they assembled, are yet
    mysteries to, your friend,

    Z.R.B.

MIDSUMMER NOON.

Here are some lines I heard a summer or two ago. It seems to me that John Clare---the man who
wrote them, I believe--must have made them when he was near my pulpit, for they tell just how
things are here these sultry noons.

   "The busy noise of man and brute
    Is on a sudden hushed and mute;
    Even the brook that leaps along
    Seems weary of its merry song,
    And, so soft its waters sleep,
    Tired silence sinks in slumber deep.

   "The taller grass upon the hill,
    And spider's threads, are standing still;
    The feathers, dropped from moor-hen's wing,
    Which to the waters surface cling,
    Are steadfast, and as heavy seem
    As stones beneath them in the stream."

PIGS WITH SOLID HOOFS, AND PIGS THAT ARE NOT PIGS.

In Texas there are pigs whose hoofs are not divided like those of ordinary pigs, but are each
in one solid piece; at least, so I'm informed in a paragram fresh from England.

If this is true, it is a strange thing; but here's something that seems even stranger still:

The Guinea-pig is not a pig, and there are no Guinea-pigs in Guinea. However, there are plenty
in Guiana, and, as the names of these places are very much alike, perhaps people got mixed
in calling them. The places are far enough apart, though, I believe; but this you can see by
your maps.

At any rate, the Guinea-pig is a sort of cousin of the squirrel and rabbit, and is fond of
potato and apple peelings, carrot-tops, parsley, and cabbage; but he likes best the leaves
from the tea-pot.

JACK.

Well, well! How much the dictionary men have to answer for! Now, who, without them, ever would
have thought that the name "Jack"--my name--is sometimes used in an offensive sense?

For instance, as I'm told, these fellows make out that "Jack Frost" means a mischievous boy;
"Jack Towel" is a servants' towel; and a "Jack" is a machine to do the work of a common work-man,
to lift heavy weights. Then there's a "Boot Jack," taking the place of a servant; a "Smoke
Jack," another servant, to turn a spit; a "Jack-a-Napes," or saucy fellow; "Jack Tar," a common
sailor; and "Jacket," a little Jack or coat.

Now, I'm half inclined to take this ill of the dictionary men. But perhaps I'm misinformed
about them.

"TAKE THAT!"

This is not slang, my dears; not a bit of it. It is but the translation of an inscription on
an ancient Egyptian ball, a leaden one, used as a kind of bullet and thrown from a sling. Sometimes
the name of the slinger was put on the ball,--so that the wounded could tell whom to thank,
perhaps.

The phrase "Take that!" has not entirely gone out of fashion, I believe; and yet the world
ought to be old enough to know better, by this time.

ANTS AGAIN.

Talking about ants last month put me in mind of a scrap, written long ago by the Little Schoolma'am,
and which one of my chicks sent to me. Here it is, with the picture that belongs to it:

   "Hurrah!" said an ant to her sister,
      "I've found a nice piece of bread;
    We may push and pull, to carry it home,
      Where the little ants wait to be fed."

    So one pulled till she fell over backward,
      And the other pushed with her head,
    When down came a thief of a sparrow,
      And away went the piece of bread!

AIR THAT SINGS AND TALKS.

No doubt, my dears, you think that it is only men and phonographs and such things that talk
and sing; so did I until lately. But I've just heard that there are some places in the world
where the air itself sings and talks. This fact, I'm told, is as old as the hills and woods;
and it is easy to prove, too. All you have to do is to go into the open air and blow a horn,
or call aloud, or sing in a strong clear voice, among the hills, or by the edge of a wood,
or even near a big empty barn.

Give this a good trial, my chicks, and let me know the result. Even if you don't succeed, there's
no doubt the experiment will prove interesting, and you'll do no harm. Don't be afraid of disturbing
the birds; they're friends of mine, as you know, and, if you tell them you are doing it for
me, they will gladly put up with a little extra noise.

PLANTS WITH HAIR.

Some plants have hairs on their leaves, making them feel rough to the touch, as I've heard.
This can be seen very plainly by looking at a common mallow-leaf through a microscope. And
there is the mullein, too, with very stiff hairs.

Now, what are these hairs for? I have been wanting to know this for some time, and should be
glad if some of you clever chicks would look into the matter, and tell me what you find out.

AN ODD HYMN.

    Philadelphia, Pa.

    DEAR JACK-IN-THE-PULPIT: Will you please ask the Little Schoolma'am,
    Deacon Green, and all your young folks, if they know and can tell me
    where to find the rest of the verses that go with this one?

       "The Choctaw and the Cherokee,
          The Kickapoo and Kaw,
        Likewise the Pottawatamie,--
          O teach them all thy law!"

    I think it is part of an old-fashioned missionary hymn. I once heard
    a boy repeat the whole of it, but this is the only verse I can
    remember.--Yours truly,

    L.M.B.

ANCIENTS AND MODERNS, ONCE MORE.

F.'s question, in the May number, about when the Ancients left off and the Moderns began, has
been answered by Charles J. Brandt, E.L.S., Stevie B. Franklin, H.J.W., "Amneris," S.B.A.,
Edward Liddon Patterson, A.R.C., C.C.F., and Bessie P.

They all say pretty much the same thing, which is, that Ancient history left off about the
year A.D. 476, with the fall of the western Roman Empire; that then came the Middle or Dark
Ages; and that the Moderns began about the year A.D. 1450, or a little while before the discovery
of America. But, of course, if you don't feel quite sure that these chicks have given correct
answers, you'd do well to look farther into the matter.

THE INCOMPLETE TEXT.

    MY DEAR JACK: The letter E is the one to be added to that
    church-wall text which you gave to your chicks in May. If this vowel
    is set in at the right places, the text will read:

       "Persevere, ye perfect men;
        Ever keep these precepts ten!"

    This refers, of course, to the Ten Commandments that came through
    Moses. In a postscript you will find the names of the bright chicks
    who sent in the whole text in its complete form. Please give them my
    good wishes.--Yours sincerely,

    SILAS GREEN.

    P.S.--Fred S. Mead, Charles F. Fitts, Mary H. Bradley, Lou D.
    Denison, H.J.W., Arnold Guyot Cameron, "Nane," A.R.C., "Daisy,"
    Nellie Emerson; Bessie and Charlie Wheeler; Marie Armstrong, Neils
    E. Hansen, Katie Burnett, Lucy V. McRill, O.K.H., Bessie Dorsey,
    S.C., Edward A. Page, Bessie P.; Gladys H. Wilkinson, of Manchester,
    England; and Lane MacGregor.

THE LETTER-BOX.

    Boston, Mass., May 2, 1878.

    DEAR SAINT NICHOLAS: Will you give me room to rectify a slip of the
    pen? My "Sing-away Bird," in your May number, is not a thrush, but a
    sparrow; and I ought to be ashamed of the mistake, for I knew he was
    a sparrow, and had already spoken of him, in a story in verse,
    published three or four years ago, as

        "Only a sparrow with a snowy throat."

    Not only that, I hear his music every year, when I go into the White
    Mountain region, and consider it one of the chief charms of the wild
    scenery there. He sang this particular song to me last autumn, on
    the banks of the Androscoggin at Berlin Falls.

    I ask his pardon and yours for the blunder, and send the stanza as I
    have corrected it to make it tell the truth:

        'Twas the white-throated sparrow, that sped a light arrow
          Of song from his musical quiver;
        And the lingering spell slid through every dell
          On the banks of the Runaway River.
              "O sing! sing-away! sing-away!"
            And the trill of the sweet singer had
            The sound of a soul that is glad.

    I hope there are plenty of the ST. NICHOLAS children who know our
    wild birds well enough to see for themselves that I must have meant
    the one commonly known as the "Peabody-bird," so styled because his
    song seems always to be calling some human estray of that name, who
    never comes.

    But, indeed, I am afraid that none of us know our musical little
    friends of the fields and woods as well as we should and might know
    them, if we studied into the matter,--Truly yours,

    LUCY LARCOM.

       *       *       *       *       *

The story of Perseus, in this number, has been set in a frame of stars by the old astronomers.
In Professor Proctor's sky-map in ST. NICHOLAS for January, 1877, you will find the constellation.

       *       *       *       *       *

    New York.

    DEAR ST. NICHOLAS: I find in Swift's "Gulliver's Travels" that he
    speaks of a "voyage to the country of the Houyhnhnms." Here are six
    consonants all in a row, and I would like to know if such a word can
    be correctly pronounced.

    If it is pronounced "hoy-nims," and I doubt the possibility of
    pronouncing it any other way, is there any need of so many
    consonants?--Yours truly,

    CHARLES A. REED.

The word "Houyhnhnms" is the name given by Dean Swift to an imaginary race of horses endowed
with reason. It is in two syllables, hou-yhnhnms, and may be pronounced "hoo-inmz," with the
accent on either syllable, but the voice ought to be quavered in sounding the "n." It is likely
that Swift spelled the word so as to get a set of sounds as nearly as possible like the gentle
whinny of a horse when pleased.

       *       *       *       *       *

    Aintab, Northern Syria.

    DEAR ST. NICHOLAS: I saw a little piece in your magazine, in the
    department of "Jack-in-the-Pulpit," entitled "Persian Stoves," and I
    thought you would like to know that the native people in Turkey,
    right here, do just the same; and, to tell the truth, it is very
    comfortable sometimes. They call it tandoor. I have a brother in
    Constantinople studying, also a younger brother, and a dear little
    sister named Isabelle, here. We have taken your magazine ever since
    it started, and I think I at least shall never tire of it. Love to
    Jack and the Little Schoolma'am, Deacon Green, and all our old
    friends.--Your loving friend and reader,

    ELIZABETH M. TROWBRIDGE.

       *       *       *       *       *

    Portsmouth, N.H.

    DEAR ST. NICHOLAS: I am sure you will like to hear how a cat adopted
    a mouse, so here is the whole story for you.

    A mother cat, named Tabby, had all her kittens taken away except
    one, and she loved and petted this one little kitten as much as one
    little kitten could be loved and petted. But she had a heart so full
    of love that she could not possibly use it all up on one kitten; so,
    one day, she brought home the cunningest little mouse I ever saw.
    That little mouse, when she found herself in the cat's mouth, must
    have thought there was not much more fun for her, but that Mrs. Cat
    was taking her home to make a luncheon upon her. But Tabby carried
    her very carefully, so as not to rumple her smooth coat of fur nor
    break any of her tiny bones. When Tabby reached home, she dropped
    the mouse into the warm nest where lay her kitten, and immediately
    began to wash off the dust of travel, just as she daily bathed
    Kitty. Mousey liked this so well that she remained very quiet and
    quickly dropped asleep.

    Tabby's mistress soon became interested in the happy family, and
    supplied bits of cheese and other things that mice like to eat. Now
    and then she saw this mouse perched on the back of the sleepy little
    kitten, and nibbling a bit of cheese held between her two front
    paws. Old Tabby would raise her head from her nap, to see what the
    little one was doing, and the Mousey would hide her lunch in one
    cheek, and look so innocent that Tabby would go to sleep again. Then
    Mousey would out with her cheese and go on nibbling. Thus, cat,
    kitten and mouse lived happily together until, one unfortunate day,
    Tabby had company; and before she could introduce the company to her
    family, the company had introduced the pet mouse to itself, and had
    swallowed her at one mouthful. Tabby tried hard to act as if her
    company were welcome, but she wore a very sad look during the whole
    visit. This is a true story.--Yours sincerely,

    A.J.B.

       *       *       *       *       *

"THE ST. NICHOLAS CLUB, of Philadelphia," a company of young puzzlers, have sent us four clever
metrical answers to Mr. Cranch's poetical charades published in the April number. We are sorry
that we have not room to print all these answers, but here are two of them:

    FIRST CHARADE.

    When swiftly in the car you glide,
    With friend or lover by your side,
      All fear or danger you deride.

    But should the car be overset,
    You surely will be in a pet,
      Although no ill betide.

    When safely in your home you rest,
    With foot upon the carpet pressed,
      You heed no gloom outside.

    THIRD CHARADE.

    A man named Nicholas, with heavy pick.
    On bar of steel scarce made a dent or nick,
   "Pick, Nick!" a passing jester cried, in pleasant part.
   "I wish it were picnic," said he, "with all my heart."

       *       *       *       *       *

All the illustrations to the article called "Easter in Germany," printed in the April number,
were credited in the table of contents to Mr. J.F. Runge. But the pictures entitled "An Easter
Fancy," "An Easter Carriage," and "An Easter Load," were drawn by Miss Fanny E. Corne, the
author of the article, and should have been credited to her.

       *       *       *       *       *

A correspondent, H.F.G., sends us the following novel and audacious comparisons of words:

    COMPARISONS OF WORDS.

    (P. stands for Positive; C., Comparative; S., Superlative.)

    P. A part of the foot                        Sole
    C. Pertaining to the sun                     Solar
    S. Comforted                                 Solaced

    P. A river in Scotland                       Dee
    C. An animal                                 Deer
    S. One who does not believe in inspiration   Deist

    P. A negative                                No
    C. A Bible worthy                            Noah
    S. Dost know                                 Knowest

    P. To divide                                 Halve
    C. A port of France                          Havre
    S. The time of gathering grain and fruit     Harvest

    P. A grain                                   Corn
    C. An angle                                  Corner
    S. With an upper molding                     Cornised

    P. A personal pronoun                        Ye
    C. A division of time                        Year
    S. Is used in making bread                   Yeast

    P. A knot                                    Bow
    C. A tedious person                          Bore
    S. To make great pretensions                 Boast

    P. A personal pronoun                        You
    C. A pitcher                                 Ewer
    S. Accustomed                                Used

    P. A line of things                          Row
    C. A loud, deep voice or sound               Roar
    S. To cook                                   Roast

    P. To move with a lever.                     Pry
    C. Previous                                  Prior
    S. Appraised                                 Priced

    P. A secret agent                            Spy
    C. A steeple                                 Spire
    S. Seasoned                                  Spiced

    P. A body of water                           Sea
    C. A prophet                                 Seer
    S. At an end                                 Ceased

    P. A song                                    Lay
    C. A stratum                                 Layer
    S. Fastened with a cord                      Laced

    P. A meadow                                  Lea
    C. One of Shakspeare's royal characters      Lear
    S. Rented                                    Leased

    P. An insect                                 Flea
    C. To mock                                   Fleer
    S. Sheared                                   Fleeced

    P. A path                                    Way
    C. One who weighs                            Weigher
    S. Desolate                                  Waste

    P. A very common abbreviation                Co
    C. The center                                Core
    S. Border of the sea                         Coast

    P. A part of the body                        Neck
    C. A river of South-west Germany             Neckar
    S. Nearest                                   Next

    P. A river in Italy                          Po
    C. To examine steadily and earnestly         Pore
    S. A pillar                                  Post

    P. A vowel                                   E
    C. A spike of corn                           Ear
    S. A point of compass                        East

    P. A tool                                    Hoe
    C. Whitish                                   Hoar
    S. An army                                   Host

