No. 53.] SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 1850 [Price Threepence. Stamped Edition 4d.

       *       *       *       *       * {369}

CONTENTS.

NOTES:--Page

  Shakspeare and Marlowe, by Samuel Hickson. 369
  A Plan for a Church-History Society. 371
  Burnet as a Historian. 372
  Epigrams from Buchanan. 372
  Mistakes about George Chapman the Poet. 372
  Minor Notes:--Shakspeare and George Herbert--Old
    Dan Tucker--Lord John Townsend--Croker's
    Boswell--Misquotation--Tindal's New Testament--The
    Term "Organ-blower"--"Singular" and "Unique". 373

QUERIES:--
  Early Poetry, &c., Five Bibliographical Queries
      respecting. 374
  Minor Queries:--History of Newspapers--Steele's
      Burial place--Socinian Boast--Descent of Edward IV.--Viscount
      Castlecomer--Judge Cradock, afterwards Newton--Totness
      Church--Meaning of "Harissers"--Ringelbergius: Drinking To
      Excess--Langue Pandras--The Coptic Language--Cheshire
      Cat--Mrs. Partington--Cognation of the Jews and
      Lacedemonians. 375

REPLIES:--
  Fairfax's Translation of Tasso. 377
  Small Words. 377
  Replies to Minor Queries:--Concolinel-Wife of the
      Poet Bilderdijk--Schweickhardt the Artist--Noli me
      tangere--Chimney Money--Passage from Burke--Nicholas
      Assheton's Journal--Scotch Prisoners--Long
      Friday--Bradshaw Family--Julin, the Drowned
      City--Dodsley's Poems--Shunamitis Poema--Jeremy
      Taylor's Works--D[au]ctor Dubitantium--Aërostation--Gwyn's
      London and Westminster--"Regis ad Exemplum totus
      compositur Orbis"--St. Uncumber, &c. 378

MISCELLANEOUS:--
  Notes on Books, Sales, Catalogues, &c. 382
  Books and Odd Volumes Wanted. 382
  Notices to Correspondents. 382
  Advertisements. 383

       *       *       *       *       *

NOTES

SHAKSPEARE AND MARLOWE.

A special use of, a use, indeed, that gives a special value to your publication, is the communication
through its means of facts and conclusions for the information or assistance of editors or
intending editors. I do not suppose that any gentleman occupying this position would be guilty
of so much disrespect to the many eminent names which have already appeared in your columns,
as would be implied in not giving all the attention it deserved to any communication you might
see fit to publish; and with this feeling, and under this shelter, I return to the subject
of Marlowe, and his position as a dramatic writer relative to Shakspeare. I perceive that a
re-issue of Mr. Knight's Shakspeare has commenced, and from the terms of the announcement,
independently of other considerations, I conclude that the editor will take advantage of this
opportunity of referring to doubtful or disputed points that may have made any advance towards
a solution since his previous editions. I have read also an advertisement of an edition of
Shakspeare, to be superintended by Mr. Halliwell[1], which is to contain the plays of "doubtful
authenticity, or in the composition of which Shakspeare is supposed only to have taken a part."
Neither of these gentlemen can well avoid expressing an opinion on the subject I have adverted
to, and to them more especially I would address my observations.

I think I have observed that the claims of Marlowe have been maintained with something very
like party spirit. I have seen latterly several indications of this, unmistakeable, though
expressed, perhaps, but by a single word. Now it is true both Mr. Collier and Mr. Dyce are
committed to a positive opinion on this subject; and it would be unreasonable to expect either
of those gentlemen to change their views, except with the fullest proof and after the maturest
consideration. But who, besides these, is interested in maintaining the precedence of Marlowe?
These remarks have been called forth by an article in the Athenæum, containing the following
passages:--

    "All Marlowe's works were produced prior, we may safely assert,
    to the appearance of Shakspeare as a writer for the stage, or
    as an author, in print.

    "It is now universally admitted among competent critics, that
    Shakspeare commenced his career as a dramatic author, by
    remodelling certain pieces written {370} either separately or
    conjointly by Greene, Marlowe, Lodge, and Peele."

An anonymous writer commits himself to nothing, and I should not have noticed the above but
that they illustrate my position. In the passage first cited, if the writer mean "as a writer
for the stage in print," it proves nothing; but if the words "in print" are not intended to
be so connected, the assertion cannot be proved, and many "competent critics" will tell him
it is most improbable. The assertion of the second quotation is simply untrue; Mr. Knight has
not admitted what is stated therein, and if I recollect right, an Edinburgh Reviewer has concurred
with him in judgment. Neither of these, I presume, will be called incompetent. I cannot suppose
that either assertion would have been made but for the spirit to which I have alluded; for
no cause was ever the better for allegations that could not be maintained.

In some former papers which you did me the honour to publish, I gave it incidentally as my
opinion that Marlowe was the author of the Taming of a Shrew. I have since learned, through
Mr. Halliwell, that Mr. Dyce is confident, from the style, that he was not. Had I the opportunity,
I might ask Mr. Dyce "which style?" That of the passages I cited as being identical with passages
in Marlowe's acknowledged plays will not, I presume, be disputed; and of that of such scenes
as the one between Sander and the tailor, I am as confident as Mr. Dyce; it is the style rather
of Shakspeare than Marlowe. In other respects, I learn that the kind of evidence that is considered
by Mr. Dyce good to sustain the claim of Marlowe to the authorship of the Contention and the
True Tragedy, is not admissible in support of his claim to the Taming of a Shrew. I shall take
another opportunity of showing that the very passages cited by Mr. Dyce from the two first-named
of these plays will support my view of the case, at least as well as his; doing no more now
than simply recording an opinion that Marlowe was a follower and imitator of Shakspeare. I
do not know that I am at present in a position to maintain this opinion by argument; but I
can, at all events, show on what exceedingly slight grounds the contrary opinion has been founded.

I have already called attention to the fact, that the impression of Marlowe's being an earlier
writer than Shakspeare, was founded solely upon the circumstance that his plays were printed
at an earlier date. That nothing could be more fallacious than this conclusion, the fact that
many of Shakspeare's earliest plays were not printed at all until after his death is sufficient
to evince. The motive for withholding Shakspeare's plays from the press is as easily understood
as that for publishing Marlowe's. Thus stood the question when Mr. Collier approached the subject.
Meanwhile it should be borne in mind, that not a syllable of evidence has been advanced to
show that Shakspeare could not have written the First part of the Contention and the True Tragedy,
if not the later forms of Henry VI., Hamlet and Pericles in their earliest forms, if not Timon
of Athens, which I think is also an early play revised, Love's Labour's Lost, The Two Gentlemen
of Verona, &c., all of which I should place at least seven years distance from plays which
I think were acted about 1594 or 1595. I now proceed to give the kernel of Mr. Collier's argument,
omitting nothing that is really important to the question:--

