HABITAT.--Thian Shan mountains, north of Kashgar, and Yarkand, at elevations exceeding 9000 feet.

DESCRIPTION.--During winter light greyish-brown on the sides of the body, with a dark line
down the middle of the back, white below. In summer the grey changes to dark brown. The horns
describe a circle of about one and a quarter when viewed from the side, and point directly
outwards. One of the finest specimens I have seen, which was exhibited at a meeting of the
Asiatic Society in December 1879, and is now in the Indian Museum, measures over sixty-seven
inches from base to tip along the curve, with a circumference at base of sixteen inches and
a width from tip to tip in a straight line of fifty-three inches; one in the British Museum
measures sixty-three inches, but is wider in its spread, being fifty-four inches across at
the tips. Major Biddulph, who presented the head to our museum, remarked that the strength
of the neck muscles must be enormous to allow of so great a weight being easily carried, and
it was doubtless owing to this weight that the Ovis Polii and other great sheep that he had
observed had a very erect carriage, which has also been noticed by others of the Ovis Ammon.

I have never seen this animal in the flesh, and can only therefore give what I gather from
others about it, which is not much, as it is not very well known.

SIZE.--Stands nearly four feet at the shoulder.

In the article on Asiatic sheep by Sir Victor Brooke and Mr. B. Brooke in the 'Proceedings
of the Zoological Society' in 1875, there is an excellent series of engravings of horns of
these animals, amongst which are two of Ovis Polii. The description of the animal itself appears
to be faulty, for it is stated that around the neck is a pure white mane, whereas Mr. Blanford
wrote to the Society a few months later to the effect that he had examined a series of skins
brought from Kashgar, and found that none possess a trace of a mane along the neck, as represented
in a plate of the animal, there being some long hair behind the horns and a little between
the shoulders, but none on the back of the neck. The animal has a very short tail also--so
short it can hardly be seen in life. According to M. Severtzoff there is a dark line above
the spinal column from the shoulders to the loins; a white anal disc surrounds the tail; this
disc above is bordered by a rather dark line, but below it extends largely over the hinder
parts of the thighs, shading gradually into the brown colour of the legs. The light greyish-brown
of the sides shades off into white towards the belly.

He gives the following particulars concerning its habits: "It is not a regular inhabitant of
the mountains, but of high situated hilly plains, where Festuca, Artemisia, and even Salsolae
form its principal food. It only takes to the mountains for purposes of concealment, avoiding
even then the more rocky localities. It keeps to the same localities summer and winter. Its
speed is very great, but the difficulty in overtaking wounded specimens may be partly attributed
to the distressing effect of the rarefied air upon the horses, which has apparently no effect
whatever on the sheep. The weight of an old specimen killed and gralloched by M. Severtzoff
was too much for a strong mountain camel, the animal requiring four hours to do four versts
(2.6 miles), and being obliged to lie down several times during the journey. He reckons the
entire weight of a male Ovis Polii to be not less than 16 or 17 poods (576 to 612 lbs.); the
head and horns alone weigh over two poods (72 lbs.)."[33]

[Footnote 33: It must be remembered that at such great elevations a camel is unable to bear
a very heavy load.]

I have before me a beautiful photograph by Mr. Oscar Malitte, of Dehra Doon, of a very large
skull of this sheep, with the measurements given. The photograph is an excellent one of a magnificent
head, and I should say if the measurements have been correctly made, that the horns are the
longest, though not the thickest, on record.

The dimensions given are as follows:--

                      Inches.
  Round the curve       73
  From tip to tip       48
  Girth at base         14

The next largest head to this is the very fine one in the Indian Museum, presented by Major
Biddulph:--

                      Inches.
  Round the curve       67
  From tip to tip       53
  Girth at base         16

There is another in the British Museum:--

                      Inches.
  Round the curve       63
  From tip to tip       54
  Girth at base         16

From the above measurements it will be seen that the horns in the photograph before me are
of greater length, but not so massive as the other two. They are also more compressed in their
curvature than the others, and so the tip to tip measurement is less. The skull appears to
be that of a very old animal; the horns are quite joined at the base, and from the incrustation
on the bones I should say it had been picked up, and was not a shikar trophy. Anyhow it is
a valuable specimen.[34]

[Footnote 34: See notes to Ovis Polii in Appendix C.]

NO. 439. OVIS HODGSONI. The Argali or Ovis Ammon of Thibet.

NATIVE NAMES.--Hyan, Nuan, Nyan, Niar, Nyaud or Gnow.

HABITAT.--The Thibetan Himalayas at 15,000 feet and upwards.

DESCRIPTION.--The following description was given by a correspondent of the Civil and Military
Gazette in the issue of the 21st October, 1880: "The male dark earthy brown above, lighter
below; rump lighter coloured; tail one inch; white ruff of long hairs on throat and chin; hair
of body short, brittle, and close-set. The female darker coloured than the male, and may often
be distinguished, when too far to see the horns, by the dark hue of the neck." Both male and
female are horned; the horns of the former are very large, some are reported as being as much
as four feet long, and 22 inches in circumference at the base. Dr. Jerdon quotes Colonel Markham
in giving 24 inches as the circumference of one pair. They are deeply rugose, triangular, and
compressed, deeper than broad at the base, forming a bold sweep of about four-fifths of a circle,
the points turning outwards, and ending obtusely. The horns of the female are mentioned by
various writers as being from 18 to 22 inches, slightly curved; but the correspondent of the
Civil and Military Gazette above quoted gives 24 inches as his experience.

SIZE.--From 10 to 12 hands, sometimes an inch over.

A very interesting account of this animal, with a good photograph of the head, is given in
Kinloch's 'Large Game-shooting in Thibet and the North-west.' He says: "In winter the Ovis
Ammon inhabits the lower and more sheltered valleys, where the snow does not lie in any great
quantity. As summer advances, the males separate from the females, and betake themselves to
higher and more secluded places. They appear to be particular in their choice of a locality,
repairing year after year to the same places, where they may always be found, and entirely
neglecting other hills which apparently possess equal advantages as regards pasturage and water.
Without a knowledge of their haunts a sportsman might wander for days and never meet with old
rams, although perhaps never very far from them. I have myself experienced this, having hunted
for days over likely ground without seeing even the track of a ram, and afterwards, under the
guidance of an intelligent Tartar, found plenty of them on exactly similar ground a mile or
two from where I had been. The flesh of the Ovis Ammon, like that of all the Thibetan ruminants,
is excellent; it is always tender, even on the day it is killed, and of very good flavour,
possibly caused by the aromatic herbs which constitute so large a portion of the scanty vegetation
of those arid regions.

"No animal is more wary than the Ovis Ammon, and this, combined with the open nature of the
ground which it usually inhabits, renders it perhaps the most difficult of all beasts to approach.
It is however, of course, sometimes found on ground where it can be stalked, but even then
it is most difficult to obtain a quiet shot, as the instant one's head is raised one of the
herd is nearly sure to give the alarm, and one only gets a running shot.

"Ovis Ammon shooting requires a great deal of patience. In the first place, unless the sportsman
has very good information regarding the ground, he may wander for days before he discovers
the haunts of the old rams; and, secondly, he may find them on ground where it is hopeless
to approach them. In the latter case all that can be done is to wait, watch them until they
move to better ground, and if they will not do this the same day, they must be left till the
next. Sooner or later they will move to ground where they can be stalked, and then, if proper
care is exercised, they are not much more difficult to get near than other animals; but the
greatest precautions must be taken to prevent being seen before one fires. Some men may think
this sort of shooting too troublesome, and resort to driving, but this is very uncertain work,
and frightens the animals away, when, by the exercise of patience, a quiet shot might be obtained."

A writer in The Asian, whose 'Sportsman's Guide to Kashmir and Ladakh' contains most valuable
information, writes thus in the issue of August 30, 1881, of the keen sense of smell possessed
by this animal, and I take the liberty of quoting a paragraph:--

"The Ovis Ammon is possessed of the sense of smell to a remarkable degree, and, as every one
who has stalked in Ladakh is aware, the wind is treacherous. If the stalker feels a puff of
wind on his back when within 700 or 800 yards of the game, he well knows that it is 'all up.'
On the tops of the mountains and in the vicinity of glaciers these puffs of wind are of frequent
occurrence; often they will only last for a few seconds, but that is sufficiently long to ruin
the chance of getting a shot at the Ovis. Except for this one fact, we cannot admit that the
nyan is harder to approach than any other hill sheep."

NO. 440. OVIS KARELINI. Karelin's Wild Sheep.

NATIVE NAMES.--Ar or Ghuljar (male), Arka (female), Khirghiz; Kulja, Turki of Kashgar.

HABITAT.--Mountains north-west of Kashgar, and thence northwards beyond the Thian Shan mountains
on to the Semiretchinsk Altai.

DESCRIPTION (by Sir Victor Brooke and Mr. Brooke, translated and abstracted from Severtzoff,
see 'P. Z. S.' 1875, p. 512).--"The horns are moderately thick, with rather rounded edges;
frontal surface very prominent, orbital surface rather flat, narrowing only in the last third
of its length. The horns are three times as long as the skull. The basal and terminal axis
of the horns rise parallel with each other; the median axis parallel with the axis of the skull.
The neck is covered by a white mane, shaded with greyish-brown. The light brown of the back
and sides is separated from the yellowish-white of the belly by a wide dark line. The light
brown of the upper parts gets gradually lighter towards the tail, where it becomes greyish-white,
but does not form a sharply marked anal disc. On the back there is a sharply marked dark line
running from the shoulders to the loins. I did not find any soft hair under the long winter
hair in October."

SIZE.--Height at the shoulder, 3 feet 6 inches; length of the horns, from 44 to 45 inches.

The following is a description by Dr. Stoliczka of this animal, which he took to be Ovis Polii,
and described it as such, in the 'P. Z. S.' for 1874, page 425. In the same volume is a plate
which, however, is shewn by Mr. Blanford ('Sc. Res. Second Yarkand Mission,' p. 83) to be inaccurate:--

"Male in winter dress.--General colour above hoary brown, distinctly rufescent or fawn on the
upper hind neck and above the shoulders, darker on the loins, with a dark line extending along
the ridge of tail to the tip. Head above and at the sides a greyish-brown, darkest on the hind
head, where the central hairs are from four to five inches long, while between the shoulders
somewhat elongated hairs indicate a short mane. Middle of upper neck hoary white, generally
tinged with fawn; sides of body and the upper part of the limbs shading from brown to white,
the hair becoming more and more tipped with the latter colour. Face, all the lower parts, limbs,
tail, and all the hinder parts, extending well above towards the loins, pure white.

"The hairs on the lower neck are very much lengthened, being from five to six inches long.
Ears hoary brown externally, almost white internally. Pits in front of the eye distinct, of
moderate size and depth, and the hair round them generally somewhat darker brown than the rest
of sides of the head. The nose is slightly arched and the muzzle sloping. The hair is strong,
wiry, and very thickly set, and at the base intermixed with scanty, very fine fleece; the average
length of the hairs on the back is 2 to 2-1/2 inches. The iris is brown. The horns are subtriangular,
touching each other at the base, curving gradually with a long sweep backwards and outwards;
and, after completing a full circle, the compressed points again curve backwards and outwards;
their surface is more or less closely transversely ridged.

"The colour of full-grown females does not differ essentially from that of the males, except
that the former have much less white on the middle of the upper neck. The snout is sometimes
brown, sometimes almost entirely white, the dark eye-pits becoming then particularly conspicuous.
The dark ridge along the tail is also scarcely traceable. In size, both sexes of Ovis Polii
appear to be very nearly equal, but the head of the female is less massive, and the horns,
as in allied species, are comparatively small: the length of horn of one of the largest females
obtained is 14 inches along the periphery, the distance at the tips being 15 inches, and at
the base a little more than one inch. The horns themselves are much compressed; the upper anterior
ridge is wanting on them; they curve gradually backwards and outwards towards the tip, though
they do not nearly complete even a semicircle. In young males, the horns at first resemble
in direction and slight curvature those of the female, but they are always thicker at the base
and distinctly triangular.

"The length of the biggest horn of male along the periphery of curve was 56 inches, and the
greatest circumference of a horn of a male specimen at the base 18-1/2 inches.

"Mr. Blyth, the original describer of Ovis Polii, from its horns, was justified in expecting,
from their enormous size, a correspondingly large-bodied animal; but in reality such does not
appear to exist. Although the distance between the tips of the horns seems to be generally
about equal to the length of the body, and although the horns are very much larger, but not
thicker or equally massive, with those of the Ovis Ammon of the Himalayas, the body of the
latter seems to be comparatively higher. Still it is possible that the Ovis Polii of the Pamir
may stand higher than the specimens described, which were obtained from the Tian Shan range.

"Large flocks of Ovis Polii were observed on the undulating high plateau to the south of the
Chadow-Kul, where grass vegetation is abundant. At the time the officers of the Mission visited
this ground, i.e. in the beginning of January, it was the rutting season. The characters of
the ground upon the Pamir and upon the part of the Tian Shan inhabited by these wild sheep
are exactly similar."

The following remarks on the habits of this species are from Sir Victor Brooke's abstract of
Servertzoft's description: "Ovis Karelini, like other sheep, does not live exclusively amongst
the rocks, as is the case with the different species of Capra. It is not satisfied, like the
latter, with small tufts of grass growing in the clefts of the rocks, but requires more extensive
feeding grounds; it is, therefore, more easily driven from certain districts than is the case
with Capra. In the neighbourhood of Kopal, for instance, the goats are abundant in the central
parts of the steppes of Kara, whilst the sheep have been partially driven from these places,
only visiting them in autumn.

"On the southern ranges of the Semiretchinsk Altai, in the vicinity of the river Ili, wherever
good meadows and rocky places are found, Ovis Karelini occurs at elevations of from 2000 to
3000 feet; at the sources of the rivers Lepsa, Sarkan, Kora, Karatala, and Koksa it goes as
high as 10,000, and even to 12,000 feet in the neighbourhood of the Upper Narin. In winter
it is found at much lower elevations."

In a paper by Captain H. Trotter, R.E., read before the Royal Geographical Society on the 13th
of May, 1878, on the geographical results of the mission to Kashgar under Sir Douglas Forsyth
('Journal R. G. S.' vol. xlviii., 1878, p. 193), I find the following account refering to this
sheep, there mentioned under the name of Ovis Polii: "For twenty-five miles above Chakmak the
road continues gently ascending along the course of the frozen stream, passing through volcanic
rocks to Turgat Bela, a little short of which the nature of the country alters, and the precipitous
hills are replaced by gently undulating grassy slopes, abounding with the Ovis Polii.[35]

"These extensive grassy slopes, somewhat resembling the English downs, are a very curious feature
of the country, and not only attract the Kirghiz as grazing grounds for their cattle, but are
equally sought after by the large herds of guljar, in one of which Dr. Stoliczka counted no
less than eighty-five."

[Footnote 35: Ovis Heinsi and Ovis nigromontana are doubtful species allied to the foregoing,
and are not found within the limits assigned to this work.]

The Chakmak and Turgat Bela spoken of are on the southern slopes of the Thian Shan mountains,
which form the boundary between Russia and Eastern Turkestan, separating the provinces of Semiretchinsk
and Kashghar. The Turgat pass, about 12,760 feet, lies between the Kashgharian fort of Chakmak
and the Russian fort Naryn or Narin. Captain Trotter mentions in a foot-note that these sheep,
as well as ibex, abound in these hills in such large quantities that they form the principal
food of the garrisons of the outposts. At Chakmak they saw a large shed piled up to the roof
with the frozen carcases of these animals. (A most valuable map of the country is published
in the 'Journal' with this paper.)

The chief difference between this species and Ovis Polii consists in the much greater length
and divergence of horns of the latter and the longer hair on the neck.

NO. 441. OVIS BROOKEI. Brooke's Wild Sheep.

HABITAT.--Ladakh, or probably the Kuenluen range north of Ladakh.

DESCRIPTION.--This species is founded on a single specimen, which, in the opinion of Mr. Blyth,
Mr. Edwin Ward, F.Z.S., Sir Victor Brooke and others, differed materially from all other wild
sheep, but, as they had only a head to go upon, further investigation in this direction is
necessary. It is not even certain where the animal was shot, but it is believed to have been
obtained in the vicinity of Leh in Ladakh. It is apparently allied to the O. Ammon of Thibet,
which Sir Victor and Mr. B. Brooke term in their paper O. Hodgsonii, but it differs in its
much smaller size, in its deeply sulcated horns, the angles of which are very much rounded,
and the terminal curve but slightly developed. It differs also from O. Vignei and O. Karelini.
The orbits project less, with greater width between them, the length of the molar teeth also
exceeds the others. There are two wood-cuts of the skull and horns in the 'P. Z. S.' 1874,
page 143, illustrating Mr. Edwin Ward's paper on the subject.

The following are the dimensions of the specimen:--

                                       Inches.
  Length of skull                        11
  Smallest breadth between orbits         4-5/8
  Length of horns, round curve           33-1/2
  Circumference of horns                 13-3/8

NO. 442. OVIS VIGNEI. Vigne's Wild Sheep.

NATIVE NAMES.--Sha or Shapoo.

HABITAT.--Little Thibet; Ladakh, from 12,000 to 14,000 feet.

DESCRIPTION.--General colour brownish-grey, beneath paler; belly white; a short beard of stiffish
brown hair; the horns of the male are sub-triangular, rather compressed laterally and rounded
posteriorly, deeply sulcated, curving outward and backward from the skull; points divergent.
The female is beardless, with small horns. The male horns run from 25 to 35 inches, but larger
have been recorded.

This sheep was for some time, and is still by some, confounded with the oorial (Ovis cycloceros),
but there are distinct differences, as will be seen further on, when I sum up the evidence.
It inhabits the elevated ranges of Ladakh, and is found in Baltistan, where it is called the oorin.

NO. 443. OVIS CYCLOCEROS. The Punjab Wild Sheep (Jerdon's No. 236).

NATIVE NAMES.--Oorial or Ooria, in the Punjab; Koch or Kuch, in the Suleiman range.

HABITAT.--The Salt range of the Punjab; on the Suleiman range; the Hazarah hills; and the vicinity
of Peshawar.

DESCRIPTION.--General colour rufous brown; face livid, side of mouth and chin white; a long
thick black beard mixed with white hairs from throat to breast, reaching to the knees; legs
below knees and feet white; belly white, a blotch on the flanks; outside of legs and a lateral
line blackish. The horns of the male are sub-triangular, much compressed laterally and posteriorly;
in fact one may say concave at the sides, that is, from the base of the horn to about one half;
transversely sulcated; curving outwards, and returning inward towards the face; points convergent.
The female is more uniform pale brown, with whitish belly; no beard, and short straight horns.

SIZE.--About 5 feet in length, and 3 feet high; horns from 25 to 30 inches round the curve.[36]
The marked distinctions between the two species may be thus briefly summed up:--

  Ovis Vignei.
  Horn rather compressed laterally.
  Rounded posteriorly.
  Curving outward and backward.
  Points divergent.
  General colour, brownish-grey.
  Beard short, of stiffish brown hairs.

  Ovis cycloceros.
  Horn much compressed laterally.
  Much compressed posteriorly.
  Curving outward and inward.
  Points convergent.
  General colour, rufous brown, with blotch on flanks and lateral
    line blackish.
  Beard profuse, reaching to knees, black intermixed with white
    hairs.

[Footnote 36: See also Appendix C.]

Mr. Sclater, with reference to the two in his paper on the Punjab Sheep living in the Zoological
Society's Garden in 1860 ('P. Z. S.' 1860, page 126), says: "On comparing the skull (of O.
cycloceros) with that of the shapoo we observe a general resemblance. But it may be noted that
the sub-orbital pits in the present species are smaller, deeper, and more rounded; the nasal
bones are considerably shorter and more pointed, and the series of molar teeth (formed in each
skull of three premolars and three molars) measures only 2.85 instead of 3.20 inches in total
length."

There is a fine coloured plate of this animal in that magnificent folio work--Wolf's 'Zoological
Sketches,' showing the male, female, and lambs; and in that valuable book of Kinloch's, 'Large
Game-shooting in Thibet and the North-west' is a very clear photograph of the oorial's head,
from which I give the above sketch. He gives the following account of its habits: "The oorial
is found among low stony hills and ravines, which are generally more or less covered with thin
jungle, consisting principally of thorny bushes. During the heat of the day the oorial conceal
themselves a good deal, retiring to the most secluded places, but often coming down to feed
in the evening on the crops surrounding the villages. Where not much disturbed, they will stay
all day in the neighbourhood of their feeding grounds, and allow sheep and cattle to feed amongst
them without concern; but where they have been much fired at they usually go a long distance
before settling themselves for the day. They are generally found on capital ground for stalking,
the chief drawback being the stony nature of the hills, which renders it difficult to walk
silently. When fired at, oorial usually go leisurely away, stopping to gaze every now and then,
so that several shots may often be fired at one herd."

Dr. Leith Adams says regarding it, that it "frequents bleak and barren mountains, composed
of low ranges intersected by ravines and dry river courses, where vegetation is scanty at all
seasons, and goats and sheep are seldom driven to pasture. It is found in small herds, and,
being fond of salt, is generally most abundant in the neighbourhood of salt mines. Shy and
watchful, it is difficult to approach, and possesses in an eminent degree the senses of sight
and smell. It is seldom seen in the day-time, being secreted among rocks, whence it issues
at dusk to feed in the fields and valleys, returning to its retreat at daybreak.

"When suddenly alarmed the males gives a loud shrill whistle, like the ibex. This is an invariable
signal for the departure of the herd, which keeps moving all the rest of the day until dusk.
Their bleat is like that of the tame species; and the males fight in the same way, but the
form of the body and infra-orbital pits simulate the deer, hence it is often called the 'deer-sheep.'
It equals the deer in speed and activity. The female gestates seven months. The rutting season
is in September."

According to Captain Hutton the flesh is good and well-flavoured, "while the horns are placed
as trophies of success and proofs of skill upon tombs and temples."

This sheep has bred in the Gardens of the Zoological Society in London. (See notes to Oorial
in Appendix C.)

NO. 444. OVIS BLANFORDII. Blanford's Wild Sheep.

HABITAT.--Central hills of Khelat.

DESCRIPTION.--The horns of this species are longer and more slender than those of Ovis Vignei,
O. cycloceros, or O. Gmelini. Mr. Hume says ('J. A. S. B.' 1877, p. 327): "In all these three
species, as far as I can make out, each horn lies in one plane, whereas in the present species
the horn twists out in a capital-S fashion. There is, in fact, much the same difference between
the horns of the present species and of O. cycloceros, that there is between those of O. Kareleni
and O. Hodgsoni. The lower part of the forehead at the nasal suture, and the whole of the frontals,
are more raised and convex than in either O. cycloceros or O. Vignei.

"The frontal ridge between the bases of the horns is less developed in O. Blanfordii, and in
this latter the posterior convex margin of the bony palate is differently shaped, being more
pointed, and not nearly semi-circular as in O. cycloceros."

The dimensions of the skull are given in detail by Mr. Hume in the paper above quoted, out
of which I extract those of the horns:--

                                        Inches.
  Length along curve                     35.75
  Circumference at base                   9.0
  Width from tip to tip                  16.5
  Greatest breadth of horn at base        2.25
  Greatest depth of ditto                 3.25

The horns of a specimen of O. cycloceros of about the same age were 29.5 in length and 10 inches
in circumference at base, so that the greater length and slenderness of the horns of Ovis Blanfordii
are apparent. Mr. Hume writes to me that there is a living specimen of this sheep at present
in the London Zoological Gardens.

NO. 445. OVIS NAHURA vel BURHEL. The Blue Wild Sheep (Jerdon's No. 237).

NATIVE NAMES.--Burhel, Buroot, in the Himalayas; Napu, Na, or Sna, Thibet and Ladakh; Nervati,
in Nepal. Wa' or War on the Sutlej.

HABITAT.--This animal has a wide range; it is found from Sikim, and, as Jerdon says, probably
Bhotan, right away through Thibet, as Pere David found it in Moupin, and it extends up to the
Kuenluen mountains north of Ladakh, and in Ladakh itself, and it has been obtained by Prejevalski
on the Altyn-Tagh, therefore the limits assigned by Jerdon must be considerably extended.

DESCRIPTION.--General colour a dull slaty blue, slightly tinged with fawn; the belly, edge
of buttocks, and tail, white; throat, chest, front of fore-arm and cannon bone, a line along
the flank dividing the darker tint from the belly; the edge of the hind limbs and the tip of
the tail deep black; horns moderately smooth, with few wrinkles, rounded, nearly touching at
the base, directed upwards, backwards and outwards, the points being turned forwards and inwards.
The female is smaller, the black marks smaller and of less extent; small, straight, slightly
recurved horns; nose straighter. The young are darker and browner.

SIZE.--Length of head and body, 4-1/2 to 5 feet; height, 30 to 36 inches; tail, 7 inches; horns,
2 to 2-1/2 feet round the curve; circumference at base, 12 to 13 inches.

An excellent coloured plate is to be found in Blanford's 'Scientific Results of the Second
Yarkand Mission' and a life-like photograph of the head in Kinloch's 'Large Game-shooting.'
According to the latter author the burrel prefers bare rocky hills, and when inhabiting those
which are clothed with forest, rarely or never descends to the limits of the trees. "The favourite
resorts of burrel are those hills which have slopes well covered with grass in the immediate
vicinity of steep precipices, to which they can at once betake themselves in case of alarm.
Females and young ones frequently wander to more rounded and accessible hills, but I have never
met with old males very far from some rocky stronghold. The males and females do not appear
to separate entirely during the summer, as I have found mixed flocks at all seasons, though,
as a rule, the old males form themselves into small herds and live apart. In my opinion the
flesh of the burrel surpasses in flavour the best mutton, and has moreover the advantage of
being generally tender soon after the animal is killed."

According to Jerdon the burrel is fattest in September and October. In the 'Indian Sporting
Review' a writer, "Mountaineer," states that in winter, when they get snowed in, they actually
browse the hair off each other, and come out miserably thin.

The name Ovis nahura is not a felicitous one, as it was given under a mistake by Hodgson, the
nahoor being quite another animal. I think Blyth's name of Ovis burhel should be adopted to
the exclusion of the other, which, however, is in general use.

There is a very interesting paper on this animal by Mr. R. Lydekker in the 'Journal of the
Asiatic Society of Bengal,' vol. xlix., 1880, in which he points out its affinity to the goats
from the absence of eye-pits and their larminal depression in the lachrymal bone--from the
similarity of the basi-occipital and in the structure and colour of its horns. On the other
hand it agrees with Ovis in the form of its lower jaw, in the absence of beard and any odour,
and in the possession of interdigital pores in all feet.

GENUS CAPRA--THE GOATS.

Horns in both sexes curving backwards, angular and flattened, or in some cases twisted spirally.
The nose is arched, and the chin of both sexes is more or less bearded; there are no eye-pits
or inguinal pits, and feet-pits only in the fore-feet in most, and none in some. Mr. Blyth
some years ago pointed out that a hind-quarter of goat with the foot attached can always be
told from the same piece of mutton by the absence of the feet-pits in the goat. The males especially
emit a strong odour. In other respects there is little difference between goats and sheep,
and by interbreeding they produce a fertile offspring. Our domestic goat is supposed to have
descended from the ibex, but certainly some of our Indian varieties may claim descent from
the markhor. I noticed in 1880 at Simla herds of goats with horns quite of the markhor type,
and one old fellow in a herd of about one hundred, which was being driven through the station
to some rajah's place in the vicinity, had a remarkably fine head, with the broad flat twist
of the markhor horn. I tried in vain to get a similar one; several heads were brought to me
from the bazaar, but they were poor in comparison. Goats are more prolific than sheep. The
power of gestation commences at the early age of seven months; the period is five months, and
the female produces sometimes twice a year, and from two to occasionally four at a birth. The
goat is a hardy animal, subsisting on the coarsest herbage, but its flesh and milk can be immensely
improved by a selected diet. Some of the small domestic goats of Bengal are wonderful milkers.
I have kept them for years in Calcutta for the use of my children, and once took two of them
with me to Marseilles by the 'Messageries' Steamers. I prefer them to the larger goats of the
North-west. My children have been singularly free from ailments during their infancy, and I
attribute the immunity chiefly to the use of goats' milk drawn fresh as required. Of the wild
goats, to which I must now confine my attention, there are two groups, viz. the true goats
and the antelope goats. Of the former there is a sub-genus--Hemitragus--which have no feet-pits,
but have a muffle and occasionally four mammae, which form a connecting link with the Cervidae.
In all other respects Hemitragus is distinctly caprine.

NO. 446. CAPRA MEGACEROS. The Markhor (Jerdon's No. 234).

NATIVE NAMES.--Mar-khor (i.e. snake-eater), in Afghanistan, Kashmir, &c.; Ra-che, or Ra-pho-che,
Ladakhi.

HABITAT.--The mountain districts of Afghanistan, and the highest parts of the Thibetan Himalayas.
On the Pir Panjal, in Kashmir, the Hazarah hills, the hills north of the Jhelum, the Wurdwan
hills west of the Beas river, on the Suleiman range, and in Ladakh.

DESCRIPTION.--General colour a dirty light-blue gray, with a darker beard; in summer with a
reddish tinge; the neck and breast clad with long dark hair, reaching to the knees; hair long
and shaggy; fore-legs brown. The females are redder, with shorter hair, short black beard,
but no mane, and with small horns slightly twisted.

The horns of an old male are a magnificent trophy. Kinloch records having seen a pair, of which
the unbroken horn measured sixty-three inches, and its fellow, which had got damaged, had fifty-seven
inches left. Forty to fifty inches is, however, a fair average. According to Kinloch the very
long horns are not so thick and massive as those of average length. Jerdon says the longest
horns have three complete spiral twists.

The horns of certain varieties differ so much that I may say species have been settled with
less to go upon. Kinloch notes four varieties. I have hitherto reckoned only two, but he gives--

No. 1.--Pir Panjal markhor; heavy, flat horns, twisted like a corkscrew.

No. 2.--Trans-Indus markhor; perfectly straight horns, with a spiral flange or ridge running
up them.

No. 3.--Hazarah markhor; a slight corkscrew, as well as a twist.

No. 4.--Astor and Baltistan markhor; large, flat horns, branching out very widely, and then
going up nearly straight with only a half turn.

Of the two kinds I have seen, the one has the broad flat horn twisted like a corkscrew; the
other a perfectly straight core, with the worm of a screw turned round it. Nothing could be
more dissimilar than these horns, yet, in other respects the animal being the same, it has
not been considered necessary to separate the two as distinct species.[37]

[Footnote 37: Colonel Kinloch writes on my remarks as above, and gives the following interesting
information: "I cannot consider the spiral-horned and the straight-horned markhor to be one
species, any more than the Himalayan and Sindh ibex. The animals differ much in size, habits,
and coat, as well as in the shape of their horns. Mr. Sterndale considers that the markhor
is probably the origin of some of our breeds of domestic goats, and states that he has seen
tame goats with horns quite of the markhor type. Has he ever observed that (as far as my experience
goes) the horns of domestic goats invariably twist the reverse way to those of markhor? I have
observed that the horns of not only markhor, but also antelope, always twist one way; those
of domestic goats the other."]

SIZE.--Height, about 46 inches.

There is a life-like photograph of No. 1 variety in Kinloch's 'Large Game of Thibet,' and of
No. 3 a very fine coloured plate in Wolf's folio of 'Zoological Sketches.'

The markhor frequents steep and rocky ground above the forests in summer, but descending in
the winter. I cannot do better than quote Kinloch, who gives the following graphic little description:
"The markhor inhabits the most precipitous and difficult ground, where nearly perpendicular
faces of rock alternate with steep grassy slopes and patches of forest. It is very shy and
secluded in its habits, remaining concealed in the densest thickets during the day-time, and
only coming out to feed in the mornings and evenings. No animal's pursuit leads the sportsman
over such dangerous ground as that of the markhor. Living so much in the forest, it must be
followed over steep inclines of short grass, which the melting snow has left with all the blades
flattened downwards; and amid pine-trees, whose needle-like spines strew the ground and render
it more slippery and treacherous than ice. If one falls on such ground, one instantly begins
to slide down the incline with rapidly increasing velocity, and, unless some friendly bush
or stone arrests one's progress, the chances are that one is carried over some precipice, and
either killed or severely injured. Many hair-breadth escapes occur, and the only wonder is
that fatal accidents so seldom happen.

"Early in the season the males and females may be found together on the open grassy patches
and clear slopes among the forest, but during the summer the females generally betake themselves
to the highest rocky ridges above the forest, while the males conceal themselves still more
constantly in the jungle, very rarely showing themselves. They are always very wary, and require
great care in stalking them."

NO. 447. CAPRA SIBIRICA. The Himalayan Ibex (Jerdon's No. 235).

NATIVE NAMES.--Sakin, Iskin, or Skeen of the Himalayas; Buz, in the upper part of the Sutlej;
Kale, Kashmiri; Tangrol, in Kulu; Skin, the male, L'Damuo the female, in Ladakh.

HABITAT.--Throughout the Himalayas from Kashmir to Nepal. The localities given by Kinloch are
Kunawar, Kulu, Lahoul, Spiti, Kashmir, Baltistan, and various parts of Thibet; also Ladakh
according to Horsfield.

DESCRIPTION.--General colour light brownish, with a dark stripe down the back in summer, dirty
yellowish-white in winter; the beard, which is about six to eight inches long, is black; the
horns, which are like those of the European ibex, are long and scimitar-shaped, curving over
the neck, flattened at the sides, and strongly ridged in front; from forty to fifty inches
in length. A pair is recorded in the 'Proceedings of the Zoological Society' for 1840 of fifty-one
inches in length. The females have thin slightly curved horns about a foot long.

Under the hair, which is about two inches long, is a soft down, and is highly prized for the
fine soft cloth called tusi.

SIZE.--Height at shoulder, about 44 inches.

According to Colonel Markham the ibex "frequents the highest ground near the snows where food
is to be obtained. The sexes live apart generally, often in flocks of one hundred and more.
In October the males descend and mix with the females, which have generally twins in June and
July. It is an extremely wary and timid animal, and can make its way in an almost miraculous
manner over the most inaccessible-looking ground. No animal can exceed the ibex in endurance
and agility."

Kinloch writes as follows concerning it:--

"The ibex inhabits the most precipitous ground in the highest parts of the ranges where it
is found, keeping above the forest (when there is any), unless driven down by severe weather.
In the day-time it generally betakes itself to the most inaccessible crags, where it may sleep
and rest in undisturbed security, merely coming down to the grassy feeding grounds in the mornings
and evenings. Occasionally, in very remote and secluded places, the ibex will stay all day
on their feeding grounds, but this is not common. In summer, as the snows melt, the old males
retire to the highest and most unfrequented mountains, and it is then generally useless to
hunt for them, as they have such a vast range, and can find food in places perfectly inaccessible
to man. The females and young ones may be met with all the year round, and often at no very
great elevation.

"Although an excessively wary animal, the ibex is usually found on such broken ground that,
if due care be taken, it is not very difficult to obtain a shot. The grand rule, as in all
other hill stalking, is to keep well above the herd, whose vigilance is chiefly directed beneath
them. In places where they have been much disturbed, one or two of the herd usually keep a
sharp look-out while the rest are feeding, and on the slightest suspicion of danger the sentries
utter a loud whistle, which is a signal for a general rush to the nearest rocks. Should the
sportsman succeed in obtaining a shot before he is observed by the ibex, he may often have
time to fire several shots before they are out of range, as they appear to be completely stupefied
and confused by the sudden noise, the cause of which they are unable to account for if they
neither see nor smell their enemy."

Jerdon states that Major Strutt killed in the Balti valley an ibex of a rich hair-brown colour,
with a yellowish-white saddle in the middle of its back, and a dark mesial line; the head,
neck and limbs being of a dark sepia brown, with a darker line on the front of the legs; others
were seen in the same locality by Major Strutt of a still darker colour. These seem to be peculiar
to Balti; the horns are the same as the others. Kinloch remarks that a nearly black male ibex
has been shot to the north of Iskardo.

NO. 448. CAPRA AEGAGRUS. The Wild Goat of Asia Minor.

NATIVE NAMES.--Pasang (male), Boz (female), generally Boz-Pasang, Persian (Blanford); Kayeek
in Asia Minor (Danford).

HABITAT.--Throughout Asia Minor from the Taurus mountains; through Persia into Sindh and Baluchistan;
and in Afghanistan. M. Pierre de Tchihatchef, late a distinguished member of the Russian Diplomatic
Service, and well known as an author and a man of science, whose acquaintance I had the pleasure
of making some time ago in Florence, found these goats most abundant on the Aladagh, Boulgerdagh
and Hussandagh ranges of the Taurus. He made a very good collection of horns and skulls there,
which are now in the Imperial Museum, St. Petersburg. Captain Hutton found it in Afghanistan.

DESCRIPTION.--Hair short and brown, becoming lighter in summer; a dark, almost black line down
the back; the males have a black beard; the young and females are lighter, with fainter markings;
the horns are of the usual ibex type, but there is a striking difference between those of this
species and all the others. As a rule the ibex horn is triangular in section, that is, the
front part of the horn is square, with transverse knobs at short intervals all the way up,
for about three-fourths of the length, whereas the horn of C. aegagrus is more scimitar-like,
flattish on the inner side and rounded on the outer, with an edge in front; the sides are wavily
corrugated, and on the outer edge are knobs at considerable distances apart. It is believed
that an estimate of the age of the animal can be made by these protuberances--after the third
year a fresh knob is made in each succeeding one. Mr. Danford says: "The yearly growths seem
to be greatest from the third to the sixth year, the subsequent additions being successively
smaller." The horns sometimes curve inwards and sometimes outwards at the tips. Mr. Danford
figures a pair, the tips of which, turning inwards, cross each other. The female horns are
shorter and less characteristic. The size of the male horns run to probably a maximum of 50
inches. There is a pair in the British Museum 48-1/2 inches on the curve. Mr. Danford's best
specimen was 47-1/2, the chord of which was 22-1/2, basal circumference 9-3/4, weight 10-1/4
lbs. Captain Hutton's living specimen had horns 40-1/2 inches in length.

SIZE.--According to Herr Kotschy "it attains not unfrequently a length of 6-1/2 feet." Mr.
Danford measured one 5 feet 5-1/2 inches from nose to tip of tail, 2 feet 9-1/2 inches at shoulder.
(See also Appendix C.)

I have not had an opportunity of measuring a very well-stuffed specimen in the Indian Museum,
but I should say that the Sind variety was much smaller. Standing, as it does, beside a specimen
of Capra Sibirica, it looks not much bigger than some of the Jumnapari goats. (See Appendix C.)

The aegagrus is commonly supposed to be the parent stock from which the domestic goat descended,
and certainly the European and many Asiatic forms show a similarity of construction in the
horn, but the common goat descended from more than one wild stock, for, as I have before stated,
there are goats in India, which show unmistakable signs of descent from the markhor, Capra
megaceros. In the article on Capra aegagrus in the 'P. Z. S.' for 1875, p. 458, by Mr. C. G.
Danford, F.Z.S., written after a recent visit to Asia Minor, it is stated that the late Captain
Hutton found it common in Afghanistan, in the Suleiman and Pishin hills, and in the Hazarah
and western ranges. I confess I had thought the ibex of these parts to be identical with C.
Sibirica. Mr. Danford, describing where he met with it, says:--

"The picturesque town of Adalia is situated at the head of the gulf of the same name, and is
the principal place in the once populous district of Pamphylia. It is surrounded on its landward
side by a wide brushwood-covered plain, bounded on the north and north-east by the Gok and
other mountains of the Taurus, and on the west by the Suleiman, a lofty spur of the same range,
in which latter the present specimens were collected.

"These mountains, the principal summit of which, the Akdagh (white mountain), attains a height
of 10,000 feet (Hoskyn), rise abruptly from the plain and sea, and are of very imposing and
rugged forms. The pure grey tints of the marble and marble-limestone, of which they are principally
composed, show beautifully between the snowy summits, and the bright green of the pines and
darker shades of the undergrowth of oak, myrtle and bay, which clothe their lower slopes.

"The wild goat is here found either solitary or in small parties and herds, which number sometimes
as many as 100; the largest which I saw contained 28. It is called by the natives kayeek, which
word, though applied in other parts of the country to the stag, and sometimes even the roe,
is here only used to designate the aegagrus, the fallow deer of this district being properly
known as jamoorcha. The old males of the aegagrus inhabit during summer the higher mountains,
being often met with on the snow, while the females and young frequent the lower and easier
ridges; in winter, however, they all seem to live pretty much together among the rocks, scattered
pines, and bushy ground, generally preferring elevations of from 2000 to 5000 feet. Herr Kotschy
says they never descend below 4000 feet in Cilicia; but his observations were made in summer.

"Like all the ibex tribe, the aegagrus is extremely shy and wary at ordinary times, though,
as in the case with many other animals, they may be easily approached during the rutting season.
I was told that they were often brought within shot at that time by the hunter secreting himself,
and rolling a few small stones down the rocks. When suddenly disturbed they utter a short angry
snort, and make off at a canter rather than a gallop. Though their agility among the rocks
is marvellous, they do not, according to Mr. Hutton ('Calcutta Journ.' vii. p. 524), possess
sufficient speed to enable them to escape from the dogs which are employed to hunt them in
the low lands of Afghanistan. It is interesting to see how, when danger is dreaded, the party
is always led by the oldest male, who advances with great caution, and carefully surveys the
suspected ground before the others are allowed to follow; their food consists principally of
mountain grasses, shoots of different small species of oak and cedar, and various berries.
The young are dropped in May, and are one or two (Kotschy says sometimes three) in number.
The horns appear very early, as shown in a kid of the year procured in the beginning of January."

It appears to be very much troubled with ticks, and an oestrus or bot which deposits its larvae
in the frontal sinuses and cavities of the horns.

SUB-GENUS HEMITRAGUS.

Some naturalists do not separate this from Capra, but the majority do on the following characteristics,
viz. that they possess a small muffle, and one of the two species has four mammae. The horns
are trigonal, laterally compressed and knotted on the upper edge.

NO. 449. CAPRA vel HEMITRAGUS JEMLAICUS. The Tahr (Jerdon's No. 232).

NATIVE NAMES.--Tehr, Jehr, near Simla; Jharal, in Nepal; Kras and Jagla, in Kashmir; Kart,
in Kulu; Jhula the male, and Thar or Tharni the female, in Kunawur; Esbu and Esbi, male and
female, on the Sutlej above Chini (Jerdon).

HABITAT.--Throughout the entire range of the Himalayas, at high elevations between the forest
and snow limits. According to Dr. Leith Adams it is very common on the Pir Panjal, and more
so near Kishtwar.

DESCRIPTION.--The male is of various shades of brown, varying in tint from dark to yellowish,
the front part and mane being ashy with a bluish tinge, the upper part of the limbs rusty brown,
the fronts of legs and belly being darker. There is no beard, the face being smooth and dark
ashy, but on the fore-quarters and neck the hair lengthens into a magnificent mane, which sometimes
reaches to the knees. There is a dark mesial line; the tail is short and nude underneath; the
horns are triangular, the sharp edge being to the front; they are about ten or eleven inches
in circumference at the base where they touch, then, sweeping like a demi-crescent backwards,
they taper to a fine point in a length of about 12 to 14 inches. The male has at times a very
strong odour. The female is smaller, and of a reddish-brown or fulvous drab above, with a dark
streak down the back, whitish below; the horns are also much smaller.

SIZE.--Length of head and body, about 4-1/2 feet. Height, 36 to 40 inches.

Col. Kinloch, whose two volumes are most valuable, both as regards interesting details and
perfect illustrations, speaks thus of this species:--

"The tahr is a fine-looking beast, although his horns are small, and he cannot compare with
his majestic relatives, the ibex and the markhor. The male tahr is about the same size as the
ibex, but rather more heavily made. The general colour is a reddish-brown, deepening into a
much darker tint on the hind-quarters, but individuals vary a good deal, and I have shot one
which was of a yellowish-white. The face is covered with smooth short hair, and is nearly black;
the hair of the body is long and coarse, attaining its greatest length on the neck, chest and
shoulders, where it forms a fine flowing mane reaching below the animal's knees. The horns
are curious, being triangular, with the sharp edge to the front; they are very thick at the
base, and taper rapidly to a fine point, curving right back on to the neck. The largest horns
attain a length of about 14 inches, and are 10 or 11 inches in circumference at the base.

"The female tahr is very much smaller than the male; the hair is short, and the horns diminutive.
The colour is a lightish red, with a dark stripe down the back.

"The tahr is like the markhor, a forest-loving animal, and, although it sometimes resorts to
the rocky summits of the hills, it generally prefers the steep slopes, which are more or less
clothed with trees. Female tahr may be frequently found on open ground, but old males hide
a great deal in the thickest jungle, lying during the heat of the day under the shade of trees
or overhanging rocks. Nearly perpendicular hills with dangerous precipices, where the forest
consists of oak and ringall cane, are the favourite haunts of the old tahr, who climb with
ease over ground where one would hardly imagine that any animal could find a footing. Tahr
ground indeed is about the worst walking I know, almost rivalling markhor ground; the only
advantage being that, bad as it is, there are generally some bushes or grass to hold on to.

"Owing to the ground it inhabits being so covered with jungle, the pursuit of the tahr is attended
with a great deal of labour and uncertainty. Forcing one's way for hours through tangled bushes
is very fatiguing, and, as it is impossible to do so without noise, chances are often lost
which would be easy enough if the ground was more open. Frequently, although the tracks show
that old tahr must be near, and in spite of the utmost care and caution, the first intimation
one has of the presence of the game is a rush through the bushes, a clatter of falling stones,
and perhaps a glimpse of the shaggy hind-quarters of the last of the herd as he vanishes over
some precipice where it is perfectly impossible to follow him.

"Early in the spring, when grass and leaves are scarce, and again in the rutting season, are
the best times for tahr shooting, as the old males then come out on open slopes.

"The tahr is very tenacious of life, and, even when mortally wounded, he will frequently make
his escape into utterly impracticable ground. In autumn the tahr becomes immensely fat and
heavy, and his flesh is then in high favour with the natives, the rank flavour suiting their
not very delicate palates. An Englishman would rather not be within one hundred yards to leeward
of him, the perfume being equal to treble-distilled 'bouquet de bouc.' Ibex is bad enough,
but tahr is 'a caution.' The flesh of the female is, however, excellent."

Colonel Markham says: "Seen at a distance it looks like a great wild hog, but when near it
is a noble beast." According to Hodgson, it has interbred with a female spotted deer, and the
offspring, which more resembled the mother, grew up a fine animal. There is a beautifully clear
photograph in Kinloch's 'Large Game of Thibet,' and a large coloured plate in Wolf's 'Zoological
Sketches.'

NO. 450. CAPRA vel HEMITRAGUS HYLOCRIUS. The Neilgherry Wild Goat, or Ibex of Madras Sportsmen
(Jerdon's No. 233).

NATIVE NAMES.--Warra-adu or Warri-atu, Tamil.

HABITAT.--The Western Ghats, southerly towards Cape Comorin.

DESCRIPTION.--According to Jerdon, "the adult male, dark sepia brown, with a pale reddish-brown
saddle, more or less marked, and paler brown on the sides and beneath; legs somewhat grizzled
with white, dark brown in front, and paler posteriorly; the head is dark, grizzled with yellowish-brown,
and the eye is surrounded by a pale fawn-coloured spot; horns short, much curved, nearly in
contact at the base, gradually diverging, strongly keeled internally, round externally, with
numerous close rings not so prominent as in the last species. There is a large callous spot
on the knees surrounded by a fringe of hair, and the male has a short stiff mane on the neck
and withers. The hair is short, thick, and coarse."

Colonel Douglas Hamilton, writing to the late Brigadier-General McMaster, says: "I think Jerdon's
description is good, but I should call the saddles of the old males grizzled with white, and
not pale reddish-brown. A real old 'saddle-back' has a white saddle and almost jet-black points.
He makes a mistake about the length of the tail, 6 or 7 inches; it is not more than 3 inches."

SIZE.--Height at shoulder, 41 to 42 inches. Jerdon gives 32 to 34, but he appears to have under-estimated
the animal, unless it be a misprint for 42 and 44; although he questions Colonel W. Campbell's
measurements of length and height, the former of which does seem excessive (6 feet 5 inches,
including tail, probably taken from a skin), but the latter, 42 inches, is corroborated by
Colonel Hamilton and several others.

The size of the horns is given by Jerdon as occasionally 15 inches, rarely more than 12. Colonel
Douglas Hamilton says, 9 inches in circumference and 15 to 15-1/2 or 15-3/4 in length is the
average of a large horn. General McMaster writes, referring to the latter opinion: "Both he
and I know of one 16 inches in length, shot by a well-known South Indian sportsman of the Madras
Civil Service, and in February 1869 at Ootacamund, he and I measured the horn of a magnificent
buck ibex, shot within 15 or 20 miles of that place. The exact measurements of this mighty
horn were 17 inches in length, and 9-3/4 in circumference at the base."

Jerdon states that this goat chiefly frequents the northern and western slopes of the Neilgherries,
where the hills run down in a succession of steep stony slopes or rocky ridges to the high
table-land of Mysore and the Wynaad, both of which districts are themselves hilly. It is occasionally
seen on the summit of the northern and western faces, but more generally some distance down,
at an elevation of 4000 to 6000 feet, and, if carefully looked for, the herd may be seen feeding
on an open grassy glade at the foot of some precipice. "I have," he adds, "seen above twenty
individuals in a flock occasionally, but more generally not more than six or seven. With the
large herds there is almost always one very large old male conspicuous by his nearly black colour."

Colonel D. Hamilton says he has seen 120 pass out of one valley, which he thinks were probably
the aggregate of several herds, but he has counted sixty and sixty-five in a herd, and thirty-five
in another, without a single adult buck amongst them. In the South of India Observer for the
3rd and 17th of September, 1868, will be found most interesting descriptions of ibex-shooting
by "Hawkeye" whose letters are largely quoted by McMaster; but I can only find space for one
extract here, interesting to both sportsman and naturalist:--

"It is a pleasant sight to watch a herd of ibex, when undisturbed, the kids frisking here and
there on pinnacles or ledges of rocks and beetling cliffs, where there seems scarcely safe
foothold for anything much larger than the grasshopper or a fly; the old mother looking calmly
on or grazing steadily while the day is young, cropping the soft moss or tender herbs and sweet
short grass springing from the crevices of the craggy precipices in rich abundance. Then, again,
to see the caution observed in taking up their resting or abiding places for the day, where
they may be warmed by the sun, listening to the roar of many waters, and figuratively, we may
say, chewing the cud of contentment, and giving themselves up to the full enjoyment of their
nomadic life and its romantic haunts. Usually before reposing one of the herd, generally an
old doe, may be observed intently gazing below, apparently scanning every spot in the range
of her vision, sometimes for half an hour or more before she is satisfied that 'all is well;'
strange to say, seldom or ever looking up to the rocks above. Then, being satisfied on the
one side, she observes the same process on the other, eventually calmly lying down, contented
with the precautions she has taken that all is safe. Her post as sentinel is generally a prominent
one, on the edge and corner perhaps of some ledge, to be well sheltered from the wind and warmed
by the sun, along which the rest of the herd dispose themselves as inclined, fully trusting
in the watchful guardian, whose manoeuvres I have been describing. Should the sentinel be joined
by another, or her kid come and lie down by her, they invariably place themselves back to back,
or in such a manner that they can keep a look-out on either side. A solitary male goes through
all this by himself, and wonderfully careful he is, but when with the herd he reposes in security,
leaving it to the females to take precautions for their mutual safety. I have stated that these
animals seldom look above them, except when any cause of alarm leads them to do so. I recollect
an instance which I will relate, partly to show the advantage of a good colour for a stalker's
dress, and to illustrate what I have mentioned above. I had disturbed a buck ibex accidentally
one morning, and, after watching him a long distance with the glass, observed him to take up
a position and commence the vigilant process previously mentioned. By this I knew he was preparing
to lie down. He was a long time about it, but eventually he was satisfied, and took up his
post on a prominent rock, from which, as lying with his back to the mountain, he held a clear
view in front and on both sides. I approached from above, the wind all right, and the ibex
reposing comfortably in fancied security. I had to pass a large rock to clear an intervening
impediment, and gain a full view of the buck, as I could at first only see his horns. I had
taken the precaution to remove my shoes, the grass being very dry and noisy. The crunching
of the dry grass as I moved attracted the notice of the ibex, and suddenly he looked back and
up towards me. He was not more than eighty or ninety yards below. I leaned against the rock,
my shikar dress blending with the dark grey of the stone and burnt-up grass so completely as
to deceive even my lynx-eyed prey. Long, long he looked, till my very knees trembled with anxiety.
At last he turned his head, but I knew better than to move, being sure he would have another
look. He did so and it proved to be his last, for, when he again turned his head away, I quietly
subsided, and in another moment the buck died on his rocky bed."

There is an illustration by Wolf of the animal in Colonel Walter Campbell's 'My Indian Journal.'

The female has only two mammae, and usually produces two young at a time.

THE GOAT ANTELOPES, OR CAPRICORNS.

These animals form the link between the goats and the antelopes; their general characteristics
are short, conical horns, ringed at the base, upright and curving backwards, and of nearly
equal size in both sexes. The body is heavier than is usual amongst antelopes; the feet are
large, and have false hoofs.

GENUS NEMORHOEDUS.

"Horns in both sexes round, black and ringed; a small muffle; eye-pits wanting or small; large
feet-pits in all feet; no inguinal pits nor calcic tufts; tails short, hairy; four mammae"
(Jerdon).

NO. 451. NEMORHOEDUS BUBALINA. The Serow, or Forest Goat (Jerdon's No. 230).

NATIVE NAMES.--Serow, or Serowa, Pahari; Eimu, on the Sutlej; Ramu, Halj, Salabhir, Kashmiri;
Nga, Leesaws of the Sanda valley; Paypa, of the Shans; Shanli, Chinese of the Burma-Chinese
frontier.

HABITAT.--The whole of the wooded ranges of the Himalayas from Kashmir down past Sikim on to
the ranges dividing China from Burmah.

DESCRIPTION.--I have before me several descriptions of this animal, of which I have little
personal knowledge. The best of all is that of Colonel Kinloch, which has been, to some extent,
quoted by Professor Garrod in Cassell's Natural History. I give it in extenso:--

"The serow is an ungainly-looking animal, combining the characteristics of the cow, the donkey,
the pig, and the goat! It is a large and powerful beast, considerably larger than a tahr, and
longer in the leg. The body is covered with very coarse hair, which assumes the form of a bristly
mane on the neck and shoulders, and gives the beast a ferocious appearance, which does not
belie its disposition. The colour is a dull black on the back, bright red on the sides, and
white underneath, the legs also being dirty white. The ears are very large, the muzzle is coarse,
and two singular circular orifices are situated two or three inches below the eyes. The horns
are stout at the base, are ringed nearly to the tips, and curve back close to the neck, growing
to the length of from nine to fourteen inches; they are very sharp-pointed, and the serow is
said to be able to make good use of them.

"The sexes vary very little, less than in any ruminating animal with which I am acquainted;
both are furnished with horns of nearly the same size, those of an old male being rather thicker
than those of the female.

"The serow has an awkward gait; but in spite of this it can go over the worst ground; and it
has, perhaps, no superior in going down steep hills.

"It is a solitary animal, and is nowhere numerous; two or three may be found on one hill, four
or five on another, and so on. It delights in the steepest and most rocky hill-sides, and its
favourite resting-places are in caves, under the shelter of overhanging rocks, or at the foot
of shady trees. It constantly repairs to the same spots, as testified to by the large heaps
of its droppings which are to be found in the localities above alluded to. Although very shy
and difficult to find, the serow is a fierce and dangerous brute when wounded and brought to
bay. I have even heard of an unwounded male charging when his mate had been shot.

"It is said that the serow will sometimes beat off a pack of wild dogs, and I believe that
serow and dogs have been found lying dead together. It is therefore advisable to be cautious
when approaching a wounded one.

"When disturbed, the serow utters a most singular sound, something between a snort and a screaming
whistle, and I have heard them screaming loudly when they had apparently not been alarmed."

Colonel Markham says of it that it is something in appearance between a jackass and a thar,
with long stout legs, and a strong neck. Jerdon's description is not clear; it is: "above black,
more or less grizzled and mixed on the flanks with deep clay colour; a black dorsal stripe;
forearms and thighs anteriorly reddish brown; the rest of the limbs hoary; beneath whitish."
The deep clay colour is indefinite, as there are many sorts of clay, and people's ideas may
differ as to the shade by the particular clay to which they are most accustomed. Dr. Anderson
found it in the Western provinces of Yunnan; and General McMaster, in his 'Notes' (page 143),
says that when he was quartered at Shuaygheen, on the Sitang river, in Burmah, a female of
this species was brought alive to Major Berdmore by some Burmans, who had caught it in the
river, by which it had probably been washed down from the Karanee mountains. He adds that even
in its exhausted and dying state it was exceedingly savage, butting at every one who approached it.

SIZE.--Height, about 3 feet, or an inch or two over; length, about 5 to 5-1/2 feet; weight,
about 200 lbs.; horns, about a foot long as an average, varying from 9 to 14 inches.

The female usually produces one kid in the autumn, about September or October, and the period
of gestation is about seven months.

NO. 452. NEMORHOEDUS RUBIDA vel SUMATRENSIS. The Arakanese Capricorn.

NATIVE NAME.--Tan-Kseik, Arakanese.

HABITAT.--Arakan, through Pegu to (according to Blyth) the extremity of the Malayan peninsula,
and occurs in Siam and Formosa, and also in Sumatra. Has been shot near Shillong in Assam.

DESCRIPTION.--Blyth is of opinion ('Cat. Mam. British Burmah,' 'J. A. S. B.' 1875) that his
N. rubida is identical with Sumatrensis and Swinhoei, and he could detect no difference in
their skulls and skins. I therefore take the following description of Capricornis Swinhoei
from the 'P. Z. S.' 1862, page 263, where it is also figured, plate xxxv.:--

"The fur harsh and crisp, brown, with a narrow streak down the back of the neck; a spot on
the knee and the front of the fore-legs below the knee black; the hind-legs are bay; the sides
of the chin pale yellowish; the under-side of the neck yellow bay, this colour being separated
from the darker colour of the upper part of the neck by a ridge of longer, more rigid hairs;
the ears are long, brown, paler internally; the horns are short and conical; the skull has
a deep and wide concavity in front of the orbits, and a keeled ridge on the cheek."

Blyth says: "This species varies much in colour from red to black, and the black sometimes
with a white nape, or the hairs of the nape may be white at the base only." Lieut. Bevan described
one ('P. Z. S.' 1866) shot on the Zwagaben mountain, near Moulmein, as being of a mingled black
and ferruginous colour.

NO. 453. NEMORHOEDUS EDWARDSII. The Thibetan Capricorn.

HABITAT.--Thibet.

DESCRIPTION.--This differs from the Indian N. bubalina by the uniform blackish brown of the
upper parts tending to ferruginous on the thighs, and the red colour in place of the grey on
the lower parts of the legs.

It was discovered by the Abbe David, who named it after the well-known Professor A. Milne-Edwards.

NO. 454. NEMORHOEDUS GORAL. The Small Himalayan Capricorn (Jerdon's No. 231).

NATIVE NAMES.--Goral, Pahari; Pijur, Kashmiri (Jerdon); Rein or Rom, Kashmiri (Kinloch); Sah
or Sarr, in the Sutlej valley; Suh-ging, Lepcha; Ra-giyu, Bhotia.

HABITAT.--The whole range of the Himalayas from Bhotan to Kashmir.

DESCRIPTION.--Dull brownish-grey above, with a dark mesial line, paler below; a large white
spot under the throat; chest and front of fore-legs dark brown; female paler. The general appearance
is that of a high, or arched-backed goat. The females and young are lighter coloured; the horns
spring from the crest of the frontals and incline backward, and are slightly curved and very
sharp pointed, ringed at the base, and smooth for the apical half or third; some have more
rings than others. Jerdon says from twenty to twenty-five rings, but a specimen from Bhutan,
which I have before me as I write (a female, I think) has but ten annuli, or little more than
one-third ringed.

The following description is from Kinloch's 'Large Game of Thibet':--

"Gooral are not gregarious, like the true goats, all of which frequently assemble in large
flocks, but are usually scattered about the hills, three or four being occasionally found close
together, but more commonly they feed alone or in pairs. They are to be found in all sorts
of ground, from bare crags to thick undulating forests, but their favourite resorts are steep
rocky hills, thinly sprinkled with forest, especially where it consists of the Kolin pine.
In bright weather they conceal themselves in shady places during the day-time, and only come
out to feed on the open slopes in the morning and evening; but when the weather is cloudy they
sometimes feed nearly all day.

"From living so near human habitations, and constantly seeing shepherds and wood-cutters, gooral
are not alarmed by seeing men at a distance, and where the ground is much broken they are not
difficult to stalk. Where they are at all plentiful they afford very good sport, and their
pursuit is a capital school for the young sportsman. Gooral-shooting is in fact like miniature
ibex-shooting. The ground they inhabit is frequently difficult walking; the animals are quite
sufficiently wary to test the generalship of the stalker; and as they do not present a very
large mark, good shooting is required.

"The best way to hunt them is (having discovered a good hill) to be on the ground by daylight
and work along the face of the hill, keeping as high up as possible. Every slope should be
carefully examined, and on reaching the edge of each ravine it should be thoroughly reconnoitred.
Being good climbers, the gooral may be found in all sorts of places--on narrow ledges, on the
face of steep precipices, on gentle slopes of young grass, and among scattered bushes or forest
trees. As little noise as possible should be made; talking should never be allowed, for nothing
frightens game so much. Frequently after firing a shot or two on a hill-side, other animals
may be found quietly feeding a little further on, whereas if there has been any shouting or
talking the beasts will have been driven away. Shooting over a hill does not appear to have
the effect of frightening gooral away; when disturbed they seldom go far, and may be found
again on their old ground in the course of a day or two. On detecting the presence of danger,
the gooral generally stands still, and utters several sharp hisses before moving away."

SIZE.--Height, 28 to 30 inches; length, about 4 feet; horns, from 6 to 9 inches.

       *       *       *       *       *

I must here include one of the most curious animals in India, a creature resembling at first
sight the African gnu. About a couple of years ago, a friend of mine, who hails from the "land
o' cakes," called to ask me about a strange animal he had noticed in the Museum. "They call
it a 'takin,'" said he; "and if I did not think they were above jokes in such a dry-bone establishment,
I should say in the language of my native country, that it is a 'tak' in,' for it does not
look natural at all." I turned up Hodgson's account of the creature for him, to prove that
it was not a hoax. It was first brought to notice by the above naturalist about thirty years
ago, and he gave it the name Budorcas, from the two Greek words signifying ox and gazelle.

His account of it appears in the 'Journal of the Asiatic Society,' vol. xix., 1850.

As my time has been very much occupied lately, I have not been able to go through all that
has been written on this singular antelope, but I have been fortunate enough to find a willing
helper in Mr. J. Cockburn, who, always ready to assist in the study to which he has devoted
himself, has given me the following notes, which I have given in the following notice, as they
stand under the heading DESCRIPTION.

GENUS BUDORCAS.

A heavily-built, somewhat cow-shaped animal, with curiously bent horns, which spring upwards,
but soon bend laterally outward and then upwards and backwards with angular curves; a front
view resembles a trident with the centre prong removed. The chevron is highly arched, and the
false hoofs are very large.

NO. 455. BUDORCAS TAXICOLOR. The Takin.

NATIVE NAMES.--Takin or Takhon, pronounced nasally.

HABITAT.--The Mishmi hills, Assam, Thibet.

DESCRIPTION.--"The takin is a large, heavily-built ruminant, about 3 feet 6 inches high at
the shoulder and 6 feet in total length. The external peculiarities of the animal are: first,
peculiar angularly curved horns in both sexes; second, the enormously arched chevron; third,
the very great development of the spurious hoofs, which are obtusely conical, and about 1-1/2
inches in length in a small specimen.

"The colour of the adult in one stage is fulvous throughout, some of the hairs being dark tipped.
Legs, tail, muzzle and dorsal stripe black.

"Old bulls appear to become of an uniform brownish-black at times, but the colour doubtless
depends on the season, as each hair has the basal two-thirds yellow, and its apical third black,
and the young its hair brown with a dark tint. The takin, pronounced takhon (nasally), is found
just outside British limits in the Mishmi and Akha hills, north of Assam. It extends into the
mountainous parts of Chinese Thibet, whence it has lately been procured by the adventurous
Abbe David, and has been described by the great French naturalist A. Milne-Edwards, in his
work 'Recherches sur les Mammiferes,' with some osteological details which were hitherto wanting,
but no more than the limb bones appear to have been obtained.

"The horns of the takin have been considered to bear some likeness to those of the gnu (Catoblepas),
but I fail to trace a resemblance. Hodgson's description of the horns is as follows:--

"'The horns of the takin are inserted on the highest part of the forehead. The horns are nearly
in contact at their bases. Their direction is first vertically upwards, then horizontally outwards,
or to the sides, and then almost as horizontally backwards. The length of each horn is about
20 inches along the curves, but their thickness is great. The tail is about three inches long.'

"This remarkable animal was originally described by Brian Hodgson in 1850, from specimens procured
by Major Jenkins from the Mishmis, north-east of Sadya. Skulls and skins are fairly common
among the residents of Debroogurh, and two perfect skins of adults were lately presented by
Colonel Graham to the Indian Museum.

"It is to be regretted that the skeleton of the animal remains unknown to science; from information
collected by myself from the Mishmis, it was apparent that they might easily be procured.

"The animal would appear to range from about 8000 feet to the Alpine region, which is stated
to be its habitat.

"While at Sadya a Mishmi chief pointed me out various spurs of the Himalayas, tantalisingly
close, where he stated that he had hunted the animal.

"Hodgson's paper on the takin was published in the 'Jour. As. Soc.' vol. xix., pp. 65, 75,
with three plates, a drawing of the animal, and two views of the skull.

"The next figure was by Wolf, in the 'Proc. of the Zool. Soc.' for 1853, pt. xxxvi., and is
perhaps the worst he has ever done. Neither of these drawings are correct; and it is to be
hoped that Professor Milne-Edwards has more materials for his picture than flat skins and limb
bones.

"Professor Milne-Edwards was inclined to consider his specimens a distinct variety from the
Mishmi animal, and calls it Budorcas taxicola (sic) var. Tibetana.

"The difference the professor points out, namely the fulvous colour and the thinner undeveloped
horns, exist in various specimens of the Mishmi takin, and there can be no question but that
the animals are identical.

"The slaty colour of Wolf's drawing is probably due to an incorrect conception of Hodgson's
term grey, which he defines as a yellowish-grey.

"The takin is essentially a serow (Nemorhoedus), with affinities to the bovines through the
musk ox (Ovibos moschata), and other relationship to the sheep, goat and antelope. The development
of the spurious hoofs would indicate that it frequents very steep ground."--J. C.

GENUS GAZELLA--THE GAZELLES.

These are small animals of slender frame; bovine muzzle; of sandy colour above and white underneath;
small annulated horns, curved gracefully backwards, and in some species so elegantly formed
as to take the shape of a lyre on looking at them full in front. The females of some have smaller,
smoother horns, but others are hornless. The skull has an anteorbital vacuity, with a small
anteorbital fossa. The auditory bullae are large; "eye-pits small; groin-pits distinct; large
feet-pits in all feet; knees tufted" (Jerdon). The face has a white band running from the outer
side of the base of each horn down to the muzzle, the space between forming a dark triangular
patch bordered with a deeper tint. Sir Victor Brooke classifies the twenty or so known species
as follows:--

I.--BACK UNSTRIPED. Dentition:--Inc. 0/3; can. 0/1; prem. 3/3; molars, 3/3.

A.--The white colour of the rump not encroaching on the fawn of the haunches.

a. BOTH SEXES WITH HORNS.

Horns lyrate or semi-lyrate: Gazella dorcas; G. Isabella; G. rufifrons; G. loevipes; G. melanura.
Horns non-lyrate: Gazella Cuvieri; G. leptoceros; G. Spekii; G. Arabica; G. Bennetti; G. fuscifrons.

b. FEMALES HORNLESS.

Gazella subgutterosa; G. gutterosa; G. picticaudata.

B.--White of rump projecting forwards in an angle into the fawn colour of the haunches.

Gazella dama; G. mohr; G. Soemmerringii; G. Granti.

II.--BACK WITH A WHITE MEDIAN STRIPE. One premolar less in the lower jaw: Gazella euchore.

Of the above species the following come under the scope of this work: Gazella Bennetti; G.
fuscifrons; G. subgutterosa; G. picticaudata.

NO. 456. GAZELLA BENNETTI. The Indian Gazelle (Jerdon's No. 229).

NATIVE NAMES.--Chikara, Hindi; Kal-punch, Hindi; Kal-sipi, Mahratti; Hirni, in the Punjab;
Tiska, also Budari and Mudari, Canarese; Barudu-jinka, Telegu; Porsya (male) and Chari (female),
of Baoris.

HABITAT.--Mr. W. Blanford defines the limits of this species as follows ('P. Z. S.,' 1873,
p. 315)--the italics are mine: "It is found throughout the Punjab, North-west Provinces, Rajputana,
Sind (unless in part replaced by the next species), Kachh, Kathiawar, Guzerat, and the whole
Bombay Presidency, with the exception of the Western Ghats and the low land on Konkan, along
the western coast, south of the neighbourhood of Daman. It is also met with in the Narbada
and Tapti valleys, Bandelkand, the Son valley, and Rewah, in the Nagpur and Chanda country,
Berar, the Hyderabad territories, and other parts of Southern India, with the complete exception
of the Malabar coast and the adjacent hills." He adds that from the evidence of Colonel McMaster
and Colonel Douglas Hamilton, both good authorities, it is not known to occur much south of
the Krishna river, nor is it found in the Ganges valley east of Benares, in Eastern Behar,
the Santal Pergunnahs, Chotia Nagpur, Birbhum, &c., Chhatisgurh, the Mahanadi valley, Orissa,
Bastar, and the east coast, generally north of the river Krishna. He says it is met with in
the Narbada valley, but I have also found it common on the plateaux of the Satpura range.

DESCRIPTION.--"Fawn brown above, darker where it joins the white of the sides and buttocks;
chin, breast, lower parts and buttocks behind white; tail, knee-tufts and fetlocks behind black;
a dark brown spot on the nose, and a dark line from the eyes to the mouth, bordered by a light
one above" (Jerdon).

SIZE.--Length, 3-1/2 feet; height, 26 inches at shoulder, 28 inches at croup.

The horns run from 10 to 14 inches in the male, but, in fact, few exceed a foot. The longest
of six pairs in my collection measure 12 inches, and the head is looked upon as a fine one.
I agree with Jerdon that there must be some mistake about 18-inch horns recorded from the Punjab.

This pretty little creature, miscalled "ravine-deer," is familiar to most shikaris. How it
got called a deer it is difficult to say, except on the principle of "rats and mice, and such
small deer." The Madras term of "goat-antelope" is more appropriate. I remember once, when
out on field service with the late Dr. Jerdon during the Indian Mutiny, a few chikara crossed
our line of march. A young and somewhat bumptious ensign, who knew not of the fame of the doctor
as a naturalist, called out: "There are some deer, there are some deer." "Those are not deer,"
quietly remarked Jerdon. "Oh, I say," exclaimed the boy, thinking he had got a rise out of
the doctor; "Jerdon says those are not deer!" "No more they are, young man--no more they are;
much more of the goat--much more of the goat."

This gazelle frequents broken ground, with sandy nullahs bordered by scrub jungle, and is most
common in dry climates. It is unknown, I believe, in Bengal and, according to Jerdon, on the
Malabar coast, but is, I think, found almost everywhere else in India. It abounds in the Central
provinces, and I have found it in parts of the Punjab, and it is common throughout the North-west.
It is a wary, restless little beast, and requires good shooting, for it does not afford much
of a mark. When disturbed they keep constantly shifting, not going far, but hovering about
in a most tantalising way. Natives it cares little for, unless it be a shikari with a gun,
of which it seems to have intuitive perception; but the ordinary cultivator, with his load
of wood and grass, may approach within easy shot; therefore it is not a bad plan, when there
is no available cover, to get one of these men to walk alongside of you, whilst, with a horse-cloth
or blanket over you, you make yourself look as like your guide as you can. A horse or bullock
is also a great help. I had a little bullock which formed part of some loot at Banda--a very
handsome little bull, easy to ride and steady under fire--and I found him most useful in stalking
black buck and gazelle.

When alarmed, the chikara stamps its foot and gives a sharp little hiss. It is generally found
in small herds of four or five, but often singly. Jerdon, however, says that in the extreme
North-west he had seen twenty or more together, and this is corroborated by Kinloch.

They are sometimes hunted by hawks and dogs combined, the churrug (Falco sacer) being the hawk
usually employed, as mentioned both by Kinloch and Hodgson, writing of opposite ends of the
great Himalayan chain. The hawk stoops at the head of its quarry and confuses it, whilst the
dogs, who would otherwise have no chance, run up and seize it.

The poor little gazelle has also many other enemies--jackals and wolves being amongst the number.
Captain Baldwin, in his interesting book, writes: "Like other antelopes, the little ravine-deer
has many enemies besides man. One day, when out with my rifle, I noticed an old female gazelle
stamping her feet, and every now and then making that hiss which is the alarm note of the animal.
It was not I that was the cause of her terror, for I had passed close to her only a few minutes
before, and she seemed to understand by my manner that I meant no harm; no, there was something
else. I turned back, and, on looking down a ravine close by, saw a crafty wolf attempting a
stalk on the mother and young one. Another day, at Agra, a pair of jackals joined in the chase
of a wounded buck." Brigadier-General McMaster also relates how he and two friends, whilst
coursing, watched for a long time four jackals trying to force one of a small herd of young
bucks to separate from the rest. "The gazelles stood in a circle, and maintained their ground
well by keeping their heads very gallantly outwards to their foes, until at length, seeing
us, both sides made off. We laid the greyhounds into and killed one of the jackals."

NO. 457. GAZELLA FUSCIFRONS. The Baluchistan Gazelle.

HABITAT.--The deserts of Jalk between Seistan and Baluchistan.

DESCRIPTION.--"Central facial band strongly marked, grizzled black; light facial streak grey,
fairly definite, as is also the blackish dark facial streak; cheeks and anterior of neck grey;
back of the neck, back, sides, haunches and legs sandy; lateral streaks wanting; belly and
rump whitish; knee-brushes long, black; ears very long; horns (of female only known) strongly
annulated, bending forwards and very slightly inwards at the tips" (Sir V. Brooke, 'P. Z. S.,'
1873, p. 545).

SIZE.--Total length, from tip of nose to end of tail, 4 feet; height at shoulder, 1 foot 11 inches.

This curious species was first brought to notice by Mr. Blanford. It is distinguished, he says,
from the Indian G. Bennetti--first by colour, and secondly by the greater length and more strongly
marked annulation of the horns of the female. "The face in the Indian gazelle," he says, "is
nearly uniform rufescent fawn colour; the parts that are black and blackish in G. fuscifrons
being only a little darker than the rest in G. Bennetti; the back also in the latter is more
rufescent and less yellow, and the hairs are less dense."

       *       *       *       *       *

The following two species belong to section B, of which the females are hornless.

NO. 458. GAZELLA SUBGUTTEROSA. The Persian Gazelle.

NATIVE NAMES.--Kik, Sai-kik, and Jairan, Turki of Yarkand and Kashgar (Blanford).

HABITAT.--The high lands of Persia; to the north-west it is found as far as Tabriz; it is probably,
according to Blanford, the gazelle of Meshed and Herat; on the east it extends to the frontier
of India, and is found in Afghanistan and northern Baluchistan; a variety also exists in Yarkand.

DESCRIPTION.--"Hair in winter rough and coarse, in summer much softer and smoother. During
both seasons the dirty white of the face and cheeks is only relieved by the dark facial streak,
which is short and narrow, but defined by a sprinkling of rufous hairs; the lateral and pygal
bands are very faintly indicated, the dark bands being more rufous, the light band rather paler
than the grey fawn colour of the upper parts of the body; breast and belly white; tail and
ears moderate in length, the former blackish-rufous. Horns absent in the female; in the male
long, annulated and lyrate, the points projecting inwards" (Sir V. Brooke). According to Blanford,
who seemed doubtful whether it should not be raised to the rank of a species, the Yarkand variety
differs from the typical G. subgutterosa in the very much darker markings on the face, and
in the much smaller degree to which the horns diverge; he adds, however, that as there is some
variation in face-markings amongst Persian specimens, it is perhaps better to consider the
Yarkand race as only a variety. He gives a very good coloured plate of the animal. ('Sc. Results,
Second Yarkand Mission--Mammalia.')

NO. 459. GAZELLA PICTICAUDATA. Thibetan Gazelle.

NATIVE NAME.--Goa, Thibetan.

HABITAT.--Ladakh. Abundant, according to Kinloch, on the plateau to the south-east of the Tsomoriri
lake, on the hills east of Hanle, and in the Indus valley from Demchok, the frontier village
of Ladakh, as far down as Nyima. He had also seen it on the Nakpogoding pass to the north of
the Tsomoriri, and picked up a horn on the banks of the Sutlej beyond the Niti pass.

DESCRIPTION.--Hair in winter long and softish; facial and lateral markings wanting; breast,
belly and anal disk which surrounds the tail dirty white; the rest of the body grizzled fawn-colour,
becoming more rusty towards the anal disk, a rusty line sometimes running through the disk
to the short tail, the tip of which is rusty brown; the hairs about the corners of the mouth
elongated. In the summer the coat is short and of a slaty-grey colour. Ears very short; horns
long, annulated--diverge as they rise, bending forwards and backwards, again forwards, and
a little inwards at the tips. Skull: anteorbital fossa very shallow, nasals converging to a
point, and rather elongated (Sir Victor Brooke, 'P. Z. S.,' 1873, p. 547).

SIZE.--Height, about 18 inches.

There is a lovely little photograph of this gazelle in Kinloch's 'Large Game of Thibet,' wonderfully
life-like; the head seems to stand out from the page. He describes it under Hodgson's generic
name, Procapra, but there is no reason for separating it from Gazella. He says: "The goa avoid
rocky and steep ground, preferring the undulating plains and gently sloping valleys. Early
in the season they are to be found in small herds, frequently close to the snow; as this melts
they appear to disperse themselves over the higher ground, being often found singly or in twos
and threes."

GENUS PANTHOLOPS.

Between the gazelles and antelopes proper comes the chiru (Pantholops Hodgsonii), though strictly
speaking it is, with the saiga antelope (Saiga Tartarica), though in a somewhat less degree,
connected by cranial affinities with the sheep. The saiga is notable for its highly-arched
nose and inflated nostrils, which are so much lengthened as to necessitate the animal's walking
backwards when it feeds. The chiru is not quite so developed in this respect. The skull of
the saiga is unique among ruminants, and those who wish to become acquainted with its most
minute osteological details should refer to an article on this animal by Dr. James Murie in
the 'P. Z. S.,' 1870, p. 457. I can only here give a very brief summary of the chief characteristics.
Looked at in profile, the nasal bones we find to be remarkably short, the face being hollowed
out, as it were, between the upper nasal cartilage and the very long and narrow maxillary and
pre-maxillary bones; great vertical depth from the top of the nasal to the bottom of the maxillary
bones; a very prominent bovine orbit, above and a little behind which the short tapering horns
of a gazelle type are placed. The lower nasal cartilage is prolonged on to the fibrous cord
of the nares, and the profile view of the animal in life is that of a grotesquely Roman-nosed
antelope with swollen nostrils. Its nearest relative in India is the chiru, which has certain
points of resemblance. The nose is but slightly arched, but the nostrils are more swollen than
in antelopes as a rule. This is not sufficiently rendered in an otherwise admirable coloured
plate in Blanford's 'Scientific Results of the Second Yarkand Mission,' but it is more apparent
in the photograph of the head in Kinloch's 'Large Game of Thibet.' Another approach to the
saiga is in the position of the horns, which, though of the same class, are much longer and
more attenuated, but the position over the eye and the osseous development of the orbit are
the same. The nasal bones are also shorter in proportion to other antelopes. The super-orbital
foramina just under the horns, which are marked in most antelope and deer, are very minute
in Pantholops. Dr. Murie notices the inflation of the post-maxilla in the saiga, and states
that a similar extension is to be found in the chiru.

NO. 460. PANTHOLOPS HODGSONII. The Chiru.

NATIVE NAMES.--Chiru in Nepal; Isos in Thibet (Strachey); also Isors or Choos (Kinloch).

HABITAT.--The open plains of Thibet from Lhassa to Ladakh.

DESCRIPTION.--The following description was written in 1830, apparently by Mr. Brian Hodgson
himself, and was published in 'Gleanings in Science' (vol. ii., p. 348), probably the first
scientific magazine in India. As I have seen no better account of this curious antelope I give
it as it stands. Mr. Hodgson had the advantage of drawing from life, he having had a living
specimen as a pet:--

"Antelope with very long, compressed, tapering, sub-erect (? sub-lyrated) horns, having a slight
concave arctuation forwards, and blunt annulations (prominently ridged on the frontal surface),
except near the tips; a double coat throughout, greyish blue internally, but superficially
fawn-coloured above, and white below, a black forehead, and stripes down the legs; and a tumour
or tuft above either nostril.

"The ears and tail are moderate and devoid of any peculiarity; so likewise are the sub-orbital
sinuses.[38] The horns are exceedingly long, measuring in some individuals nearly 2-1/2 feet.
They are placed very forward on the head, and may popularly be said to be erect and straight,
though a reference to the specific character will show that they are not strictly one or the other.

"The general surface of the horns is smooth and polished, but its uniformity is broken by a
series of from fifteen to twenty rings extending from the base to within six inches of the
tip of each horn. Upon the lateral and dorsal surfaces of the horns these rings are little
elevated, and present a wavy rather than a ridgy appearance; but on the frontal surface the
rings exhibit a succession of heavy, large ridges, with furrows between; the annulation is
nowhere acutely edged. The horns have a very considerable lateral compression towards the base,
where their extent fore and aft is nearly double of that from side to side; upwards from the
base the lateral compression becomes gradually less, and towards their tips the horns are nearly
rounded. Compared with their length the thickness of the horns is as nothing--in other words
they are slender, but not therefore by any means weak. The tips are acute rather than otherwise;
the divergence at the points is from one-third to one-half of the length. At the base a finger
can hardly be passed between the horns. Throughout five-sixths of their length from the base
the horns describe an uniform slightly inward curve, and on the top angle of the curve they
turn inwards again more suddenly, but still slightly, the points of the horns being thus directed
inwards; the lateral view of the horns shows a considerable concave arctuation forwards, but
chiefly derived from the upper part of the horns."

[Footnote 38: These are wanting.--R. A. S.]

There is an excellent coloured plate of this animal in Blanford's 'Mammalia of the Second Yarkand
Mission.' The only fault I see lies in the muzzle, especially of the male, which the artist
has made as fine as that of a gazelle. The photograph in Kinloch's 'Large Game of Thibet' shows
the puffiness of the nostrils much better; the latter author says of it:--

"The Thibetan antelope is a thoroughly game-looking animal; in size it considerably exceeds
the common black buck or antelope of India, and is not so elegantly made. Its colour is a reddish
fawn, verging on white in very old individuals. A dark stripe runs down the shoulders and flanks,
and the legs are also dark brown. The face alone is nearly black, especially in old bucks.
The hair is long and brittle, and extraordinarily thick-set, forming a beautiful velvety cushion,
which must most effectually protect the animal from the intense cold of the elevated regions
which it inhabits. A peculiarity about this antelope is the existence of two orifices in the
groin, which communicate with long tubes running up into the body. The Tartars say that the
antelope inflates these with air, and is thereby enabled to run with greater swiftness! The
muzzle of the Thibetan antelope is quite different from that of most of the deer and antelope
tribe, being thick and puffed looking, with a small rudimentary beard; the eyes are set high
up in the head; the sub-orbital sinus is wanting; the horns are singularly handsome, jet black,
and of the closest grain, averaging about twenty-three or twenty-four inches in length. They
are beautifully adapted for knife handles. The females have short black horns, and are much
smaller than the males."

The last is a doubtful point; as far as I have been able to gather evidence on the subject
the female appears to be hornless, which allies Pantholops more to the antelopes and the gazelles.
Major Kinloch may have taken some young males for females, the general colouring being much
the same. In the 'Proceedings of the Zoological Society' for 1834, p. 80, there is an extract
from a letter from Mr. Hodgson, which, with reference to previous correspondence, says: "The
communications referred to left only the inguinal pores, the number of teats in the female,
and the fact of her being cornute or otherwise, doubtful. These points are now cleared up.
The female is hornless, and has two teats only; she has no marks on the face or limbs, and
is rather smaller than the male. The male has a large pouch at each groin, as in Ant. dorcas;
that of the female is considerably smaller." Mr. Hodgson further remarks that "the chiru antelope
can only belong either to the gazelline or the antelopine group. Hornless females would place
it among the latter; but lyrate horns, ovine nose, and want of sinus, would give it rather
to Gazella, and its singular inguinal purses further ally it to Ant. dorcas of this group.
But from Gazella it is distinguished by the accessory nostrils, of inter-maxillary pouch, the
hornless females, the absence of tufts on the knees, and of bands on the flanks. The chiru,
with his bluff bristly nose, his inter-maxillary pouches, and hollow-cored horns, stands in
some respects alone."

Hodgson was apparently not well acquainted at the time with saiga, or he would have certainly
alluded to the affinity. Kinloch has the following regarding its habits:--

"In Chang Chenmo, where I have met with it, the elevation can be nowhere less than 14,000 feet,
and some of the feeding grounds cannot be less than 18,000. In the early part of summer the
antelope appear to keep on the higher and more exposed plains and slopes when the snow does
not lie; as the season becomes warmer, the snow, which has accumulated on the grassy banks
of the streams in the sheltered valleys, begins to dissolve, and the antelope then come down
to feed on the grass which grows abundantly in such places, and then is the time when they
may easily be stalked and shot. They usually feed only in the mornings and evenings, and in
the day-time seek more open and elevated situations, frequently excavating deep holes in the
stony plains, in which they lie, with only their heads and horns visible above the surface
of the ground. It is a curious fact that females are rarely found in Chang Chenmo; I have met
with herds of sixty or seventy bucks, but have only seen one doe to my knowledge during the
three times that I visited the valley."

GENUS ANTELOPE (restricted).

Horns in the male only; abnormal cases of horned females are on record, but they only prove
the rule. No muffle; sub-orbital sinus moderate, somewhat linear; no canines; groin-pits large;
feet-pits present. In the skull the sub-orbital fossa is large.

NO. 461. ANTELOPE BEZOARTICA. The Indian Antelope (Jerdon's No. 228).

NATIVE NAMES.--Mrig or Mirga, Sanscrit; Harna, Hirun, Harin (male) and Hirni (female), Hindi;
also Kalwit, Hindi, according to Jerdon; Goria (female) and Kala (male), in Tirhoot; Kalsar
(male) and Baoti (female), in Behar; Bureta, in Bhagulpore; Barout and Sasin, in Nepal; Phandayet,
Mahrathi (Jerdon). Hiru and Bamuni-hiru, Mahrathi; Chigri, Canarese; Irri (male), Sedi (female),
and Jinka, Telegu; Alali (male) and Gandoli (female), of Baoris.

HABITAT.--In open plain country throughout India except in Lower Bengal and Malabar. In the
Punjab it does not cross the Indus. Dr. Jerdon says: "I have seen larger herds in the neighbourhood
of Jalna in the Deccan than anywhere else--occasionally some thousands together, with black
bucks in proportion. Now and then, Dr. Scott informs me, they have been observed in the Government
cattle-farm at Hissar in herds calculated at 8000 to 10,000." I must say I have never seen
anything like this, although in the North-west, between Aligarh and Delhi, I have noticed very
large herds; in the Central provinces thirty to forty make a fair average herd, though smaller
ones are more common. These small parties generally consist of does, and perhaps two or three
young sandy bucks lorded over by one old black buck, who will not allow any other of his colour
to approach without the ordeal of battle. I have lately heard of them in Assam, but forget
the precise locality.

DESCRIPTION.--Form supple and elegant, with graceful curves; the neck held up proudly; the
head adorned with long, spiral, and closely annulated horns, close at the base, but diverging
at the tips in a V form. In very large specimens there are five flexures in the horn, but generally
four. They are perfectly round, and taper gradually to the tips, which are smooth; the bony
cores are also spiral, so that in the dry skull the horn screws on and off. The colour of the
old males is deep blackish-brown, the back and sides with an abrupt line of separation from
the white of the belly; the dark colour also extends down the outer surface of the limbs; the
back of the head, nape and neck are hoary yellowish; under parts and inside of limbs pure white;
the face is black, with a white circle round the eyes and nose; the tail is short; the young
males are fawn-coloured. The females are hornless, somewhat smaller, and pale yellowish-fawn
above, white below, with a pale streak from the shoulder to the haunch.

SIZE.--Length, about 4 feet to root of tail; tail, 7 inches; height at shoulder, 32 inches.
Horns, average length about 20 inches--fine ones 22, unusual 24, very rare 26. Sir Barrow Ellis
has or had a pair 26-1/2, with only three flexures; 28 has been recorded by "Triangle" in The
Asian, and 30 spoken of elsewhere, but I have as yet seen no proof of the latter. The measurement
should be taken straight from base to tip, and not following the curves of the spiral. I have
shot some a little over 22, but never more. I believe, however, that the longest horns come
from the North-west.

This antelope is so well known that it is hardly necessary to dilate at length on it; every
shikari in India has had his own experiences, but I will take from Sir Walter Elliot's account
and Dr. Jerdon's some paragraphs concerning the habits of the animal which cannot be improved
upon, and add a short extract from my own journals regarding its love of locality:--

"When a herd is met with and alarmed, the does bound away for a short distance, and then turn
round to take a look; the buck follows more leisurely, and generally brings up the rear. Before
they are much frightened they always bound or spring, and a large herd going off in this way
is one of the finest sights imaginable. But when at speed the gallop is like that of any other
animal. Some of the herds are so large that one buck has from fifty to sixty does, and the
young bucks driven from these large flocks are found wandering in separate herds, sometimes
containing as many as thirty individuals of different ages.

"They show some ingenuity in avoiding danger. In pursuing a buck once into a field of toor,
I suddenly lost sight of him, and found, after a long search, that he had dropped down among
the grain, and lay concealed with his head close to the ground. Coming on another occasion
upon a buck and doe with a young fawn, the whole party took to flight, but the fawn being very
young, the old ones endeavoured to make it lie down. Finding, however, that it persisted in
running after them, the buck turned round and repeatedly knocked it over in a cotton field
until it lay still, when they ran off, endeavouring to attract my attention. Young fawns are
frequently found concealed and left quite by themselves."--Elliot.

Jerdon adds: "When a herd goes away on the approach of danger, if any of the does are lingering
behind, the buck comes up and drives them off after the others, acting as whipper-in, and never
allowing one to drop behind. Bucks may often be seen fighting, and are then so intently engaged,
their heads often locked together by the horns, that they may be approached very close before
the common danger causes them to separate. Bucks with broken horns are often met with, caused
by fights; and I have heard of bucks being sometimes caught in this way, some nooses being
attached to the horns of a tame one. I have twice seen a wounded antelope pursued by greyhounds
drop suddenly into a small ravine, and lie close to the ground, allowing the dogs to pass over
it without noticing, and hurry forward." ('Mamm. of India,' p. 278.)

I have myself experienced some curious instances of the hiding propensities spoken of by Sir
Walter Elliot and Dr. Jerdon. In my book on Seonee I have given a case of a wounded buck which
I rode down to the brink of a river, when he suddenly disappeared. The country was open, and
I was so close behind him that it seemed impossible for him to have got out of sight in so
short a space of time; but I looked right and left without seeing a trace of him, and, hailing
some fishermen on the opposite bank, found that they had not seen him cross. Finally my eye
lighted on what seemed to be a couple of sticks projecting from a bed of rushes some four or
five feet from the bank. Here was my friend submerged to the tip of his nose, with nothing
but the tell-tale horns sticking out.

This antelope attaches itself to localities, and after being driven away for miles will return
to its old place. The first buck I ever shot I recovered, after having driven him away for
some distance and wounded him, in the very spot I first found him; and the following extract
from my journals will show how tenaciously they cling sometimes to favourite places:--

"I was out on the boundary between Khapa and Belgaon, and came across a particularly fine old
buck, with very wide-spreading horns; so peculiar were they that I could have sworn to the
head amongst a thousand. He was too far for a safe shot when I first saw him, but I could not
resist the chance of a snap at him, and tried it, but missed; and I left the place. My work
led me again soon after to Belgaon itself, and whilst I was in camp there I found my friend
again; but he was very wary; for three days I hunted him about, but could not get a shot. At
last I got my chance; it was on the morning of the day I left Belgaon, I rode round by the
boundary, when up jumped my friend from a bed of rushes, and took off across country. I followed
him cautiously, and found him again with some does about two miles off. A man was ploughing
in the field close by; so, hailing him, I got his bullocks and drove them carefully up past
the does. We splashed through a nullah, and waded through a lot of rushes, and at last I found
myself behind a clump of coarse grass, with a nullah between me and the antelope. They jumped
up on my approach, and Blacky, seeing his enemy, made a speedy bolt of it; but I was within
easy range of him, and a bullet brought him down on his head with a complete somersault. Now
this buck, in spite of the previous shot at him, and being hunted about from day to day, never
left his ground, and used to sleep every night in a field near my tent."

This antelope has been raised by the Hindoos amongst the constellations harnessed to the chariot
of the moon. Brahmins can feed on its flesh under certain circumstances prescribed by the 'Institutes
of Menu,' and it is sometimes tamed by Fakirs. It is easily domesticated, but the bucks are
always dangerous when their horns are full grown, especially to children. The breeding season
begins in the spring, but fawns of all ages may be seen at any time of the year. The flesh
of this species is among the best of the wild ruminants.

       *       *       *       *       *

The next group of antelopes are those with smooth horns, without knots; spiral in some African
species, but short and straight, or but slightly curved in the Indian ones. Females hornless.
There are but two genera in India, Portax and Tetraceros.

GENUS PORTAX--THE NYLGAO.

Horns on back edge of frontal bone behind the orbit, short, recurved, conical and smooth, angular
at the base; bovine nose with large moist muffle; small eye-pits; hind legs shorter than the
front; tail long and tufted; back short, sloping down from high withers; the neck deep and
compressed like a horse, with a short upright mane; on the throat of the male under a white
patch is a long tuft of black hair. In the skull the nasal opening is small, and the molars
have, according to Dr. Gray, supplementary lobes. Dr. Jerdon says: "There is a small pit in
front of the orbit, and anterior to this a small longitudinal fold, in the middle of which
there is a pore through which exudes a yellow secretion from the gland beneath."

The female has sometimes in an abnormal condition been found with horns. Mr. J. Cockburn, in
a letter to The Asian (11th of November, 1879, p. 40), describes such a one.

NATIVE NAMES.--Nilgao, Nilgai, or Lilgao, Lilgai, Rojra or Rojh, Rooi (female), Hindi; Guraya,
Gondi; Maravi, Canarese; Manupotu, Telegu.

HABITAT.--India generally, from the Himalayas to the south. It is not common south of the Ganges,
nor, according to Jerdon, is it found in the extreme south of India.

DESCRIPTION.--A horse-like animal at the first glance, owing to its lean head, long, flat,
and deep neck, and high withers, but with cervine hind-quarters, lower than in front. The male
is of an iron grey colour, intensified by age; the inside of the ears, lips, and chin are white;
a large white patch on the throat, below which is the pendant tuft of black hair; the chest,
stomach, and rings on the fetlocks, white; mane, throat-tuft and tip of tail, black. The female
is a sandy or tawny colour, and is somewhat smaller than the male.

SIZE.--Length of male, 6-1/2 to 7 feet; tail 18 to 22 inches; height at shoulder, from 13 to
14-1/2 hands; horns, from 8 to 10 inches.

The nilgao inhabits open country with scrub or scanty tree jungle, also, in the Central provinces,
low hilly tracts with open glades and valleys. He feeds on beyr (Zizyphus jujuba) and other
trees, and at times even devours such quantities of the intensely acrid berries of the aonla
(Phyllanthus emblica) that his flesh becomes saturated with the bitter elements of the fruit.
This is most noticeable in soup, less so in a steak, which is at times not bad. The tongue
and marrow-bones, however, are generally as much as the sportsman claims, and, in the Central
provinces at least, the natives are grateful for all the rest.

He rests during the day in shade, but is less of a nocturnal feeder than the sambar stag. I
have found nilgao feeding at all times of the day. The droppings are usually found in one place.
The nilgao drinks daily, the sambar only every third day, and many are shot over water. Although
he is such an imposing animal, the blue bull is but poor shooting, unless when fairly run down
in the open. With a sharp spurt he is easily blown, but if not pressed will gallop for ever.
In some parts of India nilgai are speared in this way. I myself preferred shooting them either
from a light double-barrelled carbine or large bore pistol when alongside; the jobbing at such
a large cow-like animal with a spear was always repugnant to my feelings. They are very tenacious
of life. I once knocked one over as I thought dead, and, putting my rifle against a tree, went
to help my shikaree to hallal him, when he jumped up, kicked us over, and disappeared in the
jungle; I never saw him again. A similar thing happened to a friend who was with me, only he
sat upon his supposed dead bull, quietly smoking a cigar and waiting for his shikarees, when
up sprang the animal, sending him flying, and vanished. On another occasion, whilst walking
through the jungle, I came suddenly on a fine dark male standing chest on to me. I hardly noticed
him at first; but, just as he was about to plunge away into the thicket, I rapidly fired, and
with a bound he was out of sight. I hunted all over the place and could find no trace of him.
At last, by circling round, I suddenly came upon him at about thirty yards off, standing broadside
on. I gave him a shot and heard the bullet strike, but there was not the slightest motion.
I could hardly believe that he was dead in such a posture. I went up close, and finally stopped
in front of him; his neck was stretched out, his mouth open and eyes rolling, but he seemed
paralysed. I stepped up close and put a ball through his ear, when he fell dead with a groan.
I have never seen anything like it before or since, and can only suppose that the shot in the
chest had in some way choked him. I have alluded to this incident in my book on Seonee; it
was in that district that it occurred.

The nilgao is the only one of the deer and antelope of India that could be turned to any useful
purpose. The sambar stag, though almost equal in size, will not bear the slightest burden,
but the nilgao will carry a man. I had one in my collection of animals which I trained, not
to saddle, for such a thing would not stay on his back, but to saddle-cloth. He was a little
difficult to ride, rather jumpy at times, otherwise his pace was a shuffling trot. I used to
take him out into camp with me, and made him earn his grain by carrying the servants' bundles.
He was not very safe, for he was, when excited, apt to charge; and a charge from a blue bull
with his short sharp horns is not to be despised. In some parts the Hindoos will not touch
the flesh of this animal, which they believe to be allied to the cow. It has much more of a
horsey look about it. McMaster says that in some parts of the Coimbatore district the natives
described this creature to Colonel Douglas Hamilton as a wild horse, and called it by a name
signifying such. He also notices the resemblance of the Gondi name Guraya, to the Hindi Ghora.

GENUS TETRACEROS.

Horns four, conical, smooth, slightly bent forward at tip, the anterior ones very short, sometimes
rudimentary, which has led to the distinction of a separate species by some naturalists; slightly
ringed at the base. The posterior ones situated far back on the frontal bone, the anterior
ones above the orbits; eye-pits small, linear; muffle large; feet-pits in the hind feet; no
groin-pits; four mammae; canine teeth in the males; females hornless. The skull is characterized
by the large sub-orbital fossae which occupy nearly the whole cheek. The various species--sub-quadricornutus
of Elliot, iodes and paccerois of Hodgson--are but varieties of the following only Indian species.

NO. 463. TETRACEROS QUADRICORNIS. The Four-horned Antelope (Jerdon's No. 227).

