The Golden Horn, or harbour, terminates by the Valley of Sweet Waters, the sides of which are
adorned with pleasure-grounds, and an imperial kiosk, near which, with extremely bad taste,
art and expense have been exerted to the utmost to constrain and prune nature, so as to destroy
the luxuriance and wildness of the rivulet and its banks, by giving them the appearance of
a straight canal, passing through an avenue of formal trees, and occasionally over flights
of marble steps, intended to represent cataracts. On gala days, this spot is the scene of festivity
and enjoyment for persons of every sect; and before the last dispersion and persecution of
the Greeks, is said, in consequence of the number of their women who frequented it, to have
presented extraordinary animation and attraction. The sultan was often to be found enjoying
the sight. Beyond this valley is another, where his horses are turned out to graze in the spring,
and which takes place with extraordinary ceremony and pomp. So much consequence was formerly
attached to the noble animals, that petitioners address themselves to the imperial stirrup.
Between the Valley of the Sweet Waters and the walls, is the village of Eyub, pleasantly situated,
adjoining to which are several palaces, belonging to members of the imperial family. But the
most remarkable and interesting monument is the mosque or tomb of Eyub, (a disciple of Mahomet,
who was killed in the first siege of Constantinople, in 608,) erected by Mahomet II. after
the capture of the city, as is said, in consequence of the place of his sepulchre having been
revealed to one of his favourites in a dream; he immediately ordered an excavation to be made,
and very soon, either by hazard or imposture, a marble slab was discovered.

The Valley of the Sweet Waters, Eyub, and the country immediately behind the walls, may be
considered the only pretty spots near Constantinople; for beyond them, and in other directions,
nothing is to be seen but an expansion of unpopulated, and, at this time, sunburnt downs.

Jones's Travels.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE CORAL ISLAND.

  On a stony eminence, that stood
  Girt with inferior ridges, at the point,
  Where light and darkness meet in spectral gloom.
  Midway between the height and depth of ocean,
  I mark'd a whirlpool in perpetual play,
  As though the mountain were itself alive,
  And catching prey on every side, with feelers
  Countless as sunbeams, slight as gossamer:
  Ere long transfigured, each fine film became
  An independent creature, self-employd,
  Yet but an agent in one common work,
  The slim of all their individual labours.
  Shap'less they seem'd, but endless shape assumed;
  Elongated like worms, they writhed and shrunk
  Their tortuous bodies to grotesque dimensions;
  Compress'd like wedges, radiated like stars,
  Branching like sea-weed, whirl'd in dazzling rings;
  Subtle and variable as flickering flames,
  Sight could not trace their evanescent changes,
  Nor comprehend their motions, till minute
  And curious observation caught the clew
  To this live labyrinth,--where every one,
  By instinct taught, perform'd its little task;
  --To build its dwelling and its sepulchre,
  From its own essence exquisitely modell'd;
  There breed, and die, and leave a progeny,
  Still multiplied beyond the reach of numbers.
  To frame new cells and tombs; then breed and die,
  As all their ancestors had done,--and rest,
  Hermetically sealed, each in its shrine,
  A statue in this temple of oblivion!
  Millions of millions thus, from age to age,
  With simplest skill, and toil unwearyable.
  Omnipotence wrought in them, with them, by them;
  Hence what Omnipotence alone could do,
  Worms did. I saw the living pile ascend.