Where were the nobles of this country tossed hither and thither like a shuttle-cock at the
will of the strongest, that they would not arm for resistance--nay--wrapped themselves in sullen
silence in the seclusion of their estates, or gathered in great companies to plunge into the
forests and forget their vexations in the comradery and excitement of the chase, while for
Caterina the slow days passed in agonized entreaty that some miracle might yet chance to save
the realm for Cyprus?

Sometimes a wild hope came to her that this extremity might stimulate them to an uprising to
save the integrity of their land: but a few words with those of the Council most devoted to
Cyprus convinced her that the hope was futile. The days of national ambition were over for
this people of many races: their luxuries sufficed for their content and lulled them into a
lethargy which had so deadened their perceptions that the gradual encroachments of Venetian
power could reach this climax without arousing them to action.

Even the burghers who had so valiantly defended their Queen in earlier days looked on in mournful
inertia while preparations for the royal progress went forward, knowing that if Venice thus
joyfully accepted the 'resignation' of their Queen--for thus had the act been freely translated
to the Cyprian people--they were themselves powerless; and the day of farewell dawned at last,
when the royal cortège passed out from the palace-gates to the grand Piazza of Nikosia, where
the formal act of renunciation was to be made.

It was a long and ceremonious procession--the high officials of the realm were there in splendid
vestments, with many Venetian functionaries in crimson dignity among them--with a numerous
escort of guards in full armor--with companies of cavalry and men-at-arms, while, in their
midst the Queen, in regal velvet and pearls, rode surrounded by the knights and ladies of her
court. But the color of her robe was black, as were also the garments of her maids of honor--of
satin, soft and lustrous, reflecting the lights from their jewels as they gleamed in the sunshine,--yet,
to the Embassy of Venice the sombre choice was displeasing, as an unpermissible expression
of the Queen's sentiments.

"Hath Venice also concerned herself with sumptuary laws for the ladies of my household?" Caterina
asked with ineffable disdain, when remonstrance had been made. And they, having gained so much,
feared to press her further.

After the solemn mass in the Duomo, the magnificent chords of a jubilant Te-Deum filled the
Piazza with harmonies--it was the music of a Triumph indeed:--the soldiers, the knights, the
high functionaries of State, the priests and chanting choirs were all there; but the central
figure under the golden baldachino, upheld by the barons of the realm and surrounded with royal
honors, was not the Conqueror--but the victim--the prey--the sacrifice. It was rather they--the
leaders of this pageant, in their crimson robes of office with the shadow of the banner of
San Marco above them, who rode proudly, sure of the honors and emoluments that awaited them
when Venice should echo to them the Roman cry of victory--"Io Triumphe!"

And now the Queen pronounced the speech that Venice had decreed, wherein she claimed the love
that her simple people had lavished upon her--

"For Venice--to whom we have freely yielded our right."

The words were strange upon her lips, and she spoke them stonily, as if she knew not that they
had a meaning; and thus tortured from her, it may well be questioned whether the Recording
Angel ever noted them in his book--yet they were her answer to the popolo who thronged about
her with tears and blessings, as she journeyed from city to city to repeat the mournful ceremony
of farewell; and the people heard them with sobs and groans.

In every city, as one for whom life had died and speech had lost its soul--she uttered these
words which Venice had decreed; in every city she looked on mutely from under her royal canopy--she
who was so powerless--while the flag of the island of Cyprus was supplanted by the banner of
San Marco, and the sculptured marble tablet with the winged lions guarding its triumphant inscription,
was placed as a record of a kingdom too weak to rule.

     FRAN. DE PRIULI VENETAE CLASS.
     IMPER. DIVI MARCI VESS.
     CYPRI FELICITER ERECTUM EST.
     NO. MCCCCLXXXVIII. 28 FEBRU.

How dreary the passage across those wide waters to the shores of the smiling Adriatic for the
desolate woman who had left them in the first flush of her youth, with hopes as brilliant as
the skies of Venice, and with a promise as fair--to return to them lonely, despoiled, heart-broken,
craving rest! The gray light of the storm-clouds by the banks of the Lido and the moan of the
rising winds which threatened to engulf the Bucentoro and the fleet of attendant barges coming
in state to meet the deposed Queen, were typical of the change.

Not caring for the splendor of her equipage, though the Doge himself was her escort--not deceived
by the pageant of welcome that Venice offered, Caterina--very beautiful and pale and still,
with the sense of the motive power broken within her--passed up the long length of the Canal
Grande by the side of the Serenissimo, receiving the glad homage of the people of Venice.

"Caterina Veneta! Caterina Regina!"

Venice was outdoing herself in triumph, showering regal honors upon her: the bells of all the
Campanili were ringing a jubilee: music greeted her from the shores as they glided by--the
portals wreathed with festal garlands, the beautiful city a glory of light and color; for the
storm of the evening had passed and the morning had dawned in sunshine, and along the Riva
the people were thronging to welcome her--the Queen who had bestowed the gift of her kingdom
upon Venice!

Yet how had the Republic kept faith with Cyprus? Step by step, through the years, drawing the
velvet clasp closer--closer--until there was scarce life left--smiling the while: gathering
in the revenues of the rich land amply, with no care to spend them on the welfare of the island,
or for its increase: slowly, strenuously, with deft insinuations of filial duty, striving to
dominate the young Queen's moral judgments and press the claims which were of Venice's own
creation--jealously watching lest she become too popular, and hampering her action through
the very officers sent in guise of help--lest through freedom she should in truth grow strong
to rule: Year by year--stealthily--smiling under a cloak of splendor which the Cyprians loved,
Venice had grasped at power--a little more, and a little more--until resistance was impossible.

Was it meet to receive her thus? Could she find smiles for the people to-day with the memories
of her bridal pageant greeting her at every turn--a woman despoiled of hope--a widowed wife--a
childless mother--a queen without kingdom or power?

Before the Palazzo Corner Regina, the long procession came to pause, and with the ceremonies
that were meet, Zorzi Cornaro, brother to Caterina, knelt down bareheaded before the Doge and
was knighted for his prowess in persuasion--since without his eloquence it might well have
been that the Queen of Cyprus would not have given that complete and absolute surrender which
was so graciously announced to all the allies of Venice as "of the full and free determination
of our most serene and most beloved daughter, Caterina Cornaro."

For the grace of Venice--when her smiling mood was on her, as for the fear of her life-crushing
frown, men did her bidding without question, and never dared to fail.

But Venice still claimed a final act of gift and of submission, where the Venetian people might
be her witnesses: and when the domes of San Marco flashed in the sunset light, the procession
entered in solemn state--the Senate and Signoria and all the Ducal Court, in full attendance--and
once more Caterina knelt before the altar and repeated her hard lesson, taught by that imperious
ruler who knew how to hold the sea "in true and perpetual dominion," and who would not suffer
'his beloved daughter' to fail in one jot or tittle of her act of renunciation.

The homecoming of the Daughter of Venice was over.

       *       *       *       *       *

Then, at last, came rest, and the sylvan-shades of Asolo--vine-crowned among the hills, with
the sea spreading far below--blue, shimmering, laughing--as if she laved but shores of content,
under happy skies.

Whatever of good there remained for Caterina to do in this petty domain which the munificence
of the Signoria had bestowed in exchange for Cyprus, she did with a gracious and queenly hand,
so that her realm was wider than her territory, for she had won the love of the people wherever
she had passed, and in the years of her tried and chequered life, no evil was ever spoken of
her. Yet often the gentle Queen slipped away from the modest festivities she had devised for
the pleasure of her slender mimic court--the music tourneys--the recitations--the fanciful
quibbles in words--which could have had for her great weariness of empty hands but a pale moonlight
charm--to the lovely gardens of her hillside castle, to woo sad memories--and sweet as sad--of
the far-off terraces of Potamia which Janus had prepared for his girl-bride.

Then once again Venice decreed a pageant for the gentle Lady of Asolo.

It was night, and the skies had clothed themselves in gloom; out on the lagoon the lights in
the shipping scarce pierced the mists, and the rain fell in flurries, drifting in gusts under
the arcades of the Ducal Palace, and lifting the cloaks of the Senators and Councillors who
sought shelter there while the procession was forming. But none turned back for the wildness
of the night, for the order of the Senate was imperative that all the State officials and all
the embassies must do her honor; and the time had been appointed by a King who bows to no mortal
will and brooks no delay. Across the Piazza, down through the Palace Court-yards and through
the calle the people were flocking--dark groups over which the lights of the torches flared
fitfully: the nobles were waiting in their gondolas--each at his palace portal, to take his
place--there were no sounds but the wind and the rain--footsteps plashing over the wet pavements--a
whispered order.

And now to strange, solemn music,--the sobbing of the 'cellos, the tenderer melancholy of the
flute--the long procession was moving up the Canal Grande--the ducal barge and the gondola
of the Patriarch not keeping decorous line, for the roughness of the waters. From the portals
of the Palazzo Corner Regina a bridge of boats had been thrown across the Canal Grande to the
mouth of the Rio of San Cassan, and out of the blackness of the great Cornaro Palace the bearers
met them, bringing in reverent state the form of the gracious Queen for whom all earthly problems
were solved--who might never again answer their devotion with smiles or benediction.

