The master of the hotel retired three steps from me, as from an infected person, as I declared
this;--and poor La Fleur advanced three steps towards me, and with that sort of movement which
a good soul makes to succour a distress'd one: --the fellow won my heart by it; and from that
single trait I knew his character as perfectly, and could rely upon it as firmly, as if he
had served me with fidelity for seven years.

Mon seigneur! cried the master of the hotel; but recollecting himself as he made the exclamation,
he instantly changed the tone of it.--If Monsieur, said he, has not a passport (apparemment)
in all likelihood he has friends in Paris who can procure him one.-- Not that I know of, quoth
I, with an air of indifference.--Then certes, replied he, you'll be sent to the Bastile or
the Chatelet au moins.--Poo! said I, the King of France is a good natur'd soul: --he'll hurt
nobody.--Cela n'empeche pas, said he--you will certainly be sent to the Bastile to-morrow morning.--But
I've taken your lodgings for a month, answer'd I, and I'll not quit them a day before the time
for all the kings of France in the world.  La Fleur whispered in my ear, That nobody could
oppose the king of France.

Pardi! said my host, ces Messieurs Anglois sont des gens tres extraordinaires;--and, having
both said and sworn it,--he went out.

THE PASSPORT.  THE HOTEL AT PARIS.

I could not find in my heart to torture La Fleur's with a serious look upon the subject of
my embarrassment, which was the reason I had treated it so cavalierly:  and to show him how
light it lay upon my mind, I dropt the subject entirely; and whilst he waited upon me at supper,
talk'd to him with more than usual gaiety about Paris, and of the Opera Comique.--La Fleur
had been there himself, and had followed me through the streets as far as the bookseller's
shop; but seeing me come out with the young fille de chambre, and that we walk'd down the Quai
de Conti together, La Fleur deem'd it unnecessary to follow me a step further;--so making his
own reflections upon it, he took a shorter cut,--and got to the hotel in time to be inform'd
of the affair of the police against my arrival.

As soon as the honest creature had taken away, and gone down to sup himself, I then began to
think a little seriously about my situation. -

- And here, I know, Eugenius, thou wilt smile at the remembrance of a short dialogue which
passed betwixt us the moment I was going to set out: --I must tell it here.

Eugenius, knowing that I was as little subject to be overburden'd with money as thought, had
drawn me aside to interrogate me how much I had taken care for.  Upon telling him the exact
sum, Eugenius shook his head, and said it would not do; so pull'd out his purse in order to
empty it into mine.--I've enough in conscience, Eugenius, said I.--Indeed, Yorick, you have
not, replied Eugenius; I know France and Italy better than you.--But you don't consider, Eugenius,
said I, refusing his offer, that before I have been three days in Paris, I shall take care
to say or do something or other for which I shall get clapp'd up into the Bastile, and that
I shall live there a couple of months entirely at the king of France's expense.--I beg pardon,
said Eugenius drily: really I had forgot that resource.

Now the event I treated gaily came seriously to my door.

Is it folly, or nonchalance, or philosophy, or pertinacity--or what is it in me, that, after
all, when La Fleur had gone down stairs, and I was quite alone, I could not bring down my mind
to think of it otherwise than I had then spoken of it to Eugenius?

- And as for the Bastile; the terror is in the word.--Make the most of it you can, said I to
myself, the Bastile is but another word for a tower;--and a tower is but another word for a
house you can't get out of.--Mercy on the gouty! for they are in it twice a year.-- But with
nine livres a day, and pen and ink, and paper, and patience, albeit a man can't get out, he
may do very well within,-- at least for a mouth or six weeks; at the end of which, if he is
a harmless fellow, his innocence appears, and he comes out a better and wiser man than he went in.

I had some occasion (I forget what) to step into the court-yard, as I settled this account;
and remember I walk'd down stairs in no small triumph with the conceit of my reasoning.--Beshrew
the sombre pencil! said I, vauntingly--for I envy not its powers, which paints the evils of
life with so hard and deadly a colouring.  The mind sits terrified at the objects she has magnified
herself, and blackened:  reduce them to their proper size and hue, she overlooks them.--'Tis
true, said I, correcting the proposition,--the Bastile is not an evil to be despised;--but
strip it of its towers--fill up the fosse,--unbarricade the doors--call it simply a confinement,
and suppose 'tis some tyrant of a distemper--and not of a man, which holds you in it,--the
evil vanishes, and you bear the other half without complaint.

I was interrupted in the heyday of this soliloquy, with a voice which I took to be of a child,
which complained "it could not get out."--I look'd up and down the passage, and seeing neither
man, woman, nor child, I went out without farther attention.

In my return back through the passage, I heard the same words repeated twice over; and, looking
up, I saw it was a starling hung in a little cage.--"I can't get out,--I can't get out," said
the starling.

I stood looking at the bird:  and to every person who came through the passage it ran fluttering
to the side towards which they approach'd it, with the same lamentation of its captivity. 
"I can't get out," said the starling.--God help thee! said I, but I'll let thee out, cost what
it will; so I turned about the cage to get to the door:  it was twisted and double twisted
so fast with wire, there was no getting it open without pulling the cage to pieces.--I took
both hands to it.

The bird flew to the place where I was attempting his deliverance, and thrusting his head through
the trellis pressed his breast against it as if impatient.--I fear, poor creature! said I,
I cannot set thee at liberty.--"No," said the starling,-- "I can't get out--I can't get out,"
said the starling.

I vow I never had my affections more tenderly awakened; nor do I remember an incident in my
life, where the dissipated spirits, to which my reason had been a bubble, were so suddenly
call'd home. Mechanical as the notes were, yet so true in tune to nature were they chanted,
that in one moment they overthrew all my systematic reasonings upon the Bastile; and I heavily
walked upstairs, unsaying every word I had said in going down them.

THE CAPTIVE.  PARIS.

The bird in his cage pursued me into my room; I sat down close to my table, and leaning my
head upon my hand, I began to figure to myself the miseries of confinement.  I was in a right
frame for it, and so I gave full scope to my imagination.

I was going to begin with the millions of my fellow-creatures born to no inheritance but slavery:
but finding, however affecting the picture was, that I could not bring it near me, and that
the multitude of sad groups in it did but distract me. -

- I took a single captive, and having first shut him up in his dungeon, I then look'd through
the twilight of his grated door to take his picture.

I beheld his body half-wasted away with long expectation and confinement, and felt what kind
of sickness of the heart it was which arises from hope deferr'd.  Upon looking nearer I saw
him pale and feverish:  in thirty years the western breeze had not once fann'd his blood;--he
had seen no sun, no moon, in all that time-- nor had the voice of friend or kinsman breathed
through his lattice.--His children -

But here my heart began to bleed--and I was forced to go on with another part of the portrait.

He was sitting upon the ground upon a little straw, in the furthest corner of his dungeon,
which was alternately his chair and bed:  a little calendar of small sticks were laid at the
head, notch'd all over with the dismal days and nights he had passed there;--he had one of
these little sticks in his hand, and, with a rusty nail he was etching another day of misery
to add to the heap.  As I darkened the little light he had, he lifted up a hopeless eye towards
the door, then cast it down,--shook his head, and went on with his work of affliction.  I heard
his chains upon his legs, as he turned his body to lay his little stick upon the bundle.--He
gave a deep sigh.--I saw the iron enter into his soul!--I burst into tears.--I could not sustain
the picture of confinement which my fancy had drawn.--I started up from my chair, and calling
La Fleur:  I bid him bespeak me a remise, and have it ready at the door of the hotel by nine
in the morning.

I'll go directly, said I, myself to Monsieur le Duc de Choiseul.

La Fleur would have put me to bed; but--not willing he should see anything upon my cheek which
would cost the honest fellow a heart- ache,--I told him I would go to bed by myself,--and bid
him go do the same.

THE STARLING.  ROAD TO VERSAILLES.

I got into my remise the hour I proposed:  La Fleur got up behind, and I bid the coachman make
the best of his way to Versailles.

As there was nothing in this road, or rather nothing which I look for in travelling, I cannot
fill up the blank better than with a short history of this self-same bird, which became the
subject of the last chapter.

Whilst the Honourable Mr.--was waiting for a wind at Dover, it had been caught upon the cliffs,
before it could well fly, by an English lad who was his groom; who, not caring to destroy it,
had taken it in his breast into the packet;--and, by course of feeding it, and taking it once
under his protection, in a day or two grew fond of it, and got it safe along with him to Paris.

At Paris the lad had laid out a livre in a little cage for the starling, and as he had little
to do better the five months his master staid there, he taught it, in his mother's tongue,
the four simple words--(and no more)--to which I own'd myself so much its debtor.

Upon his master's going on for Italy, the lad had given it to the master of the hotel.  But
his little song for liberty being in an UNKNOWN language at Paris, the bird had little or no
store set by him:  so La Fleur bought both him and his cage for me for a bottle of Burgundy.

In my return from Italy I brought him with me to the country in whose language he had learned
his notes; and telling the story of him to Lord A-, Lord A- begg'd the bird of me;--in a week
Lord A- gave him to Lord B-; Lord B- made a present of him to Lord C-; and Lord C-'s gentleman
sold him to Lord D-'s for a shilling; Lord D- gave him to Lord E-; and so on--half round the
alphabet.  From that rank he pass'd into the lower house, and pass'd the hands of as many commoners.
But as all these wanted to GET IN, and my bird wanted to GET OUT, he had almost as little store
set by him in London as in Paris.

It is impossible but many of my readers must have heard of him; and if any by mere chance have
ever seen him, I beg leave to inform them, that that bird was my bird, or some vile copy set
up to represent him.

I have nothing farther to add upon him, but that from that time to this I have borne this poor
starling as the crest to my arms.-- Thus:

[Picture which cannot be reproduced]

- And let the herald's officers twist his neck about if they dare.

THE ADDRESS.  VERSAILLES.

I should not like to have my enemy take a view of my mind when I am going to ask protection
of any man; for which reason I generally endeavour to protect myself; but this going to Monsieur
le Duc de C- was an act of compulsion; had it been an act of choice, I should have done it,
I suppose, like other people.

How many mean plans of dirty address, as I went along, did my servile heart form!  I deserved
the Bastile for every one of them.

Then nothing would serve me when I got within sight of Versailles, but putting words and sentences
together, and conceiving attitudes and tones to wreath myself into Monsieur le Duc de C-'s
good graces.--This will do, said I.--Just as well, retorted I again, as a coat carried up to
him by an adventurous tailor, without taking his measure.  Fool! continued I,--see Monsieur
le Duc's face first;--observe what character is written in it;--take notice in what posture
he stands to hear you;--mark the turns and expressions of his body and limbs;--and for the
tone,--the first sound which comes from his lips will give it you; and from all these together
you'll compound an address at once upon the spot, which cannot disgust the Duke;--the ingredients
are his own, and most likely to go down.

Well! said I, I wish it well over.--Coward again! as if man to man was not equal throughout
the whole surface of the globe; and if in the field--why not face to face in the cabinet too?
And trust me, Yorick, whenever it is not so, man is false to himself and betrays his own succours
ten times where nature does it once.  Go to the Duc de C- with the Bastile in thy looks;--my
life for it, thou wilt be sent back to Paris in half an hour with an escort.

I believe so, said I.--Then I'll go to the Duke, by heaven! with all the gaiety and debonairness
in the world. -

- And there you are wrong again, replied I.--A heart at ease, Yorick, flies into no extremes--'tis
ever on its centre.--Well! well! cried I, as the coachman turn'd in at the gates, I find I
shall do very well:  and by the time he had wheel'd round the court, and brought me up to the
door, I found myself so much the better for my own lecture, that I neither ascended the steps
like a victim to justice, who was to part with life upon the top most,-- nor did I mount them
with a skip and a couple of strides, as I do when I fly up, Eliza! to thee to meet it.

As I entered the door of the saloon I was met by a person, who possibly might be the maitre
d'hotel, but had more the air of one of the under secretaries, who told me the Duc de C- was
busy.--I am utterly ignorant, said I, of the forms of obtaining an audience, being an absolute
stranger, and what is worse in the present conjuncture of affairs, being an Englishman too.--He
replied, that did not increase the difficulty.--I made him a slight bow, and told him, I had
something of importance to say to Monsieur le Duc.  The secretary look'd towards the stairs,
as if he was about to leave me to carry up this account to some one.--But I must not mislead
you, said I,--for what I have to say is of no manner of importance to Monsieur le Duc de C---but
of great importance to myself.--C'est une autre affaire, replied he.--Not at all, said I, to
a man of gallantry.--But pray, good sir, continued I, when can a stranger hope to have access?--In
not less than two hours, said he, looking at his watch.  The number of equipages in the court-yard
seemed to justify the calculation, that I could have no nearer a prospect;-- and as walking
backwards and forwards in the saloon, without a soul to commune with, was for the time as bad
as being in the Bastile itself, I instantly went back to my remise, and bid the coachman drive
me to the Cordon Bleu, which was the nearest hotel.

I think there is a fatality in it;--I seldom go to the place I set out for.

LE PATISSIER.  VERSAILLES.

Before I had got half way down the street I changed my mind:  as I am at Versailles, thought
I, I might as well take a view of the town; so I pull'd the cord, and ordered the coachman
to drive round some of the principal streets.--I suppose the town is not very large, said I.--The
coachman begg'd pardon for setting me right, and told me it was very superb, and that numbers
of the first dukes and marquises and counts had hotels.--The Count de B-, of whom the bookseller
at the Quai de Conti had spoke so handsomely the night before, came instantly into my mind.--And
why should I not go, thought I, to the Count de B-, who has so high an idea of English books
and English men--and tell him my story? so I changed my mind a second time.--In truth it was
the third; for I had intended that day for Madame de R-, in the Rue St. Pierre, and had devoutly
sent her word by her fille de chambre that I would assuredly wait upon her;--but I am governed
by circumstances;--I cannot govern them: so seeing a man standing with a basket on the other
side of the street, as if he had something to sell, I bid La Fleur go up to him, and enquire
for the Count's hotel.

La Fleur returned a little pale; and told me it was a Chevalier de St. Louis selling pates.--It
is impossible, La Fleur, said I.--La Fleur could no more account for the phenomenon than myself;
but persisted in his story:  he had seen the croix set in gold, with its red riband, he said,
tied to his buttonhole--and had looked into the basket and seen the pates which the Chevalier
was selling; so could not be mistaken in that.

Such a reverse in man's life awakens a better principle than curiosity:  I could not help looking
for some time at him as I sat in the remise: --the more I look'd at him, his croix, and his
basket, the stronger they wove themselves into my brain.--I got out of the remise, and went
towards him.

He was begirt with a clean linen apron which fell below his knees, and with a sort of a bib
that went half way up his breast; upon the top of this, but a little below the hem, hung his
croix.  His basket of little pates was covered over with a white damask napkin; another of
the same kind was spread at the bottom; and there was a look of proprete and neatness throughout,
that one might have bought his pates of him, as much from appetite as sentiment.

He made an offer of them to neither; but stood still with them at the corner of an hotel, for
those to buy who chose it without solicitation.

He was about forty-eight;--of a sedate look, something approaching to gravity.  I did not wonder.--I
went up rather to the basket than him, and having lifted up the napkin, and taking one of his
pates into my hand,--I begg'd he would explain the appearance which affected me.

He told me in a few words, that the best part of his life had passed in the service, in which,
after spending a small patrimony, he had obtained a company and the croix with it; but that,
at the conclusion of the last peace, his regiment being reformed, and the whole corps, with
those of some other regiments, left without any provision, he found himself in a wide world
without friends, without a livre,--and indeed, said he, without anything but this,-- (pointing,
as he said it, to his croix).--The poor Chevalier won my pity, and he finished the scene with
winning my esteem too.

The king, he said, was the most generous of princes, but his generosity could neither relieve
nor reward everyone, and it was only his misfortune to be amongst the number.  He had a little
wife, he said, whom he loved, who did the patisserie; and added, he felt no dishonour in defending
her and himself from want in this way--unless Providence had offer'd him a better.

It would be wicked to withhold a pleasure from the good, in passing over what happen'd to this
poor Chevalier of St. Louis about nine months after.

It seems he usually took his stand near the iron gates which lead up to the palace, and as
his croix had caught the eyes of numbers, numbers had made the same enquiry which I had done.--He
had told them the same story, and always with so much modesty and good sense, that it had reach'd
at last the king's ears;--who, hearing the Chevalier had been a gallant officer, and respected
by the whole regiment as a man of honour and integrity,--he broke up his little trade by a
pension of fifteen hundred livres a year.

As I have told this to please the reader, I beg he will allow me to relate another, out of
its order, to please myself: --the two stories reflect light upon each other,--and 'tis a pity
they should be parted.

THE SWORD.  RENNES.

When states and empires have their periods of declension, and feel in their turns what distress
and poverty is,--I stop not to tell the causes which gradually brought the house d'E-, in Brittany,
into decay.  The Marquis d'E- had fought up against his condition with great firmness; wishing
to preserve, and still show to the world, some little fragments of what his ancestors had been;--their
indiscretions had put it out of his power.  There was enough left for the little exigencies
of OBSCURITY.--But he had two boys who looked up to him for LIGHT;--he thought they deserved
it.  He had tried his sword--it could not open the way,--the MOUNTING was too expensive,--and
simple economy was not a match for it: --there was no resource but commerce.

In any other province in France, save Brittany, this was smiting the root for ever of the little
tree his pride and affection wish'd to see re-blossom.--But in Brittany, there being a provision
for this, he avail'd himself of it; and, taking an occasion when the states were assembled
at Rennes, the Marquis, attended with his two boys, entered the court; and having pleaded the
right of an ancient law of the duchy, which, though seldom claim'd, he said, was no less in
force, he took his sword from his side: --Here, said he, take it; and be trusty guardians of
it, till better times put me in condition to reclaim it.

The president accepted the Marquis's sword:  he staid a few minutes to see it deposited in
the archives of his house--and departed.

The Marquis and his whole family embarked the next clay for Martinico, and in about nineteen
or twenty years of successful application to business, with some unlook'd for bequests from
distant branches of his house, return home to reclaim his nobility, and to support it.

It was an incident of good fortune which will never happen to any traveller but a Sentimental
one, that I should be at Rennes at the very time of this solemn requisition:  I call it solemn;--it
was so to me.

The Marquis entered the court with his whole family:  he supported his lady,--his eldest son
supported his sister, and his youngest was at the other extreme of the line next his mother;--he
put his handkerchief to his face twice. -

- There was a dead silence.  When the Marquis had approached within six paces of the tribunal,
he gave the Marchioness to his youngest son, and advancing three steps before his family,--he
reclaim'd his sword.  His sword was given him, and the moment he got it into his hand he drew
it almost out of the scabbard: --'twas the shining face of a friend he had once given up--he
look'd attentively along it, beginning at the hilt, as if to see whether it was the same,--
when, observing a little rust which it had contracted near the point, he brought it near his
eye, and bending his head down over it,--I think--I saw a tear fall upon the place.  I could
not be deceived by what followed.

"I shall find," said he, "some OTHER WAY to get it off."

When the Marquis had said this, he returned his sword into its scabbard, made a bow to the
guardians of it,--and, with his wife and daughter, and his two sons following him, walk'd out.

O, how I envied him his feelings!

THE PASSPORT.  VERSAILLES.

I found no difficulty in getting admittance to Monsieur le Count de B-.  The set of Shakespeares
was laid upon the table, and he was tumbling them over.  I walk'd up close to the table, and
giving first such a look at the books as to make him conceive I knew what they were,--I told
him I had come without any one to present me, knowing I should meet with a friend in his apartment,
who, I trusted, would do it for me: --it is my countryman, the great Shakespeare, said I, pointing
to his works--et ayez la boute, mon cher ami, apostrophizing his spirit, added I, de me faire
cet honneur-la. -

The Count smiled at the singularity of the introduction; and seeing I look'd a little pale
and sickly, insisted upon my taking an arm- chair; so I sat down; and to save him conjectures
upon a visit so out of all rule, I told him simply of the incident in the bookseller's shop,
and how that had impelled me rather to go to him with the story of a little embarrassment I
was under, than to any other man in France.--And what is your embarrassment? let me hear it,
said the Count.  So I told him the story just as I have told it the reader.

- And the master of my hotel, said I, as I concluded it, will needs have it, Monsieur le Count,
that I shall be sent to the Bastile;-- but I have no apprehensions, continued I;--for, in falling
into the hands of the most polish'd people in the world, and being conscious I was a true man,
and not come to spy the nakedness of the land, I scarce thought I lay at their mercy.--It does
not suit the gallantry of the French, Monsieur le Count, said I, to show it against invalids.

An animated blush came into the Count de B-'s cheeks as I spoke this.--Ne craignez rien--Don't
fear, said he.--Indeed, I don't, replied I again.--Besides, continued I, a little sportingly,
I have come laughing all the way from London to Paris, and I do not think Monsieur le Duc de
Choiseul is such an enemy to mirth as to send me back crying for my pains.

- My application to you, Monsieur le Count de B- (making him a low bow), is to desire he will not.

The Count heard me with great good nature, or I had not said half as much,--and once or twice
said,--C'est bien dit.  So I rested my cause there--and determined to say no more about it.

The Count led the discourse:  we talk'd of indifferent things,--of books, and politics, and
men;--and then of women.--God bless them all! said I, after much discourse about them--there
is not a man upon earth who loves them so much as I do:  after all the foibles I have seen,
and all the satires I have read against them, still I love them; being firmly persuaded that
a man, who has not a sort of affection for the whole sex, is incapable of ever loving a single
one as he ought.

Eh bien!  Monsieur l'Anglois, said the Count, gaily;--you are not come to spy the nakedness
of the land;--I believe you;--ni encore, I dare say, THAT of our women!--But permit me to conjecture,--if,
par hazard, they fell into your way, that the prospect would not affect you.

I have something within me which cannot bear the shock of the least indecent insinuation: 
in the sportability of chit-chat I have often endeavoured to conquer it, and with infinite
pain have hazarded a thousand things to a dozen of the sex together,--the least of which I
could not venture to a single one to gain heaven.

Excuse me, Monsieur le Count, said I;--as for the nakedness of your land, if I saw it, I should
cast my eyes over it with tears in them;--and for that of your women (blushing at the idea
he had excited in me) I am so evangelical in this, and have such a fellow- feeling for whatever
is weak about them, that I would cover it with a garment if I knew how to throw it on: --But
I could wish, continued I, to spy the nakedness of their hearts, and through the different
disguises of customs, climates, and religion, find out what is good in them to fashion my own
by: --and therefore am I come.

It is for this reason, Monsieur le Count, continued I, that I have not seen the Palais Royal,--nor
the Luxembourg,--nor the Facade of the Louvre,--nor have attempted to swell the catalogues
we have of pictures, statues, and churches.--I conceive every fair being as a temple, and would
rather enter in, and see the original drawings and loose sketches hung up in it, than the Transfiguration
of Raphael itself.

The thirst of this, continued I, as impatient as that which inflames the breast of the connoisseur,
has led me from my own home into France,--and from France will lead me through Italy;--'tis
a quiet journey of the heart in pursuit of Nature, and those affections which arise out of
her, which make us love each other,-- and the world, better than we do.

The Count said a great many civil things to me upon the occasion; and added very politely,
how much he stood obliged to Shakespeare for making me known to him.--But a propos, said he;--Shakespeare
is full of great things;--he forgot a small punctilio of announcing your name: --it puts you
under a necessity of doing it yourself.

THE PASSPORT.  VERSAILLES.

There is not a more perplexing affair in life to me, than to set about telling any one who
I am,--for there is scarce any body I cannot give a better account of than myself; and I have
often wished I could do it in a single word,--and have an end of it.  It was the only time
and occasion in my life I could accomplish this to any purpose;--for Shakespeare lying upon
the table, and recollecting I was in his books, I took up Hamlet, and turning immediately to
the grave-diggers' scene in the fifth act, I laid my finger upon Yorick, and advancing the
book to the Count, with my finger all the way over the name,--Me voici! said I.

Now, whether the idea of poor Yorick's skull was put out of the Count's mind by the reality
of my own, or by what magic he could drop a period of seven or eight hundred years, makes nothing
in this account;--'tis certain the French conceive better than they combine;--I wonder at nothing
in this world, and the less at this; inasmuch as one of the first of our own Church, for whose
candour and paternal sentiments I have the highest veneration, fell into the same mistake in
the very same case: --"He could not bear," he said, "to look into the sermons wrote by the
King of Denmark's jester."  Good, my Lord said I; but there are two Yoricks.  The Yorick your
Lordship thinks of, has been dead and buried eight hundred years ago; he flourished in Horwendillus's
court;--the other Yorick is myself, who have flourished, my Lord, in no court.- -He shook his
head.  Good God! said I, you might as well confound Alexander the Great with Alexander the
Coppersmith, my lord!-- "'Twas all one," he replied. -

- If Alexander, King of Macedon, could have translated your Lordship, said I, I'm sure your
Lordship would not have said so.

The poor Count de B- fell but into the same ERROR.

- Et, Monsieur, est-il Yorick? cried the Count.--Je le suis, said I.--Vous?--Moi,--moi qui
ai l'honneur de vous parler, Monsieur le Comte.--Mon Dieu! said he, embracing me,--Vous etes
Yorick!

The Count instantly put the Shakespeare into his pocket, and left me alone in his room.

THE PASSPORT.  VERSAILLES.

I could not conceive why the Count de B- had gone so abruptly out of the room, any more than
I could conceive why he had put the Shakespeare into his pocket. -

Mysteries which must explain themselves are not worth the loss of time which a conjecture about
them takes up:  'twas better to read Shakespeare; so taking up "Much Ado About Nothing," I
transported myself instantly from the chair I sat in to Messina in Sicily, and got so busy
with Don Pedro, and Benedict, and Beatrice, that I thought not of Versailles, the Count, or
the passport.

