Captain Scott's defense to this charge was that General Wilkinson was not, at the time the
words were charged to have been spoken, his commanding officer, that place being filled by
General Wade Hampton. General Scott, in his Memoirs, says that some of Wilkinson's partisans
had heard him say in an excited conversation that he knew, soon after Burr's trial, from his
friends Mr. Randolph and Mr. Tazewell and others, members of the grand jury, who found the
bill of indictment against Burr, that nothing but the influence of Mr. Jefferson had saved
Wilkinson from being included in the same indictment, and that he believed Wilkinson to have
been equally a traitor with Burr. He admits that the expression of that belief was not only
imprudent, but no doubt at that time blamable. But this was not the declaration on which he
was to be tried. This was uttered in New Orleans, the headquarters of General Wilkinson. The
utterance on which he was tried, as will be seen, was made in Washington, Mississippi Territory,
when General Wade Hampton was his commanding officer.

The finding of the Court on this charge was guilty, and that his conduct was unofficerlike.
The facts in regard to the charge of retaining money belonging to the men of his command were,
that prior to his departure for New Orleans he had recruited his company in Virginia, and,
being remote from a paymaster or quartermaster, a sum of four hundred dollars was placed in
his hands to be used in recruiting. Some of his vouchers were technically irregular, and at
the time of his trial about fifty dollars was not covered by formal vouchers. This was the
finding of the Court, but it expressly acquitted him of all fraudulent intentions. General
Wilkinson nursed his wrath, and after the close of the war published an attack on General Scott.
His own failure in the campaign of 1813, and especially his defeat at La Cale Mills, compared
with Scott's brilliant campaign on the Niagara frontier in the following spring, may have induced
this attack.

Captain Scott returned to Virginia after the trial, and under the advice of his friend, the
distinguished lawyer and statesman, Benjamin Watkins Leigh, he devoted himself to the study
of military works and of English attack. During the time mentioned he wrote a letter to Lewis
Edwards, Esq., at Washington City, of which he following is a copy:

    "PETERSBURG, June, 1811.

  "DEAR SIR: I believe we have very little village news to
  give you, nor do I know what would please you in that way. Of
  myself--that person who has so large a space in every man's own
  imagination, and so small a one in the imagination of every other--I
  can say but little; perhaps less would please you more. Since my
  return to Virginia my time has been passed in easy transitions from
  pleasure, to study, from study to pleasure; in my gayety forgetting
  the student, in the student forgetting my gayety.[A] I have
  generally been in the office of my friend Mr. Leigh, though not
  unmindful of the studies connected with my present profession; but
  you will easily conceive my military ardor has suffered abatement.
  Indeed, it is my design, as soon as circumstances will permit, to
  throw the feather out of my cap and resume it in my hand. Yet,
  should war come at last, my enthusiasm will be rekindled, and then
  who knows but that I may yet write my history with my sword?

    "Yours truly,

    "WINFIELD SCOTT."

[Footnote A: "If idle, be not solitary; if solitary, be not idle." An apothegm of Burton paraphrased
by Johnson, "My Motto."]

Scott rejoined the army at Baton Rouge, La., in 1811, and was soon appointed Judge Advocate
on the trial of a colonel charged with gross negligence in discipline and administration. By
dilatory pleas this officer had several times escaped justice, but on this trial he was found
guilty and censured. In the winter of 1811-'12 Scott was frequently on staff duty with General
Wade Hampton at New Orleans, and while there saw the first steam vessel that ever floated on
the Mississippi.

On May 20, 1812, Captain Scott embarked at New Orleans for Washington via Baltimore, accompanying
General Hampton and Lieutenant Charles K. Gardner. As the vessel on which they had taken passage
entered near the Capes of Virginia it passed a British frigate lying off the bar. In a short
time they met a Hampton pilot boat going out to sea. This was on June 29th, and this pilot
boat bore dispatches to Mr. Mansfield, the British Minister at Washington, announcing that
Congress had two days before declared war against Great Britain. The vessel bearing Captain
Scott and his companions went aground about sixteen miles from Baltimore, and he and some others
undertook the remainder of the journey on foot. At the end of the fourth mile they passed an
enthusiastic militia meeting which had just received a copy of the declaration of war. Scott,
having on a uniform, was made the hero of the occasion, and was chosen to read the declaration
to the meeting. He was here offered a seat in a double gig to Baltimore, but the driver, who
had become intoxicated, overturned the gig twice, when Scott took the reins and drove the latter
part of the journey. On his arrival at Baltimore he received the pleasing intelligence that
he had been appointed a lieutenant colonel in the United States army. He was then in his twenty-sixth
year.

He went with General Hampton to Washington, where the general asked him to accompany him on
an official visit to the Secretary of War. An unpleasant correspondence had a short time previously
occurred between the general and the secretary, yet he felt it his duty to make the call. On
General Hampton's name being announced to the secretary the latter appeared at the door and
extended his hand, while General Hampton simply bowed and crossed his hands behind him. A conversation
on official matters was held, at first formal and cold, but gradually terminating in one of
a friendly character. When General Hampton rose to leave he extended to the secretary both
of his hands; but it was now the latter's turn, and he bowed and placed his hands behind him.
General Hampton sent a challenge to mortal combat, but mutual friends settled the matter without
bloodshed, by requiring that Hampton should on the next morning present himself at the secretary's
door with both hands extended in the presence of the same persons who witnessed the former
meeting. Colonel Scott was now ordered to Philadelphia to mobilize his regiment and organize
a camp of instruction. In the month previous General William Hull had been appointed to the
command of the northwestern army, intended for the invasion of Canada. This army arrived on
the Maumee River on May 30th, and marching northward subsequently crossed over at Detroit.
High hopes were entertained of the success of this expedition, and the bitterest disappointment
and chagrin were manifested throughout the country when it was learned that Hull had surrendered
his entire command to the British General Brock on August 14th. The regiment to which Colonel
Scott was assigned was the Second Artillery. Colonel George Izard and he arrived on the Niagara
frontier with the companies of Nathan Towson and James Nelson Barker. He was posted at Black
Rock for the protection of the navy yard there established.

An expedition had been planned by Lieutenant Elliott, of the navy, for the capture or destruction
of two armed British brigs which were lying under the guns of Fort Erie. On October 8th Colonel
Scott detached Captain Towson and a portion of his company to report to Elliott. On the morning
of the 9th the Adams was taken by Elliott and Lieutenant Isaac Roach, and the Caledonia was
captured by Captain Towson. In passing down the river the Adams drifted into the British channel
and ran aground under the British guns. The enemy endeavored to recapture her, but were successfully
resisted by Colonel Scott. This was his first experience under fire, and he was complimented
for his skill and gallantry. The Caledonia was afterward a part of Commodore Perry's fleet
on Lake Erie. The Adams, having drifted aground, was burned to prevent recapture.

The northwestern army at this time consisted of about ten thousand troops. General Henry Dearborn
held command near Plattsburg and Greenbush, and was the commanding officer of all the forces
on the northern frontier. A portion of his army was camped at Lewistown under the command of
General Stephen Van Rensselaer, of New York. General Alexander Smyth was at Buffalo with some
fifteen hundred regular troops. Besides these, there were small detachments at Ogdensburg,
Sackett's Harbor, and Black Rock.

General Van Rensselaer conceived the plan of making a bold and sudden move into Canada, with
a view of capturing Jamestown, and there establishing winter quarters. The affair of the capture
of the two English brigs with fifty men had roused great enthusiasm, and the country was anxious
for some success of arms to alleviate the depression occasioned by Hull's surrender. General
Van Rensselaer confided the immediate command of the expedition to his relative, Colonel Solomon
Van Rensselaer, an officer of coolness and courage, who, with three hundred militia and three
hundred regulars, under Colonel Chrystie, on October 13th began crossing the river.

The troops were on the river bank ready to embark an hour before daylight, but from some mismanagement
there was not a sufficient number of boats to transport the whole, and they were compelled
to cross in detachments. Colonel Chrystie's boat was swept down the river by the current, and
he was wounded. On a second attempt he succeeded in landing. With about a hundred men Colonel
Van Rensselaer led them up the bank, and halted to await the arrival of the remainder. It was
now daylight, and the little command was in full view of the enemy, who opened a deadly fire.
Every commissioned officer was either killed or wounded. Finding that the river bank afforded
but little protection, Colonel Van Rensselaer determined to storm the Queenstown heights. He
had now received four wounds, and was compelled to relinquish the command to Captains Peter
Ogilvie, Jr., and John Ellis Wool. In a very short time the fort was taken and the heights
occupied by the Americans. The enemy took refuge in a stone house, from which they opened a
destructive fire and made two unsuccessful attempts to recapture the lost ground. General Brock
rallied his men and led them on, but while moving at the head of the Forty-ninth Grenadiers
he fell mortally wounded. General Van Rensselaer recrossed the river and assumed command, but
hastening back to urge forward re-enforcements, the command fell to General Decius Wadsworth,
who, however, did not assume to control the movements. Two light batteries from the Canada
shore played on the boats attempting to cross, and there was no artillery with which the Americans
could resist.

Colonel Scott had volunteered his services for the expedition, but they were declined, for
the reason that arrangements had been made for detachments under Colonel John R. Fenwick and
Lieutenant-Colonel James Robert Mullaney to sustain the assaulting columns. Permission was,
however, given to Colonel Scott to march his regiment to Lewiston and act as circumstances
might require.

He arrived there at 4 A.M. on the 13th. Finding no boats to transport his command, he placed
his guns on the American shore, under the direction of Captains Towson and Barker. Seeing that
a small portion of the troops had crossed over, and knowing the peril of Van Rensselaer's little
force, he took one piece of artillery into a boat, and, accompanied by his adjutant, Lieutenant
Isaac Roach, Jr., he crossedt to the Canada shore. Wadsworth at once relinquished the command
of the troops to him, and he soon animated every one with courage and resolution.

Six feet five inches in height, clad in a new uniform, he became a conspicuous mark for the
enemy. The re-enforcements which had now crossed over increased the force to about six hundred,
of which more than half were regulars. These were placed under Colonel Scott's directions in
the most commanding positions, where they awaited further re-enforcements. About this time
a body of five hundred Indians joined the British troops. The British with their Indian allies
moved forward to the assault, but were speedily driven back. A second time they moved forward,
but with the same result. They kept up a desultory firing, during which a body of Indians moved
suddenly out and surprised an outpost of militia. Scott, who was at this moment engaged in
unspiking a gun, rushed to the front, and, rallying his men, sent the dusky warriors rapidly
in retreat. The British general Sheaffe, who held the command at Fort George, having heard
the firing, at once put his troops in motion and marched for the scene of the conflict. Sheaffe's
command consisted of eight hundred and fifty men. These, added to the garrison which the Americans
were attacking, was a formidable force to be met by three hundred men. In the meantime the
American troops had refused to cross the river and were in a state of mutiny. No entreaties,
orders, or threats of Van Rensselaer could avail to move them. But the three hundred brave
fellows, with only one piece of artillery, stood their ground. General Van Rensselaer, from
the American shore, sent word to Wadsworth to retreat. Colonels John Chrystie and Scott, of
the regulars, and Captains James Mead, Strahan, and Allen, of the militia, and Captains Ogilvei,
Wool, Joseph Gilbert, Totten, and McChesney, took council of their desperate situation. Colonel
Scott told them that their condition was desperate, but that the stain of Hull's surrender
must be wiped out. "Let us die," he said, "arms in hand. Our country demands the sacrifice.
The example will not be lost. The blood of the slain will make heroes of the living. Those
who follow will avenge our fall and our country's wrongs. Who dare to stand?" he exclaimed.
A loud ringing shout "All!" came from the whole line.

General Sheaffe did not move to immediate attack on his arrival. He marched his troops slowly
the entire length of the American line, and then countermarched.

As resistance was entirely hopeless, the order was given to retire. The whole line broke in
disorder to the river, but there were no boats there to transport them. Two flags of truce
were sent to the enemy, but the officer who bore them did not return. Colonel Scott then fixed
a white handkerchief on the end of his sword, and, accompanied by Captains Totten and Gibson,
passed under the river bluff and started to ascend the heights. They were met by Indians, who
fired on them and rushed with tomahawks to assault them. A British officer happily arrived
and conducted them to the quarters of General Sheaffe, and Colonel Scott made formal surrender
of the whole force. The number surrendered, except some skulking militia who were discovered
later, was two hundred and ninety-three. The American loss in killed, wounded, and captured
was near one thousand men.

General Van Rensselaer was so mortified at the conduct of the militia that he tendered his
resignation. The British general Brock was next day buried under one of the bastions of Fort
George, and Colonel Scott, then a prisoner, sent orders to have minute guns fired from Fort
Niagara during the funeral ceremonies, which orders were carried out--an act of chivalry and
courtesy which greatly impressed the British.

The American officers who had been captured were lodged in a small inn at the village of Newark
and divested of their arms, and a strong guard was posted at the door. Two Indians, Captain
Jacobs and Brant, sent word that they wished to see the tall American, meaning Colonel Scott.
The alleged object of their visit was to see if Scott had not been wounded, as he had been
fired at several times at close range. On entering the room, Jacobs seized Scott by the arm
and attempted to turn him around. Scott seized the Indian and threw him against the wall. Both
then drew their knives, and advancing on the prisoner said, "We kill you now!" The sentinel
at the door was not in view, and Scott, making a spring, seized a sword, which he quickly drew
from the scabbard, and, placing his back against the wall in the narrow hall, defied his assailants.
At this critical moment Captain Coffin, nephew of General Sheaffe and his aid-de-camp, entered
the room and caught Jacobs by the throat and presented a cocked pistol to his breast. Both
savages now turned on him, and Scott closed in to defend the captain. At this moment the guard
entered, and arrested the two Indians and conducted them out of the room.

The volunteer officers and men were paroled and sent home, while the regulars were embarked
for Quebec. On the passage to Quebec a priest of a Caledonian settlement reproached Colonel
Scott severely for being a traitor to George III. Respect for his profession brought out a
mild reply. In 1827, General Scott being at Buffalo on board a Government steamer, the master
of the vessel asked permission to bring into his cabin a bishop and two priests. The bishop
was recognized as the same prelate who had acted so rudely. General Scott, however, heaped
coals of fire on his head by treating him and his party with the greatest courtesy.

After a cartel of exchange had been agreed upon, Colonel Scott and the other regulars, prisoners,
were embarked on a vessel for Boston. As they were about to sail, Colonel Scott's attention
was attracted by an unusual noise on deck. Proceeding from the cabin to the scene of the disturbance,
he found a party of British officers in the act of separating from the other prisoners such
as by confusion or brogue they judged to be Irishmen. The object was to refuse to parole them,
and send them to England to be tried for high treason. Twenty-three had been selected and set
apart for this purpose.

Colonel Scott learned with indignation that this proceeding was under the direct orders of
Sir George Prevost, the Governor General. He at once protested, and commanded the remaining
men to be silent and answer no questions. This order was obeyed despite the threats of the
British officers, and none others than the twenty-three were separated from their comrades.
He then addressed the party selected, explaining the laws of allegiance, and assuring them
that the United States Government would protect them by immediate retaliation, and, if necessary,
by an order to give no quarter hereafter in battle. He was frequently interrupted by the British
officers, but they failed to silence him. The Irishmen were put in irons, placed on board a
frigate, and sent to England. After Colonel Scott landed in Boston he proceeded to Washington
and was duly exchanged. He at once addressed a letter to the Secretary of War as follows:

  "SIR: I think it my duty to lay before the Department that
  on the arrival at Quebec of the American prisoners of war
  surrendered at Queenstown they were mustered and examined by British
  officers appointed to that duty, and every native-born of the United
  Kingdom of Great-Britain and Ireland sequestered and sent on board a
  ship of war then in the harbor. The vessel in a few days thereafter
  sailed for England with these persons on board. Between fifteen and
  twenty persons were thus taken from us, natives of Ireland, several
  of whom were known by their platoon officers to be naturalized
  citizens of the United States, and others to have been long
  residents within the same. One in particular, whose name has escaped
  me, besides having complied with all the conditions of our
  naturalization laws, was represented by his officers to have left a
  wife and five children, all of them born within the State of New
  York.

  "I distinctly understood, as well from the officers who came on
  board the prison ship for the above purposes as from others with
  whom I remonstrated on this subject, that it was the determination
  of the British Government, as expressed through Sir George Prevost,
  to punish every man whom it might subject to its power found in arms
  against the British king contrary to his native allegiance. I have
  the honor to be, sir,

                    "Your most obedient servant,

                                       "WINFIELD SCOTT,

                        "Lieutenant Colonel, Second U.S. Artillery."

This report was forwarded by the Secretary of War to both houses of Congress, and the immediate
result was that Congress, on March 3, 1813, passed an act of retaliation. In May, 1813, at
the battle of Fort George, a number of prisoners were captured. Colonel Scott, being then chief
of staff, selected twenty-three to be confined and held as hostages. He was careful, however,
to entirely exclude Irishmen from the number. Eventually the twenty-three men sent to England
were released, and Scott took great interest in securing their arrearages of pay and patents
for their land bounties.

The doctrine of perpetual allegiance had always been maintained by the British Government,
and examples were numerous of the arrest or detention of prisoners claimed as British subjects.
After this act of Colonel Scott no other prisoners were set apart by the British to be tried
for treason.

These transactions gave rise to discussion of the question throughout the country and in both
houses of Congress. President Madison, and Mr. Monroe as Secretary of State, took strong ground
against the British claim. While subsequent treaties were silent on the question, the right
is no longer asserted by Great Britain, and has been recognized by treaty. Colonel Scott then
returned to Washington.

From Washington Colonel Scott was ordered to Philadelphia to take command of another battalion
of his regiment. In March, 1813, he was appointed adjutant general with the rank of colonel,
and about the same time promoted to the colonelcy of his regiment. Notwithstanding his command
of the regiment, he continued to perform staff duties. At this time General Dearborn was in
command of the American forces at Fort Niagara, consisting of about five thousand men. In May,
Colonel Scott, with his regiment, joined General Dearborn, and Scott became chief of staff.
He first organized the service among all the staff departments, several of which were entirely
new, and others disused in the United States since the Revolutionary War. On the British side
of the Niagara was Fort George, situated on a peninsula and occupied by British troops. Just
previous to Colonel Scott's arrival at Niagara an expedition was landed from the squadron of
Commodore Chauncey, commanded by General Zebulon Montgomery Pike, for the capture of York,
the capital of Upper Canada. The assault was successful, and the place was taken with a large
number of prisoners and valuable stores. General Pike was killed by the explosion of a magazine.
Animated by the success of General Pike's expedition, General Dearborn determined to make an
assault on Fort George, having the co-operation of Commodore Chauncey and his naval force.
Arrangements were made for an attack on May 20th. Colonel Scott asked permission to join the
expedition in command of his own regiment, which was granted.

The fleet weighed anchor at three o'clock in the morning, and by four the troops were all aboard.
The place of embarkation was three miles east of Fort Niagara, and was made in six divisions
of boats. Colonel Scott led the advance guard, at his special request, composed of his own
regiment and a smaller one under Lieutenant-Colonel George McFeely. He was followed by General
Moses Porter having the field train, then the brigades of Generals John Parker Boyd, William
Henry Winder, and John Chandler, with the reserve under the able Colonel Alexander Macomb.

Commodore Isaac Chauncey had directed the anchorage of his schooners close to the shore in
order to protect the troops in landing, and to open fire at any point on the shore where the
enemy were suspected to be. Lieutenant Oliver Hazard Perry joined Commodore Chauncey on the
evening of the 25th, and volunteered his services in assisting in the debarkation of the troops.
This service required the greatest coolness and skill, as the wind was blowing strong and the
current running rapidly; the vessels were difficult to manage, especially as they were under
almost constant fire of the British guns. Perry accompanied Scott through the surf, and rendered
valuable service. He it was who as Commodore Perry soon after became known to the world as
the hero of Lake Erie.

The landing was effected on the British shore at nine o'clock in the morning a short distance
from the village of Newark, now known as Niagara. The line of battle was promptly formed under
cover of a bank ranging from six to twelve feet in height. The line of the enemy was formed
at the top of the bank, consisting of about fifteen hundred men. The first attempt to ascend
was unsuccessful. Scott, in attempting to scale the bank, received a severe fall, but recovering
himself and rallying his forces, he advanced up the bank and was met by the enemy's bayonets.
The British fell back and reformed under cover of a ravine, but a vigorous assault of less
than half an hour put them in a complete rout. These forces were assisted by Porter's artillery
and Boyd with a portion of his command, who had landed soon after the advance forces. The enemy
were pursued to the village, where the Americans were re-enforced by the command of Colonel
James Miller. It was learned from some prisoners that the British garrison was about to abandon
Fort George and preparing to blow up the works. Two companies were dispatched toward the fort,
but on nearing it one of the magazines exploded, and a piece of timber striking Colonel Scott,
threw him from his horse, resulting in a broken collar bone. Recovering himself, he caused
the gate to be forced, entered the fort, and with his own hands pulled down the British flag.
The fort had suffered great damage from the artillery fire directed against it from the opposite
shore. The enemy were pursued for five miles, when an order from General Morgan Lewis recalled
Scott when he was in the midst of the stragglers from the British forces. The American loss
was seventeen killed and forty-five wounded, and that of the British ninety killed, one hundred
and sixty wounded, and over one hundred prisoners.

It will be remembered that about a year before Colonel Scott was for a short time a prisoner
at Queenstown. Dining one evening with General Sheaffe and several other British officers,
one of them asked him if he had ever seen the falls of Niagara. He replied, "Yes, from the
American side." To this the officer replied, "You must have the glory of a successful fight
before you can view the cataract in all its grandeur." Scott replied, "If it be your purpose
to insult me, sir, honor should have prompted you first to return my sword." General Sheaffe
rebuked the officer, and the matter ended.

This same colonel was severely wounded and captured at Fort George. Colonel Scott showed him
every attention and had his wants promptly supplied. On visiting him one day the British officer
said to him: "I have long owed you an apology, sir. You have overwhelmed me with kindness.
You now, sir, at your leisure, can view the falls in all their glory."

Within two days, after the capture of Fort George a body of some nine hundred British troops
under command of Sir George Prevost, Governor General of Canada, landed at Sackett's Harbor,
New York, for the purpose of destroying the stores and a vessel there on the stocks. General
Jacob Brown, who subsequently came to the command of the United States army, hastily gathered
a body of militia, attacked and drove the enemy back to their vessels, and saved the stores.
On June 6th, General Winder, with about eight hundred men, had been re-enforced at Stoney Creek
by a small force under General Chandler. They were in pursuit of the British forces who had
escaped from Fort George under command of General Vincent. He determined not to await the attack
of the Americans, but to attack himself. He moved out at night and attacked the center of the
American line, which he succeeded in breaking, and captured both Generals Winder and Chandler;
but the enemy was at last driven back, and a council of war decided on a retreat. Coming close
on this disaster, Colonel Charles G. Boerstler, with a command of six hundred men, had been
sent forward to capture the Stone House, seventeen miles from Fort George. The British force
was much larger than Boerstler's, and on June 24th he was completely surrounded and forced
to surrender. For some three months the main body of the army had remained inactive. Colonel
Scott during the happening of the occurrences just related had been engaged in foraging expeditions
for the supply of the army. These expeditions also resulted in combats between the opposing
forces, in all of which Scott was successful. In July, 1813, he resigned the office of adjutant
general and was assigned to the command of twenty companies, or what was known as a double
regiment.

Burlington Heights, on Lake Ontario, was supposed to be the depot of military stores for the
British, and in September an expedition was fitted out under Scott's command to capture it;
but no stores being found there, he marched toward York, now called Toronto, where a large
quantity of stores were taken and the barracks and storehouses burned. General Wilkinson being
now in command of the army, a campaign was inaugurated for the capture of Kingston and Montreal.
Kingston was an important port, and Montreal the chief commercial town of Lower Canada.

Wilkinson was ordered to concentrate at Sackett's Harbor early in October. General Wade Hampton
was ordered to join him from northern New York. Wilkinson embarked on October 2d, and Scott
was left in command of Fort George with some eight hundred regulars and part of a regiment
of militia under Colonel Joseph Gardner Swift. Under directions of Captain Totten, of the engineers,
work was rapidly advanced in placing the fort in tenable condition; but the work was not completed
before October 9th, when, to Scott's surprise, the enemy near him moved down toward Wilkinson.
As authorized by his orders, Colonel Scott turned the command of the fort over to Brigadier-General
McLure, of the New York militia. It was arranged that Scott was to join Wilkinson, and that
vessels for his transportation should be sent up to the mouth of the Genesee River.

