The genius of Michael Angelo and his spirit were powerful forces. They pervaded the whole art
of Italy to such an extent that it may be said that all sculptors were his imitators, both
while he lived and after his death. He loved to treat strong subjects, such as demanded violent
movement and unusual positions. It was only a man of his genius who could raise such subjects
above grotesqueness and the one effect of strange and unnatural exaggeration. As we look over
all his works it seems as if the idea of beauty and such things as are pleasing to the ordinary
mind rarely, if ever, came to his mind. Noble feeling, depth of thought, strength, and grandeur
are the associations which we have with him, and in the hands of weaker men, as his imitators
were, these subjects became barren, hollow displays of distorted limbs and soulless heads and
faces.

The result is, that there is little to be said of the immediate followers of this great man.
GUGLIELMO DELLA PORTA was one of his most able scholars, and his chief work was a monument
to Pope Paul III. in the Church of St. Peter's. The figure of the pope is in bronze, is seated,
and holding the right hand in benediction. It is dignified and well designed. The figures of
Justice and Prudence are not as good, and two others, Peace and Abundance, which were a part
of this work, but are now in the Farnese Palace, lack power, and show an attempt at a representation
of mere physical beauty.

BACCIO BANDINELLI (1487-1559) is more noticeable for his hatred of Michael Angelo than for
any other characteristic. He was a native of Florence and a friend of Leonardo da Vinci. He
was powerful in his design and bold in his treatment of his subjects, but he was full of affectation
and mannerisms in his execution of his works. He was false and envious, and his one good quality
was that of industry. His best works are on the screen of the high-altar in the Cathedral of
Florence, a relief on a pedestal in the Piazza of San Lorenzo, in Florence, and a group in
the Church of the Annunziata, which he intended for his own monument; the subject is Nicodemus
supporting Christ, and the Nicodemus is a portrait of Bandinelli himself.

CHAPTER VIII.

EUROPEAN SCULPTURE FROM MICHAEL ANGELO TO CANOVA.

Not only Italian artists attempted to follow the great sculptor of Italy, but those of other
nations flocked to Rome, and whatever ideas they may have had before reaching that city they
seemed to lose them all and to aim simply at one thing--to be Michaelangeloesque.

GIOVANNI DA BOLOGNA (1529-1608) was born in Douai, in Flanders, and was called Il Fiammingo
for this reason. Giovanni was intended for a notary by his father, who planned his education
with that end in view; but the boy's passion for sculpture was so great that the father was
obliged to yield to it, and placed him under the instruction of a sculptor named Beuch, who
had studied in Italy. Later Giovanni went to Rome, and finally settled in Florence, where his
most important works remain.

He was an imitator of Michael Angelo, and one of his best imitators; but when his works are
compared with those of the great master, or with the masterpieces of the fifteenth century,
we see a decline in them. In religious subjects Giovanni was not at home; his most successful
works were those which represented sentiment or abstract ideas, because on them he could lavish
his skill in execution, and use ornaments that did not suit the simplicity of religious subjects.
In the Loggia de' Lanzi, at Florence, there are two groups by him, the Rape of the Sabines
and Hercules and Nessus. In the Piazza della Signoria is his excellent statue of Duke Cosmo
I., and in the Uffizi Gallery a bronze statue of Mercury. The Rape of the Sabines is his masterpiece,
and the Mercury is one of the best works of its kind since the days of classic art. It is the
favorite Mercury of the world, and has been frequently copied. It is seen in many galleries
and collections in its original size, and a small copy is much used in private houses. (Fig. 109.)

Giovanni was especially happy in his designs for fountains, and that which he erected in Bologna,
in 1564, in front of the Palazzo Pubblico, is a splendid work of this kind. The statue of Neptune
at its summit is stately and free in its action; the children are charming and life-like, and
the Sirens at the base give an harmonious finish and complete the outline with easy grace.

He also erected a magnificent fountain in the island of the Boboli Gardens. In the Palazzo
Vecchio is a marble group by Giovanni representing Virtue conquering Vice. At Petraja there
is a beautiful Venus crowning a fountain remarkable for grace and delicacy, and, all in all,
his works prove him to have been the best sculptor of his own time. Tuscany may claim him and
be proud of him, for he was far more her son than that of his native Flanders.

Giovanni da Bologna was far less successful in reliefs than in statues, as may be seen in the
bronze gates to the Cathedral of Pisa, which he made in the last years of his life. In his
character this master was attractive and much beloved by his friends. One of them wrote of
him: "The best fellow in the world, not in the least covetous, as he shows by his poverty;
filled with a love of glory, and ambitious of rivalling Michael Angelo."

Giovanni decorated a chapel in the Church of the Annunziata with several reliefs in bronze
and with a crucifix; he not only wished to be buried here himself, as he was, but he also desired
to provide a place of burial for any of his countrymen who might die in Florence. The chapel
is called that of the Madonna del Soccorso.

The decline of sculpture in Italy at this period makes its study so unpromising that it is
a pleasure to turn to France, where the works of JEAN GOUJON show that he had the true idea
of sculpture in relief. From 1555 to 1562 this sculptor was employed on the works at the Louvre,
and during the massacre of St. Bartholomew he was shot while on a scaffold quietly working
at a bas-relief on that palace.

Goujon was an architect as well as a sculptor, and also a medal engraver, as is shown by the
curious and rare medal which he made for Catherine de' Medici. Many of his works are preserved
in different parts of France, and some bas-reliefs in the Museum of the Louvre are excellent
specimens of his style.

One also sees in France many works by GERMAIN PILON, who died in 1590. He executed the monument
to Francis I., and took a part in that of Henry II. and Catherine de' Medici at the Church
of St. Denis. He was the sculptor of the group of the three Graces in the Louvre, which formerly
bore an urn containing the heart of Henry II., and was in the Church of the Celestines.

But the sculptors of France at this time are not of such interest as to hold our attention
long. There was a certain amount of spirit in their decorations of palaces and tombs, but there
were no men of great genius, and no splendid works upon which we can dwell with pleasure or profit.

In Germany, too, while there was much activity in sculpture, and public fountains and luxurious
palaces and rich ornaments employed many artists, yet there was no originality or freshness
in these works, and they fell below those of the past. Bronzes are still made at Nuremberg,
but they only serve to make one regret that they are so inferior to those of earlier days;
and nowhere in all Germany does any one artist stand out and present a man to be studied in
his works or remembered as one of the gifted of the earth. And yet a list of the names of German
sculptors of this time would be very long, for all over the land churches were being decorated,
monuments built, and statues and fountains erected.

In England the best sculpture of the sixteenth century was seen in the portrait statues on
monuments, and we find no great artists there of whom to give an account.

In Spain ALONSO BERRUGUETE (1480-1561), who was the most eminent artist of his time, had introduced
the Italian manner. He went to Italy about 1503, and studied in Rome and Florence during seventeen
years. This was at the time when Italian sculpture was at the height of its excellence; and
Berruguete returned to Spain filled with the purest and best conceptions of what art should
be, and the ends it should serve. He has been called the Michael Angelo of Spain, because he
was an architect, painter, and sculptor.

Upon his return to Spain he was appointed painter and sculptor to Charles V. Among his most
celebrated works in sculpture are the reliefs in the choir of the Cathedral at Toledo; the
altar in the Church of San Benito el Real at Valladolid (Fig. 110), for which he was paid forty-four
hundred ducats, and his sculptures in the Collegio Mayor at Salamanca. His final work was a
monument to the Cardinal and Grand Inquisitor, Don Juan de Tavera, which is in the Church of
the Hospital of St. John at Toledo. The sarcophagus is ornamented by reliefs from the story
of John the Baptist, which are executed in an excellent manner, simple and expressive.

Other Spanish sculptors were ESTEBAN JORDAN, an eminent wood-carver, GREGORIO HERNANDEZ (1566-1636),
who has been called "the sculptor of religion." His works are so full of a spirit of devotion
that they seem to have been executed under an inspiration. Hernandez was very devout in his
life, and did many works of charity; he often provided decent burial for the very poor who
died without friends who could bury them.

Many of his works have been removed from the chapels for which they were designed, and are
now in the Museum of Valladolid, where they are not as effective as when placed in their original
positions. He is superior to other Spanish sculptors in his representation of nude figures
and in the grandeur of his expression.

JUAN DE JUNI (died 1614) studied in Italy, and acquired much mannerism; his works are seen
in Valladolid.

JUAN MARTINEZ MONTAÑES (died 1650) was a famous sculptor, and excelled in figures of children
and cherubs. His conceptions had much beauty and depth of feeling, and his draperies were most
graceful; and to this power of thinking out clearly and well the subject he wished to represent
he added the ability to do his work in an artistic manner, and to give it an elegance of finish
without taking away its strength. A Conception by him, in the Cathedral of Seville, is a noble
work, and in the university church of the same city there is an altar which is one of his important
works. Other sculptures by Montañes are in the Museum of Seville.

The great ALONSO CANO (1601-1667) was a pupil of Montañes in sculpture, and, like so many other
artists of his time, was a painter and architect as well as a sculptor. His personal history
is very peculiar. He was a man of violent temper, and was often involved in serious quarrels.
He was obliged to flee from Granada to Madrid on account of a duel, and when his wife was found
murdered in her bed he was suspected of the crime. In spite of all this he took priest's orders,
and was appointed to a canonry in the Cathedral of Granada; but on account of his temper he
was deprived of this office by the chapter of the cathedral. He was so angry at this that he
would do no more work for the cathedral.

He devoted the remainder of his life to religious and charitable works. He gave away the money
he earned as soon as he received it, and when he had no money to give away he was in the habit
of making drawings, which he signed and marked with a suitable price; these he gave to the
person he desired to assist, and recommended some person to whom application to buy the work
could be made. After his death a large number of these charitable works was collected.

He hated Jews with such hatred that he could not endure to look at one, and many strange stories
are told of him in connection with these people.

He loved his chisel better than his brush, and was accustomed to say that when weary he carved
for rest. One of his pupils expressed great surprise at this, when Cano answered, "Blockhead,
don't you perceive that to create form and relief on a flat surface is a greater service than
to fashion one shape into another?"

The most beautiful sculpture by Cano which remains is a Virgin about a foot high in the Sacristy
of the Cathedral of Granada, where there are several other statuettes by him. These are colored
in a manner which the Spaniards call "estofado;" it has the effect to soften the whole appearance
of the works, like an enamel. At the entrance of the choir of the cathedral there are two colossal
busts by Cano; they are grand works, and are called Adam and Eve.

PEDRO ROLDAN (1624-1700), born at Seville, is an interesting sculptor because of his work,
and on account of his being the last one whose manner was like that of Juni and Hernandez.
His first celebrated work was the high-altar in the chapel of the Biscayans in the Franciscan
convent. When the Caridad, or Hospital of Charity, was restored, Roldan executed the last great
work in painted sculpture; it was an immense piece for the centre of the retablo of the high-altar
of the church, and represented the Entombment of Christ.

Seville abounds in his works, and he executed bas-reliefs in stone for the exterior of the
Cathedral at Jaen. He was so devoted to his art that he felt every moment to be lost that was
not spent in its service. He married a lady of good family, and lived in the country; when
obliged to go to Seville he was accustomed to carry a lump of clay, and model from it as he
rode along. Roldan was not by any means the best of Spanish sculptors, but he had great skill
in the composition of his works, and the draperies and all the details were carefully studied.
His daughter, Doña Luisa Roldan, studied sculpture under her father's instruction, and became
a good artist; he was accustomed to allow her to superintend her studio and his pupils. She
often aided him by her suggestions, and on one occasion, when a statue that he had made was
rejected, she pointed out to him certain anatomical defects, which he remedied, and the whole
appearance of the work was so changed that it was thought to be new, and was accepted for the
place for which it had been ordered.

The works executed by Doña Luisa were principally small figures of the Virgin, the Adoration
of the Shepherds, and kindred subjects. Several of these were presented to King Charles II.,
and he was so pleased by them that he ordered a life-size statue of St. Michael for the Church
of the Escorial. She executed this to his satisfaction, and he then appointed her sculptress
in ordinary to the king. She died at Madrid in 1704, surviving her father but four years. She
left works in various convents and churches.

In Italy at the beginning of the seventeenth century a new era in sculpture was inaugurated.
Art was now required to serve the Church in the way of appealing to sentiments and feeling
in a far coarser and more sensational a manner than formerly. Painting was suited to these
purposes far more than sculpture, and it had been raised to great heights, in Spain, by Murillo,
in the North by Rubens and his followers, and in Italy by numerous masters.

Lübke says of this period: "All that was now demanded of art was effect and feeling at any
price. The one was attained through the other. A passionate excitement pulsates throughout
all artistic works; the ideal repose of the former altar-pieces no longer satisfied. Longing,
devotional ardor, passionate rapture, enthusiastic ecstasy--these are the aims of the new art.
No longer the solemn dignity of the saint, but the nervous visions of enraptured monks, are
its ideal. It delights in thrilling delineations of martyrdom, seeking to render such scenes
as effective and touching as possible. A desire for substantial power, a political-religious
tendency, had taken possession of art, and had adapted it to its own objects. That, under such
circumstances, painting reaches a new and truly artistic importance may be traced above all
to the great masters who now cultivated the art, and still more to the tone of the age, which
promoted it in a rare measure.... The same spirit, however, which imparted such genuine importance
to painting produced the ruin of sculpture. This epoch, more than any other, is a proof that
the greatest men of talent, appearing in a perverted age, are carried by their very genius
all the more certainly to ruin. All that, in a more favorable period, would have raised them
to be stars in the art firmament, now made them fall like some ignis fatuus, the brilliant
light of which owes its illusory existence only to miasma. This striking fact appears, at first
sight, inexplicable; but it is easy to understand, if we consider the different character of
the two arts. Plastic art had formerly emulated painting, and thus, especially in relief, had
suffered unmistakable injury to its own peculiar nature. At that time, however, painting itself
was full of architectural severity and plastic nobleness of form. Now, when everything depended
on striking effect and speaking delineation of passionate emotions, it was compelled to have
recourse to naturalistic representation, to freer arrangements and to more striking forms that
emulated reality. If, however, sculpture, which could not keep pace with its rival in the enamelled
coloring and mysterious charm of the chiaro-oscuro which it brought into the field, would,
in anywise, do the same as painting, it was compelled to plunge regardlessly into the same
naturalism of forms and into the same bold display of passion with which painting produced
such grand effects. And this sculpture did without the slightest scruple, and in this lack
of an artistic conscience its whole glory perished. It is true in this passion for excited
compositions an excess of splendid works were produced; it is true immense resources were expended,
and able artists were employed; but such inner hollowness stares at us with inanimate eye from
the greater number of these works that we turn from them with repugnance, and even often with
disgust."

The artist who first met this new demand upon sculpture, and may be called the founder of a
new style, was GIOVANNI LORENZO BERNINI (1598-1680), a very gifted man. When but ten years
old this remarkable genius was known as a prodigy in art, and it was at this early age that
his father took him to Rome. Pope Paul V. was soon interested in him, and Cardinal Barberini
assisted him in his studies; from this fortunate beginning all through his life good fortune
attended his steps. He lived through the pontificate of nine popes, and was always in favor
with the reigning head of the Church. This gave him the opportunity to fill Rome with his works,
and he imprinted himself upon the art of the Eternal City; no artist since the time of Michael
Angelo held such sway, and Bernini acquired his power easily, while the grand Michael Angelo
was disputed at every step, and fought a long, hard battle before he was allowed to take the
place which was so clearly his by right.

