Now a line or two as to "Fathers and Sons," seeing that you have mentioned the subject. Do
you really believe that all that you reproach me with never entered my own mind? For this reason
I wish not to vanish from the scene before I finish my comprehensive novel, which I think will
clear up many misunderstandings and place me where and as I belong. However, I do not wonder
that Bazaroff has remained a riddle for many persons: I cannot understand clearly how I conceived
him. There was--do not laugh--something more powerful than the author himself, something independent
of him. I know only this,--there was no preconceived idea in me then, no "novel with a purpose"
in my thought: I wrote naïvely, as if I myself wondered at what came of it....

Tell me, on your conscience, whether comparison with Bazaroff could be an affront to any one.
Don't you perceive yourself that he is the most congenial of all my characters? "A certain
fine perfume" is an invention of the reader's; but I am prepared to admit (and have already
admitted in print in my "Recollections") that I had no right to give our reactionary mob an
opportunity to make of a nickname a name. The author ought to have sacrificed himself to the
citizen; and I therefore recognize as justified the estrangement of our youth from me, and
all possible reproaches. The question of the time was more important than artistic truth, and
I ought to have known this in advance.

I have only to say once more, wait for my novel, and, until then, do not be indignant that,
in order not to grow unaccustomed to the pen, I write slight insignificant things. Who knows?--perhaps
it may yet be given to me to fire the hearts of men.

An entertaining writer in the sense of G----wa I shall never be. I would rather be a stupid writer.

But now--basta!

I greet you and press your hand most cordially.

                                      IVAN SERGEWITCH TOURGÉNEFF.

Old Songs and Sweet Singers.

    I cannot sing the old songs now:
      It is not that I deem them low,
    But that I have forgotten how
        They go,

wrote Calverley in his delightful drollery about the advances of old age. Nevertheless he made
a mistake, for old songs cling tenaciously to the consciousness; and memory, are retained when
everything else in heart and mind has been blurred over, and of all the magic mirrors which
reflect back our lives for us the most effective is a melody linked to words which moved us
in our youth. When an orchestra stops playing its waltzes and mazourkas of the latest fashion
and takes up the strains of "Kathleen Mavourneen," "Oft in the Stilly Night," or "Robin Adair,"
one may readily observe a change come over the older part of the crowd who listen. The familiar
air is like a shell murmuring in their ears sweet, far-off, imperishable memories of youth,
and that special epoch of youth best described as "les heureux jours où l'on était si malheureux!"
It is an experience worth having to have heard the great singers, but it is not of the great
singers that I wish to speak here. I fancy that it is with others as with myself, and, in my
early days at least, music wrought its chief enchantments and most perfectly allied itself
with the great world of fantasy and imagination when I heard it in my own home, or at least
quietly and privately, and when its influence was of a constant and regular kind. Why is it
that literature, which enshrines so much of what is personal and actual and a part of ideal
autobiography, says so little of singers, although the song which moves us, rummaging among
our old memories and, to our surprise and delight, bringing back clear pictures, is generally
linked to the sweet singer who sang it, who interpreted it for us and made it a part of our
imaginative possessions? Heroines of novels are rarely singers, or, if they sing, abstain from
effective music, and have soft, soothing voices, "as if they only sang at twilight." Heroines
of course have to be heroines and nothing else. However, when he recalls the female singers
he has known, any man will grant that they have been almost without exception very charming
women. A really good singer must possess in absolute equipoise ardor and calm. But the first
singer I ever heard who made me feel upborne by the music and floated as by the sweep of wings
was a man with a high, melancholy, piercingly sweet tenor voice. He had a pale, striking face,
with a mobile mouth, intensely brilliant blue eyes, a lofty forehead, and his fine, scanty
brown hair hung low on his neck. As he sang with lifted head and eyes which gazed steadfastly
before him, he seemed rapt and inspired. Were I to paint an angel I should try to seize his
lineaments and the glory shining on his pale face. The song I loved best to hear him sing was
Schubert's "Erl-King," which thrilled me with a sense of terror and mystery and made me tremble
like a harp-string in response to his piercingly clear tones. Ever and anon, as I listened
to the child's cry of "Oh, father, my father!" I was clutched by the icy hand of the awful
phantom he had invoked. Does anybody sing Schubert's songs nowadays, or are they invariably
left to the violins, which can interpret their "eternal passion, eternal pain," so thrillingly?
I never, I regret to say, heard the "Serenade" sung in a way which seemed to me adequate,--not
to compare with the way in which Remenyi plays it. Those wonderful lyrical instruments the
violin, the 'cello, and the flute have an almost exclusive right nowadays to some of the greatest
songs. Few singers attempt the "Adelaïde" or "Che faro?"

I like to recall the first time I ever heard "Che faro senza Eurydice?" A musical matinée was
given to an elegant elderly woman, Mrs. P----, who had had a wide social reputation as an accomplished
singer. She was still mistress of all the technique of her art, but her voice was worn and
it was not easily conceded that she was a delightful vocalist. Many of her songs seemed like
the ghosts of the blissful happy songs she had sung in her youth. There was something half
painful in their jocund gayety and archness. I went far away from the piano and seated myself
with a group of young people, paying little attention to the music. Presently, however, a strain
sought me out, a sweet, passionately reiterated strain: it seemed to be supplicating, imploring;
it filled me with a restless pain. That cry of "Eurydice!" "Eurydice!" so beseeching, so passionate,
so exhausted by longing, drew me with an irresistible power. Gluck certainly achieved the effect
he attempted, and showed us what the fabled power of Orpheus was.

Certain songs of indifferent worth often gain charm to us, although it is only the greatest
music which has the supreme power of expressing the highest thoughts of man and the most ardent
longings of his soul. But there was a time when I found inconceivable sweetness in certain
ballads of Abt, and the like. Sara X----, a lovely youthful creature, with a frank, beautiful
smile, used to sing them, sitting down at the piano and going on from one song to another,
generally beginning with "The Bells are Hushed," which silenced the room when twenty people
were buzzing flirtation and gossip. One line of that song, as she sang it, draws the heart
out of me still as I remember it:

    Sleep well, sleep well,
    And let thy lovely eyelids close.

