Sitting in a room with the President and other members of the party from Washington, he remained
buried in his thoughts, answering inquiries only in monosyllables. Presently he opened his
eyes very wide and a long-drawn "A-ah!" came from his mouth. Then he sprang to his feet and
cried out, but only as if uttering a thought aloud to himself, the strange word:

"Batholite!"

CHAPTER XXI

"THE FATHER OF HORROR"

At the time when the President of the United States and his companions were beginning to discover
the refugees around Pike's Peak, Cosmo Versal's Ark accompanied by the Jules Verne, whose commander
had decided to remain in touch with his friends, was crossing the submerged hills and valleys
of Languedoc under a sun as brilliant as that which had once made them a land of gold.

De Beauxchamps remained aboard the Ark much of the time. Cosmo liked to have him, with himself
and Captain Arms, on the bridge, because there they could talk freely about their plans and
prospects, and the Frenchman was a most entertaining companion.

Meanwhile, the passengers in the saloons and on the promenade decks formed little knots and
coteries for conversation, for reading, and for mutual diversion, or strolled about from side
to side, watching the endless expanse of waters for the occasional appearance of some inhabitant
of the deep that had wandered over the new ocean's bottom.

These animals seemed to be coming to the surface to get bearings. Every such incident reminded
the spectators of what lay beneath the waves, and led them to think and talk of the awful fate
that had overwhelmed their fellow men, until the spirits of the most careless were subdued
by the pervading melancholy.

King Richard, strangely enough, had taken a liking for Amos Blank, who was frequently asked
to join the small and somewhat exclusive circle of compatriots that continually surrounded
the fallen monarch. The billionaire and the king often leaned elbow to elbow over the rail,
and put their heads companionably together while pointing out some object on the sea. Lord
Swansdown felt painfully cut by this, but, of course, he could offer no objection.

Finally Cosmo invited the king to come upon the bridge, from which passengers were generally
excluded, and the king insisted that Blank should go, too. Cosmo consented, for Blank seemed
to him to have become quite a changed man, and he found him sometimes full of practical suggestions.

So it happened that when Captain Arms announced that the Ark was passing over the ancient city
of Carcassonne, Cosmo, the king, De Beauxchamps, Amos Blank, and the captain were all together
on the bridge. When Captain Arms mentioned their location, King Richard became very thoughtful.
After a time he said musingly:

"Ah! how all these names, Toulouse, Carcassonne, Languedoc, bring back to me the memory of
my namesake of olden times, Richard I. of England. This, over which we are floating, was the
land of the Troubadours, and Richard was the very Prince of Troubadours. With all his faults
England never had a king like him!"

"Knowing your devotion to peace, which was the reason why I wished you to be of the original
company in the Ark, I am surprised to hear you say that," said Cosmo.

"Ah!" returned the King, "But Coeur de Lion was a true Englishman, even in his love of fighting.
What would he say if he knew where England lies to-day? What would he say if he knew the awful
fate that has come upon this fair and pleasant land, from whose poets and singers he learned
the art of minstrelsy?"

"He would say, 'Do not despair,'" replied Cosmo. "' Show the courage of an Englishman, and
fight for your race if you cannot for your country.'"

"But may not England, may not all these lands, emerge again from the floods?" asked the king.

"Not in our time, not in our children's time," said Cosmo Versal, thoughtfully shaking his head.

"In the remote future, yes--but I cannot tell how remote. Tibet was once an appanage of your
crown, before China taught the West what war meant, and in Tibet you may help to found a new
empire, but I must tell you that it will not resemble the empires of the past. Democracy will
be its corner stone, and science its law."

"Then I devote myself to democracy and science," responded King Richard.

"Good! Admirable!" exclaimed Amos Blank and De Beauxchamps simultaneously, while Captain Arms
would probably have patted the king on the back had not his attention, together with that of
the others, been distracted by a huge whale blowing almost directly in the course of the Ark.

"Blessed if I ever expected to see a sight like that in these parts!" exclaimed the captain.
"This lifting the ocean up into the sky is upsetting the order of nature. I'd as soon expect
to sight a cachalot on top of the Rocky Mountains."

"They'll be there, too, before long," said Cosmo.

"I wonder what he's looking for," continued Captain Arms. "He must have come down from the
north. He couldn't have got in through the Pyrenees or the Sierra Nevadas. He's just navigated
right over the whole country straight down from the English Channel."

The whale sounded at the approach of the Ark, but in a little while he was blowing again off
toward the south, and then the passengers caught sight of him, and there was great excitement.

He seemed to be of enormous size, and he sent his fountain to an extraordinary height in the
air. On he went, appearing and disappearing, steering direct for Africa, until, with glasses,
they could see his white plume blowing on the very edge of the horizon.

Not even the reflection that they themselves were sailing over Europe impressed some of the
passengers with so vivid a sense of their situation as the sight of this monstrous inhabitant
of the ocean taking a view of his new domain.

At night Cosmo continued the concerts and the presentation of the Shakespearian dramas, and
for an hour each afternoon he had a "conference" in the saloon, at which Theriade and Sir Athelstone
were almost the sole performers.

Their disputes, and Cosmo's efforts to keep the peace, amused for a while, but at length the
audiences diminished until Cosmo, with his constant companions, the Frenchman, the king, Amos
Blank, the three professors from Washington, and a few other savants were the only listeners.

But the music and the plays always drew immensely.

Joseph Smith was kept busy most of the time in Cosmo's cabin, copying plans for the regeneration
of mankind.

When they knew that they had finally left the borders of France and were sailing above the
Mediterranean Sea, it became necessary to lay their course with considerable care. Cosmo decided
that the only safe plan would be to run south of Sardinia, and then keep along between Sicily
and Tunis, and so on toward lower Egypt.

There he intended to seek a way over the mountains north of the Sinai peninsula into the Syrian
desert, from which he could reach the ancient valley of the Euphrates and the Persian Gulf.
He would then pass down the Arabian Sea, swing round India and Ceylon, and, by way of the Bay
of Bengal and the plains of the Ganges and Brahmaputra, approach the Himalayas.

Captain Arms was rather inclined to follow the Gulf of Suez and the depression of the Red Sea,
but Cosmo was afraid that they would have difficulty in getting the Ark safely through between
the Mt. Sinai peaks and the Jebel Gharib range.

"Well, you're the commodore," said the captain at the end of the discussion, "but hang me if
I'd not rather follow a sea, where I know the courses, than go navigating over mountains and
deserts in the land of Shinar. We'll land on top of Jerusalem yet, you'll see!"

Feeling sure of plenty of water under keel, they now made better speed and De Beauxchamps retired
into the Jules Verne, and detached it from the Ark, finding that he could distance the latter
easily with the submersible running just beneath the surface of the water.

"Come up to blow, and take a look around from the bridge, once in a while," the captain called
out to him as he disappeared and the cover closed over him. The Jules Verne immediately sank
out of sight.

They passed round Sardinia, and between the old African coast and Sicily, and were approaching
the Malta Channel when their attention was drawn to a vast smoke far off toward the north.

"It's Etna in eruption," said Cosmo to the captain.

"A magnificent sight!" exclaimed King Richard, who happened to be on the bridge.

"Yes, and I'd like to see it nearer," remarked Cosmo, as a wonderful column of smoke, as black
as ink, seemed to shoot up to the very zenith.

"You'd better keep away," Captain Arms said warningly. "There's no good comes of fooling round
volcanoes in a ship."

"Oh, it's safe enough," returned Cosmo. "We can run right over the southeastern corner of Sicily
and get as near as we like. There is nothing higher than about three thousand feet in that
part of the island, so we'll have a thousand feet to spare."

"But maybe the water has lowered."

"Not more than a foot or two," said Cosmo. "Go ahead."

The captain plainly didn't fancy the adventure, but he obeyed orders, and the Ark's nose was
turned northward, to the delight of many of the passengers who had become greatly interested
when they learned that the tremendous smoke that they saw came from Mount Etna.

Some of them were nervous, but the more adventurous spirits heartily applauded Cosmo Versal's
design to give them a closer view of so extraordinary a spectacle. Even from their present
distance the sight was one that might have filled them with terror if they had not already
been through adventures which had hardened their nerves. The smoke was truly terrific in appearance.

It did not spread low over the sea, but rose in an almost vertical column, widening out at
a height of several miles, until it seemed to canopy the whole sky toward the north.

It could be seen spinning in immense rolling masses, the outer parts of which were turned by
the sunshine to a dingy brown color, while the main stem of the column, rising directly from
the great crater, was of pitchy blackness.

An awful roaring was audible, sending a shiver through the Ark. At the bottom of the mass of
smoke, through which gleams of fire were seen to shoot as they drew nearer, appeared the huge
conical form of the mountain, whose dark bulk still rose nearly seven thousand feet above the
sea that covered the great, beautiful, and historic island beneath it.

They had got within about twenty miles of the base of the mountain, when a shout was heard
by those on the bridge, and Cosmo and the captain, looking for its source, saw the Jules Verne,
risen to the surface a little to starboard, and De Beauxchamps excitedly signaling to them.
They just made out the words, "Sheer off!" when the Ark, with a groaning sound, took ground,
and they were almost precipitated over the rail of the bridge.

"Aground again, by ----!" exclaimed Captain Arms, instantly signaling all astern. "I told you
not to go fooling round a volcano."

"This beats me!" cried Cosmo Versal. "I wonder if the island has begun to rise."

"More likely the sea has begun to fall," growled Captain Arms.

"Do you know where we are?" asked Cosmo.

"We can't be anywhere but on the top of Monte Lauro," replied the captain.

"But that's only three thousand feet high."

"It's exactly three thousand two hundred and thirty feet," said the captain. "I haven't navigated
the old Mediterranean a hundred times for nothing."

