She was not, as the world in general is aware, a handsome, or even a personable woman. Her
face was long; the eyes not large nor beautiful in colour--they were, I think, of a greyish
blue--the hair, which she wore in old-fashioned braids coming low down on either side of her
face, of a rather light brown. It was streaked with grey when last I saw her. Her figure was
of middle height, large-boned and powerful. Lewes often said that she inherited from her peasant
ancestors a frame and constitution originally very robust. Her head was finely formed, with
a noble and well-balanced arch from brow to crown. The lips and mouth possessed a power of
infinitely varied expression. George Lewes once said to me when I made some observation to
the effect that she had a sweet face (I meant that the face expressed great sweetness), "You
might say what a sweet hundred faces! I look at her sometimes in amazement. Her countenance
is constantly changing." The said lips and mouth were distinctly sensuous in form and fulness.

She has been compared to the portraits of Savonarola (who was frightful) and of Dante (who
though stern and bitter-looking, was handsome). Something there was of both faces in George
Eliot's physiognomy. Lewes told us in her presence, of the exclamation uttered suddenly by
some one to whom she was pointed out at a place of public entertainment--I believe it was at
a Monday Popular Concert in St. James's Hall. "That," said a bystander, "is George Eliot."
The gentleman to whom she was thus indicated gave one swift, searching look and exclaimed sotto
voce, "Dante's aunt!" Lewes thought this happy, and he recognised the kind of likeness that
was meant to the great singer of the Divine Comedy. She herself playfully disclaimed any resemblance
to Savonarola. But, although such resemblance was very distant--Savonarola's peculiarly unbalanced
countenance being a strong caricature of hers--some likeness there was.

Her speaking voice was, I think, one of the most beautiful I ever heard, and she used it conscientiously,
if I may say so. I mean that she availed herself of its modulations to give thrilling emphasis
to what was profound in her utterances, and sweetness to what was gentle or playful. She bestowed
great care too on her enunciation, disliking the slipshod mode of pronouncing which is so common.
I have several times heard her declare with enthusiasm that ours is a beautiful language, a
noble language even to the ear, when properly spoken; and imitate with disgust the short, snappy,
inarticulate way in which many people utter it. There was no touch of pedantry or affectation
in her own measured, careful speech, although I can well imagine that she might have been accused
of both by those persons--unfortunately more numerous than could be desired--who seem to take
it for granted that all difference from one's neighbour, and especially a difference in the
direction of superiority, must be affected.

It has been thought by some persons that the influence of George Henry Lewes on her literary
work was not a fortunate one, that he fostered too much the scientific bent of her mind to
the detriment of its artistic richness. I do not myself hold this opinion. I am even inclined
to think that but for his companionship and encouragement she might possibly never have written
fiction at all. It is, I believe, impossible to over-estimate the degree to which the sunshine
of his complete and understanding sympathy and his adoring affection developed her literary
powers. She has written something to this effect--perhaps more than once; I have not her biography
at hand at this moment for reference--in a letter to Miss Sara Hennell. And no one who saw
them together in anything like intimate intercourse could doubt that it was true. As I have
said before, Lewes worshipped her, and it is considered a somewhat unwholesome experience to
be worshipped. Fortunately the process is not so common as to constitute one of the dangers
of life for the average human being! But in George Eliot's case I really believe the process
was not deleterious. Her nature was at once stimulated and steadied by Lewes's boundless faith
in her powers, and boundless admiration for their manifestation. Nor was it a case of sitting
like an idol to be praised and incensed. Her own mental attitude towards Lewes was one of warm
admiration. She thought most highly of his scientific attainments, whether well foundedly or
mistakenly I cannot pretend to gauge with accuracy. But she also admired and enjoyed the sparkling
brightness of his talk, and the dramatic vivacity with which he entered into conversation and
discussion, grave or gay. And on these points I may venture to record my opinion that she was
quite right. I always used to think that the touch of Bohemianism about Lewes had a special
charm for her. It must have offered so piquant a contrast with the middle-class surroundings
of her early life. I observed that she listened with great complacency to his talk of theatrical
things and people. Lewes was fond of talking about acting and actors, and in telling stories
of celebrated theatrical personages, would imitate--half involuntarily perhaps--their voice
and manner. I remember especially his doing this with reference to Macready.

Both of them loved music extremely. It was a curious, and, to me, rather pathetic study to
watch Lewes--a man naturally self-sufficient (I do not use the word in any odious sense), of
a combative turn of intellect, and with scarcely any diffidence in his nature--so humbly admitting,
and even insisting upon, "Polly's" superiority to himself in every department. Once when he
was walking with my wife in the garden of their house in Surrey, she turned the conversation
which had been touching other topics to speak of George Eliot. "Oh," said Lewes, stopping short
and looking at her with those bright eyes of his, "Your blood be on your own head! I didn't
begin it; but if you wish to speak of her, I am always ready." It was this complete candour,
and the genuineness of his admiring love for her, which made its manifestations delightful,
and freed them from offence.

CHAPTER XVI.

I have a great many letters from G.H. Lewes, and from George Eliot. Many of the latter are
addressed to my wife. And many, especially of those from Lewes, relating as they do mainly
to matters of literary business, though always containing characteristic touches, are not of
sufficient general interest to make it worth while to transcribe them for publication. In no
case is there any word in any of them that would make it expedient to withhold them on any
other ground. I might perhaps have introduced them into my narrative as nearly as possible
at the times to which chronologically they refer. But it has seemed to me so probable that
there may be many readers who may be glad of an opportunity of seeing these letters without
feeling disposed to give their time to the rest of these volumes, that I have thought it best
to throw them together in this place.

I will begin with one written from Blandford Square, by George Eliot to me, which is of great
interest. It bears no date whatever, save that of place; but the subject of it dates it with
considerable accuracy.

       *       *       *       *       *

"DEAR MR. TROLLOPE,--I am very grateful to you for your notes. Concerning netto di specchio,
I have found a passage in Varchi which decides the point according to your impression." [Passages
equally decisive might be found passim in the old Florentine historians. And I ought to have
referred her to them. But as she had altogether mistaken the meaning of the phrase, I had insinuated
my correction as little presumptuously as I could.]

"My inference had been gathered from the vague use of the term to express disqualification
[i.e. NON netto di specchio expressed disqualification]. But I find from Varchi, b. viii. that
the specchio in question was a public book, in which the names of all debtors to the Commune
were entered. Thus your doubt [no doubt at all!] has been a very useful caveat to me.

"Concerning the Bardi, my authority for making them originally popolani is G. Villani. He says,
c. xxxix., 'e gia cominciavano a venire possenti i Frescobaldi e Bardi e Mozzi ma di piccolo
cominciamento.' And c. lxxxi. 'e questi furono le principale case de Guelfi che uscirono di
Firenze. Del Sesto d' Oltr' Arno, i Rossi, Nerli, e parte de' Manelli, Bardi, e Frescobaldi
de' Popoloni dal detto Sesto, case nobili Canigiani,' &c. These passages corrected my previous
impression that they were originally Lombard nobles.

[It needs some familiarity with the Florentine chroniclers to understand that the words quoted
by no means indicate that the families named were not of patrician origin. "There walked into
the lobby with the Radicals, Lord ---- and Mr. ----," would just as much prove that the persons
named had not belonged to the class of landowners. But the passage is interesting as showing
the great care she took to make her Italian novel historically accurate. And it is to be remembered
that she came to the subject absolutely new to it. She would have known otherwise, that the
Case situated in the Oltr' Arno quarter, were almost all noble. That ward of the city was the
Florentine quartier St. Germain.]

"Concerning the phrase in piazza, and in mercato, my choice of them was partly founded on the
colloquial usage as represented by Sacchetti, whose dialogue is intensely idiomatic. Also in
piazza is, I believe, used by the historians (I think even by Macchiavelli), when speaking
of popular turn-outs. The ellipse took my fancy because of its colloquial stamp. But I gather
from your objection that it seems too barbarous in a modern Italian ear. Will you whisper your
final opinion in Mr. Lewes's ear on Monday?

[I do not remember what the ellipse in question was. As regards the use of the phrase in piazza
she is perfectly right. The term keeps the same meaning to the present day, and is equivalent
in political language to the street.]

"Boto was used on similar grounds, and as it is recognised by the Voc. della, Crusca, I think
I may venture to keep it, having a weakness for those indications of the processes by which
language is modified.

[Boto for voto is a Florentinism which may be heard to the present day, though the vast majority
of strangers would never hear it, or understand it if they did. George Eliot no doubt met with
it in some of those old chroniclers who wrote exactly as not only the lower orders, but the
generality of their fellow citizens, were speaking around them. And her use of it testifies
to the minuteness of her care to reproduce the form and pressure of the time of which she was
writing.]

"Once more thank you, though my gratitude is in danger of looking too much like a lively sense
of anticipated favours, for I mean to ask you to take other trouble yet.

"Yours very truly,

"MARION E. LEWES."

       *       *       *       *       *

The following letter, written from Blandford Square on the 5th July, 1861, is, as regards the
first three pages, from him, and the last from her.

       *       *       *       *       *

"MY DEAR TROLLOPE,--We have now read La Beata [my first novel], and must tell you how charmed
we have been with it. Nina herself is perfectly exquisite and individual, and her story is
full of poetry and pathos. Also one feels a breath from the Val d'Arno rustling amid the pages,
and a sense of Florentine life, such as one rarely gets out of books. The critical objection
I should make to it, apart from minor points, is that often you spoil the artistic attitude
by adopting a critical antagonistic attitude, by which I mean that instead of painting the
thing objectively, you present it critically, with an eye to the opinions likely to be formed
by certain readers; thus, instead of relying on the simple presentation of the fact of Nina's
innocence you call up the objection you desire to anticipate by side glances at the worldly
and 'knowing' reader's opinions. In a word I feel as if you were not engrossed by your subject,
but were sufficiently aloof from it to contemplate it as a spectator, which is an error in
art. Many of the remarks are delicately felt and finely written. The whole book comes from
a noble nature, and so it impresses the reader. But I may tell you what Mrs. Carlyle said last
night, which will in some sense corroborate what I have said. In her opinion you would have
done better to make two books of it, one the love story, and one a description of Florentine
life. She admires the book very much I should add. Now, although I cannot by any means agree
with that criticism of hers, I fancy the origin of it was some such feeling, as I have endeavoured
to indicate in saying you are often critical when you should be simply objective.

"We had a pleasant journey home over the St. Gothard, and found our boy very well and happy
at Hofwyl, and our bigger boy ditto awaiting us here. Polly is very well, and as you may imagine
talks daily of Florence and our delightful trip, our closer acquaintance with you and yours
being among the most delightful of our reminiscences.

"Yesterday Anthony dined with us, and as he had never seen Carlyle he was glad to go down with
us to tea at Chelsea. Carlyle had read and agreed with the West Indian book, and the two got
on very well together; both Carlyle and Mrs. Carlyle liking Anthony, and I suppose it was reciprocal,
though I did not see him afterwards to hear what he thought. He had to run away to catch his train.

"He told us of the sad news of Mrs. Browning's death. Poor Browning! That was my first, and
remains my constant reflection. When people love each other and have lived together any time
they ought to die together. For myself I should not care in the least about dying. The dreadful
thing to me would be to live after losing, if I should ever lose, the one who has made life
for me. Of course you who all knew and valued her will feel the loss, but I cannot think of
anybody's grief but his.

"The next page must be left for Polly's postscript, so I shall only send my kindest regards
and wishes to Mrs. Trollope and the biggest of kisses to la cantatrice" [my poor girl Bice!].

"Ever faithfully yours,

"G.H. LEWES."

       *       *       *       *       *

"DEAR MRS. TROLLOPE,--While I am reading La Beata I constantly feel as if Mr. Trollope were
present telling it all to me vivâ voce. It seems to me more thoroughly and fully like himself
than any of his other books. And in spite of our having had the most of his society away from
you" [on our Camaldoli excursion] "you are always part of his presence to me in a hovering
aerial fashion. So it seems quite natural that a letter addressed to him should have a postscript
addressed to you. Pray reckon it amongst the good you do in this world, that you come very
often into our thoughts and conversation. We see comparatively so few people that we are apt
to recur to recollections of those we like best with almost childish frequency, and a little
fresh news about you would be a welcome variety, especially the news that you had quite shaken
off that spine indisposition which was still clinging to you that last morning when we said
our good-byes. We have enough knowledge about you and your world to interpret all the details
you can give us. But our words about our own home doings would be very vague and colourless
to you. You must always imagine us coming to see you and wanting to know as much about you
as we can, and like a charming hostess gratify that want. I must thank you for the account
of Cavour in The Athenaeum, which stirred me strongly. I am afraid I have what The Saturday
Review would call 'a morbid delight in deathbeds'--not having reached that lofty superiority
which considers it bad taste to allude to them.

"How is Beatrice, the blessed and blessing? That will always be a history to interest us--how
her brown hair darkens, how her voice deepens and strengthens, and how you get more and more
delight in her. I need send no separate message to Mr. Trollope, before I say that

"I am always yours, with lively remembrance,

"MARION E. LEWES."

       *       *       *       *       *

It needed George Eliot's fine and minute handwriting to put all this into one page of note-paper.

The next letter that came from Blandford Square, dated 9th December, 1861, was also a joint
one, the larger portion of which however is from her pen.

       *       *       *       *       *

"DEAR GOOD PEOPLE,--If your ears burn as often as you are talked about in this house, there
must be an unpleasant amount of aural circulation to endure! And as the constant refrain is,
'Really we must write to them, that they may not altogether slip away from us,' I have this
morning screwed my procrastination to the writing-desk.

"First and foremost let us know how you are, and what are the results of the bathing. Then
a word as to the new novel, or any other work, will be acceptable. I lend about La Beata in
all good quarters, and always hear golden opinions from all sorts of people. Of course you
hear from Anthony.

"Is he prosperous and enjoying his life? The book will have an enormous sale just now; but
I fancy he will find more animosity and less friendliness than he expected, to judge from the
state of exasperation against the Britisher, which seems to be general.

"We have been pursuing the even baritone--I wish I could say tenor--of our way. My health became
seriously alarming in September, so we went off to Malvern for a fortnight; and there the mountain
air, exercise, and regular diet set me up, so that I have been in better training for work
than I had been for a long while. Polly has not been strong, yet not materially amiss. But
as she will add a postscript to this I shall leave her to speak for herself.

"In your (T.A.T.) book huntings, if you could lay your hand on a copy of Hermolaus Barbarus,
Compendium Scientiae Naturalis, 1553, or any of Telesio's works, think of me and pounce on
them. I was going to bother you about the new edition of Galileo, but fortunately I fell in
with the Milan edition cheap, and contented myself with that. Do you know what there is new
in the Florentine edition? I suppose you possess it, as you do so many enviable books.

"We heard the other day that Miss Blagden had come to stay in London for the winter, so Polly
sent a message to her to say how glad we should be to see her. If she comes she will bring
us some account of casa Trollope. When you next pass Giotto's tower salute it for me; it is
one of my dearest Florentines, and always beckoning to us to come back.

"Ever your faithful friend,

"G.H. LEWES."

       *       *       *       *       *

She writes:--

       *       *       *       *       *

"DEAR FRIENDS,--Writing letters or asking for them is not always the way to make one's memory
agreeable, but you are not among those people who shudder at letters, since you did say you
would like to hear from us, and let us hear from you occasionally. I have no good news to tell
about myself; but to have my husband back again and enjoying his work is quite enough happiness
to fall to one woman's share in this world, where the stock of happiness is so moderate and
the claimants so many. He is deep in Aristotle's Natural Science as the first step in a history
of science, which he has for a long while been hoping that he should be able to write. So you
will understand his demand for brown folios. Indeed, he is beginning to have a slight contempt
for authors sufficiently known to the vulgar to be inserted in biographical dictionaries. Hermolaus
Barbaras is one of those distinguished by omission in some chief works of that kind; and we
learned to our surprise from a don at Cambridge that he had never heard the name. Let us hope
there is an Olympus for forgotten authors.

"Our trial of the water cure at Malvern made us think with all the more emphasis of the possible
effect on a too delicate and fragile friend at Florence." [My wife.] "It really helped to mend
George. And as I hope the Florentine hydropathist may not be a quack as Dr.---- at Malvern
certainly is, I shall be disappointed if there is no good effect to be traced to 'judicious
packing and sitz baths' that you can tell us of. Did Beatrice enjoy her month's dissipation
at Leghorn? And is the voice prospering? Don't let her quite forget us. We make rather a feeble
attempt at musical Saturday evenings, having a new grand piano, which stimulates musical desires.
But we want a good violin and violoncello--difficult to be found among amateurs. Having no
sunshine one needs music all the more. It would be difficult for you to imagine very truthfully
what sort of atmosphere we have been living in here in London for the last month--warm, heavy,
dingy grey. I have seen some sunshine once--in a dream. Do tell us all you can about yourselves.
It seems only the other day that we were shaking you by the hand; and all details will be lit
up as if by your very voice and looks. Say a kind word for me sometimes to the bright-eyed
lady by whose side I sat in your balcony the evening of the National Fête. At the moment I
cannot recall her name. We are going now to the British Museum to read--a fearful way of getting
knowledge. If I had Aladdin's lamp I should certainly use it to get books served up to me at
a moment's notice. It may be better to search for truth than to have it at hand without seeking,
but with books I should take the other alternative.

"Ever yours,

"M.E. LEWES."

       *       *       *       *       *

The lady in the balcony spoken of in the above letter was Signora Mignaty, the niece of Sir
Frederick Adam, whom I had known long years previously in Rome, and who had married Signor
Mignaty, a Greek artist, and was (and is) living in Florence. She was, in fact, the niece of
the Greek lady Sir Frederick married. I remember her aunt, a very beautiful woman. The niece,
Signorina Margherita Albani as she was when I first knew her at eighteen years old in Rome,
inherited so much of the beauty of her race that the Roman artists were constantly imploring
her to sit for them. She has made herself known in the literary world by several works, especially
by a recent book on Correggio, his life and works, published in French.

The next letter from Lewes, written from Blandford Square on the 2nd June, without date of
year, but probably 1863, is of more interest to myself than to the public. But I may perhaps
be permitted to indulge my vanity by publishing it as a testimony that his previous praise
of what I had written was genuine, and not merely the laudatory compliments of a correspondent.

       *       *       *       *       *

"MY DEAR TROLLOPE,--Enclosed is the proof you were good enough to say you would correct. When
am I to return the compliment?

"I have finished Marietta. Its picture of Italian life is extremely vivid and interesting,
but it is a long way behind La Beata in interest of story. I have just finished one volume
of Anthony's America, and am immensely pleased with it--so much so that I hope to do something
towards counteracting the nasty notice in the Saturday.

"Ever yours faithfully,

"G.H. LEWES."

       *       *       *       *       *

The next letter is from Lewes, dated "The Priory, North Bank, Regent's Park, 20th March, 1864."--

       *       *       *       *       *

"MY DEAR TROLLOPE,--My eldest boy, who spends his honeymoon in Florence (is not that sugaring
jam tart?), brings you this greeting from your silent but affectionate friends. Tell him all
particulars about yourselves, and he will transmit them in his letters to us. First and foremost
about the health of your wife, and how this bitter winter has treated her. Next about Bice,
and then about yourself.

"We rejoice in the prospect of your History of Florence, and I am casting about, hoping to
find somebody to review it worthily for the Fortnightly Review. By the way, would not you or
your wife help me there also! Propose your subjects!

"I hope you will like our daughter. She is a noble creature; and Charles is a lucky dog (his
father's luck) to get such a wife.

"We have been and are in a poor state of health, but manage to scramble on. Charles will tell
you all there is to tell. With our love to your dear wife and Bice,

"Believe me, ever faithfully yours,

"G.H. LEWES."

       *       *       *       *       *

Shortly after receiving this my wife had a letter from George Eliot, from Venice, dated 15th
May, 1864. She writes from the "Hôtel de Ville."

       *       *       *       *       *

"MY DEAR MRS. TROLLOPE,--I wonder whether you are likely to be at Lake Como next month, or
at any other place that we could take on our way to the Alps. It would make the prospect of
our journey homeward much pleasanter if we could count on seeing you for a few hours; and I
will not believe that you will think me troublesome if I send the question to you. I am rather
discontented with destiny that she has not let us see anything of you for nearly three years.
And I hope you too will not be sorry to take me by the hand again.

"My ground for supposing it not unlikely that you will be at one of the lakes, is the report
I heard from Mr. Pigott, that such a plan was hovering in your mind. My chief fear is that
our return, which is not likely at the latest to be later than the middle of June, may be too
early for us to find you. We reached Venice three days ago, after a short stay at Milan, and
have the delight of finding everything more beautiful than it was to us four years ago. That
is a satisfactory experience to us, who are getting old, and are afraid of the traditional
loss of glory on the grass and all else, with which melancholy poets threaten us.

"Mr. Lewes says I am to say the sweetest things that can be said with propriety to you, and
love to Bice, to whose memory he appeals, in spite of all the friends she has made since he
had the last kiss from her.

"I too have love to send to Bice, whom I expect to see changed like a lily-bud to something
more definitely promising. Mr. Trollope, I suppose, is in England by this time, else I should
say all affectionate regards from us both to him. I am writing under difficulties.

"Ever, dear Mrs. Trollope,

"Very sincerely yours,

"M.E. LEWES."

       *       *       *       *       *

Here is another from Lewes, which the post-mark only shows to have been written in 1865:--

       *       *       *       *       *

"DEAR TROLLOPE,--Thank Signor ---- for the offer of his paper, and express to him my regret
that in the present crowded state of the Review I cannot find a place for it. Don't you however
run away with the idea that I don t want your contributions on the same ground! The fact is
----'s paper is too wordy and heavy and not of sufficient interest for our publication; and
as I have a great many well on hand, I am forced to be particular. Originally my fear was lest
we should not get contributors enough. That fear has long vanished. But good contributions
are always scarce; so don't you fail me!

"We have been at Tunbridge Wells for a fortnight's holiday. I was forced to 'cave in,' as the
Yankees say--regularly beat. I am not very flourishing now, but I can go into harness again.
Polly has been, and alas! still is, anything but in a satisfactory state. But she is gestating,
and gestation with her is always perturbing. I wish the book were done with all my heart.

"I don't think I ever told you how very much your History of Florence interested me. I am shockingly
ignorant of the subject, and not at all competent to speak, except as one of the public; but
you made the political life of the people clear to me. I only regretted here and there a newspaper
style which was not historic. Oscar Browning has sent me his review, but I have not read it
yet. It is at the printers. Polly sends her love.

"Ever faithfully yours,

"G.H.L."

       *       *       *       *       *

He writes again, dating his letter 1st January, 1866, but post-marked 1865. It is singular,
that the date as given by the writer, 1866, must have been right, and that given by the post-mark,
1865, wrong. And the fact may possibly some day be useful to some counsel having to struggle
against the evidence of a post-mark. The letter commences:--

       *       *       *       *       *

"MY DEAR TROLLOPE,--A happy new year to you and Bice!

[It is quite impossible that Lewes could have so written, while my wife, Theodosia, so great
a favourite with both him and his wife, and so constantly inquired for tenderly by them, was
yet alive. I lost her on the 13th of April, 1865. It is certain therefore, that Lewes's letter
was written in 1866, and not as the post-mark declares in 1865. After speaking of some literary
business matters, the letter goes on:--]

"And when am I to receive those articles from you, which you projected? I suppose other work
keeps you ever on the stretch. But so active a man must needs 'fulfil himself in many ways.'

"We have been ailing constantly without being ill, but our work gets on somehow or other. Polly
is miserable over a new novel, and I am happy over the very hard work of a new edition of my
History of Philosophy, which will almost be a new book, so great are the changes and additions.
Polly sends her love to you and Bice.

"Yours very faithfully,

"G.H. LEWES."

       *       *       *       *       *

Then after a long break, and after a new phase of my life had commenced, Lewes writes on the
14th of January, 1869, from "21, North Bank":--

       *       *       *       *       *

"DEAR T.T.,--We did not meet in Germany because our plans were altogether changed. We passed
all the time in the Black Forest, and came home through the Oberland. I did write to Salzburg
however, and perhaps the letter is still there; but there was nothing in it.

"You know how fond we are of you, and the pleasure it always gives us to get a glimpse of you.
(Not that we have not also very pleasant associations with your wife,[1] but she is as yet
stranger to us of course.) But we went away in search of complete repose. And in the Black
Forest there was not a soul to speak to, and we liked it so much as to stay on there.

[Footnote 1: I had married my second wife on the 29th of October, 1866.]

"We contemplate moving southwards in the spring, and if we go to Italy and come near Florence,
we shall assuredly make a détour and come and see you. Polly wants to see Arezzo and Perugia.
And I suppose we can still get a vetturino to take us that way to Rome? Don't want railways,
if to be avoided. I don't think we can get away before March, for my researches are so absorbing,
that, if health holds out, I must go on, if not, we shall pack up earlier. The worst of Lent
is that one gets no theatres, and precisely because we never go to the theatre in London, we
hugely enjoy it abroad. Yesterday we took the child of a friend of ours to a morning performance
of the pantomime, and are utterly knocked up in consequence. Somehow or other abroad the theatre
agrees with us. Polly sends the kindest remembrances to you and your wife. Whenever you want
anything done in London, consider me an idle man.

"Ever yours faithfully,

"G.H. LEWES."

       *       *       *       *       *

And on the 28th February, in the same year, accordingly he writes:--

       *       *       *       *       *

"Touching our visit to Florence, you may be sure we could not lightly forego such a pleasure.
We start to-morrow, and unless we are recalled by my mother's health, we calculate being with
you about the end of March. But we shall give due warning of our arrival. We both look forward
to this holiday, and 'languish for the purple seas;' though the high winds now howl a threat
of anything but a pleasant crossing to Calais. Che! Che! One must pay for one's pleasure! With
both of our warmest salutations to you and yours,

"Believe me, yours faithfully,

"G.H. LEWES."

       *       *       *       *       *

The travellers must, however, have reached us some days before the end of March, for I have
a letter to my wife from George Eliot, dated from Naples on the 1st of April, 1869, after they
had left us. She writes:--

       *       *       *       *       *

"MY DEAR MRS. TROLLOPE,--The kindness which induces you to shelter travellers will make you
willing to hear something of their subsequent fate. And I am the more inclined to send you
some news of ourselves because I have nothing dismal to tell. We bore our long journey better
than we dared to expect, for the night was made short by sleep in our large coupé, and during
the day we had no more than one headache between us. Mr. Lewes really looks better, and has
lost his twinges. And though pleasure-seekers are notoriously the most aggrieved and howling
inhabitants of the universe, we can allege nothing against our lot here but the persistent
coldness of the wind, which is in dangerously sudden contrast with the warmth of the sunshine
whenever one gets on the wrong side of a wall. This prevents us from undertaking any carriage
expeditions, which is rather unfortunate, because such expeditions are among the chief charms
of Naples. We have not been able to renew our old memories of that sort at all, except by a
railway journey to Pompeii; and our days are spent in the museum and in the sunniest out-of-door
spots. We have been twice to the San Carlo, which we were the more pleased to do, because when
we were here before, that fine theatre was closed. The singing is so-so, and the tenor especially
is gifted with limbs rather than with voice or ear. But there is a baritone worth hearing and
a soprano, whom the Neapolitans delight to honour with hideous sounds of applause.

"We are longing for a soft wind, which will allow us to take the long drive to Baiae during
one of our remaining days here. At present we think of leaving for Rome on Sunday or Monday.
But our departure will probably be determined by an answer from the landlord of the Hôtel de
Minerva, to whom Mr. Lewes has written. We have very comfortable quarters here, out of the
way of that English and American society, whose charms you can imagine. Our private dinner
is well served; and I am glad to be away from the Chiaja, except--the exception is a great
one--for the sake of the sunsets which I should have seen there.

"Mr. Lewes has found a book by an Italian named Franchi, formerly a priest, on the present
condition of philosophy in Italy. He emerges from its depths--or shallows--to send his best
remembrances; and to Bice he begs especially to recommend Plantation Bitters.

"I usually think all the more of things and places the farther I get from them, and, on that
ground, you will understand that at Naples I think of Florence, and the kindness I found there
under my small miseries. Pray offer my kind regards to Miss Blagden when you see her, and tell
her that I hope to shake hands with her in London this spring.

"We shall obey Mr. Trollope's injunctions to write again from Perugia or elsewhere, according
to our route homeward. But pray warn him, that when my throat is not sore, and my head not
stagnant, I am a much fiercer antagonist. It is perhaps a delight to one's egoism to have a
friend who is among the best of men with the worst of theories. One can be at once affectionate
and spit-fire. Pray remember me with indulgence, all of you, and believe, dear Mrs. Trollope,

"Most truly yours,

"M.E. LEWES."

       *       *       *       *       *

It will be seen from the above that George Eliot had very quickly fraternised--what is the
feminine form?--with my second wife, as I, without any misgivings, foresaw would be the case.
Indeed subsequent circumstances allowed a greater degree of intimacy to grow up between them
than had been possible in the case of my Bice's mother, restricted as her intercourse with
the latter had been by failing health, and the comparative fewness of the hours they had passed
together. Neither she nor Lewes had ever passed a night under my roof until I received them
in the villa at Ricorboli, where I lived with my second wife.

What was the subject of the "antagonism" to which the above letter alludes, I have entirely
forgotten. In all probability we differed on some subject of politics,[1] by reason of the
then rapidly maturing Conservatism which my outlook ahead forced upon me. Nevertheless it would
seem from some words in a letter written to me by Lewes in the November of 1869, that my political
heresies were not deemed deeply damning. There was a question of my undertaking the foreign
correspondence of a London paper, which came to nothing till some four years later, under other
circumstances; and with reference to that project he writes:--

[Footnote 1: My wife, on reading this passage, tells me that according to her recollection
the differences in question had no reference to politics at all, but to matters of higher interest
relating to man's ultimate destinies.]

       *       *       *       *       *

"Polly and I were immensely pleased at the prospect for you. She was rejoiced that you should
once more be giving yourself to public affairs, which you so well understand.... We are but
just come back from the solitudes of a farm-house in Surrey, whither I took Polly immediately
after our loss [of his son], of which I suppose Anthony told you. It had shaken her seriously.
She had lavished almost a mother's love on the dear boy, and suffered a mother's grief in the
bereavement. He died in her arms; and for a long while it seemed as if she could never get
over the pain. But now she is calm again, though very sad. But she will get to work, and that
will aid her.

"For me, I was as fully prepared (by three or four months' conviction of its inevitableness)
as one can be in such cases. It is always sudden, however foreseen. Yet the preparation was
of great use; and I now have only a beautiful image living with me, and a deep thankfulness
that his sufferings are at an end, since recovery was impossible.

"Give my love to your wife and Bice, and believe ever in yours faithfully,

"G.H. LEWES."

       *       *       *       *       *

The following highly interesting letter was written to my wife by Mrs. Lewes, about a year
after his death. It is dated "The Priory, 19 December, 1879":--

       *       *       *       *       *

"DEAR MRS. TROLLOPE,--In sending me Dr. Haller's words you have sent me a great comfort. A
just appreciation of my husband's work from a competent person is what I am most athirst for;
and Dr. Haller has put his finger on a true characteristic. I only wish he could print something
to the same effect in any pages that would be generally read.

"There is no biography. An article entitled 'George Henry Lewes' appeared in the last New London
Quarterly. It was written by a man for whom he had much esteem; but it is not strong. A few
facts about the early life and education are given with tolerable accuracy, but the estimate
of the philosophic and scientific activity is inadequate. Still it is the best thing you could
mention to Dr. Haller. You know perhaps that a volume entitled The Study of Psychology appeared
in May last, and that another volume (500 pp.) of Problems of Life and Mind has just been published.
The best history of a writer is contained in his writings; these are his chief actions. If
he happens to have left an autobiography telling (what nobody else can tell) how his mind grew,
how it was determined by the joys, sorrows, and other influences of childhood and youth--that
is a precious contribution to knowledge. But biographies generally are a disease of English
literature.

"I have never yet told you how grateful I was to you for writing to me a year ago. For a long
while I could read no letter. But now I have read yours more than once, and it is carefully
preserved. You had been with us in our happiness so near the time when it left me--you and
your husband are peculiarly bound up with the latest memories.

"You must have had a mournful summer. But Mr. Trollope's thorough recovery from his severe
attack is a fresh proof of his constitutional strength. We cannot properly count age by years.
See what Mr. Gladstone does with seventy of them in his frame. And my lost one had but sixty-one
and a half.

"You are to come to England again in 1881, I remember, and then, if I am alive, I hope to see
you. With best love to you both, always, dear Mrs. Trollope,

"Yours faithfully,

"M.E. LEWES."

       *       *       *       *       *

The "words of Dr. Haller," to which the above letter refers, were to the effect that one of
Lewes's great advantages in scientific and philosophical research was his familiar acquaintance
with the works of German and French writers, which enabled him to follow the contemporaneous
movement of science throughout Europe, whereas many writers of learning and ability wasted
their own and their readers' time in investigating questions already fully investigated elsewhere,
and advancing theories which had been previously proved or disproved without their knowledge.
Dr. Ludwig Haller, of Berlin, in writing to me about G.H. Lewes, then recently deceased, had
said, if I remember rightly, that he had some intention of publishing a sketch of Lewes in
some German periodical. I am not aware whether this intention was ever carried into effect.

The attack to which the above letter alludes was a very bad one of sciatica. At length the
baths of Baden in Switzerland cured me permanently, but after their--it is said ordinary and
normal, but very perverse--fashion, having first made me incomparably worse. I suffered excruciatingly,
consolingly (!) assured by the doctor that sciatica never kills--only makes you wish that it
would! While I was at the worst my brother came to Baden to see me, and on leaving me after
a couple of days, wrote to my wife the following letter, which I confiscated and keep as a
memorial.

After expressing his commiseration for me, he continues:--

"For you, I cannot tell you the admiration I have for you. Your affection and care and assiduity
were to be expected. I knew you well enough to take them as a matter of course from you to
him. But your mental and physical capacity, your power of sustaining him by your own cheerfulness,
and supporting him by your own attention, are marvellous. When I consider all the circumstances
I hardly know how to reconcile so much love with so much self-control."

Every word true! And what he saw for a few hours in each of a couple of days, I saw every hour
of the day and night for four terrible months!

But all this is a parenthesis into which I have been led, I hope excusably, by Mrs. Lewes's
mention of my illness.

N.B.--I said at an early page of these recollections that I had never been confined to my bed
by illness for a single day during more than sixty years. The above-mentioned illness leaves
the statement still true. The sciatica was bad, but never kept me in bed. Indeed I was perhaps
in less torment out of it.

Here is the last letter of George Eliot's which reached us. It is written by Mrs. Lewes to
my wife, from "The Priory, 30 December, 1879":--

       *       *       *       *       *

"DEAR MRS. TROLLOPE,--I inclose the best photograph within my reach. To me all portraits of
him are objectionable, because I see him more vividly and truly without them. But I think this
is the most like what he was as you knew him. I have sent your anecdote about the boy to Mr.
Du Maurier, whom it will suit exactly. I asked Charles Lewes to copy it from your letter with
your own pretty words of introduction.

"Yours affectionately,

"M.E. LEWES."

       *       *       *       *       *

It is pretty well too late in the day for me to lament the loss of old friends. They have been
well-nigh some time past all gone. I have been exceptionally fortunate in an aftermath belonging
to a younger generation. But they too are dropping around me! And few losses from this second
crop have left a more regretted void than George Henry Lewes and his wife.

CHAPTER XVII.

I have thought that it might be more convenient to the reader to have the letters contained
in the foregoing chapter all together, and have not interrupted them therefore to speak of
any of the events which were meantime happening in my own life.

But during the period which the letters cover the two greatest sorrows of my life had fallen
upon me--I had lost first my mother, then my wife.

The bereavement, however, was very different in the two cases. If my mother had died a dozen
years earlier I should have felt the loss as the end of all things to me--as leaving me desolate
and causing a void which nothing could ever fill. But when she died at eighty-three she had
lived her life, upon the whole a very happy one, to the happiness of which I had (and have)
the satisfaction of believing I largely contributed.

It is very common for a mother and daughter to live during many years of life together in as
close companionship as I lived with my mother, but it is not common for a son to do so. During
many years, and many, many journeyings, and more tête-à-tête walks, and yet more of tête-à-tête
home hours, we were inseparable companions and friends. I can truly say that, from the time
when we put our horses together on my return from Birmingham to the time of my marriage, she
was all in all to me! During some four or five days in the early time of our residence at Florence
I thought I was going to lose her, and I can never forget the blank wretchedness of the prospect
that seemed to be before me.

She had a very serious illness, and was, as I had subsequently reason to believe, very mistakenly
treated. She was attended by a practitioner of the old school, who had at that time the leading
practice in Florence. He was a very good fellow, and an admirable whist player; and I do not
think the members of our little colony drew a sufficiently sharp line of division between his
social and his professional qualifications. He was, as I have said, essentially a man of the
(even then) old school, and retained the old-fashioned general practitioners phraseology. I
remember his once mortally disgusting an unhappy dyspeptic old lady by asking her, "Do we go
to our dinner with glee?" As if the poor soul had ever done anything with glee!

This gentleman had bled my mother, and had appointed another bleeding for the evening. I believe
she would assuredly have died if that had been done, and I attribute to Lord Holland the saving
of her. Her doctor had very wrongly resisted the calling in of other English advice, professional
jealousy, and indeed enmity, running high just then among us. Lord Holland came to the house
just in the nick of time; and over-ruling authoritatively all the difficulties raised by the
Esculapius in possession of the field, insisted on at once sending his own medical attendant.
The result was the immediate administration of port wine instead of phlebotomy, and the patient's
rapid recovery.

My mother was at the time far past taking any part in the discussion of the medical measures
to be adopted in her case. But I am not without a suspicion that she too, if she could have
been consulted, would have sided with phlebotomy and whist, as against modern practice unrelieved
by any such alleviation. For the phlebotomist had been a constant attendant at her Friday night
whist-table; and as it was she lost him, for he naturally was offended at her recovery under
rival hands.

What my mother was I have already said enough to show, as far as my imperfect words can show
it, in divers passages of these reminiscences. She was the happiest natured person I ever knew--happy
in the intense power of enjoyment, happier still in the conscious exercise of the power of
making others happy; and this continued to be the case till nearly the end. During the last
few years the bright lamp began to grow dim and gradually sink into the socket. She suffered
but little physically, but she lost her memory, and then gradually more and more the powers
of her mind generally. I have often thought that this perishing of the mind before the exceptionally
healthy and well-constituted physical frame, in which it was housed, may have been due to the
tremendous strain to which she was subjected during those terrible months at Bruges, when she
was watching the dying bed of a much-loved son during the day, and, dieted on green tea and
laudanum, was writing fiction most part of the night. The cause, if such were the case, would
have preceded the effect by some forty years; but whether it is on the cards to suppose that
such an effect may have been produced after such a length of time, I have not physiological
knowledge enough to tell.

She was, I think, to an exceptional degree surrounded by very many friends, mostly women, but
including many men, at every period of her life. But the circumstances of it caused the world
of her intimates during her youth, her middle life, and her old age, to be to a great degree
peopled by different figures.

She was during all her life full of, and fond of, fun; had an exquisite sense of humour; and
at all times valued her friends and acquaintances more exclusively, I think, than most people
do, for their intrinsic qualities, mainly those of heart, and, not so much perhaps intellect,
accurately speaking, as brightness. There is a passage in my brother's Autobiography which
grates upon my mind, and, I think, very signally fails to hit the mark.

Now there is hardly a word of this in which Anthony is not more or less mistaken; and that
simply because he had not adequate opportunities for close observation. The affection which
subsisted between my mother and my brother Anthony was from the beginning to the end of their
lives as tender and as warm as ever existed between a mother and son. Indeed I remember that
in the old days of our youth we used to consider Anthony the Benjamin. But from the time that
he became a clerk in the Post Office to her death, he and my mother were never together but
as visitors during the limited period of a visit. From the time that I resigned my position
at Birmingham to the time of her death, I was uninterruptedly an inmate of her house, or she
of mine. And I think that I knew her, as few sons know their mothers.

No regicide, would-be or other, ever darkened her doors. No French prolétaire, or other French
political refugee was ever among her guests. She never was acquainted with any Italian marquis
who had escaped in any degree of distress from poverty. With General Pepe she was intimate
for years. But of him the world knows enough to perceive that my brother cannot have alluded
to him. And I recollect no other marquis. It is very true that in the old Keppel Street and
Harrow days several Italian exiles, and I think some Spaniards, used to be her occasional guests.
This had come to pass by means of her intimacy with Lady Dyer, the wife and subsequently widow
of Sir Thomas Dyer, whose years of foreign service had interested him and her in many such
persons. The friends of her friend were her friends. They were not such by virtue of their
political position and ideas. Though it is no doubt true, that caring little about politics,
and in a jesting way (how jesting many a memorial of fun between her and Lady Dyer, and Miss
Gabell, the daughter of Dr. Gabell of Winchester, is still extant in my hands to prove;) the
general tone of the house was "Liberal." But nothing can be farther from the truth than the
idea that my mother was led to become a Tory by the "graciousness" of any "marquises" or great
folks of any kind. I am inclined to think that there was one great personage, whose (not graciousness,
but) intellectual influence did impel her mind in a Conservative direction. And this was Metternich.
She had more talk with him than her book on Vienna would lead a reader to suppose; and very
far more of his mind and influence reached her through the medium of the Princess.

To how great a degree this is likely to have been the case may be in some measure perceived
from a letter which the Princess addressed to my mother shortly after she had left Vienna.
She preserved it among a few others, which she specially valued, and I transcribe it from the
original now before me.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Vous ne pourriez croire, chère Madame Trollope, combien le portrait que vous avez chargé le
Baron Hügel de me remettre m'a fait de plaisir!

"Il y a longtemps que je cachais au fonds de mon coeur le désir de posséder votre portrait,
qui, interressant pour le monde, est devenu précieux pour moi, puisque j'ai le plaisir de vous
connaître telle que vous êtes, bonne, simple, bienveillante, et loin de tout ce qui effroie
et eloigne des reputations litéraires. Je remercie M. Hervieu de Tavoir fait aussi ressemblant.
Et je vous assure, chère Madame Trollope, que rien ne pouvait me toucher aussi vivement et
me faire autant de plaisir que ce souvenir venant de vous, qui me rappelera sans cesse les
bons moments que j'ai eu la satisfaction de passer avec vous et qui resteront à jamais chères
à ma mémoire.

"MELANIE, PRINCESSE DE METTERNICH."

       *       *       *       *       *

I think that the hours passed by the Princess and my mother tête-à-tête, save for the presence
of the artist occupied by his work during the painting of the Princess Melanie's portrait for
my mother, were mainly the cause of the real intimacy of mind and affection which grew up between
them--though, of course, the painting of the portrait shows that a considerable intimacy had
previously arisen. And it had been arranged that the portrait of my mother, which was the occasion
of the above letter, should be exchanged for that of the Princess. But there had been no time
amid the whirl of the Vienna gaieties to get it executed. It was, therefore, sent from England
by Baron Hügel when he called on my mother, on visiting this country shortly after her return
from Austria.

It occurs to me here to mention a circumstance which was, I think, the first thing to begin--not
the acquaintance but--the intimacy in question; and which may be related as possessing an interest
not confined to either of the ladies in question.

The Archduchess Sophie had graciously intimated her desire that my mother should be presented
to her, and an evening had been named for the purpose. But a few days before--just three, if
I remember rightly--my mother caught a cold, which resulted in erysipelas, causing her head
to become swollen to nearly double its usual size! Great was the dismay of the ladies who had
arranged the meeting with the Archduchess, chief among whom had been the Princess Melanie.
She came to my mother, and insisted upon sending to her an old homoeopathic physician, who
was her own medical attendant, and had been Hahnemann's favourite pupil. He came, saw his patient,
and was told that what he had to do was to make her presentable by the following Friday! He
shook his head, said the time was too short--but he would do his best. And the desired object
was fully attained.

I have no doubt that my mother returned from her Vienna visit a more strongly convinced Conservative
in politics than she had hitherto been. And it does not seem to me that the modification of
her opinions in that direction, which was doubtless largely operated by conversation with the
great Conservative statesman and his alter ego, the Princess, needs to be in any degree attributed
to the "graciousness" of people in high position either male or female. Is it not very intelligible
and very likely that such opinions, so set forth, as she from day to day heard them, should
have honestly and legitimately influenced her own?

But I think that I should be speaking, if perhaps presumptuously, yet truly, if I were to add
that there was also one very far from great personage, whose influence in the same direction
was greater than even that of Prince Metternich or of any other great folks whatever; and that
was the son in daily and almost hourly communion and conversation with whom she lived. I also
had begun life as a "Liberal," and was such in the days when Mr. Gladstone was a high Tory.
But my mind had long been travelling in an inverse direction to his. And far too large a number
of my contemporaries distinguished and undistinguished have been moving in the same direction
for it to be at all necessary to say that most assuredly my slowly maturing convictions were
neither generated nor fostered by any "graciousness" or other influence of dukes or duchesses
or great people of any sort.

That my mother's political ideas were in no degree "an affair of the heart," I will not say,
and by no means regret not being able to say. But I cannot but assert that it is a great mistake
to say that they were uninfluenced by "reasoning from causes," or that the movement of her
mind in this respect was in any degree whatever due to the caresses which my brother imagines
to have caused it.

She was not a great or careful preserver of papers and letters, or I might have been able to
print here very many communications from persons in whom the world feels an interest. Among
her early and very dear friends was Mary Mitford.

I have a very vivid remembrance of the appearance of Mary Russell Mitford as I used to see
her on the occasions of my visits to Reading, where my grandfather's second wife and then widow
was residing. She was not corpulent, but her figure gave one the idea of almost cubical solidity.
She had a round and red full moon sort of face, from the ample forehead above which the hair
was all dragged back and stowed away under a small and close-fitting cap, which surrounding
her face increased the effect of full-blown rotundity. But the grey eye and even the little
snub nose were full of drollery and humour, and the lines about the generally somewhat closely
shut mouth indicated unmistakable intellectual power. There is a singular resemblance between
her handwriting and that of my mother. Very numerous letters must have passed between them.
But of all these I have been able to find but four.

On the 3rd of April, 1832, she writes from the "Three Mile Cross," so familiar to many readers,
as follows:--

       *       *       *       *       *

"My dear Mrs. Trollope,--I thank you most sincerely for your very delightful book, as well
as for its great kindness towards me; and I wish you joy from the bottom of my heart of the
splendid success which has not merely attended but awaited its career--a happy and I trust
certain augury of your literary good fortune in every line which you may pursue. I assure you
that my political prejudices are by no means shocked at your dislike of Republicanism. I was
always a very aristocratic Whig, and since these reforming days am well-nigh become a staunch
Tory, for pretty nearly the same reason that converted you--a dislike to mobs in action....
Refinement follows wealth, but not often closely, as witness the parvenu people even in dear
England.... I heard of your plunge into the Backwoods first from Mr. Owen himself, with whom
I foregathered three years ago in London, and of whom you have given so very true and graphic
a picture. What extraordinary mildness and plausibility that man possesses! I never before
saw an instance of actual wildness--madness of theory accompanied by such suavity and soberness
of manner. Did you see my friend, Miss Sedgwick? Her letters show a large and amiable mind,
and a little niece of nine years old, who generally writes in them, has a style very unusual
in so young a girl, and yet most youthful and natural too.... Can you tell me if Mr. Flint
be the author of George Mason, or the Young Backwoodsman? I think that he is; and whether the
name of a young satirical writer be Sams or Sands? Your answering these questions will stead
me much, and I am sure that you will answer them if you can.

"Now to your kind questions. I am getting ready a fifth and last volume of Our Village as fast
as I can, though with pain and difficulty, having hurt my left hand so much by a fall from
an open carriage that it affects the right, and makes writing very uncomfortable to me. And
I am in a most perplexed state about my opera, not knowing whether it will be produced this
season or not, in consequence of Captain Polhill and his singers having parted. This would
not have happened had my coadjutor the composer kept to his time. And I have still hopes that
when the opera be [shall, omitted probably] taken in (the music is even now not finished),
a sense of interest will bring the parties together again. I hope that it may, for it will
not only be a tremendous hit for all of us, but it will take me to London and give me the pleasure
of a peep at you, a happiness to which I look forward very anxiously. I know Mr. Tom, and like
him of all things, as everybody who knows him must, and I hear that his sisters are charming.
God bless you, my dear friend. My father joins me in every good wish, and

"I am ever most affectionately yours,

"M.R. MITFORD."

       *       *       *       *       *

A few weeks later she writes a very long letter almost entirely filled with a discussion of
the desirability or non-desirability of writing in this, that, and the other "annual" or magazine.
Most of those she alludes to are dead, and there is no interest in preserving her mainly unfavourable
remarks concerning them and their editors and publishers. One sentence, however, is so singularly
and amusingly suggestive of change in men and women and things, that I must give it. After
reviewing a great number of the leading monthlies she says "as for Fraser's and Blackwood's,
they are hardly such as a lady likes to write for"!

After advising my mother to stick to writing novels, she says, "I have not a doubt that that
is by far the most profitable branch of the literary profession. If ever I be bold enough to
try that arduous path, I shall endeavour to come as near as I can to Miss Austen, my idol.
You are very good about my opera. I am sorry to tell you, and you will be sorry to hear, that
the composer has disappointed me, that the music is not even yet ready, and that the piece
is therefore necessarily delayed till next season. I am very sorry for this on account of the
money, and because I have many friends in and near town, yourself amongst the rest, whom I
was desirous to see. But I suppose it will be for the good of the opera to wait till the beginning
of a season. It is to be produced with extraordinary splendour, and will, I think, be a tremendous
hit. I hope also to have a tragedy out at nearly the same time in the autumn, and then I trust
we shall meet, and I shall see your dear girls.

"How glad I am to find that you partake of my great aversion to the sort of puffery belonging
to literature. I hate it! and always did, and love you all the better for partaking of my feeling
on the subject. I believe that with me it is pride that revolts at the trash. And then it is
so false; the people are so clearly flattering to be flattered. Oh, I hate it!!!

"Make my kindest regards [sic] and accept my father's.

"Ever most faithfully and affectionately yours,

"M.R. MITFORD.

"P.S.--I suppose my book will be out in about a month. I shall desire Whittaker to send you
a copy. It is the fifth and last volume."

       *       *       *       *       *

The following interesting letter, franked by her friend Talfourd, and shown only by the post-mark
to have been posted on the 20th of June, 1836, is apparently only part of a letter, for it
is written upon one page, and the two "turnovers" only; and begins abruptly:--

       *       *       *       *       *

"My being in London this year seems very uncertain, although if Mr. Sergeant Talfourd's Ion
be played, as I believe it will, for Mr. Macready's benefit, I shall hardly be able to resist
the temptation of going up for a very few days to be present upon that occasion. But I scarcely
ever stir. I am not strong, and am subject to a painful complaint, which renders the service
of a maid indispensable not only to my comfort but to my health; and that, besides the expense,
has an appearance of fuss and finery, to which I have a great objection, and to which indeed
I have from station no claim. My father, too, hates to be left even for a day. And splendid
old man as he is in his healthful and vigorous age, I cannot but recollect that he is seventy-five,
and that he is my only tie upon earth--the only relation (except, indeed, a few very distant
cousins, Russells, Greys, Ogles, and Deans, whom I am too proud and too poor to hook on upon),
my only relation in the wide world. This is a desolate view of things; but it explains a degree
of clinging to that one most precious parent which people can hardly comprehend. You can scarcely
imagine how fine an old man he is; how clear of head and warm of heart. He almost wept over
your letter to-day, and reads your book with singular delight and satisfaction, in spite of
the difference in politics. He feels strongly, and so, I assure you, do I, your kind mention
of me and my poor writings--a sort of testimony always gratifying, but doubly so when the distinguished
writer is a dear friend. Even in this desolation, your success--that of your last work [Paris
and the Parisians] especially must be satisfactory to you. I have no doubt that two volumes
on Italy will prove equally delightful to your readers, whilst the journey will be the best
possible remedy for all that you have suffered in spirits and health.

"I am attempting a novel, for which Messieurs Saunders and Ottley have agreed to give 700l.
It is to be ready some time in September--I mean the MS.--and I am most anxious upon every
account to make it as good as possible, one very great reason being the fair, candid, and liberal
conduct of the intended publishers. I shall do my very best. Shall I, do you think, succeed?
I take for granted that our loss is your gain, and that you see Mr. Milman and his charming
wife, who will, I am sure, sympathise most sincerely in your present[1] affliction.

[Footnote 1: Mr. Milman had resigned recently the incumbency of a parish in Reading. My mother's
affliction alluded to was the death of her youngest daughter, Emily.]

"Adieu, my dear friend. I am tying myself up from letter-writing until I have finished my novel.
While I cannot but hope for one line from you to say that you are recovering. Letters to me
may always be inclosed to Mr. Sergeant Talfourd, M.P., 2, Elm Court, Temple. Even if he be
on circuit, they will reach me after a short delay. God bless you all. My father joins heartily
in this prayer, with

"Your faithful and affectionate,

"M.R. MITFORD."

       *       *       *       *       *

The next, and last which I have found, is entirely undated, but post-marked 20th April, 1837.

       *       *       *       *       *

"MY DEAR FRIEND,--I don't know when a trifle has pleased me so much as the coincidence which
set us a-writing to each other just at the same time. I have all the north-country superstition
flowing through my veins, and do really believe in the exploded doctrine of sympathies. That
is to say, I believe in all genial superstitions, and don't like this steam-packet railway
world of ours, which puts aside with so much scorn that which for certain Shakespeare and Ben
Jonson held for true. I am charmed at your own account of yourself and your doings. Mr. Edward
Kenyon--(whose brother, John Kenyon, of Harley Place, the most delightful man in London--of
course you know him--is my especial friend)--Mr. Edward Kenyon, who lives chiefly at Vienna,
although, I believe, in great retirement, spending 200l. upon himself, and giving away 2,000l.--Mr.
Edward Kenyon spoke of you to me as having such opportunities of knowing both the city and
the country as rarely befell even a resident, and what you say of the peasantry gives me a
strong desire to see your book.

"A happy subject is in my mind, a great thing, especially for you whose descriptions are so
graphic. The thing that would interest me in Austria, and for the maintenance of which one
almost pardons (not quite) their retaining that other old-fashioned thing, the State prisons,
is their having kept up in their splendour those grand old monasteries, which are swept away
now in Spain and Portugal. I have a passion for Gothic architecture, and a leaning towards
the magnificence of the old religion, the foster-mother of all that is finest and highest in
art, and if I have such a thing as a literary project, it is to write a romance, of which Reading
Abbey in its primal magnificence should form a part, not the least about forms of faith, understand,
but as an element of the picturesque, and as embodying a very grand and influential part of
bygone days. At present I have just finished (since writing Country Stories, which people seem
so good as to like) writing all the prose (except one story about the fashionable subject of
Egyptian magicians, furnished to me by your admirer, Henry Chorley; I wish you had seen him
taking off his hat to the walls as I showed him your father's old residence at Heckfield),
all the prose of the most splendid of the annuals, Finden's Tableaux, of which my longest and
best story--a Young Pretender story--I have been obliged to omit in consequence of not calculating
on the length of my poetical contributors. But my poetry, especially that by that wonderful
young creature Miss Barrett, Mr. Kenyon, and Mr. Procter, is certainly such as has seldom before
been seen in an annual, and joined with Finden's magnificent engravings ought to make an attractive
work.

"I am now going to my novel, if it please God to grant me health. For the last two months I
have only once crossed the outer threshold, and, indeed, I have never been a day well since
the united effects of the tragedy and the influenza ... [word destroyed by the seal]. What
will become of that poor play is in the womb of time. But its being by universal admission
a far more striking drama than Rienzi, and by very far the best thing I ever wrote, it follows
almost of course, that it will share the fate of its predecessor, and be tossed about the theatres
for three or four years to come. Of course I should be only too happy that it should be brought
out at Covent Garden under the united auspices of Mr. Macready and Mr. Bartley.[1] But I am
in constitution and in feeling a much older person than you, my dear friend, as well as in
look, however the acknowledgment of age (I am 48) may stand between us; and belonging to a
most sanguine and confiding person, I am of course as prone to anticipate all probable evil
as he is to forestall impossible good. He, my dear father, is, I thank Heaven, splendidly well.
He speaks of you always with much delight, is charmed with your writings, and I do hope that
you will come to Reading and give him as well as me the great pleasure of seeing you at our
poor cottage by the roadside. You would like my flower-garden. It is really a flower-garden
becoming a duchess. People are so good in ministering to this, my only amusement. And the effect
is heightened by passing through a labourer's cottage to get at it, for such our poor hut literally
is.

[Footnote 1: This gentleman was an old and highly valued friend of my mother.]

"You have heard, I suppose, that Mr. Wordsworth's eldest son, who married a daughter of Mr.
Curwen, has lost nearly, if not quite, all of his wife's portion by the sea flowing in upon
the mine, and has now nothing left but a living of 200l. given him by his father-in-law. So
are we all touched in turn.

"I have written to the Sedgwicks for the scarlet lilies mentioned by Miss Martineau in her
American book. Did you happen to see them in their glory? of course they would flourish here;
and having sent them primroses, cowslips, ivy, and many other English wild flowers, which took
Theodore Sedgwick's fancy, I have a right to the return. How glad I am to hear the good you
tell me of my friend Tom. His fortune seems now assured. My father's kindest regards.

"Ever my dear friend,

"Very faithfully yours,

"M.R. MITFORD.

"P.S.--Mr. Carey, the translator of Dante, has just been here. He says that he visited Cowper's
residence at Olney lately, and that his garden room, which suggested mine, is incredibly small,
and not near so pretty. Come and see. You know, of course, that the 'Modern Antiques' in Our
Village were Theodosia and Frances Hill, sisters of Joseph Hill, cousins and friends of poor
Cowper."

       *       *       *       *       *

What the "good" was by which my "fortune was assured" I am unable to guess. But I am sure of
the sincerity of the writer's rejoicing thereat.

Mary Mitford was a genuinely warm-hearted woman, and much of her talk would probably be stigmatised
by the young gentlemen of the present generation, who consider the moral temperature of a fish
to be "good form," as "gush." How old Landor, who "gushed" from cradle to grave, would have
massacred and rended in his wrath such talkers! Mary Mitford's "gush" was sincere at all events.
But there is a "hall-mark," for those who can decipher it, "without which none is genuine."

A considerable intimacy grew up between my mother and the author of Highways and Byeways during
the latter part of his residence in England, and subsequently, when returning from Boston on
leave, he visited Florence and Rome. Many letters passed between them after his establishment
as British Consul at Boston, some characteristic selections from which will, I doubt not, be
acceptable to many readers.

The following was written on the envelope enclosing a very long letter from Mrs. Grattan, and
was written, I think, in 1840:--

       *       *       *       *       *

"I cannot avoid squeezing in a few words more just as the ship is on the point of sailing or
steaming away for England ... 'The President' has been a fatal title this spring. Poor Harrison,
a good and honest man, died in a month after he was elected, and this fine ship, about which
we have been at this side of the Atlantic so painfully excited ever since March, is, I fear,
gone down with its gallant captain (Roberts, with whom we crossed the Atlantic in the British
Queen) and poor Power, whom the public cannot afford to lose.

"Since I wrote my letter three days ago--pardon the boldly original topic--the weather has
mended considerably. Tell Tom that every tree is also striving to turn over a new leaf, and
it is well for you that I have not another to turn too. God bless you.

"T.C.G."

       *       *       *       *       *

I beg to observe that the exhortation addressed to me had no moral significance, but was the
writer's characteristic mode of exciting me to new scribblements.

The following, also written on the envelope enclosing a letter from Mrs. Grattan, is dated
the 30th of July, 1840:--

       *       *       *       *       *

"I cannot let the envelope go quite a blank, though I cannot quite make it a prize ... In literature
I have done nothing but write a preface and notes for two new editions of the old Highways
and Byeways, and a short sketchy article in this month's number of the North American Review
on the present state of Ireland. I am going to follow it up in the next number in reference
to the state of the Irish in America, and I hope I shall thus do some good to a subject I have
much at heart. I have had various applications to deliver lectures at Lyceums, &c, and to preside
at public meetings for various objects. All this I have declined. I have been very much before
the public at dinners for various purposes, and have refused many invitations to several neighbouring
cities. I must now draw back a little. I think I have hitherto done good to the cause of peace
and friendship between the countries. But I know these continued public appearances will expose
me to envy, hatred, and malice. I hope to do something historical by and by, and perhaps an
occasional article in the North American Review. But anything like light writing I never can
again turn to."

       *       *       *       *       *

From a very long letter written on the 13th of May, 1841, I will give a, few extracts:--

       *       *       *       *       *

"MY DEAR AND VALUED FRIEND,--Your letter from Penryth [sic] without date, but bearing the ominous
post-mark, 'April 1st,' has completely made a fool of me, in that sense which implies that
nothing else can excuse a grey head and a seared heart for thinking and feeling that there
are such things in the world as affection and sincerity. Being fond of flying in the face of
reason, and despising experience, whenever they lay down general rules, I am resolved to believe
in exceptions, to delight in instances, and to be quite satisfied that I have 'troops of friends'--you
being one of the troopers--no matter how few others there may be, or where they are to be found.

"You really must imagine how glad we were to see your handwriting again, and I may say also,
how surprised; for it passeth our understanding to discover how you make time for any correspondence
at all. We have followed all your literary doings step by step since we left Europe, and we
never cease wondering at your fertility and rejoicing at your success. But I am grieved to
think that all this is at the cost of your comfort. Or is it that you wrote in a querulous
mood, when you said those sharp things about your grey goose quill. Surely composition must
be pleasant to you. No one who writes so fast and so well can find it actually irksome. I am
aware that people sometimes think they find it so. But we may deceive ourselves on the dark
as well as on the bright side of our road, and more easily, because it is the dark. That is
to say, we may not only cheat ourselves with false hopes of good, but with false notions of
evil, which proves, if it proves anything just now, that you are considerably mistaken when
you fancy writing to be a bore, and that I know infinitely better than you do what you like
or dislike."

It is rather singular to find a literary workman talking in this style. Grattan was not a fertile
writer, and, I must suppose, was never a very industrious one. But he surely must have known
that talk about the pleasures of "composition" was wholly beside the mark. That may be, often
is, pleasant enough, and if the thoughts could be telephoned from the brain to the types it
would all be mighty agreeable; and the world would be very considerably more overwhelmed with
authorship than it is. It is the "grey goose quill" work, the necessity for incarnating the
creatures of the brain in black and white, that is the world's protection from this avalanche.
And I for one do not understand how anybody who, eschewing the sunshine and the fields and
the song of birds, or the enjoyment of other people's brain-work, has glued himself to his
desk for long hours, can say or imagine that his task is, or has been, aught else than hard
and distasteful work, demanding unrelaxing self-denial and industry. And however fine the frenzy
in which the poet's eye may roll while he builds the lofty line, the work of putting some thousands
of them on the paper when built must be as irksome to him as the penny-a-liner's task is to
him--more so, in that the mind of the latter does not need to be forcibly and painfully restrained
from rushing on to the new pastures which invite it, and curbed to the pack-horse pace of the
quill-driving process.

"You must not," he continues, "allow yourself to be, or even to fancy that you are tired or
tormented, or worn out. Work the mine to the last. Pump up every drop out of the well. Put
money i' thy purse; and add story after story to that structure of fame, which will enable
you to do as much to that house by the lake side, where I will hope to see you yet."

       *       *       *       *       *

He then goes on to speak at considerable length of the society of Boston, praising it much,
yet saying that it is made more charming to a visitor than to a permanent resident. "In this
it differs," he says, "from almost all the countries I have lived in in Europe, except Holland."

Speaking of a visit to Washington during the inauguration of General Harrison, which seems
to have delighted him much, he says he travelled back with a family, "at least with the master
and mistress of it, of whom I must tell you something. Mr. Paige is a merchant, and brother-in-law
of Mr. Webster; Mrs. Paige a niece of Judge Story. From this double connection with two of
the first men in the country their family associations are particularly agreeable. Mrs. Paige
is one of three sisters, all very handsome, spirited, and full of talent. One is married to
Mr. Webster's eldest son. Another, Mrs. Joy, has for her husband an idle gentleman, a rare
thing in this place. Mrs. Paige was in Europe two years ago with Mr. and Mrs. Webster senior
(the latter by the bye is a most charming person) and had the advantage of seeing society in
England and France in its best aspect, and is one who can compare as well as see ... Among
the men [of the Boston society] are Dr. Chinning, a prophet in our country, a pamphleteer in
his own; Bancroft, the historian of America, a man of superior talents and great agreeability,
but a black sheep in society, on account of his Van Buren politics, against whom the white
sheep of the Whig party will not rub themselves; Prescott, the author of Ferdinand and Isabella,
a handsome, half blind shunner of the vanities of the world, with some others, who read and
write a good deal, and no one the wiser for it. Edward Everett is in Italy, where you will
surely meet him [we saw a good deal of him]. He is rather formal than cold, if all I hear whispered
of him be true; of elegant taste in literature, though not of easy manners, and altogether
an admirable specimen of an American orator and scholar. At Cambridge, three miles off, we
have Judge Story, of the Supreme Court, eloquent, deeply learned, garrulous, lively, amiable,
excellent in all and every way that a mortal can be. He is decidedly the gem of this western
world. Mr. Webster is now settled at Washington, though here at this moment on a visit to Mrs.
Paige. Among our neighbouring notabilities is John Quincy Adams, an ex-President of the United
States, ex-Minister at half the courts in Europe, and now at seventy-five, a simple Member
of Congress, hard as a piece of granite, and cold as a lump of ice."

Speaking of his having very frequently appeared at public meetings during the first year of
his Consulship, and of his having since that refrained from such appearances, he continues:
"I was doubtful as to the way my being so much en evidence might be relished at home. Of late
public matters have been on so ticklish a footing, that all the less a British functionary
was seen the better.

"In literature I have done nothing barring a couple of articles on Ireland and the Irish in
America, a subject I have much at heart. But much as I feel for them and with them, I refused
dining with my countrymen on St. Patrick's Day because they had the gaucherie (of which I had
previous notice), to turn the festive meeting into a political one, by giving 'O'Connell and
success to repeal' as one of their 'regular' toasts, and by leaving out the Queen's health,
which they gave when I dined with them last year."

Then after detailed notices of the movements of his sons, he goes on:

"We have many plans in perspective, Niagara, Canada, Halifax, the mountains, the springs, the
sea; the result of which you shall know as soon as we receive a true and faithful account of
your adventures in just as many pages as you can afford; but Tom must in the meantime send
me a long letter ... Tell Tom I have half resolved to give up punning and take to repartee.
A young fellow said to me the other day, 'Ah! Mr. Consul (as I am always called), I wish I
could discover a new pleasure.' 'Try virtue!' was my reply. A pompous ex-Governor said swaggeringly
to me at the last dinner party at which I assisted, 'Well, Mr. Consul, I suppose you Europeans
think us semi-civilised here in America?' 'Almost!' said I. Now ask Tom if that was not pretty
considerable smart. But assure him at the same time, it is nothing at all to what I could do
in the way of impertinence! Need I say how truly and affectionately we all love you?

"T.C. GRATTAN."

       *       *       *       *       *

I wrote back that I would enter the lists with him in the matter of impertinence; and as a
sample told him that I thought he had better return to the punning.

I could, I doubt not, find among my mother's papers some further letters that might be worth
printing or quoting. But my waning space warns me that I must not indulge myself with doing so.

CHAPTER XVIII.

