How to Write a Play

                             CONTENTS

Introduction by William Gillette Letter from Émile Augier Letter from Théodore de Banville
Letter from Adolphe Dennery Letter from Alexandre Dumas Fils Letter from Edmond Gondinet Letter
by Eugène Labiche Letter by Ernest Legouvé Letter from Édouard Pailleron Letter from Victorien
Sardou Letter from Émile Zola Notes by B.M.

1916 By Dramatic Museum of Columbia University

                           INTRODUCTION

The impression has always prevailed with me that one who might properly be classed as a genius
is not precisely the person best fitted to expound rules and methods for the carrying on of
his particular branch of endeavor. I have rather avoided looking the matter up for fear it
might not turn out to be so after all. But doesn't it sound as if it ought to be? And isn't
a superficial glance about rather confirmatory? We do not--so far as I know--find that Shakspere
or Milton or Tennyson or Whitman ever gave out rules and regulations for the writing of poetry;
that Michael Angelo or Raphael was addicted to formulating instructive matter as to the accomplishment
of paintings and frescoes; that Thackeray or Dickens or Meredith or George Sand were known
to have answered inquiries as to 'How to write a Novel'; or that Beethoven or Wagner or Chopin
or Mendelsohn paused in the midst of their careers in order to tell newspaper men what they
considered the true method of composing music. These fortunate people--as well as others of
their time--could so easily be silent and thus avoid disclosing the fact that they could not--for
the lives of them--tell about these things; but in our unhappy day even geniuses are prodded
and teased and tortured into speech. In this case we may be more than grateful that they are,
for the result is most delightful reading--even tho it falls a trifle short of its purpose
as indicated by the rather far-reaching title.

There are no workable rules for play-writing to be found here--nor, indeed, any particular
light of any kind on the subject, so the letters may be approacht with a mind arranged for
enjoyment. I would be sorry indeed for the trying-to-be dramatist who flew to this volume for
consolation and guidance. I'm sorry for him any way, but this additional catastrophe would
accelerate my sympathy, making it fast and furious. Any one sufficiently inexperienced to consult
books in order to find out how to write a play will certainly undergo a severe touch of confusion
in this case, for four of the letter-writers confess quite frankly that they do not know--two
of these thereupon proceeding to tell us, thus forcibly illustrating their first statement.
One author exclaims, "Have instinct!"--another, "Have genius!" Where these two necessaries
are to be obtained is not revealed. Equally discouraging is the Dumas declaration that "Some
from birth know how to write a play and the others do not and never will." That would have
killed off a lot of us--if we had seen it in time.

One approaches the practical when he counsels us to "Take an interesting theme." Certainly
a workable proposition. Many dramatists have done that--wherever they could find it. The method
is not altogether modern. Two insist upon the necessity of a carefully considered plan, while
two others announce that it is a matter of no consequence what one does; and another still
wants us to be sure and begin work at the end instead of the beginning. Gondinet--most delightful
of all--tells us that his method of working is simply atrocious, for all he asks when he contemplates
writing a play is whether the subject will be amusing to him. Tho that scarcely touches the
question of how to write it, it is a practical hint on favoring conditions, for no one will
dispute that one's best work is likely to be preformed when he him self enjoys it. Sardou comes
nearest to projecting a faint ray of practical light on the subject when he avers that there
is no one necessary way to write a play, but that a dramatist must know where he is going and
take the best road that leads there. He omits, however, to give instructions about finding
that road--which some might think important.

The foregoing indicates to some extent the buffeting about which a searcher for practical advice
on play-writing may find himself subject in this collection of letters. He had better go for
mere instruction to those of a lower order of intellect, whose imaginative or creative faculties
do not monopolize their entire mental area.

But that will hardly serve him better, for the truth is that no one can convey to him--whether
by written words or orally--or even by signs and miracles--the right and proper method of constructing
a play. A few people know, but they are utterly unable to communicate that knowledge to others.
In one place and one only can this unfortunate person team how to proceed, and that is the
theatre; and the people to see about it there are situated in front of the foot-lights and
not behind them.

A play or drama is not a simple and straight-told story; it is a device--an invention--a carefully
adjusted series of more or less ingenious traps, independent yet inter-dependent, and so arranged
that while yet trapping they carry forward the plot or theme without a break. These traps of
scene, of situation, of climax, of acts and tableaux or of whatever they are, require to be
set and adjusted with the utmost nicety and skill so that they will spring at the precise instant
and in the precise manner to seize and hold the admiration--sympathy--interest--or whatever
they may be intended to capture, of an audience. Their construction and adjustment--once one
of the simplest--is now of necessity most complicated and intricate. They must operate precisely
and effectively, otherwise the play--no matter how admirable its basic idea--no matter how
well the author knows life and humanity, will fail of its appeal and be worthless--for a play
is worthless that is unable to provide itself with people to play to. The admiration of a few
librarians on account of certain arrangements of the words and phrases which it may contain
can give it no value as drama. Such enthusiasm is not altogether unlike what a barber might
feel over the exquisite way in which the hair has been arranges on a corpse; despite his approval
it becomes quite necessary to bury it.

The play-writer's or playwright's work, then, supposing that he possesses the requisite knowledge
of life as it is lived to go on with, is to select or evolve from that knowledge the basic
idea, plot or theme, which, skillfully displayed, will attract; and then to invent, plan, devise,
and construct the trap wherein it is to be used to snare the sympathies, etc., of audiences.

But audiences are a most undependable and unusual species of game. From time immemorial their
tastes, requirements, habits, appetites, sentiments and general characteristics have undergone
constant change and modification; and thus continues without pause to the present day. The
dramatic trap that would work like a charm not long ago may not work at all to-day; the successful
trap of to-day may be useless junk tomorrow.

It must be obvious, then, that for light and instruction on the judicious selection of the
bait, and on the best method or methods of devising the trap wherein that bait is to be displayed
(that is to say the play) but one thing can avail; and that one thing is a most diligent and
constant study of the habits and tastes of this game which it is our business to capture--if
we can. To go for information about these things to people sitting by their firesides dreaming
of bygone days, or, indeed, to go to anyone sitting anywhere, is merely humorous. The information
which the dramatist seeks cannot be told--even by those who know. For the gaining of such knowledge
is the acquirement of an instinct which enables its possessor automatically to make use of
the effective in play-writing and construction and devising, and automatically to shun the
ineffective. This instinct must be planted and nourisht by more or less (more if possible)
living with audiences, until it becomes a part of the system--yet constantly alert for the
necessary modifications which correspond to the changes which the tastes and requirements of
these audiences undergo.

An education like this is likely to take the dramatist a great deal of time--unless he is so
fortunate as to be a genius. Perhaps the main difference between the play-writing genius and
the rest of us is that he can associate but briefly with audiences and know it all, whereas
we must spend our lives at it and know but little. I have never happened to hear of a genius
of this description; but that is no argument against the possibility of his existence.

As to the talented authors of these letters, they know excellently well--every one of them--how
to write a play--or did while still alive--even tho some of them see fit to deny it; but they
cannot tell us how to do it for the very good reason that it cannot be told. Their charming
efforts to find a way out when cornered by such an inquiry as appears to have been made to
them are surely worth all their trouble and annoyance--not to speak of their highly probable
exasperation.

                                    William Gillette
(May, 1916)

       *       *       *       *       *

                     How to Write a Play

                              I.

                      From Émile Augier.

My dear Dreyfus:

You ask me the recipe for making comedies. I don't know it; but I suppose it should resemble
somewhat the one given by the sergeant to the conscript for making cannon:

"You take a hole and you pour bronze around it."

If this is not the only recipe, it is at least the one most followed. Perhaps there should
be another which would consist in taking bronze and making a hole thru the center and an opening
for light at the end. In cannon this hole is called the core. What should it be called in dramatic
work? Find another name, if you don't like that one.

These are the only directions I can give you. Add to them, if you wish, this counsel of a wise
man to a dramatist in a difficulty:

"Soak your fifth act in gentle tears, and salt the other four with dashes of wit."

I do not think that the author followed this advice.

                     Cordially yours,

                                    E. Augier

       *       *       *       *       *

                               II.

                    From Théodore de Banville.

My dear friend:

Like all questions, the question of the theater is infinitely more simple than is imagined.
All poetics, all dramatic criticism is contained in the admirable dictum of Adolphe Dennery:
"It is not hard to succeed in the theater, but it is extremely hard to gain success there with
a fine play."

To see this clearly you must consider two questions which have no relation to each other:

1. How should one set about composing a dramatic work which shall succeed and make money?

2. How shall one set about composing a dramatic work which shall be fine and shall have some
hope of survival?

Reply to the first question: Nothing is known about it; for if anything were known every theater
would earn six thousand francs every evening. Nevertheless, a play has some chance of succeeding
and earning money if, when read to a naïf person, it moves him, amuses him, makes him laugh
or weep; if it falls into the hands of actors who play it in the proper spirit; and if at the
public performance the leader of the claque sees no hitch in it.

Reply to the second question: To compose a dramatic work which shall be fine and shall live,
have genius! There is no other way. In art talent is nothing. Genius alone lives. A poet of
genius combines in himself all poets past and future, just as the first person you meet combines
in himself all humanity past and present. A man of genius will create for his theater a form
which has not existed before him and which after him will suit no one else.

That, my friend, is all that I know, and I believe that anything further is a delusion. Those
who are called "men of the theater" (that is, in plain words, unlettered men who have not studied
anywhere but on the stage) have decreed that a man knows the theater when he composes comedies
according to the particular formula invented by M. Scribe. You might as well say that humanity
began and ended with M. Scribe, that it is he who ate the apple with Eve and who wrote the
'Legendes des Siècles,' Good Luck!

                                    Yours truly,

                                    Théodore de Banville

       *       *       *       *       *

                              III.

                       From Adolphe Dennery.

Take an interesting theme, a subject neither too new nor too old, neither too commonplace or
too original,--so as to avoid shocking either the vulgar-minded or the delicate-souled.

                                    Adolphe Dennery.

       *       *       *       *       *

                              IV.

                     From Alexandre Dumas Fils.

My dear fellow-craftsman and friend:

You ask me how a play is written. You honor me greatly, but you also greatly embarrass me.

With study, work, patience, memory, energy, a man can gain a reputation as a painter, or a
sculptor, or a musician. In those arts there are material and mechanical procedures that he
can make his own, thanks to ability, and can attain to success. The public to whom these works
are submitted, having none of the technical knowledge involved, from the beginning regard the
makers of these works as their superiors: They feel that the artist can always reply to any
criticism: "Have you learned painting, sculpture, music? No? Then don't talk so vainly. You
cannot judge. You must be of the craft to understand the beauties," and so on. It is thus that
the good-natured public is frequently imposed on, in painting, in sculpture, in music, by certain
schools and celebrities. It does not dare to protest. But with regard to drama and comedy the
situation is altered. The public is an interested party to the proceedings and appears, so
to speak, for the prosecution in the case.

The language that we use in our play is the language used by the spectators every day; the
sentiments that we depict are theirs; the persons whom we set to acting are the spectators
themselves in instantly recognized passions and familiar situations. No preparatory studies
are necessary; no initiation in a studio or school is indispensable; eyes to see, ears to hear--that's
all they need. The moment we depart, I will not say from the truth, but from what they think
is truth, they stop listening. For in the theater, as in life, of which the theater is the
reflexion, there are two kinds of truth; first, the absolute truth, which always in the end
prevails, and secondly, if not the false, at least the superficial truth, which consists of
customs, manners, social conventions; the uncompromising truth which revolts, and the pliant
truth which yields to human weakness; in short, the truth of Alceste and that of Philinte.

It is only by making every kind of concession to the second that we can succeed in ending with
the first. The spectators, like all sovereigns--like kings, nations, and women--do not like
to be told the truth, all the truth. Let me add quickly that they have an excuse, which is
that they do not know the truth;--they have rarely been told it. They therefore wish to be
flattered, pitied, consoled, taken away from their preoccupations and their worries, which
are nearly all due to ignorance, but which they consider the greatest and most unmerited to
be found anywhere, because their own.

This is not all; by a curious optical effect, the spectators always see themselves in the personages
who are good, tender, generous, heroic whom we place on the boards; and in the personages who
are vicious or ridiculous they never see anyone but their neighbors. How can you expect then
that the truth we tell them can do them any good?

But I see that I am not answering your question at all.

You ask me to tell you how a play is made, and I tell you, or rather I try to tell you, what
must be put into it.

Well, my dear friend, if you want me to be quite frank, I'll own up that I don't know how to
write a play. One day a long time ago, when I was scarcely out of school, I asked my father
the same question. He answered: "It's very simple; the first act clear, the last act short,
and all the acts interesting."

The recipe is in reality very simple. The only thing that is needed in addition is to know
how to carry it out. There the difficulty begins. The man to whom this recipe is given is somewhat
like the cat that has found a nut. He turns it in every direction with his paw because he hears
something moving in the shell--but he can't open it. In other words, there are those whom from
their birth know how to write a play (I do not say that the gift is hereditary); and there
are those who do not know at once--and these will never know. You are a dramatist, or you are
not; neither will-power nor work has anything to do with it. The gift is indispensable. I think
that every one whom you may ask how to write a play will reply, if he really can write one,
that he doesn't know how it is done. It is a little as if you were to ask Romeo what he did
to fall in love with Juliet and to make her love him; he would reply that he did not know,
that it simply happened.

                               Truly yours,

                                    A. Dumas fils.

       *       *       *       *       *

                                  V.

                          From Edmond Gondinet.

My dear friend:

What is my way of working? It is deplorable. Do not recommend it to any one. When the idea
for a play occurs to me, I never ask myself whether it will be possible to make a masterpiece
out of it; I ask whether the subject will be amusing to treat. A little pleasure in this life
tempts me a great deal more than a bust, even of marble, after I am gone. With such sentiments
one never accomplishes anything great.

Besides, I have the capital defect for a man of the theater of never being able to beat it
into my head that the public will be interested in the marriage of Arthur and Colombe; and
nevertheless that is the key to the whole situation. You simply must suppose the public a trifle
naïf,--and be so yourself.

I should be so willingly, but I can't bring myself to admit that others are.

For a long time I imagined that the details, if they were ingenious, would please the public
as much as an intrigue of which the ultimate result is usually given in the first scene. I
was absolutely wrong, and I have suffered for it more than once. But at my age one doesn't
reform. When I have drawn up the plan, I no longer want to write the piece. You see that I
am a detestable collaborator. Say so, if you speak to me, but don't hold me up as a model.

                                    Edmond Gondinet.

       *       *       *       *       *

                                VI.

                         FROM Eugène Labiche.

Everyone writes in accordance with his inspiration and his temperament. Some sing a gay note,
others find more pleasure in making people weep.

As for me, this is my procedure:

When I have no idea, I gnaw my nails and invoke the aid of Providence.

When I have an idea, I still invoke the aid of Providence,--but with less fervor, because I
think I can get along without it.

It is quite human, but quite ungrateful.

I have then an idea, or I think I have one.

I take a quire of white paper, linen paper--on any other kind I can imagine nothing--and I
write on the first page:

                                PLAN.

By the plan I mean the developed succession, scene by scene, of the whole piece, from the beginning
to the end.

So long as one has not reached the end of his play he has neither the beginning nor the middle.
This part of the work is obviously the most laborious. It is the creation, the parturition.

As soon as my plan is complete, I go over it and ask concerning each scene its purpose, whether
it prepares for or develops a character or situation, and then whether it advances the action.
A play is a thousand-legged creature which must keep on going. If it slows up, the public yawns;
if it stops, the public hisses.

To write a sprightly play you must have a good digestion. Sprightliness resides in the stomach.

                                    Eugène Labiche.

       *       *       *       *       *

                               VII.

                       From Ernest Legouvé.

You ask me how a play is made.

By beginning at the end.

A novel is quite a different matter.

Walter Scott, the great Walter Scott, sat down of a morning at his study-table, took six sheets
of paper and wrote 'Chapter One,' without knowing anything else about his story than the first
chapter. He set forth his characters, he indicated the situation; then situation and characters
got out of the affair as best they could. They were left to create themselves by the logic
of events.

Eugène Sue often told me that it was impossible for him to draw up a plan. It benumbed him.
His imagination needed the shock of the unforeseen; to surprize the public he had to be surprized
himself. More than once at the end of an instalment of one of his serial stories he left his
characters in an inextricable situation of which he himself did not know the outcome.

George Sand frequently started a novel on the strength of a phrase, a thought, a page, a landscape.
It was not she who guided her pen, but her pen which guided her. She started out with the intention
of writing one volume and she wrote ten. She might intend to write ten and she wrote only one.
She dreamed of a happy ending, and then she concluded with a suicide.

But never have Scribe, or Dumas père, or Dumas fils, or Augier, or Labiche, or Sardou, written
"Scene One" without knowing what they were going to put into the last scene. A point of departure
was for them nothing but an interrogation point. "Where are you going to lead me?" they would
ask it; and they would accept it only if it led them to a final point, or to the central point
which determined all the stages of the route, including the first.

The novel is a journey in a carriage. You make stops, you spend a night at the inn, you get
out to look at the country, you turn aside to take breakfast in some charming spot. What difference
does it make to you as a traveler? You are in no hurry. Your object is not to arrive anywhere,
but to find amusement while on the road. Your true goal is the trip itself.

A play is a railway journey by an express train--forty miles an hour, and from time to time
ten minutes stop for the intermissions; and if the locomotive ceases rushing and hissing you hiss.

All this does not mean that there are no dramatic masterpieces which do not run so fast or
that there was not an author of great talent, Molière, who often brought about his ending by
the grace of God. Only, let me add that to secure absolution for the last act of 'Tartuffe'
you must have written the first four.

                                    Ernest Legouvé.

       *       *       *       *       *

                              VIII.

                     From Édouard Pailleron.

You ask me how a play is made, my dear Dreyfus. I may well astonish you, perhaps, but on my
soul and honor, before God and man, I assure to you that I know nothing about it, that you
know nothing, that nobody knows anything, and that the author of a play knows less about it
than any one else.

You don't believe me?

Let us see.

Here is a capable gentleman, a man of the theater, a dramatist acclaimed a score of times,
at the height of his powers, in full success. He has written a comedy. He has bestowed upon
it all his care, all his time, all his ability. He has left nothing to chance.

He has just finisht it, and is content. According to the consecrated expression, it is "certain
to go." But as he is cautious, he does not rely entirely upon his own opinion. He consults
his friends--fellow-workers, skillful as he, successful as he. He reads to them his piece.
I will not say that they are satisfied--another word is needed--but at any rate, with more
reason than ever, it is "certain to go."

He seeks out a manager, an old stager who has every opportunity for being clear-headed, because
of his experience, and every reason for being exacting, because of his self-interest. He gives
him the manuscript, and as soon as the manager gets a fair notion of the piece, this Napoleon
of the stage, this strategist of success, is seized by a profound emotion, but one easy to
comprehend in the case of a man who is convinced that five hundred thousand francs have just
been placed in his hand. He exults, he shouts, he presses the author in his arms, he rains
upon him the most flattering adjectives, beginning with "sublime" and mounting upward. He calls
him the most honied names: Shakspere, Duvert and Lauzanne, Rossini, Offenbach--according to
the kind of theater he directs. He is not only satisfied, he is delighted, he is radiant--it
is "certain to go."

Wait! That is not all. It is read to the actors--the same enthusiasm! All are satisfied, if
not with the play--they have not heard it yet--at least with their parts. All are satisfied!
It is "certain to go."

Thereupon rehearsals are held for two months before those who have the freedom of the theater,
who sit successively in the depths of the dark hall and show the same delirium. Even the sixty
firemen on duty who, during these sixty rehearsals, have invariably laught and wept at the
same passages. Yet it is well known that the fireman is the modern Laforêt of our modern Molières,
as M. Prud'homme would say, and that when the fireman is satisfied--it is "certain to go!"

The dress rehearsal arrives. A triumph! Bravos! Encores! Shouts! Recalls! All of the signs
of success--and note that the public on this evening of rehearsal with the exception of a small
and insignificant contingent, will be the public of the first performance the next night. It
is "certain to go," I tell you! Certain! Absolutely certain!

On this next night the piece is presented. It falls flat! Well, then?

If the author knows what he is doing, if he is the master of his method, explain to me then
why, after having written twenty good pieces, he writes a bad one?

And don't tell me that failure proves nothing--you would pain me, my friend.

I do not intend to deny, you must understand, the value of talent and skill and experience.
They are, philosophically speaking, important elements. But in what proportions do they contribute
to the result? That's what, let me repeat, nobody knows, the author as little as anybody else.

The author in travail with a play is an unconscious being, whatever he may think about himself;
and his piece is the product of instinct rather than of intention.

Believe me, my dear Dreyfus, in this as in everything, the cleverest of us does what he can,
and if he succeeds, he says that he has done exactly what he tried to do. That's the truth.
In reality an author knows sometimes what he has tried to do, rarely what he has done;--and
as to knowing how he did it, I defy him!

Then if it is good, let him try again! I cannot recede from this view.

In our craft, you see, there is an element of unrebeginnable which makes it an art, something
of genius which ennobles it, something of the fatally uncertain which renders it both charming
and redoubtable. To try to pick the masterpiece to pieces, to unscrew the ideal, to pluck the
heart out of the mystery, after the fashion of the baby who looks for the little insect in
the watch, is to attempt a vain and puerile thing.

Ah! if I had the time--but I haven't the time. So it's just as well, or better, that I stop.
To talk too much about art is not a good sign in an artist. It is like a lover's talking too
much about love; if I were a woman I should have my doubts.

Well, do you wish me to disengage the philosophy of this garrulity? It is found whole and entire
in an apolog of my son--he too a philosopher without knowing it. He was then seven. As a result
of learning fables he was seized with the ambition of writing one, which he brought to me one
fine day. It is called the 'Donkey and the Canary.' The verses are perhaps a trifle long, but
there are only two. That's the compensation. Here they are.

The canary once sang; and the ass askt him how he could learn this to do?

"I open my bill," said the bird; "and I say you, you, you!"

Well, the ass, that's you--don't get angry. The canary, that's I. When I sing I open my bill
and I say, "you, you, you!"

That's all that I can tell you.

                                    Édouard Pailleron.

       *       *       *       *       *

                               IX.

                       From Victorien Sardou.

My dear friend:

It's not so easy to answer you as you think. ...There is no one necessary way of writing a
play for the theater. Everyone has his own, according to his temperament, his type of intellect,
and his habits of work. If you ask me for mine, I should tell you that it is not so easy to
formulate as the recipe for duck à la rouennaise or spring chicken au gros sel. Not fifty lines
are needed, but two or three hundred, and even then I should have told you only my way of working,
which has no general significance and makes no pretense to being the best. It's natural with
me, that's all. Besides, you will find it indicated in part in the preface to 'La Haine' and
in a letter which I wrote to La Pommeraye about 'Fédora.'

In brief, my dear friend, tho there are rules, and rules that are invariable, precise, and
eternal for the dramatic art, rules which only the impotent, the ignorant, blockheads, and
fools misunderstand, and from which only they wish to be freed, yet there is only one true
method for the conception and parturition of a play--which is, to know quite exactly where
you are going and to take the best road that leads there. However, some walk, others ride in
a carriage, some go by train, X hobbles along, Hugo sails in a balloon. Some drop behind on
the way, others run past the goal. This one rolls in the ditch, that one wanders along a cross-road.

In short, that one goes straight to the mark who has the most common sense. It is the gift
which I wish for you--and myself also.

                                    Victorien Sardou.

       *       *       *       *       *

                               X.

                        From Émile Zola.

My dear Comrade:

You ask how I write my plays. Alas! I should rather tell you how I do not write them.

