"Good my master," Malluch replied, "one of my reasons for believing the young man a Jew is
the intensity of his hate. It was plain to me he had himself under watch, as was natural, seeing
how long he has lived in an atmosphere of Roman jealousy; yet I saw it blaze--once when he
wanted to know Ilderim's feeling towards Rome, and again when I told him the story of the sheik
and the wise man, and spoke of the question, 'Where is he that is born King of the Jews?'"

Simonides leaned forward quickly.

"Ah, Malluch, his words--give me his words; let me judge the impression the mystery made upon him."

"He wanted to know the exact words. Were they TO BE or BORN TO BE? It appeared he was struck
by a seeming difference in the effect of the two phrases."

Simonides settled back into his pose of listening judge.

"Then," said Malluch, "I told him Ilderim's view of the mystery--that the king would come with
the doom of Rome. The young man's blood rose over his cheeks and forehead, and he said earnestly,
'Who but a Herod can be king while Rome endures?'"

"Meaning what?"

"That the empire must be destroyed before there could be another rule."

Simonides gazed for a time at the ships and their shadows slowly swinging together in the river;
when he looked up, it was to end the interview.

"Enough, Malluch," he said. "Get you to eat, and make ready to return to the Orchard of Palms;
you must help the young man in his coming trial. Come to me in the morning. I will send a letter
to Ilderim." Then in an undertone, as if to himself, he added, "I may attend the Circus myself."

When Malluch after the customary benediction given and received was gone, Simonides took a
deep draught of milk, and seemed refreshed and easy of mind.

"Put the meal down, Esther," he said; "it is over."

She obeyed.

"Here now."

She resumed her place upon the arm of the chair close to him.

"God is good to me, very good," he said, fervently. "His habit is to move in mystery, yet sometimes
he permits us to think we see and understand him. I am old, dear, and must go; but now, in
this eleventh hour, when my hope was beginning to die, he sends me this one with a promise,
and I am lifted up. I see the way to a great part in a circumstance itself so great that it
shall be as a new birth to the whole world. And I see a reason for the gift of my great riches,
and the end for which they were designed. Verily, my child, I take hold on life anew."

Esther nestled closer to him, as if to bring his thoughts from their far-flying.

"The king has been born" he continued, imagining he was still speaking to her, "and he must
be near the half of common life. Balthasar says he was a child on his mother's lap when he
saw him, and gave him presents and worship; and Ilderim holds it was twenty-seven years ago
last December when Balthasar and his companions came to his tent asking a hiding-place from
Herod. Wherefore the coming cannot now be long delayed. To-night--to-morrow it may be. Holy
fathers of Israel, what happiness in the thought! I seem to hear the crash of the falling of
old walls and the clamor of a universal change--ay, and for the uttermost joy of men, the earth
opens to take Rome in, and they look up and laugh and sing that she is not, while we are;"
then he laughed at himself. "Why, Esther, heard you ever the like? Surely, I have on me the
passion of a singer, the heat of blood and the thrill of Miriam and David. In my thoughts,
which should be those of a plain worker in figures and facts, there is a confusion of cymbals
clashing and harp-strings loud beaten, and the voices of a multitude standing around a new-risen
throne. I will put the thinking by for the present; only, dear, when the king comes he will
need money and men, for as he was a child born of woman he will be but a man after all, bound
to human ways as you and I are. And for the money he will have need of getters and keepers,
and for the men leaders. There, there! See you not a broad road for my walking, and the running
of the youth our master?--and at the end of it glory and revenge for us both?--and--and"--he
paused, struck with the selfishness of a scheme in which she had no part or good result; then
added, kissing her, "And happiness for thy mother's child."

She sat still, saying nothing. Then he remembered the difference in natures, and the law by
which we are not permitted always to take delight in the same cause or be equally afraid of
the same thing. He remembered she was but a girl.

"Of what are you thinking, Esther?" he said, in his common home-like way. "If the thought have
the form of a wish, give it me, little one, while the power remains mine. For power, you know,
is a fretful thing, and hath its wings always spread for flight."

She answered with a simplicity almost childish,

"Send for him, father. Send for him to-night, and do not let him go into the Circus."

"Ah!" he said, prolonging the exclamation; and again his eyes fell upon the river, where the
shadows were more shadowy than ever, since the moon had sunk far down behind Sulpius, leaving
the city to the ineffectual stars. Shall we say it, reader? He was touched by a twinge of jealousy.
If she should really love the young master! Oh no! That could not be; she was too young. But
the idea had fast grip, and directly held him still and cold. She was sixteen. He knew it well.
On the last natal day he had gone with her to the shipyard where there was a launch, and the
yellow flag which the galley bore to its bridal with the waves had on it "Esther;" so they
celebrated the day together. Yet the fact struck him now with the force of a surprise. There
are realizations which come to us all painfully; mostly, however, such as pertain to ourselves;
that we are growing old, for instance; and, more terrible, that we must die. Such a one crept
into his heart, shadowy as the shadows, yet substantial enough to wring from him a sigh which
was almost a groan. It was not sufficient that she should enter upon her young womanhood a
servant, but she must carry to her master her affections, the truth and tenderness and delicacy
of which he the father so well knew, because to this time they had all been his own undividedly.
The fiend whose task it is to torture us with fears and bitter thoughts seldom does his work
by halves. In the pang of the moment, the brave old man lost sight of his new scheme, and of
the miraculous king its subject. By a mighty effort, however, he controlled himself, and asked,
calmly, "Not go into the Circus, Esther? Why, child?"

"It is not a place for a son of Israel, father."

"Rabbinical, rabbinical, Esther! Is that all?"

The tone of the inquiry was searching, and went to her heart, which began to beat loudly--so
loudly she could not answer. A confusion new and strangely pleasant fell upon her.

"The young man is to have the fortune," he said, taking her hand, and speaking more tenderly;
"he is to have the ships and the shekels--all, Esther, all. Yet I did not feel poor, for thou
wert left me, and thy love so like the dead Rachel's. Tell me, is he to have that too?"

She bent over him, and laid her cheek against his head.

"Speak, Esther. I will be the stronger of the knowledge. In warning there is strength."

She sat up then, and spoke as if she were Truth's holy self.

"Comfort thee, father. I will never leave thee; though he take my love, I will be thy handmaid
ever as now."

And, stooping, she kissed him.

"And more," she said, continuing: "he is comely in my sight, and the pleading of his voice
drew me to him, and I shudder to think of him in danger. Yes, father, I would be more than
glad to see him again. Still, the love that is unrequited cannot be perfect love, wherefore
I will wait a time, remembering I am thy daughter and my mother's."

"A very blessing of the Lord art thou, Esther! A blessing to keep me rich, though all else
be lost. And by his holy name and everlasting life, I swear thou shalt not suffer."

At his request, a little later, the servant came and rolled the chair into the room, where
he sat for a time thinking of the coming of the king, while she went off and slept the sleep
of the innocent.

CHAPTER XII

The palace across the river nearly opposite Simonides' place is said to have been completed
by the famous Epiphanes, and was all such a habitation can be imagined; though he was a builder
whose taste ran to the immense rather than the classical, now so called--an architectural imitator,
in other words, of the Persians instead of the Greeks.

The wall enclosing the whole island to the waters edge, and built for the double purpose of
bulwark against the river and defence against the mob, was said to have rendered the palace
unfit for constant occupancy, insomuch that the legates abandoned it and moved to another residence
erected for them on the western ridge of Mount Sulpius, under the Temple of Jupiter. Persons
were not wanting, however, who flatly denied the bill against the ancient abode. They said,
with shrewdness at least, that the real object of the removal of the legates was not a more
healthful locality, but the assurance afforded them by the huge barracks, named, according
to the prevalent style, citadel, situated just over the way on the eastern ridge of the mount.
And the opinion had plausible showing. Among other pertinent things, it was remarked that the
palace was kept in perpetual readiness for use; and when a consul, general of the army, king,
or visiting potentate of any kind arrived at Antioch, quarters were at once assigned him on
the island.

As we have to do with but one apartment in the old pile, the residue of it is left to the reader's
fancy; and as pleases him, he may go through its gardens, baths, halls, and labyrinth of rooms
to the pavilions on the roof, all furnished as became a house of fame in a city which was more
nearly Milton's "gorgeous East" than any other in the world.

At this age the apartment alluded to would be termed a saloon. It was quite spacious, floored
with polished marble slabs, and lighted in the day by skylights in which colored mica served
as glass. The walls were broken by Atlantes, no two of which were alike, but all supporting
a cornice wrought with arabesques exceedingly intricate in form, and more elegant on account
of superadditions of color--blue, green, Tyrian purple, and gold. Around the room ran a continuous
divan of Indian silks and wool of Cashmere. The furniture consisted of tables and stools of
Egyptian patterns grotesquely carved. We have left Simonides in his chair perfecting his scheme
in aid of the miraculous king, whose coming he has decided is so close at hand. Esther is asleep;
and now, having crossed the river by the bridge, and made way through the lion-guarded gate
and a number of Babylonian halls and courts, let us enter the gilded saloon.

There are five chandeliers hanging by sliding bronze chains from the ceiling--one in each corner,
and in the centre one--enormous pyramids of lighted lamps, illuminating even the demoniac faces
of the Atlantes and the complex tracery of the cornice. About the tables, seated or standing,
or moving restlessly from one to another, there are probably a hundred persons, whom we must
study at least for a moment.

