  Strong in faith for the future,
    Drawing our hope from the past,
  Manfully standing to battle,
    However may blow the blast:
  Onward still pressing undaunted,
    Let the foe be strong as he may,
  Though the sky be dark as midnight,
    Remembering the dawn of day.

  II.

  Strong in the cause of freedom,
    Bold for the sake of right,
  Watchful and ready always,
    Alert by day and night:
  With a sword for the foe of freedom,
    From whatever side he come,
  The same for the open foeman
    And the traitorous friend at home.

  III.

  Strong with the arm uplifted,
    And nerved with God's own might,
  In an age of glory living
    In a holy cause to fight:
  And whilom catching music
    Of the future's minstrelsy,
  As those who strike for freedom
    Blows that can never die.

  IV.

  Strong, though the world may threaten,
    Though thrones may totter down,
  And in many an Old World palace,
    Uneasy sits the crown:
  Not for the present only
    Is the war we wage to-day,
  But the sound shall echo ever
    When we shall have passed away.

  V.

  Strong--'tis an age of glory,
    And worth a thousand years
  Of petty, weak disputings,
    Of ambitious hopes and fears:
  And we, if we learn the lesson
    All-glorious and sublime,
  Shall go down to future ages
    As heroes for all time.

  VI.

  Strong--not in human boasting,
    But with high and holy will,
  The means of a mighty Worker
    His purpose to fulfil:
  O patient warriors, watchers--
    A thousandfold your power
  If ye read with prayerful purpose
    The Lesson of the Hour.

THE SCIENTIFIC UNIVERSAL LANGUAGE: ITS CHARACTER AND RELATION TO OTHER LANGUAGES.

ARTICLE ONE.

THE ORIGIN OF SPEECH.

The CONTINENTAL for May contained an article, written by Stephen Pearl Andrews, entitled: A
UNIVERSAL LANGUAGE: ITS POSSIBILITY, SCIENTIFIC NECESSITY, AND APPROPRIATE CHARACTERISTICS.
Although then treated hypothetically, or as something not impossible of achievement in the
future, a Language constructed upon the method therein briefly and generally explained, is,
in fact, substantially completed at the present time. It is one of the developments of a new
and vast scientific discovery--comprising the Fundamental Principles of all Thought and Being,
and the Law of Analogy--on which Mr. Andrews has bestowed the name of UNIVERSOLOGY. The public
announcement of this discovery, together with a general statement of its character, has been
recently made in the columns of a leading literary paper--The Home Journal.

Although the principle involved in the Language discussed in the article referred to is wholly
different from that upon which all former attempts at the construction of a common method of
lingual communication have been based; and although such merely mechanical inventions were
therein distinguished from a Language discovered as existing in the nature of things; several
criticisms, emanating from high literary quarters, indicate that there is still much misunderstanding
as to the real nature of a Universal Language framed upon the principles of Analogy between
Sense and Sound. This misunderstanding seems most prevalent in respect to the two points relating
directly to the practical utility of such a Lingual Organ. It is assumed that a Language so
constituted must be wholly different in its material and structure from any now existing, and
that the latter would have to be abandoned as soon as the former was adopted. It is supposed,
therefore, that in order to introduce the SCIENTIFIC UNIVERSAL LANGUAGE, the people must be
induced to learn something entirely new, and to forsake for it their old and cherished Mother-tongues.
The accomplishment of such an undertaking is naturally regarded as highly improbable, if not
impossible.

It is also supposed that every word of the Language is to be determined in accordance with
exact scientific formulas;--a process which, if employed, would, as is conceived, give a stiff,
inflexible, monotonous, and cramped character to the Language itself; and would be wanting
in that profusion of synonymes which gives an artistic and life-like character to the lingual
growths of the past.

Both of these objections arise, as we shall hereafter see, from an erroneous impression of
the nature of Language based on Analogy, coupled with a misconception of the real character
and constituents of existing Languages. It is the purpose of the present papers to correct
these false notions. In order to do so--and, what is essential to this, to present a clear
exposition of the true character of the Language under consideration, and of its relations
to the Lingual Structures of the past and present--it is necessary to give a preliminary examination
to the fundamental question of the Origin of Speech. By means of this examination we shall
come to understand that the existence and general use of a Universal Language with the elements
of which Nature has herself furnished us, would not involve the abrupt or total abandonment
of the Tongues now commonly employed; but, on the contrary, while preserving all that is substantially
valuable in each, would enable us to acquire a knowledge of them with a facility which Comparative
Philology, as now developed, lays no claim to impart.

How, then, did Language originate? New York: Charles Scribner, 124 Grand street. 1862.]

     'If we were asked the riddle how images of the eye and all the
     sensations of our senses could be represented by sounds, nay, could
     be so embodied in sounds as to express thought and to excite
     thought, we should probably give it up as the question of a madman,
     who, mixing up the most heterogeneous subjects, attempted to change
     color and sound into thought. Yet this is the riddle we have now to
     solve.

     'It is quite clear that we have no means of solving the problem of
     the origin of language historically, or of explaining it as a
     matter of fact which happened once in a certain locality and at a
     certain time. History does not begin till long after mankind had
     acquired the power of language, and even the most ancient
     traditions are silent as to the manner in which man came in
     possession of his earliest thoughts and words. Nothing, no doubt,
     would be more interesting than to know from historical documents
     the exact process by which the first man began to lisp his first
     words, and thus to be rid forever of all the theories on the origin
     of speech. But this knowledge is denied us; and, if it had been
     otherwise, we should probably be quite unable to understand those
     primitive events in the history of the human mind. These are simple facts, and to be
     accepted as such; if we begin to reason on them, the edge of the
     human understanding glances off. Our mind is so constituted that it
     cannot apprehend the absolute beginning or the absolute end of
     anything. If we tried to conceive the first man created as a child,
     and gradually unfolding his physical and mental powers, we could
     not understand his living for one day without supernatural aid.
     If, on the contrary, we tried to conceive the first man created
     full-grown in body and mind; the conception of an effect without a
     cause, of a full-grown mind without a previous growth, would
     equally transcend our reasoning powers. It is the same with the
     first beginnings of language. Theologians who claim for language a
     divine origin, ... when they enter into any details as to the
     manner in which they suppose Deity to have compiled a dictionary
     and grammar in order to teach them to the first man, as a
     schoolmaster teaches the deaf and dumb, ... have explained no more
     than how the first man might have learnt a language, if there was a
     language ready made for him. How that language was made would
     remain as great a mystery as ever. Philosophers, on the contrary,
     who imagine that the first man, though left to himself, would
     gradually have emerged from a state of mutism and have invented
     words for every new conception that arose in his mind, forget that
     man could not, by his own power, have acquired the faculty of
     speech, which is the distinctive character of mankind, unattained
     and unattainable by the mute creation. It shows a want of
     appreciation as to the real bearings of our problem, if
     philosophers appeal to the fact that children are born without
     language, and gradually emerge from mutism to the full command of
     articulate speech.... Children, in learning to speak, do not invent
     language. Language is there ready made for them. It has been there
     for thousands of years. They acquire the use of a language, and, as
     they grow up, they may acquire the use of a second and a third. It
     is useless to inquire whether infants, left to themselves, would
     invent a language.... All we know for certain is, that an English
     child, if left to itself, would never begin to speak English, and
     that history supplies no instance of any language having thus been
     invented....

     'Speech is a specific faculty of man. It distinguishes man from all
     other creatures; and if we wish to acquire more definite ideas as
     to the real nature of human speech, all we can do is to compare man
     with those animals that seem to come nearest to him, and thus to
     try to discover what he shares in common with these animals, and
     what is peculiar to him, and to him alone. After we have discovered
     this we may proceed to inquire into the conditions under which
     speech becomes possible, and we shall then have done all that we
     can do, considering that the instruments of our knowledge,
     wonderful as they are, are yet too weak to carry us into all the
     regions to which we may soar on the wings of our imagination.'

As the result of a comparison of the human with the animal kingdom, Professor Müller remarks
that, 'no one can doubt that certain animals possess all the physical acquirements for articulate
speech. There is no letter of the alphabet which a parrot will not learn to pronounce. The
fact, therefore, that the parrot is without a language of his own, must be explained by a difference
between the mental, not between the physical faculties of the animal and man; and it is by
a comparison of the mental faculties alone, such as we find them in man and brutes, that we
may hope to discover what constitutes the indispensable qualification for language, a qualification
to be found in man alone, and in no other creature on earth.'

Of mental faculties, the author whose ideas we are stating, claims a large share for the higher
animals. 'These animals have sensation, perception, memory, will, and intellect, only we must
restrict intellect to the comparing or interlacing of single perceptions.' But man transcends
in his mental powers the barriers of the brute intellect at a point which coincides with the
starting-point of language. And in this coincidence Professor Müller endeavors to find a sufficiently
fundamental explanation of the problem of the origin of language.

     'Let us now look back to the result of former lectures. It was
     this: After we had explained everything in the growth of language
     that can be explained, there remained in the end, as the only
     inexplicable residuum, what we called roots. These roots formed
     the constituent elements of all languages.... What, then, are these
     roots?'

Two theories have been started to solve this problem: the Onomatopoetic, according to which
roots are imitations of sounds; and the Interjectional, which regards them as involuntary ejaculations.
Having discussed these theories, and taken the position that, although there are roots in every
language which are respectively imitations of sounds and involuntary exclamations, it is, nevertheless,
impossible to regard any considerable number of roots, and much less, all roots, as originating
from these sources, the distinguished Philologist announces as the true theory, that every
root 'expresses a general, not an individual, idea;' just the opposite of what he deems would
be the case if the Onomatopoetic and Interjectional theories explained the origin of speech.

Some paragraphs are then devoted to the examination of the merits of a controversy which has
existed among philosophers as to

     'whether language originated in general appellations, or in proper
     names. It is the question of the primum cognitum, and its
     consideration will help us perhaps in discovering the true nature
     of the root, or the primum appellatum. Some philosophers, among
     whom I may mention Locke, Condillac, Adam Smith, Dr. Brown, and,
     with some qualification, Dugald Stewart, maintain that all terms,
     as at first employed, are expressive of individual objects. I quote
     from Adam Smith. 'The assignation,' he says, 'of particular names
     to denote particular objects, that is, the institution of nouns
     substantive, would probably be one of the first steps toward the
     formation of language.... The particular cave whose covering
     sheltered them from the weather, the particular tree whose fruit
     relieved their hunger, the particular fountain whose water allayed
     their thirst, would first be denominated by the words cave,
     tree, fountain, or by whatever other appellations they might
     think proper, in that primitive jargon, to mark them. Afterward,
     when the more enlarged experience of these savages had led them to
     observe, and their necessary occasions obliged them to make mention
     of, other caves, and other trees, and other fountains, they would
     naturally bestow upon each of those new objects the same name by
     which they had been accustomed to express the similar object they
     were first acquainted with.''

This view of the primitive formation of thought and language, is diametrically opposed to the
theory held by Leibnitz, who maintained that 'general terms are necessary for the essential
constitution of languages.' 'Children,' he says, 'and those who know but little of the language
which they attempt to speak, or little of the subject on which they would employ it, make use
of general terms, as thing, plant, animal, instead of using proper names, of which they are
destitute. And it is certain that all proper or individual names have been originally appellative
or general.'

Notwithstanding the contradictory and seemingly antagonistic nature of these positions, Professor
Müller shows that they are not irreconcilable.

     'Adam Smith is no doubt right, when he says that the first
     individual cave which is called cave, gave the name to all other
     caves; ... and the history of almost every substantive might be
     cited in support of his view. But Leibnitz is equally right when,
     in looking beyond the first emergence of such names as cave, town,
     or palace, he asks how such names could have arisen. Let us take
     the Latin names of cave. A cave in Latin is called antrum,
     cavea, spelunca. Now antrum means really the same as
     internum. Antar, in Sanskrit means between or within.
     Antrum, therefore, meant originally what is within or inside the
     earth or anything else. It is clear, therefore, that such a name
     could not have been given to any individual cave, unless the
     general idea of being within, or inwardness, had been present in
     the mind. This general idea once formed, and once expressed by the
     pronominal root an or antar, the process of naming is clear and
     intelligible. The place where the savage could live safe from rain
     and from the sudden attacks of wild beasts, a natural hollow in the
     rock, he would call his within, his antrum; and afterward
     similar places, whether dug in the earth or cut in a tree, would be
     designated by the same name ... Let us take another word for cave,
     which is cavea or caverna. Here again Adam Smith would be
     perfectly right in maintaining that this name, when first given,
     was applied to one particular cave, and was afterward extended to
     other caves. But Leibnitz would be equally right in maintaining
     that in order to call even the first hollow cavea, it was
     necessary that the general idea of hollow should have been formed
     in the mind, and should have received its vocal expression cav
     ...

     'The first thing really known is the general. It is through it
     that we know and name afterward individual objects of which any
     general idea can be predicated, and it is only in the third stage
     that these individual objects, thus known and named, become again
     the representatives of whole classes, and their names or proper
     names are raised into appellatives.'

The italics in the last paragraph are my own.

