"I know not whether it was the effect of the old port, but, strange to say, I could not for
some time view Miss Snooks in her former capacity, but simply as Judy. She was magnified in
size, it is true, from the pert, termagant puppet of the fairs, and was an authoress--a writer
of tragedies and novels--in which character, to the best of my knowledge, the spouse of Punchinello
had never made her appearance, but then the similitude between them, in other respects, was
so striking as to constitute identity. Eyes, chin, voice, nose, were all precisely alike, and
stamped them as one and the same individual.

"But this strange illusion soon wore away, and I again saw Miss Snooks in her true character.
It would perhaps be better if I said that I saw her nose--for somehow I never could look upon
herself save as subordinate to this feature. It were an insult to so majestic a promontory
to suppose it the mere appendage of a human face. No--the face was an appendage of it, and
kept at a viewless distance behind, while the nose stood forward in vast relief, intercepting
the view of all collateral objects--casting a noble shadow upon the wall--and impressing an
air of inconceivable dignity upon its fair proprietor.

"The first impression which I experienced on beholding the lady was one of fear. I have stated
how completely she--or, to speak more properly, her nose--stood between me and Mr. Hookey,
and felt appalled in no small degree at so extraordinary a circumstance. There is something
inexpressibly awful in a lunar eclipse, and a solar one is still more overpowering, but neither
the one nor the other could be compared to the nasal eclipse effected by Miss Snooks. So much
for my first impressions: now for the second. They were those of boundless admiration, and--."

Most unfortunately, just as the gentleman had got to this part of his story, the coach stopped
at the principal inn of Hamilton, and he there left it, after bowing politely to me, and wishing
me a pleasant ride for the rest of the journey.--Fraser's Magazine.

       *       *       *       *       *

SANDY HARG.

  The night-star shines clearly,
    The tide's in the bay,
  My boat, like the sea-mew,
    Takes wing and away.
  Though the pellock rolls free
    Through the moon-lighted brine,
  The silver-finn'd salmon
    And herling are mine--
  My fair one shall taste them,
    May Morley of Larg,
  I've said and I've sworn it,
    Quoth young Sandy Harg.

  He spread his broad net
    Where, 'tis said, in the brine,
  The mermaidens sport
    Mid the merry moonshine:
  He drew it and laugh'd,
    For he found 'mongst the meshes
  A fish and a maiden,
    With silken eyelashes--
  And she sang with a voice
    Like May Morley's of Larg,
  "A maid and a salmon
    For young Sandy Harg!"

  Oh, white were her arms,
    And far whiter her neck--
  Her long locks in armfuls
    Overflow'd all the deck:
  One hand on the rudder
    She pleasantly laid,
  Another on Sandy,
    And merrily said--
  "Thy halve-net has wrought thee
    A gallant day's darg--
  Thou'rt monarch of Solway,
    My young Sandy Harg."

  Oh, loud laugh'd young Sandy,
    And swore by the mass,
  "I'll never reign king,
    But mid gowans and grass:"
  Oh, loud laugh'd young Sandy,
    And swore, "By thy hand,
  My May Morley, I'm thine,
    Both by water and land!
  'Twere marvel if mer-woman,
    Slimy and slarg,
  Could rival the true love
    Of young Sandy Harg."

  She knotted one ringlet.
    Syne knotted she twain,
  And sang--lo! thick darkness
    Dropp'd down on the main--
  She knotted three ringlets,
    Syne knotted she nine,
  A tempest stoop'd sudden
    And sharp on the brine,
  And away flew the boat--
    There's a damsel in Larg
  Will wonder what's come of thee
    Young Sandy Harg.

