A short time before the first invasion (1814), M. Senard, one of the richest jewellers of the
Palais Royal, having gone to pay a visit to his friend the Curè of Livry, found him in one
of those perplexities which are generally caused by the approach of our good friends the enemy.
He was anxious to secrete from the rapacity of the cossacks first the consecrated vessels,
and then his own little treasures. After much hesitation, although in his situation he must
have been used to interments, Monsieur le Curè decided on burying the objects which he was
anxious to save, and M. Senard, who, like the other gossips and misers, imagined that Paris
would be given over to pillage, determined to cover up, in a similar way, the most precious
articles in his shop. It was agreed that the riches of the pastor and those of the jeweller
should be deposited in the same hole. But, then, who was to dig the said hole? One of the singers
in church was the very pearl of honest fellows, father Moiselet, and in him every confidence
could be reposed. He would not touch a penny that did not belong to him. The hole, made with
much skill, was soon ready to receive the treasure which it was intended to preserve, and six
feet of earth were cast on the specie of the Curè, to which were united diamonds worth 100,000
crowns, belonging to M. Senard, and enclosed in a small box. The hollow filled up, the ground
was so well flattened, that one would have betted with the devil that it had not been stirred
since the creation. "This good Moiselet," said M. Senard, rubbing his hands, "has done it all
admirably. Now, gentlemen cossacks, you must have fine noses if you find it out!" At the end
of a few days the allied armies made further progress, and clouds of Kirguiz, Kalmucs, and
Tartars, of all hordes and all colours, appeared in the environs of Paris. These unpleasant
guests are, it is well known, very greedy for plunder: they made, every where, great ravages;
they passed no habitation without exacting tribute: but in their ardour for pillage they did
not confine themselves to the surface, all belonged to them to the centre of the globe; and
that they might not be frustrated in their pretensions, these intrepid geologists made a thousand
excavations, which, to the regret of the naturalists of the country, proved to them, that in
France the mines of gold or silver are not so deep as in Peru. Such a discovery was well calculated
to give them additional energy; they dug with unparalleled activity, and the spoil they found
in many places of concealment threw the Croesuses of many cantons into perfect despair. The
cursed Cossacks! But yet the instinct which so surely led them to the spot where treasure was
hidden, did not guide them to the hiding place of the Curè. It was like the blessing of heaven,
each morning the sun rose and nothing new; nothing new when it set.

Most decidedly the finger of heaven must be recognised in the impenetrability of the mysterious
inhumation performed by Moiselet. M. Senard was so fully convinced of it, that he actually
mingled thanksgivings with the prayers which he made for the preservation and repose of his
diamonds. Persuaded that his vows would be heard, in growing security he began to sleep more
soundly, when one fine day, which was, of all days in the week, a Friday, Moiselet, more dead
than alive, ran to the Curè's.

"Ah, sir, I can scarcely speak."

"What's the matter, Moiselet?"

"I dare not tell you. Poor M. le Curè, this affects me deeply, I am paralyzed. If my veins
were open not a drop of blood would flow."

"What is the matter? You alarm me."

"The hole."

"Mercy! I want to learn no more. Oh, what a terrible scourge is war! Jeanneton, Jeanneton,
come quickly, my shoes and hat."

"But, sir, you have not breakfasted."

"Oh, never mind breakfast."

"You know, sir, when you go out fasting you have such spasms----."

"My shoes, I tell you."

"And then you complain of your stomach."

"I shall have no want of a stomach again all my life. Never any more--no, never--ruined."

"Ruined--Jesu--Maria! Is it possible? Ah! sir, run then,--run--."

Whilst the Curè dressed himself in haste, and, impatient to buckle the strap, could scarcely
put on his shoes, Moiselet, in a most lamentable tone, told him what he had seen.

"Are you sure of it?" said the Curè, perhaps they did not take all."

"Ah, sir, God grant it, but I had not courage enough to look."

They went together towards the old barn, when they found that the spoliation had been complete.
Reflecting on the extent of his loss, the Curè nearly fell to the ground. Moiselet was in a
most pitiable state; the dear man afflicted himself more than if the loss had been his own.
It was terrific to hear his sighs and groans. This was the result of love to one's neighbour.
M. Senard little thought how great was the desolation at Livry. What was his despair on receiving
the news of the event! In Paris the police is the providence of people who have lost any thing.
The first idea, and the most natural one, that occurred to M. Senard was, that the robbery
had been committed by the Cossacks, and, in such a case, the police could not avail him materially;
but M. Senard took care not to suspect the Cossacks.

One Monday when I was in the office of M. Henry, I saw one of those little abrupt, brisk men
enter, who, at the first glance, we are convinced are interested and distrustful: it was M.
Senard, who briefly related his mishap, and concluded by saying, that he had strong suspicions
of Moiselet. M. Henry thought also that he was the author of the robbery, and I agreed with
both. "It is very well," he said, "but still our opinion is only founded on conjecture, and
if Moiselet keeps his own counsel we shall have no chance of convicting him. It will be impossible."

"Impossible!" cried M. Senard, "what will become of me? No, no, I shall not vainly implore
your succour. Do not you know all? can you not do all when you choose? My diamonds! my poor
diamonds! I will give one hundred thousand francs to get them back again."

[Vidocq promises to recover the jewels, and the jeweller offers him 10,000 francs.]

In spite of successive abatements of M. Senard, in proportion as he believed the discovery
probable, I promised to exert every effort in my power to effect the desired result. But before
any thing could be undertaken, it was necessary that a formal complaint should be made; and
M. Senard and the Curè, thereupon, went to Pontoise, and the declaration being consequently
made, and the robbery stated, Moiselet was taken up and interrogated. They tried every means
to make him confess his guilt; but he persisted in avowing himself innocent, and, for lack
of proof to the contrary, the charge was about to be dropped altogether, when to preserve it
for a time, I set an agent of mine to work. He, clothed in a military uniform, with his left
arm in a sling, went with a billet to the house where Moiselet's wife lived. He was supposed
to have just left the hospital, and was only to stay at Livry for forty-eight hours; but a
few moments after his arrival, he had a fall, and a pretended sprain suddenly occurred, which
put it out of his power to continue his route. It was then indispensable for him to delay,
and the mayor decided that he should remain with the cooper's wife until further orders.

The cooper's wife was charmed with his many little attentions. The soldier could write, and
became her secretary; but the letters which she addressed to her dear husband were of a nature
not to compromise her--not the least expression that can have a twofold construction--it was
innocence corresponding with innocence. At length, after a few day's experience, I was convinced
that my agent, in spite of his talent, would draw no profit from his mission. I then resolved
to manoeuvre in person, and, disguised as a travelling hawker, I began to visit the environs
of Livry. I was one of those Jews who deal in every thing,--clothes, jewels, &c. &c.; and I
took in exchange gold, silver, jewels, in fact, all that was offered me. An old female robber,
who knew the neighbourhood perfectly, accompanied me in my tour: she was the widow of a celebrated
thief, Germain Boudier, called Father Latuil, who, after having undergone half-a-dozen sentences,
died at last at Saint Pelagie. I flattered myself that Madame Moiselet, seduced by her eloquence,
and by our merchandize, would bring out the store of the Curè's crowns, some brilliant of the
purest water, nay, even the chalice or paten, in case the bargain should be to her liking.
My calculation was not verified; the cooper's wife was in no haste to make a bargain, and her
coquetry did not get the better of her.

The Jew hawker was soon metamorphosed into a German servant; and under this disguise I began
to ramble about the vicinity of Pontoise, with a design of being apprehended. I sought out
the gendarmes, whilst I pretended to avoid them; but they, thinking I wished to get away from
them, demanded a sight of my papers. Of course I had none, and they desired me to accompany
them to a magistrate, who, knowing nothing of the jargon in which I replied to his questions,
desired to know what money I had; and a search was forthwith commenced in his presence. My
pockets contained some money and valuables, the possession of which seemed to astonish him.
The magistrate, as curious as a commissary, wished to know how they came into my hands; and
I sent him to the devil with two or three Teutonic oaths, of the most polished kind; and he,
to teach me better manners another time, sent me to prison.

Once more the iron bolts were drawn upon me. At the moment of my arrival, the prisoners were
playing in the prison yard, and the jailer introduced me amongst them in these terms, "I bring
you a murderer of the parts of speech; understand him if you can."

They immediately flocked about me, and I was accosted with salutations of Landsman and Meinheer
without end. During this reception, I looked out for the cooper of Livry.

[He meets with him.]

"Mossié, Mossié," I said, addressing the prisoner, who seemed to think I said Moiselet, "Mossié
Fine Hapit, (not knowing his name, I so designated him, because his coat was the colour of
flesh,) sacrement, ter teufle, no tongue to me; yer François, I miseraple, I trink vine; faut
trink for gelt, plack vine."

I pointed to his hat, which was black; he did not understand me; but on making a gesture that
I wanted to drink, he found me perfectly intelligible. All the buttons of my great coat were
twenty-franc pieces; I gave him one: he asked if they had brought the wine, and soon afterwards
I heard a turnkey say,

"Father Moiselet, I have taken up two bottles for you." The flesh-coloured coat was then Moiselet.
I followed him into his room, and we began to drink with all our might. Two other bottles arrived;
we only went on in couples. Moiselet, in his capacity of chorister, cooper, sexton, &c. &c.
was no less a sot than gossip; he got tipsy with great good-will, and incessantly spoke to
me in the jargon I had assumed.

Matters progressed well; after two or three hours such as these I pretended to get stupid.
Moiselet, to set me to rights, gave me a cup of coffee without sugar; after coffee came glasses
of water. No one can conceive the care which my new friend took of me; but when drunkenness
is of such a nature it is like death--all care is useless. Drunkenness overpowered me. I went
to bed and slept; at least Moiselet thought so; but I saw him many times fill my glass and
his own, and gulp them both down. The next day, when I awoke, he paid me the balance, three
francs and fifty centimes, which, according to him, remained from the twenty-franc piece. I
was an excellent companion; Moiselet found me so, and never quitted me. I finished the twenty-franc
piece with him, and then produced one of forty francs, which vanished as quickly. When he saw
it drunk out also he feared it was the last.

"Your button again," said he to me, in a tone of extreme anxiety, and yet very comical.

I showed him another coin. "Ah, your large button again," he shouted out, jumping for joy.

This button went the same way as all the other buttons, until at length, by dint of drinking
together, Moiselet understood and spoke my language almost as well as I did myself, and we
could then disclose our troubles to each other. Moiselet was very curious to know my history,
and that which I trumped up was exactly adapted to inspire the confidence I wished to create.

"My master and I come to France--I was tomestic--master of mein Austrian marechal--Austrian
with de gelt in family. Master always roving, always gay, joint regiment at Montreau. Montreau,
oh, mein Gott, great, great pattle--many sleep no more but in death. Napoleon coom--poum, poum
go gannon. Prusse, Austrian, Rousse all disturb. I, too, much disturb. Go on my ways with master
mein, with my havresac on mein horse--poor teufel was I--but there was gelt in it. Master mein
say, 'Galop, Fritz.' I called Fritz in home mein. Fritz galop to Pondi--there halt Fritz--place
havresac not visible; and if I get again to Yarmany with havresac, me rich becomen, mistress
mein rich, father mein rich, you too rich."

Although the narrative was not the cleverest in the world, father Moiselet swallowed it all
as gospel; he saw well that during the battle of Montereau, I had fled with my master's portmanteau,
and hidden it in the forest of Bondy. The confidence did not astonish him, and had the effect
of acquiring for me an increase of his affection. This augmentation of friendship, after a
confession which exposed me as a thief, proved to me that he had an accommodating conscience.
I thenceforth remained convinced that he knew better than any other person what had become
of the diamonds of M. Senard, and that it only depended on him to give me full and accurate
information.

One evening, after a good dinner, I was boasting to him of the delicacies of the Rhine: he
heaved a deep sigh, and then asked me if there was good wine in that country.

"Yes, yes," I answered, "goot vine and charming girl."

"Charming girl too!"

"Ya, ya."

"Landsman, shall I go with you."

"Ya, ya, me grat content."

"Ah, you content, well! I quit France, yield the old woman, (he showed me by his fingers that
Madame Moiselet was three-and-thirty,) and in your land I take little girl no more as fifteen
years."

"Ya, bien, a girl no infant: a! you is a brave lad."

Moiselet returned more than once to his project of emigration; he thought seriously of it,
but to emigrate liberty was requisite, and they were not inclined to let us go out. I suggested
to him that he should escape with me on the first opportunity--and when he had promised me
that we would not separate, not even to take a last adieu of his wife, I was certain that I
should soon have him in my toils. This certainly was the result of very simple reasoning. Moiselet,
said I to myself, will follow me to Germany: people do not travel or live on air: he relies
on living well there: he is old, and, like king Solomon, proposes to tickle his fancy with
some little Abishag of Sunem. Oh, father Moiselet has found the black hen; here he has no money,
therefore his black hen is not here; but where is she? We shall soon learn, for we are to be
henceforward inseparable.

As soon as my man had made all his reflections, and that, with his head full of his castles
in Germany, he had so soon resolved to expatriate himself, I addressed to the king's attorney-general
a letter, in which, making myself known as the superior agent of the Police de Sûreté, I begged
him to give an order that I should be sent away with Moiselet, he to go to Livry, and I to Paris.

We did not wait long for the order, and the jailer announced it to us, on the eve of its being
put into execution; and I had the night before me to fortify Moiselet in his resolutions. He
persisted in them more strongly than ever, and acceded with rapture to the proposition I made
him of effecting an escape from our escort as soon as it was feasible.

So anxious was he to commence his journey, that he could not sleep. At daybreak, I gave him
to understand that I took him for a thief as well as myself.

"Ah, ah, grip also," said I to him, "deep, deep François, you not spoken, but tief all as von."

He made me no answer; but when, with my fingers squeezed together à la Normande, he saw me
make a gesture of grasping something, he could not prevent himself from smiling, with that
bashful expression of Yes, which he had not courage to utter. The hypocrite had some shame
about him, the shame of a devotee. I was understood.

At length the wished-for moment of departure came, which was to enable us to accomplish our
designs. Moiselet was ready three whole hours beforehand, and to give him courage, I had not
neglected to push about the wine and brandy, and he did not leave the prison until after having
received all his sacraments.

We were tied with a very thin cord, and on our way he made me a signal that there would be
no difficulty in breaking it. He did not think that he should break the charm which had till
then preserved him. The further we went the more he testified that he placed his hopes of safety
in me; at each minute he reiterated a prayer that I would not abandon him; and I as often replied,
"Ya, François, ya, I not leave you." At length the decisive moment came, the cord was broken.
I leaped a ditch, which separated us from a thicket. Moiselet, who seemed young again, jumped
after me: one of the gendarmes alighted to follow us, but to run and jump in jack-boots and
with a heavy sword was difficult; and whilst he made a circuit to join us, we disappeared in
a hollow, and were soon lost to view.

A path into which we struck led us to the wood of Vaujours. There Moiselet stopped, and having
looked carefully about him, went towards some bushes. I saw him then stoop, plunge his arm
into a thick tuft, whence he took out a spade: arising quickly, he went on some paces without
saying a word; and when we reached a birch tree, several of the boughs of which I observed
were broken, he took off his hat and coat, and began to dig. He went to work with so much good-will,
that his labour rapidly advanced. Suddenly he stooped down, and then escaped from him that
ha! which betokens satisfaction, and which informed me, without the use of a conjuror's rod,
that he had found his treasure. I thought the cooper would have fainted; but recovering himself,
he made two or three more strokes with his spade, and the box was exposed to view. I seized
on the instrument of his toil, and suddenly changing my language, declared, in very good French,
that he was my prisoner.

"No resistance," I said, "or I will cleave your skull in two."

At this threat he seemed in a dream; but when he knew that he was gripped by that iron hand
which had subdued the most vigorous malefactors, he was convinced that it was no vision. Moiselet
was as quiet as a lamb. I had sworn not to leave him, and kept my word. During the journey
to the station of the brigade of gendarmerie, where I deposited him, he frequently cried out,

"I am done--who could have thought it? and he had such a simple look too!"

At the assizes of Versailles, Moiselet was sentenced to six months' solitary confinement.

M. Senard was overpowered with joy at having recovered his hundred thousand crowns worth of
diamonds. Faithful to his system of abatement, he reduced the reward one-half; and still there
was difficulty in getting five thousand francs from him, out of which I had been compelled
to expend more than two thousand: in fact, at one moment I really thought I should have been
compelled to bear the expenses myself.

       *       *       *       *       *

SPIRIT OF THE PUBLIC JOURNALS

THE TOYMAN IS ABROAD.

  "En fait d'inutilités, il ne faut que le nécessaire."

CHAMPFORT.

There is no term in political philosophy more ambiguous and lax in its meaning than Luxury.
In Ireland, salt with a potato is, by the peasant, placed in this category. Among the Cossacks,
a clean shirt is more than a luxury--it is an effeminacy; and a Scotch nobleman is reported
to have declared, that the act of scratching one's self is a luxury too great for any thing
under royalty. The Russians (there is no disputing on tastes) hold train-oil to be a prime
luxury; and I remember seeing a group of them following an exciseman on the quays at Dover
to plunder the oil casks, as they were successively opened for his operations. A poor Finland
woman, who for her sins had married an Englishman and followed him to this country, was very
glad to avail herself of her husband's death to leave a land where the people were so unhappy
as to be without a regular supply of seal's flesh for their dinner. While the good man lived,
her affection for him somewhat balanced her hankering after this native luxury; but no sooner
was the husband dead, than her lawyer-like propensity re-assumed its full force, and, like
Proteus released from his chains, she abandoned civilized life to get back to her favourite
shores, to liberty, and the animals of her predilection. "If I were rich," said a poor farmer's
boy, "I would eat fat pudding, and ride all day on a gate;" which was evidently his highest
idea of human luxury. But it is less with the quality of our indulgences, than their extent,
that I have now to treat. Diogenes, who prided himself on cutting his coat according to his
cloth, and thought himself a greater man, in proportion as he diminished his wants, placed
his luxuries in idleness and sunshine, and seems to have relished these enjoyments with as
much sensuality as Plato did his fine house and delicate fare. Even he was more reasonable
than those sectarians, who have prevailed in almost all religions, and who, believing that
the Deity created man for the express purpose of inflicting upon him every species of torture,
have inveighed against the most innocent gratifications, and have erected luxury into a deadly
sin. These theologians will not allow a man to eat his breakfast with a relish; and impute
it as a vice if he smacks his lips, though it be but after a draught of water. Nay, there have
been some who have thought good roots and Adam's ale too great luxuries for a Christian lawfully
to indulge in; and they have purposely ill-cooked their vegetables, and mixed them with ashes,
and even more disgusting things, to mortify the flesh, as they called it--i.e. to offer a sacrifice
of their natural feelings to the demon of which they have made a god.

Of late years, more especially, our ideas on this subject have much enlarged; and all ranks
of Englishmen hold an infinity of objects as prime necessaries, which their more modest ancestors
ranked as luxuries, fit only for their betters to enjoy. This should be a matter of sincere
rejoicing to all true patriots; because it affords indubitable evidence of the progress of
civilization. A civilized gentleman differs from a savage, principally in the multiplicity
of his wants; and Mandeville, in his fable of the bees, has proved to demonstration that extravagance
is the mother of commerce. What, indeed, are steam-engines, macadamized roads, man-traps that
break no bones, patent cork-screws, and detonating fowling-pieces, safety coaches and cork
legs, but luxuries, at which a cynic would scoff; yet how could a modern Englishman get on
without them? It is perfectly true that our Henries and Edwards contrived to beat their enemies
unassisted by these inventions. Books, likewise, which were a luxury scarcely known to the
wisdom of our ancestors, are a luxury now so indispensable, that there is hardly a mechanic
who has not his little library: while a piano forte also has become as necessary to a farm-house
as a mangle or a frying-pan; and there are actually more copies printed of "Cherry ripe," than
of Tull's husbandry. Is not a silver fork, moreover, an acknowledged necessary in every decent
establishment? while the barbarous Mussulman dispenses with knives and forks altogether, and
eats his meal, like a savage as he is, with his fingers. Nor can it be deemed an objection
to this hypothesis, that the Turk, who rejects all the refinements of European civilization,
excepting only gunpowder, esteems four wives to be necessary to a decent establishment; while
the most clear-sighted Englishmen think one more than enough for enjoyment. The difference
is more formal than real.

