[16] J. Allen Jack, Q. C., D. C., L., of St. John, New Brunswick, gives a full account of this
case from which (and similar sources) most of the facts are taken. In a paper read before the
Royal Society of Canada May 26, 1898, Trans. R. S. Can., 1898, pp. 137 sqq., Dr. Jack conjectures
that Nancy Morton is the Negro female slave conveyed by bill of sale registered in the office
of the Register of Deeds, St. John's, N. B. Slaves were treated as realty as regards fieri
facias under the Act of 1732 (see ante, p. --) and at least "savoured of the realty." The bill
of sale registered January 31, 1791, was dated November 13, 1778, and was executed by John
Johnson of the Township of Brooklyn in King's County, Long Island, Province of New York. It
conveyed with a covenant to warrant and defend title to Samuel Duffy, Innkeeper for £40 currency
(say $100) "a certain negro female about fourteen years of age and goes by the name of Nancy,"
pp. 141, 142. However that may be, Stair Agnew bought Nancy from William Bailey of the County
of York in the Province of New Brunswick for £40 with full warranty of title as a slave.

[17] He was born in Boston in 1753, the son of John Chipman, a member of the Bar. Graduating
at Harvard, he joined the Boston Bar and practised in that City until 1776. After the Peace
he went to England and in 1784 sailed for New Brunswick of which he was appointed Solicitor
General. After a quarter of a century of successful practice he was appointed 1808 a puisne
judge of the Supreme Court. He died in February, 1826.

His services to Nancy Morton were given without fee or hope of reward.

[18] That of Mr. Chipman is given in Trans. R. Soc. Can., 1898, pp. 155-184.

[19] It will be seen that the return sets up that Jones bought and owned the slave and the
case was argued on that hypothesis, but the historians say that Captain Stair Agnew was the
owner. The point is not of importance.

[20] Mos regit legem, Mos pro lege, Leges moribus servient, Consuetudo est optimus interpres
legum, custom is the life of the law, custom becomes law, &c., &c. That slavery was necessary
and therefore legal in the American Colonies was admitted in the Somerset case.

[21] The modern lawyer, in my opinion, would find no difficulty in coming to the same conclusion
as the Chief Justice.

Mr. Chipman in his interesting correspondence with Chief Justice Blowers (Trans. R. Soc. Can.,
1898, pp. 148 sqq.) admits that if his opponents had hit upon the Nova Scotia Statute of 1762
as revised in 1783 "the conclusiveness of their reasoning on their principles would have been
considered as demonstrated." He adds: "In searching your laws upon this occasion I found this
clause but carefully avoided mentioning it," which raises a curious question in legal ethics.

[22] The reconveyance to Bailey, a quit claim deed, is witnessed by George Leonard and Thomas
Wetmore and is dated February 22, 1800. The indenture by which Nancy bound herself for fifteen
years is dated February 23, 1800.

If Dr. Jack is right in his conjecture the argument took place when she was 36 and she would
receive her freedom when she was 51. Agnew challenged Judge Allen for some reflection upon
him by the Judge; the challenge was declined and Agnew then challenged Street who accepted--and
they fought a bloodless duel. Street later in 1821 fought a duel with George Ludlow Wetmore
over words which passed on leaving the Court. Wetmore was struck in the head and died in a
few hours. Street was tried and aquitted. One result of this case was that Mr. Justice Upham
freed his slaves. His wife had six inherited from her father and he himself had some, one a
girl born in the East Indies whom he had bought from her master in New York, the master of
a ship, afterwards married a soldier in Colonel Allen's regiment.

[23] What is believed to be the last advertisement for the sale of a slave in any maritime
province is in the New Brunswick Royal Gazette of October 16, 1809 when Daniel Brown offered
for sale Nancy a Negro woman, guaranteeing a good title. The latest offer of a reward for the
apprehension of a runaway slave is said to be in the same paper for July 10, 1816.

[24] For this act the perpetrator was excluded by his masonic lodge; being brought to trial
before the Supreme Court in August 1792 he was "honourably acquitted" and afterwards he was
reinstated by his lodge.

[25] Seldom mentioned and never much boasted of in the United States.

[26] The word Camouflage may be new. The practice antedated humanity.

[27] There is a record of 371 arriving at St. John from Halifax on May 25, 1815, by the Romulus,
who had taken refuge on board the British Men of War in the Chesapeake. The Negro settlement
at Loch Lomond was founded by them.

At the Census of 1824, 1421 "persons of color" were found in New Brunswick. The Very Rev. Archdeacon
Raymond, an excellent authority, thinks most of these "were at one time slaves or the children
of slaves," but many were not slaves in New Brunswick.

Those that were brought by Admiral Cochrane to Halifax became a great burden to the community.
It was proposed in 1815 by the British Government to remove them to a warmer climate, but this
scheme does not seem to have been carried out. By a census taken in 1816 there was found to
be 684 in Halifax and elsewhere in Nova Scotia. In the winter of 1814-15 they had suffered
rather severely from small pox and were vaccinated to prevent its spread. Some were placed
on Melville Island.

[28] Presumably because he had the greatest number of serfs in the world and was, therefore,
the best judge of slaves.

[29] Of course, Britain refused to give up a single fugitive. She could not betray a trust
even of the humblest. She knew that in "the land of the free and the home of the brave" for
the Negro returned to his master, to be brave was to incur torture and death and death alone
could make him free.

[30] The Act (1833) 3, 4 William III, c. 73 (Imp.), passed the House of Commons August 7 and
received the Royal Assent August 28, 1833; and there were no slaves in all the British world
after August, 1838.

CHAPTER VIII

GENERAL OBSERVATIONS

The curse of Negro slavery affected the whole English speaking world; and that part of the
world where it was commercially profitable resisted its abolition. The British part of this
world does not need to assert any higher sense of justice and right than had those who lived
in the Northern States; and it may well be that had Negro slave service been as profitable
in Canada as in the Cotton States, the heinousness of the sin might not have been more manifest
here than there. Nevertheless we must not too much minimize the real merit of those who sought
the destruction of slavery. Slaves did not pay so well in Canada as in Georgia, but they paid.

It is interesting to note the various ways in which slavery was met and finally destroyed.
In Upper Canada, the existing slaves, 1793, remained slaves but all those born thereafter were
free, subject to certain conditions of service. There was a statutory recognition of the existing
status and provision for its destruction in the afterborn. This continued slavery though it
much mitigated its severity and secured its downfall in time. But there were slaves in Upper
Canada when the Imperial Act of 1833 came in force. The Act of 1793 was admittedly but a compromise
measure; and beneficial as it was it was a paltering with sin.

In Lower Canada, there was no legislation, and slavery was never formally abolished until the
Imperial Act of 1833; but the courts decided in effect if not in form that a master had no
rights over his slave, and that is tantamount to saying that where there is no master there
is no slave. The reasoning in these cases as in the Somerset case may not recommend itself
to the lawyer but the effect is undoubtedly, "Slaves cannot live in Lower Canada."

In Nova Scotia, there was no decision that slavery did not exist. Indeed the course of procedure
presupposed that it did exist, but the courts were astute to find means of making it all but
impossible for the alleged master to succeed; and slavery disappeared accordingly.

In New Brunswick the decision by a divided court was in favor of the master; but juries were
of the same calibre and sentiments in New Brunswick as in Nova Scotia and the same results
were to be anticipated, if Nova Scotian means were used; and the slave owners gave way.

In the old land, judicial decision destroyed slavery on the British domain; but conscience
and sense of justice and right impelled its destruction elsewhere by statute; and the same
sense of justice and right impelled the Parliament of Great Britain to recompense the owners
for their property thus destroyed. If there be any more altruistic act of any people in any
age of the world's history I have failed to hear or read of it.

In the United States, slavery was abolished as a war measure. Lincoln hating slavery as he
did would never have abolished it, had he not considered it a useful war measure. No compensation
was paid, of course.[1] Everywhere slavery was doomed and in one way or another it has met
a deserved fate.

                                        WILLIAM RENWICK RIDDELL

  JUSTICE OF THE SUPREME COURT OF ONTARIO,
      OSGOOD HALL, TORONTO,
          February 5, 1920

FOOTNOTES:

[1] I had with the late Hon. Warwick Hough of St. Louis, Missouri, who had been an officer
in the Southern Army, several conversations on the subject of slavery. He gave it as his firm
conviction that, had the South succeeded in the Civil War, it would shortly have itself abolished
slavery and sought readmission to the Union. His proposition was that the power and influence
of the planter class was waning, while the manufacturers, merchants and the like were increasing
in number and influence and they would have for their own protection abolished slavery. I have
not met a Northerner or a Canadian who agreed with this view; but a few Southerners have expressed
to me their general concurrence with my friend's proposition.

BOOK REVIEWS

     Africa and the Discovery of America. Volume I. By LEO WIENER,
     Professor of Slavic Languages and Literatures at Harvard
     University. Innes & Sons, Philadelphia, Pa., 1920. Pp. i-xix,
     1-290.

The present volume is the first of a series in which Professor Wiener will show that Arabicised
Negroes, chiefly Mandingoes, brought to America as slaves, profoundly influenced the culture
of the Indians, and were an important, if not always direct factor in establishing the modus
vivendi between the Indians and the Europeans, which made practicable the colonization of the
New World.

The book is packed with valuable data, newly discovered, and brought together for the first
time. It should be read slowly, and read through at least twice before judgment is passed on
it. With the first reading comes a shock. One learns that the Journal of the First Voyage,
and the First Letter of Columbus are literary frauds, though containing material which came
from Columbus's own pen, and that tobacco, manioc, yams, sweet potatoes and peanuts are not
gifts of the Indian to the European. Yet with a more intimate study of the subject matter,
the conviction increases that the author has built upon the bed-rock of fact, and that his
position is unassailable.

It is impossible, within the limits of a review, to do more than to emphasise the most important
of his discoveries. In his studies of the First Letter, and of the Journals giving account
of the first and the second voyages of Columbus, Professor Wiener seeks to determine how much
testimony they give pertaining to Indian names and things, after the elimination of all that
is not Indian. The non-Indian elements are of two sorts; the names of the Islands, and the
words for "gold," etc. Columbus, dominated by the fixed idea, that, sailing westward, he would
find a short cut to India, China and Japan, began with the first sight of land, to be engrossed
with the task of identifying each newly discovered country with some island or district of
the Far East, named on his maps. He was an ignorant man, though he knew Ptolemy and Marco Polo
by heart, credulous, uncritical, not consciously dishonest, but unready to correct false impressions
caused by his ignorance and gullibility. His notes, as may be seen from a reproduction of a
page of his manuscripts (facing p. 38), were in an execrable hand. The forger of the Journal
of the First Voyage was no puzzle expert, and made mistakes in deciphering scrawls. Thus, for
example, the note Giaua min., i.e., Java minor, was read Guanahin, the same destined to masquerade
as Guanahani, the Indian name of the first island sighted on October 12, 1492.

Perhaps the best specimen of such ghost-words in the Journal is the name Carib. This is nothing
but Marco Polo's Cambalu, the capital of the Grand Khan, successively misread as Canibal, Caniba,
Cariba. So also, "canoe" is a ghost-word, traced to a misreading of scaphas as canoas in the
manuscript, or the Gothic text of the Latin version of the First Letter. It is interesting
to learn that maize, in the forms masa, maza, ultimately from Portuguese mararoca, is the African
name for Guinea corn. The transference of the name from Guinea corn to Indian corn, "rests
on a misunderstanding of a passage in Peter Martyr's First Decade" (p. 123).

The question arises whether or not there had been a colony of Europeans, with African slaves
in America, before the arrival of Columbus.

Fray Ramon Pane, Oviedo, and Las Casas give conico as the Indian word for "farm, plantation."
This is clearly the Mandingo kunke "farm." The Indian word for "golo," according to the Journal
entry for January 13, 1493, is caona. It is found also in the name of Cacique Caonabo, called
in the Journal of the Second Voyage "master of mines,"--the name being explained in the Libretto
as "lord of the house of gold." Now the words for "gold" in the Negro languages are mostly
derived from Arabic din[=a]r, which, through Hausa zinaria, and Pul kanyera, reaches Vei as
kani. Evidently canoa, written also guani, is nothing but this Vei word. In "Cacique Caonabo,"
we have three Mande words in juxtaposition. Cacique is not far removed from kuntigi, Soso kundzi,
"chief,"--caona, that is kani, is "gold," and boi, from Arabic beii, bai, is "house." The chance
that three such words should be identical in the dissimilar languages of Africa and America,
is nil. The words are African, though represented as belonging to the spoken language of the
New World. Moreover, Ramon Pane, in the account he wrote for Columbus of the Indian religion,
gives as Indian words, the Mande toto, "frog," and the Malinke kobo, "bug." What is more important,
he imputes to the Indians, a knowledge of the terrible West African itch, or craworaw, which
he calls by the supposed Indian name caracaracol. The critic faces a dilemma. Either Ramon
Pane lied, or he told the truth. Either he fabricated stories of Indians, which he drew from
books or manuscript relations by Spanish and Portuguese traders, who were writing about Negroes
in Africa, or there had been in Hispaniola, a pre-Columbian colony of European adventurers,
with their African slaves, who taught the Indians the Negro words for "farm, gold, frog, bug,
itch," etc., and also African folk-lore. No other hypothesis is possible.

     {Transcriber's Note: The following paragraphs contain a number of
     characters with diacritical marks which are represented as follows:
                [=a] a-macron
                [=o] o-macron
                [=e] e-macron
                [>e] e-caron
                [>z] z-caron}

The documentary and philological history of tobacco smoking and the cultivation of edible roots,
shows additional convincing evidence of the influence of Africa on the culture of America in
the colonial period. Columbus never saw the Indians smoking tobacco. According to the Journal
of the First Voyage, on October 15, 1492, an Indian brought him a ball of earth and certain
precious dried leaves. On November 16, two Spaniards reported that the Indians, carrying firebrands
and leaves, used them to "take incense." In the Journal of the Second Voyage, Columbus (this
part of the Journal is definitely ascribed to him by his son) writes of Indians spreading powder
on a table, and sniffing it through a forked reed, thereby becoming intoxicated. Now the first
account is suspiciously like a book-story of Oriental hashish-taking.--the second has no implication
of smoking at all, while the third describes nothing but the process of taking a sternutatory.
Indeed this last account is clearly based on a book account, in which there was a play on the
Arabic words tubb[=a]q "styptic" and tabaq "table." Ramon Pane, when he tells of Indians sniffing
the powder, calls it caboba, a mere Italianisation of the Arabic qasabah "reed," transferring
the name of the inhaler to the drug. Smoking tobacco through a forked reed of the sort described,
has been proved by trial, to be impossible. As late as 1535, Oviedo is unable to tell a straightforward
story of Indians smoking tobacco, but he adds the significant fact that the Negroes in the
West Indies smoked and cultivated tobacco. Negroes, by the way were first allowed to come to
America in 1501,--two years later, Ovando, the governor of Hispaniola complained that they
joined with the Indians to make trouble. By 1545, "smoking had become fairly universal in America"
(p. 127). It cannot be argued that half a century is too short a time for a new vice to become
so widespread. Consider the case of banana culture. Oviedo says that the first bananas were
introduced into America in 1516. Within twenty years, the fruit was universally cultivated,
while the Spanish name platano has survived in a large number of derivatives in the Indian
languages.

As far as the linguistic history of the tobacco-words in the Indian languages is concerned,
it leads back to an eastern origin. In Arabic, tubb[=a]q means "styptic." Tobacco leaves were
used as a styptic by the Indians of Brazil in the sixteenth century. The Low Latin equivalent
of the Arabic tubb[=a]q "styptic," is bitumen, whence Portuguese betume, and French betun,
petun. "The French traders," says Professor Wiener, "at the end of the sixteenth century, carried
the word and the Brazilian brand of tobacco to Canada, and petun became imbedded in several
Indian languages. The older Huron word for "tobacco" is derived from the Carib yuli, which
itself is from a Mandingo word. Thus, while the Carib and Arawak influence is apparent in the
direction from Florida, to the Huron country, the Brazilian influence proceeds up the St. Lawrence.
The whole Atlantic triangle between these two converging lines was left uninfluenced by these
two streams, and here, neither Carib nor Brazilian words for "tobacco," nor the moundbuilders'
craft have been found. Here the "tobacco" words proceeded northward from Virginia, where the
oldest form of the words is an abbreviated Span. tabaco, or Fr. tabao (p. 191). The Carib yuli
"smoke," is found in Carib and Arawak, side by side with derivatives of Mande tama, tawa, which
are also in the Algonkian languages. The fact that the Hurons, apparently the first Indians
to plant tobacco, have no native word for the plant is significant. It shows that the Hurons
learned to smoke from the Arawaks or Caribs, then already under Negro influence, and at a time
prior to the introduction of the tobacco-plant into Canada by the French. When we consider,
then, that tobacco is native to Africa, that tubb[=a]q and petun are the ancestors of the Indian
names for the weed, that by 1503, Negroes in large numbers were living in America, deserting
their masters to join the Indians, that the Negroes in America smoked and raised tobacco, the
conclusion is inescapable that tobacco smoking was discovered and taught by them to the Indians
and the Europeans.

"The tobacco-pipe in America," says Professor Wiener, "began its career as a Mandingo amulet"
(p. 184). This statement will distress the American archæologists, but the arguments in support
of it cannot be overcome. A counter-claim of pre-Columbian antiquity for pipes found in the
mounds cannot be made, since it is so clearly shown that the mounds are not prehistoric, but
were fortifications erected along the lines of communication from Florida to the Huron country,
to protect the overland trade established in the beginning of the sixteenth century.

In the Journal of the First Voyage, we find mention of ajes and niames, as name of edible roots,
but the account hopelessly confuses reports of yams, sweet potatoes and manioc. Neither yams
nor sweet potatoes are native to America, and both bear in America, only African names. Oviedo
indeed, says distinctly, that the name is "a foreign fruit, and not native to these Indies,"--also,
that "it came with that evil lot of Negroes, ... of whom there is a greater number than is
necessary, on account of their rebellions" (pp. 203-4). Now in Africa the yam (Dioscorea),
cultivated before the coming of the Europeans, is known by names derived from Arabic arum and
gambah, e.g., Ewe ad[>e], ad[>z]e, Mandingo nyambe, Malinke nyeme ku,--whence the supposed
Indian names, aje, age, niame, igname, used indiscriminately of any edible roots. The African
names of the manioc have come from Arabic 'uruq "roots," notably in the Congo languages, y[=o]ka,
y[=e]ke, edioko, plural madioka, whence, as the plant was introduced into America, it was known
there as vuca, mandioca. As to sweet potatoes and peanuts, the former were cultivated in Asia
before the discovery of America, while the latter, mentioned by Ibn Batutah as an article of
food in Africa, took to the New World, their African names mandube, goober and pinder (compare
Mozambique manduwe, Basunde nguba, Nyombo pinda). Professor Wiener's conclusion is that manioc
culture was taught to the Brazilian Indians before 1492 by Portuguese castaways, who knew of
the economic importance of the plant in Africa, while the peanut, spreading north and south
from the Antilles, may also have reached America a few years before Columbus.

The numerous full-page illustrations are extremely helpful in aiding the reader to a clear
understanding of difficult points in the discussion.

The book is epoch-making. To all seekers of the truth, the coming of the second volume, in
which Professor Wiener will deal exhaustively with the Negro element in Indian culture, will
be an eagerly anticipated event.

                                        PHILLIPS BARRY, A.M., S.T.B.
  CAMBRIDGE MASSACHUSETTS

       *       *       *       *       *

     A Comparative Study of the Bantu and Semi-Bantu Languages. By
     SIR HARRY H. JOHNSTON, G.C.M.G., K.C.B., D.Sc. (Cambs). Oxford:
     at the Clarendon Press, 1919, pp. 815, 2 sketch maps.

The author of this monumental work, in the opinion of the reviewer, is in himself a composite
of many of the capacities, which, combined or singly in her subjects have made the greatness
of Britain. He has been a great colonial administrator, a distinguished African explorer; he
is a talented artist, and has recently astonished the literary world by producing what H. G.
Wells declares to be one of the best first novels he has ever read. The contributions of Sir
Harry Johnston to the sciences of botany, zoology, and anthropology are truly prodigious. It
is in the last named field that his major interests have lain, and a succession of important
works have established him as the foremost authority upon the ethnology of Africa and upon
the anthropology of the Negro race.

This ponderous volume on the Bantu and Semi-Bantu languages is the first part of a work which
represents the fruit of many years of study of multitudinous African languages and dialects.
The major portion of the book consists of illustrative vocabularies of 366 Bantu and 87 Semi-Bantu
languages and dialects with an extensive bibliography. A competent criticism of this portion
of the work can be made by no one but a philologist with a special knowledge of African languages.
The present reviewer does not possess these qualifications. Nevertheless it is obvious to any
student of Africa that the publication of this work places a mine of useful information at
the disposal of the linguist, the grammarian, and the missionary, and will also be invaluable
to the student of African ethnology and to the physical anthropologist.

The first chapter sketches the history of research into the Bantu laguages. The contributions
of various philosophists are appraised.

The second chapter on the distribution and character of the Bantu languages is of greatest
interest to the layman and to the general anthropologist. We are informed that the Bantu languages
"constitute a very distinct type of speech which, as contrasted with others amongst the group
of Negro tongues, is remarkable as a rule for Italian melodiousness, simplicity and frequency
of its vowel sounds, and the comparative ease with which its exemplars can be acquired and
spoken by Europeans" (p. 15). "This one Negro language family now covers the whole of the southern
third of Africa, with the exception of very small areas in the southwest (still inhabited sparsely
by Hottentot and Bushman tribes) and a few patches of the inner Congo basin" (p. 15). Throughout
Africa, north of the Bantu border line, the traveller meets with numerous languages widely
different and mutually incomprehensible whereas with a knowledge of one Bantu language it is
not difficult to understand the structure and even the vocabulary of others. The importance
of this language family in Africa is therefore obvious. The author defines clearly the special
and peculiar characteristics of Bantu languages. There follows an interesting discussion of
the origin and spread of these languages. Probably the parent speech was spoken originally
in the very heart of Africa, somewhere between the basins of the Upper Nile, the Bahr-al-ghazal,
the Mubangi, and the Upper Benue. The archaic Bantu seem first to have moved eastward, toward
the Mountain Nile and the Great Lakes. Probably they remained in the Nile Valley north of the
Albert Nyanza "till at least as late as three or four hundred years before Christ--late enough
to have been in full possession of goats and oxen and to have received the domestic fowl from
Egypt or Abyssinia. They then embarked upon their great career of conquering and colonizing
the southern third of Africa" (p. 22).

The original Bantu invaders found before them in Central and South Africa other peoples--Negroes
of different types, pygmies, Bushmen, and Hottentots. "The first great Bantu migrations undoubtedly
emanated from the vicinity of the Victoria Nyanza and the north Tanganyika, and were directed
round and not through the Congo forests" (p. 24). On the basis of linguistic, ethnological
and anthropological evidence Sir Harry is led to deduce that at a critical period in their
career the Negro speakers of the early Bantu languages were brought under the influence of
a semi-Caucasian race from the north or northeast. This contact gave rise to the many handsome-featured
pale-skinned castes and ruling clans in so many of the Bantu peoples.

The following statement is of great anthropological importance: "The Bantu-speaking peoples
of Africa, ... do not constitute a race apart from the other negroes or offer any homogeneity
of physical type. But on the whole they represent so much the average negro type that 'Bantu'
is still in favor as a physical definition among craniologists. In reality, they are just fifty
millions of Negroes whose speech belongs to one of the many language families of 'Negro type';
only in this case the language family instead of being confined in its range to a hundred villages
or two hundred square miles, is spread over the southern third of Africa--say over 3,500,000
square miles--from the Cameroons, the Northern Congo, the Nyanzas, and the Mombasa coast to
Cape Colony and Natal" (p. 25), Bantu languages are spoken by peoples of diverse physical types.

"Yet about the Bantu speech and the culture which accompanies it (ordinarily) there is a suggestion,
strengthened by the association of these languages with metal working (iron more especially),
with agriculture, cultivated plants, and cattle-keeping, that adds to the impression derived
from their legends, their religious beliefs, games, and weapons. It is thought that the Bantu
language family was finally moulded by some non-Negro incomers of possibly Hamitic affinities,
akin at any rate in physique and culture, if not in language, to the dynastic Egyptians, the
Galas, and perhaps most of all to those 'Ethiopians' of mixed Egyptian and Negro-Nubian stock
that down to one thousand years ago inhabited the Nile basin south of Wadi Halfa and north
of Kordofan." (Pp. 25-26.)

Sir Harry attributes most of the higher cultural elements associated with the Bantu languages
to the non-Negro invaders. He believes that the Bantu invasions of southern and central Africa
cannot be referred back much earlier than the second century B. C., and that the differentiation
of the more than two hundred forms of Bantu speech occurred subsequently and rapidly.

To the student of African ethnography this volume is a great disappointment in one respect.
The sketch map showing the distribution of Bantu and Semi-Bantu languages is absurdly inadequate.
The writer of this review had confidently expected an authoritative large-scale map showing
the distribution of linguistic families, dialects, and tribes. It is to be hoped that such
a map will form a part of the completed work.

                                        E. A. HOOTON.
  HARVARD UNIVERSITY

       *       *       *       *       *

     History of the United States from Hayes to McKinley, 1877-1896.
     By JAMES FORD RHODES, LL.D., D.Litt. Volume VIII, 1877-1896. The
     Macmillan Company, New York, 1919. Pp. 484. As one, however, considers the
treatment of the former work in comparison with this recent treatise,
he must conclude that the author has not maintained the standard set
in his earlier volumes which show deeper insight and a more scientific
point of view. Persons who have looked forward to the continuation of
Mr. Rhodes's comprehensive history from the transition period of
Hayes' administration will certainly be disappointed in observing how
he has failed in tracing the threads of history, which in our time,
have become momentous. After reading the volume one is still at a loss
as to what forces in our national life the author considers as being
actually in the making during the period which the volume covers.

The work begins with a treatment of Hayes' administration setting forth facts which have appeared
elsewhere in the author's studies in this particular period. As in other works, the author
defends almost everything Hayes did and arraigns the Reconstruction Republicans who were opposed
to him. He then presents in an unscientific way the brief discussion of economic questions
bearing on railroad rates, wages, strikes, mobs and riots. Financial depression, the silver
question and the valuable service of John Sherman are given considerable attention. Valuable
facts are set forth in his discussion of civil service reform, the tariff commission and the
Chinese question. Too much of the book, however, is devoted to merely political matter involving
a detailed discussion of campaigns and elections at the expense of the economic, constitutional
and diplomatic movements decidedly influencing the history of this country.

In this work the author pays very little attention to the Negro except as he leaves the impression
that the race was justly deprived of the suffrage and of holding office. He makes reference
to the complaint of the Republicans to show that in disfranchising the Negro in the South to
make that section solidly Democratic that every white voter in the South thereafter possessed
the political power of two white voters in the North. He mentions also the federal election
laws and the Force Bill but finally concludes that the experiment of making the Negro a citizen
was a failure. Here again Mr. Rhodes shows his lack of knowledge of human affairs in that he
studies history only in the present tense. No man at present is wise enough to say whether
we shall finally obtain more good than bad results from the Reconstruction, for we are too
close to that part of our history to make a proper estimate of these events.

       *       *       *       *       *

     The Negro Year Book. Edited by MONROE N. WORK, Director of
     Department of Records and Research, Tuskegee Normal and
     Industrial Institute. The Negro Year Book Publishing Company,
     Tuskegee Institute, Alabama, 1919. Pp. 523.

There has appeared for 1918-1919 a new edition of the Negro Year Book to which students of
Negro Life and History have learned to look for information concerning the Negro. This volume
appears with a table of contents and a useful index to the numerous facts compiled. The volume
not only covers the field of former editions but includes also much up to date material throwing
light on Negro current history. The very first portion of the work is entitled Fifty-three
Years of Progress, 1866-1919. This is a statistical study of Negro schools, Negro ownership
of property, and Negro enterprise. The reader will be interested in such information as illiteracy,
music, painters, actors, occupations, agriculture, business, and the study of crime.

The Negro Year Book is a desirable step in the right direction. Mr. Work and his coworkers
deserve unusual praise for this undertaking in a field where for a number of years yet to come
the returns must necessarily be meagre. The work meets a long felt want of statistical information
as to exactly what the Negro people are doing. These facts will serve not only as an inspiration
to the race itself but to refute so much misinformation often circulated to do Negroes injury.
It is earnestly hoped that the managers of this work will find it possible in the near future
to publish an annual volume and to this end the public should give the movement unstinted support
to make such an undertaking financially profitable.

NOTES

The Carnegie Endowment for International Peace has published a monograph entitled Negro Migration
during the War by Mr. Emmett J. Scott, Secretary-Treasurer of Howard University. This is the
first effort at a detailed treatment of the movement of the Negroes from the South to the North.
It has such interesting chapters as the causes of the migration, stimulation of the movement,
the call of the self-sufficient North, the draining of the black belt, efforts to check the
movement, the effect of the migration on the South, the situation in the congested districts
in the North and West, and remedies for relief. Persons who have an interest in this conspicuous
event of our internal history will find it profitable to read this volume.

The Illinois Centennial Commission has published Volume V of the Modern Commonwealth, a history
of that State. On page 21 appears this paragraph:

"Half way between the native stock and the foreign born stands the Negro population, practically
all of whom have drifted into the state since the Civil War. In 1870 there were only 28,762
Negroes in Illinois, but since that time they have been increasing steadily and, with the exception
of the decade 1880-1890, at a more rapid rate than the white population. Especially rapid was
the growth in the decade ending with 1870, when it was 277 per cent or almost four times the
rate of increase of the white population. As a result of this influx of Negroes the proportion
which they constitute of the total population has increased very steadily from 1.1 per cent
in 1870 to 1.9 per cent in 1910. But the absolute number is still small, amounting only to
109,049 at the last census."

The American Negro Academy has published Number 20 of its Occasional Papers containing a study
of Alexander Crummell, an Apostle of Negro Culture by William H. Ferris. This dissertation
sets forth not only the main facts of the life of the subject of the sketch but gives also
some interesting history in connection with the founding of the American Negro Academy.

Major John R. Lynch, one of the most conspicuous figures of the Reconstruction period now living,
has discovered certain errors in the Reconstruction records published in the January number
of the Journal of Negro History, and has written the editor the following letter to make the
necessary corrections:

                                   4352 FORESTVILLE AVENUE,
                                       CHICAGO, May 17th, 1920.

     Editor, Journal of Negro History.

     In compliance with your request I write this to point out a few
     errors which appeared in the January 1920 issue of the Journal
     covering the Reconstruction period.

     Page 67 the name of Benjamin F. Turner appears as a member of the
     43d Congress, and Jeremiah Haralson as a member of the 44th
     Congress. Turner was a member of the 42d but not of the 43d
     Congress.

     Haralson and Rapier were members of the 43d Congress, both having
     been elected in 1872.

     On page 73, Rubert Gleed should be Robert Gleed. A.R. Davis
     should be A. K. Davis, Dr. Stiles should be Dr. Stites, W.H.
     Fonte should be W. H. Foote.

     On page 74, H. M. Faley should be H. M. Foley. To the list of
     Colored men elected to that Legislature should be added the name
     of J. M. Wilson, of Marion County.

     On the same page is the statement: "John R. Lynch elected speaker
     of the House." This is incorrect. Lynch was elected speaker in
     January 1872, by the Legislature that was elected in November
     1871. The man who was elected speaker in January 1870, by the
     Legislature that was elected in November 1869, was Judge Freeman
     E. Franklin, a white Republican from Yazoo County. Shortly after
     the adjournment of the first session of that Legislature speaker
     Franklin died. When the second session convened in January 1871
     Hon. H. W. Warren, a white Republican from Leake County was
     elected speaker for the unexpired term.

                    Respectfully yours,
                                     (Signed) JOHN R. LYNCH.

THE JOURNAL

OF

NEGRO HISTORY

VOL. V--OCTOBER, 1920--NO. 4

DIPLOMATIC RELATIONS BETWEEN THE UNITED STATES AND GREAT BRITAIN BEARING ON THE RETURN OF NEGRO
SLAVES, 1783-1828[1]

Diplomatic relations bearing on the Negro of the Revolutionary period constitute one of the
mooted questions of American foreign policy. Yet although this question was then one of the
disturbing factors in our relations with Great Britain, it has hitherto passed unnoticed.[2]
As a large number of Negroes were taken from the United States by Great Britain during the
Revolutionary War there followed so much effort to secure the return of these Negroes that
the subject had to be dealt with in the Treaty of Paris which ended the war in 1783. So numerous
were the infractions of the stipulation prohibiting the carrying off of the Negroes and so
fruitless were the discussions resulting from the non-fulfillment of the articles in the treaty
that several diplomatic representatives were sent on missions to Great Britain, the last of
which ended with the Jay Treaty of 1794. Obviously, no satisfactory settlement as to the Negro
could then be reached. An array of evidence from the sources[3] shows that the question was
frequently discussed and that its significance lies in its absence from the stipulations of
the Jay Treaty. It is evident, moreover, that the United States was not satisfied with this
treaty and that between Great Britain and this country there was widening a breach which culminated
in the War of 1812, during which Great Britain committed the same offence that she did during
the war for independence.[4]

How can one account then for the unfavorable attitude of Great Britain toward the return of
the Negro fugitives? The humanitarian spirit of Great Britain which, by the celebrated decision
of Lord Mansfield in the Somerset case in 1772 guaranteed to every man his freedom as soon
as he set foot on British soil, extended beyond the limits of the empire. Although this decision
of the judge evoked some unfavorable comment, for slavery was the "normal condition of the
Negro," his ideas were disseminated by the military authorities defending the Crown in America.
During the Revolutionary War many of the British commanders issued proclamations of freedom
to the Negro slaves. Lord Dunmore, the dethroned Governor of Virginia, was among the first
to issue a proclamation of freedom[5] to all Negroes who would fight for the King. Soon thereafter,
Clinton,[6] the Commander-in-chief of the British forces in America, issued a proclamation
to the same effect. Still later, Cornwallis issued a proclamation specifying the grant of "freedom
and protection" to all Negroes who would seek his command. Whatever motive prompted the issuance
of these orders, it is evident that the status of the Negro during this "emergency" as regarded
by Great Britain was that of a freeman.

To these proclamations many Negroes responded. For instance, General Greene learned on Long
Island that a group of Negroes aggregating two hundred (200) had in July, 1776, sought freedom
within the British lines and had been accepted as a regiment in that vicinity.[7] He reported,
moreover, to General Washington in 1781 that enough Negroes in North Carolina to form two regiments
had sought British freedom and protection and that they were being organized by the British.[8]
Whether they came within the British lines as a result of these proclamations or in recognition
of the laws of war "it has been computed by good judges" says Ramsay,[9] "that at the evacuation
of one part, two hundred and forty-one Negroes and their families were taken off to St. Lucia
in one transport, the Scimitar; and that between the years 1775 and 1783, 25,000 Negroes, that
is, one-fifth of all the slaves, were taken from the State of South Carolina." In Georgia,[10]
there was made a report that the loss was much greater, probably three-fourths or seven-eighths
of all the Negroes in the State. Again, from an estimate made at the time, Jefferson observed
that about thirty thousand Negroes were taken from Virginia.[11] From the other slave-holding
States which were invaded by the British, many other Negroes were carried away from their masters.
So effectively was the scheme carried out that fear was expressed throughout the South less
the economic position of that section would be threatened. In consequence of such actions on
the part of Great Britain, General Washington receded from the position of excluding Negroes
from the American Army and took drastic steps in preventing the carrying away of other Negroes
by Great Britain.[12]

Considered, therefore, as an American slave in time of peace and an American soldier in time
of danger, it is no anomaly that the status of the Negro complicated the negotiations between
military representatives of Great Britain and the United States. Extended but fruitless negotiations
ensued. A satisfactory settlement of the return of the Negroes seemed impossible. With independence
assured through the representatives assembled, the Treaty of Paris was negotiated in 1783.
Franklin urged in his communication with Oswald, 1779, that the question as to the return of
Negroes taken away by Great Britain be adjusted immediately.[13] This suggestion was strengthened
by the support given it by the American representative, Henry Laurens, who had been in confinement
in London during the war and whose chance arrival on the closing day gave the subject increased
importance. Thus credit for the incorporation of the article on the Negro into the Treaty of
Paris is given to Henry Laurens.[14]

By the Seventh Article of the Treaty of Paris,[15] it was stipulated that the British troops
should withdraw from the United States without carrying away or destroying any property belonging
to the citizens of the United States. In spite of this agreement at the peace conference, this
stipulation was not fulfilled by Great Britain. Convincing evidence of an infraction of this
stipulation is seen in a letter written by General Washington to Sir Guy Carleton, May 6, 1783,
in which the former expressed himself as being surprised to hear that embarkations of Negroes
had taken place during the whole of that year.[16] He, moreover, expressed his private opinion
to the effect that such an action "is totally different from the letter and spirit of the treaty."
A few days thereafter the Virginia delegates in Congress wrote to the Governor of Virginia
that they would make this the subject of a "pointed remonstrance from our minister in Europe
to the British Court with a demand for reparation and in the meantime urge General Washington
to insist on a more faithful observance of that stipulation at New York."[17]

Notwithstanding further orders which were issued by Sir Guy Carleton, May 12, 1783, to prevent
the carrying away of any Negroes or other property of the American inhabitants many other infractions
of the provision were reported.[18] Even General Washington remarked[19] that "some of his
own slaves and those of friends living with him were probably carried away to New York." "If
by chance," continued he, "you should come at the knowledge of any of them, I will be much
obliged by your securing them so that I can obtain them again." So numerous were the violations
of this part of the treaty that Thomas Jefferson, Secretary of State, in a letter written to
Vergennes, the Foreign Minister of France, asked for suggestions from France in regard to the
infractions of this article of the Treaty of Paris. In it, he expressed the objection of the
Crown, which was to the effect that Negroes had come within the British lines under the promise
of freedom and protection and that this promise was fulfilled by Great Britain in preference
to the stipulation in the treaty.[20]

The situation became more aggravated. The breach between the two countries was gradually widening.
Sensing this acute situation, Washington suggested that Carleton meet him in a conference at
Orangetown, New Jersey, May, 1783. At one of their meetings Washington called the attention
of Carleton to several resolutions passed by Congress relating to the return of all Negroes
and other property of American inhabitants taken away by the British forces. Concerning these,
Carleton replied that he wished to be considered as giving no construction of the treaty, but
that he "conceived it could not have been the intention of the British Government by the treaty
of peace to reduce themselves to the necessity of violating their faith to the Negroes who
came within the British lines under the proclamation of the predecessors in command."[21] In
point of fact, however, he said "delivering up the Negroes to their former masters would be
delivering them up--some to execution and others to punishments which would in his own opinion
be a dishonorable violation of the public faith." He concluded, nevertheless, that if the sending
off of the Negroes should hereafter be declared an infraction of the treaty, "compensation
ought to be made by Great Britain to the owners."[22]

In regard to the last suggestion of Carleton, Washington observed that many difficulties would
arise in compensating the proprietors for their Negroes. He also thought it impossible to ascertain
the value of the Negroes, for the value of a slave, contended he, "consists chiefly in his
industry and sobriety." Another difficulty Washington observed was that of identifying the
slave. He was of the opinion that the slave would give the wrong name of his master. Washington
considered this conduct on the part of General Carleton, moreover, a departure from both the
letter and spirit of the Seventh Article of the Treaty of Paris.

In answer to these contentions Carleton said that as the Negroes were free and secured against
their masters they could have no inducement to conceal their true name or that of their masters.
In commending compensation Carleton was of the opinion that he was pursuing a course which
would operate most for the security of the proprietors. "If the Negroes were left to themselves,"
he remarked, "numbers of them would very probably go off and not return to the parts of the
country from whence they came or clandestinely would get on board the transports in such a
manner as would not be in his power to prevent." "In either case," continued Carleton, "an
inevitable loss would ensue to the proprietors."[23] But as the business was then conducted
they had at least a chance for compensation.

In conformity with these views, Carleton suggested that commissioners be appointed by the two
countries "to agree upon the mode of compensating as well as the amount and other points with
respect to which there was no provision made in the treaty." This suggestion was approved by
Congress, and in compliance with it Egbert Benson, William Smith, and Daniel Parker were appointed[24]
with specific instructions from Washington to "assist representatives of Great Britain in inspecting
and superintending the embarkation of persons and property in fulfillment of the Seventh Article
of the Treaty of Paris."[25]

These commissioners began their work immediately by examining the claim of one Phillip Lott
to a Negro named Thomas Francis[26] on board a vessel called the Fair American in New York
harbor and about to be carried to the island of Jamaica. Concerning this inquiry a pointed
remonstrance was made to Sir Guy Carleton. After the details of the examination were presented
to him, the commissioners requested Great Britain to prohibit its representatives from carrying
away the Negro and to deliver Francis to Lott. Notifying Washington, June 14, 1783, of their
progress, the commissioners reminded him that Sir Guy Carleton intimated an impropriety in
the claim, as the property was not suggested to be in danger of being sent away. "This left
room," said the commissioners, "for an idea that possibly property about to be sent away would
be restored ... and we conceive it is now reduced to a certainty that all applications for
the delivery of property will be fruitless and we therefore desist from them."[27]

A few days later the commissioners reported to Washington that in superintending an embarkation
of fourteen transports bound for Nova Scotia "about 3000 souls, among whom were at least 130
Negroes who appeared to be property of the citizens of the United States," were carried away.
They also indicated that these embarkations were made in spite of their presence and remonstrance
and for this reason asked General Washington for "further directions on this subject."[28]
Other reports of the commissioners to General Washington, June 17, 1783, show that on many
other occasions Negroes not residing within the British lines were taken away. To the remonstrances
of the commissioners, Sir Guy Carleton gave a deaf ear. They, in the meantime, wrote General
Washington that they had interpreted Carleton's silence as a "determination that all future
applications should remain equally unnoticed." That they realized that their efforts were fruitless
goes without saying, for they confessed that their work was ineffective and that the British
vessels were never subjected to any rigid inspections and it was, therefore, impossible to
determine, from the register provided by Sir Guy Carleton, the exact number of Negroes carried
away in those vessels.[29]

The work of the commissioners, nevertheless, was noteworthy. They called Washington's attention
to the fact that Sir Guy Carleton affected to distinguish between the cases of such Negroes
as came within the British lines in consequence of the promise of freedom and protection promulgated
by Carleton's predecessors and such as came in either previous to the proclamations or subsequent
to the cessation of hostilities. "Negroes of the first description," insisted Carleton, "were
not included in the treaty." The commissioners soon realized that even this limited construction
given to the article was not intended to be fulfilled by Carleton's subordinate officers. They
based their contention upon the fact that printed certificates granting Negroes the privilege
of embarking[30] were distributed by the commandant of New York City, "as their convenience
might require."[31] These certificates fell into the hands of many persons for whom they were
not intended. So loosely were they distributed that one was picked up by the commissioners
who transmitted the same to General Washington. The non-observance of the Seventh Article on
the part of Great Britain and the destruction worked by Carleton evoked many resolutions opposing
the ratification of the treaty for the expressed reason that it did not provide for the loss
of Negroes. One of these resolutions was to the effect that it was "inexpedient to concur in
passing laws necessary for carrying into effect the treaty."[34] These efforts of Congress,
however, like those of the commissioners were of no avail. Complaints of American citizens
of the loss of their property were expressed by the representatives in Congress. They, to be
sure, had their effect, for soon thereafter, Congress transferred the question of the return
of Negroes to the realm of actual diplomacy.[35]

John Adams, 1788, who, by the way, was one of the representatives of the United States who
signed the Treaty of Paris, received an appointment as representative of this country to England
to settle the alleged violations of the Treaty of Paris. He was instructed in 1785 to press
for a fulfillment of the terms of the treaty of peace on the part of Great Britain.[36] He
had little time, however, to press his claim before representatives of Great Britain were inquiring
why the United States did not perform her part in this reciprocal contract. To these inquiries,
Adams replied that "America could not; that it was hardly a government at all." He, moreover,
informed Congress that the reason assigned by Laurens for incorporating the Seventh Article
was that the people of the United States would be unable to comply with the part of the treaty
which respects debts unless the provision which respects Negroes was made. "This construction,"
he continued, "was never denied and that it seemed to be understood by the ministry that on
a settlement with the United States compensation must be made."

Obviously, then, both Great Britain and America understood that the Seventh Article would be
fulfilled by Great Britain only when the Fourth, Fifth and Sixth Articles were fulfilled by
the United States.[37] This point, however, was discussed pro and con for many months and was
seldom admitted by the American diplomatic representatives, Adams himself said that he could
"get no comfort from his mission." The construction given the Seventh Article making its fulfillment
by Great Britain contingent upon the execution of other provisions only complicated matters.

Another mission was planned in 1789,[38] but before another representative was appointed Washington
urged upon Gouverneur Morris, who contemplated visiting London, "to find out the reasons why
Great Britain had not complied with the Seventh Article." In a letter written to Morris, October
13, 1789, Washington desired Morris to converse with his Brittanic Majesty's Ministers as to
whether there was any objection to performing those articles remaining to be performed on his
part. "Learn with precision," he concluded, "what they mean to do on this head." In compliance
with this request, on April 7, 1790, Morris interviewed the British representative, the Duke
of Leeds, who gave to him only "general assurances" for a faithful observance of the articles
and, becoming a "little embarrassed," could not say how the matter in regard to the Negroes
stood. After many days of silence, the Duke of Leeds, April 23, 1790, "lamented every circumstance"
which delayed the fulfillment of engagements on the part of the United States.[39] He also
indicated that, if circumstances rendered their final completion impracticable, he had no scruples
in declaring the object of Great Britain would be to "retard the fulfillment of such subsequent
parts of the treaty as depend entirely upon Great Britain until redress is granted to their
subjects upon the specific points of the treaty itself or a fair and just compensation for
the non-performance of those engagements on the part of the United States."[40]

Informing Washington of his progress, May 29, 1790, Morris disclosed the fact that he was no
longer contending for the return of the Negroes, for that would involve either "breaking faith"
with those whom they had seduced by the offer of freedom or the violation of the stipulation
which they had made with the United States in the Treaty of Paris. In presenting America's
side, however, he insisted upon compensation in order that it would not be difficult for the
planters to show that they had sustained a heavy loss from the want of men to cultivate their
lands and thereby produce the means of paying their debts. To this the Duke of Leeds replied
that he wished to "consider the treaty subject generally" and thought that some compensation
could be mutually made. He declared, nevertheless, that he would rather "make a new treaty
than perform the Seventh Article of the Treaty of Paris."[41]

Subsequent diplomatic negotiations between Jefferson and Hammond, the Minister of Great Britain,
indicate that Washington was not satisfied with the status of the case after Jefferson cited
specific infractions of the Seventh Article of the treaty, enclosing documents supporting these
claims. Hammond informed the United States, November 30, 1791, that the King had suspended
the execution of the Seventh Article in consequence of the non-compliance on the part of the
United States of the Fourth, Fifth and Sixth Articles. In short, he insisted that the stipulations
should be performed in the order in which they stood. He stated, moreover, that the "two objects
were so mutually connected with each other as not to admit of separation either in the mode
of discussing them or in any subsequent engagements which might result from that discussion."[42]

It was soon evident then that such extended discussions were fruitless. This state of affairs,
to be sure, could not exist very much longer. Citizens of the United States were pressing "more
zealously" for the return of the Negroes. For almost a decade the subject had been discussed
without an amicable adjustment. In a communication to the Congress, April 16, 1794, Washington
showed that he had grasped the situation by informing that body of the fact that "despatches
received from our minister in London contain a serious aspect of our affairs with Great Britain."
He suggested, therefore, to the Senate that an envoy extraordinary be sent to England. To this
end Washington appointed John Jay to settle the infractions of the Treaty of Paris.[43]

In Jay's instructions nothing was specifically said concerning the carrying away of the Negroes
by the British, but, as it appeared from subsequent transactions, it is quite certain that
the infractions of the Seventh Article as well as those of other articles were to be adjusted.
In this wise, the "irrepressible question"--relating to the return of Negroes carried away
by Great Britain during the Revolutionary War became one of the purposes of Jay's mission.[44]

During the negotiation with Grenville there took place many heated debates, in which each party
accused the other of the first aggression. Meanwhile Jay ascertained, September 13, 1794, that
Grenville supported the contention held by his predecessors, that the article of the treaty
was intended to prevent depredations at the departure of the army; that no alteration in the
actual state of property was intended by the Seventh Article; that every Negro who strayed
or escaped from the American lines and came into the lines of the British Army became by the
laws of war British property; and that to extend the Seventh Article of the treaty to include
Negroes who came within the British lines under the proclamation of freedom was to give it
a "wider latitude than the terms of it would warrant."[45] In short, Grenville contended that
in regard to those within the British lines before the signing of the treaty they were "left
entirely without restrictions."[46]

In reply to Grenville's argument Jay divided the subject of the Negroes into three groups:
first, the Negroes captured or disposed of during the course of the war; second, the Negroes
who remained with and belonged to American citizens within the British lines; and third, the
Negroes who, confiding in the promise of freedom, fled from their masters and took refuge with
the British. Concerning the first two groups, no extended discussion followed. Grenville stated,
however, in regard to the second group, that he was "not so sure." The last-named group on
the other hand, produced much pourparler, for Jay maintained that these Negroes were "clearly
comprehended by the terms of the treaty." According to his argument, Negroes could not by "mere
flight" alter their slave character. He soon appreciated the difficult position of England
in trying to keep the pledges of freedom offered to the Negroes and at the same time fulfill,
according to the American interpretation, the article of the treaty in regard to the return
of Negroes.

During the negotiation Jay admitted, moreover, that the carrying away of Negroes was justifiable
in view of the promises of freedom and protection promulgated by British military representatives.[47]
He concluded, however, with the thought that "Great Britain ought not to expect to escape the
consequence of the folly of her Generals in America." For this reason he restated the idea
expressed by other American representatives to Great Britain, that compensation should be obtained
for the Negroes carried away. In spite of Jay's change of position Grenville persisted with
unyielding opposition in the view that such slaves were no longer American property. "On this
point" wrote Jay to Randolph, "we could not agree."

Concerning this question, Jay said, moreover,[48] that "various articles have been under consideration
but did not meet with mutual approbation and consent." Sensing the situation Randolph declared
to Jay, December 3, that he was extremely afraid that the reasoning of Grenville about the
Negroes would not be satisfactory. "Indeed I own," said Randolph, "that I can not myself yield
to its force." Randolph knew of the anti-British sentiment in the South and realized that the
treaty would be opposed by the South because that section would feel that it had been neglected,[49]
should it receive no compensation for the Negroes carried away by the British.

In a communication to Jay two weeks later it is obvious that there was no concerted opinion
even in America in regard to the much mooted question. Jay and Randolph, for instance, differed
as to whether the slaves concerned ever became the property of Great Britain. Jay held that
the Negroes in question never became the property of Great Britain whereas, Randolph held that
while property is acquired in movables as soon as they come within the power of the enemy,
yet "property rights thus acquired in war may by the treaty of peace be removed."[50]

To the contention of Great Britain that the Seventh Article meant merely an engagement against
further depredations, Randolph declared the stipulation "superfluous"; for he maintained that
the mere cessation of war meant that much. To this point, Grenville declared the treaty "odious,"
if the stipulation were interpreted to include Negroes who sought British lines under the promise
of freedom and protection "on the basis of common morality." Great Britain was not to be expected
to execute a stipulation with such an interpretation. Obviously, then, Great Britain would
not recede from her position. Citizens of America, especially those deprived of their property,
were beginning to think that our diplomatic relations were not properly taken care of by Jay.
Expressions of disapproval of the treaty by resolutions in the Senate evinced the temper of
the people. Jay, in the meantime was called "traitor"; his mission was declared a failure and
the treaty was attacked from many sides.

At this juncture special mention must be made of the objections of the southerners on the ground
that the treaty did not provide for the return of their property, while the objection of the
North was not so pressing. In fact, northerners acquiesced in the opinion of Hamilton who had
substantially the same view that Grenville had.[51] Thus we see the first glimpse of the North
becoming estranged from the South because of the difference of opinion in regard to the Negro.

The leading source of dissatisfaction of the treaty of Jay seemed to be a failure to get compensation
for the Negroes carried away by Great Britain. The stipulation, moreover, was not definite,
for many constructions could be placed upon it. The words of the treaty, moreover, were too
vague and uncertain to express accurately the intention of the signers. Whether Negroes whom
the British carried away could any longer be considered American property, seemed to be the
crux of the situation. Although no definite settlement could be reached by the two nations,
authorities of international law[52] give the case to Great Britain. One rule which was recognized
by the foremost nations of the world was to the effect that a slave escaping in war becomes
free. Concerning this Halleck says that such slaves cannot be regained by their former masters.[53]
Woolsey says that "a slave sojourning to a free land cannot be treated as his master's property--as
destitute of jural capacity." To the same purport, Heffter says "in no case is a state bound
to allow the slavery which subsists in others." Dana, in his edition of Wheaton's International
Law supports this contention.[54]

Dissatisfied with results but not discouraged, however, Washington appointed commissioners,
December 7th, 1798, to work with commissioners from Great Britain and proceed with the infractions
of the treaty. Dissatisfaction became more intense. Claimants were pressing on all sides for
a fair compensation for the loss of their property. So serious was the situation that the House
of Representatives went beyond its accustomed limitation and discussed in 1798 the treaty-making
power of the United States. Pressure had been brought to bear upon the representatives of the
people because the Jay Treaty had been ratified by the President and Senate and it did not
contain a provision covering the return of the Negroes.

Further efforts, nevertheless, were made to adjust the differences between the two countries.
They, however, were of little avail. The Republican policy of Jefferson which this country
strictly followed from 1801 to 1809 had as its basic principle that governments ought to do
as little as possible. Hence our army and navy were cut down to the extent that the American
Government could not assert itself against foreign encroachment. Particularly in 1804 our relations
with Great Britain became worse when the Jay Treaty of 1794 by agreement was allowed to expire.
To compel Great Britain to come to terms Congress enacted a non-important act which never had
the desired effect.

Soon thereafter the continental system and the paper blockade engaged the attention of the
American Government. Negotiations had failed. Great Britain would not make a treaty. The accumulation
of injuries called for action of some kind. To yield and say nothing meant to give up the rights
of an independent nation. For this reason Jefferson introduced in 1807 the Embargo with which
he hoped to force France as well as Great Britain to come to terms--to recognize the United
States as a "free sovereign and independent nation." Meanwhile a spirit of nationality was
developing in the country. Soon thereafter war was declared and waged against Great Britain
to win the respect and honor which every nation deserves.

In this state of war the provisions of the Treaty of Paris and the Jay Treaty were nullified.
In response to an inquiry as to whether these treaties, so far as they were not fully executed,
terminated by the War of 1812, the British Department of State in a communication replied that
"with respect to the treaties you are informed that they were claimed by Great Britain at the
conclusion of the Treaty of Ghent to have terminated by the War of 1812."

Against this view the United States protested. In the decision of the Supreme Court of the
United States in the case of the Society for the Propagation of the Gospel v. the Town of New
Haven, the view was expressed that provisions of a treaty remain in full force in spite of
war.[57] The general rule of inter-national law, however, is that war terminates all subsisting
treaties between the belligerent powers.[58] The United States, moreover, soon acquiesced in
this view, for President Polk in his message to Congress, December 7, 1847, said, "a state
of war abrogates treaties previously existing between the belligerents."[59] Great Britain
then was legally excused by the best authorities of the world from executing fully the provisions
of the Treaty of 1783 and the Jay Treaty of 1794.

As a result, the same policy in regard to the carrying away of Negroes was followed during
the War of 1812.[60] While the British forces were occupying the forts and harbors of the United
States, Negroes came within their possession. Many were induced to run away while others were
captured in battles. From the Dauphin Islands-possessions claimed to be without the limits
of the newly acquired Louisiana territory the British carried away slaves. In fact, from whatever
places the British occupied they carried away Negroes. Many Negroes came also into the possession
of the British by the proclamation of Admiral Cochrane of Great Britain, April 2, 1814, setting
such loyal adherents free. In effect, this proclamation extended an invitation to all persons
desiring to change their slave status. Although the proclamation[61] did not specify the Negroes,
the meaning and object of Admiral Cochrane was evidently to bring Negroes within the British
lines. Many, to be sure, responded to the proclamation. As many more, no doubt, were carried
away from the United States by the British under the veil that they were captives in the war
and, therefore, no longer the property of American inhabitants.

With victory assured and the representatives of Great Britain and America assembled in Ghent,
July 11, 1814, one of the first questions for the commissioners to consider was evidently the
return of the Negroes. This question had primary consideration in the final draft of the Treaty
of Ghent. By the first article of the treaty it was provided that "all possessions whatsoever
taken by either party during the war or which might have been taken after the signing of this
treaty shall be restored without delay and that these possessions should not be destroyed."
It specified, moreover, that artillery, public and private property, originally captured in
the forts of the United States should not be carried away.[62]

Negroes were carried away by the British forces after the treaty was signed as well as before.
In Georgia many Negroes came into possession of the British at Cumberland Island fortified
by Admiral Cockburn.[63] In a letter dated November 22, 1914, Joseph Cabell gave evidence to
support the above-mentioned facts when he declared that he was on board a British squadron
in Lynnhaven Bay at the time Major Thomas of York attempted to recover his Negroes, who had
gone off to the British and that the destination of the Negroes on board the ships was a subject
of curiosity and concern. Soon, however, he learned that they were to be sold in the Bahamas.[64]
From another reliable source comes the information that a shameful traffic had been carried
on in the West Indies.[65] Secretary Monroe presented to the Senate, moreover, an affidavit
of a Captain Williams who had been a prisoner in the Bahamas for some time. In this he declared
that he had been present at the sale of Negroes taken from the vicinity of Norfolk and Hampton.
"This affidavit," said Monroe, "was voluntarily given and the facts have been corroborated
by a variety of circumstances."

Such information was given in the Senate. In discussing the ratification of the treaty the
Senate suggested that commissioners be appointed to carry into effect the first article. In
line with this view John Quincy Adams, Henry Clay, and Albert Gallatin were authorized to supervise
the execution of this article. In a communication to Secretary Monroe, Feb. 23, 1815, the commissioners
reported that "all slaves and other private property are claimed to be delivered up."[66]

So much progress in so short a time was remarkable. To adjust all the claims in an amicable
way would hardly occur. It was soon learned by the commissioners that "all slaves and other
private property" were delivered up by the British using as their guide a different construction
of Article I. "The construction," Monroe said, "ignored the distinction which existed between
public and private property." Had it been intended he continued, "to put slaves and other private
property on the same ground with artillery and other public property the terms "originally
captured in the said forts or places which shall remain therein on the exchange of the ratification
of the Treaty" would have followed at the end of the sentence after "slaves and other private
property."[67] With their construction, he contended that both interests, the public and private
would have been subject to the same limitation. Besides, Monroe held that the restrictive words
immediately following "artillery and other public property" was not intended to include the
words "slaves and other private property." If "the slaves and other private property" are placed
on the same footing with artillery and other public property, "the consequences must be that
all will be carried away."

Monroe learned, furthermore, that Mr. Baker, Charge D'affaires of Great Britain, had placed
another construction on Article I of the treaty. In this new construction he had made a distinction
between slaves who were in British ships of war in American waters and those in the ports held
by British forces at the time of the exchange of ratifications.[68] Monroe and the commissioners,
on the other hand, were of the opinion that the United States was entitled to all slaves in
possession of the British forces within the limits of the United States forts or British ships
of war. Concerning this opinion Baker wrote April 3, 1815, that it could not be shown that
Monroe's construction was sanctioned by the words of the Article. "If this construction had
been known then," he remarked, "we would have decidedly objected to it and proposed others."[69]

Accessible reports indicate that the governments of Great Britain and the United States persisted
in the constructions given by their respective representatives. Clavelle, the Commander-in-Chief
of the British forces in the Chesapeake, claimed that the treaty meant only such slaves or
other private property should be delivered up as were "originally captured in the forts or
places to be restored." In conformity with their construction of the Article, Clavelle refused
furthermore to restore the slaves taken from Tangier Islands, because they were not originally
captured there. The United States, on the other hand, was of the opinion that the country was
entitled to all slaves within its limits on the exchange of the ratifications of the treaty.
The United States believed, finally, that the carrying away of Negroes applied to both kinds
of property because the word was common to both descriptions.

By the usage of civilized nations in cases of invasion private property with the exception
of maritime captures was respected. This meant, in effect, that none could be lawfully taken
away. Influenced by this usage Great Britain receded from her position and declared that the
claim of the United States to indemnification for her slaves--had never been resisted. In the
meantime Great Britain declared April 10, 1816, that she could not consider any property which
had been previous to ratification of the treaty removed on shipboard as "property forming a
subject for a claim of restoration or indemnification." In spirit, these two declarations were
contradictory. Besides they made the subject more difficult and puzzling.

In the meanwhile the work of the commissioners continued. In their efforts to take an inventory
of the slaves so that the claims might be adjusted, they encountered the opposition of Clavelle
and Cockburn. It was clearly evident that the efforts of the commissioners would be of no avail.
More coercive means were necessary to settle such an extended and controversial question. In
a convention of commerce between Great Britain and the United States October 20, 1818, representatives
realized that an agreement in regard to the Negroes was hardly possible. The representatives
from the United States, therefore, offered to refer the differences to some friendly sovereign
or State to be named for that purpose. They agreed further to consider the decision of such
a friendly sovereign or State to be "final and conclusive."[70]

Very soon thereafter the Emperor of Russia offered to use his good offices as mediator and
after a short discussion, his proposal was accepted. To this end there was concluded on June
30, 1822, a convention in which the adjustment of the claims for indemnity was left to a mixed
commission. This action was followed by desultory and extended discussions which terminated,
nevertheless, in the final disposition of the controversy. The point of difference was decided
in favor of the United States. In handing down his decision the Emperor held that the limitations
as to the restitution of public property bore no relation to private property. In effect, he
said that the treaty prohibited the carrying away of any private property whatever from the
places and territories stipulated in Article I of the Treaty of Ghent. He contended that "the
United States was entitled to consider as having been carried away all slaves who had been
transported from those territories on board of English vessels within the waters of American
territories and who for that reason had not been restored."[71]

In compliance with the decision of the Emperor of Russia a mixed commission, one commissioner
and one arbitrator from Great Britain as well as the United States met July 30, 1822, at Washington,
D.C., under the Emperor's mediation.[72] For the United States Langdon Cheves was the commissioner
and Henry Sewell the arbitrator; for Great Britain George Jackson was the commissioner and
John McTavish the arbitrator. George Hay was appointed, also, by the President of the United
States to give such information and support that might be needed since individual claimants
could not be present. The purpose of the commission was to prove the average value of the Negroes
at the time of the ratification of the treaty and to determine the validity of individual claims.
In the event no agreement could be reached recourse was had to the Emperor of Russia whose
decision would be "final and conclusive." This action was insisted upon by America, whereas
Great Britain persisted in refusing to submit such matters to the Emperor. Their progress,
as a result, was not very marked. In considering the "definitive lists"[73] of claims these
commissioners encountered many more doubtful and intricate problems. Claims not contained in
this list were not to be taken cognizance of; nor was the British government required to make
compensation for them. With respect to compensation, Great Britain promised to produce all
evidence which was in the possession of her naval and military officers concerning the number
of slaves carried away. It was provided by the commission that no payment was to be made within
twelve months. September 11, 1822, the board unanimously agreed on the average value of slaves
as follows:

  Each slave from Louisiana                            $580
  Each slave from Georgia, South Carolina, Alabama      390
  Each slave from Maryland, Virginia and other States   280

The next difficulty of the board occurred in regard to the allowance of interest on claims.
Concerning this point, Cheves held that a reasonable compensation for the injury sustained
should have been granted. "A just compensation," said Cheves, "is the reestablishment of the
thing taken away with an equivalent for the use of it during the period of detention." In reply
to this Jackson held that the convention of 1822 did not grant the commissioners the power
to fix interests and, besides, that interests not being a part of the debt could not be allowed.
Realizing the futility of his claims Cheves offered to submit the difference to arbitration,
but Jackson declined.

Equally difficult questions arose in regard to the slaves taken away from Dauphin Island in
Mobile Bay.[74] This island, controlled by the British during the war, was later surrendered
to the United States. Concerning this Jackson held that it was not legally at the time of the
ratifications of the treaty a part of the United States, that is, it was not a part of Louisiana
but belonged to West Florida, which was not ceded to the United States until 1819.[75] In regard
to this Cheves offered to refer these claims to arbitration, but in this view Jackson refused
to acquiesce. The situation did not become any better even when Rufus King was sent as our
minister to England to succeed Henry Clay who became John Quincy Adams's Secretary of State.

Continued disagreement of the representatives of Great Britain and the United States resulted.
Their failure to agree upon the provisions of the Convention of 1822--that matters under dispute
be referred to arbitration made the work of this convention of little avail. Clay's offer of
settlement was not favorably received in Great Britain. As to a basis of compromise, Clay said
that the "total number of slaves on the definitive list was 3,601; that the entire value of
all the property for which the indemnity was claimed including interest might be stated at
$2,693,120." Realizing that this large sum would never be secured, Clay suggested that $1,151,800
might be used as the minimum in the negotiation. He used as a guide the fact that Parliament
had appropriated 250,000 pounds to cover the awards of the commission. This sum, Mr. King observed
also, was nearly the sum mentioned as a minimum by Clay in his instructions to him. Even with
this information, the commissioners made little progress.

On the other hand, Mr. Vaughan, the British Envoy at Washington, said April 12, 1826, "that
His Majesty's Government regretted to find themselves under the absolute impossibility of accepting
the terms of compromise offered by the envoy from the United States in London." He did not
admit, moreover, that the question of interest should be referred to arbitration, but maintained
that the demand was unwarranted by the convention and unfounded by the Law Officers of the
Crown.[76] In reply to his observation, Clay informed Vaughan of the fact that Great Britain's
representatives had refused to refer many questions to arbitration and that if this refusal
to cooperate in this regard should be upheld it would virtually be making him the final judge
of every question of difference that arose in the joint commission.[77] This disagreement continued
until 1825, when the commissioners met to collect and weigh evidence.

Soon thereafter, Albert Gallatin, who had been appointed Envoy of the United States to London,
was authorized to treat with Canning on the oft-discussed question. During the first interview
he discovered that, while there was a great reluctance to recede from the ground already taken
by Jackson, there was also a disposition to settle that controversy.[78] Following the instructions
given to King, Gallatin used the 250,000 pounds as the basis of settlement. This sum he was
authorized to accept. He, however, did not make this offer known immediately but waited for
the formal offer of $1,200,000 from the British Government; and in conformity with his instruction
of a later date, Gallatin offered as an ultimatum an acceptance of $1,204,960, which the British
Government reluctantly agreed to pay.[79]

On November 13, 1826, a convention to carry out this agreement was concluded. The amount specified
above was to cover all claims under the award of the Emperor of Russia. It provided, moreover,
that the money was to be paid in Washington, in the current money of the United States, in
two installments; the first twenty days after the British Minister in the United States should
have been officially notified of the ratifications of the convention, and the second August
1, 1827. In this way the convention of 1822 was annulled, save as to the two articles relating
to the average value of slaves which had been carried into effect, and as to the third article
as related to the definitive list which had also been carried out.[80] This ended the work
of the board. After ratification had been exchanged the board adjourned, March 26, 1827.

This left one more matter to be disposed of, that of executing the provisions of the commission
of 1826. In compliance with this Congress passed an act, March 2, 1827, to carry out this agreement.[81]
A convention was thereby called to meet in Washington July 10th and proceed with the consideration
of claims, "allowing such further time for the production of evidence as they should think
just." As soon as the claims were validated and the principal amounts ascertained seventy-five
per cent of the principal was paid with the explanation that when all claims were settled,
the other twenty-five per cent would be paid, if the fund permitted it. If it did not, then
the remainder would be distributed in proportion to the sums awarded. In these negotiations,
Langdon Cheves and Henry Sewell, who had only recently represented the United States in London,
together with James Pleasants of Virginia, were appointed commissioners. They considered not
only the claims on the definitive list but also those deposited in the Department of State
and which had not been previously adjusted.

The conflicting interests of payments and the inconclusive evidence which were presented made
the work of this convention more difficult. The records were very poor and contained little
of the information desired. For this reason many claims were denied; especially was this true
in Maryland and Virginia.[82] Many of the claimants of other States nevertheless were compensated.
Seventy-five per cent was granted them, the sum totalling $600,000 being paid. This condition
of affairs caused a clash among the 1,100 claimants, 700 of whose petitions on the definitive
list were examined. Many other claimants were seeking evidence to secure compensation. They
were not successful, however, for Cheves opposed the admission of hearsay testimony as well
as the testimony of slaves. Well informed as to the progress of the commission, Congress passed
an act May 15, 1828,[83] specifying August 31st as the last day on which the commission would
meet. Of that entire amount awarded $1,197,422.18 had been paid to the claimants. The remaining
sum was "distributed and paid ratably," to all the claimants to whom compensation had been
made. The work of the Convention of 1827 thus ended.

                                             ARNETT G. LINDSAY

FOOTNOTES:

[1] This dissertation is the result of the researches of Mr. A. G. Lindsay under Dr. C. G.
Woodson at Howard University during the academic year 1919-1920 and was submitted to the Committee
on Graduate Studies in candidacy for the degree of Master of Arts. Dr. C. G. Woodson was the
chairman of this committee.

The following sources were used in the preparation of this manuscript: American State Papers,
Foreign Relations; American State Papers, Confidential Documents; American State Papers, Wait's
Edition; Annals of Congress; Diary of John Quincy Adams, in his Memoirs; Diplomatic Correspondence;
Force, American Archives; Journals of Congress; Journals of Continental Congress; McDonald's
Source Book of American History; Niles Register; Treaties and Conventions, Edition 1889; United
States Statutes at Large.

The following works were also consulted: John Adams, Works; Van Tyne, The American Revolution;
American Historical Association Reports; Babcock, Rise of American Nationality; Benton, Naval
History of England; Channing, History of the United States; Ford, Washington's Writings; Ford,
Jefferson's Writings; Fiske, Critical Period; Gibb, Administrations of Washington and Adams;
The Journal of Negro History; Morse, John Adams; Naval Chronicle of England; Ramsay, History
of South Carolina, Edition, 1809; Sparks, Washington; Moore, International Arbitration; Moore,
Digest of International Law; Wharton, Digest of International Law, Edition, 1887; Halleck,
Elements of Law; Wheaton, Elements of Law, Edition, by Dana.

[2] Ramsay, History of South Carolina, Edition, 1809, Vol. I, pp. 474-475.

[3] American Historical Association, Vol. I, p. 273. F. A. Ogg, American State Papers, Vol.
IV, p. 304.

[4] Moore, International Arbitrations, p. 350.

[5] Van Tyne, American Revolution, p. 61; Force, American Archives, 4th Series, III, 1385.

                                        H. CLINTON.
  By his Excellency's Commander
      JOHN SMITH, Sec.

Journal of Continental Congress, II, 26; Van Tyne, American Revolution.

[7] Force, American Archives, I, 486, Fifth Series.

[8] Journal of Continental Congress, II, 26.

[9] Ramsay, History of South Carolina, Edition, 1809, I, 474.

[10] Moore's Historical Notes, 14; Journal of Negro History, Vol. I, p. 117.

[11] Jefferson's Works, Vol. II, p. 426.

[12] Sparks, Washington's Works, III, 218.

[13] Channing's History of the United States, Vol. III, pp. 348-369.

[14] American Historical Association Report, Vol. I, p. 273.

McDonald, Documentary Source Book of American History, p. 208.

[16] American Historical Association Report, 1874, p. 421. Waits, American State Papers, Vol.
I, p. 279.

[17] Journal of Negro History, Vol. II, pp. 411-422.

[18] Sparks, Washington, Vol. VIII, Appendix, p. 544.

[19] Washington to Daniel Parker in Ford's Washington's Writing, X, 246-247.

[20] Ford's Edition of Jefferson's Writings, p. 127.

[21] Journal of Negro History, Vol. II, p. 417.

[22] Ford, Washington's Writings, X, 241-243.

[23] Journal of Negro History, II, 418.

[24] Diplomatic Correspondence, Vol. XI, p. 335.

[25] Ford, Washington's Writings, X, 241-243.

[26] American State Papers--Foreign Relations, I, p. 190.

[27] Ibid., I, p. 191.

[28] Ibid., I, pp. 188-192.

[29] American State Papers, Foreign Relations, Vol. I, pp. 188-192.

[30] Blank certificate--New York, April 23, 1783.

This is to certify to whomsoever it may concern that the bearer hereof ........... a Negro
restored to the British Lines in consequence of the proclamation of Sir William Howe and Sir
Henry Clinton, late Commanders-in-chief in America; and that the said Negro has hereby his
excellency's Sir Guy Carleton's permission to go to Nova Scotia or wherever else ..........
may think proper.

                              By order of
                                   BRIGADIER GEN. BUCK.
  E. WILLIAMS,
      Major of Brigade.

[31] American State Papers, Vol. I, pp. 190-192.

[32] McDonald's Source Book of American History, p. 208.

[33] American Historical Association Report, Vol. I, p. 276.

[34] Annals of Congress, 4th Congress, p. 970.

[35] Report of the American Historical Association, pp. 413-444; Diplomatic Correspondence
1783-1789 (3 Vol. ed.), II, 340.

[36] Morse, John Adams, p. 235.

[37] Adams' Works, Vol. VIII, p. 303.

[38] American Historical Association Report, 1894, p. 422. McLaughlin. American State Papers,
Foreign Relations, Vol. I, p. 122.

[39] American Historical Association Report, 1894, p. 422.

[40] American State Papers, Confidential Documents, Vol. X, p. 80.

[41] American State Papers, Confidential Documents, Vol. X, p. 85.

[42] McLaughlin, Western Posts and British Debts, p. 423 in American Historical Association
Report, 1894.

[43] American State Papers, Foreign Relations, Vol. I, pp. 470-472.

[44] Jay to Randolph, American State Papers, Vol. I, p. 485.

[45] American State Papers, Vol. I, p. 485.

[46] Ibid., p. 486.

[47] American Historical Association Report, Vol. I, pp. 273-298.

[48] American State Papers, Vol. I, p. 501.

[49] Ibid., p. 509.

[51] Annals of Congress--4th Session, 1795-96, p. 1006.

[52] Halleck, Elements of Law, p. 358.

[53] Ibid., p. 359.

[54] Wheaton's Edition by Dana, page 441.

[55] American State Papers--Foreign Relations, Vol. II, p. 46.

[56] American State Papers--Foreign Relations, Vol. II, p. 48.

[57] Moore, Digest of International Law, Vol. V, page 372.

[58] Ibid., page 375.

[59] Ibid., pp. 375-376.

[60] American State Papers--Foreign Relations, Vol. IV., p. 106.

[61] This proclamation was:

    "Whereas it has been represented to me that many persons now
    resident in the United States have expressed a desire to withdraw
    therefrom, with a view of entering his Majesty's service, or of
    being received as Free Settlers in some of his Majesty's colonies

    "This is therefore to give notice

    "That all those who may be disposed to emigrate from the United
    States will with their families be received on board his Majesty's
    ships or vessels of war or at the military ports that may be
    established upon or near the coast of the U.S. where they will
    have their choice of either entering his Majesty's sea or land
    forces, or of being sent as Free Settlers to the British
    possessions in North America or the West Indies where they will
    meet all due encouragement.

    "Given under my hand at Bermuda this 2nd day of April, 1814.

    "By Command of VICE ADMIRAL WILLIAM BALHETCHET
                    "ALEX. COCHRANE."

Niles Register, Vol. VI, p. 242.

[62] Article I, Treaty of Ghent:

    "There shall be a firm and universal peace between His Britannic
    Majesty and the United States, and between their respective
    countries, territories, cities, towns, and people, of every
    degree, without exception of places or persons. All hostilities,
    both by sea and land, shall cease as soon as this treaty shall
    have been ratified by both parties as hereinafter mentioned. And all archives, records, deeds, and papers, either of
    a public nature, or belonging to private persons which in the
    course of the war may have fallen into the hands of the officers
    of either party, shall be as far as may be practicable forthwith
    restored and delivered to the proper authorities and persons to
    whom they respectively belong. Such of the islands on the Bay of
    Passama-Quoddy as are claimed by both parties shall remain in the
    possession of the party in whose occupation they may be at the
    time of the exchange of the ratifications of this treaty, until
    the decision respecting the title to the said islands shall have
    been made in conformity with the fourth article of this treaty. No
    disposition made by this treaty as to such possession of the
    islands and territories claimed by both parties, shall in any
    manner whatever be construed to effect the right of either...."

[63] American State Papers, Foreign Relations, Vol. III, p. 750.

[64] Ibid., Vol. III, page 751.

[65] Moore's International Arbitration, page 350.

[66] Naval Chronicle, Vol. XXIV, page 213.

[67] Moore's International Arbitration, p. 352.

[68] American State Papers, Vol. IV, p. 105.

[69] Ibid., p. 108.

[70] American State Papers, Vol. IV, p. 126.

[71] Moore's International Arbitration, p. 363.

[72] American State Papers, Foreign Relations, Vol. V, p. 214.

[73] Maryland, 714; Va., 1721; S.C., 10; Ga., 833; La., 259; Miss., 22; Del., 2; Ala., 18;
D. C., 3--page 801, Vol. V, American State Papers.

[74] Moore, International Arbitration, p. 377.

[75] Ibid., p. 377.

[76] American State Papers, Foreign Relations, Volume VI, page 344; 746.

[77] Ibid., Vol. VI, p. 746.

[78] American State Papers, Foreign Relations, Vol. VI, p. 348.

[79] Ibid., Vol. VI, p. 352.

[80] Ibid., Vol. VI, p. 372.

[81] Ibid., Vol. VI, p. 339

[82] American State Papers, Foreign Relations, Vol. VI, page 855.

[83] Four Statutes at Large, page 269.

THE NEGRO IN POLITICS[1]

A treatise on the Negro in politics since the emancipation of the race may be divided into
three periods; that of the Reconstruction, when the Negroes in connection with the interlopers
and sympathetic whites controlled the Southern States, the one of repression following the
restoration of the radical whites to power, and the new day when the Negro counts as a figure
in politics as a result of his worth in the community and his ability to render the parties
and the government valuable service.

While the echoes of the Civil War were dying away, the South attempted to reduce the Negro
to a position of peonage by the passage of the black codes. Many northern men led by Sumner
and Stevens, who at first tried to secure the cooperation of the best whites, became indignant
because of this attitude of the South and were reduced to the necessity of forcing Negro suffrage
upon the South at the point of the bayonet, believing that the only way to insure the future
welfare of the Negro was to safeguard it by giving him the ballot. Under the protection of
these military governments, the Negroes and certain more or less fortunate whites gained political
control. The southern white men, weary and disgusted because of the outcome of their attempts
at secession, maintained an attitude of sullenness and indifference toward the new regime and
accordingly offered at first very little opposition to the Negro control of politics. The Negroes,
upon their securing the right of suffrage, however, turned at once to their former masters
for political leadership,[2] but the majority of these southern gentlemen refused to "lower
their dignity" by political association with the Negroes. The few southern gentlemen who did
affiliate with the Negroes were dubbed "scalawags" by their former friends and cast out of
southern society.

The Negroes were then forced, because of the lack of cooperation on the part of the southern
whites, to accept the leadership of certain northern men who came South for the sole purpose
of personal gain and exploitation. These men were in some cases of an extremely low order and
were in a large measure responsible for the corruption of Reconstruction days. They were contemptuously
called "carpetbaggers" by the southern whites because they were so poor that they could carry
all of their possessions in a carpet bag. Some of these white men were conscientious, however,
and served these States honorably. Most Negroes, therefore, were under the leadership of these
three elements: southern men who were regarded by their neighbors as men of the lowest possible
order, unscrupulous adventurers from the North, and some intelligent members of their own race
like B. K. Bruce, John R. Lynch, R. B. Elliot, and John M. Langston. This ill-assorted group
of politicians reconstructed the Southern States.

The wisdom of this policy has been widely questioned. From the point of view of most white
men studying Reconstruction history this effort to make the Negro a factor in politics was
a failure, the elimination of the Negro from politics was just, and the rise of the Negro to
political power even today is viewed with alarm. The opinions of the biased historians in this
field will be interesting. Several writers refer to the Negro carpet bag movement as an effort
to found commonwealths upon the votes of an ignorant Negro electorate, as working an injustice
both to the whites and the blacks in that it made the South solidly democratic.[3] J. G. de
R. Hamilton, exaggerating the actual basis of Reconstruction in the southern commonwealths,
which were never fully controlled by the Negroes, speaks of the work as having left as a legacy
"a protest against anything that might threaten a repetition of the past, when selfish politicians,
backed up by the Federal Government, for party purposes, attempted to Africanize the State
and deprive the people through misrule and oppression of most that life held dear."[4] John
W. Burgess calls the effort an "extravagant humanitarianism which had developed in the minds
of the Reconstruction leaders to the point of justifying, not only the political equality of
the races but the political superiority at least in loyalty to the Union, the constitution
and republican government, of the uncivilized Negroes of the South."[5] Burgess sees justice
in subjecting the inferior to the superior class but none in subjecting the superior to the
inferior.

Of these radical utterances historians need take but little notice. They are of value here
for the reason that they show the lack of scientific Reconstruction history. No intelligent
man who lived through this stormy period or who has read documents bearing on its history will
contend that these commonwealths were Africanized merely because the Negroes along with the
formerly disfranchised and ignorant poor whites were given the right of suffrage. It will be
difficult to prove that the majority of poor whites in the South were at this time sufficiently
intelligent and experienced in statecraft to give those commonwealths a much better government
than that administered by the Negroes and "Carpet baggers"; for the South had been ruled by
few aristocratic families, most of whom because of participation in the Civil War, could not
on the cessation of hostilities be given the reins of government. A few who had not had any
such connection with the Confederacy haughtily refused to cooperate with the Negroes in the
reconstruction of these governments, although they were persistently invited by the Negroes
who were thus advised by Thaddeus Stevens and Charles Sumner, who showed foresight in trying
to secure the cooperation of the best white element in the South.[6] These statesmen, however,
are generally slandered by uninformed writers who contend that Sumner and Stevens did not thus
proceed. The Negroes not only sought the leadership of the whites but showed unusual humaneness
toward their poverty-stricken former masters by passing, as they did in South Carolina, stay
laws to postpone the payment of their many war debts secured by mortgages on their property.

Statistics show, moreover, that with the exception of South Carolina and Mississippi, no State
and not even any department of a State government was ever dominated altogether by Negroes.
The Negroes never wanted and never had complete control in the Southern States.[7] The most
important offices were generally held by white men. Only two Negroes ever served in the United
States Senate, Hiram R. Revells and B. K. Bruce; and only twenty ever became Representatives
in the House: and all of these did not serve at the same time, although some of them were elected
for more than one term.

The charge that the men who were elected to office by the Negroes were always of the most debased
and degenerate type is untrue. Because of the refusal of the southern aristocracy to cooperate
with them, however, the Negroes were forced to elect such men as they were able to secure.
Numerous promising and respectable whites who were elected to office by the Negroes, became
corrupt and unprincipled on account of the treatment tendered them by the aristocratic whites.
From among the Negroes themselves, the very best men available were chosen to hold offices.
Among these were former slaves who had been made trustworthy servants of their masters and
free Negroes who had received some education. Some of these Negroes served in their official
capacity with honor and credit. A number of them were also respected by certain fairminded
southern whites.[8]

Numerous examples of the high regard which the whites of certain communities had for the Negro
leaders can be cited. Samuel J. Lee, of Charleston, South Carolina, was considered by his white
contemporaries as one of the best criminal lawyers which the State had produced. At his death
all local courts were declared adjourned and the entire city paid him homage. The late Bishop
Isaac Clinton served, as Treasurer of Orangeburg, South Carolina, for eight years. Like Mr.
Lee, he was held in high esteem by his white neighbors and upon the occasion of his funeral,
the business of the community was suspended as a mark of respect to his memory. In certain
communities, as in South Carolina, some Negroes were retained as office holders for a number
of years after the supremacy of the Democratic party was assured. In Georgetown, South Carolina,
Mr. George Harriot was Superintendent of Education for the county for years under the Democratic
party. Beaufort, South Carolina, retained Negroes as sheriffs and school officials until a
few years ago.[9]

J. T. White, Commissioner of Public Works and Internal Improvements in the State of Arkansas;
M. W. Gibbs, Municipal judge in Little Rock, and J. C. Corbin, State Superintendent of Schools
in the same State, had records equally as creditable. The same may be said of F. L. Cardoza,
State Treasurer of South Carolina, Richard T. Greener, a professor in the University of that
commonwealth, Oscar Dunn, Lieutenant-Governor of Louisiana and P.B.S. Pinchback, Acting Governor
of that State.[10] The record of Dubuclet, according to Dr. Woodson, should receive special
mention. In contradistinction to the rule of stealing from the public treasury, this man who
served as Treasurer of the State of Louisiana even after the other departments of the government
had been taken from the Negroes, in as much as the term of service of the Treasurer was six
years rather than four, was investigated with a view to finding out some act of misuse of the
public funds that he might be impeached and thrown out of office. The committee, of which E.D.
White, now Chief Justice of the United States Supreme Court, was chairman, reported after much
deliberation that Dubuclet's funds had been honestly handled and that there were no grounds
on which proceedings against him could be instituted.[11]

Despite the above mentioned instances of commendable Negro officials, however, the majority
of the Negro functionaries were incompetent and as a result these governments could but collapse.
The charge of corruption laid at the door of the Negro carpetbagger governments is to a large
extent true. The corruption resulted largely from the work of the interlopers from the North
and the "scalawags," using the Negroes to reach their own personal ends. In some of this corruption,
however, the Negro was an apt scholar and freely participated. The Negroes were not as a whole
prepared for the political privileges which were vouchsafed to them and they were to a large
extent under the wrong sort of leadership. It is equally true, however, that governments were
corrupt throughout the United States at this period. The Reconstruction period was one of corruption
and if the Negro governments were of a lower order than a few others, they were not far out
of accord with the times. The white people, who assumed control of the government on overthrowing
the Reconstruction regime, instituted in several States a rule of corruption surpassing even
that of their predecessors. Coming back into office like hungry persons who had been exposed
to the cold atmosphere of an exile, the radical whites filled their purses from the coffers
of the public treasury and defaulted to the amount of thousands of dollars which the tax payers
have had to replace in the years thereafter.[12] The disgraces of Reconstruction, therefore,
have been exaggeratingly flaunted by the South for the same purpose that it proclaims the widespread
false charge of rape of the present day to justify the persecution of the Negro for being "unusually
criminal."

The Negro was finally driven from southern politics through violence and fraud. The chief agent
of the southern whites in accomplishing this was a secret organization known as the Ku Klux
Klan. This organized mob killed off or drove the leading "Carpetbaggers" out of the South and
intimidated the Negroes into submission by perpetrating numerous outrages upon them. After
the whites regained control of the government, through their agents of terror the political
ascendancy of the Negro was at end. The unscrupulous northern friends of the Negro having discovered
that they could no longer successfully exploit them, therefore, abandoned them in the midst
of their calamity. The whites proceeded to solidify the Democratic party and to eliminate the
Negro entirely from politics in the South.

Politically, however, Reconstruction was in several respects a success. In the first place,
the reconstructed governments were democratic, lifting a standard that the backward commonwealths
of the South must still struggle for years to reach. In this social upheaval the poor white
man was politically emancipated by receiving the boon of suffrage theretofore restricted to
persons owning property and given a free and open door to office holding, which, under the
old regime had been restricted to the few aristocrats dominating the country and State governments.
These Negroes gave the South its improved judicial system and did their work so well in framing
some of the constitutions that many of them with the exception of the clauses antagonistic
to the Negro remained about as they were for many years. Although the Democrats got control
of the State in 1877, the constitution of South Carolina of 1868 was not changed materially
until 1893.

The Negro as a factor in reconstruction, moreover, instituted education at the expense of the
public. Through the establishment of public schools with well equipped buildings and prepared
teachers they removed from that system the stigma formerly attached to persons[13] educating
their children at public expense. They, therefore, made of education a foundation upon which
real democracy must build. It is only short sightedness on the part of writers to infer that
because the Negro was in a few years thereafter deprived of the ballot that the good work which
was done during the years that they were permitted to participate in the affairs of these States
could be so easily overthrown, especially so when this progressive part of the program of the
reconstructed governments which the restored whites at first abandoned has later been taken
up and carried out.

Although weakened by the reaction of the North against the methods employed by politicians
in maintaining the reconstructed governments at the South, which moved President Hayes to withdraw
the troops from that area, the Negroes were still of some concern to the Republicans. To retain
their support the Republicans often spoke of foisting upon the South the Force Bill to guarantee
fair elections but rather abandoned the Negro to the fate of working out his own salvation
with his oppressors. In all of the campaigns up to 1888 there was the usual waving of the "bloody
shirt" to array the Negro against the South and of urging the Negro to vote the Republican
ticket to pay the debt he owed the party for his freedom, hypocritically threatening also to
undo many of the things which had been done to the Negro since Reconstruction. There was no
sincerity in these vote-getting declarations, however, and the Negro in the South remained
politically doomed.

Nothing will better bring out this treatment of the Negro by the Republican party than a study
of the consideration given the race in the various platforms of that party following the Civil
war. The Republicans in the convention of 1868 declared themselves in sympathy with all oppressed
peoples struggling for their rights and recognized the principles laid down in the Declaration
of Independence as a true foundation of democratic government. That same year, however, the
Democratic party recognized the question of slavery and secession as having been settled but
denounced Negro supremacy.[14]

In 1872 the platform of the Republican party was somewhat more outspoken. It carried a reference
to the suppression of the rebellion, the emancipation of four million slaves, the grant of
equal citizenship and the establishment of universal suffrage. The Liberal Republicans pledged
themselves to maintain the union of States, emancipation, and enfranchisement and to oppose
any reopening of the questions settled by the Thirteenth, Fourteenth and Fifteenth Amendments
of the Constitution. They advocated the removal of the disabilities of Confederates, the establishment
of civil government at the South, universal amnesty, and impartial suffrage.[16]

In 1876 the Negro was given further mention by the various parties. The Prohibitionists took
the lead in the declaration for equal suffrage and eligibility to office without distinction
of race, religious creed, property or sex.[17] The Republicans referred in their platform to
the permanent restoration of the southern section to the Union and the complete protection
of all citizens in the free enjoyment of all their rights as an issue to which the Republican
party stood sacredly pledged. To this end we imperatively demand a congress and a chief executive
whose courage and fidelity to these duties are placed beyond dispute or recall."[18]

The National Democratic platform of that year, however, spoke for the democracy of the whole
country and declared its faith in the permanence of the Federal Union, and devotion to the
Constitution of the United States with its amendments universally accepted as a final settlement
of the controversies that engendered the Civil War; but took a bold stand for reform as necessary
to rebuild and establish in the hearts of the whole people of the Union eleven years ago happily
rescued from the danger of a secession of States but now to be severed from a corrupt centralism
which after inflicting upon ten States the rapacity of carpet bag tyrannies, had "honey-combed
the offices of the Federal government itself with the contagion of misrule and locked fast
the prosperity of an industrious people in the paralysis of hard times."[19]

In 1880 The Republican party made no particular mention of the grievances of the Negroes but
recited its record in suppressing the rebellion, reconstructing the Union with freedom instead
of slavery as its corner stone, the transformation of four million human beings from the likeness
of things to the rank of citizens and removing Congress from the infamous work of hunting fugitive
slaves and charging it to see that slavery shall not exist. It declared, moreover, that the
South must be divided by the peaceful agencies of the ballot that all opinions might there
find free expression and to this end the honest voter must be protected against terrorism,
violence or fraud.[20]

In 1884 there was no specific reference to the Negro unless it be found in the statement that
the Republican party had gained its strength by "quick and faithful response to the demands
of the people for the freedom and equality of all men; for a united nation, assuring the rights
of all citizens."[21] The platform of the Democratic party carried a declaration equally as
emphatic in that it said, "the preservation of personal rights; the equality of all citizens
before the law; the reserved rights of the States and the supremacy of the Federal government
within the limits of the constitution will ever form the true basis of our liberties." Bills
providing for adequate military protection of the Negroes at the polls were enacted but the
Supreme Court of the United States declared that the Federal Government did not possess the
authority to restrain mobs from interfering with elections. Yet although the mob thus quickly
triumphed in undoing the democratic reforms of Reconstruction, the South hoped thereafter to
reach the same end by imposing on the Negroes a legal disability; for the Fifteenth Amendment
did not assert the right of the Negro to vote. It merely said that suffrage could not be denied
on account of race, color, or previous condition of servitude. As the Negro was generally poor
and in the midst of the economic depression of the South too often had to wander from place
to place to seek a livelihood, he could be easily eliminated by the poll tax, the resident
requirement, and educational tests.

Thus it happened. Mississippi under its new constitution in 1890 eliminated the Negro and in
the next twenty years all of the cotton States except Florida and Texas followed its example.
Arkansas based the franchise on a one year poll tax in 1893; South Carolina required residence,
enrollment, and poll tax in 1895; Delaware adopted an educational test in 1897, Louisiana resorted
to the same test and poll tax in 1898 and North Carolina fell in line in 1900. Alabama established
the residence, registry and poll tax requirement in 1901; and Virginia, Georgia and Oklahoma
based suffrage on property, literacy or poll tax in 1902, 1908, and 1910 respectively. As these
measures bore heavily also upon certain ignorant whites they were relieved of this disability
by the "Grandfather Clause" specifying that the persons deprived by these regulations of the
right to vote might be placed upon the roll of voters if they had exercised this privilege
before the year 1867 or were descended from such voters. This was essentially the clause adopted
in North Carolina, Alabama, Virginia, and Georgia.[24] The Supreme Court, however, has declared
the "Grandfather Clause" a violation of the Fifteenth Amendment.

During the campaigns after 1888 the Republican party made no special mention of the Negro as
it had formerly and did not show any inclination to shoulder the grievances of the race. At
this time the Republicans were face to face with a large element of political reformers led
by the Democrats who, prior to the campaign of 1884 had carried Pennsylvania and New York and
made such other inroads in northern strongholds as to convince the leaders of the Republican
party that the Negro issue and the "bloody shirt" would no longer suffice to hold those voters
who had been won by the intelligent appeal for deliverance from the corrupt practices in the
local and national governments. This movement culminated in the election of Grover Cleveland
in 1884 and in his election the second time in 1892.

To attach Negroes to their cause, to be sure, the Republicans were very deferential to them
in the national conventions, where they were of much service in naming candidates for the national
ticket although they could not vote in the South and were not sufficiently numerous in the
North to be a large factor at the polls. At the convention in 1884, the national committee
had named ex-Senator Powell Clayton of Arkansas as temporary chairman of the convention, an
arrangement which was supposed to be in the interest of Mr. Blaine. The young men of the party
led by Henry Cabot Lodge and Theodore Roosevelt effected the nomination from the floor of John
R. Lynch, a distinguished man of color of Mississippi, and the vote by delegates elected him
to the position by 431 to 387 given to Mr. Clayton.[25] Frederick Douglass received one vote
for the nomination for President in 1888.[26]

After the complete undoing of the Reconstruction the Negroes were at a loss politically. A
number of the foremost Negro politicians, among whom were Frederick Douglass, John R. Lynch,
B. K. Bruce, John M. Langston, John C. Dancy, and a few others, were given positions in the
service of the Federal Government of high sounding titles and little importance, such as Registrar
of the Treasury, Recorder of Deeds, Auditor of the Navy and diplomatic posts in Negro countries.
A greater number of Negroes found an outlet in the civil service. Even up until the present
day it is an ardent desire of the Negro to obtain a civil service appointment. In these positions
the Negroes were able to earn a comparatively easy living but were not able to do anything
constructive for the uplift of their people.

The Negroes, however, had continued to support the Republican party to the full extent of their
strength. But it soon became clear that the support of Negro leaders was little more than an
effort directed toward obtaining a few unimportant offices. The Republicans, having long since
discovered that the Negro vote of most communities can be changed neither to harm nor to help
them, have consequently ceased to consider the danger of losing their support of great import.
The Democratic party, moreover, has continued almost unswervingly its attitude of aloofness
from the Negro. The onesidedness of the Negro vote has been declared by some Negroes to be
the cause of its non-importance. With this political view some few of them have allied themselves
with the Democratic party, feeling that the division of the Negro's vote may work an improvement
in his political status. Because of ex-President Taft's attitude of indifference toward the
Negroes a number of the Negro politicians supported Roosevelt's party in 1912 and many voted
for Wilson in 1916.

With the Negro in this weak position, however, there developed in the South a movement to remove
from the Republican party the stigma of its connection with the Negro by eliminating the members
of that race from the circles of control in the South. This movement has been generally known
as a "Lily-Whiteism." For the last twenty-five years, therefore, there have come to the National
Republican Conventions from the various Southern States contesting delegations, one white and
the other black, each one claiming to be the properly accredited representative of the Republican
party in the State concerned. In some States the "Lily-Whites" have actually held conventions
from which the Negroes were excluded or which they were not permitted to attend. Because of
the difficulty of making good their claim as properly accredited delegates they have abandoned
this method for the subterfuge of holding their conventions in hotels or other exclusive places
which Negroes, because of the social proscription of the race, are prohibited from entering
by an already well established unwritten law.

As a matter of fact the Republican party in such commonwealths no longer exists and these delegates
whether white or black represent merely rotten boroughs. As they are of use, however, in selecting
the candidate to be nominated for president, the administration has been very reluctant to
interfere with the proposed reform in these quarters for the reason that such delegates are
usually made up of persons appointed by the President of the United States to Federal positions
in the South. As the President usually desires to be reelected and can control such a coterie,
it has been very difficult to find one with the courage to give his influence in the direction
of reform.

Early in the winter of the year when the president is to be nominated, persons supporting the
administration usually visit the South laying plans for lining up these prospective delegates.
Politicians interested in other candidates make similar tours through the South sometimes lavishly
handling funds to the extent of buying up delegates. As the whites are in a much better position
to secure the few Federal appointments allotted in the South, after the election, since the
abandonment of the policy of appointing Negroes to these positions, the Negroes have usually
exacted a much larger compensation for their services in the pre-convention struggle than whites
have required, thus shamelessly disgracing themselves in the eyes of those who would expect
the leaders of the race to play a more honorable rôle.

There are in certain sections of the South a number of men who devote all of their time to
electing these delegates for service in these conventions and secure therefore adequate remuneration
for a livelihood from administration to administration. The pliant Negro delegates at the convention
in Chicago in 1908 and 1912 were unequal to the task of nominating a progressive candidate
because of their machine like attachment to the candidacy of William Howard Taft, whom the
American people would not accept. The Negro delegates, however, did much better in the convention
of 1916 and still further improved by the time of the conventions of 1920, when it was impossible
for any pre-convention arrangement or plan to be so carried out that any candidate could come
to the convention saying that he had the Negroes to vote in any particular way. It is encouraging,
moreover, to add that numbers of these delegates had received no funds from any quarter whatever,
but along with white men promoting their party had contributed to the campaign funds and had
paid their own expenses to the convention. They were, therefore, given a more dignified position
in the management of the party affairs and were in many respects shown the same consideration
as that given the white delegates, serving on various important committees and placed in strategic
positions in the management of the campaign without regard to color.

In drawing to a close this discussion of the Negro in politics I wish to accentuate the fact
that while the Negro is at present practically a political nonentity, he is yet potent, as
is illustrated in various parts of the country. For example, at present there are two Negro
councilmen in Chicago, two aldermen in New York, one assemblyman in New York, two councilmen
in Baltimore, three Negro members in the West Virginia legislature, one in the California legislature,
and one in the Indiana legislature. In several of the cities of the North there is such a large
Negro population and so much appreciation among the Negroes of their political power that they
are now launching a movement to nominate and elect members of their race to represent them
in Congress. It is likely that this may soon be effected in Chicago, New York, and Philadelphia.

                                             NORMAN P. ANDREWS

FOOTNOTES:

[1] This article was written under the direction of Dr. C. G. Woodson, under whom the writer
prosecuted various courses in history during the year 1919-1920 at Howard University. The writer
is indebted to him for valuable suggestions and many important facts which Dr. Woodson incorporated
into the dissertation before publishing it. The writer was aided too by suggestions and facts
obtained from Mr. W.T. Andrews, the editor of the Baltimore Herald, Professor Kelly Miller,
and Mr. A. Phillips Randolph, of New York City.

[2] The Journal of Negro History, Vol. V, pp. 110-111.

[3] Eckenrode, Political History of Virginia during Reconstruction, pp. 127, 128, and Thompson,
Reconstruction in Georgia, p. 400.

[4] Hamilton, Reconstruction in North Carolina, p. 607.

[5] Burgess, Reconstruction and the Constitution, p. 218.

[6] The Journal of Negro History, Vol. V, pp. 110-111.

[7] This statement is based on information obtained from numerous participants in the Reconstruction
of the Southern States. Among these are John R. Lynch, Thomas E. Miller, T. T. Allain, and
P. B. S. Pinchback.

[8] This is the testimony of white persons obtained by the writer.

[9] These facts were obtained through Mr. W. T. Andrews who lived in South Carolina.

[10] Simmons, Men of Mark, pp. 113, 829, 948, 1023; Woodson, A Century of Negro Migration,
pp. 124-125.

[11] Report of Joint Committee to Investigate the Treasurer's Office, State of Louisiana, to
the General Assembly, 1877, pp. 7-12. Majority Report; Journal of Negro History, Vol. II, pp.
77-78.

[12] Lynch, Facts of Reconstruction, ch. III. Journal of Negro History, Vol. II, p. 30.

[13] Garner, Reconstruction in Mississippi; Woodson, The Education of the Negro Prior to 1861,
p. 17.

[14] Stanwood, A History of Presidential Elections, 260.

[15] Ibid., 291.

[16] Ibid., 287.

[17] Stanwood, A History of Presidential Elections, 310.

[18] Ibid., 316, 317, 318.

[19] Ibid., 322.

[20] Stanwood, A History of Presidential Elections, 356, 359.

[21] Ibid., 387.

[22] Ibid., 393, 396.

[23] Stanwood, A History of Presidential Elections, 432.

[24] Thorpe, Federal and State Constitutions; Paxson, The New Nation, p. 199.

[25] Stanwood, A History of Presidential Elections, pp. 385-386; Paxson, The New Nation, p. 128.

[26] Stanwood, A History of Presidential Elections, p. 447.

HENRY BIBB, A COLONIZER

The underground railroad has been characterized by one historian of the Negro race as a "safety
valve to the institution of slavery" since it tended to remove from the slave States those
Negroes whose special abilities and leadership might have involved them in insurrections.[1]
Their abilities frequently found an outlet in another land, under different conditions and
in an entirely orderly way. Negroes who fled to Canada were given considerable material aid
by the government of Canada and treated with sympathy by its people. Their own leaders, however,
played no small part in the progress that they made in the British provinces and the names
of Josiah Henson, Martin R. Delany and Henry Bibb stand for intelligence, energy and high qualities
of service on behalf of the race in Canada.

Henry Bibb, born in slavery and without more than the barest rudiments of education, became
prominent in the anti-slavery crusade, was actively associated with the Liberty Party in the
State of Michigan during the forties and when the Fugitive Slave Bill of 1850 drove thousands
of his people out of the North and into Canada he set himself vigorously to the task of settling
them on the land, providing schools and churches, and through his paper, The Voice of the Fugitive,
exercised a good influence upon them at a time when their minds might be expected to be unsettled.
Garrison and others who were active in the anti-slavery movement paid tribute to his services
in that cause.

Bibb's career in slavery is told in his narrative published in New York in 1849.[2] He was
born in Shelby county, Kentucky, in May, 1815, the son of a slave mother and a white father,
and his childhood he sums up by saying that he was "educated in the school of adversity, whips
and chains."

From the slaveholder's standpoint he was a most unsatisfactory servant, being an incorrigible
runaway, a blemish on his moral character which probably accounted for the frequency with which
he changed owners, six separate sales being recorded at prices ranging from $850 to $1200.
The plantation punishments had no effect upon him save to increase his desire for freedom.

As with many another slave the very evils of the system served a purpose in Bibb's life. Denied
education of a normal kind he became observant and his mind was enlightened by what he saw
and heard.

Ill treatment was the incentive to the first attempt of Bibb to secure his freedom. This was
in 1835 and the next few years were occupied with repeated unsuccessful efforts to get away
and to take his wife and child with him. He had heard of Canada and his thoughts ever turned
in that direction. On several occasions his flights led him as far as the Ohio River, the boundary
of freedom, but some force seemed always at hand to drag him back. At the end of 1837 he managed
to reach Cincinnati and spent that winter at Perrysburg with a community of Negroes settled
there. The next summer he risked his freedom in attempting to bring his wife North, was captured,
lodged in jail at Louisville, and managed to escape within a few hours after being locked up.
A year later he renewed the attempt, was again captured, and this time was sold, together with
his wife, to a trader who dealt in the New Orleans market. It was in the fall of 1839 that
the man and wife were exposed for sale in a slave yard on St. Joseph Street and in the narrative
there is an interesting account of the trade in this southern city. Newly arrived blacks were
taken before a city official who inspected their backs to see if they were scarred and also
examined their limbs to see if they were sound. To determine their age the teeth were examined
and the skin pinched on the back of the hand. In the case of old slaves the pucker would remain
for some seconds. There was also rigorous examination as to mental capacity. Slaves who displayed
unusual intelligence, who could read or write or who had been to Canada were not wanted. Bibb
notes that practically every buyer asked him if he could read or write and if he had ever run
away. For attending without leave a religious meeting on a neighboring plantation Bibb was
ordered to receive five hundred lashes. To avoid this he took his wife and child and they hid
in a swamp. Dogs tracked them down and every slave on the plantation witnessed the punishment
that was given. Shortly afterwards the planter sold Bibb to a party of southern sportsmen but
refused to sell the wife whom Bibb never saw again. The new owners quickly resold him to an
Indian from whom he managed to escape and successfully made his way through the Indian Territory,
Missouri and Ohio to Michigan and Detroit.[4] He was never in the South again.

Bibb's arrival in Detroit came at what proved for him a most opportune time, since it gave
scope for his abilities to be utilized in the anti-slavery cause, particularly in the State
of Michigan. The Detroit Anti-Slavery Society had been formed in 1837 and by the end of 1840
there were similar societies all over the State. Michigan, at this time, was probably better
organized and more united in sentiment than any other of the Northwestern States. It was the
era of the Liberty Party whose platform "asserted the overmastering importance of the one question
of the existence of slavery, and the necessity of bringing about a separation of the national
government from all connection with the institution." This third party was facing in 1844 a
crisis over the question of the annexation of Texas for which the South was a unit and on which
the political organizations of the North were divided. Bibb had attended a convention of free
colored people held in Detroit in 1843 and the next year he began to give addresses throughout
the State in the interests of Liberty Party candidates, a full ticket for both Congress and
the State legislature having been nominated. It was a bitter contest in which he engaged. The
Whigs pointed out that they were standing out against the annexation of Texas, a slave empire
in itself, and that votes for a third party would but pave the way for a Democratic victory.
This is exactly what happened. In Michigan the Liberty Party polled six and a half per cent
of the votes, but even this added to the Whig vote would not have brought victory.[5] Bibb
continued to work for the Liberty Party during 1844 and 1845, going also into Ohio with Samuel
Brooks and Amos Dresser. They were more than once mobbed and their meetings broken up by rowdies.

Bibb found his real work when, with the passing of the Fugitive Slave Law in 1850, there began
a trek of colored people out of the Northern States into Canada.[6] Before the end of 1850
several thousand of these people had crossed the border and the situation was one that called
not only for the aid of generous Canadians but for all that leaders among their own people
could do for them. It was Henry Bibb's belief that the future of the people of color in Canada
depended upon getting them settled on the land and his mind turned to the possibilities of
establishing a distinctly Negro colony on land that might be secured as a grant from the Canadian
government or, if necessary, purchased from the government as had been done in the case of
the Buxton settlement established by Rev. William King in what is now Southwestern Ontario.
Bibb succeeded in organizing his colonization society, its object being "to assist the refugees
from American slavery to obtain permanent homes and to promote their social, moral, physical
and intellectual development." It was proposed that 50,000 acres of land should be purchased
from the government at an estimated cost of about two dollars an acre, the purchase money to
be derived partly from contributions and partly from the sale of the land. Each family settling
was to receive 25 acres, five acres to be free of cost provided they cleared and cultivated
it within three years from the time of occupation. The remaining twenty acres was to be paid
for in nine annual installments. Only landless refugees were to receive grants, transfer except
after fifteen years occupation was forbidden and all lands vacated by removal or extinction
of families were to revert to the parent society. Money returned to the society was to be spent
on schools, for payment of teachers and for the purchase of new land. The whole business of
the organization was to be in the hands of a board of trustees.[7]

At the beginning of 1851 Bibb had established a little newspaper, published bi-monthly and
known as The Voice of the Fugitive. In the issue of March 12, 1851, he raises the question
as to what the fugitives stand most in need of and holds that charity is but a handicap to
their progress and that they must work for their own support, preferably on the land. The recommendation
of a recent convention at Sandwich is quoted to the effect that the refugees should go into
agriculture, and that to this end an effort should be made to secure a grant of land from the
Canadian government, this land to be disposed of in 25-acre plots. Bibb suggested that there
should be at least 20,000 acres secured at once.

To aid in forwarding the plans Bibb enlisted the support of a number of Michigan people and
at a meeting held in Detroit on May 21, 1851, the Refugee's Home Society was organized with
the following officers: president, Deacon E. Fish, Birmingham; vice-president, Robert Garner;
secretary, Rev. E. E. Kirkland, Colchester; assistant secretary, William Newman. It was decided
that an effort should be made to secure 50,000 acres of land. New officers appear to have been
elected almost immediately after the society had started operations, the new executives being
as follows: president: J. Stone, Detroit; vice-president, A. L. Power, Farmington; secretary,
E. P. Benham, Farmington; treasurer, Horace Hallock, Detroit.[8] The whole movement was heartily
approved at a convention of colored people held at Sandwich on May 26, 1851. The Canada Land
Company offered to sell large blocks of land to the Society at from two to four dollars an
acre but no large purchases were immediately made. Instead, the society began a canvass for
funds, sending out Charles C. Foote of Commerce and E. P. Benham of Farmington for this purpose.
A letter from Foote in The Voice of the Fugitive of July 30, 1851, says "The plan seems popular
and he looks forward to the day when the colored people will nestle in the mane of the British
lion." In the latter part of 1851 a purchase of land was made from the Canada Company and a
contract was entered into for further purchases as soon as the funds should be available.

At the meeting of the Society held in Farmington on January 29, 1852, the following officers
were elected: president, Nathan Stone, Detroit; vice-president, A. L. Power, Farmington; treasurer,
Horace Hallock, Detroit; recording secretary, E. P. Benham, Livonia; corresponding secretary,
Mrs. Mary Bibb, Windsor; Executive William Lolason, Detroit; Colman Freeman, Windsor; Elisha
Vanzant, Detroit; David Hotchkiss, Amherstburg; and Henry Bibb, Windsor, Vanzant and Bibb were
appointed trustees, the latter reporting the purchase of 200 acres of land at three dollars
an acre. It was decided to reserve ten acres for school purposes, to send out J. F. Dolbeare
as agent to collect funds and to make Bibb's newspaper the official organ of the society.[10]

The second annual report of the Anti-Slavery Society of Canada (1853) reported that at that
time the Refugee's Home Society had purchased 1328 acres of land of which 600 acres had been
taken up by settlers. The scheme was considered a good one but it was emphasized that good
management would be needed. The progress of the Elgin or Buxton settlement showed that success
was possible.

When Benjamin Drew visited Canada in 1854 he found that the Society had purchased nearly 2,000
acres of land, that forty of the 25-acre plots had been taken up and that there were 20 families
located. A school was being maintained during three-fourths of the year, intoxicating liquors
had been completely banned and a society known as the True Band had been organized to look
after the best moral and educational interests of the colony.[11] The colony was fortunate
in the first teacher that was engaged for the school. This was Mrs. Laura S. Haviland, who
came in the fall of 1852 and began her work in the frame building which had been erected for
general meeting purposes. So great was the interest in her Bible classes that even aged people
would come many miles to attend. Similar success attended her experiment of an unsectarian
church. In her autobiography she tells something of the conditions in the colony while she
was there. In their clearings the settlers raised corn, potatoes and other vegetables while
a few had put in two or three acres of wheat. Mrs. Haviland's account of the colony is much
more favorable than some of the adverse stories that were sent abroad regarding it.[12]

Rev. W. M. Mitchell, who was a Negro missionary among his own people in Toronto, makes the
following reference to the colony in his "Underground Railroad":

     "About ten miles from Windsor there is a settlement of 5000 acres
     which extends over a large part of Essex county. It is called the
     Fugitives' Home. Several years ago a very enterprising and
     intelligent fugitive slave ... bought land from the government,
     divided it into 20-acre plots and sold it to other fugitives,
     giving them five to ten years for payments. Emigrants settled
     here in such large numbers that it is called the Fugitives' Home.
     The larger portion of the land is still uncultivated, a great
     deal is highly cultivated and many are doing well."

The writer goes on to point out the evidences of the material advancement of the colony. There
were two schools, the government paying half the salary of the teacher and the other half being
collected from the parents. The school he found was also used for the church services, though
the spirituality of the people seemed low.[13]

The record of Henry Bibb's activities in Canada show that he took a broad view of the refugee
question. He associated himself actively with the Anti-Slavery Society of Canada at its formation
in 1851 and at the first annual meeting held in Toronto in 1852 was elected one of the vice-presidents.
In the reports of this organization will be found several references to his work. He was also
the first president of the Windsor branch of the Anti-Slavery Society and made several tours
through the western end of Upper Canada visiting the Negro communities and speaking on the
slavery issue. In his newspaper, The Voice of the Fugitive, he chronicled every movement that
would aid in the uplift of his people and set forth their needs in an admirable way. Its columns
give a large amount of information concerning the fugitives in Canada after 1850.

Bibb's colonization plan was a well-meant effort to improve the status of the Negro in Canada.
While it lacked the permanence of the Elgin settlement, which even today preserves its character,
it opened the way for a certain number of the refugees to provide for their own needs and it
lessened to some extent the congestion of refugees in border towns like Windsor and Sandwich.
It is a debatable question whether segregation of these people was wise or not. At that time
it seemed almost the only solution of the very pressing problem. After the Civil war many of
the Negroes in Canada returned to the United States and those who remained found conditions
easier. There was usually work for any man who was willing to labor and it is a well-recorded
fact that many of the fugitives, entering the country under the most adverse of circumstances,
succeeded in getting ahead and gathering together property. Benjamin Drew's picture of the
Canadian Negroes as he found them in the middle of the fifties is favorable and when Dr. Samuel
G. Howe investigated the Canadian situation on behalf of the Freedmen's Inquiry Commission
in 1863[14] he was able to report:

     "The refugees in Canada earn a living, and gather property; they
     marry and respect women; they build churches and send their
     children to schools; they improve in manners and morals--not
     because they are picked men but simply because they are free men.
     Each of them may say, as millions will soon say, 'When I was a
     slave, I spake as a slave, I understood as a slave, I thought as
     a slave; but when I became a free man I put away slavish
     things.'"

                                             FRED LANDON

FOOTNOTES:

[1] Williams, G. W., History of the Negro Race in America, N. Y., 1883, Vol. II, p. 58. I am
indebted to the Brooklyn Public Library for the loan of this book.

[3] Compare with this description of a New Orleans slave pen the descriptions of Richmond auctions
by W. H. Russell, My Diary North and South, N. Y., 1863, page 68, and William Chambers, Things
as they are in America, London, 1854, pages 273-286.

[4] He says that his object in going to Detroit was to get some schooling. He was unable to
meet the expense, however, and as he puts it: "I graduated in three weeks and this was all
the schooling I ever had in my life." His teacher for this brief period was W. C. Monroe who
afterwards presided at John Brown's Chatham Convention in May, 1858.

[5] See Smith, Liberty and Free Soil Parties in the Northwest, New York, 1897.

[6] See The Journal of Negro History, Vol. V, No. 1, January, 1920, pp. 22-36.

[7] This plan was recommended by a convention of colored people held at Sandwich, C. W., early
in 1851. See The Voice of the Fugitive, March 12, 1851. A file of this paper for 1851-2 is
in the library of the University of Michigan at Ann Arbor.

[8] The Voice of the Fugitive, June 4, 1851.

[9] The Voice of the Fugitive, Nov. 19, 1851.

[10] Ibid., Jan. 29, 1852. See also The Liberator, June 11, 1852.

[11] Ibid., The Refugee, or the Narratives of Fugitive Slaves in Canada related by themselves,
Boston. 1856, pp. 323-326.

[12] Hairland, A Woman's Life Work, Grand Rapids, 1881, p. 192.

[13] Mitchell, Underground Railroad, London, 1860, pp. 142-149.

[14] Howe, The Refugees from Slavery in Canada West, Report to the Freedmen's Inquiry Commission,
Boston, 1864. The Freedmen's Inquiry Commission was instituted by Stanton in 1863 to consider
what should be done for slaves already freed. The members of the Commission were Dr. Samuel
G. Howe, Robert Dale Owen and James Mackay.

MYRTILLA MINER

A century ago it was generally conceded that a person unfitted for any other occupation either
public or private could at least be a teacher, for many teachers of the colonies were felons
and convicts brought to America to serve as indentured servants. This egregious error, however,
was discovered by the pioneers of the new era in education, who saw clearly enough that the
strength of the nation depended upon the professional as well as the academic equipment of
its teachers and thus the training school for teachers had its birth. Its influence has been
most significant in raising the standards of efficiency in the elementary schools and equally
significant is its need in the high schools and colleges of this country.

No one in the District of Columbia can think of the benefits derived from the professional
teacher training without immediate recollection and sacred memory of its pioneer and benefactress,
Myrtilla Miner. For her noble character, her high ideals, her progressive methods in education,
her struggles against opposition in the pursuit of her Godgiven task, her lasting contribution
of an organized institution for the training of teachers in the spirit of the Master to serve
all humanity, the citizens of the District of Columbia and especially the people of color must
ever revere her memory.[1]

On the 4th of March, 1815, in Brookfield, Madison County, New York, Myrtilla Miner, of poor
and humble, yet of industrious parentage, was born. As a child, though frail of physique and
deprived of opportunity, her indomitable will enabled her to overcome the obstacles of poverty
and superstition as well as poor health. Wading through them all she earned enough by arduous
labor in the hopfields near her home to purchase books for her further enlightenment. These
struggles against fate, however, were the rocks upon which her noble character was built. Here
were sown the seed of sympathy for the weak, appreciation for the struggling, and respect for
the ambitious.

After a year's training at Clinton, Oneida County, New York, where she obtained the elements
of education under the most adverse circumstances of ill health and lack of funds, Miss Miner
accepted a call to teach in Mississippi in order to pay the debts incurred for the training
she had already received. Her experience in Mississippi was indeed invaluable, for there she
learned through horrible experiences the evils of the institution of slavery. She boldly protested
against the cruelties of the slaveholders and the institution in general. She innocently requested
permission to teach the slaves of the planter whose daughters she was then instructing. When
told that such was a criminal offense against the laws of Mississippi and that she should "go
North and teach the 'Niggers,'" Miss Miner with an intrepid spirit resolved then and there
that she would go North and teach them. Out of this unpleasant experience developed the determination
to found a Normal School for girls of color in the city of Washington.

Returning North, Miss Miner found other difficulties than poor health confronting her in her
efforts to establish a school for the Negro youth in the District of Columbia. Funds had to
be raised, pro-slavery opposition had to be overcome, and public sentiment had to be changed
at least to indifference. Each of these in itself was sufficiently colossal to try the strength,
physical and moral, of the ablest anti-slavery agitators of that day. It was at the time of
the passage of that infamous Fugitive Slave Law, when freedmen and runaways like William Parker,
Jerry McHenry and Joshua Glover were knocked down, beaten, bound and cast into prison; when
abolitionists were incarcerated for their anti-slavery propaganda and giving aid to the fugitives;
when even our valiant Frederick Douglass admitted himself too timid to support any such project
as that undertaken by Miss Miner in the city of Washington.[2] It was in times such as these
that this fearless and resolute little woman, with an enthusiasm that seemingly glistened in
her penetrating eyes, determined to give her life to the cause of alleviating suffering, dispelling
ignorance, and liberating the oppressed Americans in body and mind.

With the small sum of one hundred dollars that she had secured from Mrs. Ednah Thomas,[3] of
Philadelphia, a member of the Society of Friends, Miss Miner started out upon her great work
in behalf of the Negro children of the District of Columbia. Her thrift prompted her to solicit
funds of various and peculiar sorts. Donations of old papers, books, weights, measures and
other castaway material were transformed by this real teacher into valuable material for the
instruction of her undeveloped pupils.

Funds of the material sort were not the only difficulties that beset her road of progress,
for pro-slavery opposition assailed Miss Miner from every side.[4] Such propaganda as the following
appeared in the National Intelligencer, a Washington newspaper of pro-slavery sentiments and
was spread far and wide. (1) The school would attract free colored people from the adjoining
States, (2) it was proposed to give them an education far beyond what their political and social
condition would justify, (3) the school would be a center of influence directed against the
existence of slavery in the District of Columbia, and (4) it might endanger the institution
of slavery and even rend asunder the Union itself.[5]

The truth of some parts of this declaration was quite evident and irrefutable, for education,
as Miss Miner understood it, was destined to make every slave a man and every man free. This,
of course, increased the difficulty of Miss Miner's task but her faith was abiding and her
courage unabated. Miss Miner realized fully that the lot of the eight thousand free people
of color of the District of Columbia was but little better than that of the 3,000 slaves, for
the former, though free according to the letter of the law, in actual life had no rights that
a white man was compelled to respect. They were not admitted to public institutions, could
not attend the city schools, could not testify against a white man in court, and could not
travel without a pass without running the risk of being cast into prison.

Amidst it all, on the 6th day of December 1851, in a rented room about fourteen feet square,
in the frame house on Eleventh Street near New York Avenue then owned and occupied as a dwelling
by Edward C. Younger,[6] a Negro, Myrtilla Miner with six pupils established as a private institution
for the education of girls of color the first Normal School in the District of Columbia and
the fourth one in the United States. Increase of enrollment soon forced her to secure accommodations
and within two months she had moved into a house on the north side of F Street between Eighteenth
and Nineteenth, near the house then occupied by William T. Carroll and Charles H. Winder. This
house furnished her a very comfortable room for her growing school of well-behaved girls, from
the best Negro families of the District of Columbia. Threats on the part of white neighbors
to set fire to the house forced her to leave the home of the Negro family with whom she had
stayed but one month and to seek quarters elsewhere. Miss Miner then succeeded in getting accommodations
in the dwelling-house of a German family on K Street, near the K Street market. After tarrying
a few months there, she moved to L Street into a room in the building known as the "The Two
Sisters," then occupied by a white family. But the inconvenience of holding school in rented
quarters of private dwellings proved a very unpleasant one indeed; for not only did she suffer
the lack of comfort which such quarters naturally could not offer, but found herself constantly
harassed by the necessity of moving to escape the enmity and persecution of her white neighbors.

A new day, however, was to dawn. With the aid of Harriet Beecher Stowe, Dr. Gamaliel Bailey
and a few such faithful Philadelphia friends as Thomas Williamson, Samuel Rhoads, Benjamin
Tatham, Jasper Cope and Catherine Morris, enough funds were raised to purchase a site of three
acres or more for a permanent home on a lot near N Street and New Hampshire Avenue, between
Nineteenth and Twentieth Streets, Northwest. Though the environment of this new home was most
pleasing and beautiful, being surrounded with flowers and fruit trees, the enmity of the white
hoodlums still followed her. She and her pupils were frequently assailed with torrents of stones
and other missiles. Once threatened by mob violence, Miss Miner bravely and defiantly exclaimed,
"Mob my school! You dare not! If you tear it down over my head I shall get another house. There
is no law to prevent my teaching these people and I shall teach them even unto death!" Testimony
of some of Miss Miner's former pupils upholds such a defiance as truly descriptive of her fearless
nature.

In its earlier days the Miner Normal School was supported by private funds and directed by
a board of trustees consisting of Benjamin Tatham and H. W. Bellows of New York; Samuel M.
Janney of Virginia; Johns Hopkins of Baltimore; Samuel Rhoads and Thomas Williamson of Philadelphia;
G. Bailey and L. D. Gale of Washington; C. E. Stowe of Andover; H. W. Beecher of Brooklyn,
together with an executive committee consisting of S. J. Bowen, J. M. Wilson and L. D. Gale
of Washington; Miss Miner, principal and William H. Beecher, secretary.

The curriculum of the school then embraced boarding, domestic economy, teachers' training course
and the primary departments. It is interesting to note that some of the advanced ideas in education
today, such as student self-government, vitalized teaching, socialized recitation, and civic
as well as personal hygiene, were taught and practiced by Miss Miner during the fifties of
the last century.

As an illustration of pupil self-government, I quote the following from the Memoir of M. Miner
by Mrs. Ellen M. O'Connor, concerning a visit made by Miss Margaret Robinson of Philadelphia
to Miss Miner's school: "In the winter of 1853 accompanied by a friend, I visited the school
of Myrtilla Miner, under circumstances of peculiar interest. Arriving about ten A. M., we learned
from a pupil at the door that the teacher was absent on business of importance to the school.
We were not a little disappointed, supposing all recitations would await her coming. What was
our surprise on entering to find every girl in her place, closely occupied with her studies.
We seated ourselves by polite invitation; soon a class read; then one in mental arithmetic
exercised itself, the more advanced pupils acting as monitors; all was done without confusion.
When the teacher entered she expressed no surprise, but took up the business where she found
it and went on." On one occasion, being obliged to leave for several days, Miss Miner propounded
to the pupils the question, whether the school should be closed, or they should continue their
exercises without her? They chose the latter. On her return she found all doing well, not the
least disorder having occurred.

As to vitalized teaching, Matilda Jones Madden, one of Miss Miner's pupils, wrote the following:
"She gave special attention to the proper writing of letters and induced a varied correspondence
between many prominent persons and her pupils, thus in a practical way bringing her school
into larger notice with many of its patrons and friends and vastly increasing the experience
of her pupils."

Mrs. John F. N. Wilkinson, a former pupil of Miss Miner, of Washington, D. C., states that
Miss Miner held classes in astronomy with the larger girls who were required to meet at the
school in the evenings to study their lessons from nature. Mrs. Amelia E. Wormley, the mother
of the writer, residing in Washington, also a pupil of Miss Miner, recalls vividly the emphasis
which Miss Miner placed upon the teaching of physical culture and the tenderness with which
she handled the younger children of her school.[7]

The school increased in usefulness and importance. As a result of this, on March 3, 1863, the
Senate and House of Representatives passed an act to incorporate this institution for the education
of girls of color in the District of Columbia. By the act William H. Channing, George J. Abbot,
Miss Miner, and others, their associate and successors were constituted and declared a body
politic and corporate by the name and title of "The Institution for the Education of Colored
Youth," to be located in the District of Columbia. Though this act of Congress legalized the
institution, the school appears to have lapsed into inactivity from 1863 to 1871 because of
the absence of its guiding spirit, Miss Miner. On account of ill health she was compelled to
give up the work, and the strain and stress of civil affairs reduced national interest and
support to a minimum. After a sojourn of three years in California in search of renewed energy
and more funds for the fulfillment of her plans and the consummation of her ideals, Miss Miner
departed from this life at the home of Mrs. Nancy M. Johnson of Washington, D. C., on the 17th
of December 1864.

In 1871 the work of the school was resumed in connection with Howard University. A preparatory
and Normal Department was opened and controlled by this institution but supported by the Miner
Funds. The school existed in this connection until September 13, 1876, when it began a separate
and independent existence which lasted until 1879 when it was taken over by the school system
of the District of Columbia. From 1879 to 1887 the Miner Normal School was jointly controlled
by the Board[8] of Trustees of the Public Schools of the District and the Miner Board of Trustees,
the principal's salary being paid by the Miner Board to which she made her reports while the
obligation of keeping up the enrollment of the school was assumed by the Trustees representing
the District Government.

In 1887 the Trustees of the District assumed full charge of the school thus centralizing authority
and management. The unification of the dual management under District authority added keener
interest on the part of the citizenship of the community and a deeper feeling of responsibility
on the part of the faculty. Fortunately for the institution, moreover, the women who succeeded
Miss Miner as the heads of this institution caught the great spirit of their predecessor and
in their efforts to continue the useful work which she had done, followed so closely in the
path which she had trodden as to assure success and preclude any necessity for general reorganization.

The first of these women to take up the work of Miss Miner, was Miss Mary B. Smith, of Beverly,
Massachusetts, who was assisted by her sister Miss Sarah R. Smith. The student teachers caught
her missionary spirit and went forth from her presence stronger souls, full of sympathy to
magnify the teacher's vocation and to inspire the learner. Many of the women who sat at her
feet are laboring in the schools here now, filling the highest positions and in beauty and
richness of character running like a thread of gold through the teaching corps."

Miss Briggs was succeeded in 1883 by Dr. Lucy E. Moten, who after faithful and successful service
for thirty-seven years, retired June 20, 1920. As principal of the Miner Normal School, Dr.
Moten graduated the majority of the teachers now employed in the public schools of the District.
She saw the Normal course lengthened from a one year course to that of a two year course, offering
greater opportunity for broader professional equipment of the student teachers, the results
of which are manifest in the Washington Public Schools today. This school, however, is destined
in the near future to undergo other changes in the line of progress. It may be the extension
of the course to three years or the development of a Teacher's college of four years which
will offer courses leading to a degree. With an enthusiastic whole-hearted response of the
teaching corps of Washington, D. C., to the slogan of the new Superintendent, Dr. Frank Washington
Ballou--"Hats off to the past and coats off to the future," The Miner Normal School will reach
higher in its aim to serve and realize the ideals of its noble founder and benefactress, whose
struggles and sacrifices are sacred in the memory of every teacher of color in the District
of Columbia.

                                             G. SMITH WORMLEY. Some
valuable facts were also obtained from former pupils of Miss Myrtilla
Miner now residing in the District of Columbia and from public
spirited citizens who cooperated with her.

[2] O'Connor, Memoir of Myrtilla Miner, Letter of Frederick Douglass, p. 23.

[3] Special Report of Commissioner of Education, Washington, D.C., Henry Barnard, 1868, p. 207.

[4] She had some friends, however, as the following shows:

     "There are in the United States 500,000 free people of color.
     They are generally, although subject to taxation, excluded by law
     or prejudice from schools of every grade. Their case becomes at
     once an object of charity which rises infinitely above all party
     or sectional lines. This charity we are gratified in being able
     to state has already been inaugurated, through the devoted labors
     of an excellent young lady from Western New York by the name of
     Miss Myrtilla Miner who has established and maintained for the
     past four years in the city of Washington a school for the
     education of free colored youth. This school is placed there
     because it is national ground, and the nation is responsible for
     the well-being of its population; because there are there 11,000
     of this suffering people excluded by law from schools and
     destitute of instruction; because there are in the adjoining
     States of Maryland and Virginia 130,000 equally destitute, who
     can be reached in no other way; and because it is hoped through
     this means to reach a class of girls of peculiar interest, often
     the most beautiful and intelligent, and yet the most hopelessly
     wretched, and who are often objects of strong paternal affection.
     The slaveholder would gladly educate and save these children, but
     domestic peace drives them from his hearth; he cannot emancipate
     them to be victims of violence or lust; he cannot send them to
     Northern schools, where prejudice would brand them, and it is
     proposed to open an asylum near them, where they may be brought,
     emancipated, educated and taught housewifery as well as science,
     and thus be prepared to become teachers among their own mixed
     race.

     "The trustees state that a very eligible site of three acres,
     within the city limits of Washington, of the northwest, has
     already been purchased, paid for and secured to the trustees, and
     that all which is now wanted is $20,000 wherewith to erect a
     larger and more suitable edifice for the reception of the
     applicants pressing upon it from the numerous free colored blacks
     in the District and adjacent States. The proposed edifice is
     designed to accommodate 150 scholars and to furnish homes for the
     teachers and pupils from a distance. The enlarged school will
     include the higher branches in its system of instruction.

     "There was a meeting yesterday afternoon, in an ante-room of
     Tremont Temple, of gentlemen called together to listen to the
     statements of the Secretary of the Association regarding this
     school. The meeting was small, but embraced such gentlemen as
     Hon. George S. Hillard, Rev. Dr. Lathrop, Rev. C. E. Hale, and
     Deacon Greele, all of whom are deeply interested in the project.

     "The meeting decided to draw up and circulate a subscription
     paper, and counted upon receiving $10,000 for the purpose in this
     city. The pastors of several churches in New York had pledged
     their churches in the sum of a thousand dollars each. Mr. Beecher
     will solicit subscriptions in most of the principal towns of
     Massachusetts. The designs and benefits of the project will be
     fully set forth at a public meeting in this city in the course of
     a fortnight."--The Boston Journal, April 18, 1857.

[5] An extract from Walter Lenox's article opposing Miss Miner's School, follows:

     "With justice we can say to the advocate of this measure, you are
     not competent to decide this question: your habits of thought,
     your ignorance of our true relations to the colored population,
     prevent you from making a full and candid examination of its
     merits, and, above all, the temper of the public mind is
     inauspicious, even for its consideration. If your humanity
     demands this particular sphere for its action, and if, to use
     your own language, prejudice would brand them at your northern
     schools, establish institutions in the free States, dispense your
     money there abundantly as your charity will supply, draw to them
     the unfortunate at your own door, or from abroad, and in all
     respects gratify the largest impulses of your philanthropy; but
     do not seek to impose upon us a system contrary to our wishes and
     interests, and for the further reason that by so doing you injure
     the cause of those whom you express a wish to serve."--National
     Intelligencer, May 6, 1857.

[6] Special Report, Commissioner of Education, Washington, D. C., 1868, p. 207.

[7] This statement is based on information obtained from Mrs. John F. N. Wilkinson and Mrs.
Amelia E. Wormley, who were pupils of Myrtilla Miner.

[8] Report of Board of Education, Dr. John Smith, Statistician.

COMMUNICATIONS

During the last five years a number of valuable facts have come to the office of the editor
in various communications from persons interested in the work which the Association has been
promoting. While these communications do not as a whole bear upon any particular phase of Negro
history, they will certainly be valuable to one making researches in the general field. Some
of these follow.

                           A SUGGESTION

                                  WASHINGTON, D. C., Dec. 23, 1916.

     CARTER G. WOODSON,

     My Dear Sir: I notice by the press your Connection with the
     "Douglass" celebration. It might interest you to receive the
     enclosed from a rank abolitionist of the John Brown School. After
     service in Kansas with the Brown element, then in open rebellion
     against the United States, as typified in men like Judge Taney,
     who decided that the black man had no rights the white man was
     bound to respect, I entered the Union army and served in it as a
     private in the 5th Wis. Infy and as Adjt. of the 7th Eastern
     Shore Md. Infy--3 years and 6 mos.... I wish some of your
     influential men would start a movement to erect a monument here
     for old John Brown, who gave his life to free the country from
     the great curse of slavery.

                         Cordially,
                                (Signed) JOHN E. RASTALL.

                    SOME INTERESTING FACTS

                                           MARION, ALABAMA
                                                       July 7th 1916

     DR. C. G. WOODSON

     Dear Sir:

     Absence from home has prevented my replying to your request
     sooner.

     The majority of masters in this section of the country were kind
     to their slaves. They gave them plenty of good wholesome food,
     good clothes, (warm ones in winter) comfortable homes and
     attention from Doctors when sick. There were churches on nearly
     every plantation and ministers provided to preach to them. The
     only very cruel masters were Northern men who treated their
     slaves like beasts. For many years it was against the law to
     teach negroes to read or write because some of them would read
     things from the North that made them dissatisfied but our family
     owned such good negroes, who had principle like white people we
     did not think it could hurt them, and we taught them to read and
     write. There has always been a kind feeling between the whites
     and slaves in this country. The young ones were our playmates in
     childhood. The older ones our nurses and cooks who petted us and
     loved us as their own color. They were faithful during the War
     when our protectors were in the Army, and now altho' it is fifty
     years since they were freed, many of them are our best
     friends.--I do not know of anything else you wanted to know or I
     would gladly write you. In some sections of the South there may
     have been cruel treatment but it was generally from the overseers
     who were ignorant men and took advantage of their position to
     give license to their cruel natures.

     James Childs and all of his family and many of his relatives
     belonged to my mother, and there still exists a kind feeling
     between us that will only be severed by Death. I would like to
     hear from him. I am nearly 75 years old and cannot be here much
     longer but want to do all the good I can before I am called.

                              Respectfully
                                (Signed) MRS. JAS. A. SMITH,
                                                 Marion
                                                      Alabama

                                   23 DRYADS GREEN,
                                               Nov. 7, 1916.

     My dear Mr. Woodson:

     Your letter in the interest of THE JOURNAL OF NEGRO HISTORY is
     welcome. I will try to send you a subscriber or two.

     Allow me to suggest a point. It may have been well covered
     already without my knowing of it. In Louisiana and, I think, in
     some other states, in Reconstruction days, the
     lieutenant-governorship was conceded by the Republican party,
     regularly, to a man of color. These men were sometimes, to say no
     more, of high character and ability. Such a one in Louisiana was
     Oscar J. Dunn, the first of them. He was of unmixt African
     origin. His signal ability and high integrity were acknowledged
     by his political enemies in the most rancorous days of his
     career, and his funeral was attended by Confederate generals.

     I wish your enterprise the fullest measure of success.

                                   Yours truly,
                                        (Signed) GEO. W. CABLE.

                                        WASHINGTON, D.C.
                                          1443 R ST., N. W.,
                                            NOV. 1 --17.

     MR. CARTER G. WOODSON,
       1216 You St., N.W.,
         Washington, D. C.

     Dear Sir:

     I recently received from you a letter followed soon by a volume
     of THE JOURNAL OF NEGRO HISTORY edited by yourself which I have
     scanned and am much impressed with its merits and consider a
     valuable contribution to our historical literature.

     It is somewhat unusual to find colored men in America of American
     birth who are individually conversant with all of the West Indies
     a part of South America and the western part of Europe.

     My advent in life began at an epoch in the early history of
     Baltimore when incidents occurred that seem to have escaped the
     notice of the numerous writers of the history of our race which I
     shall briefly relate.

     Owing to the rapid decadence of the sugar industries of the
     British West Indies on the Abolition of Slavery and the gravity
     anent the threatened ruin of the peasantry, some philanthropists
     and business men from England were sent to Baltimore to try to
     get free colored people to go to Trinidad. They spoke in many
     colored churches and succeeded in interesting them so that
     several shiploads were sent. My father and mother and three
     children were of the number. I was an infant in arms.

     I received an education there and after I grew up was variously
     employed as bookkeeper, clerking in dry goods stores, in the City
     Hall, overseer on sugar estate, coach and sign painter, was
     afterwards sent for by my father who was at the gold mines of
     Caratal in Venezuela and on my return to Trinidad visited several
     other islands of the West Indies.

     I next returned to America my natal home the second year of
     Andrew Johnson's term.

     I have not since led an idle life. For nearly 25 years I have
     been engaged as an itinerant private tutor teaching adult folks
     and I flatter myself that I was very successful among the
     hundreds of my pupils.

     I found on my arrival in America that education was at a very low
     ebb amongst the members of my race perhaps not more than 15% of
     adult folks one would encounter in the streets could read and
     write.

     When the Amendments were passed by Congress conferring
     citizenship upon colored people I threw myself into the political
     current and was the first vice president of the 11th ward of
     Baltimore city which a few years subsequently chose a colored
     councilman, Harry Cummins.

     I became a merchant meanwhile experimenting in groceries, but
     after a year relinquished this for dry goods for which my early
     acquaintance therewith amply fitted me. I kept a dry goods store
     in Baltimore for seven years then went to Jacksonville, Fla.
     where I successfully continued the business for eighteen years.

     While I was in Baltimore I twice passed the Civil Service
     examination with a handsome percentage this I did simply from
     curiosity. I kept strictly to merchandise and have never earned a
     dollar of Uncle Sam's money.

     In 1909 and again in 1912 myself and wife, both of us having a
     knowledge of French and Spanish and I a little Italian made a
     tour of Western Europe viz, Gibralter Italy Switzerland France
     Germany Holland Belgium and England plodding on foot amongst the
     common people studying sociological conditions and comparing with
     our own people. I find the contrast of the humbler class of
     Europe also the colored races of the West Indies and South
     America with less opportunities possessed of more enterprise and
     ambition than the colored people of America.

     It is a lamentable fact that the principal attraction of those
     who should be our strong men and leaders in enterprise those of
     high school and college training consists of Uncle Sam's bounty
     and in the absence of this to cling to some white man in private
     life.

     I have for many years been an ardent advocate of business amongst
     our people and to this end I have written contributions to the
     Commonwealth of Baltimore a paper once edited by John E. Bruce
     (Bruce Grit) the Colored American of Washington, and to other
     papers edited by our race.

     My attitude towards other enterprises is that we are sufficiently
     and disproportionately represented in other branches, especially
     teaching preaching politics governmental patronage &c which
     require no financial responsibility; consequently the results
     place us in the attitude of a Castillian gentleman who is
     facetiously described thus--Caballero sin caballo, Mucho piojo,
     poco dinero, that is, a knight without a horse, Plenty of lice,
     little money.

     As a race we are the poorest numerically of any race in America.
     We have so little ambition and so envious and void of race pride.
     We don't mind a white man climbing over our heads but a colored
     man never and if you doubt me keep a store.

     I have grown weary of the struggle and am leaving the fight to
     the younger men who I hope may prove vigorous champions.

     I have done my part, I am

                                   Yours very truly
                                        (Signed) STANSBURY BOYCE.

                                        LONDON, ONT. October 25/1918

     DR. CARTER G. WOODSON,
         Journal of Negro History,
             Washington, D. C.

     Dear Dr. Woodson,

     I have been reading your "Century of Negro Migration" with
     interest. On page 36 you speak of a change of attitude on the
     part of Canadians towards the refugees. I do not know to what
     this refers. The attitude of the Canadian government never
     changed--it granted asylum and protection right up to the Civil
     War and afterwards. From the very earliest days there was an
     occasional show of prejudice but I doubt if this was greater in
     1855 than in 1845 or 1835. The laws were administered fairly, the
     Negro exercised his vote, could get land cheaply if he desired to
     farm. The chief prejudice was shown in the schools though this
     only in some places, this city for instance.

     On the same page there is a slight error in the use of the word
     "towns" in connection with the settlements of refugees in
     Southern Ontario.

     "Dawn" was not a town but a farming community, "The Dawn
     Settlement" "Colchester" was the same, it is the name now given
     to a township in Essex county.

     "Elgin" was not the name of a Settlement but of the association
     which managed the settlement. Buxton was the settlement founded
     by the Elgin association.

     "Bush", i.e. "The Bush" is the term applied to a great tract of
     country north of Toronto, bushland, in which there were some
     Negro farmers.

     "Wilberforce" was also a tract of land divided into farms and
     termed the Wilberforce settlement. It is in Middlesex county,
     near London.

     "Riley" should be "Raleigh," it is the township in which the
     Elgin association's settlement was located. It is in Kent County.

     "Anderton" is also the name of a township in Essex county.

     "Gonfield" should be "Gosfield." It is also a township in Essex
     county.

     These are only minor matters but you might desire to make the
     change in another edition.

     I think I shall write something dealing with the Canadian end of
     your subject, from the economic standpoint. The Journal is a
     publication of which as Editor you can be proud. It maintains a
     high standard. I intend to have it added to the Western
     University's list of periodicals this year.

                                   Sincerely yours,
                                        (Signed) FRED LANDON.

     BIRD-IN-HAND, PA., Aug. 21, 1918.
     CARTER G. WOODSON, ESQ.,

     Dear Mr. Woodson:

     I have read most of the articles in the JOURNAL with deep
     interest and think it a valuable periodical. One or two mistakes
     I noticed; one writer says that President Lincoln thought that
     "the war should be over in ninety days." It was Seward, not
     Lincoln that cherished this almost insane idea.--Please do not
     set me down as a carping critic when I say that I am very sorry
     that the long article on "Slavery in Kentucky" was printed
     without comment or correction. To speak of Henry Clay as an
     anti-slavery man seems absurd to people like myself, born into
     real anti-slavery families and familiar almost from infancy
     with the anti-slavery struggle. The interview with Mr.
     Mendenhall, a Friend (Quaker) is told somewhat differently from
     what I heard it in my childhood. I always understood that a
     delegation of Friends called upon him and he told them to go
     home, that his "Negroes were sleek and fat." The comparison
     between Friends and his negroes, as given in Mr. McDougle's
     article is even more insulting than is anything in the story as I
     heard it. One of my earliest recollections is seeing in my
     grandmother's kitchen in Phila., "Clary" a little octoroon woman,
     who was, I was told, either once the mistress or else the
     daughter of Henry Clay. From this you may judge what his moral
     reputation must have been.

                                   Very truly yours,
                              (Signed) (MRS.) MARIANNA G. BRUBAKER.

                            SOME CORRECTIONS

                              BIRD-IN-HAND, PA., April 21, 1920.

     MR. CARTER G. WOODSON,

     My dear Mr. Woodson:

     On the next page will be found a correction of the article "The
     Negro Migration to Canada after 1850," which you may print or
     not, as you choose. In a historical periodical, accuracy is
     important, is it not?

                                   Very truly yours,
                              Signed (MRS.) MARIANNA G. BRUBAKER.

     On page 30 of the Journal of Negro History for January
     reference is made to the famous Christiana Riot of Sept. 11,
     1851. Christiana is about nineteen--not two--miles from
     Lancaster. Parker, the hero of this event, was a wonderful man.
     He returned to Christiana in the summer of 1872, spoke at a
     political meeting there and spent some time visiting friends, by
     whom he was greatly admired and respected. The exact distance
     from Lancaster is important because of the very different
     character of the two communities.

                              (Signed) MARIANNA G. BRUBAKER.

     BIRD-IN-HAND, PA., April 21.

DOCUMENTS

The following letter was addressed to the City Council of Washington, D.C., July 15, 1833,
by Joseph Jefferson, Sr., and Mr. Mackenzie, managers of the Washington Theatre.[1]

     Dear Sir:

     "Permit us to take the liberty of representing to you a burden
     that oppresses us most heavily, and of requesting your kind
     endeavors so to represent the case before the mayor and council
     that we may obtain all the relief that it is in their power to
     grant.

     "You must be aware that we pay nightly to the city a tax of $6
     for permission to perform in the theater; in the year 1832 this
     amounted to nearly $1,400 in the aggregate; we pay this tax
     cheerfully, and all we ask in return is a liberal protection and
     support from the city authorities.

     "There is at present a law in force which authorizes the
     constables of the city to arrest the colored people if on the
     street after 9 o'clock without a pass. A great proportion of our
     audience consists of persons of this caste, and they are
     consequently deterred from giving us that support that they would
     otherwise do.

     "Can there be any modification of that law suggested, or will the
     mayor and council authorize us to give passes to those colored
     persons who leave the theatre for the purpose of proceeding
     directly to their homes?

     "In the city of Baltimore, where we have a theatre, and pay a
     smaller license than we do here, the law, as regards the colored
     people, is not acted upon when they are coming or going to the
     theatre.

     "In a pecuniary point of view, we look upon this law as a
     detriment to us of $10 nightly, and we have great reason to hope
     that a law that rests so heavily upon us alone may meet with the
     kind consideration of the mayor and council, and be so modified
     as to relieve us from the heavy loss that it causes us at present
     to incur.

     "We have the honor to be, dear sir, your obedient servants,

                              "JEFFERSON & MACKENZIE,
                         "Managers of the Washington Theater."

FOOTNOTES:

[1] Submitted by Professor Walter Dyson.

                                   Lee, Mass. April 23, 1917.

     CARTER G. WOODSON,
       Editor, Journal of Negro History,
         Washington, D. C.

     Dear Sir:

     The enclosed tracing of a manuscript in my possession may, or may
     not be of interest enough to publish in your magazine. The Ms.
     came into my hands in the autumn of 1863 while I was serving in
     the ranks of the 10th Mass. Inf. At that time the regiment was
     stationed at Bristoe Station, on the R. R. between Alexandria and
     Fredericksburg. A detail which had been sent to Prince William
     Court House at Brentsville for some purpose brought to our camp
     some manuscripts, among them that from which the tracing has been
     made, and which I thought of interest enough to preserve.

                                   Yours very truly,
                                        (Signed) D. M. WILCOX. And for the Performance of the above
     Contract. We do bind ourselves our heirs &c Either to other in
     the Penal sum Of five hundred Pounds Sterlg. In witness whereof
     We have set our hands & seals the day and Year above  Written--

     Signed sealed and Deliver'd }
     in the Presence of--        }

                                     EDWARD HUMSTON (L.S.)
                                     JOHN BRUNSKILL JUNr (L.S.)

     THO. MARSHALL
           his
     JOHN  {X}  WARRING
          Mark

     At a Court held for prince William County the 22. of March 1756
     This Marriage Contract was proved by the oaths of the witnesses
     hereto & ordered to be recorded.

                                    Test      JOHN GRAHAM Clerk.

                LETTERS ON RECONSTRUCTION RECORDS

                                      TUSKEGEE INSTITUTE, ALABAMA.
                                                 July 3, 1920.

     DR. C. G. WOODSON,
     1216 U Street, N. W.,
     Washington, D. C.

     My Dear Dr. Woodson:

     Attached are names of additional Negro members of the North and
     South Carolina legislatures and a letter from Mrs. M.E.
     Richardson about an additional member of the Alabama legislature.
     Attached also is a letter by Mr. John W. Cromwell. These should
     be published in the Journal. Kindly publish the same in the
     Journal, under documents and oblige,

                                 Yours very truly,
                                      (Signed) MONROE N. WORK.
                                           Monroe N. Work,
                                           Editor, Negro Year Book.

     MNW/FEH
     Three enclosures.

     To the Editor of The Planet:

     Will you for the sake of history allow this communication in your
     columns? It has been repeatedly charged that we have no racial
     history. If we are challenged with respect to certain events we
     admit the imputation by our silence. A different course would
     correct much error. The Journal of Negro History for January
     has rendered a very great service by publishing the names and
     number of Negroes who have been members of their respective State
     Legislatures since the Civil War reconstruction. It was
     interesting and informative to note the names and numbers of
     members of our race from these different States.

     When it came to Virginia the contrast was most painful. To behold
     the absence of detailed information similar to that supplied the
     other States, from North Carolina to Florida, from the Atlantic
     to the Rio Grande. For a time I felt like disowning that Virginia
     was my native State. Finally the obligation incumbent on all
     those who have lived in Virginia during the last fifty years or
     familiar with its history asserted itself, hence I begin but I
     must acknowledge my sense of gratitude to Rev. G. F. Bragg, Jr.,
     who in the current number of The Journal of Negro History has
     contributed from his recollection and given names of members whom
     he knew.

          Peter J. Carter,         Northampton
          George Teamoh,           Norfolk County
          John Brown,              Southhampton
          Peter G. Morgan,         Petersburg
          John Watson,             Mecklenburg
          Resa Hamilton,
          Jas. W. D. Bland,        Prince Edward
          Frank Moss,              Buckingham
          Caesar Perkins,          Buckingham
          Willis A. Hodges,        Princess Anne
          John Q. Hodges,          Princess Anne
          Littleton Owens,         Princess Anne
          John M. Dawson,          James City
          John B. Syphax,          Alexandria, Co.
          Robert D. Ruffin,        Alexandria, Co.
          Miles Connor,            Norfolk, Co.
          William H. Andrews,      Surry
          Henry Cox,               Powhatan
          Peter K. Jones,          Greenville
          William P. Mosely,       Goochland
          Rufus S. Jones,          Hampton
          Daniel M. Norton,        Yorktown

     Most of these are recollected by Professor Cromwell and those
     with the asterisk are furnished by others.

          Robert Norton,           Yorktown
          David Canady,            Halifax
          John Freeman,            Halifax
          Henry Clay Harris,       Halifax
          John Robinson            Cumberland
          John W. Poindexter,      Louisa
          Alfred W. Harris,
          Robert G. L. Paige,      Norfolk, Co.
          *Alexander Lee,          Elizabeth City.
          *Robert M. Smith,        Elizabeth City.
          *John H. Robinson,       Elizabeth City.
          *James Fields,           Warwick
          ---- Lipscomb,           Cumberland
          ---- Matthews,           Petersburg
          B. F. Jones,             Charles City
          ---- Lyons,              Elizabeth City

     Rev. Mr. Bragg mentions those whom I do not recall:

          Armstead Green,          Petersburg
          Neverson Lewis,          Powhatan
          Guy Powell,              Brunswick
          Shed Dungee,             Cumberland
          Batt Greggs,             Prince Edward
          Archie Scott,            Amelia and Nottoway
          J. R. Jones,             Mecklenburg

     A. A. Dodson was another from Mecklenburg, a senator as I
     remember. I have a vague recollection that Tazewell Branch was at
     one time a member, also that Nansemond county sent a
     representative.

     I make no claim to accuracy in every case, but unless there is
     specific contradiction I will claim these named as men who played
     an honorable though an humble part in framing the laws of the
     commonwealth which has given eight Presidents to our Republic. I
     will be glad to hear from any one who can give further
     information on this subject.

                         Respectfully yours
                              (Signed) J. W. Cromwell
                                   1429 Swann St., N. W.
                                        May 13, 1920.

                                        WASHINGTON, D. C.
                                             July 6, 1920.

     DR. C. G. WOODSON
         Journal of Negro History.

     Sir:

     In addition to the Negro members in the Virginia legislature
     mentioned in my letter published in the Richmond (Va.) Planet of
     June. There should be included,--

          Rev. Ceasar Perkins, Buckingham
           "   Fountaine M. Perkins, Louisa
          William P. Lucas,           "
          Samuel P. Bolling, Cumberland.

     This makes the number forty-nine (49)

                                   Respectfully yours,
                                      (Signed) J. W. CROMWELL.

                                       Tuskegee Institute Alabama
                                               May 13, 1920.

     MR. M. N. WORK,
     Department Records and Research,
     Tuskegee Institute, Alabama.

     Dear Mr. Work:

     In looking through the last number of The Journal of Negro
     History, I note that you are asking for information concerning
     those Negroes who were members of the State Legislatures during
     reconstruction days, just following the Civil War.

     I do not know if it has already been called to your attention or
     not, but my grandfather, Shandy Jones, was at that time a member
     of the Alabama Legislature. I do not know the year, but think I
     can get the dates for you if it is of interest to you.

     His early life was spent in Tuscaloosa, Alabama. He was a very
     successful business man, barber by trade. His later life was
     actively spent in church work. He was presiding elder in the A.
     M. E. Z. church and was nominated for bishop, but his age was an
     obstacle.

     He lived in Mobile, Alabama at the time of his death at 70 years.
     He was still in the ministry at this time.

                                   Very truly,
                                   (Signed) MRS. M. E. RICHARDSON.

                                        245 WEST 139TH ST.,
                                            NEW YORK CITY,
                                                July 22, 1920.

     CARTER G. WOODSON, Ph.D.,
       Editor The Journal of Negro History,
         1216 You St., N. W.,
           Washington, D. C.

     Dear Sir:

     You have presented the matter of the Reconstruction Period in
     splendid shape and no doubt it will be read with much interest
     especially by the few "old timers" who can recall those halcyon
     days.

     There are some errors I would like to correct and a few additions
     I would like to make as it was not my intention to slight any
     person engaged in that laudable work of making Negro history, and
     I would like to know at your earliest convenience if there will
     be time before the July number goes to press. There is just one
     error I want to correct now and that is relative to myself. In
     the foot notes it is stated that I was a page in the House of
     Representatives in the Reconstruction Period. I do not know how
     Mr. Work made the error as there is nothing in my retained carbon
     copies to show that I gave him that information. It was my
     brother, Dr. J. E. Wallace, now with the Standard Insurance
     Company of Atlanta who occupied that position. I certainly would
     have preferred that job as it was more remunerative than the one
     I held. I was employed in the post office at Columbia, S. C.,
     from March 1, 1871 to August 15, 1886, when I resigned under the
     democratic postmaster, Major W. H. Gibbes, notwithstanding the
     fact that he requested me to continue in the position. It was
     owing to my position that I came in contact with the prominent
     people from all over the State and was thus enabled to get much
     information that has helped me greatly in compiling the data.
     Handling the mail for several years of these Reconstructionists
     made me quite familiar with their names and as the impressions of
     youth are lasting they remained with me.

     As I understand it the Reconstruction Period is from the close of
     the civil war to April 20, 1877, when the United States troops
     were withdrawn from the New Orleans, La., state house, the troops
     having been withdrawn from the state house in Columbia, S.C.,
     April 10, 1877. Therefore data since then would not be considered
     as belonging to the Reconstruction Period.

                                   Very Respectfully,
                                       (Signed) HENRY A. WALLACE.

                                        245 WEST 139TH ST.,
                                            NEW YORK CITY,
                                                August 6, 1920.

     DR. CARTER G. WOODSON
       1216 You St., N. W.,
         Washington, D. C.

     Dear Sir:

     In looking over the data published in the January number of The
     Journal of Negro History relative to the Reconstruction period
     in South Carolina I find several errors which I would be glad to
     have you correct in the next number:

     Page 81--The christian name of Senator Bird is Israel.

     Page 83--The initials of Fraser, representative from Colleton
     County are W. H.

     Page 84--Aaron Logan was from Charleston county and Samuel P.
     Coker from Barnwell county.

     Page 89--Opposite name of Joseph H. Rainey, strike out 46th, 47th
     and 48th and insert 43rd. See sketch on page 95.

     Page 90--F. B. Perry should be B. F. Perry.

     Page 97--under Robert C. DeLarge, should be 1868-1870 as a member
     of the House of Representatives.

     Page 98--Under Francis L. Cardozo--four years as State Treasurer
     instead of two. See page 89.

     Pages 103 and 104--A. Q. Jones should be A. O. Jones.

     Page 104--countries should be counties.

     Page 85--Jervay, Page 107--Jervay and Jarvey--should be Jervey.

     Page 100--Under Thomas E. Miller--1866 should be 1886 as member
     of the S. C. House of Representatives.

     Additional members of the Senate:

     Jared Warley--Clarendon County Dublin I. Walker--Chester County
     J. L. Duncan--Orangeburg County Additional Members of the House
     of Representatives: Abbeville Co.--Everett Cain, H. A. Wideman,
     Aiken Co.--Gloster H. Holland, W. B. Jones Barnwell Co.--B. W.
     Middleton, E. M. Sumpter Charleston Co.--R. B. Artson, P. P.
     Hedges, J. J. Hardy, J. J. Grant, J. W. Lloyd, C. F. North, Lewis
     Simmons Chester Co.--Ceasar Simmons Colleton Co.--Sherman Smalls,
     R. S. Tarlton Edgefield Co.--David Graham, Augustus Simpkins
     Georgetown Co.--Charles H. Sperry Kershaw Co.--Frank Adamson
     Laurens Co.--James Young Marion Co.--William A. Hayne Marlboro
     Co.--Jacob Allman Newberry Co.--Isham Greenwood Orangeburg
     Co.--John Dix, Abram Dannerly, H. Reilly Sumter Co.--W. W.
     Ramsey, J. C. Wilson Williamsburg Co.--Fortune Giles, E. H.
     Gourdin, Thomas Pressley

     Relative to Hon. J. H. Rainey I would state that he was the only
     Negro Congressman who presided over the U. S. House of
     Representatives. That courtesy was extended to him by Speaker
     James G. Blaine.

     The following may be interesting in connection with Senator W. B.
     Nash:

          "It is not too much to say that the leading man of the
          Republican party in the Senate is Beverly Nash, a man wholly
          black. He is apparently consulted more and appealed to more,
          in the business of the body, than any man in it. It is
          admitted by his white opposition colleagues that he has more
          native ability than half the white men in the State" The
          Prostrate State--J. S. Pike.

          "Beverley Nash of Columbia is probably the foremost Negro in
          the State. He has made many speeches, which, homely in
          manner, have, nevertheless, a subsoil of strong common
          sense. He has been employed by the Military authorities from
          time to time in aiding, by "moral suasion" to preserve
          peace; is about 45 years of age; was formerly a hotel
          servant in Columbia where he still resides. Some months ago,
          on the same platform with Gen. Wade Hampton and other
          distinguished citizens he made a speech to the colored
          people recommending qualified suffrage; but subsequently was
          obliged by high-pressure to recant, and to set himself right
          has since become intensely radical. His idea now is that the
          Negro is entitled to everything the white man enjoys--an
          opinion which has been encouraged by his appointment as
          magistrate, General Sickles having conferred the office upon
          him to punish the citizens of Columbia for an assault made
          by two intoxicated young men on a itinerant radical speaker
          and his traveling companion while in that town"

          "Q" in New York Times--March 23, 1868.

     The above would indicate that Senator W. Beverly Nash was the
     first Negro to exercise judicial power in the United States.

     Concerning Associate Justice J. J. Wright I would add that he
     graduated from the Lancaster, Pa., High School--studied law at
     Montrose, Pa.,--admitted to the Bar in Susquehanna county, being
     the first Negro to practice law in Pennsylvania--four years
     before going to South Carolina.

                                   Very respectfully,
                                        HENRY A. WALLACE.

                                   WASHINGTON, D. C., May 9, 1920.

     Dear Mr. Woodson:

     The Journal of Negro History is among the most valuable
     periodicals that it is my privilege to receive. I make it a rule
     to read all the articles of a purely historical nature.

     Your recent effort to gather and print a list of the Negro
     officeholders of the reconstructive period is highly commendable,
     and should be aided by all persons possessing accurate or
     approximate facts on the subjects. There were numerous such
     holders of small offices, national, state, county and municipal,
     in the Southern states in that period. As a boy, I knew two such
     in the town and county in which I lived. Doubtless many other
     persons of 50 years or less know of several.

     Mr. John W. Cromwell's articles in the April number, "The
     Aftermath of Nat Turner's Insurrection," is not only scholarly
     and interesting but a very valuable contribution to history.

     There is a vast amount of fact reposing only in the memories of
     elderly people now living that should be rescued and recorded
     while they live, lest it is lost forever. Perhaps the record of
     it will not be history proper but only annals, or a record of
     events. It is none the less important to secure it. It is of
     minor importance whether it be written in polished literary form.
     It will constitute source matter for the future historian. For
     some time to come we shall be in less need of dissertations that
     are philosophy of Negro history than of accurate records of
     events--facts, facts, facts!

     I have conversed with a number of elderly colored men and women
     in this city who have a wonderful fund of recollection of
     interesting and valuable historical data never in print. There
     are such people everywhere. Some cannot write, others will not
     write. If discriminating chroniclers are encouraged to write down
     the stories of such people for publication in your Journal, the
     result should be fruitful.

     I congratulate you on the average excellence of the subjects
     covered by the Journal and the scholarly editing thereof.

                                   Yours very sincerely,
                                        (Signed) R. C. EDMONSON.

     DR. CARTER G. WOODSON,
     Editor, Journal of Negro History.

SOME UNDISTINGUISHED NEGROES

FRED FOWLER

Fred Fowler was born about 1832 in Frederick County, Maryland. His first master, Michael Reel,
had a farm and a flour mill about four miles from Frederick City. Reel owned sixteen slaves,
among whom were Fred's mother and her eight children. Fred's father belonged to a man named
Doyle, who had an adjoining farm. Doyle sold the father to a man named Fisher, who subsequently
put up the first gas factory in Frederick.

On the death of Michael Reel, in 1847, his estate had to be divided. Some of the slaves were
disposed of according to appraisement, others at auction. Fred, then about fifteen years old,
was taken at the appraised value of $400 by a son of the deceased Reel. If auctioned off, he
thought he might have brought somewhat more.

At this sale his mother and one child were bought for $500 by a man named Todd, who subsequently
sold her to Dr. Shipley. Four children were purchased by men supposed to be traders, who presumably
took them to Georgia, which, according to the sentiment of "Nellie Gray," was the slave's notion
of some far-away place where the speculators found a market. No one of these four was ever
seen or heard from after they were put on the train for Baltimore. The other children, two
sisters, were taken away by a man named Roach, but that was all that was then known. The almost
invariable rule in the inter-state slave-trade was that separation ended all communication
with those left behind. In 1887--forty years after the sale--these sisters wrote a letter to
a colored church in Frederick asking for information about the slaves that belonged to the
Reel family. Someone in the church knew that Fred Fowler was living in Washington, D.C. The
letter was forwarded to him and from it he learned that these sisters had been taken to Columbia,
Tennessee and were still living. A meeting soon followed.

When Fred was twenty years old, young Reel, who was about to move to Springfield, Illinois,
sold him privately for $1,000 to Dr. Willis who lived in New Market, Frederick County, Maryland.
That was a high price for the time and place. Fowler was with Dr. Willis for three or four
years as a farmhand. The Doctor was the physician for the notorious inter-state slave traders
B. M. and W. L. Campbell. They had a large jail in Baltimore for their purchases in Maryland.
In New Orleans they had another, where most of their sales were made. The Doctor went to Baltimore
once or twice a week to examine and prescribe for the Campbell slaves. In the farming season,
when there was need of extra labor, he would bring some of them out to work for him.

Mrs. Salmon, a Quaker, told Fowler that Dr. Willis contemplated selling him the following winter,
probably because some less valuable slave could do the work. All slaves dreaded being sold,
for, if young and strong, it usually meant being "sold South." So in the spring of 1858 Fowler
made up his mind to run away. He and another slave started one Saturday night and safely walked
to Gettysburg, Pennsylvania by the early morning.

Promptly on Monday Dr. Willis issued a handbill offering $200 reward for the recovery of his
runaway. Fowler knew no details of this until perhaps thirty or forty years later, when a son
of Dr. Willis gave him one of the handbills. It was shown about 1905 to the present writer
who had it carefully typewritten as to the lines and capitalization, but the size of the letters
could not be reproduced. The original was duly returned to Fowler, but unfortunately he subsequently
lost or mislaid it. It was tiny for a handbill--only about six inches long and four inches
wide and was worded and lined thus:--

                              "$200 REWARD!

     Ranaway from the subscriber, living at New Market, Frederick Co.,
     Md., ON SATURDAY NIGHT, THE 8TH. OF MAY inst., a Negro Man, named
     FRED FOWLER, aged about 26 years, five feet ten or eleven inches
     high, stout made, dark copper color, round full eye, upper teeth
     full and even, has a down look when spoken to, lisps slightly in
     his speech, and has small hands; no other marks recollected. Had
     on when he left, dark pants and coat and light-made shoes.

     The above reward will be given for the arrest of said Negro, if
     taken out of the State of Maryland, and his delivery to the
     subscriber; or one hundred dollars, if taken in the State, and
     secured in jail.

                                        Dr. W. L. Willis.
     New Market, Md., May 10, 1858."

The same wording long appeared as an advertisement in the Baltimore Sun. Both were all in vain.

A free Negro, associated with the underground railroad in Pennsylvania and working as a mason
for a company of men who built large barns in Maryland, had told Fowler to report in Gettysburg
to a man by the name of Mathers. The runaways did so and were concealed until the next night.
They then walked to Carlisle, Pennsylvania. There they remained that day. During the night
they went on to Harrisburg. Some Abolitionists took charge of them and put them on a farm about
eight miles from town. In August, they proceeded to Bradford, Canada West. There Fowler found
an aunt who had run away with a party of twelve, many years before. He worked on a farm until
May, 1862, when he went to the American Hotel in Lockport, New York to become a waiter. In
August, 1863 he left for Hartford, Connecticut, to enlist in the 29th Regiment of Connecticut
Colored Volunteers. The regiment was turned over to the Government in March, 1864, and was
then taken by boat from Hartford to Annapolis Maryland, and there transhipped to Beaufort,
South Carolina.

At Beaufort they had a few little skirmishes. Once they were about surrounded by the Confederates
for five days, and were without food a part of the time. The Confederates were between Beaufort
and Hilton Head, but did not know to what disadvantage they had the colored regiment.

In the summer of 1864 the regiment was moved to Bermuda Hundred, Virginia. On the day of landing
they took part in an engagement at Malvern Hill. They were in several skirmishes and were finally
attacked at Strawberry Plains. From there they were taken to the Weldon railway, for the purpose
of cutting off the southern connection with Richmond. They fought there three days and tore
up the track. To make the rails useless they were heated red-hot and twisted around trees.
Later, the regiment was taken back to the neighborhood of Fort Harrison, on which they made
an attack. After a few weeks they took the Fort and remained there all winter and until a few
days before the fall of Richmond.

Early in April, 1865, on a Sunday afternoon the troops in Fort Harrison saw a large mass of
Confederates marching in plain view in front of them. "We thought there must be a million of
them marching there!" It was supposed that the Confederates intended soon to attack Fort Harrison.
The occupants of the Fort sent out videttes so as to give the earliest possible notice of it.
Those in the Fort made every preparation for resistence. But there was no attack. That night
three unarmed Confederates came to the videttes and reported that there were no troops in front;
that the Confederate lines had long been very thin and that the Federals could march right
into Richmond.

This was found to be true, for on the following day the Union troops started for the Confederate
capitol. Fowler's regiment reached there on the morning of the fall and went to State House
Hill, but camped close to Libby prison, down near the river. A few days later--a day or two
before Lincoln was shot--they left Richmond for City Point, where they first heard of his death.
From there they were taken to Point Lookout, Maryland, to aid in the search for Booth. After
Booth was captured, the regiment returned to City Point, and a week later was ordered to Brownsville,
Texas, for the special purpose of getting the supplies,--a great collection of cotton, wagons
and all sorts of munitions--that General Kirby Smith had tried to take to Mexico. The regiment
remained there until the 15th day of October, when Fowler and the others were mustered out
of the United States service.

In the spring of 1876 he was appointed a messenger in the Library of Congress, which was then
and until about 1900 in the Capitol just west of the great dome. He was a strong willing worker.
Doctor Spofford relied on him to find and bring forth from dark and dusty storerooms the files
of old newspapers when needed for historical purposes. By the time that the magnificent Library
of Congress building was completed and things were in shipshape, Fowler had reached an age
when he was entitled to and given less heavy work.

For nearly twenty years he was daily at the door of the Reading Room to admit readers and to
refer sightseers to the gallery for the best view of the grand and beautiful rotunda. He was
always so cheerful and polite that it gave one pleasure to see and exchange greetings with
him. His remarkable and most honorable career caused him to be regarded with much wonder by
persons of the young generation, especially if from the North. By the whole staff of the Library
and by the many research workers that daily came there, he was regarded with a fondness such
as was felt toward no one else.

He died October 9, 1919, at the advanced age of about 87 and was buried in the great National
Cemetery in Arlington, Virginia. There his grave and name can be seen among those of men who
fought to preserve the Union, and in doing so destroyed slavery--the "sacred institution" of
the old South and "the corner-stone" of the short-lived Confederacy. Fred Fowler served his
race and his country well and he was well rewarded.

                                             F. B.

SOME OBSERVATIONS ON THE DEATH OF RACHEL PARKER.

On the 21st of February 1918 the Oxford Press carried the following:

The death on Monday in Oxford of Rachel Parker Wesley, an aged colored woman, recalls an incident
of the slavery times previous to the War of the Rebellion, in which Rachel was a principal
figure. The question of slavery was paramount then, and later became one of the burning issues
of the war. Maryland was a slave State, and an ablebodied negro man was worth in the slave
market as much as $1400, while a girl often brought $1000. Frequently negroes were taken from
the free State of Pennsylvania across into Maryland, where they might be sold.

Rachel Parker lived at the time with the family of Joseph Miller, on the farm in West Nottingham
now owned by S. S. Boyd.

It was on the last day of December, 1850, that she was kidnapped from this home by three men,
Thomas McCrery, John Merritt and George Alexander, the latter figuring as the driver of the
wagon. It was about 11 o'clock in the morning.

The team took a road, now vacated, that led to old Pine Grove school house. They found the
road blocked by the wagon of James Pollock, and his son Samuel, who were loading wood. On demand
that the wagon be removed so that they could pass at once, James Pollock refused, and when
McCrery drew a sword he brandished his axe.

The kidnappers then turned and made their way to Nottingham, and by way of Stubbs' Mill, Chrome
and Calvert, proceeded to Perryville, from which point they entrained for Baltimore.

When the capture of Rachel Parker became known there was considerable excitement in the community.
Rachel was born of free parents and that she had been carried away into possible slavery was
too much for the sturdy abolitionists of that day.

A party of eight was organized to go in pursuit. They were Joseph Miller, William Morris, Samuel
Pollock, Lewis Melrath, Jesse B. Kirk, Abner B. Richardson, Benjamin Furniss, H. G. Coates.

These men went to Perryville and that night took a train for Baltimore. They went to a house
of detention or slave pen in that city where runaway slaves were kept. While they were there
McCrery appeared with Rachel Parker in a wagon.

The Pennsylvanians protested that the girl was not a slave, but was free, and the authorities
ordered that she be held and given a trial.

The Pennsylvanians met an acquaintance named Francis Cochran, who resided in Baltimore. When
he learned their errand he told them they were in mortal danger, and advised them to get at
once on a train and not leave it until they arrived at Perryville.

Joseph Miller left the car, or the train, and was not seen again by his friends, although search
was made for him. His body was found some hours afterwards, hanging in a woods near Stemmer's
Run. Just how he met his death is a mystery that never was made clear. It was claimed at the
time that investigation proved that Miller was dead before his body was hanged to the tree,
and that he had been poisoned.

Rachel Parker was gone more than 14 months, most of that time locked up in Baltimore. Her trial
was postponed from time to time.

It was claimed in Baltimore that Rachel Parker was a member of a family named Crocus, and that
they were runaway slaves. In an effort to prove this, people were sent to this neighborhood
to try to identify other members of the Parker family as in reality belonging to the Crocus
family. The attorney who ably defended Rachel Parker was Lloyd Norris. She was acquitted, and
she is said to have been the only person so freed in a slave State.

For more than 40 years Rachel lived with the Coates family, near Glenroy. To Granville Coates,
Sr., The Press is indebted for the details of the affair, which are from records which he has
faithfully preserved.

On the 28th of February, 1918 the Oxford Press carried the following:

The account of the death in Oxford of Rachel Parker Wesley, an aged colored woman, in last
week's Oxford Press, has been closely read. Some older citizens, in town and country, recall
the circumstances and the high excitement that prevailed at the time Rachel Parker, then a
girl, was kidnapped.

Of all the men who desired that justice be done Rachel Parker, who was kidnapped by Thomas
McCrery and others on the last day of 1851, from the home of Joseph C. Miller, West Nottingham,
township, not one took deeper and more determined interest in the matter than the late Dr.
John Miller Dickey of Oxford. He became a leader in the affair and repeatedly went to Baltimore,
where Rachel was in jail, and got a number of the most influential citizens of Baltimore interested
to have justice brought about. The late Levi K. Brown of Lancaster county was also active in
the matter and rendered much valuable assistance.

The matter had now become so generally known that effectual help was received from the late
Senator Henry S. Evans, West Chester, who brought the circumstances to the attention of our
Legislature, by which means the case became a State affair.

Dr. Dickey and others attended the trial in January, 1853. The proceedings lasted eight days,
during which, as one of the claimant's attorneys expressed it, "an entire neighborhood" appeared
and "an avalanche of testimony" was borne to the girl's free birth. Evidence was produced from
Baltimore that she was not the girl who had been lost. Forty-nine witnesses were heard and
many more were ready when a compromise was proposed and agreed to. Notwithstanding this overwhelming
evidence, there was still some fear that a Baltimore jury would decide against the girl, and
it was thought wise to give way. The chief end was gained: Rachel Parker was declared free
born; the same jury gave a verdict also for her sister Elizabeth who had been found in New
Orleans and brought North, and the two were restored to their mother.

The costs of the trial were divided, these amounting to $1000, besides $3000 expended by the
State of Pennsylvania and heavy outlays by friendly citizens of Baltimore and Chester County.

Judge Bell of West Chester, one of the Pennsylvania counsel, wrote thus after all was over
to the West Chester Republican and Democrat:

"Too much praise cannot be accorded to the host of witnesses from Chester County and the neighboring
districts, who promptly on the call of justice and humanity, exchanged the comforts of home
for the inconvenience and supposed dangers of sojourn in a strange city, under circumstances
well calculated to deter a merely selfish person from obeying the summons. This praise is peculiarly
due to the numerous ladies of our county whose sense of right overcame every merely personal
consideration."

The "supposed dangers" referred to, of which the murder of Joseph C. Miller was a sign, were
realized by Dr. Dickey, who his son, the late J. M. C. Dickey, Esq., told, "would go to trial
in Baltimore, not knowing how he would come back. Once he was very near death at their hands."

The concluding local action of this case of wide agitation was as follows:

West Nottingham, Jan. 17, 1853.

At a meeting of the witnesses and others who attended the Court of Baltimore county, in the
case of the girls, Rachel and Elizabeth Parker, the following was passed:

     "Whereas, By the blessings of Divine Providence, the two girls
     Rachel and Elizabeth Parker, have been restored to the State of
     Pennsylvania, where they were threatened, by a lawless and unjust
     removal; and whereas, similar cases are likely to occur, and in
     the excited state of public opinion on the subject of Slavery,
     both in the Northern and Southern States, difficulties exist in
     the way of the administration of law and justice where colored
     persons are petitioning for their freedom, we regard it as a duty
     we owe to those who may be engaged in similar prosecutions, as
     well as to those who have mainly aided in obtaining success in
     this case to put upon record the following resolutions:

