This, for those who can read with the soul's eyes, is what Byron sings; or rather what humanity
sings through him. The emptiness of the life and death of solitary individuality has never
been so powerfully and efficaciously summed up as in the pages of Byron. The crowd do not comprehend
him: they listen; fascinated for an instant; then repent, and avenge their momentary transport
by calumniating and insulting the poet. His intuition of the death of a form of society they
call wounded self-love; his sorrow for all is misinterpreted as cowardly egotism. They credit
not the traces of profound suffering revealed by his lineaments; they credit not the presentiment
of a new life which from time to time escapes his trembling lips; they believe not in the despairing
embrace in which he grasps the material universe--stars, lakes, alps, and sea--and identifies
himself with it, and through it with God, of whom--to him at least--it is a symbol. They do,
however, take careful count of some unhappy moments, in which, wearied out by the emptiness
of life, he has raised--with remorse I am sure--the cup of ignoble pleasures to his lips, believing
he might find forgetfulness there. How many times have not his accusers drained this cup, without
redeeming the sin by a single virtue; without--I will not say bearing--but without having even
the capacity of appreciating the burden which weighed on Byron! And did he not himself dash
into fragments the ignoble cup, so soon as he beheld something worthy the devotion of his life?

Goethe--individuality in its objective life--having, like Byron, a sense of the falsehood and
evil of the world round him-followed exactly the opposite path. After having--he, too, in his
youth-- uttered a cry of anguish in his Werther; after having laid bare the problem of the
epoch in all its terrific nudity, in Faust; he thought he had done enough, and refused to occupy
himself with its solution. It is possible that the impulse of rebellion against social wrong
and evil which burst forth for an instant in Werther may long have held his soul in secret
travail; but that he despaired of the task of reforming it as beyond his powers. He himself
remarked in his later years, when commenting on the exclamation made by a Frenchman on first
seeing him: "That is the face of a man who has suffered much": that he should rather have said:
"That is the face of a man who has struggled energetically;" but of this there remains no trace
in his works. Whilst Byron writhed and suffered under the sense of the wrong and evil around
him, he attained the calm--I cannot say of victory--but of indifference. In Byron the man always
ruled, and even at times, overcame the artist: the man was completely lost in the artist in
Goethe. In him there was no subjective life; no unity springing either from heart or head.
Goethe is an intelligence that receives, elaborates, and reproduces the poetry affluent to
him from all external objects: from all points of the circumference; to him as centre. He dwells
aloft alone; a mighty watcher in the midst of creation. His curious scrutiny investigates,
with equal penetration and equal interest, the depths of the ocean and the calyx of the floweret.
Whether he studies the rose exhaling its Eastern perfume to the sky, or the ocean casting its
countless wrecks upon the shore, the brow of the poet remains equally calm: to him they are
but two forms of the beautiful; two subjects for art.

Goethe has been called a pantheist. I know not in what sense critics apply this vague and often
ill-understood word to him. There is a materialistic pantheism and a spiritual pantheism; the
pantheism of Spinoza and that of Giordano Bruno; of St. Paul; and of many others- -all different.
But there is no poetic pantheism possible, save on the condition of embracing the whole world
of phenomena in one unique conception: of feeling and comprehending the life of the universe
in its divine unity. There is nothing of this in Goethe. There is pantheism in some parts of
Wordsworth; in the third canto of "Childe Harold," and in much of Shelley; but there is none
in the most admirable compositions of Goethe; wherein life, though admirably comprehended and
reproduced in each of its successive manifestations, is never understood as a whole. Goethe
is the poet of details, not of unity; of analysis, not of synthesis. None so able to investigate
details; to set off and embellish minute and apparently trifling points; none throw so beautiful
a light on separate parts; but the connecting link escapes him. His works resemble a magnificent
encyclopaedia, unclassified. He has felt everything but he has never felt the whole. Happy
in detecting a ray of the beautiful upon the humblest blade of grass gemmed with dew; happy
in seizing the poetic elements of an incident the most prosaic in appearance--he was incapable
of tracing all to a common source, and recomposing the grand ascending scale in which, to quote
a beautiful expression of Herder's "every creature is a numerator of the grand denominator,
Nature." How, indeed, should he comprehend these things, he who had no place in his works or
in his poet's heart for humanity, by the light of which conception only can the true worth
of sublunary things be determined? "Religion and politics," [Footnote: Goethe and his Contemporaries.]
said he, "are a troubled element for art. I have always kept myself aloof from them as much
as possible." Questions of life and death for the millions were agitated around him; Germany
re-echoed to the war songs of Korner; Fichte, at the close of one of his lectures, seized his
musket, and joined the volunteers who were hastening (alas! what have not the Kings made of
that magnificent outburst of nationality!) to fight the battles of their fatherland. The ancient
soil of Germany thrilled beneath their tread; he, an artist, looked on unmoved; his heart knew
no responsive throb to the emotion that shook his country; his genius, utterly passive, drew
apart from the current that swept away entire races. He witnessed the French Revolution in
all its terrible grandeur, and saw the old world crumble beneath its strokes; and while all
the best and purest spirits of Germany, who had mistaken the death-agony of the old world for
the birth-throes of a new, were wringing their hands at the spectacle of dissolution, he saw
in it only the subject of a farce. He beheld the glory and the fall of Napoleon; he witnessed
the reaction of down-trodden nationalities--sublime prologue of the grand epopee of the peoples
destined sooner or later to be unfolded- -and remained a cold spectator. He had neither learned
to esteem men, to better them, nor even to suffer with them. If we except the beautiful type
of Berlichingen, a poetic inspiration of his youth, man, as the creature of thought and action;
the artificer of the future, so nobly sketched by Schiller in his dramas, has no representative
in his works. He has carried something--of this nonchalance even into the manner in which his
heroes conceive love. Goethe's altar is spread with the choicest flowers, the most exquisite
perfumes, the first-fruits of nature; but the Priest is wanting. In his work of second creation--for
it cannot be denied that such it was--he has gone through the vast circle of living and visible
things; but stopped short before the seventh day. God withdrew from him before that time; and
the creatures the poet has evoked wander within the circle, dumb and prayerless; awaiting until
the man shall come to give them a name, and appoint them to a destination.

