     I have said more particularly that in the world in which you
     live,--I mean the court,--the disease of a perverted conscience is
     far more common, and far more difficult to be avoided; and I am
     sure that in this you will agree with me. For it is at the court
     that the passions bear sway, that desires are more ardent, that
     self-interest is keener, and that, by infallible consequence,
     self-blinding is more easy, and consciences, even the most
     enlightened and the most upright, become gradually perverted. It is
     at the court that the goddess of the world, I mean fortune,
     exercises over the minds of men, and in consequence over their
     consciences, a more absolute dominion. It is at the court that the
     aim to maintain one's self, the impatience to raise one's self, the
     frenzy to push one's self, the fear of displeasing, the desire of
     making one's self agreeable, produce consciences, which anywhere
     else would pass for monstrous, but which, finding themselves there
     authorized by custom, seem to have acquired a right of possession
     and of prescription. People, from living at court, and from no
     other cause than having lived there, are filled with these errors.
     Whatever uprightness of conscience they may have brought thither,
     by breathing its air and by hearing its language, they are
     habituated to iniquity, they come to have less horror of vice, and,
     after having long blamed it, a thousand times condemned it, they at
     last behold it with a more favorable eye, tolerate it, excuse it;
     that is to say, without observing what is happening, they make over
     their consciences, and, by insensible steps, from Christian, which
     they were, by little and little become quite worldly, and not far
     from pagan.

What could surpass the adaptedness of such preaching as that to the need of the moment for
which it was prepared? And how did the libertine French monarch contrive to escape the force
of truth like the following, with which the preacher immediately proceeds?--

     You would say, and it really seems, that for the court, there are
     other principles of religion than for the rest of the world, and
     that the courtier has a right to make for himself a conscience
     different in kind and in quality from that of other men; for such
     is the prevailing idea of the matter,--an idea well sustained, or
     rather unfortunately justified, by experience.... Nevertheless, my
     dear hearers, St. Paul assures us, that there is but one God and
     one faith; and woe to the man who dividing Him, this one God, shall
     represent Him as at court less an enemy to human transgressions
     than He is outside of the court; or, severing this one faith, shall
     suppose it in the case of one class more indulgent than in the case
     of another.

Bourdaloue, as Jesuit, could not but feel the power of Pascal in his "Provincial Letters,"
constantly undermining the authority of his order. His preaching, as Sainte-Beuve well says,
may be considered to have been, in the preacher's intention, one prolonged confutation of Pascal's
immortal indictment. We borrow of Sainte-Beuve a short extract from Bourdaloue's sermon on
slander, which may serve as an instance to show with what adroitness the Jesuit retorted anonymously
upon the Jansenist:--

     Behold one of the abuses of our time. Means have been found to
     consecrate slander, to change it into a virtue, and even into one
     of the holiest virtues--that means is, zeal for the glory of
     God.... We must humble those people, is the cry; and it is for the
     good of the Church to tarnish their reputation and to diminish
     their credit. That idea becomes, as it were, a principle; the
     conscience is fashioned accordingly, and there is nothing that is
     not permissible to a motive so noble. You fabricate, you
     exaggerate, you give things a poisonous taint, you tell but half
     the truth; you make your prejudices stand for indisputable facts;
     you spread abroad a hundred falsehoods; you confound what is
     individual with what is general; what one man has said that is bad,
     you pretend that all have said; and what many have said that is
     good, you pretend that nobody has said; and all that, once again,
     for the glory of God. For such direction of the intention justifies
     all that. Such direction of the intention will not suffice to
     justify a prevarication, but it is more than sufficient to justify
     calumny, provided only you are convinced that you are serving God
     thereby.

In conclusion, we give a passage or two of Bourdaloue's sermon on "An Eternity of Woe." Stanch
orthodoxy the reader will find here. President Edwards's discourse, "Sinners in the Hands of
an Angry God," is not more unflinching. But what a relief of contrasted sweetness does Bourdaloue
interpose in the first part of the ensuing extract, to set off the grim and grisly horror of
that which is to follow! We draw, for this case, from a translation, issued in Dublin under
Roman-Catholic auspices, of select sermons by Bourdaloue. The translator, throughout his volume,
has been highly loyal in spirit toward the great French preacher; but this has not prevented
much enfeebling by him of the style of his original:--

     There are some just, fervent, perfect souls, who, like children in
     the house of the Heavenly Father, strive to please and possess him,
     in order only to possess and to love him; and who, incessantly
     animated by this unselfish motive, inviolably adhere to his divine
     precepts, and lay it down as a rigorous and unalterable rule, to
     obey the least intimation of his will. They serve him with an
     affection entirely filial. But there are also dastards, worldlings,
     sinners, terrestrial and sensual men, who are scarcely susceptible
     of any other impressions than those of the judgments and vengeance
     of God. Talk to them of his greatness, of his perfections, of his
     benefits, or even of his rewards, and they will hardly listen to
     you; and, if they are prevailed upon to pay some attention and
     respect to your words, they will sound in their ears, but not reach
     their hearts.... Therefore, to move them, to stir them up, to
     awaken them from the lethargic sleep with which they are
     overwhelmed, the thunder of divine wrath and the decree that
     condemns them to eternal flames must be dinned into their ears:
     "Depart from me, ye accursed, into everlasting fire" (Matt. XXV.).
     Make them consider attentively, and represent to them with all the
     force of grace, the consequences and horror of this word
     "eternal."...

It is not imagination, it is pure reason and intelligence, that now in Bourdaloue goes about
the business of impressing the thought of the dreadfulness of an eternity of woe. The effect
produced is not that of the lightning-flash suddenly revealing the jaws agape of an unfathomable
abyss directly before you. It is rather that of steady, intolerable pressure gradually applied
to crush, to annihilate, the soul:--

     ...Struck with horror at so doleful a destiny, I apply to this
     eternity all the powers of my mind; I examine and scrutinize it in
     all its parts; and I survey, as it were, its whole dimensions.
     Moreover, to express it in more lively colors, and to represent it
     in my mind more conformably to the senses and the human
     understanding, I borrow comparisons from the Fathers of the Church,
     and I make, if I may so speak, the same computations. I figure to
     myself all the stars of the firmament; to this innumerable
     multitude I add all the drops of water in the bosom of the ocean;
     and if this be not enough, I reckon, or at least endeavor to
     reckon, all the grains of sand on its shore. Then I interrogate
     myself, I reason with myself, and I put to myself the question--If
     I had for as many ages, and a thousand times as many, undergone
     torments in that glowing fire which is kindled by the breath of the
     Lord in his anger to take eternal vengeance, would eternity be at
     an end? No; and why? Because it is eternity, and eternity is
     endless. To number up the stars that shine in the heavens, to count
     the drops of water that compose the sea, to tell the grains of sand
     that lie upon the shore, is not absolutely impossible; but to
     measure in eternity the number of days, of years, of ages, is what
     cannot be compassed, because the days, the years, and the ages are
     without number; or, to speak more properly, because in eternity
     there are neither days, nor years, nor ages, but a single, endless,
     infinite duration.

     To this thought I devote my mind. I imagine I see and rove through
     this same eternity, and discover no end, but find it to be always a
     boundless tract. I imagine the wide prospect lies open on all
     sides, and encompasseth me around; that if I rise up, or if I sink
     down, or what way soever I turn my eyes, this eternity meets them;
     and that after a thousand efforts to get forward, I have made no
     progress, but find it still eternity. I imagine that after long
     revolutions of time, I behold in the midst of this eternity a
     damned soul, in the same state, in the same affliction, in the same
     misery still; and putting myself mentally in the place of this
     soul, I imagine that in this eternal punishment I feel myself
     continually devoured by that fire which nothing extinguishes; that
     I continually shed those floods of tears which nothing can dry up;
     that I am continually gnawed by the worm of conscience, which
     never dies; that I continually express my despair and anguish by
     that gnashing of teeth, and those lamentable cries, which never can
     move the compassion of God. This idea of myself, this
     representation, amazes and terrifies me. My whole body shudders, I
     tremble with fear, I am filled with horror, I have the same
     feelings as the royal prophet, when he cried, "Pierce thou my flesh
     with thy fear, for I am afraid of thy judgments."

That was a touching tribute from the elder to the younger--tribute touching, whether wrung,
perforce, from a proudly humble, or freely offered by a simply magnanimous, heart--when, like
John the Baptist speaking of Jesus, Bourdaloue, growing old, said of Massillon, enjoying his
swiftly crescent renown: "He must increase, and I must decrease." It was a true presentiment
of the comparative fortune of fame that impended for these two men. It was not, however, in
the same path, but in a different, that Massillon outran Bourdaloue. In his own sphere, that
of unimpassioned appeal to reason and to conscience, Bourdaloue is still without a rival. No
one else, certainly, ever earned, so well as he, the double title which his epigrammatic countrymen
were once fond of bestowing upon him,--"The king of preachers, and the preacher of kings."

* * *

JEAN BAPTISTE MASSILLON became priest by his own internal sense of vocation to the office,
against the preference of his family that he should become, like his father, a notary. He seems
to have been by nature sincerely modest in spirit. He had to be forced into the publicity of
a preaching career at Paris. His ecclesiastical superior peremptorily required at his hands
the sacrifice of his wish to be obscure. He at once filled Paris with his fame. The inevitable
consequence followed. He was summoned to preach before the king at Versailles. Here he received,
as probably he deserved, that celebrated compliment in epigram, from Louis XIV.: "In hearing
some preachers, I feel pleased with them; in hearing you, I feel displeased with myself."

It must not, however, be supposed that Massillon preached like a prophet Nathan saying to King
David, "Thou art the man;" or like a John the Baptist saying to King Herod, "It is not lawful
for thee to have her;" or like a John Knox denouncing Queen Mary. Massillon, if he was stern,
was suavely stern. He complimented the king. The sword with which he wounded was wreathed deep
with flowers. It is difficult not to feel that some unspoken understanding subsisted between
the preacher and the king, which permitted the king to separate the preacher from the man when
Massillon used that great plainness of speech to his sovereign. The king did not, however,
often invite this master of eloquence to make the royal conscience displacent with itself.
Bourdaloue was ostensibly as outspoken as Massillon; but somehow that Jesuit preacher contented
the king to be his hearer during as many as ten annual seasons, against the one or two only
that Massillon preached at court before Louis.

The work of Massillon generally judged, though according to Sainte-Beuve not wisely judged,
to be his choicest, is contained in that volume of his which goes by the name of "Le Petit
Carême,"--literally, "The Little Lent,"--a collection of sermons preached during a Lent before
the king's great-grandson and successor, youthful Louis XV. These sermons especially have given
to their author a fame that is his by a title perhaps absolutely unique in literature. We know
no other instance of a writer, limited in his production strictly to sermons, who holds his
place in the first rank of authorship simply by virtue of supreme mastership in literary style.

Still, from the text of his printed discourses,--admirable, exquisite, ideal compositions in
point of form as these are,--it will be found impossible to conceive adequately the living
eloquence of Massillon. There are interesting traditions of the effects produced by particular
passages of particular sermons of his. When Louis XIV. died, Massillon preached his funeral
sermon. He began with that celebrated single sentence of exordium which, it is said, brought
his whole audience, by instantaneous, simultaneous impulse, in a body to their feet. The modern
reader will experience some difficulty in comprehending at once why that perfectly commonplace-seeming
expression of the preacher should have produced an effect so powerful. The element of the opportune,
the apposite, the fit, is always great part of the secret of eloquence. Nothing more absolutely
appropriate can be conceived than was the sentiment, the exclamation, with which Massillon
opened that funeral sermon. The image and symbol of earthly greatness, in the person of Louis
XIV., had been shattered under the touch of iconoclast death. "God only is great!" said the
preacher; and all was said. Those four short words had uttered completely, and with a simplicity
incapable of being surpassed, the thought that usurped every breast. It is not the surprise
of some striking new thought that is the most eloquent thing. The most eloquent thing is the
surprise of that one word, suddenly spoken, which completely expresses some thought, present
already and uppermost, but silent till now, awaiting expression, in a multitude of minds. This
most eloquent thing it was which, from Massillon's lips that day, moved his susceptible audience
to rise, like one man, and bow in mute act of submission to the truth of his words. The inventive
and curious reader may exercise his ingenuity at leisure. He will strive in vain to conceive
any other exordium than Massillon's that would have matched the occasion presented.