PUNCH, OR THE LONDON CHARIVARI.

VOL. 153.

AUGUST 15, 1917.

CHARIVARIA.

"In the heroic days of 1914," says Count REVENTLOW, "God gave us our daily bread and our daily
victory." We feel sure that, as regards the provision of victories, some recognition ought
to be made of the able assistance of the WOLFF Bureau.

       ***

We read with some surprise that, in the motor collision in which he participated recently,
Mr. WINSTON CHURCHILL'S car was run into by another coming in the opposite direction. This
is not the Antwerp spirit that the Munitions Department is waiting for.

       ***

A movement is on foot for the presentation of a suitable testimonial to the people of Dundee
for returning Mr. CHURCHILL to Parliament, after being distinctly requested not to do so by
a certain morning paper.

       ***

"What shall we do with the Allotment Harvest?" asks The Evening News. It seems only too probable
that, unless a national effort is made to preserve them, some of the world's noblest vegetables
will have to be eaten.

       ***

"Just as a soldier gives his valour or a captain of industry his talent," said Lord CURZON,
speaking on the sale of titles, "so a wealthy man gives his wealth, which is very often his
only asset, for the benefit of his country." Nothing like a delicate compliment or two to encourage
him in the good work.

       ***

A lively correspondence has been filling the columns of a contemporary under the heading, "The
Facts about Bacon." The discussion seems to have turned upon the famous line, "There's something
rotten from the state of Denmark."

       ***

Sixpenny paper notes are now being issued in various parts of Germany. If you can't find anything
to buy with them you can use them to patch the new paper trousers.

       ***

Judging by his recent speech, Herr VON BETHMANN-HOLLWEG has lost heart and found a liver.

       ***

At a recent inquest it was stated that a doctor had prepared a death certificate while deceased
was still alive. The subsequent correct behaviour of the patient is regarded as a distinct
feather in the medical profession's cap.

       ***

A nephew of Field-Marshal VON HINDENBUBG has just joined the United States Navy, but the rumour
that upon hearing this HINDENBURG tried to look severe is of course an impossible story.

       ***

The sum of sixty pounds has been taken from the Ransom Lane Post Office, Hull, and burglars
are reminded that withdrawals of money from the Post Office cannot in future be allowed unless
application is first made on the prescribed form.

       ***

Baron SONNINO, the Italian Minister for Foreign Affairs, was accorded a truly British welcome
on his arrival in this country. It rained all day.

       ***

It appears from a weekly paper that the KAISER is fond of nice quiet amusement. If this is
so we cannot understand his refusal to have a Reichstag run on lines similar to the British
Parliament.

       ***

Sir EDWARD CARSON'S physical recreations, says The Daily Mail, are officially stated to be
riding, golf and cycling. Unofficially, we believe, he has occasionally done some drilling.

       ***

At a recent pacifist meeting in Bristol Councillor THOMPSON declared that he was with Mr. LLOYD
GEORGE in the South African War, but was against him in the present campaign. The authorities
are doing their best to keep the news from the PREMIER.

       ***

A man at Tottenham has been fined five pounds for feeding a horse with bread. We understand
that action was taken on the initiative of the R.S.P.C.A.

       ***

The German Government is doing everything possible to curry favour with its people. It has
now commandeered all stocks of soap.

       ***

A Bermondsey house of amusement has organised a competition, in which the competitors have
to eat a pudding with their hands tied. This of course is a great improvement on the modern
and more difficult game of trying to eat a lump of sugar in a restaurant with full use of the
hands, and even legs.

       ***

An official notice in the British Museum Library states that readers will incur little risk
during air raids, "except from a bomb that bursts in the room." It is the ability to think
out things like this which raises the official mind so high above the ordinary.

       ***

The German Government, says the Gazette de Lausanne, is establishing a regular business base
in Berne. We have no illusions as to the base business that will be conducted from it.

       ***

"When a German travels round the world," said Dr. MICHAELIS in a lecture delivered twenty-five
years ago, "he cannot help being terribly envious of England." Funnily enough he is as envious
as ever, even though the opportunities for travel are no longer available.

       ***

When the Folkestone raid syren goes off, a man told the Dover Council, it blows your hat off.
On the other hand if it doesn't go off you may not have anywhere to wear a hat, so what are
you to do?

       ***

Willesden allotment-holders are complaining of a shortage of male blooms on their vegetable-marrow
plants. This is the first intimation we have had of the calling-up of this class.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

THRILLS FROM THE TERMINI.

Mr. Punch, following the example of his daily contemporaries, despatched a representative to
some of the great London termini to note the August exodus from town. The following thrilling
report is to hand:--

At Waterton and Paddingloo great crowds continued to board the limited number of West-bound
and South-west-bound trains. On being asked why they were leaving town, those of the travellers
who answered at all said it was the regular time for their annual holiday and they wanted a
change. They were mostly a jolly hearty lot, happily confident that at some time in the course
of the next forty-eight hours they would be deposited in some part of the West or South-west
of England. Those fortunate persons who had secured seats were sitting down, those who were
unable to get seats were standing, and, in spite of the congested state of the carriages and
corridors, almost all were smiling, the exceptions being those highly-strung and excitable
passengers who had come to blows over corner seats and windows up or down. Many of the travellers
carried baskets of food. Your representative, anxious to report on the quality and quantity
of the provisions carried, ventured to peep into one of the baskets, and was in consequence
involved in a rather unpleasant affair, being actually accused of having abstracted a sandwich!

The engine-driver, questioned as to whether he liked having passengers on the engine and whether
he considered it safe for them, was understood to say that so long as they didn't get in his
way it didn't matter to him, and as to its being safe for them, he jolly well didn't care whether
it was safe for them or not. The guard, detained by the sleeve by your representative, who
inquired how he felt about being almost crowded out of his brake by passengers, drew away his
sleeve with some violence and his answer was quite unworthy to be reported. An elderly but
strongly-built porter, with the luggage of fourteen families on his truck, and the fourteen
families surrounding him and all talking at once, was approached by your representative for
a little quiet chat, but he became so threatening that it was thought advisable to leave him alone.

At Ticvoria Station your representative found a seething mob intent on getting to those ever
popular and already much overcrowded South-coast resorts, Paradeville, Shingleton-on-Sea, Promenade
Bay, etc. The eleven-o'clock "Paradeville fast," due to start in half-an-hour, was at No. 20
platform. All sitting and standing room had been occupied for some hours, and the passengers
were enjoying the sport of seeing the later arrivals running the whole length of the train
and back again in the mad hope of finding places. Your representative managed to get a word
with some of these later arrivals, and asked them how they liked running up and down, and whether
they were much disappointed at not finding room; but the answers were mostly unsatisfactory
and in some cases uncivil. The booking-clerk, questioned as to the phraseology employed by
August holiday folk in asking for their tickets, whether it is "Third return, please," or "Third
return," or "Third return and look sharp," showed by his answer that the expression "please"
is falling into desuetude on these occasions, his exact words being "There's precious little
'please' knocking about, and anyone who has the cheek to tell me to 'look sharp' is jolly well
kept waiting till the last!" Your representative, wishing to report at first-hand the experience
of those who were travelling thirty in a compartment meant to accommodate ten in the "Paradeville
fast," tried to get in and make a thirty-first, explaining that it was only for a minute and
was with the object of getting local colour, but was forcibly expelled, and, falling on the
platform and sustaining some slight contusions, decided to cease reporting on August scenes
at the great termini for that day.

       *       *       *       *       *

TWO DUMB WARRIORS.

I.--HYLDEBRAND.

When the Heatherdale Hussars received a two-hours' notice to "trek" they, of course, dumped
their mascot, Hyldebrand, a six-months-old wild boar, at the Town Major's. They would have
done the same with a baby or a full-grown hippopotamus. The harassed T.M. discovered Hyldebrand
in the next stable to his slightly hysterical horse the morning after the H.H. had evacuated,
and informed me (his village Sanitary Inspector) that "as I was fond of animals" (he had seen
me distributing fly-traps and painting horse-trough notice-boards) I was henceforth in sole
command of Hyldebrand until such time as his owners should reclaim him. A grant of five sous
per diem had been left for the piglette's maintenance.

I took charge of Hyldebrand, provided an old dog-kennel for his shelter, an older dog-collar
for his adornment and six yards of "flex" for his restraint. I further appointed the runner--a
youth from Huddersfield, nicknamed "Isinglass," in playful sarcastic comment on his speed--second
in command. He was to feed, groom and exercise Hyldebrand. I would inspect Hyldebrand twice a week.

Hyldebrand rose fast in village popularity. One forgot that his parents had been shot for cattle
maiming, body snatching, breaking into granaries and defying the gendarmerie on the public
roads. But Hyldy was all docility. He ate his way through the grant, the office stationery,
and the central tin dump with the most disarming naïvété. He was the spoilt darling of every
mess. The reflected glory which Isinglass and myself enjoyed was positively embarrassing.

But as the summer advanced so did Hyldebrand. He became (to quote his keeper) a "battle pig,"
with the head of a pantomime dragon, fore-quarters of a bison, the hind-legs of a deer and
a back like an heraldic scrubbing-brush. In March I had inspected him as he sat upon my knee.
In June I shook hands with him as he strained at his tether. In mid-September we nodded to
each other from opposite sides of a barbed wire fence. Yet Isinglass retained the most complete
mastery of his ferocious-looking protégé, and beneath his skilful massage Hyldebrand would
throw himself upon the ground and guggle in a porcine ecstacy.

One sunny afternoon, when there had come upon the little village street the inevitable hush
which preceded Hyldebrand's hour for exercise, I espied the village cripple making for his
home with the celerity of an A 1 man. He glared reproachfully at me, and, with an exclamation
of "Sacré sanglier!" vanished in the open doorway of the local boulangerie, that being nearer
than his cottage. Then came Hyldebrand, froth on his snout and murder in his little eyes, and
after him Isinglass more than living up to his equine namesake. I joined him, and, following
Hyldy in a cloud of dust, the runner informed me between gasps that it was "along of burning
his snout-raking for a bully-beef tin in the insinuator."

A band outside B Mess was nearing the climax of GRIEG'S "Peer Gynt" suite. Hyldebrand just
failed to perpetrate the time-worn gag of jumping through the big drum, but he contrived to
make that final crashing chord sound like the last sneeze of a giant dying of hay-fever. The
rest the crowd saw through a film of dust. Hyldebrand headed for the turning by the school,
reached it as the gates opened to release young France, and comedy would have turned to tragedy
but for the point duty M.P. and his revolver.

There was a note and a parcel for me a day or so after. The note, which was addressed to and
had been opened by the T.M., stated that Hyldebrand was being sent for by the Heatherdale Hussars
on the morrow. Outside the parcel was scrawled, above the initials of the G.H.Q. officers'
cook, a friend of mine, "It's top hole--try it with a drop of sauce." Inside was a cold pork chop!

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

II.--ERMYNTRUDE.

It so happened in a quiet part of the line that men were scarce and work abundant, so it was
decided to use mules to carry the rations further than usual. All went well until one night
when friend Fritz changed his habits and put some assorted fireworks rather near the mules.

Now the transport, being human and moreover unaccustomed to fireworks, disliked this entertainment.
Therefore they sought what shelter they could. In a few minutes the Hun repented, but no mules
and no rations could the transport see. Moreover it began to rain. So back they went and spoke
at great length of the hundreds of seventeen-inch which had blown up all the mules.

The morning began to come and a machine-gun subaltern, looking at a black East in search of
daylight, so that he might say, "It is now light; I may go to bed," was somewhat startled.
"For," he said, "I have received shocks as the result of too much whisky of old, but from a
split tea and chloride of lime--no! It must be the pork and beans." However, he collected eight
puzzled but peaceful mules and handed them to a still more bewildered adjutant, who knew not
if they were "trench stores" or "articles to be returned to salvage."

In the meanwhile the Transport Officer was making inquiries, and he recovered the eight mules.
"All," he said, "are back, except Ermyntrude. I grieve for Ermyntrude, but still more for my
driver's fate."

Where Ermyntrude spent the day no one knows. All that is known is of her conduct the next night.
About eleven o'clock she stepped on a shelter, and, being a heavy mule, came into the trench
abruptly. This worried but did not hurt her, and she proceeded down the trench at a steady
trot, bumping into the traverses. She met a ration party, and for the first time in their lives
they took refuge over the top, for Ermyntrude was angry.

Ermyntrude reached the end of the trench and somehow got out, heading, by chance, for Germany.
That was her undoing. In a minute or so three machine-guns began firing, bombs and rifle shots
were heard, and Verey lights innumerable flared. We never saw Ermyntrude again. But we heard
of her--or rather we read of her--for the German official report wrote her epitaph, thus: "Near
the village of ---- hostile raiding detachments were repulsed by our machine-gun fire."

       *       *       *       *       *

