  Look 'ere, JOHN, you stow it; you're nuts on the spoutin';
    I don't mind a man as can 'oller a bit;
  And if shillings are goin', I'd back you for shoutin',
    Though your game's an Aunt Sally, all miss and no 'it.
  But the blusterin' chap as keeps naggin' the boys on
    To fight and get beat all for nothing's an ass.
  And I'm certain o' this, that the wust kind o' poison
    Is the stuff as you fellers 'ave lots of--that's gas!

  What's Orme done to you? 'E can't 'elp a cove bettin'.
    To get at 'im for that is a trifle too warm.
  And poisonin' racers ain't my kind o' vettin'.
    I likes a good 'orse, so 'ere's 'ealth to old Orme.
  Take a bolus yourself, it might stop you from roarin';
    There's nothin' like tryin' these games on yourself!
  And I'll throw BENNY TILLETT and one or two more in,
    Just to lay the whole lot o' you up on the shelf.

  BEN TILLETT talks big of a mind that's a sewer;
    Well, 'e knows what it is, for I'll lay 'e's bin there.
  And you'd make a 'orse into cat'smeat on skewer.
    My eye, but just ain't you a nice-spoken pair!
  I ain't goin' to foller you two like a shadder,
    Your 'eads is a darned sight too swelled up with brag.
  If you don't want to bust and go pop like a bladder,
    Why you'd best take my tip--put 'em both in a bag.

  So ta-ta, JOHN. I ain't the least wish to offend you,
    But plain words to fellers like you is the best.
  If they'd give me my way, why I'd jolly soon end you,
    Beard, blather and all; you're no more than a pest.
  I can fight and take knocks, and I'll stand by my folk, Sir,
    I'll 'elp them as 'elps me with whatever I earns;
  But I've this for your pipe, if you're wantin' a smoke, Sir,--
    I ain't one for poison, nor yet for JOHN BURNS!

       *       *       *       *       *

"MURDER IN JEST."--Is it not an extraordinary plea on behalf of a person under sentence of
death for murder, that, like IBSEN's heroine, "she had never been able to take life in earnest?"
Surely it should be added that "when she took somebody else's life she did take it very much
in earnest."

       *       *       *       *       *

POPULAR SONGS RE-SUNG.

Writing of the brilliant Boanerges of the Liberal Party, the Times says:--"Sir WILLIAM is the
strongest stimulant known to the Gladstonian wire-pullers, and his appearance is always an
indication that the vital energies of the patient are low. It is well understood that his proper
place is by his own fireside, and that his true function is to evolve epigrams and construct
original systems of finance in that calm retreat.... But whenever they feel particularly downcast
and unhappy, they break in upon his fecund meditations, and get him to fire off a roystering
speech."

This affectionate and admiring tribute from the Thunderer to its old favourite contributor
"HISTORICUS," is worthy of celebrating in deathless verse. How well a dithyramb on the subject
would go to a certain popular tune! As thus:--

NO. VIII.--GET YOUR HARCOURT!

AIR--"Get your Hair Cut!"

  'Twould serve them right if never I came
    From my own fireside again!
  The way the "Thunderer" cuts me up
    Is vixenish--as vain.
  I was born an Opportunist,
    In a general sort of way,
  But it's really very impertinent
    For the Times to grin and say:--

Chorus.

  "Get your HARCOURT! Get your HARCOURT!"
    Oh! whenever I'm on spout,
    You can hear the Tories shout,
  "Get your HARCOURT! Get your HARCOURT!
  To cheer you when your spirits are down!"

  I started in the Buffo line.
    When things seem getting slack,
  I'm to the front, with lots of go.
    My critics may cry "Quack!"
  But quacking's not confined to me.
    I do extremely well,
  And the more "I give them physic," why
    The more they squirm and yell--

Chorus.

  "Get your HARCOURT! Get your HARCOURT!"
    But they know my sparkling spout--
    Will help to turn them out.
  "Get your HARCOURT! Get your HARCOURT!"
  But I'll meet them when their sun goes down.

  To play the great "HISTORICUS" part,
    I years ago appeared.
  The Thunderers stage then knew my art,
    But now that pitch is queered!
  They swear that I apostatised
    To follow W.G.,
  And patter about "Parnellite juice,"
    And holloa after me--

Chorus.

  "Get your HARCOURT! Get your HARCOURT!"
    But, with quip, and jibe, and flout,
    I completely put them out.
  "Get your HARCOURT! Get your HARCOURT!"
  But I beat them, and their sun goes down!

  They try all sorts of "counters" to
    My slogging strokes--in vain.
  The "Thunderer" slates me every day,
    But still I slog again.
  Old W.G. in 'Ninety-Three
    May form a Cabinet;
  Then his first thought will be of Me,
    And all will cry (you bet!)--

Chorus.

  "Get your HARCOURT! Get your HARCOURT!
    Whoever may stand out,
    Malwood's Squire must join, no doubt.
  Get your HARCOURT! Get your HARCOURT!"
  And I'll mock them when their sun goes down!

       *       *       *       *       *

TO THE GRAND OLD TORY.

(BY THE WIFE OF A DISSENTING CUMBRIAN WORKMAN.)

  O WILLIAM, you have managed to offend.
    The Workmen, and the Women, and the Welsh.
  Beware, or you'll discover ere the end
    That the three W.'s the great one can squelch!

It is only eleven; still another hour; hard even for trained nerves. For more than six hours
been discussing Scotch Equivalent Grant. CLARK's musical voice has floated through the House
by the half hour.

"A bagpipe with bronchitis nothing to it," says FARQUHARSON, curling himself up with delight
as he hears sounds that remind him of his mountain home. HUNTER has relentlessly pursued the
unhappy LORD-ADVOCATE, and CALDWELL has thoroughly enjoyed himself. His life, it will be remembered,
was temporarily blighted by action of ROBERTSON when he was Lord-Advocate. Got up, following
CALDWELL in debate, and dismissed a subject in a quarter of an hour's speech without reference
to oration hour-and-half long with which CALDWELL had delighted House. Don't remember what
the subject was, but never forget CALDWELL's seething indignation, his righteous anger, his
withering wrath. ROBERTSON smiled in affected disregard; but very soon after he found it convenient
to withdraw from the focus of CALDWELL's eye, and take refuge on the Scotch Bench. As for CALDWELL,
he withdrew his support from Ministers, tore up his ticket of membership as a Unionist, and
returned to the Gladstonian fold. A tragic story which SCOTT might have worked up into three
volumes had he been alive. He is not, but CALDWELL is, and so are we--at least partially after
this six hours' talk round rates in Scotland, whether at ten shillings per head or twelve shillings.
At half past eleven human nature could stand it no longer; progress reported although there
still remained half-an-hour available time.

Business done.--Scotch Members avenged Culloden.

Tuesday.--"Rather a mean thing for MARJORIBANKS to bolt in this way, don't you think?" said
CAMPBELL-BANNERMAN, walking out of House when SINCLAIR showed signs of following CALDWELL.
"Says he has some County Council meeting in Scotland. Went off by train last night; promised
to be back on Thursday. We'll see. When he made that arrangement he thought Scotch Bill would
be through to-night; but it won't. Will certainly go over to Thursday. So Master MARJORIBANKS
will find himself caught when he comes back. Meanwhile he's escaped to-day and some hours of
last night, which is something. As for me, I've stuck to my post, and will very probably die
at it. Go in and listen to SINCLAIR, dear boy, following CALDWELL, succeeded by ESSLEMONT.
with CLARK in reserve. I think you'll enjoy yourself."

So I did; thoroughly pleasant afternoon from two o'clock to seven. LORD-ADVOCATE visibly growing
leaner in body, greyer in face. CAMPBELL-BANNERMAN's usually genial temperament souring, as
will be observed from remarks quoted above. J.B. BALFOUR looking in from Edinburgh professes
thoroughly to enjoy the business. But then he's fresh to it. Pretty large attendance of Members,
but reserve themselves solely for Division. When bell rings three hundred odd come trooping
in to follow the Whips into either lobby; then troop forth again. Long JOHN O'CONNOR beams
genially down on scene.

"Glad you're having this for a change," he says. "You grumble when we Irish take the floor.
Now the Scotch will oblige. Hope you'll like Caledonian and CALDWELL better than Home Rule
and Erin G. O'BRIEN."

"Yes, I do," I boldly answered. Only distraught between conflicting charms of CALDWELL and
SINCLAIR. There is a cold massivity about SINCLAIR, a pointedness of profile, when he declares
"the Nose have it." But there is a loftiness about CALDWELL's tone, a subdued fire in his manner
when he is discussing the difference between a rate of ten shillings and one of twelve, a withering
indignation for all that is false or truculent (in short, anything connected with the office
of Lord-Advocate) that strangely moves the listener. The very mystery of his ordinary bearing
weaves a spell of enchantment around him. For days and weeks he will sit silent, watchful,
with his eye on the paralysed Scotch Law Officers. Then, suddenly, as in this debate on the
Equivalent Grant, he comes to the front, and pours forth an apparently inexhaustible flood
of argumentative oratory, delivered with exhilarating animation. "Give me Peebles for pleasure,"
said the loyal Lowlander home from a fortnight's jaunt in Paris. "Give me CALDWELL for persuasive
argument," says PLUNKET, himself a born orator who has missed scarcely five minutes of this
two days' debate.

Curious how influence of the hour permeates and dominates everything, even to the distant Lake
Ny'yassa. Question asked when House met as to how things were going on there under Commissioner
JOHNSTON. No one at all surprised when, in reply, LOWTHER referred to the "two powerful Chiefs,
JUMBE and MCPONDA." Should like to hear the views of the last gentleman on the Scotch Equivalent
Grant, its application to secondary education in Scotland, and the probable ultimate destination
of the £25,000 allotted to parochial boards.

Business done.--More of the Scotch Equivalent Grant.

Wednesday.--May Day passed off quietly enough; but you can't have air charged with electricity,
and your back-cellars filled with dynamite, without danger of explosion. Burst to-day in unlooked-for
place, in unexpected circumstances. HALDANE brought in Bill providing that ratepayers should
share with Duke of WESTMINSTER and other great landowners benefit of unearned increment. Prospect
alluring, but debate not exhilarating. House nearly empty; ASQUITH delivering able but not
exciting speech in favour of Bill. Just sort of time and circumstances when, in another place,
Judge might be expected to fall asleep on Bench. Citizen ROBERT GALNIGAD BONTINE CUNINGHAME
GRAHAM, sitting on Bench behind ASQUITH, listening like the rest of us to his well-ordered
argument. The Citizen a little tired with Sunday's peregrination. Been walking about all day
with stout stick in hand, and blood-red handkerchief in pocket, ready for any emergency. At
favourable moment blood-red handkerchief would flash forth, tied on to stick with timely twine,
and there's your flag! Republic proclaimed; Citizen GRAHAM first President, under title GALNIGAD
I., and before Secretary-of-State MATTHEWS quite knew where he was, he would be viewing the
scene from an elevated position pendant in Trafalgar Square.

Chance had not come; GRAHAM still plain Citizen, in House of Commons listening to commonplace
proposals about unearned increment. This evidently wouldn't do. Suddenly jumped up; shook fist
at back of ASQUITH's unoffending head, and, à propos de bottes, "wanted to know about the swindling
companies and their shareholders?"

ASQUITH really hadn't been saying anything about them; turning round beheld Citizen GRAHAM
glaring upon him, throwing about his arms as if he were semaphore signalling to the rearguard
of Republican Army.

"Order! Order!" cried SPEAKER, sternly.

"Oh, you can suspend me if you like," said Citizen GRAHAM, airily, as if it were no hanging
matter. Members angrily joined in cry of "Order! Order!" SPEAKER promptly "named" the Citizen--not
with his full list of names, for time was pressing.

"Name away!" roared the Citizen, whom nothing could disconcert. HOME SECRETARY having no fear
of the lamppost before his eyes, formally moved that the Citizen be suspended. GRAHAM snapped
his fingers at HOME SECRETARY. "Suspend away!" he shouted.

Members looked on aghast. ROWLANDS standing at the Bar, conscious of his hair slowly uplifting.
Belonged to the advanced guard himself; but this going little too far. LUBBOCK, sitting near
Citizen, strategically attempted to change the conversation. "Did you ever," he said, blandly,
"notice how the queen bee, when she is--"

"Oh, you bee ----" said the Citizen, roughly shaking off the gentle Bee-master.

SAM SMITH shudderingly covered his face with his hands. "I'm so afraid," he whispered, "of
the old A-dam coming out." And it did, Citizen GRAHAM himself immediately after going out,
stopping at the Bar to shuffle through a few steps of the Carmagnole, and trumpet defiance
on his blood-red handkerchief.

After this, a mere flash of lightning through the low clouds of a dull afternoon, ASQUITH went
on with his speech, debate proceeded as if nothing had happened, and HALDANE's Bill thrown
out by 223 Votes against 148. Business done.--Citizen GRAHAM suspended.

Friday.--House met to-day as it did yesterday and day before to discuss Bills and Motions.
But all the talk really turns upon date of Dissolution, and what is likely to happen after
a General Election. SQUIRE OF MALWOOD serenely confident in the future.

"Yes," I said to him to-night, "it must be a great comfort to you to reflect that when you
come into office you will not have to beat about for a programme. You've got your Newcastle
platform, and I suppose a Liberal Ministry will stand upon that."

"You remind me, dear TOBY," said the Squire, with a far-away look, "of a story COLERIDGE brought
home from his memorable visit to the United States. On his way down to Chicago he went out
on the platform of the car to breathe the air and look at the scenery. 'Come off that,' said
the Conductor, following him, 'you can't stand on the platform.' 'My good man,' said JOHN DUKE--you
know his silver voice and his bland manner--'what is a platform for, if not to stand on?' 'Platforms,'
said the Conductor, sententiously, 'are not made to stand on, they are made to get in on.'"

Business done.--Miscellaneous.

       *       *       *       *       *

ON THE ROW AMONG THE ROMANCERS.

  Trust me, scribes who fight and jeer,
    From yon blue heavens above us bent,
  DICKENS and THACKERAY and SCOTT
    Smile at the grumbling Yankee gent.

  Howe'er it be, it seems to me
    A Novel needs but to be good;
  Romancer's more than Realist,
    And True Love's course than too much "Blood"!

       *       *       *       *       *

TOO CONSCIENTIOUS.--"As a protest against gambling in connection with Orme," Mr. W. JOHNSTON,
M.P., refused to attend a meeting at the Duke of WESTMINSTER's "for the prevention of the demoralisation
of the uncivilised heathen races." Does Mr. W.J. include the Derby among the "heathen races"
in connection with Orme?

       *       *       *       *       *

