The constitutional provision for the rendition of slaves was simply a compromise between union
and slavery. Of the two evils of no union, or no slavery, it was thought the former was the
worse, and consequently the free States fell in with the measure. But could the patriots of
the Revolution have foreseen the gigantic growth of slavery, and the use that would have been
made of the provision recognizing it, no consideration would have induced them to adopt a course
that has been prolific of so much misrepresentation and mischief to the country. They left
the suppression of slavery to the States where it existed, but there was no intention to ingraft
the idea of property in man in the Constitution, or to favor its extension beyond the original
slave States in any way. John Jay, the first Chief-Justice, was preëminently qualified to judge
respecting this. We have his testimony most explicitly denying the natural right of property
in slaves, and declaring that the Constitution did not recognize the equity of its extension
in the new States or Territories. Who was there more conversant with the genius of our country
than Washington; and yet how full is his testimony to the evil of slavery; its want of natural
right to support it, and the necessity of its speedy suppression and abolition? Is it possible
that he, himself a slaveholder and an emancipationist, could utter such sentiments and enforce
them by his example, if he regarded the Constitution as establishing the light of property
in man, and the benefit of the indefinite expansion of slavery over the country? No, indeed!
If we may consider the Constitution in relation to slaves an inconsistent instrument, we can
not prove it an hypocritical and dishonest one. The hard necessities of the times wrung out
of reluctant patriots the admission of the rendition of slaves, but they would not by any reasonable
construction of language, assert the natural right of property in slaves, and the propriety
or benefit of its toleration in new States and Territories. It was bad enough to tolerate this
evil in the old slave States, but it would be infamous to hand down to posterity a Constitution
denying the self-evident truths of the Declaration of Independence. Toleration is not synonymous
with approval, or existence with right. There is a most subtle error in the assumption of the
indifference of the Constitution to freedom and slavery--that it advocated neither, but protected
both. Certainly the framers of the Constitution were not automatons, or this instrument the
accident of the throw of the dice-box. The great purpose of this instrument was to raise the
revenue, and defend the country. Its end was to protect the liberties and command the respect
of civilized nations. The old Confederation was to give way to the Federal Constitution. The
independence of the United States had been achieved at a heavy cost. To say nothing of frontiers
exposed, country ravaged, towns burnt, commerce nearly ruined, the derangement of finances--the
pecuniary loss alone amounted to one hundred and seventy million dollars, two thirds of which
had been expended by Congress, the balance by individual States. The design of the Constitution
was to preserve the fruits of the Revolution, to respect State sovereignty, and yet secure
a powerful and efficient Union; to have a central government, and yet not infringe upon the
local rights of the States. It will, therefore, be seen that while the subject of slavery was
earnestly discussed, and presented at the outset a great obstacle to the union of the States,
yet it was thought, upon the whole, best to leave to the slave States the business of doing
away with this great evil in such a manner as in their judgment might best conduce to their
own security and the preservation of the Union.

But no truth of history is more evident than that the authors of the Constitution regarded
slavery as impossible to be sustained upon the ground of the natural rights of mankind, and
deserving of no encouragement in the Territories, or States hereafter to come into the Union.
It was thought that the best interests of the slave States would lead them to abolish slavery,
and that before many years, the Republic would cease to bear the disgrace of chattel bondage.
It is certainly proper that the acts and language of the authors of the Constitution, and those
who chiefly were instrumental in achieving our independence, should be made to interpret that
instrument which was the creation of their own toils and love of country. Because the circumstances
of the present day have brought about a mighty change in the feelings and opinions of the slave
States, it does not follow that the Constitution in its original intention and spirit should
be accommodated to this new aspect of things. It is easy to get up a theory of the natural
right of slavery, and then say that the Constitution meant that the slave States should carry
slave property just where the free States carry their property; but when this ground is taken,
the Constitution is made, to all intents, a pro-slavery instrument. It ceases to be the charter
of a nation's freedom, and resolves itself into the most effective agent of the propagandism
of slavery. The transition is easy from such a theory to the fulfillment of the boast of Senator
Toombs, 'that the roll of slaves might yet be called at the foot of Bunker Hill Monument.'
But no straining of the language of the Constitution can make it mean the recognition of the
natural right of slavery, The guarded manner in which the provision was made for the rendition
of slaves, and all the circumstances connected with the adoption of the Constitution, show
conclusively that slavery was considered only a local and municipal institution, a serious
evil, to be suppressed and curtailed by the slave States, and never by the General Government
a blessing to be fostered and extended where it did not exist at the time the Union of the
thirteen States was perfected.

Alexander H. Stephens, Vice-President of the Confederate States, in a speech at Atlanta, Georgia,
said:

     'Jefferson, Madison, Washington, and many others, were tender of
     the word slave, in the organic law, and all looked forward to the
     time when the institution of slavery should be removed from our
     midst as a trouble and a stumbling-block. The delusion could not be
     traced in any of the component parts of the Southern Constitution.
     In that instrument we solemnly discarded the pestilent heresy of
     fancy politicians, that all men of all races were equal, and we
     have made African inequality, and subordination, the chief
     corner-stone of the Southern Republic.'

Here we have the great idea of an essential difference in relation to the Constitution and
slavery existing at the present day South, from that which did exist at the time of its ratification
universally by the people of the thirteen States. The Vice-President of the Southern Confederacy
frankly admits that slavery is its chief corner-stone; that our ancestors were deluded upon
the subject of slavery; that the ideas contained in the Declaration of Independence respecting
the equality of all men, and their natural right to life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness,
are only the pestilent heresy of fancy politicians; consequently that in the Southern Constitution
all such trash was solemnly discarded. Can clearer proof be wanted to show that the stand-point
of slavery and freedom has altogether changed since the days of Washington? Is it not true
that our country at the present day presents the singular spectacle of two great divisions,
one holding to the Constitution as interpreted by our ancestors North and South, the other
openly repudiating such interpretation? Is it strange, with such a radical difference existing
as to the import of the Constitution upon the subject of slavery, that we should have such
frequent and ever persistent charges of Northern aggression? If the history of slavery be kept
in mind, it will be seen that it has steadily had its eye upon one end, and that is national
aggrandizement. Thus about two hundred thousand slaveholders wield all the political power
of the South, and compel all non-slaveholders to acquiesce in their supremacy. But whatever
the South may choose to do, the North is under obligation to give to slavery nothing more than
what is guaranteed in the Constitution. If more than this is asked for, the North is bound
by a just regard for its own interests and the prosperity of the country to refuse compliance.
It has been seen that even admitting that a State has a just cause of complaint, or supposing
as a matter of fact that the Constitution is violated, she can not set herself up to be exclusively
the judge in this matter, and leave the Union at her convenience.

The history of our country reveals two memorable cases where the question was decided that
not the State, but the Federal Government was to be its own judge of what was constitutional,
and act accordingly. First, the case of New-York; secondly, the course taken by Massachusetts
in relation to the Embargo law of 1807, which was believed to be unconstitutional generally
in New-England. In the case of New-York, there was, as has been said, the surrender of any
right to secede from the Union at her pleasure; while in the Embargo law of 1807, which was
brought up to the Supreme Court for decision, there was the acquiescence of New-England upon
the simple point, who should be the final arbiter in the dispute. Massachusetts and all New-England
assented to a decision of the Judiciary, not upon the ground that it was right, but that the
Supreme Court had alone the authority to say what was right.

In this case there was a perfect refutation of the whole theory of secession; that theory falls
back upon the idea that the State government is to be its own judge of what constitutes a violation
of the Constitution, and act accordingly; but the Embargo law of 1807, when carried up to the
Supreme bench, and the way New-England assented to a decision that was not believed to be in
accordance with the Constitution, is a signal rebuke of the assumption of State sovereignty
when arrayed against the General Government. The all-important question was not, Was the decision
of the Judiciary right, but simply, Who had the authority to say what was right? Who should
submit to that authority? No person can fail to see in these two cases, under circumstances
so widely different, and with an end proposed in each directly the reverse of the other, that
the point so important to establish was clearly made out, that the National Government reserves
to itself alone the right to decide as to what should be the course taken in questions of dispute
that arise between the States and the Federal authority.

It is mournful to see the finest country on the earth--a land peculiarly blessed with every
element of material wealth, a land that has grown like a giant, and commanded the respect of
the world--now in her central government made an object of contempt, and crippled in her strength
by those very States who should, upon the principle of gratitude for favors granted, have been
the last to leave the Union. While the Government at Washington has shown the utmost forbearance,
they have manifested the greatest insolence, as well as disregard of the most sacred rights
of the Union. An Absalom the most willful and impetuous of his father's family, and yet the
most caressed and indulged, requites every debt of parental kindness by seeking through treachery
and the prostitution of all his privileges to raise an insurrection in the household of David,
and turn away through craft the hearts of the people from their rightful lord. So like Absalom,
South-Carolina first unfurls the banner of treason and war among the sister States, desperately
resolved to secure her selfish aggrandizement even at the price of the ruin of the country,
but like Absalom, also, she is destined to experience a reverse as ignominious and as fatal.

A STORY OF MEXICAN LIFE

VIII.

'My neighbor gazed at the stranger with bewilderment, and remained speechless. There was, nevertheless,
nothing in his outward mien to give rise to so much emotion. He was a robust and rather handsome
fellow, of about twenty-five, bold, swaggering, and free and easy in his deportment--a perfect
specimen of the race of half-breeds so common in Mexico. His skin was swarthy, his features
regular, and his beard luxuriant and soft as silk. His eyes were large and black as sloes,
his teeth small, regular, and white as ivory, and his whole countenance, when in repose, wore
an expression which won confidence rather than excited distrust. But when conversing, there
was an indefinable craftiness in his smile, and a peculiar cunning in the twinkle of his eye,
that often strikes the traveler in Mexico, as pervading all that class who are accustomed to
making excursions into the interior. His costume, covered with dust, and torn in many places,
led me to infer that he had only just returned from some long journey.

'After waiting, with great politeness, for some few seconds, to allow Arthur time to address
him, and finding he waited in vain, the Mexican opened the conversation:

''I fear your excellency will scold me for delaying so long on the road; but how could I help
it? I am more to be pitied than blamed--I lost three horses--at monte--and if it had not been
by good luck that the ace turned up when I staked my saddle and bridle, I should not be here
even now; but the ace won; I bought a fresh horse--and here I am.'

''What success?' inquired Arthur, with a look of intense anxiety; 'did you bring any?'

''Certainly,' replied Pepito, handing him very unconcernedly a small package; 'I brought more
than you told me, and, in fact, I might have brought a mule-load if you had wanted so many.'

''Adéle!' cried Mr. Livermore, overcome with delight, as he rushed into my room, 'Adéle, HE
HAS FOUND IT!'

Pepito followed Arthur with his sharp eye, and on beholding Adéle, asked me, in a low tone:

''Who is that lady, Caballero?'

''I can not say; I myself never saw her until to-day,' said I; and noticing his gaze riveted
on her in apparent admiration, I added:

''Do you think her pretty?'

''Pretty! Holy Virgin! she is lovely enough to make a man risk his salvation to win her.'

'Feeling that my presence might be one of those superfluities with which they would gratefully
dispense, I was on the point of leaving, when there was a knock at the door. Again Adéle sought
refuge in my room, and again Arthur advanced to the door:

''Open, it is I,' said a voice from the outside; 'I have come to inquire after my friend Pepito.'

''Señor,' exclaimed Pepito, 'that must be my compadre, Pedro.'

'On the door being opened, they flew to one another's arms, and gave a true Mexican embrace.

'The entrance of Pedro, which evidently annoyed Mr. Livermore, awakened in my mind strange
suspicions. I resolved at the earliest opportunity I had of a private interview with him, to
allude to what I had overheard on the Alameda. In the mean time I would keep an eye on these
two cronies.

''Stand back, Pedro, and let me have a good look at you.'

''There! well, how do you think I look?'

''My dear fellow, you are growing decidedly coarse and fat.'

''Bah! but how do you like my new rig?'

''I can not admire the cut; but, of course, you bought them ready-made--one could see that
with half an eye.'

''Well, Pepito, now that you are once more back in the city, I lack nothing to make me perfectly
happy. You will spend the rest of the day with me?'

''Of course, my dear fellow.'

''Well, it is about dinner-time; let us be off.'

''Wait till I have first bid adieu to his excellency,' replied Pepito, turning toward Mr. Livermore.
Then advancing a few steps, he whispered a few words to him, at the same time bowing very low.
Arthur unlocked the drawer of his table and took out a roll of dollars, which he handed to
the Mexican.

''Must you absolutely leave me so soon?' said he.

''Well, Caballero, after so long a journey, a man requires relaxation, and enjoys a social
glass; so, with your permission, I will see you again to-morrow.'

'This answer was any thing but pleasing to Mr. Livermore, who turned to me, and addressing
me in English, said:

''My dear sir, once more I must trespass on your good-nature. It is essential to the success
of my plans, that these two men should not be left together. Will you, can you, tack yourself
on to them, and keep close to Pepito until they separate?'

''Your request is as strange as it is difficult of execution; but I will do my best.'

''Gentlemen,' said I, to the two Mexicans, as we all three were going down the stairs, 'you
were speaking of dining--now I want to visit a real Mexican fonda; I am tired of these French
cafés; will you favor me by taking me to a first-rate house, for I am not acquainted with this
city.'

''If you will accompany us to the Fonda Genovesa, Caballero,' said Pedro, 'I will warrant you
will have no cause to repent it.'

''I am infinitely indebted to you, and shall gladly accept your guidance.'

'The Fonda Genovesa was certainly one of the vilest establishments I ever visited, and the
dinner was, of course, detestably bad. However, I treated my two worthies to a couple of bottles
of wine, which being to them a rare luxury, they declared they had fared sumptuously.

''But, look here, Pepito,' said Pedro, 'you have not yet alluded to your journey. Where have
you been all this time?'

''Where have I been? Oh! well, that is a secret.'

''A secret! what, from me, from your compadre Pedro?'

''Even so, my dear Pedro, even so; I have sworn not to mention the object of my journey nor
my destination.'

''Oh! I dare say; but look here, what did you swear by--the holy Virgin of Guadalupe? No? Well,
was it the cross?'

''No, neither by the one nor the other.'

''What is there binding, then? nothing else ought to keep you silent when I am in question?'

''I pledged my sacred honor.'

''Your sacred honor! Give me your hand, you always were a wag, but you humbugged me this time,
I confess; well, that is a good one--the best joke I have heard for an age--excellent! well,
go on, I am all attention, all ears.'

''Well, you won't hear much, for I am a man of honor, and bound not to speak; besides, I received
a hundred dollars to keep mum.'

'Pedro for a moment appeared to be in a brown study; at last, gazing hard at his friend, he said:

''Would two hundred tempt you to speak?'

''If such a proposition were to come from a stranger, I might, perchance, accept it; but seeing
it comes from you--never.'

''Why?'

''Because, when you offer me two hundred dollars for any thing, it must be worth far more than
you offer.'

''Well, now, admit, just as a supposition, that I am interested in this matter, what harm will
it do you, if we both turn an honest penny?'

''That is just the point; but I don't want you to turn ten pennies to my one.'

''Your scruples, my dear Pepito, display a cautious temperament, and evince deep acquaintance
with human nature; you see through my little veil of mystery, and I own your sagacity; now
I will be honest with you--with a man like you, lying is mere folly. It is true, I am to have
four hundred dollars if I can find out where you have been. I swear to you by the holy Virgin
of Guadalupe, I am making a clean breast of it. Now, will you take that amount? Say the word,
and I will go and fetch it right away.'

'This proposition seemed to embarrass the scrupulous Pepito extremely, and he remained some
time lost in thought.

''But, if you only receive four hundred, and give me four hundred, what the deuce will you
make out of such an operation?'

''Trust entirely to your generosity.'

''What! leave me to do what I like! I take you up--by Jupiter! Pedro, that is a noble trait
in your character--I take you up.'

''Then it is a bargain. Will you wait here for me, or would you prefer to meet me at our usual
Monte in the Calle de los Meradores?'

''I prefer the Monte.'

''You will swear on the cross, to relate fully and truly every particular relating to your
journey?'

''Of course--every thing.'

''I will be there in a couple of hours.'

'After his friend's departure, Pepito sat silent; his brow was knit, and yet a mocking sneer
played around his lips; he seemed to be pursuing two trains of thought at once; suspicion and
merriment were clearly working in his mind.

''This is a droll affair, Caballero; I can't clearly see the bottom of it'

''There is nothing very unusual in it that I see,' I replied, 'for every day men sacrifice
honor for gold.'

''True, nothing more common, and yet this proposition beats all I ever met with.'

''In what respect?'

''Why, the interest that these folks who employ Pedro, take in this journey that I undertook
for your friend, Señor Pride.'

''But, if this journey has some valuable secret object in view?'

''Valuable secret!' repeated Pepito, bursting into a fit of laughter; 'Yes, a valuable secret
indeed! Oh! the joke of offering four hundred dollars for what, 'twixt you and me, is not worth
a cent. But who can it be that is behind Pedro, in this matter? He must be some rival doctor,
or else a naturalist, on the same scent.'

''Is Señor Pride,' I inquired, 'a doctor--are you sure of that?'

''Yes--he must be--but I don't know,' exclaimed Pepito; 'I am at my wits' end. If he is not,
I have been working in the dark, and he has deceived me with a false pretext; I am at a loss--dead
beat. But one thing is plain--I can make four hundred dollars, if I like.'

''And will you betray your employer?' said I indignantly.

''Time enough--never decide rashly, Caballero; I shall deliberate--nothing like sleeping on
important affairs; to-morrow--who knows what to-morrow may bring forth?'

'So saying, Pepito arose, took his traveling sword under his arm, placed his hat jauntily on
his head, cast an admiring eye at the looking-glass, and then brushed off some of the dust
that still clung to his left sleeve.

''The smile of Heaven abide with you, Señor,' said he, with a most graceful bow. 'As for your
friend's secret, do not be uneasy about it; I am not going to meet Pedro to-night. I shall
take advantage of his absence to make a call on my lady-love. Pedro is a good fellow, but shockingly
self-conceited; he fancies himself far smarter than I--perhaps he is--but somehow I fancy,
this time he must be early if he catches me asleep.'

