THE MALAY ARCHIPELAGO

VOLUME II. (of II.)

by Alfred R. Wallace

CHAPTER XXI. THE MOLUCCAS--TERNATE.

ON the morning of the 8th of January, 1858, I arrived at Ternate, the fourth of a row of fine
conical volcanic islands which shirt the west coast of the large and almost unknown island
of Gilolo. The largest and most perfectly conical mountain is Tidore, which is over four thousand
Feet high--Ternate being very nearly the same height, but with a more rounded and irregular
summit. The town of Ternate is concealed from view till we enter between the two islands, when
it is discovered stretching along the shore at the very base of the mountain. Its situation
is fine, and there are grand views on every side. Close opposite is the rugged promontory and
beautiful volcanic cone of Tidore; to the east is the long mountainous coast of Gilolo, terminated
towards the north by a group of three lofty volcanic peaks, while immediately behind the town
rises the huge mountain, sloping easily at first and covered with thick groves of fruit trees,
but soon becoming steeper, and furrowed with deep gullies. Almost to the summit, whence issue
perpetually faint wreaths of smoke, it is clothed with vegetation, and looks calm and beautiful,
although beneath are hidden fires which occasionally burst forth in lava-streams, but more
frequently make their existence known by the earthquakes which have many times devastated the town.

I brought letters of introduction to Mr. Duivenboden, a native of Ternate, of an ancient Dutch
family, but who was educated in England, and speaks our language perfectly. He was a very rich
man, owned half the town, possessed many ships, and above a hundred slaves. He was moreover,
well educated, and fond of literature and science--a phenomenon in these regions. He was generally
known as the king of Ternate, from his large property and great influence with the native Rajahs
and their subjects. Through his assistance I obtained a house; rather ruinous, but well adapted
to my purpose, being close to the town, yet with a free outlet to the country and the mountain.
A few needful repairs were soon made, some bamboo furniture and other necessaries obtained,
and after a visit to the Resident and Police Magistrate I found myself an inhabitant of the
earthquake-tortured island of Ternate, and able to look about me and lay down the plan of my
campaign for the ensuing year. I retained this house for three years, as I found it very convenient
to have a place to return to after my voyages to the various islands of the Moluccas and New
Guinea, where I could pack my collections, recruit my health, and make preparations for future
journeys. To avoid repetitions, I will in this chapter combine what notes I have about Ternate.

A description of my house (the plan of which is here shown) will enable the reader to understand
a very common mode of building in these islands. There is of course only one floor. The walls
are of stone up to three feet high; on this are strong squared posts supporting the roof, everywhere
except in the verandah filled in with the leaf-stems of the sago-palm, fitted neatly in wooden
owing. The floor is of stucco, and the ceilings are like the walls. The house is forty feet
square, consists of four rooms, a hall, and two verandahs, and is surrounded by a wilderness
of fruit trees. A deep well supplied me with pure cold water, a great luxury in this climate.
Five minutes' walk down the road brought me to the market and the beach, while in the opposite
direction there were no more European houses between me and the mountain. In this house I spent
many happy days. Returning to it after a three or four months' absence in some uncivilized
region, I enjoyed the unwonted luxuries of milk and fresh bread, and regular supplies of fish
and eggs, meat and vegetables, which were often sorely needed to restore my health and energy.
I had ample space and convenience or unpacking, sorting, and arranging my treasures, and I
had delightful walks in the suburbs of the town, or up the lower slopes of the mountain, when
I desired a little exercise, or had time for collecting.

The lower part of the mountain, behind the town of Ternate, is almost entirely covered with
a forest of fruit trees, and during the season hundreds of men and women, boys and girls, go
up every day to bring down the ripe fruit. Durians and Mangoes, two of the very finest tropical
fruits, are in greater abundance at Ternate than I have ever seen them, and some of the latter
are of a quality not inferior to any in the world. Lansats and Mangustans are also abundant,
but these do not ripen till a little later. Above the fruit trees there is a belt of clearings
and cultivated grounds, which creep up the mountain to a height of between two and three thousand
feet, above which is virgin forest, reaching nearly to the summit, which on the side next the
town is covered with a high reedy grass. On the further side it is more elevated, of a bare
and desolate aspect, with a slight depression marking the position of the crater. From this
part descends a black scoriaceous tract; very rugged, and covered with a scanty vegetation
of scattered bushes as far down as the sea. This is the lava of the great eruption near a century
ago, and is called by the natives "batu-angas"(burnt rock).

Just below my house is the fort, built by the Portuguese, below which is an open space to the
peach, and beyond this the native town extends for about a mile to the north-east. About the
centre of it is the palace of the Sultan, now a large untidy, half-ruinous building of stone.
This chief is pensioned by the Dutch Government, but retains the sovereignty over the native
population of the island, and of the northern part of Gilolo. The sultans of Ternate and Tidore
were once celebrated through the East for their power and regal magnificence. When Drake visited
Ternate in 1579, the Portuguese had been driven out of the island, although they still had
a settlement at Tidore. He gives a glowing account of the Sultan: "The King had a very rich
canopy with embossings of gold borne over him, and was guarded with twelve lances. From the
waist to the ground was all cloth of gold, and that very rich; in the attire of his head were
finely wreathed in, diverse rings of plaited gold, of an inch or more in breadth, which made
a fair and princely show, somewhat resembling a crown in form; about his neck he had a chain
of perfect gold, the links very great and one fold double; on his left hand was a diamond,
an emerald, a ruby, and a turky; on his right hand in one ring a big and perfect turky, and
in another ring many diamonds of a smaller size."

All this glitter of barbaric gold was the produce of the spice trade, of which the Sultans
kept the monopoly, and by which they became wealthy. Ternate, with the small islands in a line
south of it, as far as Batchian, constitute the ancient Moluccas, the native country of the
clove, as well as the only part in which it was cultivated. Nutmegs and mace were procured
from the natives of New Guinea and the adjacent islands, where they grew wild; and the profits
on spice cargoes were so enormous, that the European traders were glad to give gold and jewels,
and the finest manufactures of Europe or of India, in exchange. When the Dutch established
their influence in these seas, and relieved the native princes from their Portuguese oppressors,
they saw that the easiest way to repay themselves would be to get this spice trade into their
own hands. For this purpose they adopted the wise principle of concentrating the culture of
these valuable products in those spots only of which they could have complete control. To do
this effectually it was necessary to abolish the culture and trade in all other places, which
they succeeded in doing by treaty with the native rulers. These agreed to have all the spice
trees in their possessions destroyed. They gave up large though fluctuating revenues, but they
gained in return a fixed subsidy, freedom from the constant attacks and harsh oppressions of
the Portuguese, and a continuance of their regal power and exclusive authority over their own
subjects, which is maintained in all the islands except Ternate to this day.

It is no doubt supposed by most Englishmen, who have been accustomed to look upon this act
of the Dutch with vague horror, as something utterly unprincipled and barbarous, that the native
population suffered grievously by this destruction of such valuable property. But it is certain
that this was not the case. The Sultans kept this lucrative trade entirely in their own hands
as a rigid monopoly, and they would take care not to give, their subjects more than would amount
to their usual wages, while: they would surely exact as large a quantity of spice as they could
possibly obtain. Drake and other early voyagers always seem to have purchased their spice-cargoes
from the Sultans and Rajahs, and not from the cultivators. Now the absorption of so much labour
in the cultivation of this one product must necessarily have raised the price of food and other
necessaries; and when it was abolished, more rice would be grown, more sago made, more fish
caught, and more tortoise-shell, rattan, gum-dammer, and other valuable products of the seas
and the forests would be obtained. I believe, therefore, that this abolition of the spice trade
in the Moluccas was actually beneficial to the inhabitants, and that it was an act both wise
in itself and morally and politically justifiable.

In the selection of the places in which to carry on the cultivation, the Dutch were not altogether
fortunate or wise. Banda was chosen for nutmegs, and was eminently successful, since it continues
to this day to produce a large supply of this spice, and to yield a considerable revenue. Amboyna
was fixed upon for establishing the clove cultivation; but the soil and climate, although apparently
very similar to that of its native islands, is not favourable, and for some years the Government
have actually been paying to the cultivators a higher rate than they could purchase cloves
elsewhere, owing to a great fall in the price since the rate of payment was fixed for a term
of years by the Dutch Government, and which rate is still most honourably paid.

In walking about the suburbs of Ternate, we find everywhere the ruins of massive stone and
brick buildings, gateways and arches, showing at once the superior wealth of the ancient town
and the destructive effects of earthquakes. It was during my second stay in the town, after
my return from New Guinea, that I first felt an earthquake. It was a very slight one, scarcely
more than has been felt in this country, but occurring in a place that lad been many times
destroyed by them it was rather more exciting. I had just awoke at gun-fire (5 A.M.), when
suddenly the thatch began to rustle and shake as if an army of cats were galloping over it,
and immediately afterwards my bed shook too, so that for an instant I imagined myself back
in New Guinea, in my fragile house, which shook when an old cock went to roost on the ridge;
but remembering that I was now on a solid earthen floor, I said to myself, "Why, it's an earthquake,"
and lay still in the pleasing expectation of another shock; but none came, and this was the
only earthquake I ever felt in Ternate.

The last great one was in February 1840, when almost every house in the place was destroyed.
It began about midnight on the Chinese New Year's festival, at which time every one stays up
nearly all night feasting at the Chinamen's houses and seeing the processions. This prevented
any lives being lost, as every one ran out of doors at the first shock, which was not very
severe. The second, a few minutes afterwards, threw down a great many houses, and others, which
continued all night and part of the next day, completed the devastation. The line of disturbance
was very narrow, so that the native town a mile to the east scarcely suffered at all. The wave
passed from north to south, through the islands of Tidore and Makian, and terminated in Batchian,
where it was not felt till four the following afternoon, thus taking no less than sixteen hours
to travel a hundred miles, or about six miles an hour. It is singular that on this occasion
there was no rushing up of the tide, or other commotion of the sea, as is usually the case
during great earthquakes.

The people of Ternate are of three well-marked races the Ternate Malays, the Orang Sirani,
and the Dutch. The first are an intrusive Malay race somewhat allied to the Macassar people,
who settled in the country at a very early epoch, drove out the indigenes, who were no doubt
the same as those of the adjacent mainland of Gilolo, and established a monarchy. They perhaps
obtained many of their wives from the natives, which will account for the extraordinary language
they speak--in some respects closely allied to that of the natives of Gilolo, while it contains
much that points to a Malayan origin. To most of these people the Malay language is quite unintelligible,
although such as are engaged in trade are obliged to acquire it. "Orang Sirani," or Nazarenes,
is the name given by the Malays to the Christian descendants of the Portuguese, who resemble
those of Amboyna, and, like them, speak only Malay. There are also a number of Chinese merchants,
many of them natives of the place, a few Arabs, and a number of half-breeds between all these
races and native women. Besides these there are some Papuan slaves, and a few natives of other
islands settled here, making up a motley and very puzzling population, till inquiry and observation
have shown the distinct origin of its component parts.

Soon after my first arrival in Ternate I went to the island of Gilolo, accompanied by two sons
of Mr. Duivenboden, and by a young Chinaman, a brother of my landlord, who lent us the boat
and crew. These latter were all slaves, mostly Papuans, and at starting I saw something of
the relation of master and slave in this part of the world. The crew had been ordered to be
ready at three in the morning, instead of which none appeared till five, we having all been
kept waiting in the dark and cold for two hours. When at length they came they were scolded
by their master, but only in a bantering manner, and laughed and joked with him in reply. Then,
just as we were starting, one of the strongest men refused to go at all, and his master had
to beg and persuade him to go, and only succeeded by assuring him that I would give him something;
so with this promise, and knowing that there would be plenty to eat and drink and little to
do, the black gentleman was induced to favour us with his company and assistance. In three
hours' rowing and sailing we reached our destination, Sedingole, where there is a house belonging
to the Sultan of Tidore, who sometimes goes there hunting. It was a dirty ruinous shed, with
no furniture but a few bamboo bedsteads. On taking a walk into the country, I saw at once that
it was no place for me. For many miles extends a plain covered with coarse high grass, thickly
dotted here and there with trees, the forest country only commencing at the hills a good way
in the interior. Such a place would produce few birds and no insects, and we therefore arranged
to stay only two days, and then go on to Dodinga, at the narrow central isthmus of Gilolo,
whence my friends would return to Ternate. We amused ourselves shooting parrots, lories, and
pigeons, and trying to shoot deer, of which we saw plenty, but could not get one; and our crew
went out fishing with a net, so we did not want for provisions. When the time came for us to
continue our journey, a fresh difficulty presented itself, for our gentlemen slaves refused
in a body to go with us; saying very determinedly that they would return to Ternate. So their
masters were obliged to submit, and I was left behind to get to Dodinga as I could. Luckily
I succeeded in hiring a small boat, which took me there the same night, with my two men and
my baggage.

Two or three years after this, and about the same length of time before I left the East, the
Dutch emancipated all their slaves, paying their owners a small compensation. No ill results
followed. Owing to the amicable relations which had always existed between them and their masters,
due no doubt in part to the Government having long accorded them legal rights and protection
against cruelty and ill-usage, many continued in the same service, and after a little temporary
difficulty in some cases, almost all returned to work either for their old or for new, masters.
The Government took the very proper step of placing every emancipated slave under the surveillance
of the police-magistrate. They were obliged to show that they were working for a living, and
had some honestly-acquired means of existence. All who could not do so were placed upon public
works at low wages, and thus were kept from the temptation to peculation or other crimes, which
the excitement of newly-acquired freedom, and disinclination to labour, might have led them into.

CHAPTER XXII. GILOLO.

(MARCH AND SEPTEMBER 1858.)

I MADE but few and comparatively short visits to this large and little known island, but obtained
a considerable knowledge of its natural history by sending first my boy Ali, and then my assistant,
Charles Allen, who stayed two or three months each in the northern peninsula, and brought me
back large collections of birds and insects. In this chapter I propose to give a sketch of
the parts which I myself visited. My first stay was at Dodinga, situated at the head of a deep-bay
exactly opposite Ternate, and a short distance up a little stream which penetrates a few miles
inland. The village is a small one, and is completely shut in by low hills.

As soon as I arrived, I applied to the head man of the village for a house to live in, but
all were occupied, and there was much difficulty in finding one. In the meantime I unloaded
my baggage on the beach and made some tea, and afterwards discovered a small but which the
owner was willing to vacate if I would pay him five guilders for a month's rent. As this was
something less than the fee-simple value of the dwelling, I agreed to give it him for the privilege
of immediate occupation, only stipulating that he was to make the roof water-tight. This he
agreed to do, and came every day to tally and look at me; and when I each time insisted upon
his immediately mending the roof according to contract, all the answer I could get was, "Ea
nanti," (Yes, wait a little.) However, when I threatened to deduct a quarter guilder from the
rent for every day it was not done, and a guilder extra if any of my things were wetted, he
condescended to work for half an hour, which did all that was absolutely necessary.

On the top of a bank, of about a hundred feet ascent from the water, stands the very small
but substantial fort erected by the Portuguese. Its battlements and turrets have long since
been overthrown by earthquakes, by which its massive structure has also been rent; but it cannot
well be thrown down, being a solid mass of stonework, forming a platform about ten feet high,
and perhaps forty feet square. It is approached by narrow steps under an archway, and is now
surmounted by a row of thatched hovels, in which live the small garrison, consisting of, a
Dutch corporal and four Javanese soldiers, the sole representatives of the Netherlands Government
in the island. The village is occupied entirely by Ternate men. The true indigenes of Gilolo,
"Alfuros" as they are here called, live on the eastern coast, or in the interior of the northern
peninsula. The distance across the isthmus at this place is only two miles, and there, is a
good path, along which rice and sago are brought from the eastern villages. The whole isthmus
is very rugged, though not high, being a succession of little abrupt hills anal valleys, with
angular masses of limestone rock everywhere projecting, and often almost blocking up the pathway.
Most of it is virgin forest, very luxuriant and picturesque, and at this time having abundance
of large scarlet Ixoras in flower, which made it exceptionally gay. I got some very nice insects
here, though, owing to illness most of the time, my collection was a small one, and my boy
Ali shot me a pair of one of the most beautiful birds of the East, Pitta gigas, a lame ground-thrush,
whose plumage of velvety black above is relieved by a breast of pure white, shoulders of azure
blue, and belly of vivid crimson. It has very long and strong legs, and hops about with such
activity in the dense tangled forest, bristling with rocks, as to make it very difficult to shoot.

In September 1858, after my return from New Guinea, I went to stay some time at the village
of Djilolo, situated in a bay on the northern peninsula. Here I obtained a house through the
kindness of the Resident of Ternate, who sent orders to prepare one for me. The first walk
into the unexplored forests of a new locality is a moment of intense interest to the naturalist,
as it is almost sure to furnish him with something curious or hitherto unknown. The first thing
I saw here was a flock of small parroquets, of which I shot a pair, and was pleased to find
a most beautiful little long-tailed bird, ornamented with green, red, and blue colours, and
quite new to me. It was a variety of the Charmosyna placentis, one of the smallest and most
elegant of the brush-tongued lories. My hunters soon shot me several other fine birds, and
I myself found a specimen of the rare and beautiful day-flying moth, Cocytia d'Urvillei.

The village of Djilolo was formerly the chief residence of the Sultans of Ternate, till about
eighty years ago, when at the request of the Dutch they removed to their present abode. The
place was then no doubt much more populous, as is indicated by the wide extent of cleared land
in the neighbourhood, now covered with coarse high grass, very disagreeable to walk through,
and utterly barren to the naturalist. A few days' exploring showed me that only some small
patches of forest remained for miles wound, and the result was a scarcity of insects and a
very limited variety of birds, which obliged me to change my locality. There was another village
called Sahoe, to which there was a road of about twelve miles overland, and this had been recommended
to me as a good place for birds, and as possessing a large population both of Mahomotans and
Alfuros, which latter race I much wished to see. I set off one morning to examine this place
myself, expecting to pass through some extent of forest on my way. In this however I was much
disappointed, as the whole road lies through grass and scrubby thickets, and it was only after
reaching the village of Sahoe that some high forest land was perceived stretching towards the
mountains to the north of it. About half-way we dad to pass a deep river on a bamboo raft,
which almost sunk beneath us. This stream was said to rise a long way off to the northward.

Although Sahoe did not at all appear what I expected, I determined to give it a trial, and
a few days afterwards obtained a boat to carry my things by sea while I walked overland. A
large house on the beach belonging to the Sultan was given me. It stood alone, and was quite
open on every side, so that little privacy could be had, but as I only intended to stay a short
time I made it do. Avery, few days dispelled all hopes I might have entertained of making good
collections in this place. Nothing was to be found in every direction but interminable tracts
of reedy grass, eight or ten feet high, traversed by narrow baths, often almost impassable.
Here and there were clumps of fruit trees, patches of low wood, and abundance of plantations
and rice grounds, all of which are, in tropical regions, a very desert for the entomologist.
The virgin forest that I was in search of, existed only on the summits and on the steep rocky
sides of the mountains a long way off, and in inaccessible situations. In the suburbs of the
village I found a fair number of bees and wasps, and some small but interesting beetles. Two
or three new birds were obtained by my hunters, and by incessant inquiries and promises I succeeded
in getting the natives to bring me some land shells, among which was a very fine and handsome
one, Helix pyrostoma. I was, however, completely wasting my time here compared with what I
might be doing in a good locality, and after a week returned to Ternate, quite disappointed
with my first attempts at collecting in Gilolo.

In the country round about Sahoe, and in the interior, there is a large population of indigenes,
numbers of whom came daily into the village, bringing their produce for sale, while others
were engaged as labourers by the Chinese and Ternate traders. A careful examination convinced
me that these people are radically distinct from all the Malay races. Their stature and their
features, as well as their disposition and habits, are almost the same as those of the Papuans;
their hair is semi-Papuan-neither straight, smooth, and glossy, like all true Malays', nor
so frizzly and woolly as the perfect Papuan type, but always crisp, waved, and rough, such
as often occurs among the true Papuans, but never among the Malays. Their colour alone is often
exactly that of the Malay, or even lighter. Of course there has been intermixture, and there
occur occasionally individuals which it is difficult to classify; but in most cases the large,
somewhat aquiline nose, with elongated apex, the tall stature, the waved hair, the bearded
face, and hairy body, as well as the less reserved manner and louder voice, unmistakeably proclaim
the Papuan type. Here then I had discovered the exact boundary lice between the Malay and Papuan
races, and at a spot where no other writer had expected it. I was very much pleased at this
determination, as it gave me a clue to one of the most difficult problems in Ethnology, and
enabled me in many other places to separate the two races, and to unravel their intermixtures.

On my return from Waigiou in 1860, I stayed some days on the southern extremity of Gilolo;
but, beyond seeing something more of its structure and general character, obtained very little
additional information. It is only in the northern peninsula that there are any indígenes,
the whole of the rest of the island, with Batchian and the other islands westward, being exclusively
inhabited by Malay tribes, allied to those of Ternate and Tidore. This would seem to indicate
that the Alfuros were a comparatively recent immigration, and that they lead come from the
north or east, perhaps from some of the islands of the Pacific. It is otherwise difficult to
understand how so many fertile districts should possess no true indigenes.

Gilolo, or Halmaheira as it is called by the Malays and Dutch, seems to have been recently
modified by upheaval and subsidence. In 1673, a mountain is said to stave been upheaved at
Gamokonora on the northern peninsula. All the parts that I have seen have either been volcanic
or coralline, and along the coast there are fringing coral reefs very dangerous to navigation.
At the same time, the character of its natural history proves it to be a rather ancient land,
since it possesses a number of animals peculiar to itself or common to the small islands around
it, but almost always distinct from those of New Guinea on the east, of Ceram on the south,
and of Celebes and the Sula islands on the west.

The island of Morty, close to the north-eastern extremity of Gilolo, was visited by my assistant
Charles Allen, as well as by Dr. Bernstein; and the collections obtained there present some
curious differences from those of the main island. About fifty-six species of land-birds are
known to inhabit this island, and of these, a kingfisher (Tanysiptera Boris), a honey-sucker
(Tropidorhynchus fuscicapillus), and a large crow-like starling (Lycocorax morotensis), are
quite distinct from allied species found in Gilolo. The island is coralline and sandy, and
we must therefore believe it to have been separated from Gilolo at a somewhat remote epoch;
while we learn from its natural history that an arm of the sea twenty-five miles wide serves
to limit the range even of birds of considerable powers of flight.

CHAPTER XXIII. TERNATE TO THE KAIOA ISLANDS AND BATCHIAN.

(OCTOBER 1858.)

ON returning to Ternate from Sahoe, I at once began making preparations for a journey to Batchian,
an island which I had been constantly recommended to visit since I had arrived in this part
of the Moluccas. After all was ready I found that I should have to hire a boat, as no opportunity
of obtaining a passage presented itself. I accordingly went into the native town, and could
only find two boats for hire, one much larger than I required, and the other far smaller than
I wished. I chose the smaller one, chiefly because it would not cost me one-third as much as
the larger one, and also because in a coasting voyage a small vessel can be more easily managed,
and more readily got into a place of safety during violent gales, than a large one. I took
with me my Bornean lad Ali, who was now very useful to me; Lahagi, a native of Ternate, a very
good steady man, and a fair shooter, who had been with me to New Guinea; Lahi, a native of
Gilolo, who could speak Malay, as woodcutter and general assistant; and Garo, a boy who was
to act as cook. As the boat was so small that we had hardly room to stow ourselves away when
all my stores were on board, I only took one other man named Latchi, as pilot. He was a Papuan
slave, a tall, strong black fellow, but very civil and careful. The boat I had hired from a
Chinaman named Lau Keng Tong, for five guilders a month.

We started on the morning of October 9th, but had not got a hundred yards from land, when a
strong head wind sprung up, against which we could not row, so we crept along shore to below
the town, and waited till the turn of the tide should enable us to cross over to the coast
of Tidore. About three in the afternoon we got off, and found that our boat sailed well, and
would keep pretty close to the wind. We got on a good way before the wind fell and we had to
take to our oars again. We landed on a nice sandy beach to cook our suppers, just as the sun
set behind the rugged volcanic hills, to the south of the great cone of Tidore, and soon after
beheld the planet Venus shining in the twilight with the brilliancy of a new moon, and casting
a very distinct shadow. We left again a little before seven, and as we got out from the shadow
of the mountain I observed a bright light over one part of the edge, and soon after, what seemed
a fire of remarkable whiteness on the very summit of the hill. I called the attention of my
men to it, and they too thought it merely a fire; but a few minutes afterwards, as we got farther
off shore, the light rose clear up above the ridge of the hill, and some faint clouds clearing
away from it, discovered the magnificent comet which was at the same time, astonishing all
Europe. The nucleus presented to the naked eye a distinct disc of brilliant white light, from
which the tail rose at an angle of about 30° or 35° with the horizon, curving slightly downwards,
and terminating in a broad brush of faint light, the curvature of which diminished till it
was nearly straight at the end. The portion of the tail next the comet appeared three or four
tunes as bright as the most luminous portion of the milky way, and what struck me as a singular
feature was that its upper margin, from the nucleus to very near the extremity, was clearly
and almost sharply defined, while the lower side gradually shaded off into obscurity. Directly
it rose above the ridge of the hill, I said to my men, "See, it's not a fire, it's a bintang
ber-ekor" ("tailed-star," the Malay idiom for a comet). "So it is," said they; and all declared
that they had often heard tell of such, but had never seen one till now. I had no telescope
with me, nor any instrument at hand, but I estimated the length of the tail at about 20°, and
the width, towards the extremity, about 4° or 5°.

The whole of the next day we were obliged to stop near the village of Tidore, owing to a strong
wind right in our teeth. The country was all cultivated, and I in vain searched for any insects
worth capturing. One of my men went out to shoot, but returned home without a single bird.
At sunset, the wind having dropped, we quitted Tidore, and reached the next island, March,
where we stayed till morning. The comet was again visible, but not nearly so brilliant, being
partly obscured by clouds; and dimmed by the light of the new moon. We then rowed across to
the island of Motir, which is so surrounded with coral-reefs that it is dangerous to approach.
These are perfectly flat, and are only covered at high water, ending in craggy vertical walls
of coral in very deep water. When there is a little wind, it is dangerous to come near these
rocks; but luckily it was quite smooth, so we moored to their edge, while the men crawled over
the reef to the land, to make; a fire and cook our dinner-the boat having no accommodation
for more than heating water for my morning and evening coffee. We then rowed along the edge
of the reef to the end of the island, and were glad to get a nice westerly breeze, which carried
us over the strait to the island of Makian, where we arrived about 8 P.M, The sky was quite
clear, and though the moon shone brightly, the comet appeared with quite as much splendour
as when we first saw it.

The coasts of these small islands are very different according to their geological formation.
The volcanoes, active or extinct, have steep black beaches of volcanic sand, or are fringed
with rugged masses of lava and basalt. Coral is generally absent, occurring only in small patches
in quiet bays, and rarely or never forming reefs. Ternate, Tidore, and Makian belong to this
class. Islands of volcanic origin, not themselves volcanoes, but which have been probably recently
upraised, are generally more or less completely surrounded by fringing reefs of coral, and
have beaches of shining white coral sand. Their coasts present volcanic conglomerates, basalt,
and in some places a foundation of stratified rocks, with patches of upraised coral. Mareh
and Motir are of this character, the outline of the latter giving it the appearance of having
been a true volcano, and it is said by Forrest to have thrown out stones in 1778. The next
day (Oct. 12th), we coasted along the island of Makian, which consists of a single grand volcano.
It was now quiescent, but about two centuries ago (in 1646) there was a terrible eruption,
which blew up the whole top of the mountain, leaving the truncated jagged summit and vast gloomy
crater valley which at this time distinguished it. It was said to have been as lofty as Tidore
before this catastrophe. [Soon after I' left the Archipelago, on the 29th of December, 1862,
another eruption of this mountain suddenly took place, which caused great devastation in the
island. All the villages and crops were destroyed, and numbers of the inhabitants killed. The
sand and ashes fell so thick that the crops were partially destroyed fifty miles off, at Ternate,
where it was so dark the following day that lamps had to be lighted at noon. For the position
of this and the adjacent islands, see the map in Chapter XXXVII.]

I stayed some time at a place where I saw a new clearing on a very steep part of the mountain,
and obtained a few interesting insects. In the evening we went on to the extreme southern point,
to be ready to pass across the fifteen-mile strait to the island of Kaióa. At five the next
morning we started, but the wind, which had hitherto been westerly, now got to the south and
southwest, and we had to row almost all the way with a burning sun overhead. As we approached
land a fine breeze sprang up, and we went along at a great pace; yet after an hour we were
no nearer, and found we were in a violent current carrying us out to sea. At length we overcame
it, and got on shore just as the sun set, having been exactly thirteen hours coming fifteen
miles. We landed on a beach of hard coralline rock, with rugged cliffs of the same, resembling
those of the Ke Islands (Chap. XXIX.) It was accompanied by a brilliancy and luxuriance of
the vegetation, very like what I had observed at those islands, which so much pleased me that
I resolved to stay a few days at the chief village, and see if their animal productions were
correspondingly interesting. While searching for a secure anchorage for the night we again
saw the comet, still apparently as brilliant as at first, but the tail had now risen to a higher
angle.

October 14th.--All this day we coasted along the Kaióa Islands, which have much the appearance
and outline of Ke on a small scale, with the addition of flat swampy tracts along shore, and
outlying coral reefs. Contrary winds and currents had prevented our taking the proper course
to the west of them, and we had to go by a circuitous route round the southern extremity of
one island, often having to go far out to sea on account of coral reefs. On trying to pass
a channel through one of these reefs we were grounded, and all had to get out into the water,
which in this shallow strait had been so heated by the sun as to be disagreeably warm, and
drag our vessel a considerable distance among weeds and sponges, corals and prickly corallines.
It was late at night when we reached the little village harbour, and we were all pretty well
knocked up by hard work, and having had nothing but very brackish water to drink all day-the
best we could find at our last stopping-place. There was a house close to the shore, built
for the use of the Resident of Ternate when he made his official visits, but now occupied by
several native travelling merchants, among whom I found a place to sleep.

