Page 231, l. 2. Shaftesbury writes about the prediction of 'Doctor Olivian, a German, a very
learned physician', in his autobiographical fragment: see No. 14 note.

ll. 14, 15. Compare Burnet's first sketch of Shaftesbury, ed. Foxcroft, p. 59: 'he told some
that Cromwell offered once to make him king, but he never offered to impose so gross a thing
on me.'

ll. 17, 18. See the Newsletter of December 28, 1654, in The Clarke Papers, ed. C.H. Firth,
Camden Society, 1899, p. 16: 'a few daies since when the House was in a Grand Committee of
the whole House upon the Government, Mr. Garland mooved to have my Lord Protectour crowned,
which mocion was seconded by Sir Anthony Ashley Cooper, Mr. Hen. Cromwell, and others, but waved.'

l. 26. After 'party' Burnet wrote (autograph, fol. 49) 'He had no sort of virtue: for he was
both a leud and corrupt man: and had no regard either to trueth or Justice.' But he struck
out 'no sort ... and had'. The sentence thus read in the transcript (p. 76) 'He had no regard
either to Truth or Justice'. This in turn was struck out, either by Burnet himself or by the
editor.

The following words are likewise struck out in the transcript, after 'manner' (l. 28): 'and
was not out of countenance in owning his unsteadiness and deceitfullness.'

69.

Absalom and Achitophel. A Poem ... The Second Edition; Augmented and Revised. London, 1681.
(ll. 142-227.)

The first edition was published on November 17, 1681, a few days before Shaftesbury's trial
for high treason. In the second, which appeared within a month, the character of Shaftesbury
was 'augmented' by twelve lines (p. 233, ll. 17-28).

Shaftesbury had been satirized by Butler in the Third Part of Hudibras, 1678, three years before
the crisis in his remarkable career, and while his schemes still prospered. To Butler he is
the unprincipled turn-coat who thinks only of his own interests:

  So Politick, as if one eye
  Upon the other were a Spye;...
  H'had seen three Governments Run down,
  And had a Hand in ev'ry one,
  Was for 'em, and against 'em all.
  But Barb'rous when they came to fall:...
  By giving aim from side, to side,
  He never fail'd to save his Tide,
  But got the start of ev'ry State,
  And at a Change, ne'r came too late....
  Our State-Artificer foresaw,
  Which way the World began to draw:...
  He therefore wisely cast about,
  All ways he could, t'insure his Throat;
  And hither came t'observe, and smoke
  What Courses other Riscers took:
  And to the utmost do his Best
  To Save himself, and Hang the Rest.

(Canto II, ll. 351-420).

Dryden's satire should be compared with Butler's. But a comparison with the prose character
by Burnet, which had no immediate political purpose, will reveal even better Dryden's mastery
in satirical portraiture. Another verse character is in The Review by Richard Duke, written
shortly after Dryden's poem.

Absalom is Monmouth, David Charles II, Israel England, the Jews the English, and a Jebusite
a Romanist.

Page 232, l. 28. Compare Seneca, De Tranquillitate Animi, xvii. 10: 'nullum magnum ingenium
sine mixtura dementiæ fuit.'

Page 233, l. 7. The humorous definition of man ascribed to Plato in Diogenes Laertius, Lib.
vi. 40 (Life of Diogenes), [Greek: Platonos horisamenou, anthropos esti zoon dipoun apteron.]

The son was a handsomer man than the father, though he did not inherit his ability. His son,
the third earl, was the critic and philosopher who wrote the Characteristicks.

l. 12. the Triple Bond, the alliance of England, Holland, and Sweden against France in 1667,
broken by the war with France against Holland in 1672. But Shaftesbury then knew nothing of
the secret Treaty of Dover, 1670.

l. 16. Usurp'd, in ed. 1 'Assum'd'.

l. 25. Abbethdin 'the president of the Jewish judicature', 'the father of the house of judgement'.
Shaftesbury was Lord Chancellor, 1672-3.

