VOL. I.--NO. 11.

       *       *       *       *       *

JEANIE LOWRIE, THE YOUNG IMMIGRANT.

BY MISS F. E. FRYATT.

It was early winter evening at Castle Garden, the scores of gas jets that light the vast rotunda
dimly showing the great hall deserted by all the bustling throngs of the morning, save the
few women and children clustered around the glowing stove, and closely watched by the keen-eyed
officials who smoked and chatted within the railings near them.

Sitting apart from these, taking no notice of the gambols of the children, was a wee lassie
of perhaps eight summers, her round, childish face drawn with trouble, and her great blue eyes
brimful of tears. She was evidently expecting somebody, for her gaze was fixed on the door
beyond, which seemed never to open.

It was little Jeanie Lowrie waiting for her grandfather's return. Old Sandy Lowrie, thinking
to take advantage of their stay overnight in New York to visit his foster-son, who had left
Scotland for America when a lad, had gone out in the afternoon into the great city, bidding
Jeanie carefully guard their small luggage--a few treasures tied up in a silken kerchief, and
Granny's precious umbrella, which was a sort of heirloom in the family.

While the great crowd surged to and fro, and the winter sunlight flooded the room, Jeanie had
been content to watch and wait, half pleased and half frightened at the shouts and noises that
fill the place on steamer day; but when the men, women, and children all went away, by twos
and threes, save a few, and silence came with the increasing darkness, and the dim gas jets
were lighted overhead, her heart, oppressed by a thousand fears, sunk within her, and she fell
to sobbing bitterly.

Now there were not wanting kind hearts in the little groups around the stove; for there was
Mary Dennett, with her five laddies, going to join her husband at the mines in Maryland; and
Janet Brown, her neighbor, with her three rosy lassies; and Jessie Lawson, with her wee Davie;
and not one of these three would see a child suffering without offering consolation. Kind Janet
soon had her folded in motherly arms in spite of the bundle and the great umbrella, which the
lassie stoutly refused to part with for a moment; and Mary Dennett, crossing over to the counter
on the far side of the room, bought her cakes and apples; while the children, not to be outdone,
made shy endeavors to beguile her into their innocent play.

But to each and all of these Jeanie turned a deaf ear, moaning constantly: "I want my ain,
ain gran'daddie; he hae gaun awa', an' left me alane. Oh, gran'daddie, cam back to your Jeanie!"

The evening wore on into night, and still no Sandy came to comfort Jeanie; but there came that
great consoler, sleep. Soon she slumbered in Janet's arms, and the kind soul, fearing to waken
her, held her there till the beds for the little company were spread on the floor; then she
laid Jeanie tenderly down, with her treasures still clasped in her arms, and covering her,
stooped to print a warm kiss on the round tear-stained cheek, not forgetting to breathe a prayer
for the missing Sandy's safe return.

The snow glistened on the walks and grass-plats of the park without; the wind roared down the
streets and whistled among the bare branches of the trees, and rushing along, heaped up the
waters in huge billows, dashing them against the great stone pier; men passed to and fro, but
Sandy came not, for far off in the great city he had lost his way.

In vain he had asked every one to tell him where his foster-son Alec Deans lived. Meeting only
laughter or rebuffs, he tried in the growing darkness to find his way back to Castle Garden,
but could not. No one seemed to understand him, or cared to; so at last, worn out in mind and
body, he sunk down on the stone steps of a house, unable to proceed a step further.

Bright and early the next morning at Castle Garden the women were roused from their sleep,
for the beds must be rolled up, and the place cleared for the business of the day, and all
must be ready for the early train.

In the confusion of preparing the children for breakfast and the journey, the women had forgotten
Jeanie for the time, till suddenly Janet, spying her, with her bundle and her umbrella, standing
and casting troubled, wistful glances at the door, ran over and brought her to where the women
and children were drinking coffee from great cups, and eating rolls of brown-bread and butter.
Seating her in the midst of them, she said, "Eat a bit o' the bannock, dearie. Gran'daddie
will cam back wi' a braw new bonnet for Jeanie, and then we'll a' gang awa' i' the train togither."

"I dinna want a bonnet," cried Jeanie; "I on'y want gran'daddie."

"Dinna greet, bairnie; he'll no leave ye lang noo."

But the old man, contrary to their hopes, failed to appear, so there rose a troubled consultation
among the women regarding Jeanie. They had all lived neighbors to the Lowries, a mile or so
beyond the dike which is a stone's-throw from the duke's palace, near Hamilton; the "gudemen"
of their families, hearing great reports of the mines in America, and the times being hard
for miners at home, had gone out to verify them, Angus Lowrie among the rest. All four had
prospered, and now sent for their wives and bairnies. Young Lowrie, however, was doomed to
the bitter sorrow of never more seeing the bonny wife he had left behind him, for a fever had
carried her off in her prime; so that Jeanie, her bairn, was left to the sole care of her grandfather,
who loved her tenderly, as the old are wont to love the young.

While the women were in the midst of their dilemma, half resolved to carry off the "lane bairnie"
privately, lest the officers should interfere, the superintendent, seeing some trouble was
afoot, came over and soon settled the matter, for there was a law on the subject that he was
bound to obey.

But we are quite forgetting old Sandy all this time. Seeing that he was lost, and there was
no help for it, that he should sit down in the particular spot he did was a peculiar stroke
of good fortune, for it was the very house he had been seeking, and what was most wonderful,
just at that moment the door above opened, and down came Alec Deans in time to hear Sandy's
faint cry, "God help my puir Jeanie!"

Alec Deans had not heard the dear Scottish accent in many a year, so straightway that sound
went to his very heart-strings, making them thrill and tingle with a joy that was as suddenly
turned to pain, when, stooping down, he found the old man fallen back as one dead.

With little ado--for Sandy was small and thin--he lifted him bodily, carried him up the steps,
and rang a peal which soon brought his wife to the door. Placing the old man on a sofa in the
warm sitting-room where the light fell on his poor, pale face, Alec Deans in a moment recognized
his foster-father, and set to work to restore him. The long stormy passage, and the trials
incident to emigrant life on shipboard, added to the fatigue and fright of his night's wanderings,
had so told on the old man's feeble frame, that after much effort on the part of Alec Deans
to revive him, he could do no more than move restlessly, murmuring, "Puir Jeanie! Puir wee
bairnie Jeanie!"

Before he could well tell his story, the most of it became known to his foster-son, for the
Commissioners, finding he did not return to Castle Garden, sending Jeanie weeping away to the
Refuge on Ward's Island, and notifying the police, advertised the missing man in the papers.

It was on the second day after Sandy's falling into such good hands that Alec, reading the
morning paper at his breakfast table, saw the advertisement describing Sandy to the very Glengarry
cap he wore on his head when missing.

In short order he made his way to the Rotunda at Castle Garden, told the old man's adventure,
and obtained a permit to bring Jeanie away from the Refuge.

There was an hour to spare before the little steamboat Fidelity would start for Ward's Island,
so Alec, being a thoughtful man, employed it in purchasing a pretty fur hat and tippet and
some warm mittens, lest Jeanie should suffer from cold, for it was a bitter day to sail down
the East River.

When Alec, arriving at his destination, was taken into the long school-room, and saw the sad
pale-faced little creatures bending wearily over their lessons, stopping only to lift timid
glances to his friendly face, as if they would gladly pour out their little hearts to him,
he was filled with a great pity and a sharp regret that he could not take the wee things away
with him, and give them each the shelter of as happy a home as that in which his own Phemie
bloomed and flourished.

"Jeanie Lowrie, step this way; you are wanted," exclaimed a teacher.

Poor Jeanie, as she came reluctantly forward with downcast eyes, looked as if she feared some
new disaster. Pale and dejected, could this be the blooming lassie who so short a time since
parted with her grandfather?

"Jeanie," said Alec, softly, "I've come to take you to your gran'daddie. Here's some warm things;
put them on, and get ready."

"Oh, sir, may I gang awa' frae here to see my ain, ain gran'daddie once mair?" cried the lassie,
the glow of a great joy dawning on her pale face and lighting her eyes.

"Yes, Jeanie," said Alec, brokenly, "home with my Phemie: he's there. There, do not cry; the
trouble is all over," said Alec, soothingly, carrying her away in his arms, and trying to stay
the sobs that convulsed her small body.

Arrived at Castle Garden, a new surprise awaited him and Jeanie, for who should be there, pacing
up and down in his strong impatience to see the bairnie, but Angus Lowrie. He had left his
Southern cottage, which was prepared for their arrival, and hastened on to know the fate of
Sandy and Jeanie. And now he had his darling in his strong arms, and so great was his joy that
he could do little but press her to his breast, then hold her off and look into her eyes again
and again, seeing mirrored there the eyes of his girl-wife Elsie, whom he had loved with a
love he would bear to his grave.

And now they must hasten to the dear old father who had braved the perils of the wintry deep
that he might bring Elsie's one and only treasure to her husband, little recking that, far
away from kith and kin, he should lay his old bones in a foreign land. If sorrow had had power
to steal the roses from Jeanie's cheek, joy planted new and fairer ones there; and never did
a brighter light dance in the blue eyes than when, a little later, with a soft sound of rapture,
she flung her arms around Sandy's neck, crying, "My ain, ain gran'daddie, ye s'all never, never
leave me ony mair!" Jeanie's presence did more to set old Sandy on his feet again than all
the physic in the world; so in a few days the happy trio were whirling off to the mining village
in Maryland, where they are living and prospering to-day.

LADY PRIMROSE.

BY FLETCHER READE.

       *       *       *       *       *

CHAPTER I.

  "As it fell upon a day
  In the merry month of May."

It was a long, long time ago that it happened--so long, in fact, that most people have forgotten
all about it--but once upon a time, as the old, old stories tell, there lived in the village
of Hollowbush an old woman and a little girl.

And other people lived there too; but that does not concern us. The old woman, plain and brown
and wrinkled though she was, was the wisest and kindest old lady anywhere to be found, which
is reason enough for her being in the story; and as for the little girl, you have already guessed
that she is Lady Primrose; but how she came to be Lady Primrose is what makes the story.

The village of Hollowbush was as pretty a place as you would care to see--a quiet, quaint little
town, where the grass ran up and down the streets in a wild, free way it had, to which no one
thought of objecting; but as year after year went by, and the little girl who lived there grew
older without, unfortunately, growing wiser, she became so tired of Hollowbush and its grass-grown
streets that she was almost ready to run away.

"If I were only rich," she was constantly saying to herself, "then I might go where I chose."

Now it came to pass that one day in the merry spring-time, when the world is so sweet and fragrant
that you can hardly put your nose out-of-doors without feeling as if you had tumbled head-foremost
into a huge bouquet, this little girl sat by the open window, wishing and wishing with all
her might that she were rich.

"For then," she said to herself, "I could have a diamond necklace; and perhaps," she added,
aloud, "I might have a jewelled coronet, like a queen."

Just then the wise old woman of Hollowbush, who had the amiable peculiarity of appearing just
when people most needed her, stopped before the window, and said, as she looked up at her young
friend, "You were wishing for a diamond necklace, my child. What would you do if I should tell
you of a country where diamonds are as plenty as flowers are here?"

"What would I do?"--and the child laughed at the idea of there being but one thing she could do.

"I would go to it at once, and fill my hands with the shining, beautiful things. But you don't
mean that there really is such a place," she added, after a pause.

The old lady smiled, and said, "If you really love gems better than anything else in the world,
I can tell you where to find all and more than all you want."

"That would be impossible," answered the child. "I could never have more than enough. But what
a beautiful country it must be! Do tell me where to find it."

Still smiling, this wonderful old lady, who knew all manner of strange secrets, called the
child to her, and having whispered in her ear, pointed in the direction of the woods just beyond
the village.

The girl's face looked serious, as if she were perhaps a little frightened at what the old
lady had told her; but if she could get all the jewels she wanted, it was worth more than one
fright, she thought; so off she started without a word.

The shy little blossoms that hide their faces from the sunlight grew here and there in the woods.

White star-flowers and purple hepaticas nodded on their slender stems, while the crimson and
white wood-sorrel fairly ran wild, creeping in and out through bush and brier, like a host
of fairies in striped petticoats.

"A nice place enough," said the child, tossing her head, "for those who know of nothing better;
but I can't stop to admire such simple things. Gems and jewels are the only flowers I care for."

The shadows were growing longer and deeper all around her, for the sun was almost down, and
as she looked up through the trees she could see the pale face of the young moon peeping down
at her through the branches.

"Oh, if the wise old woman had only come with me!" said the child, in a whisper. The shadows
took on strange, ghostly shapes, and the tall pine-trees, so high that their topmost branches
seemed to rest against the sky, sang softly and slowly and all together,

"Take care--take care--oh--oh--ough."

She had never realized before how full of sounds the stillness of the deep woods may be, and
it seemed to her as if the rustling of the leaves and the singing of the wind were strange
unearthly voices calling out to her and warning her to go back. But in spite of the rustling
leaves and the mournful sighing of the pines the little girl hurried on. Perhaps, just because
of them, she hurried all the faster, for she felt quite sure that she was nearing the place
to which she had been directed. And in a few moments she saw just before her the gray moss-grown
rocks piled one above another which the wise old woman of Hollowbush had described, and heard
far below the rushing and tumbling of a brook.

Surely I must have been deceived! she thought.

Here was no strange country sown with jewels, but simply a rocky ravine, where ferns waved
in the wind, clinging to the rocks, and catching the spray from the water as it bubbled and
hissed and fell in a snowy pool below.

"This can't be the place," said the child, as she looked around; "but while I am here I may
as well see what it is."

So she clambered over the loose stones and decaying logs till she reached the level of the
stream, and there, strangely enough, scattered among broken bits of granite, were small bright
stones of a deep wine-color. "These are not diamonds," she said to herself, "but they are too
pretty to lie neglected here, whatever they may be."

She gathered them one by one, tying her handkerchief into four knots at the corners for a basket;
and so absorbed was she that she had quite forgotten the weird shadows and the strange noises
in the wood, until she was startled by a voice close beside her.

Her heart gave a sudden bound, as if it were going to jump away from her without so much as
saying by your leave, and turning quickly, she saw, not the old woman--although the voice had
sounded curiously like hers--but a quaint pale-faced little man, with small faded-looking blue
eyes that blinked in the moonlight as if the brightest of June-day suns had been shining upon him.

"So you are fond of gems, my little maiden?" said the small man, in a small thin voice, winking
and blinking good-naturedly as he spoke.

The child stood staring at her companion, too much astonished to answer him a word, for she,
nor you, nor I, I believe, had ever seen such a curious being before. He was so small that
she could have tucked him under her arm and run away with him, but his pale blue eyes had a
strange light in them, like nothing seen above the ground, and she might have gone on staring
at him from that day to this if her handkerchief had not slipped from her fingers, letting
her stones roll here and there over the ground, whereupon she uttered a low cry of disappointment.

"Oh, never mind those," said the little man, smiling; "they are nothing but garnets. Just come
with me, and I will show you stones a thousand times more beautiful."

"So you live in the country where gems grow instead of flowers?" said the child, recovering
her voice and her self-possession at the same time.

"Yes," he answered; "I am the keeper of the gate, and if you will come with me, I will show
you more beautiful things than any you ever dreamed of."

This invitation was just what the child wanted, and she followed the gate-keeper without another
word.

What a strange place it was, this country of his into which he was leading her! It was so dark
that she could see nothing but gleaming lights shining through the darkness, red and yellow
and green and crimson, like tiny magic lanterns hung at intervals high above her head against
the wall.

She began to perceive that they were going deep down under the earth, and she shivered, partly
with cold and partly with fear, as she stepped carefully and slowly over the uneven path down
which she and her guide were descending.

"Is it far we have to go?" she asked at length, rather timidly.

"Oh no," answered her companion. "This is simply a long corridor that runs through the base
of the hills, but we have almost reached the end of it. In a few moments I shall lead you into
the presence-chamber of the king."

"The king!" echoed the child, hardly knowing whether to be frightened or pleased. "And am I
to go before a king?"

