 Within some twenty pages Renée Mauperin is une mélancolique
tintamarresque; the adjectives bourgeoise and diabolique are used to characterize the same
thing; the Abbé Blampoix is at once "priest and lawyer, apostle and diplomatist, Fénelon and
M. de Foy." And the same types constantly reappear. The physician Monterone in Madame Gervaisais
is simply an Italian version of Denoisel in Renée Mauperin; the Abbé Blampoix has his counter-part
in Father Giansanti; Honorine is Germinie, before the fall; Nachette and Gautruche might be
brothers. The procedure, too, is almost invariable. The antecedents of each personage are given
with abundant detail. We have minute information as to the family history of the Mauperins,
the Villacourts, Germinie, Couturat, and the rest; and the mention of Father Sibilla involves
a brief account of the order of Barefooted Trinitarians from January, 1198, to the spring of
1853! There is a frequent repetition of the same idea with scarcely any verbal change: un dos
d'amateur in Renée Mauperin and le dos du cocher in Germinie Lacerteux. And the possibilities
of the human back were evidently not exhausted, for at Christmas, 1882, Edmond de Goncourt
makes a careful note of the dos de jeune fille du peuple.

It is by no means an accident that the most frequent theme of the brothers is illness: the
insanity of Demailly, the tortures of Germinie, the consumption of Madame Gervaisais, the decay
of Renée Mauperin, the record of pain in Soeur Philomène, in Les Frères Zemganno, and in other
works of the Goncourts. Emotion in less tragic circumstances they rarely convey; and when they
attempt it they are prone to stumble into an unimpressive sentimentalism. Their strength lay
in pure observation, not in the philosophic or psychological presentment of nature. For their
fine powers to have full play, it was necessary that they should deal with things seen: in
other words, that feeling should take a concrete shape. Once this condition is fulfilled, they
can focus their own impressions and render them with unsurpassable skill. We shall find in
them nothing epic, nothing inventive on a grand scale: the transfiguring, ennobling vision
of the greatest creators was denied them. But they remain consummate masters in their own restricted
province: delicate observers of externals, noting and remembering with unmatched exactitude
every detail of gesture, attitude, intonation, and expression. The description of landscape--of
the Bois de Vincennes in Germinie Lacerteux, the Forest of Fontainebleau in Manette Salomon,
or of the Trastevere quarter in Madame Gervaisais--commonly affords them an occasion for a
triumph; but the description of prolonged malady gives them a still greater opportunity. Nor
is this due simply to the fact that they, who had never known what it was to enjoy a day of
perfect health, spoke from an intimate knowledge of the subject. Each landscape preserves at
least its abstract idiosyncrasy; illness is an essentially "typical" state in which individual
characteristics diminish till they finally disappear. And it is especially in the portraiture
of types, rather than of individuals, that the genius of the Goncourts excels.

In their own opinion, their initiative extended over a vast field and in all directions. They
seriously maintained that they were the first to introduce the poor into French fiction, the
first to awaken the sentiment of pity for the wretched; they admitted the priority of Dickens,
but they apparently forgot that they had likewise been anticipated by George Sand--that George
Sand whose merits it took them twenty years to recognise. They forgot, too, that compassion
is precisely the quality in which they were most lacking. Gavarni had killed the sentiment
of pity in them, and had communicated to them his own mocking, sardonic spirit of inhumanity,
his sinister delight in every manifestation of cruelty, baseness, and pain. In their most candid
moods they confessed that they were all brain and no heart, that they were without real affections;
and their writings naturally suffer from this unsympathetic attitude. But when every deduction
is made, it is impossible to deny their importance and significance. For they represent a distinct
stage in an organized movement--the reaction against romanticism in the novel and lyrism in
the theatre. And there is some basis for their bold assertion that they led the way in every
other development of the modern French novel. They believed that they had founded the naturalistic
school in Germinie Lacerteux, the psychological in Madame Gervaisais, the symbolic in Les Frères
Zemganno, and the satanic in La Faustin. It is unnecessary to recognise all these claims in
full: to discuss them at all, even if we deny them, is to admit that the Goncourts were men
of striking intellectual force, of singular ambition, of exceptionally rich and diverse gifts
amounting, at times, to unquestionable genius. If they were unsuccessful in their attempt to
create an entire race of beings as real as any on the planet, their superlative talent produced,
in the form of novels, invaluable studies of manners and customs, a brilliant series of monographs
on the social history of the nineteenth century. And Daudet and M. Zola, and a dozen others
whom it would be invidious to name, may be accounted as in some sort their literary descendants.

It is not unnatural that Edmond de Goncourt should have ended by disliking the form of the
novel, which he came to regard as an exhausted convention. His pessimism was universal. Art
was dying, literature was perishing daily. The almost universal acceptance of Ibsen and of
Tolstoi was in itself a convincing symptom of degeneration, if the vogue of the latter writer
were not indeed the result of a cosmopolitan plot against the native realistic school. It was
some consolation to reflect that, after all, there was more "philosophy" in Beaumarchais than
in Ibsen; that the name of Goncourt was held in honour by Scandinavians and Slavs. Yet it could
not be denied that, the world over, aristocracy of every kind was breaking down. To the eyes
of the surviving Goncourt all the signs of a last great catastrophe grew visible. Mankind was
ill, half-mad, and on the road to become completely insane. There were countless indications
of intellectual and physical decadence. Sloping shoulders were disappearing; the physique of
the peasant was not what it had been; good food was practically unattainable; in a hundred
years a man who had once tasted genuine meat would be pointed out as a curiosity. The probability
was, that within half a century there would not be a man of letters in the world; the reporter,
the interviewer, would have taken possession. As it was, the younger generation of readers
no longer rallied to the Goncourts as it had rallied when Henriette Maréchal was first replayed.
The weary old man buried himself in memoirs, biographies, books of travel; then turned to his
first loves--to Poe and Heine--and found that "we are all commercial travellers compared to
them." But, threatened as he was by blindness, despairing as were his presentiments of what
the future concealed, his confidence in the durability of his fame and his brother's fame was
undimmed. There would always be the select few interested in two such examples of the littérateur
bien né. There would always be the official historians of literature to take account of them
as new, perplexing, elemental forces. There would always be the curious who must turn to the
Goncourts for positive information. "Our romances," as the brothers had noted forty years earlier,
"will supply the greatest number of facts and absolute truths to the moral history of this
century." And Edmond de Goncourt clung to the belief, ending, happily and characteristically
enough, by conceiving himself and his brother to be "types," and the best of all types: le
type de l'honnête homme littéraire, du persévérant dans ses convictions, et du contempteur
de l'argent. The praise is deserved. It is a distinction of which greater men might well be proud.

JAMES FITZMAURICE-KELLY.

BIOGRAPHICAL NOTE

The Goncourts were the sons of a cavalry officer, commander of a squadron in the Imperial army.
EDMOND was born at Nancy, on the 26th of May, 1822, and his brother JULES in Paris, on the
17th of December, 1830. They were the grandsons of the deputy of the National Assembly of 1789,
Huot de Goncourt. A very close friendship united the brothers from their earliest youth, but
it appears to have been in the younger that the irresistible tendency to literature first displayed
itself. They were originally drawn almost exclusively to the study of the history of art. They
devoted themselves particularly to the close of the eighteenth century, and in their earliest
important volumes, "La Révolution dans les Moeurs" (1854), and "Pendant le Directoire" (1855),
they invented a new thing, the evolution of the history of an age from the objects and articles
of its social existence. They were encouraged to continue these studies further, more definitely
concentrating their observations around individuals, and some very curious monographs--made
up, as some one said, of the detritus of history--were the result, "Une Voiture de Masques,"
1856; "Les Actrices (Armande)," 1856; "Sophie Arnauld," 1857. The most ingenious efforts of
the brothers in this direction were, however, concentrated upon "Portraits Intimes du XVIIIe
Siècle," 1857-'58, and upon the "Histoire de Marie Antoinette," 1858.

Towards 1860 the Goncourts closed their exclusively historical work, and transferred their
minute observation and excessively meticulous treatment of small aspects of life to realistic
romance. Their first novel, "Les Hommes de Lettres," 1860 (now known as "Charles Demailly"),
showed some lack of ease in using the new medium, but it was followed by "Soeur Philomène,"
1861, one of the most finished of their fictions, and this by "Renée Mauperin," 1864; "Germinie
Lacerteux," 1864; "Manette Salomon," 1867; and "Madame Gervaisais," 1869. Meanwhile, numerous
studies of the art of the bibelot appeared under the name of the two Goncourts, and in particular
their great work on "L'Art du XVIIIe Siècle," which began to be published in 1859, although
not completed until 1882. All this while, moreover, they were secretly composing their splenetic
"Journal." On the 20th of June, 1870, the fair companionship was broken by the death of Jules
de Goncourt, and for some years Edmond did no more than complete and publish certain artistic
works which had been left unfinished. Of these, the most remarkable were, a monograph on the
life and work of Gavarni, 1873; a compilation called "L'Amour au XVIIIe Siècle," 1875; studies
of the Du Barry, the Pompadour, and the Duchess of Châteauroux, 1878-'79 (these three afterward
united in one volume as "Les Maîtresses de Louis XV"); and notes of a tour in Italy, 1894.

Edmond de Goncourt, however, after several years of silence, returned alone to the composition
of prose romance. He published in 1877 "La Fille Élisa," an ultra-realistic tragedy of low
life. In 1878, in the very curious story of two mountebanks, "Les Frères Zemganno," he betrayed
the secret of his own perennial sorrow. Two more novels, "La Faustin," 1882, and "Chérie,"
the pathetic portrait of a spoiled child, close the series of his works in fiction. He returned
to a close examination of the history of art, and published catalogues raisonnés of the entire
work of Watteau (1875) and of Prud'hon (1876). His latest interests were centred around the
classical Japanese designers, and he published elaborate monographs on Outamaro (1891) and
Hokousaï (1896). In 1885 he collected the Letters of his brother Jules, and issued from 1887
to 1896, in nine volumes, as much as has hitherto been published of the celebrated "Journal
des Goncourts."

Edmond de Goncourt died while on a visit to Alphonse Daudet, at Champrosay, the country-house
of the latter, on the 16th of July, 1896. He left his considerable fortune, which included
valuable collections of bibelots, mainly for the purpose of endowing an Academy of Prose Literature,
in opposition to the French Academy. In spite of extreme hostility from the members of his
family, and innumerable legal difficulties, this "Académie des Goncourts" was formed, on what
seems to be a secure basis, in 1901, and M. Joris Karl Huysmans was elected its first president.

E. G.

CONTENTS

                                                              PAGES

    Edmond and Jules de Goncourt                             v-xxix
      James Fitzmaurice-Kelly

    Lives of Edmond and Jules de Goncourt               xxxi-xxxiii
      Edmund Gosse

    Renée Mauperin                                            1-349

    The Portraits of Edmond and Jules de
    Goncourt                                                351-367
      Octave Uzanne

RENÉE MAUPERIN

I

"You don't care about society, then, mademoiselle?"

"You won't tell any one, will you?--but I always feel as though I've swallowed my tongue when
I go out. That's the effect society has on me. Perhaps it is that I've had no luck. The young
men I have met are all very serious, they are my brother's friends--quotation young men, I
call them. As to the girls, one can only talk to them about the last sermon they have heard,
the last piece of music they have learned, or their last new dress. Conversation with my contemporaries
is somewhat restricted."

"And you live in the country all the year round, do you not?"

"Yes, but we are so near to Paris. Is the piece good they have just been playing at the Opéra
Comique? Have you seen it?"

"Yes, it's charming--the music is very fine. All Paris was at the first night--I never go to
the theatre except on first nights."

"Just fancy, they never take me to any theatre except the Opéra Comique and the Français, and
only to the Français when there is a classical piece on. I think they are terribly dull, classical
pieces. Only to think that they won't let me go to the Palais Royal! I read the pieces though.
I spent a long time learning 'The Mountebanks' by heart. You are very lucky, for you can go
anywhere. The other evening my sister and my brother-in-law had a great discussion about the
Opera Ball. Is it true that it is quite impossible to go to it?"

"Impossible? Well----"

"I mean--for instance, if you were married, would you take your wife, just once, to see it?"

"If I were married I would not even take----"

"Your mother-in-law. Is that what you were going to say? Is it so dreadful--really?"

"Well, in the first place, the company is----"

"Variegated? I know what that's like. But then it's the same everywhere. Every one goes to
the Marche and the company is mixed enough there. One sees ladies, who are rather queer, drinking
champagne in their carriages. Then, too, the Bois de Boulogne! How dull it is to be a young
person, don't you think so?"

"What an idea! Why should it be? On the contrary, it seems to me----"

"I should like to see you in my place. You would soon find out what a bore it is to be always
proper. We are allowed to dance, but do you imagine that we can talk to our partner? We may
say 'Yes,' 'No,' 'No,' 'Yes,' and that's all! We must always keep to monosyllables, as that
is considered proper. You see how delightful our existence is. And for everything it is just
the same. If we want to be very proper we have to act like simpletons; and for my part I cannot
do it. Then we are supposed to stop and prattle to persons of our own sex. And if we go off
and leave them and are seen talking to men instead--oh, well, I've had lectures enough from
mamma about that! Reading is another thing that is not at all proper. Until two years ago I
was not allowed to read the serials in the newspaper, and now I have to skip the crimes in
the news of the day, as they are not quite proper.

"Then, too, with the accomplishments we are allowed to learn, we must not go beyond a certain
average. We may learn duets and pencil drawing, but if we want anything more, why, it's affectation
on our part. I go in for oil-painting, for instance, and that is the despair of my family.
I ought only to paint roses and in water-colours. There's quite a current here, though, isn't
there? I can scarcely stand."

This was said in an arm of the Seine just between Briche and the Île Saint Denis. The girl
and the young man who were conversing were in the water. They had been swimming until they
were tired, and now, carried along by the current, they had caught hold of a rope which was
fastened to one of the large boats stationed along the banks of the island. The force of the
water rocked them both gently at the end of the tight, quivering rope. They kept sinking and
then rising again. The water was beating against the young girl's breast; it filled out her
woollen bathing-dress right up to the neck, while from behind little waves kept dashing over
her which a moment later were nothing but dewdrops hanging from her ears.

She was rather higher up than the young man and had her arms out of the water, her wrists turned
round in order to hold the rope more firmly, and her back against the black wood of the boat.
Instinctively she kept drawing back as the young man, swayed by the strong current, approached
her. Her whole attitude, as she shrank back, suspended from the rope, reminded one of those
sea goddesses which sculptors carve upon galleys. A slight tremor, caused partly by the cold
and partly by the movement of the river, gave her something of the undulation of the water.

"Ah, now this, for instance," she continued, "cannot be at all proper--to be swimming here
with you. If we were at the seaside it would be quite different. We should have just the same
bathing costumes as these, and we should come out of a bathing-van just as we have come out
of the house. We should have walked across the beach just as we have walked along the river
bank, and we should be in the water to the same depth, absolutely like this. The waves would
roll us about as this current does, but it would not be the same thing at all; simply because
the Seine water is not proper! Oh, dear! I'm getting so hungry--are you?"

"Well, I fancy I shall do justice to dinner."

"Ah! I warn you that I eat."

"Really, mademoiselle?"

"Yes, there is nothing poetical about me at meal-times. If you imagine that I have no appetite
you are quite mistaken. You are in the same club as my brother-in-law, are you not?"

"Yes, I am in M. Davarande's club."

"Are there many married men in it?"

"Yes, a great many."

"How odd! I cannot understand why a man marries. If I had been a man it seems to me that I
should never have thought of marrying."

"Fortunately you are a woman."

"Ah, yes, that's another of our misfortunes, we women cannot stay unmarried. But will you tell
me why a man joins a club when he is married?"

"Oh, one has to be in a club--especially in Paris. Every man of any standing--if only for the
sake of going in there for a smoke."

"What! do you mean to say that there are any wives nowadays without smoking-rooms? Why, I would
allow--yes, I would allow a halfpenny pipe!"

"Have you any neighbours?"

"Oh, we don't visit much. There are the Bourjots at Sannois, we go there sometimes."

"Ah, the Bourjots! But, here, there cannot be any one to visit."

"Oh, there's the curé. Ha! ha! the first time he dined with us he drank the water in his finger-bowl!
Oh, I ought not to tell you that, it's too bad of me--and he's so kind. He's always bringing
me flowers."

"You ride, don't you, mademoiselle? That must be a delightful recreation for you."

"Yes, I love riding. It is my one pleasure. It seems to me that I could not do without that.
What I like above everything is hunting. I was brought up to that in the part of the world
where papa used to live. I'm desperately fond of it. I was seven hours one day in my saddle
without dismounting."

"Oh, I know what it is--I go hunting every year in the Perche with M. de Beaulieu's hounds.
You've heard of his pack, perhaps; he had them over from England. Last year we had three splendid
runs. By-the-bye, you have the Chantilly meets near here."

"Yes, I go with papa, and we never miss one. When we were all together at the last meet there
were quite forty horses, and you know how it excites them to be together. We started off at
a gallop, and you can imagine how delightful it was. It was the day we had such a magnificent
sunset in the pool. Oh, the fresh air, and the wind blowing through my hair, and the dogs and
the bugles and the trees flying along before you--it makes you feel quite intoxicated! At such
moments I'm so brave, oh, so brave!"

"Only at such moments, mademoiselle?"

"Well--yes--only on horseback. On foot, I own, I am very frightened at night; then, too, I
don't like thunder at all--and--well, I'm very delighted that we shall be three persons short
for dinner this evening."

"But why, mademoiselle?"

"We should have been thirteen! I should have done the meanest things for the sake of getting
a fourteenth--as you would have seen. Ah, here comes my brother with Denoisel; they'll bring
us the boat. Do look how beautiful it all is from here, just at this time!"

She glanced round, as she spoke, at the Seine, the river banks on each side, and the sky. Small
clouds were sporting and rolling along in the horizon. They were violet, gray, and silvery,
just tipped with flashes of white, which looked like the foam of the sea touching the lower
part of the sky.

Above them rose the heavens infinite and blue, profound and clear, magnificent and just turning
paler as they do at the hour when the stars are beginning to kindle behind the daylight. Higher
up than all hung two or three clouds stretching over the landscape, heavy-looking and motionless.

An immense light fell over the water, lying dormant here, flashing there, making the silvery
streaks in the shadow of the boats tremble, touching up a mast or a rudder, or resting on the
orange-coloured handkerchief or pink jacket of a washerwoman. The country, the outskirts of
the town, and the suburbs all met together on both sides of the river. There were rows of poplar
trees to be seen between the houses, which were few and far between, as at the extreme limit
of a town.

Then there were small, tumble-down cottages, inclosure's planked round, gardens, green shutters,
wine-trade signs painted in red letters, acacia trees in front of the doors, old summer arbors
giving way on one side, bits of walls dazzlingly white, then some straight rows of manufactories,
brick buildings with tile and zinc-covered roofs, and factory bells. Smoke from the various
workshops mounted straight upward and the shadow of it fell in the water like the shadows of
so many columns.

On one stack was written "Tobacco," and on a plaster façade could be read "Doremus Labiche,
Boats for Hire."

