Whether Sir Walter de Sutton, with half a knight's fee, for that, apparently, was the proper
legal description of the Sutton Court estate, got the best of the Vicar, or the Vicar of him,
does not seem to have been recorded. Anyway, they went for each other, not with lance in rest,
on the one side, and Holy Water, bell, book, and candle on the other, but with attorneys, and
writs, and motions in arrest of judgment, and all the formulae which can be seen at work in
the Year Books of Edward II, for that was the date of the Tower, and of the aforesaid Walter
de Sutton.

As I shall show later, when I come to deal with my ancestry, Sutton was never a "Heartbreak
House." In each succeeding generation it held the place which it held when I was young, and
which, Heaven be praised! it still holds. A small, comfortable, yet dignified manor-house,
surrounded by farmhouses and cottages in which live still just the kind of people who have
lived there throughout the period of legal or of literary memory--the period described as that
to which "the memory of man runneth not to the contrary."

The village people were poor, but yet not dependent; people not, perhaps, very enterprising,
and yet with a culture of their own; and people, above all, with natural dignity and good manners
shown to those they like and respect, though often with a conventional set of bad manners to
use, if required, as armour against a rough world. These are always produced when they are
inclined to suspect strangers of regarding them with patronage, ridicule, or contempt.

At this day I could show a rural labourer living in one of the Sutton Court cottages, aged
eighty-three or so, who lived there when I was a boy and looked then, to my eyes, almost exactly
as he does now. Tall, distinguished, with not merely good manners but a good manner, and with
real refinement of speech, though a strong Somersetshire accent, Israel Veal would show nothing
of himself to a stranger. Probably he would speak so little, though quite politely, that he
would be put down as "one of those muddle-headed, stupid yokels with little or no mind," who,
according to the townsman, "moulder" in country villages "till they become demented."

Yet when, a year ago, I introduced my son to him, though my son was, till then, unknown to
him, he at once talked freely. He had got the password and knew all was safe and well. He proceeded
at once to tell him what he had often told me--how he had "helped to put Sir Henry" (my father's
uncle, whom he succeeded) "into his coffin." He then went on to describe how (in 1858) the
coffin was carried on men's shoulders the whole way to Chew Magna to be buried there in the
Strachey Chapel. The event set down in cold print does not sound of very great interest or
importance. It will seem, indeed, at first hearing to partake a little too much of the countryman
of the melodrama, or of the comic papers, who always talks about funerals and corpses. As a
matter of fact, however, Israel Veal has so little self-consciousness and possesses such a
gift for dignified narration that, told by him, the story, if indeed it can be called a story,
always seems of real significance. There is something of the air of the prophet about the narrator,
though he indulge in no prophecy. I found myself, indeed, saying to my son, "I am so glad you
have heard that as I used to hear it," quite imagining for the moment that it was a piece of
family lore of high import which was being sacramentally passed on by the old retainer.

At Sutton, though I was not brought up in a hunting-stable, or amid a crowd of gamekeepers,
and so forth, we had the usual establishment of a country-gentleman of moderate means in the
'seventies. My mother had a comfortable, heavy landau, with a pair of quiet horses, still officially
and in bills called "coach-horses." My father had a small brougham of his own for doing magistrate's
work, drawn by a horse believed to be of a very fiery disposition, and called "Black Bess."
I and my brothers had ponies on whose backs we spent many hours. My father had been an invalid
most of his life, and, owing to a stiff knee, could not ride. But, though an anxious parent,
he wisely realised that an Englishman must if possible know how to use the back of a horse.
Ours was a bad riding country, owing to the great number of small fields, but we galloped up
and down the roads with a youthful lack of consideration for our horses' legs. Curiously enough,
there were no hounds near us, and therefore I never actually rode to hounds till I was forty.
Happily, however, I was familiar with the saddle, and, though an exceedingly careless rider,
had not, even after nearly twenty years' intermission of riding, to re-learn my grip.

Even now, to get on a horse and ride through woods and lanes and over Downs and Commons is
an enormous pleasure, and if a mild jump or two can be added I am transported into the Seventh
Heaven. To me the greatest of all physical enjoyments has always been the sensation produced
by a horse with all four legs off the ground.

There was another aspect of the country-house, which I am sure was not without its effect.
My father, though he knew little or nothing about agriculture, was to a great extent his own
agent, and therefore the farmers and the cottage tenants were constantly coming to the house
to consult him and to talk over small matters. There also came to him pretty frequently people
on police and magistrate's business, to get warrants signed, so that the offenders could be
legally held till brought before the Petty Sessions. At these interviews, whether economic,
administrative, or constabulary, I and my brothers were permitted to attend. While my father
sat at his table in what was called "the magistrate's room," or "Sir Edward's business room,"
and the other persons of the drama either sat opposite him, if they were merely on business,
or stood if they were accompanied by a policeman, we children sat discreetly on a sofa on my
father's side of the room and listened with all our ears.

It was always interesting and curious, and occasionally we had a real piece of dramatic "fat,"
in the shape of charges of witchcraft. Assaults or threatening language "likely to cause breaches
of the Peace" were also regarded as highly diverting. Charges of witchcraft were usually levelled
by one old lady against another. One might hear accounts of how intrepid men and women nailed
down the footsteps of the witch, of how deadly-nightshade was grown over the porch of a cottage
to keep off witches, and how evil spirits in the shape of squeaking chickens frequented the
woman who was "overlooked." My father did his best to make peace and subdue superstition, but
it was quite easy to see that his audiences, especially when they were women, regarded him
as a victim of ignorance. "Poor gentleman, he don't understand a word about it." That was their
attitude.

Lastly, my country home had what so many English country-houses have, a largish library. The
hoary tradition that English squires are as a class illiterate, which they are not even when
inordinately given to sport, has no foundation. In the Great Parlour, for so it was called,
there were plenty of good books, and I was early turned loose among them. My father would have
thought it a crime to keep books from a boy on the plea that he might injure the bindings or
lose the volumes or get harm from unlicensed reading. I did exactly what I liked in the library
and browsed about with a splendid incoherence which would have shocked a pedant, but delighted
a true man of letters. Now I would open the folio edition of Ben Jonson, now Congreve's plays
and poems printed by Baskerville; now a volume of "Counsel's Brief delivered in the defence
of Warren Hastings Esqre. at his impeachment," which we happened to possess; now Travels to
the Court of Ashanti; now Chinese Punishments; now Flaxman's Illustrations to the Iliad, the
Odyssey, or Dante.

Those were glorious days, for one had real leisure. One varied the turning over of books in
the Great Parlour with a scamper on one's pony, with visits to the strawberry bed, and with
stretching oneself full- length on a sofa, or the hearth-rug in the Hall, reading four or five
books at a time. In such an atmosphere it was easy to forget one's proper lessons and the abhorred
dexterity of Greek and Latin grammarians.

If the physical "aura" of Sutton Court was delightful and stimulating to mind and body, still
more stimulating and of still happier chance was the mental atmosphere. I may class myself
as thrice-blessed in being brought up in Whig ideas, in a Whig family, with Whig traditions,
for in spite of the stones, intellectual and political, that have been thrown at them, salvation
is of the Whigs. When I speak thus of the Whigs I do not, of course, mean Whiggism of the Whig
aristocracy as represented by modern Tory historians, or by the parasitic sycophants of a militant
Proletariat. I mean true Whig principles--the principles of Halifax, of Somers, of Locke, of
Addison, and of Steele--the principles of the Bill of Rights and of "the Glorious Revolution
of 1688";--the Whiggism which had its origin in the party of Cromwell and of the Independents,
of John Milton and of Richard Baxter, the party which even in its decadence flowered in England
in Chatham and William Pitt, and in America in Washington, John Adams, and the founders of
the Republic. Whig principles to me mean that the will of the majority of the nation as a whole
must prevail, and not the will of any section, even if it is a large section and does manual
work. These are the principles which are in deadly opposition to Jacobinism and Bolshevism.
Under Jacobinism and Bolshevism, as their inventors proclaim, true policy must be made to prevail
by force, or fraud, if necessary. Privilege is claimed for the minority. Oligarchy, and a very
militant form of oligarchy, thus takes the place of true democracy.

But though the will of the people, be it what it may be, must prevail, the Whig claims absolute
liberty in all matters of personal opinion and of conscience, and advocates the greatest amount
of liberty procurable in social action. He will not sanction direct action in order to secure
even these things, but he asserts the right of free speech in order to convert the majority,
when it needs converting, to his views, and will not rest till he obtains it. Never persecute
a man for his opinions as long as he does not proceed to lawless action. Maintain freedom against
a lawless crowd as steadfastly as against a lawless crown. Never refuse a man an impartial
hearing, and never judge a man guilty till he has been proved so. These are the true Whig principles,
and in these I was brought up.

It is true that my father, yielding not unnaturally to the fashion of his day,--the fashion
of decrying the Whigs--would always call himself a Liberal rather than a Whig, and, indeed,
Whiggism in his youth was often little better than a specially bad type of Toryism. As soon,
however, as I began to study history in any detail, that is not in handbooks, but in the originals,
I soon saw that he was one of the best of Whigs, whether in matters of State or Church. Moderation,
justice, freedom, sympathy with suffering, tolerance, yielded not in the form of patronage
but in obedience to a claim of right which could not be gainsaid--these were the pillars of
his mind.

Who will deny that it was good fortune to be brought up in these views and by such an expounder?
As I looked at the pictures that hung on the walls in the Great Hall (not very great, in fact,
though bearing that name), I remembered with a glow of pride that it was on these principles
that my family had been nourished. William Strachey, the first Secretary to the Colony of Virginia,
would, I felt, have been a true Whig if Whig principles had been enunciated in his time, for
the Virginia Company was a Liberal movement. John Strachey, his son, stood at the very cradle
of Whiggism, for was he not the intimate friend of John Locke? Locke in his letters from exile
and in his formative period writes to Strachey with affection and admiration.

To my glowing imagination John Strachey thus became the unknown inspirer of Locke, and therefore,
perhaps, the inspirer and founder of the Whig philosophy. The son of Locke's friend, though
the West Country was, as a rule, hopelessly Tory and full of Squire Westerns, stood firm by
William and Mary and George I. As a Fellow of the Royal Society, the second John Strachey must
have been a friend of Sir Isaac Newton, the mighty Whig of Science.

There were also Cromwellian ancestors on the distaff side. Indeed, though once more not in
the ordinary conventional sense, the aura of Sutton was a Whig aura.

Though the aura of Sutton Court had a strong effect upon me morally and intellectually, the
emotional side of me was even more deeply touched. The beauty and fascination of the house,
its walls, its trees, and its memories, made, as I have already said, so deep an impression
upon me that to this hour I love the place, the thought of it, and even the very name of it,
as I love no other material thing. By nature I am not among those who become permanently attached
to objects. It is true that I love my own home in Surrey, a house which I built, as it were,
with my own hands. I love the scenery; I love it also as the place where my wife and I went
as young people, and as the place where my children were born, but the thought of it does not
touch me emotionally as does the thought of Sutton. What I have felt about Sutton all my life,
I shall feel till I feel no more on earth. But that will not be all. I am convinced that I
shall in some sense or other feel it in some other place. The indent on my soul will not be
effaced.

I have touched on some of the chief things, natal and prenatal, which went to the making of
my mind before I began to shape that mind for myself. Every man must do this, for whatever
be the stars in his horoscope or the good fairies who preside over his cradle, they can only
give, as it were, "useful instructions" and a good plan of the route. They leave him also plenty
of opportunities for muddling those instructions and plunging into every kind of folly that
they showed him how to avoid. In the last resort, a man is his own star and must make his own
soul, though, of course, he has a right, nay, a duty, to give thanks for all good chances and
happy circumstances. At any rate, I must now approach the time at which I took control of myself,
and of the magic boat that had been built and equipped for me by others. Had I been fully conscious
when I started on my own voyage, it should have been with a devout gratitude that my ship,
at any rate, had not been rigged in the eclipse, and that I set sail under so bright a sky
and with so prosperous a gale behind me.

CHAPTER IV

MY FATHER

I delay too long the picture of my father. Perhaps unconsciously I have been trying to avoid
describing him, for I know the difficulty of the task and dread producing something unworthy.
Important as were our home and traditions, our family, our friends, and our mode of life, they
are as nothing in my making when compared to the influence of such a man as he was.

I shall not attempt to describe my father's physical appearance, for that has been done with
sympathy, felicity, and power of presentation in my brother's portrait here reproduced. I will
say only that he was slight of build and short of stature. He is standing in the little Great
Hall at Sutton, in his black overcoat and hat, ready for one of those walks on the terrace
which he took from his earliest childhood. He was born in the old house in 1812. It was not,
however, till the year 1819 that he first came to live at Sutton. His earliest recollection
was, as he used to tell us, playing on the terrace with the great ginger- coloured tom-cat,
"King George." We always supposed this feline magnifico to have derived from some stock imported
by the first Sir Henry when he was Master of the Household to George III. As my readers will
see, King George's successor, in the true "mode" of his race, sits in a purely detached manner
in the middle of the polished oak floor near, but in no special relation to his master, or
rather, dependent, for no cat has a master though many have dependents.

But unstinted, unconditional eulogy is bound to end in flattery, and my father was much too
good a man and too simple a man to be exposed to even the hint of such a taint. Though he would
take sincere praise and sympathy with the pleasure of a wholly unaffected nature, the best
courtier in the world would have found it impossible to flatter him.

I shall, therefore, be particular to draw clearly such faults as he had. Also I shall tell
them first, though I know they will have a tendency to change into eulogy as I proceed. In
truth, his faults, such as they were, endeared him only the more to people who understood him.

He did not always show complete equity in judgment, though I admit, and I think the majority
of mankind would admit, that there was something essentially noble, if unpractical, in the
way in which this want of equity was shown. So tender was his heart, so passionate his hatred
of cruelty, so profound his chivalry, that he was apt to have his intellectual balance unduly
affected by any tale of suffering inflicted by the strong on the weak, or by any accusation
of wrong done to women or to children. When he heard such a tale he was too little inclined
to show the worldly wisdom of the man who says, "Let us wait and hear all the facts. It may
be a mere cock-and-bull story."

Instead, his attitude always reminded me of that of some eager knight- errant, on fire to accomplish
his duty and to succour helpless damsels and all persons in distress. He always assumed that
a call for succour came from a deserving object, if only it was agonising enough. He would
post off, as it were, lance in rest and vizor down, upon the slightest rumour of wrong or cruelty.
No woman suffering, or alleged to be suffering, from the cruelty of a husband, would ever call
for his sympathy in vain. It was, however, cases of cruelty to little children that most tended
to overwhelm his judgment. His burning horror at the mere idea of such deeds knew no bounds.
A wife might to some extent be able to protect herself from the brutalities of her husband,
but what chance had a helpless, friendless, terrified child, incapable even of running away
from its tormentors, or of making an appeal for protection to outsiders? Those who have lived
on unkindness and terror ever since they became conscious, cannot even console their poor little
hearts with imaginary visions of happiness.

The unhappiness of a tortured child is a thing not to be thought of. It scorches the mind like
a blast of sulphur.

Not only as a magistrate was my father's voice always raised on the side of the women and children.
He would always listen to any mother who came to protest against the cruelty of the village
schoolmistress to her offspring. The cruelty of the teacher was almost as unendurable to him
as that of a bad father or husband. He would not hear of any justification for rapping school-children
over the knuckles with a ruler. If one ventured to say that there were such things as demon-
children and that they had a power to probe and prod even the best of good people into a kind
of frenzy in which they were hardly accountable for their acts, the plea roused his deepest
indignation. Indeed, it was only at some sort of suggestion like this that I ever saw my father
really angry. Then, and only then, he would flare up and reply that this was the sort of excuse
that people always made to cover cruelty, wickedness, and injustice. Grown-up people were much
too ready to invent plausible grounds for the oppression of children. "Serve you right," was
never heard to fall from his lips by any child.

That he was justified in the general, if not in the particular, case, I fully realise. Indeed,
I and all his children, I think, look back now with the sense that even if we sometimes criticised
him (I admit, only very slightly) on this point, we were and remain proud that he was splendide
in-judex.

Let no one suppose that because my father was a saint, as undoubtedly he was, his general attitude
towards life was of the priggish or puritanical kind. It was nothing of the sort. Was not one
of his favourite characters in Shakespeare the immortal Mrs. Quickly?

He was a very fastidious and reticent man in matters of the spirit, unless you approached him
definitely and in earnest on a particular point. Then he would talk freely, and showed a marked
liberality of soul. A courtly eighteenth century divine, though probably nobody would in reality
have had less in common with my father, might have described him as "a thoroughly well-bred
man in matters of religion." In spite of the fact that he was brought up amongst the Evangelicals
and understood them and shared their better side, nothing, I feel sure, disgusted him more
than their way of living in their spiritual shirtsleeves.

I can imagine his horror at the habit of the Clapham sect of "engaging" (i.e., engaging in
prayer), in season and out of season. "Shall we engage?" the Evangelical Pietist, whether a
clergyman or a layman, would say at the end of some buttered-toast-and-pound-cake tea-party,
and then everyone would be expected to flop down on their knees and listen to an extemporary
appeal to their Maker!

My father was full of stories of the men of his own time and of the men of former times, of
historical allusions and analogies. He abounded in pregnant sayings culled from English, from
Greek and Latin, and also from Persian, for he had learned the French of the East when he was
at Haileybury studying for the Civil Service of the Honourable East India Company. Also he
was fairly well-read in some branches of French literature and knew enough Italian to translate
a quotation from Dante or from Tasso. He was also deeply read and deeply interested in Biblical
criticism and in the statecraft of the Old Testament. His book on "Hebrew Politics" was hailed
by theological students of liberal views as a real contribution to Biblical exegesis.

This all sounds like the record of a scholar. Yet he was not a scholar but a man with a most
active and creative interest in his own world and his own time. Politics was his master-passion
in things secular, and he followed every turn of the political wheel, not merely with the interest
of a spectator, but with that of a man whose heart and mind were both deeply concerned. He
was a Party Liberal, and also a liberal in the very best sense, and full of the most earnest
zeal for the people's cause. My only quarrel with him here--if it was a quarrel--was that in
his anxiety to support what he believed to be the cause of the people he was in effect anti-democratic.

On this point I was wont to chaff him, for there was no man with whom you could more easily
argue without hurting his feelings. I would put it like this:

You think of the people and your duty to them in too much of a grand seigneur manner for me.
You seem to want to find out what they want, and then do it, whether it is right or wrong,
out of a patronising sense of moral benevolence. I, on the other hand, am a true democrat because
I regard myself as one of the people--a creature with just as many rights as they have. Their
opinion, if it is the opinion of the majority, will of course prevail, and ought to prevail,
and I shall loyally acquiesce in it. But I am not going to do what I think unwise, as you appear
to think I should, because somebody has put a ticket on the back of a certain view and declared
it to be the popular view. It may quite well turn out that the alleged popular view is not
popular at all, but is scouted by the majority.

That, of course, was, and was meant to be, a parody of his attitude, but it was one which he
never resented, though he would not admit its nearness to the truth.

I shall not give the supreme characteristic impression of the man if I do not tell something
about his stories, and give some specimens of his table-talk, especially as I have felt very
strongly, though it may be difficult to transfer the impression, that his general talk, quite
apart from his example and direct teaching, had a potent influence upon my character, and so
upon my life.

To begin with, he was an ideal talker to children and young people, because, besides leisure,
he had an innate kindliness and sympathy with the young which made him always anxious to put
himself and his mind and heart at their disposal. He was in a perpetual mood to answer any
questions, however tiresome and however often repeated. As he was a man of wide reading, of
good memory, and almost an expert in many kinds of knowledge, we as children had something
of that incomparable advantage for which I have always envied royalty. They are able to learn
by the simple process of talking to people who know. That is not only the easiest road to knowledge,
but if your teacher is no charlatan a more vivid impression is made upon the mind than is made
by books.

If you went to my father and asked him who Aurungzebe was, or Hereward the Wake, or Masaniello,
or Edward Keen, or Callimachus, or Titus Oates, or Dr. Chalmers, or Saint Januarius, he would
tell you at once something vivid and stimulating about each of them, something which remained
in your mind. Often his answer would lead to other fascinating and delightful discoveries for
the questioner. I will take a couple of examples at random. When I asked him about Masaniello,
he not only told the story of the insurrection among the lazzaroni at Naples, but he launched
out into accounts of his own experience of Naples in the 'forties and of the crowds of picturesque
and starving beggars and banditti who in those days still infested the city and its horrible
and putrescent lanes and alleys. The Naples of the Bombas, in which he had spent two or more
winters, was always a delightful source of anecdote. I could fill a book with his talk about
Neapolitan nobles who let two apartments in their Palaces with only one set of furniture, and
of the Neapolitan boatmen who formed the crew of the boat which he kept in the Bay, for he
was too great an invalid to walk. Especially did we love to hear of how he was carried up Mount
Vesuvius in a "litter"--a word which he always used. It thrilled me. It seemed to make the
whole scene Roman and magnificent. One thought of Pliny going to observe the great eruption,
of Cicero, of Pompey, of Seneca, carried down to Baiæ in their curtained chairs. My other example
is Callimachus, the Greek, or rather, Alexandrine poet of the Decadence. The mention of his
name brought in its train an excellent story derived from my father's uncle, the second Sir
Henry Strachey, the squire whom he succeeded at Sutton. The story runs as follows. When the
said great-uncle, as a boy just come out to India, went to dine with the great Orientalist,
Sir William Jones, in his house in Calcutta (circa 1793), Sir William quoted to him a couple
of lines out of Callimachus' Hymn to Apollo, which he had hurled at the head of Burke when
the great Whig tribune threatened that he would get him (Sir William Jones) recalled if he
continued to support Warren Hastings. The lines quoted from the obscure Greek poet he translated
to the young civilian, Henry Strachey. "In reply, I reminded Burke," he said, "of the lines
in the Hymn to Apollo: 'The Euphrates is a noble river, but it rolls down all the dead dogs
of Babylon to the sea.'"

My father was wont to point out that, as a matter of fact, Jones's memory was not quite accurate.
If you look at the Burke correspondence, you will see the dignified letter in which Jones replied
to Burke. In it he makes no direct reference to the orator's threat, and only uses the first
line of Callimachus, which he turns into a compliment. He is sure, he declares, that the mighty
torrent of Burke's eloquence will always be used in the defence of a friend. Perhaps he thought
that, if Burke looked up the passage, he would be snubbed as it were automatically.

When, however, Jones told the story twelve years afterwards he did what we are all inclined
to do in such circumstances. He imagined himself much more valiant and much more ready to take
a great man by the scruff of his neck and shake him, than he really was. We are all heroes
in our memories. By the way, it was Callimachus who wrote the epigram on the death of Heraclitus
which was made immortal by the translation of the author of "Ionica." It is, I hold, the best
poetic translation in the English tongue.

Of the distinguished people with whom my father was personally acquainted in his earlier days,
among the most memorable were Carlyle and Edward Irving. Carlyle was tutor to my father's first
cousin, Charles Buller, later to be known as "the young Marcellus of the Whig Party." Of Carlyle
he had many stories. Curiously enough, I might have seen Carlyle myself, for when I was about
fifteen or sixteen he was still alive, and my father offered to take me to see him in Chelsea.
With the cheery insolence of youth, I weighed the question in the balance and decided that
I did not want to trouble myself with the generation that was passing away. I can still remember,
however, that what almost moved me to accept my father's proposal was the fact that Carlyle
was actually born in the 18th century, and before Keats. Edward Irving had made a vivid impression
upon my father, though he only saw him, I believe, at the age of seven or eight. He could distinctly
remember Irving taking him upon his knee, holding him at arm's length, looking into his face,
and saying, in his deep, vibrant orator's voice: "Edward, don't ye long to be a mon?" Evidently
the impression made upon my father by the words, or rather the way in which they were spoken,
was profound. The incident always reminded me of that wonderful story told by Crabbe Robinson
the Diarist. As a young man, Crabbe Robinson went to see one of the trials in which Erskine
was engaged as Counsel. All he could remember of the speech was Erskine leaning over the jury-box
and in low tones, full of meaning and tremulous with passion, uttering the commonplace words:
"Gentlemen of the Jury, if you give a verdict against my client I shall leave this court a
miserable man!" So profound was the influence of the orator that Crabbe Robinson tells us that
for weeks afterwards he used to wake with a start in the middle of the night, saying over to
himself the words: "I shall leave this court a miserable man."

Another contemporary well known to my father was Peacock, the novelist, for Peacock was also
an official in the India House and so a colleague of my grandfather, Edward Strachey.

Of my father's religious views, though they deeply affected my own, I shall speak only very
shortly. He was, above all, a devout man. Pure in heart, he earned the promised blessing and
saw God throughout his days on earth. The fatherhood of God and the imminence of the Kingdom
of Heaven were no empty words for him. But, though he was so single-minded a follower of Christ
and His teachings, he was no Pharisee of the New Dispensation; the sacerdotalism of the Christian
Churches was as hateful to him as the sacerdotalism of the Jews was to Christ. He was concerned
with the living spirit, not with ritual, or formularies, or doctrinal shibboleths. His mind
was open to all that was true, good, and generous. He asked for free and full development of
the soul of man. "The cry of Ajax was for light," was one of his best-loved quotations.

He welcomed the researches of scholarship in the foundations of religion, as he did of science
in the material world, and of philosophy in the things of the mind. Though he loved to worship
with his fellows, and was a sincere member of the Church of England, the maxim nulla solus
extra ecclesiasm filled him with horror. It was the worst of blasphemies.

His teacher was Frederick Maurice, but in certain ways he went further than that noble-hearted,
if somewhat mystical, divine. It would have been an absurdity to ask my father whether it would
not be better to give up Christianity and try instead the faith of Christ. That was always
his faith. For him religion meant a way of life, a spiritual exaltation--not going to church,
or saying prayers, or being sedulous in certain prescribed devotions. His creed was a communion
with, and a trust in, God, through Christ. Above all, he had an overmastering sense of duty.

He was sensitive in body and mind to a high degree, and so may have seemed to himself and other
observers to be like Mr. Fearing in Banyan's Dream. But I remember that when Mr. Fearing came
to the Valley of the Shadow of Death, no man was happier or braver. The river had never been
so low as when he crossed it. The Shining Ones had never made an easier passage for a pilgrim.
So it was with my father. He had all his life dreaded the physical side of dissolution. Yet,
when Death came he was wholly calm and untroubled. It is designedly that I do not say he was
resigned. Resignation implies regret. He had none.

I do not think I can more fitly sum up the impression made by my father than by quoting the
epigram of Martial on "Felix Antonius."

  To-day, my friend is seventy-five;
     He tells his tale with no regret;
     His brave old eyes are steadfast yet,
   His heart the lightest heart alive.

  He sees behind him green and wide
     The pathway of his pilgrim years;
     He sees the shore and dreadless hears
   The whisper of the creeping tide.

  For out of all his days, not one
     Has passed and left its unlaid ghost
     To seek a light for ever lost,
   Or wail a deed for ever done.

  So for reward of life-long truth
     He lives again, as good men can,
     Redoubling his allotted span
   With memories of a stainless youth.

The version I have taken is that by Sir Henry Newbolt, and undoubtedly it is one of the best
examples extant of the transference of the spirit of a Latin poem into English. My readers,
however, will no doubt remember that this epigram was also translated into English by Pope.
Though the modern poet's version is to be preferred, the older translation contains one of
the most felicitous lines written even by Pope.

It is needless to say that I realise the essential inappropriateness of joining my father's
name with that of Martial. It is, indeed, a capital example of the irony of circumstance that
I am able to do so. But, after all, why should we be annoyed instead of being thankful, when
bright flowers spring up on a dunghill? Certainly, my father would not have felt any indignity.
He was the least superstitious and also the least sophistical of men. If a thing was worthy
in itself he would never call it common or unclean on a punctilio.

If, while dealing with my father's influence on my life, I were not to say something about
the influence of my mother, I should leave a very false impression. My mother was a woman of
a quick intelligence and of a specially attractive personality. To her we children owed a great
deal in the matter of manners. My father gave us an excellent example in behaviour and in that
gentleness, unselfishness, and sincerity which is the foundation of good breeding. My mother,
who was never shy, and very good at mental diagnosis, added that burnish without which good
manners often lose half their power. What she particularly insisted on was the practice of
that graciousness of which she herself afforded so admirable an example. Naturally, like a
good mother, she always reproved us for bad manners, or for being unkind to other children,
or selfish, or affected, or oafish, or sulky. Her direst thunders, however, were kept for anything
which approached ill-breeding. Giving ourselves airs, or "posing," or any other form of juvenile
vulgarity, were well-nigh unforgivable sins.

But she did not content herself with inculcating the positive side of good manners. She was
equally strong on the negative side. For example, if there was a party of farm tenants, or
cottagers, a school-feast, or anything of the kind, both when we were small and half grown-up,
she insisted that we must never dream of keeping in a corner by ourselves. We must go and do
our duty in entertaining our guests. No excuses of shyness or not liking to talk to people
one didn't know, or suggestions that they would think us putting on side if we went up to them,
were allowed for a moment. The injunctions we received were that, at a party in our own house,
we must never think of our own pleasure or enjoyment, but must devote ourselves wholly and
solely to the pleasure of our guests. The sight of anyone sitting moping in a corner and looking
bored or unhappy was the destruction of a party. Such persons, if seen, must be pounced upon
at once, amused, and made much of, till they were perfectly happy, as "the guests who got more
attention than anybody else." In a word, we were taught that the strength of the social chain
is its weakest link. It was quite safe to leave the big people, or the big people's children,
to look after themselves. The people to be made much of and treated like royalty were those
who looked uncomfortable or seemed to feel out of it. The result was that my mother's parties
were never a failure. Though her ill-health never allowed her to be a hostess on a big scale,
her parties, whether in Somersetshire or at Cannes, were always voted delightful. Everyone,
from Somersetshire farmer or clergyman, to the notables of a Riviera winter resort, owned her
social charm. As an example of it, I remember how one winter, which we spent at Bournemouth,
for my mother's health, the invalid's drawing-room became at once the centre of a memorable
little society, consisting, as far as I remember, of people whom we had never known before.
There was a delightful old Mr. Marshall, of the Marshalls of the Lakes, who used to come and
play whist with her, and with whom we boys sometimes rode. Though he was about eighty, he kept
up his riding and liked to have a boy to ride with him. Another old gentleman, attractive in
his manner, in his dress, and in his kindly, old-fashioned dignity, was Lord Suffolk. He dressed
like "the Squire" in the old Punches. He wore a low-crowned, broadish-brimmed hat, Bedford
cord breeches and gaiters, and a light-brown or buff cloth coat and waistcoat. He had two invalid
daughters, and these, if I remember rightly, were the cause of the family having a villa at
Bournemouth.

It was, however, either at the house-parties at Chewton or at Strawberry Hill, which were hardly
considered complete by Lady Waldegrave without my mother, or else again at Cannes in her own
villa that she made her main impression upon people of the greater world. Though of good parts,
she was not in any sense intellectual. I never heard her attempt to say brilliant things or
epigrammatic things, or to talk about books or historic people.

She was, like so many charming women, perfectly natural and perfectly at her ease, and full
of receptive interest. When she talked it was always to draw out her interlocutor and never
to show off her own cleverness. She was quite as popular, indeed I had almost said more popular,
with women as with men, and had as great a fascination for young people as for old. I remember
well our pleasure in being told of a letter written by one of the big London hostesses who
had come out to Cannes, made my mother's acquaintance, and fallen a charm to her winning voice,
her warm regard, and her gracious eyes. She had written to a friend, saying, in effect,

What on earth did you mean by not telling me more about your cousin, Lady Strachey? She turns
out to be one of the most delightful people I have ever met, and yet you never breathed a word
about her. Why did you want to keep her to yourself? Through your selfishness I have missed
three or four weeks of her.

It is notoriously difficult to describe charm, and I shall make no attempt, except to say that
my mother's spell did not consist in good looks in the ordinary sense of the word. She had
a witching expression, an exceedingly graceful carriage of her head and body, and a good figure;
but her face was so mobile and so entirely governed by her smile that photographs and pictures
were always pronounced as "impossible" and "utterly unlike."

Though she was in no sense nervous, the attempt to sit for her picture seemed at once to break
the spell and destroy that "beau regard" which was, I feel sure, the secret of the pleasure
she spread around her. No doubt she took trouble to please, but she had the art of concealing
her art. No one ever criticised her as "theatrical" or "artificial."

Her children fully felt her charm. Looking back, I can now see that she, most wisely, took
as much trouble to fascinate us as she did the rest of the world. She would not mind this remark,
for she was no naturalist, but held that you ought to take as much trouble to be polite and
to give pleasure to your nearest and dearest as to strangers. Anyway, we were never allowed
to be rude or careless to her, or to anybody else merely because they were well-loved relations.
We never failed to get up from our chairs when she entered the room, or to open doors for her,
or to show her any other physical form of politeness. But she did not inculcate this by anything
approaching harshness, or by a sharp tongue. All she did was to make us feel that we were uncouth
bores, to be pitied rather than condemned, if we failed in the minor politenesses.

No doubt she was assisted here by the fact of being an invalid, and also by the good example
which my father set us. He was one of the best-bred of men as well as one of the noblest and
most simple-hearted. I shall never forget the patient courtesy with which he would treat some
old village woman who was positively storming at him in regard to alleged grievances. His politeness,
however, never had in it any studied element. Nobody could ever have said that he was overdoing
it. Again, there was no inverted snobbishness about him. He was quite as polite to a great
lady as to a cottager's wife.

I will undertake to say that in his whole life he had never shown off--a thing which could
be said of very few men, but which, after all, is the secret of all good breeding.

But to return to my mother. She also never showed off, though with her the art of pleasing
and being pleased was very carefully studied. She inherited this quality from her father, Dr.
Symonds. She also found in him her example for the exact conduct of the social code. I remember
her saying that, though her father was a very hard-worked doctor, and often had to take meals
quickly and at odd times, he made it an absolute rule, no matter how busy he was, never to
get into a rush, or be fussed, or do things in a huggermugger way. If he came in late and tired,
he would eat his dinner as quietly and decorously as if he had got several hours before him.
Everything had to be done decently and in order. He would not dream of getting up from his
chair if he wanted an extra spoon or fork in a hurry, but would either send one of his children
to get it for him or else ring the bell for the butler.

This was not an attempt at grandeur, but due to a feeling that if he once got into chaotic
ways he would go to pieces. Probably he felt the necessity all the more from the fact that
he was a widower and might the more easily have dropped into untidy and slovenly household ways.

I have no time to dwell on my mother's most intimate friendship with Lady Waldegrave and with
their habit of writing daily letters to each other, and of the social and political life which
my mother shared with her friend as well as her health would permit. For my present purposes,
what matters, though it sounds abominably egotistical to say so, is the effect of my mother
upon my character and life. Unquestionably the fact of her being an invalid was a great lesson.
In the first place, it did a great deal to educate her children to be unselfish. It was a rule
of the house that everything was to be sacrificed to my mother's comfort, for she was often
not only in great pain but dangerously ill. My father was, in any case, the most unselfish
of men, but we might have regarded that, as children often will, as a kind of personal quality
of his own, like a lame knee, or a dislike of draughts, or a fondness for cold mutton, or other
simple forms of living. When we saw his daily and hourly sacrifice of himself to my mother
and that tenderness of heart which never failed him, we must have been made of rock or oak
not to be inspired by an example so noble and fraught with so magnificent a pathos. We showed
badly in comparison with our father, but still we had him always before us, and if we were
ever tempted to exhibit selfishness or want of consideration to my mother, his devotion was
a standing, though never an open, rebuke, and brought the bitterest remorse.

My mother maintained the true dignity of the sickroom. She never complained either of the hard
fate which chained one who loved the world and its amusements so much to her bed, nor, again,
did she ever cherish or show the slightest grievance if we had seemed unkind or had not done
what she would have liked us to do. It is needless to say that the effect of this was exactly
what she would have desired, though not admitted even to herself, for she was not a person
at all self-conscious or self-analytical in these matters.

The fact remains that people who are brought up in a house with an invalid, where that invalid
has the love, respect, and devotion of the head of the home, get a valuable lesson. There is
more than that. The sight of pain and suffering and the imminence of sorrow and danger, if
it be not too terrifying, is good for children. It makes them early acquainted with the realities
of life and its essential sternness. Then, when death or sorrow makes its inevitable descent,
the child is prepared to meet it, or knows, at any rate, the spirit in which it ought to be
met. Those who have never seen Death or heard the swing of his scythe, till he suddenly bursts
upon them, or upon those they love dearly, are greatly to be pitied. They have not learnt the
art of quietening the soul in face of an inexorable command.

Timor mortis is a reality, and we can be, and ought to be, prepared for it. The sick-room,
if children are made to understand its significance in a wise and kindly spirit, and through
the conduct of such people as my father and my mother, is a teacher of no mean order.

CHAPTER V

MY FATHER'S STORIES OF THE STRACHEY FAMILY

Delightful as were my father's literary and historical stories and observations, already described,
I liked them best when they dealt with our own family and its traditions. My father, though
without a trace of anything approaching pride of birth, knew his own family history well, and
was never tired of relating stories of "famous men and our fathers that begat us." As a great
Shakespearian devotee, he specially delighted to tell us of our direct ancestor, William Strachey,
"the friend of Ben Jonson," for so we knew him.

The said ancestor married the Widow Baber, niece of a famous seafarer, Sir Richard Cross, who
commanded the Bonaventura at the Siege of Cadiz, and so brought Sutton into the family. This
William Strachey almost certainly knew Shakespeare. It is now generally admitted that the storm
in The Tempest was based upon Strachey's account of the shipwreck of Sir George Somers's fleet
on the Bermudas--the Isle of Devils so greatly dreaded by seamen. They provided in this case,
however, a haven of refuge. Strachey was first Secretary to the Colony of Virginia. Thus we
have an ancestor who gives us the right, as a distinguished American scholar once said to me,
to consider ourselves "Founders' kin to the United States"--a piece of family pride which no
man can deem snobbish or ridiculous.

William Strachey wrote a very remarkable letter describing the shipwreck, or rather tempest.
The letter was addressed to the Lady Willoughby de Broke of that day, a woman of ability and
greatly interested in the Virginia Company, as were all the liberal spirits of the age, including
Elizabeth herself. This letter was handed about in manuscript, as was so often the case in
those times, and Shakespeare, in all human probability, must have seen it, detected good copy
for the theatre--he had a never-failing instinct in that direction--and used it for his famous
last play. Shakespeare must have met and talked with Strachey on his return from America, for
recent investigations have shown that Shakespeare had many communications with the men who
founded the Virginia Company, and was very likely a member.

Here I may interpose that I have always been specially interested in the fact that in the letter
to Lady Willoughby de Broke, Strachey notes a circumstance that was often observed in the war.
He tells us that the young gallants, when every hand was required to work at the pumps, had
to exert themselves to the very utmost, and to work as long and as hard as the professional
seamen. To the astonishment of himself and everyone else, they were able to do as much work
and to keep at it as strenuously as the old mariners.

Another reason for feeling pretty sure that William Strachey must have known Shakespeare is
the fact, of which we have ample proof, that Strachey was well known to the men of letters
of the day. To begin with, he was a friend of Ben Jonson and wrote a set of commendatory verses
for the Laureate's "Sejanus." These appear in the folio edition of Jonson's works. Probably
this sonnet--it has fourteen lines--is one of the most cryptic things in the whole of Elizabethan
literature. No member of our family or any other family has ever been able to construe it.
Yet it is a pleasure to me to gather from the concluding couplet that the author had sound
Whig principles:

  If men would shun swol'n Fortune's ruinous blasts,
   Let them use temperance; nothing violent lasts.

An even more interesting proof of William Strachey's literary connections is to be found in
the fact that when he, Strachey, went to Venice he took with him a letter of introduction from
the poet, Dr. Donne, to the then Ambassador with the Republic, Sir Henry Wotton, also a poet.
The letter is witty and trenchant. After noting that Strachey was "sometime secretary to Sir
Thomas Gates," he adds, "I do boldly say that the greatest folly he ever committed was to submit
himself and parts to so mean a master." The rest of the letter is pleasantly complimentary
and shows that Donne and Strachey were fast friends.

This William Strachey, as my father used to point out to us, had a very considerable amount
of book-writing to his credit. There were two or three pamphlets written by him and published
as what we should now call Virginia Company propaganda. One of these gives a very delightful
example of the English and American habit of applying a "get- civilisation-quick" system for
the native inhabitants of any country into which they penetrate. Strachey's book, which was
reprinted by the Hakluyt Society, was entitled "Articles, Lawes and Orders, Divine, Politique,
and Martiall, for the Colony of Virginia," and was printed in 1610.

One of these pamphlets was sold at auction in London just before the war, and went--very naturally
and, in a sense, very properly--to America. The volume in question contained, besides the ordinary
letter- press, several poems by William Strachey and an autograph inscription written in the
most wonderfully neat and clear handwriting--a standard in handwriting to which no member of
the family before or since has ever attained. But besides the handwriting the dedication has
other claims on our attention. It is charmingly worded. It shows, amongst other things, how
natural was the cryptic dedication to the Shakespeare Sonnets. It runs as follows:

  To his right truly honoured, and
   best beloved friend, sometymes
   a Personall Confederat and
   Adventurer, and now a
   sincere and holy Beadsman
   for this Christian prose-
   cutiõ Thomas Lawson, Esq.
   William Strachey wisheth
   as full an accomplishment of his best Desires,
   as devoutly as becoms the Dutie of a
   Harty Freinde. January/21.

"This Christian prosecutiõ" was the Virginia Company and its system of colonisation. There
is also in one of the show-cases in the Bodleian an interesting short dictionary of the language
of the Chesapeake Indians compiled by Strachey. In a note attached thereto Strachey says that
he thinks it will be useful to persons who wish to "trade or truck" with the Indians.

Another memorable fact in regard to William Strachey I may mention here, though it was not
known to my father. I lately discovered that Campion, the poet-musician, who, like Strachey,
was a Member of Gray's Inn, wrote a short Latin poem to Strachey. It is addressed "Ad Guillielmus
Strachæum." In it Campion tells Strachey that although he has very few verses to give to his
"old comrade," the man "who rejoiced in and made many competent verses," he will always be
dear to him. He ends by calling him "summus pieridem unicusque cultor." The poem concludes
almost as it began: "Strachaeo, veteri meo sodali"--To Strachey, my old comrade.

Evidently Strachey did not keep his verses entirely for dedication. As far as I know, the best
of his verses dedicatory are those addressed to Lord Bacon in his "Historie of Travaile into
Virginia." They run:--

  Wild as they are, accept them, so we're wee;
   To make them civill will our honour be;
   And if good worcks be the effects of myndes,
   Which like good angells be, let our designes,
   As we are Angli, make us Angells too;
   No better worck can state--or church-man do.

The Campion connection interests me personally because Campion was the protagonist of unrhymed
lyrical verse--my special metrical hobby. I like to think that William Strachey may have supported
Campion in his controversy with Gabriel Harvey, who, by the way, lived at Saffron Walden, from
which town came also William Strachey. There is danger, however, in such speculation. Before
long someone may prove that it was not Bacon who wrote Shakespeare but Strachey who wrote both
Bacon and Shakespeare.

The following example of my father's family lore was still more interesting and exciting to
us. John Strachey, son of William Strachey, married a Miss Hodges of Wedmore, an heiress in
the heraldic sense, through whom we can proudly claim to represent the Somersetshire family
of Hodges, whose arms we have always quartered. This lady's grandfather, or great-grandfather--I
am not quite sure which--was of the very best type of Elizabethan soldiers-errant. He was killed
at the Siege of Antwerp in 1583.

He had the good fortune to be commemorated in one of the most spirited epitaphs of his age.
On the wall of Wedmore Church in Somersetshire is a brass tablet bearing a heart surrounded
by a laurel-wreath. The inscription of the memorial runs thus:

       *       *        *       *        *

Sacred to the memory of Captain Thomas Hodges, of the County of Somerset, esq., who, at the
siege of Antwerp, about 1583, with unconquered courage won two ensigns from the enemy; where,
receiving his last wound, he gave three legacies: his soule to the Lord Jesus, his body to
be lodged in Flemish earth, his heart to be sent to his dear wife in England.

  Here lies his wounded heart, for whome
   One kingdom was too small a roome;
   Two kingdoms therefore have thought good to part
   So stout a body and so brave a heart.

       *       *        *       *        *

I have often wondered how a poet could have been found in Somersetshire in those days to produce
such spirited verse. The Elizabethan age, so splendid in great poetry, was apt to be tortured
and affected in what Dr. Johnson called "lapidary inscriptions."

Little did I think when, as a boy, I first read those lines how closely linked England was
to remain with the soil where Thomas Hodges fell, how many thousand stout bodies and brave
hearts would again be laid in Flemish earth, and how many true soldiers would in my own day
deserve my forbear's epitaph.

It seems most likely that Thomas Hodges's armour was preserved by the Hodges and brought to
Sutton by Miss Hodges. In an old Hodges inventory which is still among the papers at Sutton
there is mentioned "an armour of proof." My father also used to tell us how he had seen two
or three sets of armour hanging on the brackets which supported the Minstrels' Gallery in the
Hall at Sutton. My father's uncle, alas, was born in the eighteenth century and bred in India
till about 1820. He was therefore little affected by Scott and the Gothic revival. When he
came back to England, though full of interest in his house and family, he not only removed
the Minstrels' Gallery from the Hall, but allowed the armour that had hung on it for some hundred
and fifty years to be destroyed. The Estate mason was seen mixing mortar in the breastplate,
and the coachman washed the carriage with his legs in the Cromwellian jack- boots. Oddly enough,
when we were quite small children, my eldest brother, by pure accident, discovered half a steel
helmet behind one of the greenhouses.

Two swords, however, were allowed to remain at Sutton, and are there to this day. They are,
however, probably Cromwellian and not Elizabethan.

We know very little of what happened to the Stracheys during the Civil War, for at the crisis
of the conflict John Strachey was only a boy. He was born in 1634 and therefore was only twenty-six
at the end of the Commonwealth, and would have been only fifteen years old at the time of the
King's execution. That the family were good Roundheads, however, cannot be doubted, for John
Strachey when he grew up became a close friend of John Locke. Further, Captain Thomas Hodges,
whose daughter was later married to John Strachey, raised a troop of horse to fight on the
side of the Commonwealth. My father was always very proud of the fact that the intellectual
father of the Whigs was so closely united with our ancestor. A propos of a deferred visit to
Spain, Locke says in one of his letters that he is glad he is not going, because he will now
be able to pay his visit to Sutton Court; "a greater rarity than my travels have afforded me,
for, believe me, one may go a long way before one meets a friend."

Of all my father's stories those which delighted and thrilled us most were his anecdotes of
Clive. Clive, one might almost say, was the patron saint of the family, and some day I hope
to make a further and better collection of legends in regard to him and other relations and
connections of my family with India.

But first I must explain why we Stracheys regard Clive as our patron saint. It will be remembered
how, after Clive had won Plassey, he came home full of riches and honours, obtained his peerage
and bought his unique collection of rotten boroughs. He did not, however, remain long at home.
He was soon sent out to India again to reform the Civil Service and to place the affairs alike
of the Company and of the King, i.e. the British Government and Parliament, on a sound basis.
The moment Clive left India, the Company's government had begun to degenerate on all sides,
military, naval, and civilian. In two years corruption was destroying what Clive's statesmanship
and military genius had won.

Clive, when he agreed to return to Bengal was a Member of Parliament, and like a wise man he
knew that anyone who has to deal with great affairs must be sure of a good Private Secretary.
He looked round, therefore, for an able and trustworthy young man, and lighted upon Henry Strachey,
who had just reached years of discretion. But I had better quote Clive's own ringing words
in regard to his selection. They will serve to show, among other things, that Clive was not
the kind of inspired savage that he is sometimes portrayed, but a man with an extraordinary
command of the English language. In the speech in the House of Commons in which Clive flung
back the accusations made against him in regard to the grants and presents which he took from
Meer Jaffir, not only after the Battle of Plassey but in the final settlement which concluded
his Indian career, he described the members of his official family--the men whom he had taken
out to India with him on that occasion. As Strachey had become a Member of the House of Commons
he could not refer to him by name. Here are Clive's actual words:

       *       *        *       *        *

Another gentleman was my Secretary, now a Member of this House. He was recommended to me by
one of the greatest men in this Kingdom, now no more, Mr. Grenville. Many and great are the
obligations I have been under to him (Grenville), but the greatest of all the obligations was
his having recommended to me this gentleman. Without his ability and indefatigable industry
I could never have gone through my great and arduous undertaking, and in serving me he served
the Company.

       *       *        *       *        *

Curiously enough, we have no idea how Henry Strachey came across George Grenville, or why George
Grenville was able to give him so high a character. In any case, Clive was a shrewd judge of
men, and though very good to his subordinates, would never tolerate inefficiency. His approval
meant much.

But Clive did more for us as a family than merely appoint Henry Strachey to be his private
secretary. It happened that at the time of his appointment Henry Strachey was very much in
the position in which Clive was when he first went out to India. Henry Strachey was the eldest
son of a hopelessly embarrassed country gentleman of old family. John Strachey, the friend
of Locke, had been very well off, and so had his son John, the Fellow of the Royal Society.
Besides Sutton and an estate at Elm and Buckland, near Frome, he owned a considerable amount
of property in Westminster. There are many interesting and amusing things to tell of him, but
here I will only say that the said John Strachey the second had two wives and nineteen children,
consequently at his death the family estates were heavily "dipped." His son, Hodges Strachey,
who succeeded him, added to these pecuniary troubles, and then died; the property descended
to a younger brother, Henry Strachey. Though he married into a rich Edinburgh family, the Clerks
of Pennycuick, and so was kinsman not only of the Clerks but of the Primroses, he did nothing
to redeem the fortunes of the family. Indeed, things had gone so far by his time that the Strachey
estates had actually passed to the mortgagees in discharge of a sum of twelve thousand pounds.
A year's grace was, however, given. If the £12,000 could not be paid within the twelve months,
Sutton, and the whole of the land, would have passed for ever from the family.

When Clive heard of this predicament, he, with extraordinary generosity, advanced the money
in anticipation of the remuneration which Strachey was to receive for his services in India.
Thus Sutton Court was saved. Thanks to Clive there are still Stracheys at Sutton and I am here
to tell the tale. In those days twelve thousand pounds was a very big sum of money indeed to
an impecunious country gentleman, and a considerable sum even to a man as rich as Clive. The
modern equivalent would be over £30,000. But Clive was not a man who hesitated to do things
in a big way, and he was well repaid. Henry Strachey was not only devoted to him throughout
his life, but acted as his executor and as the guardian to his infant son and heir.

One of three or four pictures which Dance, the portrait-painter, painted of Clive hangs to
this day in the Hall at Sutton. It always thrilled me to look at this picture, when a boy,
because of the background, where, surrounded by the smoke of battle, a company of horsemen
with drawn swords charge an invisible Oriental foe. If I remember rightly, the British Cavalry
played no part at Plassey, but probably the artist thought that historical accuracy might quite
legitimately be subordinated in this instance to the demands of art.

I could fill this book with stories of Clive which my father had heard from his father and
from his uncle and from other contemporaries. I will only mention one here, however, and I
choose it because it further illustrates the wonderful power of Clive's prose style, a power
which always impressed me, even as a boy. Just before Clive died by his own hand, he addressed
a letter to Henry Strachey, who had now become a close friend as well as an ex-secretary, and
who had married Lady Clive's first cousin. He was thus a member of the actual as well as of
the official family of his Chief. Here are the words which Clive addressed to Strachey:--

  How miserable is my condition! I have a disease which
   makes life insupportable, but which my doctors tell me won't
   shorten it one hour.

If ever man conveyed the sense of physical suffering, deep melancholy, and utter despair by
the medium of the written word, it was Clive in this passage. He had, it will be remembered,
attempted suicide before, as a young man. When the pistol refused to go off, he considered
it an omen that he was reserved for greater things.

My father used to tell us (whether on good medical evidence or not I do not know) that it was
supposed that Clive suffered from a very painful form of dyspepsia accompanied by vertigo,
and that when these attacks came on they depressed him beyond measure. He lived in constant
dread of their recurrence, and it was upon a sudden sense that an attack was impending that
he cut his throat. He could not face again what might have been an agony of three or four months'
duration.

It was natural that, as boys, we liked especially to hear the story of the suicide in Berkeley
Square. There was plenty of blood and mystery in the tale.

Some eight years before his death, I got my father, who was a very accurate and careful man,
to put down, partly from family papers and partly from memory, as exact an account as he could
of the actual suicide. This, the authentic version of the suicide, I published in the Spectator.

My father's stories of the first Sir Henry, as we were wont to call him, Clive's Private Secretary,
were many, and all of them poignant or amazing. As a child, however, though I always delighted
in them I did not fully realise their historical interest. They gave a vivid picture of the
mind and actions of a Whig Member of Parliament from about 1770 to 1812, the period during
which Henry Strachey was continuously in Parliament. In the course of his forty years of public
life, Henry Strachey held a number of important offices, for he was a much-trusted man. He
played, indeed, a part more like that of one of the great permanent officials of the present
day than that of a politician. I take it that he had not a powerful gift of speech and that
he was not a pushing man, otherwise, considering his brains and the way in which he was trusted,
he would have gone a good deal higher than he did. A story which testifies to his influence
is curious. When Burke began his attacks in the Commons upon Warren Hastings, he tried to enlist
support from Henry Strachey, who does not seem to have thrown in his lot especially with Hastings.
All he would do, however, was to tell Burke that he would be neutral--provided that, in the
course of the attacks on Hastings, Burke cast no aspersions upon the name and fame of Lord
Clive. If Clive's memory was assailed he, Strachey, would hit back. Whether it was due to this
fact or to some other, it is certain that Burke was always careful to draw a clear distinction
between the cases of Clive and of Hastings.

Perhaps the most vivid story of all is the following. Strachey had been in office in the ill-starred
Coalition under Fox and North. When the Ministry broke up, the King sent for Lord Shelburne,
a member of the Coalition, who, it will be remembered, at once formed a Government of his own.
While the Ministry was in the making, Henry Strachey met Fox on Hay Hill, that minute yet "celebrated
acclivity" which runs from the corner of Berkeley Square into Dover Street. The smiling demagogue,
who, by the by, was a fellow member of Brooke's, hailed his ex-colleague with a--

"Hullo, Strachey, what's going to happen to you?"

"Oh, Lord Shelburne says he wants me to keep my office."

"Then, by God, you're out!"  Nobody, at that time, believed in Shelburne's good faith. He was
alleged by both sides to be a man on whose word no dependence could ever be placed--a man who
would tell you that he wanted your assistance on the very day he had struck your name out of
the list of his Cabinet.

Things, however, turned out differently in Strachey's case, and Shelburne kept his word. In
all probability, indeed, he was a man who was very much maligned.

In any case, Shelburne trusted Strachey, and when he began the negotiations for the Peace of
Versailles which ended the war with America, and recognised the United States, Strachey was
sent as a negotiator. Originally a Member of Parliament named Oswald had been employed at Paris,
but he had not proved to be a match for the able American delegates, Franklin, Jay, and Adams.
Accordingly Strachey was sent over to give tone and vigour to the British Delegation. As a
family we are exceedingly proud of the account of Strachey given by that great man, John Adams,
later President of the United States. It is contained in his secret report sent to Washington
from Paris:

  Strachey is as artful and insinuating a man as they could
   send; he pushes and presses every point as far as it can possibly
   go; he has a most eager, earnest, pointed spirit.

That is a certificate of character of which any statesman or diplomat might be proud.

But Strachey, I am glad to say, was more than a mere skilful agent. It is now fully recognised
by Canadian historians who have made a special study of the question, that Strachey was the
one man at Paris who stood up for the United Empire Loyalists and did his very best to get
for them proper recognition and proper compensation. Unfortunately the British Ministry was
tired and callous, and Strachey's efforts did not prevail, but he fought for the United Empire
Loyalists to the end. Without his help, things would have been worse than they were.

One thing that helped to make Strachey a good peace negotiator was the fact that a year before
he had gone to America as Secretary to Lord Howe and Admiral Howe when they were sent out either
to carry on the war by sea and land, or else to make peace with the insurgent colonies.

As a result of this official visit to America, Strachey had a very large number of confidential
papers left in his possession, and some of these have escaped the burning which was the fate
of most of his correspondence. He was one of the men who made it a practice to destroy private
papers as soon as they were done with. The story of these American papers is, again, one which
must be reserved for another occasion. But, though the time has come to cut Henry Strachey
off at the main, and though I must reluctantly forego the account of his dealings with George
III, when he, Strachey, was Master of the Household, I cannot resist giving one family document
which my father was very fond of reading to us and which was, I honestly think, regarded by
the family as the most priceless of all the papers kept in the strong-room at Sutton Court.
It went by the name of the "Head Munky" letter.

Lady Strachey, the first Sir Henry's wife, was a widow with children when she married. She
also had children by her second marriage and, as several of these married, she had at the end
of her life a large number of grandchildren. Anyway, she was evidently a lady who thoroughly
understood what children want at a children's party. She fully appreciated, that is, the value
of bears, monkeys, crocodiles, and Punch as entertainers of the young--witness the letter which
follows:

  WATER MARK 1804.
   To Lady Strachey,
   9 hill street
   Berkeley square.

  MY LADY,

  agreebel to order James Botton and Company will attend
   Tomorrow evening at 8 But begs to inform That the Bear
   being Laim am afeard cant perform But the doggs and munkees
   is in good condishon and will I hopes be aprooved with
   the music

  my tarms is as toilers pr nite

  Bear ... ... ... ... ...  10. 6.

  8 doggs for kotillin} ... 16
   at pr dogg 2        }
   musick                    5
   Drum and orms             7
   head munky                7
   3 others                  9
   keeper                    2.  6

  Punch is a seprit Consarn and Cums high but Can order
   him at sam time though not in that line since micklemass he
   belongs to Mr valentine Burstem at the marmaid

    14 Princess Court
       holborn--
       I am
         my Lady
             your most dutiful
                   humbel servant
   tuesday            JAMES BOTTEN.

  19 Piccadilly

  P.S. Please Let the head munky Jacko Cum down The airy
   on account not making no dirt in the haul

  The Jentleman says consarning tubb for the crocodile but I
   never Lets her out nor the ostriges as I explained to him for
   your satisfaction--

My father always said, and no doubt with truth, that the "Jentleman" alluded to at the end
of the letter was the butler. He had evidently been sent to "The Mermaid" or some other hostelry
to negotiate for the appearance of "Jacko." When I read the letter I always see a vivid picture
of "Jacko" coming over and down the area railings, hand over hand, and wiping his paws on the
doormat!

Evidently Mr. James Botten was an artist in his way and, like his employer, understood the
infant mind, for does he not put the bear at the very top of his list and charges for him at
the highest rate? Why children so delight in bears and have such a firm belief that they are
kind, gentle, and grandfatherly animals is a piece of psychology which I have never been able
to fathom. As to the existence of the feeling, there can be no possible doubt. My grandchildren,
budding Montessorians though they be, have the same absolute and unlimited confidence in bears
that I had at the age of three.

There is another story of this Lady Strachey which I may as well put in here, because it is
with such amazing clearness the characteristic of a vanished age. My father used to say that
when the second Sir Henry Strachey came back from India, for he was there only ten years, his
father was still in Parliament. Henry Strachey was only just thirty, and therefore there was
the usual desire felt by his family to find something for the young man to do--something "to
prevent him idling about in town and doing nothing or worse." In order to provide this necessary
occupation his mother offered him £4,000 with which to buy a seat in Parliament. She thought
that a seat would keep him amused and out of mischief! In spite of the fact that he was a strenuous
Radical, Sir Henry's only remark in telling the story was: "I refused, because I did not like
the idea of always voting in the opposite lobby to my father." The first Henry Strachey, though
a staunch Whig in early life, was a supporter of William Pitt and later, of Lord Liverpool.
Therefore the second Henry Strachey, if he had got into the House, when he first came home,
would no doubt have voted with the Radical Rump.

There are many stories I could tell of the second Sir Henry, who lived on at Sutton till the
year '58, when my father succeeded, but these again must be kept for another book--if I ever
have time to write it. I must say the same of my own grandfather, my father's father, Edward
Strachey, and his memorable wife. Of both of them plenty is to be found in Carlyle's account
of his early years. I shall only record of Edward Strachey here the fact that after he returned
from India he became an official at the India House on the Judicial side, and was called the
Examiner, his duties being to examine the reports of important law-cases sent from India to
the Board of Directors. When one day I asked my father for his earliest recollection of any
important event, he told me that he could well remember his father coming back from the India
House (which was by a Thames wherry, for the Examiner lived at Shooter's Hill and had to cross
the river) and saying to his mother: "The Emperor is dead." That was in the year 1822, and
the Emperor was, of course, Napoleon. Strachey was one of the first people to hear of the event
because St. Helena was borrowed by the Government for prison purposes from the East India Company.
The East Indiamen, however, still used it as a house of call. Therefore it happened that the
East India Company, by the actual appearance of one of the ship's captains at the India House,
heard of the great event an hour or two before the Government to whom the despatches were forwarded.
My father must have been ten years old at the time, as he was born in 1812.

CHAPTER VI

MY CHILDHOOD AND SOME PSYCHOLOGICAL INCIDENTS

And now for the child who was so happy in his surroundings, and, above all, in those who were
to care for him.

There were naturally certain nursery traditions about me of the magnifying kind, but, taken
as a whole, I don't think I can claim to have been anything but a normal child, with health
fair to moderate and an intelligence which was reasonably quick and responsive. I had, however,
no educational precociousness; I did not read till I was nearly nine, and even then did not
use the power of reading. The book habit did not come till I was twelve or thirteen-though
then it came, as far as poetry was concerned, with a rush. By fifteen I had read all the older
English poets and most of the new. In reading poetry I showed a devotion which I am thankful
to say I have always maintained. In this matter at least I am the opposite of Darwin. He confessed
that the power to read poetry left him entirely in middle life. The older I grow, the more
I love verse.

The actual study of metre was a source of acute satisfaction. It is said of me, indeed, that
when, at a little more than two and a half years old, we were starting for a long journey to
Pau, where my mother had been ordered to winter, I insisted on my father not packing, but taking
with him in his hand, Spenser's Faerie Queen. He had been reading it to us that autumn. I did
not know what a journey meant, but I was determined the readings should not be broken. I also
could not have known what Spenser meant, but his stanza fed ear, and heart, and mind with melody.

It was at this age, too, that I seem to have made two theological observations which greatly
amused my family. I was discovered one day digging with tempestuous energy in the garden. When
asked what I was doing, I replied, "Digging for hell-fire!" That was especially curious because
my father, as a strong Broad Churchman and a devoted friend and disciple of Frederick Maurice,
was a wholehearted disbeliever in hell and its flames. He had "dismissed Hell with costs,"
as Lord Westbury said, ever since he came to man's estate. How I derived my knowledge on this
point was never cleared up. Demons with three-pronged forks and curly tails are, of course,
universally regarded as "the friends of little children" by natural right, and my preference
I must suppose was transferred to their flaming home.

My other early piece of theological criticism was characteristic. Either my father or my mother,
I forget which, was explaining to me the story of the Crucifixion and our Lord's arrest by
the armed men of the High Priest. Greatly surprised and perturbed by the fact that Christ did
not resist and make a fight of it I energetically enquired, "Hadn't He a gun?" I was told No.
"Hadn't He a sword?" No. And then: "Hadn't He even a stick with a point?" Though not naturally
combative, I have always been a strong believer in the virtue of the counterattack as the best,
or, indeed, the only efficient form of self-defence.

I was, I believe, an easy-going, contented child, with no tendency to be frightened either
by strangers, by imaginary terrors, or by the dark. I jogged easily along the Nursery high-road.
There was, however, a family tradition that, though as a rule I was perfectly willing to let
other children have my toys, and would not take the trouble to do what nurses call "stand up
for myself," I did occasionally astonish my playmates and my guardians by super-passionate
outbursts. These, however, were very rare indeed, for all my life I have had a great dislike
or even horror of anything in the shape of losing my temper, an unconscious recognition, as
it were, of the wisdom of the Roman saying, "Anger is a short madness." Instinctively I felt
with Beaumont and Fletcher:

Oh, what a beast in uncollected man!

My general psychology, as far as I can tell from memory, was plain and straightforward when
a child. I have no recollection of feeling any general depression or disappointment, of thinking
that I was misunderstood, i.e. of entertaining what is now called "an inferiority complex."
I never gave way to any form of childish melancholy. I did not even have alarming, or mysterious,
or metaphysical dreams! What makes this more curious is the fact that I very much outgrew my
strength, about the age of nine or ten. I was not allowed to play active games, or run about,
or do any of the things in which I delighted.

Though without great physical strength, I was all my life exceedingly fond of the joys of bodily
exercise, whether swimming, rowing, riding, walking, mountaineering, skating, playing tennis
or racquets or whatever game was going.

In none of these pastimes did I reach anything approaching excellence, but from all of them
I got intense enjoyment. I tasted, indeed, almost every form of athleticism and genuinely smacked
my lips at the flavour of each in turn, yet never bothered about the super-pleasure which comes
from doing such things as well as they can be done.

Though my bodily health did not give me an unhappy or depressed childhood, or make me suffer
from any sort of morbid reaction, I had occasionally a very curious and somewhat rare experience--one
which, though it has been noted and discussed, has never, as far as I know, been fully explained
by physicians either of the body or of the soul.

The condition to which I refer is that which the musician Berlioz called "isolement"--the sense
of spiritual isolation, which seizes on those who experience it with a poignancy amounting to awe.

I once amused myself by getting together a large number of descriptions of "isolement" and
found that, though they may differ considerably, they have in common the characteristics enumerated
by the Ode.

The first thing to be noted about the sense of isolement is that it comes, not in sleeping,
but in waking hours, and that, whether truly or not, it brings with it the feeling that it
is the result of some external impulse. The best form of explanation, however, is to describe
as exactly as I can my own sensations. Though the sense of isolement has been experienced by
me as a little child, as a lad, as a young man, and even up to the age of forty or forty-five,
the recollections of my first visitation, which occurred when I could not have been more, at
the very most, than six years of age, are very much more vivid and keener-edged than those
of the later occasions.

Outside the two doors of the nurseries at Sutton Court there is a long passage, and in this
is something unusual--a little fire-place and grate. I was one day standing in that passage,
quite close to the grate, and expecting nothing in particular. Then suddenly there came over
me a feeling so strange and so different from anything I had ever felt before as to be almost
terrifying. It was overwhelming in the true meaning of the word. Incredible as it seems in
the case of so small a child, I had the clearest and most poignant feeling of being left completely,
utterly alone, not merely in the world, but in something far, far bigger--in the universe,
in a vastness infinite and unutterable.

As with Wordsworth, everything seemed to vanish and fall away from me, even my own body. I
was literally "beside myself." I stood a naked soul in the sight of what I must now, though
of course did not then, call for want of better explanatory expressions, the All, the Only,
the Whole, the Everlasting. It was no annihilation, no temporary absorption into the Universal
Consciousness, no ingression into the Divine Shadow, that the child experienced. Rather it
was the amplest exaltation and magnification of the Ego which it is possible to conceive. I
gained, not lost, by discarding the "lendings" of life. Something that was from one point of
view a void, and from another a rounded completeness, hemmed me in.

Here I should perhaps interpolate yet another caveat. I did not, of course, as a child, use
or even know of the vocabulary of the metaphysicians. I did, however, entertain thoughts which
I could not then express, but which the words given above most nearly represent. There is one
exception. In talking about "a naked soul" I am not interpreting my childish thrill of deep
emotion into a later vocabulary. I have always remembered the emotion in those very words.
It is so recorded on my memory. Of that I am sure.

The effect on me was intensely awe-inspiring--so awe-inspiring, indeed, as to be disturbing
in a high degree. Though it did not in the least terrify me or torture me, or make me have
anything approaching a dread of its repetition, I experienced a kind of rawness and sensitiveness
of soul such as when, to put it pathologically, a super-sensitive mucous membrane surface is
touched roughly by a hand or instrument. One is not exactly pained, but one quivers to the
impact. So quivered my soul, though not my brain or my body, for there was no suggestion of
any bodily faintness, or of any agitation of "grey matter," in the experience. For example,
I was not in the least dizzy. I was outside my bodily self and far away from the world of matter.

In addition to this awe and sensitiveness, and what one might call spiritual discomfort, there
was something altogether curious and unexpected, something that still remains for me as much
the most vivid and also much the most soul-shaking part of the experience, something which
many people will regard as impossible to have occupied the mind of a child of six. I can best
describe it, though very inadequately, as a sudden realisation of the appalling greatness of
the issues of living. I avoid saying "life and death" deliberately, for Death was nowhere in
the picture. I was confronted in an instant, and without any preparation, or gradation of emotion,
not only with the immanence but with the ineffable greatness of that whole of which I was a
part. Though it may be a little difficult to make the distinction clear, this feeling had nothing
to do with the sense of isolation. It was an entirely separate experience. I felt, with a conviction
which I know not how to translate into words, that what I was "in for" by being a sentient
human being was immeasurably great. It was thence that the sense of awe came, thence the extraordinary
sensitiveness, thence the painful exhilaration, the spiritual sublimation. "Oh! what a tremendous
thing it is to be a living person! Oh, how dreadfully great!" That is the way the child felt.
That was what kept ringing in my ears.

Though I was isolated, I had no sense of smallness or of utter insignificance in face of the
Universe. I did not feel myself a miserable, fortuitous atom, a grain of cosmic dust. I felt,
though, again, I am interpreting rather than recording, that I was fully equal to my fate.
As a human being I was not only immortal, but capax imperii,--a creature worthy of a heritage
so tremendous.

From that day to this, talk about the unimportance, the futility of man and his destiny has
left me quite cold.

Though, as a small child, I was by no means without religious feeling, and had, as I have always
had, a deep and instinctive sense of the Divine existence, I had not the least desire to translate
my vision of the universal into the terms of theology.

That is a very odd fact, but a fact it is. The vision remained, and remains, isolated, immutable,
and apart. Though I had perfect confidence in my father and mother, and often talked to them
of spiritual matters, I did not at the time feel any impulse to relate my experience either
to them or to anyone else. I had no desire to unload my mind--a remarkable thing for so eager
a talker and expounder as I have always been. This reticence, I am sure, came not from a fear
of being laughed at, or of shocking anyone, or again from a fear of a repetition of the experience.
It simply did not occur to me to talk. The experience was solely mine, I was satisfied and
even a little perturbed by the result. Probably some sense of the great difficulty of finding
words to fit my thoughts also held me back.

It was only after two or three similar visitations that I casually told the story of this "ecstasy"
to my younger brother. I was then about twenty-four and he twenty. I was much surprised to
find that he had never had any experiences of this particular kind, for I supposed them common.
He, however, became much interested, and some little time after showed me the passage to which
I have referred in Berlioz' Memoirs.

This set me investigating, and I soon found examples of states of ecstasy similar to, if not
exactly like, my own. Tennyson supplied one in the visional passages in the Princess. Kinglake
had a visitation akin to isolement. Wordsworth, however, came nearest to my sensations. Indeed,
he describes them exactly.

My later manifestations of isolement were similar to my first, though not so vivid. As I write
at the age of sixty-two, my impression is that the last occasion on which I experienced the
sense of isolement was about twenty years ago. How welcome would be a repetition! I do not,
however, expect another ecstasy, any more than did Wordsworth, and for very much the same reasons.
I do not think that the vision was due to any morbid or irregular working of the brain, or
to any other pathological or corporeal mal-functioning. I believe that the experience was purely
an experience of the spirit. That is why I attribute to it a psychological and even metaphysical
value.

At any rate, it corresponds with my personal metaphysic of existence. Further, I think with
Wordsworth that in all probability the fact that it was most vivid in early childhood and gradually
ceased when I grew up, is a proof that in some way or other it was based on a spiritual memory.

That seems to me the explanation which can most reasonably be applied to the mental phenomena
which I have described. It satisfied me completely. Wordsworth struck the exact balance between
mental exaltation and the trembling "like a guilty thing surprised," of which I have given
a more prosaic account.

I must add here that the Ode to Immorality is not a poem which my father used to read to us
as children, and as far as I can remember I did not take to reading it, or know anything about
it, till I was seventeen or eighteen; that is, ten or twelve years later. Even when it became
a favourite with me, for some reason or other I did not dwell upon the isolement part of it,
but rather upon the earlier passages. Curiously enough, it was a quotation in Clough's Amours
de Voyages which first made me realise that Wordsworth was dealing with isolement.

I hope no one will think that in describing my experiences of isolement in my own mind I was
exaggerating the importance of the incident. I know that similar waking trances are very common.
I also know that modern psychology, or, I should say, certain schools of modern psychology,
regard them merely as manifestations or outcrops of the unconscious self. If I understand the
argument rightly, they hold that just as in dreams the unconscious self gets possession of
one's personality and the consciousness is for a certain time deposed or exiled, the same thing
may happen, and does happen in our waking hours. Therefore isolement must not be regarded as
anything wonderful or mystic, but merely as a day-dream. I admit that this seems at first sight
a plausible explanation. Yet I can say with Gibbon, "this statement is probable; but certainly
false."

Anyone who has experienced the feeling as I experienced it would think it by no means unlikely
that it represented something far deeper, and was due to some impulse external to oneself.
Certainly to me the feeling was essentially one of revelation, of being suddenly made to see
and understand things which before had been dark or unknown. I realised that what I should
now call the materialistic hypothesis would not help me to a solution. No "fanciful shapes
of a plastic earth" were in my vision. My Ego, whatever it was or was to be, was, I perceived,
a spirit and not a creature of flesh-and-blood, and also not a hypothesis, but a reality.

Who knows whether this may not be Walt Whitman's "secret," or, at any rate, the spiritual experience
of which the poet's latest biographer, Mr. Emory Holloway, writes? His interesting account
of Walt Whitman's Manuscript Note-Books is preceded by the following statement:

The first of these (The MS. Note-Books) begins with a sense of suppressed, half-articulate
power in the language of a novel ecstasy. Some mystical experience, some great if not sudden
access of intellectual power, some enlargement and clarifying of vision, some selfless throb
of cosmic sympathy, has come to Walt Whitman. At first he can only ejaculate his wonder, and
pray for the advent of a perfect man who will be worthy to communicate to the world this new
vision of humanity. Then, like the prophet Isaiah, whose great book he is wont to carry in
his pocket to Coney Island, he suddenly realises that a vision is itself a commission; and
from this moment he dedicates himself to a life task as audacious as it seems divine.

Though the subject, I admit, fascinates me, I must say no more on it, lest my autobiography
should become "a sort of a commentary" on "the ecstasy," featuring Plotinus!

Though always intensely interested in things psychical, and a copious reader of all the phenomena
of the unseen world, I have only had one other psychic adventure in the whole of my life, and
that an insignificant one. It is, however, worth recording shortly. It happened that in the
early autumn of the year 1920, while my son was away from home, learning French in a family
at Versailles, I went to my dressing- room to sleep, at about three o'clock in the afternoon.
I woke up at four o'clock--an hour's sleep is my ration--with a start and the recollection
that I had just dreamt a dream of a very alarming kind. In my dream my wife had come to me
with a telegram in her hand, and had told me that our son had been killed in a hunting accident
in France. The impression was extremely vivid, and for a moment I was greatly perturbed. This,
however, did not last. A little reflection soon made me feel that it could be nothing but a
bad dream--a nightmare. People do not hunt in August, or at Versailles, and therefore there
was no reason whatever to regard the dream seriously. Still, as a faithful member of the Psychical
Society, I thought I must take notice of the incident, even though it seemed ridiculous. No
scientific investigator ever dares to say that any "odd" observed fact is not worth considering.

Accordingly I sat down and wrote to my son, mentioning the dream and asking whether between
three and four on that day he was in any kind of mental trouble or anxiety--anything that by
an imperfect telephonic message might have got through to me as a hunting accident. To my astonishment,
I received by return a letter from Versailles telling me that about three-fifteen on the day
in question he had been in a small railway accident, which, though not resulting in any deaths,
had injured several people, and had given him a fairly severe shaking.

Considering how seldom I dream, and if I do dream, how seldom the dream concerns anybody else,
it is difficult to account for this as a mere coincidence. My dreams, when I have them, are
practically all of the pure nightmare description and of the usual sealed-pattern. I am worried
by the sense of not being able to pack in time to catch my train, or else I am compelled to
go back to Oxford and try to pass an examination under impossible and humiliating conditions.
Indeed, I don't think I can ever remember a dream, except this one about my son, which was
of a non- egotistical kind, that is, in which somebody else speaks, and of which I am not the
centre. In a word, it seems to me that, though my son had no recollection of thinking of me
(the accident was not important enough for that), his unconscious self got busy and, as I was
in a light sleep, it was able to telephone an excited message to its nearest relation, my unconscious
self.

CHAPTER VII

MY CHILDHOOD (Continued)

It must not be supposed that either my childhood or boyhood was a psychic or poetic affair,
or that in any way I was a cranky and abnormal child. I was nothing of the kind. In spite of
what I had better call my metrical precociousness, which I deal with in detail in a later chapter,
I was exceedingly fond of outdoor sports of all sorts. Though never a very strong swimmer,
I loved particularly what Dr. Johnson might have called the "pleasures of immersion," whether
in the icy cold of our Somersetshire streams or in the bland waters of the Mediterranean. The
back of the horse and the buffet of the wave still remain for me the intensest of physical
delights. Next in my affections comes mountain- climbing, though here I must not write of it.
Instead, I would record two memories--one of the very beginning, and one of the very end, of
my childhood. My very first memory is concerned with the American Civil War--a conflict which
has always exercised a great influence over my mind. To me the struggle between the North and
the South stands for one of the pivotal facts in the history of the English-speaking race.
I have a clear recollection of my mother showing me a full-page picture, probably in the Illustrated
London News, entitled "The Last Shot in the War." It was, if my memory serves, a darkish picture,
with a big piece of artillery dimly portrayed in the foreground, and a still dimmer background,
in which one seemed to catch sight of shadowy armies, warring in the gloom. Or were they only
trees and clouds? I cannot remember my mother's words, but I have a recollection, firm though
so distant, that she told me how the great war had come about, and how this was the end of
all the misery and slaughter. The year, I think, must have been '65, that is, when I was five
years old.

As soon as my father began to talk to us of great events, which was when I was about six, and
to expound, as fathers should, the merits of the struggle, I became an intense Northerner.
All my father's sympathies were with the North, both on the imperative duty of maintaining
the Union and on the slavery issue. He was an intense abolitionist. As a lad of sixteen or
seventeen, he had given up sugar, at the end of the 'twenties, because in those days sugar
was grown by slaves on the West Indian plantations. He would not support a slave industry,
and until the slaves were freed he did not go back to sugar.

Curiously enough, though my father greatly admired Mr. Lincoln, he did not put into my mind
that passionate devotion to the saviour of the Union which I developed later. By this I do
not mean that he was critical of Lincoln, but merely that Lincoln was not one of his special
heroes. This fact, however, made a sounder foundation for my feelings about America and the
American people than would the mere cult of the individual. I learned first to understand the
greatness of the separation issue, to realise the magnificence and the significance of the
American nation.

Another point of interest in the context is worth noting. My American readers must not run
away with the idea that there was anything strange in a Somersetshire squire being on the side
of the North. It is quite a delusion to suppose that all the people of education and position
in England were Southerners. They were nothing of the kind. I cannot, of course, remember those
times myself, but I often talked them over with men like Lord Cromer, who not only was on the
Northern side, but paid a visit to the Northern Armies as a young artillery officer, and heard
the guns at Petersburg. He pointed out how strong Conservatives such as his uncle, Tom Baring,
were convinced Northerners, as was also, of course, Disraeli.

No doubt the man who did the harm in England and made Americans believe that we rejoiced in
the rebellion, was Mr. Gladstone. Partly through want of information and partly through a curious
mental twist, he persuaded himself that the South was fighting for freedom like the Italians
in Naples or Lombardy. He not only believed in "the erring sister, go in peace" policy, but
considered that for "erring sister" should be substituted "good and gallant sister." Mr. Gladstone's
influence was, unfortunately, at that time very great, and he misled an enormous number of
people on the merits of the quarrel. Happily my father, though a keen admirer of Gladstone,
did not follow him here. He maintained the Northern view against all comers, as did the Duke
of Argyll, Lord Houghton, and dozens of other men of light and leading, including, I am glad
to say, my future chiefs, the Editors of The Spectator.

Of another combative memory I can be more specific, for my recollection of it is positively
photographic. I can see myself, a little creature in a straw hat, playing on what the nurses
used to call "the libery lawn"-- a beautiful stretch of sward, upon which the Great Parlour
window opened. This lawn is half surrounded by an old red sandstone battlement wall, with a
long, terrace-like mound in front of it. Suddenly, in the middle of our play, I saw the Great
Parlour window open and my father, with his hand held to shelter his eyes from the glare, stepping
on to the gravel path. He called to my elder brother and me that if we liked he would read
us an account of a great battle that had just been fought in Austria. It was the Battle of
Sadowa. My father held in his hand a copy of the Daily News, to which he was a fairly frequent
contributor. The paper contained Forbes's vivid account of the action which humbled the Austrian
Empire before its Hohenzollern rivals. I was always glad to hear about a fight, and was very
soon tucked up at the end of my father's green sofa. Owing to his stiff knee he always used
a sofa to rest and read on rather than sat in an armchair. He began to read at once, for he
was as eager as we were to devour the story of how "Our Special Correspondent" climbed the
church-tower and saw men and armies battling in the plain below.

I did not, of course, understand the nature of the war, but my father was greatly moved and
read with such emotion that the encounter lived before my eyes. Here I should note that my
father, though the most humane of men, was intensely fond of stories of war, and in a layman's
way understood a good deal about strategy. For example, he knew not only, like Sir Thomas Browne,
all the battles in Plutarch, but also all the big Indian battles and those of the Peninsula.
He was a special student of Waterloo, for he had talked with plenty of men and officers who
had been in the Belgian Campaign.

Another recollection of my childhood will come in aptly here, for it concerns a Waterloo veteran.
He lived at Chew Magna, and kept a small shop. Like many of the combatants on the British side,
he was probably only about fifteen or sixteen years old at Waterloo. Half the regiments there
were Militia regiments, and notoriously were composed of lads. Therefore, in '69 or '70, when
I used to ride over to see him, my soldier was only about seventy-one or seventy-two. At his
shop could be bought pencils, pens, and little books of most attractive appearance, sealing-wax
and many other objects fascinating to the schoolboy. However, the real attraction was the seller,
and not the things sold. As soon as I discovered that the man had been at Waterloo, I loved
to go in, pull over the old man's stock, and then gossip with him about the Battle. Unless
my recollection plays me false, he was distinctly a good talker. This is how he told the story
of the 18th of June:

Our regiment was marched out into a cornfield. The officers told us to lie down on the ground
and wait, because the enemy had got their artillery playing on us. Cannon-balls kept coming
over pretty close to the ground. If we kept flat, however, there was not much risk. Every now
and then the artillery fire would cease entirely, and then our officers called us to get up
as quick as ever we could, and form square. The front rank lay down, the second rank knelt,
the third stooped low, and the rear rank stood up. Our bayonets were fixed and our muskets
loaded. There was not much time. As soon as we had got into place we heard the cavalry thundering
up. Then, all of a sudden and as if they had sprung up from the ground (there was a little
hollow in front), they were riding round us, riding like mad, cursing and swearing and shouting,
waving their swords, and trying to force their horses on to our bayonets. We kept shooting
at 'em all the time. But the bullets used to bound off their steel coats. (They were, of course,
cuirassiers.) We soon found out, however, that if we aimed under their arm-pits, or at their
faces, or the lower part of their bodies, we could kill them, or at least damage them. Our
square was never really broken, but every now and then one of the Frenchmen would drive his
horse right through our bayonets and into the middle, where we killed him. Of course, their
idea was that if one got in, the others could follow him, but we never let them do that. We
always closed up and held fast. Then, all of a sudden, the cavalry would go back as quick as
they came, and in a minute there was not one of them to be seen. They had all utterly disappeared.
As soon as ever they were gone, the guns began to fire again, and down we all went flat to
the ground, and this went on all the morning, first up and then down.

From a private soldier's point of view, this was, I expect, a very accurate description of
the battle.

I, of course, wanted to know more, and especially whether he had seen the Duke. He declared
that he had, but it was a dim picture. According to my friend, he saw the Duke and his staff
riding by at the back of the square, and heard him say something to an officer, but what he
did not catch. If he had only known, he was describing a particular characteristic of the Duke.
Wellington, when in action, was the dumbest of dumb things, and it would have required a moral
earthquake to get more than some curt order out of him. Even a "tinker's curse" or "a tuppenny
damn" would have seemed loquacious in him on such an occasion. The not very sensational "Up
Guards and at 'em!" was in later life disputed by the Duke. Under great pressure, the most
he would admit was that he might possibly have said it, though he did not believe he ever did.

The kind of battle remark he favoured was one which my father used to tell me he had heard
from Mountstewart Elphinstone, his father's bosom friend. Elphinstone rode with the Duke at
the Battle of Assaye. When some hundred Mahratta guns were in full blast against the British
line, Elphinstone asked Sir Arthur Wellesley--it was Elphinstone's first battle--whether the
fire was really hot. "Well, they're making a good deal of noise, but they don't seem to be
doing much damage," was the reply of the Duke, after he had carefully looked up and down the line.

By a curious piece of luck, we boys were in touch not only with a Waterloo veteran, but also
with a man who had been at Trafalgar. At Lady Waldegrave's house, Strawberry Hill, one of the
men in the garden had been, as a boy, on the Victory. My brother Harry remembers speaking to
him, but, though I must have seen him, I have no recollection of him, and probably did not
talk to him. If I had, I am sure I should have questioned him, and would probably have remembered
the answers.

I will end the stories of my childhood by relating an incident which always seems to me to
belong to the earlier epoch, though it really happened when I was about thirteen, and therefore
no longer a child. The scene is Sutton, and therefore it must have been during the holidays,
for I am sure I was living at our tutor's at Chewton at the time. I had gone out for a country
walk by myself, for I was fond of roaming about the fields, and especially of tracing to their
sources the wooded gullies abounding in our Somersetshire country. On such solitary rambles
I was always accompanied by a poet, in my pocket. On the occasion I am going to describe, Swinburne
in his Poems and Ballads was my guest of honour.

I emerged from my riverine exploration on to a hillside where the stream rose--near a place
with the delightfully rustic name of Hinton Belwit. Here the springtime and the bright sun
invited me to sit upon a stile and to read of Dolores or Faustine, or The Garden of Proserpine,
--I know not which. While thus absorbed and probably muttering verses aloud, I did not notice
a typical Somersetshire farmer of the seventies who was approaching the stile. When, therefore,
I heard his voice and looked up, it was as if the man had dropped from the clouds. What he
was saying was quite as unexpected as his appearance. It ran something like this: "It be all
craft, craft. You men be as full of craft as hell be of tailors." Needless to say, I was enchanted.
This looked like the beginning of an adventure, for the old gentleman was puffing hard and
in the condition which Jeremy Taylor describes as "very zealously angry."

I, however, was too much interested to learn what he meant to resent his abuse, and politely
invited an explanation. He went on to declare with great vehemence what a curse this book-learning
and education were to the working-men and how they filled them with "craft"--that was the refrain
of all his remarks. It made them unfit to work and to serve honest men like himself, who had
never had anything to do with that evil thing--book-learning. When I gently asked why the sight
of me had made him think about it, he explained, with a look of infinite slyness, that he saw
I was reading a book. Then came an amusing disclosure. At fourteen I was a very much overgrown
lad, almost as tall as I am now, and weighing almost as much and he had mistaken me for one
of the ordination pupils of a Roman Catholic priest who lived in the valley close by. They
were wont to walk about the country breviary in hand, not merely reading, but actually reciting
the office to themselves. My green book was taken for a breviary, or for a book of hours, and
my mouthings of Dolores or The Garden of Proserpine for "the blessed mutter of the Mass"! Assured
by me that I was not a priest, he asked me who I was. I told him my name and he instantly stretched
out a huge and grimy hand, and shook mine with a hearty violence, and insisted that I should
come home with him and drink a mug of cider. I accepted with avidity. It was all in the adventure.
Who knows? I might go to his house and find the most delightful maiden in disguise! In fact,
anything and everything was possible. So I went, expecting and hoping for great things, though
quite willing to be content with small things and "a mug o' zyder" if I could not get anything
bigger.

As soon as we got into the farm kitchen and saw the farmer's wife, the old gentleman began
to explain his mistake. "And to think, Mother, that this be young Mr. Strachey, after all.
You can mind, carn't you, wife, how we used to see him and his brothers riding by with their
ponies and their long hair? It is just like King Arthur and the cakes, it is." At this his
good wife, with a toss of her head, said, "Don't you be so ignorant, maaster, talking about
what you don't know. It's King Henry you means." "That I don't. I mean King Arthur. You go
down and get the young maaster a mug o' zyder, and don't you say no more."

Then he slowly closed one pig-like eye and aimed it in my direction. That was his idea of winking.
Patting me on the knee, he added, "The women be always like that--bain't they?--always trying
to think they know better. It was just like King Arthur and the cakes, weren't it?" I, of course,
assented and, I am sorry to say, with the magnificent pedantry of boyhood, reflected that he
was not the first person to make the mistake. Did not Mrs. Quickly piously ejaculate that the
dead Falstaff was "in Arthur's bosom"? Besides, it was proof that the Somersetshire people
still remembered King Arthur--a point treasured by me for my father, who was a keen student
and great lover of the Arthurian legends. It was he who edited for Macmillan the Morte d'Arthur
in the Globe series. According to my father, and I expect quite rightly, Arthur was the last
of the British kings to stand up against the Saxons, and really did inhabit that most magnificent
of ditch-defended hills, Cadbury Castle.

Cadbury, as the village at its foot, Queen's Camel, shows, is quite possibly a broken-down
form of Camelot. But there is better proof than that. Till forty years ago, and possibly even
now, the people round Cadbury told tales of King Arthur, and firmly believed he would come
again. For example, the rector of Queen's Camel told my father that a local girl, a housemaid
in the Rectory, told him, as if it were a matter of course, that every night of the full moon
the King and his Knights rode round the castle hall and watered their horses at the Wishing-Well.
She had seen them herself. Another man told the rector that his father had one day seen a sort
of opening in the hill, and had looked in. "There he zeed a king sitting in a kind of a cave,
with a golden crown on his head and beautiful robes on him."

The best Arthurian story of all was the following. The rector, as an archaeologist, did a little
excavation on his own on the flat place at the very top of the hill--a place in which there
were what looked like rough foundations. He used to take with him a local labourer to do some
of the spade-work. One day they dug up a Quern. The labourer asked what it was. The clergyman
explained that it was a form of hand-mill used in the olden days for grinding corn. In reply
he was met with one of the most amazing remarks ever made to an antiquarian. "Oh, a little
hand- mill be it! Ah, now I understands what I never did before. That's why they fairies take
such a lot of corn up to the top of the hill. They be taking it up for to grind."

Anticipating Kipling, the rector might well have exclaimed, "How is one to put that into a
'Report on Excavations on Cadbury Hill submitted to the Somersetshire Archaeological Society
by the Rector of Queen's Camel'?"

Anyway, I was delighted to have actually heard a man speak the words "King Arthur," and also
went home chuckling at the thought of being mistaken for a Roman priest--an event which particularly
amused my mother.

Soon after I was eleven, we went to Chewton Vicarage for the first time as "private pupils."
Then my mother's health became worse, and we had to go to Cannes more or less regularly. In
order that our education should be continued, we then reverted to the plan of tutors in the
house. We had two of these in succession, both Balliol men. Though they were able men, they
were not successes as educationalists. My father always used to say that he thought both of
them had been badly overworked at Oxford and had been advised to take tutorial posts as a rest-cure--a
very pleasant rest-cure when it took the form of wintering in the South of France.

But, though my brothers and I effectually resisted the efforts made to teach us, we learnt
during our winters in France a great many things indirectly. Unfortunately, French was not
one of those things. My father would have liked us to speak and write French. He had it, however,
so strongly impressed upon him by his advisers that if we were to go to Oxford we must above
all things get a sufficient knowledge of Latin and Greek to pass Responsions that, though we
had an occasional lesson in French, our sojourn on the Riviera, as far as learning French was
concerned, was thrown away.

We lived entirely with the boys and girls of the rest of the British colony, and regarded the
French inhabitants literally as part of the scenery, and largely as a humorous part thereof.
We got on well enough with them, and knew enough French to buy endless sweets at Rumpelmeyer's
or chez Nègres, to get queer knives and "oddities" at the fairs, or to conduct paper-chases
along the course of the Canal or in Pine Woods bordering it. We refused, however, to take the
French or their language seriously.

However, my father did contrive to instil a little French politics into us. He was a fervent
admirer of Gambetta and the Third Republic, and used to read us extracts from Gambetta's organ,
La Republique Francaise. It thus happened that I early became a staunch adherent of the great
Democratic leader and was full of zeal against first the Comte de Chambord and then the Comte
de Paris. I still remember the excitement we all felt over Marshal MacMahon's rather half-hearted
efforts to play the part of a General Monk.

We had, further, the excitement of seeing a famous General immured close to us in a fortress
prison for the crime of treason. The Ile de Ste. Marguerite, opposite Cannes, with its picturesque
Vauban fortifications, became, while we were at Cannes, the prison of Marshal Bazaine, the
man who surrendered Metz to the Germans. He occupied, besides, the very rooms which had been
occupied by "The Man with the Iron Mask." Can it be wondered that when we had a picnic-party
on the island, or rowed under the walls of the fortress in a boat, we used to strain every
muscle in order to get a glimpse of the prisoner? On one occasion we saw somebody's hat or
head moving along a parapet, and were told it was the Marshal taking his daily exercise on
the terrace of the fort, but whether it really was or not, who can say? At any rate, the Marshal
escaped from his imprisonment during our stay, probably to the relief of his jailers. That
was a source of great excitement in itself, and it was heightened by rumours that an English
girl had assisted the prisoner to break out.

We were not personally in favour of Bazaine, but regarded him with distinct repulsion for surrendering
at Metz. Still, an escape was an escape; and, besides, the fat old Marshal had let himself
down by a rope into an open boat!

The epoch of tutors came to an end soon after the birth of my sister, which happened at Marseilles,
when my mother was on her way to Cannes. After the event, my mother was pronounced by the doctors
to be able to winter in England, and I and my two brothers, therefore, went back to Chewton
Mendip and became private pupils of Mr. Philpott, for the second time. Here we remained till
I went first to a tutor at Oxford--Mr. Bell-- and then to live with my uncle and aunt, Professor
T. H. Green (Mrs. Green was my mother's sister). There I was "coached for Balliol" by two of
the best scholars in the University. One of them was Professor Nettleship, who a couple of
years later was made Professor of Latin, and the other is now Sir Herbert Warren, President
of Magdalen. They were both delightful expounders of the classics, and, though I was an unaccountably
bad scholar, I am proud to say that they both liked me and liked teaching me. However, I need
say no more on this point, as all that is worth saying about it is supplied by Sir Herbert
Warren in the letter which I have included in my Oxford Chapter.

CHAPTER VIII

THE FAMILY NURSE

In the families of the well-to-do few influences have a greater effect upon the child, and
so upon the man, than that exercised by the servants of the household in which he or she is
brought up. And of those influences, upstairs or downstairs, none, of course, is so potent
as that of the nurse. That is what Goethe would call one of the secrets that are known to all.
Why it should ever be regarded as a secret Heaven knows; yet it must be so considered, for
it is very seldom spoken of except in the case of nurses.

Anyway, I and my brothers, and in our earlier years my sister, were quite as fortunate in our
nurse as we were in our parents and in our home. Her name was Mrs. Leaker. She was not married,
but bore the brevet rank always accorded to upper servants of her position. She played many
parts in our family household, and always with a high distinction. She began as nurse; she
next became cook; then housekeeper; then reverted for a time to nurse, and then became something
more than housekeeper because she ruled over the nursery as well as over the kitchen, the store-room,
and the housemaids' room. But whatever her name in the household, and whatever her duties,
she was always in fact head-nurse. She loved children, and they loved her, though not without
a certain sense of awe. She had a fiery temper; but that fieriness was reserved almost entirely
for grown-up people. A child, if it knew the proper moment for action, could do anything it
liked with her.

Taken altogether, she was one of the most remarkable women, whether for character or intellect,
that I have ever come across. In appearance she had, what can be best described as, the gipsy
look, though she did not believe herself to have gipsy blood. Her complexion was swarthy, her
hair was black, and her eyes dark and full of an eager and scintillating brightness which made
her face light up and change with every mood of her mind and radiate a vivid intelligence.
If anyone who knew her was asked to state the most memorable thing about her, I am sure the
answer would be, "mobility," both of mind and body. There was a quickness as well as a lightness
in her step--I hear it as I write--in the gestures of her hands and her head, and indeed in
everything she did.

Let nobody suppose for a moment that this was a case of paralysis agitans, or St. Vitus' Dance.
There was nothing involuntary in her unrest. It was all part of an intense vitality and an
intense desire for self-expression. When she was in one of her worst tempers, she would pace
up and down a room, turning at each wall like a lion in a cage, in a way which I have only
seen one other person effect with equal spirit and unconsciousness. That was an eminent statesman,
in the moment of great political crisis. Her nature was so eager and so active, and seemed
to be so perpetually fretting her body and mind, that anyone seeing her in middle life would
have been inclined to prophesy that such agitations must wear her out prematurely and that
she had only a short life before her, or else an imbecile's end.

Yet, as a matter of fact, she lived in good health till over eighty, and to the last moment
retained the full control of her faculties. She died, as might any other old person, of bronchitis.
In truth, she was an example of Sir Thomas Browne's dictum that we live by an invisible flame
within us. As a matter of fact, her flame was anything but invisible. It was remarkably visible.
It leapt, and crackled, and gleamed, and took on, like the witch's oils, every colour in the
spectrum. Now crimson, now violet, now purple, now yellow, glowed and flashed the colours of
her mind.

Mrs. Leaker was brought up in a poor household, in an age when illiteracy, alas! seemed the
natural fate of the poor. But you could no more have kept education from her than you could
have kept food from a hungry lioness. She was determined to get it somehow, and get it she
did. She taught herself to read before she had reached womanhood, and taught herself by pure
force of her will, adopting, curiously enough, what would now be described as the Montessori
method. She opened books and read them somehow or other till she understood the meaning of
the words. Her letters her mother had taught her. She often told me that nobody had taught
her to read. When she had attained the power of reading, self-education was easy enough. It
led to results of an amazing kind--results which at first sight seem to prove all the lore
of the educationalists at fault. People, we are told, must be trained to like and understand
good literature. Without that training they will never know the good from the bad.

Now read this story of an innate appreciation of good literature which she told me with her
own lips. I asked her once, when I was a lad, what she thought of "Junius," who had begun to
exercise a great influence over my rhetorical instincts. It was as natural to consult her on
a point of literature as on one of domestic surgery. Her reply was perhaps the strangest ever
made by a woman over sixty to a boy of undergraduate age. It ran in this way, for I recall
her words.

When I was a girl, and a young housemaid in my first place at Mrs. Lloyd's, in Clifton, I used
to have as part of my work to dust the library. When I was dusting, I used to take down the
books and look at what was in them, and often got through a page or two with my duster in my
hand. Once I took down a volume marked "Junius," and read a page or two, and as I read I began
to feel as if I was drunk. In those days I had never heard of the Duke of Grafton or Lord Sandwich,
or any of the other people he talks about, and I did not know what it all meant, but the words
went to my head like brandy.

Now, I ask anyone with a sense of literature whether it would be possible to give a better
lightning criticism of "Junius" and his style than that conveyed in Leaker's words. She had
got the exact touch. "Junius," in truth, is not only empty for her, but empty for the whole
world except as regards his style. There he is unquestionably great. Tumid, exaggerated, and
monotonous as it often is, his style does affect one like wine. That is certainly how it affected,
and still affects, me. Even at an age when I did not really know much more about the Duke of
Grafton than did Leaker, and probably cared less, I had got the peroration of the first letter
to the Duke of Grafton by heart. I used to walk up and down the terrace, or across the meadows
that led to the waterfall, shouting to myself, or my bored companions, that torrent of lucid,
thrilling invective. I mean the passage in which "Junius" gives advice to the University of
Cambridge. They will, he hopes, take it to heart when they shall be "perfectly recovered from
the delirium of an Installation," and when that learned society has become "once more a peaceful
scene of slumber and thoughtless meditation."

How the waterfall gave me back the reverberating words! How the lime trees rocked to the final
crack of the whip over the unhappy Grafton! "The learned dullness of declamation will be silent;
and even the venal Muse, though happiest in fiction, will forget your virtues."

But that was by no means her only achievement of literary diagnosis and the power to get hold
of books somehow or other. When in the 'twenties she came to Bristol from Dartmouth, which
was her home, with her mother and brothers (her father was dead), she travelled, as did all
people with slender means in those days, in the waggon. These vehicles proceeded at the rate
of about three or four miles an hour. All she could tell about her journey was that she lay
in the straw, in the bottom of the waggon, and read Wordsworth's Ruth, The White Doe of Rylstone.
She was, throughout her life, very fond of Ruth and this was her first reading. I have often
thought to myself how much the great apostrophe must have meant to the lion-hearted, vehement,
imaginative girl:

  Before me shone a glorious world,--
   Fresh as a banner bright, unfurled
       To music suddenly.

In later life she had the poem by heart, and I venture to say that there was not a word of
it that she did not understand, both intellectually and emotionally. But though she loved books
and literature, it must not be supposed that she was indifferent to other forms of art. Anything
beautiful in nature or art made a profound impression upon her. When Leaker first went to Paris,
on our way to Pau or Cannes, I forget which, my mother sent her to the Louvre and told her
specially to look at the Venus of Milo. She gave her directions where to find the statue; when
she came back, she said to my mother:

I couldn't find the statue you told me about, but I saw another which is the most lovely thing
in the world. I never thought to see anything so beautiful, and the broken arm did not matter
at all, for she stood there like a goddess.

She had found the Venus for herself, although some fault in the directions had made her feel
sure that it could not be what she had been sent to look at. Later on, when we took to going
to France regularly for my mother's health, she every year did her homage to the Venus. What
is more, when she went for the first time to Florence, she fully realised how poor a thing
the Venus de Medici was in comparison.

But though, as I have said, all beautiful things appealed to her, literature was her first
love and the element in which she lived. But literature did not in her case only mean Shakespeare,
Milton, and the Bible, as it does to so many English people. She cropped all the flowers in
the fields of literature, prose and verse. She was as intense an admirer of Shakespeare as
was my father, and a greater lover of Milton. Shakespeare she lived on, including, curiously
enough, Timon of Athens, who was a great favourite. When any lazy member of my family wanted
to find a particular line or passage in Shakespeare, he or she would go to Leaker rather than
trouble to look up the quotation in a concordance; Leaker was certain to find you at once what
you wanted. There was no pedantry about her and no mere tour de force of the memory. She entered
into the innermost mental recesses of Shakespeare's characters. What is more, she made us children
follow her.

Though we were kept clean and well looked after, there was no nonsense in her nursery as to
over-exciting our minds or emotions, or that sort of thing. She was quite prepared to read
us to sleep with the witches in Macbeth, or the death-scene in Othello. I can remember now
the exaltation derived, half from the mesmerism of the verse and half from a pleasant terror,
by her rendering of the lines: "Put out the light, and then put out the light." I see her now,
with her wrinkled brown face, her cap with white streamers awry over her black hair beginning
to turn grey. In front of her was a book, propped up against the rim of a tin candlestick shaped
like a small basin. In it was a dip candle and a pair of snuffers. That was how nursery light
was provided in the later 'sixties and even in the early 'seventies. As she sat bent forward,
declaiming the most soul-shaking things in Shakespeare between nine and ten at night, we lay
in our beds with our chins on the counterpanes, silent, scared, but intensely happy. We loved
every word, and slept quite well when the play was finished. We were supposed to go to sleep
at nine, but if there was anything exciting in the play, very little pressure was required
to get Leaker to finish, even if it took an extra half-hour--or a little more. In truth, she
was always ready to read to us by night or day.

Though no Sabbatarian, she had a tendency to give Paradise Lost a turn on Sundays. As far as
I remember, she never read Paradise Regained. Comus and the short poems, especially Lycidas,
were great favourites with her. One might have supposed that she would not like Wordsworth.
As a matter of fact, she loved him and thoroughly understood him and his philosophy of life.
She did not merely read the lyric and elegiac poems like Ruth, but had gone through and enjoyed
The Excursion and many of the longer poems. Coleridge she loved, and Southey, and Crabbe, and
Gray, and Dr. Johnson, and indeed the whole of English poetic literature. In modern poetry
she read freely Tennyson and Robert Browning, and admired them both.

Byron was a special favourite of hers, and here again she showed her intellect and her taste,
not by worshipping the Eastern Tales or the sentimentalities of Childe Harold, but by a thorough
appreciation of Don Juan. Her taste, indeed, was almost unfailing. Take a simple example. She
used frequently to chant the delightful lines to Tom Moore, which begin:

  My boat is on the shore,
     And my barque is on the sea,
   But ere I go, Tom Moore,
     Here's a double health to thee.

Having a great deal of sympathy for scorn and indignation, she, of course, loved the last verse
and implanted it deeply in my mind by constant quotation in tones of scathing intensity:

  Here's a tear for those who love me,
     And a smile for those who hate,
   And whatever sky's above me,
     Here's a heart for every fate.

That was her own spirit. Truly she had a heart for every fate. She was quite fearless.

Although she was not in the least a prejudiced person, I remember once, in the excitement of
my own discovery of Swinburne, trying to create an equal enthusiasm in her mind. She returned
me the book, however, without enthusiasm and with the trenchant remark that it made her feel
as if she was in an overheated conservatory, too full of highly-scented flowers to be pleasant!
She was not in the least shocked by Swinburne, and if you produced a good line or two you could
win her approval, but the atmosphere was not sympathetic. Of Rossetti she was a little more
tolerant, but she felt, I think, that there was not enough scope and freedom.

It is unnecessary to dwell upon the educational advantages of such a nurse, and of having the
very best part of English literature poured into one's mouth almost with the nursery-bottle,
and certainly with the nursery mug. If my friends find me, as I fear they sometimes do, too
fond of making quotations, they must blame Mrs. Leaker, for when at her best she threw quotations
from the English Classics around her in a kind of hailstorm. Some of the lines that had stuck
in her mind were very curious, though she had forgotten where they came from. One specially
amusing piece of Eighteenth-Century satirical verse I have never been able to trace. Perhaps
if I put it forth here I shall find out whence it comes--very likely from some perfectly obvious
source. The lines which were used to calm us in our more grandiose and self-conceited moods
ran as follows:

  Similes that never hit,
   Vivacity that is not wit,
   Schemes laid this hour, the next forsaken,
   Advice oft asked, but never taken.

She had a couplet which she often produced when the newspapers came out with some big social
scandal or the coming to financial grief of some great family name. On such occasions she would
mutter to herself:

  Debts and duns
   And nothing for my younger sons.

Another verse, though I quote it not the least to show her literary taste but because it was
exceedingly characteristic of her, was in the spring-time always on her lips:

  The broom, the broom, the yellow broom,
     The ancient poets sung it,
   And sweet it is on summer days
     To lie at ease among it.

I could fill a book, and perhaps some day I will do so, with Leaker's reflections on men and
things, and her epigrammatic sayings, and still more with her wonderful old sea-stories, especially
of the press-gang, which she could almost remember in operation. Her father was, as she always
put it, "in the King's Navy," and he had been "bosun" to a ship's "cap'n." He was at the Mutiny
of the Nore, but was not a mutineer.

She was, however, full of stories about the Mutiny, which we found extremely exciting. She
used to sing, or rather "croon" to us some of the mutineers' songs. One that I specially remember
began with this verse:

  Parker was a gay young sailor,
     Fortune to him did not prove kind;
   He was hung for mutiny at the Nore,
     Worse than him were left behind.

After declaiming that verse to us, she would add in low tones that made one's blood run cold,
"Men have been hung at the yardarm for singing that song. It was condemned throughout the Fleet."

That in itself seems a link with the past, but through Leaker I had a much more remarkable
example of what, in spite of the smiles of the statistician, fascinated us all. Leaker, when
about the age of sixty, brought her old mother, who was then ninety-four or ninety-five, to
whom she was devoted, to live in one of the cottages at Sutton, the year being, as far as I
can recollect, 1868 or 1869. I can distinctly recall the old lady. She was very thin and faded,
but with all her wits about her, though weak and shy.

Leaker told us, with pride, that her mother, when she was a little girl, had sat upon the knee
of an old soldier who had fought at Blenheim. This is quite possible. If old Mrs. Leaker was,
as I think, only five years short of a hundred in 1869, she could easily have been in the world
at the same time as a lad who had been at Blenheim in his eighteenth year. Old Mrs. Leaker
was, I calculated, born about 1774. She would therefore have been six years old in 1780. But
a man who was ninety-five in 1780 would have been born in 1685, and so twenty-nine in 1714,
the year of Blenheim. Possibly some historical calculator will despoil me of this story. Meantime,
I am always thrilled to think that I have seen a woman who had seen a man who had been in action
with the great Marlborough at his greatest victory.

Before I leave my old nurse I must say something about a very curious and interesting attempt
which, at my request, she made at the end of her life. It was to put down her recollections
and reflections. Unfortunately, I made this request rather too late, and so the result, as
a whole, was confused and often unintelligible. Still, the two little MS. books which she wrote
contain some very remarkable and characteristic pieces of writing, and show the woman as she
was. Although in her day she had read plenty of autobiographies, she makes no attempt to imitate
them, or to write in a pedantic or literary style. As far as she can, she shows us what she
really was. Leaker's heart beats against the sides of the little books just as I used to hear
it when I was a child in her arms, either in need of consolation, with toothache or growing-pains,
or else trying to give consolation, for she was often, like all fierce people, melancholy and
depressed after her own fierce outbursts of anger.

Here is the very striking and characteristic exordium to her autobiography:

I have not had an unpleasant life, although I was an old maid, and was a servant for fifty
years. I was a nurse and no mother could have loved her children more than I loved those I
nursed. I had three dear, good mistresses, two of whom I left against their will.

The third and last was my mother, whom the old nurse outlived for many years.

Here is her account of the miseries endured by the poor after Waterloo-- miseries which I often
think of in these days, when I note the foolish, the demented way in which we are approaching
our economic difficulties and dangers:

I am writing of the time a little after Waterloo. We were living at Dartmouth. Everything was
very dear. We lived mostly on barley bread. We children were so used to it that we did not
mind it, but my poor mother could never eat it without repugnance, and we always tried to make
her get white bread, not knowing that she could not properly afford it. Many a time (so she
told me in after-years) she made her supper off a turnip rather than let her children go hungry
to bed. The cheapest sugar was then tenpence a pound, and the very cheapest tea quite as much
as five shillings, but what I had to get for my mother was in very small quantities. We children
never had it, nor, as far as I remember, cared for it. It was a treat when we could get milk
to dip our bread in.

But though their poverty was so dire it did not kill the girl's joy in life or, wonderful to
say, in literature:

Though we were very poor, my childhood seems pleasant to me as I look back, for my mother did
all she could to make us happy. She went out sewing very often, and we were glad she should
go, for she got better food than she could get at home, and what was, I believe, as much good
to her, she sometimes got food for her mind. But, poor dear, she was always having a struggle
with her conscience, and her love of what is called light reading, as being a Methodist she
thought it wrong to read such books. She told me that when she was married she was given a
new edition of all the Elizabethan plays, twenty-five volumes, beautifully bound. (I heard
afterwards that a new edition was published at that time.) However, about the year 1818 she
thought it right to burn them, although she was so fond of them. Yet when I was sitting at
work with her she would tell me tales out of the plays. How vexed I used to be with her for
burning them, poor dear loving mother! She taught me to read out of my father's large old Bible,
and the Apocrypha was a book of wonder to me. She was fond of Young's Night Thoughts. Milton
she read often; my father gave it to her; poor man, he thought it would please her. He was
a sweet-tempered man, easy and kindhearted, but not clever like my mother. He once said to
her when she laughed at him for some blunders, "Well, my dear, what can the woman with five
talents expect from the man with one?"

Leaker had plenty of stories of the press-gang. Though she never herself saw it in operation,
people not very much older told her of how they were "awakened in the night by people crying
out that they had been taken."

Her mother, too, used to tell her heartrending stories about these times.

"I can hardly even now bear to think of the dreadful things done by the press-gang in the name
of the law. I never hated the French as I hated them."

Needless to say, I inherited her hatred of the press-gang, and have maintained it all my life.
It was the very worst and most oppressive form of national service ever invented, and I think
with pride that my collateral ancestor, Captain George St. Loe (temp. William & Mary) was the
first man in England who urged in his writings that the only fair way of making the nation
secure was compulsory universal service.

Leaker's mother was early in her married life converted to Methodism. Some of her reflections
on the smuggling that went on in and around the little Devonshire port give the lie to those
foolish, ignorant, and shameless people who allege that because people are poor they cannot
be expected to have any idea of what is called conventional morality in regard to "mine and
thine." They will naturally and excusably, it is asserted, break any law, moral or divine.

That is not how it struck Leaker's mother:

There was a good deal of smuggling going on in the town when I was a girl, and one day a member
of my mother's chapel brought some gay things for her to buy. Oh, how I did long for her to
get me a pretty neckerchief, but she said, "No, my dear, I cannot buy it for you, as I do not
see any difference in cheating a single man or a government of men. I believe that in the sight
of God both are equally sinful."

Leaker says of her mother, "She had a large share of romance, and loved a tale of witches,
or a love-story"--and so did her daughter. The supernatural gained fresh interest from her
skilful story-telling, and the art of the raconteur still lives in her pages. Here is one of
the best of her stories. Even now it gives a delightful sense of fear:

This story was told me by the mother of a friend of mine--Mrs. Jackson was her name, a ladylike
woman, but who appeared to me to be very old when I was a girl. Her husband was sailing master
on board a man-of-war, and this is what took place once when she was on board with him. They
were in port, and there was a large party of friends and officers spending the evening on the
ship, when a sudden storm arose, and no one could go on shore. They were going to amuse themselves
with music, and a violin was brought, but a string broke before the instrument had been touched.
"Never mind," said the captain, "I have a man on board who is a first-rate hand at deceiving
the sight." Everyone was pleased at the idea of conjuring, and the man was sent for, and asked
to show some of his tricks; but he said, "No, I can't tonight, as it is not a good time." Said
the captain, "What is to hinder you?" "Well, sir, I do not like doing it this stormy weather."
"That is all stuff and nonsense," replied the captain; "you must try. Come, set to work." So
the man asked for a chafing dish, which was brought to him. There was a fire of charcoal in
it. He said and did something (Mrs. Jackson did not tell us what), and after a while there
appeared in the dish, coming out of the fire, a tiny tree, with a tiny man holding a hatchet.
The tree seemed to grow from the bottom, and the little man chopped at it all the time. The
performing man was greatly agitated, and asked one of the ladies to lend him her apron (ladies
wore them in those days). Mrs. Jackson took off hers and handed it to him. He tied it on, and
ran round the table on which the chafing-dish stood, catching the chips, and apparently in
great alarm lest one of them should fall to the ground. She used to say it was painful to see
the poor man's agony of fear. While this was going on the storm grew much worse, so that the
people on board were afraid that the ship would be driven from her anchorage. At last the tree
fell under the tiny man's hatchet, and nothing was left on the table but the chafing-dish.
The conjuror gave back the apron, and then, turning to the captain, said, "Never from this
night will I do what I have done tonight. You may believe me or not, but if one of those chips
had fallen to the ground, nothing could have saved the ship, and everyone on board would have
gone down with her."

When the old lady told this story she would say that she had distinctly seen the chips fly,
and heard the noise of the chopping. She used to show the apron, which she never wore again,
but kept, carefully put away, to be shown to anyone who liked to see it.

Can one wonder that the little man with his little axe and the little tree, and the unknown
peril of death that came up from the sea, made a deep impression upon my mind, though not in
any sense a haunting or unpleasant one? I longed to see the chips fly and the tiny tree bow
to the sturdy strokes of the weird woodman.

Leaker's stories of ordinary witchcraft were many and curious, and though they cannot be set
out here I must quote one or two lines in regard to them:

I do not think there was a place in the land so full of witches, white and black, as Dartmouth.
My mother was, for her time and station, pretty fairly educated, yet she seemed to me to believe
in them firmly.

The autobiography shows that when she was sitting alone, thinking and writing, the old nurse
felt acutely the solitude and weariness of an old age that had outlived contemporaries as well
as bodily faculties. When, however, the friends of another generation were with her, she never
seemed too tired or too sad to enter keenly into all the interests of their lives. After a
hopeful consultation with an oculist she writes:

Is it not strange, that when the most terrible trouble is a little better, what looked light
in comparison with want of sight comes back as heavily as ever? How I wish I could be more
thankful for the mercies I have and not be always longing for the unattainable.

Everyone who has lived through a great crisis has probably shared the old nurse's surprise
at finding that smaller troubles, which for a while were reduced to nothingness, soon revive
with our own return to ordinary life.

However [as she says] I will not go into reflections, but write of my young days. How all these
things come back to me, a lone old woman who longs for, and yet is afraid of death. If I could
only be sure, be sure! Is it possible there is no other state of being? Oh, God, it is too
dreadful to think of.

Then she would turn to Paradise Lost, and how often have we not heard her repeat the lines:

And, in the lowest deep, a lower deep Still threatening to devour me, opens wide, finding,
as Aristotle would have said, relief and even comfort  in the "purgation" through poetry, of
the passions of pity and terror.

I will end my account of Leaker with one of her memories of happier moods in which we can feel
the magic of spring laying hold on the vivid imagination of the bright-eyed Devonshire girl:

One early spring day I heard my eldest brother tell my mother that he had seen a primrose.
She said, "Do not tell Salome, for if she knows there will be no keeping her at home." But
I had heard, and that was enough. Early next morning away I went, rambling all day from field
to field, picking primroses. First a handful of the common yellow ones, then some coloured
ones, and did ever a Queen prize jewels as I did those coloured flowers? But the joy in them
only lasted a little while. I would next see some white ones, and then the coloured ones were
thrown away, and I would set to work to gather the pale ones. Oh, how beautiful they looked!
I can see them now, and almost feel the rapture I felt then. It makes me young again--almost.
My dear mother used to say, "What do you do with all the flowers you pick? You never bring
any home." I do not know what I did with them, but the joy of picking them was beyond expression.
Have I ever felt such joy or happiness since?

CHAPTER IX

BOYHOOD: POETRY AND METRE

If I am to be exact, this chapter should have the sub-title of "Poetry and Metre," for poetry,
other people's and my own, and an impassioned study of the metrical art, were the essential
things about my boyhood. Between the ages of twelve and eighteen, at which time I may be said
to have become grown-up, Poetry was my life.

My schoolboy period was not passed by me at school, except a term and a half at an excellent
private school--one which still flourishes--the MacLaren School at Summertown. Rather reluctantly,
for he was horrified by the bullying and cruelty which went on during his own day at English
schools, my father consented to my mother's desire that we should go to school. After he had
taken many precautions, and had ascertained that there was no bullying at Summertown, my elder
brother and I were despatched to the school in question.

I was quite happy, got on well with the schoolmasters and with Mrs. MacLaren, the clever Scotswoman
who ran the school, and gave satisfaction in everything except learning. In this matter I developed
an extraordinary power of resistance, partly due, no doubt, to my bad eyesight. I was pronounced,
in reports, to be a boy who gave no trouble and who was always happy and contented, and appeared
to have good brains, and yet who, somehow or other, was easily surpassed at work by boys with
inferior mental capacity.

My schoolfellows, I believe, thought me odd; but I made friends easily, and kept them. Though
I could be "managed" by anyone who wanted to get something out of me, I was never put upon
or bullied, because if attempts were made to coerce me, I was, like the immortal Mr. Micawber,
not disinclined for a scrap. I stood erect before my fellow-boy, and when he tried to bully
me I punched his head. Mr. Micawber's comment is too moving not to be recorded. "I and my fellow-man
no longer meet upon those glorious terms." I and my fellow-schoolboy did occasionally meet
upon those glorious terms, greatly to my enjoyment.

It happened, however, that there was an outbreak of scarlet fever in the school, and my father
became anxious, and removed us at once--somewhat, I think, to my regret, but probably for my
good. It was ultimately decided that my brother and I, instead of returning to MacLaren's,
should, as I have already mentioned, go to the house of a clergyman, Mr. Philpott, who was
the vicar of a neighbouring village, Chewton Mendip. The Vicarage was close to Chewton Priory,
the house of my mother's closest friend, Lady Waldegrave.

Though Mr. Philpott was not an educational expert, in the modern sense, he was a man of good
parts, fond of the arts, and something of a man of the world. His wife was a woman of great
nobility of character and also of considerable mental power. She combined the qualities of
a self- sacrificing and devoted mother with a certain ironic, or even sardonic, touch. She
was a daughter of Mr. Tattersall, the owner of Tattersall's sale-rooms, and at her father's
house she had become acquainted in the latter part of the 'fifties and the early 'sixties with
all the great sporting characters of that epoch. Of these she used to tell us boys plenty of
strange and curious anecdotes.

Chewton Mendip was only seven miles from Sutton, and so while there we were in constant touch
with our own home life. We had also the amusement of seeing my father and mother when they
went over, as they often did, to dine and sleep, or stay for longer visits, at the Priory.
Lady Waldegrave was a great entertainer, and the house was thronged, not only with her country
neighbours but with numbers of smart people from London--people such as Hayward, Bagehot, Lord
Houghton, on the literary side, and men like Sir Walter Harcourt on the political. Again, picturesque
figures in the European world, such as the Comte de Paris, the Due d'Aumale, were often guests,
and there were always members of the Foreign Embassies and Legations. For example, it was at
the Priory that I first saw a real alive American, in the shape of General Schenk, the United
States Minister to the Court of St. James. I remember well his teaching the whole houseparty
to play poker--a game till then quite unknown in England.

It was in the interval between leaving school and going to Chewton to the Philpotts that I
began to read poetry for myself. Before, I had only loved it through my father's and Leaker's
reading to us from Shakespeare, Scott, Byron, Spenser, Coleridge, Southey, and the old Ballads.
When, however, I discovered that I could read poetry for myself, I tore the heart out of every
book in the library that was in verse. Though my parents would have thought it an unforgivable
crime to keep books from a child of theirs, for some reason or other I used to like in the
summer-time to get up at about five or six o'clock (I was not a very good sleeper in those
days, though I have been a perfect sleeper ever since), dress myself, run through the silent,
sleeping house, and hide in the Great Parlour. There in absolute quietness and with a great
sense of grandeur I got out my Byron or my Shelley, and raced though their pages in a delirium
of delight. I can recall still, and most vividly, the sunlight streaming into the Great Parlour
window, as I opened the great iron-sheathed shutters. Till breakfast-time I lolled on the big
sofa, mouthing to myself explosive couplets from Don Juan. I am proud to say that, though I
liked, as a boy should, the sentimentalism of the stanzas which begin

  'Tis sweet to hear the watchdog's honest bark

I was equally delighted with

  Sweet is a legacy, and passing sweet
   The unexpected death of some old lady.

The ironic mixture of emotion and sarcasm fascinated me.

No sooner were Byron, Shelley, and Keats explored than I fell tooth and nail upon Swinburne,
Morris, and Rossetti, and every other possible poet of my generation. I forget the exact date
on which I became enamoured of the Elizabethan dramatists, but it was some time between fourteen
and sixteen, and when I did catch the fever, it was severe.

As everyone ought to do under such circumstances, I thought, or pretended to think, that Marlowe,
Beaumont, Fletcher, Ben Jonson, Webster, and Ford were the equals, if not indeed the superiors,
of Shakespeare.

That was a view with which my father by no means agreed, but with his kindly wisdom he never
attempted to condemn or dispute my opinions. He left me to find out the true Shakespeare for
myself. This I ultimately did, and ended by being what, as a rule, is wrong in literature,
but, I think, right in the case of Shakespeare, a complete idolater.

But though hand-in-hand with Charles Lamb I wandered through the Eden of the Elizabethan playwrights,
I by no means neglected the Eighteenth Century. Quite early I became a wholehearted devotee
of Pope and at once got the Ode to the Unfortunate Lady by heart. I dipped into The Rape of
the Lock, gloried in the Moral Essays, especially in the Characters of Women and the epistle
to Bathurst on the use of riches. Gray, who was a special favourite of Leaker's, soon became
a favourite of mine, and I can still remember how I discovered the Ode to Poesy and how I went
roaring its stanzas through the house. Such lines as

  Where each old poetic mountain
   Inspiration breathes around

or

  Hark, his hands the lyre explore,

were meat and drink to me. The Elegy in a Country Churchyard quickly seized my memory.

Nobody could avoid knowing when I had made a poetic discovery. I was as noisy as a hen that
has laid an egg, or, to be more exact, I felt and behaved like a man who has come into a fortune.
For me there were no coteries in Literature, or if there were, I belonged to them all. If I
heard somebody say that there were good lines in the poems of some obscure author or other,
I did not rest satisfied till I had got hold of his Complete Works. For example, when Crabbe
was spoken of, I ran straight to The Tales of the Hall and thoroughly enjoyed myself. I even
tasted The Angel in the House when I heard that Rossetti and Ruskin, and even Swinburne, admired
Coventry Patmore. Though largely disappointed, I even extracted honey from The Angel, though
I confess it was rather like a bee getting honey out of the artificial flowers in the case
in a parlour window. Still, if I could only find two lines that satisfied me, I thought myself
amply rewarded for the trouble of a search. It is still a pleasure to repeat

  And o'er them blew
   The authentic airs of Paradise.

I felt, I remember, about the epithet "authentic" what Pinkerton in The Wrecker felt about
Hebdomadary--"You're a boss word."

I have no recollection of what made me take to writing verse myself. It was the old story.
"I lisped in numbers, for the numbers came." My first lisp--the first poem I ever wrote--of
all the odd things in the world was a diminutive satire in the style of Pope. Throughout my
boyhood I was an intense romanticist, and full of Elizabethan fancies, imaginings. and even
melancholies--I use the word, of course, in the sense of Burton, or of Shakespeare. Yet all
the time I read masses of Pope. The occasion for my satire was one which must be described
as inevitable in the case of one eager to try his hand at imitations of Pope. By this I mean
that the satiric outburst was not provoked by any sort of anger. I merely found in some of
the circumstances of the life around me good copy. One of the things I liked particularly in
Pope was the Epistle describing the Duke of Chandos's house, the poem which begins--

  At Timon's villa let us pass a day,
   Where all cry out what sums are thrown away.

And there, straight in front of me, was the Priory, Lady Waldegrave's grandiose country-house.
I heard plenty of criticism of the house. Its nucleus was a Carpenter's Gothic villa, built
originally by a Dean of Wells, bought by Lord Waldegrave in the 'thirties or 'forties, and
then gradually turned by Frances, Lady Waldegrave, into a big country-house, but a house too
big for the piece of ground in which it was set. The skeleton of the roadside villa was alleged
by the local critics to show through the swelling flesh that overlaid it. Here was a chance
for the satirist, and so I sharpened my pencil and began:

  Oh, stones and mortar by a Countess laid
   In sloping meadows by a turnpike glade,--
   A Gothic mansion where all arts unite
   To form a home for Baron, Earl or Knight.

The rest is lost! Considering that I was only twelve, and that Pope was little read by the
youth of the 'seventies, my couplets may fairly claim to be recognised as a literary curiosity.

It is hardly necessary to say that the moment I found I could write, and that metre and rhyme
were no difficulty to me, I went at it tooth and nail. The more I wrote the more interested
did I become in metre, and it is not too much to say that within a couple of years from my
first attempt, that is by the time I was about fourteen and a half, I had experimented not
only in most of the chief measures, but in almost all the chief stanzas used by the English
poets. To these, indeed, I added some of my own devising. In this way Prosody early became
for me what it has always been, a source of pleasure and delight in itself. I liked discovering
metrical devices in the poets, analysing them, i.e. discovering the way the trick worked, and
in making experiments for myself. The result of this activity was that I had soon written enough
verse to make a little pamphlet. With this pamphlet in my pocket and without consultation with
anybody--the young of the poets are as shy as the young of the salmon--I trudged off to Wells,
the county town, five miles distant across Mendip. How I discovered the name of the local printer
I do not know, but I did discover it, and with beating heart approached his doors. After swearing
him to secrecy, I asked for an estimate. He was a sympathetic man, and named a price which
even then seemed to me low, and which was in reality so small that it would be positively unsafe
to name to a master-printer nowadays.

As far as I remember, I did not receive a proof, but my delight at seeing my verses come back
in print was beyond words. I remember, too, that I received a flattering note from my first
publisher, prophesying success for future poetic ventures. But, though very happy, I believe,
and am indeed sure, that I did not entertain any idea that I was going to become a poet. Possibly
I thought the trade was a bad one for a second son who must support himself. It is more probable
that I instinctively felt that although it was so great a source of joy to me, poetry was not
my true vocation. Perhaps, also, I had already begun to note the voice of pessimism raised
by the poets of the 'seventies, and to feel that they did not believe in themselves. I distinctly
remember that Tennyson's "Is there no hope for modern rhyme?" was often on my lips and in my
mind. His question distinctly expected the answer "No." It is little wonder, then, that I did
not want to be a poet, and I never envisaged myself as a Byron, a Shelley, or a Keats.

The thing that strikes me most, on looking back at my little volume of verse, is its uncanny
competence, not merely from the point of view of prosody, but of phraseology and what I may
almost term scholarship. The poems did not show much inspiration, but they are what 18th-century
critics would have called "well-turned." That would not be astonishing, in the case of a boy
who had been well-educated and had acquired the art of expression. But I had not been well-educated.
Owing to my ill-health my teachers had not been allowed to press me, and I was in a sense quite
illiterate. I could hardly write, I could not spell at all, and nobody had ever pruned my budding
fancies or shown me how to transfer thoughts to language, as one is shown, or ought to be shown,
when one learns the Greek and Latin grammars and attacks Latin prose or Latin verse. My teaching
in this direction had been more than sketchy. The only schoolroom matter in which I had made
any advance was mathematics. Euclid and algebra fascinated me. I felt for them exactly what
I felt for poetry. Though I did not know till many years afterwards that when Pythagoras discovered
the forty-seventh proposition he sacrificed a yoke of oxen, not to Pallas Athene but to the
Muses, I was instinctively exactly of his opinion. I can remember to this day how I worked
out the proof of the forty-seventh proposition with Mr. Battersby, a young Cambridge man who
was curate to Mr. Philpott and who took us on in mathematics. The realisation of the absolute,
unalterable fact that in every right-angled triangle the square of the side subtending it is
equal to the squares of the sides containing it, filled me with the kind of joy and glory that
one feels on reading for the first time Keats's Ode to a Nightingale or one of the great passages
in Shakespeare. I saw the genius of delight unfold his purple wing. I was transfigured and
seemed to tread upon air. For the first time in my life I realised the determination of an
absolute relationship. A great window had been opened before my eyes. I saw all things new.
My utter satisfaction could not be spoiled by feeling, as one does in the case of the earlier
propositions of Euclid, that I had been proving what I knew already-- something about which
I could have made myself sure by the use of a foot-rule or a tape-measure. I had acquired knowledge,
by an act of pure reasoning and not merely through the senses. I felt below my feet a rock-bed
foundation which nothing could shake. Come what might, a^2 = b^2 + c^2. No one could ever deprive
me of that priceless possession.

 At that time I did not see or dream of the connection which no doubt
does exist between mathematics and poetry--the connection which made the
wise Dryden say that every poet ought to be something of a
mathematician. Needless to say, my teachers did not see the connection.
They were simply amazed that the same person should become as drunk with
geometry and algebra as with poetry. Probably they consoled themselves
by the thought that I was one of the people who could persuade
themselves into believing anything!

It is of importance to record my precocity in the use of measured language, from the point
of view of the growth of my mind. It will, I think, also amuse those of my readers who have
written poetry for themselves in their youth (that, I suppose, is the case with most of us)
to observe my hardihood in the way of metrical experiment. Here is the Invocation to the Muses
which served as an Introduction to my little book. It will be noted that I have here tried
my hand at my favourite measure, the dactylic. Towards anapaests I have always felt a certain
coldness, if not indeed repulsion.

TO THE MUSES

(1874)

  Come to my aid, Muses love-laden, lyrical:
   Come to my aid, Comic, Tragic, Satirical.
     Come and breathe into me
   Strains such as swept from Keats' heaven-strung lyre,
   Strains such as Shelley's, which never can tire.
     Come then, and sing to me,
   Sing me an ode such as Byron would sing,
   Passionate, love-stirring, quick to begin.
     Why come you not to me?
   Then must I write lyrics after vile rules
   Made by some idiot, used by worse fools--
     Then the deuce take you all!

  (Ætat. 14.)

I have to thank Mr. Edmund Gosse for inspiring this attempt. I hope he will forgive even if
he does not forget. I had made a shopping expedition into Bristol, and went to tea or luncheon
at Clifton Hill House where lived my mother's brother, John Addington Symonds. It happened
that Mr. Gosse was a visitor at the house on the day in question, and that to my great delight
we all talked poetry. I saw my chance, and proceeded to propound to these two authorities the
following question: "Why is it that nobody has ever written an English poem in pure dactyls?"
Greatly to my surprise and joy, Mr. Gosse informed me that it had been done. Thereupon he quoted
the first four lines of what has ever since been a favourite poem of mine, Waller's lines to Hylas:

  Hylas, O Hylas! why sit we mute,
     Now that each bird saluteth the spring?
   Tie up the slackened strings of thy lute,
     Never may'st thou want matter to sing.

I hope I am not quoting incorrectly, but it is nearly fifty years since I saw the poem and
at the moment I have not got a Waller handy. With the exactitude of youth I verified Mr. Gosse's
quotation the moment I got home. I took my poetry very seriously in those days. I rushed to
the Great Parlour, and though then quite indifferent to such a material thing as fine printing,
I actually found the poem in one of Baskerville's exquisite productions.

The poem next to my dactylic Introduction was a dramatic lyric, partly blank verse and partly
rhymed choruses, in the Swinburne manner. In my poem the virtuous and "misunderstood" Byron
is pursued and persecuted by the spirits of Evil, Hypocrisy, Fraud, and Tyranny, but is finally
redeemed by the Spirit of Good, whose function it is to introduce the triumphant poet to Shelley.

There follows another dramatic lyric on Shelley's death, which takes the form of the death-bed
confession to his priest of an old sailor at Spezzia. The old man, according to a story published
in 1875, was one of the crew of a small ship which ran down the boat containing Shelley and
Williams, under the mistaken impression that the rich "milord Byron" was on board, with lots
of money. Here the style is more that of Browning than of Swinburne. A few lines are quite
sufficient to show the sort of progress I was making in blank verse.

  What noise of feet is that? Ah, 'tis the priest.
   Here, priest, I have a sin hangs heavy. See
   There by the fishing-nets that lovely youth,
   I killed him--oh, 'twas fifty years ago,
   Only, tonight he will not let me rest,
   But looks with loving eyes, making me fear.
   Oh, Father, 'twas not him I meant to kill,
   'Twas the rich lord I coveted to rob,
   He with the bright wild eyes and haughty mien.

Imitation of Browning was by no means a passing mood with me. A year before I tackled my Shelley
and Byron poems, I had written a piece of imitation Browningese which is not without its stock
of amusement, considering what was to be the fate of the versifier.

JEAN DUVAL'S LAST WORDS

Jean Duval has presented himself at a Paris newspaper office, asking for employment; this being
refused him he makes a last request, offering to sell his muse, which he had hoped to keep
unhired. This also being refused, his want of bread overcomes him, and he curses the Editor
and dies.

  A plague on all gold, say I,
   I who must win it, or die.
   Here goes, I'll sell my Muse.
   You may buy her for twenty sous.
   No, I'll write by the ream,
   Only give me your theme,
   And a sou more for a light
   To put in my garret at night.
   Garret!--ah, I was forgetting,
   My present's a very cheap letting
   Under the prison wall,
   Just where it grows so tall.
   Why don't I steal, you say?
   Oh, I wasn't brought up that way.
   Will you give me the twenty sous?
   Come, it isn't much to lose.
   You won't? Then I die. Ah, well,
   God will find you a lodging in hell.

(Ætat. 14.)

The melancholy which belongs to the young poet, a melancholy which had to be feigned in my
case, was reserved for sonnets of a somewhat antinomian type. Here is an example.

SONNET

(1875)

  O why so cruel, ye that have left behind
     Life's fears, and from draped death have drawn the veil?
     Oh, why so cruel? Does life or death avail?
   Why tell us not?--why leave us here so blind,
   To tread this earth, not sure that we may find
     Even an end beyond this worldly pale
     Of petty hates and loves so weak and frail?
   O why not speak?--is it so great a thing
     To cross death's stream and whisper in the ear
     Of us weak mortals some faint hope or cheer?
   Or tell us, dead ones, if the hopes that spring
     From joyous hours when all seems bright and clear
   Have any truth. O speak, ye dead, and say
   If that in hope of dying, live we may.

(Ætat. 15.)

A metrical essay of which I am more proud is a poem written at the end of 1874, or possibly
at the beginning of 1875. With a daring which now seems to me incredible I undertook to write
in that most difficult of measures, the Spenserian stanza. The matter of the composition is
by no means memorable, but I think I have a right to congratulate myself upon the fact that
I was able at that age to manage the triple rhymes and the twelve-syllable line at the end
of each stanza without coming a complete cropper. I could not do it now, even if my life depended
on it.

 TO THE POWERS OF SONG

I

  Spirit, whose harmony doth fill the mind,
   Deign now to hear the wailing of a song
   That lifts to thee its voice, and strives to find
   Aught that may raise it from the servile throng
   Who seek on earth but living to prolong.
   For them no goddess, no fair poets reign,
   They hear no singing, as the earth along
   They move to their dull tasks; they live, they wane,
   They die, and dying, not a thought of thee retain.

II

  Thou art the Muse of whom the Grecian knew,
   The power that reigneth in each loving heart;
   From thee the sages their great teachings drew.
   Thou mak'st life tuneful by the poet's art.
   Without thy aid the love-god's fiery dart
   Wakes but a savage and a blind desire,
   Where nought of beauty e'er can claim a part.
   Without thee, all to which frail men aspire
   Has nothing good, is but of this poor earth, no higher.

III

  Unhappy they who wander without light,
   And know thee not, thou goddess of sweet life;
   Cursed are they all that live not in thy sight,
   Cursed by themselves they cannot drown the strife
   In thee, of passion, of the ills so rife
   On earth; they have no star, no hope, no love,
   To guide them in the stormy ways of life;
   They are but as the beasts who slowly move
   On the world's face, nor care to look for light above.

IV

  I am not as these men; I look for light,
   But none appears, no rays for me are flung.
   I would not be with those that sit in night;
   I fain would be that glorious host among,
   That band of poets who have greatly sung.
   But woe, alas, I cannot, I no power
   Of singing have, all my tired heart is wrung
   To think I might have known a happier hour,
   And sung myself, not let my aching spirit cower.
     (Ætat. 14.)

A bad poem, though interesting from the number of poets mentioned, is a satiric effort entitled
The Examination. It supposes that all the living poets have been summoned by Apollo to undergo
a competitive examination. The bards, summoned by postcards, which had just then been introduced,
repair to Parnassus and are shown to the Hall. Rossetti and Morris, however, make a fuss because
the paper is not to their taste. Walt Whitman, already a great favourite of mine, "though spurning
a jingle," is hailed as "the singer of songs for all time." Proteus (Wilfrid Blount) is mentioned,
for my cult for him was already growing. Among other poets who appear, but who have since died
to fame, are Lord Lytton, Lord Southesk, Lord Lome, Mrs. Singleton, and Martin Tupper. In the
end Apollo becomes "fed up" with his versifiers, and dismisses them all with the intimation
that any who have passed will receive printed cards. The curtain is rung down with the gloomy
couplet:

  Six months have elapsed, but no poet or bard,
   So far as I know, has yet got a card

Another set of verses, written between the ages of fourteen and fifteen, which are worth recalling
from the point of view of metre include some English hexameters. I was inspired to write them
by an intense admiration of Clough's Amours de Voyage, an admiration which grows greater, not
lesser, with years.

As I have started upon the subject of verse, I think I had better pursue the course of the
stream until, as the old geographers used to say about the Rhine, its waters were lost in the
sands, in my case not of Holland but of Prose.

From 1877 to the time when I actually entered Balliol, at eighteen and a half, I went on writing
verse, and was fortunate enough to get one or two pieces published. Besides two sonnets which
were accepted by The Spectator--sonnets whose only raison d'être was a certain competence of
expression--was a poem entitled Love's Arrows, which was accepted, to my great delight, by
Sir George Grove, then the Editor of Macmillan's Magazine, a periodical given up to belles-lettres.
The poem may be best described as in the Burne Jones manner. I shall not, however, quote any
part of it, except the prose introduction, which I still regard with a certain enthusiasm as
a successful fake. It ran as follows:

At a league's distance from the town of Ponteille in Provence and hard by the shrine of Our
Lady of Marten, there is in the midst of verdant meadows a little pool, overshadowed on all
sides by branching oak-trees, and surrounded at the water's edge by a green sward so fruitful
that in spring it seemeth, for the abundance of white lilies, as covered with half-melted snow.
Unto this fair place a damsel from out a near village once came to gather white flowers for
the decking of Our Lady's chapel; and while so doing saw lying in the grass a naked boy; in
his hair were tangled blue waterflowers, and at his side lay a bow and marvellously wrought
quivers of two arrows, one tipped at the point with gold, the other with lead. These the damsel,
taking up the quiver, drew out; but as she did so the gold arrow did prick her finger, and
so sorely that, starting at the pain, she let fall the leaden one upon the sleeping boy. He
at the touch of that arrow sprang up, and crying against her with much loathing, fled over
the meadows. She followed him to overtake him, but could not, albeit she strove greatly; and
soon, wearied with her running, fell upon the grass in a swoon. Here had she lain, had not
a goatherd of those parts found her and brought her to the village. Thus was much woe wrought
unto the damsel, for after this she never again knew any joy, nor delighted in aught, save
only it were to sit waiting and watching among the lilies by the pool. By these things it seemeth
that the boy was not mortal, as she supposed, but rather the Demon or Spirit of Love, whom
John of Dreux for his two arrows holdeth to be that same Eros of Greece.--MSS. Mus. Aix. B.
754.  Needless to say, it was a pure invention and not a copy, or travesty of an old model.
I was egregiously proud of the scription at the end which, if I remember rightly, my father
helped me to concoct. A certain interest has always attached in my mind to this piece of prose.
To read it one would imagine that the author had closely studied the translations of Morris
and other Tenderers of the French romances, but as far as I know I had not read any of them.
The sole inspiration of my forgery were a few short references in Rossetti and Swinburne. This
shows that in the case of literary forgeries one need not be surprised by verisimilitudes,
and that it is never safe to say that a literary forger could not have done this or that. If
he happens to have a certain flair for language and the tricks of the literary trade, he can
do a wonderful amount of forgery upon a very small stock of knowledge. After all, George Byron
forged Sonnets by Keats which took in Lord Houghton--a very good judge in the case of Keats.

CHAPTER X

OXFORD

My introduction to Oxford and its life was somewhat chaotic. Out of that chaos, as I shall
show later, I achieved both good and evil. But I must first explain how the chaos arose. By
the time I had reached seventeen it had become obvious to my father--or, rather, to the people
at the University, who so advised him--that if I was to be able to matriculate at Balliol I
must set my intellectual house in order and learn something of the things upon which alone
one could matriculate. The irony of accident had designed my mental equipment to be of a kind
perfectly useless for the purposes of the preliminary Oxford examinations. It was no doubt
true that I knew enough poetry and general literature to confound half the Dons in Balliol.
I also knew enough mathematics, as, to my astonishment, a mathematical tutor at Oxford in an
unguarded hour confessed to me, to enable me to take a First in Mathematical Mods. But knowledge
of literature, a power of writing, a not inconsiderable reading in modern history, and the
aforesaid mathematics were no use whatever for the purposes of matriculation.

In those days Latin and Greek Grammar, Latin Prose and "Latin and Greek Unseen," and certain
specially-prepared Greek and Latin Books were essentials. It is true that these alone would
not have matriculated me. In addition to them the writing of a good essay and of a good general
paper were required, to obtain success. Still, the sine qua non was what the representative
of the old Oxford in Matthew Arnold's Friendship's Garland calls "the good old fortifying classical
curriculum." I could by no possibility have reached the heights of "Hittal," who, it will be
remembered, wrote "some longs and shorts about the Caledonian boar which were not bad." Though
English verses came so easily, Latin verses did not come at all.

After many family councils it was decided that I should accept the invitation of my uncle and
aunt (Professor T. H. Green and his wife) and take up my residence with them in their house
in St. Giles's. There I read for Responsions. If it had not been for some extraordinary power
of resistance in the matter of Latin and Greek I ought to have found the task easy, for, as
I have said elsewhere, I had two of the most accomplished scholars in the University to teach
me. One was Mr. Henry Nettleship, soon to become Regius Professor of Latin. The other was a
young Balliol man who had just won a Magdalen Fellowship and who was destined to become President
of that famous college over which he still presides so worthily and so wisely. But, alas! I
was Greek and Latin proof, and all I really gained from my learned teachers was two very close
and intimate friends, and the privilege of meeting at the house of the one and in the rooms
in the College of the other, a good many of the abler Dons, young and old, and getting on good
terms with them. In the same way, I used to see at my uncle's house the best of Oxford company,
and also a certain number of Cambridge men.

It must not be supposed, however, that I was not learning anything. I was getting a priceless
store of knowledge,

  nay, wisdom from my uncle, who was kindness
itself and who was, I am sure, fond of me. He was almost as ready to
talk and to answer questions as my father. In him, too, I saw the
working of a great and good man and of a noble character.

Though in a different, but equally true, way, Green was as religious a man as my father. If
my father felt the personal relationship between God and His children more than Green did,
that was chiefly because Green's mind could take nothing which had not the sanction of reason,
or, to be more accurate, of an intuition guarded so closely by Reason that very little of the
mystic element in Faith remained unchallenged. No one could live with Green without loving
him and feeling reverence for his deep sincerity and his instinct for the good.

Though foolish people talked of him as a heretic, or even an infidel, he was in truth one of
the most devout of men. That noble passage in Renan's play fits him exactly. The Almighty,
conversing as in Job with one of His Heavenly Ministers as to this Planet's people, says:

Apprends, enfant fidèle, ma tendresse pour ceux qui doutent ou qui nient. Ces doutes, ces négations
sont fondés en raison; ils viennent de mon obstination à me cacher. Ceux qui me nient entrent
dans mes vues. Ils nient l'image grotesque ou abominable que l'on a mise en ma place. Dans
ce monde d'idolâtres et d'hypocrites, seuls, ils me respectent réellement.

Understand, faithful child, my tenderness for those who doubt and who deny. Those doubts, those
denials are founded on reason; they come from my obstinate resolve to hide myself. Those who
deny me enter into my plans. They deny the grotesque or abominable image which men have set
up in my place. In a world of idolators and hypocrites, they alone really respect me.

But what I gained from my uncle and his friends, from Nettleship and from Warren, and also
from the people I used to meet at the house of my great-uncle, Dr. Frederick Symonds, was not
all that I achieved in the year before I matriculated. The air of Oxford did not repress but
greatly stimulated my love of verse and belles-lettres, and I careered over the green pastures
of our poetry like the colt let loose that I was. Elizabethan plays were at the moment my pet
reading, and without knowing it I emulated Charles James Fox, who is said while at Oxford to
have read a play a day--no doubt out of the Doddesley collection. I even went to the Bodleian
in search of the Elizabethans, and remember to this day my delight in handling the big and
little books mentioned by Lamb in his Dramatic Selections. I recall how I turned over the leaves
of such enchanting works as Inigo Jones's designs for The Tempest played as a Masque. Though
I do not happen to have seen it since, and so speak with a forty years' interval, the pen-and-ink
drawing of Ariel, portrayed exactly like a Cinquecento angel, is fixed in my mind. It has all
the graciousness and gentleness of Bellini and all the robust beauty of Veronese or Palma Vecchio.
To tell the truth, I was in the mood of the lady of the Island over which Prospero waved his
wand. I could say with Miranda, "O brave new world, that has such men and women in it!" Indeed,
though I still stood outside the gates, as it were, I had already felt the subtle intoxication
of Oxford.

The result of all this was that when I at last got through Responsions and entered Balliol,
with the understanding that directly I got through Pass Mods. I was to abandon the Classics
and read for the History School, I knew, as it were, too much and too little. This knowledge
of some things and want of knowledge of others produced a result which was highly distasteful
to the normal academic mind. In a word, I was in the position of Gibbon when he went up to
Magdalen. His ignorance would have astonished a schoolboy and his learning a professor, and
no doubt he seemed to the greater part of the High Table an odious and forward young man.

All the same, and though no one then believed it, I was extraordinarily innocent, if not as
to my ignorance, as to my learning. When I met a Don who, I was told, was "unsurpassed" in
the Greek or Latin classics and could probably appreciate them as well as if he had been a
Greek or Roman of the best period, I was tremendously excited. I felt sure that being so highly
endowed in this direction he could not possibly have neglected English literature, and must
know all about that also, and so would be of the greatest help to me. I was inclined, therefore,
to rush at these scholars with the perfect assurance that I could get something from them.
When, however, they either evaded my questionings or told me curtly that they had never heard
of the people about whom I asked, I felt sure that this was only said to get rid of me. For
some reason unknown to me I had managed, I felt, to offend them as Alice offended the creatures
in Wonderland.

I can recall a specific example. I found a certain learned scholar who had never even heard
of, and took no interest in, Marlowe's Dido and Æneas, and could not be drawn into expressing
an opinion as to whether the translations were good or bad. In other cases I found that even
the names of men like Burton of the Anatomy of Melancholy produced no reaction. Yet, wretched
Latinist as I was, I had been thunderstruck with delight when, rummaging the Cathedral after
a Sunday service, where, by the way, I heard Pusey preach his last sermon, I came upon Burton's
tomb, and read for the first time the immortal epitaph which begins:

Paucis notus, paucioribus ignotus,

I can see now that what I thought was the pretended ignorance of the Dons, and their fastidious
unwillingness to talk to an uneducated schoolboy, as I believed myself to be, was nothing of
the kind. I have not the slightest doubt now that they regarded me as a cheeky young ass who
was trying to show off in regard to things of which he was totally ignorant and of which, needless
to say, they were ignorant too, for, alas! the minute study of the Classics does not appear
to necessitate a general knowledge of literature. A scholar fully en rapport with Aristophanes
or Juvenal and Martial may never have read Ben Jonson's Alchemist, or Beaumont and Fletcher's
Knight of the Burning Pestle; or studied Charles Churchill, or Green on The Spleen.

There was a mental attitude which the typical Don, full of the public- school spirit and its
dislikes, could never forgive. Except for the few intimate friends who were devoted to me--Nettleship
and Warren, T. H. Green and, later, curiously enough, Mr. A. L. Smith, the present Master of
Balliol,--I was, I expect, universally regarded as the most intolerable undergraduate they
had ever beheld.

Jowett, the Master of Balliol, evidently felt the Stracheyphobia very strongly, or perhaps
I should say felt it his duty to express it very strongly. He had not, I think, a great natural
instinct in regard to the characters of young men, but he was naturally anxious to improve
those with whom he came in contact. His method was to apply two or three fixed rules. One of
these was--and a good one in suitable cases--that if you got hold of a boy who thought too
much of himself, the best thing was to stamp upon him upon every possible occasion, and so
help him to reform his ways. No doubt it saved a great deal of trouble to give this rule a
universal application, and it was often successful. Every now and then, however, the generalisation
failed.

Fortunately for me, I was not only of a contented nature, but so happy-- and also so happy-go-lucky--that
I was not the very least worried by the opinion of my educational superiors. I should have
been genuinely pleased to have pleased them, but as I had clearly failed in that, I did not
trouble about it further. I could always console myself with the thought that schoolmasters
and dons were notoriously narrow-minded people, and that when one got out into the big world
their opinions would matter very little.

In a word, I accepted the situation with a cheerful and genuine acquiescence. The Master did
not like me, but then, why should he? I was obviously not a model undergraduate. This acquiescence
was soon buttressed by a reasoned if somewhat unfair estimate of the Master's character. I
very soon began to hear plenty of Oxford gossip about him and his failings--chief among them
being his supposed favouritism. He was very generally called a snob, which no doubt, in a superficial
sense, he was, and I soon got my nose well in the air in regard to his worship of dukes and
marquesses and even of the offscourings of Debrett and his willingness to give special privileges
to their errant progeny. I had, however, to give the Master credit for the way in which he
would often shower his partial favours on some boy who had climbed the ladder of learning and
risen from a Board School to become a Scholar or Exhibitioner of Balliol. My general feeling,
however, was that of the idealist who despises the schoolmaster or the scholar who becomes
worldly in his old age, and even goes so far as to follow the shameless maxim, "Dine with the
Tories and vote with the Whigs."

Of course I know now that Jowett's apparent worldliness and snobbishness were calculated. He
was very anxious to get good educative influences exerted over the men who were to rule the
country. This, translated into action, meant getting the big men of the day, the Optimates
of British politics and commerce, to send their sons to Balliol. He also, no doubt, liked smart
society for itself. Men of the world, especially when they were politicians or persons of distinction,
greatly interested the translator of Plato, Thucydides, and Aristotle. Though he was not the
kind of man to inflate himself with any idea that he was "Socrates redivivus" I have no doubt
that he found the worldlywise malice of Lord Westbury as piquant as the Greek philosopher did
the talk of Alcibiades.

Young men, however, do not make excuses, and, as I have said, I was inclined to be much scandalised,
and to feel complacently self-righteous over stories of the Master's "love of a lord"

The feeling which I engendered in the minds of the rest of the Balliol Dons differed very little
from that entertained by the Master. I can say truthfully that I never received a word of encouragement,
of kindly direction, or of sympathy of any sort or kind from them in regard to my work or anything
else. The only exception was Mr. A. L. Smith. The reason, I now feel sure, was that they believed
that to take notice of me would have only made me more uppish. I daresay they imagined I should
have been rude or surly, or have attempted to snub them. Still, the fact is something of a
record, and so worthy of note.

If I had been at a public school and had learned there to understand the ways of teachers and
masters, as the public-school boy learns to understand them, as an old fox learns to understand
the cry of the hounds and of the huntsmen, I should have had no difficulty whatever in getting
on good terms with the College. As it was, I misunderstood them quite as much as they misunderstood
me. Each of us was unable to handle the other. Yet I think, on a balance of accounts, I had
a little more excuse on my side than the Dons had. I was very young, very immature, and without
any knowledge or experience of institutional social life. They, on the other hand, must have
had previous knowledge of the exceptional boy who had not been at a public school. Therefore
they should quite easily have been able to adjust their minds to my case. They should not have
allowed themselves to assume that the "uppishness" was due to want of that humility which they
rightly expected in their pupils.

Curiously enough, my undergraduate contemporaries at Balliol were far more successful in their
efforts at understanding somebody who had not been at a public school. They appeared to have
no prejudices against the homebred boy. I was never made in the least to feel that there was
any bar or barrier between me and my fellow-freshmen. As proof of this, I may point to the
fact that every one of my intimate friends at Balliol were public-school boys. I have no doubt
I was considered odd by most of my contemporaries, but this oddness, and also my inability
to play football or cricket, never seemed to create, as far as I could see, any prejudice.
Indeed, I think that my friends were quite discerning enough and quite free enough from convention
to be amused and interested by a companion who was not built up in accordance with the sealed
pattern.

In spite of the Dons, about whom I troubled singularly little, in spite of my being ploughed
twice for Mods., sent down from my college, made to become an unattached student, and only
reinstated at Balliol after I had got through Mods, and was guaranteed to be going to do well
in the History Schools, I can say with absolute truth that I was never anything but supremely
happy at Oxford--I might almost say deliriously happy.

I may interpolate here that when I went back to Balliol after my year as an unattached student,
the only thing that the Master said, on readmitting me, was something of this kind: "The College
is only taking you back, Mr. Strachey, because your history tutor says that you are likely
to get a First." I was appropriately shocked at this, for I had become well aware that Jowett
was looked upon by a good many people in the University as simply a hunter for Firsts, a Head
who did not care much what kind of people he had in his College, or how their minds were developed
in the highest sense, so long as they came out well in the Schools List. He was alleged, that
is, to take a tradesman's view of learning. These kinds of gibe I naturally found soothing,
for I was able to imagine myself as a scholar, though not as a winner of a First. Incidentally,
also, though I did not acknowledge it to myself, I think I was a little hurt by the Master's
want of what I might call humanity, or at any rate courtesy in his treatment of the shorn lamb
of Moderations. However, I have not the least doubt that he thought he was stimulating me for
my good. This, indeed, was his constant mood. I remember at Collections his telling me that
I should never do anything except, possibly, be able to write light trifles for the magazines.
On another occasion he asked me what I was going to do in life. I told him that I wanted to
go to the Bar, which was then my intention. To this he replied oracularly, "I should have thought
you would have done better in diplomacy."

That tickled me. It was clearly a back-hander over an ingenious attempt which I had made a
day or two before to prove how much better it would be for me to get off three days before
Collections and so obtain another whole week in the bosom of my family at Cannes! No doubt
Jowett's system of controlling the recalcitrant portions of the College through sarcasm was
well meant and occasionally fairly successful. Taking it as a whole, however, I felt then,
as I feel now, that sarcasm is the one weapon which it is never right or useful to use in the
case of persons who are in the dependent position when compared with the wielder of the sarcastic
rapier;--persons in statu pupillari, persons much younger than oneself, persons in one's employment,
or, finally, members of one's own family. Sarcasm should be reserved for one's equals, or,
still better, for one's superiors. The man who is treated with sarcasm, if he cannot answer
back either because it is true, or he is stupid, or he is afraid to counter-attack a superior,
is filled, and naturally filled, with a sense of burning indignation. He feels he has had a
cruel wrong done to him and is in no mood to be converted to better courses. That to which
his mind reacts at once is some form of vengeance, some way of getting even with his tormentor.
The words that burn or rankle or corrode are not the words to stimulate. No doubt Socrates
said that he was the gadfly of the State and stung that noble animal into action, but what
may be good for a sluggish old coach-horse is not necessarily good for a thoroughbred colt
with a thin skin.

To return to my general feeling about Oxford while I lived there. Instinctively I seem to have
realised what I came to see so clearly in my post-Oxford days, that the great thing that one
gets at a University is what Bagehot called the "impact of young mind upon young mind." Though
there must be examinations and lectures, and discipline and hard reading, nothing of all this
matters a jot in comparison with the association of youth with youth and the communion of quick
and eager spirits. I have lived my life with clever people, men and women who thought themselves
masters of dialectic, but I can say truthfully that I have never heard such good talk as in
my own rooms and in the rooms of my contemporaries at Oxford. There, and there only, have I
seen practised what Dr. Johnson believed to be an essential to good talk, the ability to stretch
one's legs and have one's talk out. It may be remembered that Dr. Johnson, in praising John
Wesley as a talker, sadly admitted that his great qualities in this respect were all marred
because Wesley was always in a hurry, always had some pressing business in hand which cut him
short when at his best.

The happy undergraduate never has to catch a train, never has an editor or a printer waiting
for him, never has an appointment which he cannot cut, never, in effect, has money to make.
He comes, indeed, nearer than anybody else on earth to the Hellenic ideal of the good citizen,
of the free man in a free state. If he wants to talk all through the night with his friends,
he talks. The idea of his sparing himself in order that he may be fresh next morning for Mr.
Jones's lecture never enters his head for a moment. Rightly; he considers that to talk at large
with a couple of friends is the most important thing in the world. In my day we would talk
about anything, from the Greek feeling about landscape to the principles the Romans would have
taken as the basis of actuarial tables, if they had had them. We unsphered Plato, we speculated
as to what Euripides would have thought of Henry James, or whether Sophocles would have enjoyed
Miss---'s acting, and felt that it was of vital import to decide these matters. But I must
stop, for I see I am beginning to make most dangerous admissions. If I go on, indeed, I am
likely enough to become as much disliked by the readers of the present day as I was by the
Oxford Dons of forty years ago.

I could fill this book with stories of my life at Oxford, of its enchantment, of my friendships,
of my walks and rides and of my expeditions up the river; for, not being a professional athlete,
I had time to enjoy myself. It would be a delight also to recall my associations, the first
in my life, with young men who were writing verses, like myself, such men as Beeching, Mackail,
Spring Rice (our Ambassador during the War, at Washington), Rennell Rodd, Nicolls, and a dozen
others. But space forbids. I can only quote Shenstone's delightful verses on Oxford, in his
Ode to Memory, verses which I have quoted a hundred times:

  And sketch with care the Muses' bow'r,
     Where Isis rolls her silver tide,
   Nor yet omit one reed or flow'r
     That shines on Cherwell's verdant side,
   If so thou may'st those hours prolong
   When polish'd Lycon join'd my song.

  The song it Vails not to recite--
     But, sure, to soothe our youthful dreams,
   Those banks and streams appear'd more bright
     Than other banks, than other streams;
   Or, by thy softening pencil shown,
   Assume they beauties not their own?

  And paint that sweetly vacant scene
     When, all beneath the poplar bough,
   My spirits light, my soul serene,
     I breathed in verse one cordial vow
   That nothing should my soul inspire
   But friendship warm and love entire.

I do not mean to inflict upon my readers the tiresome record of my failure to pass Moderations,
or the description of how I did eventually get through by a process which came very near to
learning by heart English translations of Xenophon's Memorabilia, a portion of Livy's History,
and Horace's Epistles. To do so would be both long and tedious. The circumstances have, however,
a certain interest considered from one point of view, and that is the use and misuse of the
classics for educational purposes.

CHAPTER XI

A CLASSICAL EDUCATION

Though I made such a hash of classical studies and was apparently so impermeable to Latin and
Greek literature, I am not one of those people who are prepared to damn the Greek and Latin
classics, either with faint praise or with a strenuous invective. I am not prepared to say
with Cobden that a single copy of The Times is worth the whole of Thucydides, or to ask, as
did the late Mr. Carnegie, what use Homer was either in regard to wisdom or human progress.
I believe that in all the things of the soul and the mind the stimulus of the Greek spirit
is of the utmost value. The Romans, no doubt, excelled the Greeks on the practical side of
law--though not in the pure jurisprudential spirit. Again, the Hebrews did incomparable service
to mankind in their handling of such vital matters as the family, the place of women and children
in the State, and the position of the slave. On the moral issues, in fact, the Jewish prophet
is far the safer teacher:

  As men divinely taught, and better teaching
   The solid rules of Civil Government
   In their majestic, unaffected style
   Than all the oratory of Greece and Rome.
   In them is plainest taught, and easiest learnt,
   What makes a Nation happy, and keeps it so,
   What ruins Kingdoms, and lays Cities flat.

In what concerns the intellectual rather than the moral side of life the Greek is, of course,
supreme. It is hardly too much to say that intellectual progress has only pursued a steady
and consistent course when men's minds have been in touch with the Greek. The sense of beauty
in all the arts, intellectual and figurative, was the prerogative of the Hellenic communities,
or, rather, of Athens, for only in Athens was perfection in the arts achieved. The Greek was
the best, as he was the first, director and teacher. It is true that the artists of Florence,
Umbria, Lombardy, and Venice equalled the Greeks in some of the arts and excelled them absolutely
in the new art of painting. In Greece, painting, though it had a beauty of its own, was hardly
more than exquisitely-coloured sculpture in the lowest conceivable relief. In painting the
Italians were guided by a wholly different series of visual conceptions. Their understanding
and use of atmosphere and mass was something of which the Greeks had formed no conception.
Apart, however, from painting, the Greeks were the first to light and feed the sacred flame
of Beauty.

There is a charming story of the way in which Renan emphasised this fact. Some thirty-five
years ago--I well remember the period--it was the fashion, just as, in a sense, it is the fashion
now, to say that the Egyptians were the real masters of sculpture, wall-painting, and metal
work, that the Greeks learnt from them, and in the fine arts originated nothing. At that time
it happened that the Keeper of the Egyptian antiquities at the Louvre was running this theory
for all it was worth. One day he showed Renan and a party of distinguished visitors a special
exhibition illustrating his contention. Notable examples of Egyptian art were produced, as
proving how perfectly and finally the Egyptians treated the human figure in the round, in bas-relief,
in the bronze statue, in the wooden statue, and even in earthenware. And to all the treasures
displayed was added the chorus of the Professor: "And so, you see, the Greeks invented nothing."
Renan assented. "Nothing. Nothing," he echoed, but added as an afterthought: "Seulement le Beau."

I have sometimes thought that these words, "Seulement le Beau," might do as the commemorative
epitaph of the Greek race. But of course the Greek was a great deal more than the exponent
of the beautiful. I only tell this story to make it quite clear how deep is my reverence and
admiration for the Greeks, and how strongly I feel that their philosophers and their poets
are lively oracles from which the human spirit may still draw perennial draughts of inspiration.

But if this is so, it will be asked, "How comes it that, with these views, you proclaim yourself
an opponent to compulsory Greek and compulsory Latin in schools and universities?" My answer
is, it is just because I am such an intense believer in the quickening power of the Greek mind
and in the immense advantages secured by getting into touch with the Greek spirit that I desire
the abolition of compulsory Greek. No civilised man should ever be out of touch with it at
first hand. But this means, translated into action, no compulsory Greek grammar, no compulsory
drudgery in acquiring the things which do not really belong to the Greeks but to the vapid
pedants of vanished ages. I passionately desire that as many people as possible should enjoy
Hellenic culture. I want to clear away the smoky mist of grammatical ineptitude which keeps
men from the great books and great minds of antiquity and prevents the soul of the Greek and
the soul of the Englishman--natural allies, for some strange reason--from flowing together.

It is appropriate that I should testify. Owing to having been forced to try to learn the Greek
Grammar instead of reading the books written by the Greeks in a language which I could understand,
I very nearly made an intellectual shipwreck. Indeed, it was only by a series of lucky accidents
that I escaped complete ignorance of the Greek spirit, though retaining a certain knowledge
of the grammar.

It was only after I had miserably squirmed my way through Mods., as a man may squirm through
some hole in a prison wall, that I had the slightest idea of what was meant by the Greek spirit.

I closed my grammar, with all the miserable and complicated stuff about tnpto and its aorists,
the enclitic and the double-damned Digamma, to open my Jowett's Plato, my Dakyns' Xenophon,
and, later, Gilbert Murray's Dramatists and Mackail's Anthology. It is true that in the squirming
process I have described I had to read a portion of the Anabasis and of the Odyssey and Memorabilia,
as well  as books of Caesar, Livy, Horace, and Virgil.

In the case of these books I acquired nothing but a distaste so deep that it has only just
worn off. Only after an interval of forty years could I bear to read these kill-joys in translation.
No doubt some of the fault was mine. Possibly I was born with an inability to learn languages.
But if that is so it is a misfortune, not a crime for which one should be put on the rack!

By the time I realised fully the glory of Greek letters, I was a very busy man, and bitter
indeed was the thought that the well-meaning persons who maintain our university system had
actually been keeping me all those years from the divine wells of grace and beauty. But for
them, how many more years of enjoyment might I have drawn from the Socratic Dialogues, from
the Apology, and from the Republic! Think of it! It was not till four years ago that I read
Thucydides and had my soul shaken by the supreme wickedness, the intellectual devilry of the
Melian controversy. How I thrilled at the awful picture of the supreme tragedy at Syracuse!
How I saw! How I perished with the Greek warriors standing to arms on the shore, and watching
in their swaying agony the Athenian ships sink one by one, without being able to lift a hand,
or cast a long or short spear to help them! Yet the watchers knew that the awful spectacle
on which they gazed meant death, or a slavery worse than death, for every one of them!

Almost worse to me than the denial of Plato, the dramatists Thucydides and Homer, was the refusal
to allow me to walk or hunt with Xenophon, and to saunter through his kitchen or his grounds.
And all because I could not show the requisite grammatical ticket. Could anything be more fascinating
than the tale of Xenophon's prim yet most lovable young wife, or the glorious picture of the
boy and girl lovers with which Xenophon closes his Symposium?

My sense of a deprivation unnecessary and yet deliberate was as great in regard to Latin literature.
It was only in 1919, owing to what I had almost called a fortunate illness, that I took to
reading Cicero's Letters and came under an enchantment greater than that cast even by Walpole,
Madame de Sévigné, or Madame du Deffand.

For forty years I was kept in ignorance of a book which painted the great world of Rome with
a touch more intimate than even that of St. Simon. Cicero in his Letters makes the most dramatic
moment in Roman history, the end of the Oligarchic Republic, live before one. Even Macaulay's
account of the Revolution of 1688 seems tame when called in comparison.

I know that by the time some Greek or Latin scholar has got as far as this he will ask with
a smile,

Why is this self-dubbed ignoramus making all this pother about being deprived of the classics?
Surely he cannot have failed to realise that it is impossible to understand and appreciate
the classics properly without having learnt Latin and Greek? But you cannot learn Latin and
Greek without learning the grammar. He not only on his own showing has no grievance, but is
giving support to those who desire that the classics should remain the centrepiece of our educational
system.

For all such objections I have one, and I think a final, argument. When people ask me how I
propose to enjoy Plato without knowing Greek, I ask them to tell me, in return, how they manage
to enjoy reading one of the greatest poets in the world, Isaiah, without knowing Hebrew. How
have they found consolation in the Psalms; how have they absorbed the worldly wisdom of Proverbs
and Ecclesiastes; how have they read the lyric choruses of the Song of Solomon; how have they
followed the majestic drama of the Book of Job? They read them in translations. That is the
way in which they have filled their minds with the noble deeds and thoughts of the Hebrew history
and Hebrew literature. That is the answer, the true answer, and the only answer.

A good, practical, commonsense proof of what I am saying is to be found in the fact that the
ordinary man and also the man of brains who has gone through the good old fortifying classical
curriculum, to quote Matthew Arnold once more, and who theoretically can read the great Greek
and Latin authors in their own languages, and without translations, hardly reads them at all.
Those who know that it is a translation or nothing will be found to be far closer and more
constant readers of Plato and Thucydides. Certainly that is my case. To this day I find myself
reading the Greek and Latin authors in translation when many of my friends, who took Honours
Mods, and Honours Greats, would no more think of opening books which they are supposed to have
read than they would attempt to read Egyptian hieroglyphics. The man with a classical education
will still worry himself over an accidental false quantity or a wrongly-placed Greek accent,
but it is extraordinary how seldom, unless he is a schoolmaster, you hear of him enjoying the
classics or applying knowledge drawn from the classics to modern literature or to modern politics.

A further proof of this view, which I admit sounds strange, may be registered. The only man
I have known who habitually read Greek in the original was Lord Cromer, and he had not had
a classical education. He left a private day-school in London to go straight to Chatham, where
he was prepared for entry into the artillery. And at Chatham they did not teach Greek. Therefore
when, as a gunner subaltern, he went to the Ionian Islands on the staff of Sir Henry Storks,
he was without any knowledge of Greek. He wanted, however, as he told me, to know modern Greek,
as the language of the islands. Also, like the natural Englishman he was, to be able to talk
with the Albanian hunters with whom he went shooting in the hills of the mainland. But when
he had mastered enough modern Greek to read the newspaper and so forth, he began to wonder
whether he could not use his knowledge to find out what Homer was like.

He very soon found out that he could read him as one reads Chaucer. From this point he went
on till he made himself--I will not say a Greek scholar, but something much better--a person
able to read Greek and enjoy it in the original. Throughout the period of my friendship with
him, which lasted for nearly a quarter of a century, he was constantly reading and translating
from Greek authors and talking about them in an intimate and stimulating way.

Once more, it is because I want people to study and to love classical literature and to imbibe
the Greek spirit that I desire that the ordinary man should not be forced to grind away at
Greek grammar when he might be getting in touch with great minds and great books. I am not
blind, of course, to the gymnastic defence of the classics, though I do not share it. All I
say is, do not let us make a knowledge of the Greek and Latin languages a sine qua non in our
educational system, on the ground that such knowledge brings the ordinary man into touch with
the Greek spirit. It does nothing of the kind.

But though Greek and Latin literature had thus been temporarily closed to me, I still, Heaven
be praised, could enjoy the glories of my own language. When I began to read for the History
School, I not only felt like a man who had recovered from a bad bout of influenza, but I began
to realise that academic study was not necessarily divorced from the joys of literature, but
that, instead, it might lead me to new and delightful pastures. Even early Constitutional History,
though apparently so arid, opened to me an enchanting field of study. The study of the Anglo-Saxon
period brought special delights. It introduced me to the Anglo-Saxon Chronicle and to Bede,
both of them books which deserve far greater fame than they have yet received. Again, I can
quite honestly say that the early part of Stubbs's Excerpts from the Laws, Charters, and Chronicles
proved to be for me almost as pleasant as a volume of poetry. To my astonishment Magna Charta
and the Dialogus de Scaccario were thoroughly good reading. The answer to "Quod est murdrum"
was a thrilling revelation of what the Norman Conquest was and was not. I understood; and what
is more delightful than that? There were even good courses, I found, in such apparently univiting
a feast as "The Constitutions of Clarendon." I shall not easily forget my pleasure in discovering
that the quotation "Nollumus leges Angliaemutari" on which Noodle relied in his immortal oration,
is to be found in the record of the Barons' great "Palaver."

CHAPTER XII

AN OXFORD FRIENDSHIP

Though it is the rule of these memoirs not to deal at any length or detail with living people,
I feel I must make an exception in regard to Sir Bernard Mallet, the first friend I made at
Oxford, the closest friend of my college days, and the dearest friend of my after-life. Of
course, even in his case I cannot say all that I should like to say, for I don't want to expose
myself to the gibe of the wit who, reading a sympathetic notice of a living man, declared that
he did not care for funeral orations on the living! Another advocate of ascetic reticence in
similar circumstances is said to have remarked that it was hardly decent to use such favourable
expressions except in the case of a dead man! But, though I am not going to expose myself to
the accusation of gushing, I cannot give a true picture of myself without dwelling upon Mallet's
influence upon me. My friendship with him was my first experience of real friendship--the relation
which it is in the power of youth to establish and maintain, a relation akin to the tie of
brotherhood, and one which may have, and ought to have, in it an element of devotion.

Friendship between two young men, keen on all things political, intellectual, and literary,
is rightly and necessarily founded upon talk. My friend and I were eager to know not only about
each other but about everything else in the universe. Mallet's influence became at once very
great upon me at a point where I much needed it. He was deeply interested, and very well-read
for a boy of his age, in Political Economy. His father, Sir Louis Mallet, was not only one
of the most famous and most enlightened of Civil Servants, but had made a scientific study
of the theory of economics. Besides that he had acted as Cobden's official secretary when Cobden
negotiated the Commercial Treaty with France, and had become deeply attached to the great Free
Trader and his policy. From his father Mallet had learnt what was infinitely more important
than anything he could learn in textbooks. He had learnt to look upon Political Economy not
as something to be applied only to trade, but something which concerned our morals, our politics,
and even our spiritual life. Though it, no doubt, involved Free Trade, what both the Mallets
pleaded for was "the policy of Free Exchange" a policy entering and ruling every form of human
activity, or, at any rate, everything to which the quality of value inured, and so the quality
of exchangeability.

At the time when I went up to Balliol and sat down beside Mallet at the Freshmen's table in
the Hall, wild and eager, shy and forthcoming, bursting with the desire to talk and to hear
talk, and yet not exactly knowing how to approach my fellow-novices, I was an ardent, if theoretical,
Republican and Socialist. I was, while only a schoolboy of fourteen or fifteen, a passionate
admirer of Arch, the man who formed the first Agricultural Labourers' Union, and a regular
reader of his penny weekly organ. It was the first paper to which I became an annual subscriber.
Now, though I had noted some of the extravagances of the extremists, I was on the edge of conversion
to full-blown Socialism or Communism. We did not much distinguish in those days between the
two. I was especially anxious, as every young man must be, to see if I could not do something
to help ameliorate the condition of working-men and to find a policy which would secure a better
distribution of wealth and of the good things of the world.

Very soon, at once indeed, I confided my views to my new friend. Our conversation is imprinted
upon my mind. Though, of course, I did not realise it at the time, it was destined to have
a great effect upon my life. I told Mallet that I was so haunted by the miseries of the poor
and the injustice of our social order that, however much I disliked it for other reasons, and
however great the dangers, I was growing more and more into the belief that it would be my
duty to espouse the cause of Socialism; then, be it remembered, preached by Mr. Hyndman in
full and Mr. Henry George, the single-tax man, in an attenuated form. I was a Free Trader,
of course, but if, as a result of the Free Trade system, the poor were getting poorer, and
the rich richer, as, alas! it seemed, I was prepared to fight to the death even against Free Trade.

On this Mallet, instead of growing zealously angry with my ignorant enthusiasm, asked me very
pertinently what right I had to suggest that the principles of Political Economy and Free Trade
had been tested and had failed. He admitted that if to maintain them would prevent a better
distribution of wealth, they must be abolished forthwith. He went on to agree also that if
everything else had been exhausted, it would be right to try Socialism, provided one was not
convinced that the remedy would prove worse than the disease. But he went on to explain to
me, what I had never realised before, that the enlightened economists took no responsibility
for the existing system. They held, instead, that the present ills of the world came, not from
obeying but from disobeying the teachings of Political Economy. Everywhere Free Exchange was
interfered with and violated, on some pretext or another. Even in England it would not be said
that Free Exchange had been given a complete trial. It was, he went on to show, because they
believed that the ills of human society could be cured, and only cured, by a proper understanding
and a proper observance of the laws of economics that men like his father advocated Free Exchange
so strongly and opposed every attempt to disestablish it.

We want as much as any Socialist to get rid of poverty, misery and destitution, and we believe
we have got the true remedy, if only we were allowed to apply it. There would be plenty of
the good things of the world for everybody, if we did not constantly interfere with production,
and if we did not destroy capital, which would otherwise be competing for labour, not labour
for it. By the madness of war and the preparation for war, we lay low that which prevents unemployment.
We are always preventing instead of encouraging exchanges, the essential sources of wealth.
Yet we wonder that we remain poor.

But the policy of Free Exchange, he went on, must not be regarded merely as a kind of alternative
to Socialism. True believers in economics were bound to point out that the nostrum of the Socialists,
though intended to do good, would do infinite harm if applied to the community. There was a
possibility of release from the prison-house and its tortures by the way of Free Exchange,
but none by the way of Socialism. That could only deepen and increase the darkness and bring
even greater miseries upon mankind than those they endured at the present moment.

I listened greatly moved, and asked for more instruction. I soon realised that economics were
a very different thing to what I had supposed. My father was a strong Free Trader and had talked
to me on the subject, but without any great enthusiasm. He was an idealist, and in his youth
had strong leanings, first to the Socialism of Owen, and then to the Christian Socialism of
Maurice, Kingsley, and their friends. Though later he had dropped these views and had become
a convinced supporter of Cobden and Bright in the controversy over the Factory Acts (and let
me say that in this I still believe he was perfectly right), he had taken the Shaftesbury rather
than the Manchester view. Right or wrong in principle, any proposal to protect women and children
would have been sure to secure his support. He would rather be wrong with their advocates than
right with a million of philosophers. Again, though he liked Bright, I don't think he ever
quite forgave him for talking about the "residuum." My father had no sympathy with insult,
even if it was deserved. With him, to suffer was to be worthy of help and comfort, and here,
of course, he was right. Again, though he read his Mill, he was not deeply interested. He understood
and assented to the main arguments, but he had never happened to get inspired by the idea that
the way to accomplish his essential desire to improve the lot of the poor, and so to save society,
was by discovering a true theory of applying the principles of Free Exchange. As Sir Louis
Mallet used to say, a great deal of this misunderstanding came from the unfortunate fact that
we called our policy Free Trade, and so narrowed it and made it appear sordid. If, like the
French, we had called it Free Exchange, we should have made it universal and so inspiring.

Mallet's words, then, came to me like a revelation. I saw at once, as I have seen and felt
ever since, that Political Economy, properly understood and properly applied, is not a dreary
science, but one of the most fascinating and mentally stimulating of all forms of human knowledge.
Above all, it is the one which gives real hope for making a better business of human life in
the future than was ever known in the past; far better than anything the Communist theorisers
can offer. Let their theories be examined, not with sentimental indulgence but in the scientific
spirit, and they fade away like the dreams they are.

My teacher was as keen as myself. But when two young minds are striking on each other, the
sparks fly. It was not long, then, before I believed myself to have mastered the essential
principles of Free Exchange-- principles simple in themselves, though not easy to state exactly.
To apply them in a lazy and sophistically-minded world is still more difficult. Even business
men and traders, who ought to know better, ignore the science on which their livelihood is
wholly founded.

Thus, with a halo of friendship and intellectual freedom round me, I learned what Economics
really meant, and what might be accomplished if men could only understand the nature of Exchange,
and apply their knowledge to affairs.

When I see some public man floundering in the morasses of sophistry, often a quagmire of his
own creation, I say to myself, "There, but for Bernard Mallet, goes John St. Loe Strachey."
I should, indeed, be an ingrate if I did not acknowledge my debt.

Here is Sir Bernard Mallet's account of me at Oxford in the year 1878.

SIR BERNARD MALLET'S MEMORANDUM

I can find no diaries--or any of the letters which I must have written to my people about Oxford,
so I must do what I can without their help. I daresay they would not have been much use, as
I never wrote good letters, and my recollections of our first meeting are still pretty fresh.
It would be odd if they were not, for our Oxford alliance was far the biggest and most important
influence in my life there.

I think it must have been within two or three days of my arrival at Balliol as freshman, in
October, 1878, that I found myself sitting beside you at dinner in Hall. No doubt we soon found
out each other's names. Yours at once fixed my attention because, as my father was then Under
Secretary of State for India and in intimate relations with your two uncles, the great Indian
statesmen, Sir John and General Richard Strachey, it had long been familiar to me. This seemed
to place us at once, and give me a topic to begin on. Not that conversation was ever lacking
in your company! I remember to this hour the vivid, emphatic way you talked, and your appearance
then--your rather pale face and your thin but strongly-built figure. I was at once greatly
impressed, but I am not sure that the first impression on a more or less conventional public-schoolboy
(such as I suppose I must have been) was altogether favourable! Certainly I have always thought
of you as a reason for distrusting my first impression of a man! Luckily for me, however, we
continued to meet. You were so alive and unreserved that you very soon posted me up in all
the details of your life and family, and drew the same confidences from me; and we soon found
that we had so much in common that in a very few days we fell into those specially intimate
relations which lasted through our Oxford days and long after. It is not easy to analyse or
account for the rapid growth of such a friendship, but on my part, I think, it was the fact
of your being so different from others which at first slightly repelled, and then strangely
attracted me. To begin with, you had never been at school; you knew nothing of Greek or Latin
as languages, nor of cricket or football! But the want of this routine education or discipline
was no disadvantage to you (except for certain serious misadventures in "Mods.!") because your
personality and strong intelligence enabled you to get far more out of exceptional home surroundings
than you could have got out of any school. You had kept all your intellectual freshness and
originality. In English literature, from the Elizabethan downwards, you had read widely and
deeply, and your wonderful memory never failed you in quotation from the poets. You ought really,
with those tastes and that training, to have become a poet yourself! and till politics and
journalism drew you off I often thought that pure literature would be your line. But your political
instincts were even then quite as strong; you came of a family with political interests and
traditions; and as a boy you had met a good many Liberal statesmen--either at the house of
Lady Waldegrave, your mother's friend and country neighbour, or at Cannes, where your family
used to spend the winter. But your politics had rather a poetical tinge! Shelley, Swinburne,
Walt Whitman coloured your ideas--you were a democrat and republican, with a great enthusiasm
for the United States and for the story of Abraham Lincoln. But you were never faddist or doctrinaire,
and your practical bent showed itself in the keen interest you took in the noticing of political
economy in which I used to dabble, and which we used to discuss by the hour. You seemed, without
having studied text-books, to have an intuitive grasp of economic and fiscal truths which astonished
me and others much better qualified to judge than I was. The real truth is that, though there
were, no doubt, gaps in your mental equipment which may have horrified the dons, you were miles
ahead of most of us in the width and variety of your interests, in your gift of self-expression
and, in a way, in knowledge of the world. Every talk with you seemed to open up new vistas
to me. I was perhaps more receptive than the usual run of public-schoolboy, as I too had had
interests awakened by home surroundings and tradition. We both of us, in fact, owed a very
great deal to our respective fathers, and it was a real pleasure and guide to me to be introduced
later to your father and home at Sutton Court--as I know it was to you to get to know and appreciate
my father.

But I must not wander from my subject, which is to try and give a faithful account of how you
struck me in those days. I have said nothing yet of one of your characteristics which I think
weighed with me, and impressed me more than anything else, and that was the remarkable power
you had, and have always retained, of drawing out the best in others. Intellectual power or
force of character (or whatever you like to call it) is so often self-centred as to lose half
its value. With you, however, it was different. You always appeared to be, and I think genuinely
were, quite as much interested in other people's ideas or personalities as in your own--or
even more interested. You listened to them, you questioned, you put them on their mettle, you
helped them out by interpreting their crude or half-impressed thoughts, and all this without
a trace of flattery or patronage. By this, and by your generous over-appreciation of them,
you inspired your friends with greater confidence in themselves than they would otherwise have
had. In your company they were, or felt themselves, really better men. To one of my disposition,
at all events, this was a source of extraordinary encouragement and help. I felt it from the
first, and I cannot omit mentioning it in my attempt to describe what you were like when we
met at Oxford. I am afraid it is a poor attempt, and wanting in details which contemporary
records, if they had existed, could alone have supplied. But I hope you may find something
in it which will suit your purpose. I don't think, after all, you have changed as much as most
people in the forty-odd years I have known you!

CHAPTER XIII

OXFORD MEMORIES (Concluded)

Even at the risk of making my autobiography open to accusation that it is a kind of Strachey
Anthology, I should be giving a false impression of myself and my life at Oxford if I did not
say something about my poetical life at the University, for there, as in my childhood and my
boyhood, poetry played a great part. I did not leave the Muses till I left their bower on the
Isis. Every mood of my Oxford life was reflected in my verse. I can only record a very few
of those reflections, and here, again, must look forward to some day making a collection of
my poems and letting them tell their own tale--an interesting incursion, I venture to say,
for those who are interested in the evolution of English verse from 1870 to 1890.

The first thing to be recorded in this epitome of my biographica poetica is my intense delight
at finding in Oxford people of my own age who cared for poetry as I did, and the same kind
of poetry. It is true that most of my friends with a poetic bent wore their rue with a difference,
but that did not matter. Though they practised a different rite, they were all sworn to the
great mystery of the Muses. Men like Beeching, Mackail, Nichols, Warren, and also Willie Arnold,
who, though not an undergraduate, very soon became one of my close friends, never failed, and
this is the test, to be delighted in any new discovery in verse with which I was for the moment
intoxicating myself.

I was always irregular in my tastes. If I liked a piece of verse, I liked it with passion and
praised it inordinately; again I was apt to be as absolute in my dislike. I was a kind of poaching
gipsy of literature. I had not only a willingness to eat any wild thing from a hedgehog to
a beechnut or a wild raspberry, but also an uncanny power of finding out literary game, raising
it, and trapping it, not by the stately methods of the scholar but by some irrational and violent
intuition. Instead of reading slowly, patiently, and laboriously, as no doubt I ought to have
read, i.e., as my tutors would have liked me to read, I used to dive headlong into some poet,
old or young. Even if I could only "get at him" for an odd half-hour, I could bring back with
me something worth keeping, something which would sing in my head and be forced into the ears
of my friends for many days, and sometimes many weeks.

This habit of what one might call random and sudden quotation was amusingly hit off by a friend
of mine, Fry, son of the late Lord Justice Sir Edward Fry. In a neat little verse after the
manner of Beeching's and Mackail's celebrated verses on the Balliol Dons--verse modelled, it
may be noted, on the pageant of Kings and Queens in Swinburne's Poems and Ballads, Fry thus
delineated me:

  I am Strachey, never bored
   By Webster, Massinger or Ford;
   There is no line of any poet
   Which can be quoted, but I know it.

In the first couplet I have to own a true bill. Even if my friends were bored, though I was
not, which I now feel must have often been the case, they certainly never showed it. I seemed
to be given a kind of privilege or license to quote as much as ever I liked.

I expect, however, that the Dons were not quite as easy-going. If I quoted something that seemed
to me apposite at the end of a lecture, or when I was seeing my tutor over an essay, I noticed
with an innocent wonderment that they were apt to appear shocked. Probably I made them feel
nervous. Either they had not heard the lines before, and, therefore, very likely thought that
I was trying to get a score off them by inventing some tag of rhymes which I could afterwards
say they took for genuine, or, on the other hand, if they did know the lines, I made some blunder
in quoting them which painfully added to a conviction already formed that I was a wild, inconsequent,
and shallow-minded boy whose only idea was to "show off" and strut about in borrowed plumes.
After all, even if that was a mistaken diagnosis it was not an unnatural one.

I was an unsettling and unclassifiable influence in a place that liked orderly classification.
The Dons, I make no doubt, felt about me as did Lance about his dog. He who undertakes to be
an undergraduate should be an undergraduate in all things, and not a kind of imitation Bohemian
verse-writer, bawling his creaking couplets through the College Hall. They knew the type of
scholar who could write good Greek verse, and even English verse. They also knew, and in a
way respected, the athlete, the hunting man, or "the magnificent man" who kept two hunters
and a private servant, and spent at the rate of a couple of thousands a year. But here was
a creature who did not fit into any of these categories, and who was painfully irregular without
being vicious or extravagant, or drunken, or abnormally rowdy. I was, in fact, a mental worry.
I could not be fitted neatly into Oxford life.

I have mentioned Fry's rhyme about me. I must also mention Beeching's verse, or at any rate
the first couplet--the rest, though friendly enough, was not worthy of the opening:

  Spoken jest of Strachey, shall it
   Fail to raise a smile in Mallet?

I was, of course, pleased to be thus associated with my friend, though honesty compels me to
say that I laughed quite as much, or even more, at Mallet's jests than he did at mine. Still
for the rhyme's sake (I have always sympathised with the rhymer's difficulties), it was necessary
to put the joke on the other leg.

At Balliol in the late 'seventies' and early 'eighties' we were a nest of singing-birds. I
well remember the present Sir Rennell Rodd coming into my rooms when I was a freshman and asking
me whether I would contribute to a little collection of poems which he and a group of his friends
were bringing out, the group, by the way, including the present Lord Curzon. I shyly assented;
but there was a difficulty. They wanted something short and lyrical, and most of my verses
were either too long, or else, I thought, too immature to be published. In the end, Rodd carried
off with him the following lyric--a work in regard to which I felt no pride of parentage either
then or now, and only quote because it was made the occasion for a very neat parody by Mackail.
Here is the poem:

    My lute
     Lies mute,
   My lyre is all unstrung,
   And the music it once flung
     Dies away.
     In the day
   I have no power to sing,
   Nor doth the night-time bring
     Any song.
     All is wrong,
   Now my lady hath no care
   For my heart and for my prayer.

The parody was quite delightful, and I can well remember the intense joy with which I heard
of it and my surprise that the author thought it necessary to apologise for it. He apparently
thought I might be hurt. It ran something like this:

        My scout
         Is out.
    My scout is never in.
    I am growing very thin,
         And pale--
                    etc., etc.

Our verse efforts, though not very good in themselves, had a good result.

A rival clique of poets, led by Mackail and Beeching, put forward a little pamphlet of their
own, full of what was really exquisite verse of the Burne-Jones, Morris, Swinburne type. In
the following term, however, the two poetic schools amalgamated under a common editorship,
adopting the name of Waifs and Strays as their title. To almost every issue of the Waifs and
Strays I contributed, though I think my Editors sometimes were rather horrified at my sending
in so much blank verse, and blank verse of what the Elizabethans called a "licentious" type,
that is, not governed by strict rules.

Besides this, my poems were apt to be too long. I had a friendly conflict over them with Beeching.
It showed, however, the open- mindedness of the Morrisean editors that my poetry, though so
entirely different to their own, was not only accepted but that they showed great sympathy
with my experiments in unrhymed measures.

Oxford memories are among the pleasantest things in the world; they are the last chapter, or
last chapter but one, in the book of youth. But I must soon roll up the enchanted manuscript,
come to sterner things, and leave many serene hours unnumbered. Especially do I regret to pass
over the long days spent on the river in a four, with a cox and a good luncheon and tea hamper
in the stern, and a sixth man in the bows. Those, indeed, were sweet hours and the fleetest
of time. Mallet, I, and Warren were usually the nucleus of the party. To ourselves we added
another three. Among these was sometimes Grant Duff, sometimes Horatio Brown, who, though he
had left Oxford at that period, was often "up for a month or two"; sometimes, too, Portsmouth
Fry, and one or other of Mallet's Clifton College friends. Again, sometimes Mallet's brother
Stephen, or my brother Henry, joined the pursuit of the golden fleece.

I was always for pushing on in order to experience something or discover something. As Pepys
used to say, "I was with child to see something new." Once, by incredible exertion, I managed
to get my boatload as far up the river as Lechlade. The place, I need hardly say, was chosen
by me not for geographical reasons or because of the painted glass, but solely and simply because
of Shelley's poem. I longed to go to the actual source of the river, to Thames-head itself,
but in this I never succeeded. Mallet was always for milder measures, and for enjoying the
delights of the infant Thames at Bablock Hythe, or some place of equal charm and less exertion.

He would demand, or take, an "easy" on the slightest pretext. A water- lily, the dimness of
his eyeglass, the drooping of the sunlight in the West, the problem of whether some dingy little
bird was a kingfisher or a crested wagtail, demanded consultation and a pause in our toil.
Occasional rests, he proved, were a wise, nay, necessary precaution with a heavy old tub manned
by indifferent oarsmen. I, on the other hand, would have violently explored the Thames in a
man-o'-war's barge if I could have done it no other way.

We talk of the charm of the open road, but what is it to the charm of the open river, especially
when the stream gets narrow? There, if anywhere, reigns the Genius of the Unexpected. You push
your boat round some acute angle of water, with willows and tall rushes obscuring your course,
and then suddenly shoot out into the open, with a view, perhaps, of an old church or manor-house,
or of stately fields and trees--things which a boy feels may be the prelude to the romance
of his life. So strong with me, indeed, was this feeling that fate was waiting round the corner,
not to stick a knife into me, but perhaps to crown me, that when I wrote my unfinished novel,
I began with a boatload of undergraduates shooting out of the Thames up a tunnel of green boughs
made by a canalised brook, into a little lake in front of an exquisite grey Elizabethan house.
There the heroine and an aged parent or guardian were surprised taking tea upon a bank studded
with primroses and violets. How an aged parent or guardian consented to have tea out-of-doors
in violet- time was not explained! But if I do not take care I shall go the way of those orators
who take up the whole of their speeches in explaining that they have not time to say anything.
Therefore, farewell to the glories and delights of the Thames.

Whether, in point of fact, I was a bad son of Oxford, or she a disdainful, indifferent, or
careless mother, I neither know nor desire to know. It is enough for me, as I have said already,
that I loved her young and love her now, love her for her faults as much as for her virtues,
but love her most of all for her beauty and her quietness, and for the golden stream of youth
which runs a glittering torrent through her stately streets and hallowed gardens, her walks
between the waters, and her woodlands. The punctual tide of young hearts ebbs and flows as
of yore in a thousand college rooms--true cells of happiness. It informs and inspires every
inch of Oxford. It murmurs in her libraries and in her galleries and halls. The pictures of
the men of the past--often England's truest knights of the eternal spirit--look gravely from
their deep-set frames.

But what is the use of a biography if it is general and not particular? I may too often yield,
like most people, to the temptations of a vague rhetoric, but not here. Every loving thought
of Oxford has for me stamped upon it a specific and an originating example. When I think of
the faces looking down on me from the walls, and of how ardently I used to wish that I might
call my academic grandsires "my home and feast to share," I picture myself back in Oxford,
listening to a lecture in the Hall of University. I see above me and above the wainscot Romney's
(or is it Gainsborough's?) picture of "the generous, the ingenuous, the high-souled William
Wyndham." I recall the delight with which I thought of that fascinating and impulsive creature.
He had sat where I was sitting, and had dreamed like me in that very Hall the dreams of youth.

I keep in mind yet another specific example of how I linked myself to the past. I remember,
when dining in Christ Church Hall with a friend, that I had the good luck to find myself opposite
Lawrence's picture of Eden, afterwards Lord Auckland, the young diplomatist. He is dressed,
if I remember rightly, in a green velvet coat of exquisite tint and texture. I daresay if by
chance a reader looks up the two pictures he will find that under the spell of memory they
have assumed beauties not their own. But what does that matter? They were to me, at twenty,
an inspiration. They are still, at sixty, a dream of delight.

Yet, intense as was my joy, when I return to Oxford and see my son sharing the old pleasures,
though with a difference, I can honestly say, "Non equidem invideo miror magis"--"I do not
envy, but am the more amazed." I hope, nay, am sure that my son can retort with sincerity from
this shepherd's dialogue turned upside down, "O fortunate senex; ergo tua rura manebunt"--"Oh,
happy old man; therefore your little fields and little woodlands at Newlands shall still flourish
and abound."

As my father taught me by his example long ago, I can be supremely happy in my remembrances,
and yet even happier at my own end of the continuum. One has a right to be Hibernian in an
Einstein world. After all, have I not a right to be? I, who have always been an explorer at
heart, am getting near the greatest exploration of all. There are only two or three more bends
of the stream, and I shall shoot out into that lake or new reach, whichever it may be. I may
have a pleasant thrill of dread of what is there, but not of fear. The tremendous nature of
that magnificent unknown may send a shiver through my limbs, but it is stimulating, not paralysing.

Therefore, though I enjoy the past in retrospect, I open my arms with a lover's joy to the
future that is rushing to meet me. The man who cannot enjoy that which is in front of him has
never really enjoyed the past. He is so much engaged in whimpering over what he has lost, that
he misses the glory of what is to come. Heaven be praised that sons have morning when fathers
have night, and may the fountain of perpetual youth always send its best, its clearest, its
most musical rivulets through the High, the Broad, and the Corn.

But, though my memories of Oxford are so vivid and so happy, they are also, as must in the
end be all things human, enwoven with tears. It was there that my eldest son died. I cannot
do more than record the bare fact. Yet I cannot write of Oxford as if he had never been. The
shadow that falls across my page could not be gainsaid.

CHAPTER XIV

PRESS WORK IN LONDON

Before I come to the period when I became, not only Editor, but Proprietor, of The Spectator,
I must give an account of some of my experiences with other newspapers. My first newspaper
article appeared in The Daily News. It gave an account of the bonfires lighted on the hill-tops
round Cortina, in the Tyrol, at which place we spent the summer of 1880, on the birthday of
the Austrian Emperor. I was an undergraduate at the time and was much delighted to find myself
described as "a correspondent" of The Daily News. I expect I owed the acceptance of my descriptive
article to the first sentence, which began, "While the Austrian Kaiser is keeping his birthday
with the waters of the Ischl in his kitchens, we at Cortina, etc., etc." The paper, however,
for which I wrote chiefly during the time I was at Oxford and in my first year after leaving
Balliol was The Saturday Review. The Saturday in those days was famous for its "middles," and
I was very proud to be able to get articles of this kind accepted. I also wrote for The Academy
and for The Pall Mall, which at that time was being edited by Lord Morley. I remember that
when going with a letter of introduction to him, he asked me whether I had had any former experience
of journalism. I told him that I was writing "middles" for the Saturday. His reply was characteristic.
"Ah! When I was a young man I wrote miles of 'middles' for them"-- stretching out his hands
to show the unending chain. Some of my work also appeared in The Academy, then a paper manfully
struggling to represent the higher side of English literature. One article I recall was a review
of a reprint of the poems of Gay--a poet who has come back into public notice owing to the
delightful art of Mr. Lovat Fraser, combined with the talent of the ladies and gentlemen who
so admirably represent Macheath and his minions male and female. On looking at the article
the other day, I was glad to see that I drew attention to Gay's peculiar handling of the couplet
and also to his delight in every kind of old song and ballad. I quoted in this respect, however,
not from "The Beggar's Opera" but from the song as sung by Silenus in Gay's Eclogues. One of
these songs I have always longed to hear or to read, owing to the fascination of its title--"The
grass now grows where Troy town stood."

After I went to The Spectator the newspaper world widened in my view. I left off writing for
the Saturday and the Pall Mall and the Academy. Instead, and after I married, I took a regular
post as leader-writer on the staff of the Standard. I also wrote a weekly leader for the Observer
for the best part of a year. Of the Observer I have only one thing to note, and that is a saying
of the Editor, Mr. Dicey, brother to my old friend, Professor Dicey--a man for whom I have
great veneration, though my lips are happily closed in regard to him by the fact that he still
lives. At our first interview Mr. Dicey told me that in writing for the Observer I must remember
that I was not writing for a weekly paper, like the Spectator, but for a daily paper which,
however, only happened to come out on one day in the week. That, I always thought, was a very
illuminating and instructive remark, and it is one which should be observed, in my opinion,
by all writers in Sunday papers. At present Sunday papers are in danger of becoming merely
weekly magazines. What the world wants, or, at any rate, what a great many people want, is
a daily paper to read on Sundays, not a miscellany, however good. But perhaps Mr. Dicey and
I were old-fashioned. Anyway, there was a sort of easygoing, old-fashioned, early-Victorian
air about the Observer Office of those days which was very pleasant. Nobody appeared to be
in a hurry, and one was given almost complete freedom as to the way in which to treat one's
subject. I was also a contributor to the Manchester Guardian. For that distinguished paper
I wrote Notes for their London Letter and also a number of short reviews.

I should add that from that time till I became Editor and Proprietor of the Spectator I wrote
a weekly article for The Economist-- a piece of work in which I delighted, for the Editor,
Mr. Johnstone, was not only a great editor, but a very satisfactory one from the contributor's
point of view. He told you exactly what he wanted written about, and then left you to your
own devices. As it happened, I generally was in entire agreement with his policy, but if I
had not been, it would not have mattered, because he made it so very clear to one, as an editor
should, that one was expressing not one's own views, but the views of the Economist. Whether
they were in fact right or wrong, they certainly deserved full consideration. Therefore, full
exposition could never be regarded as taking the wrong side.

Though The Economist was less strongly Unionist than I was, I cannot recall any occasion on
which my leaders were altered by the Editor. I can only recall, indeed, one comment made by
Mr. Johnstone in the course of some nine years. It was one that at the time very greatly interested
and amused me. It happened that Mr. Johnstone, though so great a journalist and so sound a
politician, was not a man who had paid any attention to literature. Possibly, indeed, he did
not consider that it deserved it. When, however, the complete works of Walter Bagehot, for
many years Editor of The Economist, were published, Mr. Johnstone asked me to review them for
the paper. Needless to say I was delighted. How could a young man in the 'nineties, full of
interest in the Constitution, in Economics, and in belles-lettres, have felt otherwise than
enthusiastic about Bagehot?

It was, therefore, with no small zest that I undertook an appreciation of Bagehot in his own
paper. I was always an immense admirer of Bagehot's power of dealing with literary problems,
and still more of that perfection of style for which, by the way, he never received full credit.
I sought to say something which would make people "sit up and take notice" in regard to his
place in literature on this special point. Accordingly, in praising his style, I said that
it was worthy to be compared with that of Stevenson, who at the time was held to be our greatest
master of words. Mr. Johnstone, with, as I fully admitted, a quite unnecessary urbanity of
manner, apologised to me for having altered the article. He had, he explained, left out the
passage about Stevenson. But mark the reason! It was not because he thought the praise exaggerated,
but because he thought, and thought also that Mr. Bagehot's family might think, that one was
not properly appreciative of Bagehot's work if one compared it to that of Stevenson! I have
always been a lover of the irony of accident in every form; but here was something which was
almost too bewilderingly poignant. I had thought, as I wrote, that people might think I was
going a good deal too far in my praise of Bagehot, but lo and behold! my purple patch was "turned
down," not because of this but because it was held to be too laudatory of Stevenson, and not
laudatory enough of my hero!

I was, nevertheless, quite right. Bagehot's style was inimitable, and I think if I were writing
now, and with a better perspective, I should have said not less but a good deal more in its
praise. The humorous passages in "The English Constitution" are in their way perfect, and,
what is more, they are really original. They owe nothing to any previous humorist. They stand
somewhere between the heartiness of Sydney Smith and the dainty fastidiousness of Matthew Arnold,
and yet imitate neither. They have a quality, indeed, which is entirely their own and is entirely
delightful. One of the things which is so charming about them is that they are authoritative
without being cocksure. What could be more admirable than the passage which points out that
Southey, "who lived almost entirely with domestic women, actually died in the belief that he
was a poet"? The pathos of the situation, and the Olympian stroke delivered in such a word
as "domestic" cannot but fill any artisan of words with admiration. The essay, "Shakespeare
and the Plain Man," is full of such delights.

If I am told that I digress too much and that I seem to forget that I am writing my autobiography
and not an estimate of Walter Bagehot, I shall not yield to the criticism. There is method
in my madness. No, I am prepared to contend, and to contend with my last drop of ink, that
I am justified in what I have done. If this book is worth anything, it is the history of a
mind, and Bagehot had a very great effect upon my mind, largely through his skill in the art
of presentation. Therefore it cannot be out of place to say something about Bagehot's style.
In truth, instead of my being unduly discursive I have not really said as much as I ought to
have said on the subject.

I was also for rather more than a year a leader-writer on the Standard--my only experience
of true daily journalism. Of this work I can only say that I enjoyed it very much while I was
in direct contact with Mr. Mudford, one of the greatest of English publicists, and the man
who made the Standard what it was from 1874 till about 1894, one of the most important papers
in the country. In those days the Standard though strongly conservative, was in no sense a
capitalist organ, nor in the bad sense a mere party organ. While it supported the fixed institutions
of the country, the Church, the Crown, the House of Lords, and the City, it, at the same time,
did it with reason and moderation. In fact, though it was called a Tory paper, and rejoiced
in the name, it would have been called "left-centre" in any other country. It was, it need
not be said, strongly Unionist. I, therefore, had no difficulty whatever in writing for it.

Oddly enough, it was said, and I think with truth, that Mr. Gladstone always read the leaders
in the Standard and that it was his favourite paper. He had, no doubt, a strong vein of Conservatism
in his nature. Though he thought it his duty to be a Liberal, when he gave himself a holiday,
so to speak, from party feelings, what he reverted to was almost exactly the Standard attitude
towards the great institutions I have just named. A propos of this I cannot resist a most illuminating
story of Mr. Gladstone, which I once heard told by Mr. George Wyndham, the Irish Secretary.
Mr. Wyndham commanded the Cheshire yeomanry, after Mr. Gladstone had gone into retirement,
and had his regiment under canvas for training at the Park at Hawarden. Being an old House
of Commons friend, he went several times to dine. On one of these occasions he was alone with
Mr. Gladstone after dinner. While sipping his port, the great man unbosomed himself on the
political situation of the future in language which, as Mr. Wyndham pointed out, approximated
to that of an old country squire--language which seemed astonishing from the mouth of one who
had only a few months before been the leader of the Liberal and Radical Party.

Mr. Gladstone began with a panegyric of the English squires and landlords, and then went on
to say that he feared that in the coming time the country-gentlemen of England who had done
so much for her would have a hard and difficult time. "But," he went on, "I pray Heaven, Mr.
Wyndham, that they will meet these trials and difficulties with a firm and courageous spirit.
They must not weakly yield the position to which they have attained and which they deserve."
I can remember no more of Mr. Gladstone's speech, but it was all to the effect that the country-
gentleman must stand up against the rising tide of democracy. No wonder, then, that Mr. Gladstone
liked the Standard, even though it very often attacked him in the strongest language.

Another person said to be a regular reader of the Standard, and I should add rightly said to
be, was Queen Victoria. The Queen, as Lord Salisbury said at the time of her death, understood
the English people exactly, and especially the English middle-class. Therefore she would have
been wise to have read the Standard as the representative and interpreter of that class even
if she had not liked the paper on its merits. As a matter of fact, however, its note happened
to be pitched exactly to suit her. Her admiration was not politic, but personal.

Here I may note an interesting example of how little the person who has had no first-hand experience
of journalism understands the journalist's trade and how often he or she is amazed at what
I may call our simple secrets. It happened that while I was writing leaders for the Standard,
which was twice a week, i.e., on Wednesday nights and on Sunday nights, the news came in of
the death of Lady Ely, a lifelong personal friend of the Queen. Lady Ely had been with her
almost from girlhood and held up to the last, if not actually a Court appointment, a position
which brought her into constant personal contact with the Queen. She was, in fact, the last
of the Queen's women contemporaries who were also close friends. This fact was common knowledge,
and Mr. Mudford in one of his notes, which were written in a calligraphy the badness of which
it is almost impossible to describe without the aid of a lithographic print, wrote to me shortly,
telling me of the death and asking me to write that night a leader on Lady Ely. He pointed
out how great the loss was to the Queen, and how much, therefore, she must stand in the need
of sympathy. I don't suppose I had ever heard of Lady Ely before, for ever since I came to
London she was living in retirement, and was not only not written about in the press, but was
very little talked about in general society. Further, I had only the ordinary knowledge about
the Queen, at that time much scantier than it is now. It might be supposed that with this amount
of ignorance it would have been impossible to write a column and a half on the death of an
old lady who may be said to have had no public life at all, and whose private life, even if
it had been known, would have been either too trivial or too intimate to be written about in
a newspaper.

All the same, the task was not one which any journalist worth his salt, that is, any journalist
with imagination, would find difficult to accomplish. What I did, and all it was necessary
to do, was to envisage a great lady devoted to the Queen from the time the Queen was married,
and also receiving in exchange the Queen's devotion to her. These two women, now grown old,
one in the service of her country and the other in the service of her friend, had gradually
seen, not only their nearest and dearest drop away, but almost the whole of their own generation.
Thus they stood very much alone in the world. Sovereigns by their nature are always lonely,
and this loneliness was intensified in the case of the Queen by the premature death of Prince
Albert and by that inability of sovereigns to make intimate friends, owing, not only to the
seclusion which life in a palace entails, but to the busy-ness of their lives. This being so,
the breaking by death of a friendship formed when life was easier to Queen Victoria than it
was after the death of the Prince Consort was an irreparable loss. In a very special degree
the Queen needed sympathy of all who had minds to think or hearts to feel.

Such considerations were as easy to put on paper as they were true. To draw a picture of the
unknown Lady Ely seems more difficult, but, after all, one felt sure that to have remained
the intimate and trusted friend of the Queen she must have had great qualities, for the Queen
did not give her confidence lightly. The separation of the two friends and the intensification
of the Queen's loneliness was therefore bound to touch the heart of anyone who heard "the Virgilian
cry" and felt "the sense of tears in mortal things."

I am not ashamed to say that though by nature little disposed towards the attitude of the courtier,
I wrote my modest tribute of regret ex animo. I was not only not writing a conventional article
of condolence, not even writing dramatically, but sincerely. When, however, the leader was
finished, I, of course, thought very little more of the matter, but passed on to consider,
after the way of my profession, subjects so vital or so trivial as the best means of supporting
Mr. Balfour in his law-and-order campaign in Ireland, maintaining the cause of Free Trade (the
Standard was always a Free Trade paper), or discussing such topics as "Penny Fares in Omnibuses,"
or "The Preservation of the Ancient Monuments of London," or "Should Cats be Taxed?" It was
therefore with some astonishment that I received a message from Mr. Mudford saying that the
Queen had sent one of her Private Secretaries to enquire on behalf of Her Majesty the name
of the writer of the article on Lady Ely. The Queen, said her Envoy, had been very touched
and struck by the article and felt sure that it must have been written by someone who knew
Lady Ely. It exactly represented her life and character, and her special devotion to the Queen.
The Queen also appeared much struck by the representation of her own feeling towards her friend.

Mr. Mudford, of course, gave my name. I have often thought with some curiosity that the Queen
must have been rather bewildered to find the complete remoteness of the writer from her friend
and herself. The Queen had a very limited literary sense and, we may be sure, failed altogether
to realise how the nerves and sinews work in that strange creature the journalist. She can
hardly have been otherwise than disappointed in finding that it was not some old friend of
her own, or some friend of her friend, but a person of whom she knew nothing--and with a name
which must have left her quite cold, even though with her knowledge of India and her own family
that name was not actually unfamiliar. My uncle, Sir John Strachey, after the murder of Lord
Mayo, was for six or seven months Viceroy of India, pending the appointment of a successor.
She also, no doubt, had known the name of another Indian uncle, Sir Richard Strachey.

But though Mr. Mudford was very sympathetic to the new journalist on his staff, the arrangement
did not last long. After I had been there about six months, Mr. Mudford went into greater retirement
than even before, and practically left the whole conduct of the paper to his subordinate, Mr.
Byron Curtis, a journalist whom I can best describe by saying that he was of the kind delineated
by Thackeray. Though we had no open quarrel I found it difficult to work with Mr. Curtis, and
he, on the other hand, was by no means satisfied with my work. He used to say to me, "Please
do remember, Mr. Strachey, that we don't want academic stuff such as you put into the Spectator
and as they appear to like. What we want is a nice flow of English." "A nice flow of English"
with Mr. Curtis meant what I may call the barrel-organ type of leader-- something that flowed
like water from a smooth-running pump. This I admit I could never manage to produce. Mr. Curtis's
standard of style was solely governed by the question of the repetition of the same word. It
was an unforgivable sin to repeat a substantive, adjective, or verb without an intervening
space of at least four inches. This, of course, leads to that particular form of "journalese"
in which a cricket-ball becomes a "leathern missile" and so forth. Apropos of this I remember
a good Fleet Street story. An Editor, enraged with a contributor, tore up an article on grouse,
with the exclamation, "Look here! You have actually used the word 'grouse' twenty times in
your first paragraph! Why cannot you call them something else?" "But," said the contributor,
"what else can I call them? They are grouse, and that is the only name they have got. What
would you want me to say?" "Oh! hang it all! Don't make excuses. Why, can't you call them 'the
feathered denizens of the moor'?"

In any case, Mr. Curtis and I found it impossible to work together. The process of separation
was speeded up by the fact that I did not find night-work suit me. All the same, I very much
liked going down to the policeman on night-duty. What was trying was to be up all night for
two nights in the week, and to lead a normal life during the other five. That tended to throw
one's working days quite out of gear. To adopt two ways of life was a failure. All the same,
I am always glad when I pass down Fleet Street to be able to say to myself, "I too once lived
in Arcadia," and knew the pleasant side of the life. There was something peculiarly delightful,
when one's leader was finished, in lighting a pipe or a cigar and stretching out one's legs
and feeling really at leisure. There is only real leisure in the middle of the night, that
is between one and five. There are no appointments, no meals, no duties, no plans, no dependence
on other people's arrangements. One is as free in one's complete isolation as a Trappist monk.
If one sees a friend in Fleet Street or Shoe Lane at three, he will be as free as you.

Such a friend was Mr. Joseph Fisher, then the understudy of Mr. Byron Curtis. Mr. Fisher, who
is an Ulster-man, later became the Editor of The Northern Whig, and I am happy to say is still
alive. He has done excellent work in defending the interests of the Loyalists and Protestants
of the North.

That, I think, is the full record of my regular newspaper activities, except for one particular.
I have not mentioned the fact that I edited the official organ of the Liberal Unionist Party
for about two years--a monthly, entitled The Liberal Unionist. The paper was started during
the election of 1886. The work was interesting, if not particularly well paid, and brought
me into contact with most of the leaders of the Unionist Party--Lord Hartington, Mr. Chamberlain,
Mr. Goschen, the Duke of Argyll, Mr. Arthur Elliot, and Mr. Henry Hobhouse, to name only a
few of my colleagues on the Liberal Unionist Central Committee. I never had any difficulties
with them. They gave me a free hand, and in return I gave them what I think was good value.
As my work enlarged I found I wanted help in The Liberal Unionist, and secured an admirable
helper in Mr. C. L. Graves. This was the beginning of our private and journalistic friendship,
and, though I must not break my rule of not dealing with living people, I may say here what
a kind and loyal helper he has always been to me, not only in The Liberal Unionist but for
many years in The Spectator. All who know him, and especially his associates on Punch, will,
I feel sure, agree with me that no man was ever a more loyal colleague. No man has ever succeeded
better than he in combining scholarship and vivacity in humorous and satiric verse.

While carrying on the activities I have mentioned above, I also from time to time wrote for
the magazines--for the Edinburgh Quarterly, for the National, the Nineteenth Century, the Contemporary,
and once or twice, I think, in the Fortnightly. I even perpetrated a short story in a magazine
now deceased--a story which, by the way, if I had time to adapt it, might, I think, make an
excellent cinema film. The title was good--"The Snake Ring." It was a story of a murder in
the High Alps, when the High Alps were not so much exploited as they are now. There were adventures
in sledging over mountain passes in mid-winter, and wonderful mountain Palazzi, with gorgeous
seventeenth-century interiors, in lonely snowed- up villages in inaccessible valleys. As a
rule, however, my contributions to the magazines were of a serious kind. Very soon after I
left Oxford, I wrote my first article in the Quarterly. This was followed by several more,
for the old Editor, Dr. Smith, took a strong liking to my work. Dr. Smith was a man of real
learning and a true journalist. Though it was the custom to laugh at his "h's," or rather,
his occasional want of them, he was very much liked in society. As a boy I had made his acquaintance,
I remember, at Lady Waldegrave's, though this chance meeting had nothing to do with the acceptance
of my first article. Henry Reeve of the Edinburgh also on several occasions asked me to write
the political article in the Review. That was a pleasure. I was given a free hand, and I had
the agreeable sense that I was sitting in the seats of the mighty, of Sydney Smith and of Macaulay.

CHAPTER XV

THE "CORNHILL"

My editorship of the Cornhill, to which I always look back with great pleasure, came as a complete
surprise to me. Among the many new friends my marriage brought me was Mr. George Smith, the
head of the firm of Smith & Elder, a man very well known in the London of the 'fifties, 'sixties,
and 'seventies as the most enterprising of publishers, the discoverer of Charlotte Bronte,
the friend and adviser of Thackeray, and, above all, the founder of the first cheap, popular,
literary magazine, the Cornhill. It was in the editorship of the Cornhill that Thackeray found
pecuniary if not editorial ease, and during the first ten years of its life it was the natural
home of much of the best writing of the time. Tennyson on one side of the republic of Parnassus
and Swinburne on the other were contributors to its pages. But pre-eminently it was the place
to which was drawn the best fiction of the age. The planning, the enterprise, and very often
the inspiration of the Cornhill came from Mr. George Smith. Though primarily a man of business,
he had an extraordinary flair for literature. He was the last person in the world to have claimed
the title of a man of letters, or, again, that of critic, and yet he had an appreciation of
good literature and a capacity for finding it in unlikely places which was sometimes almost
uncanny. Just as some of the greatest connoisseurs in the Arts know a good picture or an important
piece of china when they see it, though they are often ignorant of the history or of the technique
of any art, so Mr. George Smith had an almost unfailing eye for good copy when it came his way.

Nowadays, there is comparatively little difficulty in running a literary monthly on sound lines
either here or in America. But that is because the world has learnt Mr. George Smith's lesson.
All can raise the flower now, for all have got the seed, but at the beginning of the 'sixties
the Cornhill had the quality of originality. It exactly hit the popular taste; and in a very
short time it was selling by the hundred thousand, a tremendous achievement at that epoch.
But though the Cornhill did so well and though Mr. George Smith's energies remained as great
as ever up till his death, the magazine had to own the fate of many publications of its kind
before and since. It met with competition, and I cannot help thinking that it also suffered
from its proprietor getting interested in other things, especially in his magnificent and public-spirited
venture--for such it was, rather than a business venture--the National Dictionary of Biography.
Mr. George Smith himself always looked upon the National Dictionary as a piece of public service,
and he put a great deal of his own time and energy into it. The Cornhill, though always maintaining
a high literary standard, greatly altered its character after Mr. Leslie Stephen's editorship
came to an end. Its price was altered to sixpence, and for a time it was purely a magazine
of fiction, in which the firm of Smith & Elder ran in serial form novels of which they had
bought the book rights. There were, besides the two serial novels, only a few short stories
and light essays, but these were only a kind of stuffing for the fiction.

In the year '96, however, it occurred to Mr. Smith that it would be interesting to revive the
Cornhill and show that there was still life and force in the magazine which had published some
of Thackeray's best essays, and his later novels--the magazine in which had appeared novels
like Romola, with Leighton's illustrations, and in which Louis Stevenson had given to the world
those first and most delightful of his essays, afterwards collected in Virginibus Puerisque.
Once more, determined George Smith, it should become the home of good literature as a whole,
and not merely of readable fiction.

For his new series--the price reverted to sixpence--Mr. Smith wanted a new editor. He was not
one of those people who waste time over that mysterious process known as "sounding" people,
a process that seems to connote a great deal of farsightedness, caution, arid discrimination
in the sounder, but which, as a matter of fact, is almost always a cloak for indecision. That
was not Mr. George Smith's way. He wrote me a plain, straightforward letter, telling me what
his plans for the Cornhill were, adding without any flummery that he thought I was the man
to give what he wanted, and asking me whether I would become Editor. I got the letter during
my first visit to Cairo, in November, 1895. I at once replied that if my chiefs at The Spectator
saw no objection, I should be delighted to try my hand. My chiefs saw no objection, and I set
to work.

When I say "delighted," I am using the term in no conventional sense. My head had long been
filled with plans for the editing of a literary magazine, and here was the chance to bring
them to fruition. Besides, as every young man should, I longed for something in which I should
have a show of my own and be able to try every sort of experiment--a thing which you can only
do when you are either starting a new paper, or making, as was to be the case with the new
series of the Cornhill, an entirely new departure.

If I remember rightly, I actually stipulated with Mr. George Smith for a free hand, but the
stipulation was quite unnecessary. I saw during my first talk with him that a free hand was
exactly what he intended to give me. No editor ever had a more delightful proprietor. Though
he was, I suppose, very nearly forty years my senior, he was as young as I was, quite as full
of enterprise, quite as anxious to make new departures, and quite as willing to run risks and
to throw his cap over the hedge. Nominally I had to deal with Mr. Reginald Smith, one of the
partners in the firm and the son-in-law of Mr. George Smith. (It was a mere accident that a
Smith had married a Smith.) Reginald Smith was a good scholar, had done very well at Eton,
at Cambridge, and had gone to the Bar, but he had not got his father-in-law's fire or his flair
for literature, nor, again, his father-in-law's boldness. I was on the best of terms with him
and he was the most kind and friendly of publishers. It often happened, however, in going over
my plans for the new Cornhill, he thought this or that proposal on my part might prove too
expensive, too risky, too radical, or too unconventional. In such cases he always said that
we had better take the decision to Mr. George Smith. On the first occasion I was a little alarmed
as to what the result might be. I felt that Mr. Smith might naturally support his son- in-law
in the direction of caution, and that the appeal to Caesar might go against me. The first example,
however, was enough to convince me that my anxieties had no foundation. I remember well how
Mr. Smith at once out-dared my daring, saying that he entirely agreed with me, and not only
thought that I ought to have my way, but enthusiastically declared that it was the best way.
After that I had no more trouble, and it was I who in future suggested an appeal to the head,
for I knew that the result would always be a decision on the side of enterprise. Mr. George
Smith was never the man to be frightened by such phrases as "dangerous innovation which might
be very much resented by the readers" Dangerous innovations were just what he liked, the things
out of which he had made his fame and his money, and he backed them to the end like the true
sportsman that he was.

There is nothing, perhaps, more interesting and more attractive than the planning and putting
together of the first number of a magazine. I had a blank sheet of paper upon which to draw
up my Table of Contents, except for an instalment of a novel. What I was determined to make
the Cornhill under my editorship was a place of belles-lettres. And besides good prose, if
I could get it, I wanted good poetry. In the prose I naturally aimed at short stories, memoirs
(as long as these were really worth having) and inspiring literary and historical criticism.
I always felt that there was very good copy to be found in anniversary studies, that is, studies
of great men whose births or deaths happened to fall within the month of publication and so
might reasonably be supposed to be in the public mind. Another direction in which I felt sure
there was good copy, if I could get the right man to do it in the right way, was in the great
criminal trials of former ages. Every journalist knows that a trial sells his paper better
than any other event. The daily newspaper could always forestall the magazine in the matter
of trials of the day, but there remained open to me the whole field of State trials.

Besides these features, I realised how much the ordinary Englishman likes natural history,
if it is dealt with in the proper way, and likes also to hear of what is newest and most taking
in the worlds of science and philosophy and in the things of the spirit generally. These, perhaps,
were fairly obvious features, but there was one other in which I may claim a certain originality.
In the 'nineties we were all talking and writing about "human documents," by which we meant
memoirs, autobiographies, and, above all, diaries which, when written, were not meant to see
the light, and in which the naked human heart was laid bare for inspection. It occurred to
me that, though I could not get, except by some accident, a human document of this kind, it
might be rather fun to manufacture one. I could not get a Marie Bashkirtseff to intrigue my
readers as the young Russian lady in question had intrigued Mr. Gladstone and the rest of us,
but I thought I could get hold of some one who could write a similar sort of diary, which,
though it might not be so introspective, would be a good deal more witty. I therefore turned
over in my mind the people I could ask to write a "journal intime." While I was in bed, experiencing
the mental state that Sir Walter Scott used to call "simmering," i.e., thinking about my work
in a half- hypnotic condition, I remember that the idea occurred to me. The man to do what
I wanted was, I suddenly felt, the wisest and wittiest of my Balliol contemporaries, Dean Beeching.
But he was not then a Dean, or even a Canon or a Reader at Lincoln's Inn, but simply a country
clergyman. I wrote at once to him, telling him that I had become Editor of the new Cornhill,
and asking him to write for me, under the seal of secrecy, a monthly article in Diary form,
which was to be called "Pages from a Private Diary" In it he was to put all the best things
he could think of in the way of good stories, criticism of matters old and new, comments upon
life, literature, and conduct, accounts of historical figures and historical events, all informed
with verve and interest and all presented in that inimitable style, half-serious, half- quizzical,
of which Beeching was a master.

Beeching wrote back to tell me how much he liked the idea, and how sure he was that he could
not do anything of the kind worth my taking. It was quite beyond him. I replied that this was
nonsense, that I was quite sure from his answer that he understood exactly what I wanted, that
he could do it, and that I should want the first instalment by the middle of May. I further
charged him solemnly that he was not to write the thing like an essay but that he must make
it a real diary, writing it day by day, and making it in this way genuine reality and not an
essay with dates in it. In the end he consented to try his best. He realised at once that it
would be quite necessary to keep the diary as a true diary--that is, write it spasmodically.
I then again enjoined the utmost secrecy upon him, saying that it was not only a case of "omne
ignotum pro magnifico," but also that secrecy was the best possible advertisement. I knew that
his copy would be extraordinarily attractive, and I wanted people at London dinner-parties
and in club smoking-rooms to ask each other, "Have you guessed yet who the Cornhill diarist
is?" I may say that my prophecy was exactly fulfilled, for not only did the Private Diary get
a great deal of praise on its merits, which were truly memorable, but also on what I may call
"guessing competition" grounds--a vice or a virtue of human nature which I was quite determined
to exploit for all it was worth. I still recall my excitement when Beeching's copy arrived.
It was written in a beautifully neat hand (we did not type much in those days) and accompanied
by a heart-broken letter in regard to the author and his supposed failure. I had only to read
two pages to see that, with his wonderful instinct for humour as well as his scholarship and
knowledge of English and classical literature, he had given me exactly what I wanted. I wrote
at once to him, telling him what I thought of the Diary and that there was to be no talk of
his abandoning it. I should expect it regularly once a month, for at least nine months or a
year. Once more I enjoined secrecy. The "Pages from a Private Diary" were, of course, afterwards
republished and did exceedingly well as a book. They may still be read with pleasure by anyone
who cares for good literature and a good laugh. All I need add about the Diary is that I told
Beeching to envisage himself, not as a country clergyman, for that would give away the secret,
but as a retired Anglo-Indian who had come to live in a village in the south of England. This
kind of man might be as interested in the villagers as he was in history and literature, and
would be able to look upon them with new eyes. A little anti-clericalism might, I suggested,
put the reader off the track and help maintain the secret. In a word, I rather suggested the
idea of a Berkshire Xenophon, a man who had fought battles in his own day, but was now studying
economics or philosophy amid rural scenes. Nobly did Beeching respond. I think in the first
instalment, if not, in the second, he told a delightful story of a Berkshire labourer looking
over a sty at a good litter of Berkshire grunters and remarking, "What I do say is this. We
wants fewer of they black parsons and more of they black pigs." Be that as it may, no person
of discernment ever wanted fewer Beechings, or fewer pages from his Private Diary.

Another innovation which I was very keen to follow up, and in which I was backed by Mr. George
Smith, was the habit of placing an editorial note to most of the articles, in which I said
something as to what the writer was at and conveyed a suggestion (a very proper thing for an
editor to do) that the article was of unusual merit and deserved looking into, and so on. For
example, in the case of the "Pages from a Private Diary" I put the following:

There are as good private and "intimate" journals being kept at this moment as any that were
kept in the last century. Unfortunately, however, the public will not see them, in the course
of nature, till forty or fifty years have elapsed; till, that is, half their charm has evaporated.
The Cornhill has been lucky enough, however, to secure one of the best of these, but only on
conditions. The chief of these is absolute anonymity. But, after all, anonymity only adds the
pleasure of guessing. All that can be said of the Cornhill Diarist is that he lives in the
country, and that, like the author of The Anatomy of Melancholy, he is paucis notus paucioribus
ignotus.

As a proof of the delightful things which Beeching wrote in his Diary, out of his own head,
as children say, I may quote the following:

8th.--My old gardener has at last condescended to retire. He has been on the place, I believe,
for sixty years man and boy; but for a long time he has been doing less and less; his dinner-hour
has grown by insensible degrees into two, his intercalary luncheons and nuncheons more and
more numerous, and the state of the garden past winking at. This morning he was rather depressed,
and broke it to me that I must try to find someone to take his place. As some help, he suggested
the names of a couple of his cronies, both well past their grand climacteric. When I made a
scruple of their age, he pointed out that no young man of this generation could be depended
upon; and, further, that he wished to end his days in his own cottage (i.e. my cottage), where
he had lived all his life, so that there would be a difficulty in introducing anyone from outside.
I suppose I must get a young fellow who won't mind living for the present in lodgings. I make
a point, as far as possible, of taking soldiers for servants, feeling in duty bound to do so;
besides, I like to have well set-up men about the place. When they are teetotallers they do
very well. William, my coachman, is a teetotaller by profession, but, as the phrase goes, not
a bigot. He was a gunner, and the other night--I suppose he had been drinking delight of battle
with his peers-- he brought me home from ---, where I had been dining, in his best artillery
style, as though the carriage was a field-piece.

He was equally delightful when raking in with both hands from old and new sources good stories
and good sayings. Take, for example, though this was not in the first number, the following
story of a young Presbyterian:

Jack has a Scotch cousin, Donald, who is of a more metaphysical turn of mind, as becomes a
Shorter Catechumen. The following little dialogue will show that he inherits the faith of his
fathers:

Donald: Mother, was Jesus Christ a Jew? Mother: Yes, Donald. Donald: But how could He be, when
God the Father is a Presbyterian?

The "Pages from a Private Diary" were a very great success, in spite of their author being
ultimately discovered by Mr. Bain, the well-known bookseller. Partly by accident and partly
from a printer friend, who told him where the proofs went, he guessed that Beeching was the author.

But proud as I was of the Diary, I am not sure that my greatest find was not a wonderful short
series entitled "Memoirs of a Soudanese Soldier." It happened that while I was up the Nile
I came across an old Soudanese soldier--a lieutenant who had just risen from the ranks, and
so avoided having to leave the Soudanese regiment to which he belonged on a rather exiguous
pension. The officer in question, Ali Effendi Gifoon, was a typical Soudanese in face and figure.
He looked like a large, grave, elderly monkey, but he was as brave as a lion and as courteous,
as chivalrous, and as loyal as an Arthurian knight-errant. All the time there was in him a
touch of the pathos that belongs to some noble animal. Slavery made him sad just as freedom
made him loyal and grateful. I have seen many strange and picturesque people in my time, but
of them all AH Effendi Gifoon was the strangest. To begin with, he was a slave-soldier, which
seemed to carry one back to Xerxes or some other of the great Babylonian or Persian rulers
and their armies. He was caught when a young man high up the Nile by one of the great Arab
slave- dealers and raiders of Egypt. The dealer sold him to Mehemet AH the Pasha. He, like
most tyrants of Turkish extraction, believed in slave- soldiers if you could get the right
breed, and, therefore, he was always ready to buy the right type of man for his Soudanese battalions.
In order to keep his ranks full, the dealers caught young Soudanese for him as one might catch
young badgers or any other fighting animal "for a gent what wanted them very particular." A
village was surrounded, and the children and young men pounced upon, and the rest who were
not wanted were either killed or allowed to die of starvation.

His origin was strange enough, but still stranger was a fact which I soon learnt after I made
the acquaintance of Gifoon, and travelled up the Nile with him for three days. We sat talking
late into the night, on the top deck of the stern-wheeler mail boat, with a British officer
acting as interpreter. Gifoon knew only two cities besides Cairo. They were Paris and the City
of Mexico, It makes one's head whirl, but it is the truth. It reminds me of a New Zealand patient
in our War Hospital. He made from our house his visit to London, and our Sister-in-charge warned
him of the dangers and temptations of the metropolis. He assured her that he was all right,
for he knew Wollaranga (his native town) and Cairo intimately, and that he was "salted" to
the life of great cities.

Gifoon's knowledge of Mexico came about in this way. Napoleon III had no sooner entered upon
his Mexican campaign than he found that his French troops died like flies in the piece of swampy
country between the coast and the City of Mexico. Yet that fever-haunted track must be held,
or communication would have been cut between the French troops on the Mexican plateau and the
sea. In his difficulty Napoleon III appealed to his brother tyrant, the Khedive of Egypt. Ismail,
wishing to please the Emperor, who could influence the French financiers, from whom he was
always borrowing, instantly produced a battalion of Soudanese soldiers who were warranted to
stand anything in the way of climate, or, if not, it did not much matter. There would be no
complaints if they all died in Mexico, because they would leave nobody behind them with any
right to complain. Slaves have no relations. Accordingly the Soudanese were shipped off to
Vera Cruz, and there fought for the French. When the war came to an end the remaining Africans
were brought back to Paris to grace Napoleon's spectacular effort to get out of his failure.
Just as Napoleon gilded the dome of the Invalides when he came home from Russia in order to
keep people's tongues off Borodino, so Napoleon III showed a sample of his black contingent
on the Boulevards, and awarded Gifoon, the leading black hero, a medal given under the same
conditions as the Victoria Cross.

When Gifoon got back to Cairo, one of those strange things happened to him which happen only
in Eastern countries. The Khedive made the black man of valour his coachman--partly to show
what esteem he had for the French ruler, partly to show how small was any achievement compared
with the honour of doing personal service to "Effendina," and partly, perhaps, in order to
show off his picturesque hero to stray European visitors, for Ismail on the one side of his
head had the instinct of the company-promoter. He liked, as it were, good human copy for his
Prospectuses. When, however, Ismail's troubles ending, abdication began and the re-making of
the Egyptian Army, the coachman V. C. drifted back to the army and was found there by the British
officers who were turning the Soudanese soldiers into some of the best fighting troops in the
world.

Captain Machell, who was foremost in the making of the Soudanese, by a lucky accident happened
upon Gifoon, saw his worth, made a friend of him, and brought him forward. When I saw Machell
in Egypt he not only told me his friend's history, but added that in the leisure of a desert
camp he had got Gifoon to write down the story of his life. The old man talked, and the young
English soldier, who knew Arabic, or, rather, the broken-down form which Gifoon talked, translated
into English, giving the meaning of what was said as clearly as possible, not in literary English
but in the straightforward style in which an English officer in the wilds makes out his Reports.
For example, when Gifoon talked about regiments, or battalions, or corps, using in his Arabic
dialect the nearest word, Machell put down the expression which was most appropriate, such,
for example, as "cadre." This fact gave rise to a very curious example of how easily plain
people get bemused in matters of style.

It happened that at the time my first number came out, I had a friend at the Reform Club who,
as a Civil Engineer, had spent a good deal of time in the 'fifties and 'sixties in the Turkish
Empire, and knew, or thought he knew, the East by heart. He was fond of me and greatly interested
in my venture in the Cornhill, and also in all I told him about my good luck in getting the
memoirs of a genuine Soudanese fighting-man. When I saw him after my new number had come out,
I hastened to ask his verdict on the memoirs. I found him very sad and distracted. "Strachey,
you have been 'had'--entirely taken in. The memoirs are not genuine. I assure you they are
not. They are the most obvious fake. Anyone who has been in the East can see that at a glance."
"But," I replied, "I know they are not a fake. I have seen the man myself, and talked with
him for hours. I know also that Machell is a perfectly straight man and took down exactly what
Ali Effendi Gifoon said. The idea of his trying to take me in is impossible." But he would
not be moved. He was certain that the thing was a fake, and said he could convince me. As an
infallible proof he pointed to a passage in which Gifoon used the regular military technical
language to describe the organization of the troops under the Khedive. For example, the translator
made the Soudanese soldier in the British version talk about "military operations," "regimental
cadres," "seconded," and so forth." You don't know the Orientals as I do," said the old gentleman
over and over again. "They would no more be able to talk like that, Strachey, than you could
talk like the Khoran." It was no use for me to point out that nobody suggested for a moment
that he used the English words in dispute. How could he? He knew no English. The phrases which
were supposed to show the fake were simply Machell's rough-and-ready method of getting through
to English readers the ideas that the Soudanese soldier intended to convey. He used some Arabic
or Central African phrase which meant "war," or "a body of men," and so forth, and Machell
fitted them with the nearest technical phrase at his command. No doubt a more artistic effect
would have been produced by using the Arabic word, or finding some primitive Anglo-Saxon equivalent,
and then explaining in a note that what was meant was, in fact, a "battalion," "company," or
"section." But Machell, not being able to write in what the Americans call the "hath doth"
style, boldly used the only language he knew--the language of the Reports, Schedules, and Forms
of the British Army. To my mind, and to the mind of anyone with literary instinct, the very
fact that made my old friend think the memoirs were a fake made me sure that they were genuine.
If Machell had written like Walter Scott, or still more like Kipling, I should have had great
doubts as to whether he was not making things up and taking me in. As it was, I felt perfectly
happy.

The memoirs, though they never attracted the public attention they deserved, were full of extremely
curious and interesting things, and showed, indeed, not only the oriental, but primitive tribesman's
mind with a wonderful intimacy. The most curious thing in the memoirs was a prophecy made by
a Mohammedan saint. Though I cannot quite expect people of the present generation to realise
the full poignancy of this prophecy, I think I can make the chief point clear. The memoirs,
which were written down in 1895 and published in 1896, contained the following prophecy:

I remember the great Sayid Hassan el Morghani of Kassala uttering the prophecies which were
generally ridiculed then, but which are rapidly being justified as events go on. Sayid Hassan
was the father of Sayid Ali el Morghani, who was at Suakin with us, and who is now so greatly
respected as the representative of this powerful sect of Moslems.

Sayid Hassan was undoubtedly possessed of second-sight and I implicitly believe him to have
been a Ragil Kashif, i.e., a man who could penetrate the mysteries of the future. Wild and
improbable as his prophecies must have appeared to most of those who heard them at Kassala,
yet his every utterance was received with profound respect, and gradually we saw one after
another of his statements borne out by facts.

The burden of the Morghani's prophecies was that evil times were in store for the Soudan. He
warned us all "El marah illi towlid me takhodhash" (Take not unto thyself a wife who will bear
thee children), for a crisis was looming over the near future of the Soudan, when those who
wish to support the Dowlah, or Government, must fly, and they will be lucky if they escape
with their lives. Kassala would be laid waste four times, and on the fourth or last occasion
the city would begin to live once more.

Mahomed Noor, who was Emir of Kassala at that time, openly ridiculed these prophecies; upon
which the Morghani replied that all he had foretold would undoubtedly come to pass, but that,
as Mahomed Noor had but a very short time to live, and would die a violent death, he would
not have an opportunity of seeing it himself. Being pressed to say upon what he based his prophecies
regarding the Emir's death, he said that his end was near, and that Mahomed Noor and his son
would shortly be killed by the Abyssinians on the same day. The flame of fitna, or insurrection,
would not first appear in the Soudan, but the fire would be kindled in Egypt itself. Then the
whole Soudan would rise, and the people would not be appeased until the land had been deluged
in blood and entire tribes had disappeared off the face of the earth. The work of re-conquest
and re-establishment of order would fall upon the Ingleez, who, after suppressing the revolt
in Egypt, and gradually having arranged the affairs of that country, would finally occupy the
Soudan, and would rule the Turk and the Soudanese together for a period of five years. The
idea of the Turk being ruled by anyone was received with special incredulity, and on his being
pressed to explain who and what these mighty Ingleez were, he said they were a people from
the North, tall of stature and of white complexion. The English regeneration would place the
Soudan on a better footing than it had ever been on before, and he used to say that the land
of Kassala between El Khatmieh and Gebel um Karam would ultimately be sold for a guinea a pace.
The final struggle for the supremacy in the Soudan would take place on the great plain of Kerrere,
to the north of Omdurman; and, pointing to the desert outside Kassala, which is strewn with
large white stones, he said: "After this battle has been fought, the plain of El Kerrere will
be strewn with human skulls as thickly as it is now covered with stones." When the Soudan had
been thoroughly subdued, the English occupation would be extended to Abyssinia. Then there
would no longer be dissension between the people of that country and the Egyptians, who would
intermarry freely, and would not allow the difference in their religion to remain a barrier
between them.

The passage about the Ingleez in this prophecy, though striking and picturesque, might be explained
away by the fact that the Effendi later became so strongly impressed by the power of the English
that everything in his mind was tinctured by this fact. Any vaticinations of changes to be
wrought by some great and mysterious external power would, after our occupation of Egypt, naturally
suggest the English. When I first read that prophecy in proof, the great plain outside the
north of Omdurman meant nothing to me. Not only did the re-conquest of the Soudan appear anything
but imminent, in the spring of 1896, but one was inclined to believe that the advance to Khartoum
would very probably be made by water, or, again, would come from Suakin and the Red Sea. Lord
Kitchener, as it happened, made the advance by the Nile Valley, i.e., by land and rail, and
so had to cross the plain to the north of Omdurman.

Though the plain of El Kerrere was in fact strewn first with the white djibbas, or tunics,
of the dead Soudanese, and later with their skulls and bones, as thickly as a piece of sandy
desert with stones--Lord Kitchener's army had not sufficient men to bury the vast mass of dead
Dervishes till several years after--this might be put down as the commonplace of picturesque
prophecy. It was, however, a distinctly good hit on the prophet's part to suggest that the
Dervish rule would literally be swallowed up by the casualties in one great battle at the point
indicated. That was exactly what happened. I remember well, years after the prophecy, reading
in the account of the special correspondents that the field of Omdurman some few days after
the battle looked exactly like a plain covered with patches of white snow. Anyway, though interested
by the prophecy, it seemed to me at the time to be much too remote and too vague to take much
interest in it. When, however, two years later, I read the passage about the patches of snow,
I suddenly remembered the prophecy, looked it up, and was greatly impressed.

One of the things which I am proudest of as regards the Cornhill is the fact that I was able
to discover three or four new writers who later made names for themselves. One of these was
Mr. Patchett Martin, who, in a series of books, Deeds that Won the Empire, showed himself extraordinarily
adept at carrying on the Macaulay tradition of readableness and picturesqueness in the handling
of historical events. Another "find" was Mr. Bullen, a man really inspired with the spirit
of the sea, and a man with a sense of literature. I remember, for example, early in my acquaintance
with him,--an acquaintance due solely to the fact that I accepted his MS. on its merits and
without knowing the least who he was--talking to him about Herman Melville's Moby Dick--the
story of the mysterious White Whale which haunts the vast water spaces of the South Pacific--a
story about which I note with interest that of late certain American and English writers have
become quite mystical, or, as the Elizabethans would have put it, "fond."

The story of how Bullen's MS. was accepted, and, therefore, how Bullen became within a very
few months, from an absolutely unknown ex-seaman struggling to keep himself and his family
from starvation, a popular writer and lecturer, is worth recording. It shows how great a part
pure luck plays in a man's life, and especially in the lives of men of letters. It is more
agreeable, no doubt, to think that we are the sole architects of our careers, but the facts
are often otherwise. We are as much, if not more beholden to luck than skill.

After the first number of the Cornhill had been got out, we became so snowed under with copy
that I had to give instructions that, though all the MSS. should be gone through, none could
be accepted. I told my staff that they must harden their hearts even to good short stories
and good essays, as we had already accepted enough stuff to carry us on for three or four months.
I was determined that I would not start water-logged, or, rather, ink-logged! "All we can do
is to send the MSS. back, but give a word of blessing and encouragement to the good ones."

Somewhat to my annoyance, as I was about to leave the office one evening, Mr. Graves, who was
my chief helper, forced a MS. upon me with the words, "I know what you said about showing you
nothing more; but I simply won't take the responsibility of rejecting this. You must do it,
if anyone has to. It is too good a piece of work for anyone except an Editor to reject." When
I got home I very unwillingly began to read it. I felt I should be in a difficulty, whatever
happened. If it was as good as Graves said, I should have to take it. But that would mean dislodging
somebody else whose MS. I had already accepted. I had, however, only to read four or five pages
to see that Mr. Graves was perfectly right and that, whatever else happened, this MS. had got
to be accepted.

Happily, I did not wait, but wrote at once a letter of congratulation to the unknown Mr. Bullen,
and told him I would take his story, which proved to be the first instalment of a book. Smith
& Elder, when acquainted with what had happened, saw the value of the copy, got in touch with
Bullen at once, and very soon agreed to publish his first Whaling book. He told me afterwards
that when the letter arrived he was in the direst of straits. He had practically no money on
which to keep himself, his wife, and his children alive. His health was in a bad state, as
was that of his wife, and he was in the hands of a money- lender who was pressing for payment
and was about to sell him up. He had, of course, put nothing of this into his covering letter,
but somehow or other I had an instinct that the man was in trouble. Somehow or other, his emotional
struggle had transferred itself to me along the wire of the letter. Subconsciousness spoke
to subconsciousness. Curiously enough, a similar impulse founded on no evidence has come to
me on one or two other occasions, and they have always proved substantial. Anyway, I think
I either sent Bullen a cheque in advance, or asked him whether he would like to have one, and
so the situation was saved.

The discovery of Bullen was always a pleasure, but still greater was my delight in the discovery
of one of whom I may now say without exaggeration that he has become one of the leading men
of letters of our time. The author I mean is Mr. Walter De La Mare. My friend, Mr. Ingpen,
who was then on the staff of Smith & Elder, and was detailed to help me in getting up and getting
out the Cornhill, came to me, after I had been in office for about three weeks, and asked me
whether as a personal favour I would look at an article by a relation of his called De La Mare,
a youth who was then on the staff of a business house in the City, but who had literary leanings
and was married to Mr. Ingpen's sister. I told him that I should, of course, be delighted,
but that I had outrun the constable terribly in the way of accepting MSS., as he knew, for
he wrote most of the letters of acceptance. I was afraid, therefore, that however good his
brother-in-law's work, I could only give one verdict. He told me that he fully realised the
situation, but that he would be glad if I would read the MS. all the same, and tell him what
I thought of it.

Accordingly I stuck the MS. in my pocket. With a certain feeling of dread that I might be forced
to accept it, I took it out on the following Sunday, at Newlands, and began to read. I shall
never forget my delight. I had been pleased at the Bullen find, but here was something quite
different. When I laid down Mr. De La Mare's MS. -- signed Walter Ramal, an anagram of De La
Mare--I am proud to say that I fully realised that a new planet had swum into my ken. I had
had the good luck to be the literary astronomer first to notice that the Host of Heaven had
another recruit. That is an experience as thrilling as it is rare. The story was entitled "A
Mote," and I am delighted to think I had the prescience to pass it on to my readers with the
following note, for, as I have said before, I insisted, somewhat to the horror of conventional
people, in decorating the contributions of any new writer with an explanation or comment. Here
was my guess at De La Mare's story. I do not mean to say that it contains the whole truth,
but, at any rate, it was a good shot considering the facts before me. Here it is:

Those who hold the doctrine of transmigration will hardly fail, after they have read this story,
to think that the spirit of Edgar Allan Poe is once more abroad.--Ed. Cornhill.

Here I may add that these notes had a curiously irritating effect upon the older and more rigid
readers of the magazine. Mr. Reginald Smith, for example, was quite terrified by the passionate
way in which old gentlemen at his club attacked him on the way in which the pages of the Cornhill
were defiled by the Editor's "horrible little notes." Nobody wanted to read them. They were
either futile or patronising, or both. They utterly spoilt the magazine, and so forth and so
on. Mr. Reginald Smith, though kindness itself in the matter, was inclined to yield to the
storm and to think that I had perhaps made a mistake in breaking away from the established
custom. I appealed to Mr. George Smith, quite certain that he would support me and the innovation.
He did so; and I continued, though, perhaps, with a little more reticence, to put up directing-posts
for my readers. I am sure I was right. After all, the ordinary man gets very much confused
by new writers and is very likely to miss a good thing merely because he is put off by the
title or the first few sentences. Yet all the time, the essay or short story at which he shies
is the very thing he would like to read if only it had been properly introduced to him. In
Mr. De La Mare's case, however, there was no fear of being put off by reading the first few
sentences. If you had once read these you were quite certain to finish. I never remember a
better opening:

I awoke from a dream of a gruesome fight with a giant geranium. I surveyed, with drowsy satisfaction
and complacency, the eccentric jogs and jerks of my aunt's head.

The performance is even better than this promise of strange things strangely told. In the end
it is not "my aunt" but "my uncle" who sees visions, and visions whose subtlety and originality
it would be hard to beat. I will tantalise my readers with a quotation:

My uncle stopped dead upon the gravel, with his face towards the garden. I seemed to feel the
slow revolution of his eyes.

"I see a huge city of granite," he grunted; "I see lean spires of metal and hazardous towers,
frowning upon the blackness of their shadows. White lights stare out of narrow window-slits;
a black cloud breathes smoke in the streets. There is no wind, yet a wind sits still upon the
city. The air smells like copper. Every sound rings as it were upon metal. There is a glow--a
glow of outer darkness--a glow imagined by straining eyes. The city is a bubble with clamour
and tumult rising thin and yellow in the lean streets like dust in a loam-pit. The city is
walled as with a finger-ring. The sky is dumb with listeners. Far down, as the crow sees ears
of wheat, I see that mote of a man, in his black clothes, now lit by flaming jets, now hid
in thick darkness. Every street breeds creatures. They swarm gabbling, and walk like ants in
the sun. Their faces are fierce and wary, with malevolent lips. Each mouths to each, and points
and stares. On I walk, imperturbable and stark. But I know, oh, my boy, I know the alphabet
of their vile whisperings and gapings and gesticulations. The air quivers with the flight of
black winged shapes. Each foot-tap of that sure figure upon the granite is ticking his hour
away." My uncle turned and took my hand. "And this, Edmond, this is the man of business who
purchased his game in the City, and vied with all in the excellence of his claret. The man
who courted your aunt, begot hale and whole children, who sits in his pew and is respected.
That beneath my skull should lurk such monstrous things! You are my godchild, Edmond. Actions
are mere sediment, and words--froth, froth. Let the thoughts be clean, my boy; the thoughts
must be clean; thoughts make the man. You may never at any time be of ill repute, and yet be
a blackguard. Every thought, black or white, lives for ever, and to life there is no end."

"Look here, Uncle," said I, "it's serious, you know; you must come to town and see Jenkinson,
the brain man. A change of air, sir." "Do you smell sulphur?" said my uncle. I tittered and
was alarmed.

Anyone who reads this and knows anything of literature will understand the feelings of a young
editor in publishing such matter, especially in publishing it in 1896. At the present time
the refrain that "All can raise the flower now, for all have got the seed" is a reality. In
the 'nineties work like "The Mote" was rare. Connoisseurs of style will recognise what I mean
when I say that what endeared "Walter Ramal" to me was that, in spite of the fact that Stevenson
at that very time was at his best, and so was Kipling, there was not a trace of either author's
influence in Mr. De La Mare's prose. The very occasional appearances of Stevensonianism were
in truth only examples of common origin. He at once made me feel that he was destined for great
things. When there are two such influences at work, happy is the man who can resist them, and
resist them in the proper way, by an alternative of his own, and not by a mere bald and hungry
reticence.

Mr. Walter De La Mare's second article was called "The Village of Old Age." It was a charming
piece of what I simply cannot and will not call "elfish" writing. The word in me, foolishly,
no doubt, produces physical nausea. If, however, someone with a stronger stomach in regard
to words called it elfish I should understand what he meant, and agree. But, good as were these
two essays, they were nothing compared to De La Mare's marvellous story, "The Moon's Miracle."
That was a piece of glorious fantasy in which the writer excelled himself, not only as regards
the mechanism of his essay-story, but as to its substance, and, most of all, its style.

The following was his short synopsis of the story:

How the Count saw a city in the sky and men in harness issuing thereout-- Of the encampment
of the host of the moons-men-Of how the battle was joined--The Count's great joy thereat and
of how the fight sped.

The first sentences were these:

The housekeeper's matronly skirts had sounded upon the staircase. The maids had simpered their
timid "Good-night, sir," and were to bed. Nevertheless, the Count still sat imperturbable and
silent. A silence of frowns, of eloquence on the simmer; a silence that was almost a menace.
This enough for any man of adventure to know that he is in for a good time--in for something
big. What he was in for in this case was a great aerial battle seen from Wimbledon Common--an
admirable locale for such an event, as I have always thought. I can best prove the depth of
the impression made upon me by the fact that twenty years afterwards, when on some summer evening
one knew that an air raid had begun, I never failed, when I watched the skies, to think of
the little group on Wimbledon Common. It had actually come true. They were scouring the fields
of air in the story of fight. No doubt what one saw there was not as exquisite a spectacle
as that seen by the Count. Still, there was always something thrilling and so delightful in
scanning the vast battle-field of Heaven in order to find a Zeppelin, or, later, an aeroplane
squadron. Here is the passage describing what the Count and his friends saw, when they discerned
a city in the sky, and round it the tents of the moonsmen:

The tents were of divers pale colours, some dove-grey, others saffron and moth-green, and those
on the farther side, of the colour of pale violets, and all pitched in a vast circle whose
centre was the moon. I handed the mackintosh to the Count and insisted upon his donning of
it. "The dew hangs in the air," said I, "and unless the world spin on too quick, we shall pass
some hours in watching." "Ay," said he in a muse, "but it seems to me the moon-army keeps infamous
bad watch. I see not one sentinel. Those wings travel sure as a homing bird; and to be driven
back upon their centre would be defeat for the--lunatics. Give me but a handful of such cavalry,
I would capture the Southern Cross. Magnificent! magnificent! I remember, when I was in it--"
For, while he was yet deriding, from points a little distant apart, single, winged horsemen
dropped from the far sky, whither, I suppose, they had soared to keep more efficient watch;
and though we heard no whisper of sound, by some means (inaudible bugle-call, positively maintains
the Count) the camp was instantly roused and soon astir like seething broth. Tents were struck
and withdrawn to the rear. Arms and harness, bucklers and gemmy helms sparkled and glared.
All was orderly confusion.

I could go on for many more pages than I am afraid my readers would approve to chronicle the
joys of my editorship, and especially the joys of discovery. I will only, however, mention
two or three more names. One is that of the late Mr. Bernard Capes. I think I am right in saying
that my story of "The Moon-stricken," which was published in the Cornhill, was one of his first
appearances before the English public. Another author whom, I am glad to say, I and those who
helped me "spotted" as having special qualities of readability was Mr. Hesketh Prichard. In
this case my wife did what Mr. Graves had done in the case of Mr. Bullen. After I had charged
her, as she valued the peace of the family, to accept nothing, but to return all the MSS. which
I gave her, she insisted upon my reading Hesketh Prichard's story. My judgment confirmed hers,
and in spite of the difficulties of congestion, which was becoming greater and greater but
which, of course, was my proof of success, I accepted the story. There was, of course, nothing
novel in this experience. It is what always happens, and must happen, in journalism. An editor
is like a great fat trout, who is habitually thoroughly well gorged with flies. It is the business
of the young writer who wants to make his way, to put so inviting a fly upon his line and to
fling it so deftly in front of the said trout's nose that, though the trout has sworn by all
the Gods, Nymphs, and Spirits of River and Stream that he won't eat any more that day, he cannot
resist the temptation to rise and bite. You must take the City of Letters by Storm. It will
never yield to a mere summons to surrender.

The Cornhill, though so agreeable an experience, did not last long. The Spectator soon claimed
me for its own. I had to resign the Cornhill in order, first, to find more time for The Spectator,
and then, to carry the full weight of editorship which came to me with Mr. Hutton's death.
Mr. Hutton's death was quickly followed by Mr. Townsend's retirement. This made me, not only
sole Editor, but sole Proprietor, of the paper.

Before I proceed to describe the task I set myself in The Spectator when I obtained a free
hand, and to record my journalistic aims and aspirations, I desire to describe Mr. Townsend--a
man whose instinctive genius for journalism has, to my mind, never been surpassed.

CHAPTER XVI

MEREDITH TOWNSEND

Taking The Spectator as the pivot of my life, I began this book by a plunge in medias res.
This done, I had to go back and tell of my rearing and of my life in something approaching
chronological sequence. In so doing, however, I have striven to remain true to Sir Thomas Browne's
instructions and to keep the alabaster tomb in the barber's shop always before my eyes. Now,
however, that I have reached the time when I became Proprietor and Editor of The Spectator,
I may fitly return to my chiefs and predecessors.

Unfortunately I can do this only in the case of Mr. Townsend. In regard to any character-drawing
or description of Mr. Hutton my pen must refuse to write. Just before he died Mr. Hutton made
me promise not to write anything whatever about him in The Spectator, and though I am not sure
that he meant that promise to extend to what I might wish to write elsewhere, I have always
felt myself to be under a general and not merely a particular obligation of silence. Mr. Hutton
and I were always the best of friends, and I regarded him with admiration as well as affection.
On some points we differed strongly, but on more we were in full agreement.

Though I did not go nearly as far as he did in the matter of spiritualism I had deep sympathy
with his main attitude in regard to things psychological. It was this fact, perhaps, which
made him say to me, half humorously but half in earnest, when he knew that he was leaving the
office to die, as I also knew it, "Remember, Strachey, if you ever write anything about me
in The Spectator, I will haunt you!"

I obeyed his wish and clearly must always do so, though not merely for this warning. Indeed,
I remember well hoping that perhaps his spirit might still be anxious, and might find it possible
to revisit his room, of which I had become the occupant. In this instance, at least, "the harsh
heir" would not have resented the return. As I sat at his table late in the evening and heard,
as we so often did in our river-side office, wild gusts of wind blowing up the Thames, rattling
my windows, sweeping up the stairway, and shaking the door, I often caught myself trying to
believe that it was Button's half-lame step on the threshold, and that at any moment he might
fling open the door, put his hand in mine, and ask a hundred things of the paper and the staff.
But, alas! he never came. As on many other occasions in my life, the desire to be haunted,
the longing to see the dead was not potent, efficient, authoritative. But I must write no more
of Hutton. If we cannot see the dead, at least we must keep troth with them.

Of Mr. Townsend I am happy in being able to speak quite freely. I am not trammelled by any
promise. Before doing so, however, I would most strongly insist that no one shall suppose that
because I say so much more of him than of his brother Editor, it is because my heart felt warmer
towards him. I had, indeed, the warmest of feelings towards both, then. If anyone were to ask
me which I liked the better, I should find it impossible to answer. They were both true friends.
They made a great intellectual partnership. They were complementary to each other in an extraordinary
degree. It was quite remarkable how little either intruded upon the intellectual ground of
the other. This could never have been said of me, however, who for some years made a sort of
triumvirate with them. I had a great deal of common ground with both. That was all very well
for a subordinate and a younger man, but it would not have been half so satisfactory in the
case of an equal partnership. Hutton was occupied with pure literature--especially poetry--and
with theology and with home politics. Townsend, on the other hand, though he was a great reader
and lover of books, and a man of real religious feeling, was specially interested in Asia and
the Asiatic spirit and foreign affairs. To these subjects Hutton's mind, though he would not
have admitted it, was in the main closed. Townsend knew a great deal about diplomatic history
and about war by land and sea, as must every man who has lived long in India; Hutton's mind
was little occupied with such things. Home politics, as I have said, were his field and had
his deepest concern, while Townsend took in these no more than an ordinary interest. Again,
Hutton was deeply interested in psychology and the study of the mind, whereas what interested
Townsend most was what might be called the scenery of life and politics. Townsend looked upon
life as a drama played in a great theatre and seen from the stalls. To Hutton, I think, life
was more like some High Conference at which he himself was one of the delegates, and not merely
a spectator.

And now for Townsend the man and the friend. What always seemed to me the essential thing about
him was his great kindliness and generosity of nature, a kindliness and generosity which, when
you knew him, were not the least affected by his delight in saying sharp and even biting things.
He barked, but he never bit. You very soon came to find, also, that the barking, though often
loud, was not even meant to terrify, much less to injure. Quite as essential, perhaps, as this
kindliness, and of course far more important, was a fact of which I ultimately came to have
striking proof, namely that he was the most honourable and high-minded of men. It is easy enough
for any man of ordinary good character to keep a bargain when he has made it. It is by no means
an easy thing for a man who has, or seems to have, cause to regret the consequences of a particular
course he has taken, entirely to overcome and forget his dissatisfaction.

I can easily illustrate what I mean when I describe how, later on, I became first half-partner
in The Spectator with Townsend and then sole Proprietor and Editor-in-Chief. Within eight or
nine months of Hutton's retirement, Townsend, for a variety of reasons yet to be described,
but also largely on account of the fact that his health was beginning to give way, determined
that he would end his days in the country. He proposed, therefore, that I should buy him out
of The Spectator altogether and become sole Proprietor and Editor. As I was some thirty years
younger than he was, and on his death would become sole Proprietor, subject to a fixed payment
to the executors of his Will, this was in fact only anticipating what would happen at his death.
He promised, meantime, to write two articles for me every week as long as his health would
allow, and to take charge during my holidays. The arrangement appeared favourable to him from
the financial point of view, when it was made, and involved a good deal better terms than those
contained in our Deed of Partnership. At any rate, the plan originated entirely with him. All
I did was to say "Yes."

But to make an arrangement of that kind and to keep to it in such a way that I never had the
very slightest ground for even the shadow of a "private grievance" was wonderful. Think of
it for a moment. The position of chief and subordinate was suddenly and absolutely reversed.
I became the editor and he the contributor. Like the shepherd in Virgil, he tilled as a tenant
the land which he had once owned as a freehold. Yet he never even went to the length of shrugging
his shoulders and saying, "Well, of course it's your paper now, and you can do what you like
with it, but you're making a great mistake." His loyalty to his contract, and to me and to
the paper, was never dimmed by a moment of hesitation, much less of grumbling or regret. He
was kindness and consideration personified. I shall never forget how perfectly easy he made
my position.

There was another factor in the situation which would have made it even more trying for anyone
but Townsend. Directly I became sole Proprietor, I threw myself with all the energy at my command
into the business side of the paper, and within a couple of years had doubled the circulation
and greatly increased the profits. This did not, of course, take anything away from Townsend's
share in the paper, but it might very well have made him feel, had he been of a grudging spirit,
that he had made a mistake in selling out when he did. As a matter of fact, the paper would
not have done so well under the partnership. I should have hesitated to risk his property by
launching out, and he would probably have thought it his duty to restrain me. He disliked anything
speculative in business, did not believe in the possibilities of expansion, and preferred the
atmosphere of the Three per Cents. That being so, I could not have appealed to him to put more
capital into The Spectator.

In effect, we should each have waited on the other and done nothing. However, the fact remains
that there never was a trace of jealousy on his part. I have no doubt that he occasionally
wished he had retained a share in the paper. He would hardly have been human if he had not
done so; but he never showed any regret of a kind which would have been painful or embarrassing
to me. Under conditions which might have been most trying we continued and maintained a close
and unclouded friendship. It was unaffected by the slightest touch of friction. Take a small
point: he even insisted on changing his room at the office for mine. His room, the room he
had occupied for over thirty years, was on the first floor, and this, he insisted, was the
place for the Editor-in- Chief, and so must be mine. I yielded only to his peremptory request.

Of Townsend's intellectual gifts I cannot speak without expressing a keen admiration. It is
my honest belief that he was, in the matter of style, the greatest leader-writer who has ever
appeared in the English Press. He developed the exact compromise between a literary dignity
and a colloquial easiness of exposition which completely fills the requirements of journalism.
He was never pompous, never dull, or common, and never trivial. When I say that he was the
greatest of leader-writers I am not forgetting that at this moment we have in Mr. Ian Colvin
of The Morning Post a superb artist in the three-paragraph style of matutinal exhortation.
Bagehot, again, was a great leader-writer; so were Robert Low and Sir Henry Mayne; and so also
was Hutton. But these men, great publicists as they were, never attained to quite Townsend's
verbal accomplishment. I fully admit that many of them could, on occasion, write with far greater
political judgment, and with greater learning, and with greater force and eloquence. But where
Townsend excelled them and was easily first was in his power of dramatic expression and what
can only be described as verbal fascination. No one could excite the mind and exalt the imagination
as he did. And the miracle was that he did it all the time in language which appeared to be
nothing more than that of a clever, competent man talking at his club. He used no literary
artifice, no rhetorical emphasis, no elaboration of language, no finesse of phrase. His style
was easy but never elegant or precious or ornamented. It was familiar without being common-
place, free without discursiveness, and it always had in it the note of distinction. What was
as important, he contrived, even in his most paradoxical moments, to give a sense of reserve
power, of a heavy balance at the Bank of Intellect.

He never appeared to preach or to explain to his readers. But though he had all the air of
assuming that they were perfectly well-read and highly experienced in great affairs, he yet
managed to tell them very clearly what they did not and could not know. He could give instruction
without the slightest assumption of the schoolmaster. In truth, his writing at its best was
in form perfect journalism.

But, all the same, Townsend both in matter and in style had his faults as a leader-writer.
Though he was never carried away by language, was never blatant and never hectoring, he was
often much too sensational in his thoughts and so necessarily in the phrases in which he clothed
them. He let his ideas run away with him, and would sometimes say very dangerous and even very
absurd things--things which became all the more dangerous and all the more absurd because they
were, as a rule, conveyed in what were apparently carefully-balanced and carefully-selected
words. His wildest words were prefaced with declarations of reticence and repression.

It was said of a daily newspaper in the 'sixties that its proprietor's instructions to his
leader-writers were framed in these words:

"What we want from you is common sense conveyed in turgid language."

What the world sometimes got from Townsend was turgid thought conveyed, I will not say in commonplace
language, for his style could never be that, but in the language of sobriety, good sense, and
good taste.

Let no one think that in saying this I am being false to my friend. Townsend's faults of judgment
were all upon the surface. At heart he had a great and sound mind, though sometimes he could
not resist the temptation to drop the reins on his horse's neck and let it carry him where
it would, and at a pace unbecoming a responsible publicist. Sometimes, too, the horse was actually
pressed and encouraged to kick up its heels and go snorting down the flowery meads of sensationalism!

People generally went through three phases in the process of getting to know Townsend. To begin
with, they thought he was a man inspired with the highest political wisdom and knowledge. His
gifts of dialectical vaticination made them look upon him as the lively oracle of the special
Providence which he himself was accustomed to say presided over the British Empire. After a
time, however, they began to think that he was what they called too "viewy," too much inclined
to paradox, too wild. Often, alas! the feeling in regard to him ended here, and he was written
down as impracticable if amusing. That view, though probable, was certainly false. Those who
had the good fortune and the good sense to persist, and were not put off by this discovery
of a superficial flightiness of thought, but dug deeper in his mind, ended, as I ended, in
something like veneration for his essential wisdom. They found again, as I did, that he was
very apt to be in the right when he seemed most fallacious. After all, a house may be cool
and comfortable, even if the front door is painted in flame-colour and has a knocker of rock
crystal set in gold.

I may here appropriately point out how great an effect his book of collected Spectator articles
dealing with Asia, and especially India, has had upon public opinion. Asia and Europe (Constable,
London, Putnam, New York) remains the essential book on the subject handled, and every year
its influence is widening. No one can understand Asia or Islam without reference to its inspiring
and also prophetic pages. For example, I notice that Mr. Stoddard, in his recent book on The
Revival of Islam (Scribner), constantly quotes Mr. Townsend on the subject. And this, remember,
is not due to any fascination of style, but rather to the fact that many of Townsend's prophecies,
which at the time seemed wild and unsubstantial enough, have come true.

Though I have said that Mr. Townsend's style as a journalist was perfect, and I firmly believe
this, it must be confessed that occasionally he indulged in paradoxes which cannot be defended.
I will not conceal the fact that these occasional kickings over the traces personally delighted
me as a young man, and still delight me, but, all the same, they are indefensible from the
point of view of the serious man--that dreadful person, the vir pietate gravis. For instance,
it was always said by some of his friends, and I think with truth, for I have not dared to
verify the point, that he began his leader recording the Austrian defeat and the Battle of
Sadowa with these words: "So God not only reigns but governs"

Another example of his trenchant style occurred in a "sub-leader" on a story from America,
which related how the inhabitants of the "coast towns," i.e., villages in one of the Eastern
States, had refused to allow a ship that was supposed to contain cholera or fever patients
from New York to land at a local port. The farmers went down with their rifles and shot-guns,
so the story went, fired upon the sailors and even the invalids, while they were attempting
to land, and drove them back to their ship. Townsend's leader on this legend, no doubt purely
apocryphal, was full of wise things, but ended up with the general reflection that people are
apt to forget that "mankind in general are tigers in trousers" and that the majority of them
"would cheerfully shoot their own fathers to prevent the spread of infection."

No doubt, if you had asked Townsend to justify his statement, he would at once have admitted
that the language was a little strong, and would have been quite willing to introduce some
modification, such as "men occasionally behave as if they were tigers in trousers," and to
add that "in certain instances some men might even go so far as to hold that it might be a
public duty to shoot their own fathers to prevent the spread of infection." He was always rather
sad, however, if one suggested a little hedging of this kind when one was reading over the
final proofs of the paper. What he liked, and as a journalist was quite right to like, was
definiteness. Qualifying words were an abomination to his strong imagination. No man ever loved
the dramatic side of life more than he did. He even carried this love of drama to the lengths
of honestly being inclined to believe things simply and solely because they were sensational.
The ordinary man when he hears an extraordinary tale is inclined to say, "What rubbish! That
can't be true. I never heard anything like that before," and so on. Townsend, on the other
hand, was like the Father of the Church who said, "Credo quia impossibile." If you told Townsend
a strange story, and suggested that it could not possibly be true because of some marvellous
or absurd incident which was supposed to have occurred, his natural and immediate impulse was
to look upon that special circumstance as conclusive proof of its credibility and truth. His
extraordinarily wide, if inaccurate, recollections of historical facts and fictions would supply
him with a hundred illustrations to show that what seemed to you ridiculous, or, at any rate,
inexplicable, was the simplest and most reasonable thing in the world. This leaning toward
the sensational, which belongs to so many journalists and is probably a beneficial part of
their equipment, should not be forgotten by those who are tempted to judge the Press harshly
in the matter of scare headlines and scare news. When something has been inserted in the Press
that turns out later to be a cock-and-bull story, the plain man is apt to think that it must
have been "put in" because the editor, though he knew it was false, thought it good copy and
likely to sell his paper. In my experience that is not in the least how the thing works. A
great many editors, however, greatly like and are naturally inclined to believe in "good copy."
And, after all, they have got many more excuses for doing so than the ordinary man realises.
Nobody can have anything to do with a newspaper without being amazed at the strangeness, the
oddity, the topsy-turvy sensationalism of life, when once it is laid bare by the newspaper
reporters.

For example, they write an article to show how astrology has absolutely died out in England.
A day afterwards you get a letter from some old gentleman in Saffron Walden or Peckham Rye
or Romford, informing you that in his small town, or suburban district, "there are ten practising
astrologers, not to mention various magicians who do a little astrology in their odd moments."
And all this is written with an air of perfect simplicity, as if the information conveyed were
the most natural thing in the world and would be no surprise to any ordinary well-informed person.

But it was not only in outside affairs and in his view of the world that lay outside the windows
of his mind that Townsend found life a thing of odd discoveries, strange secrets, and thrilling
hazards. His own existence, though in reality an exceedingly quiet one, indeed almost that
of a recluse, was still to him a great adventure. There was always for him the possibility
of the sudden appearance of the man in the black cloak with hat drawn over his brows, either
looking, or saying "Beware!" I remember well his pointing out to a member of the staff who
is still, I am glad to say, a colleague of mine, a delightful reason for the arrangement of
the furniture in his, Townsend's, room at 1 Wellington Street, Strand. Townsend complained
that his writing-table was in a very cold corner, and that from it he could not feel the warmth
of the fire. It was suggested to him that the best plan would be to bring the table nearer
to the fire and to sit with his back to the door. "But don't you see," said Townsend, "that
would be impossible? I couldn't see who was entering the room." As he spoke there rose up visions
of Eastern figures in white turbans gliding in stealthily and with silent tread, and standing
behind the editorial chair, unseen but all-seeing. Alas! we did not often have such adventures
in Wellington Street, but no doubt it stimulated Townsend's mind in what might otherwise have
been insupportably dull surroundings to think of such possibilities. This idea, indeed, of
watching the entry was a favourite topic of his. I remember his telling me when I first came
regularly to the office, that Mr.---, the then manager, who sat in the inner room downstairs,
had a mirror so placed that he could see all who came through the main door, without himself
being seen, and so appearing to place callers under observation. At my expressing some surprise
that this was necessary, I was met with the oracular reply that though it wasn't talked about,
such an arrangement would be found "in every office in London." Of a piece with this half-reality,
half make-believe, with which, as I say, Townsend transformed his quiet life into one long
and thrilling adventure, was a remark which I remember his making in the course of a most innocent
country walk: "If the country people knew the secret of the foxglove root it would be impossible
to live in the country." Apropos of this remark, my painter brother, who had always lived in
the country and had plenty of cottage friends in Somersetshire, pointed out that as a matter
of fact the country people knew the effects of digitalis as a poison exceedingly well, even
though they were not inclined so to use it as to make life in the country impossible. He went
on to tell, if I may be discursive for a moment, how, one day he was painting quietly behind
a hedge, he caught a scrap of conversation between two hedge-makers who were unaware of his
presence. It ran as follows: "And so they did boil down the hemlock and gave it to the woman,
and she died." That was the statement: whether ancient or modern, who knows? For myself, I
have always wondered what the hedgers would have said if they had suddenly had their rustic
on dit capped with the tale of how the hemlock was used in Athens 2,400 years ago. Did the
"woman" of Somersetshire stave off the effects of the poison by walking about? Did her limbs
grow cold and numb and dead while the brain still worked? But such questions are destined to
remain for ever unanswered. Country people do not like to be cross-questioned upon stray remarks
of this character, and if you attempt to fathom mysteries will regard you with suspicion almost
deadly in its intensity till the end of your days. "What business had he to be asking questions
like that?" is the verdict which kills in the country.

CHAPTER XVII

MEREDITH TOWNSEND (Continued)

Though I cannot resist writing upon the picturesque side of Townsend's character, I must take
care not to give a wrong impression. Nobody must think, because of Townsend's emphasis and
vividness of language, and that touch of imagination he introduced into every thought and every
sentence, that he was an oddity or an eccentric. In spite of the fact that he would never take
life plain when he could get it coloured, he was a perfectly sane person. As I have said, the
more you knew him the more you felt that, though you might be shocked by the first rashness
of his thought, it would very likely turn out to be a perfectly sane judgment--proper discount
being allowed for his brilliance of vision. I used sometimes to put some of his most wonderful
and hair-raising statements into dull English, and then ask him whether that wasn't what he
meant. I generally received the instant assurance that my sober version exactly represented
his view.

His attitude of mind might, indeed, be summed up by a thing that he once said to me in a period
of political calm in the middle of August in the 'nineties. "Strachey, I wish something dramatic
would happen." He went on to explain how he was fretted almost beyond endurance by the dullness
of the world. And yet I often wonder whether even he might not have found the last six years
almost too highly "accidented" even for him. But I know one thing. If he had the anxious mind
developed to the highest point, he was essentially a brave man and a true lover of his country.
If he had been destined to live through the war there would have been no stouter heart than
his, and none would have given a more stimulating expression to the spirit of the nation than he.

I wish profoundly that I had made during his life, as I ought to have done, a proper collection
of Townsend's aphoristic and sensational sayings. They would have been not only a source of
delight and entertainment, but also a storehouse of what might be called the practical wisdom
of an imaginative mind. A good example of what I mean is the following. Townsend was once having
an exciting and not to say violent argument with a younger man. In the course of the combat
Townsend, we may presume, used a generous freedom of language, and it was returned in kind
by his opponent. The clash of mind was fierce. Then the younger man pulled himself together.
He felt he had gone too far in some of the things he had said, and apologised to Townsend.
If he had been rude or over-vehement in the way in which he had maintained and insisted upon
his view--he hoped he should be forgiven. "Not at all," was the instant reply. "You have a
perfect right to be wrong!" There was here a great deal more than a felicitous epigram. This
acknowledgment of every man's right to be wrong underlay Townsend's philosophy of life and
his religious attitude. Though, curiously enough, he had borrowed a certain touch of fatalism
from his intercourse as a young man with the philosophies of the East, he felt very strongly
the essential freedom of the will. But that freedom he saw could not exist, could not be worthily
exercised, could not, as it were, have its full reward in a man's own soul, unless it were
a true freedom. Unless a man had the freedom to do wrong as well as the freedom to do right
he was not really free. It was idle to pretend that you were giving people a choice of freedom
if you put restrictions upon them which would effectually prevent their doing anything but
that which the inventor of the restrictions considered to be right; if the doing of the right
resulted not from their own impulse but from the application of exterior force over which they
had no control, no virtue, no moral force. "There is no compulsion, only you must" meant to
him, as it must to every man who knows what truth and justice are, the utmost derogation of
freedom.

I have spoken of the influence of the East upon Townsend's mind in matters of religion. Though
he never became a mystic, and had not naturally the mystic's attitude or even any true understanding
of what mysticism is, as a young man he had looked through the half-open door of the Eastern
world not merely with wonder and delight but with a great deal of sympathy. He went to Calcutta,
or, rather, to one of its suburbs, when he was a boy of eighteen, and remained there without
coming home for over ten years. In that time he acquired a fair acquaintance with several Indian
languages, and an intimate knowledge of Bengali, which he always regarded as the Italian of
the East. In Bengali he was so accomplished that he was given the post of Government Translator.

In the old daguerreotype here reproduced he is seen sitting, by his moonshee, a Brahmin of
the highest caste,--see the mystic Brahmin thread which the Jesuits were accused of wearing,--from
whom he learned Hindustani and, I think, a certain amount of Sanskrit. With the moonshee he
had many long talks upon those subjects on which the intellectual Brahmins have discoursed
and delighted to discourse ever since the day when Alexander took his bevy of Hellenic Sophists
across the Indus. Greeks bursting with the new lore of Aristotle--Alexander's own tutor-- at
once got to work on the Brahmins and began to discuss Fate, Free- will, the Transmigration
of Souls, the nature of thought, the power of words, and the mystery of the soul. The Brahmins
met them half-way, as today they meet any wandering European metaphysicians. Townsend had an
active, eager spirit, and he and the moonshee tired the sun with talk. But there was more than
eternal talk between them. They grew to be real friends, in spite of an interval of some forty
years. Townsend used to say of the moonshee, "If there is a heaven, that old man is there."
Though belonging to the caste of the High Priests of the Hindu faith, he was poor in worldly
possessions. But though holy and learned he had no touch in him of sacerdotal arrogance--difficult
achievement, considering the sort of veneration with which Brahmins of his exalted spiritual
rank were treated in Bengal.

To illustrate the depth of this veneration, Townsend was fond of telling a story of how he
had in his employment in the printing office of his paper, The Friend of India, a high-class
Brahmin engaged, I think, as a proof-reader, at low wages. It chanced that on some occasion
Townsend was interviewing a very rich Bengal magnate, a mediatised Prince, so far as I remember,
though of comparatively humble caste. When the Brahmin entered to bring Townsend a proof, or
upon some other business of the paper, the rich noble rose, and, as Townsend picturesquely
put it, "swept the dust off the Brahmin's feet with his forehead." The Brahmin received the
obeisance without the slightest embarrassment, as a right entirely his due. "There," said Townsend,
"is the whole of the East." Fanciful shapes of the plastic earth, the wealth and the power
of the rich man, and the man of semi-royal rank, are perfectly real and fully recognised, but
they make no difference to the essential fact of religion. Caste in its religious aspects is
something of which we English people have no conception.

I remember pleasing Townsend with an illustration of the truth of how English people cannot
conceive of great rank without a considerable amount of riches. When reading for the Bar, I
came across a short Act of Parliament, in the reign of Henry VI, which was passed to deprive
the existing Duke of Buckingham of all his rank and titles "because he was so poor." The two
Houses of Parliament were sorry, no doubt, to have to act, but they felt it was no more respectable
for a Duke to go about without money than for an ordinary man to go about without clothes.
They were doing the right thing by him in reducing him to the ranks of the proletariat in name
as well as in fact. English people, insisted Townsend, never seem to realise that the distinction
of birth is so valuable because it is incommunicable. That, of course, is quite true. English
people, happily, as I think, never have, and never will, regard mere birth with any veneration
or even interest. What affects them is that potent, if rather indefinite, thing, position--the
aura of distinction which surrounds great office, great wealth, and even great learning; and,
oddly enough, most of all by the acclamation of fashion. The Committee of Almack's put the
thing exactly, when a certain Duchess, to whom they had refused invitations for a ball, writing
in expostulation reminded them of her rank. They simply replied that "the Duchess of Newcastle,
though undoubtedly a woman of rank, was not a woman of fashion." It was only to "persons of
fashion" that the doors of Almack's stood always open.

Townsend's conversation was a curious contradiction. Half of it consisted of tremendous generalities,
which made the hearer gasp with a kind of mental deflation. The other side consisted of specific
statements of the most meticulous kind. And these contradictory forms of attack upon the intelligence
with whom he was in conversation were mixed together in the most admired disorder. I remember
well a lady who met Mr. Townsend for the first time at a luncheon-party in London, telling
me that at a pause in the conversation she heard him say of a Polish actress, Madame Modjeska,
then performing in town, "She has the most mobile face in South-western Europe." On another
occasion the oracle gave forth this tremendous sentence: "Musicians have no morals" but then,
remembering a musician who was a close friend of his and mine, Townsend added, "Except G--."

This is a beautiful example of the extreme generalisation followed by a headlong descent to
the minutely specific. If you had suggested to Townsend that this was rather a large order,
he would have replied, without turning a hair, that you were no doubt perfectly right, and
would probably have limited himself in a lightning flash--"Statisticians would probably put
the figure at 27 1/2 per cent, or some such figure."

If he had been made to choose in his writings between the specific and the general, he would,
however, I am convinced, have chosen the specific, for the specific statement was his leading
rule in journalism, as no doubt it was one of the sources of the charm of his style. You should
always be specific even if you could not be accurate, might be given as an accurate parody
of his principle.

This predilection sometimes led him into strange difficulties, especially in medicine, where
he loved to use all the "terms of art." Technical expression had a fatal fascination for him,
especially when he did not understand them. I remember his saying, with a naiveté which was
quite delightful, apropos of a common friend in illness, "I have discovered the nature of H's
ailment. There is no doubt now that he is suffering from the true Blankitis. By the way, Strachey,
what is Blankitis?" I am afraid in the case in question I did not know, and he did not know,
and in fact none of us but didn't know what the word meant. (I have adopted the phraseology
of the little boy when the magistrate asked him if he knew where he would go to if he gave
false evidence.) But Townsend had no sympathy with agnosticism of this kind. In spite of the
vastness of his view, he loved placing things neatly, correctly, and in order.

He used to tell an excellent story about himself and of the kind of answer you are apt to get
if you try to catalogue English people too exactly, especially in regard to their religious
opinions.

Twenty-five years ago [said Townsend], when I first came here on leaving the East, I did not
realise this peculiarity. I was very much interested in finding out the religious views of
all sorts of people, and especially of uneducated people; and so I asked Mrs. Black (the then
reigning housekeeper at the Spectator office) what her religious views were. I expected to
be told that she was either Church of England, or Chapel, or Presbyterian, or something of
the kind. To my surprise this is how she met my inquiry. She looked me straight in the face,
and said, "I am a moderate Atheist."

By that name she always went in the secret councils of the office. After all, only an English
person could have invented that particular form of religion. I always felt that answer would
have delighted Voltaire and given him another ground for quizzing English moderation even in
negation. I thought then, and have often thought since, how far the principle of moderation
might be extended, and whether you could be a moderate agnostic or a moderate fatalist or a
moderate logician.

Townsend had a capacity for wit, but, as he was fond of saying himself, no sympathy with farce
or mere high spirits. I doubt even if he had a sense of humour in the ordinary meaning of that
term, or in the Frenchman's definition: "la mélancholie gaie que les Anglais nomment 'humour.'"
To say this is not to say that he did not enjoy a humorous, an ironic, a witty, or an epigrammatic
story or saying. He enjoyed such things immensely and would laugh heartily at them. But he
had no use for a "droll," as I must fully admit I have. I can thoroughly enjoy the long-toed
comedian, and feel quite sure that if time and opportunity could combine to let me see once
a week a film figuring Charlie Chaplin I should be transported with delight. Good clowning,
or even bad clowning, or what people call the appalling, or melancholy, or "cut- throat," jokes
in a comic paper I always find captivating.

Of good stories and laughable stories Townsend was in many ways an admirable raconteur. Many
people would say that cannot be true. On your own confession he was too much of an exaggerator.
I don't agree. Exaggeration is not a fair word for what he did to his stories. He had in him
a kind of mental accelerator, and upon this he depended, no doubt, too much on occasion, as
do so many motor-drivers. All the same, his stories always got home, and, strangely enough,
this perpetual speeding-up of his mind never seemed to injure it or to wear it out. On the
whole, his stories and his quotations were splendid, though I confess one dared not verify
his dates and facts and quoted words, for fear of spoiling a real work of art. Strangely enough,
he was nearly always accurate in the spirit if not in the letter. Some day I should like to
tell some of the stories that he told me of Lord Dalhousie, or Lord Canning and the White Mutiny,
and of Lady Canning as a hostess.

That Townsend was a masterly letter-writer this account of him will, I feel, have already suggested.
He was vivid, picturesque, and attractive to a high degree. The place he lived in when he was
taking a country holiday was always the most wonderful place in the world and the people he
met there marvellous and mysterious beyond words. Even if they were bores, they were bores
raised to such a high power as to become intensely attractive.

A curious example of the impact made upon his mind by the Eastern religions was shown in his
belief that there was a great deal to be said for the Eastern view that Almighty Providence
had entrusted the world and its government to a "demi-ergon" or angelic Vizier, who was given
the governance of the world under certain conditions of rule which he had to observe. I remember
well Townsend once saying to me: "Some day I will write a book upon the neglected religion--the
religion which holds God to have 'devolved' the government of the world on a great Spirit or
Angel." It was his belief, or an assumed belief (for the thing to him was really a day-dream),
that in this way the great antinomy between free- will and that predestination which is implicit
in omnipotence, could be got rid of. Townsend thought that this matter had never been discussed
as fully as it ought to have been. I am not theologian enough to know how far this is true,
but I suspect that this is just the sort of point upon which Townsend would have been misinformed.
It seems almost certain that every conceivable abstract point of view, in pure theology not
depending upon examination and observation, must long ago have been discussed exhaustively.
Not only did the Schoolmen and the Jesuits sound every space of water, but the Byzantine Greeks
in the early days of the Christian Faith produced "heresies" of every imaginable kind. The
union of Semitic revelation and neoplatonic mysticism, first at Alexandria and later in the
City of the Christian Emperor Constantine, constituted a forcing-house of theological systems.

Before I leave my recollections of Mr. Townsend, I want to say something of a curious incident
in his last illness; and I must also attempt to describe his personal appearance. During the
last six or nine months of his life--he was nearly eighty and his health had been undermined
by his hard work in the Delta of the Ganges--his brain and memory failed him almost completely.
His intellectual life sank, indeed, to what was practically a perpetual delirium. Occasionally,
however, there would be a lucid interval, in which he became for a short time truly conscious
and could make sensible and rational remarks. For example, on one occasion when he was in the
middle of a paroxysm of loud, violent, and incoherent talk, almost approaching raving, he suddenly
turned to his wife or daughter with an apology of bewildering poignancy. "I do wish that man
on the sofa would keep quiet. I am afraid his noise worries you. It worries me quite as much."
Even stranger, more curious, and more suggestive of the double personality is the following
circumstance. Though I remember his telling me only some six or seven years before his death
that he had entirely forgotten his Bengali and did not suppose he could now speak a word of
it, he talked when his memory went a very great deal in the Indian vernacular and apparently
with great fluency. And here I may note that he was always very fond of correcting people who
talked as if the inhabitants of Bengal talked Hindustani, saying that it was Bengali that they
talked, that the language was entirely different from Hindustani, and was also the language
of some fifty or sixty million people and not by any means a patois. On the first occasion,
when the doctor was present, when Mr. Townsend reverted to the language of the East, Mrs. Townsend
in explaining what was happening, made a very natural slip, and said: "You hear, he is talking
in Hindustani."

Immediately there came from the bed a voice in Townsend's old tone and manner, and making a
correction quite in his old style: "No, not Hindustani, Bengali." But though the true consciousness
was, as it were, on the watch and quite able to make a correction, its force was spent, at
any rate for the time. Nothing more was said for a long interval by the consciousness.

