To these may be added Salmon Snow, who held the office of Selectman for several years, and
also kept the poor of Saugus for many years with great acceptance. He was a man of good judgment,
strong in his likes and dislikes, and bitter in his resentments. George Henry Sweetser was
also a Selectman for years, and was elected to the Legislature for both branches, being Senator
for two terms. Frederick Stocker, noted as a manufacturer of brick, was also a man of sterling
qualities, and shared in the confidence and esteem of his fellow citizens. Joseph Stocker Newhall,
a manufacturer of roundings in sole leather, was a just man, of positive views, and although
interesting himself in the political issues of the day would not take office. Eminently social
he was at times somewhat abrupt and laconic in denouncing what he conceived to be shams. As
a manufacturer his motto was, "the laborer is worthy of his hire." He died in 1875, aged 67
years. George Pearson was Treasurer of the town and one of the Selectmen, and also Treasurer
and Deacon of the Orthodox parish for twenty-five years, living to the advanced age of eighty-seven
years. He died in 1883.

Later, about 1837, Edward Pranker, an Englishman, and Francis Scott, a Scotchman, became noted
for their woollen factories, which they built in Saugus, and also became residents here for
the rest of their lives. Enoch Train, too, a Boston ship merchant and founder of the famous
line of packets between Boston and Liverpool for the transportation of emigrants, passed the
last ten years of his life here, marrying Mrs. Almira Cheever. He was the father of Mrs. A.D.T.
Whitney, the author of many works of fiction, which have been widely read; among them "Faith
Gartney's Girlhood," "Odd or Even," "Sights and Insights," etc. In this connection we point
to a living novelist of Saugus, Miss Ella Thayer, whose "Wired Lore" has been through several
editions. George William Phillips, brother of Wendell, a lawyer of some note, also lived many
years at Saugus and died in 1878. Joseph Ames, the artist, celebrated for his portraits, who
was commissioned by the Catholics to visit Rome and paint Pope Pius IX., and who executed in
a masterly manner other commissions, such as Rufus Choate, Daniel Webster, Abraham Lincoln,
Madames Rachael and Ristori, learned the art in Saugus, though born in Roxbury, N.H. He died
at New York while temporarily painting there, but was buried in Saugus in 1874. His brother
Nathan was a patent solicitor, and considered an expert in such matters, and invented several
useful machines. He was also a writer of both prose and poetry, writing among other books "Pirate's
Glen," "Dungeon Rock" and "Childe Harold." He died in 1860.

Rev. Fales H. Newhall, D.D., who was Professor of Languages at Middletown College, and who,
as a writer, speaker or preacher, won merited distinction, died in 1882, lamented that his
light should go prematurely out at the early age of 56 years.

Henry Newhall, who went from Saugus to San Francisco, and there became a millionaire, may be
spoken of as a succesful business man and merchant. The greatest instance of longevity since
the incorporation of the town was that of Joseph Cheever, who was born February 22, 1772, and
died June 19, 1872, aged 100 years, 4 months, 27 days. He was a farmer of great energy, industry
and will power, and was given to much litigation. He, too, represented the town in 1817-18,
1820-21, 1831-32, and again in 1835.

