They "run," as the dealers express it, in twelve sizes; the "common doll's shoes" (which means
shoes for common dolls) vary, however, from the class made for wax dolls, which have grades
peculiar to themselves, being not only extra full and wider in the soles, but numbering fewer
sizes, from one to six only. Of the common kind, the slippers and ties run from one to twelve,
the others from three, four or five to that number. They come packed in regular sizes, a "full
line," as those for children do, or in assorted sizes and styles; in small, square boxes, such
as shoe dealers know by the name of "cartoon," which is another word for the French carton,
meaning simply that they are made of paste-board. The tiniest is not much more than an inch
long, but is a perfectly formed and finished shoe on that miniature scale; and the largest
is almost big enough for Mrs. Tom Thumb, measuring about four inches, and it could certainly
be worn by many a baby you have seen.

As for the names, they come in this order:--slippers, ties, ankle ties, Balmorals, buttoned
boots, Polish buttoned, Polish eyeletted, and Antoinette, which is a heeled, croquet slipper,
in which her doll-ship, when engaged in that out-of-door game, can show off her delicate, clocked
stockings to advantage.

But what shall I say of the variety in color and trimmings? They are in white and crimson,
in buff and blue, in scarlet and purple, in rose color and violet, in bronze and silver and
gold, everything but black, for dolls don't like black except in the tips of their gay Balmoral
or Polish boots. And the stuff they are made of is such soft material as can only be found
in goat and sheep and kid and glove kid, and skivers, which is the name for split leather.
I strongly suspected that they were all made of scraps left from large slippers and shoes,
but, though this is generally the case, some whole skins have to be used because nothing is
ever manufactured for real people boots and shoes and slippers for all kinds of dolls, high
and low, rich and poor; to walk in, to dance in, to play croquet in, or to stay at home in;
to match their costumes, to match their hair, to match their eyes, to suit them if anything
on earth could suit. And every doll could be sure about her "size," for the number is stamped
on the bottom of the soles; and I must not forget to say that they have also the "trademark,"
which is the imprint under the number; this "trade mark" is a pair of boots smaller than anything
you can think of.

Now I am coming to the original question--"who makes them?" They are made in large quantities
during about six months of the year, accumulating in the summer, ready for the trade, which
begins in August, and drops off after the first of January, and is over with for that season
by March. In those six working months the factory employs about forty women, and they are mostly
invalids or old persons who are not able to do anything but light work, and who receive only
small wages, because they are not capable of earning much. So they are generally thin, pale
hands and slender fingers which patiently and skillfully fit the patterns, and sew the seams,
and do the even nice stitching, and dainty ornamentation, which help to make glad the hearts
of the many little girls all over the country, who have found a precious doll, all so daintily
shod, among the gifts of their Merry Christmas.

A GLIMPSE OF SOME MONTANA BEAVERS.

Our road passed down along Hell-Gate river, leaving Deer Lodge City some eight miles to the
left. As one goes down, the country changes, and occasional pines appear along the banks of
the stream, and the landscape becomes much more interesting. At one place, where a tiny tributary
flows in, a large community of beavers were building a dam. They were not at all afraid of
us, and so we leisurely observed the process, wishing to settle the vexed question as to whether
beavers do actually do intelligent mason-work.

They had already sunk a great deal of brush, together with limbs of trees, and were now filling
this wicker-work in with earth and rocks which they procured a little distance above on the
opposite bank. A beaver would run up, flatten his tail on the mud near the bank, then another
beaver would scrape the earth up and upon the tail of the first, and pack it down. After he
had his load complete, the carrier-beaver would swim away rapidly; his tail, with the load
of earth, floating on the surface, the swift movement of the animal alone keeping it afloat.

The sagacious creature would invariably swim to the right place and dump the load, and then
return for another, the stream presenting a scene of great activity, as several of these curious
animal-masons were constantly and swiftly passing and repassing each other with their heavy loads.

Others, the carpenters among them, were at work in the thicket opposite, cutting brush. We
saw many large trees which had been cut down by them. The stumps looked as though some boy
had chopped them down with a dull axe. It is surprising to reflect upon the pertinacity of
these creatures which enables them to gnaw down such immense trees, and the wisdom with which
they calculate the direction in which the trees will fall.

It is said here that the beavers cut the limbs off from these trees and then sever them into
lengths of about three feet each, and after that float them to the center of their pond, sink
them to the bottom and fasten them there, where they remain and are used as food during the
winter when the pond is frozen over. This is thought to be one of the principal uses of the
pond--to provide a pantry which will not freeze. The pond furnishes a depth of water that is
always still, and never freezes to the bottom.

Although, after witnessing this almost human sagacity, we had many compunctions, we concluded
to shoot one fine animal for his skin. We shot one through the head. His companions immediately
disappeared; and before we could secure our wounded beaver he also had dived beneath the waters
of their pond, and although we waited sometime in the vicinity, we failed to discover him again.
The inhabitants say it is nearly impossible to kill a beaver with a rifle, and never, on any
occasion does the trapper shoot one.

HOW LOGS GO TO MILL.

All boys and girls know that boards are made of sawed logs, and that logs are trunks of trees.
Few, however, know with what hardship and difficulty the trees are felled, trimmed and carried
from the woods where they grow to the mills where they are made into boards.

In the far West, and in the wilds of Maine, are acres upon acres, and miles upon miles, of
evergreen forests. One wooded tract in Maine is so vast that it takes an army of choppers twenty
years to cut it over. By the time it is done a new growth has sprung up, and an intermediate
one is large enough to cut; so the chopping goes on year after year. The first or primeval
growth is pine. That is most valuable. After the pines are cut, spruce and hemlock spring up
and grow.

Most of the men who live in the vicinity of the lake region work in the woods in the winter.
They camp in tents and log huts near the tracts where they are felling trees. All day long,
day after day, week after week, they chop down such trees as are large enough to cut, lop off
the branches and haul the logs to the nearest water. This work is done in winter because the
logs are more easily managed over snow and ice. All brooks large enough to carry them, all
rivers, ponds and lakes, are pressed into service and made to convey the ponderous freight
towards civilization. All along the shores and in the woods are busy scenes--men, oxen and
horses hard at work, the smoke from the logging camps curling among the trees.

