There was nothing for it but to explore on her own account. A staircase of the dull Victorian
kind led down to a dark, cool hall. The front door was open. She walked to it and stood under
a stumpy portico, looking out. The view was much the same as that seen from the bathroom, only
that instead of grass and flower-beds there was a gravel sweep, and, just opposite the front
door, a circle of grass with a tall monkey-puzzle tree in the centre. Except for the faded
gorgeousness of the bedroom, the house looked like an ordinary country house, belonging to
old people who did not care to move with the times. Why should she feel at every step a growing
dread of what might meet her there?

She turned from the portico and opened, hesitatingly, the door of a room on the opposite side
of the hall. It was a drawing-room, with traces of the same shabby gorgeousness that prevailed
in the bedroom, but mitigated by a good deal of clean, faded chintz; and at one end was a brilliant
full-length Millais portrait of Mrs. Maria Idle in blue silk and a crinoline. It was a long
room, pleasant in the dim light; for although it had three windows, the farthest a French one
and open, all were covered with awnings, coming low down and showing nothing of the outer world
but a hand's breadth of turf and wandering bits of creeper. It was sweet with flowers, and
on a consol table before a mirror stood a high vase from which waved and twined tall sprays
and long streamers of cluster-roses, carmine and white. It was beautiful, yet Milly turned
away from it almost with a shudder. She recognized the touch of the hand that must have set
the roses there. And the nameless horror grew upon her.

Except for the flowers, there was little sign of occupation in the room. A large round rosewood
table was set with blue glass vases on mats and some dozen photograph--albums and gift-books,
dating from the sixties. But on a stool in a corner lay a newspaper; and the date on it gave
her a shock. She had supposed herself to have been away about four months; she found she had
been gone sixteen. There had been plenty of time for a misfortune to happen, and she felt convinced
that it had happened. But what? If Ian or Tony were dead she would surely still be in mourning.
Then on a little rosewood escritoire, such as ladies were wont to use when they had nothing
to write, she spied an old leather writing-case with the initials M. B. F. upon it. It was
one Aunt Beatrice had given her when she first went to Ascham, and it seemed to look on her
pleasantly, like the face of an old friend. She found a few letters in the pockets, among them
one from Ian written from Berlin a few days before, speaking of his speedy return and of Tony's
amusing letter from the sea-side. She began to hope her feeling of anxiety and depression might
be only the shadow of the fear and anguish which she had suffered on that horrible afternoon
sixteen months ago. She must try not to think about it, must try to be bright for Ian's sake.
Some one surely was with her at this queer place, since she was sharing a room with another
person--probably a female friend of that Other's, who had such a crowd of them.

She drew the awning half-way up and stood on the step outside the French window. The lawn,
the trees, the opposite hills were unknown to her, but the spirit of the river spoke to her
familiarly, and she knew it for the Thames. A gardener in shirt-sleeves was filling a water-barrel
by the river, under a hawthorn-tree, and the young man in the punt was putting up his fishing-tackle.
As she looked, the strangeness of the scene passed away. She could not say where it was, but
in some dream or vision she had certainly seen this lawn, that view, before; when the young
man turned and came nearer she would know his face. And the dim, horrible thing that was waiting
for her somewhere about the quiet house, the quiet garden, seemed to draw a step nearer, to
lift its veil a little. Who was it that had stood not far from where the gardener was standing
now, and seen the moon hanging large and golden over the mystery of the opposite woods? Whoever
it was, some one's arm had been fast around her and there had been kisses--kisses.

It took but a few seconds for these half-revelations to drop into her mind, and before she
had had time to reflect upon them, the young man in the punt looked up and saw her standing
there on the step. He took off his floppy hat and waved it to her; then he put down his tackle,
ran to the near end of the punt and jumped lightly ashore. He came up the green lawn, and her
anxiety sent her down to meet him almost as eagerly as love would have done. The hat shaded
all the upper part of his face, and at a distance, in the strong sunshine, the audacious chin,
the red lower lip, caught her eye first and seemed to extinguish the rest of the face. And
suddenly she disliked them. Who was the man, and how did she come to know him? But former experiences
of strange awakenings had made her cautious, self-controlling, almost capable of hypocrisy.

"So you're awake!" shouted George, still a long way down the lawn. "Good! How are you? All right?"

She nodded "Yes," with a constrained smile.

In a minute they had met, he had turned her around, and with his arm under hers was leading
her towards the house again.

"All right? Really all right?" he asked very softly, pressing her arm with his hand and stooping
his head to bring his mouth on a level with her ear.

"Very nearly, at any rate," she answered, coldly, trying to draw away from him.

"What are you doing that for?" he asked. "Afraid of shocking the gardener, eh? What queer little
dear little ways you've got! I suppose Undines are like that."

He drew her closer to him as he threw back his head and laughed a noisy laugh that jarred upon
her nerves.

Milly began to feel indignant. It was just possible that a younger sister in Australia might
have married and brought this extraordinary young man home to England, but his looks, his tone,
were not fraternal; and she had never forgotten the Maxwell Davison episode. She walked on stiffly.

"Every one seems to be out," she observed, as calmly as she could.

He frowned.

"You mean those devils of servants haven't been looking after you?" he asked. "Yet I gave Clarkson
her orders. Of course they're baggages, but I haven't had the heart to send them away from
the old place, for who on earth would take them? I expect we aren't improving their chances,
you and I, at this very moment; in spite of respecting the gardener's prejudices."

He chuckled, as at some occult joke of his own.

They stooped together under the half-raised awning of the French window, and entered the dim,
flower-scented drawing-room side by side. The young man threw off his hat, and she saw the
silky ripple of his nut-brown hair, his smooth forehead, his bright-glancing hazel eyes, all
the happy pleasantness of his countenance. Before she had had time to reconsider her dislike
of him, he had caught her in his arms and kissed her hair and face, whispering little words
of love between the kisses. For one paralyzed moment Milly suffered these dreadful words, these
horrible caresses. Then exerting the strength of frenzy, she pushed him from her and bounded
to the other side of the room, entrenching herself behind the big rosewood table with its smug
mats and vases and albums.

"You brute! you brute! you hateful cad!" she stammered with trembling lips; "how dare you touch
me?"

George Goring stared at her with startled eyes.

"Mildred! Dearest! Good God! What's gone wrong?"

"Where's my husband?" she asked, in a voice sharp with anger and terror. "I want to go--I must
leave this horrid place at once."

"Your husband?"

It was Goring's turn to feel himself plunged into the midst of a nightmare, and he grew almost
as pale as Milly. How in Heaven's name was he going to manage her? She looked very ill and
must of course be delirious. That would have been alarming in any case, and this particular
form of delirium was excruciatingly painful.

"Yes, my husband--where is he? I shall tell him how you've dared to insult me. I must go. This
is your house--I must leave it at once."

Goring did not attempt to come near her. He spoke very quietly.

"Try and remember, Mildred; Stewart is not here. He will not even be in England till to-morrow.
You are alone with me. Hadn't you better go to bed again and--" he was about to say, "wait
until Miss Timson comes," but as it was possible that the advent of the person she had wished
him to summon might now irritate her, he substituted--"and keep quiet? I promise not to come
near you if you don't wish to see me."

"I am alone here with you?" Milly repeated, slowly, and pressed her hand to her forehead. "Good
God," she moaned to herself, "what can have happened?"

"Yes. For Heaven's sake, go and lie down. I expect the doctor can give you something to soothe
your nerves and then perhaps you'll remember."

She made a gesture of fierce impatience.

"You think I'm mad, but I'm not. I have been mad and I am myself again; only I can't remember
anything that's happened since I went out of my mind. I insist upon your telling me. Who are
you? I never saw you before to my knowledge."

Her voice, her attitude were almost truculent as she faced him, her right hand dragging at
the loose clasp of a big photograph album. Every word, every look, was agony to Goring, but
he controlled himself by an effort.

"I am George Goring," he said, slowly, and paused with anxious eyes fixed upon her, hoping
that the name might yet stir some answering string of tenderness in the broken lyre of her mind.

She too paused, as though tracking some far-off association with the name. Then:

"Ah! poor Lady Augusta's husband," she repeated, yet sterner than before in her anger. "My
friend Lady Augusta's husband! And why am I here alone with you, Mr. Goring?"

"Because I am your lover, Mildred. Because I love you better than any one or any thing in the
world; and yesterday you thought you loved me, you thought you could trust all your life to me."

She had known the answer already in her heart, but the fact stated plainly by another, became
even more dreadful, more intolerable, than before. She uttered a low cry and covered her eyes
with her hand.

"Mildred--dearest!" he breathed imploringly.

Then she raised her head and looked straight at him with flaming eyes, this fair, fragile creature
transformed into a pitiless Fury. She forgot that indeed an Evil Spirit had dwelt within her;
George Goring might be victim rather than culprit. In this hour of her anguish the identity
of that body of hers, which through him was defiled, that honor of hers, yes and of Ian Stewart's,
which through him was dragged in the dust, made her no longer able to keep clearly in mind
the separateness of the Mildred Stewart of yesterday from herself.

"I tell you I was mad," she gasped; "and you--you vile, wicked man!--you took advantage of
it to ruin my life--to ruin my husband's life! You must know Ian Stewart, a man whose shoes
you are not fit to tie. Do you think any woman in her senses would leave him for you? Ah!--"
she breathed a long, shuddering breath and her hand was clinched so hard upon the loose album
clasp that it ran into her palm.

"Mildred!" cried George, staggered, stricken as though by some fiery rain.

"I ought to be sorry for your wife," she went on. "She is a splendid woman, she has done nothing
to deserve that you should treat her so scandalously. But I can't--I can't"--a dry sob caught
her voice--"be sorry for any one except myself and Ian. I always knew I wasn't good enough
to be his wife, but I was so proud of it--so proud--and now--Oh, it's too horrible! I'm not
fit to live."

George had sunk upon a chair and hidden his face in his hands.

"Don't say that," he muttered hoarsely, almost inaudibly. "It was my doing."

She broke out again.

"Of course it was. It's nothing to you, I suppose. You've broken my husband's heart and mine
too; you've hopelessly disgraced us both and spoiled our lives; and all for the sake of a little
amusement, a little low pleasure. We can't do anything, we can't punish you; but if curses
were any use, oh, how I could curse you, Mr. Goring!"

The sobs rising in a storm choked her voice. She rushed from the room, closing the door behind
her and leaving George Goring there, his head on his hands. He sat motionless, hearing nothing
but the humming silence of the hot afternoon.

Milly, pressing back her tears, flew across the hall and up the stairs. The vague nightmare
thing that had lurked for her in the shadows of the house, when she had descended them so quietly,
had taken shape at last. She knew now the unspeakable secret of the pink and gold bedroom,
the shabbily gorgeous bed, the posturing dancers, the simpering, tailored noblemen. The atmosphere
of it, scented and close, despite the open window, seemed to take her by the throat. She dared
not stop to think, lest this sick despair, this loathing of herself, should master her. To
get home at once was her impulse, and she must do it before any one could interfere.

It was a matter of a few seconds to find a hat, gloves, a parasol. She noticed a purse in the
pocket of her dress and counted the money in it. There was not much, but enough to take her
home, since she felt sure the river shimmering over there was the Thames. She did not stay
to change her thin shoes, but flitted down the stairs and out under the portico, as silent
as a ghost. The drive curved through a shrubbery, and in a minute she was out of sight of the
house. She hurried past the lodge, hesitating in which direction to turn, when a tradesman's
cart drove past. She asked the young man who was driving it her way to the station, and he
told her it was not very far, but that she could not catch the next train to town if she meant
to walk. He was going in that direction himself and would give her a lift if she liked. She
accepted the young man's offer; but if he made it in order to beguile the tedium of his way,
he was disappointed.

The road was dusty and sunny, and this gave her a reason for opening her large parasol. She
cowered under it, hiding herself from the women who rolled by in shiny carriages with high-stepping
horses; not so much because she feared she might meet acquaintances, as from an instinctive
desire to hide herself, a thing so shamed and everlastingly wretched, from every human eye.
And so it happened that, when she was close to the station, she missed seeing and being seen
by Tims, who was driving to Mr. Goring's house in a hired trap which he had sent to meet her.

CHAPTER XXXII

Milly took a ticket for Paddington and hurried to the train, which was waiting at the platform,
choosing an empty compartment. Action had temporarily dulled the passion of her misery, her
rage, her shuddering horror at herself. But alone in the train, it all returned upon her, only
with a complete realization of circumstance which made it worse.

