Melt the fondant over hot water and add the flavoring. Put a bit of cherry in the bottom of
each starch impression, then turn in the melted fondant, to fill the impressions and have them
level on the top. Let the chocolate, broken in bits, be melted over warm water, then add as
many chopped peanuts as can be well stirred into it; let cool to about 80° F. and in it drop
the creams, one at a time; as coated dispose them on table oil cloth or waxed paper. Dissolve
the soda in the cold water, add the vanilla and the soda and stir vigorously. When the candy
is through foaming, turn it onto a warm and well-oiled marble or platter. As soon as it has
cooled a little on the edges, take hold of it at the edge and pull out as thin as possible.
Loosen it from the receptacle at the center by running a spatula under it, then turn the whole
sheet upside down, and again pull as thin as possible. Break into small pieces and when cold
coat with "Dot" Chocolate prepared as in previous recipes. Half of a roasted peanut may be
set upon each piece as coated. Note that the peanuts used in the brittle are raw. The small
Spanish peanuts are the best for this purpose. After the peanuts are shelled, cover them with
boiling water, let boil up once, then skim out and push off the skin, when they are ready to use.

Set the sugar, glucose and water over the fire, stir until the sugar is melted, then wash down
the sides of the saucepan, cover and let boil three or four minutes, then remove the cover
and let cook without stirring to the hard ball degree; add the molasses and butter and stir
constantly until brittle in cold water; remove from the fire and, as soon as the bubbling ceases,
add the chocolate, melted over hot water, and the vanilla; stir, to mix the chocolate evenly
through the candy, then pour onto the popped corn, mixing the two together meanwhile. With
buttered hands lightly roll the mixture into small balls. Press the mixture together only just
enough to hold it in shape. Discard all the hard kernels in the corn. Have the corn warm and
in a warm bowl.

Put all the ingredients, save the salt, chocolate and flavoring, over the fire; let boil rapidly
to 260°F., or until brittle when tested in cold water. During the last of the cooking the candy
must be stirred constantly. Pour onto an oiled platter or marble; pour the chocolate, melted
over hot water, above the candy; as the candy cools on the edges, with a spatula or the fingers,
turn the edges towards the center; continue this until the candy is cold enough to pull; pull
over a hook until cold; add the flavoring, a little at a time, during the pulling, cut in short
lengths and wrap in waxed paper.

WALTER BAKER & CO., Ltd.

ESTABLISHED 1780

This House has grown to be the largest of its kind in the world and it has achieved that result
by always maintaining the highest standard in the quality of its cocoa and chocolate preparations
and selling them at the lowest price for which unadulterated articles of high grade can be
put upon the market. Under cover of a similarity in name, trade-mark, label or wrapper, a number
of unscrupulous concerns have, within recent years, made attempts to get possession of the
great market won by this House, by trading on its good name--selling to unsuspecting consumers
goods of distinctly inferior quality by representing them to be the products of the genuine
"Baker's." The quantity of goods sold in this way is not so much of an injury to us as the
discredit cast upon our manufactures by leading some consumers to believe that these fraudulent
articles are of our manufacture and that we have lowered the high standard maintained for so
many years. It is difficult to bring the fraud home to all consumers, as those who are making
use of it seek out-of-the-way places where deception will the more easily pass.

We have letters from housekeepers who have used the genuine Baker goods for years, expressing
their indignation at the attempts of unscrupulous dealers to foist upon them inferior and adulterated
articles by fraudulently representing them to be of our manufacture.

Statements in the press and in the reports of the Pure Food Commissioners show that there are
on the market at this time many cocoas and chocolates which have been treated with adulterants,
more or less injurious to health, for the purpose of cheapening the cost and giving a fictitious
appearance of richness and strength. The safest course for consumers, therefore, is to buy
goods bearing the name and trade-mark of a well-known and reputable manufacturer, and to make
sure by a careful examination that they are getting what they order.

     Our Cocoa and Chocolate Preparations are ABSOLUTELY PURE--free
     from coloring matter, chemical solvents, or adulterants of any
     kind, and are therefore in full conformity to the requirements of
     all National and State Pure Food Laws.

We have behind us one hundred and twenty-nine years of successful manufacture, and fifty-two
highest awards from the great industrial exhibitions in Europe and America.

We ask the cooperation of all consumers who want to get what they order and what they pay for
to help us--as much in their own interest as ours--in checking these frauds.

WALTER BAKER & CO., Ltd.

Our registered guarantee under National Pure Food Laws is Serial No. 90. It is absolutely pure,
and it is soluble.

No alkalies or other chemicals or dyes are used in its preparation.

Trade-Mark on every package

       *       *       *       *       *

BAKER'S CHOCOLATE

In 1-4 and 1-2 lb. cakes, 1 lb. packages, blue wrapper, yellow label

It is the pure product of carefully selected cocoa beans, to which nothing has been added and
from which nothing has been taken away. Unequalled for smoothness, delicacy and natural flavor.
Celebrated for more than a century as a nutritious, delicious and flesh-forming beverage. The
high reputation and constantly increasing sales of this article have led to imitations on a
very extensive scale. To distinguish their product from these imitations Walter Baker & Co.,
Ltd., have enclosed their cakes and pound packages in a new envelope or case of stiff paper,
different from any other package. The color of the case is the same shade of deep blue heretofore
used on the Baker packages, and no change has been made in the color (yellow) and design of
the label. On the outside of the case, the name of the manufacturer is prominently printed
in white letters. On the back of every package a colored lithograph of the trade-mark, "La
Belle Chocolatière" sometimes called the Chocolate Girl, is printed. Vigorous proceedings will
be taken against anyone imitating the package.

Trade-mark on every package

       *       *       *       *       *

BAKER'S VANILLA CHOCOLATE

In 1-2 lb. and 1-6 lb. cakes and 5c and 10c packages,

is guaranteed to consist solely of choice cocoa and sugar, flavored with pure vanilla beans.
Particular care is taken in its preparation, and a trial will convince one that it is really
a delicious article for eating or drinking. It is the best sweet chocolate in the market. Used
at receptions and evening parties in place of tea or coffee. The small cakes form the most
convenient, palatable and healthful article of food that can be carried by bicyclists, tourists
and students.

Trade-mark on every package

       *       *       *       *       *

CARACAS CHOCOLATE

In 1-8 and 1-4 lb. packages

A delicious article. Good to eat and good to drink. It is one of the finest and most popular
sweet chocolates on the market, and has a constantly increasing sale in all parts of the country.
If you do not find it at your grocer's, we will send a quarter-pound cake by mail, prepaid,
on receipt of 10 cents in stamps or money.

Trade-mark on every package

       *       *       *       *       *

CENTURY CHOCOLATE

In 1-4 lb. packages

A fine vanilla chocolate for eating or drinking. Put up in very artistic wrappers.

Trade-mark on every package

       *       *       *       *       *

AUTO-SWEET CHOCOLATE

In 1-6 lb. packages

A fine eating chocolate, enclosed in an attractive wrapper with an embossed representation
of an automobile in colors.

Trade-mark on every package

       *       *       *       *       *

GERMAN SWEET CHOCOLATE

In 1-4 lb. and 1-8 lb. packages

is one of the most popular sweet chocolates sold anywhere. It is palatable, nutritious and
healthful and is a great favorite with children.

Beware of imitations. The genuine is stamped: "S. German, Dorchester, Mass."

Trade-mark (La Belle Chocolatière) on every package

       *       *       *       *       *

DOT CHOCOLATE

In 1-2 lb. cakes; 12 lb. boxes

A high grade chocolate specially prepared for home-made candies, and for sportsmen's use. If
you do not find it at your grocer's write to us and we will put you in the way of getting it.

In "The Way of the Woods--A Manual for Sportsmen" Edward Breck, the author, says:

"Chocolate is now regarded as a very high-class food on account of its nutritive qualities.
* * * * * A half cake will keep a man's strength up for a day without any other food. I never
strike off from camp by myself without a piece of chocolate in my pocket. Do not, however,
have anything to do with the mawkishly sweet chocolates of the candy shops or the imported
milk chocolate, which are not suited for the purpose. We have something better here in America
in Walter Baker & Co.'s "Dot" brand, which is slightly sweetened."

       *       *       *       *       *

CRACKED COCOA OR COCOA NIBS

In 1-2 lb. and 1 lb. packages, and in 6 lb. and 10 lb. bags

This is the freshly roasted bean cracked into small pieces. It contains no admixture, and presents
the full flavor of the cocoa-bean in all its natural fragrance and purity. When properly prepared,
it is one of the most economical drinks. Dr. Lankester says cocoa contains as much flesh-forming
matter as beef.

Trade-mark on every package

       *       *       *       *       *

SOLUBLE COCOA

This is a preparation for the special use of druggists and others in making hot or cold soda.
It forms the basis for a delicious, refreshing, nourishing and strengthening drink.

It is perfectly soluble. It is absolutely pure. It is easily made. It possesses the full strength
and natural flavor of the cocoa-bean. No chemicals are used in its preparation.

The directions for making one gallon of syrup are as follows:

    8 ounces of soluble cocoa,
    8-1/2 pounds of white sugar,
    2-1/2 quarts of water.

Thoroughly dissolve the cocoa in hot water, then add the sugar, and heat until the mixture
boils. Strain while hot. After it has become cool, sugar may be added if desired.

The Trade is supplied with 1, 4 or 10 lb. decorated canisters.

Trade-mark on every package

       *       *       *       *       *

CHOCOLATE FOR CONFECTIONERS' USE

Liquid Chocolates--plain, sweet, light, medium and dark.

Soluble Cocoa--for hot or cold soda.

       *       *       *       *       *

VANILLA TABLETS

These are small pieces of chocolate, made from the finest beans, and done up in fancy foil.
The packages are tied with colored ribbons, and are very attractive in form and delicious in
substance. They are much used for desserts and collations, and at picnics and entertainments
for young people. They are strongly recommended by physicians as a healthy and nutritious confection
for children.

Trade-mark on every package

       *       *       *       *       *

COCOA-BUTTER

In 1-2 lb. and 1-5 lb. cakes, and in metal boxes for toilet uses

One-half the weight of the cocoa-bean consists of a fat called "cocoa-butter," from its resemblance
to ordinary butter. It is considered of great value as a nutritious, strengthening tonic, being
preferred to cod-liver oil and other nauseous fats so often used in pulmonary complaints. As
a soothing application to chapped hands and lips, and all irritated surfaces, cocoa-butter
has no equal, making the skin remarkably soft and smooth. Many who have used it say they would
not for any consideration be without it. It is almost a necessary article for every household.

Trade-mark on every package

       *       *       *       *       *

COCOA-SHELLS

In 1 lb. and 1-2 lb. packages

Cocoa-shells are the thin outer covering of the beans. They have a flavor similar to but milder
than cocoa. Their very low price places them within the reach of all; and as furnishing a pleasant
and healthy drink, they are considered superior to tea and coffee.

Packed only in 1 lb. and 1/2 lb. papers, with our label and name on them.

Trade-mark on every package

       *       *       *       *       *

CACAO DES AZTÈQUES

In boxes, 6 lbs. each; 1-2 lb. bottles

A compound formerly known as Racabout des Arabes; a most nutritious preparation; indispensable
as an article of diet for children, convalescents, ladies, and delicate or aged persons. It
is composed of the best nutritive and restoring substances, suitable for the most delicate
system. It is now a favorite breakfast beverage for ladies and young persons, to whom it gives
freshness and embonpoint. It has solved the problem of medicine by imparting something which
is easily digestible and at the same time free from the exciting qualities of coffee and tea,
thus making it especially desirable for nervous persons or those afflicted with weak stomachs.

It has a very agreeable flavor, is easily prepared, and has received the commendation of eminent
physicians as being the best article known for convalescents and all persons desiring a light,
digestible, nourishing and strengthening food.

INDEX TO RECIPES

MISS PARLOA'S:

Plain Chocolate (For Drinking)
Chocolate, Vienna Style
Breakfast Cocoa
Chocolate Layer Cake
    "     Cake
    "     Marble Cake
    "     Glacé Cake
    "     Glacé
    "     Biscuit
    "     Wafers
Cinderella Cakes
Chocolate Éclairs
    "     Cookies
    "     Gingerbread
Vanilla Icing
Chocolate Icing
    "     Profiteroles
    "     Ice-cream
    "     Cream Pies
    "     Mousse
    "     Charlotte
    "     Bavarian Cream
    "     Cream
    "     Blanc-mange
    "     Cream Renversee
Baked Chocolate Custard
Chocolate Soufflé
    "     Pudding
    "     Meringue Pudding
Milton Pudding
Snow Pudding
Chocolate Sauce
    "     Candy
Cream Chocolate Caramels
Sugar     "        "
Chocolate Creams, No. 1
    "       "     No. 2
    "     Cones
Genesee Bonbons
Chocolate Syrup
Refreshing Drinks for Summer

       *       *       *       *       *

MISS BURR'S:

Cracked Cocoa
For Three Gallons Breakfast Cocoa
Vanilla Chocolate with Whipped Cream
Chocolate Cream Pie
    "     Filling
Meringue
Cocoa Sticks
  "   Frosting
  "   Sauce
  "   Cake
  "   Meringue Pudding
Chocolate Almonds
    "     Coatings
Hot Chocolate Sauce
Cocoa Sponge Cake
Chocolate Frosting
    "     Cake; or, Devil's Food
    "     Ice-cream
    "     Whip
Cocoa Marble Cake
Chocolate Marble Cake
    "     Jelly
Cottage Pudding
Vanilla Sauce
Cocoanut Soufflé
Chocolate Sauce
Cocoa Biscuit
  "   Fudge

       *       *       *       *       *

MISS ROBINSON'S:

Plain Chocolate 1 quart
Cocoa Sponge Cake
  "   Marble  "
  "   Doughnuts
  "   Buns

       *       *       *       *       *

MRS. RORER'S:

Chocolate Cake

       *       *       *       *       *

MRS. LINCOLN'S:

Chocolate Caramels

       *       *       *       *       *

MISS FARMER'S:

Chocolate Nougat Cake
    "     Cream Candy

       *       *       *       *       *

MRS. ARMSTRONG'S:

Chocolate Pudding
    "     Charlotte
Chocolate Jelly with Crystallized Green Gages

       *       *       *       *       *

MRS. BEDFORD'S:

Chocolate Crullers Hot Cocoa Sauce for Ice-cream Chocolate Macaroons

       *       *       *       *       *

MRS. EWING'S:

Creamy Cocoa
   "   Chocolate

       *       *       *       *       *

MRS. HILL'S:

Cocoa Frappé Chocolate Puffs

       *       *       *       *       *

MRS. SALZBACHER'S:

Chocolate Hearts

       *       *       *       *       *

Cocoa Charlotte
Chocolate Fudge with Fruit
    "     Macaroons

       *       *       *       *       *

Petits Four Potato Cake Spanish Chocolate Cake

       *       *       *       *       *

MRS. HILL'S CANDY RECIPES:

Peppermints, Chocolate Mints, etc.
Chocolate Caramel Walnuts
"Dot" Chocolate Coatings
Chocolate Dipped Peppermints
Ginger, Cherry, Apricot and Nut Chocolates
Chocolate Peanut Clusters
    "     Coated Almonds
    "     Dipped Parisian Sweets
Stuffed Dates, Chocolate Dipped
Chocolate Oysterettes
Turkish Paste with French Fruit
Chocolate Pecan Pralines
Vassar Fudge
Smith College Fudge
Wellesley Marshmallow Fudge
Double Fudge
Marbled Fudge
Fudge Hearts or Rounds
Marshmallow Fudge
Chocolate Dipped Fruit Fudge
Chocolate Cocoanut Cakes
Baker's Chocolate "Divinity"
Chocolate Nougatines
Plain Chocolate Caramels
Chocolate Nut Caramels
Ribbon Caramels
Fondant
Almond Chocolate Creams
Cherry Chocolate Creams
Chocolate Peppermints
Fig and Nut Chocolates
Chocolate Marshmallows
Maple Fondant Acorns
Chocolate Almond Bars
Almond Fondant Sticks
Almond Fondant Balls
Walnut Cream Chocolates
To Mold Candy for Dipping
Chocolate Butter Creams
Fondant for Soft Chocolate Creams
Rose Chocolate Creams
Pistachio Chocolate Creams
Surprise Chocolate Creams
Chocolate Peanut Brittle
Chocolate Pop Corn Balls
Chocolate Molasses Kisses

       *       *       *       *       *

NO OTHER FOOD PRODUCT HAS A LIKE RECORD.

WALTER BAKER & CO. LTD.

ESTABLISHED 1780.

52 HIGHEST AWARDS.