Men connect the greatness of their idea of unity with means, God with ends: hence this idea
of greatness, as men conceive it, leads us into infinite littleness. To compel all men to follow
the same course towards the same object is a human notion;--to introduce infinite variety of
action, but so combined that all these acts lead by a multitude of different courses to the
accomplishment of one great design, is a conception of the Deity. The human idea of unity is
almost always barren; the divine idea pregnant with abundant results. Men think they manifest
their greatness by simplifying the means they use; but it is the purpose of God which is simple--his
means are infinitely varied.

Appendix X

A democratic people is not only led by its own tastes to centralize its government, but the
passions of all the men by whom it is governed constantly urge it in the same direction. It
may easily be foreseen that almost all the able and ambitious members of a democratic community
will labor without 2 ceasing to extend the powers of government, because they all hope at some
time or other to wield those powers. It is a waste of time to attempt to prove to them that
extreme centralization may be injurious to the State, since they are centralizing for their
own benefit. Amongst the public men of democracies there are hardly any but men of great disinterestedness
or extreme mediocrity who seek to oppose the centralization of government: the former are scarce,
the latter powerless.

Appendix Y

I have often asked myself what would happen if, amidst the relaxation of democratic manners,
and as a consequence of the restless spirit of the army, a military government were ever to
be founded amongst any of the nations of the present age. I think that even such a government
would not differ very much from the outline I have drawn in the chapter to which this note
belongs, and that it would retain none of the fierce characteristics of a military oligarchy.
I am persuaded that, in such a case, a sort of fusion would take place between the habits of
official men and those of the military service. The administration would assume something of
a military character, and the army some of the usages of the civil administration. The result
would be a regular, clear, exact, and absolute system of government; the people would become
the reflection of the army, and the community be drilled like a garrison.

Appendix Z

It cannot be absolutely or generally affirmed that the greatest danger of the present age is
license or tyranny, anarchy or despotism. Both are equally to be feared; and the one may as
easily proceed as the other from the selfsame cause, namely, that "general apathy," which is
the consequence of what I have termed "individualism": it is because this apathy exists, that
the executive government, having mustered a few troops, is able to commit acts of oppression
one day, and the next day a party, which has mustered some thirty men in its ranks, can also
commit acts of oppression. Neither one nor the other can found anything to last; and the causes
which enable them to succeed easily, prevent them from succeeding long: they rise because nothing
opposes them, and they sink because nothing supports them. The proper object therefore of our
most strenuous resistance, is far less either anarchy or despotism than the apathy which may
almost indifferently beget either the one or the other.

[Note by the Department of State.--The foregoing explanation in the original instrument is
placed on the left of the paragraph beginning with the words, 'Done in Convention,' and therefore
precedes the signatures.