We saw the general and his staff galloping from the ground where he had remained from the beginning
of the assault, to a height still more exposed, and where the guns from the fortress were tearing
up the soil. From this spot a large body of troops were seen rushing from the gate of the fortress,
and plunging into the valley. The result of this powerful sortie was soon heard, for every
thing was invisible under the thick cloud, which grew thicker every moment, in the volleys
of musketry, and the shouts of the troops on both sides. Varnhorst now received an order from
the chief of the staff, which produced its effect, in the rush of a squadron of Prussian cavalry
on the flank of the enemy's column. In a few minutes it was broken, and we saw its wrecks swept
along the side of the hill. An universal shout was sent up from the army, and our next sight
was the ascent of the Austrian and Prussian standards, gradually rising through the smoke,
and making their way towards the glacis. They had reached the foot of the breach, when the
fire of the town suddenly ceased. A white flag waved on the rampart, and the drums of the garrison
beat the chamade. Longwy had surrendered! All now was triumph and congratulation. We flocked
round the duke, and hailed his first conquest as a promise of perpetual success. He was in
high spirits at an achievement which was so important to the national impression of his talents
and resources. The sortie of the garrison had given the capture an éclât which could not have
been obtained by the mere surrender of a strong place. But the most important point of all
was, the surrender before the assault. "The sight of our troops is enough," was the universal
conclusion. If the fortified barrier of France cannot resist, what will be done by troops as
raw as peasants, and officers as raw as their troops? The capitulation was a matter of half
an hour, and by nightfall I followed the duke and his escort into the town. It was illuminated
by order of the conquerors, and, whether bongrè or malgrè, it looked showy; we had gazers in
abundance, as the dashing staff caracoled their way through the streets. I observed, however,
that we had no acclamations. To have hissed us, might be a hazardous experiment, while so many
Hulans were galloping through the Grande Rue; but we got no smiles. In the midst of the crowd,
I met Varnhorst steering his charger with no small difficulty, and carrying a packet of notes
in his hand. "Go to your quarters, and dress," said my good-humoured friend. "You will have
a busy night of it. The duke has invited the French commandant and his officers to dine with
him, and we are to have a ball and supper afterwards for the ladies. Lose no time." He left
me wondering at the new world into which I had fallen, and strongly doubting, that he would
be able to fill up his ball-room. But I was mistaken. The dinner was handsomely attended, and
the ball more handsomely still. "Fortune de la guerre," reconciled the gallant captains of
the garrison to the change; and they fully enjoyed the contrast between a night on the ramparts,
and the hours spent at the Prussian generalissimo's splendidly furnished table. The ball which
followed exhibited a crowd of the belles of Longwy, all as happy as dress and dancing could
make them. It was a charming episode in the sullen history of campaigning, and before I flung
myself on the embroidered sofa of the mayor's drawing-room, where my billet had been given
for the night, I was on terms of eternal "friendship" with a whole group of classic beauties--Aspasias,
Psyches and Cleopatras.

But neither love nor luxury, neither the smiles of that fair Champagnaises, nor the delight
of treading on the tesselated floors, and feasting on the richness of municipal tables, could
now detain us. We were in our saddles by daybreak, and with horses that outstripped the wind,
with hearts light as air, and with prospects of endless victory and orders and honours innumerable
before us, we galloped along, preceded, surrounded, and followed by the most showy squadrons
that ever wore lace and feathers. The delight of this period was indescribable. It was to me
a new birth of faculties that resembled a new sense of being, a buoyant and elastic lightness
of feelings and frame. The pure air; the perpetual change of scene; the novelty of the landscape;
the restless and vivid variety of events, and those too of the most powerful and comprehensive
nature; the superb display of the finest army that the Continent had sent to war for the last
hundred years; and all this excitement and enjoyment, with an unrivaled vista of matchless
conquest in the horizon, a triumphal march through the provinces, to be consummated by the
peace of Europe in Paris, filled even my vexed and wearied spirit with new life. If I am right
in my theory, that the mind reaches stages of its growth with as much distinctness as the frame,
this was one of them. I was conscious from this time of a more matured view of human being,
of a clearer knowledge of its impulses, of a more vigorous, firm, and enlarged capacity for
dealing with the real concerns of life. I still loved; and, strange, hopeless, and bewildering
as that passion was in the breast of one who seemed destined to all the diversities of fortune--it
remained without relief, or relaxation through all. It was the vein of gold, or perhaps the
stream of fire, beneath the soil, inaccessible to the power of change on the surface, but that
surface undergoing every impulse and influence of art and nature.

The army now advanced unopposed. Still we received neither cheers nor reinforcements from the
population. Yet we had now begun to be careless on the topic. The intelligence from Paris was
favourable in all the leading points. The king was resuming his popularity, though still a
prisoner. The Jacobins were exhibiting signs of terror, though still masters of every thing.
The recruits were running away, though the decree for the general rising of the country was
arming the people. In short, the news was exactly of that checkered order which was calculated
to put us all in the highest spirits. The submission of Paris, at least until we were its conquerors,
would have deprived us of a triumph on the spot, and the proclamation of a general peace would
have been received as the command for a general mourning.

The duke was in the highest animation, and he talked to every one round him, as we marched
along, with more than condescension. He was easy, familiar, and flushed with approaching victory.
"We have now," said he, "broken through the 'iron barrier,' the pride of Vauban, and the boast
of France for these hundred years. To-morrow Verdun will fall. The commandant of Thionville,
in desperation at the certainty of our taking the town by assault, has shot himself, and the
keys are on their way to me. Nothing but villages now lie in our road, and once past those
heights," and he pointed to a range of woody hills on the far horizon, "and we shall send our
light troops en promenade to Paris." We all responded in our various ways of congratulation.

"Apropos," said the duke, applying to me, "M. Marston, you have been later on the spot than
any of us. What can you tell of this M. Dumourier, who, I see from my letters, is appointed
to the forlorn hope of France--the command of the broken armies of Lafayette and Luckner?"

My answer was briefly a hope that the new general would be as much overmatched by the duke's
fortunes in the field, as he had been by party in the capital. "Still, he seemed to me a clever,
and even a remarkable man, however inexperienced as a soldier."

"If he is the officer of that name who served in the last French war, he is an old acquaintance
of mine," observed the duke. "I remember him perfectly. He was a mere boy, who, in a rash skirmish
with some of our hussars, was wounded severely and taken prisoner. But as I learned that he
was the son of a French literateur of some eminence whom I had met in Paris, and as I had conceived
a favourable opinion of the young soldier's gallantry, I gave him his parole and sent him back
to his family, who, I think, were Provencals. He was unquestionably spirited and intelligent,
and with experience might make either minister or general; but as he has begun by failure in
the one capacity, it will be our business to show him that he may find success equally difficult
in another. At all events, we have nothing but this minister-general between us and Notre-Dame.
He has taken up a position on the Argonne ridge in our front. To force it will be but an affair
of three hours. Adieu, gentlemen." He put spurs to his horse, and galloped to one of the columns
which approached with trumpets sounding, bearing the captured banner of the church tower of Longwy.

The world was now before us, and we enjoyed it to the full. Varnhorst and I were inseparable,
and feasted on the scene, the gaiety, the oddity of the various characters, which campaigning
developes more than any mode of existence. The simple meal, the noon-rest under a tree, the
songs of our troopers, the dance in the villages, as soon as the peasantry had discovered that
we did not eat women and children--even the consciousness of a life wholly without care, formed
a delicious state of being. "If this is the life of the Arab," I often was ready to exclaim,
"what folly would it be in him to leave the wilderness! If the Esquimaux can sleep through
one half of the year and revel through the other, is he not the true philosopher in the midst
of his frost and snow?" Guiscard, who sometimes joined our party, was now and then moved to
smile at our unripe conceptions of the nature of things. But we laughed at his gravity, and
he returned to pore over the mysteries of that diplomacy which evidently thickened on him hour
by hour. I recollect, however, one of his expressions--"My friend, you think that all the battle
is to be fought in front: I can assure you that a much more severe battle is to be fought in
the rear. Argonne will be much more easily mastered than the King's closet and the Aulic Council."
We had good reason to remember the oracle.

One morning as, with half a dozen hussars, I was ranging the thickets on the flank of the advance,
with the spirit of an English fox-hunter, on reaching the summit of a rising ground, I saw,
some miles off, a party of horsemen making their way at full speed across the country. The
perfect level of the plains, particularly in Champagne, makes the ground as open as a race-course.
I called my hussars, and we galloped forward to intercept. On seeing us, they slackened their
speed, and were evidently in consultation. At length the sight of our uniforms reassured then,
and one of their number came forward to meet us. To our enquiry, the answer was, that "General
Lafayette desired to be led to the headquarters." I now saw this memorable man for the first
time, and was busy, in my usual style, in looking for the hero or the revolutionist in his
physiognomy. I was disappointed in both. I saw a quiet visage, and a figure of moderate size,
rather embonpoint, and altogether the reverse of that fire-eyed and lean-countenanced "Cassius"
which I had pictured in my imagination. But his manners perplexed me as much as his features.
They were calm, easy, and almost frank. It was impossible to recognize in him the Frenchman,
except by his language; and he was the last man in whom I could ever have detected that pride
of the theatre, the "French marquis." His manners were English, and I had a fellow-feeling
for him even in our short ride to the camp, and congratulated myself on being thrown into the
intercourse of one who had played so conspicuous a part in the most conspicuous scene of our day.

But on his introduction to the duke, my ardour received a sudden chill. I saw instantly, by
the utter absence of all cordiality in his reception, that the French fugitive had taken a
dangerous step, and that his Parisian ill fortune had deprived his retreat of all merit in
the sight of the commander-in-chief. My doubts were soon confirmed by a message from his tent.
I obeyed; and as I passed the lines, saw Lafayette surrounded by a troop of Hulans of the Guard.
I found the duke pacing uneasily in front of the tent.

"M. Marston," said he, with a vexed manner, "your capture of this morning has added to our
perplexities. You acted zealously, and with the spirit that distinguishes your nation; but
I heartily wish that M. La Fayette had taken any other direction than towards us. His fall
has been contemplated for some time, and even the possibility of his being arrested by some
of our parties. I have received a communication from the Allied cabinets on the contingency;
and the question now is, how to execute my order without public weakness or personal severity."

I proposed to accompany him, while we were on the march, and to pledge myself for his honour
when we arrived at quarters.

"Generously offered," was the reply. "But my duty, in the first instance, prohibits his remaining
in the camp; and in the next, my feelings for himself would spare a man who has commanded the
enemy's troops, the sight of that actual collision which must immediately take place. We attack
the defiles of the Argonne to-morrow."

He entered the tent, wrote a few lines, and returned to me.

"M. Lafayette must consider himself as a prisoner; but as my wish is to treat him with honour,
I must beg of you, M. Marston, to take charge of him for the time. Your offer has relieved
me from an embarrassment; and I shall take care to make honourable mention of your conduct
in this instance, as in all others, to both the courts of Berlin and St James's. The marquis
must be sent to Berlin, and I must request that you will be ready to set out with him this
evening."

The sound was a thunder-stoke. "This evening!" when the decisive action of the war was to be
fought next morning. "To Berlin!" when all my gallant friends were to be on the march to Paris.
Impossible! I retracted my offer at once. But the prince, not accustomed to be resisted, held
his purpose firmly; representing that, as the French general was actually my prisoner, and
as my court was equally interested with those of the Allied powers, in preventing his return
to embroil France, "it was my duty, as her commissioner, to see that the measure was effectively
performed." But the appearance of leaving the army, on the very eve of important service, was
not to be argued, or even commanded, away. The duke was equally inflexible, though his sentences
were perhaps shorter than mine; and I finally left his presence, declaring, that if the request
were persisted in, I should throw up my commission at once, volunteer as a common trooper into
the first squadron which would admit me, and then, his highness, might, of course, order me
wherever he pleased."

A stately smile was the answer to this tirade. I bowed, and retired.

Within a hundred yards I met my two friends, Varnhorst and Guiscard, and poured out my whole
catalogue of wrongs at once. Varnhorst shared my indignation, fiercely pulled his thick mustaches,
and muttered some phrases about oppression, martinetism, and other dangerous topics, which
fortunately were scattered on the air. Guiscard neither raged nor smiled, but walked into the
ducal tent. After a few minutes he returned, and then his sallow countenance wore a smile.
"You have offended the duke desperately," said he. "And as a sovereign prince, I dare say that
banishment from his territories for life would be the least reparation; but as a general, we
think that we cannot have too many good troops, and your proposal to take a Hulan's lance and
pistol in your hand, is irresistible. In short, he receives you as a volunteer into his own
hussars, and as you are henceforth at his disposal, he orders."--My tormentor here made a malicious
pause, which threw me into a fever. I gazed on his countenance, to anticipate his mission.
It wore the same deep and moveless expression. "His highness orders, that you shall escort,
with a squadron, General Lafayette, to the Chateau, our former headquarters, and where we first
met; there deliver over the Frenchman to an officer of the staff, who will be in readiness
to escort him further; and, in the mean time, if the very fiery and independent M. Marston
should have no objection to travel at night, he may return, and be in time for whatever is
to be done here to-morrow."

"Bravo, bravo!" exclaimed good-natured Varnhorst. "Guiscard, you are the first of negotiators!"

"No," was the quiet reply. "I pretend to nothing more than the art of being a good listener.
I merely waited until the duke had spoken his will, and then interposed my suggestion. It was
adopted at once; and now our young friend has only to ride hard to-night, and come to shade
his brow with a share of any laurels which we may pluck in the forest of Argonne, in the next
twenty-four hours."

I was enraptured--the communication was made in the most courteous manner to the marquis. He
had at once perceived the difficulties of his position, and was glad to leave them behind as
far as possible. Our escort was mounted within a few minutes, and we were in full gallop over
the fruitful levels of Champagne.

To speed of this order, time and space were of little importance; and with the rapidity of
a flock of falcons, we reached the foot of the noble hill, on which, embosomed in the most
famous vineyards of the vine country, stood the Chateau. It was blazing with lights, and had
evidently lost nothing of its population by the change of headquarters. We were soon brought
to a stand by a challenge in French, and found that we were no longer among the jovial Jägers
of Deutchland. We had fallen in with the advanced corps of the Emigrant army under the command
of the Prince of Condé.

Here was a new dilemma. Our prisoner's was perhaps the most startling name which could have
been pronounced among those high-blooded and headlong men. The army was composed almost wholly
of the noblesse; and Lafayette, under all his circumstances of birth, sentiments, and services,
had been the constant theme of noble indignation. The champion of the American Republic, the
leader of the Parisian movement, the commandant of the National Guard, the chief of the rebel
army in the field--all was terribly against him. Even the knowledge of his fall could not have
appeased their resentment; and the additional knowledge that he was within their hands, might
have only produced some unfortunate display of what the philosopher calls "wild justice." In
this difficulty, while the officer of the patrol was on his way to the Chateau to announce
our coming, I consulted the captain of my escort. But, though a capital sabreur, he was evidently
not made to solve questions in diplomacy. After various grimaces of thinking, and even taking
the meersham from his mouth, I was thrown on my own resources. My application to the captive
general was equally fruitless: it was answered with the composure of one prepared for all consequences,
but it amounted simply to--"Do just as you please."

But no time was to be lost, and leaving the escort to wait till my return, I rode up the hill
alone, and desired an interview with the officer in command of the division. Fortunately I
found him to be one of my gayest Parisian companions, now transformed into a fierce chevalier,
colonel des chasseurs, bronzed like an Arab, and mustached like a tiger. But his inner man
was the same as ever. I communicated my purpose to him as briefly as possible. His open brow
lowered, and his fingers instinctively began playing with the hilt of his sabre. And if the
rencontre could have been arranged on the old terms of man to man, my gallant friend would
have undoubtedly made me the bearer of a message on the spot. But I had come for other objects,
and gradually brought him round; he allowed that "a prisoner was something entitled to respect."
The "request of his distinguished and valued friend, M. Marston, dear to him by so many charming
recollections of Paris, &c., was much more;" and we finally arranged that the general should
be conveyed unseen to an apartment in the Chateau, while I did him and his "braves camarades"
the honour of sharing their supper. I gave the most willing consent; a ride of thirty miles
had given me the appetite of a hunter.

I was now introduced to a new scene. The room was filled with muskets and knapsacks piled against
the walls, and three-fourths of those who sat down were private soldiers; yet there was scarcely
a man who did not wear some knightly decoration, and I heard the noblest names of France everywhere
round me. Thus extremes meet: the Faubourg St Germains had taken the equality of the new order
of things, and the very first attempt to retain an exclusive rank had brought all to the same
level. But it was a generous, a graceful, and a gallant level. All was good-humour under their
privations, and the fearful chances which awaited them were evidently regarded with a feeling
which had all the force of physical courage without its roughness. I was much struck, too,
with the remarkable appearance of the military figures round me. Contrary to our general notions
of the foreign noblesse those exhibited some of the finest-looking men whom I had ever seen.
This was perhaps, in a considerable degree, owing to the military life. In countries where
the nobility are destitute of public employment, they naturally degenerate--become the victims
of the diseases of indolence and profligacy, transmit their decrepitude to their descendants,
and bequeath dwarfishness and deformity to their name. But in France, the young noble was destined
for soldiership from his cradle. His education partook of the manly preparations for the soldier's
career. The discipline of the service, even in peace, taught him some superiority to the effeminate
habits of opulence; and a sense of the actual claims of talents, integrity, and determination,
gave them all an importance which, whatever might be the follies of an individual, from time
to time, powerfully shaped the general character of the nobles. In England, the efforts for
political power, and the distinctions of political fame, preserve our nobility from relaxing
into the slavery of indulgence. The continual ascent of accomplished minds from the humbler
ranks, at once reinforces their ability and excites their emulation; and if England may proudly
boast of men of intellectual vigour, worthy of rising to the highest rank from the humblest
condition, she may, with not less justice, boast of her favourites of fortune fitted to cope
with her favourites of nature.

Among these showy and high-bred soldiers, the hours passed delightfully. Anecdotes of every
court of Europe, where most of them had been, either as tourists or envoys; the piquant tales
of the court of their unfortunate sovereign; narratives--sufficiently contemptuous of the present
possessors of power; and chansons--some gay, and some touching--made us all forget the flight
of time. Among their military choruses was one which drew tears from many a bold eye. It was
a species of brief elegy to the memory of Turenne, whom the French soldier still regarded as
his tutelar genius. It was said to have been written on the spot where that great leader fell:--

     "Reçois, O Turenne, où tu perdis lavie,
      Les transports d'un soldat, qui te plaint et t'envie.
      Dans l'Elysee assis, près du cef des Césars,
      Ou dans le ciel, peutêtre entre Bellone et Mars.
      Fais-moi te suivre en tout, exauce ma prière;
      Puis se-je ainsi remplir, et finir ma carrière."

The application to the immediate circumstances of those brave gentlemen was painfully direct.
What to-morrow might bring was unknown, further than that they would probably soon be engaged
with their countrymen; and whether successful or not, they must be embarked in war against
France. But my intelligence that an action was expected on the next day awoke the soldier within
them again; the wrongs of their order, the plunders of the ruling faction, their hopeless expatriation,
if some daring effort was not made, and the triumphant change from exiles to possessors and
conquerors, stirred them all into enthusiasm. The army of the Allies, the enemy's position,
the public feeling of Paris, and the hope of sharing in the honours of an engagement which
was to sweep the revolutionary "canaille" before the "gentlemen of France," were the rapid
and animating topics. All were ardent, all eloquent; fortune was at their feet, the only crime
was to doubt--the only difficulty was to choose in what shape of splendid vengeance, of matchless
retribution, and of permanent glory, they should restore the tarnished lustre of the diadem,
and raise the insulted name of France to its ancient rank among the monarchies of the world.
I never heard among men so many brilliancies of speech--so many expressions of feeling full
of the heart--so glowing a display of what the heart of man may unconsciously retain for the
time when some great emotion rouses all its depths, and opens them to the light of day. It
was to me a new chapter in the history of man.

The news which I had brought of the positions of the armies rendered me an object of marked
interest. I was questioned on every point; first, and especially, of the intention of the commander-in-chief,
with the most anxious yet most polished minuteness. But, as on this subject my lips were comparatively
sealed, the state of the troops with whom they were so soon to be brought into contact became
the more manageable topic. On mentioning that Dumourier was placed in command, I received free
and full communications on the subject of his qualities for being the last hope of revolutionary
France. One had known him in his early career in the engineers, another had served along with
him in Corsica, a third had met him at the court of Portugal; the concurring report being,
that he was a coxcomb of the first water, showy but superficial, and though personally brave,
sure to be bewildered when he found himself for the first time working the wheels and springs
of that puzzling machine, an army in the field. A caustic old Provençal marquis, with his breast
glittering with the stars of a whole constellation of knighthood, yet who sat with the cross-belts
and cartouche-box of the rank and file upon him, agreeing with all the premises, stoutly denied
the conclusions. "He is a coxcomb," said the old Marquis. "Well, he is only the fitter to command
an army of upstarts. He has seen nothing but Corsican service; well, he is the fitter to command
an army of banditti. And he has been an espion of the Government in Portugal; what better training
could he have for heading an army of traitors? Rely upon it, gentlemen, that you have mistaken
his character; if you think that he is not the very man whom the mob of Paris ought to have
chosen for their general, I merely recommend, that when you go into action you should leave
your watches in camp, and, if you charge any of their battalions, look well to your purses."

The old soldier's sally restored our gaiety; but the man best acquainted with the French commander-in-chief
was my friend the chevalier, at the head of the table. "It has singularly enough happened to
me to have met M. Dumourier in almost every scene of his life, since his return from his first
service in Germany. Our first meeting was in the military hospital in Toulouse, where he had
been sent, like myself, to recover, in his native air, from the wounds of our last German campaign.
He was then a coxcomb, but a clever one, full of animal spirits, and intoxicated with the honour
of having survived the German bullets, of being appointed to a company, and wearing a croix.
Our next meeting was in Portugal. Our Minister had adopted some romantic idea of shaking the
English influence, and Dumourier had been sent as an engineer to reconnoitre the defences of
the country. The word espion was not wholly applicable to his mission, yet there can be no
doubt that the memoir published on his return, was not a volume of travels. His services had
now recommended him to the Government, and he was sent to Corsica. There again I met him, as
my regiment formed part of the force in the island. He was high on the staff, our intercourse
was renewed, and he was regarded as a very expert diplomatist. A few years after, I found him
in a still higher situation, a favourite of De Choiseul, and managing the affairs of the Polish
confederation. On his return to Paris, such was the credit in which he stood, that he was placed
by the minister of war at the head of a commission to reform the military code; thus he has
been always distinguished; and has at least had experience."

Even this slight approach to praise was evidently not popular among the circle, and I could
hear murmurs.

"Distinguished!--yes, more with the pen than the sword."

"Diplomacy!--the business of a clerk. Command is another affair."

"Mon cher Chevalier," said the old Marquis, with a laugh, "pray, after being in so many places
with him, were you with him in the Bastile?" This was followed with a roar.

I saw my friend's swarthy cheek burn. He started up, and was about to make some fierce retort,
when a fine old man, a general, with as many orders as the marquis, and a still whiter head,
averted the storm, by saying, "Whether the chevalier was with M. Dumourier in that predicament,
I know not; but I can say that I was. I was sent there for the high offence of kicking a page
of the court down the grande escalier at Versailles for impertinence, at the time when M. Dumourier
was sent there by the Duc d'Acquillon, for knowing more than the minister. I assure you that
I found him a most agreeable personage--very gay, very witty, and very much determined to pass
his time in the pleasantest manner imaginable. But our companionship was too brief for a perfect
union of souls," said he laughing; "for I was liberated within a week, while he was left behind
for, I think, the better part of a year."

"But his talents?" was the question down the table.

"Gentlemen," said the old man, "my experience in life has always made me judge of talents by
circumstances. If, for example, I find that a man has the talent exactly fitted for his position,
I give him credit for all--he had the talent for making the Bastile endurable, and I required
no other. But there were times when graver topics varied our pleasantry, and he exhibited very
various intelligence, a practical experience of the chief European courts, and, I am sorry
to say, a very striking contempt for their politics and their politicians alike. He was especially
indignant at the selfish perfidy with which the late king had given him up to the ignorant
jealousy of the minister, and looked forward to the new reign with a resolute, and sometimes
a gloomy determination to be revenged. If that man is a republican, it is the Bastile that
has made him one; and if he ever shall have a fair opportunity of displaying his genius, unless
a cannonball stops his career I should conceive him capable of producing a powerful impression
on Europe."

The conversation might again have become stormy but for the entrance of a patrol, for whom
a vacant space at the table had been left. Forty or fifty fine tall fellows now came rushing
into the room, flinging down shakos, knapsacks, and sabres, and fully prepared to enjoy the
good cheer provided for them. I heard the names of the first families of France among those
privates--the Montmorencies, the Lamaignons, the Nivernois, the Rochefoucaults, the De Noailles,
"familiar as household words." All was good-humour again. They had a little adventure in scaring
away a corps of the rustic national guards who, to expedite their escape, had flung away their
arms, which were brought in as good prize. The festivity and frolic of youth, engaged in a
cause which conferred a certain dignity even on their tours de page, renewed the pleasantry
of the night. We again had the chansons; and I recollect one, sung with delicious taste by
a handsome Italian-faced youth, a nephew of the writer, the Duc de Nivernois.

The duke had requested a ringlet from a beautiful woman. She answered, that she had just found
a grey hair among her locks, and could now give then away no more. The gallant reply was--

     "Quoi! vous parlez de cheveux blancs!
      Laissez, laissez courir le temps;
      Que vous importe son ravage?
      Les tendres coeurs en sont exempts;
      Les Amours sont toujours enfants,
      Et les Graces sont de tout age.
      Pour moi, Thémire, je le sens.
      Je suis toujours dans mon printemps,
      Quand je vous offre mon hommage.
      Si je n'avais que dixhuit ans,
      Je pourrais aimer plus longtemps,
      Mais, non pas aimer davantage."[10]

    [10]

      Lovely and loved! shall one slight hair
      Touch thy delicious lip with care?
      A heart like thine may laugh at Time--
      The Soul is ever in its prime.
      All Loves, you know, have infant faces,
      A thousand years can't chill the Graces!
      While thou art in my soul enshrined,
      I give all sorrows to the wind.
      Were I this hour but gay eighteen,
      Thou couldst be but my bosom's queen;
      I might for longer years adore,
      But could not, could not love thee more.

On returning to look for my distinguished prisoner, I found a packet lying on the table of
my apartment; it had arrived in my absence with the troops in advance; and I must acknowledge
that I opened it with a trembling hand, when I saw that it came from London and Mordecai.

It was written in evident anxiety, and the chief subject was the illness of his daughter. She
had some secret on her mind, which utterly baffled even the Jew's paternal sagacity. No letters
had reached either of them from France, and he almost implored me to return, or, if that were
impossible, to write without delay. Mariamne had grown more fantastic, and capricious, and
wayward than ever. Her eyes had lost their brightness, and her cheek its colour. Yet she complained
of nothing, beyond a general distaste to existence. She had seen the Comtesse de Tourville,
and they had many a long conference together, from which, however, Mariamne always returned
more melancholy than ever. She had refused the match which he had provided for her, and declared
her determination to live, like the daughter of Jephthah, single to her grave.

The letter then turned to my own circumstances, and entered into them with the singular mixture
of ardour and sneering which formed this extraordinary character.

    "I am doing your business here as indefatigably as if I were
    robbing nabobs in India, or setting up republics at home. The
    tardiness of the Horse-Guards is to be moved by nothing but an
    invasion; and it would be almost as rational to wait the
    growth of an oak, as to wait the signing of your commission;
    but it shall be done in my own way. I have means which can
    make the tardy quick, and open the eyes of the blind. You
    shall be a subaltern in the Guards, unless you are in too
    much haste to be a general, and get yourself shot by some
    Parisian cobbler in the purloined uniform of a rifleman. But,
    let me tell you one fact, and I might indorse this piece of
    intelligence, 'Secret and Confidential,' to the English
    cabinet, for even our great minister has yet to learn it--the
    Allies will never reach Paris. Rely, and act upon this.
    They might now enter the capital, if, instead of bayonets,
    they carried only trusses of straw. The road is open before
    them, but they will look only behind. The war was almost a
    feint from the beginning. The invasion was the second act of
    the farce--the retreat will be the third. Poland has been the
    true object; and, to cover the substantial seizures there,
    has been the trick of the French invasion. I predict that, in
    one month from the date of this letter, there will not be an
    Austrian or Prussian cartridge found in France. Potsdam and
    Schoenbrunn know more on the subject at this moment than the
    duke. I write to you as a friend, and by Mariamne's especial
    order, to take care of yourself. I have seen the retreats of
    continental armies in my time; they are always a scene of
    horrors. Follow the army so long as it advances; then all is
    well, and even the experience of service may be of use to you.
    But, in this instance, the moment that you find it come to a
    stop, turn your horse's head to any point of the compass but
    the front, and ride to the nearest seaport. The duke is a
    brave man, and his army is a brave army; but both will be
    instantly covered with all the obloquy of all the libelers on
    earth. If you have met him as man with man, you have doubtless
    been captivated with his manners, his wit, his animation, and
    his accomplishments. I have known him long and well. But
    Europe, within a month, will decry him, as a fugitive, a fool,
    and a dastard. Such is popular wisdom, justice, and knowledge.
    A pupil of the first warrior of Prussia and of modern ages,
    and wanting only experience to do honour to the lessons of
    Frederick, he will be laughed at by the loose loungers of the
    Palais Royal, as ignorant of the art of war, and branded by
    the graver loungers of courts and councils, as ignorant of the
    art of government. Once more, I say, take care of yourself.
    The first step in retreat will raise all France against the
    Allies. Ten victories would not cost as much as the first
    week's march towards the frontier. Every thicket will have its
    troop; every finger, for a hundred leagues round, will be on
    the trigger. Robbery and murder, famine and fatigue; disease
    and death, will be upon the troops; the retreat will become a
    flight, and happy is the man who will ever see the Rhine
    again. Be wise in time."

Enclosed within this long epistle was a brief note from Mariamne.

    "You must not think me dying, because I importune you no
    longer. But, can you give me any tidings of Lafontaine? I
    know that he is rash, and even enthusiastic; but I equally
    know that he is faithful and true. Yet, if he has
    forgotten me, or is married, or is any thing that, as a preux
    chevalier, he ought not to be, tell me at once, and you shall
    see how grateful I can be, before I cease to be any thing. But
    if he has fallen--if, in the dreadful scenes now acting in
    Paris, Lafontaine is no more--tell me not. Write some
    deluding thing to me--conceal your terrible knowledge. I
    should not wish to drop down dead before my father's face. He
    is looking at me while I write this, and I am trying to laugh,
    with a heart as heavy as lead, and eyes that can scarcely see
    the paper. No--for mercy's sake, do not tell me that he is
    dead. Give me gentle words, give me hope, deceive me--as they
    give laudanum, not to prolong life, but to lull agony. Do
    this, and with my last pulse I shall be grateful--with my last
    breath I shall bless you."

Poor Mariamne! I had, at least, better hopes than those for her. But within this billet was
a third. It was but a few lines; yet at the foot of those lines was the signature--"Clotilde
de Tourville." The light almost forsook my eyes; my head swam; if the paper had been a talisman,
and every letter written with the pen of magic, it could not have produced a more powerful
effect upon me. My hands trembled, and my ears thrilled; and yet it contained but a few unimportant
words--an enquiry addressed to Mariamne, whether she could forward a letter to the Chateau
Montauban in Champagne, or whether her father had any correspondent in the vicinity who could
send her the picture of a beloved relative, which, in the haste of their flight to England,
they had most reluctantly left behind.

The note at once threw every thing else into the background. What were invasions and armies--what
were kings and kingdoms--to the slightest wish of the being who had written this billet? All
this I admit to be the fever of the mind--a waking dream--an illusion to which mesmerism or
magic is but a frivolity. Like all fevers, it is destined to pass away, or to kill the patient;
yet for the time, what on earth is so strange, or so powerful--so dangerous to the reason--so
delicious to the soul!

But, after the long reverie into which I sank, with the writing of Clotilde in my hand, I recollected
that fortune had for once given me the power of meeting the wishes of this noble and beautiful
creature. The resemblance of the picture that had so much perplexed and attracted me, was now
explained. I was in the Chateau de Montauban, and I now blessed the chance which had sent me
to its honoured walls.

To hasten to the chamber where I was again to look upon the exquisite resemblance of features
which, till then, I had thought without a similar in the world, was a matter of instinct; and,
winding my way through the intricacies of galleries and corridors, loaded with the baggage
of the emigrant army, and strewed with many a gallant noble who had exchanged the down bed
of his ancestral mansion for the bare floor, or the open bivouac, I at length reached the apartment
to which the captive general had been consigned. To my utter astonishment, instead of the silence
which I expected under the circumstances, I heard the jingling of glasses and roars of laughter.
Was this the abode of solitude and misfortune? I entered, and found M. Lafayette, indeed, conducting
himself with the composure of a personage of his rank; but the other performers exhibiting
a totally different temperament. A group of Polish officers, who had formerly borne commissions
in the royal service, and now followed the Emigrant troops, had recognized Lafayette, and insisted
on paying due honours to the "noble comrade" with whom they had served beyond the Atlantic.
Hamlet's menace to his friend, that he would "teach him to drink deep ere he depart," had been
adopted in the amplest sense by those jovial sons of the north, and "healths bottle-deep" were
sent round the board with rapid circulation.

My entrance but slightly deranged the symposium, and I was soon furnished with all the freemasonry
of the feast, by being called on to do honour to the toast of "His Majesty the King of Great
Britain." My duty was now done, my initiation was complete, and while my eyes were fixed on
the portrait which, still in its unharmed beauty, looked beaming on the wild revel below, I
heard, in the broken queries, and interjectional panegyrics of these hyperborean heroes, more
of the history of Lafayette than I had ever expected to reach my ears.

His life had been the strangest contrast to the calm countenance which I saw so tranquilly
listen to its own tale. It was Quixotic, and two hundred years ago could scarcely have escaped
the pen of some French Cervantes. He had begun life as an officer in the French household troops
in absolute boyhood. At sixteen he had married! at eighteen he had formed his political principles,
and begun his military career by crossing the Atlantic, and offering his sword to the Republic.
To meet the thousand wonderings at his conduct, he exchanged the ancient motto of the Lafayettes
for a new one of his own. The words, "Why not?" were his answer to all, and they were sufficient.
On reaching America, he asked but two favours, to be suffered to serve, and to serve without pay.

In America he was more republican than the Republicans. He toiled, traveled, and bled, with
an indefatigable zeal for the independence of the colonists; his zeal was a passion, his love
of liberty a romance, his hostility to the dominion of England an universal scorn of established
power. But if fantastic, he was bold; and if too hot for the frigidity of America, he was but
preparing to touch France with kindred fire. He refused rank in the French army coupled with
the condition of leaving the service of the Republic; and it was only on the French alliance
in 1788 that he returned to Paris, to be received with feigned displeasure by the King, and
even put under arrest by the minister, but to be welcomed by the praises of the true sovereign,
the Queen, feted by the court, the sovereign of that sovereign, and huzzaed by the mob of Paris,
already the sovereign of them all; from his military prison he emerged, colonel of the King's
regiment of dragoons.

While this narrative was going on, mingled with bumpers, and bursts of Slavonic good-fellowship,
I could not help asking myself whether Lavater was not quack and physiognomy a folly? Could
this be the dashing Revolutionist? No plodder over the desk ever wore a more broadcloth countenance;
an occasional smile was the only indication of his interest in what was passing around him.
He evidently avoided taking a share in the discussion of his Transatlantic career, probably
from delicacy to his English auditor. But when the conversation turned upon France, the man
came forth, and he vindicated his conduct with a spirit and fulness that told me what he might
have been when the blood of youth was added to the glow of the imagination. He was now evidently
exhausted by toil, and dispirited by disappointment. No man could be more thoroughly ruined;
baffled in theory, undone in practice--an exile from his country, a fugitive from his troops--overwhelmed
by the hopelessness of giving a constitution to France, and with nothing but the dungeon before
him, and the crash of the guillotine behind.

"What was to be done?" said Lafayette. "France was bankrupt--the treasury was empty--the profligate
reign of Louis XV. had at once wasted the wealth, dried up the revenues, and corrupted the
energies of France. Ministers wrung their hands, the king sent for his confessor, the queen
wept--but the nation groaned. There was but one expedient, to call on the people. In 1787 the
Assembly of the Notables was summoned. It was the first time since the reign of Henry IV. France
had been a direct and formal despotism for almost two hundred years. She had seen England spread
from an island into an empire; she had seen America spread from a colony into an empire. What
had been the worker of the miracle?--Liberty. While all the despotisms remained within the
boundaries fixed centuries ago, like vast dungeons, never extending, and never opening to the
light and air, except through the dilapidations of time, I saw England and America expanding
like fertile fields, open to every breath of heaven and every beam of day, expanding from year
to year by the cheerful labour of man, and every year covered with new productiveness for the
use of universal mankind. I own that there may have been rashness in urging the great experiment--there
may have been a dangerous disregard of the actual circumstances of the people, the time, and
the world--the daring hand of the philosopher may have drawn down the lightning too suddenly
to be safe; the patriot may have flashed the blaze of his torch too strongly on eyes so long
trained to the twilight of the dungeon. The leader of this enterprise himself, like the first
discoverer of fire, may have brought wrath upon his own head, and be condemned to have his
vitals gnawed in loneliness and chains; but nothing shall convince Lafayette that a great work
has not been begun for the living race, for all nations, and for all posterity."

I could not suppress the question--"But when will the experiment be complete? When will the
tree, planted thus in storms, take hold of the soil? When will the tremendous tillage which
begins by clearing with the conflagration, and ploughing with the earthquake, bring forth the
harvest of peace to the people?"

"These must be the legacy to our children," was the reply, in a grave and almost contrite tone.
"The works of man are rapid only when they are meant for decay. The American savage builds
his wigwam in a week, to last for a year. The Parthenon took half an age and the treasures
of a people, to last for ever."

We parted for the night--and for thirty years. My impression of this remarkable man was, that
he had more heart than head; that a single idea had engrossed his faculties, to the exclusion
of all others; that he was following a phantom, with the belief that it was a substantial form,
and that, like the idolaters of old, who offered their children to their frowning deity, he
imagined that the costlier the sacrifice, the surer it was of propitiation. Few men have been
more misunderstood in his own day or in ours. Lifted to the skies for an hour by popular adulation,
he has been sunk into obscurity ever since by historic contempt. Both were mistaken. He was
the man made for the time--precisely the middle term between the reign of the nobility and
the reign of the populace. Certainly not the man to "ride on the whirlwind and direct the storm;"
but as certainly altogether superior to the indolent luxury of the class among whom he was
born. Glory and liberty, the two highest impulses of our common nature, sent him at two and
twenty from the most splendid court of Europe, to the swamps and snows, the desperate service
and dubious battles of America. Eight years of voyages, negotiations, travels, and exposure
to the chances of the field, proved his energy, and at the age of thirty he had drawn upon
himself the eyes of the world. Here he ought to have rested, or have died. But the Revolution
swept him off his feet. It was an untried region--a conflict of elements unknown to the calculation
of man; he was whirled along by a force which whirled the monarchy, the church, and the nation
with him, and sank only when France plunged after him.

I have no honour for a similar career, and no homage for a similar memory; but it is from those
mingled characters that history derives her deepest lesson, her warnings for the weak, her
cautions for the ambitious, and her wisdom for the wise.

On the retiring of the party for the night, my first act was to summon the old Swiss and his
wife who had been left in charge of the mansion, and collect from them all their feeble memories
could tell Clotilde. But Madame la Maréchale was a much more important personage in their old
eyes, than the "charmante enfant" whom they had dandled on their knees, and who was likely
to remain a "charmante enfant" to them during their lives. The chateau had been the retreat
of the Maréchale after the death of her husband; and it was in its stately solitudes, and in
the woods and wilds which surrounded it for many a league, that Clotilde had acquired those
accomplished tastes, and that characteristic dignity and force of mind, which distinguished
her from the frivolity of her country-women, however elegant and attractive, who had been trained
in the salons of the court. The green glades and fresh air of the forest had given beauty to
her cheek and grace to her form; and scarcely conceiving how the rouged and jewelled Maréchale
could have endured such an absence from the circles of the young queen, and the "beaux restes"
of the wits and beauties of the court of Louis the 15th, I thanked in soul the fortunate necessity
which had driven her from the atmosphere of the Du Barris to the shades thus sacred to innocence
and knowledge.

But the grand business of the thing was still to be done. The picture was taken down at last,
to the great sorrow of the old servants, who seemed to regard it as a patron saint, and who
declared that its presence, and its presence alone, could have saved the mansion, in the first
instance, from being burned by the "patriots," who generally began their reforms of the nobility
by laying their chateaux in ashes, and in the next, from being plundered by the multitudes
of whiskered savages speaking unknown tongues, and came to leave France without "ni pain ni
vin" for her legitimate sons. But the will of Madame la Maréchale was to them as the laws of
the Medes and Persians, irresistible and unchangeable; and with heavy hearts they dismounted
the portrait, and assisted in enfolding and encasing it, with much the same feeling that might
have been shown in paying the last honours to a rightful branch of the beloved line.

But, in the wall which the picture had covered, I found a small recess, closed by an iron door,
and evidently unknown to the Swiss and his old wife. I might have hesitated about extending
my enquiry further, but Time, the great discoverer of all things, saved my conscience: with
a slight pressure against the lock it gave way; the door flew open, and dropped off the hinges,
a mass of rust and decay. Within was a casket of a larger size than that generally used for
jewels; but my curiosity durst not go beyond the superscription, which was a consignment of
the casket, in the name of the Maréchale, to her banker in London. Whatever might be the contents,
it was clear that, like the picture, it had been left behind in the hurry of flight, and that
to transmit it to England was fairly within my commission. Before our busy work was done, day
was glancing in through the coloured panes of the fine old chamber. I hurried off the Swiss,
with my precious possessions, to the next town, in one of the baggage carts, with a trooper
in front to prevent his search by hands still more hazardous than those of a custom-house officer;
and then, mounting my horse, and bidding a brief farewell to the brave and noble fellows who
were already mustering for the march, and envying me with all their souls, I set off at full
speed to rejoin the army.

With all my speed, the action had begun for some hours before I came in sight of the field.
With what pangs of heart I heard the roar of the cannon, for league on league, while I was
threading my bewildered way, and spurring my tired horse through the miry paths of a country
alternately marsh and forest; with what pantings I looked from every successive height, to
see even to what quarter the smoke of the firing might direct me; with what eager vexation
I questioned every hurrying peasant, who either shook his moody head and refused to answer,
or who answered with the fright of one who expected to have his head swept off his shoulders
by some of my fierce-looking troop, I shall not now venture to tell; but it was as genuine
a torture as could be felt by man. At length, exhausted by mortal fatigue, and ready to lie
down and die, I made a last effort, would listen no more to the remonstrances of the troop,
whose horses were sinking under them. I ordered them to halt where they were, pushed on alone,
and, winding my way through a forest covering the side of a low but abrupt hill, or rather
succession of hills, I suddenly burst out into the light, and saw the whole battle beneath,
around, and before me. It was magnificent.

       *       *       *       *       *

LETTER FROM LEMUEL GULLIVER.

TO THE EDITOR.

Sir--At the request of my four-footed friends, I forward to you a free translation of the proceedings
of a meeting of Houynhyms, recently held for the protection of their interests in corn. As
the language appears more temperate, and the propositions quite as rational, as those which
are ordinarily brought forward in the other Corn-law meetings which still continue to agitate
the county, I have no difficulty in complying with their wishes; and if you can afford space
for the insertion of the report in your valuable Magazine, you will greatly oblige the Houynhym
race, and confer a favour upon, sir, your obedient servant,

LEMUEL GULLIVER.

Stable-Yard, Nov. 10th, 1843.

       *       *       *       *       *

ADVERTISEMENT.

A meeting of delegates from the different classes of consumers of oats was held on Friday last,
at the Nag's Head in the Borough, pursuant to public advertisement in the Hors-Lham Gazette.
The object of the meeting was to take into consideration the present consumption of the article,
and to devise means for its increase. The celebrated horse Comrade, of Drury-Lane Theatre,
presided on the occasion.

The business of the meeting was opened by a young Racer of great promise, who said it was his
anxious desire to protect the interests of the horse community, and to promote any measure
which might contribute to the increase of the consumption of oats, and improve the condition
of his fellow-quadrupeds. He was not versed in political economy, nor, indeed, economy of any
kind. He had heard much of demand and supply, and the difficulty of regulating them properly;
but, for his own part, he found the latter always equalled the former, though he understood
such was not the case with his less fortunate brethren. He warmly advocated the practice of
sowing wild oats, and considered that much of the decrease of consumption complained of arose
from the undue encouragement given to the growth of other grain; and that the horse interest
would be best promoted by imposing a maximum as to the growth of wheat and barley, according
to the acreage of each particular farm.

A HACKNEY-COACH HORSE declared himself in favour of the sliding-scale, which he understood
from Sir Peter Lawrie to mean the wooden pavement. He admitted it was not well adapted for
rainy seasons, but it was impossible to doubt that things went much more smoothly wherever
it was established; and that he, and the working classes whom he represented, found in it a
considerable relief from the heavy duties daily imposed upon them. He wished that some measure
could be devised for superseding the use of nosebags, which he designated as an intolerable
nuisance, especially during the summer months; but he principally relied for an improvement
in condition on the prohibition of the mixture of chaff with oats; which latter article, he
contended, was unfit for the use of able-bodied horses, who earned their daily food, and ought
to be limited to those cattle who spent an idle existence in straw-yards.

A BRIGHT CHESTNUT HORSE, of great power, and well-known in the parks, warmly replied to the
last neigher. He denounced the sliding-scale as a slippery measure, unworthy of a horse of
spirit, and adding greatly to the burdens with which horses like himself were saddled. He daily
saw steeds of the noblest blood and most undaunted action humbled to the dust by its operation;
and if Sir Peter Lawrie was to be believed, it was more dreaded by the household troops than
Napoleon's army on the field of Waterloo. He yielded to no horse in an anxious desire to promote
the true interests of the horse community; but he could not give his support to measures so
unsafe, merely because they enabled a small and inferior section of their community to move
more smoothly. He reprobated, in strong terms, the unfeeling allusion of the last neigher to
the unfortunate inmates of union straw-yards, whom, for his own part, he looked upon as nowise
inferior to the hackney-coach horse himself, of whose right to be present at a meeting of consumers
of oats he entertained serious doubts. (Loud neighs of "Order! Order!")

A SCOTCH HORSE feared that, strictly speaking, he was included in the same category with the
hackney-coach horse, and had no right to be heard, having no personal interest in the question;
but he trusted he might be permitted to speak as the delegate of the horses of Scotland, who
were ignorant of the Houynhym language, and not entitled to attend. Permission being granted,
to the surprise of the assembly he descanted with much asperity upon the gross oppression to
which horses in Scotland were subject, as their rough coats and ragged appearance plainly manifested;
and stated, in conclusion, that no hope or expectation of bettering the condition of the Scotch
horse could be entertained until their lawful food was restored to them, and Scotchmen were
compelled, by act of Parliament, to abstain from the use of oatmeal, and live like the rest
of the civilized world.

Several worn-out horses belonging to members of the Whig administration then endeavoured to
address the meeting, with an evident intention of converting the proceedings into a party question;
but they were informed by the president, in the midst of loud snorting and neighing, that they
had not the slightest right to be present, as they were all undoubtedly turned out for life.
This decision appeared to give universal satisfaction.

AN IRISH HORSE was of opinion that the great cause of the present difficulties arose from deficiency
in the quality and not the quantity of the article, and strongly recommended the growth of
Irish oats in England. To the surprise of the English delegates, he warmly eulogized the superiority
of the Irish oat; but it afterwards appeared, upon the production of a sample, that he had
mistaken the potatoe oat for the Irish oat.

AN OLD ENGLISH HUNTER next addressed the meeting, and was listened to with deep attention.
He impressed upon the young delegates the good old adage of "Look before you leap," and cautioned
them against the delusive hope that their condition would be improved by change of measures.
In the course of his long life he had experienced measures of every description, and had invariably
found that his supplies depended, not on the measure itself; but on the hand that filled it.
He had ever given his willing support to his employers, and served them faithfully; and if
they were as well acquainted as quadrupeds with the secrets of the stable, they would learn
the fallacy of their favourite maxim of "Measures, not men," and trust the administration of
their affairs to upright and steady grooms, rather than those fanciful half-educated gentlemen
who were perpetually changing the rules of the stables, and altering the form of the measures,
whereby they embarrassed the regular feeding and training of the inmates, without producing
any practical good.

A STAGE-COACH HORSE imputed their want of condition to the misconduct of their leaders, who,
he said, could never be kept in the right path, or made to do one-half of the work which properly
belonged to them. By a strange fatality, they were generally purblind, and always shyed most
fearfully when an Opposition coach approached them. Indeed, it was well known that the horses
selected for these duties were, generally speaking, vicious and unsound, and not taken from
the most able and powerful, but from the most showy classes. He then proceeded to descant upon
the general wrongs of horses. He congratulated the community upon the abolition of bearing
reins, those grievous burdens upon the necks of all free-going horses; and he trusted the time
would soon arrive when the blinkers would also be taken off, every corn-binn thrown open, and
every horse his own leader.

Several other delegates addressed the meeting, and various plans were discussed; but it invariably
turned out, upon investigation, that the change would only benefit the class of animals by
whom it was proposed. A post-horse was of opinion, that the true remedy lay in decreasing the
amount of speed, and shortening the spaces between milestones. A Welsh pony was for the abolition
of tolls, which, he said, exhausted the money intended for repairs; whilst some plough-horses
from Lincolnshire proposed the encouragement of pasture land, the abolition of tillage, and
the disuse of oats altogether. The harmony of the meeting was, at one period, interrupted,
by the unfortunate use of the word "blackguard" by a delegate from the collieries, which caused
a magnificent charger from the Royal Horse Guards, Blue, to rear up, and, with great indignation,
demand if the allusion was personal; but who was satisfied with the explanation of the president,
that it was applicable only in a warlike sense. A long, lean, bay horse, with a sour head,
demanded a similar explanation of the word "job," and was told it was used in a working sense.
Several resolutions, drawn by two dray-horses, embodying the supposed grievances of the community,
were finally agreed upon, and a petition, under the hoof of the president, founded upon them,
having been prepared, and ordered to be presented to the House of Commons by the members for
Horsham, the meeting separated, and the delegates returned to their respective stables.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE PROCLAMATION.

      Bold warriors of Erin, I hereby proclaim,
      That the world never witness'd your rivals in fame;
      Bold sons of Macmurraugh, Macarthy, O'Neill,
      The armies of earth at your sight would turn pale.
      A flash from your eyes would light England's last pile,
      And a touch give her sceptre to Erin's green isle.

      Hurrah for the vengeance of old Mullaghmast,
      On the blood-bolter'd ground where your gauntlet was cast;
      Hurrah for the vengeance of Tara's proud hill,
      Where the bones of our monarchs are blood-sprinkled still.
      Hurrah for Clontarf, though the Saxon may smile,
      The last, greatest triumph of Erin's green isle!

      Let the scoffer scoff on, while I hereby proclaim,
      That flight may be courage, and fear but a name;
      That boasting is good, when 'tis good for the cause,
      But, in sight of cold steel, we should honour the laws;
      That powder and shot make men swallow their bile--
      So, hurrah for the glory of Erin's green isle!

      If they ask for your leader, the land's sword and shield,
      At least none can say that he fled from the field.
      He kept a whole skin--for the service of Rome;
      So he fix'd his headquarters in quiet at home.
      They might just as well hunt for the head of the Nile,
      While he reckon'd his beads for St Patrick's green isle.

      If beggars on horseback will ride--to Clontarf;
      If tailors will caper with truncheon and scarf,
      At Sunday carousels, all know, I'm in flower,
      My taste for the grape don't extend to the shower.
      Besides, those blue pills disagree with my chyle,
      So, hurrah!--pence and peace for the grand Emerald Isle!

      If the scoffer should ask, what the deuce brought you there?
      Of course, it was only to taste the fresh air;
      To pick cowslips and daisies; and brush off the dew,
      Or drink gin o'er the tombstone of Brian Boru.
      As to flags, and all that; 'twas but doing in style,
      The honours of Freedom to Erin's green isle.

      Then, as to your "Squadrons," your "Mount for Repeal,"
      'Twas merely to teach them the "Right about wheel,"
      By the word of command from the Saxon to run,
      As your leader would fly from a bailiff or dun;
      In short, since a miss is as good as a mile,
      Swear the whole was a humbug for Erin's green isle.

      Besides, these are delicate moments to croak,
      Since the Saxon's new plan of a word and a stroke.
      My mind is made up, like a poodle or pug,
      No longer to stir from my berth on the rug;
      Though the bold may revile me, so let them revile--
      I'm determined to live for old Erin's green isle.

      I proclaim--that the Saxon will tremble to meet
      The heroes of Erin; but, boys, life is sweet.
      I proclaim--that your shout frightens Europe's base thrones;
      But remember, my boys, there is luck in whole bones;
      So, take the advice of a friend--wait a while,
      In a century or two you'll revenge the Green Isle.

      I know in my soul, at the very first shot

      That your whole monster meeting would fly at full trot;
      What horrid mêlée, then, of popping and flashing!
      At least I'LL not share in your holiday thrashing;
      Brawl at Sugden and Smith, but beware "rank and file"--
      They're too rough for the lambkins of Erin's green isle.

      Observe, my dear boys, if you once get me hang'd,
      'Tis fifty to one if you'll e'er be harangued.
      Farewell to the pleasure of paying the "Rint"--
      Farewell to all earth's vilest nonsense in print--
      Farewell to the feast of your gall and your guile--
      All's over at once with the grand Emerald Isle.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE FIREMAN'S SONG.

      "Ho, comrade, up! awake, arise! look forth into the night:
      Say, is yon gleam the morning-beam, yon broad and bloody light?
      Say, does it tell--yon clanging bell--of mass or matin song?
      Yon drum-roll--calls it to parade the soldier's armèd throng?"

      "No, brother, no! no morning-beam is yonder crimson glare!
      Yon deep bell tolls no matin--'tis the tocsin's hurried blare!
      Yon sullen drum-roll mutters out no summons to parade:
      To fight the flame it summons us--the valiant Fire-Brigade!"

      Then fast the Fireman rose, and waked his mate that lay beside;
      And each man gripp'd his trusty axe, and donn'd his coat of hide--
      There bounds beneath that leather coat a heart as strange to fear
      As ever swell'd beneath the steel of gilded cuirassier.

      And from beneath the leather casque that guards the Fireman's brow,
      A bolder, sterner glance shines out than plumy crest can show;
      And oft shall ply the Fireman's axe, though rude and rough it be,
      Where sabre, lance, and bayonet, right soon would turn and flee!

      Off dash the thundering engines, like goblin jäger-chase--
      The sleeper shudders as they pass, and pallid grows his face:
      Away, away! though close and bright yon ruddy glow appear,
      Far, far we have to gallop yet, or e'er our work we near!

      A plain of upturn'd faces--pale brows and quivering lips,
      All flickering like the tropic sea in the green light of eclipse;
      And the multitude waves to and fro, as in the tropic sea,
      After a tempest, heaves and falls the ground-swell sleeplessly.

      Now, by my faith! goodly sight you mansion fast asleep--
      Those winking lamps beside the gate a dull watch seem to keep--
      But a gay awaking waits them, when the crash of blazing beam,
      And the Fireman's stern réveille, shall mingle with their dream!

      And sound as sleeps that mansion, ye may mark in every chink
      A gleam, as in the lava-cracks by the volcano's brink;
      Through key-hole and through window-slit, a white and sullen glow--
      And all above is rolling smoke, and all is dark below.

      Hark! hear ye not that murmur, that hush and hollow roar,
      As when to the south-wester bow the pines upon the shore;
      And that low crackling intermix'd, like wither'd twig that breaks,
      When in the midnight greenwood the startled squirrel wakes!

      Lo, how the fire comes roaring on, like a host in war array!
      Nor lacks it gallant music to cheer it on its way,
      Nor flap of flame-tongued banner, like the Oriflamme of old,
      Its vanward cohorts heralding, in crimson, green, and gold.

      The engines now are ranged a-row--hark, how they sob and pant!
      How gallantly the water-jets curve soaringly aslant!
      Up spins the stream--it meets the flame--it bursts in fleecy rain,
      Like the last spout of the dying whale, when the lance is in
          his brain.

      Ha, ha! from yon high window thrill'd the wild shriek of despair,
      And gibbering phantoms seem to dance within the ruddy glare;
      And as a valiant captain leads his boarders to the fray,
      "Up, up, my sons!" our foreman shouts--"up firemen, and away!"

      Their arms are strong and sinewy--see how the splinters fly--
      Their axes they are sharp and good--"Back, comrades! or ye die--
      Look to the walls!"--a rending crash--they topple--down they come--
      A cloud of sparks--a feeble cheer--again!--and all is dumb.

      A pause--as on that battle-day, 'twixt France and England's might,
      When huge L'Orient blew up at once, in the hottest of the fight:
      There was not one, they say, but wink'd, and held his breath
          the while,
      Though brave were they that fought that day with Nelson at the Nile.

      And by to-morrow's sunrise, amid the steaming stones,
      A chain of gold half-melted, and a few small white bones,
      And a few rags of roasted flesh, alone shall show where died--
      The noble and the beautiful, the baby and the bride!

      O fire, he is a noble thing!--the sot's pipe gives him birth;
      Or from the livid thunder-cloud he leaps alive on earth;
      Or in the western wilderness devouring silently;
      Or on the lava rocking in the womb of Stromboli.

      Right well in Hamburg revell'd he--though Elbe ran rolling by--
      He could have drain'd--so fierce his thirst--the mighty river dry!
      With silk, and gold, and diamond, he cramm'd his hungry maw;
      And he tamed the wild republicans, who knew nor lord nor law!

      He feasted well in Moscow--in the city of the Tsar--
      When 'fore the northern streamers paled Napoleon's lurid star:
      Around the hoary Kremlin, where Moscow once had stood,
      He pass'd, and left a heap behind, of ashes slaked in blood!

      He feasted once in London--he feasted best of all--
      When through the close-packed city, he swept from wall to wall:
      Even as of old the wrath of God came down in fiery rain,
      On Sodom and Gomorrha, on the Cities of the Plain!

       *       *       *       *       *

POSITION AND PROSPECTS OF THE GOVERNMENT.

A recruited revenue; reviving trade and commerce; reduction in the price of provisions; the
triumphant termination of hostilities in all parts of the world, with its great immediate prospective
advantages: a general feeling of confidence, arising from the steady administration of public
affairs, in spite of persevering and atrocious efforts to excite dissatisfaction and alarm;
nay, even the stern repose prevailing in Ireland, preserved though it be, for a while, under
cover of artillery, and at the bayonet's point, but affording a precious respite from agitation,
and a foretaste of the blessings that may be expected from its permanent suppression: all these
circumstances unequivocally attest the existence of a powerful Government acting upon a comprehensive
and enduring policy, which is becoming daily better appreciated by the strong good sense which
ever distinguishes the British character, when a fair opportunity is afforded for its exercise.

Upwards of two years have now elapsed since the accession of the present Government to power,
at a period of universally admitted difficulty and danger. We have been, during this critical
interval, dispassionate and independent observers of Ministers, and their conduct of public
affairs, anxious to see whether they were really equal to the occasion, and worthy of the confidence
of the Sovereign and the country. We are ourselves satisfied, and undertake to demonstrate
to our readers, that this question must be answered in the affirmative. We say all this advisedly,
and with no disposition to deny the existence of difficulties, which, if serious to the present,
would be absolutely insuperable to any other Government. During the interval in question, Ministers
have triumphed over more formidable difficulties than any which they have at present to encounter.
That, also, we say advisedly--cheerfully, confidently--with Ireland before our eyes, and the
din of the audacious and virulent Anti-corn-law League in our ears.

Passing these topics for the present, let us proceed to examine carefully the real position
of Sir Robert Peel and his Government, with a view to ascertaining its prospects of a continuance
in power. This enquiry cannot be successfully conducted, without referring for a moment to
the immense changes in principles and parties effected by the Reform Bill in 1832--a period
of quite as great a revolution as that of 1688. The Tory party it nearly annihilated!--The
first Reform Parliament consisting of only 187 Tories to 471 Whigs and Radicals--the former
being thus in the fearful minority of 284. We recollect sharing in the despondency, and even
despair, which paralysed our party. There was, however, one signal exception in the person
of Sir Robert Peel, whose conduct on that occasion entitles him to the eternal gratitude of
every man pretending to the character of a Conservative, nay, of every true lover of his country
and its institutions. With surprising energy, calmness, and foresight, he instantly addressed
himself to the formation, even under those inauspicious and disheartening circumstances, of
that great CONSERVATIVE party of which he is now the acknowledged head. In 1841, just before
the general election, he thus reminded that party, and apprized the country at large of the
principle on which he had acted in 1832. We beg our readers to ponder his words, and the period
when he uttered them.

    "I then foresaw the good that might result from laying the
    foundation of a great Conservative party in the state,
    attached to the fundamental institutions of the country--not
    opposed to any rational change in it which the lapse of years,
    or the altered circumstances of society might require, but
    determined to maintain, on their ancient footing and
    foundation, our great institutions in church and state. In
    order to form that party, however, it was necessary, in the
    first instance, to widen the foundation on which it should
    stand: to call into our connexion men from whom we had been
    separated in consequence of differences which no longer
    existed. My grand object was to build up that great party
    which has been gradually acquiring strength in this
    country--which has been gradually widening the foundation on
    which it stands, and which has drawn, from time to time, its
    support from its opponents."[11]

    [11] Speech to the Tamworth Electors on 28th June 1841,
    (Painter, Strand.)

The shortest and best evidence of the success which has attended the unwearied exertions of
Sir Robert Peel during the ensuing then years, is afforded by the following summary of the
results of the four general elections since the passing of the Reform Bill; three of them under
the auspices and with the unscrupulously exercised patronage of the Reform Government. Observe
the ascending and descending scales:--

           C.   L.
          187  471  (1832)
          275  383  (1835)
          314  344  (1837)
          373  283  (1841)

Who was it but its founder, that led the Conservative party through these successive stages
of triumph? Who did so much as he to effect that gradual but decisive change in public opinion
which, in 1841, routed the Liberal Ministry in spite of their extraordinary exertions and advantages,
and placed a Conservative Government at the head of affairs? To enable us to appreciate the
importance of that great victory, and also the decision of character evinced on that occasion
by Sir Robert Peel, let us for a moment advert to the calm self-reliance with which, amidst
the breathless apprehensions and misgivings of his whole party, he gave battle to the enemy--proposed
the memorable vote of want of confidence, and carried it by a majority of one.[12] A more critical
move never was followed by more signal success; every ensuing event serving to show, that so
far from his movements having been impelled by rash and desperate party speculations, they
had been based upon a profound and accurate knowledge of his resources, and of the state of
feeling and opinion in the country. "I gave the Government every advantage," said he, "to make
their appeal to the country. They boast of the confidence of the crown--they have every means
at their disposal which official influence can command to exert in their own behalf. An appeal
has been made by them from the House of Commons to you, and it is for the country to decide
the question at issue. They have made an appeal to public feeling on account of cheap sugar
and cheap bread. My firm belief is, that the people of this country have not at all responded
to that cry." How well-founded was that "firm belief," was proved by the glorious result:--the
"people of this country did" not "respond to that cry"--they rejected--they repudiated it,
and they would do so again if another such appeal were made to them to-morrow.

    [12] Ayes, 312; Noes, 311--4th June 1841.

Let us now proceed to show what pretence there is for the injurious insinuations and assertions
of Sir Robert Peel's traducers--whether treacherous friends or open enemies--that, in order
to obtain power, he hung out false colours to the nation; that his declarations before the
general election have been disregarded and falsified by his acts on attaining office. We will
for ever demolish all such calumnies and false pretences by going, step by step, through a
document which we made a point of procuring at the time, and preserving hitherto, and to which
we have since frequently referred, on hearing uttered the slanderous charges to which we allude.
That document is a copy of the speech which Sir Robert Peel, on the 28th June 1841, addressed
formally to his constituents, but virtually, of course, to the whole nation.

One of his earliest declarations was the following:--"Gentlemen, I have ever professed moderate
opinions on politics. The principles I professed, and adhered to, I shall adhere to during
my public life, whether in opposition or in power, are, I believe, in perfect conformity with
the prevailing good sense, the moderation, and the intelligence of the great body of the people
of England." This was a sufficiently distinct notice to all men, especially to those of extreme
opinions, whether Tory, Liberal, or Radical, of the course of action which was to be looked
for from the expectant Prime Minister.

Then, first, he proceeded to admit the existence of manufacturing distress.

"I admit and deplore it, but I do not despair. I have seen distress in manufactures and in
commerce before now. I think the causes of the present distress are but temporary--that the
cloud will soon blow over--and that the great foundations of manufacturing prosperity are not
affected; and I hope I shall very shortly see the day when our manufactures will once more
revive, and when we shall again fill the place we have always occupied--that of producers for
the markets of the world."

Now for its cause.

"Now let us consider the important question, as to how far the distress in the manufactures
and commerce of the country is fairly attributable to the corn-laws." He proceeded to show,
from Lord Palmerston's official statement in Parliament on the 22d July 1840, that, between
the years 1830 and 1839, the exports had risen from the value of L.38,000,000 to L.53,000,000,
and the imports from L.46,000,000 to L.62,000,000, "a clear proof that, notwithstanding the
local and temporary checks which our commerce had experienced, on the whole it had gone on
steadily improving, and that between the two periods it had increased not much less than from
two to three."

He then took the shipping and navigation of the country for the preceding three years; and
in looking at them, I cannot help thinking that, if there was any thing like an absolute decrease
in trade and commerce, there would also be a decrease in the shipping of the country. "Well,"
said Sir Robert Peel, "What do I find?" The returns "showed an increase, presented within the
last three years, from 4,000,000 tons to 4,780,000 tons." Now mark--"during the whole of this
period the corn-laws were in operation; how then can they be fairly or honestly assigned as
the cause of the present manufacturing and commercial distress?"

But if the corn-laws were not, what was the cause?

"I see causes enough in the world, as well as in this country, why there should be manufacturing
and commercial distress at the present moment, irrespective and totally independent of the
corn-laws."

These were--

1st, "I do fear that, in the north of England, an undue stimulus has been given to manufacturing
industry by the accommodation system pursued by the joint-stock banks. I think the connexion
of the manufacturer with the joint-stock banks gave an undue and an improper impulse to trade
in that quarter of the county; and I think that, in consequence of this, there have been more
manufactures produced within the last two years than were necessary to supply the demand for them."

2ndly, "Look to the state of some of the foreign countries, which took, at one time, the greatest
quantity of our manufactures;" South America, its ports strictly blockaded by France; the United
States of North America, "in a state of nascent hostility," and also labouring under "a distress
similar to our own, and arising from similar causes. The facility of accommodation afforded
by certain banks there gave an undue stimulus to industry; this produced extravagant speculations;
many persons failed in consequence, and trade necessarily then came to a stand-still." Canada--the
peninsula, France, the great Kingdoms of the middle and north of Europe--Syria, Egypt, China,
had been, and were, in such a state, as occasioned all interruption of our trade thither; "a
stoppage in the demand for manufactured goods, and a correspondent depression in commerce."
"When you put all these things together, all causes, mind you, affecting the market for your
goods, and then combine them with the two or three defective harvests we have had of late,
I ask you to answer me the question, Whether or not they have been sufficient to account for
the depression of manufacturing industry."

Then came Sir Robert Peel to the two grand and suddenly discovered panaceas of the late Government,
for recruiting the exhausted revenue, and relieving the general distress--viz. "cheap sugar,"
and "cheap bread."

1st, As to foreign sugar:--

"I clearly and freely admit that those restrictions which cannot be justified should be removed,
and that the commerce of the country should be perfectly free, whenever it can possibly be
so; but I consider the article of sugar to be wholly exempt from the principle of free trade."
* * * "The question now is this--whether, after the sacrifices which this country has made
for the suppression of the slave trade and the abolition of slavery, and the glorious results
that have ensued, and are likely to ensue, from these sacrifices--whether we shall run the
risk of losing the benefit of those sacrifices, and tarnishing for ever that glory, by admitting
to the British market sugar the produce of foreign slavery." * * * "If you admit it, it will
come from Brazil and Cuba. In Brazil, the slave-trade exists in full force; in Cuba, it is
unmitigated in its extent and horrors. The sugar of Cuba is the finest in the world; but in
Cuba, slavery is unparalleled in its horrors. I do not at all overstate the fact, when I say,
that 50,000 slaves are annually landed in Cuba. That is the yearly importation into the island;
but, when you take into consideration the vast numbers that perish before they leave their
own coasts, the still greater number that die amidst the horrors of the middle passage, and
the number that are lost at sea, you will come to the inevitable conclusion, that the number
landed in Cuba--50,000 annually--is but a slight indication of the number shipped in Africa,
or of the miseries and destruction that have taken place among them during their transport
thither. If you open the markets of England to the sugar of Cuba, you may depend on it that
you give a great stimulus to slavery, and the slave-trade." Sir Robert Peel then pointed out
peculiar and decisive distinctions between the case of sugar, and that of cotton, tobacco,
and coffee; that, though all of them were the produce of slave labour--First, we cannot now
reject the cotton of the United States, without endangering to the last degree the manufacturing
prosperity of the kingdom. Secondly, of all the descriptions of slave produce, sugar is the
most cruelly destructive of human life--the proportion of deaths in a sugar plantation being
infinitely greater than on those of cotton or coffee. Thirdly, slave grown sugar has never
been admitted to consumption in this country.[13] He also assigned two great co-operating reasons
for rejecting slave-grown sugar:--"That the people of England required the great experiment
of emancipation to be fairly tried; and they would not think it fairly tried, if, at this moment,
when the colonies were struggling with such difficulties, we were to open the floodgates of
a foreign supply, and inundate the British market with sugar, the produce of slave-labour;"
adopting the very words of the Whig Vice-President of the Board of Trade, Mr Labouchere, on
the 25th June 1840. The other reason was, "that our immense possessions in the East Indies
give us the means, and afford us every facility, for acquiring sugar, the produce of free labour,
to an illimitable extent."

    [13] The following striking passage from the writings of the
    celebrated Dr Channing of America, was quoted by Sir Robert
    Peel in the speech under consideration. "Great Britain, loaded
    with an unprecedented debt, and with a grinding taxation,
    contracted a new debt of a hundred millions of dollars, to
    give freedom, not to Englishmen, but to the degraded African.
    I know not that history records an act so disinterested, so
    sublime. In the progress of ages, England's naval triumphs
    will shrink into a more and more narrow space in the records
    of our race--this moral triumph will fill a broader--brighter
    page." "Take care!" emphatically added Sir Robert Peel, "that
    this brighter page be not sullied by the admission of slave
    sugar into the consumption of this country--by our
    encouragement--and, too, our unnecessary encouragement of
    slavery and the slave-trade!"--Noble sentiments!

So much for foreign sugar. Now for--

II. FOREIGN CORN; and we beg the special attention of all parties to this portion of the manifesto
of Sir Robert Peel:--

"Look at the capital invested in land and agriculture in this country--look at the interests
involved in it--look at the arrangement that has been come to for the commutation of tithes--look
at your importation of corn diminishing for the last ten years--consider the burdens on the
land peculiar to this country[14]--take all these circumstances into consideration, and then
you will agree with Mr McCulloch, the great advocate of a change in the Corn-law, that 'considering
the vast importance of agriculture, nearly half the population of the empire are directly or
indirectly dependent on it for employment and the means of subsistence; a prudent statesman
would pause before he gave his sanction to any measure however sound in principle, or beneficial
to the mercantile and manufacturing classes, that might endanger the prosperity of agriculture,
or check the rapid spread of improvement.'"[15]

    [14] "We believe," says Mr McCulloch himself in another part
    of the pamphlet, (Longman & Co., 1841, p. 23--6th Edit.) from
    which Sir Robert Peel is quoting, "that land is more heavily
    taxed than any other species of property in the country--and
    that its owners are clearly entitled to insist that a duty
    should be laid on foreign corn when imported, sufficient fully
    to countervail the excess of burdens laid upon the land."

    [15] Speech, pp. 9, 10.

Now for the "Sliding Scale."

"I just here repeat the opinion which I have declared here before, and also in the House of
Commons, that I cannot consent to substitute a fixed duty of 8s. a-quarter on foreign corn,
for the present ascending and descending scale of duties. I prefer the principle of the ascending
and descending scale, to such an amount of fixed duty. And when I look at the burdens to which
the land of this country is subject, I do not consider the fixed duty of 8s. a-quarter on corn
from Poland, and Prussia, and Russia, where no such burdens exist, a sufficient protection
for it."[16]

    [16] Do. p. 8.

Again--

"If you disturb agriculture, and divert the employment of capital from the land, you may not
increase your foreign trade--for that is a thing to dwell under existing circumstances--but
will assuredly reduce the home trade, by reducing the means to meet the demand, and thus permanently
injure yourselves also."[17]

    [17] Do. p. 13.

Again--

"I have come to the conclusion, that the existing system of an ascending and descending scale
of duties, should not be altered: and that, moreover, we should as much as possible make ourselves
independent of a foreign supply--and not disturb the principle of the existing corn-laws--of
these corn-laws, which, when you have an abundance of your own, exclude altogether the foreign
supply--and when the price rises in this country, freely admits it."[18]

    [18] Speech, p. 15.

Again--he quoted the following remarkable language of Lord Melbourne on the 11th June 1840--

"Whether the object be to have a fixed duty, or an alteration as to the ascending and descending
scale, I see clearly and distinctly, that that object will not be carried without a most violent
struggle--without causing much ill-blood, and a deep sense of grievance--without stirring society
to its foundations, and leaving behind every sort of bitterness and animosity. I do not think
the advantages to be gained by the change are worth the evils of the struggle."[19]

    [19] Do. p. 18.

And Sir Robert Peel concluded the foregoing summary of his views, on the great questions then
proposed to the country for its decision, in the following words:--

"I ask your free suffrages, with this frank and explicit declaration of my opinions."[20]

    [20] Do. p. 18.

On this, there occur to us three questions--

(1st.) Was this, or was it not, a frank and explicit declaration of his opinions? And, (2d.)
Did it, or did it not, as tested by the result of the general election, completely satisfy
the country? (3d.) In what respect has the subsequent conduct of Sir Robert Peel been inconsistent
with these declarations? And we echo the stern enquiry of the Duke of Wellington, for "the
when, the where, and the how," "of Sir Robert Peel's deceiving his supporters or the country"--and
"pause for a reply." Failing to receive any--for none can be given, except in the negative--we
shall proceed to condense the substance of this memorable manifesto into a few words; offer
some general observations designed to assist in forming a correct judgment upon the topics
discussed in the ensuing pages; and then give as fair an outline as we know how to present,
of the "DOINGS" of Sir Robert Peel and his Government, by way of comment upon, and illustration
of his previous and preparatory "SAYINGS."

What, then, was the substance of Sir Robert Peel's declaration, on presenting himself before
the country as a candidate for the office which he fills? He avowed himself a man of moderate
political opinions; recognized the existence of manufacturing and commercial distress, but
referred it to causes of only a temporary nature, unconnected with the corn-laws; repudiated
the empirical expedients proposed by the late ministry; and pledged himself to maintain the
principle of protection to our agricultural interests; declaring his deliberate preference
of a sliding scale of duties, to a fixed duty, upon foreign corn.

