THE

ATLANTIC MONTHLY.

A MAGAZINE OF LITERATURE, ART, AND POLITICS.

VOL. XIV.--NOVEMBER, 1864.--NO. LXXXV.

LEAVES FROM AN OFFICER'S JOURNAL.

I.

[I wish to record, as truthfully as I may, the beginnings of a momentous experiment, which,
by proving the aptitude of the freed slaves for military drill and discipline, their ardent
loyalty, their courage under fire, and their self-control in success, contributed somewhat
towards solving the problem of the war, and towards remoulding the destinies of two races on
this continent.

During a civil war events succeed each other so rapidly that these earlier incidents are long
since overshadowed. The colored soldiery are now numbered no longer by hundreds, but by tens
of thousands. Yet there was a period when the whole enterprise seemed the most daring of innovations,
and during those months the demeanor of this particular regiment, the First South Carolina,
was watched with microscopic scrutiny by friends and foes. Its officers had reason to know
this, since the slightest camp-incidents sometimes came back to them, magnified and distorted,
in anxious letters of inquiry from remote parts of the Union.

It is possible, therefore, that some extracts from a diary kept during that period may still
have an interest; for there is nothing in human history so momentous as the transit of a race
from chattel-slavery to armed freedom; nor can this change be photographed save by the actual
contemporaneous words of those who saw it in the process.

RICHES.

    Pluck color from the morning sky,
      And wear it as thy diadem;
    Nor pass the wayside flowers by,
        But star thy robes with them.

    Far in the temple of the sun
      The vestal fires of being burn;
    Thence beauty's finest fibres run,
        And weave where'er we turn.

    Thy plumes are in the yellow corn,--
      But chief the gold of priceless days
    In bosom of thy friend is borne,
        Coined in his kindly rays.

    Here lies thy wealth, go gather it,--
      The mine is near, its deeps explore,
    And freely give love, metal, wit,--
        Thine is the exhaustless ore:

    Thine are the precious stones whereon
      The weary pass grief's flooded ford,
    And thine the jewelled pavement won
        By those who love the Lord.

THE VENGEANCE OF DOMINIC DE GOURGUES. The sparks fell among gunpowder. Thence, on an afternoon
in April, the Spaniards saw three sail steering northward. Gourgues was about to speak, when
the chief, who, says the narrator, had not learned French manners, rose and anticipated him.
He broke into a vehement harangue; and the cruelty of the Spaniards was the burden of his words.
Their ceremonies began. But the tide was in. They essayed to cross in vain. At length the tide
was out,--so far, at least, that the stream was fordable. Under cover of the trees Gourgues
set them in array. From shore to shore, the St. John's was alive with them. We had nothing
but our right; and yet we have conquered. What caused his death?

Civilization in North America found its pioneer, its forlorn hope, less in England than in France.

LINA.

The evenings were always dull and long to those of us who were too far from home to make it
worth while to leave the school for the eight weeks of holiday. It was dreary indeed sitting
in the great school-room, with its long rows of empty desks, with nothing before one to break
the monotony of the four walls but the great map of France and the big dusty cross with its
dingy wreath of immortelles. It is true, we did not bewail the absence of our companions. In
fact, it was with a tranquil sense of security that I began my work every morning in vacation,
knowing that I should find all my books in my desk, and my pens and pencils undisturbed; for
among the pensionnaires there existed a strong tendency to communistic principles. Still, when
all the noisy crew had departed, the house seemed lonely, the dining-room with its three bare
tables looked desolate, and an unnatural stillness reigned in the shady pathways of the garden.
You might wander from room to room, and up and down the stairs, and to and fro in the long
passages, and meet no one. Fräulein Christine was with her "Liebes Mütterchen" in Strasburg,
and Mademoiselle had left her weary post in the middle of the school-room for her quiet village-home
in Normandy. Madame herself remained almost entirely invisible, shut up in the sanctity of
her own rooms; and so the whole house had a sense of stillness that seemed only heightened
by the glory of the autumn sunshine, and the hum of bees and rustle of leaves that filled the
air outside.

The house was old; it had been a grand mansion once, before the days of the Revolution, and
had probably been the residence of some of the stiff old worthies whose portraits hung in dreary
dignity in the disused dusty galleries of the château, which now, turned into a citadelle,
stood upon a high point of the cliffs commanding the town. The term rambling might well be
applied to this house, for in its eccentric construction it seemed to have wandered at will
half-way up the hill-side on which it was built. It had wings and abutments, and flights of
stone steps leading from one part to another. There was "la grande maison de Madame," "la maison
du jardin," and "la maison de Monsieur." This last, half hidden in trees, was terra incognita
to the girls; but often in an evening, after we had seen him wending his way across the garden
with his lantern from la grande maison, where he had been spending the evening with Madame,
did we hear Monsieur playing on his organ glorious "bits" of Cherubini and Bach.

We were conscious that this odd little man carried on a system of espionage through the half-closed
slats of his shutters, the effects of which we were continually made to feel; this, and the
mystery that enveloped his small abode, where he worked all day among his bottles and retorts,
made Monsieur appear somewhat of an ogre in our eyes. There was always a sense of freedom in
the upper garden, which was out of the range of his windows, and where he never came. That
pleasant upper garden, what a paradise it was, with its long sunny walks within the shelter
of high walls! The trim stateliness of the ancient splendor had run to luxuriant disorder,
and thick tangles of rare roses swung abroad their boughs above great beds of lilies-of-the-valley
and periwinkle which had overrun their borders and crept into the walks.

During the vacation, we who stayed had the privilege of going into the upper garden. Obtaining
the key from Justine, we would wander first along the shady pathways of the lower garden, past
the flower-beds where the girls during recess-times worked and gossiped and quarrelled,--their
quick French tongues reminding one of a colony of sparrows,--then, turning the stubborn lock
of the heavy door that opened on the flight of mossy steps, we came into that region of stillness
and delight, the upper garden.

Oh, the pleasant autumn afternoons spent sitting together on the mossy walk between the box-hedges,
the hum of bees and the scent of roses filling the air, and the sweet monotonous murmur of
the sea on the shingly beach in our ears! For, mounting still higher by terraces and another
flight of steps through a tumble-down gateway, you came upon the open cliffs; and the long
blue line of the sea and the fresh sea-breeze greeted you with a thousand thoughts of home.
For England lay beyond the trembling blue line.

I remember it was one of these autumn afternoons, that, coming down from practising, with my
music-books under my arm, I met Justine, the genius of the ménage, cook and housekeeper in
one, a shrewd woman, who had three objects in life,--to manage les bêtes, as she condescendingly
termed the other servants, to please Madame, whom she adored, and to go to church every Sunday
and grande fête. Justine was coming in from the garden, with a basket on her arm, in which
lay two pigeons that she had just killed. On her fingers she twirled the gory scissors with
which she had performed the deed.

"Good day, Justine! How is Madame?"

"Madame is well, thank you, Mademoiselle,--a little headache, that is all,--that comes of so
much learning and writing at night. Mais voilà une femme superbe! I go to make her a little
dinner of these," pointing to the pigeons.

"Justine, ma bonne, won't you give us the key this afternoon?"

Justine stops suddenly and clasps her fat hands emphatically over the lid of her basket.

"I had almost forgotten, Mademoiselle. Madame desired me to tell the demoiselles that she comes
down this evening to sit in the cabinet de musique."

I was delighted with this piece of intelligence, and ran to tell the others. It was not often
that Madame deigned to come down-stairs of an evening, and were always glad when she did. In
the first place, it was a pleasant break in the monotony of the general routine to sit and
work and draw, instead of studying in the empty school-room; and secondly, it was delightful
to be with Madame, when she threw off the character of preceptress,--for at such times she
was infinitely agreeable, entertaining us in her bright French manner as if we had been her guests.

Madame had a way of charming all who approached her, from Adelaide Sloper's rich, vulgar father,
who, when he came to see his daughter, was entertained by Madame au salon, and who was overheard
to declare, as he got into his grand carriage, that "that Frenchwoman was the finest woman,
by Jove, he'd ever seen!" to the tiny witch Élise, whom nobody could manage, but who, at the
first rustle of Madame's gown, would cease from her mischief, fold her small hands, and, sinking
her bead-like black eyes, look as demure as such a sprite could. We all adored Madame,--not
that she herself was very good, though she was pious in her way, too. She fasted and went regularly
to confession and to all the offices, and sometimes at the passing of the Host I have seen
her kneeling in the dusty street in a new dress, and I don't know what more you could expect
from a Frenchwoman.

Then she was so pretty, and there was a nameless grace in her attitude. She seemed to me so
beautiful, as she stood at her desk, with one hand resting on her open book, tall, with something
almost imperious in her figure, her head bent, but her deep, lovely gray eyes looking quietly
before her and seeming to take in at once the whole school-room with an expression of keen
intelligence. She was highly cultivated, and had read widely in many languages; but she wore
her learning as gracefully as a bird does its lovely plumage.

There was a latent desire for sway in her character. She delighted in the homage of those about
her, and seldom failed to win it from any one with whom she came in contact. Mademoiselle,
who did all the hard work of the teaching, and was only half paid for it, wore out her strength
and energy and youth day by day at her desk in the middle of the school-room, and thought Madame
the perfection of women; and her sallow, thin face would flush with pleasure, if Madame gave
her a look or one of her soft smiles in passing.

At half-past seven that evening we were seated round the table with our work, awaiting the
entrance of Madame. Presently she glided in, holding in her arms a bureau-drawer filled with
piles of letters.

"I propose to tell you a story, mes chères," she said, as she seated herself and folded her
white hands over one of the thick bundles that she had taken from the drawer.

"You have all heard me speak of Lina Dale, my English governess before I had Mary Gibson. Mary
Gibson is an excellent girl, but she has not the talent that Lina had. Lina's father was a
Captain Dale, a half-pay officer, whom I had once seen on business about a pupil of mine who
had crossed the Channel under his care. A surly, morose man he appeared to me, rough towards
his wife, a meek, worn-out looking old lady, who spoke with a hesitating, apologetic manner
and a nervous movement of the head,--a habit I thought she must have contracted from a constant
fear of being pounced upon, as you say, by her husband. I always pitied her de tout mon coeur,
but she possessed neither tact nor intellect, and was très ennuyeuse.

"It was one cold day in winter that Justine told me there was a demoiselle au salon who wished
to see me. I found standing by the table a young lady,--a figure that would strike you at once.
She turned as I entered the room, and her manner was dignified and self-possessed. She was
not pretty, but her face was a remarkable one: thick dark hair above a low forehead, the eyelids
somewhat too drooping over the singular dark eyes, that looked out beneath them with an expression
of concentrated thought. 'That girl is like Charlotte Corday,' I said to Monsieur afterwards:
'it is a character of great energy and enthusiasm, frozen by the hardness and uncongeniality
of her fate.' For in this interview she told me that she sought a situation in my school, and
that she felt confidence in offering herself,--that the state of her father's affairs did not
render this step necessary, but that circumstances of which she would not speak made her home
unhappy and most unattractive to her. All this she said in a calm and perfectly unexcited manner,
as if relating the details of a matter of business. For a moment I trembled lest she had come
to make me her confidante in a family-quarrel; but I was soon relieved from this apprehension,
for, after she had stated the fact, she referred to it no more, but went on to speak upon general
subjects, which she did with great intelligence. Her good sense impressed me so much that before
she left the house I had engaged her.

"A few days afterwards she was established here, and had adapted herself to all our modes of
life in a way that astonished me. She went about all her duties quietly, and with the greatest
order and precision. Her classes were the most orderly in the school, and in a short time her
authority was acknowledged by all the girls. There were few who did not admire her, and not
one who dared to set her at defiance. By degrees her quiet, unobtrusive industry won upon my
confidence; I felt glad to show by charges of responsibility my regard for a person of so sound
a judgment and so reserved a temper, and very soon I had given over to her care the supervision
of English books for the girls' reading, the posting and receiving from the post-office of
all the English letters, both my own and those of the English girls in the pension. During
the two years and a half of her stay here, these duties were fulfilled by Lina with unremitting
care and punctuality.

"About this time I had commenced a correspondence, through Lina, with a Mrs. E. Baxter, of
Bristol, in England, who had, it seemed, known Lina for many years, and who, understanding,
as she mysteriously hinted, how unhappy her home must be, begged her to come and live with
her and undertake for a time the education of her little girl, a child of ten. Here are her
letters; this is one of the first: you see how warmly, how affectionately, she speaks of Lina,
and how delicately she made this proposal, 'so that dear Lina's sensitive, proud nature might
not be able to imagine itself wounded.'

"As Mrs. Baxter offered her a much larger salary than I gave her, I told Lina that I thought
she ought to accept the offer of her friend. She quietly and firmly declined.

"'Miss Dale,' I said, 'you must not stand in the way of your own good out of any sense of obligation
to me. I cannot allow you to do so.'

"'I do not do so, Madame La P----re,' she answered. 'I prefer to stay with you to going even
to Mrs. Baxter's, whom I love sincerely. She is an excellent and most faithful friend, but
I am better and safer here with you.'

"She looked steadily at me as she began the sentence, but dropped her eyes suddenly as she
said the last words.

"'Lina,' I said, (it was in the evening, as I was leaving the class-room, and all the élèves
had already gone,) 'carry me up some of these books to my room,--I have more than usual to-night';
for I saw there was something hidden behind this reserved manner, and felt interested.

"She took the books, and followed me. As she laid them down and arranged them in order on the
table, I closed the door and said,--

"'Miss Dale, you have not looked very well lately, I think; I have several times intended to
tell you, that, if you would like to go home some Saturday and spend the Sunday with your parents,
you can do so.' (Her family was then living at Kenneville, a village about twelve miles from
here.) 'I have noticed that you have never asked permission to do this, and thought you might
be waiting till I mentioned it myself.'

"She started as I said the word 'home.'

"'No, no,' she said, almost vehemently, 'I cannot go home, I do not wish to'; and then she
continued, in her usually cold, quiet manner,--'You remember, perhaps, Madame, that I am not
happily circumstanced at home.'

"She pondered a moment, and then said, as if she had made up her mind about something,--

"'After all, I may as well tell you, Madame, all about it, as by doing so some things in my
conduct that may have seemed strange to you will be cleared up,--that is, if you choose to hear?'

"'Certainly, ma chère,' I replied. 'I should be glad to hear all you have to tell me. Sit down
here.'

"She still remained standing, however, before me, her eyelids drooping,--not shyly, for her
eyes had a steady, abstracted expression, as if she were arranging her facts in systematic
order so as to tell me her story in her usual clear, business-like manner.

"'You know, Madame, my father is guardian to two brothers, the sons of an old army-friend of
his, who died in India when his two sons were quite boys, leaving his cousin, Colonel Lucas,
together with my father, joint guardians of his children. The boys, during school or college
vacations, spent the time partly at our house and partly at the house of Colonel Lucas. They
both seemed like brothers to me. As time went on, Frank, the elder, began to spend all his
vacations with us; and when he left Oxford, and ought to have commenced his studies for the
bar, he continually put off the time of going up to London, where he was to enter the office
of a lawyer, and stayed on from week to week at home, to teach me German, as he said. I knew
he was rich, and that in three years he would come into the possession of a large fortune;
but I knew also how bad it was for a young man to have no profession; and when I saw my father
seemed indifferent on the subject, I used to urge Frank the more not to waste his time. But
he generally only laughed, though at times he would seem vexed at my earnestness, and would
ask me why I should wish him to do what he did not want to do; and then,--and then,--this was
one evening after we had been on the boat together all the afternoon, and were walking up home,--then,
Madame, he told me he loved me, that he would go to London, study law, or do anything I said,
if I would marry him. Oh, Madame, this was dreadful to me! I was stunned and bewildered. I
had never fancied such a thing possible; the very idea was unnatural. I had thought of Frank
as a boy always; now, in a moment, he was converted into a man, full of the determination of
a selfish purpose. I could not answer him composedly, and entreated him to leave me. He misinterpreted
my dismay, and went at once to my father. When I came in, that evening, having somewhat regained
my composure, though with a sick feeling of dread and bewilderment in my heart, my father met
me with unusual kindness, kissed me as he had not done for years, and led me towards Frank,
who was standing near my mother. She had been crying, I saw, and her face wore a strange expression
of anxiety and nervous joy as she looked at me. I turned away from Frank, and threw myself
down on the floor by my mother.

"'"Thank Heaven, Lina!" I heard her whisper; "God bless you, my child! you have saved me years
of bitterness."

"'I exclaimed,--"I cannot marry Frank,--I don't love him, mother,--don't try to make me!"

"'Ah, Madame, it was dreadful! I don't know how I bore it. My father stormed, and my mother
cried, and poured forth such entreaties and persuasions,--telling me I mistook my heart, and
that I should learn to love Frank, and about duty as a daughter to my father, and, oh, I don't
know what beside!--and Frank stood by, silent and pale, and with a look I had never seen before
of unrelenting, passionate, pitiless love.

"'Oh,' sighed Lina, 'it was hard, with no one to take my part! but the hardest was yet to come.

"'Days and weeks passed on, and I was miserable beyond what I can tell you. Nothing more was
said on the subject, however, except by Frank, who tortured me by alternate entreaties and
reproaches, and sometimes by occasional fits of thoughtfulness and kindness, in which he would
leave me to myself, only appealing to me by unobtrusive acts of courtesy and devotion, which
gave me more pain than either reproach or entreaty. But if it had not been for these days of
comparative calm and quiet, I should hardly have been able to bear what followed. As it was,
I had time to collect my strength and plan my line of conduct.

"'One night my father called me into his room. I saw by his manner that he was much excited.
My mother was there also; she looked alarmed, and glanced from my father to me anxiously and
inquiringly. You know mamma has very little strength of character, Madame. I could not hope
for help from her; so I called up all my resolution, knowing that some trial was before me.
I can hardly tell you what I heard then, Madame, it was such disgrace,' said Lina, raising
her eyes slowly and fixing them a moment on mine, while a sudden, curious, embarrassed expression
passed over her face, such as is accompanied in other persons by a painful flush, but which
left her face pale and cold, causing no change in color.

"'My father told me, Madame, that some unfortunate speculations which he had undertaken, and
in which he had used the fortune of Frank intrusted to his care, had failed, and that, when
Frank became four-and-twenty, at which time, according to his father's will, he was to enter
upon his property, his own wrong-doing would be discovered, and thence-forward he would be
at the mercy of his ward. Frank had, indeed, already learned how great a wrong had been done
him. My mother clung to me, weakly pouring forth laudations on the generosity of Frank, who,
through his affection for me, was willing to forgive all this injury. Was I not grateful? Why
did I not go to him and tell him that the devotion of my life would be a poor recompense for
such generosity? Oh, Madame, it was dreadful! I was not grateful at all; I hated him; and the
misery of having to decide thus the fate of my father was intolerable.'

"'But what did the young man himself say to all this, Lina?' I inquired; 'did he never speak
to you on the subject?'

"'Yes,' she replied; and after he had spoken quite bitterly against my father, (they never
liked each other,) he said, that, however he might feel towards him as his guardian, there
was nothing that he could not forget and forgive in the father of his wife,--which did not
make me respect him any more, you may be sure, and showed me that it was useless to appeal
to his generosity. My life now was miserable indeed.

"'About this time, my aunt in Scotland sent for me to pay her a visit. She was in failing health,
and wanted cheerful companionship, and I had always been a favorite with her as a child. She
lived alone with a couple of old servants in a small village far in the wilds of ----shire.
My father, of course, opposed my going, alleging, as his reason, the long journey (we were
then living in W----, in Shropshire) that I should have to take alone. To my astonishment,
Frank took my part, insisting on my being allowed to go. Whether it was that he thought that
when far away from home, in the seclusion of the Scotch village where my aunt lived, I should
think more kindly of him, or whether he wished to touch me by a show of magnanimity, I cannot
tell; but so it was, and I went.'

"Lina here paused a moment, thoughtfully.

"'But, Lina,' I said, 'if the young man was well educated, rich, and seemed only to have the
one fault of loving you so well, why would you not marry him? Ma chère,' I said, 'you throw
away your good fate. You see what a service it would be to your family. (I speak as your friend,
you comprehend.) You save your father; you make the young man happy; all could be arranged
so charmingly! I should like to see you married, ma chère; and then, your duty as a daughter!'

"'Oh, yes, yes! she cried; 'I would do, oh, anything almost, to shield my poor father and mother!
Perhaps once, once, I might; but it is too late now. I cannot marry Frank. Oh, Madame, it is
as impossible as if I were dead!'

"'This is a strange story, Lina,' I said. 'What do you mean? Tell me, my child, or I shall
think you crazy.'

"She laid her head on her hands, which were clasped on the top of the escritoire, and half
whispered,--

"'I am engaged,--I am married to some one else.'

"I sprang from my seat, and caught her hands.

"'You married, Lina? you? the quiet girl who has been teaching the children so well all these
months?'

"'Yes, Madame,' she said, with all her usual composure, 'and to a man I love with my whole
soul, with my whole life. The future may seem dim, but I have little fear when I remember I
am Arthur's wife, and that his love will be strong to help me whenever I relieve him of the
promise I have obliged him to make not to reveal our marriage. Frank will be three-and-twenty
in one year and a half from now; till then, he cannot, without great difficulty, harm my father,
and by that time I trust his fancy for me will have passed away, and he will be willing to
treat with my father about his property without personal feeling to aggravate his sense of
the wrong that has been done him. He is in the East now with Colonel Lucas, his other guardian,
who has not been without his suspicions of Frank's liking for me, and is not at all unwilling,
I think, to keep him out of the way for a while.'

"'Does no one know of this, Lina?' I asked, 'no one suspect it?'

"'Only two persons,' she replied,--'indeed, I may as well tell you at once, Madame,--beside
Mrs. Baxter and her husband, at whose house the ceremony took place. They were then staying
in the neighborhood of H----, a few miles from my aunt's house. It was at Mrs. Baxter's I first
met Arthur: he was a distant connection of hers. He and his Cousin Marmaduke had come up for
the shooting and fishing for a few weeks in the autumn. My aunt was a genial, bright old lady,
fond of the society of young people, spite of her ill health, and invited the young men frequently
to her house. In that way I saw a great deal of them both.'

"'Who was the gentleman, Lina? Had you seen him before this visit? But,' seeing she hesitated,
'if you do not wish to disclose more, say so frankly; what you have already told me I will
guard as a secret,--you need not fear.'

"'Oh, Madame,' interrupted Lina, suddenly throwing herself on the floor at my feet, 'it's not
that,--do not say that, dear Madame! It is a great comfort to me to tell you all this; sometimes
I feel so lonely when by any chance I do not get a letter from him the day I expect one.'

"Her voice faltered, and she leaned forward, burying her face in her hands; I saw her breast
shaken with weeping.

"'Tell me all, ma pauvre petite!' I said; 'tell me everything.'

"Then seeing she still continued weeping, I said, playfully,--

"'So you get letters from him, do you? I have never known this. You know, ma chérie, that that
is against the rules of my pension; but when people are married,--c'est une autre chose! But
how is it that I have never found this out? Ah, because you have charge of all the letters
to and from the post!'

"'Yes, Madame,' she said, looking up with a smile. 'I have sometimes felt so unhappy, because
I seemed to be doing a dishonest thing; but it would have been so hard to go without them,
and I knew how kind and good you were. If you would like to see one of his letters,' she continued,
half shyly, but with dignified gravity, 'I have one here'; and she drew a large letter from
her pocket and handed it to me.

"Here it is," said Madame, taking the first from the bundle in her hand.

The handwriting was firm and regular; the letter was long, but, though the whole breathed but
one feeling of the deepest and tenderest affection, it was hardly what would be called a "love-letter."
There were criticisms of new works, and further references to books of a kind that showed the
writer to be a man of scholarly tastes. After we had looked at this one, Madame handed us others
from the packet, all marked by the same characteristics as the first. Here and there were little
pictures of the writer's every-day life. He told of his being out on the moors at sunrise shooting
with his Cousin Marmaduke, or riding round the estate giving orders about the transplanting
of certain trees, "which are set as you have suggested, and are growing as fast as they can
till you come to walk under their shade," or in the library at evening, when the place beside
him seems so void where she should be. Then there were other letters, speaking of ---- ----,
the poet, who was coming down to spend a few weeks with him, and write verses under his elms
at Aylesford Grange; but in one and all Lina was the central idea round which all other interests
merely turned, and the source from which all else drew its charm.

"As soon," said Madame, continuing her narration, "as I had finished reading the letter, I
entreated Lina to go on with her curious history.

"'I met Arthur,' she said, 'first at Mrs. Baxter's, as I said before. He is the noblest man
I have ever known,--so good, so clever, so pure in heart! His Cousin Marmaduke, who was there
at the same time, paid me great attention, but I never liked him; there was always something
repulsive to me in his black eyes; I never trusted him; and beside Arthur,--oh, it seemed like
the contrast between night and day! I don't know why it was, Madame, but I never felt that
he loved Arthur really, though Arthur had done a great deal for him, got him his commission
in the army, and paid off some of his debts; but he never seemed as if he quite forgave Arthur
for standing in the way of his being the lord of the manor himself and possessor of Aylesford.
There are some mean-spirited people who are proud too. They can receive favors, while they
resent the obligation. He was of that kind, I think, and hated Arthur for his very generosity.

"'One evening, as I was walking up the shrubbery, I met Marmaduke. He had ridden over with
Arthur, as they often did, to spend the evening. He had caught sight of me, he said, as they
came up the avenue, and, under pretext of something being wrong with his horse's bridle, had
stopped, and let Arthur go on to the house alone. He had long waited for this opportunity of
speaking to me alone, he said, as I must have known. Then, amid the basest of vague insinuations
against Arthur, he dared to proffer me his odious love. Oh, Madame, I was angry! A woman cannot
bear feigned love,--it stings like hatred; still less can she bear to hear one she loves spoken
of as I had heard him speak of Arthur. I hardly know what I said, but it must have expressed
my feeling; for he tried to taunt me in return with being in love with Arthur and Aylesford.
I only smiled, and walked on. Then he sprang after me, and vowed I should not leave him so,--that
he loved me madly, spite of my scorn, spite of my foolish words. He knew well I did not love
Arthur, that I was ambitious only. So was he,--and so determined in his purpose, that he was
sure to succeed in it, spite of everything. "For there are few things," he added, "that can
stand against my settled will. Beware, then, how you cross it, sweet Lina!" I shook my cloak
loose from his hand, for his words sent a thrill of horror through me, and rushed on, speechless
with indignation, to the house. Two days after this I became engaged to Arthur. How happy we
were!' said Lina, a dreamy expression passing over her face at the retrospect.

"'I told Arthur everything about my home; but I did not tell him of my conversation with Marmaduke
in the shrubbery, because I could not bear to give him the pain which a discovery of his cousin's
baseness would have caused him. Marmaduke, I perceived, knew that I had not betrayed him; for
one night, as I was sitting at the piano, he thanked me hastily, as he turned over the leaf
of my music-book, for a generous proof of confidence. I took no notice of these words, but
was conscious of a flush of indignation at the word confidence.

"'Arthur and I were always together; we read together, and talked over our past and future
lives. Nothing now troubled me. He took all the burden and anxiety of my life to himself, and
with his love added a sense of peace and security most exquisite to me.

"'I told him all the miserable story of Frank, and he listened gravely; but though it certainly
troubled him, it never seemed to daunt him for an instant. So gentle as he is, nothing ever
could shake him. I was so happy then, that I could not feel angry even with Marmaduke; and
as he seemed to be willing to forget the past, we became somewhat more friendly towards each
other. But if I ever happened to be alone with him, even for a moment, the recollection of
our talk in the shrubbery would come to my mind, and the old feeling of anger would spring
up again, the effort to suppress which was so painful that I always avoided being with him,
unless Arthur were by also.

"'One day there came a letter from my father,--and what its character was you may suppose,
when I tell you that it made me utterly forget my present happiness. At the end of the letter
he commanded me to return home immediately. It came one evening: I read and re-read its cruel
words till I could bear no more. I saw Arthur standing in the twilight below my window, and
went down and laid the letter silently in his hands. When he had finished reading it, he came
slowly towards me. I shall never forget his look as he took my hands in his and drew me to
him, looking into my face so earnestly. Then he said, in a low, grave voice, "Lina, do you
love me? Then we must be married at once,--do not be afraid,--perhaps to-night. I fear your
father may follow that letter very soon. You have suffered too much already. You have no one
but me to look to. Heaven knows I do not think alone of my own happiness."'

"Lina paused a moment. 'I yielded,' she said. 'I could have followed him blindly then anywhere!
So that evening, in the drawing-room, with Mr. and Mrs. Baxter and Marmaduke as witnesses,
we were married by a Scotch clergyman (there was no clergyman of our own Church within twenty
miles). The ceremony was very simple. As the last words were being pronounced, some one entered
the room hastily, and there was whispering and confusion for a moment or two, and when I rose
from my knees the first words that greeted me were the intelligence that my aunt was dangerously
ill, and had sent a special messenger for me. Late as it was, I prepared instantly to accompany
the man back to H----. I was stung with self-reproaches at the thought of my aunt lying, as
I fancied, dying without me near her, and peremptorily refused to allow Arthur to accompany
me on my long drive.

"'That was the last time I saw him. The next day he was called away on important business,
which admitted of no delay. I remained with my poor aunt till her death, which took place at
the end of that week, three days after my marriage. Then my parents came for me. My father's
manner was unusually kind; my poor mother's expressions of love went to my heart. Frank was
not at home, they said, but had gone up to London to prepare for his journey to the East. They
had determined to reside for a while in France, and they promised that he should not be informed
of my being with them, if I would consent to accompany them. I yielded to their solicitations,
parted with my true friend Mrs. Baxter, and crossed the Channel with them. At the end of three
weeks I discovered that my father had broken his word and informed Frank by letter of my being
with them. Then I fled to you, having heard of the position vacant in your pension. I have
tried to do my duty here, and to merit in some degree your kindness. With you I am happier
than I could be with any one but Arthur. Arthur has learned to love you too: will you read
this letter speaking of you?' drawing a letter from her pocket.

"This is it," said Madame, taking one from the pile, and pointing out the passage.

"I am weary of my life, sometimes, without you,--here, where you ought to be,--your home, Lina!
I wander through the rooms that I have prepared with such delight for you, and think of the
time when you will be here,--mistress of all!... When will you come, my wife? I think and dream
in this way till I am haunted by the ghost of the future. I get morbid, and fancy all kinds
of dangers that may happen to my darling, so far away from me; and then I am ready to go at
once to you and break down all barriers and bear you away.... I thank Heaven you have so good
a friend in 'Madame.' I long for the time to come when I may greet her as one of my best friends
for your sake. In the mean time, I have selected an Indian cabinet, the grotesque delicate
work of which would please your quaint fancy, which I trust she will accept, if you will join
me in the gift. I shall have an opportunity of sending it in a few weeks.... Mrs. Eldridge,
my dear old housekeeper, has just been in. She wishes to know whether the new curtains of the
little library are to be crimson or gray. She little knows what confusion she causes me! She
knows not that I am no longer master here! I tell her I will deliberate on the point, and she
retires mystified by my unusual indecision. So write quickly and make known your desires, if
you wish to save me from an imputation of becoming, as the good old-lady says, 'a little set
and bachelor-like in my ways.' Marmaduke and ---- come down next week to shoot.... You say,
wait till spring, when things will be more propitious for disclosing our marriage. I have also
another scheme which will be ripened by spring. I shall disclose our marriage, and propose
to your father to make him independent of his ward. No one, certainly, has a better right to
do this than his son-in-law; and then----But I hardly dare to think of the happiness that will
be mine when nothing but death can part us any more!"

"One evening about this time," continued Madame, "about a week after Lina had shown me this
letter, I came down into the cabinet de musique on my way to the garden to take my usual evening
walk on the terrace, and saw Lina standing by the piano with her bonnet on and her shawl laid
beside her. In her hand she held letters, one of which she had that moment unsealed. She had,
I knew, just returned from the post-office.

"'I have a letter here from Mrs. Baxter, Madame,' she said. 'She writes to me in great distress;
the two children, Minnie and Louisa, whom she was so anxious to send here, are both ill with
scarlet-fever. But here is your letter; she will no doubt tell you everything herself.'

"I took the letter and seated myself, and was soon absorbed in the poor mother's hurried and
almost incoherent relation, when suddenly I was startled by a gesture or sound from Lina that
made me look up hastily. She stood with the letter she had been reading crushed in her hand,
her face wearing an expression of agony. For a moment she swayed to and fro with her hand outstretched
to catch a chair for support, but before I could reach her she had fallen heavily to the floor.
I called Justine, and we raised her to a chair. I stood by her supporting her head on my breast,
while Justine ran for camphor and eau-de-vie. It was some time before she recovered her consciousness;
she then slowly opened her eyes and fixed them wonderingly on me, but with no look of recognition
in them. A long shiver passed over her, and she sighed heavily once or twice as she looked
vacantly at the letter on the floor. I was terrified, and seized the letter, to gain, if possible,
some explanation of the miserable state of the poor girl.

"I found that the envelope contained three letters: one from Marmaduke Kirkdale; one from the
housekeeper, Mrs. Eldridge; and this scrap from Arthur.

    "LETTER OF MARMADUKE.

"'MY DEAR MADAM,--I have heavy tidings to send you. While out shooting yesterday morning in
the Low Copse, Mr. ----, Arthur, and myself became separated: Mr. ----, who had been my companion,
keeping on an open path; I going down towards the pool to beat up a thicket and start the game.
Arthur I supposed was with the gamekeeper, a little distance in advance of us. Would that it
had been so! As I came up to join the others I heard the report of a gun, and hastening towards
the spot whence the sound seemed to come, I found my poor cousin lying upon the ground, and
at first supposed, that, in leaping the fence, he had received a sudden blow from a branch,
which had stunned him; but on kneeling down to raise him, I perceived he was bleeding profusely
from a wound in the throat, and was perfectly unconscious. Mr. ---- came up almost at the moment,
and while the gamekeeper and I bore Arthur to a farm-house hard by, he went off to call the
nearest doctor. Everything has been done that skill and care could devise. The physician from
B---- is here, besides Mr. Gordon, the village-surgeon. They pronounce the wound very serious,
but still hold out hopes that with great care he may yet recover. There is no doubt that in
leaping the hedge, and holding his gun carelessly, my cousin had inflicted this terrible injury
on himself. He is, however, too weak to make it safe to ask him any explanation of the accident.
The doctors insist on perfect quiet and rest, and say, that, owing to the unremitting care
we have been able to give him, he has done much better than they could have hoped for. If fever
can be prevented, all may yet go well; for myself, I believe strongly in Arthur's robust constitution.

"'Friday night.--Arthur was doing very well till about two o'clock this morning. The housekeeper
and I were with him. Mr. ---- had gone to take some rest. Suddenly Arthur raised himself, and
asked for paper and pencil. I remonstrated with him, fearing the effects of exertion. When,
however, I found Mr. ----(who had been called in by Mrs. Eldridge) declared his judgment in
favor of compliance, I yielded, and, supported by the housekeeper, my cousin wrote a few almost
illegible words. He had scarcely signed his name when he fell back,--the exertion, as I had
feared, had been too much for him. After this he sank rapidly. He died at six o'clock this morning.

"'I hold my cousin's place now by his death. I am ready to do so fully.

"'I am yours as YOU WILL,

                                   "'MAR'KE C. KIRKDALE.'

    "LETTER OF THE HOUSEKEEPER.

"'RESPECTED MADAM--I do not know that I have any right presuming to meddle with affairs that
don't belong to my walk in life, far be it from me to do so, especially to one that whatever
they may say seems always like my mistress to me--owing to the last words my poor dear Mr.
Arthur ever spoke was, She is my wife, my own wife, let no one gainsay it, which at the time
I did not take in fairly, being almost broken down with sorrow, for I had nursed him as a baby,
Madam, and loved him humbly as my own son, no lady could have loved him better, which having
lost him and all this trouble (my heart seeming fairly broke) makes me write, respected Madam,
worse than usual, never having been a scholar, he always wrote them for me, God bless him.
You won't think me presuming, Madam, when I say these things never having had the honour of
seeing you, but you are the only person who can feel for me under these circumstances of trial
more than any others. For to see them going through the house looking into precious drawers
and burning papers in the library fire and turning on a person like a Tiger, though he may
be a gentleman (though how of that family that always was remarkable gentle spoken I cannot
tell.) There never were two cousins differenter. I never can regard him as my master, never.
I would sooner leave the old place and beg my bread than feel him master after my blessed Mr.
Arthur, not that I'd speak evil of the family. But God Almighty reads the hearts of men, and
I only hope some may come out clear in appearing at the Judgment, and mayn't disgrace the Family
then--for to say that my Mr. Arthur never made a will when twice he's spoke to me upon the
subject, always trusting me, Madam, telling me where he kept it in the library, and though
it's not to be found the house through, still I know it must be somewhere, for I'd trust his
word against a thousand. I shall ask Mr. ---- to forward this present not knowing your address,
he is a kind gentleman and a true friend. I send you the little scrap of paper with the last
words he ever wrote. Some may say it's no good and unreadable, but I took care that them that
didn't value it didn't get it, though they did search everywhere, and looked so black when
it couldn't be found being in my pocket at the time. I present my services, honoured Madam,
and my dutiful affection for the sake of him that's gone.

                                    "'ELIZABETH ELDRIDGE.'

    "LETTER OF ARTHUR.

"'Only a moment or so left to me. Goodbye, my Lina! I am dying--and without you near me. We
have waited so long! It is hard to leave you alone in the world, darling. Come and live here--your
own home. If you had been here but one day, things might have been otherwise. Take care of
the poor--keep Mrs. Eldridge with you, she is faithful and true--true--she knows--God keep
you, darling. I am so weak--there is no hope.

                                             "'ARTHUR KIRKDALE.'

"For three days Lina lay on her bed almost without giving a sign of life,--her face rigid and
colorless. She refused to eat, and only when I myself used my authority with her did any nourishment
pass her lips. On the evening of the third day I became alarmed, and determined to send for
a physician. I told Justine to despatch one of the servants for Dr. B----, but to request him
to come after five o'clock, when I should have returned from vespers, as I wished to see him
myself. I gave my directions to Justine as we stood together at the foot of Lina's bed, in
so low a whisper as to prevent, as I thought, the possibility of her hearing me. Great, then,
was my astonishment, when, on leaving my room, ready for church, I met Lina on the staircase.
Her face was very pale, and she clung to the banisters for support as she descended. Before
I could express my surprise, she said,--

"'I feel very much better, Madame, and if you please will call the class for English lesson
at six.'

"I told her she must go back to her room,--that she should not have risen without my knowledge.

"'I must have occupation,' she replied; 'it is much better for me.'

"I felt she was right, and let her go down,--and that evening she held her class as usual.
So she continued, day after day, her accustomed round of duties, with all her usual precision
and care. Her self-control annoyed me. She passed to and fro in the house, her face pale and
wan, though with a composed expression, and all my earnest entreaties that she should seek
rest or relaxation were met by the same calm refusal. Saturday came, and I was glad to see
she showed something like interest in the prospect of the letters from England that would arrive
that day, and begged me to allow her to go as usual to get them at the post-office. I willingly
acceded to her request, thinking the fresh air and sea-breeze would do her good. She returned
with several letters, and brought them to me, seeming to desire my company while she read them.
One was from Marmaduke, one from Mr. R----, her husband's lawyer in Lincoln. The former puzzled
me; it was vague and threatening, and yet there were expressions in it almost befitting a love-letter.
Lina read it to me with hardly any change of expression, but dropped it from her fingers as
she finished it, with a look of mingled indifference and disgust. The grave, business-like
letter of the lawyer had still less effect upon her. I read it to her,--for, although in English,
I had no difficulty in making out every syllable, so distinctly was it written, and with such
legal precision. It informed Lina that Mr. R----felt some apprehension of her having trouble
in substantiating her marriage, that his conversation with Mr. Marmaduke Kirkdale had been
(although somewhat vague on the part of the latter) wholly unsatisfactory. This, and the fact
that no will had as yet been found among her husband's papers, made him fear that she might
be involved in lengthy and perhaps annoying legal proceedings. At the close, he desired her
to write out a careful account of all the circumstances of her marriage, as it was most important
that he should know all the details of the case.

"'These things weary me so!' said Lina; 'but it does not matter,' she added, sighing; 'for
his sake I must do this.'

"The few contemptuous words in answer to Marmaduke's letter were soon written, and she then
began her reply to the letter of her lawyer. This seemed to cost her a great effort; she sighed
frequently as she wrote, and at the end of two hours, as she finished the last words, her head
fell on the sheet of paper before her, and she burst into tears. I could not try to check this
outburst of grief, knowing that it must be a great relief to her overtaxed system after the
strain of the last few days. She was soon again calm, and resumed her writing. A letter to
her parents, informing them of her secret marriage and sudden widowhood, was next written,
and Lina, in her plain bonnet and shawl and closely veiled, set off with the three letters
to the post-office."

Here Madame paused. She smiled faintly.

"I find that I have become again unconsciously, interested in Lina, as I have told her story,
and I hesitate to approach the dénoûment; but"--and she sighed delicately, not sufficiently
to disperse the smile--"I must go through with this, as Lina herself used to say. One night
about this time I had been writing late, and it was past midnight when I descended with my
lamp in my hand to go the round of the class-rooms, as is my wont before retiring to rest.
I paused, as I passed down the school-room, opposite the Sainte Croix, and repeated my salut
before the Holy Emblem. As I finished the last words, my eyes fell on a small slip of paper
lying on Lina's desk, on which my own name was written three times, in what appeared my own
handwriting,--Jeanne Cliniè La P----re. A cold shudder ran through me, as if I had heard my
name in the accents of my double. Obeying a sudden impulse, I opened Lina's desk, and seized
the papers within. Uppermost lay a thick cahier, in which, in Lina's writing, were what at
first seemed copies of all the letters she had received from England within the last few months.
There were also facsimiles of letters to me from Mrs. Baxter, Mr. A. Kirkdale, and others.
Then there were draughts of the same letters, written in the various handwritings with which
I had become familiar, as those of Lina's and my own English correspondents. Here and there
were improvements and corrections in Lina's own writing. Below these lay piles of letters,--a
bundle of ten letters of my own, forming part of my correspondence with Mrs. Baxter, and which
I had intrusted to Lina at various times to post. These were without envelopes, and simply
tied together. I sat there for more than an hour, stupefied by this strange revelation; and
then, taking the bundle of my own letters addressed to Mrs. Baxter, I went to my room.

"Next morning, when I descended to the school-room, I glanced, in passing, at Lina, and thought
I perceived a slightly fluttered, disturbed expression in her face; but I continued the usual
routine of the morning's work without speaking to her. After class was over, I sent for her
to come to my room. I myself was much disturbed; she was perfectly calm and collected; but
as I laid the bundle of my own letters to Mrs. Baxter on the table, and demanded an explanation
of their being found in her desk, she turned pale, and snatched up the packet and held it tightly.
To my question, she answered that I evidently did her great wrong, but she was used to being
misunderstood; that the kindness I had shown her entitled me to an explanation, which she would
not otherwise have given.

"'It is a weakness that I am ashamed of that has caused this trouble,' she said. 'I have sat
up in the lonely nights and read and re-read my letters, and then I began to copy them, copied
even the handwriting, till I grew very perfect in it, and then I could not bear to destroy
any of those precious words, but kept them, as I thought, in secret,--but now some one has
basely taken them from my desk, and brought them to you. As for your letters to Mrs. Baxter,
there are, I see, only one or two here. Give me only time and you shall have that cleared up
also. I will write to Mrs. Baxter, beg her to explain how she let these letters get out of
her possession, and ask her to inclose all the rest of your letters to her. I will take care
that her answer shall come through the post-office, and not, as heretofore, inclosed in a letter
to me; so that you may feel quite sure that there is no mistake, Madame La P----re.'

"I felt baffled and guilty before her; and the next three days were most uncomfortable. I could
not but feel gênée with Lina, while she maintained the character of wounded innocence. The
evening of the third day, Justine handed to me a large packet which the postman had just brought,
and upon which there were ten francs to pay. It was directed to me in Mrs. Baxter's well-known
handwriting. I tore open the cover, and a shower of letters fell on the table. All my letters
to Mrs. Baxter, and one from herself, entreating to know the reason of this 'singular request
of dear Lina's.' I was disconcerted and relieved at once, when, turning the wrapper listlessly
in my fingers, my eye suddenly caught, on the reverse side, and printed in large letters, these
words,--'This packet was sent to the Postmaster in Bristol to be reposted to ----.' That was
the end of it. I had paid ten francs for learning the agreeable fact that I had been duped,--for
the satisfaction of knowing that for two years and a half I had been wasting my sympathy and
even tears on a set of purely imaginary characters and the little intrigante who had befooled me.

"When I showed Lina the printed words on the wrapper, she turned very pale, but maintained
a stubborn silence to all my reproaches.

"'How could you deceive me so?'

"'I don't know.'

"'What reason could you have?'

"'None.'

"'Lina! was there a particle of truth in anything you have told me?'

"'No, Madame.'

"This was all I could get from her; but as she left the room, she turned and said, looking
at me half reproachfully, half maliciously,--

"'I suppose we had better part now. At any rate, you will at least own that I have interested
you, Madame!'

"She left me two days afterwards, and the last I heard of her was in the situation of companion
to a Russian Countess, with whom she was an immense favorite. She made some effort to gain
possession of these letters; but I reminded her, that, as they had been written exclusively
for my benefit, I considered I had a right to keep them. To this she simply answered, 'Very
well, Madame.'"

       *       *       *       *       *

It is, perhaps, hardly necessary to add that the story of Lina Dale is told here precisely
as related to us by Madame La P----re, of course excepting the necessary changes in the names
of places and persons. The three letters are not copies of the original ones in the possession
of Madame La P----re, but a close transcript of them from memory,--the substance of them is
identical, and in many instances the words also. The extraordinary power shown by Lina Dale
in maintaining the character she had assumed and sustained during two years and a half was
fully carried out by the skill and cleverness of her pretended correspondence; and in reading
over these piles of letters, so full of originality, one could not but feel regret at the perversion
of powers so remarkable,--powers which might have been developed by healthy action into means
of usefulness and good.

CHARLES LAMB'S UNCOLLECTED WRITINGS.

FOURTH PAPER.

Lamb's time, after his manumission from India-House, seems to have hung rather heavily upon
his hands. Though the "birds of the air" were not so free as he was then, I fear they were
a great deal happier and vastly more contented than our liberated and idle old clerk. Though
in the first flush and excitement of his freedom from his six-and-thirty years' confinement
in a counting-house,--(he entered the office a dark-haired, bright-eyed, light-hearted boy;
he left it a decrepit, silver-haired, rather melancholy, somewhat disappointed man, whose spirits,
as he himself confesseth, had grown gray before his hair,)--though, when in the dizzy and happy
early hours of his freedom, Elia exultingly wrote (and felt) that "a man can never have too
much time to himself," the honeymoon (if I may so express it) of his emancipation from the

    "Dry drudgery at the desk's dead wood"

was not fairly over before he felt that man's true element is labor,--that occupation, which
in his younger days he had called a "fiend," was in very truth an angel,--the angel of contentment
and joy. Doctor Johnson stoutly maintained by both tongue and pen, that, in general, no one
could be virtuous or happy who was not completely employed. Not only the bread we eat, but
the true pleasures and real enjoyments of life, must be earned by the sweat of the brow. The
poor old mill-horse, turned loose in the pasture on Sundays, seems sadly to miss his accustomed
daily round of weary labor; the retired tallow-chandler, whose story has pointed so many morals
and adorned so many tales, would have died of inertia and ennui in less than six months after
his retirement from business, had not his successor kindly allowed him to help on melting-days;
and methinks the very ghosts of certain busy and energetic men must fret and fume at the idle
and inactive state of their shadowy and incorporal selves; nor, unless--as some hope and believe--we
are to have our familiar and customary tasks and duties to perform in heaven, could their souls
be happy and contented in Paradise.

But--after this rather foolish and wholly unnecessary digression--to return to Lamb. Elia,
who had while a toil-worn clerk so carefully and frugally husbanded every odd moment and spare
hour of time,--who, after his day's labor at India-House was over, had read so many massive
old folios, and written so many pleasant pages for the pleasure and solacement of himself,
and a choice and select number of men and women,--now that he had the whole long day to himself,
read but little, and wrote but seldom.

And as for those long walks in the country, which he talked of so fondly in some of his letters
to his friends,--those walks to Hoddesdon, to Amwell, to Windsor, and other towns and villages
in the near vicinity of London, which he had enjoyed in anticipation a few years before he
had the leisure actually to take them,--those long walks on "fine Isaac-Walton mornings," were
found to be, it must be confessed, rather tiresome and unsatisfactory. They were most melancholy
failures, when compared--as Elia could not help comparing them--with the pleasant walks he
and Mary had taken years before to Enfield, and Potter's-Bar, and Waltham. Nay, even the "saunterings
in Bond Street," the "digressions into Soho," to explore book-stalls, the visits to print-shops
and picture-galleries, soon ceased to afford Lamb much real pleasure or enjoyment. Yea, London
itself, with all its wonders and marvels, with all its (to him) memories and associations,
he found to be, to one who had nothing to do but wander idly and purposeless through her thronged
and busy streets and thoroughfares,--a mere looker-on in Vienna,--a somewhat dreary and melancholy
place. Indeed, the London of 1825-30 was a far different place to Elia from the London of twenty
years before, when he resided at No. 4, Inner-Temple Lane, (near the place of his "kindly engendure,")
and gave his famous Wednesday-evening parties, ("Oh!" exclaims Hazlitt, "for the pen of John
Buncle to consecrate a petit souvenir to their memory!") and when Jem White, and Ned P----,
and Holcroft, and Captain Burney, and other of his old friends and jovial companions were alive
and merry. And at Enfield Elia was far from being happy or contented. Winter, however,--"confining,
room-keeping winter," with its short days and long evenings, and cozy, comfortable fireside
and cheerful candle-light,--he succeeded in passing tolerably pleasantly there; but the "deadly
long days" of summer--"all-day days," he called them, "with but a half-hour's candle-light,
and no fire-light"--were fearfully dull, wearisome, and unprofitable to him, "a scorner of
the fields," an exile from London. And he thought, as he strolled through the green lanes and
along the pleasant country-roads in the vicinity of Enfield, of the days when he was

    "A clerk in London gay,"

and sighed for the drudgery and confinement of the counting-house, and longed to take his seat
again at his old desk at India-House. In brief, Lamb felt that he should be happier and better,
if he had something to do. And partly to amuse himself, and partly to assist a friend, he employed
himself for a few months in a pleasant and congenial task. "I am going through a course of
reading at the Museum," he writes to Bernard Barton,--"the Garrick plays, out of part of which
I formed my Specimens. I have two thousand to go through; and in a few weeks have despatched
the tithe of 'em. It is a sort of office-work to me; hours, ten to four, the same. It does
me good. Men must have regular occupation that have been used to it." And in another (later)
letter to Barton he says, "I am giving the fruit of my old play-reading to Hone, who sets forth
a portion weekly in the 'Table-Book.'" And he not only furnished the "Table-Book" with specimens
of the Garrick plays, but he wrote for that work, and the "Every-Day Book," a number of pleasant,
characteristic little sketches and essays. We herewith present the reader with one of the best
and most remarkable of these articles. Of course all will observe, and admire, the humorous,
yet very gentle, loving, almost pathetic manner in which Elia describes the person and character
of Mary's old usher,--

CAPTAIN STARKEY.

To the Editor of the "Every-Day Book":--

DEAR SIR,--I read your account of this unfortunate being, and his forlorn piece of self-history,
with that smile of half-interest which the annals of insignificance excite, till I came to
where he says, "I was bound apprentice to Mr. William Bird, an eminent writer, and teacher
of languages and mathematics," etc.; when I started as one does on the recognition of an old
acquaintance in a supposed stranger. This, then, was that Starkey of whom I have heard my sister
relate so many pleasant anecdotes, and whom, never having seen, I yet seem almost to remember.
For nearly fifty years she had lost all sight of him; and, behold! the gentle usher of her
youth, grown into an aged beggar, dubbed with an opprobrious title to which he had no pretensions,
an object and a May-game! To what base purposes may we not return! What may not have been the
meek creature's sufferings, what his wanderings, before he finally settled down in the comparative
comfort of an old hospitaller of the almonry of Newcastle? And is poor Starkey dead?

I was a scholar of that "eminent writer" that he speaks of; but Starkey had quitted the school
about a year before I came to it. Still the odor of his merits had left a fragrancy upon the
recollection of the elder pupils. It is still a school,--though the main prop, alas! has fallen
so ingloriously,--and bears a Latin inscription over the entrance in the lane, which was unknown
in our humbler times. Heaven knows what "languages" were taught in it then! I am sure that
neither my sister nor myself brought any out of it but a little of our native English. By "mathematics,"
reader, must be understood "cyphering." Now Starkey presided, under Bird, over both establishments.
In my time, Mr. Cook, now or lately a respectable singer and performer at Drury-Lane Theatre,
and nephew to Mr. Bird, had succeeded to him. I well remember Bird. But the ordinary public
chastisement was the bastinado, a stroke or two on the palm with that almost obsolete weapon
now, the ferule. A ferule was a sort of flat ruler, widened at the inflicting end into a shape
resembling a pear,--but nothing like so sweet,--with a delectable hole in the middle to raise
blisters, like a cupping-glass. I have an intense recollection of that disused instrument of
torture, and the malignancy, in proportion to the apparent mildness, with which its strokes
were applied. The idea of a rod is accompanied with something ludicrous; but by no process
can I look back upon this blister-raiser with anything but unmingled horror. But, boyish fears
apart, Bird, I believe, was, in the main, a humane and judicious master.

Oh, how I remember our legs wedged into those uncomfortable sloping desks, where we sat elbowing
each other; and the injunctions to attain a free hand, unattainable in that position; the first
copy I wrote after, with its moral lesson, "Art improves Nature"; the still earlier pot-hooks
and the hangers, some traces of which I fear may yet be apparent in this manuscript; the truant
looks sidelong to the garden, which seemed a mockery of our imprisonment; the prize for best
spelling, which had almost turned my head, and which to this day I cannot reflect upon without
a vanity which I ought to be ashamed of; our little leaden inkstands, not separately subsisting,
but sunk into the desks; the bright, punctually washed morning fingers, darkening gradually
with another and another ink-spot!

Poor Starkey, when young, had that peculiar stamp of old-fashionedness in his face which makes
it impossible for a beholder to predicate any particular age in the object. You can scarce
make a guess between seventeen and seven-and-thirty. This antique cast always seems to promise
ill-luck and penury. Yet it seems he was not always the abject thing he came to. My sister,
who well remembers him, can hardly forgive Mr. Thomas Ranson for making an etching so unlike
her idea of him when he was a youthful teacher at Mr. Bird's school. Old age and poverty--a
life-long poverty, she thinks--could at no time have so effaced the marks of native gentility
which were once so visible in a face otherwise strikingly ugly, thin, and care-worn. From her
recollections of him, she thinks that he would have wanted bread before he would have begged
or borrowed a half-penny. "If any of the girls," she says, "who were my school-fellows, should
be reading, through their aged spectacles, tidings from the dead of their youthful friend Starkey,
they will feel a pang, as I do, at ever having teased his gentle spirit." They were big girls,
it seems, too old to attend his instructions with the silence necessary; and however old age
and a long state of beggary seem to have reduced his writing faculties to a state of imbecility,
in those days his language occasionally rose to the bold and figurative: for, when he was in
despair to stop their chattering, his ordinary phrase was, "Ladies, if you will not hold your
peace, not all the powers in heaven can make you!" Once he was missing for a day or two: he
had run away. A little, old, unhappy-looking man brought him back,--it was his father,--and
he did no business in the school that day, but sat moping in a corner, with his hands before
his face; and the girls, his tormentors, in pity for his case, for the rest of that day forbore
to annoy him. "I had been there but a few months," adds she, "when Starkey, who was the chief
instructor of us girls, communicated to us, as a profound secret, that the tragedy of 'Cato'
was shortly to be acted by the elder boys, and that we were to be invited to the representation."
That Starkey lent a helping hand in fashioning the actors, she remembers; and but for his unfortunate
person, he might have had some distinguished part in the scene to enact. As it was, he had
the arduous task of prompter assigned to him; and his feeble voice was heard clear and distinct,
repeating the text during the whole performance. She describes her recollection of the cast
of characters, even now, with a relish. Martia, by the handsome Edgar Hickman, who afterwards
went to Africa, and of whom she never afterwards heard tidings; Lucia, by Master Walker, whose
sister was her particular friend; Cato, by John Hunter, a masterly declaimer, but a plain boy,
and shorter by the head than his two sons in the scene, etc. In conclusion, Starkey appears
to have been one of those mild spirits, which, not originally deficient in understanding, are
crushed by penury into dejection and feebleness. He might have proved a useful adjunct, if
not an ornament to society, if Fortune had taken him into a very little fostering; but wanting
that, he became a Captain,--a by-word,--and lived and died a broken bulrush.

       *       *       *       *       *

Perhaps the reader would be pleased to see another of Elia's contributions to Hone's "Every-Day
Book." For, though Lamb's articles in that amusing and very entertaining miscellany are not
very highly finished or very carefully elaborated, they contain many touches of his delicious
humor and exquisite pathos, and are, indeed, replete with the quaint beauties and beautiful
oddities of his very original and very delightful genius.

Sterne's sentimental description of the Dead Ass is immortal; but few of the readers and admirers
of Charles Lamb know that he, who wrote so eloquently and pathetically in defence of Beggars
and of Chimney-Sweepers, and who so ably and successfully vindicated the little innocent hare
from the charge--made "by Linnæus perchance, or Buffon"--of being a timid animal, indited an
essay on the same long-eared and loud-voiced quadruped.

THE ASS.

Mr. Collier, in his "Poetical Decameron," (Third Conversation,) notices a tract printed in
1595, with the author's initials only, A. B., entitled, "The Nobleness of the Asse: a work
rare, learned, and excellent." His jerkin is well fortified; and therefore the costermongers
"between the years 1790 and 1800" did more politicly than piously in lifting up a part of his
upper garment. I well remember that beastly and bloody custom. I have often longed to see one
of those refiners in discipline himself at the cart's tail, with just such a convenient spot
laid bare to the tender mercies of the whipster. But, since Nature has resumed her rights,
it is to be hoped that this patient creature does not suffer to extremities,--and that to the
savages who still belabor his poor carcass with their blows (considering the sort of anvil
they are laid upon,) he might in some sort, if he could speak, exclaim, with the philosopher,
"Lay on! you beat but upon the case of Anaxarchus."

Contemplating this natural safeguard, this fortified exterior, it is with pain I view the sleek,
foppish, combed, and curried person of this animal as he is transmuted and disnaturalized at
watering-places, etc., where they affect to make a palfrey of him. Fie on all such sophistications!
It will never do, Master Groom! Something of his honest shaggy exterior will still peep up
in spite of you,--his good, rough, native, pine-apple coating. You cannot "refine a scorpion
into a fish, though you rinse it and scour it with ever so cleanly cookery."[C]

The modern poet quoted by A. B. proceeds to celebrate a virtue for which no one to this day
had been aware that the ass was remarkable:--

    "One other gift this beast hath as his owne,
    Wherewith the rest could not be furnishèd;
    On man himselfe the same was not bestowne:
    To wit, on him is ne'er engenderèd
    The hatefull vermine that doth teare the skin,
    And to the bode [body] doth make his passage in."

And truly, when one thinks on the suit of impenetrable armor with which Nature (like Vulcan
to another Achilles) has provided him, these subtle enemies to our repose would have shown
some dexterity in getting into his quarters. As the bogs of Ireland by tradition expel toads
and reptiles, he may well defy these small deer in his fastnesses. It seems the latter had
not arrived at the exquisite policy adopted by the human vermin "between 1790 and 1800."

But the most singular and delightful gift of the ass, according to the writer of this pamphlet,
is his voice, the "goodly, sweet, and continual brayings" of which, "whereof they forme a melodious
and proportionable kinde of musicke," seem to have affected him with no ordinary pleasure.
"Nor thinke I," he adds, "that any of our immoderate musitians can deny but that their song
is full of exceeding pleasure to be heard; because therein is to be discerned both concord,
discord, singing in the meane, the beginning to sing in large compasse, then following on to
rise and fall, the halfe note, whole note, musicke of five voices, firme singing by four voices,
three together, or one voice and a halfe. Then their variable contrarieties amongst them, when
one delivers forth a long tenor or a short, the pausing for time, breathing in measure, breaking
the minim or very least moment of time. Last of all, to heare the musicke of five or six voices
chaunged to so many of asses is amongst them to heare a song of world without end."

There is no accounting for ears, or for that laudable enthusiasm with which an author is tempted
to invest a favorite subject with the most incompatible perfections. I should otherwise, for
my own taste, have been inclined rather to have given a place to these extraordinary musicians
at that banquet of nothing-less-than-sweet sounds, imagined by old Jeremy Collier, (Essays,
1698, part ii., On Music,) where, after describing the inspiriting effects of martial music
in a battle, he hazards an ingenious conjecture, whether a sort of anti-music might not be
invented, which should have quite the contrary effect of "sinking the spirits, shaking the
nerves, curdling the blood, and inspiring despair and cowardice and consternation." The dose,
we confess, is pretty potent, and skilfully enough prepared. But what shall we say to the ass
of Silenus, who, if we may trust to classic lore, by his own proper sounds, without thanks
to cat or screech-owl, dismayed and put to rout a whole army of giants? Here was anti-music
with a vengeance,--a whole Pan-Dis-Harmonicon in a single lungs of leather!

But I keep you trifling too long on this asinine subject. I have already passed the Pons Asinorum,
and will desist, remembering the old pedantic pun of Jem Boyer, my schoolmaster:--

     "Ass in præsenti seldom makes a WISE MAN in futuro."

       *       *       *       *       *

Lamb not only had a passionate fondness for old books and old friends, but he loved the old
associations. He was no admirer of your modern improvements. Unlike Dr. Johnson, he did not
go into the "most stately shops," but purchased his books and engravings at the stalls and
from second-hand dealers. In his eyes, the old Inner-Temple Church was a handsomer and statelier
structure than the finest Cathedral in England; and to his ear, as well as to the ear of Will
Honeycomb, the old familiar cries of the peripatetic London merchants were more musical than
the songs of larks and nightingales. It grieved him sorely to see an old building demolished
which he had passed and repassed for years, in his daily walks to and from his business,--or
an old custom abolished, whose observance he had witnessed when a child. "The disappearance
of the old clock from St. Dunstan's Church," says Mr. Moxon, in his pleasant tribute to Lamb's
memory in Leigh Hunt's Journal, "drew tears from his eyes; nor could he ever pass without emotion
the place where Exeter Change once stood. The removal had spoiled a reality in Gay. 'The passer-by,'
he said, 'no longer saw the combs dangle in his face.' This almost broke his heart." And he
begins the following little "essaykin" with a lamentation over the disappearance from the streets
of London of the tinman's old original sign, and a sigh for "the good old modes of our ancestors."

What he says of maiden aunts and their pets is delightful, and pleasantly reminds the reader
of Addison's account of Sam Trusty's visit to the Widow Feeble.

IN RE SQUIRRELS.

What is gone with the cages, with the climbing squirrel and bells to them, which were formerly
the indispensable appendage to the outside of a tinman's shop, and were, in fact, the only
live signs? One, we believe, still hangs out on Holborn; but they are fast vanishing with the
good old modes of our ancestors. They seem to have been superseded by that still more ingenious
refinement of modern humanity, the tread-mill, in which human squirrels still perform a similar
round of ceaseless, improgressive clambering, which must be nuts to them.

We almost doubt the fact of the teeth of this creature being so purely orange-colored as Mr.
Urban's correspondent gives out. One of our old poets--and they were pretty sharp observers
of Nature--describes them as brown. But perhaps the naturalist referred to meant "of the color
of a Maltese orange,"[D] which is rather more obfuscated than your fruit of Seville or St.
Michael's, and may help to reconcile the difference. We cannot speak from observation; but
we remember at school getting our fingers into the orangery of one of these little gentry,
(not having a due caution of the traps set there,) and the result proved sourer than lemons.
The author of the "Task" somewhere speaks of their anger as being "insignificantly fierce";
but we found the demonstration of it on this occasion quite as significant as we desired, and
have not been disposed since to look any of these "gift horses" in the mouth. Maiden aunts
keep these "small deer," as they do parrots, to bite people's fingers, on purpose to give them
good advice "not to venture so near the cage another time." As for their "six quavers divided
into three quavers and a dotted crotchet," I suppose they may go into Jeremy Bentham's next
budget of Fallacies, along with the "melodious and proportionable kinde of musicke," recorded
in your last number, of another highly gifted animal.

       *       *       *       *       *

Although Lamb took little, if any, interest in public affairs, and, indeed, knew about as much
of the events and occurrences of the day as the sublime, abstracted dancing-master immortalized
in one of the letters to Manning, he appears to have been profoundly and painfully impressed
by the fate of Fauntleroy, the forger. He thought and talked of Fauntleroy by day, and dreamed
of Fauntleroy at night.

And a few months after writing the above letter, Lamb contributed to "The London Magazine,"--then
in its decadence, but among whose "creaking rafters" Elia fondly lingered, "like the last rat,"--to
this (his favorite periodical) he contributed a brief, but beautiful paper, suggested by Fauntleroy's
sad story. The article is entitled "The Last Peach," and purports to be written by a bank-officer
(possibly the author had Barton in his mind while writing it) who fears he may become a second
Fauntleroy. The piece contains one or two delightful passages, and is, in fact, full of happy
touches and felicitous bits of description. Very charming (to me, at least) is the account
of the plucking of the last peach, and very touching is the allusion to the babe Fauntleroy.
But good wine (or a good peach) needs no bush; and therefore, without further comment or commendation,
I present "The Last Peach" to the appreciative reader. He will find it to be, unless I am a
very poor judge of the article, a peach of excellent quality and of a peculiarly fine flavor.

The garden in which grew the tree on which "lingered the one last peach" belonged to "Blakesmoor,"
the fine old family-mansion of the Plummers of Hertfordshire, in whose family Lamb's maternal
grandmother--"the grandame" of his poem of that name, and the "great-grandmother Field" of
Elia's "Dream-Children"--was housekeeper for many years.

THE LAST PEACH.

I am the miserablest man living. Give me counsel, dear Editor. I was bred up in the strictest
principles of honesty, and have passed my life in punctual adherence to them. Integrity might
be said to be ingrained in our family. Yet I live in constant fear of one day coming to the
gallows.

Till the latter end of last autumn, I never experienced these feelings of self-mistrust, which
ever since have embittered my existence. From the apprehension of that unfortunate man[E] whose
story began to make so great an impression upon the public about that time, I date my horrors.
I never can get it out of my head that I shall some time or other commit a forgery, or do some
equally vile thing. To make matters worse, I am in a banking-house. I sit surrounded with a
cluster of bank-notes. These were formerly no more to me than meat to a butcher's dog. They
are now as toads and aspics. I feel all day like one situated amidst gins and pitfalls. Sovereigns,
which I once took such pleasure in counting out, and scraping up with my little tin shovel,
(at which I was the most expert in the banking-house,) now scald my hands. When I go to sign
my name, I set down that of another person, or write my own in a counterfeit character. I am
beset with temptations without motive. I want no more wealth than I possess. A more contented
being than myself, as to money-matters, exists not. What should I fear?

When a child, I was once let loose, by favor of a nobleman's gardener, into his Lordship's
magnificent fruit-garden, with full leave to pull the currants and the gooseberries; only I
was interdicted from touching the wall-fruit. Indeed, at that season (it was the end of autumn)
there was little left. Only on the south wall (can I forget the hot feel of the brick-work?)
lingered the one last peach. Now peaches are a fruit which I always had, and still have, an
almost utter aversion to. There is something to my palate singularly harsh and repulsive in
the flavor of them. I know not by what demon of contradiction inspired, but I was haunted with
an irresistible desire to pluck it. Tear myself as often as I would from the spot, I found
myself still recurring to it, till, maddening with desire, (desire I cannot call it,) with
wilfulness rather,--without appetite, (against appetite, I may call it,) in an evil hour I
reached out my hand, and plucked it. Some few rain-drops just then fell; the sky, from a bright
day, became overcast; and I was a type of our first parents, after eating of that fatal fruit.
I felt myself naked and ashamed, stripped of my virtue, spiritless. The downy fruit, whose
sight rather than savor had tempted me, dropped from my hand, never to be tasted. All the commentators
in the world cannot persuade me but that the Hebrew word, in the second chapter of Genesis,
translated apple, should be rendered peach. Only this way can I reconcile that mysterious story.

Just such a child at thirty am I among the cash and valuables, longing to pluck, without an
idea of enjoyment further. I cannot reason myself out of these fears: I dare not laugh at them.
I was tenderly and lovingly brought up. What then? Who that in life's entrance had seen the
babe F----, from the lap stretching out his little fond mouth to catch the maternal kiss, could
have predicted, or as much as imagined, that life's very different exit? The sight of my own
fingers torments me, they seem so admirably constructed for--pilfering. Then that jugular vein,
which I have in common----; in an emphatic sense may I say with David, I am "fearfully made."
All my mirth is poisoned by these unhappy suggestions. If, to dissipate reflection, I hum a
tune, it changes to the "Lamentations of a Sinner." My very dreams are tainted. I awake with
a shocking feeling of my hand in some pocket.

Advise me, dear Editor, on this painful heart-malady. Tell me, do you feel anything allied
to it in yourself? Do you never feel an itching, as it were,--a dactylomania,--or am I alone?
You have my honest confession. My next may appear from Bow Street.

                                               SUSPENSURUS.

       *       *       *       *       *

Delightful as the essays of Elia are, Lamb did not spend all the "riches of his wit" in their
production. His letters--so full are they of "the salt and fineness of wit,"--so richly humorous
and so deliciously droll,--so rammed and crammed with the oddest conceits and the wildest fancies,
and the quaintest, queerest thoughts, ideas, and speculations--are scarcely inferior to his
essays. Indeed, some of the best and most admired of the essays are but extended letters. The
germ of the immortal dissertation on "Roast Pig" is contained in a letter to Coleridge; the
essay entitled "Distant Correspondents" is hardly more than a transcript of a private letter
to Barron Field; and the original sketch of "The Gentle Giantess" was given in a letter to
Miss Wordsworth.

In the following letter--which is not included in Talfourd's "Life and Letters of Charles Lamb,"
and will therefore be new to most readers--Lamb writes very much in the manner in which Shakspeare's
fools and jesters--in some respects the wisest and thoughtfullest characters in his works--talk.
If his words be "light as air," they vent "truths deep as the centre." If the Fool in "Lear"
had written letters to his friends and acquaintances, I think they would have marvellously
resembled this epistle to Patmore; and if, in saying this, I compliment the Fool, I hope I
do not derogate from the genius of Elia. Jaques, it will be remembered, after hearing the "motley
fool" moral on the time, declared that "motley's the only wear"; and I opine that Lamb would
consider it no small praise to be likened, in wit, wisdom, and eloquence, to Touchstone, or
to the Clown in "Twelfth Night."

TO P. G. PATMORE. I took him to Barnet the other day; and he couldn't eat his victuals after
it. Pray God his intellects be not slipping.

Mary is gone out for some soles. Get them, if you can. They are little Liliput rabbits, only
a thought nicer.

Christ, how sick I am!--not of the world, but of the widow's shrub.

If there is anything new in politics or literature in France, keep it till I see you again;
for I'm in no hurry. Chatty-Briant [Châteaubriand] is well, I hope.

I think I have no more news; only give both our loves ("all three," says Dash) to Mrs. Patmore,
and bid her get quite well, as I am at present, bating qualms, and the grief incident to losing
a valuable relation.

                       C. L.

    LONDRES, July 19, 1827.

       *       *       *       *       *

Of all the essays of Elia, the paper on "Roast Pig" is perhaps the most read, the most quoted,
the most admired. 'T is even better, says an epicurean friend of mine, than the "crisp, tawny,
well-watched, not over-roasted crackling" it descants upon so eloquently. Certainly Lamb never
writes so richly and so delightfully as when he discourses of the dainties and delicacies of
the table.

Though all our readers are doubtlessly familiar with Elia's beautiful little article entitled
"Thoughts on Presents of Game," very few of them have read the letter he wrote in acknowledgment
of a present of a pig from a farmer and his wife. 'T is a rare bit, a choice morsel of Lamb's
best and most delicious humor, and will be perused with great pleasure and satisfaction by
all admirers of its witty and eccentric author. Here it is.

TO A FARMER AND HIS WIFE.

Believe me, that, while my faculties last, I shall ever cherish a proper appreciation of your
many kindnesses in this way, and that the last lingering relish of past favors upon my dying
memory will be the smack of that little ear. It was the left ear, which is lucky.

FOOTNOTES:

[B] "Who this modern poet was," says Mr. Collier, "is a secret worth discovering." The wood-cut
on the title of the pamphlet is an ass with a wreath of laurel round his neck.

[C] Milton, from memory.

[D] Fletcher, in the "Faithful Shepherdess."

[E] Fauntleroy.

[F] The reader, says Mr. Patmore, need not be told that all the above items of home-news are
pure fiction.

TO WILLIAM CULLEN BRYANT.

ON HIS SEVENTIETH BIRTHDAY.

NOVEMBER 3, 1864.

    Calm priest of Nature, her maternal hand
      Led thee, a reverent child,
    To mountain-altars, by the lonely strand,
      And through the forest wild.

    Haunting her temple, filled with love and awe,
      To thy responsive youth
    The harmonies of her benignant law
      Revealed consoling truth.

    Thenceforth, when toiling in the grasp of Care
      Amid the eager throng,
    A votive seer, her greetings thou didst bear,
      Her oracles prolong.

    The vagrant winds and the far heaving main
      Breathed in thy chastened rhyme,
    Their latent music to the soul again,
      Above the din of time.

    The seasons, at thy call, renewed the spell
      That thrilled our better years,
    The primal wonder o'er our spirits fell,
      And woke the fount of tears.

    And Faith's monition, like an organ's strain,
      Followed the sea-bird's flight,
    The river's bounteous flow, the ripening grain,
      And stars' unfathomed light.

    In the dank woods and where the meadows gleam,
      The lowliest flower that smiled
    To wisdom's vigil or to fancy's dream
      Thy gentle thought beguiled.

    They win fond glances in the prairie's sweep,
      And where the moss-clumps lie,
    A welcome find when through the mould they creep,
      A requiem when they die.

    Unstained thy song with passion's fitful hues
      Or pleasure's reckless breath,
    For Nature's beauty to thy virgin muse
      Was solemnized by death.

    O'er life's majestic realm and dread repose,
      Entranced with holy calm,
    From the rapt soul of boyhood then uprose
     The memorable psalm.

    And roaming lone beneath the woodland shades,
      Thy meditative prayer
    In the umbrageous aisles and choral glades
      We murmur unaware;

    Or track the ages with prophetic cheer,
      Lured by thy chant sublime,
    Till bigotry and kingcraft disappear
      In Freedom's chosen clime,--

    While on her ramparts with intrepid mien,
      O'er faction's angry sea,
    Thy voice proclaims, undaunted and serene,
      The watchwords of the free.

    Not in vague tones or tricks of verbal art
      The plaint and pæan rung:
    Thine the clear utterance of an earnest heart,
      The limpid Saxon tongue.

    Our country's minstrel! in whose crystal verse
      With tranquil joy we trace
    Her native glories, and the tale rehearse
      Of her primeval race,--

    Blest are thy laurels, that unchallenged crown
      Worn brow and silver hair,
    For truth and manhood consecrate renown,
      And her pure triumph share!

HOUSE AND HOME PAPERS

BY CHRISTOPHER CROWFIELD.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Yes, there it is!" said Jennie.

THE NEW SCHOOL OF BIOGRAPHY.

Poor Rachel, passing slowly away from the world that had so applauded her hollow, but brilliant
career, tasted the bitterness of death in reflecting that she should so soon be given over
to the worms and the biographers. Fortunate Rachel, resting in serene confidence that the two
would be fellow-laborers! It is the unhappy fate of her survivors to have reached a day in
which biographers have grown impatient of the decorous delay which their lowly coadjutors demand.
They can no longer wait for the lingering soul to yield up its title-deeds before they enter
in and take possession; but, fired with an evil energy, they outstrip the worms and torment
us before the time.

Curiosity is undoubtedly one of the heaven-appointed passions of the human animal. Dear to
the heart of man has ever been his neighbor's business. Precious in the eyes of woman is the
linen-closet of that neighbor's wife. During its tender teething infancy, the world's sobs
could always be soothed into smiles by an open bureau with large liberty to upheave its contents
from turret to foundation-stone. As the infant world ascended from cambric and dimity to broadcloth
and crinoline, its propensity for investigation grew stronger. It loved not bureaus less, but
a great many other things more. What sad consequences might have ensued, had this passion been
left to forage for itself, no one can tell. But, by the wonderful principle of adaptation which
obtains throughout the universe, the love of receiving information is met and mastered by the
love of imparting information. As much pleasure as it gives Angelina to learn how many towels
and table-cloths go into Seraphina's wedding-outfit, so much, yea, more, swells in Cherubella's
bosom at being able to present to her friend this apple from the tree of knowledge. The worthy
Muggins finds no small consolation for the loss of his overcoat and umbrella from the front
entry in the exhilaration he experiences while relating to each member of his ever-revolving
circle of friends the details of his loss,--the suspicion, the search, the certainty,--the
conjectures, suggestions, and emotions of himself and his family.

Hence these tears which we are about to shed. For, betwixt the love of hearing on the one side,
and the love of telling, on the other, small space remains on which one may adventure to set
the sole of his foot and feel safe from the spoiler. There is of course a legitimate gratification
for every legitimate desire,--the desire to know our neighbors' affairs among others. But there
is a limit to this gratification, and it is hinted at by legal enactments. The law justly enough
bounds a man's power over his possessions. For twenty-one years after his generation has passed
away, his dead hand may rule the wealth which its living skill amassed. Then it dies another
death, draws back into a deeper grave, and has henceforth no more power than any sister-clod.
But, except as a penalty for crime, the law awards to a man right to his own possessions through
life; and the personal facts and circumstances of his life have usually been considered among
his closest, most inalienable possessions.

Alas, that the times are changed, and we be all dead men so far as concerns immunity from publication!
There is no manner of advantage in being alive. The sole safety is to lie flat on the earth
along with one's generation. The moment an audacious head is lifted one inch above the general
level, pop! goes the unerring rifle of some biographical sharp-shooter, and it is all over
with the unhappy owner. A perfectly respectable and well-meaning man, suffering under the accumulated
pains of Presidentship, has the additional and entirely undeserved ignominy of being hawked
about the country as the "Pioneer Boy." A statesman whose reputation for integrity has been
worth millions to the land, and whose patriotism should have won him a better fate, is stigmatized
in duodecimo as the "Ferry Boy." An innocent and popular Governor is fastened in the pillory
under the thin disguise of the "Bobbin Boy." Every victorious advance of our grand army is
followed by a long procession of biographical statistics. A brave man leading his troops to
victory may escape the bullets and bayonets of the foe, but he is sure to be transfixed to
the sides of a newspaper with the pen of some cannibal entomologist. We are thrilled to-day
with the telegram announcing the brilliant and successful charge made by General Smith's command;
and according to that inevitable law of succession by which the sun his daily round of duty
runs, we shall be thrilled to-morrow with the startling announcement that "General Smith was
born in ----," etc., etc., etc.

Unquestionably, there is somewhere in the land a regularly organized biographical bureau, by
which every man, President or private, has his lot apportioned him,--one mulcted in a folio,
the other in a paragraph. If we examine somewhat closely the features of this peculiar institution,
we shall learn that a distinguishing characteristic of the new school of biography is the astonishing
familiarity shown by the narrator with the circumstances, the conversations, and the very thoughts
of remarkable boys in their early life. The incidents of childhood are usually forgotten before
the man's renown has given them any importance; the few anecdotes which tradition has preserved
are seized upon with the utmost avidity and placed in the most conspicuous position; but in
these later books we have illustrious children portrayed with a Pre-Raphaelitic and most prodigal
pencil.

Take the opening scene in a garden where "Nat"--we must protest against this irreverent abbreviation
of the name of that honored Governor whose life in little we are about to behold--and his father
are at work. "Is it possible?" one is led to exclaim. We should certainly have supposed that
this report was exhaustive. We can hardly conceive that any further interest should inhere
in that patch of squashes; whereas it seems that the half was not told us. Nor is this the
sole instance. Records equally minute of conversations equally brilliant are lavished on page
after page with a recklessness of expenditure that argues unlimited wealth,--conversations
between the Boy and his father, between the Boy and his mother, between the Boy's father and
mother, between the Boy's neighbors about the Boy, in which his numerous excellences are set
in the strongest light, exhortations of the Boy's teacher to his school, play-ground talk of
the Boy and his fellow-boys,--among whom the Boy invariably stands head and shoulders higher
than they. We fear the world of boys has hitherto been much demoralized by being informed that
many distinguished men were but dull fellows in the school-house, or unnoticed on the play-ground.
But we have changed all that. The Bobbin Boy was the most industrious, the most persevering,
the most self-reliant, the most virtuous, the most exemplary of all the boys of his time. So
was the Ferry Boy, and the Pioneer Boy so. "Nat"--we blame and protest, but we join in the
plan of using this undignified sobriquet--Nat was the one that swam three rods under water;
Nat astonished the school with the eloquence of his declamation; it was Nat that got all the
glory of the games; it was of no use for any one to try for any prize where Nat was a competitor.
And as Nat's neighbors thought of Nat, so thought Abe's--we shudder at the sound--Abe's neighbors
of Abe, the Pioneer Boy. Of what Salmon's neighbors said about Salmon we are not so well informed;
but we have no doubt they often exclaimed one to another,--

    "Was never Salmon yet that shone so fair
    Among the stakes on Dee!"

Nor are the Boys backward in having a tolerably good opinion of their own goodness.

"Never swear, my son," says Abe's mother to the infant Abe.

"I never do," says Abraham.

"Boys are likely to want their own way, and spend their time in idleness," says the mother
of a President, upon another occasion.

"I sha'n't," responds virtuous Abraham.

"Always speak the truth, my son."

"I do tell the truth," was "Abraham's usual reply."

"When a boy gets to going to the tavern to smoke and swear," says Nat's mother, "he is almost
sure to drink, and become a ruined man."

"I never do smoke, mother," replies Nat, pouring cataracts of innocence.

Virtue so immaculate at so tender an age seems to us, we are forced to admit, unnatural. The
boys that have fallen in our way have never been in the habit of making profound moral reflections,
and we cannot resist the unpleasant suspicion that Nat had just been playing at marbles for
"havings" with Cole, Fowle, and both the Drakes at the village-inn, and, having found this
vegetable repast too strong for his digestion, went home to his mother and wreaked his discomfort
on edifying moral maxims. Or else he was a prig.

The unusual and highly exciting nature of the incidents recorded in these biographies must
be their excuse for a seeming violation of privacy. When a rare and precious gem is in question,
one must not be over-scrupulous about breaking open the casket. What puerile prejudice in favor
of privacy can rear its head in face of the statement which tells us that at the age of seven
years our honored President--may he still continue such!--"devoted himself to learning to read
with an energy and enthusiasm that insured success"?--such success that we learn "he could
read some when he left school."

At the age of nine he shot a turkey!

Soon after,--for here we are involved in a chronological haze,--he began to "take lessons in
penmanship with the most enthusiastic ardor."

Subsequently, "there, on the soil of Indiana, ABRAHAM LINCOLN WROTE HIS NAME, WITH A STICK,
in large characters,--a sort of prophetic act, that students of history may love to ponder.
For, since that day, he has 'gone up higher,' and written his name, by public acts, on the
annals of every State in the Union."

He wrote a letter.

He rescued a toad from cruel boys,--for, though "he could kill game for food as a necessity,
and dangerous wild animals, his soul shrunk from torturing even a fly." Dear heart, we can
easily believe that!

He bought a Ramsay's "Life of Washington," and paid for it with the labor of his own hands.

He helped to save a drunkard's life. "He thought more of the drunkard's safety than he did
of his own ease. And there are many of his personal acquaintances in our land who will bear
witness, that, from that day to this, this amiable quality of heart has won him admiring friends."

He took a flat-boat to New Orleans, and defended her against the negroes, who, poor fellows,
were not prophetic enough to see that they were plotting against their Deliverer.

He "always had much dry wit about him that kept oozing out"! Nor can we admit that his grammar
even "taught him the rudiments of his native language," when we have been having proof upon
proof, for two hundred and eighty-six pages, that he was already familiar with its rudiments.
We are equally skeptical as to whether it really "opened the golden gate of knowledge" for
him: we should certainty say that this gate had stood ajar, at least, for years. Indeed, that
portion of his history which relates to grammar seems to us by far the most unsatisfactory
of all. In his honesty, in his penmanship, in his kindness of heart, in his wit, dry or damp,
we feel a confidence which not even the shock of political campaigns has been able to move.
But in respect of grammar we find ourselves in a state of the most painful uncertainty. We
have never regarded it as our beloved President's strong point, but we have considered any
linguistic defect more than atoned for by the hearty, timely, sturdy, plain sense which appeals
so directly and forcibly to the good sense of others. This book calls up a distressing doubt,
and a doubt that strikes at vital interests. "Grammar," our President is reported to have said
before he had cast the integuments of a grocer's clerk, "Grammar is the art of speaking and
writing the English language with propriety"! Is this a definition, we sorrowfully ask, becoming
an American citizen? It has, indeed, in many respects the qualities of a perfect definition.
It is deep; it is accurate; it is exhaustive; but it is not loyal. Coming from the lips of
a subject of Great Britain, it would not surprise us. An Englishman undoubtedly believes that
grammar is the art of speaking and writing the English language with propriety. All the grammatical
research that preceded the establishment of his mother-tongue was but the collection of fuel
to feed the flame of its glory; all that follows will be to diffuse the light of that flame
to the ends of the earth. Greek, Latin, Sanscrit, were but stepping-stones to the English language.
Philology per se is a myth. The English language in its completeness is the completion of grammatical
science. To that all knowledge tends; from that all honor radiates. So claims proud Britain's
prouder son. But can an American tamely submit to such a monopoly? Is not grammar rather, or
at least quite as much, the art of speaking and writing the American language correctly, and
shall he sit calmly by and witness this gross outrage upon his dearest rights? But, as our
author would say, we "must not dwell," and most gladly do we leave this unpleasant branch of
a very pleasant subject, inwardly supplicating, that, whatever disaster is yet to befall us,
we may be spared the pang of suspecting that our revered President, so stanch against the Rebels,
so unflinching for the Slave, is in danger of lowering his lofty crest before the rampant British
lion! In view of such a calamity, one can only say in the words of that distinguished British
citizen who, living in England in the full light of the nineteenth century, must be supposed
to have reached the summit of grammatical excellence,--

    "Gin I mun doy I mun doy, an' loife they says is sweet,
    But gin I mun doy I mun doy, for I couldn' abear to see it."

The life of the Ferry Boy was scarcely less adventurous than that of the Pioneer Boy, and was,
indeed, in some respects its counterpart. As the latter learned to write on the tops of stools,
so the former learned to read on bits of birch-bark. At an early period of his existence he
broke a capful of eggs. He owned a calf. He caught an eel. He put salt on a bird's tail and
learned his first lesson of the deceitfulness of the human heart. He walked to Niagara Falls
from Buffalo. He got lost in the woods. He went to live with his uncle in Ohio, where he displayed
spirit and killed a pig. Here also occurred a "prophecy" almost as striking as the Pioneer
Boy's writing his name with a stick. "Salmon" wished to go swimming. "The Bishop said, 'No!'
adding, 'Why, Salmon, the country might lose its future President, if you should get drowned!'
This was the first time his name had ever been mentioned in connection with that high office;
and the remark, coming from the grave Bishop's lips, must have made a strong impression on
him. Was it prophetic?" Let us assume that it was, although it must for the present be ranked
with what is theologically called "unfulfilled prophecy." We cannot, at any rate, be too thankful
that the only occasion on which it was ever hinted to an American boy that he might one day
become President has not been suffered to pass into oblivion, but has found in this little
volume a monument more durable than brass. To go on with our inventory. A whole flock of thirteen
pigeons shot by the Ferry Boy answered through their misty shroud to the Pioneer Boy's turkey
which called to them aloud. He taught school two weeks, and then had leave to resign. He went
to Washington and said his prayers like a good boy: we trust he has kept up the practice ever
since.

From such a record there is but one inference: if the man is not President, he ought to be!

One great element in the success which these little books have met, the one fact which, we
are persuaded, accounts for the quiet, but significant "twenty-sixth thousand" that we find
on the title-page of one of them, is the pains which their authors take to make their meaning
clear. They do not, like too many of our modern authors, leave a book half written, forcing
the reader to finish their work as he goes along. They are instant, in season and out of season,
with explanation, illustration, reflection, until the idea is, so to speak, reduced to pulp,
and the reader has nothing to perform save the act of deglutition. It is better for him to
understand the reason of things, and believe them on that account."

Would our Parks, our Palfreys, our Prescotts, our Emersons, have expounded this matter so clearly?
Most assuredly not. They would have left us in the Cimmerian darkness of dreary conjecture
regarding the causes of Nat's strange opinion, and the lessons to be drawn from it. Or if they
had condescended to explanation, it would have been comprised in a curt phrase or two. No boundary-line
between a virtue and its vice would have been drawn so that a wayfaring man, though a fool,
should not err in following it. This author has struck the golden mean. There is just enough,
and not too much.

Again,--

"'I should rather be in prison, than to sit up nights studying as you do.'

"'I really enjoy it, David.'

"'I can hardly credit it.'

"'Then you think I do not speak the truth?'

"'Oh, no!... I only meant to say that I cannot understand it.'

"Allusion is here made to an important fact. David could not understand how Abraham could possess
such a love of knowledge as to lead him to forego all social pleasures, be willing to wear
a threadbare coat, live on the coarsest fare, and labor hard all day, and sit up half the night,
for the sake of learning. But there is just that power in the love of knowledge, and it was
this that caused Lincoln to derive happiness from doing what would have been a source of misery
to David. Some of the most marked instances of self-forgetfulness recorded are connected with
the pursuit of knowledge. Archimedes was so much in love with the studies of his profession,
that, etc., etc. Professor Heyne, of Göttingen," etc., etc., etc.--A clearer explanation than
this we have rarely met with outside the realm of mathematical demonstration. The impression
which would have been made upon the rising generation, had the testimony been allowed to go
forth without its corrective, that upon a certain occasion any Governor's eyes were really
as large as saucers, even very small tea-saucers, is such as the imagination refuses to dwell on.

This exuberance of illustration increases the value of these books in another respect. To use
a homely phrase, we get more than we bargained for. Ostensibly engaged with the life of the
Bobbin Boy, we are covertly introduced to the majority of all the boys that ever were born
and came to anything. The advertised story is a kind of mother-hen who gathers under her wings
a numerous brood of biographical chicks. Quantities of recondite erudition are poured out on
the slightest provocation. Nat walks to Prospect Hill, and is attended by a suite consisting
of Sir Francis Chantrey, "the gifted poet Burns," "the late Hugh Miller," etc., who also loved
to look at prospects. Congress of the United States, are you listening?) and "such an organization
has proved a valuable means of improvement to many persons." Witness "the Irish orator, Curran,"
with biography; "a living American statesman," with biography; the "highly distinguished statesman,
Canning," more biography; "Henry Clay, the American orator," with autobiography; and a meteoric
shower of lesser biographies emanating from Tremont Temple.

Allusion is here made to an important fact. Mr. Gaines was a miller!

Yet, with all this elucidation, we take shame to ourselves for admitting that there are points
which, after all, we do not comprehend. They may be trivial; but in making up testimony, it
is the little things which have weight. Trifles light as air are confirmation strong as proofs
of Holy Writ, and confutation no less strong. When, as a proof of Nat's ardor in the pursuit
of knowledge, we are told that he walked ten miles after a hard day's work to hear Daniel Webster,
and then stood through the oration in front of the platform, because he could see the speaker
better,--and when, turning to the next page, we are told that he was so much interested that
he "would have sat entranced till morning, if the gifted orator had continued to pour forth
his eloquence,"--what are we to believe? We are told of his visit to the Boston bookstores,--that
he examined the books "outside before he stepped in. He read the title of each volume upon
the back, and some he took up and examined," but we have no explanation of this extraordinary
behavior. "It was thus with" Abraham. "The manner in which Abraham made progress in penmanship,
writing on slabs and trees, on the ground and in the snow, anywhere that he could find a place,
reminds us forcibly of Pascal, who demonstrated the first thirty-two propositions of Euclid
in his boyhood, without the aid of a teacher." We not only are not forcibly reminded of Pascal,
but we are not reminded of Pascal at all. The boy who imitates on slabs mechanical lines which
he has been taught, and he who originates mathematical problems and theorems, may be as like
as my fingers to my fingers, but--alas, that it is forbidden to say--we do not see it. When
Mr. Elkins told Abraham he would make a good pioneer boy, and "'What's a pioneer boy?' asked
Abraham," why was Mr. Elkins "quite amused at this inquiry"? and why did he "exercise his risibles
for a minute" before replying? When Mr. Stuart offered young Mr. Lincoln the use of his law-books,
and young Mr. Lincoln answered,--very properly, we should say,--"You are very generous indeed.
I could never repay you for such generosity," why did Mr. Stuart respond, "shaking his sides
with laughter"? We do not wish to be too inquisitive, but few things are more trying to a sensitive
person than to see others overwhelmed with merriment in which, from ignorance, he cannot share.

Want of space forbids us to do more than touch lightly upon the many excellences of these books.
We have given extracts enough to enable our readers to see for themselves the severe elegance
of style, the compactness and force of the narrative, the verisimilitude of the characters,
the unity of plan, and the cogency of the reasoning. We trust they will also perceive the great
moral effect that cannot fail to be produced. Such books are specially adapted to meet a daily
increasing want. Our American youth are too apt to value virtue for its own sake. They are
in imminent danger of giving themselves over to integrity, to industry, perseverance, and single-mindedness,
without looking forward to those posts of usefulness for which these qualities eminently fit
them. Fired with the love of learning, they are languid in claiming the honors which learning
has to bestow. Eager to become worthy of the highest places, they make no effort to secure
the places to which their worth points them. Political supineness is the bane of our society.
The one great need is to rouse the ambition of boys, and wake them to political aspiration.
To such objects such books tend; and who would hesitate at any sacrifice of his prejudices
in favor of privacy, when such is the end to be obtained? Breathes there the man with soul
so dead who would not lay upon the altar his father, his mother, his sisters, not to say his
uncles and cousins, nay, the inmost sanctities of his home, to enable American boys to fasten
their eyes upon the White House? Would he refuse, at the call of patriotism, to spread before
the public the very secrets of his heart, the struggles of his closet, his communion with his God?

As a collateral result of this new school of biography, we can but admire the new form in which
Nemesis appears. The day of rich relations is gone by. No longer can stern Uncle Bishops lord
it over their obscure nephews, for ever before their eyes will flaunt the possible book which
will one day lay open to a gazing world all their weakness and their evil behavior. Let not
wicked or disagreeable relatives imagine henceforth that they may safely indulge in small tyrannies,
neglects, or other peccadilloes; for no robin-redbreast will piously cover them with leaves,
but that which is done in the ear shall be proclaimed upon the house-tops, nor can they tell
from what quarter the trumpet shall sound. The unkempt boy, the sullen girl in the chimney-corner,
may be the Narcissus or nymph in whose orisons all their sins shall be remembered.

In view of which benefits, and others "too numerous to mention," we humbly beg pardon for the
petulance which disfigures the commencement of our paper, and desire to use all our influence
to induce all persons of distinction meekly and humanely to lay open to the dear, curious world
their lives, their fortune, and their sacred honor.

But, however beneficial and delightful it is for a friend to impale a friend before the public
gaze, we do not think that even Job himself would have desired that his adversary should write
a book about him. In the motives that prompted, in the grace of the doing, in the good that
will result, we can forgive the deed when friend portrays friend; but we cannot be lenient
when a hostile hand exposes the life to which we have no right. We would fain borrow the type
and the energy of Reginald Bazalgette to enforce our opinion that it is "ABBOMMANNABEL," and
the innocence of Pet Marjorie to declare it "the most Devilish thing." Yet in a loyal, respectable,
religious newspaper we lately saw a biography of Mr. Vallandigham which puts to the blush all
previous achievements in the line of contemporary history. It is not so much that we are let
into the family-secrets, but the family-secrets are spread out before us, as the fruits of
that species of domestic taxation known as "the presents" are spread out on the piano at certain
wedding-festivals. We are led back to first principles, to the early married life of the parent
Vallandighams. The mother is portrayed with a vigorous feminine pencil, and certainly looks
extremely well on canvas. Clement's relations to her are shown to be exemplary. There is excuse
for this in the attacks which have been made upon him in the relation of son. But upon what
grounds are Clement's sisters' homes invaded? Because a man is disloyal and craven, shall we
inform the world that his brother was crossed in love? Still more shall his wife be taken in
hand, and receive what even the late Mr. Smallweed would have considered a thorough "shaking-up"?
"If they were all starving," declares the energetic narrator, "she could not earn a cent in
any way whatever, so utterly helpless is this fine Southern lady. She will not sleep, unless
the light is kept burning all night in her room, for fear 'something might happen'; and when
a slight matter crosses her feelings, she lies in bed for several days." Tut, tut, dear lady!
surely this once thy zeal hath outrun thy discretion. Clement L. Vallandigham's public course
is a proper target for all loyal shafts, but prithee let the poor lady, his wife, remain in
peace,--such peace as she can command. It is bad enough to be his wife, without being overborne
with the additional burden of her own personal foibles. One can be daughter, sister, friend,
without impeachment of one's sagacity or integrity; but it is such a dreadful indorsement of
a man to marry him! Her own consciousness must be sufficiently grievous; pray do not irritate
it into downright madness. Nay, what, after all, are the so heinous faults upon which you animadvert?
She cannot earn a cent: that may be her misfortune, it need not be her fault. Perhaps Clement,
like Albano, and all good husbands, "never loved to see the sweet form anywhere else than,
like other butterflies, by his side among the flowers." She will keep a light burning in her
room, forsooth. Have we not all our pet hobgoblins? We know an excellent woman who once sat
curled up in an arm-chair all night for fear of a mouse! And is it not a well-understood thing
that nothing so baffles midnight burglars as a burning candle? "When a light matter crosses
her feelings, she lies in bed for several days." Infinitely better than to go sulking about
the house with that "injured-innocence" air which makes a man feel as if he were an assaulter
and batterer with intent to kill. Blessings rest upon those charming sensible women, who, when
they feel cross, as we all do at times, will go to bed and sleep it away! No, let us everywhere
put down treason and ostracize traitors. It is lawful to suspend "naso adunco" those whom we
may not otherwise suspend. But even traitors have rights which white men and white women are
bound to respect. We will crush them, if we can, but we will crush them in open field, by fair
fight,--not by stealing into their bedchambers to stab them through the heart of a wife.

FOOTNOTES:

[G] The meaning of this is, that Mr. Morse was the landlord, not the house. Of course a house
could not be a landlord; still less could it be a landlord to itself.--Note by Reviewer.

THE LAST RALLY.

NOVEMBER, 1864.

    Rally! rally! rally!
      Arouse the slumbering land!
    Rally! rally! from mountain and valley,
      And up from the ocean-strand!
    Ye sons of the West, America's best!
      New Hampshire's men of might!
    From prairie and crag unfurl the flag,
      And rally to the fight!

    Armies of untried heroes,
      Disguised in craftsman and clerk!
    Ye men of the coast, invincible host!
      Come, every one, to the work,--
    From the fisherman gray as the salt-sea spray
      That on Long Island breaks,
    To the youth who tills the uttermost hills
      By the blue northwestern lakes!

    And ye Freedmen! rally, rally
      To the banners of the North!
    Through the shattered door of bondage pour
      Your swarthy legions forth!
    Kentuckians! ye of Tennessee
      Who scorned the despot's sway!
    To all, to all, the bugle-call
      Of Freedom sounds to-day!

    Old men shall fight with the ballot,
      Weapon the last and best,--
    And the bayonet, with blood red-wet,
      Shall write the will of the rest;
    And the boys shall fill men's places,
      And the little maiden rock
    Her doll as she sits with her grandam and knits
      An unknown hero's sock.

    And the hearts of heroic mothers,
      And the deeds of noble wives,
    With their power to bless shall aid no less
      Than the brave who give their lives.
    The rich their gold shall bring, and the old
      Shall help us with their prayers;
    While hovering hosts of pallid ghosts
      Attend us unawares.

    From the ghastly fields of Shiloh
      Muster the phantom bands,
    From Virginia's swamps, and Death's white camps
      On Carolina sands;
    From Fredericksburg, and Gettysburg,
      I see them gathering fast;
    And up from Manassas, what is it that passes
      Like thin clouds in the blast?

    From the Wilderness, where blanches
      The nameless skeleton;
    From Vicksburg's slaughter and red-streaked water,
      And the trenches of Donelson;
    From the cruel, cruel prisons,
      Where their bodies pined away,
    From groaning decks, from sunken wrecks,
      They gather with us to-day.

    And they say to us, "Rally! rally!
      The work is almost done!
    Ye harvesters, sally from mountain and valley
      And reap the fields we won!
    We sowed for endless years of peace,
      We harrowed and watered well;
    Our dying deeds were the scattered seeds:
      Shall they perish where they fell?"

    And their brothers, left behind them
      In the deadly roar and clash
    Of cannon and sword, by fort and ford,
      And the carbine's quivering flash,--
    Before the Rebel citadel
      Just trembling to its fall,
    From Georgia's glens, from Florida's fens,
      For us they call, they call!

    The life-blood of the tyrant
      Is ebbing fast away;
    Victory waits at her opening gates,
      And smiles on our array;
    With solemn eyes the Centuries
      Before us watching stand,
    And Love lets down his starry crown
      To bless the future land.

    One more sublime endeavor,
      And behold the dawn of Peace!
    One more endeavor, and war forever
      Throughout the land shall cease!
    For ever and ever the vanquished power
      Of Slavery shall be slain,
    And Freedom's stained and trampled flower
      Shall blossom white again!

    Then rally! rally! rally!
      Make tumult in the land!
    Ye foresters, rally from mountain and valley!
      Ye fishermen, from the strand!
    Brave sons of the West, America's best!
      New England's men of might!
    From prairie and crag unfurl the flag,
      And rally to the fight!

FINANCES OF THE REVOLUTION.

In all historical studies we should still bear in mind the difference between the point of
view from which one looks at events and that from which they were seen by the actors themselves.
We all act under the influence of ideas. Even those who speak of theories with contempt are
none the less the unconscious disciples of some theory, none the less busied in working out
some problems of the great theory of life. Much as they fancy themselves to differ from the
speculative man, they differ from him only in contenting themselves with seeing the path as
it lies at their feet, while he strives to embrace it all, starting-point and end, in one comprehensive
view. And thus in looking back upon the past we are irresistibly led to arrange the events
of history, as we arrange the facts of a science, in their appropriate classes and under their
respective laws. And thus, too, these events give us the true measure of the intellectual and
moral culture of the times, the extent to which just ideas prevailed therein upon all the duties
and functions of private and public life. Tried by the standard of absolute truth and right,
grievously would they all fall short,--and we, too, with them. Judged by the human standard
of progressive development and gradual growth,--the only standard to which the man of the beam
can venture, unrebuked, to bring the man with the mote,--we shall find much in them all to
sadden us, and much, also, in which we can all sincerely rejoice.

In judging, therefore, the political acts of our ancestors, we have a right to bring them to
the standard of the political science of their age, but we have no right to bring them to the
higher standard of our own. Montesquieu could give them but an imperfect clue to the labyrinth
in which they found themselves involved; and yet no one had seen farther into the mysteries
of social and political organization than Montesquieu. Hume had scattered brilliant rays on
dark places, and started ideas which, once at work in the mind, would never rest till they
had evolved momentous truths and overthrown long-standing errors. But no one had yet seen,
with Adam Smith, that labor was the original source of every form of wealth,--that the farmer,
the merchant, the manufacturer, were all equally the instruments of national prosperity,--or
demonstrated as unanswerably as he did that nations grow rich and powerful by giving as they
receive, and that the good of one is the good of all. The world had not yet seen that fierce
conflict between antagonistic principles which she was soon to see in the French Revolution;
nor had political science yet recorded those daring experiments in remoulding society, those
constitutions framed in closets, discussed in clubs, accepted and overthrown with equal demonstrations
of popular zeal, and which, expressing in their terrible energy the universal dissatisfaction
with past and present, the universal grasping at a brighter future, have met and answered so
many grave questions,--questions neither propounded nor solved in any of the two hundred constitutions
which Aristotle studied in order to prepare himself for the composition of his "Politics."
The world had not yet seen a powerful nation tottering on the brink of anarchy, with all the
elements of prosperity in her bosom,--nor a bankrupt state sustaining a war that demanded annual
millions, and growing daily in wealth and power,--nor the economical phenomena which followed
the reopening of Continental commerce in 1814,--nor the still more startling phenomena which
a few years later attended England's return to specie-payments and a specie-currency,--nor
statesmen setting themselves gravely down with the map before them to the final settlement
of Europe, and, while the ink was yet fresh on their protocols, seeing all the results of their
combined wisdom set at nought by the inexorable development of the fundamental principle which
they had refused to recognize.

But we have seen these things, and, having seen them, unconsciously apply the knowledge derived
from them in our judgment of events to which we have no right to apply it. We condemn errors
which we should never have detected without the aid of a light which was hidden from our fathers,
and will still be dwelling upon shortcomings which nothing could have avoided but a general
diffusion of that wisdom which Providence never vouchsafes except as a gift to a few exalted
minds. Every school-boy has his text-book of political economy now: but many can remember when
these books first made their appearance in schools; and so late as 1820 the Professor of History
in English Cambridge publicly lamented that there was no work upon this vital subject which
he could put into the hands of his classes.

When, therefore, our fathers found themselves face to face with the complex questions of finance,
they naturally fell back upon the experience and devices of their past history: they did as
in such emergencies men always do,--they tried to meet the present difficulty without weighing
maturely the future difficulties. The present was at the door, palpable, stern, urgent, relentless;
and as they looked at it, they could see nothing beyond half so full of perplexity and danger.
They hoped, as in the face of all history and all experience men will ever hope, that out of
those depths which their feeble eyes were unable to penetrate something would yet arise in
their hour of need to avert the peril and snatch them from the precipice. Their past history
had its lessons of encouragement, some thought, and, some thought, of warning. They seized
the example, but the admonition passed by unheeded.

Short as the chronological record of American history then was, that exchange of the products
of labor which so speedily grows up into commerce had already passed through all its phases,
from direct barter to bank-notes and bills of exchange. Men gave what they wanted less to get
what they wanted more, the products of industry without doors for the products of industry
within doors; and it was only when they felt the necessity of adding to their stock of luxuries
or conveniences from a distance that they experienced the want of money. Prices naturally found
their own level,--were what, when left to themselves they always are, the natural expression
of the relations between demand and supply. Tobacco stood the Virginian in stead of money long
after money had become abundant; procuring him corn, meat, raiment. More than once, too, it
procured him something better still. In the very same year in which the Pilgrims landed at
Plymouth, history tells us, ninety maidens of "virtuous education and demeanor" landed in Virginia;
the next year brought sixty more; and, provident industry reaping its own reward, he whose
busy hands had raised the largest crop of tobacco was enabled to make the first choice of a
wife. And it must have been an edifying and pleasant spectacle to see each stalwart Virginian
pressing on towards the landing with his bundle of tobacco on his back, and walking deliberately
home again with an affectionate wife under his arm.

But already there was a pernicious principle at work,--protested against by experience wherever
tried, and still repeatedly tried anew,--the assumption by Government of the power to regulate
the prices of goods. The first instance carries us back to 1618, and thinking men still believed
it possible in 1777. The right to regulate the prices of labor was its natural corollary, bringing
with it the power of creating legal tenders and the various representatives of value, without
any correspondent measures for creating the value itself, or, in simpler words, paper-money
without capital. And thus, logically as well as historically, we reach the first issue of paper-money
in 1690, that year so memorable as the year of the first Congress.

New England, encouraged by a successful expedition against Port Royal, made an attempt upon
Quebec. Confident of success, she sent forth her little army without providing the means of
paying it. The soldiers came back soured by disaster and fatigue, and, not yet up to the standard
of '76, were upon the point of mutinying for their pay. To escape the immediate danger, Massachusetts
bethought her of bills of credit. They were issued, accepted, and redeemed, although the first
holders suffered great losses, and the last holders or the speculators were the only ones that
found them faithful pledges. The flood-gates once opened, the water poured in amain. Every
pressing emergency afforded a pretext for a new issue. Other Colonies followed the seductive
example. Paper was soon issued to make money plenty. Men's minds became familiar with the idea,
as they saw the convenient substitute passing freely from hand to hand. Accepted at market,
accepted at the retail store, accepted in the counting-room, accepted for taxes, everywhere
a legal tender, it seemed adequate to all the demands of domestic trade. But erelong came undue
fluctuations of prices, depreciations, failures,--all the well-known indications of an unsound
currency. England interposed to protect her own merchants, to whom American paper-money was
utterly worthless; and Parliament stripped it of its value as a legal tender. Men's minds were
divided. They had never before been called upon to discuss such questions upon such a scale
or in such a form. They were at a loss for the principle, still enveloped in the multitude
and variety of conflicting theories and obstinate facts.

One fact, however, was clearly established,--that a government could, in great needs, make
paper fulfil, for a while, the office of money; and if a regular government, why not also a
revolutionary government, sustained and accepted by the people? Here, then, begins the history
of the Continental money,--the principal chapter in the financial history of the Revolution,--leading
us, like all such histories, over ground thick-strown with unheeded admonitions and neglected
warnings, through a round of constantly recurring phenomena, varied only here and there by
modifications in the circumstances under which they appear.

It is much to be regretted that we have no record of the discussions through which Congress
reached the resolves of June 22, 1775: "That a sum not exceeding two millions of Spanish milled
dollars be emitted by the Congress in bills of credit for the defence of America. That the
twelve confederated Colonies" (Georgia, it will be remembered, had not yet sent delegates)
"be pledged for the redemption of the bills of credit now to be emitted." We do not even know
positively that there was any discussion. If there was, it is not difficult to conceive how
some of the reasoning ran,--how each had arguments and examples from his own Colony: how confidently
Pennsylvanians would speak of the security which they had given to their paper; how confidently
Virginians would assert that even the greatest straits might be passed without having recourse
to so dangerous a medium; how all the facts in the history of paper-money would be brought
forward to prove both sides of the question, but how the underlying principle, subtile, impalpable,
might still elude them all, as for thirty-five years longer it still continued to elude wise
statesmen and thoughtful economists; how, at last, some impatient spirit, breaking through
the untimely delay, sternly asked them what else they proposed to do. By what alchemy would
they create gold and silver? By what magic would they fill the coffers which their non-exportation
resolutions had kept empty, or bring in the supplies which their non-importation resolutions
had cut off? What arguments of their devising would induce a people in arms against taxation
to submit to tenfold heavier taxes than those which they had indignantly repelled? Necessity,
inexorable necessity, was now their lawgiver; they had adopted an army, they must support it;
they had voted pay to their officers, they must devise the means of giving their vote effect;
arms, ammunition, camp-equipage, everything was to be provided for. The people were full of
ardor, glowing with fiery zeal; your promise to pay will be received like payment; your commands
will be instantly obeyed. Every hour's delay imperils the sacred cause, chills the holy enthusiasm;
action, prompt, energetic, resolute action, is what the crisis calls for. Men must see that
we are in earnest; the enemy must see it; nothing else will bring them to terms; nothing else
will give us a lasting peace: and in such a peace how easily, how cheerfully, shall we all
unite in paying the debt which won for us so inestimable a blessing!

It would have been difficult to deny the force of such an appeal. There were doubtless men
there who believed firmly in the virtue of the people,--who thought, that, after the proof
which the people had given of their readiness to sacrifice the interests of the present moment
to the interests of a day and a posterity that they might not live to see, it would be worse
than skepticism to call it in question. But even these men might hesitate about the form of
the sacrifice they called for, for they knew how often men are governed by names, and that
their minds might revolt at the idea of a formal tax, although they would submit to pay it
fifty-fold under the name of depreciation. Even at this day, with all our additional light,--the
combined light of science and of experience,--it is difficult to see what else they could have
done without strengthening dangerously the hands of their domestic enemies. Nor let this be
taken as a proof that they engaged rashly in an unequal contest, even though it was necessarily
in part a war of paper against gold. They have been accused of this by their friends as well
as by their enemies: they have been accused of sacrificing a positive good to an uncertain
hope,--of suffering their passions to hurry them into a war for which they had made no adequate
preparation, and had not the means of making any,--that they wilfully, almost wantonly, incurred
the fearful responsibility of staking the lives and fortunes of those who were looking to them
for guidance upon the chances of a single cast. But the accusation is unjust. As far as human
foresight could reach, they had calculated these chances carefully. They knew the tenure by
which they held their authority, and that, if they ran counter to the popular will, the people
would fall from them,--that, if they should fail in making their position good, they would
be the first, almost the only victims,--that, then as ever, "the thunderbolts on highest mountains
light." Charles Carroll added "of Carrollton" to his name, so that, if the Declaration he was
setting it to should bring forfeiture and confiscation, there might be no mistake about the
victim. Nor was it without a touch of sober earnestness that Harrison, bulky and fat, said
to the lean and shadowy Gerry, as he laid down his pen,--"When hanging-time comes, I shall
have the advantage of you. I shall be dead in a second, while you will be kicking in the air
half an hour after I am gone." But they knew also, that, if there are dangers which we do not
perceive till we come full upon them, there are likewise helps which we do not see till we
find ourselves face to face with them,--and that in the life of nations, as in the life of
individuals, there are moments when all that the wisest and most conscientious can do is to
see that everything is in its place, every man at his post, and resolutely bide the shock.

While this subject was pressing upon Congress, it was occupying no less seriously leading minds
in the different Colonies. All felt that the success of the experiment must chiefly depend
upon the degree of security that could be given to the bills. But how to reach that necessary
degree was a perplexing question. Three ways were suggested in the New-York Convention: that
Congress should fix upon a sum, assign each Colony its proportion, and the issue be made by
the Colony upon its own responsibility; or that the United Colonies should make the issue,
each Colony pledging itself to redeem the part that fell to it; or, lastly, that, Congress
issuing the sum, and each Colony assuming its proportionate responsibility, the Colonies should
still be bound as a whole to make up for the failure of any individual Colony to redeem its
share. The latter was proposed by the Convention as offering greater chances of security, and
tending at the same time to strengthen the bond of union. It was in nearly this form, also,
that it came from Congress.

No time was now lost in carrying the resolution into effect. The next day, Tuesday, June 23,
the number, denomination, and form of the bills were decided in a Committee of the Whole. It
was resolved to make bills of eight denominations, from one to eight, and issue forty-nine
thousand of each, completing the two millions by eleven thousand eight hundred of twenty dollars
each. The form of the bill was to be,--

     Continental Currency.

     No. Dollars.

In the same sitting a committee of five was appointed "to get proper plates engraved, to provide
paper, and to agree with printers to print the above bills." Both Franklin and John Adams were
on this committee.

Had they lived in 1862 instead of 1775, how their doors would have been beset by engravers
and paper-dealers and printers! What baskets of letters would have been poured upon their tables!
How would they have dreaded the sound of the knocker or the cry of the postman! But, alas!
paper was so far from abundant that generals were often reduced to hard straits for enough
of it to write their reports and despatches on; and that Congressmen were not much better off
will be believed when we find John Adams sending his wife a sheet or two at a time under the
same envelope with his own letters. Printers there were, as many, perhaps, as the business
of the country required, but not enough for the eager contention which the announcement of
Government work to be done excites among us in these days. And of engravers there were but
four between Maine and Georgia. Of these four, one was Paul Revere of the midnight ride, the
Boston boy of Huguenot blood whose self-taught graver had celebrated the repeal of the Stamp
Act, condemned to perpetual derision the rescinders of 1768, and told the story of the Boston
Massacre,--who, when the first grand jury under the new organization was drawn, had met the
judge with, "I refuse to sarve,"--a scientific mechanic,--a leader at the Tea-party,--a soldier
of the old war,--prepared to serve in this war, too, with sword, or graver, or science,--fitting
carriages, at Washington's command, to the cannon from which the retreating English had knocked
off the trunnions, learning how to make powder at the command of the Provincial Congress, and
setting up the first powder-mill ever built in Massachusetts.

No mere engraver's task for him, this engraving the first bill-plates of Continental Currency!
How he must have warmed over the design! how carefully he must have chosen his copper! how
buoyantly he must have plied his graver, harassed by no doubts, disturbed by no misgivings
of the double mission which those little plates were to perform,--the good one first, thank
God! but then how fatal a one afterward!--but resolved and hopeful as on that April night when
he spurred his horse from cottage to hamlet, rousing the sleepers with the cry, long unheard
in the sweet valleys of New England, "Up! up! the enemy is coming!"

The paper of these bills was thick, so thick that the enemy called it the paste-board money
of the rebels. Plate, paper, and printing, all had little in common with the elaborate finish
and delicate texture of a modern bank-note. To sign them was too hard a tax upon Congressmen
already taxed to the full measure of their working-time by committees and protracted daily
sessions; and so a committee of twenty-eight gentlemen not in Congress was employed to sign
and number them, receiving in compensation one dollar and a third for every thousand bills.

Meanwhile loud calls for money were daily reaching the doors of Congress. Everywhere money
was wanted,--money to buy guns, money to buy powder, money to buy provisions, money to send
officers to their posts, money to march troops to their stations, money to speed messengers
to and fro, money for the wants of to-day, money to pay for what had already been done, and
still more money to insure the right doing of what was yet to do: Washington wanted it; Lee
wanted it; Schuyler wanted it: from north to south, from seaboard to inland, one deep, monotonous,
menacing cry,--"Money, or our hands are powerless!"

How long would these two millions stand such a drain? Spent before they were received, hardly
touching the Treasury-chest as a starting-place before they flew on the wings of the morning
to gladden thousands of expectant hearts with a brief respite from one of their many cares.
Relief there certainly was,--neither long, indeed, nor lasting, but still relief. Good Whigs
received the bills, as they did everything else that came from Congress, with unquestioning
confidence. Tories turned from them in derision, and refused to give their goods for them.
Whereupon Congress took the matter under consideration, and told them that they must. It was
soon seen that another million would be wanted, and in July a second issue was resolved on.
All-devouring war had soon swallowed these also. Three more millions were ordered in November.
But the war was to end soon,--by June, '76, at the latest. All their expenditures were calculated
upon this supposition; and wealth flowing in under the auspices of a just and equable accommodation
with their reconciled mother, these millions which had served them so well in the hour of need
would soon be paid by a happy and grateful people from an abundant treasury.

But early in 1776 reports came of English negotiations for foreign mercenaries to help put
down the rebellion,--reports which soon took the shape of positive information. No immediate
end of the war now: already, too, independence was looming up on the turbid horizon; already
the current was bearing them onward, deep, swift, irresistible: and thus seizing still more
eagerly upon the future, they poured out other four millions in February, five millions in
May, five millions in July. The Confederacy was not yet formed; the Declaration of Independence
had nothing yet to authenticate it but the signatures of John Hancock and Charles Thompson;
and the republic that was to be was already solemnly pledged to the payment of twenty millions
of dollars.

Thus far men's faith had not faltered. They saw the necessity and accepted it, giving their
goods and their labor unhesitatingly for a slip of paper which derived all its value from the
resolves of a body of men who might, upon a reverse, be thrown down as rapidly as they had
been set up. And then whom were they to look to for indemnification? But now began a sensible
depreciation,--slight, indeed, at first, but ominous. Congress took the alarm, and resolved
upon a loan,--resolved to borrow directly what they had hitherto borrowed indirectly, the goods
and the labor of their constituents. Accordingly, on the third of October, a resolve was passed
for raising five millions of dollars at four per cent; and in order to make it convenient to
lenders, loan-offices were established in every Colony with a commissioner for each.

Money came in slowly, but ran out so fast that in November Congress ordered weekly returns
from the Treasury, not, of sums on hand, but of what parts of the last emission remained unexpended.
The campaign of '77 was at hand; how the campaign of '76 would close was yet uncertain. The
same impenetrable veil that hid Trenton and Princeton from their eyes concealed the disasters
of Fort Washington and the Jerseys. They still looked hopefully to the lower line of the Hudson.
They resolved, therefore, to make an immediate effort to supply the Treasury by a lottery to
be drawn at Philadelphia.

A lottery,--does not the word carry one back, a great many years back, to other times and other
manners? The Articles of War were now on the table of Congress for revision, and in the second
and third of those articles officers and soldiers had been earnestly recommended to attend
divine service diligently, and to refrain, under grave penalties, from profane cursing or swearing.
And here legislators deliberately set themselves to raise money by means which we have deliberately
condemned as gambling. But years were yet to pass before statesmen, or the people rather, were
brought to feel that the lottery-office and gaming-table stand side by side on the same broad
highway.

No such thoughts troubled the minds of our forefathers, well stored as those minds were with
human and divine lore; but, going to work without a scruple, they prepared an elaborate scheme
and fixed the first of March for the day of drawing,--"or sooner, if sooner full." It was not
full, however, nor was it full when the subject next came up. Tickets were sold; committees
sat; Congress returned to the subject from time to time: but what with the incipient depreciation
of the bills of credit, the rising prices of goods and provisions, and the incessant calls
upon every purse for public and private purposes, the lottery failed to commend itself either
to speculators or to the bulk of the people. Some good Whigs bought tickets from principle,
and, like many of the good Whigs who took the bills of credit for the same reason, lost their
money.

In the same November the Treasury was ordered to make every preparation for a new issue; and
to meet the wants of the retail trade, it was resolved at the same time to issue five hundred
thousand dollars in bills of two-thirds, one-third, one-sixth, and one-ninth of a dollar. Evident
as it ought now to have been that nothing but taxation could relieve them, they still shrank
from it. "Do you think, Gentlemen," said a member, "that I will consent to load my constituents
with taxes, when we can send to our printer and get a wagon-load of money, one quire of which
will pay for the whole?" It was so easy a way of making money that men seemed to be getting
into the humor of it.

The campaign of '77, like the campaign of '76, was fought upon paper-money without any material
depreciation. The bills could never be signed as fast as they were called for. But this could
not last. The public mind was growing anxious. Extensive interests, in some cases whole fortunes,
were becoming involved in the question of ultimate payment. The alarm gained upon Congress.
Burgoyne, indeed, was conquered; but a more powerful, more insidious enemy, one to whom they
themselves had opened the gate, was already within their works and fast making his way to the
heart of the citadel. The depreciation had reached four for one, and there was but one way
to prevent it from going lower. Congress deliberated anxiously. Thus far the public faith had
supported the war. But, they reasoned, the quantity of the money for which this faith stood
pledged already exceeded the demands of commerce, and hence its value was proportionably reduced.
Add to this the arts of open and secret enemies, the avidity of professed friends, and the
scarcity of foreign commodities, and it is easy to account for the depreciation. "The consequences
were equally obvious and alarming,"--"depravity of morals, decay of public virtue, a precarious
supply for the war, debasement of the public faith, injustice to individuals, and the destruction
of the safety, honor, and independence of the United States." But "a reasonable and effectual
remedy" was still within their reach, and therefore, "with mature deliberation and the most
earnest solicitude," they recommended the raising by taxes on the different States, in proportion
to their population, five millions of dollars in quarterly payments, for the service of 1778.

But having explained, justified, and recommended, the power of Congress ceased. Like the Confederation,
it had no right of coercion, no machinery of its own for acting upon the States. And, unhappily,
the States, pressed by their individual wants, feeling keenly their individual sacrifices and
dangers, failed to see that the nearest road to relief lay through the odious portal of taxation.
Had the mysterious words that Dante read on the gates of Hell been written on it, they could
not have shrunk from it with a more instinctive feeling:--

    "All hope abandon, ye who enter here!"

Some States paid, some did not pay. The sums that came in were wholly insufficient to relieve
the actual pressure, and that pressure, unrelieved, grew daily more severe. They had tried
the regulating of prices,--they had tried loans,--they had tried a lottery; and now they were
forced back again to their earliest and most dangerous expedient, paper-money. New floods poured
forth, and the parched earth drank them greedily up. One may almost fancy, as he looks at the
tables, that he sees the shadowy form of sickly Credit tottering feebly forth to catch a gleam
of sunshine, a breath of pure air, while myriads of little sprites, each bearing in his hand
an emblazoned scroll with "Depreciation" written upon it in big yellow letters, dance merrily
around him, thrusting the bitter record in his face, whichever way he turns, with gibes and
taunts and demoniac laughter. But his course was almost ended: the grave was nigh, an unhonored
grave; and as eager hands heaped the earth upon his faded form, a stern voice bade men remember
that they who strayed from the path as he had done must sooner or later find a grave like his.

It was not without a desperate struggle that Congress saw the rapid decline and shameful death
of its currency. The ground was fought manfully, foot by foot, inch by inch. The idea that
money derived its value from acts of government seemed to have taken deep hold of their minds,
and their policy was in perfect harmony with their belief. In January, 1776, they had solemnly
resolved that everybody who refused to accept their bills, or did anything to obstruct the
circulation of them, should, upon due conviction, "be deemed, published, and treated as an
enemy of his country, and be precluded from all trade or intercourse with the inhabitants of
these Colonies." And to enforce it there were Committees of Inspection, whose power seldom
lay idle in their hands, whose eyes were never sealed in slumber. In this work, which seemed
good in their eyes, the State Assemblies and Conventions and Committees of Safety joined heart
and hand with Congress. Tender-laws were tried, and the relentless hunt of creditor after debtor
became a flight of the recusant creditor from the debtor eager to wipe out his responsibility
for gold or silver with a ream or two of paper. Limitation of prices was tried, and produced
its natural results,--discontent, insufficient supplies, heavy losses. Threatening resolves
were renewed, and fell powerless. It was hoped that some relief might come from the sales of
confiscated property; but property changed hands, and the Treasury was none the better off:
just as in France, a few years later, the whole landed property of the kingdom changed hands,
and left the government assignats what it found them,--bits of waste-paper.

Meanwhile speculation ran riot. Every form of wastefulness and extravagance prevailed in town
and country,--nowhere more than at Philadelphia, under the very eyes of Congress,--luxury of
dress, luxury of equipage, luxury of the table. We are told of one entertainment at which eight
hundred pounds were spent in pastry. As I read the private letters of those days, I sometimes
feel as a man would feel who should be permitted to look down upon a foundering ship whose
crew were preparing for death by breaking open the steward's room and drinking themselves into
madness.

An earnest appeal was made to the States. The sober eloquence and profound statesmanship of
John Jay were employed to bring the subject before the country in its true light and manifold
bearings,--the state of the Treasury, the results of loans and of taxes, and the nature and
amount of the obligations incurred. The natural value and wealth of the country were held to
view as the foundations on which Congress had undertaken to build up a system of public finances,
beginning with bills of Credit because there was no nation they could have borrowed of, coming
next to loans, and thus "unavoidably creating a public debt: a debt of $159,948,880, in emissions,--$7,545,196-67/90,
in money borrowed before the first of March, 1778, with the interest payable in France,--$26,188,909,
money borrowed since the first of March, 1778, with interest due in America,--about $4,000,000,
of money due abroad." The taxes had brought in only $3,027,560; so that all the money supplied
to Congress by the people was but $36,701,665-67/90.

"Judge, then, of the necessity of emissions, and learn from whom and whence that necessity
arose. We are also to inform you, that, on the first day of September instant, we resolved
that we would on no account whatever emit more bills of credit than to make the whole amount
of such bills two hundred million dollars; and as the sum emitted and in circulation amounted
to $159,948,880, and the sum of $40,051,120 remained to complete the two hundred million above
mentioned, we, on the third day of September instant, further resolved that we would emit such
part only of the said sum as should be absolutely necessary for public exigencies before adequate
supplies could otherwise be obtained, relying for such ratios on the exertions of the several
States."

Coming to the depreciation, they reduce the causes to three kinds,--natural, or artificial,
or both. The natural cause was the excess of the supply over the demands of commerce; the artificial
cause was a distrust of the ability or inclination of the United States to redeem their bills;
and assuming that both causes have combined in producing the depreciation of the Continental
money, they proceed to prove that there can be no doubt of the ability of the United States
to pay their debt, and none of their inclination. Under the head of inclination the argument
is divided into three parts:--

First, Whether, and in what manner, the faith of the United States has been pledged for the
redemption of their bills.

Second, Whether they have put themselves in a political capacity to redeem them.

Third, Whether, admitting the two former propositions, there is any reason to apprehend a wanton
violation of the public faith. The idea that Congress can destroy the money, because Congress
made it, is treated with scorn.

"A bankrupt, faithless Republic would be a novelty in the political world.... The pride of
America revolts from the idea; her citizens know for what purposes these emissions were made,
and have repeatedly plighted their faith for the redemption of them; they are to be found in
every man's possession, and every man is interested in their being redeemed.... Provide for
continuing your armies in the field till victory and peace shall lead them home, and avoid
the reproach of permitting the currency to depreciate in your hands, when, by yielding a part
to taxes and loans, the whole might have been appreciated and preserved. Humanity as well as
justice makes this demand upon you; the complaints of ruined widows and the cries of fatherless
children, whose whole support has been placed in your hands and melted away, have doubtless
reached you: take care that they ascend no higher.... Determine to finish the contest as you
began it, honestly and gloriously. Let it never be said that America had no sooner become independent
than she became insolvent."

But it was not only the Continental money that was blocking up the channels through which a
sound currency would have carried vigor and health. The States had their debts and their paper-money
too,--wheel within wheel of complicated, desperate insolvency. The two hundred millions had
been issued and spent. There was no money to send to Washington for his army, and he was compelled
for a while to support them by seizing the articles he needed, and giving certificates in return.
The States were called upon for specific supplies, beef, pork, flour, for the use of the army,--a
method so expensive, irregular, and partial, that it was soon abandoned. One chance remained:
to call in the old money by taxes, and burn it as soon as it was in; then to issue a new paper,--one
of the new for every twenty of the old; and the whole of the old was cancelled, to issue only
ten millions of the new,--four millions of it subject to the order of Congress, and the remaining
six to be divided among the States: the whole redeemable in specie within six years, and bearing
till then an interest of five per cent., payable in specie annually or on redemption, at the
option of the holder. By this skilful change of base it was hoped that a bold front could still
be presented to the enemy, and the field, which had been so long and so obstinately contested,
be finally won.

But the day of expedients was past. The zeal which had blazed forth with such energy at the
beginning of the war was fast sinking to a fitful, smouldering flame. Individual interests
were again taking the precedence of general interests. The moral sense of the people had contracted
a deadly taint from daily contact with corruption. The spirit of gambling, confined in the
beginning and lost to the eye, like Le Sage's Devil, had swollen to its full proportions, and,
in the garb of speculation, was undermining the foundations of society. Rogues were growing
rich; the honest men who were not already poor were daily growing poor. The laws that had been
made in the view of propping the currency had served only to countenance unscrupulous men in
paying their debts at a discount ruinous to the creditor. The laws against forestallers and
engrossers, who, it was currently believed, were leagued against both army and country, were
powerless, as such laws always are. Even Washington wished for a gallows like Haman's to hang
them on; but the army was kept starving none the less.

The seasons themselves--God's visible agents--seemed to combine against our cause. The years
1779 and 1780 were years of small crops. The winter of 1780 was severe far beyond the common
severity even of a Northern winter. Provisions were scarce, suffering universal. Farmers, as
if forgetting their dependence on rain and sunshine, had planted less than usual,--some from
disaffection, some because they were irritated at having to give up their corn and cattle for
worthless bills, and certificates which might prove equally worthless. Some, who were within
reach of the enemy, preferred to sell to them, for they paid in silver and gold. There were
riots in Philadelphia, put down at the point of the sword. There was mutiny in the army, and
this, too, was put down by the strong hand,--though the fearful sufferings which had caused
it justified it almost in the eye of sober reason.

It is easy to see why farmers should have been loath to raise more than they needed for their
own use,--why merchants should have been unwilling to lay in stores which they might be compelled
to sell at prices so truly nominal that the money which they received would often sink to half
they had taken it for before they were able to pass it. But it is not so easy to see why this
wretched substitute for values should have circulated so freely to the very last. Even at two
hundred for one, with the knowledge that the next twenty-four hours might make that two hundred
two hundred and fifty, or even more, without the slightest hope that it would ever be redeemed
at its nominal value, it would still buy everything that was to be sold,--provisions, goods,
houses, lands, even hard money itself. Down to its last gasp there were speculations afoot
to take advantage of the differences in the degree of its worthlessness at different places,
and buy it up in one place to sell it at another,--to buy it in Philadelphia at two hundred
and twenty-five for one, and sell it in Boston at seventy-five for one. It was possible, if
the ball passed quickly from hand to hand, that some might gain; it was very manifest that
some must lose: and thus outcrops that pernicious doctrine, that true, life-giving, health-diffusing
commerce consists in stripping one to clothe another.

And thus we reach the memorable year 1781, the great, decisive year of the war. While Greene
was fighting Cornwallis and Rawdon, and Washington watching eagerly for an opportunity to strike
at Clinton, Congress was busy making up its accounts. One circumstance told for them. There
was no longer the same dearth of gold and silver which had embarrassed them so much at the
beginning of the war. A gainful commerce was now opened with the West Indies. The French army
and the French fleet were here, and hard money with them. Louis-d'ors and livres and Spanish
dollars,--how welcome must their pleasant faces have looked, after this long, long absence!
With what a thrill must the hand which had touched nothing for years but Continental bills
have closed upon solid gold and silver! It is easy to conceive that a new spirit must soon
have manifested itself in the wide circle of contractors and agents,--that shopkeepers must
speedily have discovered that their business was shifting its ground as they obtained a reliable
standard for counting their losses and gains,--that every branch of commerce must have felt
a new vigor diffusing itself through its veins. But it is equally evident, that, while the
gold and silver which flowed in upon them from these sources strengthened the people for the
work they were to do and the burdens they were to bear, the comparisons they were daily making
between fluctuating paper and steadfast metal were not of a nature to strengthen their faith
in money that could be made by a turn of the printing-press and a few strokes of the pen.

Another circumstance told for them, too. The accession of Maryland had fulfilled the conditions
for the acceptance of the Confederation so long held in abeyance, and the finances were taken
from a board and intrusted to the hands of a skilful and energetic financier. Robert Morris,
who had protested energetically against the tender-laws, made specie-payments the condition
of his acceptance of office; and on the twenty-second of May, though not without a struggle,
Congress resolved "that the whole debts already due by the United States be liquidated as soon
as may be to their specie-value, and funded, if agreeable to the creditors, as a loan upon
interest; that the States be severally informed that the calculations of the expenses of the
present campaign are made in solid coin, and therefore that the requisitions from them respectively,
being grounded on those calculations, must be complied with in such manner as effectually to
answer the purpose designed; that, experience having evinced the inefficacy of all attempts
to support the credit of paper-money by compulsory acts, it is recommended to such States,
where laws making paper-bills a tender yet exist, to repeal the same."

Another public body, the Supreme Executive Council of Pennsylvania, dealt it another blow,
fixing the ratio at which it was to be received in public payments at one hundred and seventy-five
for one. Circulation ceased. In a short time the money that had been carted to and fro in reams
disappeared from the shop, the counting-room, the market. All dealings were in hard money.
Gold and silver resumed their legitimate sway, and men began to look hopefully forward to a
return of economy, frugality, and an invigorating commerce.

The Superintendent of Finance set himself seriously to his task. One great obstacle had been
removed; one great and decisive step had been made towards the restoration of that sense of
security without which industry and enterprise are powerless. As a merchant, he was familiar
with the resources of the country; as a Member of Congress, he was familiar with the wants
of Government. His resources were taxes and loans; his obligations, an old debt and a daily
expenditure. Opposed as he was to the irresponsible currency which had brought the country
to the brink of ruin, he was a believer in banks and bills resting on a secure basis. One of
his earliest measures was to prepare, with the aid of his Assistant-Superintendent, Gouverneur
Morris, a plan of a bank, which soon after, with the sanction of Congress, went into operation
as the Bank of North America. Small as the capital with which it started was,--only four hundred
thousand dollars,--its influence was immediately felt throughout the country. It gave an impulse
to legitimate enterprise which had long been wanting, and a confidence to buyer and seller
which they had not felt since the first year of the war. In his public operations the Superintendent
used it freely, and, using it at the same time wisely, was enabled to call upon it for aid
to the full extent of its ability without impairing its strength.

Henceforth the financial history of the Revolution, although it loses none of its importance,
loses much of its narrative-interest. No longer a hand-to-hand conflict between coin and paper,--no
longer the melancholy spectacle of wise men doing unwise things, and honorable men doing things
which, in any other form, they would have been the first to brand with dishonor,--it still
continues a long, a wearisome, and often a mortifying struggle: men knowing their duty and
refusing to do it, knowing consequences and yet blindly shutting their eyes to them. I will
give but one example.

After a careful estimate of the operations of 1782, Congress had called upon the States for
eight millions. Up to January, 1783, only four hundred and twenty thousand had come into the
Treasury. Four hundred thousand Treasury-notes were almost due; the funds in Europe were overdrawn
to the amount of five hundred thousand by the sale of drafts. But Morris, waiting only to cover
himself by a special authorization of Congress, made fresh sales upon the hopes of the Dutch
loan and the possibility of a new French loan, and still held on--as cautiously as he could,
but ever boldly and skilfully--his anxious way through the rocks and shoals that menaced him
on every side. He was rewarded, as such men too often are, by calumny and suspicion. But when
men came to look closely at his acts, comparing his means with his wants, and the expenditure
of the Treasury Board with the expenditure of the Finance Office, it was seen and acknowledged
that he had saved the country thirteen millions a year in hard money.

And now, from our stand-point of the Peace,--from 1783,--let us give a parting glance at the
ground over which we have passed. We see thirteen Colonies, united by interest, divided by
habits, association, and tradition, engaging in a doubtful contest with one of the most powerful
and energetic nations which the world had ever seen; we see them begin, as men always do, with
very imperfect conceptions of the time it would last, the lengths to which it would carry them,
or the sacrifices it would impose; we see them boldly adopting some measures, timidly shrinking
from others,--reasoning justly about some things, reasoning falsely about things equally important,--endowed
at times with singular foresight, visited at times by incomprehensible blindness: boatmen on
a mighty river, strong themselves and resolute and skilful, plying their oars manfully from
first to last, but borne onward by a current which no human science could measure, no human
strength could resist.

They knew that the resources of the country were exhaustless; and they threw themselves upon
those resources in the only way by which they could reach them. Their bills of credit were
the offspring of enthusiasm and faith. The enthusiasm grew chill, the faith failed. With a
little more enthusiasm, the people would cheerfully have submitted to taxation; with a little
more faith, the Congress would have taxed them. In the end, the people paid for the shortcomings
of their enthusiasm by seventy millions of indirect taxation,--taxation through depreciation;
the Congress paid for the shortcomings of their faith by the loss of confidence and respect.
The war left them with a Federal debt of seventy million dollars, and State debts of nearly
twenty-six millions.

Could this have been avoided? Could they have done otherwise? It is easy, when the battle is
won, to tell how victory might have been bought cheaper,--when the campaign is ended, to show
what might perhaps have brought it to an earlier and more glorious close. It is easy for us,
with the whole field before us, to see that from the beginning, from the very first start,
although the formula was Taxation, the principle was Independence; but before we venture to
pass sentence, ought we not to pause and weigh well our judgment and our words,--we who, in
the fiercer contest through which we are passing, have so long failed to see, that, while the
formula is Secession, the principle is Slavery?

THROUGH-TICKETS TO SAN FRANCISCO: A PROPHECY.

We write this article in September. Within a few days, and without much heralding, has occurred
an event of prime importance to our country's future. This is the opening from New York to
St. Louis of a continuous broad-gauge line under the title of the Atlantic and Great Western
Railway. This line is twelve hundred miles long, and pursues the following route: By the New
York and Erie Road, from New York to the station of Salamanca; thence, by a separate road of
the Atlantic and Great Western, to Dayton, Ohio; thence, over the Cincinnati, Hamilton, and
Dayton Road, to Cincinnati; and finally, by the Ohio and Mississippi Road, to St. Louis. The
first excursion-train accomplished the whole distance in forty-four hours. We understand that
the regular express-trains of the line will be required to make equally good time,--ultimately,
perhaps, to reduce the time to forty hours.

This valuable connection has been mainly effected by the energy and talents of two men. Mr.
James McHenry, a Pennsylvanian by birth, but of late years resident abroad, has raised twenty
million dollars for the project in the money-markets of England, Spain, and Germany, the bonds
of the Company obtaining ready sale upon the guaranty of his personal high character for uprightness
and financial ability. Mr. Thomas W. Kennard, an engineer and capitalist of large views, discretion,
and experience, has managed the interests of the project here at home, securing the hearty
cooperation and good-will of all the roads now made continuous, and bringing the enterprise
to a successful issue with a skill possible only to first-class commercial genius. The former
of these gentlemen is Financial Director and Contractor, the latter, Engineer-in-Chief, Vice-President,
and General Manager of the line. At any other period than this their success would have been
widely talked of as a great national benefit. Even now let us not forget the public-spirited
men whose hopeful hands, in the midst of blood and din, have been sowing seeds of commercial
prosperity to glorify with their perfected harvest the day of our National triumph and reunion.

This work is the first instalment of the greatest popular enterprise in the world, the initial
fulfilment of a promise which America has made to herself and all the other nations,--one which
shall be completely fulfilled only when an iron highway stretches across her entire breadth,
from the Atlantic to the Pacific Ocean. As a people we have grudged neither time nor money
to the accomplishment of this end. We have dared the fiery desert and the frozen mountaintop,
the demons of thirst, starvation, and savage warfare. Our foremost scientific men, for the
sake of the great national enterprise, have taken their lives in their hands, going out to
meet peril and privation with the cheerful constancy of apostles and martyrs. The record of
expeditions bearing either directly or indirectly on the subject of the Pacific Railroad is
one to which every American citizen must point with a pride none the less hearty for the fact
that its route has not yet been absolutely decided. The one curse mingled with a young republic's
many blessings is the intrusion of political influences into the dispassionate field of national
enterprise. We might have determined the line of our Pacific Road before the breaking out of
the Rebellion, and by this time its first or Great-Plains section should have been in running
order, but for the partisan jealousies which prevailed in high places between the advocates
of the different routes. Slavery, that enfant gâté of our old-school and now happily obsolete
statecraft, insisted on the expensive toy of a southern and unpractical line, until our representatives,
harassed by the problem how to gratify her without incurring the contempt of the financial
world, gave over to the drift of events the settlement of their country's chief commercial
question. We are now in a position to decide coolly; no entangling alliances with a dead-weight
social system bias our plain judgment of practical pros and cons; but the opportunity for decision
arrives a little too late and a little too early for action. Congress, the legitimate custodian
of the Pacific Railroad, may be said to have passed the last four years in climbing to the
level of the country's vital exigency. Till Congress reaches that and understands it fully,
there is no surplus energy to be thrown away on the else paramount matters of a peaceful age.

But it must not be forgotten that the Pacific Railroad stands next to the maintenance of National
Unity on the docket of causes for adjudication by our representative tribunal. The people have
filed it away till the grand appeal is settled; but they have not forgotten it.

It is none the pleasanter thought to them because they have no time to talk about it, that
the great highway of the continent has been left, pendente lite, in the hands of squabbling
speculators, and that personal recriminations bar the progress of our commerce between sea
and sea. The indifference of our public trustees to the disgraceful controversies which have
embarrassed work on the eastern end of the line is itself not a disgrace only because human
power is limited to the care of one great matter at a time. The first Congress that meets under
the olive of an honorable peace must at once take the Pacific Railroad into the Nation's hands,
and prosecute it as the Nation's matter, with a liberal-mindedness learned from the conduct
of a great war. Next to the salvation of the Union, the completion of the Pacific Road most
fully justifies prompt action and comparative disregard of expenditure.

It is not our purpose, nor is this the place, to dictate to our legislators either the precise
line of their own action or that of the road. It is still proper to say that the arrangements
thus far entered into with private contractors have proved inadequate to the accomplishment
and unworthy of the character of the enterprise. Whatever may be the details of the improved
plan, it must embrace a sterner national surveillance over the execution of the project, and
a direct national assumption of its prime responsibility.

It is a mistaken notion to suppose that the Pacific-Railroad question rests on the same principles
as that of our minor internal improvements. It calls for no reopening of the long-hushed controversy
between Democracy and Whiggism. The best thinkers of the day are universally agreed to deprecate
legislation in every case where private enterprise will do its office. No good political economist
approves the emasculation of private effort by Government subsidy. The people are averse to
statutory crutches and go-carts, wherever it is possible for them to walk alone. We feel distrust
of the railroad which asks monopoly-privileges. The sight of a Governmental prop under any
ostensibly commercial concern warns an American from its neighborhood. He has learned that
true prestige lies with the people,--that there is no vital warmth in official patronage. Even
within the memory of young men a great change for the better has taken place in our commercial
manliness. Out first-class public enterprises blush to take Government help, as their directors
might blush, if at the close of an interview Mr. Lincoln "tipped" them like school-boys with
a holiday handful of greenbacks. There is no doubt that the ideal principle of democratic progress
demands the absolute non-interference of Government in all enterprises whose benefit accrues
to a part of its citizens, or which can be stimulated into life by the spontaneous operation
of popular interest.

But facts are not ideal, and absolute principles in their practical application make head only
by a curved line of compromise with the facts. The philosopher cannot go faster than the people.
Certain courses are proper for certain stages of development. Few New-York Democrats now denounce
the building of "Clinton's Ditch," and the fact that a majority approved of it as a sufficient
evidence that it was a measure suited to the period; though even an old Whig at this day could
not approve of a State canal under the auspices of Governor Seymour. Here are the two great
questions which at any time must regulate the exertion of Governmental power: Is the enterprise
vitally important? and, Will it be accomplished by private effort?

Because the Nation in several eminent instances saw the former question answered affirmatively
and the latter negatively, it centralized a certain amount of authority for the construction
of fortresses and the maintenance of a military force. These matters vitally concerned the
entire people, yet the ordinary stimuli to private enterprise were quite inadequate to securing
their accomplishment.

The Pacific Railroad stands on precisely the same grounds. It concerns the entire population
of the United States, but no ordinary business-organization of citizens will ever accomplish
it alone. The mere cost of its construction might stagger the most audacious financier; but
that is a minor obstacle. No doubt the city of New York and the State of California contain
capital enough for the completion of the entire road,--would subscribe to it, too, upon sufficient
guaranties. But who is to give those guaranties? Whose credit is broad enough to secure them?
Our Atlantic capitalists have too often been defrauded by stock-companies of moderate liabilities
and immediately under their own eyes, to feel quite comfortable about putting millions into
the hands of private operators, who shall presently have the Rocky Mountains between them and
their bondholders. In the case of almost any other railroad-enterprise this objection might
be answered by the proposal to build the line with the subscriptions of people living on its
route. But this line must take a route without people, and bring people to the route. Certain
other roads are guarantied by the pledge of their way-freight business. This road must be completed
before such a business exists; the business must be the product of the road. The ordinary principle
of demand and supply is reversed in its application to this case. Supply must precede demand.
Furnish the Pacific Railroad to the continent, and the continent in ten years will give it
all the business it can do. Wait fifty years for the continent to take the initiative, and
there will not yet be enough business to build the road.

This enterprise must be looked at in the light of a cash-advance from California and the Eastern
States to the Plains, the Mountains, and the Desert, secured by a pledge of all the mineral
and agricultural wealth of the party of the second part, guarantied by the prospective myriads
of settlers whom the road shall bring to tracts now lying waste through the mere lack of its
existence. In the course of the present article we shall endeavor to show the solidity of this
security, the responsibility of these indorsers. While we counsel confidence to the capital
which must build the road, we feel it imperative upon the National Government to enforce its
position as that capital's trustee. That capital for the most part lies east of the Missouri
and west of the Sierra Nevada. Between these two boundaries the road must run for eighteen
hundred miles through a region where capital may well be cautious of intrusting its life to
any less potent authority than that of the Nation itself.

The claims of the Pacific Railroad have usually been urged upon the ground of its benefit to
its termini. This ground is adequate to justify any advance of capital by the cities of New
York and San Francisco. With the completion of the road, San Francisco necessarily becomes
a depot for the entire China trade of the United States, and an entrepot for much of that between
China and Western Europe. With the development of our Japanese relations, still another stream
of wealth, now incalculable, must flow in through the Golden Gate. In the reverse current of
Asiatic commerce, New York's position at the eastern terminus of the continental belt gives
her a similar share. The gold-transport and the entire fast-freight business of New York and
San Francisco, now transacted at an enormous expense by Wells and Fargo's Express, must be
transferred en masse to the Pacific Road; while the passenger-carriage, now devolving on Isthmus
steamers and overland stages, may be passed, practically entire, to the credit of the new line.
Certainly, no traveller who has once purchased bitter experience with his ticket on Mr. Vanderbilt's
line will ever again patronize that enterprising capitalist, unless he sells his ships and
becomes a stockholder in the Pacific Railroad. The most enthusiastic lover of the sea must
abjure his predilections, when brought to the ordeal of the steamer Champion. Crowded like
rabbits in a hutch or captives in the Libby into such indecent propinquity with his kind that
the third day out makes him a misanthrope,--fed on the putrid remains of the last trip's commissariat,
turkeys which drop out of their skins while the cook is larding them in the galley, beef which
maybe eaten as spoon-meat, and tea apparently made with bilge-water,--sleeping or vainly trying
to sleep in an unventilated dungeon which should be called death instead of berth, where the
reek of the aforesaid putridities awakes him to breakfast without aid of gong,--propelled by
a second-hand engine, whose every wheeze threatens the terrors of dissolution,--morally certain,
that, if his floating sty from any cause ceases to float, there are not boats enough to save
an eighth of the passengers,--he must admire the ocean with a true poet's enthusiasm, if he
can brave the Champion a second time.

The considerations we have mentioned should be sufficiently operative with the capitalists
of New York and California, and, as such, are those most prominently urged by the friends of
the road. It would, however, be a great mistake to regard the through-business an all-comprehensive,
in enumerating the sources of profit to be relied on by the enterprise. For a better understanding
of that immense way-trade which lies between the oceans, waiting only for the whistle of the
steam-genie to wake it into vigorous life, let us treat the entire line as already continuous
from New York to San Francisco, and make an excursion to the Pacific on its prophetic rails.
We will suppose the track a uniform broad gauge, as it ought to be,--the Pacific Road connecting
at St. Louis with the Atlantic and Great Western by powerful boats, like those in use at Havre
de Grace, capable of ferrying the heaviest cars between the Illinois and Missouri shores. We
will take the liberty of constructing for ourselves the remainder of the still undecided route
to the Pacific. We run our ideal broad gauge as follows:--

From St. Louis to Jefferson City; thence by the shortest line to the Kansas-River crossing;
thence to Leavenworth (where St. Joseph, makes connection by a branch-track); thence to that
bend of the Republican Fork which nearest approaches the Little Blue; thence along the bottoms
of the Republican to the foot of the high divide out of which it is believed to rise, and which
also serves for the water-shed between the Platte and Arkansas; and thence skirting the bluffs
a distance of about one hundred miles to Denver. At Denver we find two branches making junctions
with our line: one connects us with Central City, the great mining-town of Colorado, by a series
of grades which might appall the Pennsylvania Central; the other threads the foot-hills and
mesas between Denver and the Fontaine-qui-Bouille Spa at Colorado City, with the possibility
of its being extended in time to Cañon City on the Arkansas. From Denver we strike for the
nearest point on the Cache-la-Poudre, follow its bed as far as practicable, and rise from that
level to the grand plateau of the Laramie Plains. Running through these Plains, we cross the
Big and the Little Laramie Rivers, here shallow streams, crystal clear, and scarcely wider
than the Housatonic at Pittsfield. Just after leaving the Plains, we cross Medicine Bow,--a
mere brook,--and a few hours later the North Fork of the Platte, which eccentrically turns
up in this most unexpected quarter, running nearly due north from a source which cannot be
very far off. The rope-ferry by which the writer last crossed this picturesque and rapid stream
we have replaced by a strong iron bridge. Leaving the west end of that bridge, we look out
of the rear car and send our final message to the Atlantic by the last stream which we shall
find going thither. A stupendous, but not impracticable, system of grades next carries us over
the axial water-shed of the continent, by the way of Bridger's Pass. One hundred and fifty
miles of tortuous descent brings us to Green River,--the stream which farther down becomes
the mysterious Colorado, and seeks the Pacific by the Gulf of California. After crossing the
Green by another iron bridge substituted for rope-ferriage, our first important station will
be Fort Bridger. Leaving there, we almost immediately enter the galleries of the Wahsatch Range,
which form a continuous pass across Bear River and into the tremendous cañons conducting down
to Salt-Lake City. From Salt Lake we pursue the shortest practicable route through the Desert
to the Ruby-Valley Pass of the Humboldt Mountains; we cross that range to enter another desert,
descend to the Sink of Carson, and reascend to Carson City, thence going nearly due north till
we strike the line of the Truckee Pass, (where a branch connects us with the principal Washoe
mines,) and thence to Sacramento by the long-projected California section of the Pacific Railroad.
Another proposed, but still ideal, road completes our connection with the Western Ocean by
way of Stockton, San José, and San Francisco.

We do not pretend to assert that the route indicated is in all respects the most economical
and practicable; a good deal more surveying must be done before that can be said of any entire
route, though we think it may fairly be claimed for our ideal section between St. Louis and
Denver. We have chosen this route because along its course are more completely represented
the natural features to which in any case the Pacific Railroad must look for all its primary
obstacles and part of its subsequent profits.

To complete the conception as its reality must in time be completed, let us unite our Trans-Missouri
portion with the Atlantic and Great Western Railway, under the all-inclusive title of the Atlantic
and Pacific Railroad. It will not be very far out of the way to regard thirty-eight hundred
miles as the entire length of the line. On the Atlantic and Great Western section express-trains
will run at a speed of twenty-seven miles an hour, including stops; but to provide against
every detention, let us slow our through-express to twenty-five miles. At this rate we shall
traverse the continent in six days and eight hours. In other words, the San-Francisco gentleman
who left the Jersey depot by the five o'clock Atlantic and Pacific express-train on Monday
morning may reasonably expect (allowing for difference of longitude) to be in the bosom of
his family just in time to accompany them to morning service on the following Sunday.

We will suppose our packing accomplished the day before we set out. During the evening we send
our watches to get the exact Washington time. The schedule of the entire road is based upon
that time; and a thousand inconveniences, once endured by the traveller between New York and
St. Louis, are thereby avoided. It is not necessary to alter one's watch with every new conductor.
We no longer grow dizzy with a horrible uncertainty on the subject of what-'s-o'clock,--ignorant
whether we are running on New-York time, Dayton time, Cincinnati time, or St. Louis time,--whether,
indeed, all time be not a pure subjective notion, and any o'clock at all a mere popular delusion.
For the introduction of a uniform standard we have originally to thank the Atlantic and Great
Western Railway.

In comfort and elegance the second-class cars of the Atlantic and Pacific Road correspond to
the omnivorous cars in use on our railroads generally. But we are a family-party, have nearly
a week of travel before us, and prefer to sacrifice our money rather than our comfort. It costs
a third, perhaps one-half more, to take first-class tickets; but these secure us a compartment
entirely to ourselves,--fitted up with all the luxury of a lady's boudoir. We have comfortable
arm-chairs to sit in all day, the latest improvement in folding-beds to sleep in at night.
Our mirror, water-tank, basin, and all our toilet-arrangements are independent of the rest
of the train. We have a table in the centre of our compartment for cards or luncheon. If we
are wise, we have also brought along three or four Champagne-baskets stocked with private commissariat-stores,
which make us quite independent of that black-art known as Western cookery. These contain sardines
(half-boxes are the most practically useful size for a small party); chow-chow; pâtés-de-foie-gras;
a selection of various potted meats; a few hundred Zwiebacks from our Berlin baker, and as
many sticks of Italian bread from our Milanese; a dozen pounds of hard-tack, and a half-dozen
of soda-crackers; an assortment of canned fruits, including, as absolute essentials, peaches
and the Shaker apple-butter; a pot of anchovy-paste; a dozen half-pint boxes of concentrated
coffee, and as many of condensed milk, both, as the writer has abundantly tested, prepared
with unrivalled excellence by an establishment in Boston; a tin box containing ten pounds of
lump-sugar; a kettle and gas-stove, to be attached by a flexible tube to one of the burners
lighting the compartment; a dozen bottles of lemon-syrup; and whatever stores, in the way of
wines, liquors, and cigars, may strike the fancy of the party. This may seem an ambitious outfit,
but for the first year of the Pacific Railroad it will be an absolutely necessary one. As civilization
spreads westward along the grand iron conductor of the continent, our national gastronomy will
develop itself in company with all the other arts; but for the present it is safe to assume
that outside of our private stores we shall not find a good cup of coffee after we leave St.
Louis, or decent bread of any kind between Denver and Sacramento.

We seat ourselves in our comfortable arm-chairs, without the mortification of removing single
gentlemen and the trouble of reversing seats to accommodate our party. The ladies are not compelled
to sit in isolation, by the side of passengers who use the car-floor as a spittoon. We may
chat together upon family-matters without awakening the vivid interest of any mother-in-Israel
mounting guard in front of us over a bandbox. The gentlemen may smoke, if the ladies like it,
and, so long as they keep the windows open, nobody shall say them nay. We all enjoy a sense
of security and independence, which is like occupying a well-provisioned Gibraltar on wheels.
If we have a sick friend with us, he need never leave his mattress till he reaches San Francisco.
Should his situation become critical en route, the best medical attendance is at hand,--every
through-train being obliged by statute to carry a first-class physician and surgeon, with a
well-stocked apothecary-compartment. But our present party are all of them in fine health and
spirits; so we may dismiss the doctor's shop from our consideration.

The whistle blows just as the ladies have hung their bonnets in the rack, and the gentlemen
exchanged their boots for slippers. We wave adieu to the Atlantic coast and the friends who
have come to see us off. A few minutes more, and we pass through the Bergen Tunnel. The remainder
of the day is spent amid that wild mountain and forest scenery which the Erie Railroad has
made familiar to the whole travelling-population of our Eastern States. At Salamanca we strike
the Atlantic and Great Western's separate line. On the way thence to Dayton we shall pass a
number of long trains, made up of platform-cars heavily laden with barrels carrying East the
riches of the Pennsylvania oil-region. These have connected with our main road by a couple
of branches built especially for the accommodation of the petroleum-trade. From Dayton to Cincinnati
we shall traverse one of the finest farming-regions of the world, meeting trains laden with
beeves, swine, packed pork, lard, grain, corn, potatoes, and every variety of produce that
bears transportation. By this time, also, Ohio vine-culture has attained a development which
justifies an occasional train entirely devoted to pipes of still Catawba and baskets of the
sparkling brands.

From Cincinnati to St. Louis by way of Vincennes, we run through the southern portions of Indiana
and Illinois, threading varied and picturesque scenery all the way, unless we have seen the
Egyptian prairies so many times before that they pall on us before we reach the Mississippi
bluff opposite St. Louis. Till we strike the prairie, our course is among bold, well-timbered
hills, which now and then we are obliged to tunnel, and by the side of charming pastoral streams
whose green bottom-land is shaded by noble plane-trees and cotton-woods. Certain passages in
the scenery between Cincinnati and Vincennes are beautiful as a dream of fairy-land. Every
few miles we continue to meet freight-trains laden with all the well-known products of the
Western field and dairy. Twice, before we reach St. Louis, a splendid cortege of passenger-carriages
shall whiz by us on the southern track,--and each time we shall have seen the daily through-express
from San Francisco.

The St. Louis through-passengers will be ready, on our arrival, in cars of their own. We shall
switch them on behind us with little over half-an-hour's detention, and strike for Leavenworth,
taking Jefferson City by the way. The country we now traverse is rolling, well watered, and
well timbered along the streams. Our road has so stimulated production in the mines of Missouri
that we frequently pass on the switch a freight-train taking out bar and pig iron to San Francisco,
or on the other track a train laden with copper ore going to the East for reduction. We have
hitherto said nothing of the innumerable trains which pass us or switch out of our way, carrying
through-freight between New York and San Francisco. We are still surrounded by excellent farming-land,
a fine grain, fruit, and general-produce country. Not till we leave Leavenworth can we be said
fairly to have entered the central wilds of the continent. We are now west of the Missouri
River, and for a distance of two hundred miles farther shall traverse a country possessing
certain individual characteristics which entitle it to a name of its own among the divisions
of our physical geography. This is the proper place for an indication of those divisions, generalized
to the broadest terms.

In passing from sea to sea, the American traveller crosses ten well-defined regions:--

1. The Atlantic slope of the Alleghany Range.

2. The eastern incline of the Mississippi basin.

3. The high divides of the short Missouri tributaries.

4. The Great Plains proper.

5. The Rocky-Mountain system of ridges and intramontane plateaus.

6. The Great Desert, broken by frequent uplifts, and divided by the Humboldt Range.

7. The Sierra-Nevada mountain-system.

8. The basin of the Sacramento River.

9. The mountain-system of the Coast Range.

10. The narrow Pacific slope.

By attending to these distinctions with map in hand we shall gain some adequate idea of the
surface of our continent. The first and second of the regions we have left behind us, and at
Leavenworth are well out upon the third. It would not be just to call it prairie,--and it is
equally distinct from the true Plains. As a grain and grass land, Illinois nowhere rivals it;
but its surface is remarkably different from that of the prairies east of the Mississippi.
It may be described as an alternation of lofty bluffs and sinuous ravines,--the former known
as "divides," the latter as "draws." The top of these divides preserves one general level,--leading
naturally to the hypothesis that all the draws are valleys of erosion in a tract of alluvial
deposit originally uniform with the plateaus of the divides. Some of the larger draws still
serve as the channels of unfailing streams; most of them carry more or less water during the
rainy season; few of them are dry all the year round. The river-bottoms which traverse this
region are thickly fringed with cotton-wood and elm timber; but it is a rare thing to encounter
trees on the top of a divide. The fertility of the soil is boundless. Every species of grass
flourishes or may flourish here, with a luxuriance unrivalled on the continent. Of the tract
embraced between the Little Blue and the Republican Fork of the Kaw this is especially true.
The climate is so mild and uniform that cattle may be kept at pasture the whole year round.
Haymaking and the building of barns are works of supererogation. The wild grass cures spontaneously
on the ground. To provide shelter against exceptional cases of climatic rigor,--an unusual
"cold snap," or a fall of snow which lies more than a day or two,--the ranchero constructs
for his cattle a simple corral, or, at most, a rude shed. The utmost complication which can
occur in his business is a stampede; and few of our Eastern farmers' boys would hesitate to
exchange their scythes, hay-cutters, corn-shellers, and mash-tubs for the saddle of his spirited
Indian pony and his three days' hunt after estrays. Over this entire region the cereals thrive
splendidly. The wild plum is so abundant and delicious as to suggest the most favorable adaptation
to the other stone-fruits. Every vegetable that has been tried in the loam of the river-bottoms
succeeds perfectly. There is just reason to think that vine-culture might reach a development
along the southern slope of the Republican Bluffs not surpassed in the most favorable positions
east of California. We believe it no exaggeration to say that this region needs only culture
(and that of the easiest kind) to become the garden of the continent. Its mineral wealth has
received scanty examination; yet we know that it contains numerous beds of tertiary coal, and
easily worked iron-deposits, in the form both of hydrated oxide and black scale.

On our way through this region we strike the Republican bottom near Lat. 39° 30' N., and Long.
97° 20' W. We are now in the primest part of the buffalo-pasture. As we wind along the base
of the steep Republican Bluffs, and the edges of those green amphitheatres made by their alternate
approach and retrocession, our whistle scares a picket-line of giant bulls, guarding a divide
across the stream, and with tails in air, heads at the down charge, they scour away at a lumbering
cow-gallop, to tell the main herd of a progress more resistless than their own. Or, perhaps,
our experience of the buffaloes is a more inconvenient one. We may find the main herd crossing
our track in their migration from the Republican to the Platte. In such case, there will be
a detention of several hours, as the current of a main herd is not fordable by any known human
mechanism. The halt will be taken advantage of by timid spectators looking safely out of car-windows,--by
bonâ-fide hunters, who want fresh meat, and take along the tidbits of their game to be cooked
for them at the next dinner-station,--and by excited pseudo-hunters, who will bang away with
their rifles at the defenceless herd, until the ground flows with useless blood, and somebody
suggests to them that they might as well call it sportsmanship to fire into a farmer's cow-yard,
resting over the top-rail.

Now and then we shall whirl through a village of chattering prairie-dogs, send a hen-turkey
rattling off her nest in a thicket on the river's edge, or perhaps surprise even an antelope
sufficiently close to point out to the ladies from our window the exquisite flight of that
swiftest and most beautiful creature in our American fauna. But our road will not be in running
order very long before this sight becomes the rarest of the rare. The stolid buffalo will continue
to wear his old paths long after the human presence has driven every antelope into invisible
fastnesses.

At intervals along the Republican bottom we shall find ranches springing up under the auspices
of our road; immense grain-fields yellowing toward harvest; great herds of domestic cattle
grazing haunch-deep through the boundless swales of billowing wild grass; with all the other
indications of a prosperous farming settlement, which, keeping pace with the progress of the
road, shall eventually become one of the richest agricultural communities in the world, and
continuous for over two hundred miles. Here and there we pass a lateral excavation in the face
of the bluff where some enterprising settler has opened a tertiary coal-vein, a deposit of
iron-ore, or a bed of soft limestone suitable for both flux and mortar purposes. The way-freight
trains that meet us now are mainly laden with the wealth of the grazier, the farmer, and the
gardener, competing with their brethren of the Upper Mississippi for the markets of St. Louis
and New Orleans. Iron-ore, coal, and limestone may form a portion of the cargoes,--but in process
of time the mutual vicinity of these minerals will become sufficiently suggestive to induce
the erection of smelting-furnaces in situ, and then their combined product will travel the
road in the form of pigs.

A little to the westward of a line drawn due south from Fort Kearney to the Republican we shall
find a comparatively abrupt and unexplained change taking place in the scenery. Our green river-bottoms
will give way to tracts of the color and seemingly of the sterility proper to an ash-heap.
Our bluffs will recede, grow higher, and exchange their flat mesa-like surfaces for a curved
contour, imitating the mountainous formation on a reduced scale. For long distances the vast
gray level around us will be dotted with conical sand-dunes, forever piling up and tearing
down as the wind shifts, with a tendency to bestow their gritty compliments in the eyes of
passengers occupying windward seats on the train. The lovely blossoms of the running-poppy
no longer mat the earth with blots of crimson fire; no more does the sweet breath of eglantine
and sensitive-brier float in at the window as we whirl by a sheltered recess of the divides;
the countless wild varieties of bean and pea no longer charm us with a rainbow prodigality
of pink, blue, scarlet, purple, white, and magenta blossoms. The very trees by the river's
brink become puny and stunted; the evergreens begin to replace the deciduous growths; in the
shade of dwarfed and desiccated cedars we look vainly for the snowy or azure bells of the three-petalled
campanula. Gaunt, staring sunflowers, and humbler compositæ of yellow tinge, stay with us a
little longer than those darlings of our earlier scenery; but before we have gone many miles
the last conspicuous wave of fresh vegetation breaks hopelessly on a thirsty sand-hill, and
we are given over to a wilderness of cacti. Here and there occurs a sightly clump of waxen
yellow blossoms, where these vegetable hedgehogs are in their holiday attire,--but it must
be confessed that the view is a melancholy change from our recent affluence of beauty. With
the other succulent plants, the rich herbage of the prairie has entirely disappeared. There
is not a blade of anything which an Eastern grazier would recognize as grass between this boundary
and the Rocky Mountains. As we whiz over these wastes at railroad-speed, we shall be apt to
pronounce them absolutely sterile. When we stop at the next coaling-station, let us examine
the matter more closely. The ground proves to be covered with minute gray spirals of herbage,
like a crop of vegetable corkscrews, an inch or two in height, and to all appearance dry as
wool. This is the "grama" or "buffalo-grass," and, despite its look of utter desiccation, is
highly nutritious. It is almost the entire winter dependence of the buffalo-herds, and domestic
cattle soon learn to prefer it to all other feed. Its existence, together with the wide group
of changes which we have noticed, denotes that we have passed the threshold of the fourth grand
continental division, and are now in the region of the Plains proper.

Ex-Governor Gilpin of Colorado, in his "Central Gold Region," very truly styles the Plains
"the pastoral area of the continent." The Plains are set apart for grazing purposes by the
method of exclusion. There is nothing else that can be done with them. Rain seldom falls on
them. The shallow rivers, like the Platte, which wander through them, are too far apart to
be used economically for their general irrigation. Only such herbage may be expected to thrive
here as can live on its own condensation of water from a sensibly dry atmosphere. Manifestly,
art can do nothing for the improvement of such a tract. It must be left to fulfil its natural
function, as the great continental pasture. Along the banks of the rivers run narrow strips
of alluvial soil, liable to yearly inundation; and these may be made amenable to the ordinary
processes of agriculture. On these the herdsman may raise the grain and vegetables necessary
for his own consumption. But the vast area of the region seems inevitably set apart for the
one sole business of cattle-raising, and all the way-freight trains which pass us here are
laden with beeves for the St. Louis market, or dairy-produce for all the markets of the world.
We have never tasted grama-cheese, but have a theory that its individual piquancy must equal
that of the delicious Schabzieger.

Far off on the gray level we shall still see the antelope. His tribe is coextensive with three-fourths
of the continent. No sterility discourages him. He seems as thrifty on the wiry grama as among
the most succulent grasses of the Republican. The sneaking coyote and a number of larger wolves
put in an occasional appearance. Birds of the hawk and raven families are common. The waters
swarm with numerous varieties of duck. It surprises us at this utmost distance from the maritime
border to see flocks of Arctic gulls circling around the low sand-hills, and sickle-bill curlews
wheeling high in air above their broods. Before we get far into this region we shall notice
that one of its most typical features is the alkali-pool. Every few miles we come to a shallow
basin of stagnant water saturated with salts of soda and potash. Still another characteristic
of the Plains is their tremendous rainless thunder-storms. If we are fortunate enough to encounter
one of these, we shall witness in one hour more atmospheric perturbation than has occurred
within our whole previous experience on the Atlantic slope. The lightning for half a night
will light the sky with an almost continuous glare, brighter than noonday; all the parks of
artillery on earth could not make such a constant deafening roar as those iron clouds in the
heaven; and though the wind will not be able to blow the train backward, as we have seen it
treat a four-mule stage, it will be likely to do its next best thing, heaping sand on the track
till the engine has to slow and send men ahead with shovels.

Entering the Denver depot, we shall find a busy scene. All that immense freight-business between
the Missouri and the Colorado mining-towns, which formerly strung the overland road with wagons
drawn by six yoke of oxen each, has now been transferred to the railroad. The switches are
crowded with cars getting unloaded, or waiting their turn to be. What is their freight? Rather
ask what it is not. For the present, Colorado imports everything except the most perishable
commodities,--and that which pays for all. If you would see that, ask the express-messenger
on the train going East in five minutes to lift the lid of one of those heavy iron trunks in
his car. Your eyes are dazzled by the yellow gleam of a king's ransom. It is a day's harvest
of ingots from the stamps of Central City, on its way to square accounts with New York for
the contents of one of those freight-trains.

At Denver we reach the edge of the Rocky-Mountain foot-hills; the grand snow-peak of Mount
Rosalie, rivalling Mont Blanc in height and majesty, though forty miles away, seems to rise
just behind the town; thence southerly toward Pike's and northerly toward Long's Peak, the
billowing ridges stretch away brown and bare, save where the climbing lines of sombre green
mark their pine-fringed gorges, or the everlasting ice pencils their crests with an edge of
opal. Still we do not leave the Plains region. We glide through the thronged streets of the
growing city, cross the South Platte by a short bridge, and strike nearly due north along the
edge of the mountain-range, over a broad plateau which still bears the characteristic grama.
Not until we enter the cañon of the Cache-la-Poudre, a hundred miles from Denver by the road,
can we consider ourselves fairly out of the Plains, and in the fifth great region of the continent,
the Rocky-Mountain system of ridges and intramontane plateaus.

Before we begin this portion of our journey, let us examine, in the light of that already accomplished,
an assertion made early in this article to the effect that the Pacific Railroad must precede
and create the business which shall support it. The consideration shall be brief as a mathematical
process.

The river-bottoms and divides along the Lower Republican are peculiarly suited to the raising
of farm-produce. But so long as they had no avenue to a market, they might have been fertile
as Paradise without alluring settlers to cultivate them. The natural advantages of a country
are developed not as a matter of taste, but as a matter of profit. The crops which can be raised
to best advantage in this region are the crops which without a railroad must rot on the ground.
No man can be expected to settle in a new country from pure Quixotism,--and nothing but the
railroad would make anything else of his expenditure of energies beyond the needs of self-support.
The Plains are the natural pasture of the continent; but they have no natural fascination for
the white man which can induce him to take up his residence there for cattle-breeding en amateur.
The greatest enthusiast in butter and cheese would scarcely care to accumulate mountains of
rancid firkins and boxes for the mere gratification of fancy. Access to a market is his only
justification for spending a nomadic lifetime among herds, or a fortune on churns and presses.
The settlement of the country must precede the birth of its industries, and the Pacific Road
is the absolutely essential stimulus to such settlement.

As we converse, we are beginning our climb toward the snow. A series of steep grades, mainly
following the bed of that wildly picturesque and roaring torrent, the Cache-la-Poudre, take
us up through the Cheyenne Pass to the Laramie Plains. In reaching the head of the Cache-la-Poudre
we have familiarized ourselves with the ridges of the system; we are now to learn what is meant
by the intramontane plateaus. The Laramie Plains form the most remarkable plateau of the Rocky
Range,--one of the most remarkable anywhere in the known world. Through a series of savage
cañons we enter what appears to us a reproduction of the prairies east of the Mississippi,--a
level and luxuriantly grassy plain, bright with unknown flowers, alive with startled antelope,
threaded by the clear currents of both the Laramie Rivers, and rejoicing in an atmosphere which
exhilarates like the fresh-brewed nectar of Olympus. Bounded on the east by the great ridge
we have just passed, northerly by a continuation of the Wind-River Range and Laramie Peak,
southerly by a magnificent transverse bar of naked mountains running parallel with the Wind-River
Range, and westward by a staircase of sterile divides which we must climb to reach the base
of Elk Mountain and find its giant mass towering into the eternal snows three thousand feet
farther above our heads,--this plateau is a prairie fifty miles square, lifted bodily eight
thousand feet into the air. It is difficult for us to roll over this Elysian mead walled in
by these tremendous ranges, and think of the commercial uses to which the level might be put;
but from its elevation and its natural crop we may pronounce it a grazing tract of splendid
capabilities, unsuited to artificial culture.

Another series of grades takes us past the base of Elk Mountain to a broad and sandy cactus-plain,
whence we descend among curious trap and sandstone formations, simulating human architecture,
to the crossing of the North Platte. A little farther on, so close to the snow-line that we
shiver under the white ridges with a reflected chill, we cross the axial ridge of the continent,
and begin our descent toward Salt Lake by the noble gallery of Bridger's Pass. The springs
along our way become tinctured with sulphur, alkali, and salt. We know, when we stop at a station
to drink, that we are drawing near the primeval basin of a stagnant sea, now shrunk to its
final pool in Salt Lake, but once in size a rival of the Mediterranean. We pass over an alternation
of mountain-grades and sandy levels, cross the Green or Upper Colorado River, stop for five
minutes at the Fort-Bridger station, thread the sinuous galleries of the Wahsatch, and come
down from a savage wilderness of sage-brush, granite, and red sandstone, into the luxuriant
green pastures of Mormondom, heavy with crops and irrigated from the snow-peaks. Thence, one
of the numerous cañons--Emigrant or Parley's most likely--conducts us to the mountain-walled
level of Salt-Lake City.

We have now traversed the most difficult part of our road. Its Rocky-Mountain section has cost
more capital, labor, and engineering skill than all the rest together. The return for this
vast expenditure must be no less vast,--but it will be rendered slowly. It does not lie on
the surface or just beneath the surface, as in the pastoral and agricultural regions. It is
almost entirely mineral, and must be mined by the hardest work. But it ranges through all the
metallic wealth of Nature, from gold to iron, and no conceivable stimulus short of a Pacific
Railroad could ever have been adequate to bring it forth.

We shall find the import trade of Salt Lake by the railroad to consist chiefly of emigrants
and their chattels. If Brigham Young be still living, his favorite policy of non-intercourse
with the Gentiles may also somewhat diminish the export business of the road. But human nature
cannot forever resist the currents of commercial interest; and the Mormon settlements possess
so many advantages for the economical production of certain staples, that we need not be surprised
to find trains leaving Salt-Lake City with sorghum and cotton for San Francisco, and raw silk
for all the markets of the East.

From Salt-Lake City to the Humboldt Mountains, we pass between isolated uplifts of trap and
granite, over a comparatively level desert of sand and snowy alkali. The terrors of this journey,
as performed by horse-carriage, have been fully depicted in our last April number. We may laugh
at them now. The question which principally interests us, after we have blunted the first edge
of our wonder at the sublime sterility of the Desert, is what conceivable use this waste can
be made to subserve. Before the railroad, that question had but a single answer,--the inculcation
of contentment, by contrast with the most disagreeable surroundings in which one might anywhere
else be placed. Perhaps it is over-sanguine to conceive of a further answer even now. If there
be any, it is this: In its crudest state the alkaline earth of the Desert is sufficiently pure
to make violent effervesence with acids. No elaborate process is required to turn it into commercial
soda and potash. Coal has been already found in Utah. Silex exists abundantly in all the Desert
uplifts. Why should not the greatest glass-works in the world be reared along the Desert section
of the Pacific Road? and why should not the entire market of the Pacific Coast be supplied
with refined alkalies from the same tract? Given the completed railroad, and neither of these
projects exceeds commercial possibility.

We cross the Humboldt Mountains by a series of grades shorter than that which conducts us over
the Rocky system, but full as difficult in proportion. We descend into a second instalment
of Desert on the other side; but the general sterility is now occasionally broken by oases,
moist green cañons, and living springs. A hundred miles west of the Humboldt Pass we come to
the mining-settlements of Reese River, gaining a new increment to the business of the road
in the transportation of silver to San Francisco, and every conceivable necessary of life to
the mines.--Within the last eighteen months eleven hundred dollars in gold have been paid for
the carriage by wagon of a single set of amalgamating-apparatus from Virginia City to Reese,
a distance of two hundred miles. The price of the commonest necessaries at the Reese-River
mines has reached the highest point of the old California markets in '49,--and no attainable
means of transport have been adequate to supply the demand.

From Reese River to Carson we traverse a broken, rocky, and sterile tract, with occasional
fertile patches and a belt along the Carson River susceptible of cultivation. The foot-hills
of the Sierra Nevada gradually shut us round, and at Carson we begin penetrating the main system
through a series of magnificent galleries between precipices of porphyritic granite, leading
nearly northward to the Truckee Pass. The grades we now encounter are as tremendous as any
in the Rocky-Mountain system. Just before entering the main pass we come to the junction of
a branch-road from Virginia City. The train which stops at the fork to let us go ahead is carrying
down several tons of silver "bricks" from the Washoe mines to Kellogg and Hewston's, the great
assay and refining firm of San Francisco. The pass takes us across the summit-line of the range,
but not out of the environment of its mountains. We penetrate granite fastnesses and descend
blood-chilling inclines, span roaring chasms and glide under solemn roofs of lofty mountain-pine,
until in the neighborhood of Centralia we begin for the first time to see the agricultural
tract of the Golden State.

Between ranches, placer-diggings, and small settlements, we now thread our comparatively level
way to Sacramento. Here we are met by the chief affluent of this end of the Pacific Road,--the
long-projected, greatly needed, and now finally accomplished line between Sacramento and Portland.
This enterprise has done for the Sacramento and Willamette valleys the same good offices of
development performed by our grand line for all the central continent. The noble orchards,
pastures, grain-lands, and gardens of Northern California and Oregon are now provided with
a market. Their wastes are brought under cultivation, their mines are opened, their entire
area is settled by a class of men who work under the stimulus of certain profit. The Northern
freight-trains waiting at Sacramento to make a junction with our road are loaded with the produce
of one of the richest agricultural regions in the world, now flowing to its first remunerative
market. All this must pay toll to our road, and here is another source of profit.

Crossing a number of tributaries to the Sacramento, and intersecting mines, ranches, and settlements,
as before, we follow a nearly straight level to Stockton. Then turning westerly, we cross the
San Joaquin, pass almost beneath the shadow of grand old Monte Diablo, glide among the vines
and olives of San José Mission, and curve round the southern bend of the lovely bay to the
queenly city of San Francisco. One of Leland's carriages awaits us at the terminus. We are
driven to the most delightful hotel on the continent, and find our old friend, the Occidental,
altered in no respect save size, which the growing demands of the Pacific New York, since the
completion of our inter-oceanic line, have compelled Leland to quadruple. We are on time,--six
days and eight hours exactly. Or, assuming the San-Francisco standard, we have gained three
hours on the sun, and, instead of taking a two-o'clock lunch, as our friends are doing in New
York, sit down to an eleven-o'clock breakfast crowned with melons, grapes, and strawberries,
in the sweet seclusion of the Ladies' Ordinary.

Is not all this worth doing in reality?

SEA-HOURS WITH A DYSPEPTIC.

BY HIS SATELLITE.

I.--PRELUSIVE.

There are a good many fictions in the world. I will mention one:--the propeller Markerstown.
The bulletins and placards of her owners soar high in the realms of fancy; like Sirens, they
sing delightful songs,--and all about "the A 1 fast-sailing, commodious, first-class steam-packet
Markerstown." Such is the soaring fiction: now let us look at the sore fact. The "A 1" is,
I take it, simply the "Ai!" of the Greek chorus new-vamped for modern wear,--a drear wail well
suited to the victims of the Markerstown. As to sailing qualities:--we know, of course, that
all speed is relative. For a sea-comet, the Markerstown would be somewhat leisurely, though
answering well for an oceanic fixed star, having no perceptible motion. One man on board--the
Captain--was accommodated: the kidnapped all suffered. Whether the Markerstown should be reckoned
as first-class or last-class is a question depending simply on where the counting begins, and
which way it runs. "Steam-packet" she was indeed, though not in the most desirable way. Her
steam was "packit" (Scotticè) too close for safety, but lay quite too loose for speed. The
kidnapped were all "packit," and "weel packit." How I came to be one of them, and how by this
mystic union I halved my joys and doubled my griefs, as the naughty ones say of wedlock, will
soon appear.

One brilliant fancy-flight I forgot to mention. The craft in question was boldly proclaimed
as "new." New, indeed, she might have been: so were once the Ark, the Argo, the Old Téméraire,
the Constitution, and sundry other hulks of celebrity. Yet it is not mere rhetoric to say,
that, if the eyes of the second and third Presidents of these United States never, in their
declining years, beheld the good ship Markerstown, it was only from lack of wholesome curiosity.

This pleasing list of attractions was wont to make an occasional trip--should I not rather
say saunter?--to the New-World Levant, the Yankee Eöthen. The time consumed was theoretically
a day and a half, but practically a day or two longer. Tired as I was of the sluttish land,
the clean sea had an inviting look. Dusty car and ringing rail wore no Circean graces, when
the long-haired mermaid, decked in robes of comely green, looked out from her bower beneath
the waves, and beckoned me to come. What more welcome than her sea-green home? What sight finer
than the myriad diamond-sparkles in her eye? What sound sweeter than the murmurs of her soothing,
never-ceasing voice? What perfume so rare as the crisp fragrance breathing from her robes?
What so thrilling, so magnetically ecstatic, as her tumultuous heaving, and the lithe, undulating
buoyancy of her mazy footfalls?

It is proper to state here, as an act of justice to others, and to save myself from the charge
of lunacy, that the Markerstown was a mere interloper. Our covetous, good old uncle had set
his eye on the regular steamer of the line, and his greedy fingers had taken her away to Dixie,
where her decks were now swarming with blue coats and black heels. The peaceful Markerstown,
being exempt by reason of physical disqualifications, tarried behind as home-guard substitute
for her warlike sister. Ignorant of the change, I secured my passage, paid for my ticket, sent
down my trunks, and presented myself at the gangway one sweltering afternoon in the latter
part of June, a few minutes before the hour set for sailing. There was nothing in the aspect
of things to indicate a speedy departure. On the contrary, the tardy craft had just arrived,
and was intensely busy in letting off steam and discharging cargo. The mate was quite sure--and
so was I--that she wouldn't weigh anchor before early next morning. The prospect was not enrapturing.
Confusion, dirt, pandemoniac noise, long delay, and over all a blistering sun, were ill suited
to bring peace to the embezzled seeker after pleasure.

As a relief from the horrid din on deck, I made my way to the cabin. It was a place well named,
being cabined, cribbed, confined, in quite an unprecedented degree. It was then and there that
I first saw the subject of this sketch,--the Peptic Martyr. Unknowingly, I was face to face
with my Man of Destiny. Shipmate, Philosopher, Martyr, Rhapsodist, Mentor, Bon-Vivant, Düspeptos,--these
are but a few of the various disks which I came at last to see in this gem of first water.
Even now, in memory, the subject looms vast before me, and the freighted pen halts. Bear with
me: let us pause for one moment. Matter like this asks a new strophe.

II.--THE BURDEN OF THE SONG.

Düspeptos was sitting on a common mohair sofa, surrounded by some half-dozen or more of his
fellow-victims. It is stated that Themistocles, before his ocean-raid at Salamis, sacrificed
three young men to Bacchus the Devourer. The Markerstown, in sailing out upon the great deep,
immolated at least twelve, old and young, as a festive holocaust to Neptune the Nauseator.
Here in their sacrificial crate were the luckless scapegoats, sad-eyed prey of the propeller.
It was easy to see, at the first glance, that the Martyr was the central sun round which clustered
the planets of propitiation. Born king, he asserted his kingship, and all yielded from the
beginning to his sway. Ears and mouths opened toward him the liege. Upon the magnet of his
voice hung the eager atoms. There was a filmy, distant look in the eyes of the listeners, as
of men rapt with the mystic utterances of a seer. My entrance unheralded broke up the monologue,
whatever it was. But seeing the true sacrificial look on my brow, all at once, from chief to
sutler, confessed a brother. To me then turning, Düspeptos, king of men, spoke winged words:--

"'Pears t' me, stranger, you look kind o' streaked. Ken I do anythin' for ye? Wal, I s'pose
th' old tub's caught you too, so we ken jest count y' in along o' this 'ere crowd. Reg'lar
fix, now, a'n't it? 'T's wut I call pooty kinky. Dern'd 'f I'd 'a' come, 'f I'd 'a' known th'
old butter-box was goin' to be s' frisky. Lively's a young colt now, a'n't she? Kicks up her
heels, an' scampers off te'ble smart, don't she? 'S never seen an ekul yit for punctooality
an' speed. When she doos tech the loocifer, an' cooks up her steam in her high old pepper-box,
jest you mind me, boys, there'll be a high old time. Wun't say much, but there'll be fizzin',
sure,--mebby suthin' more,--mebby reg'lar snorter, a jo-fired jolly good bust-up. Mebby th'
wun't be no weepin' an' gahnishin' o' teeth about these parts along towards mornin'. Who knows?
Natur' will work. Th' old scow's got to go accordin' to law,--that's one sahtisfahction, sartin.
'S a cause for all these things. An' ef she doos kind o' rip an' tear, she's got to go b' Gunter.
She's bound to foller her constitootion as she understan's it, an' to stan' up for the great
principal of ekul freedom for all. Hope they'll be keerful to save some o' the pieces. 'S a
good deal o' comfort 'n these loose fragments. 'S nuthin' like the raäl odds an' ends--the
Simon-pure, ginooine article--to bind up the broken heart an' make the mourners joyful. No
tellin' how much good they do in restorin' gratitood to Providence, an' smoothin' things over,--kind
o' make matters easy, you know. Interestin', too, to hev in the house,--pleasin' ornaments
on the mantel-piece to show to friends an' vis'ters. They allers like to hear the story 'n
connection with the native specimens, an' everybody feels happified an' thankful. Yes, after
all, th'r' is a master lot of solid comfort in a raäl substantial accident right in the buzzum
of a family,--none o' your three-cent fizzles, but a true-blue afflictin' dispensation. 'S
a heap o' pleasin' an' valooable associations a-clusterin' round."

Here the vocal one paused for an instant, to draw breath, and rally for another raid. Feeling
his little army now well in hand, he burned for fresh conquests. In glancing triumphantly around,
his eye fell on a certain benign smile then flitting over the face of his predestined Satellite.
Complacently nodding thereto, straightway the Peptic spoke:--

"I s'pose this 'ere group 's all insured, everythin' right an' tight an' all square up t' the
hub. Suthin' hahnsum for the widders an' orphans. These little nest-eggs allers sort o' handy,--grease
the ways, an' slick things up ship-shape. Survivors bless the rod, an' fix up everythin' round
the house in apple-pie order. I hev known men that was so te'ble pertickler allers to save
the Company, that nuthin' ever did, n' ever could happen. An' the despairin' friends kep' waitin'
an' waitin', but 't was no sort o' use; they never got a red. 'T's wut I call bein' desput
keerful, an' sailin' pooty consid'able close to the wind. 'T's like old Deacon Skillins's hoss,
down to Mudville, that was so dreffle conscientious he couldn't eat oats. No accountin' for
tastes. Free country, anyhow. Ef anybody likes to be fussy an' ructious 'n little things, why,
there's nuthin' to hender him from hevin' his own way. But it don't exackly hev an hon'able
look to common-sense folks.

"Ef the clipper's a free-agent, she'll blow up, sure, jest to git out o' sin an' misery. But
ef so be she's bonyfihd predestined, she'll hev to travel in the vale o' puhbation a spell
longer, 'cause her cup a'n't full yit, not by a long chalk. S'posin' she doos start out mellifloous,
what then? Don't imagine, my feller-sinners, that the danger's all over,--no, it's only jest
begun. Things ahead 's a good deal wuss. Steam 's pooty bad, but 't a'n't a circumstahnce to
the blamed grease. 'T's the grease that doos the mischief, an' plays the dickens with human
natur'. Down in th' army, they say, biscuits kills more'n bullets; an' it's gospil truth, every
word on 't, perticklerly ef the biscuits is hot, an' pooty wal fried up in grease. Fryin' 's
the great mortal sin, the parient of all misery. The hull world's full of it, but the sea 's
a master sight fuller 'n the land. Somehow 'nother, grease takes kind o' easy to salt water,--sailors
wun't hev nothin' but a fry. Jest you give 'em plenty o' fat, an' they wun't ask no favors
o' nobody. These 'ere puhpellers 's the wust sinners of 'em all, an' somehow hev a good deal
more 'n their own share o' fat. They kind o' borrer from mackerellers an' side-wheelers both
together, an' mix 't all up 't oncet. My friends, ef you a'n't desput anxious to see glory
from this 'ere deck, be virtoous, an' observe the golden rule: Don't tech, don't g' nigh the
p'is'n upus-tree of gravy; beware o' the dorg called hot biscuits; take keer o' the grease,
an' the stomach'll take keer of itself. Fact is, my beloved brethren, I've ben a fust-chop
dyspeptic for the best part o' my life, an' I'm pooty wal posted in what I'm talkin' about.
What I don't know on this 'ere subjick a'n't wuth knowin'."

III.--RECITATIVE

How much farther the Martyr's appeal might have gone can never be known, as the height of his
great argument was cut short at this point by the appearance of the Pontifex Maximus in person
on the stage of action. The fated victims were to be made ready for the coming sacrifice. The
oracle, it seems, had declared that Neptune would not smile, unless two were cribbed together
in one pen,--that the arrangement of these pairs should be left with the lot of the bean,--and
that as the beans went, so must go the victims. Inexorable Fate would allow no reversal of
her decrees. Soon the beans were rattling in the hat of the Pontifex, and, mirabile! pen No.
1 fell to Düspeptos and his Satellite elect.

The immediate effects of this bean--whether white, black, Pythagorean, Lima, kidney, or what
not--were three-fold: 1. A pump-handle hand-shaking; 2. A very thorough diagnosis of the weather,
including a rapid sketch by Düspeptos of the leading principles of caloric, pneumatics, and
hygrology; 3. An exchange of cards. That of which I was the recipient consisted of a sheet
of paste-board, rather begrimed and wrinkled, of nearly the same dimensions as the Atlantic
(Monthly, not Ocean). The name and address occupied the middle of one side of the document,
while all the remaining space was filled in with manifold closest scribblings in lead-pencil,--apparently
notes, memoranda, and the like. These were not at all private, so the new-found partner of
my bosom assured me. In fact, I should do well to look at them, and make myself master of their
contents. My friends also might find profit therein. Stray hints might undoubtedly be gathered
from them which would lay open to my eyes the secret things of Nature and life. Thrusting it
into my pocket for the moment, I feasted myself in imagination with the treasure that was mine,
anticipating the happy hour that should make my hope fruition. Then we, first elect of the
bean, set ourselves to determine the status quo ante bellum. And here came in once more the
fabaceous maker and marker of destiny, saying that blind justice decreed, that, inasmuch as
sound is wont to rise, he who was noonday Sayer and midnight Snorer should couch below, while
the Hearer should circle above,--plainly a wise provision, that the good things of Providence
might not be wasted. Both Damon and Pythias agreed, that, for once at least, the oracle was
not ambiguous.

All things being at last arranged, the Rhapsodist took his leave for the present, going, as
he informed me, on an errand of mercy for his stomach. The magazine aboard ship being of dubious
character, he had prevailed on himself to supply his concern with a limited number of first-class
cereals with his own imprimatur,--copyright and profits to be in his own hands. As some consolation
for his absence, I was favored with a brief oral treatise on Fats, considered both dietetically
and ethically, with an appendix, somewhat à la Liebig, on the nature, use, and effects of tissue-making
and heat-making food, nitrogen, carbon, and the like. By way of improvement, a brilliant peroration
was added, supposed to be addressed through me to the mothers of America, urging them to bring
up the rising generation fatless. Thus only might war cease, justice prevail, love reign, humanity
rise, and a golden age come back again to a world-wide Arcadia. Fat and Anti-Fat! Eros and
Anteros, Strophe and Antistrophe. Or, better, the old primeval tale,--Jove and the Titans,
Theseus and the Centaurs, Bellerophon and the Chimæra, Thor and the Giants, Ormuzd and Ahriman,
Good and Evil, Water and Fire, Light and Darkness. The world has told it over from the beginning.

And do you ask what manner of man was the Fatless one? You shall see him. His most striking
feature was a fur cap,--weight some four pounds, I should judge. I think he was born with this
cap, and will die with it, for 90° Fahrenheit seemed no temptation to uncover. Boots came second
in rank, but twelfth or so in number,--weight probably on a par with the leaded brogans of
the little wind-driven poetaster of old. Between these two extremes might be found about five
feet ten of humanity, lank, sapless, and stooping. The seedy drapery of the figure hung in
lean, reproachful wrinkles. The flabby trousers seemed to say: "Give! give!" The hollow waistcoat
murmured: "Pad, oh! pad me with hot biscuits!" The loose coat swung and sighed for forbidden
fruit: "Fill me with fat!" A dry, coppery face found pointed expression in the nose, which
hung like a rigid sentinel over the thin-lipped mouth,--like Victor Hugo's Javert, loyal, untiring,
merciless. No traitorous comfits ever passed that guard; no death-laden bark sailed by that
sleepless quarantine. The small ferret-eyes which looked nervously out from under bushy brows,
roaming, but never resting, were of the true Minerva tint,--yellow-green. The encircling rings
told of unsettled weather. While elf-locks and straggling whiskers marked the man careless
of forms, the narrow, knotted brow suggested the thinker persistent in the one idea:--

          "deep on his front engraven,
    Deliberation sat and peptic care."

Not over beds of roses had he walked to ascend the heights. Those boots in which he shambled
along his martyr-course were filled with peas. He had learned in suffering what he taught in
sing-song. The wreath of wormwood was his, and the statue of brass. Io triumphe!

His gait was a swift, uncertain shuffle, a compromise between a saunter and a dog-trot. The
arms hung straight and stiff from the narrow shoulders, like the radii of a governor, diverging
more or less according to the rate of speed. When the scourge of his Dæmon lashed him along
furiously, they stood fast at forty-five degrees. His eyes peered suspiciously around, as he
lumbered on, watchful for the avenger of fat, who, perhaps, was even now at his heels. A slouch-hat,
crowning hollow eyes and haggard beard, filled him with joy: it marked a bran-bread man and
a brother. He smiled approvingly at a shrivelled form with hobbling gait; but from the fat
and the rubicund he turned with severest frown. They were fleshly sinners, insults to himself,
corrupters of youth, gorged drones, law-breakers. He was ready to say, with the statesman of
old: "What use can the state turn a man's body to, when all between the throat and the groin
is taken up by the belly?" He had vowed eternal hostility to all such, and from the folds of
his toga was continually shaking out war.

Every chance-comer was instantaneously gauged as dyspeptic or eupeptic, friend or foe. On the
march, Javert was on the alert, snuffing up the air, until some savory odor crossed his path,
when he would shut himself up, like a snail within his shell. Yet he was not sleeping, for
no titbit ever passed the portals beneath. Perhaps, however, they were themselves trusty now,
having made habit a second nature. I cannot imagine them watering at sight of any dainty.

I have heard it said that certain orders of beings are able to improvise or to interchange
organs, just as need calls. Thus a polyp, if hard put to it, may shift what little brain and
stomach happen to be in his possession. You may say that he carries his heart in his hand.
He can take his stomach, and dump it down in brain-case or thorax, just as he fancies,--can
organize viscera and victory anywhere, at any moment; and all works merrily. The Fatless was
similar, yet different. His stomach changed not its local habitation, was never victorious;
yet, from cap to boot, it was ubiquitous and despotic. Brain and heel alike felt themselves
to be mere squatters on another's soil, and had a vague idea that the rightful lord might some
day come to oust them, and build up a new capital in these far-away districts. Sometimes they
went so far as to style themselves his proconsuls and lieutenants, but they were never suffered
to do more than simply to register the decrees of the central power. Düspeptos was king only
in name,--roi fainéant. Gaster was the power behind the throne,--the Mayor of the Palace,--the
great Grand-Vizier. Nought went merrily, for he ruled with a rod of iron. Every day his strange
freaks set the empire topsy-turvy. Every day there was growling and ill-feeling at his whimsical
tyranny,--but nothing more. Secession was as impossible as in the day of Menenius Agrippa.

Looking at it another way, Gaster might be called the object-glass through which Düspeptos
looked out upon the world,--a glass always bubbly, distorted, and cracked, generally filmy
and smoky, never achromatic, and decidedly the worse for wear. I think that the world thus
seen must have had a very odd look to him. His most fitting salutation to each fellow-peptic,
as he crossed the field of vision, would have been the Chinese form of greeting: "How is your
stomach? Have you eaten your rice?" or, perhaps, the Egyptian style: "How do you perspire?"
With him, the peptic bond was the only real one; all others were shams. All sin was peptic
in origin: Eve ate an apple which disagreed with her. The only satisfactory atonement, therefore,
must be gastric. All reforms hitherto had profited nothing, because they had been either cerebral
or cardiac. None had started squarely from Gaster, the true centre. Moral reform was better
than intellectual, since the heart lay nearer than the head to the stomach. Phalansteries,
Pantisocracies, Unitary Homes, Asylums, Houses of Refuge,--these were all mere makeshifts.
The hope of the world lay in Hygeian Institutes. Heroes of heart and brain must bow before
the hero of the stomach. Judged by any right test of greatness, Graham was more a man than
was Napoleon or John Howard. He that ruled his stomach was greater than he who took a city.
Béranger's Roi d'Yvetot, who ate four meals a day,--the Esquimaux, with his daily twenty-pound
quantum of train-oil, gravy, and tallow-candles,--the alderman puffing over callipash and callipee,--the
backwoodsman hungering after fattest of pork,--such men as these were no common sinners: they
were assassins who struck at the very fountain of life, and throttled a human stomach. Pancreatic
meant pancreative. Gastric juice was the long-sought elixir. The liver was the lever of the
higher life. Along the biliary duct led the road to glory. All the essence of character, life,
power, virtue, success, and their opposites,--all the decrees of Fate even,--were daily concocted
by curious chemistry within that dark laboratory lying between the oesophagus and the portal
vein. There were brewed the reeking ingredients that fertilize the fungus of Crime; there was
made to bloom the bright star-flower of Innocence; there was forged the anchor of Hope; there
were twisted the threads of the rotten cable of Despair; there Faith built her cross; there
Love vivified the heart, and Hate dyed it; there Remorse sharpened his tooth; there Jealousy
tinged his eye with emerald; there was quarried the horse-block from which dark Care leaped
into the saddle behind the rider; there were puffed out the smoke-wreaths of Doubt; there were
blown the bubbles of Phantasy; there sprouted the seeds of Madness; and there, down in the
icy vaults, Death froze his finger for the last, cold touch.

IV.--HARMONICS.

Ah! but the card? you ask. Yes, here it is.

     --------------------------------
    |                                |
    | NAPHTALI RINK,                 |
    | 51 Early Avenue.               |
    | (At the Hygienic Institute.)   |
    |                                |
     --------------------------------

Of course, this is only in miniature, and represents every way but a very small part of the
document, the address being but a drop in the superscriptive surge,--a rivulet of text meandering
through a meadow of marginalia. Inasmuch as Düspeptos courted the widest publicity for these
stomachic scraps, no scruples of delicacy forbid me to jot down here some few of them. He thought
them fitted for the race,--the more readers the better: perhaps it may be, the more the merrier.
If called upon to classify them, I should put them all under the genus Gastric Scholia. The
different species and varieties it is hardly worth while to enter upon here. There were intuitions,
recollections, and glosses, apparently set down in a fragmentary way from time to time, in
a most minute and distinct text. Very probably they were hints of thoughts designed to be worked
up in a more formal way. Whether the quotations were taken at first or second hand I cannot
say; but internal evidence would seem to indicate that many of them might have been clippings
from the columns of "The Old Lancaster Day-Book." It is, perhaps, worthy of note that Mr. Rink
was, in fact, a man of rather more thought and general information than one might suppose,
if judging him merely by his uncouth grammar, and the clipped coin of his jangling speech:--

    "His voice was nasal with the twang
    That spoiled the hymns when Cromwell's army sang."

Now, then, O reader, returning from this feast of fat things, I lay before you the scraps.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Character is Digestion."

"There's been a good deal of high-fangled nonsense written about genius. One man says it's
in the head; another, that it comes from the heart, etc., etc. The fact is, they're all wrong.
Genius lies in the stomach. Who ever knew a fat genius? Now there's De Quincey,--he says, in
his outlandish way, that genius is the synthesis of the intellect with the moral nature. No
such thing; and a man who sinned day and night against his stomach, and swilled opium as he
did, couldn't be expected to know. If there's any synthesis at all about it, it's the synthesis
of the stomach with the liver."

"The French are a mighty cute people. They know a thing or two about as well as the next man.
There's a heap of truth and poetry in these maxims of one of their writers: 'Indigestion is
the remorse of a guilty stomach'; 'Happiness consists in a hard heart and a good digestion.'"

"The old tempter--the original Jacobs--was called in Hebrew a nachash, so I'm told. But folks
don't seem to understand exactly what this nachash was. Some say it was a rattlesnake, some
a straddle-bug. Old Dr. Adam Clarke, I've heard, vowed it was a monkey. They're all out of
their reckoning. It's as plain as a pikestaff that it was nothing but Fried Fat cooked up to
order, and it's been a-tempting weak sisters ever since. That's what's the matter."

"Let me make the bran-bread of a nation, and I care not who makes its laws."

"It makes me master-sick to hear all these fellows who've just made out to scrape together
a few postage-stamps laying down their three-cent notions about the way to get on in the world,
the rules for success, and all that. Just as if a couple of greenbacks could make a blind man
see clean through a millstone! They're like these old nursing grannies: No. 1 thinks catnip
is the only thing; No. 2 believes there's nothing like sage-tea and mustard-poultice; No. 3
swears by burdock. The truth is,--and men might as well own up to it first as last,--success
depends on bile."

"Shakspeare was a man who was pretty well posted in human nature all round,--knew the kitchen
about as well as the parlor. He knocks on the head the sin of stuffing, in 'All's Well that
Ends Well,' where he speaks of the man that 'dies with feeding his own stomach.' In 'Timon
of Athens' there's a chap who 'greases his pure mind,' probably with fried sausages, gravy,
and such like trash. The fellow in 'Macbeth' who has 'eaten of the insane root' was meant,
I calculate, as a hard rap on tobacco-chewers (and smokers too); he called it root, instead
of leaf, just to cover up his tracks. What a splendid thought that is in 'Love's Labor's Lost':
'Fat paunches have lean pates'! Everybody knows how Julius Cæsar turned up his nose at fat
men. The poet never could stand frying; he calls it, in 'Macbeth,' 'the young fry of treachery.'
Probably he'd had more taste of the traitor than was good for him. Has a good slap somewhere
on the critter that 'devours up all the fry it finds.' I reckon that Shakspeare always set
a proper valuation on human digestion; 'cause when he speaks of a man with a good stomach,--an
excellent stomach,--he always has a good word for him, and kind of strokes down his fur the
right way of the grain; but he comes down dreadful strong on the lout that has no stomach,
as he calls it. In 'Henry IV.,' he says, 'the cook helps to make the gluttony.' I estimate
that that one sentence alone, if he'd never writ another word, would have made him immortal.
If I had my way, I'd have it printed in gold letters a foot long, and sot up before every cook-stove
in the land. But just see what a man he was! This very same play that tells the disease prescribes
the cure, that is, 'the remainder-biscuit,'--a knock-down proof to any man with a knowledge-box
that Graham-bread was known and appreciated in those days, and that Shakspeare himself had
cut his own eye-teeth on it."

"A broken heart is only another name for an everlasting indigestion."

"History is merely a record of indigestions,--a calendar of the foremost stomachs of the age.
The destinies of nations hang on the bowels of princes. Internal wars come from intestine rebellion.
The rising within is father to the insurrection without. The fountain of a national crisis
is always found under the waistcoat of one man. There's Napoleon I.,--what settled him for
good was just that greasy mutton-chop stewed up in onions, which he took for his grub at Leipsic.
If he'd only ordered a couple of slices of dry Graham-toast, with a cup of weak black tea,
he'd have saved his stomach, and whipped 'em, sure; and matters and things in Europe would
have had a different look all round ever since."

"Emerson is a man who once in a while gets a little inkling of the truth. I see he says that
the creed lies in the biliary duct. That's good orthodox doctrine, I don't care who says it."

"Buckwheat-cakes are now leading us back to barbarism faster than the printing-press ever carried
us forward towards civilization."

"Temperament means nothing more nor less than just quantity and quality of bile. That old sawbones,
Hippocrates, came mighty near hitting the nail square on the head more 'n two thousand year
ago, but he felt kind of uncertain, and didn't exactly know what he was driving at. The old
heathen made out just four humors, as he called 'em,--the sanguineous, phlegmatic, choleric,
and melancholic. If he'd only made one step more on to the other side of the fence, he'd have
cracked the nut, and picked the kernel, certain. Those four different humors are only four
different ways of modifying bile with fat."

"Every man is dyspeptic. Tell me his dyspepsy, and I'll tell you what he is."

"In sick-headache, a heaping tablespoonful each of salt and common mustard, stirred into a
pint of hot water, and drank without breathing, will generally produce an immediate effect.
(Mem. But Graham-biscuit is better in the long run.)"

"Society is the meeting of a gang of incurables, who come together to talk over their dyspepsies.
And everybody takes his turn in furnishing fodder to keep the thing going hot-foot."

"Professor Bache says sea-sickness comes from the head, 'cause a man gets dizzy in trying to
get used to the teetering of the ship. All nonsense. The Professor may be posted in the survey
of the coast, but he don't know the lay of the land in the interior. Sea-sickness comes from
the stomach: just offer a man a mouthful of fried salt pork."

"It's stated that some old bookworm of a Dutchman, with a jaw-breaking name that I can't recollect,
has an idea, that, 'if we could penetrate into the secret foundations of human events, we should
frequently find the misfortunes of one man caused by the intestines of another.' There's not
the least doubt of it,--true of one man or a million."

"Fate is Fat: Fat is Fate."

V.--NOCTURNE.

    Romanza (affettuoso).
    The Choral Gamut (con espressione).

Was that seething sun never again to plunge his lurid face beneath the waves of old Ocean?
Had some latter-day Joshua arisen, and with stern fiat nailed him in mid-heavens, blazing forever?
To me as slowly rolled the westering orb down that final slope as ever turned the wheel of
Fortune to Murad the Unlucky. Perchance the sun-god had turned cook, and now, burning with
'prentice zeal, and scoffing at Düspeptos and all sound hygiene, was aiming to make of this
terrestrial ball one illimitable fry turned over and well done,--a fry ever doing and never
done, which should simmer and fizzle on eternally down the ages. An abstract fry--let me here
record it--suits me passing well; yet I like not the concrete and personal broil. I trip gayly
to a feast, prepared to eat, but not, as in the supper of Polonius, to be eaten. I have very
little of the martyr-stuff about me. It is well, it is glorious, to read of those fine things;
but does any man relish the application of the Hoc age? To beatified Lawrence I gladly pay
meet tribute of tears and praise. Let the luckless one ask of me no more; let him call only
upon the succulent; let him recruit among the full ranks of the adipose. Be it mine to lay
these spare-ribs athwart no gridiron more fervid than the pavement of his own monumental Escurial.
Suum cuique.

So, albeit in a melting mood, I gazed listlessly upon the brazen firmament, with no fellow-feeling
for those hot culinary bars. The broiling glow was not at all tempting: I think it would have
staggered even the gay salamander that is said to accept so thoroughly the gospel of caloric.
And what was the Markerstown without the Great Captain? What was the Victory with no Nelson?
Hence, like the patriarch, I went out to meditate at the eventide. But, alack! there were no
camels, no Rebekah, no comfort. Even in subterranean grots there was nothing drawn but Tropic's
XXX. Every water-cock let on a geyser. But by-and-by Apollo Archimagirus, wearying of gastronomy,
stayed his hand, moistened the fierce flames, jerked the half-fried earth out into free space,
pocketed his stew-pan, and flung himself supperless to bed. No more, for the nonce at least,
should that new Lycidas--the cosmical gridiron--flame in the forehead of the evening sky. Anon
came twilight, dusk, darkness, and all the pleasant charities of deep night. Behind the veil
of night are sometimes done evil deeds. The snail has been known to start before his time.
Laying down these general postulates, I drew therefrom, late in the sultry gloom, this particular
inference: Cæsar's shallop might possibly breast the deep before dawn; and if Cæsar was not
on hand, she would carry his fortunes, but not him. Forthwith, groping through the obscurity,
I found my fears without foundation. The shallop was quiescent in a remarkable degree, and
thoroughly tethered.

Deep darkness reigned throughout the little kingdom. Silence brooded over all, save now and
then when some vocal nose, informed by murky visions of the night, brayed out its stertorous
tale to the unheeding air. At times a shrill, sharp pipe, screaming with gusts of horror, split
my unexpectant ear. With this wrangled fitfully the cracked clarionet of some peevish brother.
Ever and anon some vast nostril, punctually thundering, hurled forth the relentless growl of
the bassoon,--a very mountain of sound, which crushed all before it, and made the shuddering
timbers crack and reel. A pensive flute vainly poured, in swift recurring gushes, its rhythmic
oil upon the roaring billows. From some melodious swain came a freakish fiddling, which leaped
and danced like mad, now here, now there, like an audible will-o'-the-wisp. A dolorous whistle
chimed harmonies, and with regular sibilation came to time, quavering out the chromatic moments
of this nasal hour. High over all floated a faint whisper,--a song-cloud rising from the dream-mist
of a peaceful breast,--a revelation timidly exhaled to the disembodied spirits of the air.
Its hazy lullaby breathed down as from distant heights, and murmured of celestial rest. Its
soul was like a star, and dwelt apart.

Save this feeling symphony, all was still. No light shone upon the tuneful beaks. Like Theseus,
I picked my way along, guided by an Ariadne's thread. My Ariadne was a slumbering orchestra
deftly spinning out a thick proboscis-chord of such stuff as dreams are made of. Taking this
web in my ear, I safely traversed the labyrinth, and meandered at last into pen No. 1. In placing
my foot on the edge of the under-world crib, I unwittingly pressed some secret spring which
straight swung wide the portals of a precipitate dawn.

VI.--THE PEPTIC SYMPHONY.

    A.--Andante (smorzando).
    B.--Adagio (crescendo).
    C.--Allegro (sforzando).

Instantaneously rose resplendent

    THE MIDNIGHT SUN.

The Luminary.--Hullo!

The Satellite.--Ah! got back? Is that you, Mr. Rink?

The Luminary.--Wal, ef 't a'n't me, 't 's my nose. Mebby y' a'n't aware, young man, that you
planted your shoe-leather on my olfactory?

The Satellite.--Indeed, no, Sir. I thought I felt something under my foot, as I was getting
up. So it seems it was your nose. Beg your pardon, Sir,--entirely unintentional. Hope I----

The Luminary.--Who's your shoemaker? What do you wear for cow-hide?

The Satellite.--An excellent artist, a long way from Paris. I have on at this moment a very
neat thing in English gaiters, of respectable dimensions, toe-corners sharp as Damascus blade,
three-fourths of an inch in sole, one and a half inches in heel, with a plenty of half-inch,
cast-steel nails all round,--quite a neat thing, I assure you.

The Luminary.--Whew!

The Satellite.--But I hope, Sir, I haven't injured your nose?

The Luminary.--Can't tell jest yit. Anyhow, you gev me a proper sneezer, a most pertickler
hahnsome socdolager, I vum! Landed jest below the peepers. But hold on till mornin', an' see
how breakfast sets. I allers estimate the nose by the stomach. Ef I find my stomach's all right,
't 'll be a sure sign that the smellers are pooty rugged.

The Satellite.--That's rather an odd idea. I was aware that the nose is a natural guide to
the stomach, but didn't know that the reverse would hold good. What is the----

The Luminary.--Poor rule that wun't work both ways. Six of one and half a dozen of the other.
Do you s'pose the nose could afford to work free gratis for the stomach, with plenty to do
an' nothin' to git? No, Sir, not by a jugful! People that want favors mustn't be stingy in
givin' on 'em. It's on the scratch-my-back-an'-I'll-tickle-your-elbow system. The stomach's
got to keep up his eend o' the rope, or he'll jest go under, sure. One good turn deserves another,
you know.

The Satellite.--Yes, a very pretty theory, and certainly a just one. Quite on the Mutual-Benefit
principle. Still, I should be inclined to doubt whether there are facts sufficient to sustain it.

The Luminary.--Wal, my hearty, you jest belay a bit up there; clew down your hatches ship-shape,
git everythin' all trig, an' lay to. Why, my Christian friend, I intend to post you up thoroughly.
Your edication's been neglected. Facts? Facts? Bless your noddle, there's plenty on 'em, ef
a man knows beans. Now I'm jest a-goin' to let daylight into that little knowledge-box o' yourn,
an' fill it with good, wholesome idees, clean up to the brim, an' runnin' over,--good, honest,
Shaker measure. I'll give ye more new wrinkles afore mornin' than ever you dreamed of in your
physiology, valooable hints, an' nuthin' to pay.

       *       *       *       *       *

Being now securely camped on my mountain-height, I peered out upon the horizon beneath, and
signified to the Luminary that the gas might at once be turned on full blaze.

            "As when the sun new risen
    Looks through the horizontal misty air,"

so gleamed, no longer nebulous, but now full-orbed, the bright star Diætetica,--a central sun,
holding within its ample bosom the star-dust of whole galaxies, infinite gastric constellations.

The Luminary.--"Any fool'll allow that there's nerves, an' plenty on 'em, all over the body.
All these nerves come from the stomach. Fact is, they're the stomach's errand-boys. They run
round an' do his chores jest as he says, an' then trot back ag'in. He's an awful hard master,
though,--likes to shirk, an' makes 'em lug round all his baggage an' chicken-fixin's. When
he gits grumpy, which is pooty consid'able often, he's death on some on 'em,--jest walks into
'em like chain-lightnin' into a gooseberry-bush. When he's gouty, he kicks up a most etarnal
touse with the great-toe nerve, an' slaps it right into him fore an' aft, the wust kind. Folks
hev asked me why the gout pitches into the great toe wuss than the rest on 'em. It's jest as
nateral as Natur'. I cal'late it's a special Providence for the benefit of the hull human family,
to hang out a big sign jest where folks ken see it, to show up the man who's ben an' sinned
ag'inst his stomach. When he limps round in flannel, he's a conspicoous hobblin' advertisement,
a fust-cut lecterer on temperance, an' the horrible example to boot. Now you know the way the
stomach an' nerves fay in.

"Wal, then ag'in, there's another set,--the stomach's own blood-relations. He's head o' the
family, an' they all work in together nice an' handy, jest as slick as grease. Lam ary one
on 'em, an' you got to lam the whole boodle. Jest like a hornet's nest: shake a stick at ary
one o' the group, an' they all come buzzin' round te'ble miffy in less 'n no time. There's
the nose,--he wears a coat jest as well 's the stomach: he's the stomach's favorite grandson,
the Benjamin of the flock. Say anythin' to him, an' the stomach takes it up; say anythin' to
the stomach, an' he takes it up. All in a family-way, ye see. Love me, love my dorg. There's
no disputin' the fact, that you can't kill ary one on 'em without walkin' over the dead body
of the others. You can't whip ary one on 'em except over the others' shoulders. Now you know
who the nose is, who his connections are, an' what's his geneology. He's descended from the
stomach in the second degree, an' will be heir to all the property, ef so be he's true to himself
an' the family. Ef he a'n't, th' old man'll cut him off with a shillin', sure.

"Now dyspepsy's of two kinds,--the mucous an' the nervous; an' as I'm a sinner, every mother's
son an' daughter has got one on 'em. The nervous, as you will naterally s'pose from my remarks,
is a sort o' hired help,--friend o' the family, like a poor relation,--handy to hev in the
house, an' all that. The other allers takes pot-luck with the family, runs in an' out jest
as he pleases,--chip o' the old block, one o' the same crowd, you know. It's considered ruther
more hon'able, in course, to hev this one. None o' the man-waiter or sarvant-gal about him.
A chap with the mucous looks kind o' slick an' smooth, an' feels his oats pooty wal; but a
codger with the nervous is sort o' thin an' wild-like. Wholesalers ginerally hev the fust,
an' retailers the second; though, 'casionally, I hev known exceptions. A bank-president invariably
has the second; an' I never seen an apple-woman without the other. All accordin' to Natur',
ye see. But either on 'em 'll do. Take jest whichever you can git,--that's my advice,--an'
thank Providence. They'll either on 'em be faithful friends, never desert ye, cling closer
than a brother, never say die, stick to ye, in p'int o' fact, like a sick kitten to a hot brick.
It's jest as I said,--every critter's got one on 'em. But there's no two men alike, so there's
no two dyspepsies alike. There never was, an' never will be. 'T 's exackly like the human family,
divided into two great classes, black an' white, long-heel an' short-heel. Jes' so ... nervous
... mucous ... Magna Charta ... Palladium of our liberties ... ark of our safety ... manifest
destiny ... Constitootion of our forefathers ... fit, bled, an' died ... independence forever
... one an' inseparable ... last drop o' blood...."

How it was I don't quite know; but I think that at this point the Luminary must have sunk below
the horizon. Possibly his Satellite may have suffered an eclipse in this quarter of the heavens.
I can barely recall a thin doze, in which these last eloquent fragments, transfigured into
sprites and kobolds, wearing a most diabolical grin, seemed to be chasing each other in furious
and endless succession through my brain, or playing at hide-and-seek among the convolutions
of the cerebrum. After a while, they wearied of this rare sport, scampered away, and left me
in profound sleep till morning.

VII.--MATINS.

Whank!--tick-a-lick!--ker-thump!--swoosh!--Whank!--tick-a-lick!-- ker-thump!--swoosh!--These
were the sounds that first greeted my opening ears. So, then, we were fairly under way, advancing,
if not rejoicing. Our freighted Icarus was soaring on well-oiled wings: how soon might his
waxy pinions droop under the fierce gaze of the sun! At least it was a satisfaction to know
that thus far the gloomy forebodings of the Seer had not been fulfilled. On looking out through
a six-inch rose-window, I saw joyous daylight dancing over the boundless, placid waters,--not
a speck of land in sight. We must have started long since; but my eyes, fast sealed under the
opiate rays of the Luminary, had hitherto refused to ope their lids to the garish beams of
his rival. Soon I heard beneath a rustling snap, as of a bow, and suddenly there sped forth
the twanging shaft of the

First Victim.--I say!

Second Victim.--Very sensible, but brief. Give us another bit.

First Victim.--How are ye this mornin'?

Second Victim.--Utterly glorified. Delicious sleep,--splendid day,--balmy air, with condiments
thrown in. I hope you are nicely to-day?

First Victim.--Wal, no, can't say I be. Feel sort o' seedy like,--feel jest 's ef I'd ben creouped
up in a sugar-box. Couldn't even git a cat-nap,--didn't sleep a wink.

Second Victim.--That's bad, indeed; but the bracing air here will soon----

First Victim.--Air! That 'ere dock-smell nigh finished me. No skim-milk smell about that, but
the ginooine jam,--an awful pooty nosegay! 'T was reg'lar rank p'is'n. Never see anythin' like
it. Oh, 'twas te'ble! Took hold o' my nose dreffle bad; I'm afeard my stomach'll be a goner.
'T wa'n't none o' yer sober perfumes nuther, but kind o' half-seas-over all the time, an' pooty
consid'able in the wind. Judge there's ben a large fatality in cats lately. Ugh! that blamed
dock-smell! Never forgit it the longest day I live. Don't b'lieve I breathed oncet all night.

Second Victim.--Yes, it was slightly aromatic, I confess,--'Sabæan odors from the spicy shores
of Araby the Blest,'--you know what Milton says. But there's one great comfort: this thick
night-air is so very healthy, you know. I think you made a very great mistake, Mr. Rink, in
not inhaling it thoroughly. I kept pumping it in all night, from a sense of duty, at forty
bellows-power.

First Victim.--(Rising, and dragging up to the mountain-crib the artillery of a ghostly face,
and training it point-blank at Second Victim.)--Young man, don't trifle!

Second Victim.--Pardon me, Sir, I am not trifling, I have sound reasons for what I say. Your
education, Sir, has apparently been neglected. Wait one moment, and I'll give you a new idea,
which will contribute materially to your happiness. You will at once admit, I take it, that
oxygen and carbonic acid stand at opposite poles in their relations to the respiratory system;
also, that said dock-smell was a mixture of carbonic acid of various kinds, and of different
degrees of intensity; and, lastly, that animal and vegetable life are complements of each other,--correlatives,
so to speak.

First Victim.--Sartin: that's Natur' an' common sense.

Second Victim.--Now, then, plants naturally absorb carbonic acid and give off oxygen during
daylight. At night, the process is reversed: then they absorb oxygen and give off carbonic
acid. In a similar, but reverse way, man, who was plainly intended to inhale oxygen and exhale
carbonic acid in his waking hours, should, in his sleeping hours, in order to be consistent
with himself and with Nature, inhale only dense carbonic acid and exhale oxygen. Men and plants
make Nature's see-saw: one goes up as the other goes down. Hence it follows as a logical sequence,
that the truly wise man, who seeks to comply with the laws of Nature, and to fulfil the great
ends of his existence, will choose for his sleeping-apartment the closest quarters possible,
and will welcome the fumes which would be noisome by day. For my part, therefore, I feel profoundly
grateful even for one night of this little crib. It has already done much for me. I feel confident
that it has contributed greatly to my span of life. I am deeply beholden to the owners, to
the captain, yea, to all the crew. And for the blessed dock-smell I shall ever be thankful:--

     "'T were worth ten years of mortal life, One glance at its
     array."

It will not be amiss to say to you, Mr. Rink, that this theory is sanctioned by one of the
leading ornaments of the French Academy. He has advocated it, in an elaborate treatise, with
an eloquence and power worthy of its distinguished author. He shows, in passages of singular
purity, that beasts, whose instincts teach them far more of the laws of Nature than our reason
teaches us, always retire to sleep in a place where they can obtain the closest, healthiest
air. In the last communication sent to me on this subject by the learned Professor, he proves
conclusively that----

First Victim. (His artillery now rumbling down the heights on the full gallop.)--I snum, that's
awful! Wal, I never see,--'t beats the Dutch! No kind o' use talkin' with sech a chap. Never
see so much nonsense in one head 's that critter's got in his.

VIII.--JENTACULAR.

A barrow-tone full of groan and creak, trundling along through the well-known bravura commencing,--

    "In Köln, a town of monks and bones," etc.

Yes, the aroma was highly complicate, but not, like the poet, of imagination all compact. It
was not Frangipanni, though in part an eternal perfume; nor was it Bergamot, or Attar, or Millefleurs,
or Jockey-Club, or New-Mown Hay. No, it was none of these. What was it, then? you ask. I dissected
it as well as I could, though not with entire success; but I will tell you the members of this
body of death, so far as I found them. I do not for a moment doubt that it was made up of at
least the two-and-seventy several parts which bloomed in the bouquet plucked by the bard in
Hermann's land; yet my feeble sense could not distinguish all. There was unquestionably a fry,--nay,
several; the fumes of coffee soared riotous; I could detect hot biscuits distinctly; the sausage
asked a foremost place; pancakes, griddle-cakes, dough-nuts, gravies, and sauces, all struggled
for precedence; the land and the sea waged internecine war for place, through their representative
fries of steak and mackerel; and as the unctuous pork--no nursling of the flock, but seasoned
in ripe old age with salt not Attic--rooted its way into the front rank, I thought of the wisdom
of Moses. All these were, so to speak, the mere outlying flakes, the feathery curls, of the
balmy cirro-cumulus, whose huge bulk arose out of the bowels of the ship itself. Up and down,
in and out, here and there, into every chink and crevice, rolled the blue-white incense-cloud,
dense as the cottony puff at the mouths of the guns in Vernet's "Siege of Algiers." Or you
might say that these were but the flying-buttresses, the floriated pinnacles, the frets, and
the gargoyles of a great frowzy cathedral lying vast and solid far below.

The Captain sat at the head of the table; next him was the fixed star Düspeptos, with Satellite
stationary on the right quarter.

       *       *       *       *       *

Eupeptos.--Coffee,--that's good. John, fill my cup. Have it strong, mind,--no milk.

Düspeptos. (Placing hand remonstratingly on arm of Eupeptos.)--My friend, man's life a'n't
more'n a span, anyhow; yourn wun't be wuth more'n half a span. Don't ye do it.

Eupeptos. (Gayly.)--Dum vivimus, vivamus. Try a cup, Mr. Rink.

Düspeptos.--No, Sir. Thousan' dollars'd be no objick at all. There'd be a dead Rink layin'
round in less 'n half a shake. I'd want a permit from the undertaker fust, an' hev my measure
for a patent casket to order. This child a'n't anxious to cut stick yit awhile.

Eupeptos.--I'm very much of Voltaire's way of thinking about coffee. I don't know but I would
agree with Mackintosh, that the measure of a man's brains is the amount of coffee he drinks.
I like it in the French style, all but the lait; that destroys the flavor, besides making it
despicably weak. Have a hot biscuit, Mr. Rink? I'm afraid they're like Gilpin,--carry weight,
you know. But try one, won't you?

Düspeptos.--I'm shot ef I do. Don't hev any more o' yer nonsense, young man, or I'll git ructions.

Eupeptos.--All right. Advance, pancakes! Here's a prime one, steaming hot, crisp and fizzling.
Allow me to put it on your plate, Sir?

Düspeptos.--Not by a long chalk. Hands off, I tell ye, or there'll be a free fight afore shortly.
You'd better make up yer mind to oncet thet this 'ere thing a'n't goin' to ram nohow.

Eupeptos.--Sorry I can't suit you. Better luck next time. Ah! here's the very thing. Waiter,
pass the fried steak, salt mackerel, and fried potatoes to Mr. Rink.

Düspeptos.--Wun't stan' it,--I snore I wun't! I tell ye, I'm gittin' master-riled. Jest you
take yer own fodder, an' keep quiet.

Eupeptos.--Pardon me, Sir, but my eye has just fallen on yonder dish of dough-nuts, faced by
those incense-breathing griddle-cakes. Look slightly soggy, but not disagreeable. This sea-air,
you know, gives a man a tremendous appetite for anything, and the digestion of an ostrich.
Risk it, won't you?

Düspeptos. (With determined air, clenching knife and fork pointing skywards.)--Stranger, le'
's come to a distinct understandin' on this subjick afore we git much older. You know puffickly
wal what I am,--a confirmed dyspeptic for twenty-five year. An' I a'n't ashamed on it, nuther;
but I'm proud to say I glory in it. You know puffickly wal what my notions is about all this
'ere stuff, an' still you keep stickin' it into my face. Now, ef you want me to lambaste ye,
I'm the man to do it, an' do it hahnsome. But ef yer life a'n't insured clean up to the hub,
an' ef ye've got any survivin' friends, I advise ye not to tote any more o' that 'ere grub
in this direction. I give ye fair warnin',--yer've raised my dander, an' put my Ebenezer up.
I'd jest as lieves wallop ye as eat, an' ten times lieveser.

Eupeptos.--Really, Sir, no offence intended. I saw that your taste was delicate, and offered
you these various tit-bits in the hope that some one of them might prove acceptable. But pray,
Sir, do not starve yourself on my account. What in the world can you eat? Do not, I beseech
you, by undue fasting, deprive the world of so distinguished----

Düspeptos. (Mollifying.)--Fact is, I knew jest how 't was goin' to be. They allers fry everythin'
an' cook it up in grease, so no respectable man can git any decent vittles t' eat. So I jest
went out an' laid in plenty o' my own provender,--suthin' reliable an' wholesome, ye know.
Brought aboard a firkin o' Graham-biscuit,--jest the meal mixed up with water,--no salt, no
emptins, no nuthin'. 'T's the healthiest thing out o' jail. It's Natur's own food, an' the
best eatin' I know. Raäl good flavor, git 'em good, besides bein' puffickly harmless an' salubrious.
I cal'late I've got enough to run the machine, an' keep it all trig up to concert-pitch, till
I git ashore, ef so be th' old tub don't send us to Davy Jones's locker. Here, try one,--I've
got a plenty,--an' you'll say they're fust-rate. Leave them 'ere pancakes, an' all that p'is'n
truck. Arter you take one o' these, you'll never tech nuthin' else.

Eupeptos.--Thank you, Sir, but if it's all the same to you, please excuse me this time. I have
other fish to fry. In fact, Sir, I am entirely destitute of equanimity, and have no particle
of stability in my disposition. Not a drop of Scotch blood in my veins.

Düspeptos.--There's no oats about these; an' ef there was, 't wouldn't hurt ye none. It's jest
the kernel an' the shell mixed up together.

Eupeptos.--Dangerous combination. I have no military ambition,--wouldn't give a rush for a
spread eagle,--don't like the braying by a mortar.

Düspeptos.--Wal, I mout as wal vamose, 's long as I've hove in my rations. Already gone risin'
a good half-ounce above my or'nary 'lowance. 'T wun't do to dissipate, even ef a feller a'n't
to hum an' nobody's the wiser. Natur' allers makes ye foot the bill all the same on sea an' shore.

Eupeptos. (Trolling in a low voice the celebrated barcarole,

    "My bark is by the shore," etc.)--

Stay, oh, stay, gentle stranger! See yon sausage fatly floating! Be not dogged to go, but come!
Prithee, return once more to the festive board! Lo! this--the fattest of the flock--shall be
thy portion, most favored Benjamin!

Düspeptos. (--Muttering in the distance.)--That feller's a raäl jo-fired numbskull. He don't
know any more about the fust principles o' human natur' than the babe unborn. Reg'lar goney.
Dunno whether he's jokin' or in sober airnest. Good mind to sail into him anyhow. Guess 't
'll do, though, to leave him to Natur'. He'll stuff himself to death fast enough ... pitchin'
into p'is'n ... sexton ... six-board box ... coroner's verdick ... run over by a fry ... engineer
did his dooty....

IX.--FINALE (con motivo.)

But time would fail me to tell you of the myriad golden spangles so thickly stitched into the
hurrying web of those fustian hours. Oh! that dim crepuscular time, when, with toe set to toe
squarely on the scratch, we stood up to one another, with eyes glaring through the gloaming,
and gave and took manfully, fighting out anew the old battles of the Bourbon vs. China, of
King James vs. Virginia, of Graham vs. Greece! I could tell you of the siesta of the new Prometheus,
when, perched on the Mount Caucasus of a bleak chain-cable, he gave himself postprandially,
in full livery of seisin, to the vulturous sun. Wasted, yet daily renewed, enduring, yet murmuring
not, he hurled defiance at Fat, scoffed at the vain rage of Jupiter Pinguis, and proffered
to the world below a new life in his fiery gift of stale bran-bread. Would you could have heard
that vesper hymn stealing hirsute through the mellow evening-air! It sung the Peptic Saints
and Martyrs, explored the bowels of old Time, and at last died away in dulcet cadence as it
chanted the glories of the coming Age of Grits. Again, in the silent night-watches, did sage
Mentor become vocal, going over afresh the story of the Nervous and the Mucous, classifying
their victims, generalizing laws, discriminating the various dyspepsies of the nations, and
summing up at last the inestimable benefits conferred by our modern dyspepsy on the character,
the literature, and the life of this nineteenth century.

Once more--for the last time--did the sable robe inwrap us. Once more the night-blooming cereus
oped its dank petals; and amid its murky fragrance I sank to rest. When I woke, the whank!--tick-a-lick!--whank!--tick-a-lick!--had
ceased, and we were safely moored. I leaped lightly to the shore, and, reverently stooping,
saluted with fond gratitude my Mother Earth. Rising, I beheld for the last time the gaunt form
of the Martyr standing on the deck,--a bar sinister sable blazoned athwart the golden shield
of the climbing sun. And once more he lift up his voice:--

"Hullo! What! up killick an' off a'ready? Ye'r' bound to go it full chisel any way,--don't
mean to hev grass grow under your heels, that's sartin. Wal, 't 's the early bird thet ketches
the worm; an' it's the early worm thet gits picked, too,--recollember that. I cal'late you
reckon the Markerstown's about played out, an' a'n't exackly wut she's cracked up to be. It's
pooty plain thet that 'ere blamed grease has ben one too many for ye, arter all yer lingo.
Ef a man will dance, he's got to pay the fiddler. You can't go it on tick with Natur'; she's
some on a trade, an' her motto is, 'Down with the dosh.' Ef you think you can play 'possum,
an' pull the wool over her eyes, jest try it on, that's all; you'll find, my venerable hero,
thet you're shinnin' a greased pole for the sake of a bogus fo'pence-ha'penny on top.

"Now, young man, afore you hurry up your cakes much further, I've got jest two words to say
to ye. Don't cut it too fat, or you'll flummux by the way, an' leave nuthin' but a grease-spot.
Don't dawdle round doin' nuthin' but stuffin' yerself to kill. Don't act like a gonus,--don't
hanker arter the flesh-pots. Wake up, peel your eyes, an' do suthin' for a dyspeptic world,
for sufferin' sinners, for yerself. Allers stick close to Natur' an' hyg'ene. Drop yer nonsense,
an' come over an' j'in us, an' we'll make a new man of ye,--jest as good as wheat. You're on
the road to ruin now; but we'll take ye, an' build ye up, give ye tall feed, an' warrant ye
fust-cut health an' happiness. No cure, no pay. An' look here, keep that 'ere card I gev ye
continooally on hand, an' peroose it day an' night. I tell ye it'll be the makin' on ye. Ef
you're in want o' bran-bread at any time, let me know, an' I'm your man,--Rink by name, an'
Rink by natur'. An' ef so be you ever come within ten mile o' where I hang out, jest tie right
up on the spot, without the slightest ceremony or delayance, an' take things puffickly free
an' easy like. Wal, my hearty, I see ye're on the skedaddle. Take keer o' yerself,--yourn till
death, N. Rink."

THE TWENTIETH PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION.

The country is now on the eve of an election the importance of which it would be impossible
to overrate. Yet a few days, and it will be decided whether the people of the United States
shall condemn their own conduct, by cashiering an Administration which they called upon to
make war on the rebellious slaveholders of the South, or support that Administration in the
strenuous endeavors which it is making to effect the reconstruction of the Republic, and the
destruction of Slavery. It is to insult the intelligence and patriotism of the American people
to entertain any serious doubt as to the issue of the contest. It can have but one issue, unless
the country has lost its senses,--and never has it given better evidence of its sobriety, firmness,
and rectitude of purpose than it now daily affords. Were the contest one relating to the conduct
of the war, and had the Democratic party assumed a position of unquestionable loyalty, there
would be some room for doubting who is to be our next President. It is impossible that a contest
of proportions so vast should not have afforded ground for some complaint, on the score of
its management. To suppose that the action of Government has been on all occasions exactly
what it should have been is to suppose something so utterly out of the nature of things that
it presents itself to no mind. Errors are unavoidable even in the ordinary affairs of common
life, and their number and their magnitude increase with the importance of the business, and
the greatness of the stage on which it is transacted. We have never claimed perfection for
the Federal Administration, though we have ever been ready to do justice to the success which
it has achieved on many occasions and to the excellence of its intentions on all. Had the Democrats
called upon the country to displace the Administration because it had not done all that it
should have done, promising to do more themselves against the Rebels than President Lincoln
and his associates had effected, the result of the Presidential election might be involved
in some doubt; for the people desire to see the Rebellion brought to an end, and the Democratic
party has a great name as a ruling political organization, its history, during most of the
present century, being virtually the history of the American nation. But, with a want of wisdom
that shows how much it has lost in losing that Southern lead which had so much to do with its
success in politics, it chose to place itself in opposition to the national sentiment, instead
of adopting it, guiding it, and profiting from its existence. The errors of the various parties
that have been opposed to it have often been matter for mirth to the Democratic party, as well
they may have been; but neither Federalists, nor National Republicans, nor Whigs, nor Know-Nothings,
nor Republicans were ever guilty of a blunder so enormous as that which this party itself perpetrated
at Chicago, when it virtually announced its readiness to surrender the country into the hands
of the men who have so pertinaciously sought its destruction for the last four years. So strange
has been its action, that we should be ashamed to have dreamed that any party could be guilty
of it. Yet it is a living fact that the Democratic party, in spite of its loud claims to strict
nationality of purpose, has so conducted itself as to show that it is willing to complete the
work which the slaveholders began, and not only to submit to the terms which the Rebels would
dictate, but to tear the Union still further to pieces, if indeed it would leave any two States
in a united condition. Thus acting, that party has defeated itself, and reduced the action
of the people to a mere, though a mighty, formality. Either this is a plain statement of the
case, or this nation is about to give a practical answer to Bishop Butler's famous question,
"What if a whole community were to go mad?" For the ratification of the Chicago Platform by
the people would be an indorsement of violence and disorder, a direct approval of wilful rebellion,
and an announcement that every election held in this country is to be followed by a revolutionary
outbreak, until our condition shall have become even worse than that of Mexico, and we shall
be ready to welcome the arrival, in the train of some European army, of a cadet of some imperial
or royal house, whose "mission" it should be to restore order in the once United States, while
anarchy should be kept at a distance by a liberal exhibition of French or German bayonets.
What has happened to Mexico would assuredly happen here, if we should allow the country to
Mexicanize itself at the bidding of Belmont and Co.

But it may be said, it is unjust to attribute to the masses of the Democratic party intentions
so bad as those of which we have spoken. That party, in past times, has done great things for
the land, has always professed the highest patriotism, and its name and fame are most intimately
associated with some of the noblest passages in the history of the Republic. All this is very
true. We admit, what is indeed self-evident, that the Democratic party has done great things
for the country, and that it can look back with just pride over the country's history, until
a comparatively recent period; and we do not attribute to the masses composing it any other
than the best intentions. It is not of those masses that we have spoken. The sentiment of patriotism
is ever strong with the body of the people. The number of men who would wilfully injure their
country has never been large in any age. But it is not the less true that parties are but too
often the blind tools of leaders, of men whose only interest in their country is to use it
for their own purposes, to make all they can out of it, and at its expense. The Democratic
party has always been a disciplined party, and nothing is more notorious in its history than
its submissiveness to its leaders. This has been the chief cause of its almost unbroken career
of success; and it has been its pride and its boast that it has been well-trained, obedient,
and consequently successful, while all other parties have been quarrelsome and impatient of
discipline, and consequently have risen only to endure through a few years of sickly existence,
and then to pass away. The Federalists, the National Republicans, the Antimasons, the Whigs,
and the Know-Nothings have each appeared, flourished for a short time, and then passed to the
limbo of factions lost to earth. This discipline of the Democracy has not been without its
uses, and the country occasionally has profited from it; but now it is to be abused, through
application to the service of the Great Anarch at Richmond. The Rebel power, which our fleets
and armies are steadily reducing day by day, is to be saved from overthrow, and its agents
from the severe and just punishment which should be visited upon them for their great and unprovoked
crime,--if they are to be saved therefrom,--through the action of the Democratic party, as
it calls itself, and which purposes to go to the assistance of the slaveholders in war, as
formerly it went to their assistance in peace, the meekest and most faithful and most useful
of their slaves. The Democratic party, as a party, instead of being the sword of the Republic,
purposes being the shield of the Rebellion. Such is the intention of its leaders, who control
the disciplined masses, if their words have any meaning; and, so far as they have been able
to act, their actions correspond strictly with their words. The Chicago Convention, which consisted
of the crème de la crème of the Democracy, had not a word to say against either the Rebels
or the Rebellion, while it had not words enough, or words not strong enough, to employ in denouncing
those whose sole offence consists in their efforts to conquer the Rebels and to put down the
Rebellion. With a perversion of history that is quite without a parallel even in the hardy
falsehood of American politics, the responsibility for the war was placed to the account of
the loyal men of the country, and not to the account of the traitors, who brought it upon the
nation by a fierce forcing-process. The speech of Mr. Horatio Seymour, who presided over the
Belmont band, is, as it were, a bill of indictment preferred against the American Republic;
for Governor Seymour, though not famous for his courage, has boldness sufficient to do that
which a far greater man said he would not do,--he has indicted a whole people. It follows from
this condemnation of the Federal Government for making war on the Rebels, and this failure
to condemn the Rebels for making war on the Federal Government, that the Democrats, should
they succeed in electing their candidates, would pursue a course exactly the opposite of that
which they denounce. They would withdraw the nation from the contest, and acknowledge the independence
of the Southern Confederacy; and then they would make such a treaty with its leading and dominant
interest as should place the United States in the condition of dependency with reference to
the South. That such would be their course is not only fairly inferrible from the views embodied
in the Chicago Platform, and from the speeches made in the Chicago Convention, but it is what
Mr. Pendleton, the Democratic candidate for the Vice-Presidency, has said it is our duty to
do so, so far as relates to acknowledging the Confederacy. He has deliberately said, that,
if we cannot "conciliate" the Rebels, and "persuade" them to come back into the Union, we should
allow them to depart in peace. Such is the doctrine of the gentleman who was placed on the
Democratic ticket with General McClellan for the avowed purpose of rendering that ticket palatable
to the Peace men. No man can vote for General McClellan without by the same act voting for
Mr. Pendleton; and we know that Mr. Pendleton has declared himself ready to let the Rebels
rend the Union to tatters, and that he has opposed the prosecution of the war. General McClellan
is mortal, and, if elected, might die long before his Presidential term should be out, like
General Taylor, or immediately after it should begin, like General Harrison. Then Mr. Pendleton
would become President, like Mr. Tyler, in 1841, who cheated the Whigs, or like Mr. Fillmore,
in 1850, who cheated everybody. Nor is it by any means certain that General McClellan would
not, once elected, consider himself the Chicago Platform, as Mr. Buchanan avowed himself to
be the Cincinnati Platform. He has written a letter, to be sure, in which he has given it to
be understood that he is in favor of continuing the war against the Rebels until they shall
be subdued; but so did Mr. Polk, twenty yearn ago, write a letter on the Tariff of 1842 that
was even more satisfactory to the Democratic Protectionists of those days than the letter of
General McClellan can be to the War Democrats of these days. All of us recollect the famous
Democratic blazon of 1844,--"Polk, Dallas, and the Tariff of '42!" It was under that sign that
the Democrats conquered in Pennsylvania; and had they not conquered in Pennsylvania, they themselves
would have been conquered in the nation. Mr. Polk and Mr. Dallas were the chief instruments
used to break down the Tariff of '42, in less than two years after they had been elected to
the first and second offices of the nation because they were believed to be its most ardent
friends. Mr. Polk, as President, recommended that it should be changed, and employed all the
influence of his high station to get the Tariff Bill of 1846 through Congress; and Mr. Dallas,
who had been nominated for the Vice-Presidency with the express purpose of "catching" the votes
of Protectionists, gave his casting vote in the Senate in favor of the new bill, which meant
the repeal of the Tariff of '42. The Democrats are playing the same game now that they played
in 1844, with this difference, that the stakes are ten thousand times greater now than they
were then, and that their manner of play is far hardier than it was twenty years since. Then,
the question, though important, related only to a point of internal policy; now, it relates
to the national existence. Then, the Free-Traders did not offensively proclaim their intention
to cheat the Protectionists; now, Mr. Fernando Wood and Mr. Vallandigham, and other leaders
of the extreme left of the Democratic party, with insulting candor, avow that to cheat the
country is the purpose which that party has in view. Mr. Vallandigham, who made the Chicago
Platform, explicitly declares that that Platform and General McClellan's letter of acceptance
do not agree; at the same time Mr. Wood, who is for peace to the knife, calmly tells us that
General McClellan, as President, would do the work of the Democracy,--and we need no Daniel
to interpret Mr. Wood's words. We mean no disrespect to General McClellan, on the contrary
we treat him with perfect respect, when we say that we do not believe he has a higher sense
of honor than Mr. Polk possessed; and as Mr. Polk became a tool in the hands of a faction,--being
a Protectionist during the contest of '44, and an Anti-Protectionist after that contest had
been decided in his favor,--so is it intended that General McClellan shall become a tool in
the hands of another faction. Mr. Polk was employed to effect the destruction of a "black tariff":
General McClellan is employed to destroy a nation that is supposed to be given up to "black
republicanism." We do not believe that the soldier will be found so successful an instrument
as the civilian proved to be.

An ounce of fact is supposed to be worth a ton of theory; and the facts of the last four or
five years admit of our believing the worst that can be suspected of the purposes of the Democratic
party. It is not uncharitable to say that the leaders and managers of that party contemplate,
in the event of their triumph in November, the surrender of the country to the slaveholding
oligarchy; in the event of their defeat by a small majority, the extension of the civil war
over the North. Four years ago we could not be made to believe that Secession was a possible
thing. We admitted that there were Secessionists at the South, but we could not be made to
believe in the possibility of Secession. Even "South Carolina couldn't be kicked out of the
Union," it was commonly said in the North. There were but few disunionists at the South, almost
everybody said, and almost everybody believed what was said concerning the state of Southern
opinion. In a few weeks we saw, not South Carolina kicked out of the Union, but South Carolina
kicking the Union away from her. In a few months we saw eleven States take themselves out of
the Union, form themselves into a Confederacy, and raise great armies to fight against the
Union. Yet it is certain that in the month of November, 1860, there were not twenty thousand
resolute disunionists in all the Slaveholding States, leaving South Carolina and Mississippi
aside,--and not above fifty thousand in all the South, including Mississippi and South Carolina.
How, then, came it to pass that nearly the whole of the population of the South became Rebels
in so short a time? Because they were under the dominion of their leading men, who took them
from the right road, and conducted them into the slough of rebellion. Because they were encouraged
so to act by the Northern Democracy as made rebellion inevitable. The Northern Democratic press
and Northern Democratic orators held such language respecting "Southern rights" as induced
even loyal Southrons to suppose that Slavery was to be openly recognized by the Constitution,
and spread over the nation. The President of the United States, a Northern Democrat, gravely
declared that there existed no right in the Government to coerce a seceding State, which was
all that the most determined Secessionist could ask. Instead of doing anything to strengthen
the position of the federal Government, the President did all that he could to assist the Secessionists,
and left the country naked to their attacks; and he parted on the best of terms with those
Rebels who left his Cabinet, where they had long been busy in organizing resistance to Federal
authority. The leaders of the Northern Democracy, far from exhibiting a loyal spirit, urged
the slaveholders to make demands which were at war with the Constitution and the laws, and
which could not have been complied with, unless it had been meant to admit that there was no
binding force in existing institutions, the validity of which had not once been called in question
for seventy-two years. The real Secessionists of the South, Rhett and Yancey and their followers,
availed themselves of the existing state of affairs, and precipitated rebellion,--a step which
they never would have taken, had they not been assured that no resistance would be made to
their action so long as Mr. Buchanan should remain in the Presidency, and that he would be
supported by the leaders of the Northern Democracy, who would take their followers with them
along the road that led to the Union's dissolution. South Carolina, rabid as she was, did not
rebel until the last Democratic President of the United States had publicly assured her that
he would do nothing to prevent her from reducing the Calhoun theory to practice; and had she
not rebelled, not another State would have left the Union. The opportunity that she could not
get under President Jackson she obtained under President Buchanan,--and she did not hesitate
to make the most of that opportunity, all indeed that could be made of it, well knowing that
it could not be expected again to occur.

With these facts before them, the American people should be prepared for further rebellious
action on the part of that faction whose creed it is that rebellion is right when directed
against the ascendency of their political opponents. They have done their utmost to assist
the Rebels all through the war, and the great riots in New York last year were the legitimate
consequences of their doctrine, if not of their labors. We know that organizations hostile
to the Union have been formed in the West, and that there was to have been a rising there,
had any striking successes been achieved by the Confederate forces during the last six months.
Nothing but the vigor and the victories of Grant and Sherman and Farragut saved the North from
becoming the scene of civil war in 1864. Nothing but the vigor and union of the people in their
political capacity can keep civil war from the North hereafter. The followers of the Seymours
and other ultra Democrats of the North are not more loyal than were nine-tenths of the Southern
people in 1860. Few of them now think of becoming rebels, but they would as readily rebel as
did the Southern men who have filled the armies of Lee and Beauregard, and who have poured
out their blood so lavishly to destroy that nation which owes its existence to the labors of
Southern men, to the exertions of Washington, Jefferson, Henry, and others, natives of the
very States that have done most in the cause of destruction. The sentiment of nationality is
no stronger among Northern Democrats than it was among Southern Democrats; and as the latter
were converted into traitors at the bidding of a few leading politicians whose plans were favored
by circumstances, so would the former become traitors at the first signal to any move that
their leaders should make. As to the two classes of leaders, the Southern men are far superior
in every manly quality to those Northern men who are doing their work. It is possible that
the men of the South really did believe that their property was in danger, and it is beyond
dispute that they were alarmed about their political power; but the men of the North who sympathize
with them, and who are prepared to aid them at the first opportunity that shall offer to strike
an effective blow, well knew that the victorious Republicans had neither the will nor the power
to injure Southern property or to weaken the protection it enjoyed under the Constitution.
Their hostility to the Union is purely gratuitous, or springs from motives of the most sordid
character.

There is but one way to meet the danger that threatens us,--a danger that really is greater
than that with which we were threatened in 1860, and which we have the advantage of seeing,
whereas we could see nothing in that year. We must strengthen the Government, make it literally
irresistible, by clothing it with the whole of that power which proceeds from an emphatic and
unmistakable expression of the popular will. Give Mr. Lincoln, in the approaching election,
the strength that comes from a united people, and we shall have peace maintained throughout
the North, and peace restored to the South. Reëlect him by a small majority, and there will
be civil war in the North, and a revival of warlike spirit in the South. Elect General McClellan,
and we shall have to choose between constant warfare, as a consequence of having approved of
Secession by approving of the Chicago Platform,--which is Secession formally democratized,--and
despotism, the only thing that would save us from anarchy. Anarchy is the one thing that men
will not, because they cannot, long endure. Order is indeed now and forever Heaven's first
law, and order society must and will have. Order is just as compatible with constitutional
government as it is with despotic government; but to have it in connection with freedom, in
other words, with the existence of a constitutional polity, the people must do their whole
duty. They must rise above the prejudices of party and of faction, and see nothing but their
country and liberty. They must show that they are worthy of freedom, or they cannot long have
it. Now is the time to prove that the American people know the difference between liberty and
license, by their support of the party of order and constitutional government, and by administering
a thorough rebuke to those licentious men who are seeking to overwhelm the country and its
Constitution in a common ruin.

Of President Lincoln's reëlection no doubt can be entertained, whether we judge of the issue
by the condition of the country, or by the sentiments that should animate the great majority
of the people, and by which, we are convinced, that majority is animated. The Union candidate,
no matter what his name or antecedents, should be elected by a majority so great as to "coerce"
the turbulent portion of the Democracy into submission to the laws of the land, and into respect
for the popular will, the last thing for which Democrats have any respect. Had the Union National
Convention seen fit to place a new man in nomination, it would have been the duty of the voters
to support him with all the means honestly at their command; but we must say that there is
a peculiar obligation upon Americans to reëlect Mr. Lincoln, and to reëlect him by a vote that
should surprise even the most sanguine and hopeful of his friends. The war from which the nation,
and the whole world, have been made to suffer so much, and from the effects of which mankind
will be long in recovering, was made because of Mr. Lincoln's election to the Presidency. The
North was to be punished for having had the audacity to elect him even when the Democracy were
divided, and the success of the Republican candidate was a thing of course. He, a mere man
of the people, should never become President of the United States! The most good-natured of
men, it is known that his success made him an object of personal aversion to the Southern leaders.
They did their worst to prevent his becoming President of the Republic, and in that way they
wronged and insulted the people far more than they wronged and insulted the man whom the people
had elected to the highest post in the land; and the people are bound, by way of vindicating
their dignity and establishing their power, to make Mr. Lincoln President of the United States,
to compel the acknowledgment of his legal right to be the chief magistrate of the nation as
unreservedly, from South Carolina as from Massachusetts. His authority should be admitted as
fully in Virginia as it is in New York, in Georgia and Alabama as in Pennsylvania and Ohio.
This can follow only from his reëlection; and it can follow only from his reëlection by a decisive
majority. That insolent spirit which led the South to become so easy a prey to the Secession
faction, when not a tenth part of its people were Secessionists, should be thoroughly, emphatically
rebuked, and its chief representatives severely punished, by extorting from the rebellious
section a practical admission of the enormity of the crime of which it was guilty when it resisted
the lawful authority of a President who was chosen in strict accordance with the requirements
of the Constitution, and who entertained no more intention of interfering with the constitutional
rights of the South than he thought of instituting a crusade for the recovery of the Holy Sepulchre.
The majesty of the law should be asserted and established, and that can best be done by placing
President Lincoln a second time at the head of the Republic, the revolt of the slaveholders
being directed against him personally as well as against that principle of which he was the
legally elected representative. In him the spirit of order is incarnate; and his reëlection
by a great popular vote would be the establishment of the fact that under our system it is
possible to maintain order, and to humiliate and subdue the children of anarchy.

President Lincoln should be reëlected, if for no other reason, that there may go forth to the
world a pointed approval of his conduct from his constituents. As we have said, we do not claim
perfection for the policy and acts of the Administration; but we are of opinion that its mistakes
have been no greater than in most instances would have been committed by any body of men that
could have been selected from the entire population of the country. Take the policy that has
been pursued with reference to Slavery. Many of us thought that the President issued his Emancipation
Proclamation at least a year too late; but we must now see that the time selected for its promulgation
was as skilfully chosen as its aim was laudable. Had it come out a year earlier, in 1861, the
friends of the Rebels could have said, with much plausibility, that its appearance had rendered
a restoration of the Union impossible, and that the slaveholders had no longer any hope of
having their property-rights respected under the Federal Constitution. But by allowing seventeen
months to elapse before issuing it, the President compelled the Rebels to commit themselves
absolutely to the cause of the Union's overthrow without reference to any attack that had been
made on Slavery in a time of war. It has not, therefore, been in the power of their allies
here to say that the issuing of the Proclamation placed an impassable gulf between the Union
and the Confederacy; for the Confederates were as loud in their declarations that they never
would return into the Union before the Proclamation appeared as they have been since its appearance.
They were caught completely, and deprived of the only pretence that could have been invented
for their benefit, by themselves or by their friends. The adoption of an Emancipation policy
did not cause us the loss of one friend in the South, while it gained friends for our cause
in every country that felt an interest in our struggle. It prevented the acknowledgment of
the Southern Confederacy by France, and by other nations, as French example would have found
prompt imitation. Its appearance was the turning event of the war, and it was most happily
timed for both foreign and domestic effect. It will be the noblest fact in President Lincoln's
history, that by the same action he announced freedom to four millions of bondmen, and secured
his country against even the possibility of foreign mediation, foreign intervention, and foreign
war.

The political state of the country, as indicated by the result of recent elections, is not
without interest, in connection with the Presidential contest. Since the nomination of General
McClellan, elections have been held in several States for local officers and Members of Congress,
and the results are highly favorable to the Union cause. The first election was held in Vermont,
and the Union party reëlected their candidate for Governor, and all their candidates for Members
of Congress, by a majority of more than twenty thousand. They have also a great majority in
the Legislature, the Democrats not choosing so much as one Senator, and but few Members of
the House of Representatives. The election in Maine took place but six days after that of Vermont,
and with similar results. The Union candidate for Governor was reëlected, by a majority that
is stated at sixteen thousand. Every Congressional District was carried by the Union men. In
one district a Democrat was elected in 1862, at the time when the Administration was very unpopular
because of the military failures that were so common in the summer of that dark and eventful
year. His majority was one hundred and twenty-seven. At the late election his constituents
refused to reëlect him, and his place was bestowed on a friend of the Administration, whose
majority is said to be about two thousand. The majorities of the other candidates were much
larger, in two instances exceeding four thousand each. The State Legislature elected on the
same day is of Administration politics in the proportion of five to one. These two States may
be said to represent both of the old parties that existed in New England during the thirty
years that followed the Presidential election of 1824. Vermont was of National-Republican or
Whig politics down to 1854, and always voted against Democratic candidates for the Presidency.
Maine was almost as strongly Democratic in her opinions and action as Vermont was Anti-Democratic,
voting but once, in 1840, against a Democratic candidate for the Presidency, in twenty-four
years. Her electoral votes were given for General Jackson in 1832, for Mr. Van Buren in 1836,
for Mr. Polk in 1844, for General Cass in 1848, and for General Pierce in 1852. Yet she has
acted politically with Vermont for more than ten years, both States supporting Colonel Fremont
in 1856, and Mr. Lincoln in 1860,--a striking proof of the levelling effect of that pro-slavery
policy and action which have characterized the Democratic party ever since the inauguration
of President Pierce, in 1853. Had the Democratic party not gone over to the support of the
slaveholding interest, Maine would have been a Democratic State at this day.

There were important elections held on the 11th of October in the great and influential States
of Pennsylvania, Ohio, and Indiana, and the verdicts which should be pronounced by these States
were expected with an interest which it was impossible to increase, as it was felt that they
would go far toward deciding the event of the Presidential contest. Vermont's action might
be attributed to her determined and long-continued opposition to the Democratic party, which
no change in others could operate to lessen; and the course of Maine could be attributed to
her "Yankee" character and position: but Pennsylvania has generally been Democratic in her
decisions, and she has nothing of the Yankee about her, while Ohio and Indiana are thoroughly
Western in all respects. Down to a few days before the time for voting, the common opinion
was, that Pennsylvania would give a respectable majority for the Union candidates, that Ohio
would pronounce the same way by a great majority, and that Indiana would be found with the
Democrats; but early in October doubts began to prevail with respect to the action of Pennsylvania,
though no one could say why they came to exist. What happened showed that the change in feeling
did not unfaithfully foreshadow the change that had taken place in the second State of the
Union. Ohio's decision was not different from what had been expected, her Union majority being
not less than fifty thousand, including the soldiers' vote. Indiana's action astonished every
one. Instead of furnishing evidence that General McClellan's nomination had been beneficial
to his party, the event in the Hoosier State led to the opposite conclusion. The Democratic
majority in that State in 1862 was ten thousand, and that it could be overcome, or materially
reduced, was not thought possible. Yet the voting done there on the 11th of October terminated
most disastrously for the Democrats, the popular majority against them being not less than
twenty thousand, while they lost several Members of Congress, among them Mr. Voorhees, who
is to Indiana what Mr. Vallandigham is to Ohio, only that he has a little more prudence than
the Ohioan. Indiana was the only one of the States in which a Governor was chosen, which made
the returns easy of attainment. Governor Morton, who is reëlected, "stumped" the State; and
to his exertions, no doubt, much of the Union success is due. In Pennsylvania, at the time
we write, it is not settled which party has the majority on the home vote; but, as the soldiers
vote in the proportion of about eleven to two for the Republican candidates, the majority of
the latter will be good,--and it will be increased at the November election.

The States that voted on the 11th of October give sixty electoral votes, or two more than half
the number necessary for a choice of President. They are all certain to be given for Mr. Lincoln,
as also are the votes of the six New England States, and those of New York, Illinois, Michigan,
Minnesota, Wisconsin, Iowa, Kansas, West Virginia, and California, making 189 in all, the States
mentioned being entitled to the following votes:--Massachusetts 12, Maine 7, New Hampshire
5, Vermont 5, Rhode Island 4, Connecticut 6, New York 33, Pennsylvania 26, Ohio 21, Indiana
13, Illinois 16, Michigan 8, Minnesota 4, Wisconsin 8, Iowa 8, Kansas 3, West Virginia 5, and
California 5. And so ABRAHAM LINCOLN and ANDREW JOHNSON will be President and Vice-President
of the United States for the four years that shall begin on the 4th of March, 1865.

REVIEWS AND LITERARY NOTICES.

     An American Dictionary of the English Language. By NOAH
     WEBSTER, LL.D. Thoroughly revised, and greatly enlarged and
     improved, by CHAUNCEY A. GOODRICH, LL.D., etc., and NOAH
     PORTER, D.D., etc. Springfield, Mass.: G. & C. Merriam. Royal
     4to. pp. lxxii., 1768.

Beyond cavil, this portly and handsome volume makes good the claim which is set forth on the
title-page. The revision which the old edition has undergone is manifestly a most thorough
one, extending to every department of the work, and to its minutest details. The enlargement
it has received is very considerable, the size of the page having been increased, and more
than eighty pages added to the number contained in the previous or "Pictorial" edition. The
improvements are not only really such, but they are so many and so great that they amount to
a complete remodelling of the work; and hence the objections heretofore brought against it--many
of them very justly--have, for the most part, no longer any validity or pertinency. It may
be questioned, however, whether the Dictionary, in view of the manifold and extensive changes
which have been made in its matter and plan, should not be said to have been based on that
of Dr. Webster rather than to be by him. St. Anthony's shirt cannot be patched and patched
forever and still remain St. Anthony's shirt. But there is doubtless much virtue in a name,
and, so long as the publishers have given us a truly excellent work, it matters little by what
title they choose to call it.

We are amazed at the vastness of the vocabulary, which embraces upwards of one hundred and
fourteen thousand words, being some ten thousand more, it is claimed, than any other word-book
of the language. Such unexampled fulness would be apt to excite a suspicion that a deliberately
adopted system of crimping had been carried on within the tempting domains of the natural sciences,
to furnish recruits for this enormous army of vocables. But we do not find, upon a pretty careful
examination, that many terms of this sort have been admitted which are not fairly entitled
to a place in a popular lexicon.

In the matter of definition, we can unqualifiedly commend the principles by which the editor
and his coadjutors appear to have been guided, notwithstanding an occasional failure to carry
out these principles with entire consistency. The crying fault of mistaking different applications
of a meaning of a word for essentially different significations--the head and front of Dr.
Webster's offending as a definer, and not of Dr. Webster only, but of almost all other lexicographers--has
generally been avoided in this edition. The philosophical analysis, the orderly arrangement
of meanings, the simplicity, comprehensiveness, and precision of statement, the freedom from
prejudice, crotchets, and dogmatism, the good taste and good sense, which characterize this
portion of the work, are deserving of the fullest recognition and the highest praise.

In the department of etymology, the revision has been thorough indeed, and, as all the world
knows, the Dictionary stood sadly enough in need of it. But we were not prepared for so entire
and fearless an overhauling of Dr. Webster's "Old Curiosity Shop," or for a contribution to
philological science so valuable and original. It is not too much to say that no other English
dictionary, and no special treatise on English etymology, that has yet appeared, can compare
with it. As a fitting introduction to the subject, a "Brief History of the English Language,"
by Professor James Hadley, is prefixed to the vocabulary, and will well repay careful study.

No excellences, however, we apprehend, in definition or etymology will reconcile scholars to
those peculiarities of spelling which are commonly known as Websterianisms, and which, with
a few exceptions, are retained in the edition before us. The pages of this magazine are evidence
that we ourselves regard them with no favor. But we are bound, in common honesty, to state,
that, in every case in which Dr. Webster's orthography is given, it is accompanied by the common
spelling, and thus the user of the book is left at liberty to take his choice of modes. We
are also bound, in common fairness, to admit that many, if not all, of the quite limited number
of changes put forward in the later editions of the Dictionary are, in themselves considered,
unquestionable improvements, and that, if adopted by the whole English-writing public on both
sides of the water, or even in this country alone, would redeem our common language from some
of the gross anomalies and grievous confusion which now make it a monster among the graphic
systems of the world, and a stumbling-block and stone of offence to all who undertake to learn
it. Furthermore, it must be conceded that almost all our lexicographers have been nearly or
quite as ready as Dr. Webster to attempt improvements in orthography, though they may have
shown more discretion than he. It is not generally known, we suspect, but it is none the less
a fact, that Johnson, Todd, Perry, Smart, Worcester, and various other eminent orthographers,
have all deviated more or less from actual usage, in order to carry out some "principle" or
"analogy" of the language, or to give sanction and authority to some individual fancy of their
own. So much may be said in defence of Dr. Webster against the ignorant vituperation with which
he has often been assailed. But, on the other hand, he is fairly open to the charge of having
violated his own canons in repeated instances. To take a single case, why should he not have
spelt until with two ls, instead of one,--as he does "distill," "fulfill," etc.,--when it was
so desirable to complete an analogy, and when he had for it the warrant of a very common, if
not the most reputable, usage? Again, it seems to us, that, if our orthography is to be reformed
at all, it should be reformed not indifferently, but altogether; for it is, beyond controversy,
atrociously bad, poorly fulfilling, as Professor Hadley justly remarks, (p. xxviii.,) its original
and proper office of indicating pronunciation, while it no better fufils the improper office,
which some would assert for it, of a guide to etymology. Emendations on the here-a-little-there-a-little
plan, while they do no harm, do little good. They are but topical remedies, which cannot restore
the pristine vigor of a ruined constitution. What we need is a reform as thorough-going as
that which has been effected in the Spanish language. Shall we ever have it? or will the irrational
conservatism of the educated classes, in all time to come, prevent a consummation so desirable,
and so desiderated by the philologist? Max Müller thinks that perhaps our posterity, some three
hundred years hence, may write as they speak,--in other words, that our orthography will by
that time have become a phonetic one. It is not safe to prophesy; but, whether such a result
comes soon or late, the credit of having accomplished it will not be due to those "half-learned
and parcel-learned" persons who consider the present written form of the language as a thing
"taboo," and look with such horror upon all attempts to better its condition.

As regards pronunciation, we think this will be generally considered one of the strong points
of the new Dictionary. The introductory treatise on the "Principles of Pronunciation" is a
comprehensive, instructive, and eminently practical, though not very philosophically constructed,
exposition of the subject of English orthoëpy. It contains an analysis and description of the
elementary sounds of the language, a discussion of certain questions about which orthoëpists
are at variance, and a useful collection of facts, rules, and directions respecting a variety
of other matters falling within its scope. As a sort of pendant to this, we have a "Synopsis
of Words differently pronounced by Different Orthoëpists," which those who regulate their pronunciation
by written authorities or opinions may find it useful to consult. The pronunciations given
in the body of the work appear to be conformed to the usage of the best speakers. We notice
with gratification that such vulgarisms as ab´do-men, pus´sl (for pust´ule!), sword (for sord),
etc., no longer continue to deface the book.

A large number of wood-cuts, mostly selected with good judgment and skilfully engraved, adorn
the pages, and throw light upon the definitions. Besides being inserted in the vocabulary in
connection with the words they illustrate, they are brought together, in a classified form,
at the end of the volume. This is claimed as an "obvious advantage."

We have left ourselves but little space to notice the very rich and attractive Appendix, the
first fifty pages of which are taken up with an "Explanatory and Pronouncing Vocabulary of
the Names of Noted Fictitious Persons and Places," etc., by William A. Wheeler. The conception
of such a work was singularly happy, as well as original, and, on the whole, the task has been
executed with commendable fidelity and discretion. That occasional omissions and mistakes should
be discovered will probably surprise no one less than the author. Attention has elsewhere been
publicly called, in particular, to the fact that Owen Meredith is given as the pseudonyme of
Sir Bulwer Lytton instead of his son, E. R. Bulwer: this would seem to be a bad blunder, but
we understand that it was a mere error of oversight, and that it was corrected before the Dictionary
was fairly in the market. The "Pronouncing Vocabularies of Modern Geographical and Biographical
Names, by J. Thomas, M. D.," are evidently the product of laborious and conscientious research;
and, while we differ widely from Dr. Thomas on various points, general and particular, we must
allow that his vocabularies are as yet the only ones of the kind which approximate with any
nearness to the character of an authoritative standard. The other Vocabularies or "Tables"
of the Appendix seem also to have been prepared with sound judgment and much painstaking, but
we cannot dwell upon them.

To sum up, in all the essential points of a good dictionary,--in the amplitude and selectness
of its vocabulary, in the fulness and perspicacity of its definitions, in its orthoëpy and
(cum grano salis) its orthography, in its new and trustworthy etymologies, in the elaborate,
but not too learned treatises of its Introduction, in its carefully prepared and valuable appendices,--briefly,
in its general accuracy, completeness, and practical utility,--the work is one which none who
read or write can henceforward afford to dispense with.

Mindful of the old adage, we have instituted no comparison between Webster and Worcester. If
the latter, excellent as it is, should now be found in some respects inferior to the former,
it is to be remembered that the present edition of Webster has the great advantage of being
four or five years later in point of time, and that it has been enriched by the use of materials
which were not accessible to Worcester. We are glad to see a handsome tribute to the learning
and industry of Dr. Worcester, and an honest acknowledgment of indebtedness to his labors,
in Professor Porter's Preface. This is as it should be; and we hope that the publishers, on
both sides, acting in the same spirit, will forego all unfriendly controversy. Let there be
no new War of the Dictionaries. The world is wide enough for both, and both are monuments of
industry, judgment, and erudition, in the highest degree creditable to American scholarship,
and unequalled by anything that has yet been done by English philologists of the present century.

     Dramatis Personæ. By ROBERT BROWNING. Boston: Ticknor and
     Fields.

The title of this new volume of poems expresses the peculiarity which we find in everything
that Mr. Browning composes. Notwithstanding the remoteness of his moods, and the curious subtilty
with which he follows the trace of exceptional feelings, he impersonates dramatically: there
may be few such people as these choice acquaintances of his genius, but they are persons, and
not mere figures labelled with a thought. Pippa, Guendolen, Luria, the Duchess, Bishop Blougram,
Frà Lippo Lippi, are persons, however much they may be given to episodes and reverie. You find
a great deal that is irrelevant to the thorough working-out of a character, much that is not
simply individual: Mr. Browning gets sometimes in the way, so that you lose sight of his companion,
but it is not as Punch's master overzealously pulls the wires of his puppets. You would not
say that a man can find many such companions, but you cannot deny that they are vividly described.
Perhaps they appear in only one or two moods, but these have individual life. They are discovered
in rare exalted or peculiar moments, but these are in costume and bathed in color. Shutting
and opening many doors, balked at one vestibule and traversing another, suddenly you surprise
the lord or mistress of the mansion, or from some threshold you silently observe their secret
passion, which is unconscious of the daylight, and is caught in all its frankness. You come
upon people, and not upon pictures in a house.

But the pictures, too, in all Mr. Browning's interiors, seem to have grown out of the life
of the persons. He has not merely come in and hung them up, as poor artist or upholsterer,
to make a sumptuous house for fine people to move into. The character in any one of his poems
seems to have devised the furnishing: it is distinct, exterior, not always helping or expressing
the character's thought, sometimes to be referred to that only with an effort, but still no
other character could have so furnished his house. You can find the individuality everywhere,
if you care to take the trouble. But if you are in haste, or do not particularly sympathize
with the person whose drama you surprise, you and he will be together like vagrants in a gallery,
who long for a catalogue, dislocate their necks, and anathematize the whole collection. But
do not then say that you have gauged and criticized the life that streams from Mr. Browning's pen.

How vivid and personal is, for instance, "Pictor Ignotus," one of the earlier poems! The painter
is no longer unknown, for his mood betrays and describes him. It is not merely his speaking
in the first person which saves him from melting into an abstraction, but it is that the "I"
takes flesh and lives; the poet dramatizes or shows him.

Of this class of poems is the one entitled "Abt Vogler" in the present volume. The Abbot was
a famous musician and organist, the teacher of Meyerbeer. Concerning the new kind of organ
which he invented, and which he called an "Orchestricon," we know nothing, save that its effects
were merely amplifications of those belonging to an organ. The poem describes the awe and rapture
which fill the soul of a great organist when the instrument shudders, soars, rejoices in his
inspiration. It is not the description of a musical mood, but the showing of a man who has
the mood. It is the exultation and religious feeling of a man in the very act. The noble lines
are not fine things attempting to set forth the metaphysics of musical expression and enjoyment,
but they represent a man at the very climax of his musical passion. Is the effect any the less
dramatic because the man is not committing a murder, or conspiring, or seducing, or overreaching,
or infecting an honest ear with jealousy? It is not so theatrical, because the emotion itself
is not so broad and popular, but its inmost genius is dramatic.

"A Death in the Desert" is another poem that attempts to restore a fleeting moment, full of
profound thought and feeling, by giving it individuals, and showing them living in it, instead
of meditating about it with fine after-thoughts. Pamphylax describes the death of St. John
in a desert cave. At first the individuals are clearly seen; but the poem soon lapses into
philosophizing, and winds up with theology. Still, here is the power of reproducing the tone
and sentiments of a long-buried and forgotten epoch, as if the matters involved had immediate
interest and were vigorously mauled in all the newspapers. St. John might have died last week,
or we might be Syrian converts of the second century, dissolved in tenderness at the thought
that the Beloved Disciple at last had gone to lay his head again upon the Master's bosom. The
poem talks as if it were trying to satisfy this mixture of memory and curiosity.

Some of the best lines ever written by Mr. Browning are here. Take these, for instance. Pamphylax,
reporting John's last words, as the hoary life flickered and clung, gives this:--

        "A stick, once fire from end to end;
    Now ashes, save the tip that holds a spark!
    Yet, blow the spark, it runs back, spreads itself
    A little where the fire was: thus I urge
    The soul that served me, till it task once more
    What ashes of my brain have kept their shape,
    And these make effort on the last o' the flesh,
    Trying to taste again the truth of things."

And after recalling the inspirations of Patmos:--

    "But at the last, why, I seemed left alive
    Like a sea-jelly weak on Patmos strand,
    To tell dry sea-beach gazers how I fared
    When there was mid-sea, and the mighty things.

       *    *    *

    Yet now I wake in such decrepitude
    As I had slidden down and fallen afar,
    Past even the presence of my former self,
    Grasping the while for stay at facts which snap,
    Till I am found away from my own world,
    Feeling for foothold through a blank profound."

The poem entitled "Caliban upon Setebos; or, Natural Theology in the Island," has for a motto,
"Thou thoughtest that I was altogether such an one as thyself." Caliban talks to himself about
"that other, whom his dam called God." Setebos is the great First Cause as conceived and dreaded
in the heart of a Caliban. The poem is by no means a caricature of the natural theology which
springs from selfishness and fear.

The materialist who believes in Forces is brother to the Calvinist who preaches Sovereignty
and the Divine Decrees. The preacher lets loose upon the imagination of mankind a Setebos,
who after death will plague his enemies and feast his friends.

The grave irony of this poem so bespatters the theologian's God with his own mud that we dread
the image and recoil. From the unsparing vigor of these lines we turn for relief to "Rabbi
Ben Ezra" and "Prospice." In both of these we have glimpses of Mr. Browning's true theology,
which is the faith of his whole soul in the excellence of that world whose beauty he interprets,
of the human nature whose capacity he does so much to "keep in repute," and of the Infinite Love.

We find in this new volume more distinct and tranquil expressions of Mr. Browning's thought
upon the relation of the finite to the infinite than he has given us before. And his pen has
turned with freedom and satisfaction towards these things, as if the imagination had broken
new outlets for itself through the world's beautiful horizon into the great sea. How "like
one entire and perfect chrysolite" is the little piece called "Prospice"! But we are all the
more surprised to see occasionally a touch of the genuine British denseness, whenever he recollects
that there are such people as Strauss, Bishop Colenso, and the men of the "Essays and Reviews"
prowling around the preserve where the ill-kept Thirty-Nine Articles still find a little short
grass to nibble. When we read the last three verses of "Gold Hair," we set him down for a High-Church
bigot: the English discussions upon points of exegesis and theology appear to him threatening
to prove the Christian faith false, but for his part he still sees reasons to suppose it true,
and this, among others, that it taught Original Sin, the Corruption of Man's Heart! We escape
from this to "Rabbi Ben Ezra" for reassurance, not greatly minding the inconsistency that then
appears, but confirmed in an old opinion of ours, that John Bull, in this matter of theology,
has his mumps and scarlatina very late, and they are likely to go hard with a constitution
that is weaned from the pure truth of things.

"Gold Hair," notwithstanding its picturesque lines, is weak and inconclusive. Its moral is
conventional, while the incident is too far-fetched for sympathy. The series of little poems
called "James Lee" is full of beauties, but it is too vague to make a firm impression. We suppose
it tells the story of love that exaggerates a common nature, clings to it, and shrivels away.
What can be finer than the way in which an unsatisfied heart makes the wind the interpreter
of its pain and dread? This is the sixth poem, "Under the Cliff."

    "Or wouldst thou rather that I understand
      Thy will to help me?--like the dog I found
    Once, pacing sad this solitary strand,
      Who would not take my food, poor hound,
    But whined and licked my hand."

But in this very poem the figure of the nun is artificial, and interrupts the pathetic feeling.
And we cannot make anything out of the piece, "Beside the Drawing-Board," unless we first detach
it from its position in the series, and like it alone. On the whole, many fine lines are here,
but no real person and no poetic impression.

Neither the dramatic nor the lyrical quality appears in this volume as it did once in the splendid
"Bells and Pomegranates," which gave us such vivid shapes, and emotions so consistent and sustained,
even though they were so often flawed by over-reflection. In this volume the purposes are less
palpable, and the pen seems to have pursued them with less tenacity than usual. It has the
air of having been scraped together. Yet how charming is "Confessions," and "Youth and Art,"
and "A Likeness"! Besides these, the best pieces are those which touch upon the highest themes.

"Mr. Sludge, the Medium," cannot be called a poem. It would not be possible to write satire,
epic, idyl, not even elegy, upon that "rat-hole philosophy," as Mr. Emerson once styled the
new fetichism of the mahogany tables. It has not one element that asks the sense of beauty
to incorporate it, or challenges the weapon of wit to transfix it. It is humiliating, but not
pathetic, not even when yearning hearts are trying to pretend that their first-born vibrates
to them through a stranger's and a hireling's mind. It is not even grotesque, but it is gross,
and flat, and stale; its messages are fatuous, its machinery the rickety heirlooms of old humbugs
of Greece and Alexandria. No thrill, no terror, no true awe, nothing but "goose-flesh" and
disgust, creep from the medium's presence. Pegasus need not be saddled; summon, rather, the police.

Yet this composition, which Mr. Browning must have undertaken in a moment of high indignation,
with the motive of self-relief, is full of common sense. Mr. Sludge's vindication of his career
turns upon the point that people like on the whole to be deceived, especially in matters relating
to the invisible world. Sludge must be right in this; otherwise the theologians would not have
had such a successful run. The facile and eager "circle" betrays the imaginative medium into
reporting what it appears most to desire. The superstition of the people excites and feeds
his own. He is only one against a crowd which deluges him with its expectation, and resents
a scarcity of the supernatural. Mr. Sludge is not so much to blame: the people at length push
the thing so far that he is obliged to cheat in self-defence. And when a man tasks his wits
successfully, if it be only to mislead the witless, he has a sense of satisfaction in the effort
akin to that of the rhetorician and the quack.

But shrewdness and good sense cannot make a poem by assuming the measure of blank verse. And
a few Yankee phrases are pasted into Mr. Sludge's talk, such as "stiffish cock-tail," "V-notes,"
"sniggering," allusions to "Greeley's newspaper," Beacon Street, etc.: there is no character
in them at all. Mr. Sludge is a bad Yankee, as well as impudent pleader. The lines never sparkle,
even with the poet's indignation, but they seem to be all the time blown into a forced vivacity
and heat. Nemesis attends the poet who plunges his arm for a subject into this burrow of Spiritualism.

Let us pass from this to note the noble lesson that the last poem, entitled "Epilogue," conveys.
Three speakers tell in turn their feeling of the Divine Presence. The first intones the old
Hebrew notion, loved by the childhood of all races and countries, that the Lord's Face fills
His earthly temple at stated periods, culminating with the human glory of psalms and hallelujahs,
to absorb and shine in the rejoicing of the worshippers, to sink back again into the invisible
upon the dying strain. The second speaker describes the reaction, when the enthusiastic belief
of early times is replaced by a dull sense that no Face shines, by a doubt if beyond the darkness
and the distance there be yet a God who will answer to the old rapture, a sun to rise when
man's heart rises, a love corresponding to his ecstasy:--

      "Where may hide what came and loved our clay?
    How shall the sage detect in yon expanse
    The star which chose to stoop and stay for us?
    Unroll the records!"

But the third speaker bids the records be closed, that man may worship the God who lives, instead
of regretting that He lived of old.

This is the true religion, hallowing the poet's gifts and inviting them to celebrate and express
it. We wish that the lines would let their meaning meet us with a more level gaze. In the poems
of this class there is riper thought and a clearer intuition, toward which all the previous
poems of Mr. Browning appear to have struggled, faring from the East to contribute myrrh, frankincense,
and gems to this simplicity.

RECENT AMERICAN PUBLICATIONS

RECEIVED BY THE EDITORS OF THE ATLANTIC MONTHLY.

Flirtations in Fashionable Life. By Catherine Sinclair. Author of "Beatrice," "Modern Accomplishments,"
etc. Philadelphia. T. B. Peterson & Brothers. 16mo. pp. 424. $2.00.

School Economy. A Treatise on the Preparation, Organization, Employments, Government, and Authorities
of Schools. By James Pyle Wickersham, A. M., Principal of the Pennsylvania State Normal School,
Millersville, Pennsylvania. Philadelphia. J. B. Lippincott & Co. 12mo. pp. xviii., 381. $1.50.

Hand-Book of the United States Navy: Being a Compilation of all the Principal Events in the
History of every Vessel of the United States Navy. From April, 1861, to May, 1864. Compiled
and arranged by B. S. Osbon. New York. D. Van Nostrand. 16mo. pp. iv., 277. $2.50.

The Pride of Life. By Jane, Lady Scott, "Daughter-in-Law of Sir Walter Scott," and Author of
"The Henpecked Husband." Philadelphia. T. B. Peterson & Brothers. 16mo. pp. 384. $2.00.

The Wrong of Slavery, the Right of Emancipation, and the Future of the African Race in the
United States. By Robert Dale Owen. Philadelphia. J. B. Lippincott & Co. 12mo. pp. 246. $1.25.

The Army Ration. How to diminish its Weight and Bulk, secure Economy in its Administration,
avoid Waste, and increase the Comfort, Efficiency, and Mobility of Troops. By E. N. Horsford.
New York. D. Van Nostrand. 8vo. paper, pp. 37. 25 cents.

Chimasia: A Reply to Longfellow's Theologian; and other Poems. By Orthos. Philadelphia. J.
B. Lippincott & Co. 12mo. pp. 96. $1.00.

