On pinning him to the ground with the lance he gave a tremendous loud hiss, and the little
dog ran away, howling as he went. We had a sharp fray in the den, the rotten sticks flying
on all sides, and each party struggling for superiority. I called out to the second negro to
throw himself upon me, as I found I was not heavy enough. He did so, and the additional weight
was of great service. I had now got firm hold of his tail; and after a violent struggle or
two he gave in, finding himself overpowered. This was the moment to secure him. So while the
first negro continued to hold the lance firm to the ground, and the other was helping me, I
contrived to unloose my braces and with them tied up the snake's mouth.

The snake, now finding himself in an unpleasant situation, tried to better himself, and set
resolutely to work, but we overpowered him. We contrived to make him twist himself round the
shaft of the lance, and then prepared to convey him out of the forest. I stood at his head
and held it firm under my arm, one negro supported the belly and the other the tail. In this
order we began to move slowly towards home, and reached it after resting ten times: for the
snake was too heavy for us to support him without stopping to recruit our strength. As we proceeded
onwards with him he fought hard for freedom, but it was all in vain. The day was now too far
spent to think of dissecting him. Had I killed him, a partial putrefaction would have taken
place before morning. I had brought with me up into the forest a strong bag large enough to
contain any animal that I should want to dissect. I considered this the best mode of keeping
live wild animals when I was pressed for daylight; for the bag yielding in every direction
to their efforts, they would have nothing solid or fixed to work on, and thus would be prevented
from making a hole through it. I say fixed, for after the mouth of the bag was closed the bag
itself was not fastened or tied to anything, but moved about wherever the animal inside caused
it to roll. After securing afresh the mouth of the coulacanara, so that he could not open it,
he was forced into this bag and left to his fate till morning.

I cannot say he allowed me to have a quiet night. My hammock was in the loft just above him,
and the floor betwixt us half gone to decay, so that in parts of it no boards intervened betwixt
his lodging-room and mine. He was very restless and fretful; and had Medusa been my wife, there
could not have been more continued and disagreeable hissing in the bed-chamber that night.
At daybreak I sent to borrow ten of the negroes who were cutting wood at a distance; I could
have done with half that number, but judged it most prudent to have a good force, in case he
should try to escape from the house when we opened the bag. However, nothing serious occurred.

We untied the mouth of the bag, kept him down by main force, and then I cut his throat. He
bled like an ox. By six o'clock the same evening he was completely dissected. On examining
his teeth I observed that they were all bent like tenter-hooks, pointing down his throat, and
not so large or strong as I expected to have found them; but they are exactly suited to what
they are intended by Nature to perform. The snake does not masticate his food, and thus the
only service his teeth have to perform is to seize his prey and hold it till he swallows it whole.

In general, the skins of snakes are sent to museums without the head: for when the Indians
and negroes kill a snake they seldom fail to cut off the head, and then they run no risk from
its teeth. When the skin is stuffed in the museum a wooden head is substituted, armed with
teeth which are large enough to suit a tiger's jaw; and this tends to mislead the spectator
and give him erroneous ideas.

During this fray with the serpent the old negro, Daddy Quashi, was in Georgetown procuring
provisions, and just returned in time to help to take the skin off. He had spent best part
of his life in the forest with his old master, Mr. Edmonstone, and amused me much in recounting
their many adventures amongst the wild beasts. The Daddy had a particular horror of snakes,
and frankly declared he could never have faced the one in question.

The week following his courage was put to the test, and he made good his words. It was a curious
conflict, and took place near the spot where I had captured the large snake. In the morning
I had been following a new species of paroquet, and, the day being rainy, I had taken an umbrella
to keep the gun dry, and had left it under a tree; in the afternoon I took Daddy Quashi with
me to look for it. Whilst he was searching about, curiosity took me towards the place of the
late scene of action. There was a path where timber had formerly been dragged along. Here I
observed a young coulacanara, ten feet long, slowly moving onwards. I saw he was not thick
enough to break my arm, in case he got twisted round it. There was not a moment to be lost.
I laid hold of his tail with the left hand, one knee being on the ground; with the right I
took off my hat, and held it as you would hold a shield for defence.

The snake instantly turned and came on at me, with his head about a yard from the ground, as
if to ask me what business I had to take liberties with his tail. I let him come, hissing and
open-mouthed, within two feet of my face, and then with all the force I was master of I drove
my fist, shielded by my hat, full in his jaws. He was stunned and confounded by the blow, and
ere he could recover himself I had seized his throat with both hands in such a position that
he could not bite me. I then allowed him to coil himself round my body, and marched off with
him as my lawful prize. He pressed me hard, but not alarmingly so.

In the meantime Daddy Quashi, having found the umbrella and having heard the noise which the
fray occasioned, was coming cautiously up. As soon as he saw me and in what company I was,
he turned about and ran off home, I after him, and shouting to increase his fear. On scolding
him for his cowardice, the old rogue begged that I would forgive him, for that the sight of
the snake had positively turned him sick at stomach.

When I had done with the carcass of the large snake it was conveyed into the forest, as I expected
that it would attract the king of the vultures as soon as time should have rendered it sufficiently
savoury. In a few days it sent forth that odour which a carcass should send forth, and about
twenty of the common vultures came and perched on the neighbouring trees. The king of the vultures
came, too; and I observed that none of the common ones seemed inclined to begin breakfast till
his majesty had finished. When he had consumed as much snake as Nature informed him would do
him good, he retired to the top of a high mora-tree, and then all the common vultures fell
to and made a hearty meal.

The head and neck of the king of the vultures are bare of feathers; but the beautiful appearance
they exhibit fades in death. The throat and the back of the neck are of a fine lemon colour;
both sides of the neck, from the ears downwards, of a rich scarlet; behind the corrugated part
there is a white spot. The crown of the head is scarlet; betwixt the lower mandible and the
eye and close by the ear there is a part which has a fine silvery- blue appearance; the corrugated
part is of a dirty light brown; behind it and just above the white spot a portion of the skin
is blue, and the rest scarlet; the skin which juts out behind the neck, and appears like an
oblong caruncle, is blue in part and part orange.

The bill is orange and black, the caruncles on his forehead orange, and the cere orange; the
orbits scarlet, and the irides white. Below the bare part of the neck there is a cinereous
ruff. The bag of the stomach, which is only seen when distended with food, is of a most delicate
white, intersected with blue veins, which appear on it just like the blue veins on the arm
of a fair-complexioned person. The tail and long wing-feathers are black, the belly white,
and the rest of the body a fine satin colour.

I cannot be persuaded that the vultures ever feed upon live animals, not even upon lizards,
rats, mice or frogs. I have watched them for hours together, but never could see them touch
any living animals, though innumerable lizards, frogs and small birds swarmed all around them.
I have killed lizards and frogs, and put them in a proper place for observation; as soon as
they began to stink the aura vulture invariably came and took them off. I have frequently observed
that the day after the planter had burnt the trash in a cane-field the aura vulture was sure
to be there, feeding on the snakes, lizards and frogs which had suffered in the conflagration.
I often saw a large bird (very much like the common gregarious vulture, at a distance) catch
and devour lizards; after shooting one it turned out to be not a vulture but a hawk, with a
tail squarer and shorter than hawks have in general. The vultures, like the goat-sucker and
woodpecker, seem to be in disgrace with man. They are generally termed a voracious, stinking,
cruel and ignoble tribe. Under these impressions the fowler discharges his gun at them, and
probably thinks he has done well in ridding the earth of such vermin.

Some Governments impose a fine on him who kills a vulture. This is a salutary law, and it were
to be wished that other Governments would follow so good an example. I would fain here say
a word or two in favour of this valuable scavenger.

Kind Providence has conferred a blessing on hot countries in giving them the vulture; He has
ordered it to consume that which, if left to dissolve in putrefaction, would infect the air
and produce a pestilence. When full of food the vulture certainly appears an indolent bird;
he will stand for hours together on the branch of a tree, or on the top of a house, with his
wings drooping, and, after rain, with them spread and elevated to catch the rays of the sun.
It has been remarked by naturalists that the flight of this bird is laborious. I have paid
attention to the vulture in Andalusia and to those in Guiana, Brazil, and the West Indies,
and conclude that they are birds of long, even and lofty flight. Indeed, whoever has observed
the aura vulture will be satisfied that his flight is wonderfully majestic and of long continuance.

This bird is above five feet from wing to wing extended. You will see it soaring aloft in the
aerial expanse on pinions which never flutter, and which at the same time carry him through
the fields of ether with a rapidity equal to that of the golden eagle. In Paramaribo the laws
protect the vulture, and the Spaniards of Angustura never think of molesting him. In 1808 I
saw the vultures in that city as tame as domestic fowls; a person who had never seen a vulture
would have taken them for turkeys. They were very useful to the Spaniards. Had it not been
for them, the refuse of the slaughter-houses in Angustura would have caused an intolerable
nuisance.

The common black, short, square-tailed vulture is gregarious, but the aura vulture is not so;
for though you may see fifteen or twenty of them feeding on the dead vermin in a cane-field,
after the trash has been set fire to, still, if you have paid attention to their arrival, you
will have observed that they came singly and retired singly; and thus their being altogether
in the same field was merely accidental and caused by each one smelling the effluvia as he
was soaring through the sky to look out for food. I have watched twenty come into a cane-field;
they arrived one by one, and from different parts of the heavens. Hence we may conclude that,
though the other species of vulture are gregarious, the aura vulture is not.

If you dissect a vulture that has just been feeding on carrion, you must expect that your olfactory
nerves will be somewhat offended with the rank effluvia from his craw; just as they would be
were you to dissect a citizen after the Lord Mayor's dinner. If, on the contrary, the vulture
be empty at the time you commence the operation, there will be no offensive smell, but a strong
scent of musk.

I had long wished to examine the native haunts of the cayman, but as the River Demerara did
not afford a specimen of the large kind, I was obliged to go to the River Essequibo to look
for one.

I got the canoe ready, and went down in it to Georgetown, where, having put in the necessary
articles for the expedition, not forgetting a couple of large shark-hooks with chains attached
to them, and a coil of strong new rope, I hoisted a little sail which I had got made on purpose,
and at six o'clock in the morning shaped our course for the River Essequibo. I had put a pair
of shoes on to prevent the tar at the bottom of the canoe from sticking to my feet. The sun
was flaming hot, and from eleven o'clock till two beat perpendicularly upon the top of my feet,
betwixt the shoes and the trousers. Not feeling it disagreeable, or being in the least aware
of painful consequences, as I had been barefoot for months, I neglected to put on a pair of
short stockings which I had with me. I did not reflect that sitting still in one place, with
your feet exposed to the sun, was very different from being exposed to the sun while in motion.

We went ashore in the Essequibo about three o'clock in the afternoon, to choose a place for
the night's residence, to collect firewood, and to set the fish-hooks. It was then that I first
began to find my legs very painful: they soon became much inflamed and red and blistered; and
it required considerable caution not to burst the blisters, otherwise sores would have ensued.
I immediately got into the hammock, and there passed a painful and sleepless night, and for
two days after I was disabled from walking.

About midnight, as I was lying awake and in great pain, I heard the Indian say, "Massa, massa,
you no hear tiger?" I listened attentively, and heard the softly sounding tread of his feet
as he approached us. The moon had gone down, but every now and then we could get a glance of
him by the light of our fire. He was the jaguar, for I could see the spots on his body. Had
I wished to have fired at him I was not able to take a sure aim, for I was in such pain that
I could not turn myself in my hammock. The Indian would have fired, but I would not allow him
to do so, as I wanted to see a little more of our new visitor, for it is not every day or night
that the traveller is favoured with an undisturbed sight of the jaguar in his own forests.

Whenever the fire got low the jaguar came a little nearer, and when the Indian renewed it he
retired abruptly. Sometimes he would come within twenty yards, and then we had a view of him
sitting on his hind-legs like a dog; sometimes he moved slowly to and fro, and at other times
we could hear him mend his pace, as if impatient. At last the Indian, not relishing the idea
of having such company in the neighbourhood, could contain himself no longer, and set up a
most tremendous yell. The jaguar bounded off like a racehorse, and returned no more. It appeared
by the print of his feet the next morning that he was a full-grown jaguar.

In two days after this we got to the first falls in the Essequibo. There was a superb barrier
of rocks quite across the river. In the rainy season these rocks are for the most part under
water, but it being now dry weather we had a fine view of them, while the water from the river
above them rushed through the different openings in majestic grandeur. Here, on a little hill
jutting out into the river, stands the house of Mrs. Peterson, the last house of people of
colour up this river. I hired a negro from her and a coloured man who pretended that they knew
the haunts of the cayman and understood everything about taking him. We were a day in passing
these falls and rapids, celebrated for the pacou, the richest and most delicious fish in Guiana.
The coloured man was now in his element: he stood in the head of the canoe, and with his bow
and arrow shot the pacou as they were swimming in the stream. The arrow had scarcely left the
bow before he had plunged headlong into the river and seized the fish as it was struggling
with it. He dived and swam like an otter, and rarely missed the fish he aimed at.

Did my pen, gentle reader, possess descriptive powers, I would here give thee an idea of the
enchanting scenery of the Essequibo; but that not being the case, thou must be contented with
a moderate and well-intended attempt.

Nothing could be more lovely than the appearance of the forest on each side of this noble river.
Hills rose on hills in fine gradation, all covered with trees of gigantic height and size.
Here their leaves were of a lively purple, and there of the deepest green. Sometimes the caracara
extended its scarlet blossoms from branch to branch, and gave the tree the appearance as though
it had been hung with garlands.

This delightful scenery of the Essequibo made the soul overflow with joy, and caused you to
rove in fancy through fairyland; till, on turning an angle of the river, you were recalled
to more sober reflections on seeing the once grand and towering mora now dead and ragged in
its topmost branches, while its aged trunk, undermined by the rushing torrent, hung as though
in sorrow over the river, which ere long would receive it and sweep it away for ever.

During the day the trade-wind blew a gentle and refreshing breeze, which died away as the night
set in, and then the river was as smooth as glass.

The moon was within three days of being full, so that we did not regret the loss of the sun,
which set in all its splendour. Scarce had he sunk behind the western hills when the goat-suckers
sent forth their soft and plaintive cries; some often repeating, "Who are you--who, who, who
are you?" and others "Willy, willy, willy come go."

The Indian and Daddy Quashi often shook their head at this, and said they were bringing talk
from Yabahou, who is the Evil Spirit of the Essequibo. It was delightful to sit on the branch
of a fallen tree near the water's edge and listen to these harmless birds as they repeated
their evening song; and watch the owls and vampires as they every now and then passed up and
down the river.

The next day, about noon, as we were proceeding onwards, we heard the campanero tolling in
the depth of the forest. Though I should not then have stopped to dissect even a rare bird,
having a greater object in view, still I could not resist the opportunity offered of acquiring
the campanero. The place where he was tolling was low and swampy, and my legs not having quite
recovered from the effects of the sun, I sent the Indian to shoot the campanero. He got up
to the tree, which he described as very high, with a naked top, and situated in a swamp. He
fired at the bird, but either missed it or did not wound it sufficiently to bring it down.
This was the only opportunity I had of getting a campanero during this expedition. We had never
heard one toll before this morning, and never heard one after.

About an hour before sunset we reached the place which the two men who had joined us at the
falls pointed out as a proper one to find a cayman. There was a large creek close by and a
sandbank gently sloping to the water. Just within the forest, on this bank, we cleared a place
of brushwood, suspended the hammocks from the trees, and then picked up enough of decayed wood
for fuel.

The Indian found a large land-tortoise, and this, with plenty of fresh fish which we had in
the canoe, afforded a supper not to be despised.

The tigers had kept up a continual roaring every night since we had entered the Essequibo.
The sound was awfully fine. Sometimes it was in the immediate neighbourhood; at other times
it was far off, and echoed amongst the hills like distant thunder.

It may, perhaps, not be amiss to observe here that when the word tiger is used it does not
mean the Bengal tiger. It means the jaguar, whose skin is beautifully spotted, and not striped
like that of the tiger in the East. It is, in fact, the tiger of the new world, and receiving
the name of tiger from the discoverers of South America it has kept it ever since. It is a
cruel, strong and dangerous beast, but not so courageous as the Bengal tiger.

We now baited a shark-hook with a large fish, and put it upon a board about a yard long and
one foot broad which we had brought on purpose. This board was carried out in the canoe, about
forty yards into the river. By means of a string long enough to reach the bottom of the river,
and at the end of which string was fastened a stone, the board was kept, as it were, at anchor.
One end of the new rope I had bought in town was reeved through the chain of the shark-hook
and the other end fastened to a tree on the sandbank.

It was now an hour after sunset. The sky was cloudless, and the moon shone beautifully bright.
There was not a breath of wind in the heavens, and the river seemed like a large plain of quicksilver.
Every now and then a huge fish would strike and plunge in the water; then the owls and goat-suckers
would continue their lamentations, and the sound of these was lost in the prowling tiger's
growl. Then all was still again and silent as midnight.

The caymen were now upon the stir, and at intervals their noise could be distinguished amid
that of the jaguar, the owls, the goat-suckers and frogs. It was a singular and awful sound.
It was like a suppressed sigh bursting forth all of a sudden, and so loud that you might hear
it above a mile off. First one emitted this horrible noise, and then another answered him;
and on looking at the countenances of the people round me I could plainly see that they expected
to have a cayman that night.

We were at supper when the Indian, who seemed to have had one eye on the turtle-pot and the
other on the bait in the river, said he saw the cayman coming. Upon looking towards the place
there appeared something on the water like a black log of wood. It was so unlike anything alive
that I doubted if it were a cayman; but the Indian smiled and said he was sure it was one,
for he remembered seeing a cayman some years ago when he was in the Essequibo.

At last it gradually approached the bait, and the board began to move. The moon shone so bright
that we could distinctly see him open his huge jaws and take in the bait. We pulled the rope.
He immediately let drop the bait; and then we saw his black head retreating from the board
to the distance of a few yards; and there it remained quite motionless.

He did not seem inclined to advance again; and so we finished our supper. In about an hour's
time he again put himself in motion, and took hold of the bait. But probably suspecting that
he had to deal with knaves and cheats, he held it in his mouth but did not swallow it. We pulled
the rope again, but with no better success than the first time.

He retreated as usual, and came back again in about an hour. We paid him every attention till
three o'clock in the morning, when, worn out with disappointment, we went to the hammocks,
turned in and fell asleep.

When day broke we found that he had contrived to get the bait from the hook, though we had
tied it on with string. We had now no more hopes of taking a cayman till the return of night.
The Indian took off into the woods and brought back a noble supply of game. The rest of us
went into the canoe and proceeded up the river to shoot fish. We got even more than we could use.

As we approached the shallows we could see the large sting-rays moving at the bottom. The coloured
man never failed to hit them with his arrow. The weather was delightful. There was scarcely
a cloud to intercept the sun's rays.

I saw several scarlet aras, anhingas and ducks, but could not get a shot at them. The parrots
crossed the river in innumerable quantities, always flying in pairs. Here, too, I saw the sun-bird,
called tirana by the Spaniards in the Oroonoque, and shot one of them. The black and white
scarlet-headed finch was very common here. I could never see this bird in the Demerara, nor
hear of its being there.

We at last came to a large sandbank, probably two miles in circumference. As we approached
it we could see two or three hundred fresh-water turtle on the edge of the bank. Ere we could
get near enough to let fly an arrow at them they had all sunk into the river and appeared no more.

We went on the sandbank to look for their nests, as this was the breeding- season. The coloured
man showed us how to find them. Wherever a portion of the sand seemed smoother than the rest
there was sure to be a turtle's nest. On digging down with our hands about nine inches deep
we found from twenty to thirty white eggs; in less than an hour we got above two hundred. Those
which had a little black spot or two on the shell we ate the same day, as it was a sign that
they were not fresh, and of course would not keep; those which had no speck were put into dry
sand, and were good some weeks after.

At midnight two of our people went to this sandbank while the rest stayed to watch the cayman.
The turtle had advanced on to the sand to lay their eggs, and the men got betwixt them and
the water; they brought off half a dozen very fine and well-fed turtle. The eggshell of the
fresh-water turtle is not hard like that of the land-tortoise, but appears like white parchment,
and gives way to the pressure of the fingers; but it is very tough, and does not break. On
this sandbank, close to the forest, we found several guana's nests; but they had never more
than fourteen eggs apiece. Thus passed the day in exercise and knowledge, till the sun's declining
orb reminded us it was time to return to the place from whence we had set out.

The second night's attempt upon the cayman was a repetition of the first, quite unsuccessful.
We went a-fishing the day after, had excellent sport, and returned to experience a third night's
disappointment. On the fourth evening, about four o'clock, we began to erect a stage amongst
the trees close to the water's edge. From this we intended to shoot an arrow into the cayman:
at the end of this arrow was to be attached a string which would be tied to the rope, and as
soon as the cayman was struck we were to have the canoe ready and pursue him in the river.

While we were busy in preparing the stage a tiger began to roar. We judged by the sound that
he was not above a quarter of a mile from us, and that he was close to the side of the river.
Unfortunately the Indian said it was not a jaguar that was roaring, but a couguar. The couguar
is of a pale, brownish-red colour, and not as large as the jaguar. As there was nothing particular
in this animal I thought it better to attend to the apparatus for catching the cayman than
to go in quest of the couguar. The people, however, went in the canoe to the place where the
couguar was roaring. On arriving near the spot they saw it was not a couguar, but an immense
jaguar, standing on the trunk of an aged mora-tree which bended over the river; he growled
and showed his teeth as they approached; the coloured man fired at him with a ball, but probably
missed him, and the tiger instantly descended and took off into the woods. I went to the place
before dark, and we searched the forest for about half a mile in the direction he had fled,
but we could see no traces of him or any marks of blood; so I concluded that fear had prevented
the man from taking steady aim.

We spent best part of the fourth night in trying for the cayman, but all to no purpose. I was
now convinced that something was materially wrong. We ought to have been successful, considering
our vigilance and attention, and that we had repeatedly seen the cayman. It was useless to
tarry here any longer; moreover, the coloured man began to take airs, and fancied that I could
not do without him. I never admit of this in any expedition where I am commander; and so I
convinced the man, to his sorrow, that I could do without him, for I paid him what I had agreed
to give him, which amounted to eight dollars, and ordered him back in his own curial to Mrs.
Peterson's, on the hill at the first falls. I then asked the negro if there were any Indian
settlements in the neighbourhood; he said he knew of one, a day and a half off. We went in
quest of it, and about one o'clock the next day the negro showed us the creek where it was.

The entrance was so concealed by thick bushes that a stranger would have passed it without
knowing it to be a creek. In going up it we found it dark, winding, and intricate beyond any
creek that I had ever seen before. When Orpheus came back with his young wife from Styx his
path must have been similar to this, for Ovid says it was

  Arduus, obliquus, caligine densus opaca,

and this creek was exactly so.

When we had got about two-thirds up it we met the Indians going a-fishing. I saw by the way
their things were packed in the curial that they did not intend to return for some days. However,
on telling them what we wanted, and by promising handsome presents of powder, shot and hooks,
they dropped their expedition and invited us up to the settlement they had just left, and where
we laid in a provision of cassava.

They gave us for dinner boiled ant-bear and red monkey: two dishes unknown even at Beauvilliers
in Paris or at a London city feast. The monkey was very good indeed, but the ant-bear had been
kept beyond its time: it stunk as our venison does in England; and so, after tasting it, I
preferred dining entirely on monkey. After resting here we went back to the river. The Indians,
three in number, accompanied us in their own curial, and, on entering the river, pointed to
a place a little way above well calculated to harbour a cayman. The water was deep and still,
and flanked by an immense sandbank; there was also a little shallow creek close by.

On this sandbank, near the forest, the people made a shelter for the night. My own was already
made, for I always take with me a painted sheet about twelve feet by ten. This thrown over
a pole, supported betwixt two trees, makes you a capital roof with very little trouble.

We showed one of the Indians the shark-hook. He shook his head and laughed at it, and said
it would not do. When he was a boy he had seen his father catch the caymen, and on the morrow
he would make something that would answer.

In the meantime we set the shark-hook, but it availed us naught: a cayman came and took it,
but would not swallow it.

Seeing it was useless to attend the shark-hook any longer, we left it for the night and returned
to our hammocks.

Ere I fell asleep a reflection or two broke in upon me. I considered that as far as the judgment
of civilised man went, everything had been procured and done to ensure success. We had hooks
and lines and baits and patience; we had spent nights in watching, had seen the cayman come
and take the bait, and after our expectations had been wound up to the highest pitch all ended
in disappointment. Probably this poor wild man of the woods would succeed by means of a very
simple process, and thus prove to his more civilised brother that, notwithstanding books and
schools, there is a vast deal of knowledge to be picked up at every step, whichever way we
turn ourselves.

In the morning, as usual, we found the bait gone from the shark-hook. The Indians went into
the forest to hunt, and we took the canoe to shoot fish and get another supply of turtle's
eggs, which we found in great abundance on this large sandbank.

We went to the little shallow creek, and shot some young caymen about two feet long. It was
astonishing to see what spite and rage these little things showed when the arrow struck them;
they turned round and bit it: and snapped at us when we went into the water to take them up.
Daddy Quashi boiled one of them for his dinner, and found it very sweet and tender. I do not
see why it should not be as good as frog or veal.

The day was now declining apace, and the Indian had made his instrument to take the cayman.
It was very simple. There were four pieces of tough, hardwood a foot long, and about as thick
as your little finger, and barbed at both ends; they were tied round the end of the rope in
such a manner that if you conceive the rope to be an arrow, these four sticks would form the
arrow's head; so that one end of the four united sticks answered to the point of the arrowhead,
while the other end of the sticks expanded at equal distances round the rope, thus:

Now it is evident that, if the cayman swallowed this (the other end of the rope, which was
thirty yards long, being fastened to a tree), the more he pulled the faster the barbs would
stick into his stomach. This wooden hook, if you may so call it, was well-baited with the flesh
of the acouri, and the entrails were twisted round the rope for about a foot above it.

Nearly a mile from where we had our hammocks the sandbank was steep and abrupt, and the river
very still and deep; there the Indian pricked a stick into the sand. It was two feet long,
and on its extremity was fixed the machine: it hung suspended about a foot from the water,
and the end of the rope was made fast to a stake driven well into the sand.

The Indian then took the empty shell of a land-tortoise and gave it some heavy blows with an
axe. I asked why he did that. He said it was to let the cayman hear that something was going
on. In fact, the Indian meant it as the cayman's dinner-bell.

Having done this we went back to the hammocks, not intending to visit it again till morning.
During the night the jaguars roared and grumbled in the forest as though the world was going
wrong with them, and at intervals we could hear the distant cayman. The roaring of the jaguars
was awful, but it was music to the dismal noise of these hideous and malicious reptiles.

About half-past five in the morning the Indian stole off silently to take a look at the bait.
On arriving at the place he set up a tremendous shout. We all jumped out of our hammocks and
ran to him. The Indians got there before me, for they had no clothes to put on, and I lost
two minutes in looking for my trousers and in slipping into them.

We found a cayman ten feet and a half long fast to the end of the rope. Nothing now remained
to do but to get him out of the water without injuring his scales: "hoc opus, hic labor." We
mustered strong: there were three Indians from the creek, there was my own Indian Yan, Daddy
Quashi, the negro from Mrs. Peterson's, James, Mr. R. Edmonstone's man, whom I was instructing
to preserve birds, and lastly myself.

