The kingdom of Siam, though small compared with such huge countries as Hindustan and China,
takes up the chief part of the great Malay peninsula. With the exception of Japan, no Eastern
country has made such wonderful advancement in civilised improvements as Siam. Telegraphs,
tramways, railways, and electric lighting form part of the equipment of this go-ahead kingdom.
The army was many years ago modelled on the British system, and trained by European officers,
and the King, a man of considerable cultivation, welcomes foreigners as teachers of Western ways.

Bangkok, the capital, is a curiously picturesque city, the architecture being of the most original
design, whilst the decoration of the many temples, gilded minarets, roofs of gaily coloured
tiles, and quaint pagodas, make quite a feast of colour to European eyes. The native costumes
are in keeping with their surroundings, graceful in form and bright in colour. Many of the
natives live practically on the water, as for miles above and below the capital, on both sides
of the river, floating houses are moored, supported either on rafts or on bundles of bamboos.

Music has always played an important part in the national life, and the present King has greatly
encouraged the art. Both men and women all over the country are more or less musical, and a
great number play some form of instrument, often joining in concerted music. The Siamese have
four kinds of bands, divided, as we divide our orchestras, into brass or stringed bands, each
with a certain combination of instruments. Some years ago, at one of the London Exhibitions,
the King of Siam sent over players of all the national music of his country, and their concerted
performances excited great interest: the way in which they played together showed most careful
training.

A very curious instrument is known as the Ta'khay, or Alligator: a glance at its form will
readily account for its name. There seems a sort of satire in making one of the most silent
of savage monsters a medium for the conveyance of sweet sounds. The Ta'khay is a stringed instrument
of considerable power, and in tone is not unlike a violoncello. The three strings pass over
eleven frets or wide movable bridges, and the shape of the body is rather like that of a guitar.
It is placed on the ground, raised on low feet, and the player squats beside it. The strings
are sounded by a plectrum, or plucker, shaped like an ivory tooth, fastened to the fingers,
and drawn backwards and forwards so rapidly that it produces an almost continuous sweet dreamy
sound.

The other two illustrations are both of fiddles, one bearing the name of the Saw Tai, the other
of the Saw Ou. The Saw Tai is the real Siamese violin, and is frequently of most elaborate
construction. The upper neck of the one shown in the illustration is of gold, beautifully enamelled,
while the lower neck is of ivory, richly carved. The back of the instrument is made of cocoa-nut
shell, ornamented with jewels. The membrane stretched on the sounding-board, which gives the
effect of a pair of bellows, is made of parchment, and has often, as in this special instrument,
a jewelled ornament inserted in one corner. The Saw Tai has three strings of silk cord, which,
passing over a bridge on the sounding-board, run up to the neck, being bound tightly to it
below the pegs. The player sitting cross-legged on the ground holds the fiddle in a sloping
posture, and touches the strings with a curiously curved bow.

The Saw Ou, or Chinese fiddle, used in Siam, is suggestive of a modern croquet mallet, with
pegs stuck in the handle, and has only two strings, fastened from the pegs to the head. It
is played with a bow which the performer cleverly inserts between the strings.

HELENA HEATH.

STRANGE NESTING-PLACES.

With the return of spring every year the trees take new life, and begin to bud and put forth
their leaves. At the same time the birds also feel, as it were, a throb of new life, and begin
to busy themselves with the building of their nests, in which, when the weather is warmer,
they will lay their eggs and rear their young ones. At these times they are bolder than usual,
and timid birds, which in the winter and autumn seek the most secluded woods and distant fields,
often build in gardens quite near to houses or to places where men are at work. The habits
of birds when they are building their nests are very interesting, and sometimes rather puzzling.

As a rule they take great care to place their nests where they will be screened from observation
and safe from injury; but at times they appear to be utterly reckless, and build in some place
where there seems to us to be every probability that the nests will be disturbed. The little
wren, for instance, usually builds its nest in some hole in an ivy-covered tree or in a thatch.
When it builds in a more open place, it is careful to cover its nest with a dome or roof, leaving
a hole in the side for its own passage in and out. It covers its nest on the outer side with
green moss or brown leaves, selecting those materials which are similar in colour to the surroundings
of the nest. The nest is on this account difficult to see, and the white eggs speckled with
red, which are laid in it, are hidden from view by the dome of the nest. Very often, too, the
bird has been known to build false nests, or 'dummies,' in order to mislead visitors into thinking
that it has been driven away.

But though the wren usually takes all this care to hide its nest and its eggs from observation,
it is sometimes just as careless and builds in strange places, where it is almost sure to be
noticed. It will boldly make its nest in the hat of a scarecrow, which is intended to frighten
birds away. A little while ago, according to the newspapers, one of these birds built its nest
and hatched its eggs in the pocket of a child's old waistcoat which had been thrown aside as
useless. Other birds often display the same boldness or carelessness. Many years ago a swallow
occupied for two years a nest which had been built upon the handles of a pair of garden-shears
which leaned against the boards in the interior of an out-house. These were all very unlikely
places for nests, not only because they were very different from the kind of situations usually
selected, but still more because they were liable to be disturbed at any time. If the farmer
had resolved to move his scarecrow, if a rag-man had picked up the waistcoat, or if the gardener
had come for the shears, the nest would in each case have been removed or destroyed. And yet
there is good reason to believe that the parent birds and their young ones fared just as well
in their strange quarters as they would have done in a tree-trunk or a cranny of the walls.
The truth is, perhaps, that all thoughtful and kindly people admire the courage, industry,
and devotion of birds when they are building their nests and rearing their young, and take
every care not to disturb them unnecessarily.

TWO LITTLE DROPS OF RAIN.

  They fell together from the sky,
    Two little drops of rain;
  One cheered a blossom like to die,
    One fell upon the plain.
  One made the thirsty wilderness
    A lovely blooming place;
  One came a drooping flower to bless,
    And give it light and grace.

  The flower gave out a fragrance sweet,
    That lingered by the way;
  The wilderness amid the heat
    Seemed sweet and cool that day.
  They did the work they had to do,
    And, when the day was done,
  Two raindrops went back to the blue,
    Drawn upwards by the sun.

FAMOUS ROSES.

A few flowers stand at the head of all others as being general favourites; the rose, the lily,
the violet have been popular for ages, and to these we may now add, probably, the chrysanthemum.
The rose has been called the 'queen of flowers.' It was probably one of the earliest garden
plants grown in Eastern lands. Splendid festoons of roses are said to have been one of the
sights of the celebrated hanging gardens of Babylon. At the present time roses are largely
grown in India to produce the expensive attar of roses, the Damascus kind being chiefly planted;
and very often the perfume of large rose gardens may be smelt a long way off.

The old Romans were very fond of roses, and quantities of them were grown in the times of the
Emperors, especially near Capua and Præneste. The Emperor Nero is said to have spent ten thousand
pounds on roses for one night's supper. The rich nobles carpeted rooms with roses, and piled
their petals round the dishes at table. In more modern times, Blanche of Castile instituted
the custom of presenting a basket of roses to the French Parliament on May-day, but this has
long ceased.

Both in France and Italy, and also in Britain, many new roses have been raised, some nearly
black, others of curious shapes. The first yellow rose was brought to England from Turkey by
Nicholas Lets, a London merchant; other varieties have come from farther East. Scotch roses
have been famous for centuries; they are usually very fragrant, and well guarded by sharp spines.

Roses are still grown for the market in some parts of the South of England, even as near London
as Mitcham, in Surrey, a place famous for its fragrant plants, such as lavender and peppermint.
Many roses are brought to our island from the flower farms of South France; some come from
Holland, a country which supplies us with most of our bulbs.

When we walk about in London City as it is now, we can hardly fancy that it had an abundance
of beautiful roses in the olden time. Yet they used to be particularly plentiful on the west
side, where the Old Bourne and River of Wells flowed down to the Thames. The gardens of Ely
House, of which we have a memory in Hatton Garden, now a street, were so full of roses during
Tudor times that the flowers were measured by bushels. During the long and unfortunate Wars
of the Roses, the white rose was taken for an emblem by the Yorkists, and the red kind was
displayed by the Lancastrians. The Yorkists said that they chose the white because it represented
the purity of their cause, and the Lancastrians gloried in their red flower since it told that
they were ready to give their heart's blood to obtain the victory. In Shakespeare's Henry VI.
there is a scene in the Temple Garden, in which the two parties pick these roses, to show their
opposition.

Not only is the rose our national emblem, but it also appears on the collar of St. Patrick's
Order, which shows roses and harps joined by knots; and it is one of the adornments of the
Order of the Bath. We may discover this flower, too, figured on the crests of several noble
families. The oldest rose-tree in the world is said to be one growing on the walls of Hildesheim
Cathedral, which is believed to date from the reign of the great Charlemagne.

MURIEL'S FIRST PATIENT.

Muriel clapped her hands and gave a little jump for joy when she saw Aunt Margaret coming up
the garden path. Aunt Margaret was a hospital nurse, and Muriel had quite made up her mind
to be one as well, when she was old enough. She liked nothing better than to listen to her
aunt's stories about her patients, for it was Aunt Margaret's duty to visit the poor people
who could not afford to pay for a doctor, and Muriel never tired of hearing about the different
families her aunt went to see every day.

She could hardly wait for her aunt to come up to the schoolroom, and wondered impatiently whatever
Mother and Aunt Margaret could be talking about downstairs for so long. At last she came, however,
and Muriel rushed to meet her.

'Oh, Auntie! may I come with you this morning?' she begged at once. 'I have got a whole holiday,
and you did promise you would take me with you some day to see all your poor people.'

But although Aunt Margaret kissed her little niece as warmly as ever, her face did not wear
its usual bright smile.

'Why have you got a holiday, Muriel?' she asked. 'It isn't a birthday, is it?'

'Oh, Miss Fane has got a headache,' said Muriel, rather hastily.

'I wonder what brought it on?' said Aunt Margaret looking at Muriel earnestly. Muriel grew
very red, and looked down at her shoes, but did not answer.

'Mother has been telling me something very sad,' went on Aunt Margaret, 'She is afraid that
Miss Fane's headache was caused by the great trouble she had with a certain little pupil of
hers yesterday. What do you think, Muriel?'

'They were such stupid exercises--no one could do such horrid things,' muttered Muriel without
looking up.

'Perhaps, if some one tried,' suggested Aunt Margaret, gently, drawing Muriel to sit beside
her. 'Now, Muriel, you want to be a nurse some day, don't you?'

Muriel nodded.

'Well, it is not a very good beginning to make people ill, is it? You know if you are going
to study the things I had to learn, you will have to do a great many uninteresting things,
so that perhaps you had better give up the idea, if you never want to do anything that is not
very nice.'

Muriel shook her head. 'But I do want to be a nurse,' she said.

'Suppose I give you a lesson to-day?'

Muriel looked up suddenly, and her eyes sparkled at the thought.

'Please do, Auntie. I will try to do what you want.'

'Mother has asked me to do something for poor Miss Fane, to make her headache better. I want
you to do it instead.'

Muriel's smile disappeared suddenly. 'She's--she's so cross, Auntie.'

'Perhaps she has a reason for feeling so,' said Aunt Margaret. 'Still, if you would rather not--'

'Oh, but I will do it,' answered Muriel quickly. 'Only the things I do never please her, and
perhaps she would rather not.'

'Suppose you have another try to please her?' said Aunt Margaret. 'I will be the doctor, and
I shall leave you in charge, and expect you to obey my orders exactly. What do you do when
Mother has a headache?'

'She lets me bathe her forehead with eau-de-Cologne, and I try to keep everything very quiet.'

'That is a good beginning,' said Aunt Margaret. 'Now, Nurse, come and take charge of your patient.
I shall look in this evening to see how the invalid is getting on.'

When Muriel stole quietly into her governess's room, the latter frowned a little at the sight
of the child who was usually so noisy and tomboyish, but she said nothing when Muriel rather
timidly explained her errand. The little nurse carried out the doctor's orders very carefully
and thoroughly, and after a time she was delighted to see her patient fast asleep. All day
she did her very best to do just what she thought Aunt Margaret would have done, and in the
evening Miss Fane felt so much better that she came downstairs for a little while.

It was Muriel who fetched the cosiest armchair for Miss Fane, and who so carefully arranged
a pile of soft cushions to make her more comfortable. The governess watched her in surprise,
as she remembered the restless, mischief-loving Muriel of lesson hours, and noticed how quietly
and gently she arranged everything now. Then the little girl stood timidly by her side, twisting
her fingers nervously together behind her back.

'I am sorry I was so tiresome yesterday, Miss Fane,' she said, very quickly, and not looking
up. 'I didn't mean to make your head ache, really.'

Miss Fane put her arm round the child, and made room for her among the cushions.

'Of course you didn't, dear,' she said. 'It was a hard exercise, I know, and I was not very
patient, but we will have another try to-morrow, and perhaps it will be easier then.'

Muriel nestled closer to her.

'I did it this afternoon,' she confessed shyly. 'I--I didn't try properly yesterday.'

'But you tried to-day? Why, what a lot you have been doing all day! Suppose you tell me how
you learnt to be such a splendid little nurse?'

Muriel was only too ready to answer this, and she told Miss Fane all about her longing to be
a proper nurse, and of Aunt Margaret's lesson, trying all the time to talk softly and not too much.

But Miss Fane was quite as interested in listening as Muriel was in talking.

'I think the next time Aunt Margaret comes we must have a whole holiday,' she said. 'I think
you have earned one to-day. I am sure you are going to be a capital nurse some day, for you
have looked after me so splendidly to-day.'

And Aunt Margaret was quite satisfied, too, with the result of Muriel's first lesson.

STORIES FROM AFRICA.

XI.--A MIGHTY HUNTER.

Our African picture-gallery would be quite incomplete without a thought of the Dark Continent
as the land of great beasts, the home of those kings among the wild creatures who can never
be made the servants or the friends of man; the land where the roar of the lion wakes the dark
hours, and the elephant and buffalo steal down to drink at the muddy pools. And so our next
story must be of one of those mighty hunters of half a century ago who went to Africa for pastime,
long before any one dreamt of a Cape to Cairo railway. William Cotton Oswell was a sportsman
of the best type, six feet in height, wiry and muscular, a magnificent rider and a dead shot.
He spent five years in Africa without a day's illness, was absolutely fearless, and, withal,
so gentle and kindly of heart that he won the love of every one, English or African, with whom
he came in contact; and he was so modest that his adventures were known only to intimate friends.

'I am sorry for the fine old beasts I shot,' he said, looking back, a grandfather and a quiet
English gentleman, to the old wild hunting days; and if, as the chroniclers tell us, William
the Conqueror 'loved the high deer as if he were their father,' so his nineteenth-century namesake
had a warm corner in his heart for the lion and the buffalo, and the great, clumsy, fierce
rhinoceros, against which he matched himself so successfully.

In 1844, Mr. Oswell, who had been sent to South Africa to recruit, after fever contracted in
India, started on a hunting expedition with Major Murray as his companion, visiting on the
way Dr. Livingstone's settlement at Mabotse, and getting information from him as to the country
and the game to be found there. The doctor was a better naturalist than he was a sportsman;
he had the keen observation indispensable to the hunter, but never became a good shot. He gave
his visitors, however, all the help and information he could, and they passed on into what
was, in those days, an almost untrodden land for sportsmen, alive with game of every kind.
Mr. Oswell says that a man who was anything of a shot could easily feed a party of six hundred
by his own gun. Still, there might be some risk connected with the securing of the dinner,
and the hunter might have to ask, like the primitive savage, not only, 'Can I kill it?' but
'Will it kill me?'

On one occasion Mr. Oswell walked unexpectedly into the middle of a herd of buffaloes, who
scattered in all directions. Only one patriarch of the herd, who had been lying apart from
the rest, stood his ground, and the young Englishman found himself facing the great beast,
at a distance of ten yards, with but one barrel of his gun loaded. He gave the contents of
this to the buffalo, but did not reach a vital part, and the animal charged him. Mr. Oswell
was standing under one of the mimosa-trees which grow plentifully in this part of the country.
He seized a branch and swung himself off the ground, drawing, he says, his knees up to his
chin, so that the buffalo actually passed beneath him. The feat sounds almost impossible, but
Mr. Oswell tells it in the most matter-of-fact fashion, simply adding that he thought it safer
than the usually advised method of springing to one side, as the buffalo can swerve sideways
in his charge, and gore his enemy in passing.

Another adventure during this expedition certainly tested the hunter's nerve to the uttermost.
Mr. Oswell's men informed him one morning that there was no meat in the camp for the dogs who
guarded the party at night; so, taking his gun, with but one barrel loaded, he strolled out
in search of a supper for his watchmen, feeling sure of securing something without going to
any distance, or needing more ammunition. Nor was he disappointed, for, two hundred yards from
the camp, he came upon some quagga, and killed one of them. The animal ran a little distance
before it dropped, and Mr. Oswell, after marking it down, went back for men to carry the game
home. But in this monotonous country, with its stretches of thorny bush and mimosa-trees, nothing
is easier than to miss a track, and Mr. Oswell, though nicknamed by the Kaffirs, 'Jlaga,' the
watchful or wide-awake, found himself on this occasion at fault. No waggons or encampment came
in sight. He tried to retrace his steps and start again, or, by making a circle, to strike
his original track, but all in vain. It had been ten in the morning when he left the camp,
and at sunset he was still seeking it, without food, unarmed save for his useless, unloaded gun.

The situation would have been ludicrous had it been less serious; but Mr. Oswell, feeling sure
that his friends would seek him at nightfall, followed the track of beasts to a pool of water,
and determined to wait there until he should hear some sound of them. The fuel about was scanty,
but he collected what he could until the short twilight of the tropics darkened into night,
and then, with the idea of saving firewood, climbed a tree. But now the cold became intense.
The heat of the day had been followed by sharp frost, and the unfortunate sportsman, with no
extra covering, became so numb that he decided to descend from his perch and light his fire.
He had clambered down to the lowest bough, and was about to drop to the ground, when something
stirred below him. A moving body parted the bushes, and he heard at his feet an unmistakable
sound, the pant of a questing lion. Had he dropped a moment sooner, he would have fallen right
on to the top of the beast. We need hardly say that he returned very swiftly to his upper story,
and, crouching there, could hear distinctly two lions, hunting in a circle round about the
water, passing and saluting each other, like sentinels on their beat.

It was a trying situation, certainly, to have to sit, clinging with frozen fingers to the branches,
only a few feet above the heads of the other 'mighty hunters,' who seemed to have resumed,
in the night hours, their rule of the land he had dared to dispute with them.

But the horror of darkness came to an end at last. The moon rose, silvering the pool and showing
the wide stretch of bush, and, at the same moment, sounded, still far away, the report of guns,
a volley of firing which could only come from his own party. The sound must have been like
new life to the chilled, lonely man, nerving him to a desperate effort to join those who were
seeking for him. Those guns were as the voices of his friends, and he would sooner risk everything
in an attempt to reach them than die of cold within hearing of their summons. He waited until
the two lions were, as he judged, at the furthest point of their round, then he dropped noiselessly
to the ground. The firing continued at intervals, and he made for it through the bush, running,
pausing, listening, with breath held, for the rustle or movement among the grass and undergrowth
that might mean sudden death. He says himself that his uncertain course and frequent stoppages
probably saved him, since the wild beast distrusts any prey that does not go straight forward,
as if expecting counter-manoeuvres. It was an hour's journey--a trial, certainly, to the stoutest
nerves. But the haven of safety was reached at last. The anxious searchers heard their guns
answered by the shout of their lost companion, and the exhausted sportsman found welcome and
food and fire awaiting him. As he sat, thawing his numbed fingers by the cheerful blaze, a
distant roar sounded among the bushes, the voice of a lion who scents his prey. The Kaffir
servants looked at each other and at their master.

'He has found your track, Jlaga,' said one of them.

The race had been a close one indeed; a few minutes' difference, and the story of that night
under the African sky would never have come home to England.

MARY H. DEBENHAM.

THEMISTOCLES AND THE GREEK GENERALS.

The Athenian general and statesman, Themistocles, was one of the few Greeks who, when Xerxes,
the King of Persia, invaded Greece with a great army and a huge fleet, thought it possible
to resist the Great King (that was the title which the king of the Persian Empire bore). He
had much difficulty in persuading the generals of the other Greek states to fight at all, or
even to await the coming of the enemy; some he bribed, others he bullied, till at length the
Persian fleet was totally defeated off the island of Salamis.

After this victory, there were great rejoicings, and it was resolved to give splendid honours
to the general who was considered the worthiest, and also to him who came next in glory. The
generals therefore voted to see who should be considered first and who second.

For the first place, no one got more than one vote; each general had voted for himself for
the first prize! But Themistocles was unanimously declared to have won the second prize, for
though no one of them liked to admit that Themistocles was better than himself, they were each
certain that he was superior to all the rest. So no one got the first prize, but special honours
were paid to Themistocles.

A SILENT REPROOF.

Many years ago a number of persons were travelling by coach northwards towards Paisley. Some
of them were Scottish farmers; others, tradesmen or persons of good position in Paisley; and
one was a Scotsman of superior appearance, who, judging by his conversation, had travelled
a good deal and seen much of his fellow-men. He recounted many interesting experiences as they
journeyed along, and they all chatted freely and pleasantly with each other.

The road was a hilly and rough one, and at a lonely spot where it was especially bad, the coach
was so severely jolted that one of the axles broke. Fortunately, no one was injured, and when
all had alighted from the coach, they began to inspect the damaged axle. The passenger whose
conversation had proved so interesting came to their assistance, and examined the axle critically.
Presently, he asked the coachman if there were any blacksmith near at hand. There was not a
house in sight, and the coachman told him that the forge of the nearest blacksmith was a mile
or two away.

'Help me to carry the broken parts to the smith,' said the other, 'and I will see that they
are properly mended.'

So they carried the broken axle across the moors to the blacksmith's shop, but they found that
the blacksmith was not at home. Nothing daunted, the passenger who had undertaken to see the
axle repaired lighted the blacksmith's fire, set the bellows to work, and, with the help of
one of his fellow-passengers, mended the axle himself. They carried it back to the coach, fixed
it in its place, put on the wheels, and the coach started off again upon its journey.

But now the passengers, instead of being grateful for the fortunate help which had been given
them, began to hold aloof from the man who had mended the axle, and they had little to say
to him. From his conversation they had taken him to be a gentleman, but he had shown them now
that he was nothing but a common blacksmith. So for the rest of the journey they neglected
him, and he sat lost in his own thoughts.

When the travellers reached the end of the stage they separated, and each went his own way.
On the following morning one of them had business with the Earl of Eglinton at Eglinton Castle.
He reached the castle in good time, and after being announced, was shown into a room where
the Earl was seated at breakfast. But judge of his surprise when he found that his fellow-traveller
of the previous day, the very man who had mended the broken axle of the coach, was sitting
at breakfast with the Earl. He was not, then, a blacksmith, after all! No; he was John Rennie,
the constructor of the Waterloo, Southward, and London Bridges, the Plymouth Breakwater, and
the London Docks; in fact, the greatest engineer of his time, and a man honoured by all who
knew him. He had learnt his trade thoroughly, from the very bottom, and was not above making
use of it in the humblest way--even as a blacksmith.

EVA'S KITTEN.

Breakfast was over, Father had started for the City, and now was the time for Pussy's breakfast.

Eva brought the saucer to her mother, and when it was filled with milk, Eva put it carefully
on the floor. The kitten rushed up to it, and at once began lapping.

'Isn't she clever, Mother?' asked Eva, as she seated herself on her own footstool, and watched
the dainty way in which the kitten licked up every drop of milk that fell on her fur. 'She
knows how to keep herself so clean and tidy.'

Mrs. Poison was reading a letter which had just come by the post, but she looked up as Eva
spoke, and said half-absently, for she was thinking more of her letter than the kitten, 'Yes,
very clever! Listen, Eva, my letter is from Mrs. James: she wants us both to drive over to
her this afternoon and have tea.'

'Oh, I shall like that,' said Eva, shaking out her long auburn hair like a cloud, as she joyfully
nodded her head. 'I shall like to see Jessie again. Is she quite well now?'

'No, dear, she is not; her mother says she seems as if she could not shake off the effects
of the whooping-cough.'

'Oh! and I had it at the same time, and I am quite well,' said Eva, in astonishment.

'Poor Jessie! she is a delicate little thing,' said Mrs. Polson. 'You must see what you can
do to cheer her up, Eva.'

'Yes, Mother,' said Eva, thoughtfully.

When Eva and her mother arrived at Mrs. James's house, no Jessie was in the drawing-room to
welcome them, and Mrs. James had to explain the reason.

'Poor Jessie, she is terribly upset,' she said, 'for only an hour ago her little cat was found
dead in the garden. We are afraid it was poisoned. Jessie is fretting about it, and she is
shy of showing herself with her red eyes, so she ran away to the nursery.'

'May I go to her?' asked Eva.

'Yes, dear, do,' answered Mrs. James; 'she will perhaps forget the poor cat in a game of play.'

Eva ran upstairs to the nursery, and did her best to comfort Jessie, but the poor child was
languid and fretful, and could hardly put away the thought of her lost pet.

'It was such a dear little cat, and quite black all over,' she told Eva. 'There was not a white
hair in it. I shall never see a quite black kitten again. Nurse says they are very rare; oh!
I wish I had it back!' Again Jessie burst out crying, for she was worn out with grief, and
hardly knew how to stop.

Eva was really sorry for Jessie, who, though two or three years older than herself, looked
so small and frail, and throwing her arms around her, she whispered, 'Don't cry any more, Jessie!
You shall have my kitten for your very own; it is quite black, too, and you will soon love
it very much. I will ask Mother to let the groom bring it you to-night.'

'Oh, Eva! will you really? But it is a shame to take your kitten,' said Jessie, stopping her
sobs, and looking up at Eva. 'You love it too; I know you do, Eva.'

'Yes, I do,' said Eva, slowly, 'but I want to give it you because you are ill, and cannot run
about out of doors as I can, and this kitten will be your friend; and now you must stop crying.'

The black kitten was taken to its new home that same evening, and Jessie was so pleased to
have a kitten once more that she went off cheerfully to bed, much to her mother's relief.

Eva felt the parting from her pet, but there is a feeling in giving up for others that is a
happiness in itself, and that happiness was Eva's.

THE STRING OF PEARLS.

  My mother has a string of pearls,
    So pure and fine and white:
  She lets me take it in my hands,
    And hold it to the light.

  My mother says that like that chain
    My life should ever be,
  Each day a pearl to stand apart
    In flawless purity.

THE NEW ZEALAND GLOW-WORM.

Everybody has not seen one, but we all have read about the Glow-worm, the remarkable insect
which has the power of exhibiting a bright light in the dusk of evening. In England we have
two species of insects that are called by this name, which properly belongs only to a kind
of wingless beetle, found along the hedgerows and moist banks during the summer. The other
insect which shares the name is also known as the electric centipede; it is seen about gardens
or fields, and has the peculiarity of leaving upon the path it has trodden a shining track.

In New Zealand there is a very curious glow-worm. The first idea about this insect was that
it turned into a kind of beetle; afterwards it proved to be the larva or grub of a fly. Its
light is seemingly given it to attract small insects which are its food, and these are secured
by means of a web. This web is placed in a niche amongst rocks or trees, and has a central
thread, from which run smaller threads to the sides of the opening. Upon several of the lower
threads there are usually a number of globules that resemble tiny silver beads, but what is
the use of these is uncertain. Upon the middle thread the grub sits; if startled, it glides
away into a hole it has for a hiding-place. The light comes from the hinder part of the body,
and the grub can display or darken this as it chooses. On damp, warm nights it is brightest,
and it is not visible when the weather is cold, nor, of course, during the day. Having reached
its full size, the grub becomes a chrysalis, being fastened firmly to its web. A faint light
comes from the chrysalis now and then. When the fly comes out, that also has a faint light,
only half as bright as that of the grub; what it feeds upon is unknown.

THE GIANT OF THE TREASURE CAVES.

(Continued from page 323.)

CHAPTER XVIII.

Mrs. Wright had been waiting in great anxiety for the return of Jack. Twenty times over she
went to the end of the sandy path to see if the tide was going out, and returned in an anxious
state of mind to make preparations for the drenched party. She reproached herself bitterly
for carelessness. How could she have trusted so entirely to Julien? She ought to have known
he was ignorant of the tides, if not of the caves. Her anxiety was almost more than she could
bear by the time the tide had left the gorge. Then she stood on the beach to watch, and it
was with a cry of delight that she saw the three coming towards her.

They were all glad of the hot meal which smoked upon the table in readiness for their return,
and sat down in very cheerful spirits, in spite of their damp condition. But it was not so
pleasant to be hurried off immediately afterwards to bed and warm blankets. Julien, who had
not shown much appetite, and still looked pale and shivery, refused to go to bed. Jack would
have compelled him, but the boy begged to be allowed to go home, as he felt ill. It really
seemed the best thing to do; so, wrapping him up in a big coat, Jack took him to the Préfet's
house, and handed him over to his mother's care, not forgetting to say a few words in praise
of the courage the boy had shown.

'Now, Jack,' said Mrs. Wright, as he entered the warm kitchen on his return, 'if you want to
do something to please me, my son, you will just go and take your wet things off, and turn
in for a bit. I will bring you some hot cocoa in a minute.'

Jack laughed; then, stooping, he took his mother into his great arms, kissed her, and went.

       *       *       *       *       *

The day of Estelle's departure was drawing near. The boat had been prepared, and Fargis had
been amiable enough to offer to go with them, taking his usual crew. He realised that his trouble
would be paid for, and probably handsomely paid for, into the bargain. The weather was in favour
of the crossing, so Estelle and Jack had come for a last walk on the cliff before that sad
day came. To Mrs. Wright and her son the loss of the child was a deep sorrow; to Estelle, though
she was going home to her beloved Aunt Betty, to the kindest of uncles and aunts, to her most
loving cousins, it was a wrench. She loved those dear ones at home deeply, truly. But she loved
Goody and her dear, kind Jack. What should she do when she could not see them? Tears came into
her eyes, and made the boats and the sea dim. She longed to ask Jack for one thing before she
went away. Went away! Oh, why must there be these partings?

Meantime, Jack grieved over the loss of his 'little Missie.' He was sad, and would be sadder
when the long winter evenings came, and he missed her at every turn; but there were other anxieties.
He must face that English world again from which he had fled in the long years of the past.
For Estelle's sake, and because it was his duty, he must take her back to her English home,
and he was debating, painfully, bravely, what that journey would mean to him. What would it
mean to his mother? She was the dearest and best tie he had in the world. For his sake she
had made sacrifices to which few mothers would have consented, had borne hardships few would
have faced so nobly. Had he any right, after all she had done for him, to expose her to any
chance of evils which this return to England might bring upon him, and, through him, on her?

Estelle, looking up, saw the grief and perplexity in his face, and her heart smote her for
her own selfish thoughts. She did not understand how he suffered, but she felt she must comfort
him.

'Jack,' she said, swallowing down her tears, and speaking in as steady a voice as she could
muster--dear Jack, you have been so good and kind to me! So good, I can't express it! Do let
me do something for you. I know you have a secret, and I am afraid it is that, even more than
my going, which is making you so miserable. I don't want to pry into it, dear Jack, but remember
that my father is a rich man, and he is powerful, too. If you won't mind telling him about
it, I know--I am quite, quite sure--he will do anything in his power for you. Think what you
have done for me! And he loves me--he has only me now.'

Jack sat silent for some moments, his head on his arms, which were crossed upon his knees.

'Missie,' he said at last, raising his face, 'nobody can help me. I want no help such as your
father, or any other rich, powerful man can give. I know you mean it kindly, little girl, but
there are some things in which a man must stand and fall alone. Alone?' he added bitterly;
'yes, but he doesn't suffer alone! He drags his dearest and best down with him, let his remorse
be what it may.'

'Remorse? Does that mean the man is sorry? Are you sorry for something you have done? Oh, Jack,
if you are sorry, Aunt Betty told me once that was all that was wanted. Everybody forgives
any one who is sorry.'

'I am not so very sure of that, Missie; but, in this case, there is no question of forgiveness.
There is no one to ask it of, for one thing; and if there were, there are some things which
can never be forgiven or forgotten.'

'Are there?' murmured Estelle, a little bewildered.

'How should you know--an innocent child like you?' returned Jack, shrinking into himself as
if at some terrible recollection.

There was a long pause, while both sat thinking.

'Listen,' went on Estelle, at last. 'I will tell you a story. It is quite true, for I know
the man. He is the son of our head gardener. He is a cross old man, and he is often not very
nice to us children. But Aunt Betty wanted to make us more patient with him; so she told us
what sorrows he had had. They have made him rather grumpy, but his son is very different. The
story is all about a great wrong done to that son, and how he forgave it.'

She related the history of Dick Feet almost in the words in which her aunt had told it to the
children on the lawn that August afternoon. Jack, listening but carelessly at first, gradually
found an interest in it which touched him keenly, but he would not have interrupted the child
for worlds. Not a word would he lose. It was so strangely like a story he knew only too well!

'And the grand part was,' wound up the little girl, her earnest eyes on Jack's anxious face,
'the grand part was that he never mentioned the name of the man who did it--not even his father
and mother know who it was. He begged them not to mention it if he had by any chance let it
out in his illness. But he never had. No one in all the whole world knows but Dick himself.'

'Was his name Dick, too?' muttered Jack to himself.

'Yes,' answered Estelle, who had heard the low murmur, 'his name is Richard Peet.'

'What?' cried Jack, almost starting to his feet in his excitement. 'Is Dick Peet alive?'

(Continued on page 342.)

ROUND THE CAMP-FIRE.

By Harold Ericson.

VII.-AT THE ICE-HILLS.

Does Bobby think he is the only one who can tell stories connected with snow and ice?' said
Denison, one evening; 'I, too, have been in high latitudes. Have you ever enjoyed the experience
of going down the ice-hills at St. Petersburg, Bobby?'

'Rather,' replied Bobby, gazing into the fire. He smiled as he gazed; the recollection seemed
to be pleasant. 'I am still giddy when I think of it,' he ended.

'Well, perhaps Vandeleur has not tried it. It's a kind of artificial tobogganing, you know;
they build up a wooden erection with a flight of stairs behind, a platform at the top, and
a steep slope covered with slabs of ice going down from it, and leading straight into a level
road of ice some eight feet in width and a quarter of a mile in length; at the end is a similar
erection pointing back in the opposite direction, the two ice runs or roads being side by side,
and each ending at the foot of the stairs leading to the other, so that after a fellow has
flashed down the first hill upon the little iron sledge, comfortably cushioned, and darted
like lightning to the end of the first run, he only has to have his sledge carried up to the
top of the second hill by the servants employed for the purpose, and start upon the return
journey, and so ad infinitum. One learns how to do it after a bit, and I suppose there is no
more delicious sensation on earth than that rush down and skim along the level--when once you
have learned the art; but, my goodness! one's feelings at the first attempt--eh, Bobby?'

Bobby burst into laughter.

'It is like trying to be an amateur catherine-wheel,' he remarked; 'and you see plenty of sparks!'

       *       *       *       *       *

Ralph continued: I was asked to an 'ice-hill party' while I was in St. Petersburg some years
ago. I have always wondered, since, whether the rascally British residents out there give their
ice-hill parties only when there is a beginner about; certainly the poor wretch must be one
of the main attractions; there was another visitor besides myself, I remember, that night,
and I really don't think I ever laughed quite so much in my life as I did when he made his
first few descents. We were quits, of course, for my antics were just as ridiculous to him.
At these parties there are generally a few skilful exponents, who show off fancy ways of going
down, and so easy does the thing appear when demonstrated by them, that the beginner is not
greatly alarmed by the prospect before him.

The platform at the top of the hill is roofed and walled round, and has room for seats for
spectators. There is something hot for them to drink, and I should say that when there are
beginners about, these spectators must spend a remarkably pleasant evening, for the hot drinks
and the exercise of laughing over the misfortunes of innocent strangers serve excellently to
keep the cold out, and the scene is really extremely pretty. The 'runs' are outlined by rows
of Chinese lanterns hung upon slender posts; they must not be too thick because of the limbs
of the beginners, which are likely to make very intimate acquaintance with them, and even beginners
must be treated with a certain amount of consideration. There are a few snow-covered trees
showing like ghosts, here and there, in the semi-darkness, and all the snow which has fallen
during the season upon the ice-runs is swept to either side, and left in a continuous heap
or bank all along. This, too, is an arrangement made to let down the beginner easily.

They took me, with my fellow-victim, to the top of the hill, and placed us in seats upon the
platform; they spoke bracingly and gave us good advice; they described the delight of the experience
before us--the fascination of flying through the air, bird-like; some one said it was 'the
very poetry of motion'; no one mentioned that there was much prose to be gone through before
one could hope to become one of the poets of motion.

'Let's see how it's done,' said my fellow-victim, a man called Watson, 'and then I will have
a shot.'

I congratulated myself that Watson intended to try the thing before me, but I congratulated
myself too soon. The skilled exponent, selected to deceive us by demonstrating how easily and
safely the descent might be made, now took his little sledge and placed it upon the large square
ice-slab at the top of the hill. He lay down upon it, on his waistcoat, his head stretching
a little way in front, his legs a long way behind. Upon his hands were huge leather fingerless
gloves, for purposes of steering, 'You touch the ice gently on the side towards which you want
to go,' he explained. 'Now, watch--there is no difficulty, and you cannot hurt yourself.'

He allowed himself to slip over the edge. Straight as an arrow his little sledge darted down
the slope; no bird could have flown quicker or straighter; he reached the level ice-run and
fled meteor-like along it; almost before one realised that he had well started upon his course,
he had reached the end of it. In two minutes he was on his return journey; down the second
hill he flashed, in a moment he was at our side--it was wonderful!

One or two other exponents went through the same performance; there was no suggestion of danger
or of possible disaster; one simply flew upon the wings of the wind--that was the impression
given by these skilled deceivers.

'I'll toss you, Denison, who goes first,' said Watson.

We tossed, and, of course, I lost. I always do on these occasions.

'Your shot first, then,' said Watson, and I prepared myself for execution. The fact that every
one of the thirty guests present now quickly crowded round the ice-slab, which was, as it were,
the perch from which one sprang off into space, struck me as grimly suggestive.

'What happens if one hits a lantern-post?' I asked.

'Oh, they come down,' I was told. 'They can't hurt you; they are very slender and only stuck
lightly in the snow.'

'Steer very gently,' said some one; 'it's best to touch the ice as little as possible.'

'Keep your head, that's the chief thing,' said another adviser.

'You have got your ticket, haven't you?' remarked a humorist. 'Don't give it up till you reach
the end of the journey.'

Then they put me straight and tipped me over, and for about ten yards I travelled, by favour
of a good start, without incident. The sensation of tipping over the edge was indescribable;
I don't know exactly what my heart did, but it was evidently highly surprised and disgusted,
and probably thought I had insanely jumped over a cliff; I think it stopped beating; I felt,
for a moment, sick and giddy; I shut my eyes for that instant.

'Steer to the right!' a deep voice roared from the top of the hill.

Instinctively I obeyed. Instantly my sledge, as though animated by the desire to look over
the wooden parapet which ran, a couple of feet high, along the slope, jogged and jumped, then
turned round, and, with the small amount of intelligence left in my brain, I became aware that
I was whizzing along backwards. I tried to think of instructions received, but utterly failed;
I endeavoured to keep cool. Where was I? I banged against something, and the sledge twisted
round again; it did its best to run along sideways for awhile, like a crab; it butted me against
a tree and got itself straight again; then it seemed to take the bit in its teeth, and, as
if determining to get rid of me somehow, steered a bee-line for a Chinese-lantern post at a
distance of thirty yards. I plunged my hand down, determined to defeat its malicious design,
and instantly the little vehicle began to whizz round and round like a fire-work at the Crystal
Palace. This was the beginning of the end; the next moment something 'took me in the waistcoat,'
and I found myself waltzing in a sitting posture on the ice, my partner being the lamp-post,
the lantern attached to it swinging wildly. Where was the sledge? The sound of hoarse laughter
from the top of the hill was in my ears; the waltz ended in darkness and silence; where was I?

It was only a deep bank of snow, of course, and I was soon in the air once more. I did not
know where to look for my sledge--I did not try. I did not, at the moment, feel well enough
disposed towards it to care what had become of it. Some one fetched it.

I was received at the top of the hill with kind and encouraging words, intended, of course,
to hearten me to provide a second entertainment. This I did, presently, but first I was resolved
to be even with Watson.

'Your turn, old chap,' I said.

Watson looked at me with an expression of despair which was pathetic.

'I wish I knew what mistake you made,' he murmured, weakly. 'Did you hurt yourself?'

'Not in the least; it's a lovely sensation, to some extent' I said. My bones were aching all
over, but I was determined to be even with Watson, who had not yet done his share of the entertaining.

Watson gave a glance at the stairs, as though he contemplated a bolt; if he had attempted to
escape, I should have done my best to prevent him. Perhaps he read my thoughts in my face;
he sighed. Presently the poor wretch was straightened out and started.... It really was very
funny, and I no longer wondered at the heartless mirth of the onlookers. A pea on a drumhead
is a restful object in comparison with Watson on that ice-hill. His sledge seemed determined
from the first moment to rid itself of the unfortunate man clinging to it; it went everywhere
and sampled every obstacle, and it shot him eventually, as it had shot me, into a snowheap,
with one Chinese lantern twisted by its strings round his neck, and another, held by the post,
in his hand. Watson did not know how they got there.

Watson and I solemnly shook hands; we were the gladiators of the occasion, and sympathised
with one another. Three or four times did we suffer for the delight of the crowd; after that
we began to become uninteresting to them, partly because we had carried away all the Chinese
lanterns, and partly because we had begun to learn the art.

MORNING.

  'Hullo!' the Blackbird carolled.
     'Hullo!' the Woods replied,
  'The sun that set in the West last night
     Comes up on the other side.'

  'Wake! wake!' the Starling chattered,
     'For the hand of rising day
  Has gripped one edge of the blanket night
     And is rolling it all away.'

  'Up! up!' the Robin whistled,
     'For the Lady Dawn, so bright,
  Has come to the broad, dark face of earth,
     And is washing it all with light.'

  'Out! out!' sang the joyous chorus:
     'With a hand of magic care,
  She's been to the nooks and corners dark
     And scrubbed out the shadows there.'

  And then upon snowy pillows
     There glittered the blinking sun,
  And a thousand thousand eyes awoke
     To another day begun.

PEEPS INTO NATURE'S NURSERIES.

XI.--NURSERIES IN THE BIRD-WORLD.

Our survey of Nature's babies so far has been a fairly extensive one, and many readers of Chatterbox
have shown that they were impressed with the fact that in every case these have come into the
world in a form quite unlike that of their parents. And they have probably also noticed that
where this unlikeness was most striking, there, as a general rule, these young had to shift
for themselves from the moment they were able to move. Though the majority of these young creatures
are to be found in or around the coasts of Great Britain, many are difficult to obtain, and
only in a very few cases have we met with any display of care on the part of the parents for
their helpless children.

The unlikeness to the parents is most marked, as we have said, where the young are cast upon
the world to look after themselves, often as microscopic creatures. The reason of this is because
they have come from eggs which were so tiny that they could not contain enough food to support
the growing body within until it had assumed its final shape. In consequence, the little creature
had to start life in some more simple form, capable of feeding on the tiniest particles of
food. This early development is unavoidable in cases where a single family may number some
hundreds or thousands of individuals. But when only a few young ones make up a family, you
will notice they are more or less jealously guarded by the parents, and they, furthermore,
come into the world more nearly in the shape they are finally to assume.

Many of you, I hope, when you grow up, will be tempted to try and follow out these strange
life-histories for yourselves. In this article I propose to describe some of the more interesting
forms of young to be met with among the birds, because here, at any rate, you will be able
to follow up the facts at once; and a very fascinating pursuit you will find it.

Birds, as every one knows, lay eggs, which, after a time, produce chicks, some of which, like
ducks and chickens, for example, can run about and pick up food within an hour or two of their
escape from the shell; but for a long time they are most carefully tended by their fond parents,
who will brave many dangers in their defence. Now, the difference between the young chicken,
or the young duck, and their parents is not very great, and this is because the egg from which
they came contained a large supply of food, so that all the building up of the body could be
carried on inside the shell. This food is represented by the yolk of the egg, of which there
was an enormous store. That this is so you can see for yourselves, if you break an egg into
a cup. The little spot in the top of the yolk represents the germ of life that is to form the
chick; the rest of the yolk is to be used by that germ as food.

As you doubtless know, however, some young birds, like young rooks and sparrows, thrushes and
skylarks, when they leave the egg, are perfectly bare, blind, and helpless, and have to be
fed and brooded by their mothers for a long time. Other young birds, like young owls, falcons
(fig. 1), and hawks, also leave the egg blind and helpless, but their bodies are covered with
long woolly down. Until quite recently no one could say why these differences should be, but
at last we are beginning to see a way out of the puzzle. There seems to be no doubt that once
upon a time the young of all birds left the shell in a fully active state, and clothed in down;
further, we know that these early birds were reared in nurseries amid the tree-tops, and climbed
about the branches by means of their legs and beaks, aided by claws in their wings, till at
last their feathers grew and replaced the down, and they were able to fly. In course of time
some birds took to building their nests on the ground, perhaps because so many young perished
every year by falling from the trees. On the ground this danger was overcome. But, among those
which chose to stay in the trees, a change was introduced. They took to laying smaller eggs,
containing less food; in consequence, the young were hatched before they had reached such a
forward state of development as their cousins on the ground; and though this meant far more
work for the parents, who had to feed their helpless and blind little ones, the change proved
beneficial, because, being helpless, they remained quietly in the nest till their feathers
grew, and then they were in no danger of falling, for they saved themselves by flight. These
two devices proved so successful that they are followed still--probably always will be. The
fact that many young birds which are quite helpless are now reared in nurseries on the ground,
as in the case of young skylarks (fig. 3), is a fact of interest; for it shows that the parents
have chosen this nesting site comparatively recently, and are of course unable to lay large
eggs, which shall produce active young, like young chickens, at will. They have acquired the
habit, so to speak, of laying small eggs, and cannot alter it by changing their nesting-place.

Most young birds which leave the eggs in a forward condition have the down which clothes them
curiously striped. This is a device which enables the young bird to resemble the grass and
herbage with which it is surrounded, and so escape the eye of prowling birds and beasts of
prey. The dark stripes at a little distance look like shadows between stems of plants, while
the lighter stripes represent streaks of light passing through foliage. When young birds live
in the open, as on shingly beaches, then their down is mottled. How perfectly this harmonises
with the surrounding stones only those who have tried to find young terns (fig. 4), or young
ringed plover (fig. 2), for example, can tell. But this question of young birds is a big one,
and must be taken up again on some future occasion.

W. P. PYCRAFT, F.Z.S., A.L.S.

DR. JOHNSON'S BAD MANNERS.

When Dr. Johnson visited Scotland, he was taken, on his arrival at St. Andrews, to see the
ruins of the castle there. He was sorry to find the grand old building, like many he had already
visited, in ruins, and in his disappointment he was very rude and overbearing to those who
were guiding him. One of the guides ventured to ask him if he had been disappointed in his
visit to Scotland.

'Sir,' replied the doctor, 'I came to see savage men and savage manners, and I have not been
disappointed.'

'Yes,' replied the Scotchman, 'and we came to meet a man without manners of any kind, and we
have not been disappointed.'

OLD SARUM.

'Can you tell me the way to Old Sarum?' said a tourist, who was roaming over Salisbury Plain,
to a country yokel he came across.

'What!' answered the rustic, 'old Sarah! she be dead last year!' Being somewhat deaf, he thought
the stranger was asking after a cottager, who had been well known in that part. The site of
this old city was not easily to be found on Salisbury Plain. Where the ancient Sarum once stood,
grew a field of oats, and the rougher ground was pasture-land, dotted over with remnants of
walls and heaps of rubbish. Sarum was a city of the tribe called the Bilgæ; it existed before
the Romans visited England; it stood in a high and dry part of the large Wiltshire plain, and
the Romans seized it as a capital military position.

Many of those curious remains or tombs are near. They have had the name of 'barrow' given to
them, and in them are discovered, besides bones, old weapons, jewels, pottery, and other objects.
At no great distance is the Druids' temple of Stonehenge, and the still more remarkable one
of Abury, of which but fragments are left, though it must have been far grander than Stonehenge.
The Saxon King, Egbert, lived chiefly at Old Sarum, as did several other kings, and in 960
Edgar held a national council in the city, to consider the best means of expelling the Danes.
William the Conqueror, in 1086, summoned to Sarum, prelates, nobles, and knights from all parts
of England, to discuss new laws. William Rufus also held a council here. It was in the reign
of Henry I. that Sarum began to decline. The Empress Maud gave handsome gifts to the cathedral
and clergy, but the bishop offended the king, and there were frequent quarrels between the
clergy and the garrison, so that after about 1220, the inhabitants began to forsake the place,
by degrees, and to build houses at New Sarum, the modern Salisbury.

The old city was very strongly fortified. Around it was a deep moat or ditch; beyond this,
two ramparts; on the higher and inner rampart stood a wall of flint, chalk, and stone, about
twelve feet thick, with battlements. Only one entrance to the city existed, on the east side.
On the top of the hill, in the centre, was the castle or citadel. From this, the streets branched
off to the walls, Sarum being divided into two parts, north and south, marked by gates and
towers; there were also ten more towers at equal distances, and alongside the walls ran a circular
street, which went round the whole city. On the north-west side stood the cathedral and the
bishop's palace. Altogether, Old Sarum was one of the strongest cities England ever had.

THE GIANT OF THE TREASURE CAVES.

(Continued from page 335.)

Jack's face was ashy pale, but his eyes burnt as if with some hidden fire. Estelle was half
frightened; yet some inkling of the truth began to dawn faintly on her. She shrank back; but
the thought that had come to her seemed so impossible that she conquered her terror.

'Yes,' she said, softly, looking up into Jack's face, 'and his greatest wish, the very greatest
he has on earth, is--what do you think? To hear that the man who injured him has not been made
a bad man by what he had done. He wants him to repent, and he wants him to know that he has
forgiven him. Dick was afraid that the man might think he had killed him, and that the thought
might make him desperate.'

'The man seems to have done harm enough,' cried Jack, in a stony voice, turning away, and walking
down the steps towards the edge of the cliff.

'But Dick has forgiven it all, indeed he has, Jack,' she urged.

But Jack did not appear to hear. He stood with his back to her, gazing out to sea. Suddenly
he turned and came hack, seating himself at her side. His face was very white, but his expression
was resolute.

'Missie,' he said, looking full at her, but speaking in a very low voice, 'I am afraid I am
going to give you a great shock. You have told me the story of Dick Peet; I will tell you the
story of the man who injured him.'

'Oh, Jack! dear Jack, it is not you! Do say it is not you!' cried Estelle, tears in her eyes.

'I wish I could!' returned Jack, with a heavy sigh, his head clasped in his hands. But, looking
up again, he went on: 'Though what you have told me--that Dick is alive--is a great relief
to my mind, after thinking all these years that I had killed him, still I can never forgive
myself the frightful outburst of temper that made me do it, nor the bitter consequences--not
only to my dear mother, but to poor Dick himself and his family. Unhappily, we cannot undo
the past, though we would gladly give our lives to do it.'

Again Jack's head went down on his hands, and he groaned.

'Dear Jack,' whispered Estelle, putting her hand on his arm to show something of what she felt
for him, 'I wish I could recollect all that Aunt Betty said; it would comfort you, I know.
But I do remember this: she said we must not let our faults conquer us, for small beginnings
made great endings. Perhaps you did not take care of the little things when you were young,
and so it ended in that terrible rage. But, dear, dear Jack, ever since that dreadful day,
you must have been trying to conquer, or you would never be the good, kind Jack you are now.
Why, I have never seen you out of temper the whole time I have been here. I can't see that
you have any faults now.'

Jack smiled grimly, but the smile ended in a sigh.

'It is your kind heart that makes you think that, Missie. I have faults enough and to spare,
but I hope all this trouble has made a better man of me. For one thing, it has shown me to
what lengths my temper would go. I was indeed brought up with a round turn! I nearly went out
of my mind. But for my mother I should have gone to the bad straight away. Though it very nearly
did for her, too, she kept up for my sake, and brought me round in time. I ought to have given
myself up to justice, but I could not make up my mind to bring disgrace upon her publicly;
so, right or wrong, I did not do it. We fled from England, and at Cherbourg I fell in with
some of the Tout-Petit fishing fleet, and threw in my lot with them. That's how we came here.
It will be good news indeed to my dear mother that the result of my rage was not so bad as
it might have been, though it has been bad enough.'

'Dick has forgiven that,' repeated Estelle, earnestly. 'He has indeed, and no one but you,
and he, and I know anything about it.'

'Are you sure, Missie? It seems too wonderful to believe! If I thought so--why, I would go
and see him when I take you home. It would please him, you say; and--and--well, I would like
to ask---- '

'For what, Jack?'

'I would like to hear him say himself that he forgives---- '

He hid his face in his hands and groaned. Ruined for life, but not dead. Frightfully, hopelessly
injured, but generous, forgiving! He could understand that Dick--the young handsome Dick of
his recollection--had prayed for his destroyer, and--thank God--had not prayed in vain. It
was, indeed, a deeply repentant, broken-hearted man who sat there in the spring sunshine with
bowed head, and bitter sorrow for a deed which could not be undone.

As Estelle looked at Jack's figure, and saw the shudder which now and again passed over him,
her pity was perhaps greater for this sufferer than it was for poor Dick. Her eyes were blinded
with tears.

'Jack,' she said, when she could command her voice, 'dear kind Jack, you never refuse me anything.
Don't say "no" to what I am going to ask you now.'

A murmur was the only reply.

'What I want you to do will not make you more miserable, Jack, and it will be a great kindness
to poor Dick. Give him the pleasure of knowing what a good fellow you are now, and how miserable
and sorry you are. He does forgive, you know, and he is so anxious about you, though he cannot
speak properly, and tell you as he would if he were well.'

'You are sure he would wish it?'

'I am certain.'

'Missie,' he said, raising his despairing face, 'look at the position I am in. You are but
a child, but your kind heart can understand as few older persons seem to do. If I go to see
Dick Peet, I am proclaiming my sin to the world; and who is the sufferer?--my mother! I deserve
no mercy, and for my own sake I would not spare myself one grain of shame or misery, for it
was a black deed, brutally done in a frenzy of envy. But Mother--ah! Missie, you don't know
what a mother she has been to me. She has sacrificed her whole life, and does not think it
a sacrifice!'

'But if Dick can and does forgive, Jack,' said Estelle, 'would not Goody be glad that you have
it from his own lips? Would she not feel you were better, more the real kind Jack she loves,
if you asked for that forgiveness, though Dick does give it so freely? Oh, Jack, here is your
chance of making amends; here is your chance of telling Dick how grieved your are.'

There was a long silence.

'I'll do it,' said Jack, rousing himself. 'I'll speak to my mother to-night.'

He started up and walked to the cliff, and stood close to the edge, as if he wanted to get
as far away from the earth as possible.

Estelle buried her face in her hands, and longed for Aunt Betty, for Goody, for anybody wiser
and older than herself. How long she sat, her mind full of hopes and prayers, she did not know.
Suddenly she became conscious of some movement near. Looking up, startled, she saw Thomas creeping
up to Jack. Jack's back was towards him, and one push would have sent him off the edge of the
cliff, into the depths below. She screamed in her terror. Jack turned and faced his enemy.

Thomas did not retreat. He was too desperate. His hopes were dead, and his sole chance was
in destroying the man who stood in his path. He flung himself upon Jack, with a confused notion
that if he could not hurl him over the cliff, they might both go over together. At any rate,
Jack should not get that profit out of the Earl's daughter to which he thought he himself had
the sole right. He fought in wild despair, striking out, clinging to Jack's arms and legs,
and throwing his weight on him in the mad effort to bear him down, or force him over the precipice.
Jack could not understand his insane fury, and tried at first simply to overpower him, in order
to hear what he was about, and ask him questions. But Thomas had no intention of being questioned.
He wanted to get rid of this man once and for all. If Estelle had not screamed, he would have
done it, too. He would pay her out for that, he thought, if he could be the winner in this
struggle.

To his dismay, however, he found he was getting decidedly the worst of it. Jack was a giant
in strength as well as in height. Finding the man would not listen to reason, he put out his
strength, and Thomas soon found himself spinning along the ground at breakneck speed, considerably
the worse for the handling he had received. Stunned and bruised, he lay like a log where he
fell, and Jack let him lie, after a glance to see he was not much hurt.

Taking Estelle's hand, Jack led her towards the village, but the little girl, upset and shaken
as she was by the fierce struggle she had witnessed, looked back once or twice at the prostrate
Thomas. Jack appeared excited and angry, but did not speak all the way home.

(Continued on page 346.)

THE GIANT OF THE TREASURE CAVES.

(Continued from page 343.)

CHAPTER XIX.

'Good-bye, dear!' said Mrs. Wright, with tears in her eyes, as Estelle clung to her in a last
embrace. 'Perhaps you will come back some day, and see us again.'

'Indeed, dear Goody, I will. You have been good to me! I shall love to think of you and Jack,
and everything here, often and often--and of all the kind people I have met. I cannot thank
you enough for all you have done. I have been so happy. I shall never forget it.'

'I hope your friends will think you looking bonnie, dear,' went on Mrs. Wright. 'If they had
seen you when Jack brought you here, they would not believe it was the same little missie at
all. Now, don't be ill on the voyage, and spoil all the credit due to me.'

Mrs. Wright tried to speak in a lively tone, but the effort ended in tears. The child had been
hers so long that the parting was almost as painful as if she were really losing one of her
own dear ones. Estelle clung to her, wishing she could persuade her dear Goody to come home
with her, that Aunt Betty might see her and thank her properly. But this was too much to expect.
Goody was sure she would sever survive the voyage. Jack also was averse to the idea. He did
not want to have two helpless people on his hands, he said, laughingly.

Mrs. Wright accompanied them down to the harbour, and, as they rowed out to the ship, Estelle
watched her standing there till distance and tears blotted out the sight.

The wind was fair abaft, and they made good way. Estelle began gradually to like the smooth
motion. Her spirits came back as she felt that every knot brought her nearer home and Aunt
Betty. Jack had done his best to make her comfortable, but the smack was not a large vessel,
and its accommodation was necessarily limited. Nevertheless, all that could be done to make
her voyage a pleasant one was done by Jack, Fargis, and the crew. She had the cabin all to
herself, and a chair was always ready for her on deck when she chose to occupy it. Usually,
however, she preferred to sit near where-ever Jack was, and to talk to him. She would build
castles in the air of what would happen when her father returned, and she could tell him all
her wishes. He would be quite sure to do all she desired; he never refused any reasonable request,
and all her requests were reasonable. Jack smiled. He let her ramble on in her dreams of how
they were to meet again, and how he must have a boat of his own, and a comfortable home in
England for dear Goody to live in.

Then the talk would revert to other and sadder matters. These were never mentioned except when
they were quite alone, which could not be often. Once or twice, however, they did get such
a quiet hour when the night-watches had been set, and it was Jack's turn on duty. Estelle would
not go to bed; she preferred to come on deck to talk to him. How often afterwards did she look
back upon those nights! Fine, clear moonlight; the sky full of stars, stretched like a dark
curtain over them; all around the equally dark water, through which they cut with almost uncanny
smoothness; the silence about them broken only by the soft lapping of the waves, and the occasional
creak of the spars, or the flap of the sails.

Fargis, who had some knowledge of the coast, made for Tyre-cum-Widcombe, where, he declared,
all the information required could be obtained. And so it proved. Jack, leaving Estelle on
board, went to the biggest inn in the place. There he had his questions answered, with the
additional assurance that he could have any carriage he liked to take the little lady home.
The Earl himself was now staying at the Moat House.

As soon as it became generally known that little Lady Estelle de Bohun had been found, and
was at that moment aboard the French smack in the harbour, a crowd began rapidly to get together
on the little quay. The cheering, the pressing forward to get a glimpse of her, astonished
the French crew quite as much as it did Estelle. Neither she nor they had any idea of her importance.
They listened with keen interest as Jack translated to them what he had been told of the lost
child, and how Lord Lynwood had routed the whole country upside down in his determination not
to leave a stone unturned to find her. Jack became a hero to all who knew how he had saved
the child; and there were a few who, pressing up to Fargis, made out the story of the rescue
from his broken English.

Time, however, was of importance. Jack wanted, if possible, to get back to the boat before
nightfall. Fargis would wait for him, in any case, but the matter had best be got over at once.
His approaching interview with Dick Peet weighed upon his mind; other details connected with
it must be settled--some decision arrived at. He was glad, therefore, when the carriage came
round, and he and Estelle drove away from the amiable, but inquisitive, crowd.

As they passed through the deep lanes, and over the wide common, where the gorse was in full
bloom, then under the trees of the wood, Estelle's thoughts were with Aunt Betty, whom she
was to see so soon; or with Dick, and the wonderful surprise she was bringing him. Now and
then she took a furtive glance at Jack, and wished the happiness of the one did not mean the
unhappiness of the other.

On reaching the Bridge House, she begged that they might get out there, instead of driving
up to the house. Without a word Jack sprang down, and, lifting her out, paid and dismissed
the carriage. Estelle had run forward as he was doing this, but now returned to his side, saying--

'Shall it be first or last, Jack?'

Standing quite still a moment, his eyes on the blue sky and the fleecy clouds, he braced himself
for an interview which must be full of pain. He looked very pale, but there was a set expression
about his mouth and jaw which spoke volumes.

'As you please, Missie. Though there is no last that I know of.'

Gazing at him earnestly, she wondered of what he was thinking, and how she could soften this
first meeting. Her first impulse was to run straight to dear Aunt Betty and her father. But
she felt it her duty to see Dick while the interview had the chance of being quite a private
one; it would be more difficult to secure secrecy if the fact of her return were known. She
was sure Aunt Betty would say that whatever the sacrifice was to her, she ought to make it.

'Dick is quite alone,' she said, at last. 'I don't know when we shall find him so again. Isn't
it better not to put it off?'

Without a moment's hesitation, Jack turned and followed her, though he could not have spoken
to save his life. Fortunately, they reached the gate and went up to the Bridge House porch
unperceived. Sitting in his armchair, as usual, was Dick, resting after his morning's outing
in a wheel-chair. Comfortably happy and half asleep he looked, as Estelle put her hand upon
his, saying--

'Dick!' in her soft voice.

Startled and bewildered, he gazed at her for some moments before recognition came into his
eyes; then a bright smile spread over his face, and he grasped the little hand near his.

(Continued on page 358.)

A HUNDRED YEARS AGO.

True Tales of the Year 1806.

XI. THE GREEN MAN.

There are always people in every age who delight in notoriety, and will do anything to get
themselves talked about; and there was a man of this sort, at Brighton, in the year 1806.

His craze was to be always dressed in green, and large crowds would assemble every day, outside
his house, to see him drive off in his green gig, with a green whip, and a servant in green
livery beside him.

The gentleman himself was invariably dressed in green pantaloons, and a green waistcoat, frock,
and cravat. A green silk handkerchief stuck out of his pocket, and a large watch, with green
seals, was fastened by a green chain to the green buttons of his waistcoat.

His food too was only green fruit and vegetables, and his house was entirely furnished in green.

Such fads and fancies are not unknown in our own day. At one time 'Browning' teas were held
in a peculiar way. The guests would assemble and find the table laid with a brown, unbleached
table-cloth; brown bread and butter and chocolate cakes were the chief diet, and every guest
was expected to wear a brown costume. During the meal selections from Browning's poems were
read by one of the company, and in this way they thought they honoured their favourite poet!

PLANTS WITH SIGNS.

In the olden time people did not study botany very deeply, being too busy with other matters,
and they had neither books nor pictures about plants. But they talked of plants more than we
perhaps think they did, and had a good many ideas concerning them, showing that they kept their
eyes open to observe Nature. One of the facts noticed many centuries ago was that some plants
have curious marks on flower, leaf, stem or root. Indeed, some persons supposed that all plants
had signs by which you could tell their use for physic, food, or whatever else it might be.

Several plants were thought to be like the human body, such as the mandrake and the ginseng;
and these, it was said, must also be good for man. Again, amongst the orchis tribes, foreign
specimens of which are often so valuable, we find very singular marks and shapes. England has
a man orchis and a lady orchis, but neither of them really suits the name, for their flowers
have rather the appearance of a winged insect.

It is worth noting that not only the common people believed in the signs or marks to be discovered
upon plants, but learned men also supposed that there was something told by many of these marks
at least, if not by all of them. Certainly the general look of several poisonous kinds tells
us to beware of them, such as the wild bryony, for instance, and the nightshades.

We have, too, a few instances where it does seem, even if it is only an accident, that a plant
has a value which agrees with a mark or sign. Several of the old poets praise the eyebright,
or euphrasia, which has a black pupil-like spot on the corolla; therefore, it was thought by
our ancestors to make a good eye-lotion. At the present time, it has been proved that a medicine
made from this plant will strengthen weak eyes. The flower of an English plant called the self-heal
has rather the shape of a bill-hook; it is of a pretty colour, and was believed to cure wounds;
and it really does act in this way to some extent. Some of our gardens have specimens of the
Solomon's seal, a kind of lily. When the root is cut across, curious marks show, a little like
a seal, and so it is called after the wisest of kings. People used the root as a remedy for
wounds and hurts. Nowadays, again, looking at a walnut, we might not see a likeness to the
human head; yet in the olden time men did, the inside having a resemblance to the skull, and
the kernel representing the brain. Hence, walnuts were thought good for complaints of the head.
Similarly, as the cones of a species of pine-tree had the shape of teeth, it followed that
they would ease the toothache.

Shaking being one of the notable effects of that troublesome complaint, the ague, as a safeguard
the quaking grass was dried and kept in the house; the aspen, too, by its constant trembling,
was thought to be another remedy of value. The broad, showy flowers of the moon-daisy, suggesting
pictures of the full moon, had an imaginary value, for it was used to cure the complaints which
the moon was said to cause. A horseshoe being held a token of good fortune, a vetch with pods
of that shape was believed to have many curious properties. Bleeding could be stopped by the
herb Robert, a wild geranium of our hedges, its power being shown by the beautiful red of its
young and fading leaves. One of the strangest ideas people had was about fern-seed; it is very
tiny, almost invisible, and so they believed those who got a particular sort of it, could make
themselves invisible when they wished!

CLOTHED IN 'CHATTERBOX.'

A reader of Chatterbox has devised an original suit of clothing, shown in the illustration.
It is made entirely of sheets of Chatterbox, gummed together and fitted to the body like an
ordinary cloth suit. The sheets on the front of the coat are all coloured plates, so that the
suit looked much brighter than our every-day wear.

This strange apparel was made by Mr. H. H. Neal, of Leatherhead, and it has caused much amusement
and interest. At a 'costume race' held at some athletic sports, the suit took the special prize
for the best costume.

THE TIMID MOUSE.

THE UNION JACK.

What is the very first thing we talk of doing when we hear that the King is coming to pay a
visit in our neighbourhood? I fancy I can hear every boy and girl answer at once, 'Why, hang
out all our flags, of course!' But how many of us know anything about the most famous of all
these flags--the Union Jack?

In the first place, it is called 'Union' because it is really three flags united in one; and
'Jack' after King James (Jacques) who ordered the first Union Jack (fig. 1) to be made, to
stop the quarrels between the English and Scotch over their flags of St. George (fig. 2) and
St. Andrew (fig. 3), each country naturally wanting its own flag to occupy the first place.
In this flag, the red St. George, with a narrow border of white, to show the colour of its
field, is placed over the white St. Andrew, which keeps its own blue field.

But when Ireland was united to England in 1801, we had to ask our Heralds' Office to design
a fresh flag, to include the Irish national flag of St. Patrick (fig. 4).

This they managed very neatly by taking away from each quarter of the 'Jack' one half of the
white St. Andrew's Cross, and in its place putting the red St. Patrick with a narrow white
border, to show the colour of the field (fig. 5).

You will notice that St. Andrew's cross is arranged so as to come above St. Patrick's in the
two quarters of the flag next to the flag-staff. If the flag be hung in any other way it becomes
a signal of danger and distress; so let us always be careful to have our 'Jack' hung properly.

'MR. HAROLD.'

No one who had seen John Green sitting on a mile-stone opposite to the huge iron gates which
opened into the Manor-house drive would have thought that it was a bitterly cold evening in
December. His hands were in his pockets, and he was wrapped in thought, and he did not notice
the cold.

He had been to town to try and collect a few small sums which were owing to his mother, but
with little success. Things had not gone well with Mrs. Green and her son since Mr. Green's
death, six months before. Mr. Green had had a long and expensive illness, and all his savings
and most of his furniture had had to go in medicine and doctor's bills. He had been a carpenter,
earning good wages, and Mrs. Green was very anxious to live in the same cottage, as there was
a big garden, which she thought she and her son ought to be able to cultivate profitably. But,
unfortunately, the apple crop failed that autumn, their rent was in arrears, and Mr. Tucker,
the land agent, whom John had just met in the town, had told him that they must either pay
in a week or go. There were plenty of people who would willingly have lent them the necessary
money, but Mrs. Green declined to borrow under any circumstances whatever.

'If the Squire really knew what was happening on his estate,' said the boy, bitterly, to himself,
'I don't believe he would let old Tucker go on as he does. It's a shame to live up in a great
house like that, and never take the trouble to find out how his agent is treating people. I'd
go to him myself, but they say he always speaks to Tucker if any tenants do that, and Tucker
turns them out at once. At any rate, there's one more week in which to raise three pounds--and
a lot of chance there is of finding it,' and the boy laughed aloud bitterly.

'Well, there does not appear to be much to laugh at to-night,' said a voice at his elbow, and
turning round Jack saw that a man, apparently a tramp, in even shabbier clothes than his own,
had come up noiselessly over the snow. 'Also,' continued the new-comer, 'it would be possible
to find a warmer and more comfortable seat than that mile-stone.'

'I was waiting opposite the gates, trying to make up my mind whether I would go in or not,'
answered the boy, 'and I was laughing because I did not think it would make any real difference
whether I went in or stayed outside.'

'That depends, I suppose, on what you want there! If I might ask, what is it?'

'I want the Squire to give my mother a little time to get together her rent; but since Mr.
Harold ran away, ten years ago to-day, the Squire has never been the same man. That nearly
broke his heart, and now he takes no interest in anything; he has turned us all over to an
agent, who does just what he likes with us.'

'Then Mr. Harold was---- '

'His son. My father said he would have run away too if he had been Mr. Harold, though the Squire
wasn't as bad in those days.'

'And who was your father?'

'Peter Green, the carpenter.'

'Well, Peter Green's son,' said the stranger, with a queer laugh, 'if you will go in and see
the Squire, and come out and tell me in what sort of temper he is, I will give you my last
shilling,' and he spun a coin in the air. 'You must go in by the front door, and I will wait
for you in the drive.'

'Right you are,' said the boy, jumping off the mile-stone. 'I'll risk it for a shilling.'

Side by side they tramped up the snowy drive till they saw the light shining through the glass
in the front door. Then the tramp drew aside, and John went boldly up the steps. The clang
of the bell had scarcely died away before the door was opened by an elderly butler.

'Can I see the Squire?' asked John, in as brave a voice as he could muster.

'Show him in at once, Williams; show him in at once,' called out an impatient voice at the
back of the hall.

The butler stepped back. 'I don't think, sir,' he said, 'that this is the gentleman you are
expecting.'

'How do you know what gentleman I am expecting? 'Show him in at once, I tell you.'

'You'd better come straight in,' said the butler, shrugging his shoulders. He led the way across
the hall, and ushered John into a comfortably furnished library. An old gentleman was sitting
by the fire, enveloped in rugs. He leant forward and peered into John's face. Then he fell
back wearily into his cushions. 'Dear, dear! another disappointment,' he groaned. 'Take him
away, Williams.'

But John, having penetrated into the lion's den, did not mean to be dismissed so easily.

'Please, sir,' he began, hurriedly, 'I want to know whether you will give my mother a little
longer to pay her rent. We have had a very hard time. Mr. Tucker is going to turn us out.'

'You must go and see Mr. Tucker about that,' answered the old man, indifferently. 'I leave
all such matters to him; or, stay,' he added, 'I am expecting Mr. Harold to-night. You can
come in and see him about it next week if you like.'

Then John remembered that he had heard that on the anniversary of his son's departure the old
man always expected him to return, and he understood why he had been shown in so hurriedly.

'But, please, sir,' he pleaded, 'won't you write me a line for Mr. Tucker, in case Mr. Harold
missed the train or anything?'

The old man put up his hands feebly. 'Take him away, Williams,' he said, querulously.' I can't
be worried, or I shall be too tired to speak to Mr. Harold when he comes. Do whatever you think
Mr. Harold would like.'

John followed the butler out of the room, and half an hour later he went down the steps triumphantly.
In his pocket was a paper which the butler had written out and persuaded the Squire to sign,
stating that Mrs. Green was on no account to be turned out of her cottage without Mr. Harold's
express orders. He found the tramp waiting for him, and told his story joyfully, declining
to accept the proffered shilling in return.

The tramp listened attentively, and drew himself together at the end. 'I think I will risk
it,' he said, huskily. Then he turned to John: 'Look here, young man, you will find it to your
advantage to say nothing about to-night, whatever news you may hear in the village to-morrow. See?'

'You aren't going to hurt the Squire?' asked John, anxiously.

'I hope not, but you will probably understand to-morrow,' and the shabby figure strode away
up the drive.

       *       *       *       *       *

The next day the villagers were electrified by the news that Mr. Harold had returned at last.

That is many years ago now, and John Green, the head-gardener at the Manor-house, sometimes
wonders, as he watches the care with which the present Squire selects an orchid for his button-hole,
whether the tramp who spoke to him on that snowy December night was not the figure of a dream.

IN HARVARD MUSEUM.

The American University of Harvard contains in its Museum one of the greatest artistic marvels
of the world. This curiosity consists of hundreds of specimens of flowers and plants, all made
in glass, and so true to nature, both in form and colouring, that the flowers seem as if they
had just been gathered. Even the tiny hairs which appear on the stems of certain plants are
faithfully reproduced on these glass imitations.

These glass plants are made by two Germans, a father and his son, and so jealously do they
guard the secret of the manufacture that it is possible the knowledge may die with them.

A THOUGHTLESS DAISY.

  'Tis very cold,' a Daisy said
     Upon a meadow green,
  'Dark, gloomy clouds are overhead,
     Without a ray between.
  These angry gusts of bitter wind
     (So unexpected too)
  Are really more than I can bear--
     They chill me through and through.'

  Just then his discontented eye
     Looked sorrowfully up,
  And chanced across the path to spy
     A golden Buttercup.
  Its petals flinched before the wind,
     The stalk was roughly bent,
  And yet the Daisy could not hear
     One word of discontent.

  And then this foolish Daisy cried:
     'It's plain enough to spy,
  Most blossoms in this meadow wide
     Are better off than I!
  They do not mind the shadows dark,
     Nor feel the bitter wind;
  If I could be a buttercup,
     I really shouldn't mind.'

  Now, like this Daisy in the grass
     Some people I have known,
  Who, while their daily troubles pass
     Do nothing else but moan,
  And think that those who bravely bear
     The chilling wind and rain
  Can feel no sorrow in their hearts
     Because they don't complain.

JOCK'S COLLIE.

A True Story.

Travellers over the great trans-continental railways of the United States and Canada gaze with
awe and wonder at the grandeur of Nature in the wild canyons and rugged peaks of the Rocky
Mountains. In many places the railway tunnels through overhanging rocks, or winds round narrow
shelves above gloomy precipices.

The railway companies take the greatest precautions for the safety of their trains in the mountain
sections. Besides the usual working gangs, there are special track-walkers, and 'safety switch-openers,'
who lead solitary lives in the great hills.

Spring thaws and showers loosen the frost-bound soil, trickling snow-rills grow into gullying
torrents, and the jar of a passing train sets in motion a loose boulder, which, with ever-increasing
speed, at last hurls itself upon the track. Even the echoes of the locomotive whistle will
in some states of the atmosphere bring disaster. Tiny snow crystals are jarred by the sound-waves;
these start on a downward career, gathering volume and speed until a mighty avalanche has been
developed.

In one of these mountain canyons lives a Scotch track-walker and his only companion, a beautiful
and intelligent collie dog, who always accompanies his master on the inspection rounds.

It was in the late afternoon of a strenuous day in May, when Jock and Collie arrived weary
and hungry at the 'shack' (hut) door. Everything was satisfactory in the canyon, the section
gang had gone down the track, and with a sigh of content Jock set about preparing his evening
meal. Collie, with his head between his paws, watched the proceedings. Suddenly he assumed
an alert, listening attitude, then he set off at a great rate up the track.

When supper was ready Jock whistled for his companion, and on looking out was surprised to
find him gone; but from the narrowing walls of the gorge came the sound of his furious barking.
Jock whistled again and again, but the dog did not come. Perfectly convinced that something
was wrong, he seized his rifle and hurried off, expecting to find that Collie had cornered
some wild animal, or that some animal had cornered him! Round the curve he hurried, and what
he saw almost paralysed him.

A great boulder, weighing many hundredweight, lay across the track, and on top of it, wild
with excitement, was Collie.

On the little flat near the 'shack' was the switch at which the Pacific and Atlantic Expresses--the
trains going East and West--crossed. They were due almost at once. He was alone, time was short,
and upon his action depended the safety of many lives. He could not go both ways at once with
his warning; but down the western track beyond the switch he sped with explosive 'torpedoes,'
or detonating signals. Then he hurried back again past the dog (still on his signal station),
and far to the east, round the long curve, with his red flags of danger.

The express from the Pacific, warned by the torpedoes, steamed slowly, very slowly, to the
switch, then came to a standstill.

The train crew ran down to the hut, which was thick with smoke from burnt 'flap-jacks' and
frizzled bacon, but found no sign of Jock or Collie. Round the curve they ran, and there, still
on the boulder, was Collie, barking, as the brakeman expressed it, 'to beat the band.'

The others continued the pursuit of Jock, while the brakeman tried to coax the dog down. But
Collie was there for a purpose, and not until Jock returned would he leave his post. His master's
smiling face and hearty voice gave assurance that all was well, and then Collie fairly hurled
himself upon Jock, licked his face and gave frantic yelps of delight.

An extempore breakdown gang cleared the track, and the great trains thundered away to Atlantic
and Pacific--saved by a dog!

ROUND THE CAMP-FIRE.

By HAROLD ERICSON.

VIII.--THE MAN AT THE WHEEL.

'Have either of you fellows ever been in the middle of a fire at sea?' asked Vandeleur one
evening, when informed that it was his turn to spin a yarn for the benefit of the rest. 'If
not, I advise you to keep as far away from such a thing as you can. My own experience is only,
so to speak, on a small scale; that is, I was only, at the time, upon a short journey across
a lake in a small Japanese steamer--a voyage of about sixty miles--but I can assure you I was
never more frightened in my life. One feels so utterly helpless when apparently at the mercy
of the most pitiless of the elements, far from shore, and--for all one can see--confronted
by the necessity to choose one of two kinds of death, if one is more terrible than the other--drowning
or burning.

'Am I right in believing that you succeeded in cheating both the fire and the water, perhaps
out of deference to the hangman?' asked Bobby, 'or am I speaking to a somewhat solid ghost?'

'Escaped, I believe.' replied Vandeleur, 'in order that I might try to teach manners to a certain
ruffian of the name of Robert Oakfield.'

With the words, Vandeleur fell suddenly upon Bobby, and quickly upsetting him, rubbed his nose
in the soft moss. There was a short, sharp struggle, and Vandeleur returned to his seat.

'I have not yet succeeded in my object,' continued Vandeleur, 'but I hope for the best.'

       *       *       *       *       *

We had gone about half-way to our destination--town called Shukisama, on the other side of
the lake--when it was suddenly discovered that our little steamer, the Toki Maru, was on fire.
With very little warning, flames sprang up from the hold--no one ever discovered how the fire
began--and almost in an instant the half of the steamer which lay aft of the hold became unapproachable
on account of the dense volumes of black smoke which flew in clouds over it, driven by the
head-wind against which the little steamer was making its way.

The captain quickly ordered every passenger forward into the bows of the vessel, out of the
reach of the heat and suffocating smoke. The crew then attempted, with hose and pump, to keep
the fire in hand; but already, it appeared, the flames had obtained the mastery, and their
attempts came too late. The cargo, I believe, was tow, or some other oily substance difficult
to extinguish once the fire had secured a firm hold upon it. Moreover, the smoke and heat were
such that it was impossible for the workers to approach near enough to concentrate their efforts
where they would be most likely to succeed.

The passengers huddled together in the bows of the little steamer and watched the efforts of
the crew. It was obvious that these efforts had failed.

'Have we time to reach Shukisama?' men and women asked one another; 'it is twenty miles, or
more--nearly two hours--shall we do it?' The captain, when anxiously asked as to this, replied:
'We hope so; who can tell? Much depends on the man at the wheel.'

The man at the wheel! Not one of us selfish people in safety and comfort--speaking comparatively--in
the bows, had thought of the poor fellow back there in the stern, sticking bravely to his post
in spite of the dense, hot smoke which must be enveloping him in its suffocating fumes.

'He cannot last long, captain,' said some one, 'in that atmosphere; he will be suffocated,
or he will give up and jump into the sea. What will happen if there is no one to steer the ship?'

'She will go round and round,' replied the captain, laughing grimly, 'while we are roasted
or drowned. At present he is sticking to his post, and we are travelling in our course. You
may be thankful, all of you, that we have a brave man, young Hayashi, at the wheel. He was
only married last week, and his wife is at Shukisama; you may be sure he will do his best to
get home.'

'A man may be ever so much in love,' said a passenger, 'but he cannot breathe fire and smoke
for air: it must be pretty hot where he is, and it will soon be hotter!'

A cry went up for volunteers to relieve the man at the wheel. Several came forward--they are
brave as lions, these Japanese. One was selected as the first to make an effort to pass through
the smoke and flame to the stern of the vessel. A line was made fast to the good fellow's waist,
for, he had said, in case he should collapse in the dense smoke, he would rather be hauled
back in any position, than left there!

Three times the brave man rushed into the mass of hot, poisonous vapour, and twice he returned
staggering and choking. The third time he entirely collapsed, and was pulled back. His jacket
was on fire and he was unconscious. A second man instantly volunteered; he had a new suggestion
to make.

'I will slip over the side of the ship, and you can pay out line gradually until I have reached
a spot where I think I can climb up. When I pull, you must slack out the line.'

'Mind the screw. Don't get sucked back too far astern,' said the captain; 'be careful.'

The man jumped into the water, and was carried instantly astern; he tugged, and line was paid
out. Soon it became evident, by the tension of the line, that he had clung on to the vessel's
side; probably he was climbing laboriously upward--his plan was going to succeed.

But the line suddenly sprang outwards; he had jumped into the sea again; a few minutes, and
he was hauled back, out of breath and exhausted.

'I couldn't climb it,' he said, 'it's too steep and slippery. I nearly got sucked into the
screw. The flames are not near the wheel yet, but the smoke is flying right over it in dense,
black volumes. How young Hayashi is standing it, I don't know.'

But the steamer was standing straight as a line upon her course; it was obvious that the good
fellow's nerve still held out, his eyes were not yet dimmed with the smoke and heat--good,
brave Hayashi!

Some one proposed that the passengers should approach in a body as far aft as the fire permitted,
and then shout together words of praise and encouragement. This was done. Some thirty men and
women stood together nearly amidships and shouted in time to the beat of a conductor: 'Hayashi--Banzai--brave
Hayashi--you shall have glory and reward--Banzai!' Some said they heard a voice reply 'Banzai,'
some heard nothing. Other attempts were made to relieve the plucky fellow at the wheel. His
lungs and breathing apparatus, a doctor present declared, must be made of cast iron; since
he had stood the poisonous fumes so long, he might perhaps last out; people would see the burning
vessel from Shukisama before long, and help would come.

But the flames began to gather strength; the after portion of the steamer seemed now to be
a kind of seething cauldron of fire. The heat grew intense, even up at our end; what must it
be for poor Hayashi, with the wind carrying it at close quarters into his face? Would he actually
stand at the wheel, devoted fellow, until the flames caught him and burned his hands as they
gripped the spokes, and scorched his eyeballs so that they could see the course no longer?
There was no knowing what these marvellous Japanese could not do in the way of pluck and fortitude!

On went the little vessel upon her way; Hayashi could not possibly have steered a better course,
said the captain. He had not once deviated by a hair's breadth.

But every moment the heat grew more and more; women wept and hugged their children to them.
Another half-hour, and--unless help arrived--every passenger must swim for it. In spite of
the headwind, the fire was encroaching forward as well as aft.

Another five minutes of acute suspense was passed. Personally, after a brief prayer, I spent
the time in deciding which woman I would try to save when it came to swimming. I had already
made my selection, when suddenly a voice called out from the rigging, 'Banzai! they have seen
us--a steamer comes!'

Then the heat and the danger were forgotten in the excitement of watching the oncoming steamer.
When two vessels, both going at full speed, are meeting one another, the intervening distance
is soon covered. Suffice to tell, the succour arrived in time, and every passenger was taken
off in safety.

Meanwhile a boat had been sent round the stern, with orders to shout to Hayashi to jump clear
of the ship and allow himself to be picked up. The boat returned almost immediately; no one,
the crew said, replied to their shouts. Presently the steamer separated from her burning sister
and dropped back; then it was seen that the flames now swept the entire stern of the ill-omened
Toki Maru. The wheel still stood, but no one was at it, nor could any human form be discerned
on deck or in rigging.

Sadly we steamed homewards. We were saved, indeed, every one of us, but he to whom all were
indebted for their lives, the young hero, Hayashi, the best and bravest of them all, had fallen
a victim. Probably he had sprung, scorched and maddened with pain, into the sea, and had gone
down like a stone.

But you will scarcely believe it, while groups of us still stood upon the quay at Shukisama
discussing the tragedy, and wondering who would break the sad news to the wife at Hayashi's
home, a small boat hove in sight, coming in from the lake; in it sat a man rowing, and some
one said, 'That is like the Toki Maru's boat which we thought burned.' Another said, 'What
if it should be Hayashi in it?' Well, it was Hayashi. He arrived, grinning and well, though
black with smoke and fire and half suffocated.

As the largest subscriber (Vandeleur ended), I was asked to present to Madam Hayashi the testimonial
which the passengers united to offer to our brave 'man at the wheel.' He could not be made
to see that he had deserved it, however.

'It got too hot at last,' he said with a laugh, 'and I cut down the boat and dropped overboard.
'The wheel? Oh, I lashed it so that it couldn't turn. Yes, I choked very much, but that is
nothing!'

'I should like to meet a few more of Hayashi's kind before I die,' said Vandeleur, after a
pause--'good, simple, humble chap; the very stuff heroes should be made of.'

A HELPING HAND.

A cabman, who had for some time been in the habit of drinking too much, signed the pledge at
the request of a friend, but soon afterwards broke it. Conscience-stricken and ashamed, he
tried to keep out of the way of his friend; but the friend was not to be put off. One day he
found the poor, miserable man, and taking hold of his hand he said:

'John, when the road is slippery and your horse falls down, what do you do with him?'

'I help him up again,' replied John.

'Well, I have come to do the same,' said his friend. 'The road was slippery, I know, John,
and you fell; but there is my hand to help you up again.'

The cabman's heart was touched. He said: 'God bless you, sir; you will never have cause to
regret this. By His help I will never fall again.'

And to this day he has kept his word.

AN EASTERN PUZZLE.

An old Persian died, leaving seventeen camels to be divided among his three sons in the following
proportions: the eldest to have half, the second a third, and the youngest a ninth. Of course,
camels cannot be divided into fractions, so, in despair, the brothers submitted their difference
to a very wise old dervish.

'Nothing easier!' said the wise Ali. 'I will divide them for you.'

How did he do it?

H. B. SCORE.

[Answer on page 371.]

WELL REPAID.

A man who often travelled with large sums of money in his care was persuaded by his friends
to carry a pistol as a safeguard.

On one of his journeys be was stopped by a tramp, and, loth to use his weapon, for he was a
Friend, he resorted to stratagem, and gave up his money at once. Said he to the tramp: 'I must
not be thought to have given up my master's cash without a struggle.' So, taking off his coat
and hat, he said, 'Take a shot at that, friend;' and the robber complied.

'Fire away again,' said the Friend. The thief did so. 'Again,' said the other.

'I can't,' said the robber; 'I have no more shot.'

'Then,' said the other, producing his own pistol, 'give me back my money, or I will shoot you
myself.'

HOW THE ARABS BAKE THEIR BREAD.

The wandering Arabs subsist almost entirely upon bread, wild herbs, and milk. It is rather
strange that they should eat so much bread, because they never remain sufficiently long in
one place to sow wheat and reap the harvest from it. They are compelled to buy all their corn
from the people who live in towns, and have cultivated fields. When these townsmen and villagers
have gathered in their harvests, the Arabs of the desert draw near their habitations, and send
messengers to buy up corn for the tribe, and perhaps also to sell the 'flocks' of wool which
they have shorn from their sheep.

Having obtained their supplies of corn, the Arabs return to the deserts or the open pasture-lands.
They always carry with them little hand-mills, and when bread is to be made, it is the women's
duty to grind the corn. The hand-mills are two stones, the shape of large, thick cakes, one
of which lies upon the top of the other. The stones are about eighteen inches in diameter,
and there is a hole through the centre of the upper one. A wooden peg, which is stuck upright
in a small hole in the lower stone, projects into the larger hole of the stone above, and serves
to keep it in its proper place. A smaller peg, inserted near the edge of the upper stone, forms
a handle by means of which the whole stone may be turned round upon the top of the lower stone,
and in this way the faces of the stones are made to grind against each other. The Arab woman
places the mill upon a cloth spread upon the ground, and taking a few handfuls of corn she
pours them into the hole in the centre of the upper stone, and begins to turn the mill. The
grain falls through the hole, and passes between the two stones, where it is ground into flour,
which flows out all round the mill, and is caught in the cloth.

When sufficient flour has been ground, the woman gathers it together, places it in a wooden
bowl, adds a little water, and kneads it. No yeast is put to it, and the dough is of that kind
which we call unleavened. It does not 'rise,' or swell, after it is kneaded, and the bread
is not full of little holes, as our yeast-made bread is.

The dough is made into round balls, each of which is then rolled out into a thin cake. The
oven is nothing but an iron plate, slightly raised in the centre, which is placed over a fire.
The cakes are laid upon this plate, and are baked in a few minutes.

This is the manner of baking bread which is adopted by those tribes which are always moving
from place to place. There are other tribes which change their encampment at longer intervals,
and are often in one place for several weeks. Many of these bake their bread in a different
way. They make an oven in the ground by digging a hole about three feet deep, making it wide
at the bottom and narrow at the top, and they plaster the inside with mud. Having done this,
they light a fire in the hole, and when it is thoroughly heated, they press small but thick
cakes of dough against the sides, and hold them there for a few minutes until they are baked.
These cakes, like those baked on the iron plate, are eaten hot.

SANTA CLAUS.

  A while ago the silent house
    Re-echoed with their voices sweet--
  The music that their laughter made,
    The patter of their little feet.
  Outside, the wintry winds blew shrill,
    And all around the snow lay white;
  But little cared they for the storm,
    For 'Santa Claus will come to-night.'

  We heard them running to and fro,
    So eager in their merry glee
  To hang their stockings, limp and long,
    Where 'he' will be most sure to see.
  Such wondrous fairy-tales they weave,
    Such pictures of those far-off shores
  From whence each Christmas-tide there comes
    Their unknown friend, and all his stores.

  Now they are all in Slumberland,
    And Mother comes, with noiseless tread,
  For one last kiss; the shaded light
    Gleams softly o'er each curly head.
  A rustle, and a murmur low;
    Half-opened are the dreaming eyes.
  'Hush! hush! it's only Mother, dear!'
    ''Tis Santa Claus!' the sleeper sighs.

  To-morrow, when the dawning light
    Breaks through the wintry eastern skies,
  What joy will greet the morning bright,
    What happy hearts and sweet surprise!
  And we, whose childhood long since fled,
    Would fain entreat old Time to pause,
  To give us back our childish faith,
    And simple trust in Santa Claus.

THE GIANT OF THE TREASURE CAVES.

(Continued from page 347.)

Shocked beyond measure at the change in the fine, handsome Dick Peet he remembered years ago,
Jack looked at him. His heart died within him. He had not, thank Heaven, killed his friend;
but, alas! how little short of that was the mischief he had done! Could Dick ever forgive him?
Even if he should, Jack could never forgive himself. Never should he forget his first sight
of the changed, ruined Dick, nor that it was his hand which had wrought the change and ruin.

Estelle's touch roused him. 'Jack, dear Jack, come and speak to him. He is ready to forgive.
See, he is waiting to do so. Be very gentle, and speak low. He will understand then.'

Jack's face was ashen, and his stalwart frame trembled as he approached the chair in which
the invalid reclined. Dick's eyes shone with some of their old intelligence when he saw his
former enemy, and his hands were held out in eager welcome. It almost seemed as if he looked
upon Jack, not as an enemy to be pardoned, but as an old comrade with whom there had been a
grievous misunderstanding.

'I wonder if he remembers there is anything to forgive?' thought Estelle, as she watched him.

Jack took the hands held out to him. He could barely mutter the word--'Forgive!'

'As I hope to be forgiven!' came in clear, steady tones, such as Dick had not been known to
utter since his misfortune. There was a long silence. Estelle's eyes were full of tears. Jack,
his head raised, was looking at Dick. But Dick's face was radiant with a joy that was not of
this earth. His great desire had been granted. He was lying back, still clasping the hand of
his enemy, but with his eyes on the blue sky he could see above the trees. Presently, as no
one moved, he looked again at Jack, murmuring in his usual half-inarticulate way, but with
a smile which meant a great deal to the sailor, 'My friend!'

'To the end of my life, if you will let me!' answered Jack, fervently. 'Thank Heaven you are
alive! But that you can treat me so, receive me as a friend, after---- '

'Have waited--hoped--thankful!'

'What can I do for you? Let me do something!'

'You have come! All--clear--now!'

He began to look so faint that Estelle said hastily: 'We will come and see you again, Dick.
You must rest now.'

'Come--again!' repeated Dick, his eyes appealing to Jack.

'I will,' replied Jack, getting up to go into the cottage.

'How do you do, Mrs. Peet?' said Estelle, as Dick's mother appeared. 'Poor Dick is quite startled
and faint at the sight of us.'

'Lady Estelle!' she exclaimed, lifting her hands in amazement. 'Wherever did you come from?
No wonder Dick is startled! Why, you might knock me down with a feather! And how bonnie you
look! Not at all the worse for all you've been so long away.'

'I am coming to tell you all about it, but I must first go and see Aunt Betty.'

'Well, it will do her good to see you. It is a sight for old eyes to see your sweet face again,
Missie!' Then, glancing at Jack, 'Is that the man who has taken care of you, and brought you home?'

'Yes, Mrs. Peet, it is; and you shall hear some day how good and kind he and his mother have
been to me. But I have not time now, and you had better see how poor Dick is.'

Jack had wandered down to the gate in a stunned frame of mind, and here Estelle joined him,
to beg him to walk up to the house with her.

'No, no, Missie, I could not--not after what has happened. I couldn't have people thanking
me, and all that. I should feel a brute!'

Estelle looked distressed, but Jack went on, his hand on the gate:

'You see the business is not over yet. I must tell Dick's father. Where do you think I can
find him?'

'Must you tell him to-day--just to-day?'

'It is best got over at once.'

'Then come up with me and find him, and we can see Aunt Betty at the same time.'

The gate at which they were standing was some dozen yards or so from the road, and, as Estelle
spoke, some one rode round the bend and came towards them.

'Father!' cried Estelle, springing towards him, her face radiant, and forgetting everything
in the joy of seeing him.

'My little girl!' he cried, springing from his horse.

He clasped her in his arms with a force which at any other time would have startled the child.
Neither could speak, for at such an hour speech fails. Who shall describe the meeting? After
nearly a year the lost had been found! A year which had laid its mark on all their lives, but
which, now that it had passed, seemed to Lord Lynwood as 'a dream when one awaketh.' His child
back in his arms, looking well and strong as ever, with every evidence of having been well
cared for, her sweet eyes looking up into his!--is it wonderful that for some moments he could
think of no one else, look at nothing but the face of his only child?

Jack remained quite still lest he should disturb them, his eyes on the distant hills; he would
not, even unnoticed, intrude on their meeting. It was enough that he had seen a light--radiant,
beautiful--break over his 'Little Missie's' face before he turned away.

There was a swift question and answer after the silence, and then Lord Lynwood, recovering
himself, spoke.

'How can I thank you, my good fellow?' he said, holding out his hand to Jack.

'No thanks required, thank you, sir' returned the sailor, gravely; 'but if you'd be so kind
as to tell me where I can find Mr. Peet, the gardener?'

It sounded so very commonplace that Lord Lynwood gave a laugh.

'Do you think he will be more grateful than we are?'

'I want no gratitude, sir,' replied Jack, gruffly; 'it is not for that I want him. If you wish
to thank anybody, sir, it is my mother, who has nursed the little Missie through a terrible time.'

'Father,' said Estelle, who could scarcely speak even yet, and was clinging to her father's
hand, as his arm rested round her shoulders, 'this is the dearest fellow that ever lived, and
I have been cruel to forget him while I was so happy. But for him---- '

'Come now, Missie,' broke in Jack, turning red and pale alternately. His changing colour reminded
Estelle that this day, so full of joy to her, must be one of acute pain to him.

'I know why he wants Peet,' she said, a shadow crossing her face. She was puzzled as to her
duty in the matter.

'Do not stop my daughter,' said Lord Lynwood; 'I want to hear all that her kind and good friends
have done for her. You must come up to the house and let my aunt, Lady Coke, see you. You will
be bringing back new life to her with the restoration of my little girl. We should like, also,
to ask you,' he continued, in a courteous tone, 'how it is that you have not been able to bring
back the child before this?'

'I lost my memory, Father,' cried Estelle. 'I was always trying to remember my name, and who
I was, but I could not. Then I had a dream--the night when Jack would go out to sea, that kept
coming back to me, but still I could not put a name to anybody. Suddenly I saw Thomas, and
dreadful things happened, from all of which Jack saved me; and then it all came to me, and
I told Jack who I was, and where I lived. Then he brought me back at once.'

Lord Lynwood pressed her to him, and looked down with dim eyes at the sweet little face.

'Wright,' he said, 'I am not going to take a refusal, I must hear all about it. There is so
much to ask! My child lost, and nobody knows how it happened, or what followed after you found
her! We made all possible search, but no trace of her could we come across, and we had given
up all hopes of ever seeing her again. You cannot now go away and leave all our questions unanswered.
We will go to Lady Coke, who will like to add her thanks to mine for---- '

'Sir,' returned Jack, becoming very white, but looking determined, 'if that is your wish, then
it is my duty to tell you what sort of a man I am before I can accept thanks or go to your house.'

'Jack! Jack!' pleaded Estelle, springing to his side and clasping his hand in both her own.

But he took no notice; perhaps her handclasp only strengthened his resolve.

'Do you see that poor fellow there,' he continued, pointing to Dick, over whom Mrs. Peet was
leaning, administering some cordial. 'Do you see that poor wreck of a man? I did that!'

He turned away.

There was silence. Lord Lynwood stood dumbfounded. With tears streaming down her cheeks, Estelle,
looking from one to the other, exclaimed, 'Father, don't look at him like that. He is so miserable;
so very, very miserable, and oh, so sorry! And, Father, Dick has forgiven him, and calls him
his "friend." What can any one say when Dick forgives?'

'Nothing,' answered her father. 'Wright, my poor fellow, they say the greater the sinner, the
greater the saint; so there is your chance for you. As for myself, I owe you a debt of gratitude
which I can never repay. So don't expect me to cast stones. Ah, you ask for Peet? Do you wish
to make your confession to him?'

'It is my duty, sir.'

Lord Lynwood was silent a moment, but Estelle exclaimed, in anxious tones, 'Dear Father, this
need not be told to everybody, need it? Only to you and Aunt Betty, and Peet? Why is poor Jack
to have---- '

'Certainly not,' returned Lord Lynwood, looking up. 'Wright, come with me to Peet. He is a
gruff sort of chap, but true blue at bottom. He will take it hard at first, so I had better
prepare you.'

(Continued on page 367.)

STORIES FROM AFRICA.

XII.--DARKNESS AND DAWN.

No one can rightly understand the African races without knowing something of the terror of
witchcraft, magic, and ill-luck which hangs like a cloud over their lives. Differing from each
other in many ways, the African tribes are alike in this, that their religion is one of fear,
dread of unseen powers that work against man's peace and well-being unless propitiated by gifts,
or defied by charms; and the result of this belief is to put unlimited power into the hands
of those who profess to have intercourse with the spirit-world, and to foresee, or even to
influence, the future of their neighbours. Therefore the European who comes to teach, to civilise,
or to govern, finds his mightiest opponent in the witch-doctor, or medicine-man, who knows
a little more than his neighbours, and makes capital out of their ignorance.

Some seventy years ago a party of these witch-doctors, who were making an excellent living
among the Kaffirs by professing to make rain and find witches to order, met their match for
once in the English Governor of the newly annexed province known as 'Queen Adelaide,' the genial
and energetic officer of Peninsular fame, Colonel--afterwards Sir Harry--Smith.[5] The English
'father,' as he was styled by the Kaffirs, had acquired an extraordinary influence, by dint
of much practical common sense and knowledge of humanity, a rigid military discipline, and
last, not least, a stick with a very large knob at the end. Not that he ever used this stick
to correct offenders, but it was always present on state occasions, and was reverenced as a
sort of magic wand by the natives, for the words spoken by the 'father,' when he took that
stick in his hand, were as the laws of the Medes and Persians. 'I shall wait for two hours
before I touch my stick,' he said to a trembling, cringing chief, who had tried to stir up
rebellion against the English rule. 'I must be quite cool; Englishmen are generous, but they
must be just.'

[Footnote 5: Harrismith and Ladysmith, in Natal and the Orange River Colony, are named after
Sir Harry and his wife.]

It was a very anxious two hours that the chief spent, waiting for the touch upon the magic
wand, and when he was summoned to the presence of the 'father,' and solemnly forgiven, he was
cured of treasonable practices once and for all.

Colonel Smith started a vigorous campaign against rain-making and witch-finding, the latter
being a practice not altogether unknown in England, where, three hundred years ago, it was
not difficult to get rid of an obnoxious neighbour by a charge of witchcraft.

A poor man, robbed of his cattle and cruelly burnt by a chief who was rich enough to pay the
witch-doctor, came to the 'father' to declare his innocence, and beg for redress. The knobbed
stick, of course, came into action, and from behind it the judgment went forth that the chief
should at once restore all the cattle taken from the injured man, with ten extra in compensation
for his sufferings, and another ten as a fine to the English Government. East and west the
news of the judgment was carried, in native fashion, the watchman on each of the low hills
taking up and passing on the news of the 'father's' decision; so that, when the chief took
no notice of the order, his evil conduct was known far and wide. Down came the cavalry upon
the obstinate chief's territory; his cattle were driven off, and a receipt for them handed
to him, that the whole affair might be thoroughly business-like and judicial. The astonished
Kaffir had no resource but to cast himself humbly before the 'father' and the knobbed stick;
and he became thenceforward the Governor's faithful friend and adherent.

The rain-makers were dealt with after another fashion. The Governor gathered a party of the
most famous professors, and, in the presence of their clients and admirers, asked if they could
really make rain as they declared. The wizards evidently felt that a bad quarter of an hour
was coming. They hesitated; then, looking at the expectant faces of the people, who had doubtless
paid many an ox for a shower, or the promise of one, they answered, as stoutly as they dared,
that they possessed such power. The Englishman went on to exhibit various articles of English
manufacture--his knife, his hat, his boots, and so on--asking, 'Can you make this?' And, as
they all agreed in denying, he kindly explained how such things were made, without magic, in
his country. Then, suddenly holding up a glass of water, he inquired--

'Is this like the water you cause to come?

'Yes,' agreed the chief doctor, cautiously.

'Very good.' Colonel Smith emptied the glass, and said amicably to the Kaffirs, 'Now, fill
it again; put your rain into this glass.'

The rain-makers sought in vain for escape.

'Put more rain into the glass,' demanded the 'father,' sternly.

'We cannot,' faltered the baffled magicians, knowing their reputation gone for ever, while
the Governor, addressing the people, announced that since none but God, the Great Spirit, could
really make rain, any one who professed to do so henceforward would be promptly 'eaten up'--that
is to say, deprived of his property by the 'father's' orders. He had the sagacity, however,
to make his peace with the discomfited professors by sending for them afterwards, and providing
each with some cattle and a little 'stock-in-trade,' as he calls it, to start them on a more
honest way of life.

And if the African's dread of witchcraft makes him ruthless to the accused, he is equally pitiless
in his terror of what he calls 'ill-luck.' An 'unlucky' child may, he believes, bring misfortune
upon a whole village, and if mother-love triumphs sometimes over fear, and the little one grows
out of babyhood without any neighbour knowing that it has cut its top teeth first, or is in
some other way marked for misfortune, the secret may none the less leak out some day. And then
the poor little bringer of 'bad luck' will quietly disappear, or will sicken and die of poison,
administered by some terrified neighbour.

Two or three years ago, a frightened young mother brought her little one to a teacher in East
Africa. The poor, precocious baby had been born with one tooth, and it showed some love and
courage in the mother that she had come for help to the white friend who taught that it was
wicked to kill babies for fear of bad luck. She could never hide it, she declared; the neighbours
knew it already. Could the English 'Bibi' save the child?

The English 'Bibi' determined to test the faith of one of her Christian girls, a young wife
who had no children of her own. She sent for her and asked the question, 'Rose, would you like
a baby to take care of?'

Rose's beaming face was sufficient answer.

'But, Rose, it is a kigego (unlucky) baby.'

Rose met the information with disdain. 'I am a Christian; I am not afraid of a kigego.'

'But you must ask your husband first.'

The wife, in East Africa, is generally the more powerful influence in the house, and Rose would
probably have been prepared to carry off the infant there and then. However, her husband proved
to be quite of the same mind; and under the watchful care of the devoted foster-parents the
poor little kigego will have every chance of bringing happiness into the house.

One more story of the triumph of light over darkness.

Under the banks of a river in West Africa there waited, some years ago, two or three canoes,
concealed by the overhanging trees. A great man of the place was dead, and, according to the
native custom, a little girl must be thrown alive into the river to drown. The few Christians
had protested in vain against the murder, and, finding they could not prevent the deed, waited
now in the shadow of the bank to save the child, if they could. They watched the poor little
terrified creature flung into deep water, struggling and sinking. But, mercifully for her,
one of the customs is to fasten a dozen or so of fowls about the neck of the victim, and the
frightened birds, by their fluttering and flapping, kept her head above water until she drifted
within reach of the rescuers. The little one was saved, and taken away from the neighbourhood,
where her life would never have been secure.

And so, little by little, the sun rises upon the Dark Continent. One by one the old evil customs
pass away. The Moorish galleys no longer hold the seas in dread; the slave caravan no longer
leaves its terrible track of bleaching bones from Central Africa to the coast. Benin and Omdurman,
and other 'cruel habitations,' have been thrown open and broken down. Wise heads have thought
and planned, brave blood has been shed, noble lives laid down for the good of Africa, and,
by slow degrees, the shadows are fleeing before the dawn.

MARY H. DEBENHAM.

THE FAIRIES' NIGHT.

  The foxgloves are the sentinels
    That guard the fairies' sleep,
  When twilight comes, and to their beds
    The wee elves softly creep.

  And each wild rose a cradle is
    To lull them to repose,
  While over them, so pink and white,
    The petals tightly close.

  They all night long serenely sleep,
    Until the peep of day;
  And then the roses open wide
    To send the elves away.

THE COW-WAGGON.

During a recent visit at a Western ranch, we saw what was to us an entirely novel vehicle,
a 'cow-waggon'--an immense canvas-covered van drawn by four horses. We also enjoyed the experience
of a drive in one, lurching over the plain like a yacht in a rough sea.

The cow-waggon is fitted with all the necessary camping outfit used by the cow-boys on a 'round-up,'
or cattle-herding expedition. Every bit of space is used, and in its ample canvas cavern are
packed the beds, provisions, cooking utensils, tent canvas, and the odds-and-ends of the 'outfit.'

The back of the cow-waggon comes down and turns out on supports, making a shelf-table; behind
the movable back are a cupboard and the cook's store-lockers, always well stocked, for the
'punchers' (men who brand the cattle) are men of mighty appetite. Meals served on the prairie
by the cow-waggon cook are splendid. They consist of coffee and beans, bacon and beef, dried
fruit and delicious rolls. The rolls and other 'sour-dough' dainties are baked in a Dutch oven.
The term 'sour-dough' is another Western word. It was first used to denote the light bread
baked by the cow-waggon cook, though the bread is usually excellent. A later use of 'sour-dough'
is as a title for newly arrived miners in the Arctic goldfields of the Klondyke.

When the camping-ground is reached, a wide canvas is stretched over the cow-waggon; this spreads
out on all sides, and is a shade 'in a weary land' for the tired puncher.

Cattle are on the move at sunrise, and it behoves the cow-boy to be also on the alert. The
sun, coming up over the great stretches of plain, gives a similar impression to that of a sunrise
at sea. If the round-up is in Alberta, the grass is fragrant with wild flowers, especially
the dwarf-rose, and the morning air is melodious with bird-songs.

The 'puncher' comes out from his blankets and scans the hundreds of cattle dotted here and
there in the shadow of the foot-hills. Presently an animal stretches out its hind legs and
comes clumsily to its feet; others follow, and the herds are soon busily cropping the dew-laden
grass. The puncher looks at his rope and his horse, sniffs the aroma of coffee, and promptly
answers to the call of 'Grub.' There is a flourish of tin plates and cups, and of iron-handled
knives and forks, and a rapid disappearance of the 'chuck.' Then to horse and the duties of
the day.

The 'outfit' is packed. The cook hitches up the horses and starts for the next camping-ground.
The cow-boys pursue their business of 'cutting out;' cattle, with tails valiantly erect, snorting
defiance, rush by the 'cow-waggon,' which, unmoved amid this mimic war, goes lurching over
the plain.

Like many other institutions of the West, the cow-waggon will, in a few years, be a thing of
the past. Wire fences, and the enclosure of the pasturelands, are getting rid of the need for it.

THE BROKEN PROMISE.

'I don't want any tea,' said Roger, as he pulled off his muddy boots, with a very sulky expression.

'I suppose that is always the way with a fellow's mother. Fuss and bother--I'm tied to her
apron-strings. Opening his paper he looked at him over the top of it, with a rather grave expression.

'Don't you think it is silly, Uncle?'

'What's it all about?' asked Uncle James.

'Why, I just happened to be a bit late home, after the match. Saunders wanted me to see his
rabbits, and it made me a little late; at least, it was really a lot late. There were some
other fellows there, and I came away before most of them.'

'Well?'

'Well, now there is no end of a bother, because I sort of promised I would be home early to
tea. The girls had got some friends coming, and wanted me to show off the magic-lantern. When
I came in, Mother was crying, and the servant out looking for me. It's too silly! I'm not a baby!'

And Roger plunged his spoon afresh into his egg, as if he expected to find in it a remedy for
his grievance.

'Jones minor says his mother is just the same; but the two Rhodeses, who live with an aunt,
can do just as they like.'

Uncle James laid down his paper, and looked steadily at the fire.

'My mother was just the same,' he said.

'What, Granny?' exclaimed Roger. 'But she is so jolly. When I go to stay, I do what I like.'

'Did you ever hear, Roger,' asked Uncle James, 'about my sister Phyllis?'

'Who died when she was a little girl? Oh, yes, I have heard a little, of course. Tell me some
more, please, Uncle.'

Uncle James's kind face was a little clouded.

'Can he be vexed?' wondered thoughtless Roger. 'Or else--oh, yes--it's because she died that
he doesn't like talking about her.' He said aloud, 'Never mind, Uncle, if it makes you feel bad.'

'She was very dear to me,' Uncle James said. 'Yet I scarcely ever speak of her; you will understand
why, when I have finished what I am going to tell you. There were three of us,' he began, 'your
mother, myself, and our little Phyllis. She was the youngest, and was nine at the time. We
lived in a small house in this town, for our parents were not rich.'

Roger nodded. 'Mother showed me that house. It's smaller than this, a good deal.'

'Your mother, who was my mother's right hand, had been sent to a boarding-school at a distance,
and I was left, in a way, in charge of my mother and young sister, my father being abroad with
his regiment. You may be sure I felt proud of myself when I went round at night, bolting the
doors and windows, and putting out the lights. And I generally ran home as quick as I could
from the day-school I went to. Phyllis would be at the door, with her little pale face beaming,
and brimming over with questions about my games and successes.

'Well, one Saturday afternoon, I was to play for the school in a football match; I was a good
runner, and strong for my size, though I was quite a little chap. I remember being very much
annoyed with my mother for saying I had better not play, as I had had a cold. I had caught
it from Phyllis, we thought; but, as I was a robust lad, it was soon thrown off. But my sister--she
was always delicate--still had a cough, and seemed dull and had headache. Of course I laughed
at my mother's fears, took my football jersey from before the fire--she had washed it, and
was just as particular about airing as your mother is--fussy, you would say--and off I went,
in high spirits.

'"I won't be late," I called from the door.

'"No, be quick home, there's my dear boy," my mother said; and Phyllis, who was lying on the
sofa, looked up for a minute with, "Play up, Jim. Mind you win the match."

'But mother followed me to the door.

'"Jim," she said, speaking low, "I don't feel easy about Phyllis. She is feverish to-day. I
think you had better call and ask Dr. Harris to come."

'"Oh, Mother," I said, "she will be all right! My cold was just as bad while it lasted. You
shouldn't fret about nothing." I had got into the way of giving her a good deal of advice.

'"I wish I could think so," she said, anxiously; "but, anyway, Jim, just run in on your way
to the ground, and tell him. Then he will come before he starts on his round."

'"All right," I replied, with a hasty kiss, and off I went.

'In the next street I fell in with another fellow, who was in a great hurry.

'"I say, old chap, we shall be late," he panted, as we dashed into a short cut for the playing-field.

'I wish, Roger, that I could comfort myself by saying that I forgot my mother's request. But
as I turned that corner I saw the doctor's house, and thought of it at once. "But, then," I
said to myself, "she is only fussing. Phyllis will be all right in the morning, and I dare
say the doctor has gone out. It will do just as well after the game."

'For the rest of the afternoon's pleasure, I never gave a second's thought to my mother and
sister.'

'There,' said Roger, triumphantly, 'you were just as bad as I, weren't you? And how did the
match go on? Did you win?'

'Roger, from that day to this, I have never tried to remember how that game ended. At the end,
two of the fellows who lived the other side of the town asked me home to tea with the rest
of the team. I felt it hard to be the only one who was out of everything, so I went. I felt
a little uncomfortable, and called at the doctor's, just to satisfy my mother, and he came
into the hall to speak to me.

'"Anything wrong, my boy? Not Phyllis, I hope?" he said. Phyllis was a pet of his. He attended
her pretty often.

'"Just a cold, sir," I said, easily; "nothing serious. Mother's fidgeting, and says she is
feverish, and all that. You might call round some time."

'"I will come with you at once," said Dr. Harris, and he took his hat off the peg. I thought
he was glad of my company, and gave him a vivid account of the match on the way.

'When we reached our street the hall was dark, and there was no light in the little front sitting-room.
But the bedroom overhead was lighted, and the blind was pushed back as we reached the door.
The next thing I saw was my mother's face. Shall I ever forget it?'

'Don't tell it, Uncle,' said Roger. 'I can guess.'

'She had been waiting for the doctor. It never occurred to her that I would neglect her message.
They let me see my sister for a few minutes, before she died. A few hours, the doctor said,
might have saved her life. There! that's all!'

Uncle James blew his nose vigorously, and went back to his paper; but Roger bent his head over
his plate. At this point his mother came in. The boy jumped up impetuously.

'Mother dear, I am awfully sorry I broke my promise, I will never do it again, if I can help
it--never, so long as I live!'

THE GIANT OF THE TREASURE CAVES.

(Continued from page 359.)

They walked up the avenue, with Estelle between them, and Lord Lynwood received some answers
to his many questions. He thought it was more of a help to talk about things which took Jack's
mind off his trouble, than to dwell on it, and unnerve him for the interview. He wished also
to show that he had the greatest respect for a man who could go manfully through the ordeal
to which poor Jack had pledged himself. At the end of the avenue, just before it widened into
the broad sweep in front of the Moat House, was an opening in the thick laurel and rhododendron
shrubbery, which, as they passed it, enabled Estelle to see that Aunt Betty--the dear Aunt
Betty she was so longing to see--was on the lawn, cutting roses. Without a word, she broke
away from her companions and flew across the lawn.

'Wright,' exclaimed Lord Lynwood, hastily following; 'my aunt has been seriously ill with anxiety
about my little girl, and we are afraid of a sudden shock for her. Come, we may be wanted.'

Estelle, unconscious of all but that Aunt Betty was there, was calling out in glad tones which
made the little old lady turn hastily.

Fortunately, joy does not often kill. Though faint and unable to stand the first excitement,
Aunt Betty recovered herself more quickly than Lord Lynwood could have expected. Jack thought
he had never seen anybody quite like Aunt Betty--he had not known that any such existed. He
had made up his mind to tell the truth about himself to Estelle's aunt, but now that he saw
her he did not feel the shrinking he had anticipated. 'She would understand,' was the way he
expressed it.

Lord Lynwood, fearful of over-excitement for her, insisted on Lady Coke going into the house
with Estelle. She consented, after making Jack promise to come and relate to her all the wonderful
things which had happened in those long months of Estelle's absence.

'Auntie,' said Estelle, as she sat on a low stool--low enough to let her look up into the face
of her aunt, lying on her sofa--'if I have a lot to tell you, you must have a great deal to
tell me; and, chiefly, why it is you look like that. Are you ill?'

'I have been, with grief and anxiety about you, Estelle. But I shall get quite strong now you
are at home again. I don't know how to be grateful enough to the good God Who has guarded you
from harm all this long time, and to the kind people who have been such friends in need.'

'And have taught me such a lot of things, Auntie. You must meet Goody some day, and then you
will know what a dear she is, and how good she is. She has been such a mother to me! And Auntie,'
she continued, with some hesitation, 'Jack is going to tell you something by-and-by, something
which has made him dreadfully miserable. And if you are grateful to him and to his mother for
all they have done for me, you can repay some of it by helping him in his trouble. Father says
it is not necessary for everybody to know; only ourselves, and those whom Jack has bound himself
to tell.'

Thus Estelle prepared the way for the confession which took place that evening. By dint of
great persuasion, Lord Lynwood made Jack put off speaking to Peet till the next day. He was
to sleep at Moat House that night, and in the morning the explanation with Peet would take place.

Aunt Betty was greatly touched by the story. Jack related the finding of Estelle, her dangerous
illness, and the opinion of the doctor with regard to her memory, which had been fully justified.
He made light of the rescue in the cave, the truth and full details of which Estelle told later
on. Lady Coke listened with a heart full of thankfulness for the mercies which had shielded
her child. So it came to pass that Jack, resolute in his idea of duty, found a very tender,
sympathetic listener to his own sad history.

'Your mother must be a good woman, Jack,' she said.

'She has been the saving of me,' he answered. 'Hers has been the purest, the most unselfish
love in the world.'

'Yes,' said Aunt Betty, with moist eyes; 'and because her love was capable of so much, you
have been led to look beyond, to that greater Love which encircles us every day and hour. Your
mother is a grand woman, Jack!'

'Indeed, she is,' replied the sailor. 'It is amazing that such a man as I should have been
so blessed! It forces one to believe in the forgiveness of sins, if those I have injured can
so forgive and forget.'

It was getting late, and, as Lady Coke looked tired, Jack got up to go. He was to meet Lord
Lynwood next morning, and walk down with him to the Bridge House about the time Peet returned
for his breakfast.

As he left the room, Lady Coke said to her nephew, 'I like that sailor. His has been a great
repentance; as great as Dick's forgiveness has been noble.'

Meantime Estelle, in her own room once more, was thinking how strange it seemed to be in a
house with windows and curtains, with Nurse and Mademoiselle making much of her, and all her
own pictures and treasures about. She was very tired, however, and had scarcely time to murmur,
'I shall see my cousins to-morrow,' before she fell asleep.

An hour or two later Lady Coke and Lord Lynwood were gazing, with thankful hearts, at their
sleeping child, while Jack was kneeling at the window of his room, praying in deepest grief
for pardon and for Dick.

(Continued on page 370.)

THE GIANT OF THE TREASURE CAVES.

(Continued from page 367.)

CHAPTER XX.

True to his appointment, Jack met Lord Lynwood on the lawn next morning, and together they
walked to the Bridge House in silence. Though Jack was anxious to see Dick once more, he had
to brace himself for what he knew would be a trial to both. In one sense, the worst was over.
In the knowledge that Dick was alive, and had forgiven him, he had gained what nothing could
take away--peace of mind. But, on the other hand, he could not but feel sorrow and self-reproach
for the grief and loss he had brought upon Dick's parents. He realised that they also had much
to forgive. It seemed, indeed, almost worse to face them than to look at patient, suffering
Dick. He had been so ready to pardon; would they be as willing? Jack knew instinctively how
his question would be answered when he saw Peet coming towards them across the drawbridge.

'We wish to speak to you, Peet,' said Lord Lynwood, quietly.

'I know what ye want to say, my Lord,' returned Peet, gloomily, and taking care not to glance
towards Jack. 'My Lady had me up this morning and told me.'

'In injuring your son I have injured you, Mr. Peet,' said Jack, coming forward, and speaking
in an earnest voice. 'I do not know how to ask your forgiveness; but, if your son could express
himself, he would tell you how deeply my sin has been repented, and what years of misery it
has brought on my mother and me. Unhappily, I cannot undo the deed; neither can I give you
back the lost years---- '

'You can do nothing, and I want nothing, thank you,' replied Peet, without looking up.

'Your son has forgiven all he has suffered,' began the Earl.

'Beg pardon, my Lord,' returned Peet, drawing himself up; 'but I'm making no complaint. I have
not said a word for or against him. If my son likes to forgive him, he can do as he chooses--his
acts are no rule for my wife nor me.'

'So you have spoken to your wife?' said the Earl, in a tone of regret, as Jack moved away.

'I know my Lady was against it, but my wife has been a good wife to me, and I never keep things
from her.'

'And what did you wife say?'

'Well, my Lord,' replied Peet, with a little less confidence in his tone, yet with the stubborn
look still in his face, 'she was upset, of course, and cried a bit, as women mostly do. But
when Dick, who has not spoke for this many a year, looks up, and says he, "Mother, don't bear
malice--for my sake forgive him;" why, she gave in at once. I am sure that it was from sheer
astonishment at Dick's speaking so clear. She didn't think of forgiving no more than myself.
Mothers are like that--mighty queer sometimes just when you least expect it.'

'Peet,' said Lord Lynwood, signing to Jack to leave them, 'I think your wife is quite right.
She is acting the nobler part. You have suffered terribly; we are fully aware of that, and
we have felt for you and done all we could for you. Surely you would not wish to give Lady
Coke pain by refusing the very first request she asks you? Think how nearly we lost her last
summer, and remember it is owing to the great care and kindness of Jack Wright and his mother
that she is spared the grief of having lost the child entrusted to her keeping. You know this
responsibility is what weighed most on her mind, and Jack has brought her great comfort by
restoring the child. He is broken-hearted for the injury he has done you and your family, and
he begs your forgiveness. Why is it impossible for you to give it? If not for your own sake,
or because it is the right thing to do, then because there is one who has asked you who has
been the best of friends to you through all your troubles.'

Peet looked down, red and surly. It was a hard fight for one of his stubborn character to acknowledge
he was in the wrong, or to listen to arguments to which his better nature responded. Seeing
that he did not reply, Lord Lynwood left him without further efforts to convince him. Peet
gazed after him with lowering brow; then turned and went to his work.

Estelle was up early that morning, and after a delighted survey of all her surroundings and
treasures, rushed to her aunt just as the gong sounded. Would Auntie beg a whole holiday for
her cousins--just for once? How could Aunt Betty refuse this first request? It did not require
much coaxing to make her promise to go directly after breakfast to Begbie Hall with Estelle
and her father. She even declared she would fearlessly invade the premises sacred to Miss Leigh
and learning.

Little suspecting the delight in store for him, Georgie had come down in a bad temper that
morning, and he was venting it on his lesson books, and on Miss Leigh.

'What is the matter with you, Georgie?' asked the long-suffering governess at last. 'Did you
get out of bed the wrong side? Nothing seems to be right this morning.'

'I always get out of bed the same side every day,' replied Georgie, firmly, placing his books
in a heap as near the edge of the table as he could. 'It's not the bed; it's Alan.'

'What has Alan done?'

But Georgie's answer was drowned in the crash of his books which scattered in every direction,
some of them without their covers.

'Now, Georgie!' cried Miss Leigh, exasperated.

'I believe you did it on purpose!' exclaimed Alan, who was anxious to finish his work, and
found the noise disturbing.

Marjorie was about to pour oil upon the troubled waters by picking the books up when the door
of the schoolroom was burst open and Estelle was among them! Miss Leigh and the three children
could scarcely believe it was the 'real live' Estelle they saw, and a great gasp of amazement
sounded through the room. But when they perceived Aunt Betty herself standing at the door,
and behind her their father, mother, and uncle, all smiling at them, there was a general cry
of delight.

Everybody spoke, but nobody listened. They all danced and raced round Estelle till the uproar
became so great that their elders, including Miss Leigh, fled. Then Estelle, as soon as she
could persuade them to listen, told them how Jack had saved her and brought her home; how Mrs.
Wright, her dear Goody, had nursed her through her bad illness; in what a comfortable, pretty
cave-house she had lived, and how even the biggest storm that ever blew, and they had had many
such storms, could not shake its walls. Then there were the Treasure Caves, and Estelle made
their faces quite pale as she related her adventures in them, and how Jack had saved her from
drowning. She told them of the dream also, and how she could not remember their names, and
how suddenly it all came back to her. This led to a stampede in search of the hero, Jack, who,
after much racing about in all directions, was found at the door of the ruined summer-house.
Lord Lynwood and Colonel De Bohun were with him, and it was evident that they were talking
of how the accident happened. The children insisted on shaking hands with the Giant of the
Treasure Caves, as Marjorie called him, and on thanking him for bringing back their dear Estelle.

'Why, you are a real giant!' cried Georgie, much impressed by Jack's height. 'I never saw a
giant before.'

They all laughed, but Georgie was right, for Jack was a good deal taller than Lord Lynwood,
who was six feet three inches, and yet looked dwarfed by the sailor. They all admired him so
much that they would not leave him.

(Concluded on page 382.)

PUZZLERS FOR WISE HEADS.

13.--LITTLE CHARADES--TRIADS.

  A.--1. Bereft of father and mother.
      2. The period of time during which a person or
             thing exists, or has existed.
           A home for those who have no other.
  B.--1. A collection of printed sheets.
      2. A small creeping animal without feet.
           A devourer of that which is written,
  C.--1. The edge, or brink, of a fountain or river.
      2. A hardened mass of earthy matter.
           A mineral substance.
  D.--1. A rodent of the genus lepus.
      2. A hollow sounding body of metal.
           A flower of the campanula kind.
  E.--1. An emblem of innocence.
      2. An extremity.
           A peculiar joint.
  F.--1. An uncertain quantity.
      2. The organized material of an animal.
           A person unknown, or uncertain.

[Answers on page 395.]

C. J. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

ANSWER TO PUZZLE ON PAGE 322.

  12.--T og A
       H or N
       E hu D
       S oo T
       P us H
       I sl E
       D ea F
       E vi L
       R el Y

A HORSE'S REVENGE.

Founded on Fact.

A certain King of Syria had a horse of which he was very fond, and which in turn was devoted
to its master. The King used to ride this horse out to battle, but at last was defeated and
killed in the fight. His enemy, rejoicing in his victory, seized the King's horse and mounted
it. The horse seemed to know what had happened, and who was on his back, for he began to show
the greatest fury. After trying for some time to throw his new rider off, he suddenly dashed
off up a steep cliff; and when he reached the top, he leapt wildly down the sheer precipice,
with the man still on his back. The rider had no time to save himself, and both he and the
horse were dashed to pieces. Thus the King was avenged by the faithful steed to which he had
been so kind.

ANSWER TO 'AN EASTERN PUZZLE' ON PAGE 355.

The old dervish divided the seventeen camels into the desired proportions by adding one of
his own to the number, thus making it eighteen. The eldest brother then took his half--nine;
the second his third--six; the third his ninth--two, making seventeen in all, and giving back
the one camel over to its owner, the wise dervish.

PEEPS INTO NATURE'S NURSERIES.

XII.--ONE OF NATURE'S FAILURES.

We have now come to the last chapter of our series, and herein I propose to bring to your notice
some curious facts which 'point a moral and adorn a tale' that should not be lost sight of.

Strange though it be, there are many creatures, among what we sometimes call the 'lower order
of creation,' which give promise of great things during the earlier period of their lives,
but later degenerate out of all recognition.

Let us take one or two of the more remarkable instances. Many of you, when at the seaside,
must have found, clinging to rocks and shells, peculiar, tough, leathery and somewhat bottle-shaped
bodies, popularly known as 'sea-squirts,' from their habit of squirting out water when touched.
But how many of you have any idea that these same 'squirts' really belong to the great division
of vertebrates or backboned animals? Yet such is the case, though not even scientific men were
aware of this until the facts which I am about to relate were discovered.

But before I proceed, I might add that while some of these sea-squirts lead solitary lives,
fast anchored to the rock or sea-weed, others form colonies, while yet others, and more distantly
related forms, are transparent and swim, sometimes in countless millions, at the surface of
the sea, covering an area of several miles. Some of the stationary forms make coats for themselves
of sand, others build them houses to live in. While most are dull-coloured, some are, on the
contrary, very brilliant. Their range in size is no less varied, some being almost microscopic,
while others attain a length of as much as four feet.

But though so different in their adult stages, they all begin life as vertebrated or backboned
animals, though in some this stage is more perfect than in others.

As you will see in the illustration (figs. 1 and 2) of one of these youngsters, the resemblance
to the tadpole of the frog is most striking, and in some of the points wherein the sea-squirt
differs from the tadpole, it represents a yet earlier structural stage which frogs have long
since passed through, and no longer repeat in the course of their growth. Take the case of
the eye, for example; this in the young sea-squirt lies embedded in the brain, and is only
dimly able to perceive light received through the transparent head; but the eye of all the
backboned animals is really an outgrowth of the brain which has forced its way to the surface;
here we see it in its primitive or original condition. The mouth in the young sea-squirt, again,
opens on the top of the head instead of in the front, which is here modified to form a sucker.
But the gills, by which this little creature breathes, expel the water by which they are bathed
through a single hole at the side of the head, as in the frog tadpole; while in the possession
of a brain, a spinal cord, and a soft backbone, both sea-squirt and tadpole agree.

Thus, then, the captor of one of these baby sea-squirts though he knew nothing of the peculiar
after-history of the creature, would yet be sure that he had here a very young or 'larval'
stage of one of the backboned animals. But he would be surprised indeed, as he watched the
career of this little creature, to find it grow daily more sluggish, and at last fix itself
by the sucker at the front of its head, and there remain as if in 'the sulks.' From this time
onwards the change for the worse grows rapidly. This creature, as if indifferent to the great
possibilities before it, or caring nothing for the good name of its race, speedily degenerates.
As it will use none of the good gifts of Nature, one by one she takes them away--eye and brain
are the first to go; then the tail begins to grow less and less (you can see the last remnants
of a tail in fig. 3), and finally there is neither head nor tail, power of sight, nor power
of motion; all that remains is an irregular-looking leathery lump, which scarcely seems to
be alive (fig. 4). It feeds by drawing water through a hole at its upper end into a great throat
pierced by gill-slits (shown in fig. 5, which represents a sea-squirt with the outside wall
cut away); the water passes out through the slits into a big chamber. From this chamber the
water escapes by another hole (marked 'discharge' in fig. 5) to the outer world again; meanwhile,
the food, consisting of microscopic animals, has been caught by a moving rope of slime running
along the back of the throat, and so into the stomach. But what a fall! Think of it--a career
full of promise, the equal of that of vertebrate animals, ending in an ignominious surrender
of its birthright, and a drop to the level of the humble oyster!

W. P. PYCRAFT, F.Z.S., A.L.S.

THE LITTLE OLD WOMAN.

It was a bitter evening in mid-winter, the fire burned cheerily on the hearth, the great logs
crackling and flaring up the wide chimney of a comfortable cottage home in one of the wildest
parts of the Inverness-shire highlands. It was a shepherd's hut, and, as the storm continued
the owner of the cottage rose and looked out of the window over the desolate expanse of moorland.

'Is it snowing still?' asked his wife, from her snug corner by the fire.

'Thick and fast,' replied he. 'Heaven help any poor creature on the moor to-night. Many a one
has been frozen to death hereabouts before now.'

Presently, however, it ceased snowing, and, through a rift in the clouds, a star appeared,
while at the same moment a whining and scratching noise was heard at the door. The shepherd
opened it and whistled to his dog, but, inviting as the ruddy glow must have been to her doggish
heart, 'Lassie' would not enter. Standing just on the threshold she whined once more, looking
up in her master's face with dumb entreaty, then running off a few steps and looking back as
though inviting him to follow.

The shepherd watched her curiously. 'All the sheep are in their folds,' he said, 'and Lassie
knows that as well as I do, but something is amiss with the creature to-night. What is it, Lassie?'

But the intelligent creature only whined again and moved still further away from the door.

'Give me my plaid, good wife,' said the shepherd, now fully persuaded that serious work lay
before him. 'Give me my plaid, and warm your blankets, and you may as well brew a kettle of
tea. Some one is lost in the snow, and Lassie knows it.'

As soon as the dog saw that her master was really following, she sprang forward with a joyous
bark, then, settling down into a swinging trot, she led the way straight across the loneliest
part of the bleak moor. It was a walk both difficult and dangerous, but the experienced shepherd
followed steadily after his guide until, having come to a certain spot by no means differing
in appearance from the rest of the dismal landscape, she suddenly stopped and began to dig
wildly in the snow with her paws. The shepherd stooped down and pushed aside the dog, who was
now quite contented to stand aside and watch, while her master took the case in hand. Very
soon he extricated from the snow what seemed to be a mere bundle of clothing, but which, on
closer inspection, proved to be the rigid form of a little old woman, poorly clad and quite
insensible. It was only the work of a few minutes for the stalwart shepherd to lift her into
his arms as gently and tenderly as though she had been an infant, and to carry her away to
his warm and sheltered cottage, where his kindly wife had everything in readiness for the succour
of the half-frozen old woman.

But long hours passed ere complete consciousness returned, and the poor wayfarer was able to
tell her simple story. She was an Englishwoman from Liverpool--a widow with one only son, the
dearest and best of sons. He was a soldier stationed at Fort George, but he had been ordered
out to India, and she had felt that she could not let him go without once more looking on the
dear face. Accordingly she had gathered together all her available means and had reached Glasgow
by train. But in that city her difficulties began, her money was all spent, but the mother's
love still burned brightly in her heart. She resolved to proceed on foot, and had actually
accomplished her design so far, when, being overtaken by the sudden snowstorm, and having wandered
from the road, she would certainly have perished but for the sagacity of the shepherd's dog.

How great was the delight of the poor old woman we may easily imagine, when she was told that
she was actually within three miles of Fort George, and when the shepherd promised to go there
in the morning and beg leave for her son to visit her at the cottage. But, alas! when morning
dawned it became very evident that her strength had been too severely taxed; she was quite
prostrate, and only half conscious of her surroundings. In these circumstances her kind host
lost no time in starting on his humane errand, and, in the afternoon, mother and son met once
more, but for the last time. The old woman had barely strength to whisper his name, but the
look in her eyes was enough to show that she had her heart's desire, and that she could die
in peace. A few days afterwards the little old woman was quietly laid to rest in the churchyard
of the Highland village, and the good son was on his way to the Far East, carrying with him
the memory of a mother's love.

THE SENSIBLE HARE.

A Fable.

Once upon a time, the beasts in a certain wood built a theatre in which plays were to be performed
by the cleverest of the animals, for the amusement and instruction of the rest. Nearly all
the animals took an interest in the scheme, and promised to support it, except the hare. When
asked by Reynard the Fox, who had been appointed manager, why he did not favour the idea, the
hare replied: 'There is quite enough amusement in my own family, and is it likely that I am
going to leave them all in the evening to find what is already provided for me at home?' The
fox for once in his life was taken at a disadvantage, and did not know what to say.

There are plenty of pleasures at home if we know how to look for them.

CLOUD PICTURES.

  Among the grass I love to lie,
  And watch the fleecy clouds pass by:
  For many pictures there I see,
  So clear although so far from me.

  Sometimes across the blue there floats
  A stately fleet of white-sailed boats;
  On shining mountains' rugged crests
  The grey-winged cloud-birds seek their nests.

  And o'er the sunset's radiant bar,
  Lone fairy lands most surely are,
  With ruby isles in lakes of gold,
  Where towers in crimson light unfold.

  The black clouds gather from afar,
  As mighty armies march to war,
  And when they meet in thunder-crash,
  I see their spears of lightning flash.

  For ever changing, to and fro,
  Blown by the careless wind they go;
  No wonder the cloud pictures there
  Are always fresh, and always fair.

A HASTY JUDGMENT.

'What is the new step-mother like?' asked Walter Howard. He was cycling from the station with
his friend, Jack Trehane, having just arrived to spend a few days of the summer holidays.

'No good,' was the short but expressive answer.

'I remember you thought her rather a good sort before your father married her,' Walter remarked.

'You never know what people are really like until you live in the same house with them,' said
Jack, gloomily.

'Hard lines, when you had such decent holidays with your father alone. How is it she is not
nice to you now, when she used to be so jolly?'

'Oh, she isn't exactly nasty,' Jack explained, 'only I do so hate her mean, saving little ways.'

Walter's face fell. It would be a nuisance if he had to waste some of his precious holidays
in a place where there was not even enough 'grub!'

However, the food proved to be excellent, so Walter felt that it must be in some other way
that the stinginess would be evident.

'It is such a lovely day,' said Mrs. Trehane the next morning at breakfast. 'What do you say
to an expedition to Pengwithen Cove?'

The boys were delighted with the idea and ran off to get ready, so that they did not see Mrs.
Trehane set to work busily to cut sandwiches.

'What is that hamper thing you are carrying?' asked Jack of his father as they were starting.

'Our lunch, Jack; and, knowing who packed it, I can promise we shall not do badly.'

'But you always used to give us lunch at the hotel, Father,' Jack said.

'Ah, but we have learnt a trick worth two of that, have we not, my dear?' and Mr. Trehane smiled
at his wife.

'It is so much jollier to have our lunch close to the sea,' she said, 'instead of in a stuffy
room.'

'And who is going to carry that horrid, great basket, I should like to know?' muttered Jack,
as he rode on ahead with Walter. 'That is one of the mean dodges I told you about. She thinks
it will save the expense of a lunch at the hotel.'

The white-crested waves were rolling in over the blue waters of the bay as the Trehanes and
Walter followed the cliff path towards the Cove for which they were bound. Jack loitered behind
the others, for it was his turn to carry the lunch. Presently a cry from him made them look
round, and what should they see but the precious picnic-basket rolling down the sloping turf
which edged the cliff! As they watched, it went over with a loud report of bursting lemonade
bottles, and the contents were dashed into fragments on the rocks beneath.

'How could you be so careless, Jack?' his father said in tones of vexation; but as he never
dreamed it was anything but an accident, he did not say much.

They were obliged to return to the hotel for a meal, and Walter shrewdly suspected this was
the result Jack had worked for.

However, the lunch was not a success. A crowd of excursionists had swept nearly everything
in the shape of food before them, and left very little for any one who came after.

'Oh, dear,' sighed Mrs. Trehane, 'when I think of the nice ham sandwiches and hard-boiled eggs,
the lovely meat patties and raspberry puffs, which are now floating away to sea, I do feel sad!'

'What an idiot you have been!' whispered Walter to Jack, and the latter was inclined to believe
his friend spoke truly.

When Mr. Trehane pulled out some money in order to pay the bill, his wife gave another sigh.

'This is worse than the cold mutton, is it not?' he asked, laughing.

Then she laughed too and held up a warning finger.

'Hush!' she whispered, 'you must not let out my secret.'

'I think we must share it with Jack,' said Mr. Trehane. 'It will make him more careful in future
when we trust him with our luncheon-basket.'

He had noticed his son's scornful look when the settlement of the bill was mentioned, and had
partly guessed what was in his mind.

'I wanted it to be a surprise,' Mrs. Trehane said; 'but now you have revealed half the secret,
perhaps it is as well to confess the whole.'

'Well, Jack,' his father said, 'you know you have been bothering me for a new watch, but I
told you I could not manage such a piece of extravagance now, and you would have to wait another
year.'

'My old one is no more use than a turnip,' Jack broke in.

'All the more pity that part of the new one went over the cliff with the lunch,' remarked his
father.

'What do you mean?' asked Jack in bewilderment.

Mr. Trehane looked at his wife.

'It was your plan; you had better explain it,' he said.

'You see, Jack,' she began, 'it seemed rather hard you should not have a new watch when you
wanted one so badly, so I told Father I was quite sure I could save money in many little ways
without robbing us of any real comforts. One of my plans was to take a luncheon-basket when
we had picnics or expeditions, and to have a first-rate meal of delicious home-made dainties
instead of a second-rate lunch for which we should have to pay more. Now, Jack, do you approve
of my little scheme?'

Jack was almost speechless with shame and confusion, and the twinkle in Walter's eye made him
even hotter.

'I think you are awfully good,' he stammered, 'but I don't deserve that watch, and I shan't
have it now I was such a silly donkey as to throw the basket over the cliff.'

'Oh, yes, you will, Jack,' said his step-mother, though she did look a little astonished at
the confession that it was a deliberate act instead of an accident. 'There will be plenty of
money saved by the end of the holidays, if you will be careful not to lose any more baskets.'

Jack never forgot this lesson, and the beautiful new watch he carried back to school with him
was a constant reminder that hasty judgments too often prove unjust.

A GENTLE DONKEY.

I.

'Do sit down, Master Harry, and allow me to put your shoes on!'

'Well, try like this, Mary. I will pretend to be a stork, and stand on one leg.'

'Really, you are a tiresome boy to-night,' said poor Mary with a sigh of despair, 'and you
know that Nannie is waiting for me to get Baby's bath ready. Poor Master Harry,' she continued
after a pause, during which that young gentleman had been trying, unsuccessfully, to balance
himself on one leg, 'I don't believe I shall have time now to tell you that interesting secret.'

'Interesting secret, Mary?' asked the boy in an eager voice. 'Oh, Mary, I will be quite good
if you will tell it to me.'

Harry loved a secret. So many of the nice things in his life had been sprung upon him in this
form that the very word 'secret' was to his youthful mind a promise of coming happiness.

'Let me guess,' he pleaded in answer to her nod, and for at least two minutes, during which
time Mary put on and buttoned the shoes, there was silence.

'Is it about my birthday?'

'Yes,' said Mary, taking advantage of the unusual peace to give a few additional touches to
her young master's smart sailor suit. This over, she drew his curly head down and whispered
in a deep, slow voice, that sent a shiver through Harry's little body, 'As to-morrow is your
birthday, your father and mother are going to give you a present that has four legs! Now run
away downstairs; for I heard the motor going round to the stables, and your father must be
home again!'

At this moment Harry's quick ears heard a footstep upon the stairs--a footstep that he loved
with all his heart--and with a cry of delight he disappeared through the nursery doorway, and
down the broad staircase.

'Well, old man! What do you mean by not coming to meet me?' and the father picked up his little
son and kissed him affectionately.

'I never heard you come, Father. Did you remember to "toot, toot" on the motor?'

'No, I didn't. That little imp, Paddy, rushed out at the hall door, barking at the motor, and
I was so busy wondering what he would look like squashed quite flat that I forgot all about
toot, toot. But run and ask Nannie to put on your coat, for I am going to take you out to the
stables. Remember to ask very politely,' he called after the receding figure in a warning voice.

'Please put on my coat, Nannie,' gasped Harry, bursting into the nursery like a whirlwind;
and as she buttoned it across his wriggling little body, he put his arms round her neck and
whispered, 'I expect I am going to see the present with the four legs! Oh, I wonder if it will
be a wheelbarrow!'

A few minutes later Major Raeburn, with his son on his back, was standing outside the stables,
calling, 'Simmons, Simmons!'

'Yes, sir,' answered a smart young groom, who hurried out of the stables at the sound of his
master's voice.

'Here we are, Simmons. I have brought Master Harry to see his new present. What do you think
of it?'

But at this moment a pair of restless feet kicked vigorously against the Major's sides to remind
him that the future owner of the mysterious present was impatient; so bending his head he stepped
into the stable.

For a second there was silence, while the child peered into corners.

'Well, old man,' said his father, 'see nothing?'

'No,' he murmured in a disappointed voice; but just at that moment, a pair of long ears appeared.
'Father,' he gasped, 'I see a donkey! Is that my present?'

'Yes, that is your present from Father and Mother, and as to-morrow is your birthday you must
take Mary a drive on the Common. There is a jolly little governess car, also, that will just
hold Nannie and Mary and you and Baby, but it is too late to go to the coach-house to-night.
Looks a nice little animal, doesn't he, Simmons? I should think that Mary could drive him all
right. She says that she always drove a donkey in her last situation!'

'Oh, yes, sir, she will be all right. He is a pretty donkey, and not a scrap of vice about
him, I should say.'

'And what are you going to say to Father for giving you such a nice present?' said Major Raeburn
as he retraced his steps.

'Oh, thank you very much, Father,' murmured the boy, laying his golden head against his father's,
and clasping him tightly round the neck with his strong little arms; 'and now be a kicking
horse back to the house.'

Later on Mother had a full description of the donkey's appearance, followed by an exhibition
of how Harry would ride him. This he demonstrated by means of a drawing-room chair and the
hearth-brush: and if there were moments when Mother had fears for the fate of her chair, neither
by word nor look did she show it, though when Mary's voice from the door was heard saying,
'It's your bed-time, Master Harry,' the expression on her face was distinctly one of relief.

(Continued on page 390.)

FINDING FAULT WITH NATURE.

A certain lady was in the habit of spending her leisure time in making flowers and fruits of
wax and other material. In time she became very clever at the work, but her friends always
found fault with everything that she made. One day she passed round a large apple, and said
that she thought she had been very successful this time. Her friends, as usual, were not pleased
with it. One found fault with the shape, another with the colour, and every one had something
to say against it. After the apple had been passed round, and had come into her hands again,
she ate it without saying anything. Her friends had been finding fault with a real apple.

MADE BEAUTIFUL.

  I saw a little beam of light
    Strike on a coloured glass;
  And lo! it showed more fair and bright
    As it away did pass.
  It caught the radiance and the glow
    Of that illumined scene,
  And did more fair and lovely show
    Than it before had been.

  I saw a little thought of love
    Enter a childish heart,
  That heart to kindness it did move,
    And filled up every part;
  And when I saw that thought again,
    Oh, it was sweet indeed,
  For it was changed to glory then,
    And showed in kindly deed.

THE BRAVE COUNTESS.

A German lady, belonging to a house which had formerly been renowned for its heroism, and which
had even given an emperor to the German empire, once got the better of the terrible Duke of
Alva. When Charles V. of Spain, in the year 1547, came through Thuringia upon a march to Franconia
and Suabia, this lady, the Dowager Countess Katharina of Schwarzburg, got a letter of protection
from him, to the effect that none of her subjects should suffer any harm from the Spanish troops.
On the other hand, she bound herself to provide bread and other provisions for fair payment,
and to send them to the Saal bridge for the Spanish troops, which were to pass over it.

Although there was a great need for haste, the Germans adopted the precaution of taking down
the bridge and erecting it at a greater distance from the town, which, being so near, might
have led their rough guests into temptation. At the same time, the inhabitants of the villages
which lay on the soldiers' march were allowed to shelter their most valued possessions in the
castle.

In the meantime the Spanish general approached, accompanied by Duke Henry of Brunswick and
his two sons, and, sending a messenger in advance, they invited themselves to breakfast with
the Countess of Schwarzburg. Such a request, under such circumstances, could not very well
be refused. They would be given what the house contained, they might come and be as considerate
as possible, was the reply. At the same time it was not forgotten to mention the letter of
protection, and the Spanish general was asked to bear it strictly in mind.

A friendly reception and a well-spread table awaited the Duke of Alva at the castle. He was
obliged to confess that the Thuringian ladies knew how to keep a good kitchen and to maintain
the honour of the house. Yet scarcely had they sat down, when a servant called the Countess
out of the hall. She was informed that the Spanish soldiers not far off had used force and
had driven away the peasants' cows.

Katharina was a mother to her people, and what befell the poorest of her subjects concerned
herself. Irritated to the uttermost by this breach of faith, yet keeping her presence of mind,
she commanded all her servants to arm themselves in swiftness and silence, and to bar the castle
gates. She herself went back to the table at which the visitors were still sitting. Here she
complained in the most touching way of what had been reported to her and of the manner in which
the Emperor's word had been kept. They replied to her with laughter that it was only a custom
of war, and that on a marching through of soldiers such little accidents were not to be prevented.

'We will see about it,' she answered in anger; 'my poor subjects must have their own returned
to them, or'--raising her voice--'Princes for oxen!'

With this clear declaration she left the room, which in a few moments was filled with armed
men, who, sword in hand, planted themselves behind the chairs of the princes, and with much
respectfulness served the breakfast.

At the entrance of this warlike troop the Duke of Alva changed colour; cut off from the army
by a superior number of sturdy men, it only remained for him to be patient and to make the
best terms he could with the offended lady. Henry of Brunswick recovered himself the first,
and broke out into ringing laughter. He took the wise course of turning the whole occurrence
into a jest, and highly praised the Countess for the care and the resolute courage she had
shown. He asked the Germans to keep calm, and took upon himself to persuade the Duke of Alva
to do everything that was reasonable. He did persuade the Duke of Alva so effectively, that
upon the spot he sent an order to the army to deliver up without delay the stolen cattle to
their owners. As soon as the Countess was certain that restitution had been made, she thanked
her guests, who then very courteously took their leave.

The Duke of Alva had met his match in the brave Countess, and had been forced by her to keep
to the letter of protection given her by the King; but he ought to have had sufficient chivalry
to have not required such a lesson about keeping his King's promise.

Many Chatterbox readers, as they grow older, will probably read in their histories of the terrible
Duke of Alva, and will perceive more fully what a brave woman this Countess must have been.
Without doubt it was through such incidents as these that Countess Katharina von Schwarzburg
came by her name of 'The Heroic.'

THE MUSIC OF THE NATIONS.

XII.--MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS OF NATIVE AMERICAN TRIBES.

The Indians of America, especially those of North America, show a much higher mental development
than is common in savage nations.

This is shown in many tribes by a communal system of government, loyalty to their Sachems,
or chiefs, their skill in embroidering leather articles with dyed quills and grasses, and not
least in their production of stringed musical instruments. Instruments of concussion and percussion,
like drums and cymbals, and also wind instruments of shell or horn, and rude forms of bagpipes,
are inventions of most savage races; but the production of even the most elementary form of
stringed instrument is a distinct advance, showing an understanding, however faint, of the
use of vibration in developing and strengthening an original note.

The Apache Indians have a small fiddle with one string, and the Yakutata of Alaska have also
a form of violin. The Nachee Indians of the Mississippi regions have a sacred instrument of
great antiquity. It is of wood, about five feet high by one foot wide, and is held between
the feet, resting alongside the chin of the performer. The strings are made of the sinews of
a large buffalo, and it is played by a bow, held by two men, one at each end. Probably we might
be inclined to think it more noisy than musical, but happily in music, as in most other things,
tastes differ.

In Central Africa an instrument is made of the shell of the armadillo, or of the turtle, having
strings stretched across it. It is suggestive of the primitive lyres of antiquity, in which
a tortoise-shell was used as a sounding-board.

Among nearly all Indian tribes, conjurors or 'medicine-men' are held in high repute, and some
weird instruments of theirs are met with. The drum in the illustration (fig. 1), with the queer
animal on its head, is a conjuror's drum in use among the Sioux and the Dakotas on religious
occasions. It has two heads, gaily coloured with vermilion, and is adorned with one of more
figures of animals or birds, probably the family 'totem,' or crest. These drums are quite small,
only measuring ten inches across by three deep, they are carried by a handle and are supposed
to act as talismans.

The peculiar rattle (fig. 2), showing a face made of raw hide, and profusely ornamented with
feathers, is also used by medicine-men, who prepare the instrument secretly with mysterious
rites. In length it is about twenty inches.

The long narrow box attached to a pole (fig. 3) is also used by the Sioux and the Dakotas.
It is usually decorated with feathers, sometimes very long. The construction is primitive,
consisting merely of grain put into a box and shaken with more or less violence.

HELENA HEATH.

THE LEOPARD'S LOOKING-GLASS.

An old leopard came out of his den, and wandered for miles through the forest. As his lithe,
spotted body glided amongst the tropical undergrowth, other creatures slunk out of his path,
and he found nothing on which to prey. Hunger and restlessness drove the animal on, however,
till a new and strange object made him pause to see what it was that stood in his way. The
queer thing, made of wood, like the trees, had something bright within it; something that was
never seen on the trunk of any tree.

The leopard drew nearer, and found himself, for the first time in his life, face to face with
a looking-glass. He looked in, and saw what seemed to him the eyes of another leopard gazing
into his own. Curiosity, alarm, and anger, by turns, possessed him. What did the strange beast
mean by gazing at him so? He raised his heavy paw, and gave a crushing blow upon the glass.

Down fell the trap--for trap it was--and the sharp spikes, heavily weighted, did their work.
But though the trap was a terrible one, the leopard had in his life done greater harm than
he suffered, and the forest was well rid of such a dangerous and cruel animal.

SPIDER RUNNERS.

If I had to undergo one of those transformations we read about in fairy tales, and were to
be turned into a spider, I should very much wish to be one of the wandering spiders, and not
a web-maker. Both in houses and out of doors, things go badly with spiders' webs and their
occupiers; they are constantly disturbed, and if they get away alive, their work has to be
done over again. But a spider that does not make a web is usually suffered to go on his way
undisturbed; sometimes, indeed, the hunting spiders are scarcely recognised as spiders, and
pass for some other kind of insect.

The hunting spiders, however, do resemble the spinners. They are mostly, perhaps, rather more
slim in the body, and are furnished with eight legs, sharp jaws and a poison fang, being able
also to spin threads, should they need to do so. Our British hunters are nearly all small.
Some of them do not run after their prey; they lurk beside a little pebble, or in the folds
of a leaf or flower.

The running spider, called the tarantula, is not very common in Europe, though it is found
in some parts of Italy; it is sometimes known to bite people, and an old but false belief held
that the poison forced them to keep on dancing till quite worn out. Not long ago, some persons
allowed themselves to be bitten by it, but the only effect was painful swelling. In tropical
countries, however, this spider grows to a great size, and can cause great pain by its bite.
The tarantula is of the wolf-spider family, whose habit is to chase their prey, not lie in ambush.

We have many British wolf-spiders: one for instance--he has no English name--is Lycosa amentata.
This is a species that is found in numbers about heaps of stones by the wayside, or upon chalky
banks. When alarmed, these spiders seem to vanish like magic. They also do a good deal of hunting
upon low-growing, large-leaved plants. It is amusing to watch one standing on the edge of a
leaf, whence it makes a dash at some flying insect that alights. Frequently it misses, but,
when successful, it carries off the prey, bigger perhaps than itself, to a safe retreat. During
autumn, the female spider bears about with her the egg-bag of yellow or whitish silk, in which
the little spiders are hatched. They are much paler than the old spiders, and remain with their
mother till they have attained to some size. They manage to live through the winter, and are
fully grown in May. Amongst the wolf-spiders generally, we find a difference between the movements
of the males and females. If hard pressed, the females escape by a succession of short runs,
but the males can manage to jump from leaf to leaf with much agility.

Several of the hunting spiders are equal to flying, or at least manage to be wafted along by
the breeze, when they want to take a trip. The silk these throw out is occasionally called
'gossamer;' it is slight, and not unlike the true gossamer, made by web-spinners of various
sorts, which we usually notice in autumn, covering bushes and grassy spaces. The family to
which the airy spiders belong is notable, because it contains those species which have a likeness
to crabs in form, having short broad bodies, feeble front legs, and long, powerful hind legs.
They run easily forwards, backwards, or sideways, and are mostly pale, with dark markings.
Generally, such spiders follow their prey, since they are good runners, but a few have the
habit of living in ambush, ready to spring upon insects that come near.

Very common in gardens are the Saltici. Most people have seen one species in particular, which
is grey, the back and legs being barred with white. This spider leaps upon its prey, and you
may notice that it always has a thread attached to some object. Probably it is a precaution
against slipping, in case the jump is a failure.

Some small, black, very agile spiders, which are found about our rooms, and also out-of-doors,
are evidently hunters; people call them money-spiders, for it is supposed to be lucky should
one of them crawl over you, or come towards you. There is a spider popularly known as daddy-long-legs,
though this name is shared by other insects; it has a narrow body, and long pale legs, with
dark knee-joints. It is often noticed roving about, for some reason or other; yet the species
is a web-maker; its web is usually in a dark corner.

A GIFT TO SIR THOMAS MORE.

Sir Thomas More, Lord Chancellor, and one of England's worthiest sons, was one of the most
upright of judges, at a time when so much could not be said of every one. It is recorded of
him, that on one occasion a person who wished to move him to take a favourable view of her
cause, sent him a present of a pair of gloves, in which forty pieces of gold were wrapped up.
Sir Thomas accepted the gloves, but returned the gold, saying that he did not like his gloves
to have any lining.

THE GIANT OF THE TREASURE CAVES.

(Concluded from page 371.)

The children did not notice that Estelle had slipped away. She had caught a glimpse of Peet
at his work, looking gloomier and more surly than ever.

'Peet,' she said, running up to him with a sunny smile and a hand held out, 'how are you? Dick
is looking better, I think, and Mrs. Peet was as nice and as well as ever. She gave me such
a welcome yesterday, and said she was so glad to see me. It is lovely to see you all again.'

'Welcome back, Miss,' returned Peet, taking the little hand shyly. 'I am not one to talk, but
I am right glad to set eyes on you.'

'Thank you, Peet. But there is one thing that I do not feel happy about, and that is dear Aunt
Betty. How different she seems--not half so strong as she used to be!'

'No, Miss, she is not. She has been ill with losing you. We did miss you sore, Miss.'

'It's nice of you to say so. But is it not wonderful that Jack should have picked me up when
I fell into the sea? It was high tide, you know, and I was swept out so far I should have been
drowned but for him. He took me home, and both he and his mother were so good to me.'

She told him the story which she had already related once that morning, dwelling especially
on Jack's gallant rescue.

'Oh, Peet, he is such a good fellow,' she went on, 'so kind to every one, and so good to his
mother! As to her, she is just the best mother possible. Peet, do you know Jack--have you spoken
to him?'

She was anxious to know if Jack had had his interview; from Peet's manner she feared he had
not, or that something was wrong.

'Why should I speak to him?' asked the gardener, in his most forbidding tones.

'Because Dick has,' she ventured, scarcely knowing how to say more in Peet's surly mood.

'Dick and I are two different persons, Miss.'

'Yes,' said Estelle, softly, 'Dick is a--is very near Heaven, Aunt Betty says. Peet, I think
it is worse for the man who has done the wrong.'

'Do you, Miss? Well, I can't see it. It's not my way of thinking, anyhow.'

'It would be,' said Estelle, taking her courage in both hands, 'if you believed in forgiveness
at all. Auntie told us what a hard time you had with Dick's illness,' continued Estelle, as
Peet's face had not relented, 'but you are all right now. Jack has had a hard time too, because
he was so dreadfully sorry for the wrong he had done. But it is not all right with him, and
he says it never will be, because he cannot undo the harm.'

'No, he can't,' replied Peet, grimly.

'Well,' said Estelle, with a sigh, 'I am glad he has Dick's forgiveness, and that Dick called
him his friend. Jack felt that more than anything. He said it was like coals of fire on his head.'

Seeing Peet made no attempt to reply, but continued his work as if the subject were ended,
Estelle sighed again, and went slowly back to join the others, who were crossing the lawn with
Jack, on their way to the Bridge House, where he was to say good-bye to Dick.

'Oh, Jack,' cried Georgie, 'Estelle says you sing so beautifully! Will you sing to Dick? He
loves music, and some day I shall buy him a barrel-organ to play to him always.'

Jack shook his head. 'He won't care to hear me, Master George.'

But Georgie was so sure Dick would care, that he ran on ahead of the party to ask him. As the
rest came up, Mrs. Peet was at the door to receive them. She looked into Jack's face and held
out her hand.

'For his sake!' she said, motioning with her head towards her son. 'I can't go against his wishes.'

Grasping her hand in his big palms, Jack could only murmur gratefully, 'Thank you.' The next
moment he had been seized upon by Georgie, and dragged to Dick's chair to sing. Turning very
red, he said he did not know if he could trust his voice. Mrs. Peet, however, urging her son's
fondness for music, begged him to give them something. Against such an appeal Jack could make
no resistance. He sang as he had never sung before. Dick's eyes never left his face, and when
Jack rose to go, Dick shook his hands with a world of feeling and pardon in eyes and clasp.

There had been one listener unseen by all, who stood with bowed head, leaning heavily on the
gate of the porch. Perhaps it was Aunt Betty's gentle pleadings which had fallen like the 'gentle
rain from heaven' upon his hard temper, preparing the ground for Estelle's soft words on behalf
of Jack. Perhaps it was that his own better nature had asserted itself when all outside arguments
had failed, and made him see how 'to err is human, to forgive divine.' Peet waited there in
front of his house; and when Jack's voice came to him through the half-closed door in the concluding
words of the last song, he understood dimly, in his own fashion, that no one could have sung
in that way who had not known what real suffering was.

As Jack came out of the little garden, Peet stood in front of him, grim and determined, though
there were wrinkles about his eyes. They showed how severe the pain and struggle were. Holding
out his hand, he muttered gruffly, 'He is pretty near a saint, he is,' nodding towards the
house, 'and I would not like to be shut out from where he goes. So we will just let bygones
be bygones. There's my hand on it, if you will take it in the same spirit.'

Jack grasped the proffered hand with a mighty grip. His heart was full.

'Let it be how you please,' he said, in eager gratitude, 'so long as you do forgive me. I am
more thankful than I am able to say for the kindness and forgiveness which have been shown
me. But do not think that I shall ever forget the past, or cease to feel the most bitter sorrow
for what I have done.'

Peet returned the pressure of his hand with a little more warmth, and Estelle thought his face
was softer.

There was no time for more words. The children rushed out to pursue Jack. Mrs. Peet, even with
Estelle's assistance, could no longer restrain them.

Jack must say good-bye to Aunt Betty, and have a word with the Earl. As they all walked up
the Park together, the sailor told them that Lord Lynwood had asked him to persuade Mrs. Wright
to come to Tyre-cum-Widcombe. He would give her a little cottage, a pretty garden, and would
see that she wanted for nothing all her life. Jack himself was offered a permanent berth on
Lord Lynwood's own yacht. A shout of delight greeted this announcement. Estelle was full of joy.

'We shall see you and dear Goody very often,' she cried, with sparkling eyes. 'Oh, won't we
make you both happy!'

The other children echoed her delight.

'I have a great plan,' went on Estelle, dancing along gleefully, 'and I know it will simply
send everybody wild with joy.'

'What is it?' asked Alan, eagerly. 'As long as it does not take you away, I don't mind.'

'I think I can persuade Father to take us all in his yacht, and we will bring Goody here ourselves.'

This proposal did indeed send the children wild. Not a word could Jack get in edgewise for
several minutes.

'You are sure she will come?' asked Estelle.

'I think she will,' said Jack, smiling. 'She will never be happy away from our little Missie.'

THE END.

ROUND THE CAMP-FIRE.

By HAROLD ERICSON.

IX.--A MIDNIGHT ADVENTURE.

'Oh, yes,' said Bobbie Oakfield, a night or two after Vandeleur's story of the plucky Japanese
sailor; 'that young Hayashi was a smart fellow, and as brave as they make them; but as you
have blown the Japanese trumpet, I think it is only fair I should blow a Russian one, if only
to show that the Russians can be, in an emergency, as brave as the Japs themselves, which is
the same as saying as brave as any man on this earth, not excepting an Englishman of the true
kind!'

       *       *       *       *       *

Well, I was in Russia--I have been many times, as you know, getting a little big or other game-shooting
from my relations there. On this occasion there were reports up from my cousin's 'shoot' of
wolves having been seen about; it was a cold season, and that is the kind of season in which
the sportsman gets a good chance of adding a wolf-skin or two to his collection, for they become
more accessible--tamer perhaps, certainly bolder--when it is cold. It is not a matter of choice
with the poor creatures, but of stern necessity; they must come nearer to the villages, because
food is difficult to obtain elsewhere. My cousin could not respond to Michael the keeper's
invitation to come down and make a battue for the wolves. 'You can go by yourself if you like,'
he said to me; 'Michael will make you comfortable, and if there are any wolves he will show
them to you. Don't miss them, if he brings you within range, for that is an unpardonable crime
in Michael's eyes, and he would never forgive you!'

Well, I went down to Dubrofda, prepared to stay for a week. I found that Michael was away,
trying to secure a family of elk, which he had followed for several days. The under-keeper,
Gavril, was there, however, and under his auspices I hoped to find sport, though he informed
me sadly, on my arrival, that he had not seen wolves for several days. 'They came into the
village after straying dogs one night,' he said, 'and pulled down a sheep of old Ivan Trusof's.
Ivan fired his old blunderbuss at them, and the noise seems to have scared them away. To-morrow
I will try after them, and if that fails we must see whether a squeal-pig will attract them.'

'A squeal-pig?' I repeated, laughingly; 'what in the world is that?'

Gavril glanced at me in some displeasure. 'It is a common way of hunting the wolves,' he said.
'Perhaps the method is not known in England.'

I explained that the last English wolf was killed many years ago. Then Gavril described the
process which he had called the squeal-pig method of wolf-hunting.

'You get a very young pig,' he said, 'and put it into a sack. Now, no pig likes being put into
a sack, and when a pig does not like a thing he squeals as though he were being killed. The
sportsmen drive slowly through the wood by night, and all the while the pig is making a terrible
din--a din that can be heard a mile or two away. If there is one thing in the world that a
wolf prefers above another, as a delicacy, it is pork. Every wolf in the forest hears the yelling
of the pig, and comes to see what is the matter, and whether there is a chance of any pork
for supper. Sometimes the beasts become so excited that they will come quite close to the sledge
in which the pig is squealing in its bag. Then comes the chance of the man with the gun.'

'Good,' said I, 'that sounds all right; we will try it to-morrow night. Is there a pig to be had?'

'Anton's sow has a litter a month or two old. I will buy one--a rouble will purchase it.'

Gavril procured the pig, and brought it safely housed in a small sack. It was squealing when
he brought it, and I may say, without exaggeration, that so long as that pig and I were together,
it never ceased for more than a second to give vent to its feeling of disgust and anger at
the treatment to which it was subjected.

'I chose it for its voice,' said Gavril, grinning; 'the wolves prefer loud music; they come
miles to hear it!'

Then we settled ourselves in the extremely comfortable village sledge which Gavril had brought
with him, and started for our midnight drive.

That drive was delicious. The moonlight, the ghostly pines, the cold crisp air, the gleaming
snow everywhere, the delightful motion, all added to the delight of it; the horrible noise
made by our little friend in the sack was the only thing that broke the peace.

I dozed at intervals, and perhaps Gavril dozed also. At any rate, he gave me no warning of
what was coming, and the sudden shock of it, I have reason to believe, surprised him as much
as myself. I was fast asleep at the moment, and the entire situation burst upon me with absolute
suddenness. I was conscious of a sudden violent jolt, the sledge overturned--or half upset,
and righted itself, and I found myself rolling in the snow, together with the sack and the
little squealing pig, which yelled lustily--more lustily than ever--in protest at being pitched
out.

What had happened was this. First one wolf, then another had appeared on either side, among
the trees, and Gavril was just putting out his hand to awake me, when a third wolf darted suddenly
at the pony's hind leg; the frightened little animal swerved, the sledge brought up violently
against a pine-tree, and out rolled the pig and I; Gavril and the gun remained in the sledge,
which righted itself and went on swiftly as the pony bounded forward in fear. I sprang to my
feet and looked after the sledge--it was out of sight in an instant.

At the same moment I became aware that half a dozen or more great grey creatures sat and stood
within a few yards of me, looking, with the moon behind them, like dark spectres in a dream.
Was I dreaming, I wondered, or was I really standing in mid-forest, the centre of interest
to a company of hungry and therefore dangerous wolves? The pig answered the question conclusively
enough. He suddenly yelled his loudest, using his very highest note. Then a remarkable thing
happened. A wolf, maddened I suppose, by hunger, and unable to resist the temptation of sampling
the owner of so vigorous a voice, suddenly sprang upon the sack. In an instant the wretched
little creature imprisoned within it was torn into a hundred pieces and swallowed, sack and
all. The savoury morsel whetted their appetites I suppose, for several of the brutes began
to steal around, watching for an opportunity to spring upon me. I yelled and waved my arms
and kicked my feet; the wolves withdrew a little way; I danced wildly, and yelled again, but
they withdrew no further. The situation was obviously very serious.

Then I backed towards a tree, for I did not relish the idea of being surrounded. The moment
that I moved a step further from them, each wolf advanced three, growling, showing his teeth,
snarling. I caught sight of a piece of wood lying near the road; I picked it up, a wolf sprang
forward to dispute possession, and I banged at him and missed; every wolf within sight--I should
think there were two dozen by now, two or three of them quite close to me--showed his teeth
and snarled again.

I backed for the tree, and had almost reached it when a gaunt beast sprang at me, and actually
tore a piece out of the sleeve of my coat. I struck furiously at the brute, and I think broke
its leg; he went limping and yelping amongst his companions, and they instantly tore him to
pieces. The smell of his blood excited them, and several came leaping and snarling at me; I
shouted and struck at them, but they would not retreat; they stood and growled, and licked
their lips. How was it going to end, I began to wonder.

Several times a wolf or two wolves attacked me, and I beat them off, but I grew weary, and,
what was more disastrous, my nerves began to fail. I realised that I could not keep up this
nerve-destroying fight for ever, and Gavril had evidently not dared to return to my assistance....
Suddenly, when on the verge of collapse, I heard a shout in the distance. I replied with all
my strength.

'All right,' called Gavril, 'I am coming; but it is difficult.'

It did not matter now, though Gavril seemed to spend an hour in covering the few hundred yards
which lay between us, and I fought desperately on with renewed spirit. Then at length I caught
sight of him in the moonlight, coming towards me; he seemed to limp; he stopped, and a shot
rang out. Instantly the wolves disappeared as if by magic.

Gavril drew near. 'Here, take the gun, Excellency,' he said. 'I am hurt, I must sit.'

I just had time to take the gun out of his hands when Gavril stumbled and fell with a groan.
'Oh, my leg!' he muttered, and with the words he fainted.

The poor fellow's ankle was broken. It had been broken at the first jolt, when I fell out,
but he had been unable to free himself from the sledge until, a quarter of a mile away, he
had succeeded in pulling up the frightened horse and getting out.

Then he had deliberately walked back the whole way, with his broken ankle causing him agonies
at each moment, straight into the midst of a dangerous wolf-pack, in order to bring me the
gun and save my life.

       *       *       *       *       *

'Without, for a moment, wishing to disparage the Japanese,' Bobby ended, 'I think you will
agree with me that it would be unfair not to accord the Russians equal honour for pluck and
devotion to duty--this particular Russian, at any rate, and I know of many others equally brave.'

'Carried nem. con.,' said Vandeleur.

As for Dennison, his contribution to the discussion was a loud and prolonged snore.

WHERE THERE'S A WILL THERE'S A WAY.

A True Story.

Not long ago there lived a nobleman who was noted for his extreme obstinacy and his determination
to have his own way. He had arranged one morning to meet a friend of his at a country station.
When he got to the station, his friend had not come.

After he had waited some time the train came in; and just then he caught sight of his friend's
carriage driving along at a gallop in the distance. He knew that it would take some five minutes
for it to get to the station, and the train was due to start in one minute. So he went to the
station-master, and explained to him that his friend was very anxious to catch the train: he
asked him if he would be so kind as to stop it till the carriage arrived. The station-master,
however, refused to do so, saying that the train was already late.

'We will see about that,' retorted the other; and he actually went and sat down between the
rails right in front of the engine.

The station-master dared not let the train start, and though he begged the nobleman to get
up, the latter refused to move until his friend arrived. While they were arguing the carriage
drove up, and his friend got his ticket; and then at last the obstinate old gentleman left
his dangerous position, and they went off in the train together. The trick had been successful,
though it was a very dangerous and foolish one.

HEART'S-EASE.

  There is a little simple flower,
    Heart's-ease by name--I know not why;
  And yet, perchance, it has the power
    To cause a tear or calm a sigh.

  And if a dear one sends to me
    The tiny flower, I'll prize it well;
  For in the token I should see
    The wish the flower was meant to tell.

  And still its faded leaves I'd keep,
    Although they had no scent to please;
  Ah, better still! they seem to speak
    A message, praying my heart's-ease.

  By waters still in sweet spring-time
    It lifts its sweet, mild gaze to me,
  While on my ears faint falls the chime
    Of evening bells across the lea.

TABBY'S GHOST.

All at once the matter was settled. Dr. Whitehead had given his orders--Mother must have change
of air at once, and they were all going to Clifton for two months. The house was to be shut
up, and in Edith's heart the question arose, 'What shall we do with Tabby?' Tabby was a pleasant,
gentle cat, her especial property. 'Mother,' she said, 'might we not take Tabby with us? I
could pay her railway fare with the half-crown Aunt Dora gave me. I should like it so much!'

'No, dear, it is quite impossible to do so,' replied her mother; 'but perhaps Mr. Merry, the
milkman, would keep her for you; she would get plenty of milk, and you know she is a good mouser.
Mr. Merry would be pleased with that; I have heard him say that his barn is over-run with mice.'

'Oh, there he is!' cried Edith; 'I will run and ask him at once.'

Very soon she returned, smiling and happy. 'Mother,' she said, 'I have given Mr. Merry my half-crown,
and he says he will call to-morrow and take Tabby home with him, and keep her as long as we
please.'

'And so you have no money now,' cried Evelyn; 'why, you will not be able to buy anything at
Clifton.'

'Never mind, Edie,' said little Ina, kindly, 'I will give you a shilling out of my money; but
I do think it was very unkind of Mr. Merry to take all that you had; don't you think so, Mother?'

But Mother would not tell her thoughts; she only smiled to herself and said, 'Run away, darlings,
and pack up your dolls' clothes, and remember you must take nothing except what can be put
into the dolls' trunk.' And away the children ran to look after this important matter.

Next day the cab was at the door. Mother had taken her seat, Jane had locked the hall door,
and Mr. Merry, with Tabby in his arms, was just leaving the house, when, with an angry 'fuff,'
and a desperate spring, she leaped to the ground and disappeared in a moment among the trees
at the side of the house. What was to be done?

Edith was ready to cry, but Mr. Merry comforted her by promising to return in the afternoon,
when, no doubt, Tabby would be at the door, hungry enough. He would give her a saucer of milk,
and, while she was lapping it, he would secure her and take her away. Edith was greatly relieved;
she thanked him warmly, and, in the excitement of railway travel, Tabby was almost forgotten.

What a delightful place Clifton was! Such toy-shops, such Zoological Gardens with real lions
and tigers! Could children ever weary of such a place? Certainly neither Edith nor her two
sisters; and so it was with a feeling of disappointment that they saw the travelling boxes
once more pulled out, and faithful Jane begin to pack again. Mother was much better, however--that
was one great comfort, and, as she was longing to be home again at the Grove, the children
were fain to be content. As they drew near Ventnor, the three girls began talking of home and
Tabby. 'Do you think that Mr. Merry will be willing to give her back to me, Mother?' said Edith,
anxiously. 'She is such a darling, perhaps he may want to keep her!'

'Don't be afraid, dear,' said her mother, smiling; 'I dare say he has a cat of his own, and
will be quite glad to send Tabby back.'

'Oh, Edie!' cried Evelyn, 'here we are; there are the chimneys of the Grove. Mother, may we
not run home and not wait for the cab?'

'Very well, dears, run away; Jane will go with you.'

And away the little girls ran. They had just opened the gate and entered the avenue, when they
saw some object approaching them. It seemed to be the ghost of Tabby! Staggering weakly down
the avenue to meet them, her ribs sticking out, her fur torn off her in patches, her eyes dim,
her voice quite gone, and her tail almost bare of fur, came poor dear Tabby, feebly trying
to welcome her little mistress home.

Edith burst into tears as she lifted the poor cat into her lap, while kind-hearted Jane ran
to the nearest cottage and returned with some warm milk. Oh, how greedily it was lapped up,
and with what hungry eyes she looked for more! Jane had to warn the children lest in their
compassion they should give her too much food at once, which would have been very hurtful to
an animal so starved as the poor cat had been. Mr. Merry had only fulfilled one half of the
agreement; he had taken the half-crown, but he had not taken the cat; and great was the anger
of the children at his treachery and cruelty.

The next day, when he brought the milk as usual, they all ran down to scold him. But he was
a man of composed manner and few words; he listened in silence, then he grinned at the sight
of poor pussy's tail which Edith showed him, and, taking up his milk-cans, he departed, saying,
'Her should just have coom when I were willing to take her. Her deserves all she have got!'

'And, Mother,' said Ina, as she told the story, 'just think! he has kept poor Edie's half-crown.
What a wicked man he must be!'

THE FORCE OF LABOUR.

A GENTLE DONKEY.

(Continued from page 378.)

II.

The next day, just before the donkey-cart was expected round, Major Raeburn ran up to the nursery.

'I should drive down that quiet road towards the Mill, Mary; and don't allow Master Harry to
irritate Tim with a whip, or any nonsense of that sort. Do you hear?' he continued, turning
round to that young gentleman, who, seated in baby's chair, was pretending to be a motor. 'Promise
that you will be a good boy.'

'All right, Father, but you had better get out of the way now, or you will be run over by my
motor. People that get in front of motors always get killed.'

Here he uttered a piercing yell, at which six-months-old Baby crowed and kicked to show how
much she enjoyed the game.

'That's just the engine exploded,' he explained, 'and Mary, you must come and see if the driver
is killed.'

At this point in his game the sound of wheels was heard upon the gravel outside; with a bound
Harry was on the seat of Nannie's chair at the window.

'It's Tim, it's Tim!' he cried, and picking up his little sailor cap, he tore downstairs to
inspect his new present.

'Good morning, Master Harry,' said Simmons, as Harry danced out upon the drive; 'are you going
to give Tim a piece of sugar?'

'May I?' he called out to his mother, who was looking through the rugs in an old oak chest
for one that would be suitable for the size of the donkey-cart.

'Yes, dear, certainly. Ah, there you are, Mollie,' she continued to her sister-in-law, who
had been roused from her book in the drawing-room by the sound of the voices. 'Are you sure
that you care to go? I am afraid that you will be dreadfully cramped in that small cart. If
I were in your place, I should keep the door open and hang my legs out.'

'Keep your mind quite easy about me,' answered Aunt Mollie, laughing. 'If the worst comes to
the worst, I can always get out and run behind! Where is our driver? In the cart? I never saw
you come out, Mary. Now then, Harry, tumble in, opposite to Mary. Aunt Mollie is going to be
the footman and sit at the door.'

Mary chirruped to the donkey, Harry waved his cap, and as Simmons shut the door of the cart
with a sharp bang, Tim tossed his head in the air with a 'don't I look nice?' expression in
his large soft eyes, and trotted away down the broad tree-lined avenue.

All went well at first, and Mary was delighted.

'Donkeys can be so nasty,' she said, 'but this one is a perfect little dear, Miss.'

At this moment Tim saw something very interesting in the hedge, and turned across the road
to examine it.

'Oh, you naughty donkey,' exclaimed the girl, 'I can't allow you to do that,' and she gave
the rein a sharp pull to bring him into the road again.

Tim, however, took not the slightest notice, but continued his examination.

'We really must get him to move,' murmured Aunt Mollie, anxiously, 'for we are right across
the road, so that nothing can pass us.'

Meanwhile poor Mary was using every effort to get him away from the hedge.

'Don't you be nervous, Miss,' said the girl cheerfully; 'nothing ever comes along this road,
for it only leads to the Mill Farm.'

Mary's words were greeted by a loud 'Hullo!' from the driver of a baker's van that was coming
along the road behind them at a sharp pace.

'Oh, dear! oh, dear!' murmured Mary, 'it's Crawford the baker! What will he think when he sees
that I am beaten by a little donkey? Can you drive, Miss? Perhaps you could make him go.'

Miss Raeburn shook her head ruefully. She was a Londoner, and her knowledge of animals was
extremely limited.

'What shall we do?' she said nervously, and mentally she drew an awful picture in which the
baker's weary-looking horse became a spirited charger, dashed into the donkey-cart, and trampled
the whole party to death.

In vain did Mary, now desperate, bring the whip across Tim's fat, well-groomed sides; he merely
shook his long ears, whisked his tail angrily against the shafts, and resumed his investigation
in the hedge.

'Let me see if I can help you,' called the young baker at last. 'Donkeys are artful little
things; but perhaps if I get him round again, he will follow my van; that is to say, if I can
pass in this narrow road.' As he spoke he took Tim firmly by the head.

For a second or two the donkey tossed his head in a vain endeavour to free himself; then he
gave the baker one of his gentlest glances and stepped round into the road.

'Oh, thank you so much,' said Aunt Mollie, as the baker carefully drove his van past the little
cart; but poor Mary only hung her head. She had been beaten by a little donkey!

'Perhaps he will follow if I give him a lead,' suggested the obliging young man; 'but if I
were in your place, I would take him home by another road. Coop, coop, coop!' he called to
the donkey, in a sing-song voice as he drove away, and Tim, who seemed to understand his language,
galloped after the van as fast as he could put his four little feet to the ground.

There was a slight difference of opinion between Mary and Tim when the former, taking the baker's
advice, turned down a narrow road to the right.

Tim wished to follow the van, and for a few anxious moments, Mary was afraid that he would
be victorious.

'This is a very exciting drive,' said Harry in an awe-struck voice, as the donkey turned the
corner so sharply that for an instant they all expected to find themselves lying in the ditch.

'Very!' answered his aunt.

She had her eyes on the donkey, and her hand on the door of the cart, which was open, and ready
to be used as an 'emergency exit.'

'Oh!' she gasped nervously, as Tim showed a strong desire to climb the steep bank by the side
of the road, 'I don't think I agree with you, Mary, that this donkey is a "perfect dear!"'

'He is a deceitful little brute,' said Mary angrily, 'and he will never be safe for the children.'

No sooner did Tim turn in at the Lodge gates than he became the same sweet, docile little creature
that had trotted out, and as Mrs. Raeburn watched him come down the avenue she gave a sigh
of relief.

'We were in luck to get such a treasure,' she thought, 'and I feel certain that no one could
guess he had come straight from a greengrocer's cart; he looks such a little gentleman.'

(Continued on page 398.)

A MODERN WIZARD.

'Come along, Gussie, quick! Here! in by the garden-door.'

'Oh! what is it, Jack?'

'S--sh! Can't you make less noise? Just like a girl!'

Grumbling and muttering, he stole into the schoolroom--deserted now at three o'clock in the
afternoon--followed on tip-toe by his younger sister, Augusta.

She eyed his movements eagerly, as he let down the Venetian shutters, drew together the heavy
serge curtains, and poked up the sleepy fire till little tongues of red light darted mysteriously
about the room. Then he thrust his hand into his pocket, and drew out something!

Gussie retreated into a corner, and clasped her hands together.

'Not a mouse, Jack? Oh! I can't bear them--please, please----!'

'Are you nine, or are you two, Gussie?' asked Master Twelve-year-old.

He put a dirty, yellowish mass on the table. Gussie approached it anxiously. It might have
been anything in that ghostly light--but, at least, it did not move.

'Wax!' announced Jack, triumphantly.

'Nasty, dirty stuff!' sniffed Gussie.

'Oh, very well! If you're going to talk like that, you can go away,' said her brother, turning
his back on her.

'No, no, Jack! I want to see what you are going to do with it. Please let me stay!'

'Then lock the door, and don't make a row over it.'

The boy was bending over the fire, and moulding the messy lump between his fingers as he spoke.

'What is all that stuff for?' pleaded Gussie, anxiously.

'It isn't stuff, I tell you. It's wax. Can't you see what I am doing?'

'It's so dark!' expostulated the child, peeping over his shoulder. Then she gave a cry of delight.

'Why, Jack you are making--I know!--a little man! It's just like the idol Uncle Joe brought
Lilian from Burmah. Is it an idol, really? I thought it was naughty to make idols.'

The boy held the little figure up, and surveyed it with pride.

'Of course it's a man! What should I want to make an idol for?'

'What do you want to make a man for?' wondered Gussie.

'Half a minute, and I will tell you. I must paint the thing now, and I can't see properly.
Get a candle, and I will light up.'

He drew a small match-box from his pocket, and lit the candle with excited fingers.

'Blue trousers,' he murmured, dabbing on streaks of paint--'bother! a blue coat too. So dull!
If only he was a soldier, now!'

'Oh, won't you tell me what it is for?' asked once more his sorely tried sister, her patience
nearly at breaking point.

'You are such a ninny. You would go and tell.'

'No, I won't! I promise, Jack.'

'Lots of gold buttons,' continued that exasperating boy, splodging them about in great abundance;
'and black eyebrows, and a red nose. Like a Pirate King, you know. Dare say he is a pirate
in disguise, if only one knew. It's Captain Halliard, Gussie!'

'Is he as ugly as that?' asked the little sister; 'he doesn't look so in his photograph.'

'You can't tell from photographs,' said Jack--adding, 'I expect he is a good deal uglier! He
must be, or he wouldn't want to take Lilian away.'

'I thought he was going to marry her. I'm to be a bridesmaid, you know, and wear a white frock,
with---- '

'That's all you girls care about!' said Jack, with contempt. 'Did you think he would bring
her back here afterwards?'

'Of course. Where else should she go?'

'I dare say they would not tell a kid like you,' he answered loftily. 'They have taken a house
at Southsea--miles away from here. Now do you see why I have made this figure?'

'No-o-o!' she said, half crying.

'Oh, do dry up, Gussie, or I won't tell you anything! Don't you remember in the history lesson
this morning, Miss Gower told us that when people hated one another, ages ago, they got wizards
to make wax images of their enemies, and let them melt slowly away, and as they melted, the
other fellow began to get thin and ill--and went on getting thinner and iller, till---- '

'Till he died!' shrieked Gussie. 'Oh, Jack, you won't do that?'

The boy blew out the candle, and placed the figure opposite the fire, just inside the fender.

'We shall see!' he said mysteriously. 'I shall do it very slowly, a little bit each day, and
watch the effect on Captain Halliard. He's coming here this evening, you know. Of course, Lilian
will never want to marry a man who gets thinner and iller every day; but if that's not enough,
and he still wants to carry off my sister, I'll just---- '

       *       *       *       *       *

'Children! children! open the door, quick! The hall is full of smoke.'

The girlish tones were emphasised by most undoubtedly manly thumps. Jack hesitated, but Gussie
flew to turn the key.

Lilian Phillips rushed in, followed closely by a tall stranger. The draught from the open door
located the origin of the smoke only too easily. The schoolroom curtains burst into flames!

Gussie ran up to her elder sister. Jack, the bold, the self-reliant, was momentarily paralysed.

It was the stranger who jumped on the sofa, and tore those curtains down--crushing them with
his hands--- stamping on them till the flames were extinguished, finally emerging from the
smoking curtain with singed hair and beard, and shaking his scorched fingers, but otherwise
calm and unruffled.

'Hullo, young man! Are you responsible for all this? What had you been up to? Guy Fawkes' Day
is long past. All right, Lilian, don't bother about me. I'm not hurt--though I'm afraid as
much cannot be said for the curtains.

'Oh, George, what should we have done without you? What a mercy it was you caught the afternoon
train. What were you two children doing?' gasped Lilian, almost in one breath.

'Gussie wasn't doing anything!' asserted Jack, stoutly. 'I had lit a candle. I don't see how
that could have set the curtains on fire, though,' he added, gazing open-eyed at the stranger
called 'George,' and trying to get between him and the fender.

'What did you do with the match?' demanded George, curtly.

'Chucked it away!' came the reply, with equal brevity.

The grown-ups exchanged significant glances.

'Why did you lock yourselves up here?' asked Lilian, laying gentle hands on her small brother's
shoulders, and turning him round on the hearthrug to face her.

It was seldom that Jack resisted Lilian, and he did not do so now, though he wriggled, and
cast a nervous glance over his shoulder.

'I--I----,' he began hesitatingly, when a loud laugh from George interrupted him.

'By Jove! here's a funny little image, Lilian! A sailor too, by all that's curious! Not me,
eh?' he roared good-temperedly, as he fished the blue-bedaubed figure out of the fender, and,
holding it at arm's length, surveyed it by the now cheerful blaze of the fire.

Jack wriggled himself free from his elder sister's grasp, and faced round.

'Are you Captain Halliard?'

'Certainly, young man.'

'Then I'm sorry I made that.'

'Why! it is I, then? What should you be sorry for?' he asked, bewildered; 'it's not at all
bad, for a young 'un--bar likeness, I hope! Never mind, though, if you don't want to tell me,'
he added, good-naturedly, sorry for the boy's evident embarrassment.

But Jack continued: 'It is you--and I made it of wax, so that it should melt, and you should
get ill, and---- '

'Oh! you wicked boy!' exclaimed Lilian, aghast; 'what harm had George done you?'

'He wanted to take you away,' explained Jack sullenly, 'and I don't want him to. But I tell
you I am sorry now about the image.'

'Why?' demanded Captain Halliard.

'You are a brave man. You pulled those curtains down. I couldn't have done that! I don't care
if you do marry my sister now.'

'Hooray!' shouted Gussie, capering wildly about; 'and now you'll let me be a bridesmaid, won't
you, Jack? I didn't--oh, I didn't want that nasty wax image to melt all away!'

And so Jack learnt that magic is not only silly, but wrong, and found that Captain Halliard
was after all not so terrible as to need a wizard to drive him away.

PUZZLERS FOR WISE HEADS.

ANSWERS TO PUZZLES ON PAGE 371.

  13.--(A.) Orphan-age.
       (B.) Book-worm.
       (C.) Brim-stone.
       (D.) Hare-bell.
       (E.) Dove-tail.
       (F.) Some-body.

AVERAGE.

In old French, 'aver' meant a horse. So it did in old Scotch, which still has not a few French
words in its dialect. Burns, in his 'Dream,' speaks of a horse as a 'noble aiver.'

In old times in Europe, a tenant was bound to do certain carting of grain or turf for the lord
of the manor. In the yearly account this was set down as aver-age, or, as we might say, horse-age.
The tenant had to strike a balance between his rent and his horse-work done, and this just
proportion came to be known afterwards as average.

Average is a very difficult word to define. One day an Inspector asked a class what it meant.
A little girl eagerly answered, 'What a hen lays eggs on.'

The Inspector was greatly surprised, but knowing that the child must have some reason for her
answer, he asked her what made her think so, when she at once pointed to a sentence in her
reading-book which said that 'a hen lays four or five eggs a week on an average.' The little
girl evidently thought that an average was a mat or something of the kind, on which the hen
deposited her eggs.

GAS-LIGHT INSECT-HUNTING.

Why should insects rush eagerly to an artificial light when they do not attempt to fly towards
the moon, however brilliantly she may shine on a summer evening? We cannot tell, nor why some
moths are indifferent to lamps which make their brethren excited, often to their peril. By
searching gas-lamps, the entomologist can obtain specimens of moths that would otherwise be
difficult to find. Lamps, of course, are most productive when their place is along a country
road, but even in towns they have their winged visitors after dark.

Dull or cold nights will bring few insects to the lamps, and those would usually be not worth
catching. Earwigs appear--a proof that they can fly as well as crawl, and as they are insects
of rather a shy habit, it is surprising to find that they are fascinated by a light. Gnats
are abundant, and sundry flies often lie in little heaps at the bottom of the lamp; sometimes
the number of gnats is thus greatly reduced in a stinging season, when thousands of persons
are attacked by these insects. Beetles occasionally come, and spiders also, not drawn by the
light, but knowing that they will get prey at the lamps. Away from any town, bats are frequently
amongst the evening visitors on the look-out to secure part of the arriving insects, especially
those having plump bodies.

Many of the moths, to the disappointment of the collector, have their wings singed or damaged.
Others enter the lamp and avoid the flame, settling down quietly upon the glass, and others
again stop outside upon the glass or the ironwork. During the twilight the slim moths, or Geometers,
arrive, with now and then a large moth; towards ten o'clock the Noctuas, or stout-bodied moths,
begin to appear.

NIGHT AND DAY.

  The Night is like a Fairy Prince,
    So good, and strong, and great:
  His jewels are the stars; they deck
    His purple robe of state.

  His dinted shield, the silver moon,
    Gleams brightly on his breast;
  See, how he comes so silently,
    And moves towards the West!

  The Day a fairy maiden is,
    With flower-garlands gay,
  And as the Night approaches her,
    She blushing hastes away.

  But he, undaunted, still pursues
    Because he loves her best:
  Then lo! he clasps her to his heart,
    Far in the crimson West.

THE ROSEMONT GROTTO AND THE PETCHABURG CAVERNS.

About three hundred miles from the coast of Madagascar, and over one hundred from the Mauritius,
lies the beautiful island to which its French owners have given the name of Réunion. It was
formerly known as 'Ile de Bourbon,' out of compliment to the family name of the French monarchs,
but at the time of the Revolution the island was renamed, and became Réunion. It is of small
size, only thirty-five miles long by twenty-eight broad; but it contains a range of fine mountains,
some as much as ten thousand feet high. These mountains are of volcanic origin, and one peak,
'Polon de Fournaise' by name, is one of the most active volcanoes in the world. Below another,
known as the Pic Bory, is a remarkable cavern, though it only measures sixty yards long by
twenty high. Its chief feature is the curious method of its construction.

In its active days, the Pic Bory had a way of tossing high into the air huge spouts of boiling
lava, which rushed with great force down the mountain-side, overwhelming everything which came
in the way. Now, just as gunpowder rammed into a cannon drives heavy balls immense distances,
so this lava is driven out of the craters by gases which are imprisoned below the crust of
the earth. When these succeed in getting free, flames, cinders, and red-hot lava rush out,
great explosions are heard for many miles, and clouds of fiery gas escape into the air. Sometimes,
however, the lava is too densely packed for all the gas to escape, and some of it remains imprisoned,
and is carried down the mountain beneath the boiling mass; but although it cannot get free,
its energy finds vent by driving its roof of lava upwards, and so a high mound occurs in the
channel of the lava, and when in course of years the gas does find a way out, a hollow cavern
remains inside. The Grotto of Rosemont is one of the finest-known instances of these gas-formed
caverns, and, hence its fame. Other volcanic grottoes are also found in Réunion, two of them
very fine, and many similar great hollows are found near volcanoes in other lands, notably
beneath the peak of Mount Etna in Sicily.

       *       *       *       *       *

In the kingdom of Siam, about two days' journey by boat from the capital city of Bangkok, rises
a fine group of mountains, and on the highest of these has been built a royal palace. The mountains
are of volcanic origin, and the palace actually stands on an extinct crater, which would be
very inconvenient if the slumbering fires below suddenly awakened.

In the neighbourhood of the range are the fine caverns of Petchaburg, some of the largest existing
instances of volcanic grottoes. Two are especially grand, as the lava in cooling has twisted
and twirled about in marvellous fashion, making most wonderful effects.

The moisture coming from the roof has decorated the caverns with splendid stalactites and stalagmites,
whilst, like many other volcanic rocks, the walls are of brilliant and harmonious colours.

The king and his people are justly proud of their caverns, and have taken great pains that
they shall be made accessible to visitors, the ground having been levelled and staircases placed
in many directions. The largest and most beautiful cave has been turned into a temple, and
all along the sides are rows of figures. One of these is of colossal size, and richly gilded,
representing a sleeping Buddha.

THE KING OF PERSIA.

Once upon a time a certain King of Persia went out hunting with all his court. The chase that
day happened to be long, and the king became very thirsty. But no fountain or river could be
found near the spot on the plain where they rested for a short interval. At last one of the
courtiers spied a large garden not far off. It was filled with trees bearing lemons, oranges,
and grapes. His followers begged the monarch to partake of the good things in the garden.

'Heaven forbid that I should eat anything thereof,' said the king, 'for if I permitted myself
to gather but an orange from it, my officers and courtiers would not leave a single fruit in
the entire garden.'

The higher in life a person is, the more careful he should be, for all his faults are copied
by those beneath him.

JESS.

A Dog Story.

'Now, Lottie and Carrie,' said Mrs. Sefton, coming out into the garden just as the daylight
was beginning to fade, 'it is time to be indoors; bring your things and come in.'

'Oh, Mother!' cried both the little girls, 'we are just in the middle of our game; do please
let us stay a little longer.'

But their mother shook her head. 'I can't possibly do that,' she answered. 'You will never
be at school in time to-morrow unless you are in bed by eight o'clock. Don't stop to talk about
it, but come, like good children.'

Then Carrie took up the dolls which were lying on the grass, while Lottie loaded herself with
the little basket-chair and the three-legged stool, and in a very short time the two sisters
were in the snug white beds.

'Good-night,' said Mother, as she kissed them both. 'You have been good girls to-day, and in
the morning I shall have something nice to tell you.'

'Tell us to-night, please--tell us to-night,' they pleaded. But Mother was not to be moved,
and the thought of what that something nice might be kept Lottie and Carrie awake till the
darkness had really come on.

But though they were late in going to sleep, you may be sure they were awake early in the morning.
They helped each other to dress, and were downstairs reminding Mother of her promise long before
they were expected.

'I shall know now how to make you get up in good time,' Mrs. Sefton said, laughing; 'but come
along, it is not only something to tell, but something to show you.'

She led them to the tool-house at the bottom of the garden, and there, tied to a nail in the
wall, was a pretty little black-and-tan dog--a terrier.

'This is a present which your uncle has sent you,' Mrs. Sefton said. 'You are to have it for
your very own--its name is Jess. Stand up, Jess, and show your mistresses how you can beg.'

Jess stood up on her hind legs, and crossed her paws in such a funny way that Lottie danced
about with delight. Carrie was timid and hung back; she did not like to say so, but she was
really rather afraid of the new pet. This was silly, but Carrie was only a little girl; in
a short time, when she saw how good and gentle Jess really was, she too forgot her fears.

Lottie and Carrie went to school together. Now that they had Jess they were always glad when
school hours were over, and they could run home to play. Jess was as pleased to see them back
as the children were to come, and all through the summer they learned to be better and better
friends with the little terrier.

But after the summer holidays Lottie went away for a while, to visit some friends, and Carrie
was left to go to school by herself. She was very lonely and dull without her sister. When
one is only six years old, a fortnight seems such a long time, and at last Carrie settled that
she could not go to school another day without Lottie.

Then she did a very foolish thing. After she was sent to school, she turned back and hid herself
in the tool-house at the bottom of the garden. She had heard her mother say at breakfast that
she was going out for the forenoon, and Carrie thought that she would just wait till there
was no one at home, and then come out from her hiding-place and play.

Mrs. Sefton had a long walk to take, and as soon as possible she put on her bonnet, and then,
thinking that her little girl was safe at school, she locked up the house, and started on her
errand, leaving Jess to run about the garden and take care of things.

Carrie heard her mother close the front door, and then she came out from the tool-house. She
had thought that it would be very nice to stay at home and play, but she soon began to feel
lonely and frightened, and to wish that she had not deceived her mother.

'Oh, Jess!' she said to the little dog, 'I wish I had been good and gone to school!'

Jess looked up at Carrie, and wagged her tail, but she could do nothing more to comfort her
little mistress.

Carrie walked up and down, feeling ready to cry.

'I never shall be able to stay here all by myself till Mother comes back,' she thought. 'I
will try and get over the wall.'

Now, the garden wall was high, and just as Carrie, by a great effort, had managed to reach
the top, her foot slipped, and she fell heavily down on to the mould.

She was so much hurt that she fainted away, and then it was the dog's turn to be distressed.
Jess walked round and round the little fallen girl, and, finding that she could do nothing
to help, she set up a piteous bark, and barked so long and so loudly that she drew the attention
of the neighbours.

'Whatever is that dog of the Seftons' barking at?' one woman inquired of her husband; and Mr.
Curtis, who was a shoemaker, and worked at home, stopped a moment to listen.

'I don't like the sound,' he said, presently. 'It's as though there was something the matter,
and Mrs. Sefton is out, for I saw her go past the window.'

'Perhaps it would be best for you to go and see,' his wife said, and though he could ill spare
the time, kind-hearted Mr. Curtis put down the boot which he was mending, and ran down the
lane till he reached the garden wall.

Then he soon saw what was the matter. There was Jess with her paws on Carrie's frock, while
Carrie was lying quite white and still.

The shoemaker carried the poor child to his own cottage, while his wife went to look for Mrs.
Sefton.

Carrie proved to be badly hurt; she had to lie in bed a good while, and you may be sure that
her mother and Lottie, and all her friends, were very grieved and anxious about her.

But every one praised good, faithful Jess, who had brought help to her little mistress; and
when Lottie came back, and Carrie got quite well, as I am glad to say she did at last, Jess
was a greater pet than ever.

A GENTLE DONKEY.

(Continued from page 391.)

III.

'You know, Mollie,' said Mrs. Raeburn to her sister-in-law next morning as she looked through
the letters, which had just come in, 'I cannot believe that Tim is so wicked as you and Mary
both say. I ran out to the stables before breakfast, and the dear, sweet thing rubbed his nose
against my sleeve, and then tried to find my pocket. He evidently expected sugar, for he looked
up at me as much as to say, "Now then, where's that sugar?" You see, dear,' (here she lowered
her voice to a whisper and looked cautiously round) 'although Mary is a splendid maid for the
nursery, she may be no good as a "whip," and so I have made up my mind to go in the cart myself
this morning. Luckily, Cook has made some soup for poor old Mrs. Woods, and I shall get Mary
to drive me there when she takes Harry out.'

'What does Simmons think of this new treasure?' asked Aunt Mollie.

'Oh! Simmons is ridiculous. He agrees with Mary, and says that yesterday it took three men
to hold him while he was being harnessed. I never heard anything so absurd! I thought that
we might go round to the stables about eleven and see for ourselves. Why!'--looking at her
watch--'it is almost eleven now. Come along, Mollie, or we shall miss the fun,' and picking
up the tail of her long skirt, young Mrs. Raeburn disappeared through the French window.

As the two girls neared the yard, loud voices were heard and the clattering noise of the donkey's
feet upon the cobble stones made it evident that the harnessing had began.

'Well! how is Tim behaving himself to-day?' called out Mrs. Raeburn.

