TRAVELS IN FRANCE,

DURING THE YEARS

1814-15.

COMPRISING A

RESIDENCE AT PARIS DURING THE STAY OF THE ALLIED ARMIES,

AND

AT AIX,

AT THE PERIOD OF THE LANDING OF

BONAPARTE.

IN TWO VOLUMES.

SECOND EDITION, CORRECTED AND ENLARGED.

EDINBURGH:

PRINTED FOR MACREDIE, SKELLY, AND MUCKERSY, 52. PRINCE'S STREET;

LONGMAN, HURST. REES, ORME, AND BROWN; BLACK,

PARRY, AND CO. T. UNDERWOOD, LONDON;

AND J. CUMMING, DUBLIN.

1816.

ADVERTISEMENT.

A Second Edition of the following Work having been demanded by the Booksellers, the Author
has availed himself of the opportunity to correct many verbal inaccuracies, to add some general
reflections, and to alter materially those parts of it which were most hastily prepared for
the press, particularly the Journal in the Second Volume, by retrenching a number of particulars
of partial interest, and substituting more general observations on the state of the country,
supplied by his own recollection and that of his fellow-travellers.

He has only farther to repeat here, what he stated in the Advertisement to the first Edition,
that the whole materials of the Publication were collected in France, partly by himself, during
a residence which the state of his health had made adviseable in Provence, and partly by some
friends who had preceded him in their visit to France, and were at Paris during the time when
it was first occupied by the Allied Armies;--and that he has submitted it to the world, merely
in the hope of adding somewhat to the general stock of information regarding the situation,
character, and prospects of the French people, which it is so desirable that the English Public
should possess.

CONTENTS.

VOL. I.

CHAPTER I. Journey to Paris

II. Paris--The Allied Armies

III. Paris--Its Public Buildings

IV. Environs of Paris

V. Paris--The Louvre

VI. Paris--The French Character and Manners

VII. Paris--The Theatres

VIII. Paris--The French Army and Imperial Government

IX. Journey to Flanders

VOLUME II.

CHAPTER I. Journey to Aix

II. Residence at Aix, and Journey to Bourdeaux

III. State of France under Napoleon--Anecdotes of him

IV. State of France under Napoleon--continued

V. State of Society and Manners in France

Register of the Weather

VOLUME FIRST.

CHAPTER I.

JOURNEY TO PARIS.

We passed through Kent in our way to France, on Sunday the first of May 1814. This day's journey
was very delightful. The whole scenery around us,--the richness of the fields and woods, then
beginning to assume the first colours of spring; the extent and excellence of the cultivation;
the thriving condition of the towns, and the smiling aspect of the neat and clean villages
through which we passed; the luxuriant bloom of the fruit-trees surrounding them; the number
of beautiful villas adapted to the accommodation of the middle ranks of society, the crowds
of well-dressed peasantry going to and returning from church; the frank and cheerful countenances
of the men, and beauty of the women--all presented a most pleasing spectacle. If we had not
proposed to cross the channel, we should have compared all that we now saw with our recollections
of Scotland; and the feeling of the difference, although it might have increased our admiration,
would perhaps have made us less willing to acknowledge it. But when we were surveying England
with a view to a comparison with France, the difference of its individual provinces was overlooked;--we
took a pride in the apparent happiness and comfort of a people, of whom we knew nothing more,
than that they were our countrymen; and we rejoiced, that the last impression left on our minds
by the sight of our own country, was one which we already anticipated that no other could efface.

Our passage to Calais was rendered very interesting, by the number of Frenchmen who accompanied
us. Some of these were emigrants, who had spent the best part of their lives in exile; the
greater part were prisoners of various ranks, who had been taken at different periods of the
war. There was evidently the greatest diversity of character, of prospects, of previous habits,
and of political and moral sentiments among these men; the only bond that connected them was,
the love of their common country; and at a moment for which they had been so long and anxiously
looking, this was sufficient to repress all jealousy and discord, and to unite them cordially
and sincerely in the sentiment which was expressed, with true French enthusiasm, by one of
the party, as we left the harbour of Dover,--"Voila notre chere France,--A present nous sommes
tous amis!"

As we proceeded, the expression of their emotions, in words, looks, and gestures, was sometimes
extremely pleasing, at other times irresistibly ludicrous, but always characteristic of a people
whose natural feelings are quick and lively, and who have no idea of there being any dignity
or manliness in repressing, or concealing them. When the boat approached the French shore,
a fine young officer, who had been one of the most amusing of our companions, leapt from the
prow, and taking up a handful of sand, kissed it with an expression of ardent feeling and enthusiastic
joy, which it was delightful to observe.

It is only on occasions of this kind, that the whole strength of the feeling of patriotism
is made known. In the ordinary routine of civil life, this feeling is seldom awakened. In the
moments of national enthusiasm and exultation, it is often mingled with others. But in witnessing
the emotions of the French exiles and captives, on returning to their wasted and dishonoured
country, we discerned the full force of those moral ties, by which, even in the most afflicting
circumstances of national humiliation and disaster, the hearts of men are bound to the land
of their fathers.

We landed, on the evening of the 2d, about three miles from Calais, and walked into the town.
The appearance of the country about Calais does not differ materially from that in the immediate
neighbourhood of Dover, which is much less fertile than the greater part of Kent; but the cottages
are decidedly inferior to the English. The first peculiarity that struck us was the grotesque
appearance of the Douaniers, who came to examine us on the coast; and when we had passed through
the numerous guards, and been examined at the guard-houses, previously to our admission into
the town, the gates of which had been shut, we had already observed, what subsequent observation
confirmed, that the air and manner which we call military are in very little estimation among
the French soldiers. The general appearance of the French soldiery cannot be better described
than it has been by Mr Scott: "They seemed rather the fragments of broken-up gangs, than the
remains of a force that had been steady, controlled, and lawful." They have almost uniformly,
officers and men, much expression of intelligence, and often of ferocity, in their countenances,
and much activity in their movements; but there are few of them whom an Englishman, judging
from his recollection of English soldiers, would recognise to belong to a regular army.

The lower orders of inhabitants in Calais hailed the arrival of the English strangers with
much pleasure, loudly proclaiming, however, the interested motives of their joy. A number of
blackguard-looking men gathered round us, recommending their own services, and different hotels,
with much vehemence, and violent altercations among themselves; and troops of children followed,
crying, "Vivent les Anglois--Give me one sous." In our subsequent travels, we were often much
amused by the importunities of the children, who seem to beg, in many places, without being
in want, and are very ingenious in recommending themselves to travellers; crying first, Vive
le Roi; if that does not succeed, Vive l'Empereur; that failing, Vive le Roi d'Angleterre;
and professing loyalty to all the sovereigns of Europe, rather than give up the hopes of a sous.

Having reached the principal inn, we found that all the places in the diligence for Paris were
taken for the ten following days. By this time, in consequence of the communication with France
being opened, several new coaches had been established between London and Dover, but no such
measure had been thought of on the road between Calais and Paris. There was no want of horses,
as we afterwards found, belonging to the inns on the roads, but this seemed to indicate strongly
want of ready money among the innkeepers. However, there were at Calais a number of "voitures"
of different kinds, which had been little used for several years; one of which we hired from
a "magasin des chaises," which reminded us of the Sentimental Journey, and set out at noon
on the 3d, for Paris, accompanied by a French officer who had been a prisoner in Scotland,
and to whose kindness and attentions we were much indebted.

We were much struck with the appearance of poverty and antiquity about Calais, which afforded
a perfect contrast to the Kentish towns; and all the country towns, through which we afterwards
passed in France, presented the same general character. The houses were larger than those of
most English country towns, but they were all old; in few places out of repair, but nowhere
newly built, or even newly embellished. There were no newly painted houses, windows, carriages,
carts, or even sign-posts; the furniture, and all the interior arrangements of the inns, were
much inferior to those we had left; their external appearance stately and old-fashioned; the
horses in the carriages were caparisoned with white leather, and harnessed with ropes; the
men who harnessed them were of mean appearance, and went about their work as if they had many
other kinds of work to do. There were few carts, and hardly any four-wheeled carriages to be
seen in the streets; and it was obvious that the internal communications of this part of the
country were very limited. There appeared to be few houses fitted for the residence of persons
of moderate incomes, and hardly any villas about the town to which they might retire after
giving up business. All the lower ranks of people, besides being much worse looking than the
English, were much more coarsely clothed, and they seemed utterly indifferent about the appearance
of their dress. Very few of the men wore beaver hats, and hardly two had exactly the same kind
of covering for their heads.

The dress of the women of better condition, particularly their high-crowned bonnets, and the
ruffs about their necks, put us in mind of the pictures of old English fashions. The lower
people appeared to bear a much stronger resemblance to some of the Highland clans, and to the
Welch, than to any other inhabitants of Britain.

On the road between Calais and Boulogne, we began to perceive the peculiarities of the husbandry
of this part of France. These are just what were described by Arthur Young; and although it
is possible, as the natives uniformly affirm, that the agriculture has improved since the revolution,
this improvement must be in the details of the operations, and in the extent of land under
tillage, not in the principles of the art. The most striking to the eye of a stranger are the
want of enclosures, the want of pasture lands and of green crops, and the consequent number
of bare fallows, on many of which a few sheep and long-legged lean hogs are turned out to pick
up a miserable subsistence. The common rotation appears to be a three year's one; fallow, wheat,
and oats or barley. On this part of the road, the ground is almost all under tillage, but the
soil is poor; there is very little wood, and the general appearance of the country is therefore
very bleak. In the immediate neighbourhood of Boulogne, it is better clothed, and varied by
some pasture fields and gardens. The ploughs go with wheels. They are drawn by only two horses,
but are clumsily made, and evidently inferior to the Scotch ploughs. They, as well as the carts,
are made generally of green unpeeled wood, like those in the Scotch Highlands, and are never
painted. This absence of all attempt to give an air of neatness or smartness to any part of
their property--this indifference as to its appearance, is a striking characteristic of the
French people over a great part of the country.

It is likewise seen, as before observed, in the dress of the lower orders; but here it is often
combined with a fantastic and ludicrous display of finery. An English dairy-maid or chamber-maid,
ploughman or groom, shopkeeper or mechanic, has each a dress consistent in its parts, and adapted
to the situation and employment of the wearer. But a country girl in France, whose bed-gown
and petticoat are of the coarsest materials, and scantiest dimensions, has a pair of long dangling
ear-rings, worth from 30 to 40 francs. A carter wears an opera hat, and a ballad-singer struts
about in long military boots; and a blacksmith, whose features are obscured by the smoke and
dirt which have been gathering on them for weeks, and whose clothes hang about him in tatters,
has his hair newly frizzled and powdered, and his long queue plaited on each side, all down
his back, with the most scrupulous nicety.

Akin to this shew of finery in some parts of their dress, utterly inconsistent with the other
parts of it, and with their general condition, is the disposition of the lower orders in France,
even in their intercourse with one another, to ape the manners of their superiors. "An English
peasant," as Mr Scott has well remarked, "appears to spurn courtesy from him, in a bitter sense
of its inapplicability to his condition." This feeling is unknown in France. A French soldier
hands his "bien aimée" into a restaurateur's of the lowest order and supplies her with fruits
and wine, with the grace and foppery of a Parisian "petit maitre," and with the gravity of
a "philosophe."--"Madame," says a scavenger in the streets of Paris, laying his hand on his
heart, and making a low bow to an old woman cleaning shoes at the door of an inn, "J'espere
que vous vous portez bien."--"Monsieur," she replies, dropping a curtsey with an air of gratitude
and profound respect, "Vous me faites d'honneur; je me porte a merveille."

This peculiarity of manner in the lower orders, will generally, it is believed, be found connected
with their real degradation and insignificance in the eyes of their superiors. It is precisely
because they are not accustomed to look with respect to those of their own condition, and because
their condition is not respected by others, that they imitate the higher ranks. An English
coachman or stable-boy is taught to believe, that a certain demeanour befits his situation;
and he will certainly expose himself to more sneers and animadversions, by assuming the manners
of the rank next above him in society, than the highest peer of the realm will by assuming
his. But Frenchmen of the same rank are fain to seek that respectability from manner, which
is denied to the lowness of their condition, and the vulgarity of their occupation; and they
therefore assume the manner which is associated in their minds, and in the minds of their observers,
with situations acknowledged to be respectable.

It is also to be observed, that the power of ridicule, which has so much influence in the formation
of manner, is much less in France than in England. The French have probably more relish for
true wit than any other people; but their perception of humour is certainly not nearly so strong
as that of our countrymen. Their ridicule is seldom excited by the awkward attempts of a stranger
to speak their language, and as seldom by the inconsistencies which appear to us ludicrous
in the dress and behaviour of their countrymen.

These causes, operating gradually for a length of time, have probably produced that remarkable
politeness of manners which is so pleasing to a stranger, in a number of the lower orders in
France, and which appears so singular at the present time, as revolutionary ideas, military
habits, and the example of a military court, have given a degree of roughness, and even ferocity,
to the manners of many of the higher orders of Frenchmen, with which it forms a curious contrast.
It is, however, in its relation to Englishmen at least, a fawning, cringing, interested politeness;
less truly respectable than the obliging civility of the common people in England, and in substance,
if not in appearance, still farther removed from the frank, independent, disinterested courtesy
of the Scottish Highlanders.

* * *

Our entry into Boulogne was connected with several striking circumstances. To an Englishman,
who, for many years, had heard of the mighty preparations which were made by the French in
the port of Boulogne for the invasion of this country, the first view of this town could not
but be peculiarly interesting. We accordingly got out of our voiture as quickly as possible,
and walked straight to the harbour. Here the first objects that presented themselves were,
on one side, the last remains of the grand flotilla, consisting of a few hulks, dismantled
and rotting in the harbour; on the other side, the Prussian soldiers drawn up in regiments
on the beach. Nothing could have recalled to our minds more strongly the strength of that power
which our country had so long opposed, nor the magnificent result which had at length attended
her exertions. The forces destined for the invasion, and which were denominated by anticipation
the army of England, had been encamped around the town. The characteristic arrogance--the undoubting
anticipation of victory--the utter thoughtlessness--the unsinking vivacity of the French soldiery,
were then at the highest pitch. Some little idea of the gay and light-hearted sentiments with
which they contemplated the invasion of England, may be formed from the following song, which
was sung to us with unrivalled spirit and gesticulation, as we came in sight of Boulogne, by
our fellow-traveller, who had himself served in the army of England, and who informed us it
was then commonly sung in the ranks.

    SONG.

    Français! le bal va se r'ouvrir,
    Et vous aimez la danse,
    L'Allemande vient de finir,
    Mais l'Anglaise commence.

    D'y figurer tous nous Français
    Seront parbleu bien aises,
    Car s'ils n'aiment pas les Anglais,
    Ils aiment les Anglaises.

    D'abord par le pas de Calais
    Il faut entrer en danse,
    Le son des instrumens Français
    Marquera la cadence;

    Et comme les Anglais ne scanroient
    Que danser les Anglaises,
    Bonaparte leur montrera
    Les figures Françaises.

    Allons mes amis de grand rond,
    En avant, face a face,
    Français le bas, restez d'a plomb,
    Anglais changez les places.

    Vous Monsieur Pitt vous balancez,
    Formez la chaine Anglaise,
    Pas de cotè--croisez--chassez--
    C'est la danse Française!

The humour of this song depends on the happy application of the names of the French dances,
and the terms employed in them, to the subjects on which it is written, the conclusion of the
German campaigns, and the meditated invasion of England.

The Prussians who were quartered at Boulogne, and all the adjoining towns and villages, belonged
to the corps of General Von York. Most of the infantry regiments were composed in part of young
recruits, but the old soldiers, and all the cavalry, had a truly military appearance; and their
swarthy weather-beaten countenances, their coarse and patched, but strong and serviceable dresses
and accoutrements, the faded embroidery of their uniforms, and the insignia of orders of merit
with which almost all the officers, and many of the men, were decorated, bore ample testimony
to their participation in the labours and the honours of the celebrated army of Silesia.

Some of them who spoke French, when we enquired where they had been, told us, in a tone of
exultation, rather than of arrogance, that they had entered Paris--"le sabre a la main."

The appearance of the country is considerably better in Picardy than in Artois, but the general
features do not materially vary until you reach the Oise. The peasantry seem to live chiefly
in villages, through which the road passes, and the cottages composing which resemble those
of Scotland more than of England. They are generally built in rows; many of them are white-washed,
but they are very dirty, and have generally no gardens attached to them; and a great number
of the inhabitants seem oppressed with poverty to a degree unknown in any part of Britain.
The old and infirm men and women who assembled round our carriage, when it stopped in any of
these villages, to ask for alms, appeared in the most abject condition; and so far from observing,
as one English traveller has done, that there are few beggars in France, it appeared to us
that there are few inhabitants of many of these country villages who are ashamed to beg.

To this unfavourable account of the aspect of this part of France, there are, however, exceptions:
We were struck with the beauty of the village of Nouvion, between Montreuil and Abbeville,
which resembles strongly the villages in the finest counties of England: The houses here have
all gardens surrounding them, which are the property of the villagers. In the neighbourhood
of Abbeville, and of Beauvais, there are also some neat villages; and the country around these
towns is rich, and well cultivated, and beautifully diversified with woods and vineyards; and,
in general, in advancing southwards, the country, though still uninclosed, appears more fertile
and better clothed. Many of the villages are surrounded with orchards, and long rows of fruit-trees
extend from some of them for miles together along the sides of the roads; long regular rows
of elms and Lombardy poplars are also very common, particularly on the road sides; and, in
some places, chateaux are to be seen, the situation of which is generally delightful; but most
of them are uninhabited, or inhabited by poor people, who do not keep them in repair; and their
deserted appearance contributes even more than the straight avenues of trees, and gardens laid
out in the Dutch taste, which surround them, to confirm the impression of antiquity which is
made on the mind of an Englishman, by almost all that he sees in travelling through France.

The roads in this, as in many other parts of the country, are paved in the middle, straight,
and very broad, and appear adapted to a much more extensive intercourse than now exists between
the different provinces.

The country on the banks of the Oise, (which we crossed at Beaumont), and from thence to Paris,
is one of the finest parts of France. The road passes, almost the whole way, through a majestic
avenue of elm trees: Instead of the continual recurrence of corn fields and fallows, the eye
is here occasionally relieved by the intervention of fields of lucerne and saintfoin, orchards
and vineyards; the country is rich, well clothed with wood, and varied with rising grounds,
and studded with chateaux; there are more carriages on the roads and bustle in the inns, and
your approach to the capital is very obvious. Yet there are strong marks of poverty in the
villages, which contain no houses adapted to the accommodation of the middling ranks of society;
the soil is richer, but the implements of agriculture, and the system of husbandry, are very
little better than in Picardy: the cultivation, every where tolerable, is nowhere excellent;
there are no new farm-houses or farm-steadings; no signs of recent agricultural improvements;
and the chateaux, in general, still bear the aspect of desertion and decay.

This last peculiarity of French scenery is chiefly owing to the great subdivision of property
which has taken place in consequence of the confiscation of church lands, and properties of
the noblesse and emigrants, and of the subsequent sale of the national domains, at very low
or even nominal prices, to the lower orders of the peasantry. To such a degree has this subdivision
extended, that in many parts of France there is no proprietor of land who does not labour with
his own hands in the cultivation of his property. The influence of this state of property on
the prosperity of France, and the gradual changes which it will undergo in the course of time,
will form an interesting study for the political economist; but in the mean time, it will almost
prevent the possibility of collecting an adequate number of independent and enlightened men
to represent the landed interest of France in any system of national representation.

In travelling from Calais to Paris, we did not observe so great a want of men in the fields
and villages as we had been led to expect. The men whom we saw, however, were almost all above
the age of the conscription. In several places we saw women holding the plough; but in general,
the proportion of women to men employed in the fields, appeared hardly greater than may be
seen during most of the operations of husbandry in the best cultivated districts of Scotland.
On inquiry among the peasants, we found the conscription, and the whole of Bonaparte's system
of government, held in much abhorrence, particularly among the women; yet they did not appear
to feel it so deeply as we had anticipated; and of him, individually, they were more disposed
to speak in terms of ridicule than of indignation. "Il est parti pour l'ile d'Elbe (said they)--bon
voyage!" It was obvious that public affairs, even in those critical moments, occupied much
less of their attention than of persons of the same rank in England: their spirits are much
less easily depressed; and it was easy to see that their domestic affections are less powerful.
The men shewed much jealousy of the allied troops: said they were superior to the French only
in numbers; and often repeated, that one French soldier was equal to two Russians.

Although the old men and women whom we saw in the villages were generally in the most abject
condition, yet the labourers employed in the fields appeared nearly as well dressed as the
corresponding class in England; their wages were stated to be, over most of the country, from
one franc to 25 sous a-day, and in the immediate neighbourhood of Paris, to be as high as two,
or even three francs. In some places, we saw them dining on bread, pork, and cyder; but the
scarcity of live stock was such, that it was impossible to suppose that they usually enjoyed
so good a fare. The interior of the cottages appeared, generally, to be ill furnished.

Every village and town through which we passed between Boulogne and Paris contained a number
of the allied troops. At Beauvais, a town remarkable for its singular appearance, being almost
entirely built of wood, and likewise for the beauty of its cathedral, the choir of which is
reckoned the finest in France, we were first gratified with the sight of some hundreds of Russians,
horse and foot, under arms. These troops were of the finest description, and belonged to the
corps of the celebrated Wigtenstein.

We enquired of many of the lower people, in the towns and villages through which we passed,
concerning the conduct of the allied troops in their quarters, and the answers were almost
uniformly--from the men, "Ils se comportent bien;" (frequently with the addition, "mais ils
mangent comme des diables:")--and from the women, "Ils sont de bons enfans." We had very frequent
opportunities of remarking the truth of the observation, that "women have less bitterness against
the enemies of their country than men." The Parisian ladies adopted fashions from the uniforms
of almost all the allied troops whom they saw in Paris; many of them were exceedingly anxious
for opportunities of seeing the Emperor of Russia, and the most distinguished leaders of the
armies that had conquered France; and those who were acquainted with officers of rank belonging
to these armies appeared, on all occasions, to be highly flattered with the attentions they
received from them. The same was observable in the conduct of the lower ranks. In the suburbs
of Paris, and in the neighbouring villages, where many of the allied troops were quartered,
they appeared always on the best terms with the female inhabitants, and were often to be seen
assisting them in their work, playing at the battledore and shuttlecock with them in the streets,
or strolling in their company along the banks of the Seine, and through the woods of Belleville
or St Cloud, evidently to the satisfaction of both parties. Much must be allowed for the national
levity of the French; yet it may be doubted, whether the officers and soldiers of a victorious
army are ever, in the first instance, very obnoxious to the females, even of a vanquished country.

CHAPTER II.

PARIS--THE ALLIED ARMIES.

To those whose attention had been long fixed on the great political revulsion which had brought
the wandering tribes of the Wolga and the Don into the heart of France, and whose minds had
been incessantly occupied for many months previous to the time of which we speak, (as the minds
of almost all Englishmen had been), with wishes for the success, and admiration of the exploits,
of the brave troops who then occupied Paris, it may naturally be supposed, that even all the
wonders of that capital were, in the first instance, objects of secondary consideration. It
was not until our curiosity had been satisfied by the sight of the Emperor Alexander, the Duke
of Wellington, Marshal Blucher, Count Platoff, and such numbers of the Russian and Prussian
officers and soldiers, as we considered a fair specimen of the whole armies, that we could
find time to appreciate the beauties even of the Apollo and the Venus.

The streets of Paris are always amusing and interesting, from the numbers and varieties of
costumes and characters which they present; but at the time of which we speak, they might be
considered as exhibiting an epitome of the greater part of Europe. Parties of Russian cuirassiers,
Prussian lancers, and Hungarian hussars; Cossacks, old and young, from those whose beards were
grey with age, to those who were yet beardless, cantering along after their singular fashion--their
long lances poised on their stirrups, and loosely fastened to their right arms, vibrating over
their heads; long files of Russian and Prussian foragers, and long trains of Austrian baggage
waggons, winding slowly through the crowd; idle soldiers of all services, French as well as
allied, lounging about in their loose great coats and trowsers, with long crooked pipes hanging
from their mouths; patroles of infantry parading about under arms, composed half of Russian
grenadiers, and half of Parisian national guards; Russian coaches and four, answering to the
description of Dr Clarke, the postillions riding on the off-horses, and dressed almost like
beggars; Russian carts drawn by four horses a-breast, and driven by peasants in the national
costume; Polish Jews, with long black beards, dressed in black robes like the cassocks of English
clergymen, with broad leathern belts--all mingled with the Parisian multitude upon the Boulevards:
and in the midst of this indiscriminate assemblage, all the business, and all the amusements
of Paris, went on with increased alacrity and fearless confidence. The Palais Royal was crowded,
morning, noon, and night, with Russian and Prussian officers in full uniform, decorated with
orders, whose noisy merriment, cordial manners, and careless profusion, were strikingly contrasted
with the silence and sullenness of the French officers.

It is fortunately superfluous for us to enlarge on the appearance, or on the character of the
Emperor Alexander. We were struck with the simplicity of the style in which he lived. He inhabited
only one or two apartments in a wing of the splendid Elysee Bourbon--slept on a leather mattress,
which he had used in the campaign--rose at four in the morning, to transact business--wore
the uniform of a Russian General, with only the medal of 1812, (the same which is worn by every
soldier who served in that campaign, with the inscription, in Russ, Non nobis sed tibi Domine);
had a French guard at his door--went out in a chaise and pair, with a single servant and no
guards, and was very regular in his attendance at a small chapel, where the service of the
Greek church was performed. We had access to very good information concerning him, and the
account which we received of his character even exceeded our anticipation. His well-known humanity
was described to us as having undergone no change from the scenes of misery inseparable from
extended warfare, to which his duties, rather than his inclinations, had so long habituated
him. He repeatedly left behind him, in marching with the army, some of the medical men of his
own staff, to dress the wounds of French soldiers whom he passed on the way; and it was a standing
order of his to his hospital staff, to treat wounded Russians and French exactly alike.

His conduct at the battle of Fere Champenoise, a few days before the capture of Paris, of which
we had an account from eye-witnesses, may give an idea of his conduct while with the armies.
The French column, consisting of about 5000 infantry, with some artillery, was attacked by
the advanced guard of the allies, consisting of cavalry, with some horse-artillery, under his
immediate orders. It made a desperate resistance, and its capture being an object of great
importance, he sent away all his guards, even the Cossacks, and exposed himself to the fire
of musketry for a long time, directing the movements of the troops. When the French squares
were at length broken by the repeated charges of cavalry and Cossacks, he threw himself into
the middle of them, at a great personal risk, that he might restrain the fury of the soldiers,
exasperated by the obstinacy of the resistance; and although he could not prevent the whole
French officers and men from being completely pillaged, many of them owed their lives to his
interference. The French commander was brought to him, and offered him his sword, which he
refused to accept, saying, he had defended himself too well.

The wife and children of a General who had been with the French army, were brought to him,
and he placed a guard over them, which was overpowered in the confusion. The unfortunate woman
was never more heard of, but he succeeded in recovering the children, had a bed made for them
in his own tent, and kept them with him, until he reached Paris, when he ordered enquiry to
be made for some of her relations, to whose care he committed them.

He was uniformly represented to us as a man not merely of the most amiable dispositions, but
of superior understanding, of uncommon activity, and of a firm decided turn of mind. Of the
share which he individually had in directing the operations of the allied armies, we do not
pretend to speak with absolute certainty; but we had reason to know, that the general opinion
in the Russian army was, that the principal movements were not merely subjected to his control,
but guided by his advice; and he was certainly looked upon, by officers who had long served
under him, as one of the ablest commanders in the allied armies.

He was much disconcerted, it was said, by the loss of the battle of Austerlitz; but his subsequent
experience in war had given him the true military obstinacy, and he bore the loss of the battles
of Lutzen and Bautzen with perfect equanimity; often saying, the French can still beat us,
but they will teach us how to beat them; and we will conquer them by our pertinacity. The attachment
of the Russian army, and especially of the guards, to him, almost approaches to idolatry; and
the effect of his presence on the exertions and conduct of his troops, was not more beneficial
to Europe while the struggle was yet doubtful, than to France herself after her armies were
overthrown, and her "sacred territory" invaded.

As a specimen of the general feeling in the Russian army at the time they invaded France, we
may mention the substance of a conversation which an officer of the Russian staff told us he
had held with a private of the Russian guard on the march, soon after the invasion. The soldier
complained of the Emperor's proclamation, desiring them to consider as enemies only those whom
they met in the field. "The French," said he, "came into our country, bringing hosts of Germans
and Poles along with them;--they plundered our properties, burnt our houses, and murdered our
families;--every Russian was their enemy. We have driven them out of Russia, we have followed
them into Poland, into Germany, and into France; but wherever we go, we are allowed to find
none but friends. This," he added, "is very well for us guards, who know that pillage is unworthy
of us; but the common soldiers and Cossacks do not understand it; they remember how their friends
and relations have been treated by the French, and that remembrance lies at their hearts."

* * *

We visited with deep interest the projecting part of the heights of Belleville, immediately
overlooking the Fauxbourg St Martin, which the Emperor Alexander reached, with the king of
Prussia, the Prince Schwartzenburg, and the whole general staff, on the evening of the 30th
of March. It was here that he received the deputation from Marshals Marmont and Mortier, who
had fought all day against a vast superiority of force, and been fairly overpowered, recommending
Paris to the generosity of the allies. Thirty howitzers were placed on this height, and a few
shells were thrown into the town, one or two of which, we were assured, reached as far as the
Eglise de St Eustace; it is allowed on all hands that they fell within the Boulevards. The
heights of Montmartre were at the same time stormed by the Silesian army, and cannon were placed
on it likewise,--Paris was then at his mercy. After a year and a half of arduous contest, it
was at length in his power to take a bloody revenge for the miseries which his subjects had
suffered during the unprovoked invasion of Russia.--He ordered the firing to cease; assured
the French deputation of his intention to protect the city; and issued orders to his army to
prepare to march in, the next morning, in parade order. He put himself at their head, in company
with the King of Prussia, and all the generals of high rank. After passing along the Boulevards
to the Champs Elysees, the sovereigns placed themselves under a tree, in front of the palace
of the Thuilleries, within a few yards of the spot where Louis XVI. and many other victims
of the revolution had perished; and they saw the last man of their armies defile past the town,
and proceed to take a position beyond it, before they entered it themselves.

At this time, the recollection of the fate of Moscow was so strong in the Russian army, and
the desire of revenge was so generally diffused, not merely among the soldiers, but even among
the superior, officers, that they themselves said, nothing could have restrained them but the
presence and positive commands of their Czar; nor could any other influence have maintained
that admirable discipline in the Russian army, during its stay in France, which we have so
often heard the theme of panegyric even among their most inveterate enemies.

It is not in the columns of newspapers, nor in the perishable pages of such a Journal as this,
that the invincible determination, the splendid achievements, and the generous forbearance
of the Emperor of Russia and his brave army, during the last war, can be duly recorded; but
when they shall have passed into history, we think we shall but anticipate the sober judgment
of posterity by saying, that the foreign annals of no other nation, ancient or modern, will
present, in an equal period of time, a spectacle of equal moral grandeur.

* * *

The King of Prussia was often to be seen at the Parisian theatres, dressed in plain clothes,
and accompanied only by his son and nephew. The first time we saw him there, he was making
some enquiries of a manager of the Theatre de l'Odeon, whom he met in the lobby; and the modesty
and embarrassment of his manner were finely contrasted with the confident loquacity and officious
courtesy of the Frenchman. He is known to be exceedingly averse to public exhibitions, even
in his own country. He had gone through all the hardships and privations of the campaigns,
had exposed himself with a gallantry bordering on rashness in every engagement, his son and
nephew always by his side; his coolness in action was the subject of universal admiration;
and it was not without reason that he had acquired the name of the first soldier in his army.
His brothers, who are fine looking men, took the command of brigades in the Silesian army,
and did the duty of brigadiers to the satisfaction of the whole army.

* * *

We had the good fortune of seeing the Duke of Wellington at the opera, the first time that
he appeared in public at Paris. He was received with loud applause, and the modesty of his
demeanour, while it accorded with the impressions of his character derived from his whole conduct,
and the style of his public writings, sufficiently shewed, that his time had been spent more
in camps than in courts. We were much pleased to find, that full justice was done to his merits
as an officer by all ranks of the allied armies. On the day that he entered Paris, the watch-word
in the whole armies in the neighbourhood was Wellington, and the countersign Talavera. We have
often heard Russian and Prussian officers say, "he is the hero of the war:--we have conquered
the French by main force, but his triumphs are the result of superior skill."

* * *

We found, as we had expected, that Marshal Blucher was held in the highest estimation in the
allied army, chiefly on account of the promptitude and decision of his judgment, and the unconquerable
determination of his character. We were assured, that notwithstanding the length and severity
of the service in which he had been engaged during the campaign of 1814, he expressed the greatest
regret at its abrupt termination; and was anxious to follow up his successes, until the remains
of the French army should be wholly dispersed, and their leader unconditionally surrendered.
An English gentleman who saw him at the time of the action in which a part of his troops were
engaged at Soissons, a few days previous to the great battle at Laon, gave a striking account
of his cool collected appearance on that occasion. He was lying in profound silence, wrapped
up in his cloak, on the snow, on the side of a hill overlooking the town, smoking his pipe,
and occasionally looking through a telescope at the scene of action. At length he rose up,
saying, it was not worth looking at, and would come to nothing. In fact, the main body of the
French army was marching on Rheims, and he was obliged to retire and concentrate his forces,
first on Craon, and afterwards on Laon, before he could bring on a general action.

He bore the fatigues of the campaign without any inconvenience, but fell sick on the day after
he entered Paris, and resigned his command, requesting only of General Sacken, the governor
of the town, that he would allot him lodgings from which he could look out upon Montmartre,
the scene of his last triumph. He never appeared in public at Paris; but we had the pleasure
of seeing him in a very interesting situation. We had gone to visit the Hotel des Invalides,
and on entering the church under the great dome, we found this great commander, accompanied
only by his son and another officer, leaning on the rails which encircle the monument of Turenne.
We followed him into a small apartment off the church, where the bodies of Marshals Bessieres
and Duroc, and the hearts of Generals Laroboissiere and Barraguay D'Hilliers, lay embalmed
under a rich canopy of black velvet, in magnificent coffins, which were strewed with flowers
every morning by the Duchess of Istria, the widow of Bessieres, who came thither regularly
after mass. This room was hung with black, and lighted only by a small lamp, which burnt under
the canopy, and threw its light in the most striking manner on the grey hairs and expressive
countenance of the old Marshal, as he stood over the remains of his late antagonists in arms.
He heard the name of each with a slight inclination of his head, gazed on the coffins for some
moments in silence, and then turned about, and, as if to shew that he was not to be moved by
his recollections, he strode out of the chapel humming a tune.

He had vowed to recover possession of the sword of the great Frederic, which used to hang in
the midst of the 10,000 standards of all nations that waved under the lofty dome of this building;
but on the day that the allies entered Paris, the standards were taken down and burnt, and
the sword was broken to pieces, by an order, as was said, from Maria Louisa.

It is right to notice here, that the famous Silesian army which he commanded, consisted originally
of many more Russian troops than Prussians,--in the proportion, we were told, of four to one,
although the proportion of the latter was afterwards increased. Indeed it was at first the
intention of the Emperor of Russia to put himself at the head of this army; but he afterwards
gave up that idea, saying, that he knew the Russians and Prussians would fight well, and act
cordially together; but that the presence of the Sovereigns would be more useful in keeping
together the heterogeneous materials composing the army then forming in Bohemia, which afterwards
had the name of the grand army.

We have heard different opinions expressed as to the share which General Gneisenau, the chief
of the staff of the Silesian army, had in directing the operations of that army. This General
is universally looked on as an officer of first-rate merit, and many manœuvres of great importance
are believed to have been suggested by him; yet it was to the penetrating judgment and enthusiastic
spirit of the old Marshal, that the officers whom we saw seemed most disposed to ascribe their
successes.

* * *

We were much struck by the courteous and dignified manners of old Count Platoff. Even at that
time, before he had experienced British hospitality, he professed high admiration for the British
character, individual as well as national, saying, that he looked on every Englishman as his
brother; and he was equally candid in expressing his detestation of the French, not even excepting
the ladies. We, however, saw him receive one or two Frenchmen, who were presented to him by
his friends, with his accustomed mildness. His countenance appeared to us expressive of considerable
humour, and he addressed a few words to almost every Cossack of the guard whom he met in passing
through the court of the Elysee Bourbon, which were always answered by a hearty laugh. During
the two last campaigns of the war he had been almost constantly at head-quarters, and his advice,
we were assured, was much respected.

On the night after the battle of Borodino, Count Platoff, we were told, bivouacked on the field,
in front of the position originally occupied by the Russians[1], and on the next day he covered
their retreat with his Cossacks. One of the Princes of Hesse Philipsthal, an uncommonly handsome
young man, who had volunteered to act as an aid-de-camp of his, had his leg shot away close
to his side. Amputation was immediately performed above the middle of his thigh; he was laid
on a peasant's cart, and carried 350 versts almost without stopping. However, he recovered
perfectly, and petitioned the Emperor to be allowed to wear ever after the Cossack uniform.
We saw him in it at Paris, going on crutches, but regretting in strong terms that he was to
see no more fighting.

On the day before the French entered Moscow, Count Platoff, and some other officers, from one
of whom we had this anecdote, breakfasted with Count Rostapchin at his villa in the vicinity
of the town, which it had been the delight of his life to cultivate and adorn. After breakfast,
Count Rostapchin assembled his servants and retainers; and after saying that he hoped his son
and latest descendants would always be willing to make a similar sacrifice for the good of
their country, he took a torch, set fire to the building with his own hands, and waited until
it was consumed. He then rode into the town to superintend the destruction of some warehouses
full of clothes, of a number of carts, and of other things which might be useful to the enemy.
But he did not, as we were assured by his son, whom we met at Paris, order the destruction
of the town. The French, enraged at the loss of what was most valuable to them, according to
the uniform account of the Russians, set fire in a deliberate and methodical manner to the
different streets. It is but justice to say, however, that French officers, who had been at
Moscow, denied the truth of the latter part of this statement.

* * *

The Russian troops in the neighbourhood of Paris were under the immediate command of General
Count Miloradovitch, a man of large property, and unbounded generosity, and an enthusiast in
his profession. He had been in the habit of always making the troops under his command some
kind of present on his birth-day. During the retreat of the French from Moscow, this day came
round when he was not quite prepared for it. "I have no money here," said he to his soldiers;
"but yonder," pointing to a French column, "is a present worthy of you and of me." This address
was a prelude to one of the most successful attacks, made during the pursuit, on the French
rear-guard.

The other Russian commanders, whom we heard highly spoken of by the Russian officers whom we
met, were, the Marshal commanding, Barclay de Tolly, in whose countenance we thought we could
trace the indications of his Scotch origin;--he is an old man, and was commonly represented
as "sage, prudent, tres savant dans la guerre."--Wigtenstein, who is much younger, and is designated
as "ardent, impetueux, entreprenant," &c.--Benigsen, who is an old man, but very active, and
represented to be as fond of fighting as Blucher himself;--Count Langeron, and Baron Sacken,
the commanders of corps in the Silesian army. The former is a French emigrant, but has been
long in the Russian service, and highly distinguished himself. The latter is an old man, but
very spirited, and highly esteemed for his honourable character: in his capacity of Governor
of Paris, he gave very general satisfaction.--Woronzoff, who, as is well known, was educated
in England, and who distinguished himself at Borodino, and in the army of the north of Germany,
and afterwards in France under Blucher--Winzingerode, one of the best cavalry officers, formerly
in the Austrian service--Czernicheff, the famous partisan, a gallant gay young man, whose characteristic
activity is strongly marked in his countenance--Diebzitch, a young staff officer of the first
promise, since promoted to the important situation of Chef de l'etat major--Lambert (of French
extraction), and Yermoloff: This last officer commanded the guards when we were at Paris, and
was represented as a man of excellent abilities, and of a most determined character.

To shew the determined spirit of some of the Russian generals, we may mention an anecdote of
one of them, which we repeatedly heard. On one occasion, the troops under the command of this
general were directed to defile over a bridge, under a very heavy fire from the enemy. Observing
some hesitation in their movements, he said, with perfect coolness, "If they don't go forward,
I will take care they shall not come back;" and planted a battery of 12 pounders in their rear,
pointing directly at the bridge, in view of which they forced the passage in the most gallant
style.

The spirit of emulation which prevailed in all ranks of the Russian army, during the war, was
worthy of the cause in which they were engaged. The following anecdote, we think, deserves
commemoration. Two officers of rank had aspired to the same situation in the army, and exerted
all their influence to obtain it. The successful candidate had the command of the famous redoubt
at Borodino, when it was carried by the French. The other, who had a subordinate command just
behind it, immediately came up to him, and asked leave to retake it for him. No, replied he;
if you go there, I must be along with you. They collected what force they could, entered the
redoubt together, and regained it at the point of the bayonet; but the officer who originally
commanded in it was killed by the side of his rival. The latter, immediately after the battle,
was promoted to the situation which he had so ardently desired; but his enjoyment of it was
long and visibly embittered by the recollection of the event to which he owed his appointment.

The number of Russian prisoners taken by the French during the war was very trifling, and we
were assured, that there was no instance in the whole course of it, of a single Russian battalion
or squadron laying down its arms. The number of prisoners taken by the Cossacks alone, from
the time when the French left Moscow until the passage of the Niemen, was 90,000, and the number
of cannon 550. It is true that these were for the most part stragglers, and men unable to fight;
but it must be remembered, that many of them could only have been overtaken in their flight
by these hardy and enterprising troops. To prove the value of the service rendered by the Cossacks,
it is only necessary to observe, that many of the officers who distinguished themselves most
in all the campaigns, Platoff, Orloff Denizoff, Wasilchikoff, Czernicheff, Tettenborn, &c.
commanded Cossacks almost exclusively, and attributed much of their success to the quality
of their troops. Most of the Cossacks whom we saw appeared to be well disciplined, and had
a truly military air; and we were told, that all the 83 regiments of Cossacks are at present
in a state of tolerable discipline. We cannot go so far as Dr Clarke in praise of their cleanliness,
but we often observed their native easy courtesy of manner; and there can be no doubt, as he
observes, of their being a much handsomer race than the generality of Russians. Their figures
are more graceful, and their features are higher, and approach often to the Roman style of
countenance. One troop of the Cossacks of the guards, composed of those from the Black Sea,
attracted our particular admiration; and the noble manly figures of the men, the elegant forms
of the horses, and the picturesque appearance of the arms and uniforms of the whole body of
Cossacks of the guard, were very striking. The hereditary Prince of Georgia was at Paris as
one of the Colonels of this regiment, and his figure and countenance were such as might have
rendered him remarkable even in his native country, in which the "human form divine" is understood
to attain its highest perfection.

The Cossacks were kept in good order when under the inspection of their officers; but during
the campaigns, they were often obliged to act in patroles, two or three together, at a distance
from their officers; and in these situations, it may be supposed that they would commit many
excesses. Immediately after a battle, they plundered all they met, and at all times, and in
all places, they looked on horses as fair game, insomuch that it was often remarked in the
allied armies, that they believed horses to have been created for none but Cossacks. It was
said, that almost every Cossack of the corps of Czernicheff was worth from £. 300 to £. 400
in money and watches, which most of them spent much after the manner of British sailors.

* * *

Some idea of the expenditure of human life, during the campaign of 1812, may be formed from
the following facts, which we had from unquestionable authority: The number of killed and wounded
on both sides at the battle of Borodino, which did not extend from flank to flank more than
three English miles, was ascertained to exceed 75,000 men. Eighteen thousand wounded Russians
were dressed on the field, and sent off in carts. When the Russian army crossed the Niemen,
in pursuit of the French, they left behind them 87,000 sick and wounded in hospitals, of which
number 63,000 were wounded. The whole number of human bodies, Russian and French, men, women,
and children, which were collected and buried or burnt, after the retreat from Moscow to the
Niemen, exceeded 300,000.

The officers of the Russian medical staff spoke in terms of the utmost indignation of the conduct
of the French medical staff, in deserting their charge on the approach of the Russian armies.
A great part of the town of Wilna, and surrounding villages, had been converted into hospitals
for the French army, and when the Russians arrived, they found these hospitals wholly deserted
by the medical men. The sick (many of them labouring under infectious fevers), and the wounded,
were huddled together, without provisions, attendants, or the slightest regard to their situation.
The first step of the Russian officers who were entrusted with the care of these hospitals,
was to employ a number of Jews to clear out the corpses, some of which had lain there for three
weeks; and when these were collected and burnt, their number was found to exceed 16,000; the
sick were then separated from the wounded; and as soon as order was re-established, the Emperor
of Russia visited the hospitals himself, to be assured that every possible attention was paid
to their surviving inmates.

During the whole of the winter of 1812 and the year 1813, a typhus fever was very prevalent
in the French army, and in many places, particularly on the fortresses on the Elbe, and in
Frankfort and Mentz, it made dreadful ravages; but it never extended, to any considerable degree,
among the Russians. This was partly owing, no doubt, to the influence of exciting passions
on the constitutions of the men; but much must certainly be ascribed to the admirable arrangements
of the Russian hospital staff, which, under the superintendance of our countryman, Sir James
Wyllie, have attained, in a few years, a surprising degree of excellence. The state of the
Russian hospitals at Paris, under the direction of another countryman, Dr Crichton, was universally
admired.

The Russian imperial guard is, we believe, the finest body of men in Europe; the whole number,
when the regiments are all complete, is about 30,000; but the effective men at Paris did not
exceed 20,000. These are made up from time to time, by picked men from the whole army. The
charge of one of the regiments of cuirassiers, 1000 strong, upon the Champ de Mars, was one
of the finest sights imaginable. The clattering of the horses feet on hard ground, and the
rattling of the armour, increasing as they advanced, exceeded the sound of the loudest thunder.

Their horses are not so heavy as those of the English dragoons, but they have evidently more
blood in them, and their power of bearing fatigues and privations is quite wonderful. We were
told by the officer commanding one of these regiments, that almost all the horses we saw in
Paris, in the finest possible condition, were on the Niemen when the French crossed it in 1812,
and had borne the fatigues of the retreat to Moscow, and of the advance during the dreadful
winter which had proved so fatal to the French army; as well as of the winter campaign of 1814
in France, which was carried on, almost entirely, during frost and snow. The Russian soldiers
bore the extreme cold of the former winter in a manner hardly less wonderful; we were assured
that they were not more warmly clothed than the French; but they were accustomed to the climate,
were comparatively well fed, and were animated by victory, while their antagonists were depressed
by famine and despair.

The equipment of the artillery of the guard is probably the completest in the world;--each
gun of the horse artillery is followed by three tumbrils of ammunition, and the artillerymen
being all mounted and armed, a battery of horse artillery is fitted to act in a double capacity.
One of these batteries, of 12 pieces, on the march, with all its accompaniments, takes up fully
half-a-mile of road.

The regiments of infantry are of various strength; all are composed of the finest men, in point
of strength and military appearance, but they appeared to us rather inadequately officered.
Of the physical powers of this body of men, no better proof can be given, than their having
marched, within 24 hours, on the 22d and 23d of March, a distance of 18 leagues, or 54 miles,
which they did at two marches, resting three hours, without any straggling. The occasion on
which they most highly distinguished themselves was at Culm, where four regiments of them (about
8000 men) stopped, for two days, in the defiles of the Riesen Gebirge, the whole corps of Vandamme.
The regiment Pavloffsky, who were made guards for their conduct at Borodino, attracted particular
attention; they wear caps faced with brass, whence the French soldiers, who know them well,
call them the Bonnets d'Or; and many of them preserve with much care the marks of the bullets
by which these have been pierced.

The Russian soldiers, at least of the guard, have almost universally dark complexions, their
features are generally low, and their faces broad. The officers and soldiers of the Prussian
guard, which is about 8000 strong, and in an equally high state of discipline and equipment,
are, on the whole, handsomer men, having generally fair hair, blue eyes, high features, and
ruddy complexions.

A great number of the Prussian officers have a fine expression of romantic enterprise in their
countenances; and it is well known, that the whole Prussian nation, long oppressed by the presence
of French armies, entered into the war with France with a spirit of energy and union that never
was surpassed. The formation of the legion of revenge,--the desertion of all seminaries of
education, by teachers as well as pupils,--the substitution of ornaments in iron, for gold
and jewellery, by the ladies of Berlin and other towns, are striking instances of this popular
feeling. The war-song, composed by a young student from Konigsberg, which was sung in the heat
of battle by the regiment of volunteer hussars to which he belonged, and the author of which
was basely slain by a French prisoner whom he had neglected to disarm,--to judge of it by a
version which appeared in the newspapers, and by the enthusiasm with which the Prussians speak
of it, is worthy of being translated by one of our noblest poets.

All the nations of Germany have strong feelings of patriotism associated with the sight, and
even with the name of the Rhine. When the Austrians, in one of the last actions of the campaign
of 1813, carried the heights of Hockheim, in the neigbourhood of Mentz, and first came in sight
of that river, they involuntarily halted, and stood for some minutes in silence; when the Prince
Marshal coming up to know the cause of the delay, their feelings burst forth in peals of enthusiastic
acclamation, as they again advanced to the charge. The Prussian corps of the army of Silesia,
destined to force the passage of the river, assembled on the right bank on the evening of the
31st of December 1813, determined to begin the year with the conquest to which they had long
aspired; and just at midnight the first boats pulled off from the shore, the oars keeping time
to thousands of voices, who sung words adapted to a favourite national air by the celebrated
Schlegel, the beginning of which is, literally translated, "The Rhine shall no longer be our
boundary,--it is the great artery of Germany, and it shall flow through the heart of our empire."

The Austrians whom we saw at Paris, were in general strong heavy looking men. Their cavalry
were universally admired; but the Russians and Prussians complained much of the general dilatoriness
of their movements, and in particular, of the quantity of baggage waggons with which their
march was encumbered. Upon one occasion, some hundreds of these fell into the hands of the
French, to the great amusement of the Russians. The Bavarians and Wirtembergers had the character,
both in Russia and France, of fighting very hard, and plundering freely. This last accomplishment,
as well as their military arrangements, they had learnt from the French; and their conduct
in this respect in France itself, might be said to be actuated by a kind of poetical justice.

* * *

We were highly gratified by this review of the whole Russian and Prussian guard which we saw
in the Bois de Boulogne and road to St Germain, on the 30th of May. They were drawn up in a
single line, extending at least six miles. The allied Sovereigns, followed by the Princes of
Russia, Prussia and France, the French Marshals, and all the leading officers of the allied
armies, rode at full speed along the line; and the loud huzzas of the soldiers, which died
away among the long avenues of elm trees, as the cloud of dust which enveloped them receded
from the view, were inexpressibly sublime.

The appearance of these troops on parade was such, that but for the traces which long exposure
to all changes of weather had left on their countenances, it never could have been supposed
that they had been engaged in long marches. They had always marched and fought in their great
coats and small blue caps, carrying their uniforms in their knapsacks. On the night before
they entered Paris, however, they put them on, and marched into the town in as fine parade
order as that in which they had left Petersburg. The Parisians, who had been told that the
allied armies were nearly annihilated, and only a wreck left, expressed their astonishment
with their usual levity: "Au moins," said they, "C'est un beau debris."

While the uniforms, arms, and accoutrements of these troops were in the highest order, they
seemed to take a pride in displaying the worn and faded standards, torn by the winds and pierced
with bullets, under which they had served during the whole campaigns. Their services might
also be judged of from the medals of the year 1812, which almost all the Russians bore, and
to which all without distinction of rank are entitled, who were exposed to the enemy's fire
during that campaign; and from the insignia of various orders, which in both the services extend
to privates as well as officers. The effect of these honorary rewards on the minds of the men
is certainly very great; and it is perhaps to be regretted that there is no institution of
the same kind in the British service. The spirit of our soldiers, as all the world knows, needs
no such stimulus; but if a measure of this kind could in any degree gratify their military
feelings, surely their country owes them the gratification; and what can be more pleasing to
a soldier than to see his officers and his Sovereign proud to display honours which he shares
along with them? The Russians appear to set a value on these medals and decorations, which
clearly shews the wisdom of the policy by which they were granted. Almost every wounded soldier
wears them even when lying in hospital, and in the hour which teaches the insignificance of
all the titles of kings, and all the treasures of the universe, he still rejoices, that he
can lay these testimonies of his valour and fidelity beside the small crucifix which he brought
with him from his home, and which, with a superstition that accords better with the true military
spirit than the thoughtless infidelity of the French, he has carried in his bosom through all
the chances of war.

CHAPTER III.

PARIS--ITS PUBLIC BUILDINGS.

With whatever sentiments a stranger might enter Paris at the time we did, his feelings must
have been the same with regard to the monuments of ancient magnificence, or of modern taste,
which it contained. All that the vanity or patriotism of a long series of Sovereigns could
effect for the embellishment of the capital in which they resided; all that the conquests of
an ambitious and unprincipled Army could accumulate from the spoils of the nations whom they
had subdued, were there presented to the eye of the stranger with a profusion which obliterated
every former prejudice, and stifled the feelings of national emulation in exultation at the
greatness of human genius.

The ordinary buildings of Paris, as every traveller has observed, and as all the world knows,
are in general mean and uncomfortable. The height and gloomy aspect of the houses; the narrowness
of the streets, and the want of pavement for foot passengers, convey an idea of antiquity,
which ill accords with what the imagination had anticipated of the modern capital of the French
empire. This circumstance renders the admiration of the spectator greater when he first comes
in sight of its public edifices; when he is conducted to the Place Louis Quinze, or the Pont
Neuf, from whence he has a general view of the principal buildings of this celebrated capital.
With the single exception of the view of London from the terrace of the Adelphi, there is no
point in our own country where the effect of architectural design is so great as in the situations
which have now been mentioned. The view from the former of these combines many of the most
striking objects which Paris has to present. To the east, the long front of the Thuilleries
rises over the dark mass of foliage which covers its gardens; to the south, the picturesque
aspect of the town is broken by the varied objects which the river presents, and the fine perspective
of the Bridge of Peace, terminating in the noble front of the palace of the Legislative Body;
to the west, the long avenues of the Elysian Fields are closed by the pillars of a triumphal
arch which Napoleon had commenced; while to the north, the beautiful façade of the Palace itself,
leaves the spectator only room to discover at a greater distance the foundation of the Temple
of Glory, which he had commenced, and in the execution of which he was interrupted by those
ambitious enterprises to which his subsequent downfall was owing. To a painter's eye, the effect
of the whole scene is increased by the rich and varied foreground which everywhere presents
itself, composed of the shrubs with which the skirts of the square are adorned, and the lofty
poplars which rise amidst the splendour of architectural beauty; while recent events give a
greater interest to the spot from which this beauty is surveyed, by the remembrance, that it
was here that Louis XVI. fell a martyr to the revolutionary principles, and that it was here
that the Emperor Alexander and the other princes of Europe took their station, when their armies
passed in triumph through the walls of Paris.

The view from the Pont Neuf, though not so striking upon the whole, embraces objects of greater
individual beauty. The gay and animated quays of the city covered with foot-passengers, and
with all the varied exhibitions of industrious occupation, which, from the warmth of the climate,
are carried on in the open air;--the long and splendid front of the Louvre and Thuilleries;--the
bold projection of the Palais des Arts, of the Hotel de la Monnaie, and other public buildings
on the opposite side of the river;--the beautiful perspective of the bridges, adorned by the
magnificent colonnade which fronts the Palace of the Legislative Body;--and the lofty picturesque
buildings of the centre of Paris surrounding the more elevated towers of Notre Dame, form a
scene, which, though less perfect, is more striking, and more characteristic, than the scene
from the centre of the Place Louis Quinze, which has been just described. It conveys at once
a general idea of the French capital; of that mixture of poverty and splendour by which it
is so remarkably distinguished; of that grandeur of national power, and that degradation of
individual importance, which marked the ancient dynasty of the French nation. It marks too,
in a historical view, the changes of the public feeling which the people of this country have
undergone, from the distant period when the towers of Notre Dame rose amidst the austerity
of Gothic taste, and were loaded with the riches of Catholic superstition, to that boasted
æra, when the loyalty of the French people exhausted the wealth and the genius of the country,
to decorate with classic taste the residence of their Sovereigns; and lastly, to those later
days, when the names of religion and of loyalty have alike been forgotten; when the national
exultation reposed only on the trophies of military greatness, and the iron yoke of imperial
power was forgotten in the monuments which record the deeds of imperial glory.

To the general observation on the inferiority of the common buildings in Paris, there are some
remarkable exceptions. The Boulevards, the remains of the ancient ramparts of the city, are
in general beautiful, from their circular form, from their uniform breadth, from the magnificence
of the detached palaces with which they abound, and from the rows of fine trees with which
they are shaded. In the skirts of the town, and more especially in the Fauxbourg St Germain,
the beauty of the streets is greatly increased by the detached hotels or villas, surrounded
by gardens, which are everywhere to be met with, in which the lilac, the laburnum, the Bois
de Judeé, and the acacia, grow in the most luxuriant manner, and on the green foliage of which
the eye reposes with singular delight amidst the bright and dazzling whiteness of the stone
with which they are surrounded.

The Hotel des Invalides, the Chelsea Hospital of France, is one of the objects on which the
Parisians principally pride themselves, and to which a stranger is conducted immediately after
his arrival in that capital. The institution itself appears to be well conducted, and to give
general satisfaction to the wounded men who have there found an asylum from the miseries of
war. We were informed that these men live in habits of perfect harmony among each other; a
state of things widely different from that of our veterans in Greenwich Hospital, and which
is probably chiefly owing to the cheerfulness and equanimity of temper which form the best
feature in the French character. There is something in the style of the architecture of this
building, which accords well with the object to which it is devoted. The front is distinguished
by a simple manly portico, and a dome of the finest proportion rises above its centre, which
is visible from all parts of the city. This dome was gilded by order of Bonaparte: and however
much a fastidious taste may regret the addition, it certainly gave an air of splendour to the
whole, which was in perfect unison with the feelings of exultation which the sight of this
monument of military glory was then fitted to awaken among the French people. The exterior
of this edifice was formerly surrounded by cannon captured by the armies of France at different
periods: and ten thousand standards, the trophies of victory during the wars of two centuries,
waved under its splendid dome, and enveloped the sword of Frederic the Great, which hung from
the centre, until the 31st of March 1814, when, as already observed, they were all burnt by
order of Maria Louisa, to prevent their falling into the victorious hands of the allied powers.

If the character of the architecture of the Hotel des Invalides accords well with the object
to which that building is destined, the character of the Louvre is not less in unison with
the spirit of the fine arts, to which it is consecrated. It is impossible for language to convey
any adequate idea of the impression which this exquisite building awakens in the mind of a
stranger. The beautiful proportions, and the fine symmetry of the great façade, give an air
of simplicity to the distant view of this edifice, which is not diminished, on nearer approach,
by the unrivalled beauty of its ornaments and detail; but when you cross the threshold of the
portico, and pass under its noble archway into the inner-court, all considerations are absorbed
in the throb of admiration which is excited by the sudden display of all that is lovely and
harmonious in Grecian architecture. You find yourself in the midst of the noblest and yet chastest
display of architectural beauty, where every ornament possesses the character by which the
whole is distinguished, and where the whole possesses the grace and elegance which every ornament
presents:--You find yourself on the spot where all the monuments of ancient art are deposited;--where
the greatest exertions of mortal genius are preserved--and where a palace has at last been
raised worthy of being the depository of the collected genius of the human race.--It bears
a higher character than that of being the residence of imperial power; it seems destined to
loftier purposes than to be the abode of earthly greatness; and the only forms by which its
halls would not be degraded, are those models of ideal perfection which the genius of ancient
Greece created to exalt the character of a heathen world.

Placed in a more elevated spot, and destined to a still higher object, the Pantheon bears in
its front the traces of the noble purpose for which it was intended.--It was intended to be
the cemetery of all the great men who had deserved well of their country; and it bears the
inscription, above its entrance, Aux grands Hommes La Patrie reconnoissante. The character
of its architecture is well adapted to the impression it is intended to convey, and suits the
simplicity of the inscription which its portico presents. Its situation has been selected with
singular taste, to aid the effect which was thus intended. It is placed at the top of an eminence,
which shelves in a declivity on every side; and the immediate approach is by an immense flight
of steps, which form the base of the building, and increase the effect which its magnitude
produces. Over the entrance is placed a portico of lofty pillars, finely proportioned, supporting
a magnificent entablature of the simplest order; and the whole terminates in a dome of vast
dimensions, forming the highest object in the whole city. The impression which every one must
feel in crossing its threshold, is that of religious awe; the individual is lost in the greatness
of the objects with which he is surrounded, and he dreads to enter what seems the abode of
a greater Power, and to have been framed for the purposes of more elevated worship. The Louvre
might have been fitted for the gay scenes of ancient sacrifice; it suits the brilliant conceptions
of heathen mythology; and seems the fit abode of those ideal forms, in which the imagination
of ancient times embodied their conception of divine perfection; but the Pantheon is adapted
for a holier worship, and accords with the character of a purer belief; and the vastness and
solitude of its untrodden chambers awaken those feelings of human weakness, and that sentiment
of human immortality, which befit the temple of a spiritual faith.

We were involuntarily led, by the sight of this great monument of sacred architecture in the
Grecian style, to compare it with the Gothic churches which we had seen, and in particular
with the Cathedral of Beauvais, the interior of which is finished with greater delicacy, and
in finer proportions, than any other edifice of a similar kind in France. The impression which
the inimitable choir of Beauvais produced, was widely different from that which we felt on
entering the lofty dome of the Pantheon at Paris. The light pinnacles, the fretted roof, the
aspiring form of the Gothic edifice, seemed to have been framed by the hands of aerial beings,
and produced, even from a distance, that impression of grace and airiness which it was the
peculiar object of this species of Gothic architecture to excite. On passing the high archway
which covers the western door, and entering the immense aisles of the Cathedral, the sanctity
of the place produces a deeper impression, and the grandeur of the forms awakens profounder
feelings. The light of the day is excluded, the rays of the sun come mellowed through the splendid
colours with Which the windows are stained, and cast a religious light over the marble pavement
which covers the floor; while the eye reposes on the harmonious forms of the lancet windows,
or is bewildered in the profusion of ornament with which the roof is adorned. The impression
which the whole produces, is that of religious emotion, singularly suited to the genius of
Christianity; if is seen in that obscure light which fits the solemnity of religious duty,
and awakens those feelings of intense delight, which prepare the mind for the high strain of
religious praise. But it is not the deep feeling of humility and weakness which is produced
by the dark chambers and massy pillars of the Pantheon at Paris; it is not in the mausoleum
of the dead that you seem to wander, nor on the thoughts of the great that have gone before
you that the mind revolves; it is in the scene of thanksgiving that your admiration is fixed;
it is with the emblems of Hope that your devotion is awakened, and with the enthusiasm of gratitude
that the mind is filled. Beneath the gloomy roof of the Grecian Temple, the spirit is concentrated
within itself: it seeks the repose which solitude affords, and meditates on the fate of the
immortal soul; but it loves to follow the multitude into the Gothic Cathedral, to join in the
song of grateful praise which peals through its lengthened aisles, and to share in the enthusiasm
which belongs to the exercise of common devotion.

The Cathedral of Notre Dame is the only Gothic building of note in Paris, and it is by no means
equal to the expectations we had been led to form of it. The style of its architecture is not
that of the finest Gothic; it has neither the exquisite lightness of ornament which distinguishes
the summit of Gloucester Cathedral, nor the fine lancet windows which give so unrivalled a
beauty to the interior of Beauvais, nor the richness of roof which covers the tombs of Westminster
Abbey. Its character is that of massy greatness; its ornaments are rich rather than elegant,
and its interior striking more from its immense size than the beauty of the proportion in which
it is formed. In spite of all these circumstances, however, the Cathedral of Notre Dame produces
a deep impression on the mind of the beholder; its towers rise to a stupendous height above
all the buildings which surround them; while the stone of every other edifice is of a light
colour, they alone are black with the smoke of centuries; and exhibit a venerable aspect of
ancient greatness in the midst of the brilliancy of modern decoration with which the city abounds.
Even the crowd of ornaments with which they are loaded, and the heavy proportion in which they
are built, are forgotten in the effect which their magnitude produces; they suit the gloomy
character of the building they adorn, and accord with the expression of antiquated power by
which its aged forms are now distinguished.

To those who have been accustomed to the form of worship which is established in Protestant
countries, there is nothing so striking in the Catholic churches as the complete oblivion of
rank, or any of the distinctions of established society, which there universally prevails.
There are no divisions of seats, nor any places fixed for any particular classes of society.
All, of whatever rank or station, kneel alike upon the marble pavement; and the whole extent
of the church is open for the devotion of all classes of the people. You frequently see the
poorest citizens with their children kneeling on the stone close to those of the highest rank,
or the most extensive fortunes. This custom may appear painful to those who have been habituated
to the forms of devotion in the English churches; but it produces an impression on the mind
of the spectator which nothing in our service is capable of effecting. To see the individual
form lost in the immensity of the objects with which he is surrounded; to see all ranks and
ages blended in the exercise of common devotion; to see all distinction forgotten in the sense
of common infirmity, suits the spirit of that religion which was addressed to the poor as well
as to the rich, and fits the presence of that Being before whom all ranks are equal.

Nor is it without a good effect upon the feelings of mankind, that this custom has formed a
part of the Catholic service. Amidst that degradation of the great body of the people, which
marks the greater part of the Catholic countries--amidst the insolence of aristocratic power,
which the doctrines of the Catholic faith are so well suited to support, it is fitting that
there should be some occasions on which the distinctions of the world should be forgotten;
some moments in which the rich as well as the poor should be humbled before a greater power--in
which they should be reminded of the common faith in which they have been baptized, of the
common duties to which they are called, and the common hopes which they have been permitted
to form.

We had the good fortune to see high mass performed in Notre Dame, with all the pomp of the
Catholic service, for the souls of Louis XVI. Marie Antoinette, and the Dauphin, on May 16,
1814, soon after the King's arrival in Paris. The Cathedral was hung with black in every part;
the brilliancy of day wholly excluded, and it was lighted only by double rows of wax tapers,
which burned round the coffins, placed in the centre of the choir. It was crowded to excess
in every part; all the Marshals, Peers, and dignitaries of France, were stationed with the
Royal Family near the centre of the Cathedral, and all the principal officers of the allied
armies attended at the celebration of the service. The King was present, though without being
perceived by the vast assembly by whom he was surrounded; and the Duchess d'Angouleme exhibited,
in this melancholy duty, that mixture of firmness and sensibility by which her character has
always been distinguished.

It was said, that there were several persons present at this solemn service who had voted for
the death of the King; and many of those assembled must doubtless have been conscious that
they had been instrumental in the death of those for whose souls this solemn service was now
performing. The greater part, however, of those whom we had an opportunity of observing, exhibited
the symptoms of genuine sorrow, and seemed to participate in the solemnity with unfeigned devotion.
The Catholic worship was here displayed in its utmost splendour; all the highest prelates of
France were assembled to give dignity to the spectacle; and all that art could devise was exhausted
to render the scene impressive in the eyes of the people. To us, however, who had been habituated
to the simplicity of the English form, the variety of unmeaning ceremony, the endless gestures
and unceasing bows of the clergy who officiated, destroyed the impression which the solemnity
of the service would otherwise have produced. But though the service itself appeared ridiculous,
the effect of the whole scene was sublime in the greatest degree. The black tapestry hung in
heavy folds round the sides of the Cathedral, and magnified the impression which its vastness
produced. The tapers which surrounded the coffins threw a red and gloomy light over the innumerable
multitude which thronged the floor; their receding rays faintly illuminated the farther recesses,
or strained to pierce the obscure gloom in which the summits of the pillars were lost; while
the sacred music pealed through the distant aisles, and deepened the effect of the thousands
of voices which joined in the strains of repentant prayer.

Among the exhibitions of art to which a stranger is conducted immediately after his arrival
in the French metropolis, there is none which is more characteristic of the disposition of
the people than the Musèe des Monumens François, situated in the Rue des Petits Angustins.
This is a collection of all the finest sepulchral monuments from different parts of France,
particularly from the Cathedral of St Denis, where the cemetery of the royal family had, from
time immemorial, been placed. It is said by the French, that the collection of these monuments
into one museum was the only means of preserving them from the fury of the people during the
revolution; and certainly nothing but absolute necessity could have justified the barbarous
idea of bringing them from the graves they were intended to adorn, to one spot, where all associations
connected with them are destroyed. It is not the mere survey of the monuments of the dead that
is interesting,--not the examination of the specimens of art by which they may be adorned;--it
is the remembrance of the deeds which they are intended to record,--of the virtues they are
destined to perpetuate,--- of the pious gratitude of which they are now the only testimony--above
all, of the dust they actually cover. They remind us of the great men who formerly filled the
theatre of the world,--they carry us back to an age which, by a very natural illusion, we conceive
to have been both wiser and happier than our own, and present the record of human greatness
in that pleasing distance when the great features of character alone are remembered, when time
has drawn its veil over the weaknesses of mortality, and its virtues are sanctified by the
hand of death. It is a feeling fitted to elevate the soul; to mingle the thoughts of death
with the recollection of the virtues by which life had been dignified, and renovate in every
heart those high hopes of religion which spring from, the grave of former virtue.

All this delightful, this purifying illusion, is destroyed by the way in which the monuments
are collected in the Museum at Paris. They are there brought together from all parts of France;
severed from the ashes of the dead they were intended to cover; and arranged in systematic
order to illustrate the history of the art whose progress they unfold. The tombs of all the
Kings of France, of the Generals by whom its glory has been extended, of the statesmen by whom
its power, and the writers by whom its fame has been established, are crowded together in one
collection, and heaped upon each other, without any other connexion than that of the time in
which they were originally raised. The Museum accordingly exhibits, in the most striking manner,
the power of arrangement and classification which the French possess; it is valuable, as containing
fine models of the greatest men whom France has produced, and exhibits a curious specimen of
the progress of art, from its first commencement to the period of its greatest perfection;
but it has wholly lost that deep and peculiar interest which belongs to the monuments of the
dead in their original situation.

Adjoining to the Museum, is a garden planted with trees, in which many of the finest monuments
are placed; but in which the depravity of the French taste appears in the most striking manner.
It is surrounded with houses, and darkened by the shade of lofty buildings; yet, in this gloomy
situation, they have placed the tomb of Fenelon, and the united monument of Abelard and Eloise:
profaning thus, by the barbarous affectation of artificial taste, and the still more shocking
imitation of ancient superstition, the remains of those whose names are enshrined in every
heart which can feel the beauty of moral excellence, or share in the sympathy with youthful sorrow.

How different are the feelings with which an Englishman surveys the untouched monuments of
English greatness!--and treads the floor of that venerable building which shrouds the remains
of all who have dignified their native land--in which her patriots, her poets, and her philosophers,
"sleep with her kings, and dignify the scene," which the rage of popular fury has never dared
to profane, and the hand of victorious power has never been able to violate; where the ashes
of the immortal dead still lie in undisturbed repose, under that splendid roof which covered
the tombs of her earliest kings, and witnessed, from its first dawn, the infant glory of the
English people.--Nor could the remembrance of the national monuments we have described, ever
excite in the mind of a native of France, the same feeling of heroic devotion which inspired
the sublime expression of Nelson, as he boarded the Spanish Admiral's ship at St Vincent's--"Westminster
Abbey or Victory!"

Though the streets in Paris have an aged and uncomfortable appearance, the form of the houses
is such, as, at a distance, to present a picturesque aspect. Their height, their sharp and
irregular tops, the vast variety of forms which they assume when seen from different quarters,
all combine to render a distant view of them move striking than the long rows of uniform houses
of which London is composed. The domes and steeples of Paris, however, are greatly inferior,
both in number and magnificence, to those of the English capital.

The gardens of the Thuilleries and the Luxembourg, of which the Parisians think so highly,
and which are constantly filled with all ranks of citizens, are laid out with a singularity
of taste, of which, in this country, we can scarcely form any conception. The straight walks--the
clipt trees--the marble fountains--are fast wearing out in all parts of England; they are to
be met with only round the mansions of ancient families, and even there are kept rather from
the influence of ancient prejudice, or from the affection to hereditary forms, than from their
coincidence with the present taste of the English people. They are seldom, accordingly, disagreeable,
with us, to the eye of the most cultivated taste; their singularity forms a pleasing variety
to the continued succession of lawns and shrubberies which is every where to be met with; and
they are regarded rather as the venerable marks of ancient splendour, than as the barbarous
affectation of modern distinction. In France, the native deformity of this taste appears in
its real light, without the colouring of any such adventitious circumstances as conceal it
in this country. It does not appear there under the softening veil of ancient manners; its
avenues do not conduct to the decaying abode of hereditary greatness--its gardens do not mark
the scenes of former festivity--its fountains are not covered with the moss which has grown
for centuries. It appears as the model of present taste; it is considered as the indication
of existing splendour; and sought after, as the form in which the beauty of Nature is now to
be admired. All that association accordingly had blended in our minds with the style of ancient
gardening in our own country, was instantly divested by its appearance in France; and we felt
then the whole importance of that happy change in the national taste, whereby variety has been
made to succeed to uniformity, and the imitation of nature to come in the place of the exhibition
of art.

In every country, and in every department of taste, the earliest object of art is, the display
of the power of the artist; and it is in the last period of its improvements alone, that this
miserable propensity is overcome. It is hence that the imitation of Nature is not what is at
first attempted; that the forms which she presents are uniformly neglected, and the merit of
the artist is thought to consist in such artificial designs as bear the most unequivocal marks
of his individual dexterity. The forms of nature are every where to be met with--they are open
to the most vulgar capacity; the power of art, therefore, it is at first thought, must be shown
in the complete subjugation of natural form, or the complete abandonment of natural beauty.
It is hence that florists uniformly take delight in double flowers and monsters, which are
the farthest removed from the forms of nature; and it is hence that gardeners always evince
so great an anxiety to conduct strangers to the most ridiculous contortion of natural form,
which their domains can exhibit. There is nothing unnatural or vulgar in this propensity; it
pervades all branches of taste at a certain stage of its progress, and all ranks of society,
to whom a limited capacity of mind is granted. It is hence that every society exhibits examples
of individuals, who aim at singularity of manners, merely that they may be different from the
generality of mankind; it is hence that many persons, even of a cultivated mind, shut their
eye to the charms of beauty in every department of taste, merely that they may display their
own wretched vanity in criticising its imperfections; it is hence that painters select the
moment of passion or exertion, for no other reason than for the display of their anatomical
knowledge, or their skill in the delineation of extraordinary emotion; and that poets have
so often neglected what is really pathetic in the scenes, either of nature or of man, to present
the artificial conceptions of their learning or fancy. In all these instances, the degradation
of taste arises from the vain anxiety of men to display the power of the artist, and their
utter forgetfulness of the end of the Art.

The remarkable characteristic of the taste of France is, that this love of artificial beauty
continues with undiminished force, at a period when, in other nations, it has given place to
a more genuine love for the beauty of nature. In them, the natural progress of refinement has
led from the admiration of the art of imitation to the love of the subjects imitated. In France,
this early prejudice, continues in its pristine vigour at the present moment: They never lose
sight of the effort of the artist; their admiration is fixed not on the quality or object in
nature, but on the artificial representation of it; not on the thing signified, but the sign.
It is hence that they have such exalted ideas of the perfection of their artist David, whose
paintings are nothing more than a representation of the human figure in its most extravagant
and phrenzied attitudes; that they are insensible to the simple display of real emotion, but
dwell with delight upon the vehement representation of it which their stage exhibits; and that,
leaving the charming heights of Belleville, or the sequestered banks of the Seine, almost wholly
deserted, they crowd to the stiff alleys of the Elysian Fields, or the artificial beauties
of the gardens of Versailles.

In the midst of Paris this artificial style of gardening is not altogether unpleasing; it is
in unison, in some measure, with the regular character of the buildings with which it is surrounded;
and the profusion of statues and marble vases continues the impression which the character
of their palaces is fitted to produce. But at Versailles, at St Cloud, and Fountainbleau, amidst
the luxuriance of vegetation, and surrounded by the majesty of forest scenery, it destroys
altogether the effect which arises from the irregularity of natural beauty. Every one feels
straight borders, and square porticoes and broad alleys, to be in unison with the immediate
neighbourhood of an antiquated mansion; but they become painful when extended to those remoter
parts of the grounds, when the character of the scene is determined by the rudeness of uncultivated
nature.

There are some occasions, nevertheless, on which the gardens of the Thuilleries present a beautiful
spectacle, in spite of the artificial taste in which they are formed. From the warmth of the
climate, the Parisians, of all classes, live much in the open air, and frequent the public
gardens in great numbers during the continuance of the fine weather. In the evening especially,
they are filled with citizens, who repose themselves under the shade of the lofty trees, after
the heat and the fatigues of the day; and they then present a spectacle of more than ordinary
interest and beauty. The disposition of the French suits the character of the scene, and harmonises
with the impression which the stillness of the evening produces on the mind. There is none
of that rioting or confusion by which an assembly of the middling classes in England is too
often disgraced; no quarrelling or intoxication even among the poorest ranks, and little appearance
of that degrading want which destroys the pleasing idea of public happiness. The people appear
all to enjoy a certain share of individual prosperity; their intercourse is conducted with
unbroken harmony, and they seem to resign themselves to those delightful feelings which steal
over the mind during the stillness and serenity of a summer evening.

Still more beautiful perhaps, is the appearance of this scene during the stillness of the night,
when the moon throws her dubious rays over the objects of nature. The gardens of the Thuilleries
remain crowded with people, who seem to enjoy the repose which universally prevails, and from
whom no sound is to be heard which can break the stillness or serenity of the scene. The regularity
of the forms is wholly lost in the masses of light and shadow that are there displayed; the
foliage throws a chequered shade over the ground beneath, while the different vistas of the
Elysian Fields are seen in that soft and mellow light by which the radiance of the moon is
so peculiarly distinguished. After passing through these favourite scenes of the French people,
we frequently came to small encampments of the allied troops in the remote parts of the grounds.
The appearance of these bivouacks, composed of Cossack squadrons, Hungarian hussars, or Prussian
artillery, in the obscurity of moonlight, and surrounded by the gloom of forest scenery, was
beyond measure striking. The picturesque forms of the soldiers, sleeping on their arms under
the shade of the trees, or half hid by the rude huts which they had erected for their shelter;
the varied attitudes of the horses standing amidst the waggons by which the camp was followed,
or sleeping beside the veterans whom they had borne through all the fortunes of war; the dark
masses of the artillery, dimly discerned in the shades of night, or faintly reflecting the
pale light of the moon, presented a scene of the most beautiful description, in which the rude
features of war were softened by the tranquillity of peaceful life; and the interest of present
repose was enhanced by the remembrance of the wintry storms and bloody fields through which
these brave men had passed, during the memorable campaigns in which they had been engaged.
The effect of the whole was increased by the perfect stillness which everywhere prevailed,
broken only at intervals by the slow step of the sentinel, as he paced his rounds, or the sweeter
sounds of those beautiful airs, which, in a far distant country, recalled to the Russian soldier
the joys and the happiness of his native land.

CHAPTER IV.

ENVIRONS OF PARIS.

St Cloud was the favourite residence of Bonaparte, and, from this circumstance, possesses an
interest which does not belong to the other imperial palaces. It stands high, upon a lofty
bank overhanging the Seine, which takes a bold sweep in the plain below; and the steep declivity
which descends to its banks is clothed with magnificent woods of aged elms. The character of
the scenery is bold and rugged;--the trees are of the wildest forms, and the most stupendous
height, and the banks, for the most part, steep and irregular. It is here, accordingly, that
the French gardening appears in all its genuine deformity; and that its straight walks and
endless fountains display a degree of formality and art, destructive of the peculiar beauty
by which the scene is distinguished. These gardens, however, were the favourite and private
walks of the Emperor;--it was here that he meditated those schemes of ambition which were destined
to shake the established thrones of Europe;--it was under the shade of this luxuriant foliage
that he formed the plan of all the mighty projects which he had in contemplation;--it was in
the splendid apartments of this palace that the Councils of France assembled, to revolve on
the means of permanently destroying the English power:--It was here too, by a most remarkable
coincidence, that his destruction was finally accomplished;--that the last convention was concluded,
by which his second dethronement was completed;--and that the victorious arms of England dictated
the terms of surrender to his conquered capital.

When we visited St Cloud, it was the head-quarters of Prince Schwartzenberg; and the Austrian
grenadiers mounted guard at the gates of the Imperial Palace. The banks of the Seine, below
the Palace, were covered by an immense bivouack of Austrian troops, and the fires of their
encampment twinkled in the obscurity of twilight amidst the low brushwood with which the sides
of the river were clothed. The appearance of this bivouack, dimly discerned through the rugged
stems of lofty trees, or half-hid by the luxuriant branches which obscured the view;--the picturesque
and varied aspect of the plain covered with waggons, and all the accompaniments of military
service;--the columns of smoke rising from the fires with which it was interspersed, and the
innumerable horses crowded amidst the confused multitude of men and carriages, or resting in
more sequestered spots on the sides of the river, with their forms finely reflected in its
unruffled waters--presented a spectacle which exhibited war in its most striking aspect, and
gave a character to the scene which would have suited the romantic strain of Salvator's mind.

St Germain, though less picturesquely situated than St Cloud, presents features, nevertheless,
of more than ordinary magnificence. The Palace, now converted into a school of military education
by Napoleon, is a mean irregular building, though it possesses a certain interest, by having
been long the residence of the exiled house of Stuart. The situation, however, is truly fitted
for an imperial dwelling; it stands on the edge of a high bank overhanging the Seine, at the
end a magnificent terrace, a mile and a half long, built on the projecting heights which edge
the river. The walk along this terrace is the finest spectacle which the vicinity of Paris
has to present. It is backed along its whole extent by the extensive forest of St Germain,
the foliage of which overhangs the road, and in the recesses of which you can occasionally
discern those beautiful peeps which form the peculiar characteristic of forest scenery. The
steep bank which descends to the river is clothed with orchards and vineyards in all the luxuriance
of a southern climate; and in front, there is spread beneath your feet the wide plain in which
the Seine wanders, whose waters are descried at intervals through the woods and gardens with
which its banks are adorned; while, in the farthest distance, the towers of St Denis, and the
heights of Paris, form an irregular outline on the verge of the horizon. It is a scene exhibiting
the most beautiful aspect of cultivated nature, and would have been the fit residence for a
Monarch who loved to survey his subjects' happiness: but it was deserted by the miserable weakness
of Louis XIV., because the view terminated in the cemetery of the Kings of France, and his
enjoyment of it would have been destroyed by the thoughts of mortal decay.

Versailles, which that monarch chose as the ordinary abode of his splendid Court, is less favourably
situate for a royal dwelling, though the view from the great front of the palace is beautifully
clothed with luxuriant woods. The palace itself is a magnificent building of great extent,
loaded with the riches of architectural beauty, but destitute of that fine proportion and lightness
of ornament, which spread so indescribable a charm over the Palace of the Louvre. The interior
is in a state of lamentable decay, having been pillaged at the commencement of the revolutionary
fury, and formed into a barrack for the republican soldiers, the marks of whose violence are
still visible in the faded splendour of its magnificent apartments. They still shew, however,
the favourite rooms of Marie Antoinette, the walls of which are covered with the finest mirrors,
and some remains of the furniture are still preserved, which even the licentious fury of the
French army seems to have been afraid to violate. The gardens on which all the riches of France,
and all the efforts of art, were so long lavished, present a painful monument of the depravity
of taste: but the Petit Trianon, which is a little palace built of marble, and surrounded by
shrubberies in the English style, exhibits the genuine beauty of which the imitation of nature
is susceptible. This palace contains a suite of splendid apartments, fitted up with singular
taste, and adorned with a number of charming pictures; it was the favourite residence of Maria
Louisa, and we were there shewn the drawing materials which she used, and some unfinished sketches
which she left, in which, we were informed, she much delighted, and which bore the marks of
a cultivated taste.

We frequently enquired concerning the character and occupations of this Empress, at all the
palaces where she usually dwelt, and uniformly received the same answer:--She was everywhere
represented as cold, proud, and haughty in her manner, and unconciliating in her ordinary address.
Her time was much spent in private, in the exercise of religious duty, or in needle-work and
drawing; and her favourite seat at St Cloud was between two windows, from one of which she
had a view over the beautiful woods which clothe the banks of the river, and from the other
a distant prospect of the towers and domes of Paris.

Very different was the character which belonged to the former Empress, the first wife of Bonaparte,
Josephine: She passed the close of her life at the delightful retreat of Malmaison, a villa
charmingly situated on the banks of the Seine, seven miles from Paris, on the road to St Germain.
This villa had been her favourite residence while she continued Empress, and formed her only
home after the period of her divorce;--here she lived in obscurity and retirement, without
any of the pomp of a court, or any of the splendour which belonged to her former rank,--occupied
entirely in the employment of gardening, or in alleviating the distresses of those around her.
The shrubberies and gardens were laid out with singular beauty, in the English taste, and contained
a vast variety of rare flowers, which she had for a long period been collecting. These shrubberies
were to her the source of never-failing enjoyment; she spent many hours in them every day,
working herself, or superintending the occupations of others; and in these delightful occupations
seemed to return again to all the innocence and happiness of youth. She was beloved to the
greatest degree by all the poor who inhabited the vicinity of her retreat, both for the gentleness
of her manner, and her unwearied attention to their sufferings and their wants; and during
the whole period of her retirement, she retained the esteem and affection of all classes of
French citizens. The Emperor Alexander visited her repeatedly during the stay of the allied
armies in Paris; and her death occasioned an universal feeling of regret, rarely to be met
with amidst the corruption and selfishness of the French metropolis.

There was something singularly striking in the history and character of this remarkable woman:--Born
in a humble station, without any of the advantages which rank or education could afford, she
was early involved in all the unspeakable miseries of the French revolution, and was extricated
from her precarious situation only by being united to that extraordinary man, whose crimes
and whose ambition have spread misery through every country of Europe: Rising through all the
gradations of rank through which he passed, she everywhere commanded the esteem and regard
of all those who had access to admire her private virtues; and when at length she was raised
to the rank of Empress, she graced the imperial throne with all the charities and virtues of
a humbler station. She bore, with unexampled magnanimity, the sacrifice of power and of influence
which she was compelled to make: She carried into the obscurity of humble life all the dignity
of mind which befitted the character of an Empress of France; and exercised, in the delightful
occupations of country life, or in the alleviation of the severity of individual distress,
that firmness of mind and gentleness of disposition, with which she had lightened the weight
of imperial dominion, and softened the rigour of despotic power.

The Forest of Fontainbleau exhibits scenery of a more picturesque and striking character than
is to be met with in any other part of the north of France. It is situated 40 miles from Paris,
on the great road to Rome, and the appearance of the country through which this road runs,
is for the most part flat and uninteresting. It runs through a continued plain, in a straight
line between tall rows of elm trees, whose lower branches are uniformly cut off for firewood
to the peasantry; and exhibits, for the most part, no other feature than the continued riches
of agricultural produce. At the distance of seven miles from the town of Fontainbleau, you
first discern the forest, covering a vast ridge of rocks, stretching as far as the eye can
reach, from right to left, and presenting a dark irregular outline on the surface of the horizon.
The cultivation continues, with all its uniformity, to the very foot of the ridge; but the
moment you pass the boundaries of the forest, you find yourself surrounded at once with all
the wildness and luxuriance of natural scenery. The surface of the ground is broken and irregular,
rising at times into vast piles of shapeless rocks, and enclosing at others small vallies,
in which the wood grows in endless beauty, unblighted by the chilling blasts of northern climates.
In these vallies, the oak, the ash, and the beech, exhibit the peculiar magnificence of forest
scenery, while, on the neighbouring hills, the birch waves its airy foliage round the dark
masses of rock which terminate the view. Nothing can be conceived more striking than the scenery
which this variety of rock and wood produce in every part of this romantic forest. At times
you pass through an unbroken mass of aged timber, surrounded by the native grandeur of forest
scenery, and undisturbed by any traces of human habitation, except in those rude paths which
occasionally open a passing view into the remoter parts of the forest. At others, the path
winds through great masses of rock, piled in endless confusion upon each other, in the crevices
of which the fern and the heath grow in all the luxuriance of southern vegetation; while their
summits are covered by aged oaks of the wildest forms, whose crossing boughs throw an eternal
shade over the ravines below, and afford room only to discern at the farthest distance the
summits of those beautiful hills, on which the light foliage of the birch trembles in the ray
of an unclouded sun, or waves on the blue of a summer heaven.

To those who have had the good fortune to see the beautiful scenery of the Trosachs in Scotland,
of Matlock in Derbyshire, or of the wooded Fells in Cumberland, it may afford some idea of
the Forest of Fontainbleau, to say that it combines scenery of a similar description with the
aged magnificence of Windsor Forest. Over its whole extent there are scattered many detached
oaks of vast dimensions, which seem to be of an older race in the growth of the Forest,--whose
lowest boughs stretch above the top of the wood which surrounds them,--and whose decayed summits
afford a striking contrast to the young and luxuriant foliage with which their stems are enveloped.
When we visited Fontainbleau, it was occupied by the old imperial guard, which still remained
in that station after the abdication of Bonaparte; and we frequently met parties, or detached
stragglers of them, wandering in the most solitary parts of the Forest. Their warlike and weather-beaten
appearance; their battered arms and worn accoutrements; the dark plumes of their helmets, and
the sallow ferocious aspect of their countenances, suited the savage character of the scenery
with which they were surrounded, and threw over the gloom and solitude of the Forest that wild
expression with which the genius of Salvator dignified the features of uncultivated nature.

The town and palace of Fontainbleau are situate in a small plain near the centre of the forest,
and surrounded on all sides by the rocky ridges with which it is everywhere intersected. The
palace is a large irregular building, composed of many squares, and fitted up in the inside
with the utmost splendour of imperial magnificence. We were there shewn the apartments in which
Napoleon dwelt during his stay in the palace, after the capture of Paris by the allied troops;
and the desk at which he always wrote, and where his abdication was signed. It was covered
with white leather, scratched over in every direction, and marked with innumerable wipings
of the pen, among which we perceived his own name, Napoleon, frequently written as in a very
hurried and irregular hand; and one sentence which began, Que Dieu, Napoleon, Napoleon. The
servants in the palace agreed in stating, that the Emperor's gaiety and fortitude of mind never
deserted him during the ruin of his fortune; that he was engaged in his writing-chamber during
the greater part of the day, and walked for two hours on the terrace, in close conversation
with Marshal Ney. Several officers of the imperial guard repeated the speech which he made
to his troops on leaving them after his abdication of the throne, which was precisely what
appeared in the English newspapers. So great was the enthusiasm produced by this speech among
the soldiers present, that it was received with shouts and cries of Vive l'Empereur, A Paris,
A Paris! and when he departed under the custody of the allied Commissioners, the whole army
wept; there was not a dry eye in the multitude who were assembled to witness his departure.
Even the imperial guard, who had been trained in scenes of suffering from their first entry
into the service--who had been inured for a long course of years to the daily sight of human
misery, and had constantly made a sport of all the afflictions which are fitted to move the
human heart, shared in the general grief; they seemed to forget the degradation in which their
commander was involved, the hardships to which they had been exposed, and the destruction which
he had brought upon their brethren in arms; they remembered him when he stood victorious on
the field of Austerlitz, or passed in triumph through the gates of Moscow; and shed over the
fall of their Emperor those tears of genuine sorrow which they denied to the deepest scenes
of private suffering, or the most aggravated instances of individual distress. It is impossible
not to regret that feelings so exalting to human nature should have been awakened by one who
shared so little in their enthusiasm himself; that the sufferings of thousands should have
been forgotten in the fate of one to whom the miseries of others never afforded a subject of
regret; and that the only occasion on which generous sentiments were manifested by the French
army, should have been the overthrow of that power by which their ambition and their wickedness
had been supported.

We had the good fortune to see the infantry of the old guard drawn up in line in the streets
of Fontainbleau, and their appearance was such as fully answered the idea we had formed of
that body of veteran soldiers, who had borne the French eagles through every capital of Europe.
Their aspect was bold and martial; there was a keenness in their eyes which bespoke the characteristic
intelligence of the French soldiers, and a ferocity in the expression of their countenances
which seemed to have been unsubdued even by the unparalleled disasters in which their country
had been involved. The people of the town itself complained in the bitterest terms of their
licentious conduct, and repeatedly said, that they dreaded them more as friends than the Cossacks
themselves as enemies. They seemed to harbour the most unbounded resentment against the people
of this country; their countenances bore the expression of the strongest enmity as we walked
along their line, and we frequently heard them mutter among themselves, in the most emphatic
manner, Sacre Dieu, voila des Anglois!--Whatever the atrocity of their conduct, however, might
have been, to the people of their own, as well as every other country, it was impossible not
to feel the strongest emotion at the sight of the veteran soldiers whose exploits had so long
rivetted the attention of all who felt an interest in the civilized world. These were the men
who first raised the glory of the republican armies on the plains of Italy; who survived the
burning climate of Egypt, and chained victory to the imperial standards at Jena, at Austerlitz,
and at Friedland--who followed the career of victory to the walls of the Kremlin, and marched
undaunted through the ranks of death amid the snows of Russia;--who witnessed the ruin of France
under the walls of Leipsic, and struggled to save her falling fortune on the heights of Laon;
and who preserved, in the midst of national humiliation, and when surrounded by the mighty
foreign Powers, that undaunted air and unshaken firmness, which, even in the moment of defeat,
commanded the respect of their antagonists in arms.

Beyond the town of Fontainbleau, there rises a ridge of steep hills, which prevents any view
in that direction into the distant parts of the forest. The road to their summit lies through
the Imperial Gardens, and is surrounded by the artificial forms and regular walks which mark
the character of the French gardening. When you reach the summit, however, the character of
the scene instantly changes, and you pass at once into the utmost wildness of desolated nature.
The foreground is broken by barren rock, or covered with the beautiful forms of the weeping
birch; immediately below there lies a lonely valley, strewed with masses of grey stone, without
the slightest trace of human habitation, while, in the farthest distance, the forest is discerned,
clothing the sides of those broken ridges which rise in endless confusion on the surface of
the horizon. At the moment when we reached this spot, the sun was setting in the west; the
cold grey of the stone which covered the ravines was dimly discerned through the obscure light
which the approach of night produced, while the rugged outline of the rocks beyond was projected
in the deepest shadow on the bright light of the departing day.

There is no scenery round Paris so striking as the forest of Fontainbleau, but the heights
of Belleville exhibit nature in a more pleasing aspect, and are distinguished by features of
a gentler character. Montmartre, and the ridge of Belleville, form those celebrated heights
which command Paris on the northern side, and which were so obstinately contested between the
allies and the French on the 30th March 1814, previous to the capture of Paris by the allied
Sovereigns. Montmartre is covered for the most part with houses, and presents nothing to attract
the eye of the observer, except the extensive view which is to be met with at its summit. The
heights of Belleville, however, are varied with wood, with orchards, vineyards, and gardens,
interspersed with cottages and villas, and cultivated with the utmost care. There are few inclosures,
but the whole extent of the ground is thickly studded with walnuts, fruit-trees, and forest
timber, which, from a distance, give it the appearance of one continued wood. On a nearer approach,
however, you find it intersected in every direction by small paths, which wind among the vineyards,
or through the woods with which the hills are covered, and present at every turn those charming
little scenes which form the peculiar characteristic of woodland scenery. The cottages half
hid by the profusion of fruit-trees, or embosomed in the luxuriant woods with which they are
everywhere surrounded, increase the interest which the scenery itself is fitted to produce:
they combine the delightful idea of the peasant's enjoyment with the beauty of the spot on
which his dwelling is placed; and awaken, in the midst of the boundless luxuriance of vegetable
nature, those deeper feelings of moral delight, which spring from the contemplation of human
happiness.

To a northern eye, there is nothing so delightful as this luxuriance of vegetation, which rises
amidst the warmth of southern climates. The sterile rocks and rugged mountains of northern
regions exhibit nature in her native rudeness, her features bear a harsher aspect, and her
forms are expressive of more melancholy feeling; but under the genial warmth of a southern
sun, she is arrayed in a robe of softer colours, and beams with the expression of a gentler
character. She there appears surrounded by the luxuriance of vegetable life: she pours forth
her bounty with a profusion which the partizans of utility would call prodigality, and covers
the earth with a splendour of beauty, which serves no other purpose than to minister to the
delight of human existence. Amidst the riches with which man is surrounded, his destiny appears
happier than in more desolate situations; we forget the sufferings of the individual in the
profusion of beauty with which he is surrounded; and impute to the inhabitants of these delightful
regions, those feelings of happiness which spring in our own minds from the contemplation of
the scenery in which they are placed.

The effect of the charming scenery on the heights of Belleville is much increased by the distant
objects which terminate some parts of the view. To the east, the high and gloomy towers of
Vincennes rise over the beautiful woods with which the sides of the hill are adorned, and give
an air of solemnity to the scene, arising from the remembrance of the tragic events of which
it was the theatre. To the south, the domes and spires of Paris can occasionally be discovered
through the openings of the wood with which the foreground is enriched, and present the capital
at that pleasing distance, when the minuter part of the buildings are concealed, when its prominent
features alone are displayed, and the whole is softened by the obscure light which distance
throws over the objects of nature. To an English mind, the effect of the whole is infinitely
increased, by the animating associations with which this scenery is connected;--by the remembrance
of the mighty struggle between freedom and slavery, which was here terminated;--of the heroic
deeds which were here performed, and the unequalled magnanimity which was here displayed. It
was here that the expiring efforts of military despotism were overthrown--that the armies of
Russia stood triumphant over the power of France, and nobly avenged the ashes of their own
capital, by sparing that of their prostrate enemy.

When we visited the heights of Belleville, the traces of the recent struggle were visibly imprinted
on the villages and woods with which the hill is covered. The marks of blood were still to
be discerned on the chaussée which leads through the village of Pantin; the elm trees which
line the road were cut asunder, or bored through with cannon shot, and their stems riddled
in many parts with the incessant fire of the grape shot. The houses in La Villette, Belleville
and Pantin, were covered with the marks of musket shot; the windows of many were shattered,
or wholly destroyed, and the interior of the rooms broken by the balls which seemed to have
pierced every part of the buildings. So thickly were the houses in some places covered with
these marks, that it appeared almost incredible how any one could have escaped from so destructive
a fire. Even the beautiful gardens with which the slope of the heights are adorned, and the
inmost recesses of the wood of Romainville, bore throughout the marks of the desperate struggles
which they had lately witnessed, and exhibited the symptoms of fracture or destruction in the
midst of the luxuriance of natural beauty; yet, though they had so recently been the scene
of mortal combat; though the ashes of the dead yet lay in heaps on different parts of the field
of battle, the prolific powers of nature were undecayed: the vines clustered round the broken
fragments of the instruments of war,--the corn spread a sweeter green over the fields, which
were yet wet with human blood, and the trees waved with renovated beauty over the uncoffined
remains of the departed brave; emblematic of the decay of man, and of the immortality of nature.

The French have often been accused of selfishness, and the indifference which they often manifest
to the fate of their relations, affords too much reason to believe that the social affections
have little permanent influence on their minds. We must, however, admit, that they exhibit
in misfortunes of a different kind--in calamities which really press upon their own enjoyments
of life, the same gaiety of heart, and the same undisturbed equanimity of disposition. That
gaiety in misfortune, which is so painful to every observer, when it is to be found in the
midst of family-distress, becomes delightful when it exists under the deprivation of the selfish
gratification to which the individual had been accustomed. Both here, and in other parts of
France, where the houses of the peasants had been wholly destroyed by the allied armies, we
had occasion frequently to observe and admire the equanimity of mind with which these poor
people bore the loss of all their property. For an extent of 30 miles in one direction, towards
the North of Champagne, every house near the great road had-been burnt or pillaged for the
firewood which it contained, both by the French and the allied armies, and the people were
everywhere compelled to sleep in the open air. When we spoke to them on the subject of their
losses, they answered with smiles, "Tout est detruit: tout est brulè, tout, tout;" and seemed
to derive amusement from the completeness of the devastation. The men were everywhere rebuilding
their fallen walls, with a cheerfulness which never would have existed in England under similar
circumstances; and the little children laboured in the gardens during the day, and slept under
the vines at night, without exhibiting any signs of distress for their disconsolate situation.
In many places, we saw groupes of these little children in the midst of the ruined houses,
or under the shattered trees, playing with the musket shot, or trying to roll the cannon balls
by which the destruction of their dwellings had been effected;--exhibiting a picture of youthful
joy and native innocence, while sporting with the instruments of human destruction, which the
genius of Sir Joshua Reynolds would have moulded into the expression of pathetic feeling, or
employed as the means of moral improvement.

CHAPTER V.

PARIS--THE LOUVRE.

To those who have had the good fortune to see the pictures and statues which were preserved
in the Louvre, all description of these works must appear superfluous; and to those who have
not had this good fortune, such an attempt could convey no adequate idea of the objects which
are described. There is nothing more uninteresting than the catalogue of pictures which are
to be found in the works of many modern travellers; nor any thing in general more ridiculous
than the ravings of admiration with which this catalogue is described, and with which the reader
in general is little disposed to sympathise. Without attempting, therefore, to enumerate the
great works which were there to be met with, we shall confine ourselves to a simpler object,
to the delineation of the general character by which the different schools of painting are
distinguished, and the great features in which they all differ from the sculpture of ancient
times. For the justice of these observations, we must of course appeal to those who have examined
this great collection; and in the prosecution of them, we pretend to nothing more than the
simple account of the feelings which, we are persuaded, must have occurred to all those who
have viewed it without any knowledge of the rules which art has established, or the more despicable
principles which connoisseurs have maintained.

For an attempt of this kind, the Louvre presented, singular advantages, from the unparalleled
collection of paintings of every school and description which was there to be met with, and
the facility with which you could trace the progress of the art from its first beginning to
the period of its greatest perfection. And it is in this view that the collection of these
works into one museum, however much to be deplored as the work of unprincipled ambition, and
however much it may have diminished the impression which particular objects, from the influence
of association, produced in their native place, was yet calculated, we conceive, to produce
the greatest of all improvements in the progress of the art, by divesting particular schools
and particular works of the unbounded influence which the effect of early association, or the
prejudices of national feeling, have given them in their original situation, and placing them
where their real nature is to be judged of by a more extended circle, and subjected to the
examination of more impartial sentiments.

The character of every school of painting has been determined by some peculiar circumstances
under which that school first originated, which have contributed to form its greatest excellencies,
and been the real source of its principal defects; and it has unfortunately happened, that
the unbounded admiration for the great production of these schools has everywhere formed the
national taste, and tended to perpetuate their errors, when the progress of society would otherwise
have led to their earlier abandonment. It deserves well to be considered, therefore, whether
the restoration of these monuments of art to their original situations, while it must unquestionably
enhance the veneration with which they will severally be regarded, may not perpetuate the defects
which particular circumstances have stamped on their school of composition; and whether the
continuance of them in one vast collection, however fatal to the implicit veneration for the
works of antiquity, was not calculated, by the comparison of their excellencies and the exhibition
of their defects, to form a new school, possessed of a more general character, and adapted
for the admiration of a more unbiassed public. It is in the despotic reign of arbitrary governments,
if we may be allowed, in a discussion on matters of taste, to borrow an illustration from politics,
that the influence of ancient error, and the power of ancient prejudice, is most unbounded;
but it is in the unbiassed discussion which distinguishes a free state, that the influence
of prejudice is forgotten, and truth emerges from the collision of opposite opinions. However
this may be, it will not, it is hoped, be deemed an useless attempt, if we now endeavour to
state, in a few words, the impression which was produced by this great collection of the works
of art, which has been felt, we doubt not, by all who have viewed it with untutored eyes, but
has not hitherto been described by those so much better able to do justice to it than ourselves.

The first hall of the Louvre in the Picture Gallery is filled with paintings of the French
school. The principal artists whose works are here exhibited are, Le Brun, Gaspar and Nicolas
Poussin, Claude Lorrain, Vernet, and the modern painters Gerard and David. The general character
of the school of French historical painting, is the expression of passion and violent emotion.
The colouring is for the most part brilliant; the canvas crowded with figures, and the incident
selected, that in which the painter might have the best opportunity of displaying his knowledge
of the human frame, or the varied expression of the human countenance. In the pictures of the
modern school of French painting, this peculiarity is pushed to an extravagant length, and,
fortunately for the art, displays the false principles on which the system of their composition
is founded. The moment seized is uniformly that of the strongest and most violent passion;
the principal actors in the piece are represented in a state of phrenzied exertion, and the
whole anatomical knowledge of the artist is displayed in the endless contortions into which
the human frame is thrown. In David's celebrated picture of the three Horatii, this peculiarity
appears in the most striking light. The works of this artist may excite admiration, but it
is the limited and artificial admiration of the schools; of those who have forgot the end of
the art in the acquisition of the technical knowledge with which it is accompanied, or the
display of the technical powers which its execution involves.

The paintings of Vernet, in this collection, are perhaps the finest specimens of that beautiful
master, and they entitle him to a higher place in the estimation of mankind than he seems yet
to have obtained from the generality of observers. There is a delicacy of colouring, an unity
of design, and a harmony of expression in his works, which accord well with the simplicity
of the subjects which his taste has selected, and the general effect which it was his object
to produce. In the representation of the sun dispelling the mists of a cloudy morning; of his
setting rays gilding the waves of a western sea; or of that undefined beauty which moonlight
throws over the objects of nature, the works of this artist are perhaps unrivalled.

The paintings of Claude are by no means equal to what we had expected, from the celebrity which
his name has acquired, or the matchless beauty which the engravings from him possess. They
are but eleven in number, and cannot be in any degree compared with those which are to be found
in Mr Angerstein's collection. To those, however, who have been accustomed to study the designs
of this great master, through the medium of the engraved copies, and above all, in the unrivalled
works of Woollet, the sight of the original pictures must, perhaps at all times, create a feeling
of disappointment. There is an unity of effect in the engravings which can never be met with
amidst the distraction of colouring in the original pictures; and the imagination clothes the
beautiful shades of the copy with finer tints than even the pencil of Claude has been able
to supply. "I have shewn you," said Corinne to Oswald, "St Peter's for the first time, when
the brilliancy of its decorations might appear in full splendour, in the rays of the sun: I
reserve for you a finer, and a more profound enjoyment, to behold it by the light of the moon."
Perhaps there is a distinction of the same kind between the gaudy brilliancy of varied colours,
and the chaster simplicity of uniform shadows; and it is probably for this reason, that on
the first view of a picture which you have long admired in the simplicity of engraved effect,
you involuntarily recede from the view, and seek in the obscure light and uncertain tint which
distance produces, to recover that uniform tone and general character, which the splendour
of colouring is so apt to destroy. It is a feeling similar to that which Lord Byron has so
finely described, as arising from the beauty of moonlight scenery:--

    ------"Mellow'd to that tender light
    Which Heaven to gaudy day denies."

The Dutch and Flemish school, to which you next advance, possesses merit, and is distinguished
by a character of a very different description. It was the well-known object of this school,
to present an exact and faithful imitation of nature; to exaggerate none of its faults, and
enhance none of its excellencies, but exhibit it as it really appears to the eye of an ordinary
spectator. Its artists selected, in general, some scene of humour or amusement, in the discovery
of which, the most ignorant spectators might discover other sources of pleasure than those
which the merit of the art itself afforded. They did not pretend, in general, to aim at the
exhibition of passion or powerful emotion: their paintings, therefore, are free from that painful
display of theatrical effect, which characterises the French school; their object was not to
represent those deep scenes of sorrow or suffering, which accord with the profound feelings
which it was the object of the Italian school to awaken; they want, therefore, the dignity
and grandeur which the works of the greater Italian painters possess: their merit consists
in the faithful delineation of those ordinary scenes and common occurrences, which are familiar
to the eye of the most careless observer. The power of the painter, therefore, could be displayed
only in the minuteness of the finishing, or the brilliancy of the effect; and he endeavoured,
by the powerful contrast of light and shade, to give an higher character to his works, than
the nature of their subject could otherwise admit.

The pictures of Teniers, Ostade, and Gerard Dow, possess these merits, and are distinguished
by this character in the highest degree; but their qualities are so well known in this country,
as to render any observation on them superfluous. There is a very great collection here preserved
of the works of Rembrandt, and their design and effect bear, in general, a higher character
than belongs to most of the works of this celebrated master.

In one respect, the collection in the Louvre is altogether unrivalled--in the number and beauty
of the Wouvermans which are there to be met with; nor is it possible, without having seen it,
to appreciate, with any degree of justice, the variety of design, the accuracy of drawing,
or delicacy of finishing, which distinguish his works from those of any other painter of a
similar description. There are 38 of his pieces there assembled, all in the finest state of
preservation, and all displaying the same unrivalled beauty of colouring and execution. In
their design, however, they widely differ; and they exhibit, in the most striking manner, the
real object to which painting should be applied, and the causes of the errors in which its
composition has been involved. His works, for the most part, are crowded with figures; his
subjects are in general battle-pieces, or spectacles of military pomp, or the animated scenes
which the chace presents; and he seems to have exhausted all the efforts of his genius, in
the variety of incident and richness of execution, which these subjects are fitted to afford.
From the confused and indeterminate expression, however, which the multitude of their objects
exhibit, we turn with delight to those simpler scenes in which his mind seems to have reposed,
after the fatigues which it had undergone: to the representation of a single incident, or the
delineation of a certain occurrence--to the rest of the traveller after the fatigues of the
day--to the repose of the horse in the intermission of labour--to the return of the soldier
after the dangers of the campaign;--scenes, in which every thing combines for the uniform character,
and where the genius of the artist has been able to give to the rudest occupations of men,
and even to the objects of animal life, the expression of general poetical feeling.

The pictures of Vandyke and Rubens belong to a much higher school than that which rose out
of the wealth and the limited taste of the Dutch people. There are 60 pieces of the latter
of these masters in the Louvre, and, combined with the celebrated Gallery in the Luxembourg
Palace, they form the finest assemblage of them which is to be met with in the world. The character
of his works differs essentially from that both of the French and the Dutch schools; he was
employed, not in painting cabinet pictures for wealthy merchants, but in designing great altar
pieces for splendid churches, or commemorating the glory of sovereigns in imperial galleries.
The greatness of his genius rendered him fit to attempt the representation of the most complicated
and difficult objects; but in the confidence of this genius, he seems to have lost sight of
the genuine object of composition in his art. He attempts what it is impossible for painting
to accomplish--he aims at telling a whole story by the expression of a single picture; and
seems to pour forth the profusion of his fancy, by crowding his canvas with a multiplicity
of figures, which serve no other purpose than that of shewing the endless power of creation
which the author possessed. In each figure there is great vigour of conception, and admirable
power of execution; but the whole possesses no general character, and produces no permanent
emotion. There is a mixture of allegory and truth in many of his greatest works, which is always
painful; a grossness in his conception of the female form, which destroys the symmetry of female
beauty; and a wildness of imagination in his general design, which violates the feelings of
ordinary taste. You survey his pictures with astonishment--at the power of thought and brilliancy
of colouring which they display; but they produce no lasting impression on the mind; they have
struck no chord of feeling or emotion, and you leave them with no other feeling, than that
of regret, that the confusion of objects destroys the effect which each in itself might be
fitted to produce. And if one has made a deeper impression; if you dwell on it with that delight
which it should ever be the object of painting to produce, you find that your pleasure proceeds
from a single figure, or the expression of a detached part of the picture; and that, in the
contemplation of it, you have, without being conscious of it, detached your mind from the observation
of all that might interfere with its characteristic expression, and thus preserved that unity
of emotion which is essential to the existence of the emotion of taste, but which the confusion
of incident is so apt to destroy.

A few landscapes by Ruysdael are to be here met with, which are distinguished by that boldness
of conception, fidelity of execution, and coldness of colouring, which have often been remarked
as the characteristics of this powerful master.

It is in the Italian school, however, that the collection in the Louvre is most unrivalled,
and it is from its character that the general tendency of the modern school of historical painting
is principally to be determined.

The general object of the Italian school appears to be the expression of passion. The peculiar
subjects which its painters were called on to represent, the sufferings and death of our Saviour,
the varied misfortunes to which his disciples were exposed, or the multiplied persecutions
which the early fathers of the church had to sustain, inevitably prescribed the object to which
their genius was to be directed, and the peculiar character which their works, were to assume.
They have all, accordingly, aimed at the expression of passion, and endeavoured to excite the
pity, or awaken the sympathy of the spectator; though the particular species of passion which
they have severally selected, has varied with the turn of mind which the artist possessed.

The works of Dominichino and of the Caraccis, of which there are a very great number, incline,
in general, to the representation of what is dark or gloomy in character, or what is terrific
and appalling in suffering. The subjects which the first of these masters has in general selected,
are the cells of monks, the energy of martyrs, or the sufferings of the crucifixion; and the
dark-blue coldness of his colouring, combined with the depth of his shadows, accord well with
the gloomy character which his compositions possess. The Caraccis, amidst the variety of objects
which their genius has embraced, have dwelt, in general, upon the expression of sorrow--of
that deep and profound sorrow which the subjects of Sacred History were so fitted to afford,
and which was so well adapted to that religious emotion which it was their object to excite.

Guido Reni, Carlo Maratti, and Murillo, are distinguished by a gentler character; by the expression
of tenderness and sweetness of disposition: and the subjects which they have chosen are, for
the most part, those which were fitted for the display of this predominant expression--the
Holy Family, the flight into Egypt, the youth of St John, the penitence of the Magdalene. While,
in common with all their brethren, they have aimed at the expression of emotion, it was an
emotion of a softer kind than that which arose from the energy of passion, or the violence
of suffering; it was the emotion produced by more permanent feelings; and less turbulent affections;
and from the character of this emotion, their execution has assumed a peculiar cast, and their
composition been governed by a peculiar principle. Their colouring is seldom brilliant; there
is a subdued tone pervading the greater part of their pictures; and they have limited themselves,
in general, to the delineation of a single figure, or a small group, in which a single character
of mind is prevalent.

Of the numerous and splendid collection of Titian's which are here preserved, it is not necessary
to give any description, because they consist for the most part of portraits, and our object
is not to dwell on the richness of colouring, or powers of execution, but on the principles
of composition by which the different schools of painting are distinguished.

There are only six paintings by Salvator Rosa in this collection, but they bear that wild and
original character which is proverbially known to belong to the works of this great artist.
One of his pieces is particularly striking, a skirmish of horse, accompanied by all the scenery
in which he so peculiarly delighted. In the foreground is the ruins of an old temple, with
its lofty pillars finely displayed in shadow above the summits of the horizon;--in the middle
distance the battle is dimly discerned through the driving rain, which obscures the view; while
the back ground is closed by a vast ridge of gloomy rocks, rising into a dark and tempestuous
sky. The character of the whole is that of sullen magnificence; and it affords a striking instance
of the power of great genius, to mould the most varied objects in nature into the expression
of one uniform poetical feeling.

Very different is the expression which belongs to the softer pictures of Correggio--of that
great master, whose name is associated in every one's mind with all that is gentle or delicate
in the imitation of nature. Perhaps it was from the force of this impression that his works
did not completely come up to the expectations which we had been led to form. They are but
eight in number, and do not comprehend the finest of his compositions. Their general character
is that of tenderness and delicacy: there is a softness in his shading of the human form which
is quite unrivalled, and a harmony in the general tone of his colouring, which is in perfect
unison with the characteristic expression which it was his object to produce. You feel a want
of unity, however, in the composition of his figures; you dwell rather on the fine expression
of individual form, than the combined tendency of the whole group, and leave the picture with
the impression of the beauty of a single countenance, rather than the general character of
the whole design. He has represented nature in its most engaging aspect, and given to individual
figures all the charms of ideal beauty; but he wants that high strain of spiritual feeling,
which belongs only to the works of Raphael.

The only work of Carlo Dolci in the Louvre is a small cabinet picture; but it alone is sufficient
to mark the exquisite genius which its author possessed. It is of small dimensions, and represents
the Holy Family, with the Saviour asleep. The finest character of design is here combined with
the utmost delicacy of execution; the softness of the shadows exceeds Correggio himself; and
the dark-blue colouring which prevails over the whole, is in perfect unison with the expression
of that rest and quiet which the subject requires. The sleep of the Infant is perfection itself--it
is the deep sleep of youth and of innocence, which no care has disturbed, and no sorrow embittered,
and in the unbroken repose of which the features have relaxed into the expression of perfect
happiness. All the features of the picture are in unison with this expression, except in the
tender anxiety of the Virgin's eye; and all is at rest in the surrounding objects, save where
her hand gently removes the veil to contemplate the unrivalled beauty of the Saviour's countenance.

Without the softness of shading or the harmony of colour which Correggio possessed, the works
of Raphael possess a higher character, and aim at the expression of a sublimer feeling, than
those of any other artist whom modern Europe has produced. Like all his brethren, he has often
been misled from the real object of of his art, and tried, in the energy of passion, or the
confused expression of varied figures, to multiply the effect which his composition might produce.
Like all the rest, he has failed in effecting what the constitution of the human mind renders
impossible, and in this very failure, warned every succeeding age of the vanity of the attempt
which his transcendent genius was unable to effect. It is this fundamental error that destroys
the effect, even of his finest pieces; it is this, combined with the unapproachable nature
of the presence which it reveals, that has rendered the Transfiguration itself a chaos of genius
rather than a model of ideal beauty; nor will it, we hope, be deemed a presumptuous excess,
if we venture to express our sentiments in regard to this great author, since it is from his
own works alone that we have derived the means of appreciating his imperfections.

It is in his smaller pieces that the genuine character of Raphael's paintings is to be seen--in
the figure of St Michael subduing the demon; in the beautiful tenderness of the Virgin and
Child; in the unbroken harmony of the Holy Family; in the wildness and piety of the infant
St John;--scenes, in which all the objects of the picture combine for the preservation of one
uniform character, and where the native fineness of his mind appears undisturbed by the display
of temporary passion, or the painful distraction of varied suffering.

There are no pictures of the English school in the Louvre, for the arms of France never prevailed
in our island. From the splendid character, however, which it early assumed under the distinguished
guidance of Sir Joshua Reynolds, and from the high and philosophical principles which he at
first laid down for the government of the art, there is every reason to believe that it ultimately
will rival the celebrity of foreign genius; And it is in this view that the continuance of
the gallery of the Louvre was principally to be wished by the English nation--that the English
artists might possess, so near their own country, so great a school for composition and design;
that the imperfections of foreign schools might enlighten the views of English genius; and
that the conquests of the French arms, by transferring the remains of ancient taste to these
northern shores, might give greater facilities to the progress of our art, than can exist when
they are restored to their legitimate possessors.

The great object, then, of all the modern schools of historical painting, seems to have been,
the delineation of an affecting scene or interesting occurrence; they have endeavoured to tell
a story by the variety of incidents in a single picture; and seized, for the most part, the
moment when passion was at its greatest height, or suffering appeared in its most excruciating
form. The general character, accordingly, of the school, is the expression of passion or violent
suffering; and in the prosecution of this object, they have endeavoured to exhibit it under
all its aspects, and display all the effects which it could possibly produce on the human form,
by the different figures which they have introduced. While this is the general character of
the whole, there are of course numerous exceptions; and many of its greatest painters seem,
in the representation of single figures, or in the composition of smaller groups, to have had
in view the expression of less turbulent affections; to have aimed at the display of settled
emotion, or permanent feeling, and to have excluded every thing from their composition which
was not in unison with this predominant expression.

The Sculpture Gallery, which contains 220 remains of ancient statuary, marks, in the most decided
manner, the different objects to which this noble art was applied in ancient times. Unlike
the paintings of modern Europe, their figures are almost uniformly at rest; they exclude passion
or violent suffering from their design; and the moment which they select is not that in which
a particular or transient emotion may be displayed, but in which the settled character of mind
may be expressed. With the two exceptions of the Laocoon and the Fighting Gladiator, there
are none of the statues in the Louvre which are not the representation of the human figure
in a state of repose; and the expression which the finest possess, is invariably that permanent
expression which has resulted from the habitual frame and character of mind. Their figures
seem to belong to a higher class of beings than that in which we are placed; they indicate
a state in which passion, anxiety, and emotion are no more; and where the unruffled repose
of mind has moulded the features into the perfect expression of the mental character. Even
the countenance of the Venus de Medicis, the most beautiful which it has ever entered into
the mind of man to conceive, and of which no copy gives the slightest idea, bears no trace
of emotion, and none of the marks of human feeling; it is the settled expression of celestial
beauty, and even the smile on her lip is not the fleeting smile of temporary joy, but the lasting
expression of that heavenly feeling which sees in all around it the grace and loveliness which
belongs to itself alone. It approaches nearer to that character which sometimes marks the countenance
of female beauty; when death has stilled the passions of the world; but it is not the cold
expression of past character which survives the period of mortal dissolution; it is the living
expression of present existence, radiant with the beams of immortal life, and breathing the
air of eternal happiness.

The paintings of Raphael convey the most perfect idea of earthly beauty; and they denote the
expression of all that is finest and most elevated in the character of the female mind. But
there is a "human meaning in their eye," and they bear the marks of that anxiety and tenderness
which belong to the relations of present existence. The Venus displays the same beauty, freed
from the cares which existence has produced; and her lifeless eye-balls gaze upon the multitude
which surround her, as on a scene fraught only with the expression of universal joy.

In another view, the Apollo and the Venus appear to have been intended by the genius of antiquity,
as expressive of the character of mind which distinguishes the different sexes; and in the
expression of this character, they have exhausted all which it is possible for human imagination
to produce upon the subject. The commanding air, and advanced step, of the Apollo, exhibit
Man in his noblest aspect, as triumphing over the evils of physical nature, and restraining
the energy of instinctive passion by the high dominion of moral power: the averted eyes and
retiring grace of the Venus, are expressive of the modesty, gentleness, and submission, which
form the most beautiful features of the female character.

    Not equal, as their sex not equal seemed,
    For valour He, and contemplation, formed,
    For beauty She, and sweet attractive grace,
    He for God only, She for God in Him.

These words were said of our first parents by our greatest poet, after the influence of a pure
religion had developed the real nature of the female character, and determined the place which
woman was to hold in the scale of nature; but the idea had been expressed in a still finer
manner two thousand years before, by the sculptors of antiquity; and amidst all the degradation
of ancient manners, the prophetic genius of Grecian taste contemplated that ideal perfection
in the character of the sexes, which was destined to form the boundary of human progress in
the remotest ages of human improvement.

The Apollo strikes a stranger with all its divine grandeur on the first aspect; subsequent
examination can add nothing to the force of the impression which is then received; The Venus
produces at first less effect, but gains upon the mind at every renewal, till it rivets the
affections even more than the greatness of its unequalled rival--emblematic of the charm of
female excellence, which, if it excites less admiration at first than the loftier features
of manly character, is destined to acquire a deeper influence, and lay the foundation of more
indelible affection.

The Dying Gladiator is perhaps, after the two which we have mentioned, the finest statue which
the Louvre contains. The moment chosen is finely adapted for that expression of ideal beauty,
which may be produced even in a subject naturally connected with feelings of pain. It is not
the moment of energy or struggling, when the frame is convulsed with the exertion it is making,
or the countenance is deformed by the tumult of passion; it is the moment of expiring nature,
when the figure is relaxed by the weakness of decay, and the mind is softened by the approach
of death; the moment when the ferocity of combat is forgotten in the extinction of the interest
which it had excited, when every unsocial passion is stilled by the weakness of exhausted nature,
and the mind, in the last moments of life, is fraught with finer feelings than had belonged
to the character of previous existence.

The greater statues of antiquity were addressed to the worshippers in their temples; they were
intended to awaken the devotion of all classes of citizens--to be felt and judged by all mankind.
They were intended to express characters superior to common nature, and they still express
them. They are free, therefore, from all the peculiarities of national taste; they are purified
from all the peculiarities of local circumstances; they have been rescued from that inevitable
degradation to which art is uniformly exposed, by taste being confined to a limited society;
they have assumed, in consequence, that general character, which might suit the universal feelings
of our nature, and that permanent expression which might speak to the hearts of men through
every succeeding age. The admiration, accordingly, for those works of art, has been undiminished
by the lapse of time; they excite the same feelings at the present time, as when they came
fresh from the hand of the Grecian artist, and are regarded by all nations with the same veneration
on the banks of the Seine, as when they sanctified the temples of Athens, or adorned the gardens
of Rome.

Even the rudest nations seem to have felt the force of this impression. The Hungarians and
the Cossacks, as we ourselves have frequently seen, during the stay of the allied armies in
Paris, ignorant of the name or the celebrity of those works of art, seemed yet to take a delight
in the survey of the statues of antiquity; and in passing through the long line of marble greatness
which the Louvre presents, stopt involuntarily at the sight of the Venus, or clustered round
the foot of the pedestal of the Apollo;--indicating thus, in the expression of unaffected feeling,
the force of that genuine taste for the beauty of nature, which all the rudeness of savage
manners, and all the ferocity of war, had not been able to destroy. The poor Russian soldier,
whose knowledge of art was limited to the crucifix which he had borne in his bosom from his
native land, still felt the power of ancient beauty, and in the spirit of the Athenians, who
erected an altar to the Unknown God, did homage in silence to that unknown spirit which had
touched a new chord in his untutored heart.

* * *

From the impression produced on our minds by the collection in the Louvre, we were led to form
some general conclusions concerning the history and object of the arts of Painting and Sculpture,
which we shall presume to state, as what suggested themselves to us on the contemplation of
the greatest assemblage of the works of art which has ever been formed; but which we give,
at the same time, with the utmost diffidence, and merely as the result of our own feelings
and reflections.

The character of art in every country appears to have been determined by the disposition of
the people to whom it was addressed, and the object of its composition to have varied with
the purpose it was called on to fulfil.--The Grecian statues were designed to excite the devotion
of a cultivated people; to embody their conceptions of divine perfection; to realise the expression
of that character of mind which they imputed to the deities whose temples they were to adorn:
It was grace, or strength, or majesty, or the benignity of divine power, which they were to
represent by the figures of Venus, of Hercules, of Jupiter, or of Apollo. Their artists accordingly
were led to aim at the expression of general character; to exclude passion, or emotion, or
suffering, from their design, and represent the figures in that state of repose where the permanent
expression of mind ought to be displayed. It is perhaps in this circumstance that we are to
discern the cause both of the peculiarity and the excellence of the Grecian statuary.

The Italian painters were early required to effect a different object. Their pictures were
destined to represent the sufferings of nature; to display the persecution or death of our
Saviour, the anguish of the Holy Family, the heroism of martyrs, the resignation of devotion.
In the infancy of the arts, accordingly, they were led to study the expression of passion,
of suffering, and of temporary emotion; to aim at rousing the pity, or exciting the sympathy,
of the spectators; and to endeavour to characterise their works by the representation of temporary
passion, not the expression of permanent character. Those beautiful pictures in which a different
object seems to have been followed--in which the expression is that of permanent emotion, not
transient passion, while they captivate our admiration, seem to be exceptions from the general
design, and to have been suggested by the peculiar nature of the subject represented, or a
particular firmness of mind in the artist. In these causes we may perhaps discern the origin
of the peculiar character of the Italian school.

In the French school, the character and manners of the people seem to have carried this peculiarity
to a still greater length. Their character led them to seek in every thing for stage effect;
to admire the most extravagant and violent representations, and to value the efforts of art,
not in proportion to their imitation of the expressions of nature, but in proportion to their
resemblance to those artificial expressions on which their admiration was founded. The vehemence
of their manner on the most ordinary occasions, rendered the most extravagant gestures requisite
for the display of real passion; and their drama accordingly exhibits a mixture of dignity
of sentiment, with violence of gesture, beyond measure surprising to a foreign spectator. The
same disposition of the people has influenced the character of their historical painting; and
it is to be remembered, that the French school of painting succeeded the establishment of the
French drama. It is hence that they have generally selected the moment of theatrical effect--the
moment of phrenzied passion, of unparalleled exertion, and that their composition is distinguished
by so many striking contrasts, and so laboured a display of momentary effect.

The Flemish or Dutch school of painting was neither addressed to the devotion nor the theatrical
feelings of mankind; it was neither intended to awaken the sympathy of religious emotion, nor
excite the admiration of artificial composition--it was addressed to wealthy men of vulgar
capacities, whose taste advanced in no proportion to their riches, and who were capable of
appreciating only the merit of minute detail, or the faithfulness of exact imitation. It is
hence that their painting possesses excellencies and defects of so peculiar a description;
that they have carried the minuteness of finishing to so unparalleled a degree of perfection;
that the brilliancy of their lights has thrown a splendour over the vulgarity of their subjects;
and that they are in general so utterly destitute of all the refinement and sentiment which
sprung from the devotional feelings of the Italian people.

The subjects which the Dutch painters chose were subjects of low humour, calculated to amuse
a rich and uncultivated people; the subjects of the French school were heroic adventures, suited
to the theatrical taste of a more elevated society; the subjects of the Italian school were
the incidents of Sacred History, adapted to the devotional feelings of a religious people.
In all, the subjects to which painting was applied, and the character of the art itself, was
determined by the peculiar circumstances or disposition of the people to whom it was addressed:
so that, in these instances, there has really happened what Mr Addison stated should ever be
the case, that "the taste should not conform to the art, but the art to the taste."

* * *

We soon perceived that the statues rivetted our admiration more than any of the other works
of art which the Louvre presents; and that amongst the pictures, those made the deepest impression
which approached nearest to the character by which the Grecian statuary is distinguished. In
the prosecution of this train of thought, we were led to the following conclusions, relative
to the separate objects to which painting and statuary should be applied.

1. That the object of Statuary should ever be the same to which it was always confined by the
ancients, viz. the representation of CHARACTER. The very materials on which the sculptor has
to operate, render his art unfit for the expression either of emotion or passion; and the figure,
when finished, can bear none of the marks by which they are to be distinguished. It is a figure
of cold, and pale, and lifeless marble, without the varied colour which emotion produces, or
the living eye which passion animates. The eye is the feature which is expressive of present
emotion; it is it which varies with all the changes which the mind undergoes; it is it which
marks the difference between joy and sorrow, between love and hatred, between pleasure and
pain, between life and death. But the eye, with all the endless expressions which it bears,
is lost to the sculptor; its gaze must ever be cold and lifeless to him; its fire is quenched
in the stillness of the tomb. A statue, therefore, can never be expressive of living emotion;
it can never express those transient feelings which mark the play of the living mind. It is
an abstraction of character which has no relation to common existence; a shadow in which all
the permanent features of the mind are expressed, but none of the temporary passions of the
mind are shewn; like the figures of snow, which the magic of Okba formed to charm the solitude
of Leila's dwelling, it bears the character of the human form, but melts at the warmth of human
feeling. The power of the sculptor is limited to the delineation of those signs alone by which
the permanent qualities of mind are displayed: his art, therefore, should be confined to the
representation of that permanent character of which they are expressive.

2. While such is the object to which statuary would appear to be destined, Painting embraces
a wider range, and is capable of more varied expression: It is expressive of the living form;
it paints the eye and opens the view of the present mind; it imitates all the fleeting changes
which constitute the signs of present emotion. It is not, therefore, an abstraction of character
which the painter is to represent; not an ideal form, expressive only of the qualities of permanent
character; but an actual being, alive to the impressions of present existence, and bound by
the ties of present affection. It is in the delineation of these affections, therefore, that
the powers of the painter principally consists; in the representation, not of simple character,
but of character influenced or subdued by emotion. It is the representation of the joy of youth,
or the repose of age; of the sorrow of innocence, or the penitence of guilt; of the tenderness
of parental affection, or the gratitude of filial love. In these, and a thousand other instances,
the expression of the emotion constitutes the beauty of the picture; it is that which gives
the tone to the character which it is to bear; it is that which strikes the chord which vibrates
in every human heart. The object of the painter, therefore, is the expression of EMOTION, of
that emotion which is blended with the character of the mind which feels, and gives to that
character the interest which belongs to the events of present existence.

3. The object of the painter, being the representation of emotion in all the varied situations
which life produces, it follows, that every thing in his picture should be in unison with the
predominant expression which he wishes it to bear; that the composition should be as simple
as is consistent with the developement of this expression; and the colouring such as accords
with the character by which this emotion is distinguished. It is here that the genius of the
artist is principally to be displayed, in the selection of such figures as suit the general
impression which the whole is to produce; and the choice of such a tone of colouring, as harmonises
with the feelings of mind which it is his object to awaken. The distraction of varied colours--the
confusion of different figures--the contrast of opposite expressions, completely destroy the
effect of the composition; they fix the mind to the observation of what is particular in the
separate parts, and prevent that uniform and general emotion which arises from the perception
of one uniform expression in all the parts of which it is composed. It is in this very perception,
however, that the source of the beauty is to be found; it is in the undefined feeling to which
it gives rise, that the delight of the emotion of taste consists. Like the harmony of sounds
in musical composition, it produces an effect of which we are unable to give an account; but
which we feel to be instantly destroyed by the jarring sound of a different note, or the discordant
effect of a foreign expression. It is in the neglect of this great principle that the defect
of many of the first pictures of modern times is to be found--in the confused multitude of
unnecessary figures--in the contradictory expression of separate parts--in the distracting
brilliancy of gorgeous colours; in the laboured display, in short, of the power of the artist,
and the utter dereliction of the object of the art. The great secret, on the other hand, of
the beauty of the most exquisite specimens of modern art, lies in the simplicity of expression
which they bear, in their production of one uniform emotion, from all the parts of one harmonious
composition. For the production of this unity of emotion, the surest means will be found to
consist in the selection of as few figures as is consistent with the developement of the characteristic
expression of the composition; and it is, perhaps, to this circumstance, that we are to impute
the unequalled charm which belongs to the pictures of single figures, or small groups, in which
a single expression is alone attempted.

4. The last principle of the art appeared to be, that both painting and sculpture are wholly
unfit for the representation of PASSION, as expressed by motion; and that, to attempt to delineate
it, necessarily injures the effect of the composition. Neither, it is clear, can express actual
motion: they should not attempt, therefore, to represent those passions of the mind which motion
alone is adequate to express. The attempt to delineate violent passion, accordingly, uniformly
produces a painful or a ridiculous effect; it does not even convey any conception of the passion
itself, because its character is not known by the expression of any single moment, but by the
rapid changes which result from the perturbed state into which the mind is thrown. It is hence
that passion seems so ridiculous when seen at a distance, or without the cause of its existence
being known, and it is hence, that if a human figure were petrified in any of the stages of
passion, it would have so painful or insane an appearance.--As painting, therefore, cannot
exhibit the rapid changes in which the real expression of passion consists, it should not attempt
its delineation at all. Its real object is, the expression of emotion, of that more settled
state of the human mind when the changes of passion are gone--when the countenance is moulded
into the expression of permanent feeling, and the existence of this feeling is marked by the
permanent expression which the features have assumed.

The greatest artists of ancient and modern times, accordingly, have selected, even in the representation
of violent exertion, that moment of temporary repose, when a permanent expression is given
to the figure. Even the Laocoon is not in the state of actual exertion: it is represented in
that moment when the last effort has been made; when straining against an invincible power
has given to the figure the aspect at last of momentary repose; and when despair has placed
its settled mark on the expression of the countenance. The Fighting Gladiator is not represented
in a state of actual activity, but in that moment when he is preparing his mind for the future
and final contest, and when, in this deep concentration of his powers, the pause which the
genius of the artist has given, expresses more distinctly to the eye of the spectator the determined
character of the combatant, than all that the struggle or agony of the combat itself could
afterwards display.

The Grecian statues which were assembled in the Louvre may be considered as the most perfect
works of human genius; and after surveying the different schools of painting which it contains,
we could not but feel those higher conceptions of human form, and of human nature, which the
taste of ancient statuary had formed. It is not in the moment of action that it has represented
man, but in the moment after action, when the tumult of passion has ceased, and all that is
great or dignified in moral nature remains; and the greatest works of modern art are those
which approach nearest to the same principle. It is not Hercules in the moment of earthly combat,
when every muscle was swollen with the strength he was exerting, that they represent; but Hercules
in the moment of transformation into a nobler being, when the exertion of mortality has passed,
and his powers seem to repose in the tranquillity of Heaven: not Apollo, when straining his
youthful strength in drawing the bow; but Apollo, when the weapon was discharged, watching,
with unexulting eye, its resistless course, and serene in the enjoyment of immortal power:
not St Michael when struggling with the Demon, and marring the beauty of angelic form by the
violence of earthly passion, but St Michael in the moment of unruffled triumph, restraining
the might of Almighty power, and radiant with the beams of eternal mercy.

CHAPTER VI.

PARIS--THE FRENCH CHARACTER AND MANNERS.

We do not by any means consider ourselves as qualified to enter fully into the interesting
subject of the national character of the French; but we shall venture to state, in this place,
what appeared to us its most striking peculiarities, particularly as it is observed at Paris.
Our stay in the capital was too short, and our opportunities of observation too limited, to
entitle us to speak with confidence; but it is to be remembered on the other hand, that there
is a surprising uniformity of character among the French, which facilitates observation. The
habit of constant intercourse in society, which constitutes their greatest pleasure, and has
made them, in their own opinion, the most polished nation on earth, appears not merely to have
assimilated their manners to one another, in the manner so finely illustrated by the celebrated
simile of Sterne[2], but to have engendered a kind of conventional standard character, by which
all those we observe are more or less modelled.

The most striking and formidable part of their general character is, the contempt for religion
which is so frequently and openly expressed. In all countries there are men of a selfish and
abstracted turn of mind, who are more disposed than others to religious argument and doubt;
and in all, there are a greater number, whose worldly passions lead them to the neglect, or
hurry them on to the violation of religious precepts; but a great nation, among whom a cool
selfish regard to personal comfort and enjoyment has been deliberately substituted for religious
feeling, and where it is generally esteemed reasonable and wise to oppose and wrestle down,
by metaphysical arguments, the natural and becoming sentiments of piety, as they arise in the
human breast, is hitherto, and it is to be hoped will long continue, an anomaly in the history
of mankind.

We heard it estimated at Paris, that 40,000 out of 600,000 inhabitants of that town attend
church; one half of which number, they say, are actuated in so doing by real sentiments of
devotion; but to judge from the very small numbers whom we have ever seen attending the regular
service in any of the churches, we should think this proportion greatly overrated. Of those
whom we have seen there, at least two-thirds have been women above fifty, or girls under fifteen
years of age. In all Catholic countries, Sunday is a day of amusement and festivity, as well
as of religion--but it is generally, also, one of relaxation from business: in Paris, we could
see very little signs of the latter in the forenoons, but the amusements and dissipation of
the capital were visibly increased in the evenings; and the Parisians have some reason for
their remark, that their day of rest is changed to Monday, when the effect of their last night's
dissipation wholly incapacitates them for exertion.

It is clear, that it is quite absurd to attempt altering the manner of spending the Sundays
at Paris, while the sentiments of the people, in regard to religion, continue such as at present;
but it must be admitted, on the other hand, that their habits, as to the way of spending Sundays,
re-act powerfully on their sentiments; and that the minds of the lower orders, in particular,
are much debased by the want of what have been emphatically called "these precious breathing
times for the labouring part of the community."

Frenchmen of the higher ranks seem, at present, generally disposed to wave the subject of religion;
but those of the middling ranks, by whom the business of the country is mainly carried on,
do not scruple to express their contempt of it;--they applaud with enthusiasm all irreligious
sentiments in the theatres, and seldom mention priests, of any persuasion, without the epithet
of sacrès.

We were informed in Holland, that the Frenchmen who were sent to that country in official capacities,
military or civil, manifested on all occasions the utmost contempt for religion. A French General,
quartered in the house of a respectable gentleman in Amsterdam, inquired the reason, the first
Sunday that he was there, of the family going out in their best clothes; and being told they
were going to church, he expressed his surprise, saying,--"Now that you are a part of the great
nation, it is time for you to have done with that nonsense."

To an Englishman, who has been accustomed to see the ordinances of religion regularly observed
by the great majority of his countrymen, the neglect of them by the French people appears very
singular, and even unnatural. When we afterwards visited Flanders, and observed the manifest
respect of the people for religion--when when saw the numberless handsome churches in the villages,
and the frequent religious processions in the streets of the towns--when we entered the Great
Cathedral at Antwerp, and found vast numbers of people, of both sexes, and all ranks and ages,
on their knees, engaged, with the appearance of sincere devotion, in the solemn and striking
service of vespers, we could not help saying among ourselves, that this people, for better
reasons than mere political convenience, deserved to be separated from the French.

Yet, we do not mean to say that the French are wholly, or even generally devoid of religious
feeling; on the contrary, we believe it may often be seen to break out in a very striking manner,
even in the conversation of those who are accustomed to think it wise to express contempt for
it. A Frenchman, full of enthusiasm about the glory of his country, who was talking to us of
the deeds and sufferings of the French army in Russia, concluded his description of the latter
with these emphatic words: "Ah! Monsieur, Ce n'est pas les Russes; C'est le bon Dieu qui a
fait cela."

* * *

In point of intellectual ability, the French are certainly inferior to no other nation. They
have not, perhaps, so frequently as others, that cool, sound judgment in matters of speculation,
which can fit them for unravelling with success the perplexities of metaphysics; but their
unparalleled success in mathematical pursuits is the best possible proof of the accuracy and
quickness of their reasoning powers, when confined within due bounds. We do not refer to the
astonishing efforts of such men as d'Alembert or La Place, but to the general diffusion of
mathematical knowledge among all who receive a scientific education. It is not, perhaps, going
too far to say, that few professors in Britain have an equally accurate and extensive knowledge
of the integral and differential calculus, with some lads of 17 or 18, who have completed their
education at the Ecole Polytechnique. Unless a man makes discoveries of his own in mathematics,
he is little thought of as a mathematician by the men of science at Paris, even although he
may be intimately versed in all the branches of that science as it stands.

Under the Imperial Government, it was not considered safe to cultivate any sciences which relate
to politics or morals; but the advancement of the physical and mathematical sciences in France
during that time, sufficiently indicates that there has been no want of talents or industry.

It may be remarked as a striking characteristic of the French scientific works, that they are
almost always well arranged, and the meaning of the author fully and unequivocally expressed.
A Frenchman does not always take a comprehensive view of his subject, but he seldom fails to
take a clear view of it. The same turn of mind may be observed in the conversation of Frenchmen;
even when their information is defective, they will very generally arrest attention by the
apparent order and perspicuity of their thoughts; and they never seem to know what it is to
be at a loss for words.

Considering the great ingenuity and ability of the French, it seems not a little surprising
that they should be so much behind our countrymen in useful and profitable arts, and that Englishmen
should be so much struck with the apparent poverty of the greater part of France. This is in
a great measure owing, no doubt, to the policy of the late French Government, which has directed
all the energies of the nation towards military affairs; and to the abuses of the former government:
but we think it must be ascribed in part to the character of the people. There is not the same
co-operation of different individuals to one end, of private advantage and public usefulness;
the same division of labour, intellectual as well as operative; the same hearty confidence
between man and man, in France as in England. Men of talents in France are, in general, too
much tainted with the national vanity, and too much occupied with their own fame, to join heartily
in promoting the public interest. Individual intelligence, activity, and ingenuity, go but
little way in making a nation wealthy and prosperous, if they are made to minister only to
the individual pleasures and glory of their possessors.

* * *

The patriotism of the French is certainly a very strong feeling, but it appears to be much
tainted with the same vanity and love of shew that we have just remarked. There can be no doubt,
that during the time of Bonaparte's successes, he commanded, in a degree that no other Sovereign
ever did, the admiration and respect of the great body of the people; and it is equally certain,
that he did this without interesting himself at all in their happiness. His hold of them was
by their national vanity alone. They assent to all that can be said of the miseries which he
brought upon France; but add, "Mais il a battu tout le monde; il a fait des choses superbes
a Paris; il a flattè notre orgeuil national. Ah! C'est un grand homme. Notre pays n'a jamais
etè si grand ni si puissant que sous lui." The condition of the inhabitants of distant provinces
was nowise improved by his public buildings and decorations at their capital; but every Frenchman
considers a compliment to Paris, to the Louvre, to the Palais Royal, or the Opera, as a personal
compliment to himself.

At this moment, it is certainly a very general wish in France, to have a sovereign, who, as
they express it, has grown out of the revolution; but when we enquire into their reason for
this, it will often be found, we believe, to resolve itself into their national vanity. It
is not that they think the Bourbons will break their word, or that the present Constitution
will be altered without their consent; but after five and twenty years of confusion and bloodshed,
they cannot bear the thoughts of leaving off where they began; and they think, that taking
back their old dynasty without alteration, is practically acknowledging that they have been
in the wrong all the time of their absence. We have often remarked (but we presume the remark
is applicable to all despotic countries) that the French political conversation, such as is
heard at caffés and tables d'hôte, relates more to men, and less to measures, and appears to
be more guided by personal attachments or antipathies, than that to which we are accustomed
in England.

The character that appears to be most wanted in France, is that of disinterested public-spirited
individuals, of high honour and integrity, and of large possessions and influence, who do not
interfere in public affairs from views of ambition, but from a sense of duty--who have no wish
to dazzle the eyes of the multitude, and do not seek for a more extensive influence than that
to which their observation and experience entitle them. While this character continues so much
more frequent in our own country than among the French, it is perhaps in military affairs only
that we need entertain any fear of their superiority. Englishmen of power and influence, generally
speaking, have really at heart the good of their country, whereas Frenchmen, in similar situations,
are chiefly interested in the glory of theirs.

It must also be observed, that public affairs occupy much less of the attention, and interfere
much less with the happiness, of the majority of the French than of the English. There is less
anxiety about public measures, and less gratitude for public services. We were often surprised
at the indifference of the citizens of Paris with regard to their Marshals, whom they seldom
knew by name, and did not seem to care for knowing. The peroration of an old lady, who had
delivered a long speech to a friend of ours, then a prisoner at Verdun, lamenting the reverses
of the French arms, and the miseries of France, was characteristic of the nation: "Mais, ce
m'est egal. Je suis toujours ici."

It is quite unnecessary for us to give proofs of the laxity of moral principle which prevails
so generally among the French. The world has not now to learn, that notwithstanding their high
professions, they have but little regard either for truth or morality. According to Mr Scott,
"they have, in a great measure, detached words from ideas and feelings; they can, therefore,
afford to be unusually profuse of the better sort of the first; and they experience as much
internal satisfaction and pride when they profess a virtue, as if they had practised one."
Perhaps it would be more correct to say, that they have detached ideas and feelings from their
corresponding actions. Their feelings have always been too violent for the moment, and too
short in their duration, to influence their conduct steadily and permanently; but at present,
they seem much disposed to think, that it is quite enough to have the feelings, and that there
is no occasion for their conduct being influenced by them at all.

They appear to have a strong natural sense of the beauty and excellence of virtue; but they
are accustomed to regard it merely as a sense. It does not regulate their conduct to others,
but adds to their own selfish enjoyments. They speak of virtue almost uniformly, not as an
object of rational approbation and imitation, and still less as a rule of moral obligation,
but as a matter of feeling and taste. A French officer, who describes to you, in the liveliest
manner, and with all the appearance of unfeigned sympathy, the miseries and devastations occasioned
by his countrymen among the unoffending inhabitants of foreign states, proceeds, in the same
breath, to declaim with enthusiastic admiration on the untarnished honour of the French arms,
and the great mind of the Emperor. A Parisian tradesman, who goes to the theatre that he may
see the representation of integrity of conduct, conjugal affection, and domestic happiness,
and applauds with enthusiasm when he sees it, shews no symptoms of shame when detected in a
barefaced attempt to cheat his customers; spends his spare money in the Palais Royal, and sells
his wife or daughter to the highest bidder.

"Among the French," says the intelligent and judicious author of the Caractere des Armées Europeennes,
"the seat of the passions is in the head--they feel rather from the fancy than the heart--their
feelings are nothing more than thoughts."

Another striking feature of the French character, connected with the preceding, is the openness,
and even eagerness, with which they communicate all their thoughts and feelings to each other,
and even to strangers. All Frenchmen seem anxious to make the most in conversation, not only
of whatever intellectual ability they possess, but of whatever moral feelings they experience
on any occasion;--they do not seem to understand why a man should ever be either ashamed or
unwilling to disclose any thing that passes in his mind;--they often suspect their neighbours
of expressing sentiments which they do not feel, but have no idea of giving them credit for
feelings which they do not express.

The French have many good qualities; they are very generally obliging to strangers, they are
sober and good-tempered, and little disposed, in the ordinary concerns of life, to quarrel
among themselves, and they have an amiable cheerfulness of disposition, which supports them
in difficulties and adversity, better than the resolutions of philosophy. But it is clear that
they have very little esteem for the most estimable of all characters, that of firm and enduring
virtue; and in fact, it is not going too far to say, that a certain propriety of external demeanour
has completely taken the place of correctness of moral conduct among them. They speak almost
uniformly with much abhorrence of drunkenness, and of all violations of the established forms
of society; and such improprieties are very seldom to be seen among them. Many Frenchmen, as
was already observed, are rough and even ferocious in their manners; and the language and behaviour
of most of them, particularly in the presence of women, appears to us very frequently indelicate
and rude; yet there are limits to this freedom of manner which they never allow themselves
to pass. Go where you will in Paris, you will very seldom see any disgusting instances of intoxication,
or any material difference of manner, between those who are avowedly unprincipled and abandoned,
and the most respectable part of the community. In the caffés, which correspond not only to
the coffee-houses, but to the taverns of London, you will see modest women, at all hours of
the day, often alone, sitting in the midst of the men. In the Palais Royal, at no hour of the
night do you witness scenes of gross indecency or riot.

To an Englishman, it often serves as an excuse for vicious indulgences, that he is led off
his feet by temptation. To a Frenchman, this excuse is the only crime; he stands in no need
of an apology for vice; but it is necessary "qu'il se menage:" he is taught "qu'un pechè cachè
est la moitie pardonnè;" he must on no account allow, that any temptation can make him lose
his recollection or presence of mind.

We ought perhaps to admit likewise, that some of the vices common among the French are not
merely less foul and disgusting in appearance, but less odious in their own nature, than those
of our countrymen. We do not say this in palliation of their conduct. It is rather to be considered
as a benevolent provision of nature, that in proportion as vice is more generally diffused,
its influence on individual character is less fatal. This remark applies particularly to the
case of women. A woman in England, who loses one virtue, knows that she outrages the opinion
of mankind; she disobeys the precepts of her religion, and estranges herself from the examples
which she has been taught to revere; she becomes an outcast of society; and if she has not
already lost, must soon lose all the best qualities of the female character. But a French woman,
in giving way to unlawful love, knows that she does no more than her mother did before her;
if she is of the lower ranks, she is not necessarily debarred from honest occupation; if of
the higher, she loses little or nothing in the estimation of society; if she has been taught
to revere any religion, it is the Catholic, and she may look to absolution. Her conduct, therefore,
neither implies her having lost, nor necessarily occasions her losing, any virtue but one;
and during the course of the revolution, we have understood there have been many examples,
proving, in the most trying circumstances, that not even the worst corruptions of Paris had
destroyed some of the finest virtues which can adorn the sex. "Elles ont toujours des bons
cœurs," is a common expression in France, in speaking even of the lowest and most degraded
of the sex. In Paris, it is certainly much more difficult than in London to find examples in
any rank of the unsullied purity of the female character; but neither is it commonly seen so
utterly perverted and degraded; one has not occasion to witness so frequently the painful spectacle
of youth and beauty brought by one rash step to shame and misery; and to lament, that the fairest
gifts of heaven should become the bitterest of curses to so many of their possessors.

* * *

Having mentioned the French women, we think we may remark, without hazarding our character
as impartial observers, that most of the faults which are so well known to prevail among them,
may be easily traced to the manner in which they are treated by the other sex. It is a very
common boast in France, that there is no other country in which women are treated with so much
respect; and you can hardly gratify any Frenchman so much, as by calling France "le paradis
des femmes." Yet, from all that we could observe ourselves, or learn from others, there appears
to be no one of the boasts of Frenchmen which is in reality less reasonable. They exclude women
from society almost entirely in their early years; they seldom allow them any vote in the choice
of their husbands: After they have brought them into society, they seem to think that they
confer a high favour on them, by giving them a great deal of their company, and paying them
a great deal of attention, and encouraging them to separate themselves from the society of
their husbands. In return for these obligations, they often oblige them to listen to conversation,
which, heard as it is, from those for whom they have most respect, cannot fail to corrupt their
minds as well as their manners; and they take care to let them see that they value them for
the qualities which render them agreeable companions for the moment; not for the usefulness
of their lives, for the purity of their conduct, or the constancy of their affections. Surely
the respect with which all women who conduct themselves with propriety are treated in England,
merely on account of their sex; the delicacy and reserve with which in their presence conversation
is uniformly conducted by all who call themselves gentlemen, are more honourable tokens of
regard for the virtues of the female character, than the unmeaning ceremonies and officious
attentions of the French.

The female inhabitants of our own country are distinguished of those of France, and probably
of every other country, by a certain native, self-respecting, dignity of appearance and manner,
which claims respect and attention as a right, rather than solicits them as a boon; and gives
you to understand, that the man who does not give them is disgraced, rather than the woman
who does not receive them. We believe it to be owing to the influence of the causes we have
noticed, that this manner, so often ridiculed by the French, under the name of "hauteur" and
"fiertè Anglaise," is hardly ever to be seen among women of any rank in France. And to a similar
influence of the tastes and sentiments of our own sex, it is easy to refer the more serious
faults of the female character in that country.

On the other hand, the better parts of the character of the French women are all their own.
It is not certainly from the men that they have learnt those truly feminine qualities, that
interesting humility and gentleness of manner, that pleasing gaiety of temper, and native kindness
of disposition, to which it is very difficult, even for the proverbial coldness of northern
critics, to apply terms of ridicule or reproach.

* * *

It is not easy for a stranger, in forming his opinion of the moral character of a people, to
make allowance for the modification which moral sentiments undergo, in consequence of long
habits, and adventitious circumstances. There is no quality which strikes a stranger more forcibly,
in the character of the French of the middling and lower ranks, than their seeming dishonesty,
particularly their uniformly endeavouring to extract more money for their goods or their services
than they know to be their value. But we think too much stress has been laid on this part of
their character by some travellers. It is regarded in France as a sort of professional accomplishment,
without which it is in vain to attempt exercising a trade; and it is hardly thought to indicate
immorality of any kind, more than the obviously false expressions which are used in the ordinary
intercourse of society in England, or the license of denying oneself to visitors. That it should
be so regarded is no doubt a proof of national inferiority, and perhaps immorality; but while
the general sentiments of the nation continue as at present, an instance of this kind cannot
be considered as a proof of individual baseness. An Englishman is apt to pronounce every man
a scoundrel, who, in making a bargain, attempts to take him in; but he will often find, on
a closer and more impartial examination, that the judgment formed by this circumstance alone
in France, is quite erroneous. One of our party entered a small shop in the Palais Royal to
buy a travelling cap. The woman who attended in it, with perfect effrontery, asked 16 francs
for one which was certainly not worth more than six, and which she at last gave him for seven.
Being in a hurry at the time, he inadvertently left on the counter a purse containing 20 gold
pieces of 20 francs each. He did not miss it for more than an hour: on returning to the shop,
he found the old lady gone, and concluded at first, that she had absented herself to avoid
interrogation; but to his surprise, he was accosted immediately on entering, by a pretty young
girl, who had come in her place, with the sweetest smile imaginable,--"Monsieur, a oubliè sa
bourse--que nous sommes heureuses de la lui rendre."

* * *

It is certainly incorrect to say, that the taste of the French is decidedly superior to that
of other nations. Their poetry, on the whole, will not bear a comparison with the English;
their modern music is not nearly so beautiful as their ancient songs, which have now descended
to the lower ranks; their painting is in a peculiar and not pleasing style; their taste in
gardening is antiquated and artificial; their architecture is only fine where it is modelled
on the ancient; their theatrical tastes, if they are more correct than ours, are also more
limited. We have already taken occasion more than once to reprobate the general taste of the
French, as being partial to art, and brilliant execution, rather than to simplicity and beautiful
design.

But what distinguishes the French from almost every other nation, is the general diffusion
of the taste for the fine arts, and for elegant amusements, among all ranks of the people.
Almost all Frenchmen take not only a pride, but an interest, in the public buildings of Paris,
and in the collections of paintings and statues. There is a very general liking for poetry
and works of imagination among the middling and lower ranks; they go to the theatres, not merely
for relaxation and amusement, but with a serious intention of cultivating their taste, and
displaying their critical powers. Many of them are so much in the habit of attending the theatres
when favourite plays are acted, that they know almost every word of the principal scenes by
heart. All their favourite amusements are in some measure of a refined kind. It is not in drinking
clubs, or in sensual gratifications alone, that men of these ranks seek for relaxation, as
its too often the case with us; but it is in the society of women, in conversation, in music
and dancing, in theatres and operas, and caffés and promenades, in seeing and being seen; in
short, in scenes resembling, as nearly as possible, those in which the higher ranks of all
nations spend their leisure hours.

While the useful arts are comparatively little advanced, those which relate to ornaments alone
are very generally superior to ours; and the persons who profess these arts speak of them with
a degree of fervour that often seems ludicrous. "Monsieur," says a peruquier in the Palais
Royal, with the look of a man who lets you into a profound secret in science, "Notre art est
un art imitatif; en effèt, c'est un des beaux arts;" then taking up a London-made wig, and
twirling it round on his finger, with a look of ineffable contempt, "Celui ci n'est pas la
belle nature; mais voici la mienne,--c'est la nature personifiée!"

One of the best proofs of the tastes of the lower ranks being, at least in part, cultivated
and refined, is to be found in the songs which are common among the peasantry and soldiers.
There are a great number of these, and some of them, in point of beauty of sentiment, and elegance
of expression, might challenge a comparison even with the admired productions of our own land
of song. The following is part of a song which was written in April 1814, and set to the beautiful
air of Charles VII. It was popular among the description of persons to whom it relates; and
the young man from whom we got it had himself returned home, after serving as a private in
the young guard.

LE RETOUR DE L'AMANT FRANCAIS.

    De bon cœur je pose les armes;
    Adieu le tumulte des camps,
    L'amitiè m'offre d'autres charmes,
    Au sein de mes joyeux parents;
    Le Dieu des Amants me rapelle,
    C'est pour m'enroler à son tour;
    Et je vais aupres de ma belle,
    Servir sous les lois de l'amour.

    Aux noms d'honneur et de patrie,
    On m'a vu braver le trepas;
    Aujourd'hui pour charmer ma vie
    La paix fait cesser les combats.
    Le Dieu des Amants, &c.

After all that we had heard, and all that is known over the whole world, of the unbridled licentiousness
and savage ferocity of the French soldiers, we were not a little surprised to find, that this
and other songs written in good taste, and expressing sentiments of a kind of chivalrous elevation
and refinement, were popular in their ranks.

* * *

The last peculiarity in the French character which we shall notice, is perhaps the most fundamental
of the whole; it is their love of mixed society; of the society of those for whom they have
no regard, but whom they meet on the footing of common acquaintances. This is the favourite
enjoyment of almost every Frenchman; to shine in such society, is the main object of his ambition;
his whole life is regulated so as to gratify this desire. He is indifferent about comforts
at home--he dislikes domestic society--he hates the retirement of the country; but he loves,
and is taught to love, to figure in a large circle of acquaintance, for whom he has not the
least heartfelt friendship, with whom he is on no more intimate terms than with perfect strangers,
after the first half hour. If he has acquired a reputation in science, arts, or arms, so much
the better; his glory will be of much service to him; if not, he must make it up by his conversation.

In consequence of the predilection of the French for social intercourse of this kind, it is,
that knowledge of such kinds, and to such an extent, as can be easily introduced into conversation,
is very general; that the opportunities of such intercourse are carefully multiplied; that
all arts which can add to the attractions of such scenes are assiduously improved; that liveliness
of disposition is prized beyond all other qualities, while those eccentricities of manner,
which seem to form a component part of what we call humorous characters, are excluded; that
even childish amusements are preferred to solitary occupations; that taste is cultivated more
than morality, wit esteemed more than wisdom, and vanity encouraged more than merit.

It is easy to trace the pernicious effects of a taste for society of this kind, on individual
character, when it is encouraged to such a degree as to become a serious occupation, instead
of a relaxation to the mind. When the main object of a man's life is distinction among his
acquaintances, from his wit--his liveliness--his elegance of taste--his powers of conversation--or
even from the fame he may have earned by his talents; he becomes careless about the love of
those with whom he is on more intimate terms, and who do not value him exclusively, or even
chiefly, for such qualities. His domestic affections are weakened; he lives for himself and
enjoys the present moment without either reflection or foresight; with the outward appearance
of an open friendly disposition, he becomes, in reality, selfish and interested; that he may
secure general sympathy from indifferent spectators, he is under the necessity of repressing
all strong emotions, and expressions of ardent feeling, and of confining himself to a worldly
and common-place morality; he learns to value his moral feelings, as well as his intellectual
powers, chiefly for the sake of the display which he can make of them in society; and to reprobate
vice, rather on account of its outward deformity, than of its intrinsic guilt; gradually he
becomes impatient of restraints on the pleasure which he derives from social intercourse; and
the religious and moral principles of his nature are sacrificed to the visionary idol to which
his love of pleasure and his love of glory have devoted him.

Such appears to be the state of the minds of most Parisians. They have been so much accustomed
to pride themselves on the outward appearance of their actions, that they have become regardless
of their intrinsic merits; they have lived so long for effect, that they have forgotten that
there is any other principle by which their lives can be regulated.

Of the devotion of the French to the sort of life to which we refer, the best possible proof
is, their fondness for a town life; the small number of chateaux in the country that are inhabited--and
the still more remarkable scarcity of villas in the neighbourhood of Paris, to which men of
business may retire. There are a few houses of this description about Belleville and near Malmaison;
but in general, you pass from the noisy and dirty Fauxbourgs at once into the solitude of the
country; and it is quite obvious, that you have left behind you all the scenes in which the
Parisians find enjoyment. The contrast in the neighbourhood of London, is most striking. It
is easy to laugh at the dulness and vulgarity of a London citizen, who divides his time between
his counting-house and his villa, or at the coarseness and rusticity of an English country
squire; but there is no description of men to whom the national character of our country is
more deeply indebted.

It seems no difficult matter to ascribe most of the differences which we observe between the
English and French character to the differences in the habits of the people, occasioned by
form of government and various assignable causes: and the French character, in particular,
has very much the appearance of being moulded by the artificial form of society which prevails
among the people. Yet, it is not easy to reconcile such explanations with the instances we
can often observe, of difference of national character manifested under circumstances, or at
an age, when the causes assigned can hardly have operated. The peculiarities which appear to
us most artificial in the Parisian character and manners, may often be seen in full perfection
in very young children. Every little French girl, almost from the time when she begins to speak,
seems to place her chief delight in attracting the regard of the other sex, rather than in
playing with her female companions. "In England," says Chateaubriand, "girls are sent to school
in their earliest years: you sometimes see groups of these little ones, dressed in white mantles,
with straw hats tied under the chin with a ribband, and a basket on the arm, containing fruit
and a book--all with downcast eyes, blushing when looked at. When I have seen," he continues,
"our French female children, dressed in their antiquated fashion, lifting up the trains of
their gowns, looking at every one they meet with effrontery, singing love-sick airs, and taking
lessons in declamation; I have thought with regret, of the simplicity and modesty of the little
English girls."

It is the opinion of some naturalists, that the acquired habits, as well as the natural instincts
of animals, are transmitted to their progeny; and in comparing the causes commonly assigned,
and plausibly supported, for the peculiarities of national character, with the very early age
at which these peculiarities shew themselves, one is almost tempted to believe, that something
of the same kind may take place in the human species.

* * *

In what has now been said, no reference has been made to the influence of the revolution on
the parts of the French character on which we have touched. On this point we have of course,
the means of judging with precision; but most of the peculiarities which appeared to us most
striking certainly existed before the revolution, and we should be disposed to doubt whether
the leading features are materially altered. The influence of the writings of the French philosophers
on the religious and moral principles of their countrymen, has certainly been very great, and
has been probably strengthened, rather than weakened, by the events of the last twenty-five years.

The general diffusion of a military spirit; the unprincipled manner in which war has been conducted,
and the encouragement which has been given to martial qualities, to the exclusion of all pacific
virtues, have promoted the growth of the French military vices, particularly selfishness and
licentiousness, among all ranks and descriptions of the people, and materially injured their
general character, even in the remotest parts of the country. During the revolution, and under
the Imperial Government, men have owed their success, in France, almost exclusively to the
influence of their intellectual abilities, without any assistance from their moral character;
in consequence, the contempt for religion is more generally diffused, and more openly expressed
than it was; and although loud protestations of inviolable honour are still necessary, integrity
of conduct is much less respected. The abolition of the old, and the formation of a new nobility,
composed chiefly of men who had risen from inferior military situations, has had a most pernicious
effect on the general manners of the nation. The chief or sole use of a hereditary nobility
in a free country, is to keep up a standard of dignity and elegance of manner, which serves
as a model of imitation much more extensively than the middling and lower ranks are often willing
to allow, and has a more beneficial effect on the national character, than it is easy to explain
on mere speculative principles. But the manners of the new French nobility being the very reverse
of dignified or elegant, their constitution has hitherto tended only to confirm the changes
in the general manners of a great proportion of the French nation, which the revolutionary
ideas had effected. There are very few men to be seen now in France, who (making all allowances
for difference of previous habits) appear to Englishmen to possess either the manners or feelings
of gentlemen.

The best possible proof that this is not a mere national prejudice, in so far as the army is
concerned, is, that the French ladies are very generally of the same way of thinking. After
the English officers left Toulouse in the summer of 1814, the ladies of that town found the
manners of the French officers who succeeded them so much less agreeable, that they could not
be prevailed on, for a long time, to admit them into their society. This is a triumph over
the arms of France, which we apprehend our countrymen would have found it much more difficult
to achieve in the days of the ancient monarchy.

On the other hand, it must be admitted, that the revolution, has had the effect of completely
removing from the French character that silly veneration for high rank, unaccompanied by any
commanding qualities of mind, which used to form a predominant feature in it. Yet it seems
doubtful whether the equivalent they have obtained is more likely to promote their happiness.
They have now an equally infatuated admiration for ability and success, without integrity or
virtue. Their minds have been delivered from the dominion of rank without talents, and have
fallen under that of talents without principle.

CHAPTER VII.

PARIS--THE THEATRES.

It is difficult for any person who has never quitted England to enter into the feelings which
every one must experience when he first finds it in his power to examine those peculiarities
of national manners, or national taste, in the people of other states, which have long been
the subject of speculation in his own country, and on his imperfect knowledge of which, much
perhaps of the estimate he has formed of the character of those nations may depend. The circumstance
which perhaps, of all others connected with the people of France, is most likely to create
this feeling of curiosity and interest, is the opportunity of attending the French theatres.
In most countries, and even in some where dramatic representations possess much greater power
over the minds of the audience, the theatre is comparatively of much less importance to a stranger
in assisting him to judge of the character of the people; the observations which he may collect
can seldom be of any great use in affording him means of understanding their manners and public
character, and at the most, cannot inform him of those circumstances in the character of the
people with which their happiness and prosperity are connected;--but the theatre at Paris is
an object of the greatest interest to a stranger; every one knows how strikingly the character
and dispositions of the French people are displayed at their theatres; and at the period when
we were there, as every speech almost contained something which was eagerly turned into an
allusion to the circumstances of their situation, and to the events which had so lately taken
place, the interest which the theatres must at any time have excited, was greatly increased.

There was another object also, less temporary in its nature, which rendered frequent attendance
at the theatre, one of the most useful and instructive occupations of our time. The construction
and character of the French tragedies have been as generally questioned in other countries,
as they are universally and enthusiastically admired in France; and with whatever feelings,
whether of pleasure or fatigue, we might have read these celebrated compositions, we were all
naturally most anxious to ascertain how far they were calculated for actual representation,
and what effect these plays, which possess such influence over the French people, might produce
on those who had been accustomed to dramatic writings of so very different a description.

The theatres present, at first view, a very favourable aspect of French character. The audience
uniformly conduct themselves with propriety and decorum; they are always attentive to the piece
represented, and shew themselves, in general very good judges of theatrical merit; and the
entertainments which please their taste are certainly of a superior order to a great part of
those which are popular in England. A great number of the performances which are loudly applauded
by the pit and boxes of the London theatres, would be esteemed low and vulgar, even by the
galleries at the Theatre Français. It must be added, likewise, that the morality of the plays
which are in request, is very generally more strict than of favourite English plays; and often
of a refined and sentimental turn, which would be little relished in England. The tragedies
acted at the Theatre Français are generally modelled on the Greek; those of Racine and Voltaire
are common. The comedies have seldom any low life or buffoonery, or vulgar ribaldry in them;
The after pieces, and the ballets at the Academie de Musique, and at the Opera Comique, are
often beautiful representations of rural innocence and enjoyments.

It appears at first difficult to reconcile this taste in theatrical entertainments with the
well-known immorality of the Parisians; but the fact is, that as they are in the daily habit
of speaking of virtues which they do not practise, so it never appears to enter their heads;
that the sentiments which they delight in hearing at the theatres ought to regulate their conduct
to one another. They applaud them only for their adaptation to the situation of the fictitious
personages; whereas in England they are applauded, for speaking home to the business and bosoms
of the audience.

The conduct and style of the French tragedies, in particular, appear to be very characteristic
of a nation among whom noble and virtuous feelings are no sooner experienced than they are
proclaimed to the world; and are there valued, rather for the selfish pleasure they produce,
in the mind, than for their influence on conduct. The French will not admit, in their tragedies,
the representation of all the variety of character and situation that can throw an air of truth
and reality over dramatic fiction; they can admire such incidents and characters only, as accord
with the sentiments and emotions which it is the peculiar province of tragedy to excite. They
are not satisfied with the indication, in a few energetic words,--valuable only as an index
to the state of the mind, and an earnest of the actions of the speaker,--of feelings too strong
to find vent at the moment, in words capable of fully expressing them; they must have the full
developement, the long detailed exposition of all the thoughts which crowd into the mind of
the actor or sufferer, expanded, as it were, to prolong the enjoyment of those who are to sympathise
with them, and expressed in select and appropriate terms, with the pomp and stateliness of
heroic verse. An English tragedy is valued as a representation of life and character; a French
tragedy as a display of eloquence and feeling: and the reason is, that in France eloquence
and feeling are valued for their own sake, and in England they are valued for the sake of the
corresponding character and conduct.

It is perhaps one of the strongest arguments in favour of the general plan of the English drama,
and one of the best proofs that dramatic poetry ought to be judged by very different principles
from those by which other kinds of poetry are criticised, that one of the principal merits
of the French actors consists in hiding the chief peculiarities of their own dramatic school.
The personages in a French tragedy are represented by the authors as it were a degree above
human nature; but the actors study to present themselves before the audience as simple men
and women: the speeches are generally such as appear to be delivered by persons who are superior
to the overwhelming influence of strong passions, and who can calmly enter into an analysis
of their own feelings; but the actors labour to give you the impression, that they are agitated
by present, violent, and sudden emotions; the tragedies are composed with as much regularity
as epic poems in heroic verse, but the best actors do all in their power, by varied intonation,
by irregular pauses, and frequent bursts of passion, to conceal the rhymes, and break the uniformity
of the measure.

The effect of the rhymes and regular versification, in the mouths of the inferior actors, who
have not the art to conceal them, is, to an English ear at least, very unpleasing, and indeed
almost destructive of theatrical illusion; and as a number of such actors must necessarily
appear in every tragedy, it may be doubted whether a tragedy is ever acted throughout on the
French stage in so pleasing a manner, at least to an English taste, as some of our English
tragedies are at present in the London theatres--as Venice preserved, for example, is now acted
at Covent Garden. If such be our superiority, however, it must be ascribed, not to the tragic
genius of the people being greater, but to there being fewer difficulties to be overcome on
the English stage than on the French.

We think it is pretty clear, likewise, that the style of the best English tragedies affords
a better field for the display of genius in the actors, than that of the French. Where the
sentiments of the characters introduced are fully expressed in their words--where their whole
thoughts are detailed for the edification of the audience, however grand or touching these
may be, it is obvious, that the actor who is to represent them is in trammels; the poet has
done so much, that little remains for him; his art is confined to the display of emotions or
passions, all the variations of which are set down for him, and which he is not permitted to
alter. But when the expression of intense feeling is confined to few words, to broken sentences,
and sudden transitions of thought, which let you, indeed, into the inmost recesses of the soul
of the sufferer, but do not lay it open before you, it is permitted for the genius of the actor
to co-operate with that of the poet in producing an effect, for which neither was singly competent.
Those who have witnessed the representation of the heart-rendings of jealousy in Kean's Othello,
or of the agonies of "love and sorrow joined" in Miss O'Neil's Belvidera, will, we are persuaded,
acknowledge the truth of this observation.

The ideas which we had formed of the French stage, from reading their tragedies, had prepared
us to expect, in their principal actor, a figure, countenance, and manner, resembling those
of Kemble, fitted to give full effect to the declamations in which they abound, and to the
representation of characters of heroic virtue, elevated above the influence of earthly passions.
The appearance of Talma is very different from this, and certainly has by no means the uniform
dignity and majestic elevation of Kemble.

Difficult as it must always be to convey, by any general description, a distinct or adequate
notion of the excellence of any actor, there are some circumstances which it is common to mention,
and some expressions which must be understood wherever the theatre is an object of interest,
and the power of acting appreciated. Talma appears to us to unite more of the advantages of
figure, and countenance, and voice, than any actor that we have ever seen: it is not that his
person is large and graceful, or even well proportioned; on the contrary, he is rather a short
man, and is certainly not without defects in the shape of his limbs. But these disadvantages
are wholly overlooked in admiration of his dignified and imposing carriage--of his majestic
head--and of his full and finely-proportioned chest, which expresses so nobly the resolution,
and manliness, and independence of the human character.

There is one circumstance in which Talma has every perfection which it is possible to conceive--in
the power, and richness, and beauty of his voice. It is one of those commanding and pathetic
voices which can never, at any distance of time, be forgotten by any one who has once heard
it: every variety of tone and expression of which the human voice is capable, is perfectly
at his command, and succeed each other with a rapidity and power which it is not possible to
conceive. It makes its way to the heart the instant it is heard, and at the moment he begins
to speak, you feel not only your attention fixed, and your admiration excited, but the mind
wholly subdued by its resistless influence, and disposed to enter at once into every emotion
which he may wish to produce. The beauty and feeling of his under tones, the affection, tenderness,
and pity which they so exquisitely express, are so perfect, that no one could foresee in such
perfections, the fierce, hurried, and overhearing tones of Nero--the voice of deep and exhausting
suffering, which in Hamlet shews so profound an impression of the misery he had undergone,
and of the hopelessness of the situation in which he is placed,--or still more the shriek of
agony in Orestes, when he finds the horrors of madness again assailing him, and when, in that
utter prostration of soul which the belief of inevitable and merciless destiny alone could
produce in his mind, he abandons himself in dark despair to the misery which seems to close
around him for ever.

We have heard several English people describe Talma's countenance, as by no means powerful
enough for a great actor; it appeared to us, that in no one respect was he so decidedly superior
to any actor on the English stage, as in the truth and variety of expression which it displays.
There is one observation indeed regarding the acting of Talma, which often suggested itself,
and which may, in some degree, prepare us to expect, that English people in general could not
be much struck with the expression of his countenance. On the English stage, it appears commonly
to be the object of the actors, to give to every sentiment the whole effect of which the words
of the part will admit, as fully as if that sentiment were the only one which could occupy
the mind of the character at the time; and any person who will attend to the manner in which
Macbeth and Hamlet are performed, even by that great actor whose genius has secured at once
the pre-eminence which the reputation of Garrick had left so long uncontested, may observe,
that many of the parts, which are applauded as the strongest proofs of the abilities of the
actor, consist in the expression given to sentiments, undoubtedly of subordinate importance
in the situation of these characters, and which probably could never occupy so exclusively
the mind of any one really placed in the circumstances represented in the play, and under the
influence of the feelings which such circumstances are calculated to produce. In the character
of Hamlet, in particular, there are several passages, in which it is the custom to express
minor and passing sentiments with a keenness little suitable to the profound grief in which
Hamlet ought to be absorbed at the commencement of the play, and which can be natural only
when the mind is free from other more powerful emotions. It appears to us, that the consistency
of character is much more judiciously and naturally preserved in the acting of Talma; that
he is more careful to maintain invariably that unity of expression which ought to be given
to the character, and is more uniformly under the influence of those predominating feelings,
which the circumstances of the situation in which the part has placed him seem fitted to excite.
Under this impression apparently of the object which an actor ought to keep in view, Talma
omits many opportunities, which would be eagerly employed on the English stage, to display
the power of the actor, though the natural consistency of character might be violated; and
never seems to think it proper to express, on all occasions, every sentiment with that effect
which should be given to it, only when it becomes the predominant feeling of the moment. Much,
no doubt, is lost for stage effect by this notion of acting. Many opportunities are passed
over, which might have been employed to shew the manner in which the actor can represent a
variety of feelings, which the language of the play may seem to admit; and we lose much of
the art and skill of acting, when the talents of the actor are limited to the display of such
sentiments only as accord with the simple and decided expression of character which he is anxious
to maintain.

But on the other hand, the impression which this representation of character makes upon the
mind, is on the whole much more profound, and the interest which the spectator takes in the
circumstances in which the character is placed, is much greater when the actor is so wholly
under the influence of the feelings which the situation of the part ought to excite, as never
to betray any emotion which can weaken that general effect which this situation would naturally
produce. To those, therefore, accustomed to the greater variety of expression which the practice
of the English stage renders necessary in the countenance of every actor, and to the strong
and often exaggerated manner in which common sentiments and ordinary feelings are represented,
there may perhaps appear some want of expression in Talma's countenance; but no one can attend
fully to any of the more interesting characters which he performs, without feeling an impression
produced by the power and intelligence of his countenance, which no length of time will ever
wholly efface. It is not the expression of his countenance at any particular moment which fixes
itself on the mind, or the force with which accidental feelings are represented; but that permanent
and powerful expression which suits the character he has to sustain, and never for an instant
permits you to forget the circumstances, of whatever kind, in which he is placed; and those
who have seen him in any of the greater parts on the French stage, can never forget that unrivalled
power of expressing deep grief, of which nothing in any English actor at present on the stage
can afford any idea.

At the same time it must be admitted, that Talma has arrived at that time of life, when the
hand of age has impaired, in some degree, the vigour and expression of the human frame, and
when his countenance has lost much of that variety and play of expression which belongs to
the period of youth alone; it has lost much of the warmth and keenness of youthful feeling,
and probably might fail in expressing that openness, and gaiety, and enthusiasm, which time
has so great a tendency to diminish. But these qualities are not often required in the parts
which Talma has to perform in the French plays; and if his countenance has lost some of the
perfections of earlier years, it has, on the other hand, gained much from the seriousness and
dignity of age. If, for instance, he does not express so well the ardour--the hope--the triumph
of youthful love, there is yet something irresistibly affecting in the earnestness with which
he expresses that passion; something which adds most deeply to the interest which its expression
is calculated to excite, by reminding one of the instability of human enjoyment, and of the
many misfortunes which the course of life may bring with it to destroy the visions of inexperienced
affection. We have already mentioned, that in the expression of profound emotion and deep suffering,
the countenance of Talma is altogether admirable; and we doubt whether there is any thing is
this respect more true and perfect, even in the performance of that great actress who has,
in the present day, united every perfection of grace, and beauty, and genuine feeling which
the stage has ever exhibited. But the countenance of Talma, in scenes of distress, expresses
not merely suffering, but if possible, something more, which we have never seen in any other
actor. He alone possesses the power of expressing that impatience under suffering--that restless,
constant wish for relief, which produces so strong an impression of the truth and reality of
the affliction with which you are called upon to sympathise.

His attitudes and action are uncommonly striking, seldom in the exaggeration of the French
stage, and never running into that immoderate expression of passion in which dignity of character
is necessarily sacrificed. Talma appears to understand the use and management of action better
than any actor on the French stage; and though at times some prominent faults, inseparable,
perhaps, from the character of the plays in which he is compelled to perform, may be observable;
yet, in general, his action appears to possess a power and expression beyond what is attempted
by any actor on the English stage.

Nothing can be conceived apparently so inconsistent with the character of the French plays,
as the manner in which they are delivered. The harangues, which are tedious to many when read,
might probably be very uninteresting to all when performed, if delivered with that unbending
and unimpassioned declamation, which seems to suit "their stately march and long resounding
lines:" to a French audience, in particular, such representations would be intolerable, and
the actors, accordingly, have been led to perform them with a degree of energy and passion
which they do not appear intended to admit, but which was necessary, perhaps, to awaken those
emotions which it must be more or less the object of theatrical representations to excite,
wherever they are to be performed to all classes of mankind. As might have been foreseen, the
French actors, compelled to counterfeit a degree of warmth and feeling which was not suggested
by the sentiments they utter, or the language they employ, have fallen very naturally into
the error of making the expression of passion immoderately vehement; and thus, when not guided
by the language they are to use, have become not only indiscriminate in the introduction of
violent emotion, but often run into a degree of warmth, totally destructive of every feeling
of propriety and dignity.

The striking circumstance in Talma's acting is, that he alone seems to know how to act the
French plays with all the feeling and interest which can be necessary to produce effect; and
at the same time, to avoid that exaggerated representation of passion which represses the very
emotions it is intended to excite. The means by which the genius of this great actor has accomplished
so important an effect, and overcome the difficulties which seem insuperable to the rest of
his countrymen, afford the best illustration that can be given of the talents and imagination
he displays. Talma appears to have thought, and most justly, that the only manner in which
the French tragedies can approach and interest the heart, is by the impression which the character
and the moral tendency of the play may, upon the whole, be able to produce, not by the force
or pathos which can be thrown into any detached speeches, or by the effect with which individual
parts of the tragedy may be given. The impression which might be created by the delivery of
any particular passage, or by the expression of any occasional sentiment, he seems at all times
to consider as of subordinate importance to the preservation of that permanent character, whether
of intense and overpowering suffering, or wild desperation, by which he thinks the feelings
of the spectators may be most deeply and heartily interested. Much as we admire the excellencies
of the English stage, and none we are persuaded can have an opportunity of comparing it with
the acting of the French theatre, without being more sensible of its perfections, we think
it may yet be observed, that many important objects are sacrificed to the desire of producing
continual emotion,--to the practice of making every sentiment and every word tell upon the
audience, with an effect which could not be greater, if that sentiment were the whole object
of the tragedy. We admit, most willingly, the talent and feeling which are often so beautifully
displayed in the course of the inferior scenes; and the impression, which is so frequently
produced over the "whole assembled multitude," by the delivery of a single passage, of no importance
in itself, attests sufficiently the merits of the actors who can thus wield at will the passions
of the spectators. What we are anxious to observe is, that the general impression, from the
play must be less profound, when the mind is thus distracted by a variety of powerful feelings
succeeding each other so rapidly, and when the interest, which would naturally increase of
itself as the performance proceeds, in the history and moral tendency of the tragedy, is thus
broken, as it were, by the influence of so many transient passions. It is very singular to
observe the difference, in this respect, between the character of an English and a Parisian
audience: To the former, every thing, as it passes, must be given with the greatest effect;
no opportunity can safely be omitted, by any one attentive to the public opinion, of displaying
the power with which each sentiment may be expressed; and there is no common feeling among
the spectators, of the subserviency of all the different parts of the tragedy to one great
import, or that it is only in the more important scenes, where the events of the story are
coming to a close, that great talent is to be exerted, or profound emotion excited. The feelings
of a French audience, as might be expected, are such as better suit the character of the plays
which have been so long addressed to them; they like to have their interest awakened, and their
feelings excited, only as the story proceeds, and the deeper scenes of the tragedy begin to
open upon them; and it is to the general impression which the progress and close of the play
leave upon the mind, that they look, as to the criterion of the excellence of the manner, in
which that play has been performed. Nothing, therefore, can be apparently quieter than the
commencement of a French tragedy; and a person unacquainted with the language, would be disposed
to conclude what was passing before him as uninteresting in the highest degree, if he did not
observe the most profound and eager attention to prevail in those to whom it is addressed.
It would be a subject of very curious and instructive speculation, to examine the circumstances,
in the situation and intelligence of the people in both countries, which have occasioned this
remarkable difference in their feelings, in moments when the influence of prejudice, or the
effect of peculiar character, generally gives way, and when the genuine sentiments of mankind,
as invariably happens when the different ranks of men are assembled indiscriminately together,
assume their natural empire over the human heart. It might unfold some interesting conclusions
both as to the great object of the drama, and the genuine style of dramatic representation;
and might place, in a more important point of view than is within the consideration, perhaps,
of many who so hastily decide on the superiority of the English stage, the excellence they admire.

Much as the French tragedies are despised in this country, and sensible as we are of many essential
defects which belong to them, when considered as the means of exciting popular feeling, or
of applying to the duties of common life, we must yet state the very great and lasting impression
which many of them left on our minds, and which, we can truly say, was never equalled by any
effect produced by the most successful efforts of the English stage. At our own theatres, we
have been often more deeply affected during the performance of the play,--we have often admired,
much more, the grace, or feeling, or grandeur of the acting we witnessed, and been more highly
delighted with the species of talent which was displayed; but yet, we must acknowledge, that
the impression that all this left upon the mind, was not such as has been produced by the powers
of Talma in the French tragedies. We had many occasions, however, to see that this effect was
to be attributed chiefly to the genius of this great actor, and that it was only when entrusted
to him, that the influence of these plays was so deeply felt.

The great difference, then, between the acting of Talma, and of the other actors on the French
stage, is his constant attention to the means by which the impression, which the general tendency
of the play will produce, may be increased. Whatever may be the character which the nature
of the tragedy seems to require, his whole powers are employed to pursue that character inviolably
during the progress of the play, and to add to the effect it is fitted to produce: The character
of profound grief, for instance, is so completely sustained, that the very act of speaking
seems an exertion too great for a mind which suffering has nearly exhausted, and where, in
consequence, the pomp and energy of declamation, and many of the most natural aids by which
passion is wont to express itself, are all disregarded in the intensity of mental agony. It
is not uncommon, accordingly, to see Talma perform parts of a tragedy in a manner which might
seem tame and unmeaning to one who had not been present at the preceding parts, but which is
most interesting to those who have seen the character which he adopts from the first, and feel
the propriety and effect of the manner in which that character is sustained. Some of the most
striking effects we have ever seen produced in any acting, are in those scenes, in many plays
in which he performs, in which, from his powerful and affecting personation of character, his
exhausted mind seems unable to enter into any events which are not either to relieve his sufferings,
or terminate an existence which appears beset with such hopeless misery. Other actors may have
succeeded in expressing as strongly the influence of present suffering, or the despair of intense
grief. It is Talma alone who knows how to express, what is so much more grand, the effects
of long suffering; to remind you of the misery he has endured by the spectacle of an exhausted
frame and broken spirit; and by exhibiting the overwhelming consequence of those sufferings
which the poet has not dared to describe, nor the actor ventured to represent to interest the
mind far more profoundly than any representation of present passion could possibly effect.
The influence of the exertions of other actors is limited to the effects of the emotions they
represent, and of the suffering they exhibit: the genius of Talma has imitated the efforts
of ancient Greece in her matchless sculpture, and, in every situation which put it within his
power, chosen, as the proper field for the display of the actor's powers, not the mere representation
of excess in suffering, but that moment of greater interest, when the struggle of nature is
past, and the mind has sunk under the pressure of affliction, which no fortitude could sustain,
and which no ray of hope had cheered.

Every one knows the peculiar manner in which, in general, the verses of the French tragedy
are repeated, and the delight which the French people take in the uniform and balanced modulation
of voice with which they are accompanied. In an ordinary actor, this peculiar tone is often,
to many foreigners, extremely fatiguing, but it is defended in France, as securing a pleasure
in some degree independent of the merits of the actor, and defending the audience from the
harshness of tone, and extravagancies of accent, to which otherwise, in bad actors, they would
be exposed; and certainly no one can listen, in the National Theatre, to the beautiful and
splendid declamations of the most celebrated compositions in French literature, delivered in
the manner which has been selected as best adapted to the character of the plays and the taste
of the people, with any feeling of indifference. In the skilful hands of Talma, who preserves
the beauty of the poetry nearly unimpaired in the very abandon of feeling, the French verse
acquires beauties which it never before could boast, and loses all that is harsh or painful
in the uniformity of its structure, or the monotony of artificial taste. The description which
Le Baron de Grimm has given of Le Kain may be well applied to Talma. "Un talent plus precieux
sans doute et qu'il avait porté au plus haut degré c'etait celui de faire sentir tout le charme
des beaux vers sans nuire jamais a la verité de l'expression. En dechirant le cœur, il enchantait
toujours l'oreille, sa voix pénétrait jusqu'au fond de l'ame, et l'impression qu'elle y faisait,
semblable a celle du burin, y laissait des traces et longs souvenirs."

The tragedy of Hamlet, in which we saw Talma perform for the first time, is one which must
be interesting to every person who has any acquaintance with French literature; and it will
not probably be considered as any great digression in a description of Talma's excellencies
as an actor, to add some further remarks concerning that celebrated play in which his powers
are perhaps most strikingly displayed, and which is one of the greatest compositions undoubtedly
of the French theatre. It can hardly be called a translation, as many material alterations
were made in the story of the play; and though the general purport of the principal speeches
has been sometimes preserved, the language and sentiments are generally extremely different.
The character of Shakespeare's Hamlet was wholly unsuited to the taste of a French audience.
What is the great attraction in that mysterious being to the feelings of the English people,
the strange, wild, and metaphysical ideas which his art or his madness seems to take such pleasure
in starting, and the uncertainty in which Shakespeare has left the reader with regard to Hamlet's
real situation, would not perhaps have been understood--certainly not admired, by those who
were accustomed to consider the works of Racine and Voltaire as the models of dramatic composition.
In the play of Ducis, accordingly, Hamlet thinks, talks, and acts pretty much as any other
human being would do, who should be compelled to speak only in the verse of the French tragedy,
which necessarily excludes, in a great degree, any great incoherence or flightiness of sentiment.
In some respects, however, the French Hamlet, if a less poetical personage, is nevertheless
a more interesting one, and better adapted to excite those feelings which are most within the
command of the actor's genius. M. Ducis has represented him as more doubtful of the reality
of the vision which haunted him, or at least of the authority which had commissioned it for
such dreadful communications; and this alteration, so important in the hands of Talma, was
required on account of other changes which had been made in the story of the play. The paramour
of the Queen is not Hamlet's uncle, nor had the Queen either married the murderer, or discovered
her criminal connexion with him. Hamlet, therefore, has not, in the incestuous marriage of
his mother, that strong confirmation of the ghost's communication, which, in Shakespeare, led
him to suspect foul play even before he sees his father's spirit. In the French play, therefore,
Hamlet is placed in one of the most dreadful situations in which the genius of poetry can imagine
a human being: Haunted by a spirit, which assumes such mastery over his mind, that he cannot
dispel the fearful impression it has made, or disregard the communication it so often repeats,
while his attachment to his mother, in whom he reveres the parent he has lost, makes him question
the truth of crimes which are thus laid to her charge, and causes him to look upon this terrific
spectre as the punishment of unknown crime, and the visitation of an offended Deity. Ducis
has most judiciously and most poetically represented Hamlet, in the despair which his sufferings
produce, as driven to the belief of an over-ruling destiny, disposing of the fate of its unhappy
victims by the most arbitrary and revolting arrangement, and visiting upon some, with vindictive
fury, the whole crimes of the age in which they live. There is in this introduction of ancient
superstition, something which throws a mysterious veil round the destiny of Hamlet, that irresistibly
engrosses the imagination, and which must be doubly interesting in that country where the horrors
of the revolution have ended in producing a very prevalent, though vague belief, in the influence
of fatality upon human character and human actions, among those who pretend to ridicule, as
unmanly prejudice and childish delusion, the religion of modern Europe.

The struggle, accordingly, that appears to take place in Hamlet's mind is most striking; and
when at last he yields to the authority and the commands of the spirit, which exercises such
tyranny over his mind, it does not seem the result of any farther evidence of the guilt which
he is enjoined to revenge, but as the triumph of superstition over the strength of his reason.
He had long resisted the influence of that visionary being, which announced itself as his father's
injured spirit, and in assuming that sacred form, had urged him to destroy the only parent
whom fate had left; but the struggle had brought him to the brink of the grave, and shaken
the empire of reason; and when at last he abandons himself to the guidance of a power which
his firmer nature had long resisted, the impression of the spectator is, that his mind has
yielded in the struggle, and that, in the desperate hope of obtaining relief from present wretchedness,
he is about to commit the most horrible crimes, by obeying the suggestions of a spirit, which
he more than suspects to be employed only to tempt him on to perdition. No description can
possibly do justice to the manner in which this situation of Hamlet is represented by Talma;
indeed, on reading over the play some time afterwards, it was very evident that the powers
of the actor had invested the character with much of the grandeur and terror which seemed to
belong to it, and that the imagination of the French poet, which rises into excellence, even
when compared with the productions of that great master of the passions whom he has not submitted
to copy, has been surpassed by the fancy of the actor for whom he wrote. The Hamlet of Talma
is probably productive of more profound emotion, than any representation of character on any
stage ever excited.

One other alteration ought to be mentioned, as it renders the circumstances of Hamlet's situation
still more distressing, and affords Talma an opportunity of displaying the effects of one of
the gentler passions of human nature, when its influence seemed irreconcileable with the stern
and fearful duties which fate had assigned to him. The Ophelia of the French play, so unlike
that beautiful and innocent being who alone seems to connect the Hamlet of Shakespeare with
the feelings and nature of ordinary men, has been made the daughter of the man for whose sake
the king has been poisoned, and was engaged to marry Hamlet at that happier period when he
was the ornament of his father's court, and the hope of his father's subjects. In the first
part of the play, though no hint of the terrible revenge which he was to execute on her father
has escaped, the looks and anxiety of Talma discover to her that her fate is in some degree
connected with the emotions which so visibly oppress him, and she makes him at last confess
the insurmountable barrier which separates them for ever. Nothing can be greater than the acting
of Talma during this difficult scene, in which he has to resist the entreaties of the woman
whom he loves, when imploring for the life of her father, and yet so overcome with his affection,
as hardly to have strength left to adhere to his dreadful purpose.

The feelings of a French audience do not permit the spirit of Hamlet's father to appear on
the stage: "L'apparition se passe, (says Madame de Stael)[3], en entier dans la physionomie
de Talma, et certes elle n'en est pas ainsi moins effrayante. Quand, au milieu d'un entretien
calme et melancolique, tout a coup il aperçoit le spectre, on suit tout; ses mouvemens dans
les yeux qui le contemplent, et l'on ne peut douter de la presence du fantome quand un tel
regard l'atteste." The remark is perfectly just, nothing can be imagined more calculated to
dispel at once the effect which the countenance of a great actor, in such circumstances, would
naturally produce, than bringing any one on the stage to personate the ghost; and whoever has
seen Talma in this part, will acknowledge that the mind is not disposed to doubt, for an instant,
the existence of that form which no eye but his has seen, and of that voice which no ear but
his has heard. We regretted much, while witnessing the astonishing powers which Talma displayed
in this very difficult part of the play, that it was impossible to see his genius employed
in giving effect to the character of Aristodemo, (in the Italian tragedy of that name by Monti),
to which his talents alone could do justice, and which, perhaps, affords more room for the
display of the actor's powers, than any other play with which we are acquainted.

But the soliloquy on death is the part in which the astonishing excellence and genius of Talma
are most strikingly displayed. Whatever difficulty there may often be to determine the particular
manner in which scenes, with other characters, ought to be performed, there is no difference
of opinion as to the manner in which soliloquies ought in general to be delivered. How comes
it, then, that these are the very parts in which all feel that the powers of the actors are
so much tried, and in which, for the most part, they principally fail? No one can have paid
any attention to the English stage, without being struck with the circumstance, that while
there may be much to praise in the performance of the other parts, many of the best actors
uniformly fail in soliloquies; and that it is only of late, since the reputation of the English
stage, has been so splendidly revived, that we have seen these difficult and interesting parts
properly performed. It is in this circumstance, more than any other, in which the talents of
Talma are most remarkably displayed, because he is peculiarly fitted, by his complete personation
of character, and the deep interest which he seems himself to take in the part he is sustaining,
to excel in performing what chiefly requires such interest. He is, at all times, so fully impressed
with the feelings, which, under such circumstances, must have been really felt, that one is
uniformly struck with the truth and propriety of every thing he does; and of course, in soliloquies,
which must be perfect, when the actor appears to be seriously and deeply interested in the
subjects on which he is meditating, Talma invariably succeeds. In this soliloquy in Hamlet,
he is completely absorbed in the awful importance of the great question which occupies his
attention, and nothing indicates the least consciousness of the multitude which surrounds him,
or even that he is giving utterance to the mighty thoughts which crowd upon his mind. "Talma
ne faisoit pas un geste, quelquefois seulement il remuoit la tête pour questioner la terre
et le ciel sur ce que c'est que la mort! Immobile, la dignité de la meditation absorboit tout
son etre."--De l'Allemagne, 1. c. We could wish to avoid any attempt to describe the acting
of Talma in those passages which the eloquence of M. de Stael has rendered familiar throughout
Europe; yet we feel that this account of the tragedy of Hamlet would be imperfect, if we did
not allude to that very interesting scene, which corresponds, in the history of the play, to
the closet scene in Shakespeare. Talma appears with the urn which contains the ashes of his
father, and whose injured spirit he seems to consult, to obtain more proof of the guilt which
he is to revenge, or in the hope that the affections of human nature may yet survive the horrors
of the tomb, and that the duty of the son will not be tried in the blood of the parent who
gave him birth. But no voice is heard to alter the sentence which he is doomed to execute;
and he is still compelled to prepare himself to meet with sternness his guilty mother. After
charging her, with the utmost tenderness and solemnity, with the knowledge of her husband's
murder, he places the urn in her hands, and requires her to swear her innocence over the sacred
ashes which it contains. At first, the consciousness that Hamlet could only suspect her crime,
gives her resolution to commence the oath with firmness; and Talma, with an expression of countenance
which cannot be described, awaits, in triumph and joy, the confirmation of her innocence,--and
seems to call upon the spirit which had haunted him, to behold the solemn scene which proves
the falsehood of its mission. But the very tenderness which he shews destroys the resolution
of his mother, and she hesitates in the oath she had begun to pronounce. His feelings are at
once changed,--the paleness of horror, and fury of revenge, are marked in his countenance,
and his hands grasp the steel which is to punish her guilt: But the agony of his mother again
overpowers him, at the moment he is about to strike; he appeals for mercy to the shade of his
father, in a voice, in which, as M. de Stael has truly said, all the feelings of human nature
seem at once to burst from his heart, and, in an attitude humbled by the view of his mother's
guilt and wretchedness, he awaits the confession she seems ready to make: and when she sinks,
overcome by the remorse and agony which she feels, he remembers only that she is his mother;
the affection which had been long repressed again returns, and he throws himself on his knees,
to assure her of the mercy of Heaven. We do not wish to be thought so presumptuous as to compare
the talents of the French author with the genius of Shakespeare, but we must be allowed to
say, that we think this scene better managed for dramatic effect: and certainly no part of
Hamlet, on the English stage, ever produced the same impression, or affected us so deeply.
We are well aware, however, how very different the scene would have appeared in the hands of
any other actors than Talma and Madle Duchesnois, and that a very great part of the merit which
the play seemed to possess, might be more justly attributed to the talents which they displayed.
At the conclusion of this great tragedy, which has become so popular in France, and in which
the genius of Talma is so powerfully exhibited, the applause was universal; and after some
little time, to our surprise, instead of diminishing, became much louder; and presently a cry
of Talma burst out from the whole house. In a few minutes the curtain drew up, and discovered
Talma waiting to receive the applause with which they honoured him, and to express his sense
of the distinction paid to him.

The part of Orestes in Andromaque, is another character in which the acting of Talma is seen
to much advantage: and to a foreigner, it is peculiarly interesting, as it displays, more than
any other almost, that uncommon power of recitation which distinguishes his acting from the
tame and monotonous declamation of the ordinary actors; and which gives to the splendid language,
and elevated sentiments of the French tragedies, an effect which cannot easily be understood
by any one who has never seen them well performed. The part is one which is remarkably popular
at present in Paris, as there is something in the history of that fabulous being, who has been
represented as the victim of a capricious and arbitrary Providence, and exposed during his
whole life to the most unmerited and horrible torments, which seems greatly to interest the
French people; and Talma has thus been led to bestow upon the character a degree of reflection
and preparation, which the parts in a French tragedy do not in general require. There is a
passage which occurs in the first scene, which exhibits very strikingly the judgment and genuine
feeling which uniformly marks his acting. After mentioning what had happened to him after his
disappointment, with regard to Hermione, and his separation from Pylades, he says, that he
had hastened to the great assembly of the Greeks, which the common interest of Greece had called
together, in the hope, that the ardour, the activity, and the love of glory which had distinguished
the period of youth, might revive with the animating scene which was again presented to his mind.

    "En ce calme trompeur J'arrivai dans la Grece
    Et Je trouvois d'abord ces princes rassemblès,
    Qu'un peril assez grand sembloit avoir troublès.
    J'y courus. Je pensai que la guerre et la gloire
    De soins plus importants remplissoit ma memoire
    Que mes sens reprenant leur premiere vigueur
    L'amour acheveroit de sortir de mon cœur.
    Mais admire avec mois le sort, dont la pursuite
    Me fait courir alors au piege que j'evite."

There is a similar passage in Othello, in which, when the passion of jealousy had seized upon
his mind, the Moor laments the degradation to which he had fallen, when all the objects of
his former ambition ceased to interest his imagination, or animate his exertions. In enumerating
the occupations which formed the pomp and glorious circumstance of war, but for which the misery
of his situation had completely unmanned him, the actors who have attempted this character,
fire with the description of the arms which he now abandons, and of the scenes in which his
renown had been acquired. In this analogous passage, Talma repeats these scenes with much greater
propriety and effect. He appeared overwhelmed by a deep sense of the degradation to which a
foolish and unmanly attachment had reduced him; no gesture or tone of voice, expressive of
the slightest animation, escaped him, when he described the objects of his youthful ambition;
every thing denoted the shame and regret of a man who felt that his glory and his occupation
were gone, and who no longer dared to look up with pride to the remembrance of those better
days, when his valour and his resolution were the admiration of Greece.

The scene between Orestes and Hermione on their first meeting, is one in which Talma displays
very great power: with his heart full of the passion from which he had suffered so much, he
begins the declaration of his constancy in the most ardent and impressive manner, and for a
time seems to flatter himself, that resentment at the neglect which she had met with from Pyrrhus
might have awakened some affection for himself in the breast of Hermione. At first she is anxious
to secure Orestes in case that Pyrrhus should ultimately slight her, and is at pains to confirm
the hope which she perceives that this passion had created: But when he urges her to take the
opportunity which how offered itself, of leaving a court where she appeared to be detained
only to witness the marriage of her rival, she betrays at once the state of her mind:--

      "Mais, seigneur, cependant s'il epouse Andromaque.
      Oreste. Hé, madame.
      Her. Songez quelle honte pour nous,
    Si d'une Phrygienne il devenoit lepoux.
      Oreste. Et vous le haissez!"--&c.

The indignant and bitter irony with which Talma delivers this speech, when he finds that resentment
at Pyrrhus, and not affection for himself, has made her thus anxious to rivet the chains which
her former cruelty had hardly weakened, is most striking, and he seems at once to regain the
independence which he had lost.

There is another passage of very peculiar interest, which we hope it will not be prolonging
these remarks too far to quote, as affording a very striking instance of the effect which the
powers of Talma are able to produce, under almost any circumstances. When Pyrrhus, at one part
of the play, consents to surrender Astyanax, and by this rupture with Andromache, resolves
to marry Hermione, Orestes is thrown at once into the utmost despair by this sudden change
of plans, and by this disappointment of his hopes. When he again appears with Pylades, he threatens
to take the most violent measures, to interrupt this marriage, and to carry off Hermione by
force from the court where she was detained. His friend naturally feels for the wound which
his fame must suffer from such an outrage, and the dishonour which it would bring upon a name
rendered sacred throughout Greece, from the unmerited misfortunes which he had sustained. "Voila
donc le succès qu'aura votre ambassade. Oreste ravisseur." But such considerations are of no
avail in the intemperance of his present feelings; and Orestes, after alluding to the injury
of a second rejection by Hermione, proceeds to another motive, which urged him to any means,
however violent to secure his object, and which most powerfully interests the imagination.
Every one knows the supposed history of that mysterious character, whose destiny seemed to
have placed him at the disposal of some unrelenting enemy of the human race, and who had suffered
every misfortune which could oppress human nature.

    "--Mais, s'il faut ne te rien deguiser
    Mon innocence enfin commence a me peser,
    Je ne sais, de tout tems, quelle injuste puissence
    Laisse le crime en paix, et poursuit l'innocence,
    De quelque part sur moi que je trouve les yeux,
    Je ne vois que malheurs qui condamnent lea Dieux,
    Meritons leur courroux, justifions leur haine,
    Et que le fruit du crime en précéde la peine."

It is a remark of Seneca, that the most sublime spectacle in nature is the view of a great
man struggling against misfortune, and such a character has ever been considered as the most
appropriate subject for dramatic representation. The extreme difficulty of succeeding, in the
very important passage which I have quoted, is obviously because the very reverse of such a
spectacle is now presented to the mind,--when Orestes is made to abandon that distinction in
his fate which alone gave him any peculiar hold over the feelings of the spectators, and because
the actor must continue to engage, even more deeply than before, their interest and their pity,
at the very time when the sentiments he utters must necessarily lower the dignity of the character
he sustains, and diminish the compassion he had previously awakened. How, then, is that ascendency
over the mind, which the singular destiny of Orestes naturally acquires, to be preserved, when
he no longer is to be regarded as the innocent sufferer who claims our interest, and when he
is content to descend to the level of ordinary men? In this very difficult passage Talma is
eminently successful; no vehemence of manner accompanies the desperate resolution he expresses,
the recollection of the misery he has suffered, and the dread of the greater misfortunes which
his present intentions must bring upon him, seem wholly to overpower him, and his countenance,
marked with the utmost dejection and wretchedness, appears still to appeal for mercy to the
power which persecutes him. Everything in his appearance and voice conveys the impression of
a person overwhelmed with misfortunes, and hurried on, by an impulse he cannot controul, into
greater calamities, and more complicated misery. The very sentiment which he avows, seems to
proceed from the over-ruling influence of a destiny which he has in vain attempted to resist,
and to be only another proof of the unceasing persecution to which he is exposed; and though
he no longer commands admiration, or deserves esteem, he becomes more than ever the object
of the deepest commiseration. Talma appears to attach much importance to the impression which
this passage may produce, as much of the view which he exhibits of the character of Orestes
seems intended to assist its effect; and we certainly consider it as the greatest and most
successful effort of genius, which we have ever seen displayed upon any stage. After witnessing
this representation of the character of Orestes at this melancholy period of his life, it was
with no ordinary interest that we shortly after saw Talma perform the part of Orestes in Iphigénie
en Tauride, a play which represents very beautifully the only event in his life, which ever
seemed likely to secure his happiness, the discovery of his sister; and we shall never forget
the beautiful expression of Talma's countenance, and the delightful tones of his voice, when
he described to his sister and his friend, the emotions which the feeling of happiness so new
to him had created, and the hopes of future exertion and honour, which he now felt himself
able to entertain.

The last scene of this interesting tragedy is the most celebrated and most admired part in
the range of Talma's characters, and undoubtedly it is impossible to find any acting more admirable
or more affecting: After the death of Pyrrhus, he rushes upon the stage to inform Hermione
that he had obeyed her dreadful commission, and to receive the reward of such a proof of his
attachment; the horror of the crime which he had committed is sunk in his confidence of the
claim he has now acquired to her gratitude, and he triumphantly relates the circumstances of
the scene which had passed, as giving him such undeniable titles to the reward which had been
promised to his firmness.--Madame de Stael has mentioned the effect he gives to the short and
feeble reply which he makes, when Hermione accuses him of cruelty, and throws all the guilt
of the murder on himself;--but it is in the subsequent part that he appears so great: After
Hermione leaves him, and he recovers in some degree of the stupor which such an unexpected
attack had produced, he repeats, in a hurried manner, the circumstances of his situation, and
dwells on the perfidy of Hermione; but when he finds no palliation for his crime, and sees
how completely he has been degraded by his unmanly weakness, the whole enormity of his guilt
comes full upon his mind, and he acquires even dignity in the opinion of the beholder, from
the solemn and emphatic manner in which he curses the folly and inhumanity of his conduct.
But a further blow awaits him; and it is not till Pylades informs him of the death of Hermione,
that the horrors of madness begin to seize on his mind. At first he remains motionless and
thunderstruck with the dreadful issue of his enterprise; then, in a low and thrilling tone
of voice, he laments the bitterness and misery of that destiny by which he is doomed to be
for ever the victim of fate, (du malheur un modêle accompli,) till the wildness of madness
comes over him: In a voice hardly heard, he seems to ask himself, "Quelle épaisse nuit tout
a coup m'environne, de quelle coté sortir? D'ou-vient que je frissonne. Quelle horreur me saisit?"--and
at once a shriek, dreadful beyond all description, announces the destruction of reason, and
the agonies of madness. It is vain to describe the wild, desperate, and horrifying manner in
which he represents Orestes tortured by the frightful visions with which the furies had visited
his mind, till his nature, exhausted by such intense sufferings, sinks at once into a calm,
more dreadful even than the wildness which had preceded it.

