But the radiant look passed swiftly with the remembrance of the pain that would come to the
child on waking, and she kissed the tiny fingers that lay over the edge of her mantle with
a movement of irrepressible tenderness, lapsing at once into reverie; while the artist, full
of the enthusiasm of creation, stood dreaming of his picture. This Holy Mother should be greater,
more compassionate, nearer to the people than any Madonna he had ever painted; for never had
he noted in any face before such a passion of love and pity. In that moment of stillness the
sunset lights, intensifying, cast a glow about her; the child, half-waking, stretched up his
tiny hand and touched her cheek with a rare caress, and the light in her face was a radiance
never to be forgotten. The Veronese's wonderful Madonna del Sorriso leaped to instant life;
a smile full of the pathos of human suffering, tender in comprehension, perfect in faith--this,
which this moment of inspiration had revealed to him, would he paint for the consolation of
those who should kneel before the altar of the Servi!

She was busy with the child, putting him gently on the ground as a gondola approached; he,
with his thought in intense realization, fixing the peculiar beauty of these sunset clouds
in his artist memory as sole color-scheme of his picture; for this grave, sweet face, with
its pale, fair tones and profusion of soft brown hair, would not bear the vivid draperies that
the Veronese was wont to fashion--the mantle must be a gray cloud, pink flushed, with delicate
sunset borderings where it swept away to shroud the child; the beauty of his creation should
be in that smile of exquisite compassion, and this wonderful sunset in which it should glow
forever!

It was a rare moment with the Veronese, in which he seemed lifted above himself; the revelation
of the face had seized him, translating him into the poetic atmosphere which he rarely attained;
the harmonies of the vision were so perfect that they sufficed for the over-sumptuousness of
color and detail which were usually features of his conceptions.

Some one called impatiently from the gondola in rude, quick tones, and the artist woke from
his reverie. The maiden lingered on the step for a word of adieu to this stranger who wished
to give the little one pleasure, but she dared not disturb him, for he was some great signor--so
she interpreted his dress and bearing--and she was only a maiden of Murano.

He was still under the spell of his great moment, and he was in the presence of one who should
help him to make it immortal; he uncovered his head with a motion of courtly deference he did
not often assume as he started forward over the rough planks of the traghetto. "Signora, where
shall I bring the flowers to make the little one smile?"

"To Murano, near the Stabilimento Magagnati, Eccellenza," she answered without hesitation,
lifting the baby in her arms to escape the rough help of the gondolier, who reached forward
to hasten his stumbling movements.

And so they floated off from the traghetto--the Madonna that was to be, into the deepening
twilight, while the Veronese, a splendid and incongruous figure amid these lowly surroundings,
leaned against the paltry column that supported the shrine, wrapped in a delicious reverie
of creation; for he was unused to failure and he had no doubts, though he had not yet proffered
his request.

"To-morrow," he said, "I will paint that face!"

       *       *       *       *       *

"By our Lady of Murano!" the gondolier cried suddenly. "He spoke to thee like a queen--and
it was Paolo Cagliari! What did he want with thee?"

"Not me, Piero; it was the child. He wished to give him flowers. I knew he must be great to
care thus for our 'bimbo.' It was really he--the Veronese?"

"The child! Santa Maria! He is not too much like a cherub that the great painter should notice
him!"

The baby threw out his little clenched fist, striking against the protecting arms that held
him closer, his face drawn with sudden pain; for a moment he fought against Marina, and then,
the spasm over, settled wearily to sleep in her arms.

"Poverino!" said the gondolier softly, while Marina crooned over him an Ave Maria, and the
gondola glided noiselessly to its cadence.

"Piero," she said, looking up with eyes full of tears, "sometimes I think I cannot bear it!
He needs thy prayers as well as mine--wilt thou not ask our Lady of San Donato to be kinder
to him? And I have seen to-day, on the Rialto, a beautiful lamp, with angels' heads. Thou shouldst
make an offering----"

The gondolier shook his head and shrugged his shoulders; he had little faith or reverence.
"I will say my aves, poveriello," he promised; "but the lamps are already too many in San Donato.
And for the bambino, I will go not only once, but twice this year to confession--the laws of
our traghetto ask not so much, since once is enough. But thou art even stricter with thy rules
for me."

She did not answer, and they floated on in silence.

"To-morrow," said Piero at length, "there is festa in San Pietro di Castello."

She moved uneasily, and her beautiful face lost its softness.

"It is nothing to me," she answered shortly.

"It is a pretty festa, and Messer Magagnati should take thee. By our Lady of Castello, there
are others who will go!"

"It would be better for the bambino," he persisted sullenly, as she did not answer him. His
voice was not the pleasanter now that its positive tone was changed to a coaxing one.

"One is enough, Piero," she said. "And for the festa of San Pietro in Castello--never, never
name it to me!"

"Santa Maria!" her companion ejaculated under his breath; "it is the women, the gentle donzelle,
who are hard!"

He stood, tall, handsome, well-made, swaying lightly with the motion of the gondola, which
seemed to float as in a dream to the ripple and lap of the water; the blue of his shirt had
changed to gray in the twilight, the black cap and sash of the "Nicolotti" accentuated the
lines of the strong, lithe figure as he sprang forward on the sloping foot-rest of his gondola
with that perfect grace and ease which proved him master of a craft whose every motion is a
harmony. If he were proud of belonging to the Nicolotti, that most powerful faction of the
populace, he knew that they were regarded by the government as the aristocrats of the people.

Marina arranged the child's covering in silence, and stooped her face wistfully to touch his
cheek, but she did not turn her head to look at the man behind her.

  "L'amor zè fato per chi lo sa fare,"

he sang in the low, slow chant of the familiar folk-song, the rhythm blending perfectly with
the movement of the boat in which these two were faring. His voice was pleasanter in singing,
and song is almost a needful expression of the content of motion in Venice--the necessary complement
of life to the gondolier, a song might mean nothing more. But Piero sang more slowly than his
wont, charging the words with meaning, yet it did not soften her.

"Love is for him who knows how to win!"

He could not see how she flushed and paled with anger as he sang, for it was growing dark over
the water and her face was turned from him; but she straightened herself uncompromisingly,
and he was watching with subtle comprehension.

He could not have told why he persisted in this strange wooing, for there had been but one
response during the two years of his widowhood, while his child had been Marina's ceaseless
care. Marina had loved the baby the more passionately, perhaps, for the sake of her only sister
Toinetta, Piero's child-bride, who had died at the baby's birth, because she was painfully
conscious that Toinetta's little flippant life had needed much forgiveness and had been crowned
with little gladness. Marina was now the only child of Messer Girolamo Magagnati, which was
a patent of nobility in Murano; and she was not the less worth winning because she held herself
aloof from the freer life of the Piazza, where she was called the "donzel of Murano," though
there were others with blacker eyes and redder cheeks. Piero did not think her very beautiful;
he liked more color and sparkle and quickness of retort--a chance to quarrel and forgive. He
was not in sympathy with so many aves, such continual pilgrimages to the cathedral, such brooding
over the lives of the saints--above all, he did not like being kept in order, and Marina knew
well how to do this, in spite of her quiet ways. But he liked the best for himself, and there
was no one like Marina in all Murano. During all this time he had been coming more and more
under her sway, changing his modes of living to suit her whims, and the only way of safety
for him was to marry her and be master; then she should see how he would rule his house! His
own way had always been the right way for him--rules of all orders to the contrary--whether
he had been a wandering gondolier, a despised barcariol toso, lording it so outrageously over
the established traghetti that they were glad to forgive him his bandit crimes and swear him
into membership, if only to stop his influence against them; or whether it had been the stealing
away of a promised bride, as on that memorable day at San Pietro in Castello, when he had married
Toinetta--it was never safe to bear "vendetta" with one so strong and handsome and unprincipled
as Piero.

Gabriele, the jilted lover of Toinetta, over whom Piero had triumphed, soon became the husband
of another donzel, handsomer than Toinetta had been--poor, foolish Toinetta!--and the retributive
tragedy of her little life had warmed the sullen Gabriele into a magnanimity that rendered
him at least a safe, if a moody and unpleasant, member of the traghetto in which Piero had
since become a rising star. A man with a home to keep may not "cast away his chestnuts," and
so when Piero, in that masterful way of his, swept everything before him in the traghetto--never
asking nor caring who stood for him or against him, but carrying his will whenever he chose
to declare it--to set one's self against such a man was truly a useless sort of fret, only
a "gnawing of one's chain," in the expressive jargon of the people.

Piero finished his song, and there was a little pause. They were nearing the long, low line
of Murano.

"It is not easy," he said, "when women are in the way, 'to touch the sky with one's finger.'"

She turned with a sudden passionate motion as if she would answer him, and then, struggling
for control, turned back without a word, drawing the child closer and caressing him until she
was calm again. When she raised her head she spoke in a resolute, restrained voice.

"Since thou wilt have it, Piero--listen. And rest thine oar, for we are almost home; and to-night
must be quite the end of all this talk. It can never be. Thou hast no understanding of such
matters, so I forgive thee for myself. But for Toinetta--I do not think I ever can forgive
thee, may the good Madonna help me!"

"There are two in every marriage," Piero retorted sullenly, for he was angry now.

"It is just that--oh, it is just that!" Marina cried, clasping her hands passionately. "Thou
art so strong and so compelling, and thou dost not stop for the right of it. She was such a
child, she knew no better, poverina! And thou--a man--not for love, nor right, nor any noble
thing"--the words came with repressed scorn--"to coax her to it, just for a little triumph!
To expose a child to such endless critica!"

