Henry, Lord Woodstock, was then about fifteen. Being of delicate health, he had hitherto been
the object of his father's tender care, and it was not without considerable regret that Lord
Portland yielded to the request of the King and handed over his son to the government of M.
Rapin. Though of considerable intelligence, the powers of his heart were greater than those
of his head. Thus Rapin had no difficulty in acquiring the esteem and affection of his pupil.

Portland House was then the resort of the most eminent men of the Whig party, through whose
patriotic assistance the constitution of England was placed in the position which it now occupies.
Rapin was introduced by Lord Woodstock to his friends. Having already mastered the English
language, he had no difficulty in understanding the conflicting opinions of the times. He saw
history developing itself before his eyes. He heard with his ears the discussions which eventuated
in Acts of Parliament, confirming the liberties of the English people, the liberty of speech,
the liberty of writing, the liberty of doing, within the limits of the common law.

All this was of great importance to Rapin. It prepared him for writing his afterwards famous
works, his "History of England," and his Dissertation on the Whigs and Tories. Rapin was not
only a man of great accomplishments, but he had a remarkable aptitude for languages. He knew
French and English, as well as Italian, Spanish, and German. He had an extraordinary memory,
and a continuous application and perseverance, which enabled him to suck the contents of many
volumes, and to bring out the facts in future years during the preparation of his works. His
memory seems to have been of the same order as that of Lord Macaulay, who afterwards made use
of his works, and complimented his predecessor as to their value.

According to the custom of those days, the time arrived when Rapin was required to make "the
grand tour" with his pupil and friend, Lord Woodstock. This was considered the complement of
English education amongst the highest classes. It was thought necessary that young noblemen
should come in contact with foreigners, and observe the manners and customs of other countries
besides their own; and that thus they might acquire a sort of cosmopolitan education. Archbishop
Leighton even considered a journey of this sort as a condition of moral perfection. He quoted
the words of the Latin poet: "Homo sum, et nihil hominem à me alienum puto."

No one could be better fitted than Rapin to accompany the young lord on his foreign travels.
They went to Holland, Germany, France, Spain, and Italy. Rapin diligently improved himself,
while instructing his friend. He taught him the languages of the countries through which they
passed; he rendered him familiar with Greek and Latin; he rendered him familiar with the principles
of mathematics. He also studied with him the destinies of peoples and of kings, and pointed
out to him the Divine will accomplishing itself amidst the destruction of empires. Withal he
sought to penetrate the young soul of the friend committed to his charge with that firmness
of belief and piety of sentiment which pervaded his own.

It was while in Italy that the Earl of Portland, at the instigation of Rapin, requested copies
to be made for him of the rarest and most precious medals in point of historic interest; and
also to purchase for him objects of ancient workmanship. Hence Rapin was able to secure for
him the Portland Vase, now in the British Museum, one of the most exquisite products of Roman
and Etruscan ceramic art.

In 1699, the Earl of Portland was sent by William III. as ambassador to the court of Louis
XIV., in connection with the negotiations as to the Spanish succession. Lord Woodstock attended
the embassy, and Rapin accompanied him. They were entertained at Versailles. Persecution was
still going on in France, although about eight hundred thousand persons had already left the
country. Rapin at one time thought of leaving Lord Woodstock for a few days, and making a rapid
journey south to visit his friends near Toulouse. But the thought of being made a prisoner
and sent to the galleys for life stayed him, and he remained at Versailles until the return
of the embassy.

Rapin remained with Lord Woodstock for thirteen years. In the meantime he had married, at the
Hague, Marie Anne Testart, a refugee from Saint-Quentin. Jean Rou describes her as a true helpmeet
for him, young, beautiful, rich, and withal virtuous, and of the most pleasing and gentle temper
in the world. Her riches, however, were not great. She had merely, like Rapin, rescued some
portion of her heritage from the devouring claws of her persecutors. Rapin accumulated very
little capital during his tutorship of Lord Woodstock; but to compensate him, the King granted
him a pension of £100 a year, payable by the States of Holland, until he could secure some
better income.

Rapin lived for some time at the Hague. While there he joined a society of learned French refugees.
Among them were Rotolf de la Denèse, Basnage de Beauval, and Jean Rou, secretary to the States-General.
One of the objects of the little academy was to translate the Psalms anew into French verse;
but before the version was completed, Rapin was under the necessity of leaving the Hague. William
III., his patron, died in 1701, when his pension was stopped. He was promised some remunerative
employment, but he was forgotten amidst the press of applicants.

At length he removed to the little town of Wesel, on the Lower Rhine, in the beginning of May,
1707. He had a wife and four children to maintain, and living was much more reasonable at Wesel
than at the Hague. His wife's modest fortune enabled him to live there to the end of his days.
Wesel was also a resort of the French refugees--persons of learning and taste, though of small
means. It was at his modest retreat at Wesel that Rapin began to arrange the immense mass of
documents which he had been accumulating during so many years, relating to the history of England.
The first work which he published was "A Dissertation on the Origin and Nature of the English
Constitution." It met with great success, and went through many editions, besides being translated
into nearly all the continental languages.

He next proceeded with his great work, "The History of England." During his residence in Ireland
and England, he had read with great interest all books relating to the early history of the
Government of England. He began with, the history of England after the Norman Conquest; but
he found that he must begin at the beginning. He studied the history of the Anglo-Saxons, but
found it "like a vast forest, where the traveller, with great difficulty, finds a few narrow
paths to guide his wandering steps. It was this, however, that inspired him with the design
of clearing this part of the English history, by removing the rubbish, and carrying on the
thread so as to give, at least, a general knowledge of the earlier history." Then he went back
to Julius Cæsar's account of his invasion of Britain, for the purpose of showing how the Saxons
came to send troops into this country, and now the conquest which had cost them so much was
at last abandoned by the Romans. He then proceeded, during his residence in England, with his
work of reading and writing; but when he came to the reign of Henry II. he was about to relinquish
his undertaking, when an unexpected assistance not only induced him to continue it, but to
project a much larger history of England than he had at first intended.

This unexpected assistance was the publication of Rymer's "Foedera," at the expense of the
British Government. The volumes as they came out were sent to Rapin by Le Clerc (another refugee),
a friend of Lord Halifax, who was one of the principal promoters of the publication. This book
was of infinite value to Rapin in enabling him to proceed with his history. He prepared abstracts
of seventeen volumes (now in the Cottonian collection), to show the relation of the acts narrated
in Rymer's "Foedera" to the history of England. He was also able to compare the facts stated
by English historians with, those of the neighbouring states, whether they were written in
Latin, French, Italian, or Spanish.

The work was accomplished with great labour. It occupied seventeen years of Rapin's life. The
work was published at intervals. The first two volumes appeared in November, 1723. During the
following year six more volumes were published. The ninth and tenth volumes were left in manuscript
ready for the press. They ended with the coronation of William and Mary at Westminster. Besides,
he left a large number of MSS., which were made use of by the editor of the continuation of
Rapin's history.

Rapin died at Wesel in 1725, at the age of sixty-four. His work, the cause of his fatal illness,
was almost his only pleasure. He was worn out by hard study and sedentary confinement, and
at last death came to his rescue. He had struggled all his life against persecution; against
the difficulties of exile; against the enemy; and though he did not die on the field of battle,
he died on the breach pen in hand, in work and duty, striving to commemorate the independence
through which a noble people had worked their way to ultimate freedom and liberty. The following
epitaph was inscribed over his grave:--

  "Ici le casque et la science,
  L'esprit vif, la solidité,
  La politesse et la sincérité
  Ont fait une heureuse alliance,
  Dont le public a profité."

The first edition of Rapin's history, consisting of ten volumes, was published at the Hague
by Rogessart. The Rev. David Durand added two more volumes to the second edition, principally
compiled from the memoranda left by Rapin at his death. The twelfth volume concluded the reign
of William III.

The fourth edition appeared in 1733. Being originally composed and published in French, the
work was translated into English by Mr. N. Tindal, who added numerous notes. Two editions wore
published simultaneously in London, and a third translation was published some sixty years
later. The book was attacked by the Jacobite authors, who defended the Stuart party against
the statements of the author. In those fanatical times impartiality was nothing to them. A
man must be emphatically for the Stuarts, or against them. Yet the work of Rapin held its ground,
and it long continued to be regarded as the best history that had up to that time been written.

The Rapin family are now scattered over the world. Some remain in Holland, some have settled
in Switzerland, some have returned to France, but the greater number are Prussian subjects.
James, the only son of Rapin, studied at Cleves, then at Antwerp, and at thirty-one he was
appointed to the important office of Director of the French Colonies at Stettin and Stargardt.
Charles, Rapin's eldest brother, was a captain of infantry in the service of Prussia. Two sons
of Louis de Rapin were killed in the battles of Smolensko and Leipsic.

Many of the Rapins attained high positions in the military service of Prussia. Colonel Philip
de Rapin-Thoyras was the head of the family in Prussia. He was with the Allied Army in their
war of deliverance against France in the years 1813, 1814, and 1815. He was consequently decorated
with the Cross and the Military Medal for his long and valued services to the country of his
adoption.

III.

      CAMPBELL'S Battle of the Baltic.

The words in which Campbell describes Captain Riou in his noble ode are nearly identical with
those used by Lord Nelson himself when alluding to his death in the famous despatch relative
to the battle of Copenhagen. These few but pregnant words, "the gallant and the good," constitute
nearly all the record that exists of the character of this distinguished officer, though it
is no slight glory to have them embalmed in the poetry of Campbell and the despatches of Nelson.

Having had the good fortune, in the course of recent inquiries as to the descendants of illustrious
Huguenots in England, to become acquainted with the principal events in Captain Riou's life,
drawn from family papers, I now propose to supplement Lord Nelson's brief epitome of his character
by the following memoir of this distinguished seaman.

Captain Riou was descended from the ancient Riou family of Vernoux, in Languedoc, of whom early
mention is made in French history, several members of it having specially distinguished themselves
as generals in the wars in Spain. Like many other noble families of Languedoc in the seventeenth
century, the Rious were staunch Huguenots; and when, in 1685, Louis XIV. determined to stamp
out Protestantism in France, and revoked the Edict of Nantes, the principal members of the
family, refusing to conform, left the country, and their estates were confiscated by the Crown.

Estienne Riou, heir to the estate at Vernoux, was born after the death of his father, who was
a man of eminent repute in his neighbourhood; and he did not leave France until his eleventh
year, when he fled with his paternal uncle, Matthew Labrune, across the frontier, and took
refuge with him at Berne, in Switzerland. There the uncle engaged in business as a merchant,
while the nephew, when of sufficient age, desirous of following the usual career of his family,
went into Piedmont to join the little Huguenot army from England, then engaged in assisting
the Duke of Savoy against the armies of the French king. Estienne was admitted a cadet in Lord
Galway's regiment, then engaged in the siege of Casale; and he remained with it for two years,
when, on the army returning to England, he received an honourable discharge, and went back
to reside for a time with his bachelor uncle at Berne.

In 1698 both uncle and nephew left Switzerland to settle in London as merchants, bringing with
them a considerable capital. They exported English manufactured goods to the East Indies, Holland,
Germany, and Italy; and imported large quantities of raw silk, principally from Spain and Italy,
carrying on their business with uniform probity and credit. In course of time Estienne married
Magdalen Baudoin, the daughter of a refugee gentleman from Touraine,--the members of refugee
families usually intermarrying for several generations after their settlement in England. The
issue of this marriage was an only son, Stephen Riou, who, like his ancestors, embraced the
profession of arms, rising to be captain in the Horse Grenadier Guards. He afterwards attended
the Confederate forces in Flanders as an engineer, and on the conclusion of peace, he travelled
for nearly four years through the principal countries of Europe, accompanying Sir P. Ker Porter
on his embassy to Constantinople. He afterwards settled, married, and had two sons,--Philip,
the elder, who entered the Royal Artillery, and died senior colonel at Woolwich in 1817; and
Edward, the second son, who entered the navy--the subject of the present memoir.

Edward Riou was born at Mount Ephraim, near Faversham, on the 20th November, 1762. The family
afterwards removed to London, where Edward received his education, partly at the Marylebone
Grammar School and partly at home, where his father superintended his instruction in fortification,
and navigation. Though of peculiarly sweet and amiable disposition, young Riou displayed remarkable
firmness and even fearlessness as a boy. He rejoiced at all deeds of noble daring, and it was
perhaps his love of adventure that early determined his choice of a profession; for, even when
a very little fellow, he was usually styled by the servants and by his playmates, "the noble
captain."

Accordingly, when only twelve years old, he went to sea as midshipman on board Admiral Pye's
ship, the Harfleur; from whence, in the following year, he was removed to the Romney, Captain
Keith Elphinstone, on the Newfoundland station; and on the return of the ship to England in
1776, he had the good fortune to be appointed midshipman on board the Discovery, Captain Charles
Clarke, which accompanied Captain Cook in the Resolution in his last voyage round the world.
Nothing could have been more to the mind of our sailor-boy than this voyage of adventure and
discovery, in company with the greatest navigator of the age.

The Discovery sailed from the Downs on the 18th of June, but had no sooner entered the Channel
than a storm arose which did considerable damage to the ship, which was driven into Portland
Roads. At Plymouth, the Discovery was joined by the Resolution; but as the former had to go
into harbour for repairs, Captain Cook set sail for the Cape alone, leaving orders for Captain
Clarke to follow him there. The Discovery at length put to sea, and after a stormy voyage joined
Captain Cook in Table Bay on the 11th of August. Before setting sail on the longer voyage,
Riou had the felicity of being transferred to the Resolution, under the command of Captain
Cook himself.

It is not necessary that we should describe this celebrated voyage, with which every boy is
familiar--its storms and hurricanes; the landings on islands where the white man's face had
never been seen before; the visits to the simple natives of Huahine and Otaheite, then a little
Eden; the perilous coasting along the North American seaboard to Behring's Straits, in search
of the North-Western passage; and finally, the wintering of the ships at Owyhee, where Captain
Cook met his cruel death, of which young Riou was a horror-struck spectator from the deck of
the Resolution, on the morning of the 14th of February, 1779.

After about four years' absence on this voyage, so full of adventure and peril, Riou returned
to England with the Resolution, and was shortly after appointed lieutenant of the sloop Scourge,
Captain Knatchbull, Commander, which took part, under Lord Rodney, in the bombardment and capture
of St. Eustatia. Here Riou was so severely wounded in the eye by a splinter that he lost his
sight for many months. In March, 1782, he was removed to the Mediator, forty-four guns, commanded
by Captain Luttrell, and shared in the glory which attached to the officers and crew of that
ship through its almost unparalleled achievement of the 12th of December of that year.

It was at daybreak that the Mediator sighted five sail of the enemy, consisting of the Ménagère,
thirty-six guns en flûte; the Eugène, thirty-six; and the Dauphin Royal, twenty-eight (French);
in company with the Alexander, twenty-eight guns, and another brig, fourteen (American), formed
in line of battle to receive the Mediator, which singly bore down upon them. The skilful seamanship
and dashing gallantry of the English disconcerted the combinations of the enemy, and after
several hours' fighting two of their vessels fell out of the line, and went away, badly crippled,
to leeward. About an hour later the Alexander was cut off, the Mediator wearing between her
and her consorts, and in ten minutes she struck. A chase then ensued after the larger vessels,
and late in the evening the Ménagère, being raked within pistol shot, hailed for quarter. The
rest of the squadron escaped, and the gallant Mediator, having taken possession of her two
prizes, set sail with them for England, arriving in Cawsand Bay on the 17th of December.

In the year following, Captain Luttrell, having been appointed to the Ganges, took with him
Mr. Riou as second lieutenant. He served in this ship until the following summer, when he retired
for a time on half-pay, devoting himself to study and continental travel until March, 1786,
when we find him serving under Admiral Elliot as second lieutenant of the Salisbury. It was
about this time that he submitted to the Admiralty a plan, doubtless suggested by his voyage
with Captain Cook, "for the discovery and preservation of a passage through the continent of
North America, and for the increase of commerce to this kingdom." The plan was very favourably
received, but as war seemed imminent, no steps were then taken to carry it into effect.

The young officer had, however, by this time recommended himself for promotion by his admirable
conduct and his good service; and in the spring of 1789 he was appointed to the command of
the Guardian, forty-four guns, armed en flûte, which was under orders to take out stores and
convicts to New South Wales. In a chatty, affectionate letter written to his widowed mother,
from on shipboard at the Cape while on the voyage out, he says,--"I have no expectation, after
the promotion that took place before I left England, of finding myself master and commander
on my return." After speculating as to what might happen in the meantime while he was so far
from home, and expressing an anxiety which was but natural on the part of an enterprising young
officer eager for advancement in his profession, he proceeded,--"Politics must take a great
turn, I think, by the time of my return. War will likely be begun; in that case we may bring
a prize in with us. But our foresight is short--and mine particularly so. I hardly ever look
forward to beyond three months. 'Tis in vain to be otherwise, for Providence, which directs
all things, is inscrutable." And he concluded his letter thus,--"Now for Port Jackson. I shall
sail to-night if the wind is fair. God for ever bless you."

But neither Riou nor the ill-fated Guardian ever reached Port Jackson! A fortnight after setting
sail from the Cape, while the ship was driving through a thick fog (in lat. 44·5, long. 41)
a severe shock suddenly called Riou to the deck, where an appalling spectacle presented itself.
The ship had struck upon an iceberg. A body of floating ice twice as high as the masthead was
on the lee beam, and the ship appeared to be entering a sort of cavern in its side. In a few
minutes the rudder was torn away, a severe leak was sprung, and all hands worked for bare life
at the pumps. The ship became comparatively unmanageable, and masses of overhanging ice threatened
every moment to overwhelm her. At length, by dint of incessant efforts, the ship was extricated
from the ice, but the leak gained fearfully, and stores, cattle, guns, booms, everything that
could be cut away, was thrown overboard.

It was all in vain. The ship seemed to be sinking; and despair sat on every countenance save
that of the young commander. He continued to hope even against hope. At length, after forty-eight
hours of incessant pumping, a cry arose for "the boats," as presenting the only chance of safety.
Riou pleaded with the men to persevere, and they went on bravely again at the pumps. But the
dawn of another day revealed so fearful a position of affairs that the inevitable foundering
of the ship seemed to be a matter of minutes rather than of hours. The boats were hoisted out,
discipline being preserved to the last. Riou's servant hastened to him to ask what boat he
would select to go in, that he himself might take a place beside him. His answer was that "he
would stay by the ship, save her if he could, and if needs be sink with her, but that the people
were at liberty to consult their own safety." He then sat down and wrote the following letter
to the Admiralty, giving it in charge to Mr. Clements, the master, whose boat was the only
one that ever reached land:--

                                   "Her Majesty's Ship Guardian,
                                        "December, 1789.

     "I am, sir, with great respect,
               "Your ever obedient servant,
                                        "EDWARD RIOU.

     "PHILIP STEPHENS, ESQ.,
        "Admiralty."

About half the crew remained with Riou, some because they determined to stand by their commander,
and others because they could not get away in the boats, which, to avoid being overcrowded,
had put off in haste, for the most part insufficiently stored and provided. The sea, still
high, continued to make breaches over the ship, and many were drowned in their attempts to
reach the boats. Those who remained were exhausted by fatigue; and, without the most distant
hope of life, some were mad with despair. A party of these last contrived to break open the
spirit-room, and found a temporary oblivion in intoxication. "It is hardly a time to be a disciplinarian,"
wrote Riou in his log, which continues a valued treasury in his family, "when only a few more
hours of life seem to present themselves; but this behaviour greatly hurts me." This log gives
a detailed account, day by day, of the eight weeks' heroic fortitude and scientific seamanship
which preserved the Guardian afloat until she got into the track of ships, and was finally
towed by Dutch whalers into Table Bay, Cape of Good Hope.

The master's boat, in which were also the purser and chaplain, had by a miracle been picked
up, and those officers, on their return to England, reported to the Admiralty "the total loss
of the Guardian". They also at the same time spoke of Riou's noble conduct in terms of such
enthusiasm as to awaken general admiration, and occasion the greatest regret at his loss. Accordingly,
when the Admiralty received from his own hand the unexpected intelligence of his safety, his
widowed mother and only sister had the affectionate sympathy of all England. Lord Hood himself,
before unknown to the family, hastened to their house with the news, calling to the servants
as he ran up the stairs to "throw off their mourning!" The following was Riou's brief letter
to his mother, which he found time to scrawl and send off by a ship just leaving Table Bay
for England as the poor helpless Guardian was being towed in:--

                                   "Cape of Good Hope,
                                        "February, 22, 1790.

     "DEAREST,--God has been merciful. I hope you have no fatal
     accounts of the Guardian. I am safe; I am well, notwithstanding
     you may hear otherwise. Join with me in prayer to that blessed
     Saviour who hath hung over my ship for two months, and kept thy
     dear son safe, to be, I hope, thankful for almost a miracle. I
     can say no more because I am hurried, and the ship sails for
     England this afternoon.

     "Yours ever and ever,
                                        "EDWARD RIOU."

Riou remained many months at the Cape trying to patch up the Guardian, and repair it so as
to bring it back to port; but all his exertions were fruitless, and in October the Admiralty
despatched the Sphinx ship-of-war to bring him and the survivors of his crew to England, where
they landed shortly after. There was, of course, the usual court-martial held upon him for
the loss of his ship, but it was merely a matter of form. At its conclusion he was complimented
by the Court in the warmest terms; and "as a mark of the high consideration in which the magnanimity
of his conduct was held, in remaining by his ship from an exalted sense of duty when all reasonable
prospects of saving her were at an end," he received the special thanks of the Admiralty, was
made commander, and at the same time promoted to the rank of post captain.

No record exists of the services of Captain Riou from the date of his promotion until 1794,
when we find him in command of his Majesty's ship Rose, assisting in the reduction of Martinique.
He was then transferred to the Beaulieu, and remained cruising in the West Indian seas till
his health became so injured by the climate that he found himself compelled to solicit his
recall, and he consequently returned to England in the Theseus in the following year. Shortly
after, in recognition of his distinguished services, he was appointed to the command of the
royal yacht, the Princess Augusta, in which he remained until the spring of 1790. So soon as
his health was sufficiently re-established, he earnestly solicited active employment, and he
was accordingly appointed to the command of the fine frigate, the Amazon, thirty-eight guns,
whose name afterwards figured so prominently in Nelson's famous battle before Copenhagen.

After cruising about in her on various stations, and picking up a few prizes, the Amazon, early
in 1801, was attached to Sir Hyde Parker's fleet, destined for the Baltic. The last letter
which Riou wrote home to his mother was dated Sunday, the 29th March, "at the entrance to the
Sound;" and in it he said:--"It yet remains in doubt whether we are to fight the Danes, or
whether they will be our friends." Already, however, Nelson was arranging his plan of attack,
and on the following day, the 30th, the Admiral and all the artillery officers were on board
the Amazon, which proceeded to examine the northern channel outside Copenhagen Harbour. It
was on this occasion that Riou first became known to Nelson, who was struck with admiration
at the superior discipline and seamanship which were observable on board the frigate during
the proceedings of that day.

Early in the evening of the 1st of April the signal to prepare for action was made; and Lord
Nelson, with Riou and Foley, on board the Elephant--all the other officers having returned
to their respective ships--arranged the order of battle on the following day. What remains
to be told of Riou is matter of history. The science and skill in navigation which made Nelson
intrust to him the last soundings, and place under his command the fire-ships which were to
lead the way on the following morning,--the gallantry with which the captain of the Amazon
throw himself, impar congressus, under the fearful fire of the Trekroner battery, to redeem
the failure threatened by the grounding of the ships of the line,--have all been told with
a skilful pen, and forms a picture of a great sailor's last hours, which is cherished with
equal pride in the affections of his family and the annals of his country.

Sir Hyde Parker's signal to "leave off action," which Nelson, putting his telescope to his
blind eye, refused to see, was seen, by Riou and reluctantly obeyed. Indeed, nothing but that
signal for retreat saved the Amazon from destruction, though it did not save its heroic commander.
As he unwillingly drew off from the destructive fire of the battery he mournfully exclaimed,
"What will Nelson think of us!" His clerk had been killed by his side. He himself had been
wounded in the head by a splinter, but continued to sit on a gun encouraging his men, who were
falling in numbers around him. "Come then, my boys," he cried, "let us all die together." Scarcely
had he uttered the words, when a raking shot cut him in two. And thus, in an instant, perished
the "gallant good Riou," at the early age of thirty-nine.

Riou was a man of the truest and tenderest feelings, yet the bravest of the brave. His private
correspondence revealed the most endearing qualities of mind and heart, while the nobility
of his actions was heightened by lofty Christian sentiment, and a firm reliance on the power
and mercy of God. His chivalrous devotion to duty in the face of difficulty and danger heightened
the affectionate admiration with which he was regarded, and his death before Copenhagen was
mourned almost as a national bereavement. The monument erected to his memory in St. Paul's
Cathedral represented, however inadequately, the widely felt sorrow which pervaded all classes
at the early death of this heroic officer. "Except it had been Nelson himself," says Southey,
"the British navy could not have suffered a severer loss."

Captain Riou's only sister married Colonel Lyde Browne, who closed his honourable career of
twenty-three years' active service in Dublin, on July 23rd, 1803. Within two years of her bitter
mourning for the death of her brother, she had also to mourn for the loss of her husband. He
was colonel of the 21st Fusiliers. He was hastening to the assistance of Lord Kilwarden on
the fatal night of Emmett's rebellion, when he was basely assassinated. He was buried in the
churchyard of St. Paul's, Dublin, where his brother officers erected a marble tablet to his
memory. He left an only daughter, who was married, in 1826, to M. G. Benson, Esq., of Lulwyche
Hall, Salop. It is through this lady that we have been permitted to inspect the family papers
relating to the life and death of Captain Riou.

A VISIT TO THE COUNTRY OF THE VAUDOIS.

CHAPTER I.

INTRODUCTORY.

Dauphiny is one of the least visited of all the provinces of France. It occupies a remote corner
of the empire, lying completely out of the track of ordinary tourists. No great road passes
through it into Italy, the Piedmontese frontier of which it adjoins; and the annual streams
of English and American travellers accordingly enter that kingdom by other routes. Even to
Frenchmen, who travel little in their own country and still less in others, Dauphiny is very
little known; and M. Joanne, who has written an excellent Itinerary of the South of France,
almost takes the credit of having discovered it.

Yet Dauphiny is a province full of interest. Its scenery almost vies with that of Switzerland
in grandeur, beauty, and wildness. The great mountain masses of the Alps do not end in Savoy,
but extend through the south-eastern parts of France, almost to the mouths of the Rhône. Packed
closer together than in most parts of Switzerland, the mountains of Dauphiny are furrowed by
deep valleys, each with its rapid stream or torrent at bottom, in some places overhung by precipitous
rocks, in others hemmed in by green hills, over which are seen the distant snowy peaks and
glaciers of the loftier mountain ranges. Of these, Mont Pelvoux--whose double pyramid can be
seen from Lyons on a clear day, a hundred miles off--and the Aiguille du Midi, are among the
larger masses, rising to a height little short of Mont Blanc itself.

From the ramparts of Grenoble the panoramic view is of wonderful beauty and grandeur, extending
along the valleys of the Isère and the Drac, and across that of the Romanche. The massive heads
of the Grand Chartreuse mountains bound the prospect to the north; and the summits of the snow-clad
Dauphiny Alps on the south and east present a combination of bold valley and mountain scenery,
the like of which is not to be seen in France, if in Europe.

But it is not the scenery, or the geology, or the flora of the province, however marvellous
these may be, that constitutes the chief interest for the traveller through these Dauphiny
valleys, so much as the human endurance, suffering, and faithfulness of the people who have
lived in them in past times, and of which so many interesting remnants still survive. For Dauphiny
forms a principal part of the country of the ancient Vaudois or Waldenses--literally, the people
inhabiting the Vaux, or valleys--who for nearly seven hundred years bore the heavy brunt of
Papal persecution, and are now, after all their sufferings, free to worship God according to
the dictates of their conscience.

The country of the Vaudois is not confined, as is generally supposed, to the valleys of Piedmont,
but extends over the greater part of Dauphiny and Provence. From the main ridge of the Cottian
Alps, which, divide France from Italy, great mountain spurs are thrown out, which run westward
as well as eastward, and enclose narrow strips of pasturage, cultivable land, and green shelves
on the mountain sides, where a poor, virtuous, and hard-working race have long contrived to
earn a scanty subsistence, amidst trials and difficulties of no ordinary kind,--the greatest
of which, strange to say, have arisen from the pure and simple character of the religion they
professed.

The tradition which exists among them is, that the early Christian missionaries, when travelling
from Italy into Gaul by the Roman road passing over Mont Genèvre, taught the Gospel in its
primitive form to the people of the adjoining districts. It is even surmised that St. Paul
journeyed from Rome into Spain by that route, and may himself have imparted to the people of
the valleys their first Christian instruction. The Italian and Gallic provinces in that quarter
were certainly Christianized in the second century at the latest, and it is known that the
early missionaries were in the habit of making frequent journeys from the provinces to Rome.
Wherefore it is reasonable to suppose that the people of the valleys would receive occasional
visits from the wayfaring teachers who travelled by the mountain passes in the immediate neighbourhood
of their dwellings.

As years rolled on, and the Church at Rome became rich and allied itself with the secular power,
it gradually departed more and more from its primitive condition,[92] until at length it was
scarcely to be recognised from the Paganism which it had superseded. The heathen gods were
replaced by canonised mortals; Venus and Cupid by the Virgin and Child; Lares and Penates by
images and crucifixes; while incense, flowers, tapers, and showy dresses came to be regarded
as essential parts of the ceremonial of the new religion as they had been of the old. Madonnas
winked and bled again, as the statues of Juno and Pompey had done before; and stones and relics
worked miracles as in the time of the Augurs.

         [Footnote 92: The ancient Vaudois had a saying, known in
         other countries--"Religion brought forth wealth, and the
         daughter devoured the mother;" and another of like meaning,
         but less known--"When the bishops' croziers became golden,
         the bishops themselves became Wooden."]

Attempts were made by some of the early bishops to stem this tide of innovation. Thus, in the
fourth, century, Ambrose, Bishop of Milan, and Philastrius, Bishop of Brescia, acknowledging
no authority on earth as superior to that of the Bible, protested against the introduction
of images in churches, which they held to be a return to Paganism. Four centuries later, Claude,
Bishop of Turin, advanced like views, and opposed with energy the worship of images, which
he regarded as absolute idolatry. In the meanwhile, the simple Vaudois, shut up in their almost
inaccessible valleys, and knowing nothing of these innovations, continued to adhere to their
original primitive form of worship; and it clearly appears, from a passage in the writings
of St. Ambrose, that, in his time, the superstitions which prevailed elsewhere had not at all
extended into the mountainous regions of his diocese.

The Vaudois Church was never, in the ordinary sense of the word, a "Reformed" Church, simply
because it had not become corrupted, and did not stand in need of "reformation." It was not
the Vaudois who left the Church, but the Roman Church that left them in search of idols. Adhering
to their primitive faith, they never recognised the paramount authority of the Pope; they never
worshipped images, nor used incense, nor observed Mass; and when, in the course of time, these
corruptions became known to them, and they found that the Western Church had ceased to be Catholic,
and become merely Roman; they openly separated from it, as being no longer in conformity with
the principles of the Gospel as inculcated in the Bible and delivered to them by their fathers.
Their ancient manuscripts, still extant, attest to the purity of their doctrines. They are
written, like the Nobla Leyçon, in the Romance or Provençal--the earliest of the modern classical
languages, the language of the troubadours--though now only spoken as a patois in Dauphiny,
Piedmont, Sardinia, the north of Spain, and the Balearic Isles.[93]

         [Footnote 93: Sismondi, "Littérature du Midi de l'Europe," i.
         159.]

If the age counts for anything, the Vaudois are justified in their claim to be considered one
of the oldest churches in Europe. Long before the conquest of England by the Normans, before
the time of Wallace and Bruce in Scotland, before England had planted its foot in Ireland,
the Vaudois Church existed. Their remoteness, their poverty, and their comparative unimportance
as a people, for a long time protected them from interference; and for centuries they remained
unnoticed by Rome. But as the Western Church extended its power, it became insatiable for uniformity.
It would not tolerate the independence which characterized the early churches, but aimed at
subjecting them to the exclusive authority of Rome.

The Vaudois, however, persisted in repudiating the doctrines and formularies of the Pope. When
argument failed, the Church called the secular arm to its aid, and then began a series of persecutions,
extending over several centuries, which, for brutality and ferocity, are probably unexampled
in history. To crush this unoffending but faithful people, Rome employed her most irrefragable
arguments--the curses of Lucius and the horrible cruelties of Innocent--and the "Vicar of Christ"
bathed the banner of the Cross in a carnage from which the wolves of Romulus and the eagles
of Cæsar would have turned with loathing.

Long before the period of the Reformation, the Vaudois valleys were ravaged by fire and sword
because of the alleged heresy of the people. Luther was not born until 1483; whereas nearly
four centuries before, the Vaudois were stigmatized as heretics by Rome. As early as 1096,
we find Pope Urban II. describing Val Louise, one of the Dauphiny valleys--then called Vallis
Gyrontana, from the torrent of Gyr, which flows through it--as "infested with heresy." In 1179,
hot persecution raged all over Dauphiny, extending to the Albigeois of the South of France,
as far as Lyons and Toulouse; one of the first martyrs being Pierre Waldo, or Waldensis,[94]
of Lyons, who was executed for heresy by the Archbishop of Lyons in 1180.

         [Footnote 94: It has been surmised by some writers that the
         Waldenses derived their name from this martyr; but being
         known as "heretics" long before his time, it is more probable
         that they gave the name to him than that he did to them.]

Of one of the early persecutions, an ancient writer says: "In the year 1243, Pope Innocent
II. ordered the Bishop of Metz rigorously to prosecute the Vaudois, especially because they
read the sacred books in the vulgar tongue."[95] From time to time, new persecutions were ordered,
and conducted with ever-increasing ferocity--the scourge, the brand, and the sword being employed
by turns. In 1486, while Luther was still in his cradle, Pope Innocent VIII. issued a bull
of extermination against the Vaudois, summoning all true Catholics to the holy crusade, promising
free pardon to all manner of criminals who should take part in it, and concluding with the
promise of the remission of sins to every one who should slay a heretic.[96] The consequence
was, the assemblage of an immense horde of brigands, who were let loose on the valleys of Dauphiny
and Piedmont, which they ravaged and pillaged, in company with eighteen thousand regular troops,
jointly furnished by the French king and the Duke of Savoy.

         [Footnote 95: Jean Leger, "Histoire Générale des Églises
         Évangéliques des Vallées de Piedmont, ou Vaudoises." Leyde,
         1669. Part ii. 330.]

         [Footnote 96: Leger, ii. 8-20.]

Sometimes the valleys were under the authority of the kings of France, sometimes under that
of the dukes of Savoy, whose armies alternately overran them; but change of masters and change
of popes made little difference to the Vaudois. It sometimes, however, happened, that the persecution
waxed hotter on one side of the Cottian Alps, while it temporarily relaxed on the other; and
on such occasions the French and Italian Vaudois were accustomed to cross the mountain passes,
and take refuge in each others' valleys. But when, as in the above case, the kings, soldiers,
and brigands, on both sides, simultaneously plied the brand and the sword, the times were very
troublous indeed for these poor hunted people. They had then no alternative but to climb up
the mountains into the least accessible places, or hide themselves away in dens and caverns
with their families, until their enemies had departed. But they were often, tracked to their
hiding-places by their persecutors, and suffocated, strangled, or shot--men, women, and children.
Hence there is scarcely a hiding-place along the mountain-sides of Dauphiny but has some tradition
connected with it relating to those dreadful times. In one, so many women and children were
suffocated; in another, so many perished of cold and hunger; in a third, so many were ruthlessly
put to the sword. If these caves of Dauphiny had voices, what deeds of horror they could tell!

       *       *       *       *       *

What is known as the Easter massacre of 1655 made an unusual sensation in Europe, but especially
in England, principally through the attitude which Oliver Cromwell assumed in the matter. Persecution
had followed persecution for nearly four hundred years, and still the Vaudois were neither
converted nor extirpated. The dukes of Savoy during all that time pursued a uniform course
of treachery and cruelty towards this portion of their subjects. Sometimes the Vaudois, pressed
by their persecutors, turned upon them, and drove them ignominiously out of their valleys.
Then the reigning dukes would refrain for a time; and, probably needing their help in one or
other of the wars in which they were constantly engaged, would promise them protection and
privileges. But such promises were invariably broken; and at some moment when the Vaudois were
thrown off their guard by his pretended graciousness, the duke for the time being would suddenly
pounce upon them and carry fire and sword through their valleys.

Indeed, the dukes of Savoy seem to have been about the most wrong-headed line of despots that
ever cursed a people by their rule. Their mania was soldiering, though they were oftener beaten
than victorious. They were thrashed out of Dauphiny by France, thrashed out of Geneva by the
citizens, thrashed out of the valleys by their own peasantry; and still they went on raising
armies, making war, and massacring their Vaudois subjects. Being devoted servants of the Pope,
in 1655 they concurred with him in the establishment of a branch of the society De Propaganda
Fide at Turin, which extended over the whole of Piedmont, for the avowed purpose of extirpating
the heretics. On Palm Sunday, the beginning of Holy Week, the society commenced active proceedings.
The army of Savoy advanced suddenly upon La Tour, and were let loose upon the people. A general
massacre began, accompanied with shocking brutalities, and continued for more than a week.
In many hamlets not a cottage was left standing, and such of the people as had not been able
to fly into the upper valleys were indiscriminately put to the sword. And thus was Easter celebrated.

The noise of this dreadful deed rang through Europe, and excited a general feeling of horror,
especially in England. Cromwell, then at the height of his power, offered the fugitive Vaudois
an asylum in Ireland; but the distance which lay between was too great, and the Vaudois asked
him to help them in some other way. Forthwith, he addressed letters, written by his secretary,
John Milton,[97] to the principal European powers, calling upon them to join him in putting
a stop to these horrid barbarities committed upon an unoffending people. Cromwell did more.
He sent the exiles £2,000 out of his own purse; appointed a day of humiliation and a general
collection all over England, by which some £38,000 were raised; and dispatched Sir Samuel Morland
as his plenipotentiary to expostulate in person with the Duke of Savoy. Moreover, a treaty
was on the eve of being signed with France; and Cromwell refused to complete it until Cardinal
Mazarin had undertaken to assist him in getting right done to the people of the valleys.

         [Footnote 97: It was at this time that Milton wrote his noble
         sonnet, beginning--

           "Avenge, O Lord, Thy slaughter'd saints, whose bones
            Lie scattered on the Alpine mountains cold," &c.]

These energetic measures had their effect. The Vaudois who survived the massacre were permitted
to return to their devastated homes, under the terms of the treaty known as the "Patents of
Grace," which was only observed, however, so long as Cromwell lived. At the Restoration, Charles
II. seized the public fund collected for the relief of the Vaudois, and refused to remit the
annuity arising from the interest thereon which Cromwell had assigned to them, declaring that
he would not pay the debts of a usurper!

After that time, the interest felt in the Vaudois was very much of a traditional character.
Little was known as to their actual condition, or whether the descendants of the primitive
Vaudois Church continued to exist or not. Though English travellers--amongst others, Addison,
Smollett, and Sterne--passed through the country in the course of last century, they took no
note of the people of the valleys. And this state of general ignorance as to the district continued
down to within about the last fifty years, when quite a new interest was imparted to the subject
through the labours and researches of the late Dr. Gilly, Prebendary of Durham.

It happened that that gentleman was present at a meeting of the Society for Promoting Christian
Knowledge, in the year 1820, when a very touching letter was read to the board, signed "Frederick
Peyrani, minister of Pramol," requesting the assistance of the society in supplying books to
the Vaudois churches of Piedmont, who were described as maintaining a very hard struggle with
poverty and oppression. Dr. Gilly was greatly interested by the reading of this letter. Indeed,
the subject of it so strongly arrested his attention, that he says it "took complete possession
of him." He proceeded to make search for information about the Vaudois, but could find very
little that was definite or satisfactory respecting them. Then it was that he formed the determination
of visiting the valleys and ascertaining the actual condition of the people in person.

His visit was made in 1823, and in the course of the following year Dr. Gilly published the
result in his "Narrative of an Excursion to the Mountains of Piedmont." The book excited much
interest, not only in England, but in other countries; and a movement was shortly after set
on foot for the relief and assistance of the Vaudois. A committee was formed, and a fund was
raised--to which the Emperor of Russia and the Kings of Prussia and Holland contributed--with
the object, in the first place, of erecting a hospital for the sick and infirm Vaudois at La
Tour, in the valley of Luzern. It turned out that the money raised was not only sufficient
for this purpose, but also to provide schools and a college for the education of pastors, which
were shortly after erected at the same place.

In 1829, Dr. Gilly made a second visit to the Piedmontese valleys, partly in order to ascertain
how far the aid thus rendered to the poor Vaudois had proved effectual, and also to judge in
what way certain further sums placed at his disposal might best be employed for their benefit.[98]
It was in the course of his second visit that Dr. Gilly became aware of the fact that the Vaudois
were not confined to the valleys of Piedmont, but that numerous traces of them were also to
be found on the French side of the Alps, in Dauphiny and Provence. He accordingly extended
his journey across the Col de la Croix into France, and cursorily visited the old Vaudois district
of Val Fressinières and Val Queyras, of which an account will be given in the following chapters.
It was while on this journey that Dr. Gilly became acquainted with the self-denying labours
of the good Felix Neff among those poor outlying Christians, with whose life and character
he was so fascinated that he afterwards wrote and published the memoir of Neff, so well known
to English readers.

         [Footnote 98: Dr. Gilly's narrative of his second visit to
         the valleys was published in 1831, under the title of
         "Waldensian Researches."]

Since that time occasional efforts have been made in aid of the French Vaudois, though those
on the Italian side have heretofore commanded by far the larger share of interest. There have
been several reasons for this. In the first place, the French valleys are much less accessible;
the roads through some of the most interesting valleys are so bad that they can only be travelled
on foot, being scarcely practicable even for mules. There is no good hotel accommodation in
the district, only auberges, and these of an indifferent character. The people are also more
scattered, and even poorer than they are on the Italian side of the Alps. Then the climate
is much more severe, from the greater elevation of the sites of most of the Vaudois villages;
so that when pastors were induced to settle there, the cold, and sterility, and want of domestic
accommodation, soon drove them away. It was to the rigour of the climate that Felix Neff was
eventually compelled to succumb.

Yet much has been done of late years for the amelioration of the French Vaudois; and among
the most zealous workers in their behalf have been the Rev. Mr. Freemantle, rector of Claydon,
Bucks, and Mr. Edward Milsom, the well-known merchant of Lyons. It was in the year 1851 that
the Rev. Mr. Freemantle first visited the Vaudois of Dauphiny. His attention was drawn to the
subject while editing the memoir of a young English clergyman, the Rev. Spencer Thornton, who
had taken Felix Neff for his model; and he was thereby induced to visit the scene of Neff's
labours, and to institute a movement on behalf of the people of the French valleys, which has
issued in the erection of schools, churches, and pastors' dwellings in several of the most
destitute places.

It is curious and interesting to trace the influence of personal example on human life and
action. As the example of Oberlin in the Ban de la Roche inspired Felix Neff to action, so
the life of Felix Neff inspired that of Spencer Thornton, and eventually led Mr. Freemantle
to enter upon the work of extending evangelization among the Vaudois. In like manner, a young
French pastor, M. Bost, also influenced by the life and labours of Neff, visited the valleys
some years since, and wrote a book on the subject, the perusal of which induced Mr. Milsom
to lend a hand to the work which the young Genevese missionary had begun. And thus good example
goes on ever propagating itself; and though the tombstone may record "Hic jacet" over the crumbling
dust of the departed, his spirit still lives and works through other minds--stimulates them
to action, and inspires them with hope--"allures to brighter worlds, and leads the way."

       *       *       *       *       *

A few words as to the origin of these fragmentary papers. In chalking out a summer holiday
trip, one likes to get quite away from the ordinary round of daily life and business. Half
the benefits of such a trip consists in getting out of the old ruts, and breathing fresh air
amidst new surroundings. But this is very difficult if you follow the ordinary tourist's track.
London goes with you and elbows you on your way, accompanied by swarms of commissionaires,
guides, and beggars. You encounter London people on the Righi, on the Wengern Alp, and especially
at Chamouni. Think of being asked, as I once was on entering the Pavilion at Montanvert, after
crossing the Mer de Glace from the Mauvais Pas, "Pray, can you tell me what was the price of
Brighton stock when you left town?"

There is no risk of such rencontres in Dauphiny, whose valleys remain in almost as primitive
a state as they were hundreds of years ago. Accordingly, when my friend Mr. Milsom, above mentioned,
invited me to accompany him in one of his periodical visits to the country of the Vaudois,
I embraced the opportunity with pleasure. I was cautioned beforehand as to the inferior accommodation
provided for travellers through the district. Tourists being unknown there, the route is not
padded and cushioned as it is on all the beaten continental rounds. English is not spoken;
Bass's pale ale has not yet penetrated into Dauphiny; nor do you encounter London tourists
carrying their tin baths about with them as you do in Switzerland. Only an occasional negotiant
comes up from Gap or Grenoble, seeking orders in the villages, for whom the ordinary auberges
suffice.

Where the roads are practicable, an old-fashioned diligence may occasionally be seen plodding
along, freighted with villagers bound for some local market; but the roads are, for the most
part, as silent as the desert.

Such being the case, the traveller in the valleys must be prepared to "rough it" a little.
I was directed to bring with me only a light knapsack, a pair of stout hob-nailed shoes, a
large stock of patience, and a small parcel of insect powder. The knapsack and the shoes I
found exceedingly useful, indeed indispensable; but I had very little occasion to draw upon
either my stock of patience or insect powder. The French are a tidy people, and though their
beds, stuffed with maize chaff, may be hard, they are tolerably clean. The food provided in
the auberges is doubtless very different from what one is accustomed to at home; but with the
help of cheerfulness and a good digestion that difficulty too may be got over.

Indeed, among the things that most strikes a traveller through France, as characteristic of
the people, is the skill with which persons of even the poorest classes prepare and serve up
food. The French women are careful economists and excellent cooks. Nothing is wasted. The pot
au feu is always kept simmering on the hob, and, with the help of a hunch of bread, a good
meal may at any time be made from it. Even in the humblest auberge, in the least frequented
district, the dinner served up is of a quality such as can very rarely be had in any English
public-house, or even in most of our country inns. Cooking seems to be one of the lost arts
of England, if indeed it ever possessed it; and our people are in the habit, through want of
knowledge, of probably wasting more food than would sustain many another nation. But in the
great system of National Education that is to be, no one dreams of including as a branch of
it skill in the preparation and economy in the use of human food.

There is another thing that the traveller through France may always depend upon, and that is
civility. The politeness of even the French poor to each other is charming. They respect themselves,
and they respect each other. I have seen in France what I have not yet seen in England--young
working men walking out their aged mothers arm in arm in the evening, to hear the band play
in the "Place," or to take a turn on the public promenade. But the French are equally polite
to strangers. A stranger lady may travel all through the rural districts of France, and never
encounter a rude look; a stranger gentleman, and never receive a rude word. That the French
are a self-respecting people is also evinced by the fact that they are a sober people. Drunkenness
is scarcely known in France; and one may travel all through it and never witness the degrading
sight of a drunken man.

The French are also honest and thrifty, and exceedingly hard-working. The industry of the people
is unceasing. Indeed it is excessive; for they work Sunday and Saturday. Sunday has long ceased
to be a Sabbath in France. There is no day of rest there. Before the Revolution, the saints'
days which the Church ordered to be observed so encroached upon the hours required for labour,
that in course of time Sunday became an ordinary working day. And when the Revolution abolished
saints' days and Sabbath days alike, Sunday work became an established practice.

What the so-called friends of the working classes are aiming at in England, has already been
effected in France. The public museums and picture-galleries are open on Sunday. But you look
for the working people there in vain. They are at work in the factories, whose chimneys are
smoking as usual; or building houses, or working in the fields, or they are engaged in the
various departments of labour. The government works all go on as usual on Sundays. The railway
trains run precisely as on week days. In short, the Sunday is secularised, or regarded but
as a partial holiday.[99]

         [Footnote 99: I find the following under the signature of "An
         Operative Bricklayer," in the Times of the 30th July, 1867:
         "I found there were a great number of men in Paris that
         worked on the buildings who were not residents of the city.
         The bricklayers are called limousins; they come from the
         old province Le Limousin, where they keep their home, and
         many of them are landowners. They work in Paris in the summer
         time; they come up in large numbers, hire a place in Paris,
         and live together, and by so doing they live cheap. In the
         winter time, when they cannot work on the buildings, they go
         back home again and take their savings, and stop there until
         the spring, which is far better than it is in London; when
         the men cannot work they are hanging about the streets. It
         was with regret that I saw so many working on the Sunday
         desecrating the Sabbath. I inquired why they worked on
         Sunday; they told me it was to make up the time they lose
         through wet and other causes. I saw some working with only
         their trousers and shoes on, with a belt round their waist to
         keep their trousers up. Their naked back was exposed to the
         sun, and was as brown as if it had been dyed, and shone as if
         it had been varnished. I asked if they had any hard-working
         hearty old men. They answered me "No; the men were completely
         worn out by the time they reached forty years." That was a
         clear proof that they work against the laws of nature. I
         thought to myself--Glory be to you, O Englishmen, you know
         the Fourth Commandment; you know the value of the seventh
         day, the day of rest!"]

As you pass through the country on Sundays, as on week-days, you see the people toiling in
the fields. And as dusk draws on, the dark figures may be seen moving about so long as there
is light to see by. It is the peasants working the land, and it is their own. Such is the "magical
influence of property," said Arthur Young, when he observed the same thing.

It is to be feared, however, that the French peasantry are afflicted with the disease which
Sir Walter Scott called the "earth-hunger;" and there is danger of the gravel getting into
their souls. Anyhow, their continuous devotion to bodily labour, without a seventh day's rest,
cannot fail to exercise a deteriorating effect upon their physical as well as their moral condition;
and this we believe it is which gives to the men, and especially to the women of the country,
the look of a prematurely old and overworked race.

CHAPTER II.

THE VALLEY OF THE ROMANCHE--BRIANÇON.

The route from Grenoble to the frontier fortress of Briançon lies for the most part up the
valley of the Romanche, which presents a variety of wild and beautiful scenery. In summer the
river is confined within comparatively narrow limits; but in autumn and spring it is often
a furious torrent, flooding the low-lying lands, and forcing for itself new channels. The mountain
heights which bound it, being composed for the most part of schist, mica slate, and talcose
slate, large masses become detached in winter--split off by the freezing of the water behind
them--when they descend, on the coming of thaw, in terrible avalanches of stone and mud. Sometimes
the masses are such as to dam up the river and form temporary lakes, until the accumulation
of force behind bursts the barrier, and a furious flood rushes down the valley. By one of such
floods, which occurred a few centuries since, through the bursting of the hike of St. Laurent
in the valley of the Romanche, a large part of Grenoble was swept away, and many of the inhabitants
were drowned.

The valley of the Romanche is no sooner entered, a few miles above Grenoble, than the mountains
begin to close, the scenery becomes wilder, and the fury of the torrent is evinced by the masses
of débris strewed along its bed. Shortly after passing the picturesque defile called L'Étroit,
where the river rushes through a deep cleft in the rocks, the valley opens out again, and we
shortly come in sight of the ancient town of Vizille--the most prominent building in which
is the château of the famous Duc de Lesdiguières, governor of the province in the reign of
Henry IV., and Constable of France in that of Louis XIII.

       *       *       *       *       *

Wherever you go in Dauphiny, you come upon the footmarks of this great soldier. At Grenoble
there is the Constable's palace, now the Prefecture; and the beautiful grounds adjoining it,
laid out by himself, are now the public gardens of the town. Between Grenoble and Vizille there
is the old road constructed by him, still known as "Le chemin du Connétable." At St. Bonnet,
in the valley of the Drac, formerly an almost exclusively Protestant town, known as "the Geneva
of the High Alps," you are shown the house in which the Constable was born; and a little lower
down the same valley, in the commune of Glaizil, on a hill overlooking the Drac, stand the
ruins of the family castle; where the Constable was buried. The people of the commune were
in the practice of carrying away the bones from the family vault, believing them to possess
some virtue as relics, until the prefect of the High Alps ordered it to be walled up to prevent
the entire removal of the skeletons.

In the early part of his career, Lesdiguières was one of the most trusted chiefs of Henry of
Navarre, often leading his Huguenot soldiers to victory; capturing town after town, and eventually
securing possession of the entire province of Dauphiny, of which Henry appointed him governor.
In that capacity he carried out many important public works--made roads, built bridges, erected
fourteen fortresses, and enlarged and beautified his palace at Grenoble and his château at
Vizille. He enjoyed great popularity during his life, and was known throughout his province
as "King of the Mountains." But he did not continue staunch either to his party or his faith.
As in the case of many of the aristocratic leaders of those times, Lesdiguières' religion was
only skin deep. It was but a party emblem--a flag to fight under, not a faith to live by. So,
when ambition tempted him, and the Constable's baton dangled before his eyes, it cost the old
soldier but little compunction to abandon the cause which he had so brilliantly served in his
youth. To secure the prize which he so coveted, he made public abjuration of his faith in the
church, of St. Andrew's at Grenoble in 1622, in the presence of the Marquis de Crequi, the
minister of Louis XIII., who, immediately after Lesdiguières' first mass, presented him with
the Constable's baton.

But the Lesdiguières family has long since passed away, and left no traces. At the Revolution,
the Constable's tomb was burst open, and his coffin torn up. His monument was afterwards removed
to Gap, which, when a Huguenot, he had stormed and ravaged. His château at Vizille passed through
different hands, until in 1775 it came into the possession of the Périer family, to which the
celebrated Casimir Périer belonged. The great Gothic hall of the château has witnessed many
strange scenes. In 1623, shortly after his investment as Constable, Lesdiguières entertained
Louis XIII. and his court there, while on his journey into Italy, in the course of which he
so grievously ravaged the Vaudois villages. In 1788, the Estates of Dauphiny met there, and
prepared the first bold remonstrance against aristocratic privileges, and in favour of popular
representation, which, in a measure, proved the commencement of the great Revolution. And there
too, in 1822, Felix Neff preached to large congregations, who were so anxious and attentive
that he always after spoke of the place as his "dear Vizille;" and now, to wind up the vicissitudes
of the great hall, it is used as a place for the printing of Bandana handkerchiefs!

       *       *       *       *       *

When Neff made his flying visits to Vizille, he was temporarily stationed at Mens, which was
the scene of his first labours in Dauphiny. The place lies not far from Vizille, away among
the mountains towards the south. During the wars of religion, and more especially after the
Revocation of the Edict of Nantes, Mens became a place of refuge for the Protestants, who still
form about one-half of its population. Although, during the long dark period of religious persecution
which followed the Revocation, the Protestants of Mens and the neighbouring villages did not
dare to show themselves, and worshipped, if at all, only in their dwellings, in secret, or
in "the Desert," no sooner did the Revolution set them at liberty than they formed themselves
again into churches, and appointed pastors; and it was to serve them temporarily in that capacity
that Felix Neff first went amongst them, and laboured there and at Vizille with such good effect.

       *       *       *       *       *

Not far from Mens is a place which has made much more noise in the world--no other than La
Salette, the scene of the latest Roman "miracle." La Salette is one of the side-valleys of
the large valley of the Drac, which joins the Romanche a few miles above Grenoble. There is
no village of La Salette, but a commune, which is somewhat appropriately called La Salette-Fallavaux,
the latter word being from fallax vallis, or "the lying valley."

About twenty-seven years ago, on the 19th of September, 1846, two children belonging to the
hamlet of Abladens--the one a girl of fourteen, the other a boy of twelve years old--came down
from the lofty pasturage of Mont Gargas, where they had been herding cattle, and told the following
strange story. They had seen the Virgin Mary descend from heaven with a crucifix suspended
from her neck by a gold chain, and a hammer and pincers suspended from the chain, but without
any visible support. The figure sat down upon a large stone, and wept so piteously as shortly
to fill a large pool with her tears.

When the story was noised abroad, people came from all quarters, and went up the mountain to
see where the Virgin had sat. The stone was soon broken off in chips and carried away as relics,
but the fountain filled with the tears is still there, tasting very much, like ordinary spring
water.

Two priests of Grenoble, disgusted at what they believed to be an imposition, accused a young
person of the neighbourhood, one Mdlle. de Lamerlière, as being the real author of the pretended
miracle, on which she commenced an action against them for defamation of character. She brought
the celebrated advocate Jules Favre from Paris to plead her cause, but the verdict was given
in favour of the two priests. The "miracle" was an imposture!

Notwithstanding this circumstance, the miracle came to be generally believed in the neighbourhood.
The number of persons who resorted to the place with money in their pockets steadily increased.
The question was then taken up by the local priests, who vouched for the authenticity of the
miracle seen by the two children. The miracle was next accepted by Rome.[100] A church was
built on the spot by means of the contributions of the visitors--L'Église de la Salette--and
thither pilgrims annually resort in great numbers, the more devout climbing the hill, from
station to station, on their knees. As many as four thousand persons of both sexes, and of
various ages, have been known to climb the hill in one day--on the anniversary of the appearance
of the apparition--notwithstanding the extreme steepness and difficulties of the ascent.

         [Footnote 100: An authorised account was prepared by Cardinal
         Wiseman for English readers, entitled "Manual of the
         Association of our Lady of Reconciliation of La Salette," and
         published as a tract by Burns, 17, Portman Street, in 1853.
         Since I passed through the country in 1869, the Germans have
         invaded France, the surrender has occurred at Sedan, the
         Commune has been defeated at Paris, but Our Lady of La
         Salette is greater than ever. A temple of enormous dimensions
         has risen in her honour; the pilgrims number over 100,000
         yearly, and the sale of the water from the Holy Well, said to
         have sprung from the Virgin's tears, realises more than
         £12,000. Since the success of La Salette, the Virgin has been
         making repeated appearances in France. Her last appearance
         was in a part of Alsace which is strictly Catholic. The
         Virgin appeared, as usual, to a boy of the mature age of six,
         "dressed in black, floating in the air, her hands bound with
         chains,"--a pretty strong religio-political hint. When a
         party of the 5th Bavarian Cavalry was posted in Bettweiler,
         the Virgin ceased to make her appearance.]

       *       *       *       *       *

As a pendant to this story, another may be given of an entirely different character, relating
to the inhabitants of another commune in the same valley, about midway between La Salette and
Grenoble. In 1860, while the discussion about the miracle at La Salette was still in progress,
the inhabitants of Notre-Dame-de-Comiers, dissatisfied with the conduct of their curé, invited
M. Fermaud, pastor of the Protestant church at Grenoble, to come over and preach to them, as
they were desirous of embracing Protestantism. The pastor, supposing that they were influenced
by merely temporary irritation against their curé, cautioned the deputation that waited upon
him as to the gravity of their decision in such a matter, and asked them to reflect further
upon it.

For several years M. Fermaud continued to maintain the same attitude, until, in 1865, a formal
petition was delivered to him by the mayor of the place, signed by forty-three heads of families,
and by nine out of the ten members of the council of the commune, urging him to send them over
a minister of the evangelical religion. Even then he hesitated, and recommended the memorialists
to appeal to the bishop of the diocese for redress of the wrongs of which he knew they complained,
but in vain, until at length, in the beginning of 1868, with the sanction of the consistory
of Grenoble a minister was sent over to Comiers to perform the first acts of Protestant worship,
including baptism and marriage; and it was not until October in the same year that Pastor Fermaud
himself went thither to administer the sacrament to the new church.

The service was conducted in the public hall of the commune, and was attended by a large number
of persons belonging to the town and neighbourhood. The local clergy tried in vain to check
the movement. Quite recently, when the curé entered one of the schools to inscribe the names
of the children who were to attend their first mass, out of fifteen of the proper age eleven
answered to the interrogatory of the priest, "Monsieur, nous sommes Protestantes." The movement
has also extended into the neighbouring communes, helped by the zeal of the new converts, one
of whom is known in the neighbourhood as "Père la Bible," and it is possible that before long
it may even extend to La Salette itself.

       *       *       *       *       *

The route from Vizille up the valley of the Romanche continues hemmed in by rugged mountains,
in some places almost overhanging the river. At Séchilienne it opens out sufficiently to afford
space for a terraced garden, amidst which stands a handsome château, flanked by two massive
towers, commanding a beautiful prospect down the valley. The abundant water which rushes down
from the mountain behind is partly collected in a reservoir, and employed to feed a jet d'eau
which rises in a lofty column under the castle windows. Further up, the valley again contracts,
until the Gorge de Loiret is passed. The road then crosses to the left bank, and used to be
continued along it, but the terrible torrent of 1868 washed it away for miles, and it has not
yet been reconstructed. Temporary bridges enable the route to be pursued by the old road on
the right bank, and after passing through several hamlets of little interest, we arrive at
length at the cultivated plain hemmed in by lofty mountains, in the midst of which Bourg d'Oisans
lies seated.

This little plain was formerly occupied by the lake of St. Laurent, formed by the barrier of
rocks and débris which had tumbled down from the flank of the Petite Voudène, a precipitous
mountain escarpment overhanging the river. At this place, the strata are laid completely bare,
and may be read like a book. For some distance along the valley they exhibit the most extraordinary
contortions and dislocations, impressing the mind with the enormous natural forces that must
have been at work to occasion such tremendous upheavings and disruptions. Elie de Beaumont,
the French geologist, who has carefully examined the district, says that at the Montagne d'Oisans
he found the granite in some places resting upon the limestone, cutting through the Calcareous
beds, rising like a wall and lapping over them.

On arriving at Bourg d'Oisans, we put up at the Hôtel de Milan close by the bridge; but though
dignified with the name of hotel, it is only a common roadside inn. Still, it is tolerably
clean, and in summer the want of carpets is not missed. The people were civil and attentive,
their bread wholesome, their pottage and bouilli good--being such fare as the people of the
locality contrive to live and thrive upon. The accommodation of the place is, indeed, quite
equal to the demand; for very few travellers accustomed to a better style of living pass that
way. When the landlady was asked if many tourists had passed this year, she replied, "Tourists!
We rarely see such travellers here. You are the first this season, and perhaps you may be the
last."

Yet these valleys are well worthy of a visit, and an influx of tourists would doubtless have
the same effect that it has already had in Switzerland and elsewhere, of greatly improving
the hotel accommodation throughout the district. There are many domestic arrangements, costing
very little money, but greatly ministering to cleanliness and comfort, which might very readily
be provided. But the people themselves are indifferent to them, and they need the requisite
stimulus of "pressure from without." One of the most prominent defects--common to all the inns
of Dauphiny--having been brought under the notice of the landlady, she replied, "C'est vrai,
monsieur; mais--il laisse quelque chose à desirer!" How neatly evaded! The very defect was
itself an advantage! What would life be--what would hotels be--if there were not "something
left to be desired!"

The view from the inn at the bridge is really charming. The little river which runs down the
valley, and becomes lost in the distance, is finally fringed with trees--alder, birch, and
chestnut. Ridge upon ridge of mountain rises up behind on the right hand and the left, the
lower clothed with patches of green larch, and the upper with dark pine. Above all are ranges
of jagged and grey rocks, shooting up in many places into lofty peaks. The setting sun, shining
across the face of the mountain opposite, brings out the prominent masses in bold relief, while
the valley beneath hovers between light and shadow, changing almost from one second to another
as the sun goes down. In the cool of the evening, we walked through the fields across the plain,
to see the torrent, visible from the village, which rushes from the rocky gorge on the mountain-side
to join its waters to the Romanche. All along the valleys, water abounds--sometimes bounding
from the heights, in jets, in rivulets, in masses, leaping from rock to rock, and reaching
the ground only in white clouds of spray, or, as in the case of the little river which flows
alongside the inn at the bridge, bursting directly from the ground in a continuous spring;
these waterfalls, and streams, and springs being fed all the year through by the immense glaciers
that fill the hollows of the mountains on either side the valley.

Though the scenery of Bourg d'Oisans is not, as its eulogists allege, equal to that of Switzerland,
it will at least stand a comparison with that of Savoy. Its mountains are more precipitous
and abrupt, its peaks more jagged, and its aspect more savage and wild. The scenery of Mont
Pelvoux, which is best approached from Bourg d'Oisans, is especially grand and sublime, though
of a wild and desolate character. The road from Bourg d'Oisans to Briançon also presents some
magnificent scenery; and there is one part of it that is not perhaps surpassed even by the
famous Via Mala leading up to the Splügen. It is about three miles above Bourg d'Oisans, from
which we started early next morning. There the road leaves the plain and enters the wild gorge
of Freney, climbing by a steep road up the Rampe des Commières. The view from the height when
gained is really superb, commanding an extremely bold and picturesque valley, hemmed in by
mountains. The ledges on the hillsides spread out in some places so as to afford sufficient
breadths for cultivation; occasional hamlets appear amidst the fields and pine-woods; and far
up, between you and the sky, an occasional church spire peeps up, indicating still loftier
settlements, though how the people contrive to climb up to those heights is a wonder to the
spectator who views them from below.

The route follows the profile of the mountain, winding in and out along its rugged face, scarped
and blasted so as to form the road. At one place it passes along a gallery about six hundred
feet in length, cut through a precipitous rock overhanging the river, which dashes, roaring
and foaming, more than a thousand feet below, through the rocky abyss of the Gorge de l'Infernet.
Perhaps there is nothing to be seen in Switzerland finer of its kind than the succession of
charming landscapes which meet the eye in descending this pass.

Beyond the village of Freney we enter another defile, so narrow that in places there is room
only for the river and the road; and in winter the river sometimes plays sad havoc with the
engineer's constructions. Above this gorge, the Romanche is joined by the Ferrand, an impetuous
torrent which comes down from the glaciers of the Grand Rousses. Immediately over their point
of confluence, seated on a lofty promontory, is the village of Mizoën--a place which, because
of the outlook it commands, as well as because of its natural strength, was one of the places
in which the Vaudois were accustomed to take refuge in the times of the persecutions. Further
on, we pass through another gallery in the rock, then across the little green valley of Chambon
to Le Dauphin, after which the scenery becomes wilder, the valley--here called the Combe de
Malaval (the "Cursed Valley")--rocky and sterile, the only feature to enliven it being the
Cascade de la Pisse, which falls from a height of over six hundred feet, first in one jet,
then becomes split by a projecting rock into two, and finally reaches the ground in a shower
of spray. Shortly after we pass another cascade, that of the Riftort, which also joins the
Romanche, and marks the boundary between the department of the Isère and that of the Hautes
Alpes, which we now enter.

More waterfalls--the Sau de la Pucelle, which falls from a height of some two hundred and fifty
feet, resembling the Staubbach--besides rivulets without number, running down the mountain-sides
like silver threads; until we arrive at La Grave, a village about five thousand feet above
the sea-level, directly opposite the grand glaciers of Tabuchet, Pacave, and Vallon, which
almost overhang the Romanche, descending from the steep slopes of the gigantic Aiguille du
Midi, the highest mountain in the French Alps,--being over 13,200 feet above the level of the sea.

After resting some two hours at La Grave, we proceeded by the two tunnels under the hamlet
of Ventelong--one of which is 650 and the other 1,800 feet long--to the village of Villard
d'Arene, which, though some five thousand feet above the level of the sea, is so surrounded
by lofty mountains that for months together the sun never shines on it. From thence a gradual
ascent leads up to the summit of the Col de Lauteret, which divides the valley of the Romanche
from that of the Guisanne. The pastures along the mountain-side are of the richest verdure;
and so many rare and beautiful plants are found growing there that M. Rousillon has described
it as a "very botanical Eden." Here Jean Jacques Rousseau delighted to herborize, and here
the celebrated botanist Mathonnet, originally a customs officer, born at the haggard village
of Villard d'Arene, which we have just passed, cultivated his taste for natural history, and
laid the foundations of his European reputation. The variety of temperature which exists along
the mountain-side, from the bottom to the summit, its exposure to the full rays of the sun
in some places, and its sheltered aspect in others, facilitate the growth of an extraordinary
variety of beautiful plants and wild flowers. In the low grounds meridional plants flourish;
on the middle slopes those of genial climates; while on the summit are found specimens of the
flora of Lapland and Greenland. Thus almost every variety of flowers is represented in this
brilliant natural garden--orchids, cruciferæ, leguminæ, rosaceæ, caryophyllæ, lilies of various
kinds, saxifrages, anemones, ranunculuses, swertia, primula, varieties of the sedum, some of
which are peculiar to this mountain, and are elsewhere unknown.

After passing the Hospice near the summit of the Col, the valley of the Guisanne comes in sight,
showing a line of bare and rugged mountains on the right hand and on the left, with a narrow
strip of land in the bottom, in many parts strewn with stones carried down by the avalanches
from the cliffs above. Shortly we come in sight of the distant ramparts of Briançon, apparently
closing in the valley, the snow-clad peak of Monte Viso rising in the distance. Halfway between
the Col and Briançon we pass through the village of Monestier, where, being a saint's day,
the bulk of the population are in the street, holding festival. The place was originally a
Roman station, and the people still give indications of their origin, being extremely swarthy,
black-haired, and large-eyed, evidently much more Italian than French.

But though the villagers of Monestier were taking holiday, no one can reproach them with idleness.
Never was there a more hard-working people than the peasantry of these valleys. Every little
patch of ground that the plough or spade can be got into is turned to account. The piles of
stone and rock collected by the sides of the fields testify to the industry of the people in
clearing the soil for culture. And their farming is carried on in the face of difficulties
and discouragements of no ordinary character, for sometimes the soil of many of the little
farms will be swept away in a night by an avalanche of snow in winter or of stones in spring.
The wrecks of fields are visible all along the valley, especially at its upper part. Lower
down it widens, and affords greater room for culture; the sides of the mountains become better
wooded; and, as we approach the fortress of Briançon, with its battlements seemingly piled
one over the other up the mountain-sides, the landscape becomes exceedingly bold and picturesque.

When passing the village of Villeneuve la Salle, a few miles from Briançon, we were pointed
to a spot on the opposite mountain-side, over the pathway leading to the Col de l'Echuada,
where a cavern was discovered a few years since, which, upon examination, was found to contain
a considerable quantity of human bones. It was one of the caves in which the hunted Vaudois
were accustomed to take refuge during the persecutions; and it continued to be called by the
peasantry "La Roche armée"--the name being thus perpetuated, though the circumstances in which
it originated had been forgotten.

The fortress of Briançon, which we entered by a narrow winding roadway round the western rampart,
is the frontier fortress which guards the pass from Italy into France by the road over Mont
Genèvre. It must always have been a strong place by nature, overlooking as it does the valley
of the Durance on the one hand, and the mountain road from Italy on the other, while the river
Clairée, running in a deep defile, cuts it off from the high ground to the south and east.
The highest part of the town is the citadel, or Fort du Château, built upon a peak of rock
on the site of the ancient castle. It was doubtless the nucleus round which the early town
became clustered, until it filled the lower plateau to the verge of the walls and battlements.
There being no room for the town to expand, the houses are closely packed together and squeezed
up, as it were, so as to occupy the smallest possible space. The streets are narrow, dark,
gloomy, and steep, being altogether impassable for carriages. The liveliest sight in the place
is a stream of pure water, that rushes down an open conduit in the middle of the principal
street, which is exceedingly steep and narrow. The town is sacrificed to the fortifications,
which dominate everywhere. With the increasing range and power of cannon, they have been extended
in all directions, until they occupy the flanks of the adjoining mountains and many of their
summits, so that the original castle now forms but a comparatively insignificant part of the
fortress. The most important part of the population is the soldiery--the red-trousered missionaries
of "civilisation," according to the gospel of Louis Napoleon, published a short time before
our visit.

Other missionaries, are, however, at work in the town and neighbourhood; and both at Briançon
and Villeneuve Protestant stations have been recently established, under the auspices of the
Protestant Society of Lyons. In former times, the population of Briançon included a large number
of Protestants. In the year 1575, three years after the massacre of St. Bartholomew, they were
so numerous and wealthy as to be able to build a handsome temple, almost alongside the cathedral,
and it still stands there in the street called Rue du Temple, with the motto over the entrance,
in old French, "Cerches et vos troveres." But at the Revocation of the Edict of Nantes, the
temple was seized by the King and converted into a granary, and the Protestants of the place
were either executed, banished, or forced to conform to the Papal religion. Since then the
voice of Protestantism has been mute in Briançon until within the last few years, during which
a mission has been in operation. Some of the leading persons in the town have embraced the
Reform faith, amongst others the professor of literature in the public college; but he had
no sooner acknowledged to the authorities the fact of his conversion, than he was dismissed
from his office, though he has since been appointed to a more important profession at Nice.
The number of members is, however, as yet very small, and the mission has to contend with limited
means, and to carry on its operations in the face of many obstructions and difficulties.

       *       *       *       *       *

What are the prospects of the extension of Protestantism in France? Various answers have been
given to the question. Some think that the prevailing dissensions among French Protestants
interpose a serious barrier in the way of progress. Others, more hopeful, think, that these
divisions are only the indications of renewed life and vigour, of the friction of mind with
mind, which evinces earnestness, and cannot fail to lead to increased activity and effort.
The observations of a young Protestant pastor on this point are worth repeating. "Protestantism,"
said he, "is based on individualism: it recognises the free action of the human mind; and so
long as the mind acts freely there will be controversy. The end of controversy is death. True,
there is much incredulity abroad; but the incredulity is occasioned by the incredibilities
of Popery. Let the ground once be cleared by free inquiry, and our Church will rise up amidst
the ruins of superstition and unbelief, for man must have religion; only it must be consistent
with reason on the one hand, and with Divine revelation on the other. I for one do not fear
the fullest and freest inquiry, having the most perfect confidence in the triumph of the truth."

It is alleged by others that the bald form in which Protestantism is for the most part presented
abroad, is not conformable with the "genius" of the men of Celtic and Latin race. However this
may be, it is too generally the case that where Frenchmen, like Italians and Spaniards, throw
off Roman Catholicism, they do not stop at rejecting its superstitions, but reject religion
itself. They find no intermediate standpoint in Protestantism, but fly off into the void of
utter unbelief. The same tendency characterizes them in politics. They seem to oscillate between
Cæsarism and Red Republicanism; aiming not at reform so much as revolution. They are averse
to any via media. When they have tried constitutionalism, they have broken down. So it has
been with Protestantism, the constitutionalism of Christianity. The Huguenots at one time constituted
a great power in France; but despotism in politics and religion proved too strong for them,
and they were persecuted, banished, and stamped for a time out of existence, or at least out
of sight.

Protestantism was more successful in Germany. Was it because it was more conformable to the
"genius" of its people? When the Germans "protested" against the prevailing corruptions in
the Church, they did not seek to destroy it, but to reform it. They "stood upon the old ways,"
and sought to make them broader, straighter, and purer. They have pursued the same course in
politics. Cooler and less impulsive than their Gallican neighbours, they have avoided revolutions,
but are constantly seeking reforms. Of this course England itself furnishes a notable example.

It is certainly a remarkable fact, that the stronghold of Protestantism in France was recently
to be found among the population of Germanic origin seated along the valley of the Rhine; whereas
in the western districts Protestantism is split up by the two irreconcilable parties of Evangelicals
and Rationalists. At the same time it should be borne in mind that Alsace did not become part
of France until the year 1715, and that the Lutherans of that province were never exposed to
the ferocious persecutions to which the Evangelical Protestants of Old France were subjected,
before as well as after the Revocation of the Edict of Nantes.

In Languedoc, in Dauphiny, and in the southern provinces generally, men and women who professed
Protestantism were liable to be hanged or sent to the galleys, down to nearly the end of the
last century. A Protestant pastor who exercised his vocation did so at the daily peril of his
life. Nothing in the shape of a Protestant congregation was permitted to exist, and if Protestants
worshipped together, it was in secret, in caves, in woods, among the hills, or in the "Desert."
Yet Protestantism nevertheless contrived to exist through this long dark period of persecution,
and even to increase. And when at length it became tolerated, towards the close of the last
century, the numbers of its adherents appeared surprising to those who had imagined it to be
altogether extinct.

Indeed, looking at the persistent efforts made by Louis XIV. to exterminate the Huguenots,
and to the fact that many hundred thousand of the best of them emigrated into foreign countries,
while an equal number are supposed to have perished in prison, on the scaffold, at the galleys,
and in their attempts to escape, it may almost be regarded as matter of wonder that the Église
Reformée--the Church of the old Huguenots--should at the present day number about a thousand
congregations, besides the five hundred Lutheran congregations of Alsatia, and that the Protestants
of France should amount, in the whole, to about two millions of souls.

CHAPTER III.

VAL LOUISE--HISTORY OF FELIX NEFF.

Some eight miles south of Briançon, on the road to Fort Dauphin, a little river called the
Gyronde comes down from the glaciers of Mont Pelvoux, and falls into the Durance nearly opposite
the village of La Bessie. This river flows through Val Louise, the entrance into which can
be discerned towards the northwest. Near the junction of the rivers, the ruins of an embattled
wall, with entrenchments, are observed extending across the valley of the Durance, a little
below the narrow pass called the "Pertuis-Rostan," evidently designed to close it against an
army advancing from the south. The country people still call those ruins the "Walls of the
Vaudois;"[101] and according to tradition a great Vaudois battle was fought there; but of any
such battle history makes no mention.

         [Footnote 101: A gap in the mountain-wall to the left, nearly
         over La Bessie, is still known as "La Porte de Hannibal,"
         through which, it is conjectured, that general led his army.
         But opinion, which is much divided as to the route he took,
         is more generally in favour of his marching up the Isère, and
         passing into Italy by the Little St. Bernard.]

Indeed, so far as can be ascertained, the Vaudois of Dauphiny rarely if ever fought battles.
They were too few in number, too much scattered among the mountains, and too poor and ill-armed,
to be able to contend against the masses of disciplined soldiery that were occasionally sent
into the valleys. All that they did was to watch, from their mountain look-outs, their enemies'
approach, and hide themselves in caves; or flee up to the foot of the glaciers till they had
passed by. The attitude of the French Vaudois was thus for the most part passive; and they
very rarely, like the Italian Vaudois, offered any determined or organized resistance to persecution.
Hence they have no such heroic story to tell of battles and sieges and victories. Their heroism
was displayed in patience, steadfastness, and long-suffering, rather than in resisting force
by force; and they were usually ready to endure death in its most frightful forms rather than
prove false to their faith.

The ancient people of these valleys formed part of the flock of the Archbishop of Embrun. But
history exhibits him as a very cruel shepherd. Thus, in 1335, there appears this remarkable
entry in the accounts current of the bailli of Embrun: "Item, for persecuting the Vaudois,
eight sols and thirty deniers of gold," as if the persecution of the Vaudois had become a regular
department of the public service. What was done with the Vaudois when they were seized and
tried at Embrun further appears from the records of the diocese. In 1348, twelve of the inhabitants
of Val Louise were strangled at Embrun by the public executioner; and in 1393, a hundred and
fifty inhabitants of the same valley were burned alive at the same place by order of the Inquisitor
Borelli. But the most fatal of all the events that befell the inhabitants of Val Louise was
that which occurred about a century later, in 1488, when nearly the whole of the remaining
population of the valley were destroyed in a cavern near the foot of Mont Pelvoux.

This dreadful massacre was perpetrated by a French army, under the direction of Albert Catanée,
the papal legate. The army had been sent into Piedmont with the object of subjugating or destroying
the Vaudois on the Italian side of the Alps, but had returned discomfited to Briançon, unable
to effect their object. The legate then determined to take his revenge by an assault upon the
helpless and unarmed French Vaudois, and suddenly directed his soldiers upon the valleys of
Fressinières and Louise. The inhabitants of the latter valley, surprised, and unable to resist
an army of some twenty thousand men, abandoned their dwellings, and made for the mountains
with all haste, accompanied by their families, and driving their flocks before them. On the
slope of Mont Pelvoux, about a third of the way up, there was formerly a great cavern, on the
combe of Capescure, called La Balme-Chapelle--though now nearly worn away by the disintegration
of the mountain-side--in which the poor hunted people contrived to find shelter. They built
up the approaches to the cavern, filled the entrance with rocks, and considered themselves
to be safe. But their confidence proved fatal to them. The Count La Palud, who was in command
of the troops, seeing that it was impossible to force the entrance, sent his men up the mountain
provided with ropes; and fixing them so that they should hang over the mouth of the cavern,
a number of the soldiers slid down in full equipment, landing on the ledge right in front of
the concealed Vaudois. Seized with a sudden panic, and being unarmed, many of them precipitated
themselves over the rocks and were killed. The soldiers slaughtered all whom they could reach,
after which they proceeded to heap up wood at the cavern mouth which they set on fire, and
thus suffocated the remainder. Perrin says four hundred children were afterwards found in the
cavern, stifled, in the arms of their dead mothers, and that not fewer than three thousand
persons were thus ruthlessly destroyed. The little property of the slaughtered peasants was
ordered by the Pope's legate to be divided amongst the vagabonds who had carried out his savage
orders. The population having been thus exterminated, the district was settled anew some years
later, in the reign of Louis XII., who gave his name to the valley; and a number of "good and
true Catholics," including many goitres and idiots,[102] occupied the dwellings and possessed
the lands of the slaughtered Vaudois. There is an old saying that "the blood of the martyrs
is the seed of the Church," but assuredly it does not apply to Val Louise, where the primitive
Christian Church has been completely extinguished.

         [Footnote 102: It has been noted that these unfortunates
         abound most in the villages occupied by the new settlers.
         Thus, of the population of the village of St. Crepin, in the
         valley of the Durance, not fewer than one-tenth are deaf and
         dumb, with a large proportion of idiots.]

There were other valleys in the same neighbourhood, whither we are now wending, where the persecution,
though equally ferocious, proved less destructive; the inhabitants succeeding in making their
escape into comparatively inaccessible places in the mountains before they could be put to
the sword. For instance, in Val Fressinières--also opening into the valley of the Durance a
little lower down than Val Louise--the Vaudois Church has never ceased to exist, and to this
day the majority of the inhabitants belong to it. From the earliest times the people of the
valley were distinguished for their "heresy;" and as early as the fourteenth century eighty
persons of Fressinières and the neighbouring valley of Argentières,--willing to be martyrs
rather than apostates,--were burnt at Embrun because of their religion. In the following century
(1483) we find ninety-nine informations laid before John Lord Archbishop of Embrun against
supposed heretics of Val Fressinières. The suspected were ordered to wear a cross upon their
dress, before and behind, and not to appear at church without displaying such crosses. But
it further appears from the records, that, instead of wearing the crosses, most of the persons
so informed against fled into the mountains and hid themselves away in caves for the space
of five years.

The nest steps taken by the Archbishop are described in a Latin manuscript,[103] of which the
following is a translation:--

     "Also, that in consequence of the above, the monk Francis
     Splireti, of the order of Mendicants, Professor in Theology, was
     deputed in the quality of Inquisitor of the said valleys; and
     that in the year 1489, on the 1st of January, knowing that those
     of Freyssinier had relapsed into infamous heresy, and had not
     obeyed their orders, nor carried the cross on their dress, but on
     the contrary had received their excommunicated and banished
     brethren without delivering them over to the Church, sent to them
     new citation, to which not having appeared, an adjournment of
     their condemnation as hardened heretics, when their goods would
     be confiscated, and themselves handed over the secular power, was
     made to the 28th of June; but they remaining more obstinate than
     ever, so much so that no hope remains of bringing them back, all
     persons were forbidden to hold any communication whatsoever with
     them without permission of the Church, and it was ordered by the
     Procureur Fiscal that the aforesaid Inquisitor do proceed,
     without further notice, to the execution of his office."

         [Footnote 103: This was one of the MSS deposited by Samuel
         Morland (Oliver Cromwell's ambassador to Piedmont) at
         Cambridge in 1658, and is quoted by Jean Leger in his History
         of the Vaudois Churches.]

What the execution of the Inquisitor's office meant, is, alas! but too well known. Bonds and
imprisonment, scourgings and burnings at Embrun. The poor people appealed to the King of France
for help against their persecutors, but in vain. In 1498 the inhabitants of Fressinières appeared
by a procurator at Paris, on the occasion of the new sovereign, Louis XII., ascending the throne.
But as the King was then seeking the favour of a divorce from his wife, Anne of Brittany, from
Pope Alexander VI., he turned a deaf ear to their petition for mercy. On the contrary, Louis
confirmed all the decisions of the clergy, and in return for the divorce which he obtained,
he granted to the Pope's son, the infamous Cæsar Borgia, that very part of Dauphiny inhabited
by the Vaudois, together with the title of Duke of Valentinois. They had appealed, as it were,
to the tiger for mercy, and they were referred to the vulture.

The persecution of the people of the valleys thus suffered no relaxation, and all that remained
for them was flight into the mountains, to places where they were most likely to remain unmolested.
Hence they fled up to the very edge of the glaciers, and formed their settlements at almost
the farthest limits of vegetation. There the barrenness of the soil, the inhospitality of the
climate, and the comparative inaccessibility of their villages, proved their security. Yet
the character of these poor peasants was altogether irreproachable. Even Louis XII. said of
them, "Would to God that I were as good a Christian as the worst of these people!" The wonder
is that, in the face of their long-continued persecutions, extending over so many centuries,
any remnant of the original population of the valleys should have been preserved. Long after
the time of Louis XII. and Cæsar Borgia, the French historian, De Thou (writing in 1556), thus
describes the people of Val Fressinières: "Notwithstanding their squalidness, it is surprising
that they are very far from being uncultivated in their morals. They almost all understand
Latin; and are able to write fairly enough. They understand also as much of French as will
enable them to read the Bible and to sing psalms; nor would you easily find a boy among them
who, if he were questioned as to the religious opinions which they hold in common with the
Waldenses, would not be able to give from memory a reasonable account of them."[104]

         [Footnote 104: De Thou's History, book xxvii.]

After the promulgation of the Edict of Nantes, the Vaudois enjoyed a brief respite from their
sufferings. They then erected temples, appointed ministers, and worshipped openly. This, however,
only lasted for a short time, and when the Edict was revoked, and persecution began again,
in the reign of Louis XIV., their worship was suppressed wherever practicable. But though the
Vaudois temples were pulled down and their ministers banished, the Roman Catholics failed to
obtain a footing in the valley. Some of the pastors continued to brave the fury of the persecutors,
and wandered about from place to place among the scattered flocks, ministering to them at the
peril of their lives. Rewards were offered for their apprehension, and a sort of "Hue and Cry"
was issued by the police, describing their age, and height, and features, as if they had been
veritable criminals. And when they were apprehended they were invariably hanged. As late as
1767 the parliament of Grenoble condemned their pastor Berenger to death for continuing to
preach to congregations in the "Desert."

This religious destitution of the Vaudois continued to exist until a comparatively recent period.
The people were without either pastors or teachers, and religion had become a tradition with
them rather than an active living faith. Still, though poor and destitute, they held to their
traditional belief, and refused to conform to the dominant religion. And so they continued
until within the last forty years, when the fact of the existence of these remnants of the
ancient Vaudois in the valleys of the High Alps came to the knowledge of Felix Neff, and he
determined to go to their help and devote himself to their service.

       *       *       *       *       *

One would scarcely expect to find the apostle of the High Alps in the person of a young Swiss
soldier of artillery. Yet so it was. In his boyhood, Neff read Plutarch, which filled his mind
with admiration of the deeds of the great men of old. While passing through the soldier phase
of his career the "Memoirs of Oberlin" accidentally came under his notice, the perusal of which
gave quite a new direction to his life. Becoming impressed by religion, his ambition now was
to be a missionary. Leaving the army, in which he had reached the rank of sergeant at nineteen,
he proceeded to prepare himself for the ministry, and after studying for a time, and passing
his preliminary examinations, he was, in conformity with the custom of the Geneva Church, employed
on probation as a lay helper in parochial work. In this capacity Neff first went to Mens, in
the department of Isère, where he officiated in the absence of the regular pastor, as well
as occasionally at Vizille, for a period of about two years.

It was while residing at Mens that the young missionary first heard of the existence of the
scattered communities of primitive Christians on the High Alps, descendants of the ancient
Vaudois; and his mind became inflamed with the desire of doing for them what Oberlin had done
for the poor Protestants of the Ban de la Roche. "I am always dreaming of the High Alps," he
wrote to a friend, "and I would rather be stationed there than under the beautiful sky of Languedoc."

But it was first necessary that he should receive ordination for the ministry; and accordingly
in 1823, when in his twenty-fifth year, he left Mens with that object. He did not, however,
seek ordination by the National Church of Geneva, which, in his opinion, had in a great measure
ceased to hold Evangelical truth; but he came over to London, at the invitation of Mr. Cook
and Mr. Wilks, two Congregational ministers, by whom he was duly ordained a minister in the
Independent Chapel, Poultry.

Shortly after his return to France, Neff, much to his own satisfaction, was invited as pastor
to the very district in which he so much desired to minister--the most destitute in the High
Alps. Before setting out he wrote in his journal, "To-morrow, with the blessing of God, I mean
to push for the Alps by the sombre and picturesque valley of L'Oisan." After a few days, the
young pastor was in the scene of his future labours; and he proceeded to explore hamlet after
hamlet in search of the widely-scattered flock committed to his charge, and to arrange his
plans for the working of his extensive parish.

But it was more than a parish, for it embraced several of the most extensive, rugged, and mountainous
arrondissements of the High Alps. Though the whole number of people in his charge did not amount
to more than six or seven hundred, they lived at great distances from each other, the churches
to which he ministered being in some cases as much as eighty miles apart, separated by gorges
and mountain-passes, for the most part impassable in winter. Neff's district extended in one
direction from Vars to Briançon, and in another from Champsaur in the valley of the Drac to
San Veran on the slope of Monte Viso, close to the Italian frontier. His residence was fixed
at La Chalp, above Queyras, but as he rarely slept more than three nights in one place, he
very seldom enjoyed its seclusion.

The labour which Neff imposed upon himself was immense; and it was especially in the poorest
and most destitute districts that he worked the hardest. He disregarded alike the summer's
heat and the winter's cold. His first visit to Dormilhouse, in Val Fressinières, was made in
January, when the mountain-paths were blocked with ice and snow; but, assembling the young
men of the village, he went out with them armed with hatchets, and cut steps in the ice to
enable the worshippers from the lower hamlets to climb up to service in the village church.
The people who first came to hear him preach at Violens brought wisps of straw with them, which
they lighted to guide them through the snow, while others, who had a greater distance to walk,
brought pine torches.

Nothing daunted, the valiant soldier, furnished with a stout staff and shod with heavy-nailed
shoes, covered with linen socks to prevent slipping on the snow, would set out with his wallet
on his back across the Col d'Orcières in winter, in the track of the lynx and the chamois,
with the snow and sleet beating against his face, to visit his people on the other side of
the mountain. His patience, his perseverance, his sweetness of temper, were unfailing. "Ah!"
said one unbelieving Thomas of Val Fressinières in his mountain patois, "you have come among
us like a woman who attempts to kindle a fire with green wood; she exhausts her breath in blowing
it to keep the little flame alive, but the moment she quits it, it is instantly extinguished."

Neff nevertheless laboured on with hope, and neither discouragement nor obstruction slackened
his efforts. And such labours could not fail of their effect. He succeeded in inspiring the
simple mountaineers with his own zeal, he evoked their love, and excited their enthusiastic
admiration. When he returned to Dormilhouse after a brief absence, the whole village would
turn out and come down the mountain to meet and embrace him. "The rocks, the cascades, nay,
the very glaciers," he wrote to a friend, "all seemed animated, and presented a smiling aspect;
the savage country became agreeable and dear to me from the moment its inhabitants were my
brethren."

Unresting and indefatigable, Neff was always at work. He exhorted the people in hovels, held
schools in barns in which he taught the children, and catechised them in stables. His hand
was in every good work. He taught the people to sing, he taught them to read, he taught them
to pray. To be able to speak to them familiarly, he learnt their native patois, and laboured
at it like a schoolboy. He worked as a missionary among savages. The poor mountaineers had
been so long destitute of instruction, that everything had as it were to be begun with them
from the beginning. Sharing in their hovels and stables, with their squalor and smoke, he taught
them how to improve them by adding chimneys and windows, and showed how warmth might be obtained
more healthfully than by huddling together in winter-time with the cattle. He taught them manners,
and especially greater respect for women, inculcating the lesson by his own gentleness and
tender deference. Out of doors, he showed how they might till the ground to greater advantage,
and introduced an improved culture of the potato, which more than doubled the production. Observing
how the pastures of Dormilhouse were scorched by the summer sun, he urged the adoption of a
system of irrigation. The villagers were at first most obstinate in their opposition to his
plans; but he persevered, laid out a canal, and succeeded at last in enlisting a body of workmen,
whom he led out, pickaxe in hand, himself taking a foremost part in the work; and at last the
waters were let into the canal amidst joy and triumph. At Violens he helped to build and finish
the chapel, himself doing mason-work, smith-work, and carpenter-work by turns. At Dormilhouse
a school was needed, and he showed the villagers how to build one; preparing the design, and
taking part in the erection, until it was finished and ready for use. In short, he turned his
hand to everything--nothing was too high or too low for this noble citizen of two worlds. At
length, a serious accident almost entirely disabled him. While on one of his mountain journeys,
he was making a détour amongst a mass of rocky débris, to avoid the dangers of an avalanche,
when he had the misfortune to fall and severely sprain his knee. He became laid up for a time,
and when able to move, he set out for his mother's home at Geneva, in the hope of recovering
health and strength; for his digestive powers were also by this time seriously injured. When
he went away, the people of the valleys felt as if they should never see him more; and their
sorrow at his departure was heart-rending. After trying the baths of Plombiéres without effect,
he proceeded onwards to Geneva, which he reached only to die; and thus this good and noble
soldier--one of the bravest of earth's heroes--passed away to his eternal reward at the early
age of thirty-one.

       *       *       *       *       *

The valley of Fressinières--the principle scene of Neff's labours--joins the valley of the
Durance nearly opposite the little hamlet of La Roche. There we leave the high road from Briançon
to Fort Dauphin, and crossing the river by a timber bridge, ascend the steep mountain-side
by a mule path, in order to reach the entrance to the valley of Fressinières, the level of
which is high above that of the Durance. Not many years since, the higher valley could only
be approached from this point by a very difficult mountain-path amidst rocks and stones, called
the Ladder, or Pas de l'Échelle. It was dangerous at all times, and quite impassable in winter.
The mule-path which has lately been made, though steep, is comparatively easy.

What the old path was, and what were the discomforts of travelling through this district in
Neff's time, may be appreciated on a perusal of the narrative of the young pastor Bost, who
in 1840 determined to make a sort of pilgrimage to the scenes of his friend's labours some
seventeen years before. M. Bost, however, rather exaggerates the difficulties and discomforts
of the valleys than otherwise. He saw no beauty nor grandeur in the scenery, only "horrible
mountains in a state of dissolution" and constantly ready to fall upon the heads of massing
travellers. He had no eyes for the picturesque though gloomy lake of La Roche, but saw only
the miserable hamlet itself. He slept in the dismal little inn, as doubtless Neff had often
done before, and was horrified by the multitudinous companions that shared his bed; and, tumbling
out, he spent the rest of the night on the floor. The food was still worse--cold café noir,
and bread eighteen months old, soaked in water before it could be eaten. His breakfast that
morning made him ill for a week. Then his mounting up the Pas de l'Échelle, which he did not
climb "without profound emotion," was a great trouble to him. Of all this we find not a word
in the journals or letters of Neff, whose early life as a soldier had perhaps better inured
him to "roughing it" than the more tender bringing-up of Pastor Bost.

As we rounded the shoulder of the hill, almost directly overlooking the ancient Roman town
of Rama in the valley of the Durance underneath, we shortly came in sight of the little hamlet
of Palons, a group of "peasants' nests," overhung by rocks, with the one good house in it,
the comfortable parsonage of the Protestant pastor, situated at the very entrance to the valley.
Although the peasants' houses which constitute the hamlet of Palons are still very poor and
miserable, the place has been greatly improved since Neff's time, by the erection of the parsonage.
It was found that the pastors who were successively appointed to minister to the poor congregations
in the valley very soon became unfitted for their work by the hardships to which they were
exposed; and being without any suitable domestic accommodation, one after another of them resigned
their charge.

To remedy this defect, a movement was begun in 1852 by the Rev. Mr. Freemantle, rector of Claydon,
Bucks, assisted by the Foreign Aid Society and a few private friends, with the object of providing
pastors' dwellings, as well as chapels when required, in the more destitute places. The movement
has already been attended with considerable success; and among its first results was the erection
in 1857 of the comfortable parsonage of Palons, the large lower room of which also serves the
purpose of a chapel. The present incumbent is M. Charpiot, of venerable and patriarchal aspect,
whose white hairs are a crown of glory--a man beloved by his extensive flock, for his parish
embraces the whole valley, about twelve miles in extent, including the four villages of Ribes,
Violens, Minsals, and Dormilhouse; other pastors having been appointed of late years to the
more distant stations included in the original widely-scattered charge of Felix Neff.

The situation of the parsonage and adjoining grounds at Palons is charmingly picturesque. It
stands at the entrance to the defile which leads into Val Fressinières, having a background
of bold rocks enclosing a mountain plateau known as the "Camp of Catinat," a notorious persecutor
of the Vaudois. In front of the parsonage extends a green field planted with walnut and other
trees, part of which is walled off as the burying-ground of the hamlet. Alongside, in a deep
rocky gully, runs the torrent of the Biasse, leaping from rock to rock on its way to the valley
of the Durance, far below. This fall, or cataract, is not inappropriately named the "Gouffouran,"
or roaring gulf; and its sullen roar is heard all through the night in the adjoining parsonage.
The whole height of the fall, as it tumbles from rock to rock, is about four hundred and fifty
feet; and about halfway down, the water shoots into a deep, dark cavern, where it becomes completely
lost to sight.

The inhabitants of the hamlet are a poor hard-working people, pursuing their industry after
very primitive methods. Part of the Biasse, as it issues from the defile, is turned aside here
and there to drive little fulling-mills of the rudest construction, where the people "waulk"
the cloth of their own making. In the adjoining narrow fields overhanging the Gouffouran, where
the ploughs are at work, the oxen are yoked to them in the old Roman fashion, the pull being
by a bar fixed across the animals' foreheads.

In the neighbourhood of Palons, as at various other places in the valley, there are numerous
caverns which served by turns in early times as hiding-places and as churches, and which were
not unfrequently consecrated by the Vaudois with their blood. One of these is still known as
the "Glesia," or "Église." Its opening is on the crest of a frightful precipice, but its diameter
has of late years been considerably reduced by the disintegration of the adjoining rock. Neff
once took Captain Cotton up to see it, and chanted the Te Deum in the rude temple with great
emotion.

Palons is, perhaps, the most genial and fertile spot in the valley; it looks like a little
oasis in the desert. Indeed, Neff thought the soil of the place too rich for the growth of
piety. "Palons," said he in his journal, "is more fertile than the rest of the valley, and
even produces wine: the consequence is, that there is less piety here." Neff even entertained
the theory that the poorer the people the greater was their humility and fervour, and the less
their selfishness and spiritual pride. Thus, he considered "the fertility of the commune of
Champsaur, and its proximity to the high road and to Gap, great stumbling-blocks." The loftiest,
coldest, and most barren spots--such as San Veran and Dormilhouse--were, in his opinion, by
far the most promising. Of the former he said, "It is the highest, and consequently the most
pious, village in the valley of Queyras;" and of the inhabitants of the latter he said, "From
the first moment of my arrival I took them to my heart, and I ardently desired to be unto them
even as another Oberlin."

CHAPTER IV.

THE VAUDOIS MOUNTAIN-REFUGE OF DORMILHOUSE.

The valley of Fressinières could never have maintained a large population. Though about twelve
miles in extent, it contains a very small proportion of arable land--only a narrow strip, of
varying width, lying in the bottom, with occasional little patches of cultivated ground along
the mountain-sides, where the soil has settled on the ledges, the fields seeming in many cases
to hang over precipices. At the upper end of the valley, the mountains come down so close to
the river Biasse that no space is left for cultivation, and the slopes are so rocky and abrupt
as to be unavailable even for pasturage, excepting of goats.

Yet the valley seems never to have been without a population, more or less numerous according
to the rigour of the religious persecutions which prevailed in the neighbourhood. Its comparative
inaccessibility, its inhospitable climate, and its sterility, combined to render it one of
the most secure refuges of the Vaudois in the Middle Ages. It could neither be easily entered
by an armed force, nor permanently occupied by them. The scouts on the hills overlooking the
Durance could always see their enemies approach, and the inhabitants were enabled to take refuge
in caves in the mountain-sides, or flee to the upper parts of the valley, before the soldiers
could clamber up the steep Pas de l'Échelle, and reach the barricaded defile through which
the Biasse rushes down the rocky gorge of the Gouffouran. When the invaders succeeded in penetrating
this barrier, they usually found the hamlets deserted and the people fled. They could then
only wreak their vengeance on the fields, which they laid waste, and on the dwellings, which
they burned; and when the "brigands" had at length done their worst and departed, the poor
people crept back to their ruined homes to pray, amidst their ashes, for strength to enable
them to bear the heavy afflictions which they were thus called upon to suffer for conscience' sake.

The villages in the lower part of the valley were thus repeatedly ravaged and destroyed. But
far up, at its extremest point, a difficult footpath led, across the face almost of a precipice,
which the persecutors never ventured to scale, to the hamlet of Dormilhouse, seated on a few
ledges of rock on a lofty mountain-side, five thousand feet above the level of the sea; and
this place, which was for centuries a mountain fastness of the persecuted, remains a Vaudois
settlement to this day.

An excursion to this interesting mountain hamlet having been arranged, our little party of
five persons set out for the place on the morning of the 1st of July, under the guidance of
Pastor Charpiot. Though the morning was fine and warm, yet, as the place of our destination
was situated well up amongst the clouds, we were warned to provide ourselves with umbrellas
and waterproofs, nor did the provision prove in vain. We were also warned that there was an
utter want of accommodation for visitors at Dormilhouse, for which we must be prepared. The
words scratched on the window of the Norwegian inn might indeed apply to it: "Here the stranger
may find very good entertainment--provided he bring it with him!" We accordingly carried our
entertainment with us, in the form of a store of blankets, bread, chocolate, and other articles,
which, with the traveller's knapsacks, were slung across the back of a donkey.

After entering the defile, an open part of the valley was passed, amidst which the little river,
at present occupying very narrow limits, meandered; but it was obvious from the width of the
channel and the débris widely strewn about, that in winter it is a roaring torrent. A little
way up we met an old man coming down driving a loaded donkey, with whom one of our party, recognising
him as an old acquaintance, entered into conversation. In answer to an inquiry made as to the
progress of the good cause in the valley, the old man replied very despondingly. "There was,"
he said, "a great lack of faith, of zeal, of earnestness, amongst the rising generation. They
were too fond of pleasures, too apt to be led away by the fleeting vanities of this world."
It was only the old story--the complaint of the aged against the young. When this old peasant
was a boy, his elders doubtless thought and said the same of him. The generation growing old
always think the generation still young in a state of degeneracy. So it was forty years since,
when Felix Neff was amongst them, and so it will be forty years hence. One day Neff met an
old man near Mens, who recounted to him the story of the persecutions which his parents and
himself had endured, and he added: "In those times there was more zeal than there is now; my
father and mother used to cross mountains and forests by night, in the worst weather, at the
risk of their lives, to be present at divine service performed in secret; but now we are grown
lazy: religious freedom is the deathblow to piety."

An hour's walking brought us to the principal hamlet of the commune, formerly called Fressinières,
but now known as Les Ribes, occupying a wooded height on the left bank of the river. The population
is partly Roman Catholic and partly Protestant. The Roman Catholics have a church here, the
last in the valley, the two other places of worship higher up being Protestant. The principal
person of Les Ribes is M. Baridon, son of the Joseph Baridon, receiver of the commune, so often
mentioned with such affection in the journal of Neff. He is the only person in the valley whose
position and education give him a claim to the title of "Monsieur;" and his house contains
the only decent apartment in the Val Fressinières where pastors and visitors could be lodged
previous to the erection, by Mr. Freemantle, of the pleasant little parsonage at Palons. This
apartment in the Baridons' house Neff used to call the "Prophet's Chamber."

Half an hour higher up the valley we reached the hamlet of Violens, where all the inhabitants
are Protestants. It was at this place that Neff helped to build and finish the church, for
which he designed the seats and pulpit, and which he opened and dedicated on the 29th of August,
1824, the year before he finally left the neighbourhood. Violens is a poor hamlet situated
at the bottom of a deep glen, or rocky abyss, called La Combe; the narrow valleys of Dauphiny,
like those of Devon, being usually called combes, doubtless from the same original Celtic word
cwm, signifying a hollow or dingle.

A little above Violens the valley contracts almost to a ravine, until we reach the miserable
hamlet of Minsals, so shut in by steep crags that for nine months of the year it never sees
the sun, and during several months in winter it lies buried in snow. The hamlet consists for
the most part of hovels of mud and stone, without windows or chimneys, being little better
than stables; indeed, in winter time, for the sake of warmth, the poor people share them with
their cattle. How they contrive to scrape a living out of the patches of soil rescued from
the rocks, or hung upon the precipices on the mountain-side, is a wonder.

One of the horrors of this valley consists in the constant state of disintegration of the adjoining
rocks, which, being of a slaty formation, frequently break away in large masses, and are hurled
into the lower grounds. This, together with the fall of avalanches in winter, makes the valley
a most perilous place to live in. A little above Minsals, only a few years since, a tremendous
fall of rock and mud swept over nearly the whole of the cultivated ground, since which many
of the peasantry have had to remove elsewhere. What before was a well-tilled meadow, is now
only a desolate waste, covered with rocks and débris.

Another of the horrors of the place is its liability to floods, which come rushing down, from
the mountains, and often work sad havoc. Sometimes a fall of rocks from the cliffs above dams
up the bed of the river, when a lake accumulates behind the barrier until it bursts, and the
torrent swoops down the valley, washing away fields, and bridges, and mills, and hovels.

Even the stouter-built dwelling of M. Baridon at Les Ribes was nearly carried away by one of
such inundations twelve years ago. It stands about a hundred yards from the mountain-stream
which comes down from the Pic de la Séa. One day in summer a storm burst over the mountain,
and the stream at once became swollen to a torrent. The inmates of the dwelling thought the
house must eventually be washed away, and gave themselves up to prayer. The flood, bearing
with it rolling rocks, came nearer and nearer, until it reached a few old walnut trees on a
line with the torrent. A rock of some thirty feet square tumbled against one of the trees,
which staggered and bent, but held fast and stopped the rock. The débris at once rolled upon
it into a bank, the course of the torrent was turned, and the dwelling and its inmates were saved.

Another incident, illustrative of the perils of daily life in Val Fressinières, was related
to me by Mr. Milsom while passing the scene of one of the mud and rock avalanches so common
in the valley. Etienne Baridon, a member of the same Les Ribes family, an intelligent young
man, disabled for ordinary work by lameness and deformity, occupied himself in teaching the
children in the Protestant school at Violens, whither he walked daily, accompanied by the pupils
from Les Ribes. One day, a heavy thunderstorm burst over the valley, and sent down an avalanche
of mud, débris, and boulders, which rolled quite across the valley and extended to the river.
The news of the circumstance reached Etienne when in school at Violens; the road to Les Ribes
was closed; and he was accordingly urged to stay over the night with the children. But thinking
of the anxiety of their parents, he determined to guide them back over the fall of rocks if
possible. Arrived at the place, he found the mass still on the move, rolling slowly down in
a ridge of from ten to twenty feet high, towards the river. Supported by a stout staff; the
lame Baridon took first one child and then another upon his hump-back; and contrived to carry
them across in safety; but while making his last journey with the last child, his foot slipped
and his leg got badly crushed among the still-rolling stones. He was, however, able to extricate
himself, and reached Les Ribes in safety with all the children. "This Etienne," concluded Mr.
Milsom, "was really a noble fellow, and his poor deformed body covered the soul of a hero."

At length, after a journey of about ten miles up this valley of the shadow of death, along
which the poor persecuted Vaudois were so often hunted, we reached an apparent cul-de-sac amongst
the mountains, beyond which further progress seemed impracticable. Precipitous rocks, with
their slopes of débris at foot, closed in the valley all round, excepting only the narrow gullet
by which we had come; but, following the footpath, a way up the mountain-side gradually disclosed
itself--a zigzag up the face of what seemed to be a sheer precipice--and this we were told
was the road to Dormilhouse. The zigzag path is known as the Tourniquet. The ascent is long,
steep, and fatiguing. As we passed up, we observed that the precipice contained many narrow
ledges upon which soil has settled, or to which it has been carried. Some of these are very
narrow, only a few yards in extent, but wherever there is room for a spade to turn, the little
patches bear marks of cultivation; and these are the fields of the people of Dormilhouse!

Far up the mountain, the footpath crosses in front of a lofty cascade--La Pisse du Dormilhouse--which
leaps from the summit of the precipice, and sometimes dashes over the roadway itself. Looking
down into the valley from this point, we see the Biasse meandering like a thread in the hollow
of the mountains, becoming lost to sight in the ravine near Minsals. We have now ascended to
a great height, and the air feels cold and raw. When we left Palons, the sun was shining brightly,
and its heat was almost oppressive, but now the temperature feels wintry. On our way up, rain
began to fall; as we ascended the Tourniquet the rain became changed to sleet; and at length,
on reaching the summit of the rising ground from which we first discerned the hamlet of Dormilhouse,
on the first day of July, the snow was falling heavily, and all the neighbouring mountains
were clothed in the garb of winter.

This, then, is the famous mountain fastness of the Vaudois--their last and loftiest and least
accessible retreat when hunted from their settlements in the lower valleys hundreds of years
ago. Driven from rock to rock, from Alp to Alp, they clambered up on to this lofty mountain-ledge,
five thousand feet high, and made good their settlement, though at the daily peril of their
lives. It was a place of refuge, a fortress and citadel of the faithful, where they continued
to worship God according to conscience during the long dark ages of persecution and tyranny.
The dangers and terrors of the situation are indeed so great, that it never could have been
chosen even for a hiding-place, much less for a permanent abode, but from the direst necessity.
What the poor people suffered while establishing themselves on these barren mountain heights
no one can tell, but they contrived at length to make the place their home, and to become inured
to their hard life, until it became almost a second nature to them.

The hamlet of Dormilhouse is said to have existed for nearly six hundred years, during which
the religion of its inhabitants has remained the same. It has been alleged that the people
are the descendants of a colony of refugee Lombards; but M. Muston, and others well able to
judge, after careful inquiry on the spot, have come to the conclusion that they bear all the
marks of being genuine descendants of the ancient Vaudois. In features, dress, habits, names,
language, and religious doctrine, they have an almost perfect identity with the Vaudois of
Piedmont at the present day.

Dormilhouse consists of about forty cottages, inhabited by some two hundred persons. The cottages
are perched "like eagles' nests," one tier ranging over another on the rocky ledges of a steep
mountain-side. There is very little soil capable of cultivation in the neighbourhood, but the
villagers seek out little patches in the valley below and on the mountain shelves, from which
they contrive to grow a little grain for home use. The place is so elevated and so exposed,
that in some seasons even rye will not ripen at Dormilhouse, while the pasturages are in many
places inaccessible to cattle, and scarcely safe for sheep.

The principal food of the people is goats' milk and unsifted rye, which they bake into cakes
in the autumn, and these cakes last them the whole year--the grain, if left unbaked, being
apt to grow mouldy and spoil in so damp an atmosphere. Besides, fuel is so scarce that it is
necessary to exercise the greatest economy in its use, every stick burnt in the village having
to be brought from a distance of some twelve miles, on the backs of donkeys, by the steep mountain-path
leading up to the hamlet. Hence, also, the unsavoury means which they are under the necessity
of adopting to economize warmth in the winter, by stabling the cattle with themselves in the
cottages. The huts are for the most part wretched constructions of stone and mud, from which
fresh air, comfort, and cleanliness seem to be entirely excluded. Excepting that the people
are for the most part comfortably dressed, in clothing of coarse wool, which they dress and
weave themselves, their domestic accommodation and manner of living are centuries behind the
age; and were a stranger suddenly to be set down in the village, he could with difficulty be
made to believe that he was in the land of civilised Frenchmen.

The place is dreary, stern, and desolate-looking even in summer. Thus, we entered it with the
snow falling on the 1st of July! Few of the balmy airs of the sweet South of France breathe
here. In the hollow of the mountains the heat may be like that of an oven; but here, far up
on the heights, though the air may be fresh and invigorating at times, when the wind blows
it often rises to a hurricane. Here the summer comes late and departs early. While flowers
are blooming in the valleys, not a bud or blade of corn is to be seen at Dormilhouse. At the
season when vegetation is elsewhere at its richest, the dominant features of the landscape
are barrenness and desolation. The very shapes of the mountains are rugged, harsh, and repulsive.
Right over against the hamlet, separated from it by a deep gully, rises up the grim, bare Gramusac,
as black as a wall, but along the ledges of which, the hunters of Dormilhouse, who are very
daring and skilful, do not fear to stalk the chamois.

But if the place is thus stern and even appalling in summer, what must it be in winter? There
is scarcely a habitation in the village that is not exposed to the danger of being carried
away by avalanches or falling rocks. The approach to the mountain is closed by ice and snow,
while the rocks are all tapestried with icicles. The tourmente, or snow whirlwind, occasionally
swoops up the valley, tears the roofs from the huts, and scatters them in destruction.

Here is a passage from Neff's journal, vividly descriptive of winter life at Dormilhouse:--

     "The weather has been rigorous in the extreme; the falls of snow
     are very frequent, and when it becomes a little milder, a general
     thaw takes place, and our hymns are often sung amid the roar of
     the avalanches, which, gliding along the smooth face of the
     glacier, hurl themselves from precipice to precipice, like vast
     cataracts of silver."

Writing in January, he says:--

     "We have been buried in four feet of snow since of 1st of
     November. At this very moment a terrible blast is whirling the
     snow in thick blinding clouds. Travelling is exceedingly
     difficult and even dangerous among these valleys, particularly in
     the neighbourhood of Dormilhouse, by reason of the numerous
     avalanches falling everywhere.... One Sunday evening our scholars
     and many of the Dormilhouse people, when returning home after the
     sermon at Violens, narrowly escaped an avalanche. It rolled
     through a narrow defile between two groups of persons: a few
     seconds sooner or later, and it would have plunged the flower of
     our youth into the depths of an unfathomable gorge.... In fact,
     there are very few habitations in these parts which are not
     liable to be swept away, for there is not a spot in the narrow
     corner of the valley which can be considered absolutely safe. But
     terrible as their situation is, they owe to it their religion,
     and perhaps their physical existence. If their country had been
     more secure and more accessible, they would have been
     exterminated like the inhabitants of Val Louise."

Such is the interesting though desolate mountain hamlet to the service of whose hardy inhabitants
the brave Felix Neff devoted himself during the greater part of his brief missionary career.
It was characteristic of him to prefer to serve them because their destitution was greater
than that which existed in any other quarter of his extensive parish; and he turned from the
grand mountain scenery of Arvieux and his comfortable cottage at La Chalp, to spend his winters
in the dismal hovels and amidst the barren wastes of Dormilhouse.

When Neff first went amongst them, the people were in a state of almost total spiritual destitution.
They had not had any pastor stationed amongst them for nearly a hundred and fifty years. During
all that time they had been without schools of any kind, and generation after generation had
grown up and passed away in ignorance. Yet with all the inborn tenacity of their race, they
had throughout refused to conform to the dominant religion. They belonged to the Vaudois Church,
and repudiated Romanism.

There was probably a Protestant church existing at Dormilhouse previous to the Revocation,
as is shown by the existence of an ancient Vaudois church-bell, which was hid away until of
late years, when it was dug up and hung in the belfry of the present church. In 1745, the Roman
Catholics endeavoured to effect a settlement in the place, and then erected the existing church,
with a residence for the curé. But the people, though they were on the best of terms with the
curé, refused to enter his church. During the twenty years that he ministered there, it is
said the sole congregation consisted of his domestic servant, who assisted him at mass.

The story is still told of the curé bringing up from Les Ribes a large bag of apples--an impossible
crop at Dormilhouse--by way of tempting the children to come to him and receive instruction.
But they went only so long as the apples lasted, and when they were gone the children disappeared.
The curé complained that during the whole time he had been in the place he had not been able
to get a single person to cross himself. So, finding he was not likely to be of any use there,
he petitioned his bishop to be allowed to leave; on which, his request being complied with,
the church was closed.

This continued until the period of the French Revolution, when religious toleration became
recognised. The Dormilhouse people then took possession of the church. They found in it several
dusty images, the basin for the holy water, the altar candlesticks, and other furniture, just
as the curé had left them many years before; and they are still preserved as curiosities. The
new occupants of the church whitewashed the pictures, took down the crosses, dug up the old
Vaudois bell and hung it up in the belfry, and rang the villagers together to celebrate the
old worship again. But they were still in want of a regular minister until the period when
Felix Neff settled amongst them. A zealous young preacher, Henry Laget, had before then paid
them a few visits, and been warmly welcomed; and when, in his last address, he told them they
would see his face no more, "it seemed," said a peasant who related the incident to Neff, "as
if a gust of wind had extinguished the torch which was to light us in our passage by night
across the precipice." And even Neff's ministry, as we have above seen, only lasted for the
short space of about three years.

Some years after the death of Neff, another attempt was made by the Roman Catholics to establish
a mission at Dormilhouse. A priest went up from Les Ribes accompanied by a sister of mercy
from Gap--"the pearl of the diocese," she was called--who hired a room for the purpose of commencing
a school. To give éclat to their enterprise, the Archbishop of Embrun himself went up, clothed
in a purple dress, riding a white horse, and accompanied by a party of men bearing a great
red cross, which he caused to be set up at the entrance to the village. But when the archbishop
appeared, not a single inhabitant went out to meet him; they had all assembled in the church
to hold a prayer-meeting, and it lasted during the whole period of his visit. All that he accomplished
was to set up the great red cross, after which he went down the Tourniquet again; and shortly
after, the priest and the sister of mercy, finding they could not obtain a footing, also left
the village. Somehow or other, the red cross which had been set up mysteriously disappeared,
but how it had been disposed of no one would ever reveal. It was lately proposed to commemorate
the event of the archbishop's visit by the erection of an obelisk on the spot where he had
set up the red cross; and a tablet, with a suitable inscription, was provided for it by the
Rev. Mr. Freemantle, of Claydon. But when he was told that the site was exposed to the full
force of the avalanches descending from the upper part of the mountain in winter, and would
speedily be swept away, the project of the memorial pillar was abandoned, and the tablet was
inserted, instead, in the front wall of the village church, where it reads as follows:--

          À LA GLOIRE DE DIEU
        DONT DE LES TEMPS ANCIENS
  ET À TRAVERS LE MARTYR DE LEURS PÈRES
              A MAINTENU
            À DORMILHOUSE
        LA FOI DONNE AUX SAINTS
    ET LA CONNAISSANCE DE LA PAROLE
        LES HABITANTS ONT ÉLEVÉ
              CETTE PIERRE
               MDCCCLXIV.

Having thus described the village and its history, a few words remain to be added as to the
visit of our little party of travellers from Palons. On reaching the elevated point at which
the archbishop had set up the red cross, the whole of the huts lay before us, and a little
way down the mountain-side we discerned the village church, distinguished by its little belfry.
Leaving on our right the Swiss-looking châlet with overhanging roof, in which Neff used to
lodge with the Baridon-Verdure family while at Dormilhouse, and now known as "Felix Neff's
house," we made our way down a steep and stony footpath towards the school-house adjoining
the church, in front of which we found the large ash trees, shading both church and school,
which Neff himself had planted. Arrived at the school-house, we there found shelter and accommodation
for the night. The schoolroom, fitted with its forms and desks, was our parlour, and our bedrooms,
furnished with the blankets we had brought with us, were in the little chambers adjoining.

At eight in the evening the church bell rang for service--the summoning bell. The people had
been expecting the visit, and turned out in full force, so that at nine o'clock, when the last
bell rang, the church was found filled to the door. Every seat was occupied--by men on one
side, and by women on the other. The service was conducted by Mr. Milsom, the missionary visitor
from Lyons, who opened with prayer, then gave out the twenty-third Psalm, which was sung to
an accompaniment on the harmonium; then another prayer, followed by the reading of a chapter
in the New Testament, was wound up by an address, in which the speaker urged the people to
their continuance in well-doing. In the course of his remarks he said: "Be not discouraged
because the results of your Labours may appear but small. Work on and faint not, and God will
give the spiritual increase. Pastors, teachers, and colporteurs are too often ready to despond,
because the fruit does not seem to ripen while they are watching it. But the best fruit grows
slowly. Think how the Apostles laboured. They were all poor men, but men of brave hearts; and
they passed away to their rest long before the seed which they planted grew up and ripened
to perfection. Work on then in patience and hope, and be assured that God will at length help you."

Mr. Milsom's address was followed by another from the pastor, and then by a final prayer and
hymn, after which the service was concluded, and the villagers dispersed to their respective
homes a little after ten o'clock. The snow had ceased falling, but the sky was still overcast,
and the night felt cold and raw, like February rather than July.

The wonder is, that this community of Dormilhouse should cling to their mountain eyrie so long
after the necessity for their living above the clouds has ceased; but it is their home, and
they have come to love it, and are satisfied to live and die there. Rather than live elsewhere,
they will walk, as some of them do, twelve miles in the early morning, to their work down in
the valley of the Durance, and twelve miles home again, in the evenings, to their perch on
the rocks at Dormilhouse.

They are even proud of their mountain home, and would not change it for the most smiling vineyard
of the plains. They are like a little mountain clan--all Baridons, or Michels, or Orcieres,
or Bertholons, or Arnouds--proud of their descent from the ancient Vaudois. It is their boast
that a Roman Catholic does not live among them. Once, when a young shepherd came up from the
valley to pasture his flock in the mountains, he fell in love with a maiden of the village,
and proposed to marry her. "Yes," was the answer, with this condition, that he joined the Vaudois
Church. And he assented, married the girl, and settled for life at Dormilhouse.[105]

         [Footnote 105: Since the date of our visit, we learn that a
         sad accident--strikingly illustrative of the perils of
         village life at Dormilhouse--has befallen this young
         shepherd, by name Jean Joseph Lagier. One day in October,
         1869, while engaged in gathering wood near the brink of the
         precipice overhanging Minsals, he accidently fell over and
         was killed on the spot, leaving behind him a widow and a
         large family. He was a person of such excellent character and
         conduct, that he had been selected as colporteur for the
         neighbourhood.]

       *       *       *       *       *

The next morning broke clear and bright overhead. The sun shone along the rugged face of the
Gramusac right over against the hamlet, bringing out its bolder prominences. Far below, the
fleecy clouds were still rolling themselves up the mountain-sides, or gradually dispersing
as the sun caught them on their emerging from the valley below. The view was bold and striking,
displaying the grandeur of the scenery of Dormilhouse in one of its best aspects.

Setting out on the return journey to Palons, we descended the face of the mountain on which
Dormilhouse stands, by a steep footpath right in front of it, down towards the falls of the
Biasse. Looking back, the whole village appeared above us, cottage over cottage, and ledge
over ledge, with its stern background of rocky mountain.

Immediately under the village, in a hollow between two shoulders of rock, the cascade of the
Biasse leaps down into the valley. The highest leap falls in a jet of about a hundred feet,
and the lower, divided into two by a projecting ledge, breaks into a shower of spray which
falls about a hundred and fifty feet more into the abyss below. Even in Switzerland this fall
would be considered a fine object; but in this out-of-the-way place, it is rarely seen except
by the villagers, who have water and cascades more than enough.

We were told on the spot, that some eighty years since an avalanche shot down the mountain
immediately on to the plateau on which we stood, carrying with it nearly half the village of
Dormilhouse; and every year the avalanches shoot down at the same place, which is strewn with
the boulders and débris that extend far down into the valley.

At the bottom of the Tourniquet we joined M. Charpiot, accompanying the donkey laden with the
blankets and knapsacks, and proceeded with him on our way down the valley towards his hospitable
parsonage at Palons.

CHAPTER V.

GUILLESTRE AND THE VALLEY OF QUEYRAS.

We left Palons on a sharp, bright morning in July, with the prospect of a fine day before us,
though there had been a fall of snow in the night, which whitened the tops of the neighbouring
hills. Following the road along the heights on the right bank of the Biasse, and passing the
hamlet of Chancellas, another favourite station of Neff's, a rapid descent led us down into
the valley of the Durance, which we crossed a little above the village of St. Crepin, with
the strong fortress of Mont Dauphin before us a few miles lower down the valley.

This remote corner in the mountains was the scene of much fighting in early times between the
Roman Catholics and the Huguenots, and afterwards between the French and the Piedmontese. It
was in this neighbourhood that Lesdiguières first gave evidence of his skill and valour as
a soldier. The massacre of St. Bartholomew at Paris in 1572 had been followed by like massacres
in various parts of France, especially in the south. The Roman Catholics of Dauphiny, deeming
the opportunity favourable for the extirpation of the heretical Vaudois, dispatched the military
commandant of Embrun against the inhabitants of Val Fressinières at the head of an army of
twelve hundred men. Lesdiguières, then scarce twenty-four years old, being informed of their
march, hastily assembled a Huguenot force in the valley of the Drac, and, crossing the Col
d'Orcières from Champsaur into the valley of the Durance, he suddenly fell upon the enemy at
St. Crepin, routed them, and drove them down the valley to Embrun. Twelve years later, during
the wars of the League, Lesdiguières distinguished himself in the same neighbourhood, capturing
Embrun, Guillestre, and Château Queyras, in the valley of the Guil, thereby securing the entire
province for his royal master, Henry of Navarre.

The strong fortress of Mont Dauphin, at the junction of the Guil with the Durance, was not
constructed until a century later. Victor-Amadeus II., when invading the province with a Piedmontese
army, at sight of the plateau commanding the entrance of both valleys, exclaimed, "There is
a pass to fortify." The hint was not neglected by the French general, Catinat, under whose
directions the great engineer, Vauban, traced the plan of the present fortifications. It is
a very strong place, completely commanding the valley of the Durance, while it is regarded
as the key of the passage into Italy by the Guil and the Col de la Croix.

Guillestre is a small old-fashioned town, situated on the lowest slope of the pine-clad mountain,
the Tête de Quigoulet, at the junction of the Rioubel and the Chagne, rivulets in summer but
torrents in winter, which join the Guil a little below the town. Guillestre was in ancient
times a strong place, and had for its lords the Archbishops of Embrun, the ancient persecutors
of the Vaudois. The castle of the archbishop, flanked by six towers, occupied a commanding
site immediately overlooking the town; but at the French Revolution of 1789, the first thing
which the archbishop's flock did was to pull his castle in pieces, leaving not one stone upon
another; and, strange to say, the only walled enclosure now within its precincts is the little
burying-ground of the Guillestre Protestants. One memorable stone has, however, been preserved,
the stone trough in which the peasants were required to measure the tribute of grain payable
by them to their reverend seigneurs. It is still to be seen laid against a wall in an open
space in front of the church.

It happened that the fair of Guillestre, which is held every two months, was afoot at the time
of our visit. It is frequented by the people of the adjoining valleys, of which Guillestre
is the centre, as well as by Piedmontese from beyond the Italian frontier. On the principal
day of the fair we found the streets filled with peasants buying and selling beasts. They were
apparently of many races. Amongst them were many well-grown men, some with rings in their ears--horse-dealers
from Piedmont, we were told; but the greater number were little, dark, thin, and poorly-fed
peasants. Some of them, dark-eyed and tawny-skinned, looked like Arabs, possibly descendants
of the Saracens who once occupied the province. There were one or two groups of gipsies, differing
from all else; but the district is too poor to be much frequented by people of that race.

The animals brought for sale showed the limited resources of the neighbourhood. One hill-woman
came along dragging two goats in milk; another led a sheep and a goat; a third a donkey in
foal; a fourth a cow in milk; and so on. The largest lot consisted of about forty lambs, of
various sizes and breeds, which had been driven down from the cool air of the mountains, and,
gasping with heat, were cooling their heads against the shady side of a stone wall. There were
several lots of pigs, of a bad but probably hardy sort--mostly black, round-backed, long-legged,
and long-eared. In selling the animals, there was the usual chaffering, in shrill patois, at
the top of the voice--the seller of some poor scraggy beast extolling its merits, the intending
buyer running it down as a "misérable bossu," &c., and disputing every point raised in its
behalf, until the contest of words rose to such a height--men, women, and even children, on
both sides, taking part in it--that the bystander would have thought it impossible they could
separate without a fight. But matters always came to a peaceable conclusion, for the French
are by no means a quarrelsome people.

There were also various other sorts of produce offered for sale--wool, undressed sheepskins,
sticks for firewood, onions and vegetable produce, and considerable quantities of honeycomb;
while the sellers of scythes, whetstones, caps, and articles of dress, seemed to meet with
a ready sale for their wares, arranged on stalls in the open space in front of the church.
Altogether, the queer collection of beasts and their drivers, who were to be seen drinking
together greedily and promiscuously from the fountains in the market-place; the steep streets,
crowded with lean goats and cows and pigs, and their buyers and sellers; the braying of donkeys
and the shrieking of chafferers, with here and there a goitred dwarf of hideous aspect, presented
a picture of an Alpine mountain fair, which, once seen, is not readily forgotten.

There is a similar fair held at the village of La Bessie, before mentioned, a little higher
up the Durance, on the road to Briançon; but it is held only once a year, at the end of October,
when the inhabitants of Dormilhouse come down in a body to lay in their stock of necessaries
for the winter. "There then arrives," says M. Albert, "a caravan of about the most singular
character that can be imagined. It consists of nearly the whole population of the mountain
hamlet, who resort thither to supply themselves with the articles required for family use during
the winter, such as leather, lint, salt, and oil. These poor mountaineers are provided with
very little money, and, to procure the necessary commodities, they have recourse to barter,
the most ancient and primitive method of conducting trade. Hence they bring with them rye,
barley, pigs, lambs, chamois skins and horns, and the produce of their knitting during the
past year, to exchange for the required articles, with which they set out homeward, laden as
they had come."

       *       *       *       *       *

The same circumstances which have concurred in making Guillestre the seat of the principal
fair of the valleys, led Felix Neff to regard it as an important centre of missionary operations
amongst the Vaudois. In nearly all the mountain villages in its neighbourhood descendants of
the ancient Vaudois are to be found, sometimes in the most remote and inaccessible places,
whither they had fled in the times of the persecutions. Thus at Vars, a mountain hamlet up
the torrent Rioubel, about nine miles from Guillestre, there is a little Christian community,
which, though under the necessity of long concealing their faith, never ceased to be Vaudois
in spirit.[106] Then, up the valley of the Guil, and in the lateral valleys which join it,
there are, in some places close to the mountain barrier which divides France from Italy, other
villages and hamlets, such as Arvieux, San Veran, Fongilarde, &c., the inhabitants of which,
though they concealed their faith subsequent to the Revocation of the Edict of Nantes, never
conformed to Roman Catholicism, but took the earliest opportunity of declaring themselves openly
so soon as the dark period of persecution had passed by.

         [Footnote 106: The well-known Alpine missionary, J. L.
         Rostan, of whom an interesting biography has recently been
         published by the Rev. A. J. French, for the Wesleyan
         Conference, was a native of Vars. He was one of the favourite
         pupils of Felix Neff, with whom he resided at Dormilhouse in
         1825-7; Neff saying of him: "Among the best of my pupils, as
         regards spiritual things and secular too, is Jean Rostan, of
         Vars: he is probably destined for the ministry; such at least
         is my hope." Neff bequeathed to him the charge of his parish
         during his temporary absence, but he never returned; and
         shortly after, Rostan left, to pursue his studies at
         Montauban. He joined the Methodist Church, settled and
         ministered for a time in La Vaunage and the Cevennes,
         afterwards labouring as a missionary in the High Alps, and
         eventually settled as minister of the church at Lisieux,
         Jersey, in charge of which he died, July, 1859.]

The people of these scattered and distant hamlets were, however, too poor to supply themselves
with religious instructors, and they long remained in a state of spiritual destitution. Felix
Neff's labours were too short, and scattered over too extensive a field, to produce much permanent
effect. Besides, they were principally confined to the village of Dormilhouse, which, as being
the most destitute, had, he thought, the greatest claim upon his help; and at his death comparatively
little had been done or attempted in the Guillestre district. But he left behind him what was
worth more than any endowment of money, a noble example, which still lives, and inspires the
labourers who have come after him.

It was not until within the last twenty years that a few Vaudois families of Guillestre began
to meet together for religious purposes, which they did at first in the upper chamber of an
inn. There the Rev. Mr. Freemantle found them when paying his first visit to the valleys in
1851. He was rejoiced to see the zeal of the people, holding to their faith in the face of
considerable opposition and opprobrium; and he exerted himself to raise the requisite funds
amongst his friends in England to provide the Guillestre Vaudois with a place of worship of
their own. His efforts were attended with success; and in 1854 a comfortable parsonage, with
a commodious room for public worship, was purchased for their use. A fund was also provided
for the maintenance of a settled ministry; a pastor was appointed; and in 1857 a congregation
of from forty to seventy persons attended worship every Sunday. Mr. Freemantle, in a communication
with which he has favoured us, says: "Our object has not been to make an aggression upon the
Roman Catholics, but to strengthen the hands and establish the faith of the Vaudois. And in
so doing we have found, not unfrequently, that when an interest has been excited among the
Roman Catholic population of the district, there has been some family or hereditary connection
with ancestors who were independent of the see of Rome, and such have again joined themselves
to the faith of their fathers."

The new movement was not, however, allowed to proceed without great opposition. The "Momiers,"
or mummers--the modern nickname of the Vaudois--were denounced by the curé of the place, and
the people were cautioned, as they valued their souls' safety, against giving any countenance
to their proceedings. The curé was doubtless seriously impressed by the gravity of the situation;
and to protect the parish against the assaults of the evil one, he had a large number of crosses
erected upon the heights overlooking the town. On one occasion he had a bad dream, in which
he beheld the valley filled with a vast assembly come to be judged; and on the site of the
judgment-seat which he saw in his dream, he set up, on the summit of the Come Chauve, a large
tin cross hearted with wood. We were standing in the garden in front of the parsonage at Guillestre
late in the evening, when M. Schell, the pastor, pointing up to the height, said, "There you
see it now; that is the curé's erection." The valley below lay in deep shadow, while the cross
upon the summit brightly reflected the last rays of the setting sun.

The curé, finding that the "Momiers" did not cease to exist, next adopted the expedient of
preaching them down. On the occasion of the Fête Napoleon, 1862, when the Rev. Mr. Freemantle
visited Guillestre for the purpose of being present at the Vaudois services on Sunday, the
10th of August, the curé preached a special sermon to his congregation at early morning mass,
telling them that an Englishman had come into the town with millions of francs to buy up the
souls of Guillestre, and warning them to abstain from such men.

The people were immediately filled with curiosity to know what it was that this stranger had
come all the way from England to do, backed by "millions of francs." Many of them did not as
yet know that there was such a thing as a Vaudois church in Guillestre; but now that they did
know, they were desirous of ascertaining something about the doctrines taught there. The consequence
was, that a crowd of people--amongst whom were some of the highest authorities in the town,
the registrar, the douaniers, the chief of a neighbouring commune, and persons of all classes--assembled
at noon to hear M. de Faye, the Protestant pastor, who preached to them an excellent sermon
under the trees of the parsonage orchard, while a still larger number attended in the afternoon.

When the curé heard of the conduct of his flock he was greatly annoyed. "What did you hear
from the heretics?" he asked of one of the delinquents. "I heard your sermon in the morning,
and a sermon upon charity in the afternoon," was the reply.

Great were the surprise and excitement in Guillestre when it became known that the principal
sergeant of gendarmerie--the very embodiment of law and order in the place--had gone over and
joined the "Momiers" with his wife and family. M. Laugier was quite a model gendarme. He was
a man of excellent character, steady, sensible, and patient, a diligent self-improver, a reader
of books, a botanist, and a bit of a geologist. He knew all the rare mountain plants, and had
a collection of those that would bear transplantation, in his garden at the back of the town.
No man was more respected in Guillestre than the sergeant. His long and faithful service entitled
him to the médaille militaire, and it would have been awarded to him, but for the circumstance
which came to light, and which he did not seek to conceal, that he had joined the Protestant
connexion. Not only was the medal withheld, but influence was used to get him sent away from
the place; and he was packed off to a station in the mountains at Château Queyras.

Though this banishment from Guillestre was intended as a punishment, it only served to bring
out the sterling qualities of the sergeant, and to ensure his eventual reward. It so happened
that the station at Château Queyras commanded the approaches into an extensive range of mountain
pasturage. Although not required specially to attend to their safety, our sergeant had nevertheless
carefully noted the flocks and herds as they went up the valleys in the spring. When winter
approached, they were all brought down again from the mountains for safety.

The winter of that year set in early and severely. The sergeant, making his observations on
the flocks as they passed down the valley, noted that one large flock of about three thousand
sheep had not yet made its appearance. The mountains were now covered with snow, and he apprehended
that the sheep and their shepherds had been storm-stayed. Summoning to his assistance a body
of men, he set out at their head in search of the lost flock. After a long, laborious, and
dangerous journey--for the snow by this time lay deep in the hollows of the hills--he succeeded
in discovering the shepherds and the sheep, almost reduced to their last gasp--the sheep, for
want of food, actually gnawing each other's tails. With great difficulty the whole were extricated
from their perilous position, and brought down the mountains in safety.

No representation was made to head-quarters by the authorities of Guillestre of the conduct
of the Protestant sergeant in the matter; but when the shepherds got down to Gap, they were
so full of the sergeant's praises, and of his bravery in rescuing them and their flock from
certain death, that a paragraph descriptive of the affair was inserted in the local papers,
and was eventually copied into the Parisian journals. Then it was that an inquiry was made
into his conduct, and the result was so satisfactory that the sergeant was at once decorated
not only with the médaille militaire, but with the médaille de sauvetage--a still higher honour;
and, shortly after, he was allowed to retire from the service on full pay. He then returned
to his home and family at Guillestre, where he now officiates as Regent of the Vaudois church,
reading the prayers and conducting the service in the absence of the stated minister.

       *       *       *       *       *

We spent a Sunday in the comfortable parsonage at Guillestre. There was divine service in the
temple at half-past ten A.M., conducted by the regular pastor, M. Schell, and instruction and
catechizing of the children in the afternoon. The pastor's regular work consists of two services
at Guillestre and Vars on alternate Sundays, with Sunday-school and singing lesson; and on
week days he gives religious instruction in the Guillestre school. The missionary's wife is
a true "helpmeet," and having been trained as a deaconess at Strasbourg, she regularly visits
the poor, occasionally assisting them with medical advice.

Another important part of the work at Guillestre is the girls' school, for which suitable premises
have been taken; and it is conducted by an excellent female teacher. Here not only the usual
branches of education are taught, but domestic industry of different kinds. Through the instrumentality
of Mr. Milsom, glove-sewing has been taught to the girls, and it is hoped that by this and
similar efforts this branch of home manufacture may become introduced in the High Alps, and
furnish profitable employment to many poor persons during their long and dreary winter.

By the aid of a special fund, a few girl boarders, belonging to scattered Protestant families
who have no other means for the education of their children, are also received at the school.
The girls seem to be extremely well taken care of, and the house, which we went over, is a
very pattern of cleanliness and comfort.

       *       *       *       *       *

The route from Guillestre into Italy lies up the valley of the Guil, through one of the wildest
and deepest gorges, or rather chasms, to be found in Europe. Brockedon says it is "one of the
finest in the Alps." M. Bost compares it to the Moutier-Grand-Val, in the canton of Berne,
but says it is much wilder. He even calls it frightful, which it is not, except in rainy weather,
when the rocks occasionally fall from overhead. At such times people avoid travelling through
the gorge. M. Bost also likens it to the Via Mala, though here the road, at the narrowest and
most precipitous parts, runs in the bottom of the gorge, in a ledge cut in the rock, there
being room only for the river and the road. It is only of late years that the road has been
completed, and it is often partly washed away in winter, or covered with rock and stones brought
down by the torrent. When Neff travelled the gorge, it was passable only on foot, or on mule-back.
Yet light-footed armies have passed into Italy by this route. Lesdiguières clambered over the
mountains and along the Guil to reach Château Queyras, which he assaulted and took. Louis XIII.
once accompanied a French army about a league up the gorge, but he turned back, afraid to go
farther; and the hamlet at which his progress was arrested is still called Maison du Roi. About
three leagues higher up, after crossing the Guil from bank to bank several times, in order
to make use of such ledges of the rock as are suitable for the road, the gorge opens into the
Combe du Queyras, and very shortly the picturesque-looking Castle of Queyras comes in sight,
occupying the summit of a lofty conical rock in the middle of the valley.

As we approached Château Queyras the ruins of a building were pointed out by Mr. Milsom in
the bottom of the valley, close by the river-side. "That," said he, "was once the Protestant
temple of the place. It was burnt to the ground at the Revocation. You see that old elm-tree
growing near it. That tree was at the same time burnt to a black stump. It became a saying
in the valley that Protestantism was as dead as that stump, and that it would only reappear
when that dead stump came to life! And, strange to say, since Felix Neff has been here, the
stump has come to life--you see how green it is--and again Protestantism is like the elm-tree,
sending out its vigorous offshoots, in the valley."

Château Queyras stands in the centre of the valley of the Guil, which is joined near this point
by two other valleys, the Combe of Arvieux joining it on the right bank, and that of San Veran
on the left. The heads of the streams which traverse these valleys have their origin in the
snowy range of the Cottian Alps, which form the boundary between France and Italy. As in the
case of the descendants of the ancient Vaudois at Dormilhouse, they are here also found at
the farthest limit of vegetation, penetrating almost to the edge of the glacier, where they
were least likely to be molested. The inhabitants of Arvieux were formerly almost entirely
Protestant, and had a temple there, which was pulled down at the Revocation. From that time
down to the Revolution they worshipped only in secret, occasionally ministered to by Vaudois
pastors, who made precarious visits to them from the Italian valleys at the risk of their lives.

Above Arvieux is the hamlet of La Chalp, containing a considerable number of Protestants, and
where Neff had his home--a small, low cottage undistinguishable from the others save by its
whitewashed front. Its situation is cheerful, facing the south, and commanding a pleasant mountain
prospect, contrasting strongly with the barren outlook and dismal hovels of Dormilhouse. But
Neff never could regard the place as his home. "The inhabitants," he observed in his journal,
"have more traffic, and the mildness of the climate appears somehow or other not favourable
to the growth of piety. They are zealous Protestants, and show me a thousand attentions, but
they are at present absolutely impenetrable." The members of the congregation at Arvieux, indeed,
complained of his spending so little of his time among them; but the comfort of his cottage
at La Chalp, and the comparative mildness of the climate of Arvieux, were insufficient to attract
him from the barren crags but warm hearts of Dormilhouse.

The village of San Veran, which lies up among the mountains some twelve miles to the east of
Arvieux, on the opposite side of the Val Queyras, was another of the refuges of the ancient
Vaudois. It is at the foot of the snowy ridge which divides France from Italy. Dr. Gilly says,
"There is nothing fit for mortal to take refuge in between San Veran and the eternal snows
which mantle the pinnacles of Monte Viso." The village is 6,692 feet above the level of the
sea, and there is a provincial saying that San Veran is the highest spot in Europe where bread
is eaten. Felix Neff said, "It is the highest, and consequently the most pious, in the valley
of Queyras." Dr. Gilly was the second Englishman who had ever found his way to the place, and
he was accompanied on the occasion by Mrs. Gilly. "The sight of a female," he says, "dressed
entirely in linen, was a phenomenon so new to those simple peasants, whose garments are never
anything but woollen, that Pizarro and his mail-clad companions were not greater objects of
curiosity to the Peruvians than we were to these mountaineers."

Not far distant from San Veran are the mountain hamlets of Pierre Grosse and Fongillarde, also
ancient retreats of the persecuted Vaudois, and now for the most part inhabited by Protestants.
The remoteness and comparative inaccessibility of these mountain hamlets may be inferred from
the fact that in 1786, when the Protestants of France were for the first time since the Revocation
of the Edict of Nantes permitted to worship in public without molestation, four years elapsed
before the intelligence reached San Veran.

We have now reached almost the extreme limits of France; Italy lying on the other side of the
snowy peaks which shut in the upper valleys of the Alps. In Neff's time the parish of which
he had charge extended from San Veran, on the frontier, to Champsaur, in the valley of the
Drac, a distance of nearly eighty miles. His charge consisted of the scattered population of
many mountain hamlets, to visit which in succession involved his travelling a total distance
of not less than one hundred and eighty miles. It was, of course, impossible that any single
man, no matter how inspired by zeal and devotion, could do justice to a charge so extensive.
The difficulties of passing through a country so wild and rugged were also very great, especially
in winter. Neff records that on one occasion he took six hours to make the journey, in the
midst of a snow-storm which completely hid the footpath, from his cottage at La Chalp to San
Veran, a distance of only twelve miles.

The pastors who succeeded Neff had the same difficulties to encounter, and there were few to
be found who could brave them. The want of proper domestic accommodation for the pastors was
also felt to be a great hindrance. Accordingly, one of the first things to which the Rev. Mr.
Freemantle directed his attention, when he entered upon his noble work of supplying the spiritual
destitution of the French Vaudois, was to take steps not only to supply the poor people with
more commodious temples, but also to provide dwelling-houses for the pastors. And in the course
of a few years, helped by friends in England, he has been enabled really to accomplish a very
great deal. The extensive parish of Neff is now divided into five sub-parishes--that of Fressinières,
which includes Palons, Violins, and Dormilhouse, provided with three temples, a parsonage,
and schools; Arvieux, with the hamlets of Brunissard (where worship was formerly conducted
in a stable) and La Chalp, provided with two temples, a parsonage, and schools; San Veran,
with Fongillarde and Pierre Grosse, provided with three temples, a parsonage, and a school;
St. Laurent du Cros and Champsaur, in the valley of the Drac, provided with a temple, school,
&c., principally through the liberality of Lord Monson; and Guillestre and Vars, provided with
two temples, a parsonage, and a girls' school. A temple, with a residence for a pastor, has
also of late years been provided at Briançon, with a meeting-place also at the village of Villeneuve.

Such are the agencies now at work in the district of the High Alps, helped on by a few zealous
workers in England and abroad. While the object of the pastors, in the words of Mr. Freemantle,
is "not to regard themselves as missionaries to proselytize Roman Catholics, but as ministers
residing among their own people, whose faith, and love, and holiness they have to promote,"
they also endeavour to institute measures with the object of improving the social and domestic
condition of the Vaudois. Thus, in one district--that of St. Laurent du Cros--a banque de prévoyance,
or savings-bank, has been established; and though it was at first regarded with suspicion,
it has gradually made its way and proved of great value, being made use of by the indigent
Roman Catholics as well as Protestant families of the district. Such efforts and such agencies
as these cannot fail to be followed by blessings, and to be greatly instrumental for good.

Our last night in France was spent in the miserable little town of Abries, situated immediately
at the foot of the Alpine ridge which separates France from Italy. On reaching the principal
hotel, or rather auberge, we found every bed taken; but a peep into the dark and dirty kitchen,
which forms the entrance-hall of the place, made us almost glad that there was no room for
us in that inn. We turned out into the wet streets to find a better; but though we succeeded
in finding beds in a poor house in a back lane, little can be said in their praise. We were,
however, supplied with a tolerable dinner, and contrived to pass the night in rest, and to
start refreshed early on the following morning on our way to the Vaudois valleys of Piedmont.

CHAPTER VI.

THE VALLEY OF THE PELICE--LA TOUR--ANGROGNA--THE PRA DU TOUR.

The village of Abries is situated close to the Alpine ridge, the summit of which marks the
boundary between France and Italy. On the other side lie the valleys of Piedmont, in which
the French Vaudois were accustomed to take refuge when persecution ravaged their own valleys,
passing by the mountain-road we were now about to travel, as far as La Tour, in the valley
of the Pelice.

Although there are occasional villages along the route, there is no good resting-place for
travellers short of La Tour, some twenty-six miles distant from Abries; and as it was necessary
that we should walk the distance, the greater part of the road being merely a track, scarcely
practicable for mules, we were up betimes in the morning, and on our way. The sun had scarcely
risen above the horizon. The mist was still hanging along the mountain-sides, and the stillness
of the scene was only broken by the murmur of the Guil running in its rocky bed below. Passing
through the hamlet of Monta, where the French douane has its last frontier station, we began
the ascent; and soon, as the sun rose and the mists cleared away, we saw the profile of the
mountain up which we were climbing cast boldly upon the range behind us on the further side
of the valley. A little beyond the ravine of the Combe de la Croix, along the summit of which
the road winds, we reached the last house within the French frontier--a hospice, not very inviting
in appearance, for the accommodation of travellers. A little further is the Col, and passing
a stone block carved with the fleur-de-lis and cross of Savoy, we crossed the frontier of France
and entered Italy.

On turning a shoulder of the mountain, we looked down upon the head of the valley of the Pelice,
a grand and savage scene. The majestic, snow-capped Monte Viso towers up on the right, at the
head of the valley, amidst an assemblage of other great mountain masses. From its foot seems
to steal the river Pelice, now a quiet rivulet, though in winter a raging torrent. Right in
front, lower down the valley, is the rocky defile of Mirabouc, a singularly savage gorge, seemingly
rent asunder by some tremendous convulsion of nature; beyond and over which extends the valley
of the Pelice, expanding into that of the Po, and in the remote distance the plains of Piedmont;
while immediately beneath our feet, as it were, but far below, lies a considerable breadth
of green pasture, the Bergerie of Pra, enclosed on all sides by the mountains over which we look.

The descent from the Col down into the Pra is very difficult, in some places almost precipitous--far
more abrupt than on the French side, where the incline up to the summit is comparatively easy.

The zigzag descends from one rock to another, along the face of a shelving slope, by a succession
of notches (from which the footpath is not inappropriately termed La Coche) affording a very
insecure footing for the few mules which occasionally cross the pass. Dr. Gilly crossed here
from La Tour with Mrs. Gilly in 1829, when about to visit the French valleys; but he found
the path so difficult and dangerous, that the lady had to walk nearly the whole way.

As we descended the mountain almost by a succession of leaps, we overtook M. Gariod, deputy
judge of Gap, engaged in botanizing among the rocks; and he informed us that among the rarer
specimens he had collected in the course of his journey on the summit were the Polygonum alpinum
and Silene vallesia, above Monta; the Leucanthemum alpinum, near the Hospice; the Linaria alpina
and Cirsium spinosissimus on the Col; while the Lloydia serotina, Arabis alpina, Phyteuma hemisphericum,
and Rhododendrum ferrugineum, were found all over the face of the rocky descent to the Pra.

At the foot of the Coche we arrived at the first house in Italy, the little auberge of the
Pra, a great resort of sportsmen, who come to hunt the chamois in the adjoining mountains during
the season. Here is also the usual customs station, with a few officers of the Italian douane,
to watch the passage of merchandise across the frontier.

The road from hence to la Tour is along the river Pelice, which is kept in sight nearly the
whole way. A little below the Pra, where it enters the defile of Mirabouc, the path merely
follows what is the bed of the torrent in winter. The descent is down ledges and notches, from
rock to rock, with rugged precipices overhanging the ravine for nearly a mile. At its narrowest
part stand the ruins of the ancient fort of Mirabouc, built against the steep escarpments of
the mountain, which, in ancient times, completely commanded and closed the defile against the
passage of an enemy from that quarter. And difficult though the Col de la Croix is for the
passage of an army, it has on more than one occasion been passed by French detachments in their
invasion of Italy.

It is not until we reach Bobi, or Bobbio, several miles lower down the Pelice, that we at last
feel we are in Italy. Here the valley opens out, the scenery is soft and inviting, the fields
are well tilled, the vegetation is rich, and the clusters of chestnut-trees in magnificent
foliage. We now begin to see the striking difference between the French and the Italian valleys.
The former are precipitous and sterile, constant falls of slaty rock blocking up the defiles;
while here the mountains lay aside their savage aspects, and are softened down into picturesquely
wooded hills, green pastures, and fertile fields stretching along the river-sides, yielding
a rich territory for the plough.

Yet, beautiful and peaceful though this valley of the Pelice now appears, there is scarcely
a spot in it but has been consecrated by the blood of martyrs to the cause of liberty and religion.
In the rugged defile of the Mirabouc, which we have just passed, is the site of a battle fought
between the Piedmontese troops and the Vaudois peasants, at a place called the Pian-del-Mort,
where the persecuted, turning upon the persecutors, drove them back, and made good their retreat
to their mountain fastnesses. Bobi itself was the scene of many deadly struggles. A little
above the village, on a rocky plateau, are the remains of an ancient fort, near the hamlet
of Sibaud, where the Vaudois performed one of their bravest exploits under Henri Arnaud, after
their "Glorious Return" from exile,--near which, on a stone still pointed out, they swore fidelity
to each other, and that they would die to the last man rather than abandon their country and
their religion.

Near Bobi is still to be seen a remarkable illustration of English interest long ago felt in
the people of these valleys. This is the long embankment or breakwater, built by a grant from
Oliver Cromwell, for the purpose of protecting the village against the inundations of the Pelice,
by one of which it was nearly destroyed in the time of the Protectorate. It seems strange indeed
that England should then have stretched out its hand so far, to help a people so poor and uninfluential
as the Vaudois; but their sufferings had excited the sympathies of all Europe, and of Protestant
England in particular, which not only sent them sympathy, but substantial succour. Cromwell
also, through the influence of Cardinal Mazarin, compelled the Duke of Savoy to suspend for
a time the persecution of his subjects,--though shortly after the Protector's death it waxed
hotter than ever.

All down the valley of the Pelice, we come upon village after village--La Piante, Villar, and
Cabriol--which have been the scenes sometimes of heroic combats, and sometimes of treacherous
massacres. Yet all the cruelty of Grand Dukes and Popes during centuries did not avail in turning
the people of the valley from their faith. For they continue to worship after the same primitive
forms as they did a thousand years ago; and in the principal villages and hamlets, though Romanism
has long been supported by the power of the State and the patronage of the Church, the Protestant
Vaudois continue to constitute the majority of the population.

Rising up on the left of the road, between Villar and La Tour, are seen the bold and almost
perpendicular rocks of Castelluzzo, terminating in the tower-like summit which has given to
them their name. On the face of these rocks is one of the caverns in which the Vaudois were
accustomed to hide their women and children when they themselves were forced to take the field.
When Dr. Gilly first endeavoured to discover this famous cavern in 1829, he could not find
any one who could guide him to it. Tradition said it was half way down the perpendicular face
of the rock, and it was known to be very difficult to reach; but the doctor could not find
any traces of it. Determined, however, not to be baffled, he made a second attempt a month
later, and succeeded. He had to descend some fifty feet from the top of the cliff by a rope
ladder, until a platform of rock was reached, from which the cavern was entered. It was found
to consist of an irregular, rugged, sloping gallery in the face of the rock, of considerable
extent, roofed in by a projecting crag. It is quite open to the south, but on all other sides
it is secure; and it can only be entered from above. Such were the places to which the people
of the valleys were driven for shelter in the dark days so happily passed away.

One of the best indications of the improved régime that now prevails, shortly presented itself
in the handsome Vaudois church, situated at the western entrance of the town of La Tour, near
to which is the college for the education of Vaudois pastors, together with residences for
the clergy and professors. The founding of this establishment, as well as of the hospital for
the poor and infirm Vaudois, is in a great measure due to the energetic zeal of the Dr. Gilly
so often quoted above, whose writings on behalf of the faithful but destitute Protestants of
the Piedmontese valleys, about forty years since, awakened an interest in their behalf in England,
as well as in foreign countries, which has not yet subsided.

More enthusiastic, if possible, even than Dr. Gilly, was the late General Beckwith, who followed
up, with extraordinary energy, the work which the other had so well begun. The general was
an old Peninsular veteran, who had followed the late Duke of Wellington through most of his
campaigns, and lost a leg while serving under him at the battle of Waterloo. Hence the designation
of him by a Roman Catholic bishop in an article published by him in one of the Italian journals,
as "the adventurer with the wooden leg."

The general's attention was first attracted to the subject of the Vaudois in the following
curiously accidental way. Being a regular visitor at Apsley House, he called on the Duke one
morning, and, finding him engaged, he strolled into the library to spend an idle half-hour
among the books. The first he took up was Dr. Gilly's "Narrative," and what he read excited
so lively an interest in his mind that he went direct to his bookseller and ordered all the
publications relative to the Vaudois Church that could be procured.

The general's zeal being thus fired, he set out shortly after on a visit to the Piedmontese
valleys. He returned to them again and again, and at length settled at La Tour, where he devoted
the remainder of his life and a large portion of his fortune to the service of the Vaudois
Church and people. He organized a movement for the erection of schools, of which not fewer
than one hundred and twenty were provided mainly through his instrumentality in different parts
of the valleys, besides restoring and enlarging the college at La Tour, erecting the present
commodious dwellings for the professors, providing a superior school for the education of pastors'
daughters, and contributing towards the erection of churches wherever churches were needed.

The general was so zealous a missionary, so eager for the propagation of the Gospel, that some
of his friends asked him why he did not preach to the people. "No," said he; "men have their
special gifts, and mine is a brick-and-mortar gift." The general was satisfied to go on as
he had begun, helping to build schools, colleges, and churches for the Vaudois, wherever most
needed. His crowning work was the erection of the grand block of buildings on the Viale del
Ré at Turin, which not only includes a handsome and commodious Vaudois church, but an English
church, and a Vaudois hospital and schools, erected at a cost of about fourteen thousand pounds,
principally at the cost of the general himself, generously aided by Mr. Brewin and other English
contributors.

Nor were the people ungrateful to their benefactor. "Let the name of General Beckwith be blessed
by all who pass this way," says an inscription placed upon one of the many schools opened through
his efforts and generosity; and the whole country responds to the sentiment.

To return to La Tour. The style of the buildings at its western end--the church, college, residences,
and adjoining cottages, with their pretty gardens in front, designed, as they have been, by
English architects--give one the idea of the best part of an English town. But this disappears
as you enter the town itself, and proceed through the principal street, which is long, narrow,
and thoroughly Italian. The situation of the town is exceedingly fine, at the foot of the Vandalin
Mountain, near the confluence of the river Angrogna with the Pelice. The surrounding scenery
is charming; and from the high grounds, north and south of the town, extensive views may be
had in all directions--especially up the valley of the Pelice, and eastward over the plains
of Piedmont--the whole country being, as it were, embroidered with vineyards, corn-fields,
and meadows, here and there shaded with groves and thickets, spread over a surface varied by
hills, and knolls, and undulating slopes.

The size, importance, industry, and central situation of La Tour have always caused it to be
regarded as the capital of the valleys. One-half of the Vaudois population occupies the valley
of the Pelice and the lateral valley of Angrogna; the remainder, more widely scattered, occupying
the valleys of Pérouse and Pragela, and the lateral valley of St. Martin--the entire number
of the Protestant population in the several valleys amounting to about twenty thousand.

Although, as we have already said, there is scarcely a hamlet in the valleys but has been made
famous by the resistance of its inhabitants in past times to the combined tyranny of the Popes
of Rome and the Dukes of Savoy, perhaps the most interesting events of all have occurred in
the neighbourhood of La Tour, but more especially in the valley of Angrogna, at whose entrance
it stands.

The wonder is, that a scattered community of half-armed peasantry, without resources, without
magazines, without fortresses, should have been able for any length of time to resist large
bodies of regular troops--Italian, French, Spanish, and even Irish!--led by the most experienced
commanders of the day, and abundantly supplied with arms, cannon, ammunition, and stores of
all kinds. All that the people had on their side--and it compensated for much--was a good cause,
great bravery, and a perfect knowledge of the country in which, and for which, they fought.

Though the Vaudois had no walled towns, their district was a natural fortress, every foot of
which was known to them--every pass, every defile, every barricade, and every defensible position.
Resistance in the open country, they knew, would be fatal to them. Accordingly, whenever assailed
by their persecutors, they fled to their mountain strongholds, and there waited the attack
of the enemy.

One of the strongest of such places--the Thermopylæ of the Vaudois--was the valley of Angrogna,
up which the inhabitants of La Tour were accustomed to retreat on any sudden invasion by the
army of Savoy. The valley is one of exquisite beauty, presenting a combination of mingled picturesqueness
and sublimity, the like of which is rarely to be seen. It is hemmed in by mountains, in some
places rounded and majestic, in others jagged and abrupt. The sides of the valley are in many
places finely wooded, while in others well-tilled fields, pastures, and vineyards slope down
to the river-side. Orchards are succeeded by pine-woods, and these again by farms and gardens.
Sometimes a little cascade leaps from a rock on its way to the valley below; and little is
heard around, save the rippling of water, and the occasional lowing of cattle in the pastures,
mingled with the music of their bells.

Shortly after entering the valley, we passed the scene of several terrible struggles between
the Vaudois and their persecutors. One of the most famous spots is the plateau of Rochemalan,
where the heights of St. John abut upon the mountains of Angrogna. It was shortly after the
fulmination of a bull of extermination against the Vaudois by Pope Innocent VIII., in 1486,
that an army of eighteen thousand regular French and Piedmontese troops, accompanied by a horde
of brigands to whom the remission of sins was promised on condition of their helping to slay
the heretics, encircled the valleys and proceeded to assail the Vaudois in their fastnesses.
The Papal legate, Albert Catanée, Archdeacon of Cremona, had his head-quarters at Pignerol,
from whence he superintended the execution of the Pope's orders. First, he sent preaching monks
up the valleys to attempt the conversion of the Vaudois before attacking them with arms. But
the peasantry refused to be converted, and fled to their strongholds in the mountains.

Then Catanée took the field at the head of his army, advancing upon Angrogna. He extended his
lines so as to enclose the entire body of heretics, with the object of cutting them off to
a man. The Vaudois, however, defended themselves resolutely, though armed only with pikes,
swords, and bows and arrows, and everywhere beat back the assailants. The severest struggle
occurred at Rochemalan, which the crusaders attacked with great courage. But the Vaudois had
the advantage of the higher ground, and, encouraged by the cries and prayers of the women,
children, and old men whom they were defending, they impetuously rushed forward and drove the
Papal troops downhill in disorder, pursuing them into the very plain.

The next day the Papalini renewed the attack, ascending by the bottom of the valley, instead
of by the plateau on which they had been defeated. But one of those dense mists, so common
in the Alps, having settled down upon the valley, the troops became confused, broken up, and
entangled in difficult paths; and in this state, marching apprehensively, they were fallen
upon by the Vaudois and again completely defeated. Many of the soldiers slid over the rocks
and were drowned in the torrent,--the chasm into which the captain of the detachment (Saquet
de Planghère) fell, being still known as Toumpi de Saquet, or Saquet's Hole.

The resistance of the mountaineers at other points, in the valleys of Pragela and St. Martin,
having been almost equally successful, Catanée withdrew the Papal army in disgust, and marched
it back into France, to wreak his vengeance on the defenceless Vaudois of the Val Louise, in
the manner described in a preceding chapter.

Less than a century later, a like attempt was made to force the entrance to the valley of Angrogna,
by an army of Italians and Spaniards, under the command of the Count de la Trinité. A proclamation
had been published, and put up in the villages of Angrogna, to the effect that all would be
destroyed by fire and sword who did not forthwith return to the Church of Rome. And as the
peasantry did not return, on the 2nd November, 1560, the Count advanced at the head of his
army to extirpate the heretics. The Vaudois were provided with the rudest sort of weapons;
many of them had only slings and cross-bows. But they felt strong in the goodness of their
cause, and prepared to defend themselves to the death.

As the Count's army advanced, the Vaudois retired until they reached the high ground near Rochemalan,
where they took their stand. The enemy followed, and halted in the valley beneath, lighting
their bivouac fires, and intending to pass the night there. Before darkness fell, however,
an accidental circumstance led to an engagement. A Vaudois boy, who had got hold of a drum,
began beating it in a ravine close by. The soldiers, thinking a hostile troop had arrived,
sprang up in disorder and seized their arms. The Vaudois, on their part, seeing the movement,
and imagining that an attack was about to be made on them, rushed forward to repel it. The
soldiers, surprised and confused, for the most part threw away their arms, and fled down the
valley. Irritated by this disgraceful retreat of some twelve hundred soldiers before two hundred
peasants, the Count advanced a second time, and was again, repulsed by the little band of heroes,
who charged his troops with loud shouts of "Viva Jesu Christo!" driving the invaders in confusion
down the valley.

It may be mentioned that the object of the Savoy general, in making this attack, was to force
the valley, and capture the strong position of the Pra du Tour, the celebrated stronghold of
the Vaudois, from whence we shall afterwards find them, again driven back, baffled and defeated.

A hundred years passed, and still the Vaudois remained unconverted and unexterminated. The
Marquis of Pianesse now advanced upon Angrogna--always with the same object, "ad extirpandos
hereticos," in obedience to the order of the Propaganda. On this occasion not only Italian
and Spanish but Irish troops were engaged in a combined effort to exterminate the Vaudois.
The Irish were known as "the assassins" by the people of the valleys, because of their almost
exceptional ferocity; and the hatred they excited by their outrages on women and children was
so great, that on the assault and capture of St. Legont by the Vaudois peasantry, an Irish
regiment surprised in barracks was completely destroyed.

A combined attack was made on Angrogna on the 15th of June, 1655. On that day four separate
bodies of troops advanced up the heights from different directions, thereby enclosing the little
Vaudois army of three hundred men assembled there, and led by the heroic Javanel. This leader
first threw himself upon the head of the column which advanced from Rocheplate, and drove it
downhill. Then he drew off his little body towards Rochemalan, when he suddenly found himself
opposed by the two bodies which had come up from St. John and La Tour. Retiring before them,
he next found himself face to face with the fourth detachment, which had come up from Pramol.
With the quick instinct of military genius, Javanel threw himself upon it before the beaten
Rocheplate detachment were able to rally and assail him in flank; and he succeeded in cutting
the Pramol force in two and passing through it, rushing up to the summit of the hill, on which
he posted himself. And there he stood at bay.

This hill is precipitous on one side, but of comparatively easy ascent on the side up which
the little band of heroes had ascended. At the foot of the slope the four detachments, three
thousand against three hundred, drew up and attacked him; but firing from a distance, their
aim was not very deadly. For five hours Javanel resisted them as he best could, and then, seeing
signs of impatience and hesitation in the enemy's ranks, he called out to his men, "Forward,
my friends!" and they rushed downhill like an avalanche. The three thousand men recoiled, broke,
and fled before the three hundred; and Javanel returned victorious to his entrenchments before
Angrogna.

Yet, again, some eight years later, in 1663, was this neighbourhood the scene of another contest,
and again was Javanel the hero. On this occasion, the Marquis de Fleury led the troops of the
Duke of Savoy, whose object, as before, was to advance up the valley, and assail the Vaudois
stronghold of Pra du Tour; and again the peasantry resisted them successfully, and drove them
back into the plains. Javanel then went to rejoin a party of the men whom he had posted at
the "Gates of Angrogna" to defend the pass up the valley; and again he fell upon the enemy
engaged in attempting to force a passage there, and defeated them with heavy loss.

Such are among the exciting events which have occurred in this one locality in connection with
the Vaudois struggle for country and liberty.

Let us now proceed up the valley of Angrogna, towards the famous stronghold of the Pra du Tour,
the object of those repeated attacks of the enemy in the neighbourhood of Rochemalan. As we
advance, the mountains gradually close in upon the valley, leaving a comparatively small width
of pasture land by the river-side. At the hamlet of Serre the carriage road ends; and from
thence the valley grows narrower, the mountains which enclose it become more rugged and abrupt,
until there is room enough only for a footpath along a rocky ledge, and the torrent running
in its deep bed alongside. This continues for a considerable distance, the path in some places
being overhung by precipices, or encroached upon by rocks and boulders fallen from the heights,
until at length we emerge from the defile, and find ourselves in a comparatively open space,
the famous Pra du Tour; the defile we have passed, alongside the torrent and overhung by the
rocks, being known as the Barricade.

The Pra du Tour, or Meadow of the Tower, is a little amphitheatre surrounded by rugged and
almost inaccessible mountains, situated at the head of the valley of Angrogna. The steep slopes
bring down into this deep dell the headwaters of the torrent, which escape among the rocks
down the defile we have just ascended. The path up the defile forms the only approach to the
Pra from the valley, but it is so narrow, tortuous, and difficult, that the labours of only
a few men in blocking up the pathway with rocks and stones that lie ready at hand, might at
any time so barricade the approach as to render it impracticable. The extremely secluded position
of the place, its natural strength and inaccessibility, and its proximity to the principal
Vaudois towns and villages, caused it to be regarded from the earliest times as their principal
refuge. It was their fastness, their fortress, and often their home. It was more--it was their
school and college; for in the depths of the Pra du Tour the pastors, or barbas,[107] educated
young men for the ministry, and provided for the religious instruction of the Vaudois population.

         [Footnote 107: Barba--a title of respect; in the Vaudois
         dialect literally signifying an uncle.]

It was the importance of the Pra du Tour as a stronghold that rendered it so often the object
of attack through the valley of Angrogna. When the hostile troops of Savoy advanced upon La
Tour, the inhabitants of the neighbouring valleys at once fled to the Pra, into which they
drove their cattle, and carried what provisions they could; there constructing mills, ovens,
houses, and all that was requisite for subsistence, as in a fort. The men capable of bearing
arms stood on their guard to defend the passes of the Vachére and Roussine, at the extreme
heads of the valley, as well as the defile of the Barricade, while other bodies, stationed
lower down, below the Barricade, prepared to resist the troops seeking to force an entrance
up the valley; and hence the repeated battles in the neighbourhood of Rochemalan above described.

On the occasion of the defeat of the Count de la Trinité by the little Vaudois band near the
village of Angrogna, in November, 1560, the general drew off, and waited the arrival of reinforcements.
A large body of Spanish veterans having joined him, in the course of the following spring he
again proceeded up the valley, determined, if possible, to force the Barricade--the royal forces
now numbering some seven thousand men, all disciplined troops. The peasants, finding their
first position no longer tenable in the face of such numbers, abandoned Angrogna and the lower
villages, and retired, with the whole population, to the Pra du Tour. The Count followed them
with his main army, at the same time directing two other bodies of troops to advance upon the
place round by the mountains, one by the heights of the Vachére, and another by Les Fourests.
The defenders of the Pra would thus be assailed from three sides at once, their forces divided,
and victory rendered certain.

But the Count did not calculate upon the desperate bravery of the defenders. All three bodies
were beaten back in succession. For four days the Count made every effort to force the defile,
and failed. Two colonels, eight captains, and four hundred men fell in these desperate assaults,
without gaining an inch of ground. On the fifth day a combined attack was made with the reserve,
composed of Spanish companies, but this, too, failed; and the troops, when ordered to return
to the charge, refused to obey. The Count, who commanded, is said to have wept as he sat on
a rock and looked upon so many of his dead--the soldiers themselves exclaiming, "God fights
for these people, and we do them wrong!"

About a hundred years later, the Marquis de Pianesse, who, like the Count de la Trinité, had
been defeated at Rochemalan, made a similar attempt to surprise the Vaudois stronghold, with
a like result. The peasants were commanded on this occasion by John Leger, the pastor and historian.
Those who were unarmed hurled rocks and stones on the assailants from the heights; and the
troops being thus thrown into confusion, the Vaudois rushed from behind their ramparts, and
drove them in a state of total rout down the valley.

On entering the Pra du Tour, one of the most prominent objects that meets the eye is the Roman
Catholic chapel recently erected there, though the few inhabitants of the district are still
almost entirely Protestant. The Roman Catholic Church has, however, now done what the Roman
Catholic armies failed to do--established itself in the midst of the Vaudois stronghold, though
by no means in the hearts of the people.

Desirous of ascertaining, if possible, the site of the ancient college, we proceeded up the
Pra, and hailed a young woman whom we observed crossing the rustic bridge over the Pêle, one
of the mountain rivulets running into the torrent of Angrogna. Inquiring of her as to the site
of the college, she told us we had already passed it, and led us back to the place--up the
rocky side of the hill leading to the Vachére--past the cottage where she herself lived, and
pointed to the site: "There," she said, "is where the ancient college of the Vaudois stood."
The old building has, however, long since been removed, the present structure being merely
part of a small farmsteading. Higher up the steep hill-side, on successive ledges of rock,
are the ruins of various buildings, some of which may have been dwellings, and one, larger
than the rest, on a broader plateau, with an elder-tree growing in the centre, may possibly
have been the temple.

From the higher shelves on this mountain-side the view is extremely wild and grand. The acclivities
which surround the head of the Pra seem as if battlemented walls; the mountain opposite throws
its sombre shadow over the ravine in which the torrent runs; whilst, down the valley, rock
seems piled on rock, and mountain on mountain. All is perfectly still, and the silence is only
audible by the occasional tinkling of a sheep-bell, or the humming of a bee in search of flowers
on the mountain-side. So peaceful and quiet is the place, that it is difficult to believe it
could ever have been the scene of such deadly strife, and rung with the shouts of men thirsting
for each other's blood.

After lingering about the place until the sun was far on his way towards the horizon, we returned,
by the road we had come, the valley seeming more beautiful than ever under the glow of evening,
and arrived at our destination about dusk, to find the fireflies darting about the streets
of La Tour.

The next day saw us at Turin, and our summer excursion at an end. Mr. Milsom, who had so pleasantly
accompanied me through the valleys, had been summoned to attend the death-bed of a friend at
Antibes, and he set out on the journey forthwith. While still there, he received a telegram
intimating the death of his daughter at Allevard, near Grenoble, and he arrived only in time
to attend her funeral. Two months later, he lost another dear daughter; shortly after, his
mother-in-law died; and in the following December he himself died suddenly of heart disease,
and followed them to the grave.

One could not but conceive a hearty liking for Edward Milsom--he was such a thoroughly good
man. He was a native of London, but spent the greater part of his life at Lyons, in France,
where he long since settled and married. He there carried on a large business as a silk merchant,
but was always ready to give a portion of his time and money to help forward any good work.
He was an "ancien," or elder, of the Evangelical church at Lyons, originally founded by Adolphe
Monod, to whom he was also related by marriage.

Some years since he was very much interested by the perusal of Pastor Bost's account of his
visit to the scene of Felix Neff's labours in the High Alps. He felt touched by the simple,
faithful character of the people, and keenly sympathised with their destitute condition. "Here,"
said he, "is a field in which I may possibly be of some use." And he at once went to their
help. He visited the district of Fressinières, including the hamlet of Dormilhouse, as well
as the more distant villages of Arvieux and Sans Veran, up the vale of Queyras; and nearly
every year thereafter he devoted a certain portion of his time in visiting the poorer congregations
of the district, giving them such help and succour as lay in his power.

His repeated visits made him well known to the people of the valleys, who valued him as a friend,
if they did not even love him as a brother. His visits were also greatly esteemed by the pastors,
who stood much in need of encouragement and help. He cheered the wavering, strengthened the
feeble-hearted, and stimulated all to renewed life and action. Wherever he went, a light seemed
to shine in his path; and when he departed, he was followed by many blessings.

In one place he would arrange for the opening of a new place of worship; in another, for the
opening of a boys' school; in a third, for the industrial employment of girls; and wherever
there was any little heartburning or jealousy to be allayed, he would set himself to remove
it. His admirable tact, his unfailing temper, and excellent good sense, rendered him a wise
counsellor and a most successful conciliator.

The last time Mr. Milsom visited England, towards the end of 1869, he was occupied, as usual,
in collecting subscriptions for the poor Vaudois of the High Alps. Now that the good "merchant
missionary" has rested from his labours, they will indeed feel the loss of their friend. Who
is to assume his mantle?

CHAPTER VII

THE GLORIOUS RETURN:

AN EPISODE IN THE HISTORY OF THE ITALIAN VAUDOIS.

What is known as The Glorious Return, or re-entry of the exiled Vaudois in 1689 to resume possession
of the valleys from which they had been banished, will always stand out as one of the most
remarkable events in history.

If ever a people fairly established their right to live in their own country, and to worship
God after their own methods, the Vaudois had surely done so. They had held conscientiously
and consistently to their religion for nearly five hundred years, during which they laboured
under many disabilities and suffered much persecution. But the successive Dukes of Savoy were
no better satisfied with them as subjects than before. They could not brook that any part of
their people should be of a different form of religion from that professed by themselves; and
they continued, at the instance of successive popes, to let slip the dogs of war upon the valleys,
in the hopes of eventually compelling the Vaudois to "come in" and make their peace with the
Church.

The result of these invasions was almost uniform. At the first sudden inroad of the troops,
the people, taken by surprise, usually took to flight; on which their dwellings were burnt
and their fields laid waste. But when they had time to rally and collect their forces, the
almost invariable result was that the Piedmontese were driven out of the valleys again with
ignominy and loss. The Duke's invasion of 1655 was, however, attended with greater success
than usual. His armies occupied the greater part of the valleys, though the Vaudois still held
out, and made occasional successful sallies from their mountain fastnesses. At length, the
Protestants of the Swiss Confederation, taking compassion on their co-religionists in Piedmont,
sent ambassadors to the Duke of Savoy at Turin to intercede for their relief; and the result
was the amnesty granted to them in that year under the title of the "Patents of Grace." The
terms were very hard, but they were agreed to. The Vaudois were to be permitted to re-occupy
their valleys, conditional on their rebuilding all the Catholic churches which had been destroyed,
paying to the Duke an indemnity of fifty thousand francs, and ceding to him the richest lands
in the valley of Luzerna--the last relics of their fortunes being thus taken from them to remunerate
the barbarity of their persecutors.

It was also stipulated by this treaty, that the pastors of the Vaudois churches were to be
natives of the district only, and that they were to be at liberty to administer religious instruction
in their own manner in all the Vaudois parishes, excepting that of St. John, near La Tour,
where their worship was interdicted. The only persons excepted from the terms of the amnesty
were Javanel, the heroic old captain, and Jean Leger, the pastor-historian, the most prominent
leaders of the Vaudois in the recent war, both of whom were declared to be banished the ducal
dominions.

Under this treaty the Vaudois enjoyed peace for about thirty years, during which they restored
the cultivation of the valleys, rebuilt the villages, and were acknowledged to be among the
most loyal, peaceable, and industrious of the subjects of Savoy.

There were, however, certain parts of the valleys to which the amnesty granted by the Duke
did not apply. Thus, it did not apply to the valleys of Pérouse and Pragela, which did not
then form part of the dominions of Savoy, but were included within the French frontier. It
was out of this circumstance that a difficulty arose with the French monarch, which issued
in the revival of the persecution in the valleys, the banishment of the Vaudois into Switzerland,
and their eventual "Glorious Return" in the manner we are about briefly to narrate.

When Louis XIV. of France revoked the Edict of Nantes in 1685, and interdicted all Protestant
worship throughout his dominions, the law of course applied to the valleys of Pérouse and Pragela
as to the other parts of France. The Vaudois pastors were banished, and the people were forbidden
to profess any other religion than that prescribed by the King, under penalty of confiscation
of their goods, imprisonment, or banishment. The Vaudois who desired to avoid these penalties
while they still remained staunch to their faith, did what so many Frenchmen then did--they
fled across the frontier and took refuge in foreign lands. Some of the inhabitants of the French
valleys went northward into Switzerland, while others passed across the mountains towards the
south, and took refuge in the valley of the Pelice, where the Vaudois religion continued to
be tolerated under the terms of the amnesty above referred to, which had been granted by the
Duke of Savoy.

The French king, when he found his Huguenot subjects flying in all directions rather than remain
in France and be "converted" to Roman Catholicism, next tried to block up the various avenues
of escape, and to prevent the rulers of the adjoining countries from giving the fugitives asylum.
Great was his displeasure when he heard of the flight of the Vaudois of Pérouse and Pragela
into the adjoining valleys. He directed the French ambassador at Turin to call upon the Duke
of Savoy, and require him to prevent their settlement within his dominions. At the same time,
he called upon the Duke to take steps to compel the conversion of his people from the pretended
reformed faith, and offered the aid of his troops to enforce their submission, "at whatever cost."

The Duke was irritated at the manner in which he was approached. Louis XIV. was treating him
as a vassal of France rather than as an independent sovereign. But he felt himself to be weak,
and comparatively powerless to resent the insult. So he first temporised, then vacillated,
and being again pressed by the French king, he eventually yielded. The amnesty was declared
to be at an end, and the Vaudois were ordered forthwith to become members of the Church of
Rome. An edict was issued on the 31st of January, 1686, forbidding the exercise by the Vaudois
of their religion, abolishing their ancient privileges, and ordering the demolition of all
their places of worship. Pastors and schoolmasters who refused to be converted were ordered
to quit the country within fifteen days, on pain of death and confiscation of their goods.
All refugee Protestants from France were ordered to leave under the same penalty. All children
born of Protestant parents were to be compulsorily educated as Roman Catholics. This barbarous
measure was merely a repetition by the Duke of Savoy in Piedmont of what his master Louis XIV.
had already done in France.

The Vaudois expostulated with their sovereign, but in vain. They petitioned, but there was
no reply. They requested the interposition of the Swiss Government as before, but the Duke
took no notice of their memorial. The question of resistance was then discussed; but the people
were without leaders. Javanel was living in banishment at Geneva--old and worn out, and unable
to lead them. Besides, the Vaudois, before taking up arms, wished to exhaust every means of
conciliation. Ambassadors next came from Switzerland, who urged them to submit to the clemency
of the Duke, and suggested that they should petition him for permission to leave the country!
The Vaudois were stupefied by the proposal. They were thus asked, without a contest, to submit
to all the ignominy and punishment of defeat, and to terminate their very existence as a people!
The ambassadors represented that resistance to the combined armies of Savoy, France, and Spain,
without leaders, and with less than three thousand combatants, was little short of madness.

Nevertheless, a number of the Vaudois determined not to leave their valleys without an attempt
to hold them, as they had so often successfully done before. The united armies of France and
Savoy then advanced upon the valleys, and arrangements were made for a general attack upon
the Vaudois position on Easter Monday, 1686, at break of day,--the Duke of Savoy assailing
the valley of Luzerna, while Catinat, commander of the French troops, advanced on St. Martin.
Catinat made the first attack on the village of St. Germain, and was beaten back with heavy
loss after six hours' fighting. Henry Arnaud, the Huguenot pastor from Die in Dauphiny, of
which he was a native, particularly distinguished himself by his bravery in this affair, and
from that time began to be regarded as one of the most promising of the Vaudois leaders.

Catinat renewed the attack on the following day with the assistance of fresh troops; and he
eventually succeeded in overcoming the resistance of the handful of men who opposed him, and
sweeping the valley of St. Martin. Men, women, and children were indiscriminately put to the
sword. In some of the parishes no resistance was offered, the inhabitants submitting to the
Duke's proclamation; but whether they submitted or not, made no difference in their treatment,
which was barbarous in all cases.

Meanwhile, the Duke of Savoy's army advanced from the vale of Luzerna upon the celebrated heights
of Angrogna, and assailed the Vaudois assembled there at all points. The resistance lasted
for an entire day, and when night fell, both forces slept on the ground upon which they had
fought, kindling their bivouac fires on both sides. On the following day the attack was renewed,
and again the battle raged until night. Then Don Gabriel of Savoy, who was in command, resolved
to employ the means which Catinat had found so successful: he sent forward messengers to inform
the Vaudois that their brethren of the Val St. Martin had laid down their arms and been pardoned,
inviting them to follow their example. The result of further parley was, that on the express
promise of his Royal Highness that they should receive pardon, and that neither their persons
nor those of their wives or children should be touched, the credulous Vaudois, still hoping
for fair treatment, laid down their arms, and permitted the ducal troops to take possession
of their entrenchments!

The same treacherous strategy proved equally successful against the defenders of the Pra du
Tour. After beating back their assailants and firmly holding their ground for an entire day,
they were told of the surrender of their compatriots, promised a full pardon, and assured of
life and liberty, on condition of immediately ceasing further hostilities. They accordingly
consented to lay down their arms, and the impregnable fastness of the Pra du Tour, which had
never been taken by force, thus fell before falsehood and perfidy. "The defenders of this ancient
sanctuary of the Church," says Dr. Huston, "were loaded with irons; their children were carried
off and scattered through the Roman Catholic districts; their wives and daughters were violated,
massacred, or made captives. As for those that still remained, all whom the enemy could seize
became a prey devoted to carnage, spoliation, fire, excesses which cannot be told, and outrages
which it would be impossible to describe."[108]

         [Footnote 108: Huston's "Israel of the Alps," translated by
         Montgomery; Glasgow, 1857; vol. i. p. 446.]

"All the valleys are now exterminated," wrote a French officer to his friends; "the people
are all killed, hanged, or massacred." The Duke, Victor Amadeus, issued a decree, declaring
the Vaudois to be guilty of high treason, and confiscating all their property. Arnaud says
as many as eleven thousand persons were killed, or perished in prison, or died of want, in
consequence of this horrible Easter festival of blood. Six thousand were taken prisoners, and
the greater number of these died in gaol of hunger and disease. When the prisons were opened,
and the wretched survivors were ordered to quit the country, forbidden to return to it on pain
of death, only about two thousand six hundred contrived to struggle across the frontier into
Switzerland.

And thus at last the Vaudois Church seemed utterly uprooted and destroyed. What the Dukes of
Savoy had so often attempted in vain was now accomplished. A second St. Bartholomew had been
achieved, and Rome rang with Te Deums in praise of the final dispersion of the Vaudois. The
Pope sent to Victor Amadeus II. a special brief, congratulating him on the extirpation of heresy
in his dominions; and Piedmontese and Savoyards, good Catholics, were presented with the lands
from which the Vaudois had been driven. Those of them who remained in the country "unconverted"
were as so many scattered fugitives in the mountains--sheep wandering about without a shepherd.
Some of the Vaudois, for the sake of their families and homes, pretended conversion; but these
are admitted to have been comparatively few in number. In short, the "Israel of the Alps" seemed
to be no more, and its people utterly and for ever dispersed. Pierre Allix, the Huguenot refugee
pastor in England, in his "History of the Ancient Churches of Piedmont," dedicated to William
III., regarded the Vaudois Church as obliterated--"their present desolation seeming so universal,
that the world looks upon them no otherwise than as irrecoverably lost, and finally destroyed."

Three years passed. The expelled Vaudois reached Switzerland in greatly reduced numbers, many
women and children having perished on their mountain journey. The inhabitants of Geneva received
them with great hospitality, clothing and feeding them until they were able to proceed on their
way northward. Some went into Brandenburg, some into Holland, while others settled to various
branches of industry in different parts of Switzerland. Many of them, however, experienced
great difficulty in obtaining a settlement. Those who had entered the Palatinate were driven
thence by war, and those who had entered Wurtemburg were expelled by the Grand Duke, who feared
incurring the ire of Louis XIV. by giving them shelter and protection. Hence many little bands
of the Vaudois refugees long continued to wander along the valley of the Rhine, unable to find
rest for their weary feet. There were others trying to earn, a precarious living in Geneva
and Lausanne, and along the shores of Lake Leman. Some of these were men who had fought under
Javanel in his heroic combats with the Piedmontese; and they thought with bitter grief of the
manner in which they had fallen into the trap of Catinat and the Duke of Savoy, and abandoned
their country almost without a struggle.

Then it was that the thought occurred to them whether they might not yet strike a blow for
the recovery of their valleys! The idea seemed chimerical in the extreme. A few hundred destitute
men, however valiant, to think of recovering a country defended by the combined armies of France
and Savoy! Javanel, the old Vaudois hero, disabled by age and wounds, was still alive--an exile
at Geneva--and he was consulted on the subject. Javanel embraced the project with, enthusiasm;
and the invasion of the valleys was resolved upon! A more daring, and apparently more desperate
enterprise, was never planned.

Who was to be their leader? Javanel himself was disabled. Though his mind was clear, and his
patriotic ardour unquenched, his body was weak; and all that he could do was to encourage and
advise. But he found a noble substitute in Henry Arnaud, the Huguenot refugee, who had already
distinguished himself in his resistance to the troops of Savoy. And Arnaud was now ready to
offer up his life for the recovery of the valleys.

The enterprise was kept as secret as possible, yet not so close as to prevent the authorities
of Berne obtaining some inkling of their intentions. Three confidential messengers were first
dispatched to the valleys to ascertain the disposition of the population, and more particularly
to examine the best route by which an invasion might be made. On their return with the necessary
information, the plan was settled by Javanel, as it was to be carried out by Arnaud. In the
meantime, the magistrates of Geneva, having obtained information as to the intended movement,
desirous of averting the hostility of France and Savoy, required Javanel to leave their city,
and he at once retired to Ouchy, a little farther up the lake.

The greatest difficulty experienced by the Vaudois in carrying out their enterprise was the
want of means. They were poor, destitute refugees, without arms, ammunition, or money to buy
them. To obtain the requisite means, Arnaud made a journey into Holland, for the purpose of
communicating the intended project to William of Orange. William entered cordially into the
proposed plan, recommended Arnaud to several Huguenot officers, who afterwards took part in
the expedition, supplied him with assistance in money, and encouraged him to carry out the
design. Several private persons in Holland--amongst others the post-master-general at Leyden--also
largely contributed to the enterprise.

At length all was ready. The men who intended to take part in the expedition came together
from various quarters. Some came from Brandenburg, others from Bavaria and distant parts of
Switzerland; and among those who joined them was a body of French Huguenots, willing to share
in their dangers and their glory. One of their number, Captain Turrel, like Arnaud, a native
of Die in Dauphiny, was even elected as the general of the expedition. Their rendez-vous was
in the forest of Prangins, near Nyon, on the north bank of the Lake of Geneva; and there, on
the night of the 16th of August, 1689, they met in the hollow recesses of the wood. Fifteen
boats had been got together, and lay off the shore. After a fervent prayer by the pastor-general
Arnaud, imploring a blessing upon the enterprise, as many of the men as could embark got into
the boats. As the lake is there at its narrowest, they soon rowed across to the other side,
near the town of Yvoire, and disembarked on the shore of Savoy. Arnaud had posted sentinels
in all directions, and the little body waited the arrival of the remainder of their comrades
from the opposite shore. They had all crossed the lake by two o'clock in the morning; and about
eight hundred men, divided into nineteen companies,[109] each provided with its captain, were
now ready to march.

         [Footnote 109: Of the nineteen companies three were composed
         of the Vaudois of Angrogna; those of Bobi and St. John
         furnished two each; and those of La Tour, Villar, Prarustin,
         Prali, Macel, St. Germain, and Pramol, furnished one each.
         The remaining six companies were composed of French Huguenot
         refugees from Dauphiny and Languedoc under their respective
         officers. Besides these, there were different smaller parties
         who constituted a volunteer company. The entire force of
         about eight hundred men was marshalled in three
         divisions--vanguard, main body, and rearguard--and this
         arrangement was strictly observed in the order of march.]

At the very commencement, however, they met with a misfortune. One of the pastors, having gone
to seek a guide in the village near at hand, was seized as a prisoner by the local authorities,
and carried off. On this, the Vaudois, seeing that they were treated as enemies, sent a party
to summon Yvoire to open its gates, and it obeyed. The lord of the manor and the receiver of
taxes were taken as hostages, and made to accompany the troop until they reached the next commune,
when they were set at liberty, and replaced by other hostages.

When it became known that the little army of Vaudois had set out on their march, troops were
dispatched from all quarters to intercept them and cut them off; and it was believed that their
destruction was inevitable. "What possible chance is there," asked the Historic Mercury of
the day, "of this small body of men penetrating to their native country through the masses
of French and Piedmontese troops accumulating from all sides, without being crushed and exterminated?"
"It is impossible," wrote the Leyden Gazette, "notwithstanding whatever precautions they may
take, that the Vaudois can extricate themselves without certain death, and the Court of Savoy
may therefore regard itself safe so far as they are concerned."

No sooner had the boats left the shore at Nyon for the further side of the lake than the young
seigneur of Prangins, who had been watching their movements, rode off at full speed to inform
the French resident at Geneva of the departure of the Vaudois; and orders were at once dispatched
to Lyons for a strong body of cavalry to march immediately towards Savoy to cut them off. But
the Vaudois had well matured their plans, and took care to keep out of reach of the advancing
enemy. Their route at first lay up the valleys towards the mountains, whose crests they followed,
from glacier to glacier, in places almost inaccessible to regular troops, and thus they eluded
the combined forces of France and Savoy, which, vainly endeavoured to bar their passage.

The first day's march led them into the valley of the Arve, by the Col de Voirons, from which
they took their last view of the peaceful Lake of Geneva; thence they proceeded by the pyramidal
mountain called the Mole to the little town of Viu, where they rested for two hours, starting
again by moonlight, and passing through St. Joire, where the magistrates brought out a great
cask of wine, and placed it in the middle of the street for their refreshment. The little army,
however, did not halt there, but marched on to the bare hill of Carman, where, after solemn
prayer, they encamped about midnight, sleeping on the bare ground. Next day found them in front
of the small walled town of Cluse, in the rocky gorge of the Arve. The authorities shut the
gates, on which the Vaudois threatened to storm the place, when the gates were opened, and
they marched through the town, the inhabitants standing under arms along both sides of the
street. Here the Vaudois purchased a store of food and wine, which they duly paid for.

They then proceeded on to Sallanches, where resistance was threatened. They found a body of
men posted on the wooden bridge which there separated the village of St. Martin from Sallanches;
but rushing forward, the defenders of the bridge fled, and the little army passed over and
proceeded to range themselves in order of battle over against the town, which was defended
by six hundred troops. The Vaudois having threatened to burn the town, and kill the hostages
whom they had taken on the slightest show of resistance, the threat had its effect, and they
were permitted to pass without further opposition, encamping for the night at a little village
about a league further on. And thus closed the second day's march.

The third day they passed over the mountains of Lez Pras and Haute Luce, seven thousand feet
above the sea-level, a long and fatiguing march. At one place the guide lost his way, and rain
fell heavily, soaking the men to the skin. They spent a wretched night in some empty stables
at the hamlet of St. Nicholas de Verose; and started earlier than usual on the following morning,
addressing themselves to the formidable work of climbing the Col Bonhomme, which they passed
with the snow up to their knees. They were now upon the crest of the Alps, looking down upon
the valley of the Isère, into which they next descended. They traversed the valley without
resistance, passing through St. Germain and Scez, turning aside at the last-mentioned place
up the valley of Tignes, thereby avoiding the French troops lying in wait for them in the neighbourhood
of Moutiers, lower down the valley of the Isère. Later in the evening they reached Laval, at
the foot of Mont Iseran; and here Arnaud, for the first time during eight days, snatched a
few hours' sleep on a bed in the village.

The sixth day saw the little army climbing the steep slopes of Mont Iseran, where the shepherds
gave them milk and wished them God-speed; but they warned them that a body of troops lay in
their way at Mont Cenis. On they went--over the mountain, and along the crest of the chain,
until they saw Bonneval in the valley beneath them, and there they descended, passing on to
Bessant in the valley of the Arc, where they encamped for the night.

Next day they marched on Mont Cenis, which they ascended. As they were crossing the mountain
a strange incident occurred. The Vaudois saw before them a large convoy of mules loaded with
baggage. And shortly after there came up the carriage and equipage of some grand personage.
It proved to be Cardinal Ranuzzi, on his way to Rome to take part in the election of Pope Alexander
VIII. The Vaudois seized the mules carrying the baggage, which contained important documents
compromising Louis XIV. with Victor Amadeus; and it is said that in consequence of their loss,
the Cardinal, who himself aspired to the tiara, afterwards died of chagrin, crying in his last
moments, "My papers! oh, my papers!"

The passage of the Great and Little Cenis was effected with great difficulty. The snow lay
thick on the ground, though it was the month of August, and the travellers descended the mountain
of Tourliers by a precipice rather than a road. When night fell, they were still scattered
on the mountain, and lay down to snatch a brief sleep, overcome with hunger and fatigue. Next
morning they gathered together again, and descended into the sterile valley of the Gaillon,
and shortly after proceeded to ascend the mountain opposite.

They were now close upon the large towns. Susa lay a little to the east, and Exilles was directly
in their way. The garrison of the latter place came out to meet them, and from the crest of
the mountain rolled large stones and flung grenades down upon the invaders. Here the Vaudois
lost some men and prisoners, and finding the further ascent impracticable, they retreated into
the valley from which they had come, and again ascended the steep slope of Tourliers in order
to turn the heights on which the French troops were posted. At last, after great fatigue and
peril, unable to proceed further, they gained the crest of the mountain, and sounded their
clarions to summon the scattered body.

