Mr. Joseph Lowe, born at Kenmore in Galloway, 1750, the son of a gardener, at fourteen apprenticed
to a weaver, by persevering diligence in the pursuit of knowledge, was enabled in 1771 to enter
himself a student in Divinity in the University of Edinburgh. On his return from college he
became tutor in the family of a gentleman, Mr. McGhie of Airds, who had several beautiful daughters,
to one of whom he was attached, though it never was their fate to be united. Another of the
sisters, Mary, was engaged to a surgeon, Mr. Alexander Miller. This young gentleman was unfortunately
lost at sea, an event immortalised by Mary's Dream. The author was unhappy in his marriage
with a lady of Virginia, whither he had emigrated, and died in 1798. This poem was originally
composed in the Scottish dialect, and afterwards received the polished English form from the
hand of its author.

         "MARY'S DREAM.

 "The lovely moon had climb'd the hill,
    Where eagles big aboon the Dee,
  And, like the looks of a lovely dame,
    Brought joy to every body's ee:
  A' but sweet Mary deep in sleep,
    Her thoughts on Sandy far at sea;
  A voice drapt saftly on her ear--
   'Sweet Mary, weep nae mair for me!'

 "She lifted up her waukening een,
    To see from whence the sound might be,
  And there she saw young Sandy stand,
    Pale, bending on her his hollow ee.
 'O Mary dear, lament nae mair!
    I'm in death's thraws aneath the sea:
  Thy weeping makes me sad in bliss,
    Sae Mary, weep nae mair for me!

 "'The wind slept when we left the bay,
    But soon it waked and raised the main;
  And God he bore us down the deep--
    Wha strave wi' him, but strave in vain.
  He stretch'd his arm and took me up,
    Tho' laith I was to gang but thee:
  I look frae heaven aboon the storm,
    Sae Mary, weep nae mair for me!

 "'Take aff thae bride-sheets frae thy bed,
    Which thou hast faulded down for me,
  Unrobe thee of thy earthly stole--
    I'll meet in heaven aboon wi' thee.'
  Three times the gray cock flapp'd his wing,
    To mark the morning lift his ee;
  And thrice the passing spirit said,
   'Sweet Mary, weep nae mair for me!'"

J. W. THOMAS.

Dewsbury.

       *       *       *       *       *

{501}

PHOTOGRAPHIC CORRESPONDENCE.

Clouds in Photographs (Vol. viii., p. 451.).--Your correspondent on this subject may easily
produce clouds on paper negatives by drawing in the lights on the back with common writing
ink. There is usually some tint printed with all negatives, therefore the black used will stop
it out.

It is at the same time unfair and untrue to the art, because clouds cannot be represented in
the regular mode of practice. If they appear, as they do sometimes by accident, it is well
to leave them; but in no art is any trick so easily detected as in photography, and it cannot
add to any operator's credit in expertness to practise them.

W. T.

Albumenized Paper.--In a late Number of "N. & Q." you published an account of albumenizing
paper for positives by MR. SHADBOLT. Having considerable experience in the manipulation of
photographical art, I have bestowed great pains in testing the process he recommends; and,
I regret to say, the results are by no means satisfactory. I well know the delicacy which is
required in applying the albumen evenly to the surface of the paper, and am therefore not surprised
to find that each of his "longitudinal strokes" remains clearly indicated, thereby entirely
destroying the effect of the picture.

