Meantime he procured lights with inexpressible dispatch, and they then beheld that Sir Henry,
on hearing the fatal words, had sunk back on one of the large chairs, without either motion,
colour, or sign of life.

"Oh, brother, how could you come in this manner?" said Alice.

"Ask no questions--Good God! for what am I reserved!" He gazed on his father as he spoke, who,
with clay-cold features rigidly fixed, and his arms extended in the most absolute helplessness,
looked rather the image of death upon a monument, than a being in whom existence was only suspended.
"Was my life spared," said Albert, raising his hands with a wild gesture to heaven, "only to
witness such a sight as this!"

"We suffer what Heaven permits, young man; we endure our lives while Heaven continues them.
Let me approach." The same clergyman who had read the prayers at Joceline's hut now came forward.
"Get water," he said, "instantly." And the helpful hand and light foot of Alice, with the ready-witted
tenderness which never stagnates in vain lamentations while there is any room for hope, provided
with incredible celerity all that the clergyman called for.

"It is but a swoon," he said, on feeling Sir Henry's palm; "a swoon produced from the instant
and unexpected shock. Rouse thee up, Albert; I promise thee it will be nothing save a syncope--A
cup, my dearest Alice, and a ribbon or a bandage. I must take some blood--some aromatics, too,
if they can be had, my good Alice."

But while Alice procured the cup and bandage, stripped her father's sleeve, and seemed by intuition
even to anticipate every direction of the reverend doctor, her brother, hearing no word, and
seeing no sign of comfort, stood with both hands clasped and elevated into the air, a monument
of speechless despair. Every feature in his face seemed to express the thought, "Here lies
my father's corpse, and it is I whose rashness has slain him!"

But when a few drops of blood began to follow the lancet--at first falling singly, and then
trickling in a freer stream--when, in consequence of the application of cold water to the temples,
and aromatics to the nostrils, the old man sighed feebly, and made an effort to move his limbs,
Albert Lee changed his posture, at once to throw himself at the feet of the clergyman, and
kiss, if he would have permitted him, his shoes and the hem of his raiment.

"Rise, foolish youth," said the good man, with a reproving tone; "must it be always thus with
you? Kneel to Heaven, not to the feeblest of its agents. You have been saved once again from
great danger; would you deserve Heaven's bounty, remember you have been preserved for other
purposes than you now think on. Begone, you and Joceline--you have a duty to discharge; and
be assured it will go better with your father's recovery that he see you not for a few minutes.
Down--down to the wilderness, and bring in your attendant."

"Thanks, thanks, a thousand thanks," answered Albert Lee; and, springing through the lattice,
he disappeared as unexpectedly as he had entered. At the same time Joceline followed him, and
by the same road.

Alice, whose fears for her father were now something abated, upon this new movement among the
persons of the scene, could not resist appealing to her venerable assistant. "Good doctor,
answer me but one question. Was my brother Albert here just now, or have I dreamed all that
has happened for these ten minutes past? Methinks, but for your presence, I could suppose the
whole had passed in my sleep; that horrible thrust--that death-like, corpse-like old man--that
soldier in mute despair; I must indeed have dreamed."

"If you have dreamed, my sweet Alice," said the doctor, "I wish every sick-nurse had your property,
since you have been attending to our patient better during your sleep than most of these old
dormice can do when they are most awake. But your dream came through the gate of horn, my pretty
darling, which you must remind me to explain to you at leisure. Albert has really been here,
and will be here again."

"Albert!" repeated Sir Henry, "who names my son?"

"It is I, my kind patron," said the doctor; "permit me to bind up your arm."

"My wound?--with all my heart, doctor," said Sir Henry, raising himself, and gathering his
recollection by degrees. "I knew of old thou wert body-curer as well as soul-curer, and served
my regiment for surgeon as well as chaplain.--But where is the rascal I killed?--I never made
a fairer stramacon in my life. The shell of my rapier struck against his ribs. So, dead he
must be, or my right hand has forgot its cunning."

"Nobody was slain," said the doctor; "we must thank God for that, since there were none but
friends to slay. Here is a good cloak and doublet, though, wounded in a fashion which will
require some skill in tailor-craft to cure. But I was your last antagonist, and took a little
blood from you, merely to prepare you for the pleasure and surprise of seeing your son, who,
though hunted pretty close, as you may believe, hath made his way from Worcester hither, where,
with Joceline's assistance, we will care well enough for his safety. It was even for this reason
that I pressed you to accept of your nephew's proposal to return to the old Lodge, where a
hundred men might be concealed, though a thousand were making search to discover them. Never
such a place for hide-and-seek, as I shall make good when I can find means to publish my Wonders
of Woodstock."

"But, my son--my dear son," said the knight, "shall I not then instantly see him! and wherefore
did you not forewarn me of this joyful event?"

"Because I was uncertain of his motions," said the doctor, "and rather thought he was bound
for the sea-side, and that it would be best to tell you of his fate when he was safe on board,
and in full sail for France. We had appointed to let you know all when I came hither to-night
to join you. But there is a red-coat in the house whom we care not to trust farther than we
could not help. We dared not, therefore, venture in by the hall; and so, prowling round the
building, Albert informed us, that an old prank of his, when a boy, consisted of entering by
this window. A lad who was with us would needs make the experiment, as there seemed to be no
light in the chamber, and the moonlight without made us liable to be detected. His foot slipped,
and our friend Bevis came upon us."

"In good truth, you acted simply," said Sir Henry, "to attack a garrison without a summons.
But all this is nothing to my son, Albert--where is he?--Let me see him."

"But, Sir Henry, wait," said the doctor, "till your restored strength"--

"A plague of my restored strength, man!" answered the knight, as his old spirit began to awaken
within him.--"Dost not remember, that I lay on Edgehill-field all night, bleeding like a bullock
from five several wounds, and wore my armour within six weeks? and you talk to me of the few
drops of blood that follow such a scratch as a cat's claw might have made!"

"Nay, if you feel so courageous," said the doctor, "I will fetch your son--he is not far distant."

So saying, he left the apartment, making a sign to Alice to remain, in case any symptoms of
her father's weakness should return.

It was fortunate, perhaps, that Sir Henry never seemed to recollect the precise nature of the
alarm, which had at once, and effectually as the shock of the thunderbolt, for the moment suspended
his faculties. Something he said more than once of being certain he had done mischief with
that stramacon, as he called it; but his mind did not recur to that danger, as having been
incurred by his son. Alice, glad to see that her father appeared to have forgotten a circumstance
so fearful, (as men often forget the blow, or other sudden cause, which has thrown them into
a swoon,) readily excused herself from throwing much light on the matter, by pleading the general
confusion. And in a few minutes, Albert cut off all farther enquiry, by entering the room,
followed by the doctor, and throwing himself alternately into the arms of his father and of
his sister.

       *       *        *       *        *

CHAPTER THE TWENTIETH.

  The boy is--hark ye, sirrah--what's your name?--
  Oh, Jacob--ay, I recollect--the same.
   CRABBE.

The affectionate relatives were united as those who, meeting under great adversity, feel still
the happiness of sharing it in common. They embraced again and again, and gave way to those
expansions of the heart, which at once express and relieve the pressure of mental agitation.
At length the tide of emotion began to subside; and Sir Henry, still holding his recovered
son by the hand, resumed the command of his feelings which he usually practised.

"So you have seen the last of our battles, Albert," he said, "and the King's colours have fallen
for ever before the rebels."

"It is but even so," said the young man--"the last cast of the die was thrown, and, alas! lost
at Worcester; and Cromwell's fortune carried it there, as it has wherever he has shown himself."

"Well--it can but be for a time--it can but be for a time," answered his father; "the devil
is potent, they say, in raising and gratifying favourites, but he can grant but short leases.--And
the King--the King, Albert--the King--in my ear--close, close!"

"Our last news were confident that he had escaped from Bristol."

"Thank God for that--thank God for that!" said the knight. "Where didst thou leave him?"

"Our men were almost all cut to pieces at the bridge," Albert replied; "but I followed his
Majesty with about five hundred other officers and gentlemen, who were resolved to die around
him, until as our numbers and appearance drew the whole pursuit after us, it pleased his Majesty
to dismiss us, with many thanks and words of comfort to us in general, and some kind expressions
to most of us in especial. He sent his royal greeting to you, sir, in particular, and said
more than becomes me to repeat."

"Nay, I will hear it every word, boy," said Sir Henry; "is not the certainty that thou hast
discharged thy duty, and that King Charles owns it, enough to console me for all we have lost
and suffered, and wouldst thou stint me of it from a false shamefacedness?--I will have it
out of thee, were it drawn from thee with cords!"

"It shall need no such compulsion," said the young man--"It was his Majesty's pleasure to bid
me tell Sir Henry Lee, in his name, that if his son could not go before his father in the race
of loyalty, he was at least following him closely, and would soon move side by side."

"Said he so?" answered the knight--"Old Victor Lee will look down with pride on thee, Albert!--But
I forget--you must be weary and hungry."

"Even so," said Albert; "but these are things which of late I have been in the habit of enduring
for safety's sake."

"Joceline!--what ho, Joceline!"

The under-keeper entered, and received orders to get supper prepared directly.

"My son and Dr. Rochecliffe are half starving," said the knight. "And there is a lad, too,
below," said Joceline; "a page, he says, of Colonel Albert's, whose belly rings cupboard too,
and that to no common tune; for I think he could eat a horse, as the Yorkshireman says, behind
the saddle. He had better eat at the sideboard; for he has devoured a whole loaf of bread and
butter, as fast as Phoebe could cut it, and it has not staid his stomach for a minute--and
truly I think you had better keep him under your own eyes, for the steward beneath might ask
him troublesome questions if he went below--And then he is impatient, as all your gentlemen
pages are, and is saucy among the women."

"Whom is it he talks of?--what page hast thou got, Albert, that bears himself so ill?" said
Sir Henry.

"The son of a dear friend, a noble lord of Scotland, who followed the great Montrose's banner--afterwards
joined the King in Scotland, and came with him as far as Worcester. He was wounded the day
before the battle, and conjured me to take this youth under my charge, which I did, something
unwillingly; but I could not refuse a father, perhaps on his death-bed, pleading for the safety
of an only son."

"Thou hadst deserved an halter, hadst thou hesitated" said Sir Henry; "the smallest tree can
always give some shelter,--and it pleases me to think the old stock of Lee is not so totally
prostrate, but it may yet be a refuge for the distressed. Fetch the youth in;--he is of noble
blood, and these are no times of ceremony--he shall sit with us at the same table, page though
he be; and if you have not schooled him handsomely in his manners, he may not be the worse
of some lessons from me."

"You will excuse his national drawling accent, sir?" said Albert, "though I know you like it not."

"I have small cause, Albert," answered the knight--"small cause.--Who stirred up these disunions?--the
Scots. Who strengthened the hands of Parliament, when their cause was well nigh ruined?--the
Scots again. Who delivered up the King, their countryman, who had flung himself upon. their
protection?--the Scots again. But this lad's father, you say, has fought on the part of the
noble Montrose; and such a man as the great Marquis may make amends for the degeneracy of a
whole nation."

"Nay, father," said Albert, "and I must add, that though this lad is uncouth and wayward, and,
as you will see, something wilful, yet the King has not a more zealous friend in England; and,
when occasion offered, he fought stoutly, too, in his defence--I marvel he comes not."

"He hath taken the bath" said Joceline, "and nothing less would serve than that he should have
it immediately--the supper, he said, might be got ready in the meantime; and he commands all
about him as if he were in his father's old castle, where he might have called long enough,
I warrant, without any one to hear him."

"Indeed?" said Sir Henry, "this must be a forward chick of the game, to crow so early.--What
is his name?"

"His name?--it escapes me every hour, it is so hard a one," said Albert--"Kerneguy is his name--Louis
Kerneguy; his father was Lord Killstewers, of Kincardineshire."

"Kerneguy, and Killstewers, and Kin--what d'ye call it?--Truly," said the knight, "these northern
men's names and titles smack of their origin--they sound like a north-west wind, rumbling and
roaring among heather and rocks."

"It is but the asperities of the Celtic and Saxon dialects," said Dr. Rochecliffe, "which,
according to Verstegan, still linger in those northern parts of the island.--But peace--here
comes supper, and Master Louis Kerneguy."

Supper entered accordingly, borne in by Joceline and Phoebe, and after it, leaning on a huge
knotty stick, and having his nose in the air like a questing hound--for his attention was apparently
more fixed on the good provisions that went before him, than any thing else--came Master Kerneguy,
and seated himself, without much ceremony, at the lower end of the table.

He was a tall, rawboned lad, with a shock head of hair, fiery red, like many of his country,
while the harshness of his national features was increased by the contrast of his complexion,
turned almost black by the exposure to all sorts of weather, which, in that skulking and rambling
mode of life, the fugitive royalists had been obliged to encounter. His address was by no means
prepossessing, being a mixture of awkwardness and forwardness, and showing in a remarkable
degree, how a want of easy address may be consistent with an admirable stock of assurance.
His face intimated having received some recent scratches, and the care of Dr. Rochecliffe had
decorated it with a number of patches, which even enhanced its natural plainness. Yet the eyes
were brilliant and expressive, and, amid his ugliness--for it amounted to that degree of irregularity--the
face was not deficient in some lines which expressed both sagacity and resolution.

The dress of Albert himself was far beneath his quality, as the son of Sir Henry Lee, and commander
of a regiment in the royal service; but that of his page was still more dilapidated. A disastrous
green jerkin, which had been changed to a hundred hues by sun and rain, so that the original
could scarce be discovered, huge clouterly shoes, leathern breeches--such as were worn by hedgers--coarse
grey worsted stockings, were the attire of the honourable youth, whose limping gait, while
it added to the ungainliness of his manner, showed, at the same time, the extent of his sufferings.
His appearance bordered so much upon what is vulgarly called the queer, that even with Alice
it would have excited some sense of ridicule, had not compassion been predominant.

The grace was said, and the young squire of Ditchley, as well as Dr. Rochecliffe, made an excellent
figure at a meal, the like of which, in quality and abundance, did not seem to have lately
fallen to their share. But their feats were child's-play to those of the Scottish youth. Far
from betraying any symptoms of the bread and butter with which he had attempted to close the
orifice of his stomach, his appetite appeared to have been sharpened by a nine-days' fast;
and the knight was disposed to think that the very genius of famine himself, come forth from
his native regions of the north, was in the act of honouring him with a visit, while, as if
afraid of losing a moment's exertion, Master Kerneguy never looked either to right or left,
or spoke a single word to any at table.

"I am glad to see that you have brought a good appetite for our country fare, young gentleman,"
said Sir Henry.

"Bread of gude, sir!" said the page, "an ye'll find flesh, I'se find appetite conforming, ony
day o' the year. But the truth is, sir, that the appeteezement has been coming on for three
days or four, and the meat in this southland of yours has been scarce, and hard to come by;
so, sir, I'm making up for lost time, as the piper of Sligo said, when he eat a hail side o'
mutton."

"You have been country-bred, young man," said the knight, who, like others of his time, held
the reins of discipline rather tight over the rising generation; "at least, to judge from the
youths of Scotland whom I have seen at his late Majesty's court in former days; they had less
appetite, and more--more"--As he sought the qualifying phrase, which might supply the place
of "good manners," his guest closed the sentence in his own way--"And more meat, it may be--the
better luck theirs."

Sir Henry stared and was silent. His son seemed to think it time to interpose--"My dear father,"
he said, "think how many years have run since the Thirty-eight, when the Scottish troubles
first began, and I am sure that you will not wonder that, while the Barons of Scotland have
been, for one cause or other, perpetually in the field, the education of their children at
home must have been much neglected, and that young men of my friend's age know better how to
use a broadsword, or to toss a pike, than the decent ceremonials of society."

"The reason is a sufficient one," said the knight, "and, since thou sayest thy follower Kernigo
can fight, we'll not let him lack victuals, a God's name.--See, he looks angrily still at yonder
cold loin of mutton--for God's sake put it all on his plate!"

"I can bide the bit and the buffet," said the honourable Master Kerneguy--"a hungry tike ne'er
minds a blaud with a rough bane."

"Now, God ha'e mercy, Albert, but if this be the son of a Scots peer," said Sir Henry to his
son, in a low tone of voice, "I would not be the English ploughman who would change manners
with him for his ancient blood, and his nobility, and his estate to boot, an he has one.--He
has eaten, as I am a Christian, near four pounds of solid butcher's meat, and with the grace
of a wolf tugging at the carcass of a dead horse.-- Oh, he is about to drink at last--Soh!--he
wipes his mouth, though,--and dips his fingers in the ewer--and dries them, I profess, with
the napkin!--there is some grace in him, after all."

"Here is wussing all your vera gude healths!" said the youth of quality, and took a draught
in proportion to the solids which he had sent before; he then flung his knife and fork awkwardly
on the trencher, which he pushed back towards the centre of the table, extended his feet beneath
it till they rested on their heels, folded his arms on his well-replenished stomach, and, lolling
back in his chair, looked much as if he was about to whistle himself asleep.

"Soh!" said the knight--"the honourable Master Kernigo hath laid down his arms.--Withdraw these
things, and give us our glasses--Fill them around, Joceline; and if the devil or the whole
Parliament were within hearing, let them hear Henry Lee of Ditchley drink a health to King
Charles, and confusion to his enemies!"

"Amen!" said a voice from behind the door.

All the company looked at each other in astonishment, at a response so little expected. It
was followed by a solemn and peculiar tap, such as a kind of freemasonry had introduced among
royalists, and by which they were accustomed to make themselves and their principles known
to each other, when they met by accident.

"There is no danger," said Albert, knowing the sign--"it is a friend;--yet I wish he had been
at a greater distance just now."

"And why, my son, should you wish the absence of one true man, who may, perhaps, wish to share
our abundance, on one of those rare occasions when we have superfluity at our disposal?--Go,
Joceline, see who knocks--and, if a safe man, admit him."

"And if otherwise," said Joceline, "methinks I shall be able to prevent his troubling the good
company."

"No violence, Joceline, on your life," said Albert Lee; and Alice echoed, "For God's sake,
no violence!"

"No unnecessary violence at least," said the good knight; "for if the time demands it, I will
have it seen that I am master of my own house." Joceline Joliffe nodded assent to all parties,
and went on tiptoe to exchange one or two other mysterious symbols and knocks, ere he opened
the door. It, may be here remarked, that this species of secret association, with its signals
of union, existed among the more dissolute and desperate class of cavaliers, men habituated
to the dissipated life which they had been accustomed to in an ill-disciplined army, where
everything like order and regularity was too apt to be accounted a badge of puritanism. These
were the "roaring boys" who met in hedge alehouses, and when they had by any chance obtained
a little money or a little credit, determined to create a counter-revolution by declaring their
sittings permanent, and proclaimed, in the words of one of their choicest ditties,--

  "We'll drink till we bring
  In triumph back the king."

The leaders and gentry, of a higher description and more regular morals, did not indeed partake
such excesses, but they still kept their eye upon a class of persons, who, from courage and
desperation, were capable of serving on an advantageous occasion the fallen cause of royalty;
and recorded the lodges and blind taverns at which they met, as wholesale merchants know the
houses of call of the mechanics whom they may have occasion to employ, and can tell where they
may find them when need requires it. It is scarce necessary to add, that among the lower class,
and sometimes even among the higher, there were men found capable of betraying the projects
and conspiracies of their associates, whether well or indifferently combined, to the governors
of the state. Cromwell, in particular, had gained some correspondents of this kind of the highest
rank, and of the most undoubted character, among the royalists, who, if they made scruple of
impeaching or betraying individuals who confided in them, had no hesitation in giving the government
such general information as served to enable him to disappoint the purposes of any plot or
conspiracy.

To return to our story. In much shorter time than we have spent in reminding the reader of
these historical particulars, Joliffe had made his mystic communication; and being duly answered
as by one of the initiated, he undid the door, and there entered our old friend Roger Wildrake,
round-head in dress, as his safety and dependence on Colonel Everard compelled him to be, but
that dress worn in a most cavalier-like manner, and forming a stronger contrast than usual
with the demeanour and language of the wearer, to which it was never very congenial.

His puritanic hat, the emblem of that of Ralpho in the prints to Hudibras, or, as he called
it, his felt umbrella, was set most knowingly on one side of the head, as if it had been a
Spanish hat and feather; his straight square-caped sad-coloured cloak was flung gaily upon
one shoulder, as if it had been of three-plied taffeta, lined with crimson silk; and he paraded
his huge calf-skin boots, as if they had been silken hose and Spanish leather shoes, with roses
on the instep. In short, the airs which he gave himself, of a most thorough-paced wild gallant
and cavalier, joined to a glistening of self-satisfaction in his eye, and an inimitable swagger
in his gait, which completely announced his thoughtless, conceited, and reckless character,
formed a most ridiculous contrast to his gravity of attire.

It could not, on the other hand, be denied, that in spite of the touch of ridicule which attached
to his character, and the loose morality which he had learned in the dissipation of town pleasures,
and afterwards in the disorderly life of a soldier, Wildrake had points about him both to make
him feared and respected. He was handsome, even in spite of his air of debauched effrontery;
a man of the most decided courage, though his vaunting rendered it sometimes doubtful; and
entertained a sincere sense of his political principles, such as they were, though he was often
so imprudent in asserting and boasting of them, as, joined with his dependence on Colonel Everard,
induced prudent men to doubt his sincerity.

Such as he was, however, he entered the parlour of Victor Lee, where his presence was any thing
but desirable to the parties present, with a jaunty step, and a consciousness of deserving
the best possible reception. This assurance was greatly aided by circumstances which rendered
it obvious, that if the jocund cavalier had limited himself to one draught of liquor that evening,
in terms of his vow of temperance, it must have been a very deep and long one.

"Save ye, gentlemen, save ye.--Save you, good Sir Henry Lee, though I have scarce the honour
to be known to you.--Save you, worthy doctor, and a speedy resurrection to the fallen Church
of England."

"You are welcome, sir," said Sir Henry Lee, whose feelings of hospitality, and of the fraternal
reception due to a royalist sufferer, induced him to tolerate this intrusion more than he might
have done otherwise. "If you have fought or suffered for the King, sir, it is an excuse for
joining us, and commanding our services in any thing in our power--although at present we are
a family-party.--But I think I saw you in waiting upon Master Markham Everard, who calls himself
Colonel Everard.--If your message is from him, you may wish to see me in private?"

"Not at all, Sir Henry, not at all.--It is true, as my ill hap will have it, that being on
the stormy side of the hedge--like all honest men--you understand me, Sir Henry--I am glad,
as it were, to gain something from my old friend and comrade's countenance--not by truckling
or disowning my principles, sir--I defy such practises;--but, in short, by doing him any kindness
in my power when he is pleased to call on me. So I came down here with a message from him to
the old roundheaded son of a ---- (I beg the young lady's pardon, from the crown of her head
down to the very toes of her slipper)--And so, sir, chancing as I was stumbling out in the
dark, I heard you give a toast, sir, which warmed my heart, sir, and ever will, sir, till death
chills it;--and so I made bold to let you know there was an honest man within hearing."

Such was the self-introduction of Master Wildrake, to which the knight replied, by asking him
to sit down, and take a glass of sack to his Majesty's glorious restoration. Wildrake, at this
hint, squeezed in without ceremony beside the young Scotsman, and not only pledged his landlord's
toast, but seconded its import, by volunteering a verse or two of his favourite loyal ditty,--"The
King shall enjoy his own again." The heartiness which he threw into his song opened still farther
the heart of the old knight, though Albert and Alice looked at each other with looks resentful
of the intrusion, and desirous to put an end to it. The honourable Master Kerneguy either possessed
that happy indifference of temper which does not deign to notice such circumstances, or he
was able to assume the appearance of it to perfection, as he sat sipping sack, and cracking
walnuts, without testifying the least sense that an addition had been made to the party. Wildrake,
who liked the liquor and the company, showed no unwillingness to repay his landlord, by being
at the expense of the conversation.

"You talk of fighting and suffering, Sir Henry Lee. Lord help us, we have all had our share.
All the world knows what Sir Henry Lee has done from Edgefield downwards, wherever a loyal
sword was drawn, or a loyal flag fluttered. Ah, God help us! I have done something too. My
name is Roger Wildrake of Squattlesea-mere, Lincoln; not that you are ever like to have heard
it before, but I was captain in Lunsford's light-horse, and afterwards with Goring. I was a
child-eater, sir--a babe-bolter."

"I have heard of your regiment's exploits, sir; and perhaps you may find I have seen some of
them, if we should spend ten minutes together. And I think I have heard of your name too. I
beg to drink your health, Captain Wildrake of Squattlesea-mere, Lincolnshire."

"Sir Henry, I drink yours in this pint bumper, and upon my knee; and I would do as much for
that young gentleman"--(looking at Albert)--"and the squire of the green cassock too, holding
it for green, as the colours are not to my eyes altogether clear and distinguishable."

It was a remarkable part of what is called by theatrical folk the by-play of this scene, that
Albert was conversing apart with Dr. Rochecliffe in whispers, even more than the divine seemed
desirous of encouraging; yet, to whatever their private conversation referred, it did not deprive
the young Colonel of the power of listening to what was going forward in the party at large,
and interfering from time to time, like a watch-dog, who can distinguish the slightest alarm,
even when employed in the engrossing process of taking his food.

"Captain Wildrake," said Albert, "we have no objection--I mean, my friend and I--to be communicative
on proper occasions; but you, sir, who are so old a sufferer, must needs know, that at such
casual meetings as this, men do not mention their names unless they are specially wanted. It
is a point of conscience, sir, to be able to say, if your principal, Captain Everard or Colonel
Everard, if he be a Colonel, should examine you upon oath, I did not know who the persons were
whom I heard drink such and such toasts."

"Faith, I have a better way of it, worthy sir," answered Wildrake; "I never can, for the life
of me, remember that there were any such and such toasts drunk at all. It's a strange gift
of forgetfulness I have."

"Well, sir," replied the younger Lee; "but we, who have unhappily more tenacious memories,
would willingly abide by the more general rule."

"Oh, sir," answered Wildrake, "with all my heart. I intrude on no man's confidence, d--n me--and
I only spoke for civility's sake, having the purpose of drinking your health in a good fashion"--(Then
he broke forth into melody)--

  "'Then let the health go round, a-round, a-round, a-round,
  Then let the health go round;
  For though your stocking be of silk,
  Your knee shall kiss the ground, a-ground, a-ground, a-ground,
  Your knee shall kiss the ground.'"

"Urge it no farther," said Sir Henry, addressing his son; "Master Wildrake is one of the old
school--one of the tantivy boys; and we must bear a little, for if they drink hard they fought
well. I will never forget how a party came up and rescued us clerks of Oxford, as they called
the regiment I belonged to, out of a cursed embroglio during the attack on Brentford. I tell
you we were enclosed with the cockneys' pikes both front and rear, and we should have come
off but ill had not Lunford's light-horse, the babe-eaters, as they called them, charged up
to the pike's point, and brought us off."

"I am glad you thought on that, Sir Henry," said Wildrake; "and do you remember what the officer
of Lunsford's said?"

"I think I do," said Sir Henry, smiling.

"Well, then, did not he call out, when the women were coming down, howling like sirens as they
were--'Have none of you a plump child that you could give us to break our fast upon?'"

"Truth itself!" said the knight; "and a great fat woman stepped forward with a baby, and offered
it to the supposed cannibal."

All at the table, Master Kerneguy excepted, who seemed to think that good food of any kind
required no apology, held up their hands in token of amazement.

"Ay," said Wildrake, "the--a-hem!--I crave the lady's pardon again, from tip of top-knot to
hem of farthingale--but the cursed creature proved to be a parish nurse, who had been paid
for the child half a year in advance. Gad, I took the babe out of the bitch-wolf's hand; and
I have contrived, though God knows I have lived in a skeldering sort of way myself, to breed
up bold Breakfast, as I call him, ever since. It was paying dear for a jest, though."

"Sir, I honour you for your humanity," said the old knight--"Sir, I thank you for your courage--Sir,
I am glad to see you here," said the good knight, his eyes watering almost to overflowing.
"So you were the wild officer who cut us out of the toils; Oh, sir, had you but stopped when
I called on you, and allowed us to clear the streets of Brentford with our musketeers, we would
have been at London Stone that day! But your good will was the same."

