Nor, indeed, had he been possessed of steadiness, prudence, and principle, was he very unfit
for such a post at such a time. For he was very fertile in resources, and well-endowed with
both physical and moral courage; but these faculties were combined with, were indeed the parents
of, a mischievous defect. He had such reliance on his own ingenuity and ability to deal with
each difficulty or danger as it should arise, that he was indifferent to precautions which
might prevent it from arising. The spirit in which he took office was exemplified in one of
his first speeches to the queen. Knowing that he was not the minister whom she would have preferred,
he made it his especial business to win her confidence; and he had not been long installed
in office when she expressed to him her wish that he would find means of accomplishing some
object which she desired to promote. "Madame," was his courtly reply, "if it is possible, it
is done already. If it is impossible, I will take care and manage it." But being very unscrupulous
himself, he overshot his mark when he sought to propitiate her further by offering to represent
as hers acts of charity which she had not performed. The winter of 1783 was one of unusual
severity. The thermometer at Paris was, for some weeks, scarcely above zero; scarcity, with
its inevitable companion, clearness of price, reduced the poor of the northern provinces, and
especially of the capital and its neighborhood, to the verge of starvation. The king, queen,
and princesses gave large sums from their privy purses for their relief; but as such supplies
were manifestly inadequate, Louis ordered the minister to draw three millions of francs from
the treasury, and to apply them for the alleviation of the universal distress. Calonne cheerfully
received and executed the beneficent command. He was perhaps not sorry, at his first entrance
on his duties, to show how easy it was for him to meet even an unforeseen demand of so heavy
an amount; and he fancied he saw in it a means of ingratiating himself with Marie Antoinette.
He proposed to her that he should pay one of the millions to her treasurer, that that officer
might distribute it, in her name, as a gift from her own allowance; but Marie Antoinette disdained
such unworthy artifice. She would have felt ashamed to receive praise or gratitude to which
she was not entitled. She rejected the proposal, insisting that the king's gift should be attributed
to himself alone, and expressing her intention to add to it by curtailing her personal expenditure,
by abridging her entertainments so long as the distress should last, and by dedicating the
sums usually appropriated to pleasure and festivity to the relief of those whose very existence
seemed to depend on the aid which it was her duty and that of the king to furnish. For there
was this especial characteristic in Marie Antoinette's charity, that it did not proceed solely
from kindness of heart and tenderness of disposition, though these were never wanting, but
also from a settled principle of duty, which, in her opinion, imposed upon sovereigns, as a
primary obligation, the task of watching over the welfare of their subjects as persons intrusted
by Providence to their care; and such a feeling was obviously more to be depended upon as a
constant motive for action than the most vivid emotion of the moment, which, if easily excited,
is not unfrequently as easily overpowered by some fresh object.

Meanwhile events were gradually compelling her to take a more active part in politics. Maurepas
had been jealous of her influence, and, while that old minister lived, Louis, who from his
childhood had been accustomed to see him in office, committed almost every thing to his guidance.
But, as he always required some one of stronger mind than himself to lean upon, as soon as
Maurepas was gone he turned to the queen. It was to her that he now chiefly confided his anxieties
and perplexities; from her that he sought counsel and strength; and the ministers naturally
came to regard her as the real ruler of the State. Accordingly, we find from her correspondence
of this period that even such matters as the appointment of the embassadors to foreign states
were often referred to her decision; and how greatly the habit of considering affairs of importance
expanded her capacity we may learn from the opinion which her brother, the emperor, who was
never disposed to flatter, or even to spare her, had evidently come to entertain of her judgment.
In one long letter, written in September of the year 1783, he discussed with her the attitude
which France had assumed toward Austria ever since the dismissal of Choiseul; the willingness
of her ministers to listen to Prussian calumnies; the encouragement which they had given to
the opposition in the empire; and their obsequiousness to Prussia; while Austria had not retaliated,
as she had had many opportunities of doing, by any complaisance toward England, though the
English statesmen had made many advances toward her. It is a curious instance of fears being
realized in a sense very different from that which troubled the writer at the moment, that
among the acts of France of which, had he been inclined to be captious, he might justly have
complained, he enumerates her recent acquisition of Corsica, as one which, "for a number of
reasons, might be very prejudicial to the possessions of the house of Austria and its branches
in Italy." It did indeed prove an acquisition which largely influenced the future history,
not only of Austria, but of the whole world, when the little island, which hitherto had been
but a hot-bed of disorder, and a battle-field of faction burdensome to its Genoese masters,
gave a general to the armies of France whose most brilliant exploits were a succession of triumphs
over the Austrian commanders in every part of the emperor's dominion. His letter concludes
with warnings drawn from the present condition and views of the different states of Europe,
and especially of France, whose "finances and resources, to speak with moderation, have been
greatly strained" in the recent war; embracing in their scope even the designs of Russia on
the independence of Turkey; and with a request that his sister would inform him frankly what
he is to believe as to the opinions of the king; and in what light he is to regard the recent
letters of Vergennes, which, to his apprehension, show an indifference to the maintenance of
the alliance between the two countries.[1]

It is altogether a letter such as might pass between statesmen, and proves clearly that Joseph
regarded his sister now as one fully capable of taking large views of the situation of both
countries. And her answer shows that she fully enters into all the different questions which
he has raised, though it also shows that she is guided by her heart as well as by her judgment;
still looks on the continuance of the friendship between her native and her adopted country
as essential not only to her comfort, but even in some degree to her honor, and also that on
that account she is desirous at times of exerting a greater influence than is always allowed her.

"Versailles, September 29th, 1783.

"Shall I tell you, my dear brother, that your letter has delighted me by its energy and nobleness
of thought and why should I not tell you so? I am sure that you will never confound your sister
and your friend with the tricks and manoeuvres of politicians.

"I have read your letter to the king. You may be sure that it, like all your other letters,
shall never go out of my hands. The king was struck with many of your reflections, and has
even corroborated them himself.

"He has said to me that he both desired and hoped always to maintain a friendship and a good
understanding with the empire; but yet that it was impossible to answer for it that the difference
of interests might not at times lead to a difference in the way of looking at and judging of
affairs. This idea appeared to me to come from himself alone, and from the distrust with which
people have been inspiring him for a long time. For, when I spoke to him, I believe it to be
certain that he had not seen M. de Vergennes since the arrival of your courier. M. de Mercy
will have reported to you the quietness and gentleness with which this minister has spoken
to him. I have had occasion to see that the heads of the other ministers, which were a little
heated, have since cooled again. I trust, that this quiet spirit will last, and in that case
the firmness of your reply ought to lead to the rudeness of style which the people here adopted
being forgotten. You know the ground and the characters, so you can not be surprised if the
king sometimes allows answers to pass which he would not have given of his own accord.

"My health, considering my present condition,[2] is perfect. I had a slight accident after
my last letter; but it produced no bad consequences: it only made a little more care necessary.
Accordingly I shall go from Choisy to Fontainebleau by water. My children are quite well. My
boy will spend his time at La Muette while we are absent. It is just a piece of stupidity of
the doctors, who do not like him to take so long a journey at his age, though he has two teeth
and is very strong. I should be perfectly happy if I were but assured of the general tranquillity,
and, above all, of the happiness of my much-loved brother, whom I love with all my heart.[3]"

Another letter, written three months later, explains to the emperor the object of some of the
new arrangements which Calonne had introduced, having for one object, among others, the facilitation
of a commercial intercourse, especially in tobacco, with the United States. She hopes that
another consequence of them will be the abolition of the whole system of farmers-general of
the revenue; and she explains to him both the advantages of such a measure, and at the same
time the difficulties of carrying it out immediately after so costly a war, since it would
involve the instant repayment of large sums to the farmers, with all the clearness of a practiced
financier. She mentions also the appointment of the Baron de Breteuil as the new minister of
the king's household,[4] and her estimate of his character is rendered important by his promotion,
six years later, to the post of prime minister. The emperor also had ample means of judging
of it himself, since the baron had succeeded the Cardinal de Rohan as embassador at Vienna.
"I think, with you, that he requires to be kept within bounds; and he will be so more than
other ministers by the nature of his office, which is very limited, and entirely under the
eyes of the king and of his colleagues, who will be glad of any opportunities of mortifying
his vanity. However, his activity will be very useful in a thousand details of a department
which has been neglected and badly managed for the last sixty years." And though it is a slight
anticipation of the order of our narrative, it will not be inconvenient to give here some extracts
from a third letter to the same brother, written in the autumn of the following year, in which
she describes the king's character, and points out the difficulties which it often interposes
to her desire of influencing his views and measures.

It may perhaps be thought that she unconsciously underrates her influence over her husband,
though there can be no doubt that he was one of those men whom it is hardest to manage; wholly
without self-reliance, yet with a scrupulous wish to do right that made him distrustful of
others, even, of those whose advice he sought, or whose judgment he most highly valued.

"September 22d, 1784.

"I will not contradict you, my dear brother, on what you say about the short-sightedness of
our ministry. I have long ago made some of the reflections which you express in your letter.
I have spoken on the subject more than once to the king; but one must know him thoroughly to
be able to judge of the extent to which, his character and prejudices cripple my resources
and means of influencing him. He is by nature very taciturn; and it often happens that he does
not speak to me about matters of importance even when he has not the least wish to conceal
them from me. He answers me when I speak to him about them, but he scarcely ever opens the
subject; and when I have learned a quarter of the business, I am then forced to use some address
to make the ministers tell me the rest, by letting them think that the king has told me every
thing. When I reproach him for not having spoken to me of such and such matters, he is not
annoyed, but only seems a little embarrassed, and sometimes answers, in an off-hand way, that
he had never thought of it. This distrust, which is natural to him, was at first strengthened
by his govern--or before my marriage. M. de Vauguyon had alarmed him about the authority which
his wife would desire to assume over him, and the duke's black disposition delighted in terrifying
his pupil with all the phantom stories invented against the house of Austria. M. de Maurepas,
though less obstinate and less malicious, still thought it advantageous to his own credit to
keep up the same notions in the king's mind. M. de Vergennes follows the same plan, and perhaps
avails himself of his correspondence on foreign affairs to propagate falsehoods. I have spoken
plainly about this to the king more than once. He has sometimes answered me rather peevishly,
and, as he is never fond of discussion, I have not been able to persuade him that his minister
was deceived, or was deceiving him. I do not blind myself as to the extent of my own influence.
I know that I have no great ascendency over the king's mind, especially in politics; and would
it be prudent in me to have scenes with his ministers on such subjects, on which it is almost
certain that the king would not support me? Without ever boasting or saying a word that is
not true, I, however, let the public believe that I have more influence than I really have,
because, if they did not think so, I should have still less. The avowals which I am making
to you, my dear brother, are not very flattering to my self-love; but I do not like to hide
any thing from you, in order that you may be able to judge of my conduct as correctly as is
possible at this terrible distance from you, at which my destiny has placed me.[5]"

A melancholy interest attunes to sentences such as these, from the influence which the defects
in her husband's character, when joined to those of his minister, had on the future destinies
of both, and of the nation over which he ruled. It was natural that she should explain them
to a brother; and though, as a general rule, it is clearly undesirable for queens consort to
interfere in politics, it is clear that with such a husband, and with the nation and court
in such a condition as then existed in France, it was indispensable that Marie Antoinette should
covet, and, so far as she was able, exert, influence over the king, if she were not prepared
to see him the victim or the tool of caballers and intriguers who cared far more for their
own interests than for those of either king or kingdom. But as yet, though, as we see, these
deficiencies of Louis occasionally caused her annoyance, she had no foreboding of evil. Her
general feeling was one of entire happiness; her children were growing and thriving, her own
health was far stronger than it had been, and she entered with as keen a relish as ever into
the excitements and amusements becoming her position, and what we may still call her youth,
since she was even now only eight-and-twenty.

In the spring of 1784, the court and capital wore wrought up to a high pitch of excitement
by an incident which was in reality of so ordinary and trivial a character, that it would be
hard to find a more striking proof how thoroughly unhealthy the whole condition and feeling
of the nation must have been, when such a matter could have been regarded as important. It
was simply a question whether a play, which had been recently accepted by the manager of the
principal theatre in Paris, should receive the license from the theatrical censor which was
necessary to its being performed.

The play was entitled "The Marriage of Figaro." The history of the author, M. Beaumarchais,
is curious, as that of a rare specimen of the literary adventurer of his time. He was born
in the year 1732. His father was a watch-maker named Caron, and he himself followed that trade
till he was three or four and twenty, and attained considerable skill in it. But he was ambitious.
He was conscious of a handsome face and figure, and knew their value in such a court as that
of Louis XV. He gave up his trade as a watch-maker, and bought successively different places
about the court, the last of which was sold at a price sufficient to entitle him to claim gentility;
so that, in one of his subsequent railings against the nobles, he declared that his nobility
was more incontestable than that of most of the body, since he could produce the stamped receipt
for it. Following the example of Molière and Voltaire, he changed his name, and called himself
Beaumarchais. He married two rich widows. He formed a connection with the celebrated financier,
Paris Duverney, who initiated him in the mysteries of stock-jobbing. Being a good musician,
he obtained the protection of the king's daughters, taught them the harp, and conducted the
weekly concerts which, during the life of Marie Leczinska, they gave to the king and the royal
family. He wrote two or three plays, none of which had any great success, while one was a decided
failure. He became involved in lawsuits, one of which he conducted himself against the best
ability of the Parisian bar, and displayed such wit and readiness that he not only gained his
cause, but established a notoriety which throughout life was apparently his dearest object.
He crossed over to England, where he made the acquaintance of Wilkes, and one or two agents
of the American colonies, then just commencing their insurrection; and, partly from political
sympathy with their views of freedom, partly, as he declared, to retaliate on England for the
injuries which France had suffered at her hands in the Seven Years' War, he became a political
agent himself, procuring arms and ships to be sent across the Atlantic, and also a great quantity
of stores of a more peaceful character, out of which he had hoped to make a handsome profit.
But the Americans gave him credit for greater disinterestedness; the President of Congress
wrote him a letter thanking him for his zeal, but refused to pay for his stores, for which
he demanded nearly a hundred and fifty thousand francs. He commenced an action for the money
in the American courts, but, as he could not conduct it himself, he did not obtain an early
decision; indeed, the matter imbittered all his closing days, and was not settled when he died.

But while he was in the full flush of self-congratulation at the degree in which, as he flattered
himself, he had contributed to the downfall of England, the exuberance of his spirits prompted
him to try his hand at a fourth play, a sort of sequel to one of his earlier performances--"The
Barber of Seville." He finished it about the end of the year 1781, and, as the manager of the
theatre was willing to act it, he at once applied for the necessary license. But it had already
been talked about: if one party had pronounced it lively, witty, and the cleverest play that
had been seen since the death of Molière, another set of readers declared it full of immoral
and dangerous satire on the institutions of the country. It is almost inseparable from the
very nature of comedy that it should be to some extent satirical. The offense which those who
complained of "The Marriage of Figaro" on that account really found in it was, that it satirized
classes and institutions which could not bear such attacks, and had not been used to them.
Molière had ridiculed the lower middle class; the newly rich; the tradesman who, because he
had made a fortune, thought himself a gentleman; but, as one whose father was in the employ
of royalty, he laid no hand on any pillar of the throne. But Beaumarchais, in "The Marriage
of Figaro," singled out especially what were called the privileged classes; he attacked the
licentiousness of the nobles; the pretentious imbecility of ministers and diplomatists; the
cruel injustice of wanton arrests and imprisonments of protracted severity against which there
was no appeal nor remedy; and the privileged classes in consequence denounced his work, and
their complaints of its character and tendency made such an impression that the court resolved
that the license should not he granted.

The refusal, however, was not at first pronounced in a straightforward way; but was deferred,
as if those who had resolved on it feared to pronounce it. For a long time the censor gave
no reply at all, till Beaumarchais complained of the delay as more injurious to him than a
direct denial. When at last his application was formally rejected, he induced his friends to
raise such a clamor in his favor, that Louis determined to judge for himself, and caused Madame
de Campan to read it to himself and the queen. He fully agreed with the censor. Many passages
he pronounced to be in extremely bad taste. When the reader came to the allusions to secret
arrests, protracted imprisonments, and the tedious formalities of the law and lawyers, he declared
that it would be necessary to pull down the Bastile before it could be acted with safety, as
Beaumarchais was ridiculing every thing which ought to be respected. "It is not to be performed,
then?" said the queen. "No," replied the king, "you may depend upon that."

Similar refusals of a license had been common enough, so that there was no reason in the world
why this decision should have attracted any notice whatever. But Beaumarchais was the fashion.
He had influential patrons even in the palace: the Count d'Artois and Madame de Polignac, with
the coterie which met in her apartments, being among them; and the mere idea that the court
or the Government was afraid to let the play be acted caused thousands to desire to see it,
who, without such a temptation, would have been wholly indifferent to its fate. The censor
could not prevent its being read at private parties, and such readings became so popular that,
in 1782, one was got up for the amusement of the Russian prince, who was greatly pleased by
the liveliness of the dramatic situations, and, probably, not sufficiently aware of the prevalence
of discontent in many circles of French society to sympathize with those who saw danger in
its satire.

