Miscellaneous. Even this ample title-page does not, however, point out the many helps towards
a better understanding of the Word of God, which, by improvements in its division and typographical
arrangement, are here furnished for the use of the devout student: and which has this great
recommendation in our eyes, as we have no doubt it will be its greatest in that of many of
our readers, that it is no endeavour to furnish a new translation, but only an attempt to turn
our noble authorised version to the best account. The present Part completes the Book of Genesis,
and we have little doubt that its success will be such as to secure for the publisher that
patronage which will enable him to complete so desirable a work as his "New Edition of the
authorised Version of the Bible." While on this subject, we may fitly call attention to the
eighth number of The Museum of Classical Antiquities: a Quarterly Journal of Ancient Art, and
its accompanying Supplement, both of which are entirely occupied with a question which, from
its connexion with our holiest and most religious feelings, must always command our deepest
attention,--namely, the true site of Calvary, and of the Holy Sepulchre. The question is discussed
at considerable length, and with great learning and acuteness; and, we trust, from its generally
interesting character, may have the effect of drawing attention to a journal which deserves
the patronage of scholars to a greater extent than, from the prefatory notice, it would appear
to have received up to the present time.

The Second Part of The Ulster Journal of Archæology has just appeared. We cannot better recommend
it to our antiquarian friends than by pointing out that it contains the following papers:--1.
Metropolitan Visitation of the Diocese of Derry, A.D. 1397. 2. Iona. 3. Anglo-Norman Families
of Lecale, County Down. {514} 4. Ogham Inscriptions. 5. Irish Surnames, their past and present
Forms. 6. The Island of Tory in the Pagan Period. 7. Origin and Characteristics of the People
in the Counties of Down and Antrim. 8. King William's Progress to the Boyne. 9. Antiquarian
Notes and Queries. 10. Annals of Ulster.

We ought, in the same way, to specify the various papers to be found in the recently-published
Reports and Papers read at the Meetings of the Architectural Society of the Archdeaconry of
Northampton and the Counties of York and Lincoln; and of the Architectural and Archæological
Society of the County of Bedford during the Year 1852,--but such a course is obviously impossible.
There is one paper in the volume which, as especially worthy the attention of those interested
in our Ecclesiastical History, deserves to be particularly noticed, namely, the Rev. G. A.
Poole's Synchronological Table of the Bishops of the English Sees from the Year 1050 to 1550.
How much good service might be done to Historical Literature by the compilation and printing
of many documents of a similar character!

L. M. M. R. If our Correspondent will forward copies of the Note and Queries, they shall have
immediate attention.

X. Z. We cannot undertake to recommend any particular houses for photographic apparatus or
chemicals. Our advertising columns show sufficiently where they may be procured.

Many Replies to Correspondents are unavoidably omitted. 6d.

London: Published by WM. PICKERING.

Also may be had Free on Receipt of Three Postage Stamps, a Fac-simile of a remarkably Curious
and Amusing Newspaper of the Reign of King Charles II.

       *       *       *       *       *

Published in September last, Second Edition, price 15s.

ON THE ANCIENT BRITISH, ROMAN, AND SAXON ANTIQUITIES AND FOLK-LORE OF WORCESTERSHIRE. By JABEZ
ALLIES, Esq., F.S.A.

