At last I have written to Kemble, to know the event of my play, which was presented last Christmas.
As I suspected, came an answer back that the copy was lost, and could not be found--no hint
that anybody had to this day ever looked into it--with a courteous (reasonable!) request of
another copy (if I had one by me,) and a promise of a definite answer in a week. I could not
resist so facile and moderate a demand, so scribbled out another, omitting sundry things, such
as the witch story, about half of the forest scene (which is too leisurely for story), and
transposing that damn'd soliloquy about England getting drunk, which, like its reciter, stupidly
stood alone, nothing prevenient or antevenient, and cleared away a good deal besides; and sent
this copy, written all out (with alterations, &c., requiring judgment) in one day and a half!
I sent it last night, and am in weekly expectation of the tolling-bell and death-warrant.

This is all my Lunnon news. Send me some from the banks of Cam, as the poets delight to speak,
especially George Dyer, who has no other name, nor idea, nor definition of Cambridge: namely,
its being a market-town, sending members to Parliament, never entered into his definition:
it was and is, simply, the banks of the Cam or the fair Cam, as Oxford is the banks of the
Isis or the fair Isis. Yours in all humility, most illustrious Trismegist,

C. LAMB.

(Read on; there's more at the bottom.)

You ask me about the "Farmer's Boy"--don't you think the fellow who wrote it (who is a shoemaker)
has a poor mind? Don't you find he is always silly about poor Giles, and those abject kind
of phrases, which mark a man that looks up to wealth? None of Burns's poet-dignity. What do
you think? I have just opened him; but he makes me sick. Dyer knows the shoemaker (a damn'd
stupid hound in company); but George promises to introduce him indiscriminately to all friends
and all combinations.

[Mr. Crisp was Manning's landlord, a barber in St. Mary's Passage, Cambridge. In one letter
at least Lamb spells his name Crips--a joke he was fond of.

"Rickman" was John Rickman (1771-1840), already a friend of Southey's, whom he had met at Burton,
near Christchurch, in Hampshire, where Rickman's father lived. A graduate of Lincoln College,
Oxford, he was at this time secretary to Charles Abbot, afterwards Lord Colchester. He had
conducted the Commercial, Agricultural, and Manufacturer's Magazine, and he was practically
the originator of the census in England. We shall meet with him often in the correspondence.

Kemble was John Philip Kemble, then manager of Drury Lane. The play was "John Woodvil." For
an account of the version which Lamb submitted, see the Notes to Vol. IV.

George Dyer wrote a History of Cambridge University.

C. L.

[Charles Lloyd had just settled at Old Brathay, about three miles from Ambleside.

Manning's reply to this letter indicates that Lamb's story of the invitation to stay with Lloyd
was a hoax. The first page, ended where I have put the *asterisk--as in the letter, to Gutch.
Manning writes: "N.B. Your lake story completely took me in till I got to the 2d page. I was
pleased to think you were so rich, but I confess rather wondered how you should be able conveniently
to take so long a journey this inside-fare time of the year."

Manning also says: "I condole, with you, Mr. Lamb, on the tragic fate of your tragedie--I wonder
what fool it was that read it! By the bye, you would do me a very very great favour by letting
me have a copy. If Beggars might be chusers, I should ask to have it transcribed partly by
you and partly by your sister. I have a desire to possess some of Mary's handwriting" (see
Letter 79).

"Beautiful Quakers of Pentonville." This is almost certainly a reference to Hester Savory,
the original of Lamb's poem "Hester." The whole passage is the first of three eulogies of London
in the letters, all very similar. To "The Londoner" we come later.]

LETTER 72

CHARLES LAMB TO WILLIAM GODWIN

[Dec. 4, 1800.]

Dear Sir,--I send this speedily after the heels of Cooper (O! the dainty expression) to say
that Mary is obliged to stay at home on Sunday to receive a female friend, from whom I am equally
glad to escape. So that we shall be by ourselves. I write, because it may make some difference
in your marketting, &c.

C. L.

Thursday Morning.

I am sorry to put you to the expense of twopence postage. But I calculate thus: if Mary comes
she will

             eat Beef 2 plates,    4d.
Batter Pudding 1 do.             2d.
Beer, a pint,                      2d.
Wine, 3 glasses,                  11d. I drink no wine!
Chesnuts, after dinner,            2d.
Tea and supper at moderate
  calculation,                     9d.
                             ---------
                               2s. 6d.
    From which deduct              2d. postage
                            ----------
                               2s. 4d.

You are a clear gainer by her not coming.

[If the date be correct this becomes the first extant letter proper which Lamb sent to the
author of Political Justice. Godwin was then forty-four years old, and had long been busy upon
his tragedy "Antonio," in which Lamb had been assisting with suggestions. In this connection
I place here the following document, which belongs, however, naturally to an earlier date,
but is not harmed by its present position.]

LETTER 73

CHARLES LAMB TO WILLIAM GODWIN

[No date. Autumn, 1800.]

Queries. Whether the best conclusion would not be a solemn judicial pleading, appointed by
the king, before himself in person of Antonio as proxy for Roderigo, and Guzman for himself--the
form and ordering of it to be highly solemn and grand. For this purpose, (allowing it,) the
king must be reserved, and not have committed his royal dignity by descending to previous conference
with Antonio, but must refer from the beginning to this settlement. He must sit in dignity
as a high royal arbiter. Whether this would admit of spiritual interpositions, cardinals &c.--appeals
to the Pope, and haughty rejection of his interposition by Antonio--(this merely by the way).

The pleadings must be conducted by short speeches--replies, taunts, and bitter recriminations
by Antonio, in his rough style. In the midst of the undecided cause, may not a messenger break
up the proceedings by an account of Roderigo's death (no improbable or far-fetch'd event),
and the whole conclude with an affecting and awful invocation of Antonio upon Roderigo's spirit,
now no longer dependent upon earthly tribunals or a froward woman's will, &c., &c.

Almanza's daughter is now free, &c.

This might be made very affecting. Better nothing follow after; if anything, she must step
forward and resolve to take the veil. In this case, the whole story of the former nunnery must
be omitted. But, I think, better leave the final conclusion to the imagination of the spectator.
Probably the violence of confining her in a convent is not necessary; Antonio's own castle
would be sufficient.

To relieve the former part of the Play, could not some sensible images, some work for the Eye,
be introduced? A gallery of Pictures, Almanza's ancestors, to which Antonio might affectingly
point his sister, one by one, with anecdote, &c.

At all events, with the present want of action, the Play must not extend above four Acts, unless
it is quite new modell'd. The proposed alterations might all be effected in a few weeks.

Solemn judicial pleadings always go off well, as in Henry the 8th, Merchant of Venice, and
perhaps Othello.

[Lamb, said Mr. Paul, writing of this critical Minute, was so genuinely kind and even affectionate,
in his criticism that Godwin did not perceive his real disapproval.

Mr Swinburne, writing in The Athenaeum for May 13, 1876, made an interesting comment upon one
of Lamb's suggestions in the foregoing document.

After long negotiation "Antonio" was now actually in rehearsal at Drury Lane, to be produced
on December 13. Lamb supplied the epilogue.

Cooper was Godwin's servant.]

LETTER 74

CHARLES LAMB TO WILLIAM GODWIN

Dec. 10th, 1800. Wednesday Morning.

Dear Sir,--I expected a good deal of pleasure from your company to-morrow, but I am sorry I
must beg of you to excuse me. I have been confined ever since I saw you with one of the severest
colds I ever experienced, occasioned by being in the night air on Sunday, and on the following
day, very foolishly. I am neither in health nor spirits to meet company. I hope and trust I
shall get out on Saturday night. You will add to your many favours, by transmitting to me as
early as possible as many tickets as conveniently you can spare,--Yours truly,

C. L.

I have been plotting how to abridge the Epilogue. But I cannot see that any lines can be spared,
retaining the connection, except these two, which are better out.

"Why should I instance, &c., The sick man's purpose, &c.,"

and then the following line must run thus,

"The truth by an example best is shown."

Excuse this important postscript.

LETTER 75

CHARLES LAMB TO THOMAS MANNING

[P.M. Dec. 13, 1800.]

Don't spill the cream upon this letter.

I have received your letter this moment, not having been at the office. I have just time to
scribble down the epilogue. To your epistle I will just reply, that I will certainly come to
Cambridge before January is out: I'll come when I can. You shall have an amended copy of my
play early next week. Mary thanks you; but her handwriting is too feminine to be exposed to
a Cambridge gentleman, though I endeavour to persuade her that you understand algebra, and
must understand her hand. The play is the man's you wot of; but for God's sake (who would not
like to have so pious a professor's work damn'd) do not mention it--it is to come out in a
feigned name, as one Tobin's. I will omit the introductory lines which connect it with the
play, and give you the concluding tale, which is the mass and bulk of the epilogue. The name
is Jack INCIDENT. It is about promise-breaking--you will see it all, if you read the papers.

Jack, of dramatic genius justly vain,
Purchased a renter's share at Drury-lane;
A prudent man in every other matter,
Known at his club-room for an honest hatter;
Humane and courteous, led a civil life,
And has been seldom known to beat his wife;
But Jack is now grown quite another man,
Frequents the green-room, knows the plot and plan
  Of each new piece,
And has been seen to talk with Sheridan!
In at the play-house just at six he pops,
And never quits it till the curtain drops,
Is never absent on the author's night,
Knows actresses and actors too--by sight;
So humble, that with Suett he'll confer,
Or take a pipe with plain Jack Bannister;
Nay, with an author has been known so free,
He once suggested a catastrophe--
In short, John dabbled till his head was turn'd;
His wife remonstrated, his neighbours mourn'd,
His customers were dropping off apace,
And Jack's affairs began to wear a piteous face.
  One night his wife began a curtain lecture;
"My dearest Johnny, husband, spouse, protector,
Take pity on your helpless babes and me,
Save us from ruin, you from bankruptcy--
Look to your business, leave these cursed plays,
And try again your old industrious ways."

Jack who was always scared at the Gazette, And had some bits of skull uninjured yet, Promised
amendment, vow'd his wife spake reason, "He would not see another play that season--"

Three stubborn fortnights Jack his promise kept, Was late and early in his shop, eat, slept,
And walk'd and talk'd, like ordinary men; No wit, but John the hatter once again-- Visits his
club: when lo! one fatal night His wife with horror view'd the well-known sight-- John's hat,
wig, snuff-box--well she knew his tricks-- And Jack decamping at the hour of six, Just at the
counter's edge a playbill lay, Announcing that "Pizarro" was the play-- "O Johnny, Johnny,
this is your old doing." Quoth Jack, "Why what the devil storm's a-brewing? About a harmless
play why all this fright? I'll go and see it if it's but for spite-- Zounds, woman! Nelson's[1]
to be there to-night."

N.B.--This was intended for Jack Bannister to speak; but the sage managers have chosen Miss
Heard,--except Miss Tidswell, the worst actress ever seen or heard. Now, I remember I have
promised the loan of my play. I will lend it instantly, and you shall get it ('pon honour!)
by this day week.

I must go and dress for the boxes! First night! Finding I have time, I transcribe the rest.
Observe, you have read the last first; it begins thus:--the names I took from a little outline
G. gave me. I have not read the play.

"Ladies, ye've seen how Guzman's consort died, Poor victim of a Spaniard brother's pride, When
Spanish honour through the world was blown, And Spanish beauty for the best was known[2] In
that romantic, unenlighten'd time, A breach of promise[3] was a sort of crime-- Which of you
handsome English ladies here, But deems the penance bloody and severe? A whimsical old Saragossa[4]
fashion, That a dead father's dying inclination, Should live to thwart a living daughter's
passion,[5] Unjustly on the sex we[6] men exclaim, Rail at your[7] vices,--and commit the same;--
Man is a promise-breaker from the womb, And goes a promise-breaker to the tomb-- What need
we instance here the lover's vow, The sick man's purpose, or the great man's bow?[8] The truth
by few examples best is shown-- Instead of many which are better known, Take poor Jack Incident,
that's dead and gone. Jack," &c. &c. &c.

Now you have it all-how do you like it? I am going to hear it recited!!!

C. L.

[Footnote 1: A good clap-trap. Nelson has exhibited two or three times at both theatres--and
advertised himself.] [Footnote 2: Four easy lines.] [Footnote 3: For which the heroine died.]
[Footnote 4: In Spain!!?] [Footnote 5: Two neat lines.] [Footnote 6: Or you.] [Footnote 7:
Or our, as they have altered it.] [Footnote 8: Antithesis.]

["As one Tobin's." The rehearsals of "Antonio" were attended by Godwin's friend, John Tobin,
subsequently author of "The Honeymoon," in the hope, on account of Godwin's reputation for
heterodoxy, of deceiving people as to the real authorship of the play. It was, however, avowed
by Godwin on the title-page.

Jack Bannister, the comedian, was a favourite actor of Lamb's. See the Elia essay "On some
of the Old Actors."

Miss Heard was a daughter of William Heard, the author of "The Snuff-Box," a feeble comedy.
Miss Tidswell, by the irony of fate, had a part in Lamb's own play, "Mr. H.," six years later.

"I have not read the play." Meaning probably, "I have not read it in its final form." Lamb
must have read it in earlier versions. I quote Mr. Kegan Paul's summary of the plot of "Antonio":--

"Helena was betrothed, with her father's consent, to her brother Antonio's friend, Roderigo.
While Antonio and Roderigo were at the wars, Helena fell in love with, and married, Don Gusman.
She was the king's ward, who set aside the pre-contract. Antonio, returning, leaves his friend
behind; he has had great sorrows, but all will be well when he comes to claim his bride. When
Antonio finds his sister is married, the rage he exhibits is ferocious. He carries his sister
off from her husband's house, and demands that the king shall annul the marriage with Gusman.
There is then talk of Helena's entrance into a convent. At last the king, losing patience,
gives judgment, as he had done before, that the pre-contract with Roderigo was invalid, and
the marriage to Gusman valid. Whereupon Antonio bursts through the guards, and kills his sister."]

LETTER 76

CHARLES LAMB TO WILLIAM GODWIN

Dec. 14, 1800. Late o' Sunday.

Dear Sir,--I have performed my office in a slovenly way, but judge for me. I sat down at 6
o'clock, and never left reading (and I read out to Mary) your play till 10. In this sitting
I noted down lines as they occurred, exactly as you will read my rough paper. Do not be frightened
at the bulk of my remarks, for they are almost all upon single lines, which, put together,
do not amount to a hundred, and many of them merely verbal. I had but one object in view, abridgement
for compression sake. I have used a dogmatical language (which is truly ludicrous when the
trivial nature of my remarks is considered), and, remember, my office was to hunt out faults.
You may fairly abridge one half of them, as a fair deduction for the infirmities of Error,
and a single reading, which leaves only fifty objections, most of them merely against words,
on no short play. Remember, you constituted me Executioner, and a hangman has been seldom seen
to be ashamed of his profession before Master Sheriff. We'll talk of the Beauties (of which
I am more than ever sure) when we meet,--Yours truly, C. L.

I will barely add, as you are on the very point of printing, that in my opinion neither prologue
nor epilogue should accompany the play. It can only serve to remind your readers of its fate.
Both suppose an audience, and, that jest being gone, must convert into burlesque. Nor would
I (but therein custom and decorum must be a law) print the actors' names. Some things must
be kept out of sight.

I have done, and I have but a few square inches of paper to fill up. I am emboldened by a little
jorum of punch (vastly good) to say that next to one man, I am the most hurt at our ill success.
The breast of Hecuba, where she did suckle Hector, looked not to be more lovely than Marshal's
forehead when it spit forth sweat, at Critic-swords contending. I remember two honest lines
by Marvel, (whose poems by the way I am just going to possess)

"Where every Mower's wholesome heat Smells like an Alexander's sweat."

["Antonio" was performed on December 13, with John Philip Kemble in the title-role, and was
a complete failure. Lamb wrote an account of the unlucky evening many years later in the "Old
Actors" series in the London Magazine (see Vol. II. of the present edition). He speaks there,
as here, of Marshal's forehead--Marshal being John Marshall, a friend of the Godwins.

After the play Godwin supped with Lamb, when it was decided to publish "Antonio" at once. Lamb
retained the MS. for criticism. The present letter in the original contains his comments, the
only one of which that Mr. Kegan Paul thought worth reproducing being the following:-- "'Enviable'
is a very bad word. I allude to 'Enviable right to bless us.' For instance, Burns, comparing
the ills of manhood with the state of infancy, says, 'Oh! enviable early days;' here 'tis good,
because the passion lay in comparison. Excuse my insulting your judgment with an illustration.
I believe I only wanted to beg in the name of a favourite Bardie, or at most to confirm my
own judgment."

Lamb, it will be remembered, had refused to let Coleridge use "enviable" in "Lewti." Burns's
poem to which Lamb alludes is "Despondency, an Ode," Stanza 5, "Oh! enviable, early days."

Godwin's play was published in 1801 without Lamb's epilogue.]

LETTER 77

CHARLES LAMB TO THOMAS MANNING

Dec. 16th, 1800.

We are damn'd!

Not the facetious epilogue could save us. For, as the editor of the "Morning Post," quick-sighted
gentleman! hath this morning truly observed, (I beg pardon if I falsify his words, their profound
sense I am sure I retain,) both prologue and epilogue were worthy of accompanying such a piece;
and indeed (mark the profundity, Mister Manning) were received with proper indignation by such
of the audience only as thought either worth attending to. PROFESSOR, thy glories wax dim!
Again, the incomparable author of the "True Briton" declareth in his paper (bearing same date)
that the epilogue was an indifferent attempt at humour and character, and failed in both. I
forbear to mention the other papers, because I have not read them. O PROFESSOR, how different
thy feelings now (quantum mutatus ab illo professore, qui in agris philosophiae tantas victorias
aquisivisti),--how different thy proud feelings but one little week ago,--thy anticipation
of thy nine nights,--those visionary claps, which have soothed thy soul by day and thy dreams
by night! Calling in accidentally on the Professor while he was out, I was ushered into the
study; and my nose quickly (most sagacious always) pointed me to four tokens lying loose upon
thy table, Professor, which indicated thy violent and satanical pride of heart. Imprimis, there
caught mine eye a list of six persons, thy friends, whom thou didst meditate inviting to a
sumptuous dinner on the Thursday, anticipating the profits of thy Saturday's play to answer
charges; I was in the honoured file! Next, a stronger evidence of thy violent and almost satanical
pride, lay a list of all the morning papers (from the "Morning Chronicle" downwards to the
"Porcupine,") with the places of their respective offices, where thou wast meditating to insert,
and didst insert, an elaborate sketch of the story of thy play--stones in thy enemy's hand
to bruise thee with; and severely wast thou bruised, O Professor! nor do I know what oil to
pour into thy wounds. Next, which convinced me to a dead conviction of thy pride, violent and
almost satanical pride--lay a list of books, which thy un-tragedy-favoured pocket could never
answer; Dodsley's Old Plays, Malone's Shakspeare (still harping upon thy play, thy philosophy
abandoned meanwhile to Christians and superstitious minds); nay, I believe (if I can believe
my memory), that the ambitious Encyclopaedia itself was part of thy meditated acquisitions;
but many a playbook was there. All these visions are damned; and thou, Professor, must read
Shakspere in future out of a common edition; and, hark ye, pray read him to a little better
purpose! Last and strongest against thee (in colours manifest as the hand upon Belshazzar's
wall), lay a volume of poems by C. Lloyd and C. Lamb. Thy heart misgave thee, that thy assistant
might possibly not have talent enough to furnish thee an epilogue! Manning, all these things
came over my mind; all the gratulations that would have thickened upon him, and even some have
glanced aside upon his humble friend; the vanity, and the fame, and the profits (the Professor
is L500 ideal money out of pocket by this failure, besides L200 he would have got for the copyright,
and the Professor is never much beforehand with the world; what he gets is all by the sweat
of his brow and dint of brain, for the Professor, though a sure man, is also a slow); and now
to muse upon thy altered physiognomy, thy pale and squalid appearance (a kind of blue sickness
about the eyelids), and thy crest fallen, and thy proud demand of L200 from thy bookseller
changed to an uncertainty of his taking it at all, or giving thee full L50. The Professor has
won my heart by this his mournful catastrophe. You remember Marshall, who dined with him at
my house; I met him in the lobby immediately after the damnation of the Professor's play, and
he looked to me like an angel: his face was lengthened, and ALL OVER SWEAT; I never saw such
a care-fraught visage; I could have hugged him, I loved him so intensely--"From every pore
of him a perfume fell." I have seen that man in many situations, and from my soul I think that
a more god-like honest soul exists not in this world. The Professor's poor nerves trembling
with the recent shock, he hurried him away to my house to supper; and there we comforted him
as well as we could. He came to consult me about a change of catastrophe; but alas! the piece
was condemned long before that crisis. I at first humoured him with a specious proposition,
but have since joined his true friends in advising him to give it up. He did it with a pang,
and is to print it as his.

L.

[The Professor was Lamb's name for Godwin.

The Porcupine was Cobbett's paper.]

LETTERS 78 AND 79

CHARLES LAMB TO THOMAS MANNING [Middle December.]

I send you all of Coleridge's letters to me, which I have preserved: some of them are upon
the subject of my play. I also send you Kemble's two letters, and the prompter's courteous
epistle, with a curious critique on "Pride's Cure," by a young physician from EDINBRO, who
modestly suggests quite another kind of a plot. These are monuments of my disappointment which
I like to preserve. I also send you the Professor's letter to me (careful Professor! to conceal
his name even from his correspondent), ere yet the Professor's pride was cured. Oh monstrous
and almost satanical pride!

You will carefully keep all (except the Scotch Doctor's, which burn in status quo), till I
come to claim mine own.

C. LAMB.

For Mister Manning, Teacher of Mathematics and the Black Arts. There is another letter in the
inside cover of the book opposite the blank leaf that was.

Mind this goes for a letter. (Acknowledge it directly, if only in ten words.)

DEAR MANNING--(I shall want to hear this comes safe.) I have scratched out a good deal, as
you will see. Generally, what I have rejected was either false in feeling, or a violation of
character--mostly of the first sort. I will here just instance in the concluding few lines
of the "Dying Lover's Story," which completely contradicted his character of silent and unreproachful.
I hesitated a good deal what copy to send you, and at last resolved to send the worst, because
you are familiar with it, and can make it out; and a stranger would find so much difficulty
in doing it, that it would give him more pain than pleasure.

This is compounded precisely of the two persons' hands you requested it should be.--Yours sincerely,

C. LAMB.

[These were the letters accompanying the copy of "Pride's Cure" (or "John Woodvil") which Charles
and Mary Lamb together made for Manning, as requested in the note on page 197.

All the letters mentioned by Lamb have vanished; unless by an unlikely chance the bundle contained
Coleridge's letters on Mrs. Lamb's death and on the quarrel with Lamb and Lloyd.

Manning's reply, dated December, 1800, gives a little information concerning the Edinburgh
physician's letter--"that gentleman whose fertile brain can, at a moment's warning, furnish
you with 10 Thousand models of a plot--'The greatest variety of Rapes, Murders, Deathsheads,
&c., &c., sold here.'" Manning thinks that the Scotch doctor understands Lamb's tragedy better
than Coleridge does. He adds: "P.S.--My verdict upon the Poet's epitaph is 'genuine.'" This
probably applies to a question asked by Lamb concerning Wordsworth's poem of that name.]

LETTER 80

CHARLES LAMB TO THOMAS MANNING

December 27th, 1800.

As for the other Professor, he has actually begun to dive into Tavernier and Chardin's Persian
Travels for a story, to form a new drama for the sweet tooth of this fastidious age. Hath not
Bethlehem College a fair action for non-residence against such professors? Are poets so few
in this age, that he must write poetry? Is morals a subject so exhausted, that he must quit
that line? Is the metaphysic well (without a bottom) drained dry?

If I can guess at the wicked pride of the Professor's heart, I would take a shrewd wager that
he disdains ever again to dip his pen in Prose. Adieu, ye splendid theories! Farewell, dreams
of political justice! Lawsuits, where I was counsel for Archbishop Fenelon versus my own mother,
in the famous fire cause!

Vanish from my mind, professors, one and all! I have metal more attractive on foot.

[Lamb's copy of George Dyer's Poems is in the British Museum. It has the original withdrawn
1800 title-page and the cancelled preface bound up with it, and Lamb has written against the
reference to the sacrifice, in the new 1801 preface: "One copy of this cancelled preface, snatch'd
out of the fire, is prefaced to this volume." See Letter 93, page 234. It runs to sixty-five
pages, whereas the new one is but a few words. Southey tells Grosvenor Bedford in one of his
letters that Lamb gave Dyer the title of Cancellarius Magnus. Dyer reprinted in the 1802 edition
of his Poems the greater part of the cancelled preface and all of the first page--so that it
is difficult to say what the fallacy was. The original edition of his Poems, was to be in three
large volumes. In 1802 it had come down to two small ones.

Godwin's Persian drama was "Abbas, King of Persia," but he could not get it acted. The reference
to Fenelon is to Godwin's Political Justice (first edition, Vol. I., page 84) where he argues
on the comparative worth of the persons of Fenelon, a chambermaid, and Godwin's mother, supposing
them to have been present at the famous fire at Cambrai and only one of them to be saved. (As
a matter of fact Fenelon was not at the fire.)

We must suppose that Lamb carried out his intention of visiting Manning on January 5; but there
is no confirmation.]

LETTER 81

CHARLES LAMB TO WILLIAM WORDSWORTH [P.M. January 30, 1801.]

Thanks for your Letter and Present. I had already borrowed your second volume. All its dogmas
are true and just, and most of them new, as criticism. But they associate a diminishing idea
with the Poems which follow, as having been written for Experiment on the public taste, more
than having sprung (as they must have done) from living and daily circumstances.--I am prolix,
because I am gratifyed in the opportunity of writing to you, and I don't well know when to
leave off.

C. LAMB.

Thank you for Liking my Play!!

[This is the first--and perhaps the finest--letter from Lamb to Wordsworth that has been preserved.
Wordsworth, then living with his sister Dorothy at Dove Cottage, Grasmere, was nearly thirty-one
years of age; Lamb was nearly twenty-six. The work criticised is the second edition of the
Lyrical Ballads. The second and sixth stanzas of the "Poet's Epitaph" ran thus:--

A Lawyer art thou?--draw not nigh;
  Go, carry to some other place
The hardness of thy coward eye,
  The falshood of thy sallow face.

       *       *       *       *       *

Wrapp'd closely in thy sensual fleece
  O turn aside, and take, I pray,
That he below may rest in peace,
  Thy pin-point of a soul away!

St. Leon was by Godwin.

"The Mad Mother." The poem beginning, "Her eyes are wild, her head is bare."

"I could, too, have wished." The passage from these words to "don't well know when to leave
off," used to be omitted in the editions of Lamb's Letters. When Wordsworth sent the correspondence
to Moxon, for Talfourd's use, in 1835, he wrote:--

"There are, however, in them some parts which had better be kept back.... I have also thought
it proper to suppress every word of criticism [Wordsworth meant adverse criticism] upon my
own poems.... Those relating to my works are withheld, partly because I shrink from the thought
of assisting in any way to spread my own praises, and still more I being convinced that the
opinions or judgments of friends given in this way are of little value."

"Joanna." Joanna of the laugh. "Barbara Lewthwaite." See Wordsworth's "Pet Lamb."

"Thank you for Liking my Play!!" We must suppose this postscript to contain a touch of sarcasm.
Lamb had sent "John Woodvil" to Grasmere and Keswick. Wordsworth apparently had been but politely
interested in it. Coleridge had written to Godwin: "Talking of tragedies, at every perusal
my love and admiration of his [Lamb's] play rises a peg."

Here should come a letter from Lamb to Robert Lloyd, dated at end February 7, 1801, not available
for this edition. It is one of the best letters written by Lamb to Robert Lloyd, or to any
one. Lamb first praises Izaak Walton, whose Compleat Angler he loved for two reasons: for itself
and for its connection with his own Hertfordshire country, Hoddesdon, Broxbourne, Amwell and
the Ware neighbourhood. The letter passes to a third eulogy of London. (which I had been so
unfortunate as to miss). I certainly shall write them a very merry Letter. But one does not
like to have 'em rammed down one's throat. "Pray, take it--it's very good--let me help you--eat
faster."

[It cannot be too much regretted that Lamb's "very merry Letter" in answer to Wordsworth and
Coleridge's remonstrances has not been preserved.

At the end of the letter is a passage which can be read only in the Boston Bibliophile edition,
referring to Dyer's Poems, to John Woodvil and to Godwin.]

LETTER 83

CHARLES LAMB TO THOMAS MANNING

[Late February, 1801.]

You masters of logic ought to know (logic is nothing more than a knowledge of words, as the
Greek etymon implies), that all words are no more to be taken in a literal sense at all times
than a promise given to a tailor. When I expressed an apprehension that you were mortally offended,
I meant no more than by the application of a certain formula of efficacious sounds, which had
done in similar cases before, to rouse a sense of decency in you, and a remembrance of what
was due to me! You masters of logic should advert to this phenomenon in human speech, before
you arraign the usage of us dramatic geniuses. Imagination is a good blood mare, and goes well;
but the misfortune is, she has too many paths before her. 'Tis true I might have imaged to
myself, that you had trundled your frail carcass to Norfolk. I might also, and did imagine,
that you had not, but that you were lazy, or inventing new properties in a triangle, and for
that purpose moulding and squeezing Landlord Crisp's three-cornered beaver into fantastic experimental
forms; or that Archimedes was meditating to repulse the French, in case of a Cambridge invasion,
by a geometric hurling of folios on their red caps; or, peradventure, that you were in extremities,
in great wants, and just set out for Trinity-bogs when my letters came. In short, my genius
(which is a short word now-a-days for what-a-great-man-am-I) was absolutely stifled and overlaid
with its own riches. Dull pipkin, to have Elijah for thy cook! Imbecile recipient of so fat
a miracle! I send you George Dyer's Poems, the richest production of the lyric muse this century
can justly boast: for Wordsworth's L.B. were published, or at least written, before Christmas.

Please to advert to pages 291 to 296 for the most astonishing account of where Shakspeare's
muse has been all this while. I thought she had been dead, and buried in Stratford Church,
with the young man that kept her company,--

  "But it seems, like the Devil,
  Buried in Cole Harbour.
Some say she's risen again,
  'Gone prentice to a Barber."

N.B.--I don't charge anything for the additional manuscript notes, which are the joint productions
of myself and a learned translator of Schiller, John Stoddart, Esq.

N.B. the 2nd.--I should not have blotted your book, but I had sent my own out to be bound,
as I was in duty bound. A liberal criticism upon the several pieces, lyrical, heroical, amatory,
and satirical, would be acceptable. So, you don't think there's a Word's--worth of good poetry
in the great L.B.! I daren't put the dreaded syllables at their just length, for my back tingles
from the northern castigation. I send you the three letters, which I beg you to return along
with those former letters, which I hope you are not going to print by your detention. But don't
be in a hurry to send them. When you come to town will do. Apropos of coming to town, last
Sunday was a fortnight, as I was coming to town from the Professor's, inspired with new rum,
I tumbled down, and broke my nose. I drink nothing stronger than malt liquors. Between you
and me, the "Lyrical Ballads" are but drowsy performances.

C. LAMB (as you may guess).

[Lamb refers in his opening sentences to a letter from himself to Manning which no longer exists.
In Manning's last letter, dated February 24, he complains that he found on returning to Cambridge
three copies of a letter from Lamb suggesting that he was offended because he had not answered.

The passage in George Dyer's Poems between pages 291 and 296 is long, but it is so quaint and
so illustrative of its author's mind that I give it in full, footnotes and all, in the Appendix
to this volume.

Stoddart we have already met. He had translated, with Georg Heinrich Noehden, Schiller's Fiesco,
1796, and Don Carlos, 1798. The copy of Dyer's Poems annotated by Lamb and Stoddart I have
not seen.

"So, you don't think there's a Word's-worth..." Manning had written, on February 24, 1801,
of the second volume of Lyrical Ballads: "I think 'tis utterly absurd from one end to the other.
You tell me 'tis good poetry--if you mean that there is nothing puerile, nothing bombast or
conceited, everything else that is so often found to disfigure poetry, I agree, but will you
read it over and over again? Answer me that, Master Lamb." The three letters containing the
northern castigation are unhappily lost.

"My back tingles." "Back" is not Lamb's word.

"I am going to change my lodgings." The Lambs were still at 34 Southampton Buildings; they
moved to 16 Mitre Court Buildings just before Lady Day, 1801.

"James, Walter, and the parson." In Wordsworth's poem "The Brothers."

Exeter Change, which stood where Burleigh Street now is, was a great building, with bookstalls
and miscellaneous stalls on the ground floor and a menagerie above. It was demolished in 1829.]

LETTER 84

CHARLES LAMB TO THOMAS MANNING April, 1801.

