Just against the foot of the next rise, they overtook him. The gray nag that Rodney drove pricked
his ears and stretched his head up, and began to take short, cringing steps, as they drew near
the formidable, moving mass.

Rodney jumped out, and keeping eye and hand upon him, helped down Sylvie also. Then he threw
the long reins over his arm, and took the horse by the bridle.

The animal made a half parenthesis of himself, curving skittishly, and watching jealously,
as he went by the frightsome pile.

"You see it was as well not to risk it," Rodney said, as Sylvie came up with him beyond. "He
would have had us down there among the blackberry vines. He's all right now. Will you get in?"

"Let us walk on to the top," said Sylvie. "It is so pleasant to feel one's feet upon the ground."

They kept on, accordingly; the slow team rumbling behind them. At the top, was a wide, beautiful
level; oak-trees and maples grew along the roadside, and fields stretched out along a table
land to right and left. Before them, lying in the golden mist of twilight, was a sea of distant
hill-tops,--purple and shadow-black and gray. The sky bent down its tender, mellow sphere,
and touched them softly.

Sylvie stood still, with folded hands, and Rodney stopped the horse. A rod or two back, just
at the edge of the level, the loaded wagon had stopped also.

"Hills,--and the sunset,--and stillness," said Sylvie. "They always seem like heaven."

Rodney stood with his right hand, from which fell the looped reins, reached up and resting
on the saddle.

"I never saw a sight like that before," he said.

While they looked, the evening star trembled out through the clear saffron, above the floating
mist that hung among the hills.

"O, they never can help it!" exclaimed Sylvie, suddenly.

"Help it? Who?" asked Rodney, wondering.

"Beginning again. Growing good. Those people who are coming up to Hill-hope. There's a man
coming, with his wife; a young man, who got into bad ways, and took to drinking. Mr. Vireo
has been watching and advising him so long! He married them, five years ago, and they have
two little children. The wife is delicate; she has worried through everything. She has taken
in working-men's washing, to earn the rent; and he had a good trade, too; he was a plasterer.
He has really tried; but it was no use in the city; it was all around him. And he lost character
and chances; the bosses wouldn't have him, he said. When he was trying most, sometimes, they
wouldn't believe in him; and then there would come idle days, and he would meet old companions,
and get led off, and then there would be weeks of misery. Now he is coming away from it all.
There is a little cottage ready, with a garden; the little wife is so happy! He can't get it
here; and he will have work at his trade, and will learn brickmaking. Do you know, I think
a place like this, where such work is doing, is almost better than heaven, where it is all
done, Rodney!"

She spoke his name, as he had hers a little while ago, without thinking. He turned his face
toward her with a look which kindled into sudden light at that last word, but which had warmed
all through before with the generous pathos of what she told him, and the earnest, simple way
of it.

"I've found out that even in our own affairs, making is better than ready-made," he said. "This
last year has been the best year of my life. If my father had given me fifty thousand dollars,
and told me I might--have all my own way with it,--I shouldn't have thanked him as much to-day,
as I do. But I wish that steamer were in, and he were here! He has got something which belongs
to me, and I want him to give it back."

After enunciating this little riddle, Rodney changed hands with his reins, and faced about
toward the vehicle, reaching his other to Sylvie.

"You had better jump in," he said; and there was a tone and an inflection at the pause, as
if another word, that would have been tenderly spoken, hung refrained upon it. "We must get
well ahead of that old catapult."

They drove on rapidly along the level; then they came to the long, gradual slope that brought
them down into Brickfields.

To the right, just before reaching the Basin, a turn struck off that skirted round, partly
ascending again until it fell into the Cone Hill road and so led direct to Hill-hope.

They could see the buildings, grouped picturesquely against rocks and pines and down against
the root of the green hill. They had all been painted of a light gray or slate color, with
red roofs.

They passed on, down into the shadows, where trees were thick and dark. A damp, rich smell
of the woods was about them,--a different atmosphere from the breath of the hill-top. They
heard the tinkle of little unseen streams, and the far-off, foaming plunge of the cascades.

Suddenly, there came a sound behind them like the rush of an avalanche; a noise that seemed
to fill up all the space of the air, and to gather itself down toward them on every side alike.

"O, Rodney, turn!" cried Sylvie.

But there was a horrible second in which he could not know how to turn.

He did not stop to look, even. He sprang, with one leap, he knew not how,--over step or dasher,--to
the horse's head. He seized him by the bridle, and pulled him off the road, into a thicket
of bush-branches, in a hollow rough with stones.

The wheels caught fast; Rodney clung to the horse, who tried to rear; Sylvie sat still on the
seat sloped with the sharp cant of the half-overturned vehicle.

There was only a single instant. Down, with the awful roar of an earthquake, came crashing
swift and headlong, passing within a hand's breadth of their wheel, the enormous, toppling,
loaded team; its three strong horses in a wild, plunging gallop; heels, heads, haunches, one
dark, frantic, struggling tumble and rush. An instant more, of paralyzed breathlessness, and
then a thundering fall, that made the ground quiver under their feet; then a stillness more
suddenly dreadful than the noise. A great cloud of dust rose slowly up into the air, and showed
dimly in the dusky light.

The gray horse quieted, cowed by the very terror and the hush. Sylvie slipped down from the
tilting buggy, and found her feet upon a stone.

Rodney reached out one hand, and she came to his side. He put his arm around her, and drew
her close.

"My darling little Sylvie!" he said.

She turned her face, and leaned it down upon his shoulder.

"O, Rodney, the poor man is killed!"

But as they stood so, a figure came toward them, over the high water-bar below which they had
stopped.

"For God's sake, is anybody hurt?" asked a strange, hoarse voice with a tremble in it.

"Nobody!"

"O, are you the driver? I thought you must be killed! How thankful!"--And Sylvie sobbed on
Rodney's shoulder.

"Can I help you?" asked the man.

"No, look after your horses." And the man went on, down into the dust, where the wreck was.

"We'll go, and send help to you," shouted Rodney.

Then he backed the gray horse carefully out upon the road again.

"Will you dare get in?" he asked of Sylvie.

"I do not think we had better. How can we tell how it is down there? We may not be able to pass."

"It is below the turn, I think. But come,--we'll walk."

He took the bridle again, and gave his other hand to Sylvie. Holding each other so, they went
along.

When they came to the turn, they could see, just beyond the mass of ruin; the great wagon,
three wheels in the air,--one rolled away into the ditch; the broken freight, flung all across
the road, and lying piled about the wagon. One horse was dead,--buried underneath. Another
lay motionless, making horrid moans. The teamster was freeing the third--the leader, which
stood safe--from chains and harness.

