Under these circumstances they chose Cheirisophus, who, after his election, stepped forward
and said: "Nay, sirs, be well assured of this, that had you chosen some one else, I for my
part should not have set up factious opposition. As to Xenophon, I believe you have done him
a good turn by not appointing him; for even now Dexippus has gone some way in traducing him
to Anaxibius, as far as it lay in his power to do so, and that, in spite of my attempts to
silence him. What he said was that he believed Xenophon would rather share the command of Clearchus's
army with Timasion, a Dardanian, than with himself, a Laconian. But," continued Cheirisophus,
"since your choice has fallen   33 upon me, I will make it my endeavour to do you all the good
in my power; so make your preparations to weigh anchor to-morrow; wind and weather permitting,
we will voyage to Heraclea; every one must endeavour, therefore, to put in at that port; and
for the rest we will consult, when we are come thither."

II

The next day they weighed anchor and set sail from Harmene with a fair  1 breeze, two days'
voyage along the coast.  (As they coasted along they came in sight of Jason's beach (1), where,
as the story says, the ship Argo came to moorings; and then the mouths of the rivers, first
the Thermodon, then the Iris, then the Halys, and next to it the Parthenius.) Coasting past
(the latter), they reached Heraclea (2), a Hellenic city and a colony of the Megarians, situated
in the territory of the Mariandynians. So they came to anchorage off the Acherusian Chersonese,
where Heracles (3) is said to have descended to bring up the dog Cerberus, at a point where
they still show the marks of his descent, a deep cleft more than two furlongs down. Here the
Heracleots sent the Hellenes, as gifts of hospitality, three thousand measures of barley and
two thousand jars of wine, twenty beeves and one hundred sheep. Through the flat country here
flows the Lycus river, as it is called, about two hundred feet in breadth.

 (1) I have left this passage in the text, although it involves, at
    first sight, a topographical error on the part of whoever wrote
    it, and Hug and other commentators regard it as spurious. Jason's
    beach (the modern Yasoun Bouroun) and the three first-named rivers
    lie between Cotyora and Sinope. Possibly the author, or one of his
    editors, somewhat loosely inserted a recapitulatory note
    concerning the scenery of this coasting voyage at this point. "By
    the way, I ought to have told you that as they coasted along,"
    etc.

 (2) One of the most powerful of commercial cities, distinguished as
    Pontica (whence, in the middle ages, Penteraklia), now Eregli. It
    was one of the older Greek settlements, and, like Kalchedon (to
    give that town its proper name), a Megaro-Doric colony. See
    Kiepert, op. cit. chap. iv. 62.

 (3) According to another version of the legend Heracles went down to
    bring up Cerberus, not here, but at Taenarum.

The soldiers held a meeting, and took counsel about the remainder of the journey: should they
make their exit from the Pontus by sea or by land? and Lycon the Achaean got up and said: "I
am astonished, sirs, that the generals do not endeavour to provide us more efficiently with
provisions. These gifts of hospitality will not afford three days'      4 victuals for the
army; nor do I see from what region we are to provide ourselves as we march. My proposal, therefore,
is to demand of the Heracleots at least three thousand cyzicenes." Another speaker suggested,
"not less than ten thousand. Let us at once, before we break up this meeting, send ambassadors
to the city and ascertain their answer to the demand and take counsel accordingly." Thereupon
they proceeded to put up as ambassadors, first and foremost Cheirisophus, as he had been chosen
general-in-chief; others also named Xenophon.

But both Cheirisophus and Xenophon stoutly declined, maintaining both alike that they could
not compel a Hellenic city, actually friendly, to give anything which they did not spontaneously
offer. So, since these two appeared to be backward, the soldiers sent Lycon the Achaean, Callimachus
the Parrhasian, and Agasias the Stymphalian. These three went and announced the resolutions
passed by the army. Lycon, it was said, even went so far as to threaten certain consequences
in case they refused to comply. The Heracleots said they would deliberate; and, without more
ado, they got together their goods and chattels from their farms and fields outside, and dismantled
the market outside and transferred it within, after which the gates were closed, and arms appeared
at the battlements of the walls.

At that check, the authors of these tumultuary measures fell to accusing the generals, as if
they had marred the proceeding; and the Arcadians and Archaeans banded together, chiefly under
the auspices of the two ringleaders, Callimachus the Parrhasian and Lycon the Achaean. The
language they held was to this effect: It was outrageous that a single Athenian and a Lacedaemonian,
who had not contributed a soldier to the expedition, should rule Peloponnesians; scandalous
that they themselves should bear the toils whilst others pocketed the spoils, and that too
though the preservation of the army was due to themselves; for, as every one must admit, to
the Arcadians and          10 Achaeans the credit of that achievement was due, and the rest
of the army went for nothing (which was indeed so far true that the Arcadians and Achaeans
did form numerically the larger half of the whole army). What then did common sense suggest?
Why, that they, the Arcadians and Achaeans, should make common cause, choose generals for themselves
independently, continue the march, and try somewhat to better their condition. This proposal
was carried. All the Arcadians and Achaeans who chanced to be with Cheirisophus left him and
Xenophon, setting up for themselves and choosing ten generals of their own. These ten, it was
decreed, were to put into effect such measures as approved themselves to the majority. Thus
the absolute authority vested in Cheirisophus was terminated there and then, within less than
a week of his appointment.

Xenophon, however was minded to prosecute the journey in their company, thinking that this
would be a safer plan than for each to start on his own account. But Neon threw in his weight
in favour of separate action. "Every one for himself," he said, for he had heard from Cheirisophus
that Cleander, the Spartan governor-general at Byzantium, talked of coming to Calpe Haven with
some war vessels. Neon's advice was due to his desire to secure a passage home in these war
vessels for themselves and their soldiers, without allowing any one else to share in their
good-fortune. As for Cheirisophus, he was at once so out of heart at the turn things had taken,
and soured with the whole army, that he left it to his subordinate, Neon, to do just what he
liked. Xenophon, on his side, would still have been glad to be quit of the expedition and sail
home; but on offering sacrifice to Heracles the Leader, and seeking advice, whether it were
better and more desirable to continue the march in charge of the soldiers who had remained
faithful, or to take his departure, the god indicated to him by the victims that he should
adopt the former course.

In this way the army was now split up into three divisions (4). First, the Arcadians and Achaeans,
over four thousand five hundred men, all heavy infantry. Secondly, Cheirisophus and his men,
viz. one thousand   16 four hundred heavy infantry and the seven hundred peltasts, or Clearchus's
Thracians. Thirdly, Xenophon's division of one thousand seven hundred heavy infantry, and three
hundred peltasts; but then he alone had the cavalry--about forty troopers.

 (4) The total now amounted to 8640 and over.

The Arcadians, who had bargained with the Heracleots and got some vessels from them, were the
first to set sail; they hoped, by pouncing suddenly on the Bithynians, to make as large a haul
as possible. With that object they disembarked at Calpe Haven (5), pretty nearly at the middle
point in Thrace. Cheirisophus setting off straight from Heraclea, commenced a land march through
the country; but having entered into Thrace, he preferred to cling to the seaboard, health
and strength failing him. Xenophon, lastly, took vessels, and disembarking on the confines
of Thrace and the Heracleotid, pushed forward through the heart of the country (6).

 (5) The Haven of Calpe = Kirpe Liman or Karpe in the modern maps. The
    name is interesting as being also the ancient name of the rock
    fortress of Gibraltar.

 (6) Some MSS. here read, "In the prior chapter will be found a
    description of the manner in which the absolute command of
    Cheirisophus was abruptly terminated and the army of the Hellenes
    broken up. The sequel will show how each of these divisions
    fared." The passage is probably one of those commentators' notes,
    with which we are now familiar.

III

The Arcadians, disembarking under cover of night at Calpe Haven,        1 marched against the
nearest villages about thirty furlongs from the sea; and as soon as it was light, each of the
ten generals led his company to attack one village, or if the village were large, a couple
of companies advanced under their combined generals. They further agreed upon a certain knoll,
where they were all eventually to assemble. So sudden was their attack that they seized a number
of captives and enclosed a multitude of small cattle. But the Thracians who escaped began to
collect again; for being light-armed troops they had slipped in large numbers through the hands
of the heavy infantry; and now that they were got together they first attacked the company
of the Arcadian general, Smicres, who had done his work and was retiring to the appointed meeting-place,
driving along a large train of captives and cattle. For a good while the Hellenes maintained
a running fight (1); but at the passage of a gorge the enemy routed them,  5 slaying Smicres
himself and those with him to a man. The fate of another company under command of Hegesander,
another of the ten, was nearly as bad; only eight men escaped, Hegesander being one of them.
The remaining captains eventually met, some with somewhat to show for their pains, others empty-handed.

 (1) Lit. "marched and fought," as did the forlorn hope under Sir C.
    Wilson making its way from Abu Klea to the Nile in Jan. 1885.

The Thracians, having achieved this success, kept up a continual shouting and clatter of conversation
to one another during the night; but with day-dawn they marshalled themselves right round the
knoll on which the Hellenes were encamped--both cavalry in large numbers and light-armed troops--while
every minute the stream of new-comers grew greater. Then they commenced an attack on the heavy
infantry in all security, for the Hellenes had not a single bowman, javelin-man, or mounted
trooper amongst them; while the enemy rushed forward on foot or galloped up on horseback and
let fly their javelins. It was vain to attempt to retaliate, so lightly did they spring back
and escape; and ever the attack renewed itself from every point, so that on one side man after
man was wounded, on the other not a soul was touched; the result being that they could not
stir from their position, and the Thracians ended by cutting them off even from their water.
In their despair they began to parley about a truce, and finally various concessions were made
and terms agreed to between them; but the Thracians would not hear of giving hostages in answer
to the demand of the Hellenes; at that point the matter rested. So fared it with the Arcadians.

As to Cheirisophus, that general prosecuted his march along the         10 seaboard, and without
check reached Calpe Haven. Xenophon advanced through the heart of the country; and his cavalry
pushing on in front, came upon some old men pursuing their road somewither, who were brought
to him, and in answer to his question, whether they had caught sight of another Hellenic army
anywhere, told him all that had already taken place, adding that at present they were being
besieged upon a knoll with all the Thracians in close circle round them. Thereupon he kept
the old men under strict guard to serve as guides in case of need; next, having appointed outposts,
he called a meeting of the soldiers, and addressed them: "Soldiers, some of the Arcadians are
dead and the rest are being besieged upon a certain knoll. Now my own belief is, that if they
are to perish, with their deaths the seal is set to our own fate: since we must reckon with
an enemy at once numerous and emboldened. Clearly our best course is to hasten to their rescue,
if haply we may find them still alive, and do battle by their side rather than suffer isolation,
confronting danger single-handed.

"Let us then at once push forward as far as may seem opportune till supper-time, and then encamp.
As long as we are marching, let Timasion, with the cavalry, gallop on in front, but without
losing sight of us; and let him examine all closely in front, so that nothing may escape our
observation." (At the same time too, he sent out some nimble fellows of the light-armed troops
to the flanks and to the high tops, who were to give a signal if they espied anything anywhere;
ordering them to burn everything inflammable which lay in their path.) "As for ourselves,"
he continued, "we need not look to find cover in any direction; for it is a long step back
to Heraclea and a long leap across to Chrysopolis, and the enemy is at the door. The shortest
road is to Calpe Haven, where we suppose Cheirisophus, if safe, to be; but then, when we get
there, at Calpe Haven there are no vessels for us to sail away in; and if we stop here, we
have not provisions for a single day. Suppose the beleaguered Arcadians left to their fate,
we shall find it but a sorry alternative to run the gauntlet with Cheirisophus's detachment
alone; better to save them if we can, and     17 with united forces work out our deliverance
in common. But if so, we must set out with minds prepared, since to-day either a glorious death
awaits us or the achievement of a deed of noblest emprise in the rescue of so many Hellene
lives. Maybe it is God who leads us thus, God who chooses to humble the proud boaster, boasting
as though he were exceedingly wise, but for us, the beginning of whose every act is by heaven's
grace, that same God reserves a higher grade of honour. One duty I would recall to you, to
apply your minds to the execution of the orders with promptitude."

With these words he led the way. The cavalry, scattering as far in advance as was prudent,
wherever they set foot, set fire. The peltasts moving parallel on the high ground were similarly
employed, burning everything combustible they could discover. While the main army, wherever
they came upon anything which had accidentally escaped, completed the work, so that the whole
country looked as if it were ablaze; and the army might easily pass for a larger one. When
the hour had come, they turned aside to a knoll and took up quarters; and there they espied
the enemy's watch-fires. He was about forty furlongs distant. On their side also they kindled
as many watch-fires as possible; but as soon as they had dined the order was passed to quench
all the fires. So during the night they posted guards and slept. But at daybreak they offered
prayers to the gods, and drawing up in order of battle, began marching with what speed they
might. Timasion and the cavalry, who had the guides with them, and were moving on briskly in
front, found themselves without knowing it at the very knoll upon which the Hellenes had been
beleaguered. But no army could they discover, whether of friend or foe; only some starveling
old women and men, with a few sheep and oxen which had been left behind. This news they reported
to Xenophon and the main body. At first the marvel was what had happened; but ere long they
found out by inquiries from the folk who had been left behind, that the Thracians had set off
immediately after sundown, and were gone; the Hellenes had waited till morning before they
made off, but in what direction, they could not     23 say.

On hearing this, Xenophon's troops first breakfasted, and then getting their kit together began
their march, desiring to unite with the rest at Calpe's Haven without loss of time. As they
continued their march, they came across the track of the Arcadians and Achaeans along the road
to Calpe, and both divisions arriving eventually at the same place, were overjoyed to see one
another again, and they embraced each other like brothers. Then the Arcadians inquired of Xenophon's
officers--why they had quenched the watch-fires?"At first," said they, "when we lost sight
of your watch-fires, we expected you to attack the enemy in the night; and the enemy, so at
least we imagined, must have been afraid of that and so set off. The time at any rate at which
they set off would correspond. But when the requisite time had elapsed and you did not come,
we concluded that you must have learnt what was happening to us, and in terror had made a bolt
for it to the seaboard. We resolved not to be left behind by you; and that is how we also came
to march hither."

IV

During this day they contented themselves with bivouacking there on     1 the beach at the
harbour. The place which goes by the name of Calpe Haven is in Asiatic Thrace, the name given
to a region extending from the mouth of the Euxine all the way to Heraclea, which lies on the
right hand as you sail into the Euxine. It is a long day's voyage for a war-ship, using her
three banks of oars, from Byzantium to Heraclea, and between these two there is not a single
Hellenic or friendly city, but only these Bithynian Thracians, who have a bad reputation for
the savagery with which they treat any Hellenes cast ashore by shipwreck or otherwise thrown
into their power.

Now the haven of Calpe lies exactly midway, halving the voyage between Byzantium and Heraclea.
It is a long promontory running out into the sea; the seaward portion being a rocky precipice,
at no point less than twenty fathoms high; but on the landward side there is a neck      3
about four hundred feet wide; and the space inside the neck is capable of accommodating ten
thousand inhabitants, and there is a haven immediately under the crag with a beach facing the
west. Then there is a copious spring of fresh water flowing on the very marge of the sea commanded
by the stronghold. Again, there is plenty of wood of various sorts; but most plentiful of all,
fine shipbuilding timber down to the very edge of the sea. The upland stretches into the heart
of the country for twenty furlongs at least. It is good loamy soil, free from stones. For a
still greater distance the seaboard is thickly grown with large timber trees of every description.
The surrounding country is beautiful and spacious, containing numerous well populated villages.
The soil produces barley and wheat, and pulse of all sorts, millet and sesame, figs in ample
supply, with numerous vines producing sweet wines, and indeed everything else except olives.
Such is the character of the country.

The tents were pitched on the seaward-facing beach, the soldiers being altogether averse to
camping on ground which might so easily be converted into a city. Indeed, their arrival at
the place at all seemed very like the crafty design of some persons who were minded to form
a city. The aversion was not unnatural, since the majority of the soldiers had not left their
homes on so long a voyage from scantiness or subsistence, but attracted by the fame of Cyrus's
virtues; some of them bringing followers, while others had expended money on the expedition.
And amongst them was a third set who had run away from fathers and mothers; while a different
class had left children behind, hoping to return to them with money or other gains. Other people
with Cyrus won great success, they were told (1); why should it not be so with them? Being
persons then of this description, the one longing of their hearts was to reach Hellas safely.

 (1) I.e. "his society was itself a passport to good fortune."

It was on the day after their meeting that Xenophon sacrificed as a preliminary to a military
expedition; for it was needful to march out in search of provisions, besides which he designed
burying the dead.    9 As soon as the victims proved favourable they all setout, the Arcadians
following with the rest. The majority of the dead, who had lain already five days, they buried
just where they had fallen, in groups; to remove their bodies now would have been impossible.
Some few, who lay off the roads, they got together and buried with what splendour they could,
considering the means in their power. Others they could not find, and for these they erected
a great cenotaph (2), and covered it with wreaths. When it was all done, they returned home
to camp. At that time they supped, and went to rest.

 (2) "Cenotaph", i.e. "an empty tomb." The word is interesting as
    occurring only in Xenophon, until we come to the writers of the
    common dialect. Compare "hyuscyamus," hogbean, our henbane, which
    we also owe to Xenophon. "Oecon." i. 13, see Sauppe, "Lexil. Xen."
    s.vv.

Next day there was a general meeting of the soldiers, collected chiefly by Agasias the Stymphalian,
a captain, and Hieronymus, an Eleian, also a captain, and other seniors of the Arcadians; and
they passed a resolution that, for the future, whoever revived the idea of breaking up the
army should be punished by death. And the army, it was decided, would now resume its old position
under the command of its former generals. Though Cheirisophus, indeed, had already died under
medical treatment for fever (3); and Neon the Asinaean had taken his place.

 (3) This I take to be the meaning of the words, which are necessarily
    ambiguous, since {pharmakon}, "a drug," also means "poison." Did
    Cheirisophus conceivably die of fever brought on by some poisonous
    draught? or did he take poison whilst suffering from fever? or did
    he die under treatment?

After these resolutions Xenophon got up and said: "Soldiers, the journey must now, I presume,
be conducted on foot; indeed, this is clear, since we have no vessels; and we are driven to
commence it at once, for we have no provisions if we stop. We then," he continued, "will sacrifice,
and you must prepare yourselves to fight now, if ever, for the spirit of the enemy has revived."

