A careful analysis of the life of coast peoples in relation to all the factors of their land
and sea environment shows that these are multiform, and that none are negligible; it takes
into consideration the extent, fertility, and relief of the littoral, its accessibility from
the land as well as from the sea, and its location in regard to outlying islands and to opposite
shores, whether near or far; it holds in view not only the small articulations that give the
littoral ready contact with the sea, but the relation of the seaboard to the larger continental
articulations, whether it lies on an outrunning spur of a continental mass, like the Malacca,
Yemen, or Peloponnesian coast, or upon a retiring inlet that brings it far into the heart of
a continent, and provides it with an extensive hinterland; and, finally, it never ignores the
nature of the bordering sea, which furnishes the school of seamanship and fixes the scope of
maritime enterprise.

All these various elements of coastal environment are further differentiated in their use and
their influence according to the purposes of those who come to tenant such tide-washed rims
of the land. Pirates seek intricate channels and hidden inlets for their lairs; a merchant
people select populous harbors and navigable river mouths; would-be colonists settle upon fertile
valleys opening into quiet bays, till their fields, and use their coasts for placid maritime
trade with the mother country; interior peoples, pushed or pushing out to the tidal periphery
of their continent, with no maritime history behind them, build their fishing villages on protected
lagoons, and, unless the shadowy form of some outlying island lure them farther, there they
tarry, deaf to the siren song of the sea.

NOTES TO CHAPTER VIII

[412] Rudolph Reinhard, Die Wichtigsten Deutschen Seehandelstädte, pp. 24, 25. Stuttgart, 1901.
Joseph Partsch, Central Europe, p. 291. London, 1903.

[413] Ibid, p. 301.

[414] John Richard Green, The Making of England, Vol. I, pp. 51-54; maps, pp. 36 and 54. London,
1904.

[415] Ibid, Vol. I, pp. 12, 63; maps pp. xxii and 54.

[416] Ratzel, History of Mankind, Vol. III, pp. 98, 139. London, 1896-1898.

[417] Joseph Partsch, Central Europe, pp. 284-288. London, 1903.

[418] H.B. Mill, International Geography, p. 251. New York, 1902.

[419] Rudolph Reinhard, Die Wichtigsten Deutschen Seehandelstädte, pp. 21-22. Stuttgart, 1901.

[420] Fitz-Roy and Darwin, Voyage of the Beagle, Vol. II, pp. 140, 178; Vol. III, pp. 231-236.
London, 1839.

[421] Eleventh Census, Population and Resources of Alaska, pp. 166-171. Washington, 1893.

[422] Nordenskiold, The Voyage of the Vega, pp. 327, 334, 335, 365, 366, 412, 416, 459, 467.
New York, 1882.

[423] G. Frederick Wright, Greenland Icefields, pp. 68-70, 100, 105. New York, 1896. For Eskimo
of Hudson Bay and Baffin Land, see F. Boas, The Central Eskimo, pp. 419, 420, 460-462. Sixth
Annual Report of the Bureau of Ethnology. Washington, 1888.

[424] Bella Gallico, Book III, chap. 12.

[425] Ernst Curtius, History of Greece, Vol. I, p, 15. New York.

[426] Strabo's Geography, Book II, chap. V, 4. Book III, chap. I, 4.

[427] Grote, History of Greece, Vol. III, pp. 266-267. New York, 1857.

[428] Thucydides, Book VI, 2.

[429] Grote, History of Greece, Vol. III, p. 273. New York, 1857.

[430] Strabo's Geography, Book XVII, chap. III, 13, 14.

[431] Thucydides, Book I, 5, 7, 8.

[432] Strabo, Book VIII, chap. VI, 2, 4, 13, 14, 22.

[433] Grote, History of Greece, Vol. III, pp. 4, 191. New York, 1857.

[434] J. Partsch, Central Europe, p. 291. London, 1903.

[435] Rudolph Reinhard, Die Wichtigsten Deutschen Seehandelstädte, p. 23. Stuttgart, 1901.

[437] Bunbury, History of Ancient Geography, Vol. II, pp. 452-454, 610. London, 1883. Duarte
Barbosa, East Africa and Malabar Coasts in the Sixteenth Century, p. 3-16. Hakluyt Society,
London, 1866.

[438] Ernst Curtius, History of Greece, Vol. I, pp. 433-434. New York.

[439] W.B. Weeden, Economic and Social History of New England, Vol. I, p. 93. Boston, 1899.

[440] Norway, Official Publication, p. 1. Christiania, 1900.

[441] Ratzel, Deutschland, pp. 150-151. Leipzig, 1898.

[442] J. Partsch, Central Europe, pp. 227-230. London, 1903.

[443] Elisée Reclus, The Earth and Its Inhabitants; Europe, Vol. 1, pp. 370-372. New York, 1886.

[444] Ernst Curtius, History of Greece, Vol. I, pp. 15-20. New York.

[445] Heinrich von Treitschke, Politik, Vol. 1, p. 215. Leipzig, 1897.

[446] H.J. Mackinder, Britain and the British Seas, pp. 35, 40. London, 1902.

[447] William Morris Davis, Physical Geography, pp. 115-122. Boston, 1899.

[448] Ratzel, History of Mankind, Vol. III, p. 95. London, 1896-1898.

[449] Strabo, Book XVII, chap. I, 18. Diodorus Siculus, Book I, chap. III, p. 36. London, 1814.

[450] J. Partsch, Central Europe, pp. 96-98. London, 1903. Ratzel, Deutschland, pp. 143-144.
Leipzig, 1898.

[451] For geomorphology of coasts, see William Morris Davis, Physical Geography, pp. 112-136,
347-383. Boston, 1899.

[452] Elisée Reclus, Europe, Vol. II, p, 252. New York, 1886.

[453] J. Partsch, Central Europe, p. 231. London, 1903.

[454] G.G. Chisholm, Commercial Geography, pp. 44, 446. London, 1904.

[455] H.R. Mill, International Geography, p. 1012. New York, 1902. Hereford George, Historical
Geography of the British Empire, pp. 278-279. London, 1904.

[456] J.E. Thorold Rogers, Six Centuries of Work and Wages, pp. 123-124. New York, 1884.

[457] H.R. Mill, International Geography, p. 148. New York, 1902.

[458] Diodorus Siculus, Book V, chap. I, p. 304. London, 1814. Strabo, Book V, chap. VI, 6, 7.

[459] Helmolt, History of the World, Vol. I, pp. 188-189, 193-195. New York, 1902-1906.

[460] Strabo, Book XVI, chap. III, 4, 27. Herodotus, Book I, chap. I; Book VII, chap. 89. J.T.
Brent, The Bahrein Islands of the Persian Gulf, Proceedings of the Royal Geographical Society,
Vol. XII, pp. 13-16. London, 1890. New York, 1897.

[462] Ibid., pp. 179, 185, 286.

[463] Ibid., pp. 127-131.

[464] Ratzel, History of Mankind, Vol. III, pp. 100-102, 132-145. London, 1896-1898.

[465] H.R. Mill, International Geography, p. 985. New York, 1902.

[466] D.G. Hogarth, The Nearer East, pp. 84, 166. London, 1902.

[467] J. Naken, Die Provinz Kwangtung und ihre Bevölkerung, Petermanns Geographische Mittheilungen,
Vol. 24, pp. 409, 420. 1878. Ferdinand von Richthofen, China, Vol. I, pp. 568-569. Berlin,
1877. Cathay and the Way Thither, Vol. I, p. lxxviii. Hakluyt Society, London, 1866.

[468] Ratzel, History of Mankind, Vol. I, p. 397. London, 1896-1898. Philippine Census, Vol.
I, pp. 438, 481-491. Washington, 1905.

[469] Stanford's Australasia, Vol. II, pp. 103, 121, 126-135, 196. London, 1894. Helmolt, History
of the World, Vol. II, p. 547. New York, 1902-1906.

[470] Ibid., Vol. III, pp. 431, 434. Vol. II, p. 603. Stuttgart, 1899. Capt. A.T. Mahan, Influence
of Sea Power upon History, pp. 26-28. Boston, 1902.

[472] D.G. Hogarth, The Nearer East, pp. 111-112, 152. London, 1902.

[473] Ibid., pp. 73-74, 139, 267.

[474] Cathay and the Way Thither, Vol. I, p. LXXX. Hakluyt Society. London, 1866. Helmolt,
History of the World, Vol. II, p. 548. New York, 1902-1906.

[475] The Book of Ser Marco Polo, edited by Sir Henry Yule, Vol. II, Book III, pp. 284, 288,
303. New York, 1903.

[476] P. Vidal de la Blache, Géographie de la France, pp. 335-337. Paris, 1903.

[477] Elisée Reclus, Europe, Vol. II, p. 252. New York, 1882.

[478] Norway, Official Publication, pp. 89-91, map p. 4. Christiania, 1900.

[479] D.G. Hogarth, The Nearer East, pp. 114, 140, 163-164, 202, 267. London, 1902.

[480] H.F. Tozer, History of Ancient Geography, pp. 276-280. Cambridge, 1897. Strabo, Book
XVI, chap. IV, 2, 19.

[481] Helmolt, History of the World, Vol. III, p. 433. New York, 1902-1906.

[482] James Bryce, Impressions of South Africa, pp. 78-82, 99. New York, 1897.

[483] Anatole Leroy-Beaulieu, The Empire of the Tsars, Vol. I, map p. 80. New York, 1893.

[484] Census of the Philippine Islands, Vol. I, pp. 412-413, 481, 464, 562., Washington, 1905.

[485] Ibid., Vol. I, p. 416.

[486] Ratzel, History of Mankind, Vol. III, p. 449. London, 1896-1898.

[487] P. Ehrenreich, Die Eintheilung und Verbreitung der Völkerstämme Brasiliens, Petermanns
Mittheilungen, Vol. 37, pp. 88-89. Gotha, 1891. Helmolt, History of the World, Vol. I, p. 185,
map p. 189. New York, 1902-1906.

[488] John Richard Green, The Making of England, Vol. I, chap. I. London, 1904.

[489] H.J. Mackinder, Britain and the British Seas, p. 189. London, 1904. W.Z. Ripley, Races
of Europe, pp. 312-315, map. New York, 1899.

[490] D.G. Hogarth, The Nearer East, p. 152. London, 1902. W. Z. Ripley, Races of Europe, pp.
402, 404, map. New York, 1899.

[491] Ibid., pp. 117, 404-405, 409-419.

[492] Ibid., pp. 206-208, 210-212. Norway, Official Publication, pp. 80-81. Christiania, 1900.

[493] Census of the Philippine Islands, Vol. II, p. 52, map p. 50. Washington, 1905.

[494] Grote, History of Greece, Vol. III, pp. 175-176, 186-189. New York, 1857.

[495] Ernst Curtius, History of Greece, Vol. I, pp. 492-493. New York.

[496] Ratzel, History of Mankind, Vol. II, pp. 530-533. London, 1896-1898.

[497] H.D. Trail, Social England, Vol. III, pp. 367-368. London and New York, 1895.

[498] Twelfth Census, Bulletin No. 103, table 23. Washington, 1902.

[499] E.C. Semple, American History and Its Geographic Conditions, pp. 314-328. Boston, 1903.

[500] G.G. Chisholm, Commercial Geography, p. 58. London, 1904.

[501] Roscher, National-Oekonomik des Handels und Gewerbefleisses, p. 85, Note 18. Stuttgart, 1899.

[502] Ratzel, History of Mankind, Vol. II, p. 533. London, 1896-1898.

[503] Ibid., Vol. III, pp. 139, 145.

[504] H.R. Mill, International Geography, p. 869. New York, 1902.

[505] D.G. Brinton, The American Race, p. 107. Philadelphia, 1901. H.H. Bancroft, The Native
Races, p. 239, footnote p. 274. San Francisco, 1886.

[506] Josephus, Antiquities of the Jews, Book VIII, chap. II, 6, 7, 9.

[507] J. Scott Keltie, The Partition of Africa, p. 327. London, 1895. Ratzel, History of Mankind,
Vol. III, pp. 121-122. London, 1896-1898.

[508] Ibid., Vol. III, pp. 121, 132-133.

[509] Ibid., Vol. II, p. 239.

[510] Eleventh Census, Report on Alaska, p. 70. Washington, 1893.

[511] Ibid., p. 156. E.R. Scidmore, Guidebook to Alaska, p. 94. New; York, 1897.

[512] Census of the Philippine Islands, Vol. I, pp. 556-561, 575, 581-583. Washington, 1905.

[513] W.Z. Ripley, Races of Europe, pp. 85-86, 99-101, map pp. 151-152. New York, 1899.

[514] Ratzel, History of Mankind, Vol. III, pp. 97, 106. New York, 1896-1898.

[515] Henry Gannett, The Peoples of the Philippines, in Report of the Eighth International
Geographic Congress, p. 673. Washington, 1904.

[516] A.H. Keane, Africa, Stanford's Compendium, pp. 372-376, 385-388. London, 1895. Helmolt,
History of the World, Vol. III, pp. 402, 456-457, 462. New York, 1902-1906.

[517] H.H. Bancroft, The Native Races, Vol. I, pp. 440-441; Vol. III, pp. 325, 362. San Francisco,
1886. McGee and Thomas, Prehistoric North America, pp. 37-38, 78, 88-89, 95-98. Vol. XIX of
History of North America. Philadelphia, 1905.

[518] Grote, History of Greece, Vol. IV, p. 22. New York, 1857.

[519] Ibid., Vol. II, pp. 225, 226.

[520] Census of the Philippine Islands, Vol. II, pp. 34, 35. Washington, 1905.

[521] Williams and Calvert, Fiji and the Fijians, pp. 81-82. New York, 1859.

[522] Strabo, Book V, chap. I, 7, 8.

[523] Strabo, Book IV, chap. VI, 1, 2; Book V, chap. I, 11.

[524] Dietrich Schäfer, Die Hansestädte und König Waldemar von Dänemark, pp. 184, 189. Jena, 1879.

[525] W. Deecke, Italy, pp. 89-91. London, 1904.

[526] Strabo, Book III, chap. I, 2.

[527] Roscher, National-Oekonomik des Handels und Gewerbefleisses, p. 93, Note 1. Stuttgart, 1899.

CHAPTER IX

OCEANS AND ENCLOSED SEAS

The water of the earth's surface, viewed from the standpoint of anthropo-geography, is one,
whether it appears as atmospheric moisture, spring, river, lake, brackish lagoon, enclosed
sea-basin or open ocean. Its universal circulation, from the falling of the dews to the vast
sweep of ocean current, causes this inviolable unity. Variations in the geographical forms
of water are superficial and constantly changing; they pass into one another by almost imperceptible
gradations, shift their unstable outlines at the bidding of the mobile, restless element. In
contrast to the land, which is marked by diversity of geologic structure and geographic form,
the world of water is everywhere approximately the same, excepting only the difference in the
mineral composition of sea water as opposed to that of spring and stream. Therefore, whenever
man has touched it, it has moulded him in much the same way, given the same direction to his
activities, dictated the use of the same implements and methods of navigation. As maritime
trader or colonist, he has sailed to remote, unknown, yet familiar coasts, and found himself
as much at home as on his native shores. He has built up maritime empires, the centre of whose
dominion, race and commerce, falls somewhere in the dividing yet uniting sea.

[Sidenote: The water a factor in man's mobility.]

Man must be grouped with the air and water as part of the mobile envelope of the earth's surface.
The mobility which maintains the unity of air and water has caused the unity of the human race.
Abundant facilities of dispersal often give animal forms a wide or cosmopolitan distribution.
Man, by appropriating the mobile forces in the air and water to increase his own powers of
locomotion, has become a cosmopolitan being, and made the human race reflect the unity of atmosphere
and hydrosphere.

Always the eternal unrest of the moving waters has knocked at the door of human inertia to
arouse the sleeper within; always the flow of stream and the ebb of tide have sooner or later
stirred the curiosity of the land-born barbarian about the unseen destination of these marching
waters. Rivers by the mere force of gravity have carried him to the shores of their common
ocean, and placed him on this highway of the world. Then from his sea-girt home, whether island
or continent, he has timidly or involuntarily followed the track which headland-dotted coast,
or ocean current, or monsoon, or trade wind marked out for him across the pathless waters,
so that at the gray dawn of history he appears as a cosmopolite, occupying every part of the
habitable earth.

These sporadic oversea wanderings, with intervals of centuries or milleniums between, opened
to his occupancy strange and remote lands, in whose isolation and new environment he developed
fresh variations of mind, body and cultural achievements, to arm him with new weapons in the
struggle for existence. The sea which brought him bars him for a few ages from his old home,
till the tradition of his coming even is lost. Then with higher nautical development, the sea
loses its barrier nature; movements of people, and trade recross its surface to unite those
who have been long severed and much differentiated in their mutual remoteness. The ensuing
friction and mingling weed out the less fit variations of each, and combine in the new race
the qualities able to fortify a higher type of man. Not only seas and oceans, but also mountains
and deserts serve to isolate the migrant people who once has crossed them; but wastes of water
raise up the most effective barriers.

[Sidenote: Oceans and seas in universal history.]

The transformation of the ocean into a highway by the development of navigation is a late occurrence
in the history of man and is perhaps the highest phase of his adaptation to environment, because
an adaptation which has placed at his disposal that vast water area constituting three-fourths
of the earth's surface from which he had previously been excluded. Moreover, it was adaptation
to an alien and hostile element, whose violent displays of power recurrently stimulated the
human adjustment between attack and defense.

Because adaptation to the sea has been vastly more difficult than to the land, commensurate
with the harder struggle it has brought greater intellectual and material rewards. This conquest
of the sea is entitled to a peculiarly high place in history, because it has contributed to
the union of the various peoples of the world, has formed a significant part of the history
of man, whether that history is economic, social, political or intellectual. Hence history
has always staged its most dramatic acts upon the margin of seas and oceans; here always the
plot thickens and gives promise of striking development. Rome of the seven hills pales before
England of the "Seven Seas."

[Sidenote: The sea in universal history.]

Universal history loses half its import, remains an aggregate of parts, fails to yield its
significance as a whole, if it does not continually take into account the unifying factor of
the seas. Indeed, no history is entitled to the name of universal unless it includes a record
of human movements and activities on the ocean, side by side with those on the land. Our school
text-books in geography present a deplorable hiatus, because they fail to make a definite study
of the oceans over which man explores and colonizes and trades, as well as the land on which
he plants and builds and sleeps.

The striking fact about the great World Ocean to-day is the manifold relations which it has
established between the dwellers on its various coasts. Marine cables, steamer and sailing
routes combine to form a network of paths across the vast commons of the deep. Over these the
commercial, political, intellectual, or even purely migrant activities of human life move from
continent to continent. The distinctive value of the sea is that it promotes many-sided relations
as opposed to the one-sided relation of the land. France on her eastern frontier comes into
contact with people of kindred stock, living under similar conditions of climate and soil to
her own; on her maritime border she is open to intermittent intercourse with all continents
and climes and races of the world. To this sea border must be ascribed the share that France
has taken in the history of North and South America, the West Indies, North and Equatorial
Africa, India, China and the South Seas. So we find the great maritime peoples of the world,
from the Phoenicians to the English, each figuring in the history of the world of its day,
and helping weave into a web of universal history the stories of its various parts.

[Sidenote: Origin of navigation.]

Man's normal contact with the sea is registered in his nautical achievements. The invention
of the first primitive means of navigation, suggested by a floating log or bloated body of
a dead animal, must have been an early achievement, of a great many peoples who lived near
the water, or who in the course of their wanderings found their progress obstructed by rivers;
it belongs to a large class of similar discoveries which answer urgent and constantly recurring
needs. It was, in all probability, often made and as often lost again, until a growing habit
of venturing beyond shore or river bank in search of better fishing, or of using the easy open
waterways through the thick tangle of a primeval forest to reach fresh hunting grounds, established
it as a permanent acquisition.

[Sidenote: Primitive forms.]

The first devices were simply floats or rafts, made of light wood, reeds, or the hollow stems
of plants woven together and often buoyed up by the inflated skins of animals. Floats of this
character still survive among various peoples, especially in poorly timbered lands. The skin
rafts which for ages have been the chief means of downstream traffic on the rivers of Mesopotamia,
consist of a square frame-work of interwoven reeds and branches, supported by the inflated
skins of sheep and goats;[528] they are guided by oars and poles down or across the current.
These were the primitive means by which Layard transported his winged bull from the ruins of
Nineveh down to the Persian Gulf, and they were the same which he found on the bas-reliefs
of the ancient capital, showing the methods of navigation three thousand years ago.[529] Similar
skin rafts serve as ferry boats on the Sutlej, Shajok and other head streams of the Indus.[530]
They reappear in Africa as the only form of ferry used by the Moors on the River Morbeya in
Morocco; on the Nile, where the inflated skins are supplanted by earthen pots;[531] and on
the Yo River of semi-arid Sudan, where the platform is made of reeds and is buoyed up by calabashes
fastened beneath.[532]

[Sidenote: Primitive craft in arid lands.]

In treeless lands, reeds growing on the margins of streams and lakes are utilized for the construction
of boats. The Buduma islanders of Lake Chad use clumsy skiffs eighteen feet long, made of hollow
reeds tied into bundles and then lashed together in a way to form a slight cavity on top.[533]
In the earliest period of Egyptian history this type of boat with slight variations was used
in the papyrus marshes of the Nile,[534] and it reappears as the ambatch boat which Schweinfurth
observed on the upper White Nile.[535] It is in use far away among the Sayads or Fowlers, who
inhabit the reed-grown rim of the Sistan Lake in arid Persia.[536] As the Peruvian balsa, it
has been the regular means of water travel on Lake Titicaca since the time of the Incas, and
in more primitive form it appears among the Shoshone Indians of the Snake River Valley of Idaho,
who used this device in their treeless land to cross the streams, when the water was too cold
for swimming.[537] Still cruder rafts of reeds, without approach to boat form, were the sole
vehicles of navigation among the backward Indians of San Francisco Bay, and were the prevailing
craft among the coast Indians farther south and about the Gulf of Lower California.[538] Trees
abounded; but these remnant tribes of low intelligence, probably recent arrivals on the coast
from the interior, equipped only with instruments of bone and stone, found the difficulty of
working with wood prohibitive.

The second step in the elaboration of water conveyance was made when mere flotation was succeeded
by various devices to secure displacement. The evolution is obvious. The primitive raftsman
of the Mesopotamian rivers wove his willow boughs and osiers into a large, round basket form,
covered it with closely sewn skins to render it water-tight, and in it floated with his merchandise
down the swift current from Armenia to Babylon. These were the boats which Herodotus saw on
the Euphrates,[539] and which survive to-day.[540] According to Pliny, the ancient Britons
used a similar craft, framed of wicker-work and covered with hide, in which they crossed the
English and Irish channels to visit their kinsfolk on the opposite shores. This skin boat or
coracle or currach still survives on the rivers of Wales and the west coast of Ireland, where
it is used by the fishermen and considered the safest craft for stormy weather.[541] It recalls
the "bull-skin boat" used in pioneer days on the rivers of our western plains, and the skiffs
serving as passenger ferries to-day on the rivers of eastern Tibet.[542] It reappears among
the Arikara Indians of the upper Missouri,[543] and the South American tribes of the Gran Chaco.[544]
The first wooden boat was made of a tree trunk, hollowed out either by fire or axe. The wide
geographical distribution of the dug-out and its survival in isolated regions of highly civilized
lands point it out as one of those necessary and obvious inventions that must have been made
independently in various parts of the world.

[Sidenote: Relation of the river to marine navigation.]

The quieter water of rivers and lakes offered the most favorable conditions for the feeble
beginnings of navigation, but the step from inland to marine navigation was not always taken.
The Egyptians, who had well-constructed river and marine boats, resigned their maritime commerce
to Phoenicians and Greeks, probably, as has been shown, because the silted channels and swamps
of the outer Nile delta held them at arm's length from the sea. Similarly the equatorial lakes
of Central Africa have proved fair schools of navigation, where the art has passed the initial
stages of development. The kingdom of Uganda on Victoria Nyanza, at the time of Stanley's visit,
could muster a war fleet of 325 boats, a hundred of them measuring from fifty to seventy feet
in length; the largest were manned by a crew of sixty-four paddlers and could carry as many
more fighting men.[545] The long plateau course of the mighty Congo has bred a race of river
navigators, issuing from their riparian villages to attack the traveler in big flotillas of
canoes ranging from fifty to eighty-five feet in length, the largest of them driven through
the water by eighty paddlers and steered by eight more paddles in the stern.[546] But the Congo
and lake boats are barred from the coast by a series of cataracts, which mark the passage of
the drainage streams down the escarpment of the plateau.

[Sidenote: Retarded navigation.]

There are peoples without boats or rafts of any description. Among this class are the Central
Australians, Bushmen, navigation. Hottentots and Kaffirs of arid South Africa,[547] and with
few exceptions also the Damaras. Even the coast members of these tribes only wade out into
the shallow water on the beach to spear fish. The traveler moving northward from Cape Town
through South Africa, across its few scant rivers, goes all the way to Ngami Lake before he
sees anything resembling a canoe, and then only a rude dugout. Still greater is the number
of people who, though inhabiting well indented coasts, make little use of contact with the
sea. Navigation, unknown to many Australian coast tribes, is limited to miserable rafts of
mangrove branches on the northwest seaboard, and to imperfect bark canoes with short paddles
on the south; only in the north where Malayan influences are apparent does the hollowed tree-stem
with outrigger appear.[548] This retardation is not due to fear, because the South Australian
native, like the Fuegian, ventures several miles out to sea in his frail canoe; it is due to
that deep-seated inertia which characterizes all primitive races, and for which the remote,
outlying location of peninsular South America, Southern Africa and Australia, before the arrival
of the Europeans, afforded no antidote in the form of stimulating contact with other peoples.
But the Irish, who started abreast of the other northern Celts in nautical efficiency, who
had advantages of proximity to other shores, and in the early centuries of their history sailed
to the far-away Faroes and even to Iceland, peopled southern Scotland by an oversea emigration,
made piratical descents upon the English coast, and in turn received colonies of bold Scandinavian
mariners, suffered an arrested development in navigation, and failed to become a sea-faring folk.

[Sidenote: Regions of advanced navigation.]

Turning from these regions of merely rudimentary navigation and inquiring where the highest
efficiency in the art was obtained before the spread of Mediterranean and European civilization,
we find that this distinction belongs to the great island world of the Pacific and to the neighboring
lands of the Indian Ocean. Sailing vessels and outrigger boats of native design and construction
characterize the whole sea-washed area of Indo-Malaysian civilization from Malacca to the outermost
isles of the Pacific. The eastern rim of Asia, also, belongs to this wide domain of nautical
efficiency, and the coast Indians of southern Alaska and British Columbia may possibly represent
an eastern spur of the same,[549] thrown out in very remote times and maintained by the advantageous
geographic conditions of that indented, mountainous coast. Adjoining this area on the north
is the long-drawn Arctic seaboard of the Eskimo, who unaided have developed in their sealskin
kayak and bidarka sea-going craft unsurpassed for the purposes of marine hunting and fishing,
and who display a fearlessness and endurance born of long and enforced intimacy with the deep.
Driven by the frozen deserts of his home to seek his food chiefly in the water, the Eskimo,
nevertheless, finds his access to the sea barred for long months of winter by the jagged ice-pack
along the shore.

[Sidenote: Geographic conditions in Polynesia.]

The highest degree of intimacy is developed in that vast island-strewn stretch of the Pacific
constituting Oceanica.[550] Here where a mild climate enables the boatman race to make a companion
of the deep, where every landscape is a seascape, where every diplomatic visit or war campaign,
every trading journey or search for new coco-palm plantation means a voyage beyond the narrow
confines of the home island, there dwells a race whose splendid chest and arm muscles were
developed in the gymnasium of the sea; who, living on a paltry 515,000 square miles (1,320,300
square kilometers) of scattered fragments of land, but roaming over an ocean area of twenty-five
million square miles, are not more at home in their palm-wreathed islets than on the encompassing
deep. Migrations, voluntary and involuntary, make up their history. Their trained sense of
locality, enabling them to make voyages several hundred miles from home, has been mentioned
by various explorers in Polynesia. The Marshall Islanders set down their geographical knowledge
in maps which are fairly correct as to bearings but not as to distances. The Ralick Islanders
of this group make charts which include islands, routes and currents.[551] Captain Cook was
impressed by the geographical knowledge of the people of the South Seas. A native Tahitian
made for him a chart containing seventy-four islands, and gave an account of nearly sixty more.[552]
Information and directions supplied by natives have aided white explorers to many discoveries
in these waters. Quiros, visiting the Duff Islands in 1606, learned the location of Ticopia,
one of the New Hebrides group, three hundred miles away. Not only the excellent seamanship
and the related pelagic fishing of the Polynesians bear the stamp of their predominant water
environment; their mythology, their conception of a future state, the germs of their astronomical
science, are all born of the sea.

Though the people living on the uttermost boundaries of this island world are 6,000 miles (or
10,000 kilometers) apart, and might be expected to be differentiated by the isolation of their
island habitats, nevertheless they all have the same fundamental characteristics of physique,
language and culture from Guam to Easter Isle, reflecting in their unity the oneness of the
encompassing ocean over which they circulate.[553]

[Sidenote: Mediterranean versus Atlantic seamanship.]

Midway between these semi-aquatic Polynesians and those Arctic tribes who are forced out upon
the deep, to struggle with it rather than associate with it, we find the inhabitants of the
Mediterranean islands and peninsulas, who are favored by the mild climate and the tideless,
fogless, stormless character of their sea. While such a body of water invites intimacy, it
does not breed a hardy or bold race of navigators; it is a nursery, scarcely a training school.
Therefore, except for the far-famed Dalmatian sailors, who for centuries have faced the storms
sweeping down from the Dinaric Alps over the turbulent surface of the Adriatic, Mediterranean
seamanship does not command general confidence on the high seas. Therefore it is the German,
English and Dutch steamship lines that are to-day the chief ocean carriers from Italian ports
to East Africa, Asia, Australia, North and South America, despite the presence of native lines
running from Genoa to Buenos Ayres. Montevideo and New York; just as it was the Atlantic states
of Europe, and only these and all of these, except Germany, who, trained to venture out into
the fogs and storms and unmarked paths of the mare tenebrosum, participated in the early voyages
to the Americas. One after the other they came--Norwegians, Spaniards, Portuguese, English,
French, Dutch, Swedes and Danes. The anthropo-geographical principle is not invalidated by
the fact that Spain and England were guided in their initial trans-Atlantic voyages by Italian
navigators, like Columbus, Cabot and Amerigo Vespucci. The long maritime experience of Italy
and its commercial relations with the Orient, reaching back into ancient times, furnished abundant
material for the researches and speculations of such practical theorists; but Italy's location
fixed the shores of the Mediterranean as her natural horizon, narrowed her vision to its shorter
radius. Her obvious interest in the preservation of the old routes to the Orient made her turn
a deaf ear to plans aiming to divert European commerce to trans-Atlantic routes. Italy's entrance
upon the high seas was, therefore, reluctant and late, retarded by the necessity of outgrowing
the old circumscribed outlook of the enclosed basin before adopting the wider vision of the
open ocean. Venice and Genoa were crippled not only by the discovery of the sea route to India,
but also by their adherence to old thalassic means and methods of navigation inadequate for
the high seas.[554] However, these Mediterranean sea folk are being gradually drawn out of
their seclusion, as is proved by the increase of Italian oceanic lines and the recent installation
of an Hellenic steamship line between Piræus and New York.

[Sidenote: Three geographic stages of maritime development.]

The size of a sea or ocean is a definite factor in its power to attract or repel maritime ventures,
especially in the earlier stages of nautical development. A broken, indented coast means not
only a longer and broader zone of contact between the inhabitants and the sea; it means also
the breaking up of the adjacent expanse of water into so many alcoves, in which fisherman,
trader and colonist may become at home, and prepare for maritime ventures farther afield. The
enclosed or marginal sea tempts earlier because it can be compassed by coastwise navigation;
then by the proximity of its opposite shores and its usual generous equipment with islands,
the next step to crosswise navigation is encouraged. For the earliest stages of maritime development,
only the smaller articulations of the coast and the inshore fringe of sea inlets count. This
is shown in the primitive voyages of the Greeks, before they had ventured into the Euxine or
west of the forbidding Cape Malia; and in the "inside passage" navigation of the Indians of
southern Alaska, British Columbia, and Chile, who have never stretched their nautical ventures
beyond the outermost rocks of their skerry-walled coast.

[Sidenote: Influence of enclosed seas upon navigation.]

A second stage is reached when an enclosed basin is at, hand to widen the maritime horizon,
and when this larger field is exploited in all its commercial, colonial and industrial possibilities,
as was done by the Phoenicians and Greeks in the Mediterranean, the Hanse Towns in the Baltic,
the Dutch and English in the North Sea. The third and final stage is reached when the nursery
of the inshore estuary or gulf and the elementary school of the enclosed basin are in turn
outgrown, and the larger maritime spirit moves on to the open ocean for its field of operation.
It is a significant fact that the Norse, bred to the water in their fiords and channels behind
their protecting "skerry-wall," then trained in the stormy basins of the North and Irish Seas,
were naturally the first people of Europe to cross the Atlantic, because the Atlantic of their
shores, narrowing like all oceans and seas toward the north, assumes almost the character of
an enclosed basin. The distance from Norway to Greenland is only 1,800 miles, little more than
that across the Arabian Sea between Africa and India. We trace, therefore, a certain analogy
between the physical subdivisions of the world of water into inlet, marginal sea and ocean,
and the anthropo-geographical gradations in maritime development.

The enclosed or marginal sea seems a necessary condition for the advance beyond coastwise navigation
and the much later step to the open ocean. Continents without them, like Africa, except for
its frontage upon the Mediterranean and the Red Sea, have shown no native initiative in maritime
enterprise. Africa was further cursed by the mockery of desert coasts along most of her scant
thalassic shores. In the Americas, we find the native races compassing a wide maritime field
only in the Arctic, where the fragmentary character of the continent breaks up the ocean into
Hudson's Bay, Davis Strait, Baffin Bay, Gulf of Boothia, Melville Sound and Bering Sea; and
in the American Mediterranean of the Caribbean Sea and Gulf of Mexico. The excellent seamanship
developed in the archipelagoes of southern Alaska and Chile remained abortive for maritime
expansion, despite a paucity of local resources and the spur of hunger, owing to the lack of
a marginal sea; but in the Caribbean basin, the Arawaks and later the Caribs spread from the
southern mainland as far as Cuba.[555] [See map page 101.]

[Sidenote: Enclosed seas as areas of ethnic and cultural assimilation.]

Enclosed or marginal seas were historically the most important sections of the ocean prior
to 1492. Apart from the widening of the maritime horizon which they give to their bordering
people, each has the further advantage of constituting an area of close vicinal grouping and
constant interchange of cultural achievements, by which the civilization of the whole basin
tends to become elevated and unified. This unification frequently extends to race also, owing
to the rapidity of maritime expansion and the tendency to ethnic amalgamation characteristic
of all coast regions. We recognize an area of Mediterranean civilization from the Isthmus of
Suez to the Sacred Promontory of Portugal, and in this area a long-headed, brunette Mediterranean
race, clearly unified as to stock, despite local differentiations of culture, languages and
nations in the various islands, peninsulas and other segregated coastal regions of this sea.[556]
The basin appears therefore as an historical whole; for in it a certain group of peoples concentrated
their common efforts, which crossed and criss-crossed from shore to shore. Phoenicia's trade
ranged westward to the outer coasts of Spain, and later Barcelona's maritime enterprises reached
east to the Levant. Greece's commercial and colonial relations embraced the Crimea and the
mouth of the Rhone, and Genoa's extended east to the Crimea again. The Saracens, on reaching
the Mediterranean edge of the Arabian peninsula, swept the southern coasts and islands, swung
up the western rim of the basin to the foot of the Pyrenees, and taught the sluggish Spaniards
the art of irrigation practiced on the garden slopes of Yemen. The ships of the Crusaders from
Venice, Genoa and Marseilles anchored in the ports of Mohammedanized Syria, brought the symbol
of the cross back to its birthplace In Jerusalem, but carried away with them countless suggestions
from the finished industries of the East. Here was give and take, expansion and counter-expansion,
conquest and expulsion, all together making up a great sum of reciprocal relations embracing
the whole basin, the outcome of that close geographical connection which every sharply defined
sea establishes between the coasts which it washes.

[Sidenote: North Sea and Baltic basins.]

The same thing has come to pass in the North Sea. Originally Celtic on its western or British
side, as opposed to its eastern or Germanic coast, it has been wholly Teutonized on that flank
also from the Strait of Dover to the Firth of Tay, and sprinkled with Scandinavian settlers
from the Firth of Tay northward to Caithness.[557] The eleventh century saw this ethnic unification
achieved, and the end of the Middle Ages witnessed the diffusion of the elements of a common
civilization through the agency of commerce from Bruges to Bergen. The Baltic, originally Teutonic
only on its northern and western shores, has in historical times become almost wholly Teutonic,
including even the seaboard of Finland and much of the coast provinces of Russia.[558] Unification
of civilization attended this unification of race. In its period of greatest historical significance
from the twelfth to the seventeenth century, the Baltic played the rôle of a northern Mediterranean.[559]
The countless shuttles of the Hanse ships wove a web of commercial intercourse between its
remotest shores. Novgorod and Abö were in constant communication with Lübeck and Stralsund;[560]
and Wisby, on the island of Gotland at the great crossroads of the Baltic,[561] had the focal
significance of the Piræus in ancient Aegean trade.

[Sidenote: Bering Sea.]

If we turn to Asia, we find that even the unfavorable Arctic location of Bering Sea has been
unable to rob it entirely of historical significance. This is the one spot where a native American
race has transplanted itself by its natural expansion to Asiatic shores. The circular rim and
island-dotted surface have guided Eskimo emigrants to the coast of the Chukchian Peninsula,
where they have become partly assimilated in dress and language to the local Chukches.[562]
The same conditions also facilitated the passage of a few Chukches across Bering Strait to
the Alaskan side. At Pak (or Peck) on East Cape and on Diomed Island, situated in the narrowest
part of Bering Strait, are the great intercontinental markets of the polar tribes. Here American
furs have for many decades been exchanged for the reindeer skins of northern Siberia and Russian
goods from far-away Moscow.[563] Only the enclosed character of the sea, reported by the Danish
explorer Vitus Bering, tempted the land-bred Russians, who reached the northeastern coast of
Siberia at the middle of the eighteenth century, to launch their leaky boats of unseasoned
timber, push across to the American continent, and make this whole Bering basin a Russian sea;[564]
just as a few decades before, when land exploration of Kamchatka had revealed the enclosed
character of the Sea of Okhotsk, the Russian pioneers took a straight course across the water
to their Pacific outpost of Petropavlovsk near the southern end of the peninsula. But even
before the coming of the Slavs to its shores, the Sea of Okhotsk seems to have been an area
of native commercial and ethnic intercourse from the Amur River in Siberia in a half circle
to the east, through Sakhalin, Yezo, the Kurile Islands and southern Kamchatka,[565] noticeably
where the rim of the basin presented the scantiest supply of land and where, therefore, its
meager resources had to be eked out by fisheries and trade on the sea.

[Sidenote: Red Sea basin.]

On the southwest margin of Asia, the Red Sea, despite its desert shores, has maintained the
influence of its intercontinental location and linked the neighboring elements of Africa and
Asia. Identity of climatic conditions on both sides of this long rift valley has facilitated
ethnic exchanges, and made it the center of what Ratzel calls the "Red Sea group of peoples,"
related in race and culture.[566] The great ethnic solvent here has been Semitic. Under the
spur of Islam, the Arabs by 1514 had made the Red Sea an Arabian and Mohammedan sea. They had
their towns or trading stations at Zeila on the African side of the Strait of Bab-el-Mandeb,
at Dalaqua, the port of Abyssinia, at Massowa, Suakin, and other towns, so that this coast
too was called Arabia Felix.[567]

[Sidenote: Assimilation facilitated by ethnic kinship.]

Vicinal location about an enclosed basin produces more rapidly a unification of race and culture,
when some ethnic relationship and affinity already exists among the peoples inhabiting its
shores. As in the ancient and medieval Mediterranean, so in the Yellow Sea of Asia, the working
of this principle is apparent. The presence along its coasts of divergent but kindred peoples
like the Chinese, Koreans and Japanese, allowed these to be easily assimilated to a Yellow
Sea race and to absorb quickly any later infusion, like that of the Tatars and Manchus. China,
by reason of its larger area, long-drawn coast, massive population, and early civilization,
was the dominant factor in this basin; Korea and Japan were its culture colonies-a fact that
justifies the phrase calling "China the Rome of the Far East." Historical Japan began on the
island of Kiu-sui, facing the Yellow Sea. Like Korea, it derived its writing, its fantastic
medical notions, its industrial methods, some features of its government administration, its
Buddhism and its religion of Confucius from the people about the lower Hoangho.[568] Three
centuries ago Japan had its colony on Korean soil at Fusan, the Calais of the East.[569] For
purposes of piracy and smuggling Japanese penetrated far up the rivers of China. Korea has
kept in touch with China by an active trade and diplomatic relations through the centuries.

But to-day China is going to school to Japan. Since Japan renounced her policy of seclusion
in 1868 along with her antiquated form of government, and since Korea has been forced out of
her hermit life, the potency of vicinal location around this enclosed sea has been suddenly
restored. The enforced opening of the treaty ports of Japan, Korea and China simply prepared
the way for this basin to reassert its power to unite, and to unite now more closely and effectively
than ever before, under the law of increasing territorial areas. The stimulus was first communicated
to the basin from without, from the trading nations of the Occident and that new-born Orient
rising from the sea on the California shores. Japan has responded most promptly and most actively
to these over-sea stimuli, just as England has, of all Europe, felt most strongly the reflex
influences from trans-Atlantic lands. The awakening of this basin has started, therefore, from
its seaward rim; its star has risen in the east. It is in the small countries of the world
that such stars rise. The compressed energies of Japan, stirred by over-sea contact and an
improved government at home, have overleaped the old barriers and are following the lines of
slight resistance which this land-bound sea affords. Helped by the bonds of geographical conditions
and of race, she has begun to convert China and Korea into her culture colonies. The on-looking
world feels that the ultimate welfare of China and Korea can be best nurtured by Japan, which
will thus pay its old debt to the Middle Kingdom.

[Sidenote: Chinese expansion seaward.]

Despite the fact that China's history has always had a decidedly inland character, that its
political expansion has been landward, that it has practiced most extensively and successively
internal colonization, and that its policy of exclusion has tended to deaden its outlook toward
the Pacific, nevertheless China's direct intercourse with the west and its westward-directed
influence have never, in point of significance, been comparable with that toward the east and
south. Here a succession of marginal seas offered easy water-paths, dotted with way stations,
to their outermost rim in Japan, the Philippines and remote Australia. About the South China
Sea, the Gulf of Siam, the Sulu, Celebes, and Java Seas, the coastal regions of the outlying
islands have for centuries received Chinese goods and culture, and a blend of that obstinately
assertive Chinese blood.

The strength of these influences has decreased with every increase of distance from the indented
coasts and teeming, seafaring population of South China, and with every decrease in race affinity.
They have left only faint traces on the alien shores of far-away Australia. The divergent ethnic
stock of the widespread Malay world has been little susceptible to these influences, which
are therefore weak in the remoter islands, but clearly discernible on the coasts of the Philippines,[570]
Borneo, the nearer Sunda Islands, and the peninsula of Malacca, where the Chinese have had
trading colonies for centuries.[571] But in the eastern half of Farther India, which is grouped
with China by land as well as by sea, and whose race stock is largely if not purely Mongolian,
these influences are very marked, so that the whole continental rim of the South China Sea,
from Formosa to the Isthmus of Malacca, is strongly assimilated in race and culture. Tongking,
exposed to those modifying influences which characterize all land frontiers, as well as to
coastwise intercourse, is in its people and civilization merely a transcript of China. The
coast districts and islands of Annam are occupied by Chinese as far as the hills of Cambodia,
and the name of Cochin China points to the origin of its predominant population. One-sixth
of the inhabitants of Siam are Chinese, some of whom have filtered through the northern border;
Bangkok, the capital, has a large Chinese quarter. The whole economic life and no small part
of the intellectual life of the eastern face of Farther India south to Singapore is centered
in the activity of the Chinese.[572]

[Sidenote: Importance of zonal and continental location.]

The historical significance of an enclosed sea basin depends upon its zonal location and its
position in relation to the surrounding lands. We observe a steady decrease of historical importance
from south to north through the connected series of the Yellow, Japan, Okhotsk, Bering Seas
and the Arctic basin, miscalled ocean. The far-northern location of the Baltic, with its long
winters of ice-bound ports and its glaciated lands, retarded its inclusion in the field of
history, curtailed its important historical period, and reduced the intensity of its historical
life, despite the brave, eager activity of the Hanseatic League. The Mediterranean had the
advantage, not only of a more favorable zonal situation, but of a location at the meeting place
of three continents and on the line of maritime traffic across the eastern hemisphere from
the Atlantic to the Pacific.

[Sidenote: Thalassic character of the Indian Ocean.]

These advantages it shares in some degree with the Indian Ocean, which, as Ratzel justly argues,
is not a true ocean, at best only half an ocean. North of the equator, where it is narrowed
and enclosed like an inland sea, it loses the hydrospheric and atmospheric characteristics
of a genuine ocean. Currents and winds are disorganized by the close-hugging lands. Here the
steady northeast trade wind is replaced by the alternating air currents of the northeast and
southwest monsoons, which at a very early date[573] enabled merchant vessels to break away
from their previous slow, coastwise path, and to strike a straight course on their voyage between
Arabia or the east coast of Africa and India.[574] Moreover, this northern half of the Indian
Ocean looks like a larger Mediterranean with its southern coast removed. It has the same east
and west series of peninsulas harboring differentiated nationalities, the same northward running
recesses, but all on a larger scale. It has linked together the history of Asia and Africa;
and by the Red Sea and Persian Gulf, it has drawn Europe and the Mediterranean into its sphere
of influence. At the western corner of the Indian Ocean a Semitic people, the Arabs of Oman
and Yemen, here first developed brilliant maritime activity, like their Phoenician kinsmen
of the Lebanon seaboard. Similar geographic conditions in their home lands and a nearly similar
intercontinental location combined to make them the middlemen of three continents. Just as
the Phoenicians, by way of the Mediterranean, reached and roused slumberous North Africa into
historical activity and became the medium for the distribution of Egypt's culture, so these
Semites of the Arabian shores knocked at the long-closed doors of East Africa facing on the
Indian basin, and drew this region into the history of southern Asia. Thus the Africa of the
enclosed seas was awakened to some measure of historical life, while the Africa of the wide
Atlantic slept on.

[Sidenote: The sea route to the Orient.]

From the dawn of history the northern Indian Ocean was a thoroughfare. Alexander the Great's
rediscovery of the old sea route to the Orient sounds like a modern event in relation to the
gray ages behind it. Along this thoroughfare Indian colonists, traders, and priests carried
the elements of Indian civilization to the easternmost Sunda Isles; and Oriental wares, sciences
and religions moved westward to the margin of Europe and Africa. The Indian Ocean produced
a civilization of its own, with which it colored a vast semi-circle of land reaching from Java
to Abyssinia, and more faintly, owing to the wider divergence of race, the further stretch
from Abyssinia to Mozambique.

Thus the northern Indian Ocean, owing to its form, its location in the angle between Asia and
Africa and the latitude where, round the whole earth, "the zone of greatest historical density"
begins, and especially its location just southeast of the Mediterranean as the eastern extension
of that maritime track of ancient and modern times between Europe and China, has been involved
in a long series of historical events. From the historical standpoint, prior to 1492 it takes
a far higher place than the Atlantic and Pacific, owing to its nature as an enclosed sea.[575]
But like all such basins, this northern Indian Ocean attained its zenith of historical importance
in early times. In the sixteenth century it suffered a partial eclipse, which passed only with
the opening of the Suez Canal. During this interval, however, the Portuguese. Dutch and English
had rounded the Cape of Good Hope and entered this basin on its open or oceanic side. By their
trading stations, which soon traced the outlines of its coasts from Sofala in South Africa
around to Java, they made this ocean an alcove of the Atlantic, and embodied its events in
the Atlantic period of history. It is this open or oceanic side which differentiates the Indian
Ocean physically, and therefore historically, from a genuine enclosed sea.

[Sidenote: Limitation of small area in enclosed seas.]

The limitation of every enclosed or marginal sea lies in its small area and in the relatively
restricted circle of its bordering lands. Only small peninsulas and islands can break its surface,
and short stretches of coast combine to form its shores. It affords, therefore, only limited
territories as goals for expansion, restricted resources and populations to furnish the supply
and demand of trade. What lands could the Mediterranean present to the colonial outlook of
the Greeks comparable to the North America of the expanding English or the Brazil of the Portuguese?
Yet the Mediterranean as a colonial field had great advantages in point of size over the Baltic,
which is only one-sixth as large (2,509,500 and 431,000 square kilometers respectively), and
especially over the Red Sea and Persian Gulf, whose effective areas were greatly reduced by
the aridity of their surrounding lands. But the precocious development and early cessation
of growth marking all Mediterranean national life have given to this basin a variegated history;
and in every period and every geographical region of it, from ancient Phoenicia to modern Spain
and Italy, the early exhaustion of resources and dwarfing of political ideals which characterize
most small areas become increasingly conspicuous. The history of Sweden, Denmark, and the Hanse
Towns in the Baltic tells the same story, the story of a hothouse plant, forced in germination
and growth, then stifled in the close air.

[Sidenote: Successive maritime periods in history.]

Growth demands space. Therefore, the progress of history has been attended by an advance from
smaller to larger marine areas, with a constant increase in those manifold relations between
peoples and lands which the water is able to establish. Every great epoch of history has had
its own sea, and every succeeding epoch has enlarged its maritime field. The Greek had the
Aegean, the Roman the whole Mediterranean, to which the Middle Ages made an addition in the
North Sea and Baltic. The modern period has had the Atlantic, and the twentieth century is
now entering upon the final epoch of the World Ocean. The gradual inclusion of this World Ocean
in the widened scope of history has been due to the expansion of European peoples, who, for
the past twenty centuries, have been the most far-reaching agents in the making of universal
history. Owing to the location and structure of their continent, they have always found the
larger outlet in a western sea. In the south the field widened from the Phoenician Sea to the
Aegean, then to the Mediterranean, on to the Atlantic, and across it to its western shores;
in the north it moved from the quiet Baltic to the tide-swept North Sea and across the North
Atlantic. Only the South Atlantic brought European ships to the great world highway of the
South Seas, and gave them the choice of an eastern or western route to the Pacific. Every new
voyage in the age of discovery expanded the historical horizon; and every improvement in the
technique of navigation has helped to eliminate distance and reduced intercourse on the World
Ocean to the time-scale of the ancient Mediterranean.

It would be a mistake, however, to suppose that the larger oceanic horizon has meant a corresponding
increase in the relative content and importance of history for the known world of each period.
Such an intense, concentrated national life as occurred in those little Mediterranean countries
in ancient times is not duplicated now, unless we find a parallel in Japan's recent career
in the Yellow Sea basin. There was something as cosmic in the colonial ventures of the Greeks
to the wind-swept shores of the Crimea or barbarous wilds of Massilia, as in the establishment
of English settlements on the brimming rivers of Virginia or the torrid coast of Malacca. Alexander's
conquest of the Asiatic rim of the Mediterranean and Rome's political unification of the basin
had a significance for ancient times comparable with the Russification of northern Asia and
the establishment of the British Empire for our day.

The ocean has always performed one function in the evolution of history; it has provided the
outlet for the exercise of redundant national powers. The abundance of opportunity which it
presents to these disengaged energies depends upon the size, location and other geographic
conditions of the bordering lands. These opportunities are limited in an enclosed basin, larger
in the oceans, and largest in the northern halves of the oceans, owing to the widening of all
land-masses towards the north and the consequent contraction of the oceans and seas in the
same latitudes.

[Sidenote: Contrasted historical rôles of northern and southern hemispheres.]

A result of this grouping is the abundance of land in the northern hemisphere, and the vast
predominance of water in the southern, by reason of which these two hemispheres have each assumed
a distinct rôle in history. The northern hemisphere offers the largest advantages for the habitation
of man, and significantly enough, contains a population five times that of the southern hemisphere.
The latter, on the other hand, with its vast, unbroken water areas, has been the great oceanic
highway for circum-mundane exploration and trade. This great water girdle of the South Seas
had to be discovered before the spherical form of the earth could be proven. In the wide territory
of the northern hemisphere civilization has experienced an uninterrupted development, first
in the Old World, because this offered in its large area north of the equator the fundamental
conditions for rapid evolution; then it was transplanted with greatest success to North America.
The northern hemisphere contains, therefore, "the zone of greatest historical density," from
which the track of the South Seas is inconveniently remote. Hence we find in recent decades
a reversion to the old east-west path along the southern rim of Eurasia, now perfected by the
Suez Canal, and to be extended in the near future around the world by the union of the Pacific
with the Caribbean Sea at Panama; so that finally the northern hemisphere will have its own
circum-mundane waterway, along the line of greatest intercontinental intercourse.

[Sidenote: Size of the oceans]

The size of the ocean as a whole is so enormous, and yet its various subdivisions are so uniform
in their physical aspect, that their differences of size produce less conspicuous historical
effects than their diversity of area would lead one to expect. A voyage across the 177,000
square miles (453,500 square kilometers) of the Black Sea does not differ materially from one
across the 979,000 square miles (2,509,500 square kilometers) of the Mediterranean; or a voyage
across the 213,000 square miles (547,600 square kilometers) of the North Sea, from one across
the three-hundredfold larger area of the Pacific. The ocean does not, like the land, wear upon
its surface the evidences and effects of its size; it wraps itself in the same garment of blue
waves or sullen swell, wherever it appears; but the outward cloak of the land varies from zone
to zone. The significant anthropo-geographical influence of the size of the oceans, as opposed
to that of the smaller seas, comes from the larger circle of lands which the former open to
maritime enterprise. For primitive navigation, when the sailor crept from headland to headland
and from island to island, the small enclosed basin with its close-hugging shores did indeed
offer the best conditions. To-day, only the great tonnage of ocean-going vessels may reflect
in some degree the vast areas they traverse between continent and continent. Coasting craft
and ships designed for local traffic in enclosed seas are in general smaller, as in the Baltic,
though the enormous commerce of the Great Lakes, which constitute in effect an inland sea,
demands immense vessels.

[Sidenote: Neutrality of the seas, its evolution.]

The vast size of the oceans has been the basis of their neutrality. The neutrality of the seas
is a recent idea in political history. The principle arose in connection with the oceans, and
from them was extended to the smaller basins, which previously tended to be regarded as private
political domains. Their limited area, which enabled them to be compassed, enabled them also
to be appropriated, controlled and policed. The Greek excluded the Phoenician from the Aegean
and made it an Hellenic sea. Carthage and Tarentum tried to draw the dead line for Roman merchantmen
at the Lacinian Cape, the doorway into the Ionian Sea, and thereby involved themselves in the
famous Punic Wars. The whole Mediterranean became a Roman sea, the mare nostrum. Pompey's fleet
was able to police it effectively and to exterminate the pirates in a few months, as Cicero
tells us in his oration for the Manilian Law. Venice, by the conquest of the Dalmatian pirates
in 991 prepared to make herself dominatrix Adriatici maris, as she was later called. By the
thirteenth century she had secured full command of the sea, spoke of it as "the Gulf," in her
desire to stamp it as a mare clausum, maintained in it a powerful patrol fleet under a Capitan
in Golfo, whose duty it was to police the sea for pirates and to seize all ships laden with
contraband goods. She claimed and enforced the right of search of foreign vessels, and compelled
them to discharge two-thirds of their cargo at Venice, which thus became the clearing house
of the whole Adriatic. She even appealed to the Pope for confirmation of her dominion over
the sea.[576] Sweden and Denmark strove for a dominum maris Baltici; but the Hanse Towns of
northern Germany secured the maritime supremacy in the basin, kept a toll-gate at its entrance,
and levied toll or excluded merchant ships at their pleasure, a right which after the fall
of the Hanseatic power was assumed by Denmark and maintained till 1857. "The Narrow Seas" over
which England claimed sovereignty from 1299 to 1805, and on which she exacted a salute from
every foreign vessel, included the North Sea as far as Stadland Cape in Norway, the English
Channel, and the Bay of Biscay down to Cape Finisterre in northern Spain.[577]

At the beginning of the sixteenth century the Indian Ocean was a Portuguese sea. Spain was
trying to monopolize the Caribbean and even the Pacific Ocean. But the immense areas of these
pelagic fields of enterprise, and the rapid intrusion into them of other colonial powers soon
rendered obsolete in practice the principle of the mare clausum, and introduced that of the
mare liberum. The political theory of the freedom of the seas seems to have needed vigorous
support even toward the end of the seventeenth century. At this time we find writers like Salmasius
and Hugo Grotius invoking it to combat Portuguese monopoly of the Indian Ocean as a mare clausum.
Grotius in a lengthy dissertation upholds the thesis that "Jure gentium quibusvis ad quosvis
liberam esse navigationem," and supports it by an elaborate argument and quotations from the
ancient poets, philosophers, orators and historians.[578] This principle was not finally acknowledged
by England as applicable to "The Narrow Seas" till 1805. Now, by international agreement, political
domain extends only to one marine league from shore or within cannon range. The rest of the
vast water area remains the unobstructed highway of the world.

NOTES TO CHAPTER IX

[528] S.M. Zwemer, Arabia the Cradle of Islam, p. 135. New York, 1900.

[529] A.H. Layard, Nineveh and Its Remains, Vol. I, p. 277; Vol. II, 79-81. New York, 1849.

[530] E.F. Knight, Where Three Empires Meet, pp. 257, 261. London, 1897.

[531] Col. Lane Fox, Early Modes of Navigation, Journal of Anthropological Institute, Vol.
IV, p. 423.

[532] Boyd Alexander, From the Niger to the Nile, Vol. I, p. 167. London; 1907.

[533] Ibid., Vol. I, p. 324.

[534] James H. Breasted, History of Egypt, pp. 89, 91, 97. New York, 1905.

[535] G. Schweinfurth, The Heart of Africa, Vol. I, p. 77. London, 1873.

[536] E. Huntington, The Depression of Sistan in Eastern Persia, Bulletin of the American Geographical
Society, Vol. 37, No. 5. 1905.

[537] Schoolcraft, The Indian Tribes of the United States, Vol. I, p. 214. Philadelphia, 1853.

[538] H.H. Bancroft, The Native Races, Vol. I, pp. 382-383, 408, 564. San Francisco, 1886.
D. G. Brinton, The American Race, pp. 110, 112. Philadelphia, 1901.

[539] Herodotus, Book 1, Chap. 194.

[540] S.M. Zwemer, Arabia the Cradle of Islam, p. 135. New York, 1900.

[541] Cotterill and Little, Ships and Sailors, pp. ix-x, 38, London, 1868.

[542] M. Hue, Travels in Tartary, Thibet and China in 1846, Vol. II, p. 251. Chicago, 1898.

[543] Elliott Coues, History of the Lewis and Clark Expedition, Vol. I, p. 159. New York, 1893.

[545] H.M. Stanley, Through the Dark Continent, Vol. I, pp. 313-314. New York, 1879.

[546] Ibid., Vol. II, pp. 184, 219-220, 270-272, 300.

[547] Ratzel, History of Mankind, Vol. II, p. 288. London, 1896-1898.

[548] Ibid., Vol I, pp. 358-359. Spencer and Gillen, Northern Tribes of Central Australia,
pp. 679-680. London, 1904.

[549] Ratzel, History of Mankind, Vol. I, pp. 153-154; Vol. II, pp. 91, 100. London, 1896-1898.

[550] Ibid., Vol. I, pp. 166-170.

[551] Captain Winkler, Sea Charts Formerly Used in the Marshall Islands, Smithsonian Report
for 1899, translated from the Marine Rundschau. Berlin, 1898.

[552] Captain James Cook, Journal of First Voyage Round the World, pp. 70, 105, 119, 221, 230.
Edited by W.J.L. Wharton. London, 1893.

[553] Ratzel, History of Mankind, Vol. I, pp. 161, 174. London, 1896-1898.

[554] The Commercial and Fiscal Policy of the Venetian Republic, Edinburgh Review, Vol. 200,
pp. 352-353. 1904.

[556] G. Sergi, The Mediterranean Race, pp. 29-37. New York, 1901. W.Z. Ripley, Races of Europe,
pp. 128-130, 270-273, 387-390, 407, 444, 448. New York, 1899.

[557] H.J. Mackinder, Britain and the British Seas, pp. 189-190. London, 1904. A. Leroy-Beaulieu,
The Empire of the Tsars, map p. 80. New York, 1897.

[559] Helmolt, History of the World, Vol. VI, pp. 5-17. New York, 1902-1906.

[560] E.C. Semple, The Development of the Hanse Towns in Relation to their Geographical Environment,
Bulletin American Geographical Society, Vol. XXXI, No. 3, 1899.

[561] Helen Zimmern, The Hansa Towns, pp. 24-25, 54-55. New York, 1895.

[562] Nordenskiold, The Voyage of the Vega, pp. 365, 588, 591. New York, 1882.

[563] Ibid., pp. 375, 403, 405, 487, 563.

[564] Agnes Laut, The Vikings of the Pacific, pp. 62-105. New York, 1905.

[565] Ratzel, History of Mankind, Vol. III, pp. 446, 449-450. London, 1896-1898.

[566] Ibid., Vol. III, pp. 180-195.

[567] Duarte Barbosa, The Coasts of East Africa and Malabar, pp. 17-18. Hakluyt Society Publications.
London, 1866.

[568] Ratzel, History of Mankind, Vol. III, pp. 443-444. London, 1896-1898.

[569] Angus Hamilton, Korea, pp. 130-135. New York, 1904.

[570] Census of the Philippine Islands, Vol. I, pp. 318-320, 478, 481-495. Washington, 1903.

[571] Hans Helmolt, History of the World, Vol. II, pp. 544-545. New York, 1902-1906.

[572] Ratzel, History of Mankind, Vol. III, pp. 407-412. London, 1896-1898.

[573] Pliny, Natural History, Book VI, chap. 26. London, 1883.

[575] For full discussion of Indian Ocean, see Helmolt, History of the World, Vol. II, pp.
580-584, 602-610. New York, 1902-1906. Duarte Barbosa, The Coasts of East Africa and Malabar,
pp. 26-28, 41-42, 59-60, 67, 75, 79-80, 83, 166, 170, 174, 179, 184, 191-194, Hakluyt Society.
London, 1866.

[576] Pompeo Molmenti, Venice in the Middle Ages, Vol. I, pp. 117, 121-123, 130. Chicago, 1906.
1904.

[577] H.J. Mackinder, Britain and the British Seas, p. 24, note. London, 1904.

[578] Hugonis Grotii, Mare Liberum sive de jure quod Batavis competit ad Indicana commercia
dissertatio, contained in his De Jure Belli et Pacis. Hagae Comitis, 1680.

CHAPTER X

MAN'S RELATION TO THE WATER

Despite the extensive use which man makes of the water highways of the world, they remain to
him highways, places for his passing and repassing, not for his abiding. Essentially a terrestrial
animal, he makes his sojourn upon the deep only temporary, even when as a fisherman he is kept
upon the sea for months during the long season of the catch, or when, as whaler, year-long
voyages are necessitated by the remoteness and expanse of his field of operations. Yet even
this rule has its exceptions. The Moro Bajan are sea gypsies of the southern Philippines and
the Sulu archipelago, of whom Gannett says "their home is in their boats from the cradle to
the grave, and they know no art but that of fishing." Subsisting almost exclusively on sea
food, they wander about from shore to shore, one family to a boat, in little fleets of half
a dozen sail; every floating community has its own headman called the Captain Bajan, who embodies
all their slender political organization. When occasionally they abandon their rude boats for
a time, they do not abandon the sea, but raise their huts on piles above the water on some
shelving beach. Like the ancient lake-dwellers of Switzerland and Italy, only in death do they
acknowledge their ultimate connection with the solid land. They never bury their dead at sea,
but always on a particular island, to which the funeral cortege of rude outrigged boats moves
to the music of the paddle's dip.[579]

[Sidenote: Protection of a water frontier.]

The margin of river, lake and sea has always attracted the first settlements of man because
it offered a ready food supply in its animal life and an easy highway for communication. Moreover,
a water front made a comparatively safe frontier for the small, isolated communities which
constituted primitive societies. The motive of protection, dominant in the savage when selecting
sites for his villages, led him to place them on the pear-shaped peninsula formed by a river
loop, or on an island in the stream or off the coast; or to sever his connection with the solid
land, whence attack might come, and provide himself with a boundary waste of water by raising
his hut on piles above the surface of lake, river or sheltered seacoast, within easy reach
of the shore. In this location the occupant of the pile dwelling has found all his needs answered--fishing
grounds beneath and about his hut, fields a few hundred feet away on shore, easily reached
by his dug-out canoe, and a place of retreat from a land enemy, whether man or wild beast.

[Sidenote: Ancient pile villages.]

Such pile dwellings, answering the primary need of protection, have had wide distribution,
especially in the Tropics, and persist into our own times among retarded peoples living in
small, isolated groups too weak for effective defence. They were numerous in the lakes of Switzerland[580]
and northern Italy down to the first century of our era, and existed later in slightly modified
form in Ireland, Scotland, England and southern Wales.[581] In ancient Ireland they were constructed
on artificial islands, raised in shallow spots of lakes or morasses by means of fascines weighted
down with gravel and clay, and moored to the bottom by stakes driven through the mass. Such
groups of dwellings were called Crannogs; they existed in Ireland from the earliest historical
period and continued in use down to the time of Queen Elizabeth. In the turbulent twelfth century,
the warring lords of the soil adopted them as places of refuge and residence.[582] Herodotus
describes a pile village of the ancient Thracians in Lake Prasias near the Hellespont, built
quite after the Swiss type, with trap doors in the floor for fishing or throwing out refuse.
Its inhabitants escaped conquest by the Persians under King Darius, and avoided the fate of
their fellow tribesmen on land, who were subdued and removed as colonists to Asia.[583]

[Sidenote: Present distribution.]

Among Europeans such pile villages belong to primitive stages of development, chiefly to the
Stone, Bronze, and early Iron Ages. They are widely distributed in modern times among retarded
peoples, who in this way seek compensation for their social and economic weakness. In South
America, the small timid tribe of the native Warraus till quite recently built their dwellings
on platforms over the water in the river network of the Orinoco delta and along the swamp coast
as far as the Essequibo. These pile villages, "fondata sopra l'acqua come Venezia," as Vespuccius
says, suggested to him the name of Venezuela or little Venice for this coast.[584] A pile village
in Jull Lake, a lacustrine expansion in a tributary of the upper Salwin River, is inhabited
by the Inthas, apparently an alien colony in Burma. They have added a detail in their floating
gardens, rafts covered with soil, on which they raise tomatoes, watermelons and gourds.[585]

In little Lake Mohrya, located near the upper Lualaba River, a southern headstream of the Congo,
Cameron found numerous pile dwellings, whose owners moved about in dug-out canoes and cultivated
fields on land,[586] as did their Swiss confrères of twenty centuries ago. Livingstone, in
descending from Lake Nyassa by the Shire River, found in the lakelet of Pamalombe, into which
the stream widened, similar water huts inhabited by a number of Manganja families, who had
been driven from their homes by slave raiders. The slender reeds of the papyrus thicket, lining
the shore in a broad band, served as piles, number compensating for the lack of strength; the
reeds, bent downward and fastened together into a mat, did indeed support their light dwellings,
but heaved like thin ice when the savages moved from hut to hut. The dense forest of papyrus
left standing between village and shore effectually screened their retreat, and the abundant
fish in the lake provided them with food.[587]

[Sidenote: Malayan pile dwellings.]

In the vast island world of Indonesia, where constant contact with the sea has bred the amphibian
Malay race, we are not surprised to find that the typical Malay house is built on piles above
the water; and that when the coast Malay is driven inland by new-comers of his own stock and
forced to abandon his favorite occupations of trade, piracy and fishing, he takes to agriculture
but still retains his sea-born architecture and raises his hut on poles above the ground, beyond
the reach of an enemy's spear-thrust. The Moro Samal Laut of the southern Sulu Archipelago
avoid the large volcanic islands of the group, and place their big villages over the sea on
low coral reefs. The sandy beaches of the shore hold their coco-palms, whose nuts by their
milk eke out the scanty supply of drinking water, and whose fronds shade the tombs of the dead.[588]
The sea-faring Malays of the Sunda Islands, in thickly populated points of the coast, often
dwell in permanently inhabited rafts moored near the pile dwellings. Palembang on the lower
swampy course of the River Musi has a floating suburb of this sort. It is called the "Venice
of Sumatra," just as Banjarmasin, a vast complex of pile and raft dwellings, is called the
"Venice of Borneo," and Brunei to the north is the "Venice of the East."[589] Both these towns
are the chief commercial centers of their respective islands. The little town of Kilwaru, situated
on a sandbank off the eastern end of Ceram, seems to float on the sea, so completely has it
surrounded and enveloped with pile-built houses the few acres of dry land which form its nucleus.
It is a place of busy traffic, the emporium for commerce between the Malay Archipelago and
New Guinea.[590]

[Sidenote: In Melanesia.]

Farther east in Melanesia, whose coast regions are more or less permeated by Malayan stock
and influences, pile dwellings, both over water and on land form a characteristic feature of
the scenery. The village of Sowek in Geelvink Bay, on the northern coast of Dutch New Guinea,
consists of thirty houses raised on piles above the water, connected with each other by tree
trunks but having only boat connection with the shore. Similar villages are found hovering
over the lapping waves of Humboldt Bay, all of them recalling with surprising fidelity the
prehistoric lake-dwellings of Switzerland.[591] The Papuan part of Port Moresby, on the southern
coast of British New Guinea, covers the whole water-front of the town with pile dwellings.
In the vicinity are similar native pile villages, such as Tanobada, Hanuabada, Elevara and
Hula, the latter consisting of pile dwellings scattered about over the water in a circuit of
several miles and containing about a thousand inhabitants. Here, too, the motive is protection
against the attacks of inland mountain tribes, with whom the coast people are in constant war.[592]

The Malay fisherman, trader and pirate, with the love of the sea in his blood, by these pile
dwellings combines security from his foe and proximity to his familiar field of activity. The
same objects are achieved by white traders on the west coast of Africa by setting up their
dwellings and warehouses on the old hulks of dismasted vessels, which are anchored for this
purpose in the river mouths. They afford some protection against both fever and hostile native,
and at the same time occupy the natural focus of local trade seeking foreign exchanges.

[Sidenote: River dwellers in populous lands.]

When advancing civilization has eliminated the need for this form of protection, water-dwellers
may survive or reappear in old and relatively over-populated countries, as we find them universally
on the rivers of China and less often in Farther India. Here they present the phenomenon of
human life overflowing from the land to the streams of the country; because these, as highways
of commerce, afford a means of livelihood, even apart from the food supply in their fish, and
offer an unclaimed bit of the earth's surface for a floating home. Canton has 250,000 inhabitants
living on boats and rafts moored in the river, and finding occupation in the vast inland navigation
of the Empire, or in the trade which it brings to this port of the Si-kiang. Some of the boats
accommodate large families, together with modest poultry farms, crowded together under their
low bamboo sheds. Others are handsome wooden residences ornamented with plants, and yet others
are pleasure resorts with their professional singing girls.[593] In the lakes and swamp-bordered
rivers of southern Shantung, a considerable fishing population is found living in boats, while
the land shows few inhabitants. This population enjoys freedom from taxation and unrestricted
use of the rivers and fisheries. To vary their scant and monotonous diet, they construct floating
gardens on rafts of bamboo covered with earth, on which they plant onions and garlic and which
they tow behind their boats. They also raise hundreds of ducks, which are trained to go into
the water to feed and return at a signal,[594] thus expanding the resources of their river
life. Bangkok has all its business district afloat on the Menam River--shops, lumber yards,
eating-houses and merchants' dwellings. Even the street vendor's cart is a small boat, paddled
in and out among the larger junks.[595]

A far more modern type of river-dwellers is found in the "shanty-boat" people of the western
rivers of the United States. They are the gypsies of our streams, nomads who float downstream
with the current, tying up at intervals along the bank of some wooded island or city waterfront,
then paying a tug to draw their house-boat upstream. The river furnishes them with fish for
their table and driftwood for their cooking-stove, and above all is the highway for the gratification
of their nomad instincts. There is no question here of trade and overpopulation.

[Sidenote: Reclamation of land from the sea.]

Pile dwellings and house-boats are a paltry form of encroachment upon the water in comparison
with that extensive reclamation of river swamps and coastal marshes which in certain parts
of the world has so increased the area available for human habitation. The water which is a
necessity to man may become his enemy unless it is controlled. The alluvium which a river deposits
in its flood-plain, whether in some flat stretch of its middle course or near the retarding
level of the sea, attracts settlement because of its fertility and proximity to a natural highway;
but it must be protected by dikes against the very element which created it. Such deposits
are most extensive on low coasts at or near the river's mouth, just where the junction of an
inland and oceanic waterway offers the best conditions for commerce. Here then is a location
destined to attract and support a large population, for which place can be made only by steady
encroachment upon the water of both river and sea. Diking is necessitated not only by the demand
for more land for the growing population, but also by the constant silting up of the drainage
outfalls, which increases the danger of inundation while at the same time contributing to the
upbuilding of the land. Conditions here institute an incessant struggle between man and nature;[596]
but the rewards of victory are too great to count the cost. The construction of sea-walls,
embankment of rivers, reclamation of marshes, the cutting of canals for drains and passways
in a water-soaked land, the conversion of lakes into meadow, the rectification of tortuous
streams for the greater economy of this silt-made soil, all together constitute the greatest
geographical transformation that man has brought about on the earth's surface.[597]

[Sidenote: The struggle with the water.]

Though the North Sea lowland of Europe has suffered from the serious encroachment of the sea
from the thirteenth to the sixteenth century, when the Zuyder Zee, the Dollart and Jade Bay
were formed, nevertheless the counter encroachment of the land upon the water, accomplished
through the energy and intelligence of the inhabitants, has more than made good the loss. Between
the Elbe and Scheldt more than 2,000 square miles (5,000 square kilometers) have been reclaimed
from river and sea in the past three hundred years. Holland's success in draining her large
inland waters, like the Haarlem Meer (70 square miles or 180 square kilometers) and the Lake
of Ij, has inspired an attempt to recover 800 square miles (2,050 square kilometers) of fertile
soil from the borders of the Zuyder Zee and reduce that basin to nearly one-third of its present
size.[598] One-fourth of the Netherlands lies below the average of high tides, and in 1844
necessitated 9,000 windmills to pump the waste water into the drainage canals.[599]

The Netherlands, with all its external features of man's war against the water, has its smaller
counterpart in the 1,200 square miles of reclaimed soil about the head of the Wash, which constitute
the Fenland of England. Here too are successive lines of sea-wall, the earliest of them attributed
to the Romans, straightened and embanked rivers, drainage canals, windmills and steam pumps,
dikes serving as roads, lines of willows and low moist pastures dotted with grazing cattle.
No feature of the Netherlands is omitted. The low southern part of Lincolnshire is even called
Holland, and Dutch prisoners from a naval battle of 1652 were employed there on the work of
reclamation, which was begun on a large scale about this time.[600] In the medieval period,
the increase of population necessitated measures to improve the drainage and extend the acreage;
but there was little co-operation among the land owners, and the maintenance of river dikes
and sea-walls was neglected, till a succession of disasters from flooding streams and invading
tides in the thirteenth and fourteenth centuries led to severe measures against defaulters.
One culprit was placed alive in a breach which his own neglect or criminal cutting had caused,
and was built in, by way of educating the Fenlanders to a sense of common responsibility.[601]

The fight against the water on the coast begins later than that against rivers and swamps in
the interior of the land; it demands greater enterprise and courage, because it combats two
enemies instead of one; but its rewards are correspondingly greater. The Netherlands by their
struggle have acquired not only territory for an additional half million population, but have
secured to themselves a strategic position in the maritime trade of the world.

[Sidenote: Mound villages in river flood-plains.]

The abundant fertility of river flood-plains inevitably attracts population and necessitates
some kind of artificial protection against inundation. The most primitive form of this protection
is obvious and widespread, restricted in neither locality nor race. When the flood season converts
the flat plain of the White Nile below Gondokora (7° N. Lat.) into an extensive marsh, countless
hills of the white ant emerge over the waters. During the dry season, the ants build up their
hills to about ten feet, and then live in safety in the upper section during the flood. They
greatly surpass in intelligence and constructive ability the human occupants of the valley,
the low and wretched Kytch tribe of the Dinka Negroes, who like the ants are attracted by the
natural vegetation of the flood-plain, and who use the ant-hills as refuge stations for themselves
and their cattle during the flood.[602] Elsewhere in Africa the natives are more intelligent,
for flood-plain villages built on artificial mounds have existed from the earliest times. Diodorus
Siculus tells us that those of ancient Egypt, when the Nile was high, looked like the Cyclades
Islands.[603] Similar ones are constructed by the Barotse tribe on the upper Zambesi.[604]
The Niger River, rising in the Foota Jallon and Kong Mountains which form a region of heavy
rainfall from February to July, inundates a plain of several thousand square miles for a distance
of 250 miles above Timbuctoo. Here again the villages of the agricultural Song-hoi duplicate
those of Egypt, built on the same clay mounds, wreathed in the same feathery palms, and communicating
with one another only by small boats.[605] The same picture is presented by the Yangtze Kiang
plain during the summer overflow--low artificial hills rising from the expanse of muddy water
and topped with trees and villages, while sampans moored to their base show the means of communication.[606]
In the broad flood-plain of the lower Mississippi River, the chronicles of the De Soto expedition
state that the Indian villages visited stood "on mounds made by art." The Yazoo River Indians,
at the commencement of the eighteenth century, had their cabins dispersed over the low deltaic
land on earthen mounds made by their own hands. There is also strong evidence that some of
the works of the Mound-builders in the "bottoms" of the middle and lower Mississippi served
as protected sites for the dwellings of their chiefs.[607]

[Sidenote: Diking of rivers.]

Such meager provisions against inundation suffice for the sparse population characterizing
the lower stages of civilization, but they must be supplemented for the increasing density
of higher stages by the embankment of the stream, to protect also the adjacent fields. Hence
the process of confining rivers within dikes goes back into gray antiquity. Those of the Po
and its tributaries were begun before the political history of the Lombardy plains commenced.
Strabo mentions the canals and dikes of Venetia, whereby a part of the country was drained
and rendered tillable.[608] The main Po has been embanked for centuries as far up as Cremona,
a distance of 600 miles, and the Adige to Verona.[609] But the most gigantic dike system in
the world is that of the Hoangho, by which a territory the size of England is won from the
water for cultivation.[610] The cost of protecting the far spread crops against the autumn
floods has been a large annual expenditure and unceasing watchfulness; and this the Chinese
have paid for two thousand years, but have not always purchased immunity. Year by year the
Yellow River mounts higher and higher on its silted bed above the surrounding lowlands, increasing
the strain on the banks and the area of destruction, when its fury is uncaged. The flood of
1887 covered an area estimated at 50,000 square miles, wiped out of existence a million people,
and left a greater number a prey to famine.[611] So the fertile Chengtu plain of the Min River,
supporting four millions of people on its 2,500 square miles of area, owes its prosperity to
the embanking and irrigating works of the engineer heroes, Li Ping and his son, who lived before
the Christian era. On the temple in their honor in the city of Kuan Hsien is Li Ping's motto,
incised in gold: "Dig the bed deep, keep the banks low." For twenty-one centuries these instructions
have been carried out. The stone dikes are kept low to permit a judicious amount of flooding
for fertilization, and every year five to six feet of silt are removed from the artificial
channel of the Min. To this work the whole population of the Chengtu plain contributes.[612]
[See map page 8.]

[Sidenote: Social gain by control of the water.]

In such organized struggles to reduce the domain of the water and extend that of the dry land,
the material gain is not all: more significant by far is the power to co-operate that is developed
in a people by a prolonged war against overwhelming sea or river. A common natural danger,
constantly and even regularly recurring, necessitates for its resistance a strong and sustained
union, that draws men out of the barren individualism of a primitive people, and forces them
without halt along the path of civilization. It brings a realizing sense of the superiority
of common interests over individual preferences, strengthens the national bond, and encourages
voluntary subservience to law.

This is the social or political gain; but this is not all. The danger emanating from natural
phenomena has its discoverable laws, and therefore leads to a first empirical study of winds,
currents, seasonal rainfall and the whole science of hydraulics. With deep national insight,
the Greeks embodied in their mythology the story of Perseus and his destruction of the sea
monster who ravaged the coast, and Hercules' killing of the many-headed serpent who issued
from the Lernean Marshes to lay waste the country of Argos. Even so early a writer as Strabo
states that yet earlier authorities interpreted Hercules' victory over the river god of the
Achelous as the embankment of that stream and the draining of its inundated delta tract by
the national benefactor.[613] So the Chinese, whose land abounds in swamps and devastating
rivers, have a long list of engineer heroes who embanked and drained for the salvation and
benefit of mankind. It is highly probable that the communal work involved in the construction
of dikes and canals for the control of the Hoangho floods cemented the Chinese nationality
of that vast lowland plain, and supplied the cohesive force that developed here at a very remote
period a regularly organized state and an advancing civilization.

[Sidenote: Control of water as factor in early civilizations of arid lands.]

The history of Egypt shows a similar effect of the yearly inundation of the Nile Valley. Here,
as in all rainless countries where irrigation must be practiced, the water becomes a potent
factor of political union and civilization. Its scarcity necessitates common effort in the
construction and maintenance of irrigation works, and a central control to secure fair distribution
of the water to the fields of the inhabitants. A stimulus to progress is found in the presence
of a problem, perennial as the yearly threatenings of the Hoangho, which demands the application
of human intelligence and concerted labor for its solution. Additional arable land for the
growing population can be secured only by the wider distribution of the fructifying water;
this in turn depends upon corporate effort wisely directed and ably controlled. Every lapse
in governmental efficiency means an encroachment of the desert upon the alluvial fields and
finally to the river bank, as to-day in Mesopotamia.

The fact that the earliest civilizations have originated in the sub-tropical rainless districts
of the world has been ascribed solely to the regular and abundant returns to tillage under
irrigation, as opposed to the uncertain crops under variable meteorological conditions; to
the consequent accumulation of wealth, and the emancipation of man for other and higher activities,
which follows his escape from the agricultural vicissitudes of an uncertain climate. When Draper
says: "Civilization depends on climate and agriculture," and "the civilization of Egypt depended
for its commencement on the sameness and stability of the African climate," and again, "agriculture
is certain in Egypt and there man first became civilized,"[614] he seizes upon the conspicuous
fact of a stable food supply as the basis of progress, failing to detect those potent underlying
social effects of the inundations--social and political union to secure the most effective
distribution of the Nile's blessings and to augment by human devices the area accessible to
them, the development of an intelligent water economy, which ultimately produced a long series
of intellectual achievements.[615]

[Sidenote: Cultural areas in primitive America.]

This unifying and stimulating national task of utilizing and controlling the water was the
same task which in various forms prompted the early civilization of the Hoangho and Yangtze
basins, India, Mesopotamia, Persia, Peru, Mexico, and that impressive region of prehistoric
irrigation canals found in the Salt, Gila River, and upper Rio Grande valleys.[616] Here the
arid plateaus of the Cordilleras between the Pueblo district and Central America had no forests
in which game might be found; so that the Indian hunter had to turn to agriculture and a sedentary
life beside his narrow irrigated fields. Here native civilization reached its highest grade
in North America. Here desert agriculture achieved something more than a reliable food supply.
It laid the foundation of the first steady integration of wandering Indian hordes into a stable,
permanently organized society. Elsewhere throughout the North American continent, we see only
shifting groups of hunter and fisher folk, practising here and there a half nomadic agriculture
to supplement the chase.

The primitive American civilization that arose among the Pueblo Indians of New Mexico and Arizona,
the only strictly sedentary tribes relying exclusively on agriculture north of the Mexican
plateau, was primarily a result of the pressure put upon these people by a restricted water
supply.[617] Though chiefly offshoots of the wild Indians of the northern plains, they have
been markedly differentiated from their wandering Shoshone and Kiowa kindred by local environment.[618]
Scarcity of water in those arid highlands and paucity of arable land forced them to a carefully
organized community life, made them invest their labor in irrigation ditches, terraced gardens
and walled orchards, whereby they were as firmly rooted in their scant but fertile fields as
were their cotton plants and melon vines;[619] while the towering mesas protected their homes
against marauding Ute, Navajo and Apache.[620] This thread of a deep underlying connection
between civilization and the control of water can be traced through all prehistoric America,
as well as through the earliest cultural achievements in North Africa and Asia.

[Sidenote: Economy of the water: fisheries.]

The economy of the water is not confined to its artificial distribution over arid fields, but
includes also the exploitation of the mineral and animal resources of the vast world of waters,
whether the production of salt from the sea, salt lakes and brine springs, the cultivation
of oyster beds, or the whole range of pelagic fisheries. The animal life of the water is important
to man owing not only to its great abundance, but also to its distribution over the coldest
regions of the globe. It furnishes the chief food supply of polar and sub-polar peoples, and
therefore is accountable for the far-northern expansion of the habitable world. Even the reindeer
tribes of Arctic Eurasia could hardly subsist without the sea food they get by barter from
the fishermen of the coast. Norway, where civilization has achieved its utmost in exploiting
the limited means of subsistence, shows a steady increase from south to north in the proportion
of the population dependent upon the harvest of the deep. Thus the fisheries engross 44 per
cent. of the rural population in Nordland province, which is bisected by the Arctic Circle;
over 50 per cent. in Tromso, and about 70 per cent. in Finmarken. If the towns also be included,
the percentages rise, because here fishing interests are especially prominent.[621] Proximity
to the generous larder of the ocean has determined the selection of village sites, as we have
seen among the coast Indians of British Columbia and southern Alaska, among all the Eskimo,
and numerous other peoples of Arctic lands. [See map page 153.]

[Sidenote: Fisheries as factors in maritime expansion.]

Not only in polar but also in temperate regions, the presence of abundant fishing grounds draws
the people of the nearest coast to their wholesale exploitation, especially if the land resources
are scant. Fisheries then become the starting point or permanent basis of a subsequent wide
maritime development, by expanding the geographical horizon. It was the search for the purple-yielding
murex that first familiarized the Phoenicians with the commercial and colonial possibilities
of the eastern Mediterranean coasts.[622] The royal dye of this marine product has through
all the ages seemed to color with sumptuous magnificence the sordid dealings of those Tyrian
traders, and constituted them an aristocracy of merchants. The shoals of tunny fish, arriving
every spring in the Bosporus, from the north, drew the early Greeks and Phoenicians after them
into the cold and misty Euxine, and furnished the original impulse to both these peoples for
the establishment of fishing and trading stations on its uncongenial shores.[623] To the fisheries
of the Baltic and especially to the summer catch of the migratory herring, which in vast numbers
visited the shores of Pomerania and southern Sweden to spawn, the Hanse Towns of Germany owed
much of their prosperity. Salt herring, even in the twelfth century, was the chief single article
of their exchanges with Catholic Europe, which made a strong demand for the fish, owing to
the numerous fast days. When, in 1425, by one of those unexplained vagaries of animal life,
the herring abandoned the Baltic and selected the North Sea for its summer destination, a new
support was given to the wealth of the Netherlands.[624] There is a considerable amount of
truth in the saying that Amsterdam was built on herrings. New England, with an unproductive
soil at home, but near by in the sea a long line of piscine feeding grounds in the submarine
banks stretching from Cape Cod to Cape Race and beyond, found her fisheries the starting point
and base of her long round of exchanges, a constant factor in her commercial and industrial
evolution.[625]

[Sidenote: Fisheries as nurseries of seamen.]

Fisheries have always been the nurseries of seamen, and hence have been encouraged and protected
by governments as providing an important element of national strength. The Newfoundland Banks
were the training school which supplied the merchant marine and later the Revolutionary navy
of colonial New England;[626] ever since the establishment of the Republic, they have been
forced into prominence in our international negotiations with the United Kingdom, with the
object of securing special privileges, because the government has recognized them as a factor
in the American navy. The causal connection between fisheries and naval efficiency was recognized
in England in the early years of Elizabeth's reign, by an act aiming to encourage fisheries
by the remission of custom duties to native fishermen, by the imposition of a high tariff on
the importation of foreign fish in foreign vessels, and finally by a legislative enforcement
of fasts to increase the demand for fish, although any belief in the religious efficacy of
fasts was frankly disclaimed. Thus an artificial demand for fish was created, with the result
that a report on the success of the Fishery Acts stated that a thousand additional men had
been attracted to the fishing trade, and were consequently "ready to serve in Her Majesty's
ships."[627]

The fishing of the North Sea, especially on the Dogger Bank, is participated in by all the
bordering countries, England, the Netherlands, Germany and Belgium; and is valued equally on
account of the food supply which it yields and as a school of seamen.[628] The Pomors or "coasters"
of Arctic Russia, who dwell along the shores of the White Sea and live wholly by fisheries,
have all their taxes remitted and receive free wood from the crown forests for the construction
of their ships, on the condition that they serve on call in the imperial navy.[629] The history
of Japan affords the most striking illustration of the power of fisheries alone to maintain
maritime efficiency; for when by the seclusion act of 1624 all merchant vessels were destroyed,
the marine restricted to small fishing and coasting vessels, and intercourse confined to Japan's
narrow island world, the fisheries nevertheless kept alive that intimacy with the sea and preserved
the nautical efficiency that was destined to be a decisive factor in the development of awakened
Japan.

[Sidenote: Anthropo-geographic importance of navigation.]

The resources of the sea first tempted man to trust himself to its dangerous surface; but their
rewards were slight in comparison with the wealth of experiences and influences to which he
fell heir, after he learned to convert the barrier of the untrod waste into a highway for his
sail-borne keel. It is therefore true, as many anthropologists maintain, that after the discovery
of fire the next most important step in the progress of the human race was the invention of
the boat. No other has had such far-reaching results. Since water covers three-fourths of the
earth's surface and permits the land-masses to rise only as islands here and there, it presents
to man for his nautical ventures three times the area that he commands for his terrestrial
habitat. On every side, the break of the waves and the swell of the tides block his wanderings,
unless he has learned to make the water carry him to his distant goal. Spacially, therefore,
the problem and the task of navigation is the most widespread and persistent in the history
of mankind. The numerous coaling-stations which England has scattered over the world are mute
witnesses to this spacial supremacy of the water, to the length of ocean voyages, and the power
of the ocean to divide and unite. But had the proportion of land and water been reversed, the
world would have been poorer, deprived of all these possibilities of segregation and differentiation,
of stimulus to exchange and far-reaching intercourse, and of ingenious inventions which the
isolating ocean has caused. Without this ramifying barrier between the different branches of
the human family, these would have resembled each other more closely, but at the cost of development.
The mere multiplicity of races and sub-races has sharpened the struggle for existence and endowed
the survivors with higher qualities. But it was navigation that released primitive man from
the seclusion of his own island or continent, stimulated and facilitated the intercourse of
peoples, and enabled the human race to establish itself in every habitable part of the world.

NOTES TO CHAPTER X

[579] Census of the Philippine Islands, Vol. I, pp. 465, 563-567, 573. Washington, 1905.

[580] Sir John Lubbock, Prehistoric Times, pp. 173-223. New York, 1872.

[581] Ferdinand Keller, Lake Dwellings, Vol. I, pp. 2-7, 576. London, 1876. English Lake Dwellings,
Westminster Review, pp. 337-347. 1887.

[582] P.W. Joyce, A Social History of Ancient Ireland, Vol. II, pp. 65-66. London, 1903.

[583] Herodotus, V. 16.

[584] Alexander von Humboldt, Aspects of Nature, pp. 148-149. Translated by Mrs. Sabine, Philadelphia,
1849. E.F. im Thurn, Among the Indians of Guiana, p. 203. London, 1883.

[585] Sir Thomas Holdich, India, p. 184. London, 1905.

[586] Verney L. Cameron, Across Africa, pp. 332-334. London, 1885.

[587] David and Charles Livingstone, Narrative of Expedition to the Zambezi, p. 414. New York,
1866.

[588] Census of the Philippine Islands, Vol. I, pp. 464-466, 565. Washington, 1905.

[589] Stanford's Australasia, Vol. II, pp. 256-257. London, 1894.

[590] A.R. Wallace, The Malay Archipelago, pp. 368, 381. New York, 1869.

[591] Ratzel, History of Mankind, Vol. I, pp. 262-263, 344. London, 1896-1898.

[592] Richard Semon, In the Australian Bush, pp. 340-342, 347. London, 1899.

[593] John L. Stoddard, Lectures, Vol. III, p. 311. Boston, 1903.

[594] John Barrows, Travels in China, pp. 377-379. Philadelphia, 1805.

[595] William M. Wood, Fankwei, pp. 169-174. New York, 1859.

[596] Edmondo de Amicis, Holland and Its People, pp. 4-13. New York, 1890.

[597] G.P. Marsh, The Earth as Modified by Human Action, chap. IV, pp. 330-352. New York, 1871.

[598] J. Partsch, Central Europe, pp. 106-108. London, 1903.

[599] Roscher, National-Oekonomik des Ackerbaues, p. 127, Note 1. Stuttgart, 1888.

[600] Elisée Reclus, Europe, Vol. IV, pp. 222-223. New York, 1886. Miller and Skertchley, The
Fenland, Past and Present, pp. 7-9. London, 1878.

[601] Ibid., pp. 145-147.

[602] Sir Samuel W. Baker, The Albert Nyanza, Great Basin of the Nile, pp. 49-50. London and
Philadelphia, 1866.

[603] Diodorus Siculus, Book I, chap. III, p. 41. Translated by G. Booth. London, 1814.

[604] David Livingstone, Missionary Travels in Africa, pp. 234-236, 239, 272. New York, 1858.

[605] Felix Dubois, Timbuctoo, pp. 51-55, 145. New York, 1896.

[606] Isabella B. Bishop, The Yangtze Valley and Beyond., Vol. I, pp. 8, 10, 97. London and
New York, 1900.

[607] Cyrus Thomas, Mound Explorations, pp. 626, 650-653. Twelfth Annual Report Bureau of Ethnology,
Washington, 1894.

[608] Strabo, Book V, chap. I, 4.

[609] W. Deecke, Italy, pp. 88-89. London, 1904.

[610] John Barrows, Travels in China, p. 349. Philadelphia, 1805.

[611] Meredith Townsend, Asia and Europe, pp. 278-284. New York, 1904.

[612] Isabella B. Bishop, The Yangtze Valley and Beyond, Vol. II, pp. 72-73 76-81. New York
and London, 1900. For the future of land reclamation, see N.S. Shaler, Man and the Earth, chap.
V. New York, 1906.

[613] Strabo, Book X, chap. II, 19.

[614] John W. Draper, Intellectual Development of Europe, Vol. I, pp. 84-86. New York, 1876.

[615] Winwood Reade, The Martyrdom of Man, pp. 9-17. Eighth Edition, New York.

[616] Irrigation, Thirteenth Report of the U.S. Geological Survey, Part III, pp. 133-135. Washington,
1895. J.W. Powell, Twenty-third Annual Report of the Bureau of Ethnology, pp. XII, XIII. Washington,
1904. Cosmos Mindeleff, Aboriginal Remains in the Verde Valley, Arizona, pp. 187, 192-194,
238-245. Thirteenth Annual Report of Bureau of Ethnology. Washington, 1896. V. Mindeleff, Pueblo
Architecture, pp. 80, 216-217. Eighth Annual Report of Bureau of Ethnology. Washington, 1891.
F. W. Hodge, Prehistoric Irrigation in Arizona, American Anthropologist, July, 1893.

[617] McGee and Thomas, Prehistoric North America, pp. 105-106, 113, 118, 120-144, 478. Philadelphia,
1905.

[618] Eleventh Census, Report on the Indians, pp. 49, 161, 415. Washington, 1894. D.G. Brinton,
The American Race, pp. 116-117. Philadelphia, 1901.

[619] Ibid., pp. 161, 181, 182, 188, 191, 193, 198, 410, 441-445. M.C. Stevenson, The Zuni
Indians, pp. 351-354. Twenty-third Annual Report of Bureau of Ethnology, Washington, 1904.

[620] Ibid., pp. 13-14. H.H. Bancroft, The Native Races, Vol. I, pp. 539-547. San Francisco, 1886.

[621] Norway, Official Publication, pp. 99-100. Christiania, 1900.

[622] Ernst Curtius, History of Greece, Vol. I, pp. 49-50. New York.

[623] Ibid., Vol. I, p. 440. Jena, 1879. Helen Zimmern, Story of the Hansa Towns, pp. 26-27.
New York, 1895.

[625] W.B. Weeden, Social and Economic History of New England, Vol. I, pp. 17, 18, 90, 91,
128-135, 139. Boston, 1899.

[626] Ibid., Vol. I, p. 245.

[627] H.D. Traill, Social England, Vol. III, pp. 363-364, 540. London and New York, 1895.

[628] J. Partsch, Central Europe, p. 311. London, 1903.

[629] Alexander P. Engelhardt, A Russian Province of the North, pp. 54-71. From the Russian.
London, 1899.

CHAPTER XI

THE ANTHROPO-GEOGRAPHY OF RIVERS

[Sidenote: Rivers as intermediaries between land and sea.]

To a large view, rivers appear in two aspects. They are either part of the general water envelope
of the earth, extensions of seas and estuaries back into the up-hill reaches of the land, feeders
of the ocean, roots which it spreads out over the surface of the continents, not only to gather
its nourishment from ultimate sources in spring and glacier, but also to bring down to the
coast the land-born products of the interior to feed a sea-born commerce; or rivers are one
of the land forms, merely water filling valley channels, serving to drain the fields and turn
the mills of men. In the first aspect their historical importance has been both akin and linked
to that of the ocean, despite the freshness and smaller volume of their waters and the unvarying
direction of their currents. The ocean draws them and their trade to its vast basin by the
force of gravity. It unites with its own the history of every log-stream in Laurentian or Himalayan
forest, as it formerly linked the beaver-dammed brooks of wintry Canada with the current of
trade following the Gulf Stream to Europe.

Where sea and river meet, Nature draws no sharp dividing line. Here the indeterminate boundary
zone is conspicuous. The fresh water stream merges into brackish estuary, estuary into saltier
inlet and inlet into briny ocean. Closely confined sea basins like the Black and Baltic, located
in cool regions of slight evaporation and fed from a large catchment basin, approach in their
reduced salinity the fresh water lakes and coastal lagoons in which rivers stretch out to rest
on their way to the ocean. The muddy current of the Yangtze Kiang colors the Yellow Sea, and
warns incoming Chinese junks of the proximity of land many hours before the low-lying shores
can be discerned.[630] Columbus, sailing along the Caribbean coast of South America off the
Orinoco mouth, found the ocean waters brackish and surmised the presence of a large river and
therefore a large continent on his left.[631]

The transitional form between stream and pelagic inlet found in every river mouth is emphasized
where strong tidal currents carry the sea far into these channels of the land. The tides move
up the St. Lawrence River 430 miles (700 kilometers) or half way between Montreal and Quebec,
and up the Amazon 600 miles (1,000 kilometers). Owing to their resemblance to pelagic channels,
the estuaries of the American rivers with their salty tide were repeatedly mistaken, in the
period of discoveries, for the Northwest Passage to the Pacific. Newport in 1608 explored the
broad sluggish course of the James River in his search for a western ocean. Henry Hudson ascended
the Hudson River almost as far as Albany, before he discovered that this was no maritime pathway,
like the Bosporus or Dardanelles, leading to an ulterior sea. The long tidal course of the
St. Lawrence westward into the heart of the continent fed La Salle's dream of finding here
a water route to the Pacific, and fixed his village of "La Chine" above the rapids at Montreal
as a signpost pointing the way to the Indies and Cathay. In the same way a tidal river at the
head of Cook's Inlet on the Alaskan coast was mistaken for a Northeast Passage, not by Captain
Cook but by his fellow officers, on his Pacific voyage of 1776-1780; and it was followed for
several days before its character as a river was established.[632]

[Sidenote: Sea navigation merges into river navigation.]

Rivers have always been the great intermediaries between land and sea, for in the ocean all
find their common destination. Until the construction of giant steamers in recent years, sea
navigation has always passed without break into river navigation. Sailing vessels are carried
by the trade wind 600 miles up the Orinoco to San Fernando. Alexander's discovery of the Indus
River led by almost inevitable sequence to the rediscovery of the Eastern sea route, which
in turn ran from India through the Strait of Oman and the Persian Gulf up the navigable course
of the Euphrates to the elbow of the river at Thapsacus. Enterprising sea folk have always
used rivers as natural continuations of the marine highway into the land. The Humber estuary
and its radiating group of streams led the invading Angles in the sixth century into the heart
of Britain.[633] The long navigable courses of the rivers of France exposed that whole country
to the depredations of the piratical Northmen in the ninth and tenth centuries. Up every river
they came, up the Scheldt into Flanders, the Seine to Paris and the Marne to Meaux; up the
Loire to Orleans, the Garonne to Toulouse and the Rhone to Valence.[634] So the Atlantic rivers
of North America formed the lines of European exploration and settlement. The St. Lawrence
brought the French from the ocean into the Great Lakes basin, whose low, swampy watershed they
readily crossed in their light canoes to the tributaries of the Mississippi; and scarcely had
they reached the "Father of Waters" before they were planting the flag of France on the Gulf
of Mexico at its mouth. The Tupi Indians of South America, a genuine water-race, moved from
their original home on the Paraguay headstream of the La Plata down to its mouth, then expanded
northward along the coast of Brazil in their small canoes to the estuary of the Amazon, thence
up its southern tributary, the Tapajos, and in smaller numbers up the main stream to the foot
of the Andes, where detached groups of the race are still found.[635] So the migrations of
the Carib river tribes led them from their native seats in eastern Brazil down the Xingu to
the Amazon, thence out to sea and along the northern coast of South America, thence inland
once more, up the Orinoco to the foot of the Andes, into the lagoon of Maracaibo and up the
Magdalena. Meanwhile their settlements at the mouth of the Orinoco threw off spores of pirate
colonies to the adjacent islands and finally, in the time of Columbus, to Porto Rico and Haiti.[636]
[See map page 101.]

[Sidenote: Historical importance of seas and oceans influenced by their debouching streams.]

So intimate is this connection between marine and inland waterways, that the historical and
economic importance of seas and oceans is noticeably influenced by the size of their drainage
basins and the navigability of their debouching rivers. This is especially true of enclosed
seas. The only historical importance attached to the Caspian's inland basin is that inherent
in the Volga's mighty stream. The Mediterranean has always suffered from its paucity of long
river highways to open for it a wide hinterland. This lack checked the spread of its cultural
influences and finally helped to arrest its historical development. If we compare the record
of the Adriatic and the Black seas, the first a sharply walled cul de sac, the second a center
of long radiating streams, sending out the Danube to tap the back country of the Adriatic and
the Dnieper to draw on that of the Baltic, we find that the smaller sea has had a limited range
of influence, a concentrated brilliant history, precocious and short-lived as is that of all
limited areas; that the Euxine has exercised more far-reaching influences, despite a slow and
still unfinished development. The Black Sea rivers in ancient times opened their countries
to such elements of Hellenic culture as might penetrate from the Greek trading colonies at
their mouths, especially the Greek forms of Christianity. It was the Danube that in the fourth
century carried Arianism, born of the philosophic niceties of Greek thought, to the barbarians
of southern Germany, and made Unitarians of the Burgundians and Visigoths of southern Gaul.[637]
The Dnieper carried the religion of the Greek Church to the Russian princes at Kief, Smolensk,
and Moscow. Owing to the southward course of its great rivers, Russia has found the crux of
her politics in the Black Sea, ever since the tenth century when the barbarians from Kiev first
appeared before Constantinople. This sea has had for her a higher economic importance than
the Baltic, despite the latter's location near the cultural center of western Europe.

[Sidenote: Baltic and White Sea rivers.]

In other seas, too, rivers play the same part of extending their tributary areas and therefore
enhancing their historical significance. The disadvantages of the Baltic's smaller size and
far-northern location, as compared with the Mediterranean, were largely compensated for by
the series of big streams draining into it from the south, and bringing out from a vast hinterland
the bulky necessaries of life. Hence the Hanseatic League of the Middle Ages, which had its
origin among the southern coast towns of the Baltic from Lubeck to Riga, throve on the combined
trade of sea and river.[638] The mouths of the Scheldt, Rhine, Weser, Elbe and Thames long
concentrated in themselves the economic, cultural and historical development of the North Sea
basin. So the White Sea, despite its sub-polar location, is valuable to Russia for two reasons;
it affords a politically open port, and it receives the Northern Dwina, which is navigable
for river steamers from Archangel south to Vologda, a distance of six hundred miles, and carries
the export trade of a large territory.[639] Similarly in recent years, Bering Sea has gained
unwonted commercial activity because the Yukon River serves as a waterway 1,370 miles long
to the Klondike gold fields.

[Sidenote: Atlantic and Pacific rivers.]

If we compare the Atlantic and Pacific oceans in respect to their rivers, we find that the
narrow Atlantic has a drainage basin of over 19,000,000 square miles as opposed to the 8,660,000
square miles of drainage area commanded by the vastly larger Pacific. The Pacific is for the
most part rimmed by mountains, discharging into the ocean only mad torrents or rapid-broken
streams. The Atlantic, bordered by gently sloping plains of wide extent, receives rivers that
for the most part pursue a long and leisurely course to the sea. Therefore, the commercial
and cultural influences of the Atlantic extend from the Rockies and Andes almost to the heart
of Russia, and by the Nile highway they even invade the seclusion of Africa. Through the long
reach of its rivers, therefore, the Atlantic commands a land area twice as great as that of
the Pacific; and by reason of this fundamental geographic advantage, it will retain the historical
preëminence that it so early secured. The development of the World Ocean will mean the exploitation
of the Pacific trade from the basis of the Atlantic, the domination of the larger ocean by
the historic peoples of the smaller, because these peoples have wider and more accessible lands
as the base of their maritime operations.

[Sidenote: Lack of coast articulations supplied by rivers.]

The geographic influence of abundant rivers navigable from the sea is closely akin to that
of highly articulated coasts. The effect of the Hardanger or Sogne Fiord, admitting ocean steamers
a hundred miles into the interior of Norway, is similar to that of the Elbe and Weser estuaries,
which admit the largest vessels sixty miles upstream to Hamburg and Bremen. Since river inlets
can, to a certain extent, supply the place of marine inlets, from the standpoint of anthropo-geographic
theory and of human practice, a land dissected by navigable rivers can be grouped with one
dissected by arms of the sea. South America and Africa are alike in the unbroken contour of
their coasts, but strongly contrasted in the character of their rivers. Hence the two continents
present the extremes of accessibility and inaccessibility. South America, most richly endowed
of all the continents with navigable streams, receiving ocean vessels three thousand miles
up the Amazon as far as Tabatinga in Peru, and smaller steamers up the Orinoco to the spurs
of the Andes, was known in its main features to explorers fifty years after its discovery.
Africa, historically the oldest of continents, but cursed with a mesa form which converts nearly
every river into a plunging torrent on its approach to the sea, kept its vast interior till
the last century wrapped in utmost gloom. China, amply supplied with smaller littoral indentations
but characterized by a paucity of larger inlets, finds compensation in the long navigable course
of the Yangtze Kiang. This river extends the landward reach of the Yellow Sea 630 miles inland
to Hanchow, where ocean-going vessels take on cargoes of tea and silk for Europe and America,[640]
and pay for them in Mexican dollars, the coin of the coast. Hence it is lined with free ports
all the way from Shanghai at its mouth to Ichang, a thousand miles up its course.[641]

[Sidenote: River highways as basis of commercial preeminence.]

Navigable rivers opening passages directly from the sea are obviously nature-made gates and
paths into wholly new countries; but the accessibility with which they endow a land becomes
later a permanent factor in its cultural and economic development, a factor that remains constantly
though less conspicuously operative when railroads have done their utmost to supplant water
transportation. The importance of inland waterways for local and foreign trade and intercourse
has everywhere been recognized. The peoples who have long maintained preëminence among the
commercial and maritime nations of the world have owed this in no small part to the command
of these natural highways, which have served to give the broad land basis necessary for permanent
commercial ascendency. This has been the history of England, Holland, France and the recent
record of Germany. The medieval League of the Rhine Cities flourished by reason of the Rhone-Rhine
highway across western Europe. The Hanseatic League, from Bruges all the way east to Russian
Novgorod, owed their brilliant commercial career, not only to the favorable maritime field
in the enclosed sea basins in front of them, but also to the series of long navigable rivers
behind them from the Scheldt to the Neva and Volchov. Wherefore we find the League, originally
confined to coast towns, drawing into the federation numerous cities located far up these rivers,
such as Ghent, Cologne, Magdeburg, Breslau, Cracow, Pskof and Novgorod.[642]

[Sidenote: Importance of rivers in large countries.]

In countries of large area, where commerce and intercourse must cover great distances, these
natural and therefore cheap highways assume paramount importance, especially in the forest
and agricultural stages of development, when the products of the land are bulky in proportion
to their value. Small countries with deeply indented coasts, like Greece, Norway, Scotland,
New England, Chile, and Japan, can forego the advantage of big river systems; but in Russia,
Siberia, China, India, Canada, the United States, Venezuela, Brazil and Argentine, the history
of the country, economic and political, is indissolubly connected with that of its great rivers.
The storm center of the French and English wars in America was located on the upper Hudson,
because this stream enabled the English colonies to tap the fur trade of the Great Lakes, and
because it commanded the Mohawk Valley, the easiest and most obvious path for expansion into
the interior of the continent. The Spanish, otherwise confining their activities in South America
to the Caribbean district and the civilized regions of the Andean highlands, established settlements
at the mouth of the La Plata River, because this stream afforded an approach from the Atlantic
side toward the Potosi mines on the Bolivian Plateau. The Yangtze Kiang, that great waterway
leading from the sea across the breadth of China and the one valuable river adjunct of maritime
trade in the whole Orient, was early appropriated by the discerning English as the British
"sphere of influence."

[Sidenote: Rivers as highways of expansion.]

No other equally large area of the earth is so generously equipped by nature for the production
and distribution of the articles of commerce as southern Canada and that part of the United
States lying east of the Rocky Mountains. The simple build of the North American continent,
consisting of a broad central trough between distant mountain ranges, and characterized by
gentle slopes to the Atlantic Ocean and the Gulf of Mexico, has generated great and small rivers
with easy-going currents, that everywhere opened up the land to explorer, trader and settler.
The rate of expansion from the "Europe-fronting shore" of the continent was everywhere in direct
proportion to the length of the rivers first appropriated by the colonists. North of Chesapeake
Bay the lure to landward advance was the fur trade. The Atlantic rivers of the coast pre-empted
by the English were cut short by the Appalachian wall. They opened up only restricted fur fields
which were soon exhausted, so that the migrant trapper was here early converted into the agricultural
settler, his shifting camp fire into the hearthstone of the farmhouse. Expansion was slow but
solid. The relatively small area rendered accessible by their streams became compactly filled
by the swelling tide of immigrants and the rapid natural increase of population. In sharp contrast
to this development, the long waterway of the St. Lawrence and the Great Lakes leading to the
still vaster river system of the Mississippi betrayed the fur-trading French into excessive
expansion, and enabled them to appropriate but not to hold a vast extent of territory. A hundred
years after the arrival of Champlain at Montreal, they were planting their fur stations on
Lake Superior and the Mississippi, 1,400 miles (2,300 kilometers) back from the coast, at a
time when the English settlements had advanced little beyond tide-water. And when after 1770
the westward movement swept the backwoodsmen of the English colonies over the Appalachian barrier
to the Ohio, Cumberland and Tennessee, these long westward flowing streams carried them rapidly
on to the Mississippi, communicated the mobility and restlessness of their own currents to
the eager pioneer, and their capacity to master great distances; so that in forty short years,
by 1810, settlements were creeping up the western tributaries of the Mississippi. The abundant
water communication in the Mississippi Valley, which even for present large river craft contains
15,410 miles of navigable streams and which had therefore a far greater mileage in the day
of canoe and flatboat, afforded outlet for bulky, backwoods produce to the sea at New Orleans.
When the English acquired Canada in 1763, they straightway fell under the sway of its harsh
climate and long river systems, taking up the life of the fur trader; they followed the now
scarcer pelts from the streams of Superior westward by Lake Winnipeg and along the path of
the Saskatchewan River straight to the foot of the Rockies.

[Sidenote: Siberian rivers and Russian expansion.]

Rivers have played the same part in expediting Russian expansion across the wide extent of
Siberia. Here again a severe climate necessitated reliance on furs, the chief natural product
of the country, as the basis of trade. These, as the outcome of savage economy, were gathered
in from wide areas which only rivers could open up. Therefore, where the Siberian streams flatten
out their upper courses east and west against the northern face of the Asiatic plateau, with
low watersheds between, the Russian explorer and sable hunter struck their eastward water trail
toward the Pacific. The advance, which under Yermak crossed the Ural Mountains in 1579, reached
the Yenisei River in 1610 and planted there the town of Turuchansk as a sort of milestone,
almost on the Arctic Circle opposite the mouth of the Lower Tunguska, a long eastern tributary.
Up this they passed to the Lena in 1627, thence to Bering Sea by the Kolima and Anadyr rivers,
because these arctic fields yielded sable, beaver and fox skins in greatest quantity.[643]
The Lena especially, from its source down to its eastern elbow at Yakutsk, that great rendezvous
of Siberian fur traders, was a highway for trapper and Cossack tribute-gatherer.[644] From
the sources of the Yenisei in Lake Baikal to the navigable course of the Amur was a short step,
taken in 1658, though the control of the river, which was claimed by China, was not secured
till two hundred years later.[645] [See map page 103.]

As the only highways in new countries, rivers constitute lines of least resistance for colonial
peoples encroaching upon the territory of inferior races. They are therefore the geographic
basis of those streamers of settlement which we found making a fringe of civilization across
the boundary zone of savagery or barbarism on the typical colonial frontier. Ethnic islands
of the expanding people cluster along them like iron filings on a magnetized wire. Therefore
in all countries where navigable rivers have fixed the lines of expansion, as in the United
States, the northern part of the Russian Empire, and the eastern or colonial border of Germany
and Austria, there is a strong anthropo-geographic resemblance in the frontiers of successive
decades or centuries. But in arid or semi-arid regions like South Africa, the western plains
of North America, the steppes of Russian and Chinese Turkestan, the river highway motif in
expansion is lost in a variety of other geographic and geologic factors, though the water of
the streams still attracts trail and settlement.

[Sidenote: Determinants of routes in arid or semi-arid lands.]

A river like the Nile, lower Volga, Irtysh or Indus, rising in highlands of abundant rainfall
but traversing an arid or desert land, acquires added importance because it furnishes the sole
means of water travel and of irrigation. The Nile has for ages constituted the main line of
intercourse between the Mediterranean and Equatorial Africa. The Tigris, Euphrates, Indus,
and the Niger where it makes its great northern bend into the Sahara near Timbuctoo,[646] attest
the value to local fertility and commerce inherent in these rivers of the deserts and steppes.
Such rivers are always oasis-makers, whether on their way to the sea they periodically cover
a narrow flood-plain like that of the Nile, or one ninety miles wide, like that of the Niger's
inland delta above Timbuctoo;[647] or whether they emerge into a silent sea of sand, like the
Murghab of Russian Turkestan, which spreads itself out to water the gardens of Merv.

Even where such rivers have a volume too scanty to float a raft, they yet point the highway,
because they alone supply water for man and beast across the desert tract. The Oxus and Sir
Daria have from time immemorial determined the great trade routes through Turkestan to Central
Asia. The Platte, Arkansas, Cimarron and Canadian rivers fixed the course of our early western
trails across the arid plains to the foot of the Rockies; and beyond this barrier the California
Trail followed the long-drawn oasis formed by the Humboldt River across the Nevada Desert,
the Gila River guided the first American fur-trapping explorers across the burning deserts
of Arizona to the Pacific, and the succession of water-holes in the dry bed of the Mohave River
gave direction to the Spanish Trail across the Mohave Desert towards Los Angeles. In the same
way, Livingstone's route from the Orange River in South Africa to Lake Ngami, under the direction
of native guides, ran along the margin of the Kalahari Desert up the dry bed of the Mokoko
River, which still retained an irregular succession of permanent wells.[648]

[Sidenote: Wadi routes in arid lands.]

In the trade-wind regions of the world, which are characterized by seasons of intense drought,
we find rivers carrying a scant and variable amount of water but an abundance of gravel and
sand; they are known in different localities as wadis, fiumares and arroyos. Their beds, dry
for long periods of the year, become natural roads, paved with the gravel which the stream
regularly deposits in the wet season. Local travel in Sicily, Italy[649] and other Mediterranean
countries uses such natural roads extensively. Trade routes across the plateau of Judea and
Samaria follow the wadis, because these give the best gradient and the best footing for the
ascent.[650] Wadis also determine the line of caravan routes across the highlands of the Sahara.
In the desert of Southwest Africa, the Khiuseb Is the first river north of the Orange to reach
the Atlantic through the barrier dunes of the coast. Hence it has drawn to its valley the trade
routes from a wide circle of inland points from Ottawe to Windhoek and Rehobeth, and given
added importance to the British coast of Walfish Bay, into which it debouches.[651] But just
to the north, the broad dry bed of the Swakop offered a natural wagon route into the interior,
and has been utilized for the railroad of German Southwest Africa.

[Sidenote: Increasing historical importance from source to mouth.]

The historical importance of a river increases from its source toward its mouth. Its head springs,
gushing from the ground, and the ramifying brooks of its highland course yield a widely distributed
water supply and thereby exercise a strong influence in locating the dwellings of men; but
they play no part in the great movements and larger activities of peoples. Only when minor
affluents unite to form the main stream, enlarge it in its lower course by an increasing tribute
of water, and extend constantly its tributary area, does a river assume real historical importance.
It reaches its fullest significance at its mouth, where it joins the world's highway of the
ocean. Here are combined the best geographical advantages--participation in the cosmopolitan
civilization characteristic of coastal regions, opportunity for inland and maritime commerce,
and a fertile alluvial soil yielding support for dense populations. The predominant importance
of the debouchment stretch of a river is indicated by the presence of such cities as London,
Rotterdam, Hamburg, Bremen, Bordeaux, Odessa, Alexandria, Calcutta, Rangoon, Bangkok, Hongkong,
Canton, Nanking and Shanghai, Montreal and Quebec, New York, Philadelphia, New Orleans, Buenos
Ayres and Montevideo. This debouchment stretch gains in practical value and hence in permanent
historical importance if it is swept by a scouring tide, which enables the junction of inland
and maritime routes to penetrate into the land. Even Strabo recognized this value of tidal
reaches.[652] Hence in tideless basins like the Baltic and Caribbean, the great river ports
have to advance coastward to meet the sea; and the lower course of even mighty streams like
the Volga and Nile achieve a restricted importance.[653]

The control of a river mouth becomes a desideratum or necessity to the upstream people. Otherwise
they may be bottled up. Though history shows us countless instances of upstream expansion,
nevertheless owing to the ease of downstream navigation and this increasing historical importance
from source to mouth, the direction of a river's flow has often determined the course of commerce
and of political expansion.

[Sidenote: Location at hydrographic centers.]

The possibility of radial expansion, which we have found to be the chief advantage of a central
location, is greatly enhanced if that central location coincides with a hydrographic center
of low relief. The tenth century nucleus of the Russian Empire was found about the low nodal
watershed formed by the Valdai Hills, whence radiated the rivers later embodied in the Muscovite
domain. Here In Novgorod at the head of the Volchov-Ladoga-Neva system, Pskof on the Velikaya,
Tver at the head of the navigable Volga, Moscow on the Oka, Smolensk on the Dnieper, and Vitebsk
on the Duna, were gathered the Russians destined to displace the primitive Finnish population
and appropriate the wide plains of eastern Europe. Everywhere their conquests, colonization,
and commercial relations have followed the downstream course of their rivers. The Dnieper carried
the Rus of Smolensk and Kief to the Euxine, into contact with the Byzantine world, and brought
thence religion, art, and architecture for the untutored empire of the north. The influence
of the Volga has been irresistible. Down its current Novgorod traders in the twelfth century
sought the commerce of the Caspian and the Orient; and later the Muscovite princes pushed their
conquest of the Tartar hordes from Asia. The Northern Dwina, Onega, Mesen and Petchora have
carried long narrow bands of Slav settlement northward to the Arctic Ocean. [See map page 225.]
Medieval Russian trade from Hanseatic Pskof and Novgorod, and later Russian dominion followed
the Narva and Neva to the Baltic. "The Dnieper made Russia Byzantine, the Volga made It Asiatic.
It was for the Neva to make it European."[654]

In the same way, when the early French explorers and traders of Canada reached the hydrographic
center of the continent about Lakes Superior and Michigan, they quickly crossed the low rim
of these basins southward to the Mississippi, and northward to the Rainy Lake and Winnipeg
system draining to Hudson Bay.[655] While it took them from 1608 to 1659 and 1662 to penetrate
upstream from Quebec to this central watershed, only nine years elapsed from the time (1673)
Marquette reached the westward flowing Wisconsin River to 1682, when La Salle reached the mouth
of the Mississippi.

[Sidenote: Effect of current upon trade and expansion.]

The effect of mere current upon the course of trade and political expansion was conspicuous
in the early history of the Mississippi Valley, before steam navigation began to modify the
geographic influence of a river's flow. The wide forest-grown barrier of the Appalachian Mountains
placed the western pioneers under the geographic control of the western waters. The bulkiness
of their field and forest products, fitted only for water transportation, and the immense mass
of downstream commerce called loudly for a maritime outlet and the acquisition from Spain of
some port at the Mississippi mouth. For twenty years the politics of this transmontane country
centered about the "Island of New Orleans," and in 1803 saw its dream realized by the Louisiana
Purchase.

For the western trader, the Mississippi and Ohio were preeminently downstream paths. Gravity
did the work. Only small boats, laden with fine commodities of small bulk and large value,
occasionally made the forty day upstream voyage from New Orleans to Louisville. Flat boats
and barges that were constructed at Pittsburg for the river traffic were regularly broken up
for lumber at downstream points like Louisville and New Orleans; for the traders returned overland
by the old Chickasaw Trail to the Cumberland and Ohio River settlements, carrying their profits
in the form of gold. The same thing happens today, as it also happened two thousand years ago,
on the Tigris and Euphrates. The highlander of Armenia or northern Mesopotamia floats down
the current in his skin boat or on his brushwood raft, to sell his goods and the wood forming
the frame-work of his primitive craft in timberless Bagdad and Busra, as formerly in treeless
Babylon. He dries out his skins, loads them on his shoulders or on a mule brought down for
the purpose, and returns on foot to his highland village.[656] The same preponderance of downstream
traffic appears to-day in eastern Siberia. Pedlers on the Amur start in the spring from Stretensk,
2025 miles up the river, with their wares in barges, and drift down with the current, selling
at the villages en route, to the river's mouth at Nikolaievsk. Here they dispose of their remaining
stock and also of their barges, the lumber of which is utilized for sidewalks, and they themselves
return upstream by steamer. The grain barges of western Siberia, like the coal barges of the
Mississippi, even within recent decades, are similarly disposed of at the journey's end.[657]
The tonnage of downstream traffic on the Ohio and Mississippi to-day greatly exceeds that upstream.
The fleet of 56 coal boats, carrying about 70,000 tons, which the great towboat Sprague takes
in a single trip from Louisville down to New Orleans, all return empty. Of the 15,226,805 net
tons of freight shipped in 1906 on the Ohio system, 13,980,368 tons of coal, stone, sand and
lumber were carried in unrigged craft, fitted chiefly for downstream traffic.[658]

[Sidenote: Importance of mouth to upstream people.]

Owing to the strong pull exerted by a river's mouth upon all its basin, current, commerce and
people alike tend to reach the ocean. For a nation holding the terrestrial course of a stream,
the political fate of its tidal course or mouth must always be a matter of great concern. To
the early westerner of the United States, before the acquisition of the Louisiana country,
it was of vital importance whether belligerent France or more amenable Spain or the Republic
itself should own the mouth of the Mississippi. Germany, which holds 240 miles (400 kilometers)
of the navigable Danube,[659] can never be indifferent to the political ownership of its mouth,
or to the fact that a great power like Russia has edged forward, by the acquisition of Bessarabia
in 1878, to the northern or Kilia debouchment channel.[660] Such interest shows itself in sustained
efforts either to gain political control of the mouth, or to secure the neutrality of the stream
by having it declared an international waterway, and thus partially to deprive the state holding
its mouth of the advantages of its transit location.

The only satisfactory solution is undivided political ownership. After France pushed eastward
to the Rhine in 1648, she warred for three centuries to acquire its mouth. Napoleon laid claim
to Belgium and Holland on the ground that their soil had been built up by the alluvium of French
rivers. Germany's conquest of Schleswig-Holstein in 1864 was significant chiefly because it
dislodged Denmark from the right bank of the lower Elbe, and secured undivided control of this
important estuary. The Rhine, which traverses the Empire from north to south and constitutes
its greatest single trade route, gives to Germany a more vital interest in Holland than ever
France had. Her most important iron and coal mines and manufacturing industries are located
on this waterway or its tributaries, the Ruhr, Mosel, Saar and Main. Hence the Rhine is the
great artery of German trade and outlet for her enormous exports, which chiefly reach the sea
through the ports of Belgium and Holland. These two countries therefore fatten on German commerce
and reduce German profits. Hence the Empire, by the construction of the Emden-Dortmund canal,
aims to divert its trade from Rotterdam and Antwerp to a German port, and possibly thereby
put the screw on Holland to draw her into some kind of a commercial union with Germany.[661]
Heinrich von Treitschke, in his "Politik," deplores the fact that the most valuable part of
the great German river has fallen into alien hands, and he declares it to be an imperative
task of German policy to recover the mouth of that stream, "either by a commercial or political
union." "We need the entrance of Holland into our customs union as we need our daily bread."[662]

[Sidenote: Prevention of monopoly of river mouth.]

When the middle and upper course of a river system are shared by several nations, their common
interest demands that the control of the mouth be divided, as in the case of the La Plata between
Argentine and Uruguay; or held by a small state, like Holland, too weak to force the monopoly
of the tidal course. The Treaty of Paris in 1856 extended the territory of Moldavia at the
cost of Russia, to keep the Russian frontier away from the Danube.[663] Her very presence was
ominous. The temptation to giant powers to gobble up these exquisite morsels of territory is
irresistible. Hence the advisability of neutralizing small states holding such locations, as
in the case of Roumania; and making their rivers international waterways, as in the case of
the Orinoco,[664] Scheldt, Waal, Rhine and Danube.[665] The Yangtze Kiang mouth, where already
the treaty ports cluster thick, will probably be the first part of China to be declared neutral
ground, and as such to be placed under the protection of the combined commercial powers,[666]
as is even now foreshadowed by the International Conservancy Board of 1910.[667] The United
States, by her treaty with Mexico in 1848, secured the right of free navigation on the lower
or Mexican course of the Colorado River and the Gulf of California. The Franco-British convention,
which in 1898 confirmed the western Sudan to France, also conceded the principle of making
the Niger, the sole outlet of this vast and isolated territory, an international waterway,
and created two French enclaves in British Nigeria to serve as river ports.[668]

[Sidenote: Motive for canals in lower course.]

The mouth of a large river system is the converging point of many lines of inland and maritime
navigation. The interests of commerce, especially in its earlier periods of development, demand
that the contact here of river and sea be extensive as possible. Nature suggests the way to
fulfill this requirement. The sluggish lowland current of a river, on approaching sea level,
throws out distributaries that reach the coast at various points and form a network of channels,
which can be deepened and rendered permanent by canalization. In such regions the opportunity
for the improvement and extension of waterways has been utilized from the earliest times. The
ancient Egyptians, Chaldeans, East Indians, and the Gauls of the lower Po for thousands of
years canaled the waters of their deltas and coastal lowlands for the combined purpose of irrigation,
drainage, and navigation. The great canal system of China, constructed in the seventh century
primarily to facilitate Inland intercourse between the northern and central sections of the
Empire, extends from the sea at Hangchow 700 miles northward through the coastal alluvium of
the Yangtze Kiang, Hoang-ho and Pie-ho to Tientsin, the port of Peking. Only the canal system
of the center, important both for the irrigation of the fertile but porous loess and for the
transportation of crops, is still in repair. Here the meshes of the canal network are little
more than half a mile wide; farmers dig canals to their barns and bring in their produce in
barges instead of hay wagons.[669] Holland, where the ancient Romans constructed channels in
the Rhine delta and where the debouchment courses of the Rhine, Meuse and Scheldt present a
labyrinth of waterways, has to-day 1903 miles (3069 kilometers) of canals, which together with
the navigable rivers, have been important geographic factors in the historical preëminence
of Dutch foreign commerce. So on the lower Mississippi, in the greatest alluvial area of the
United States, the government has expended large sums for the improvement of the passes and
bayous of the river. The Barataria, Atchafalaya, Terrebonne, Black, Teche and Lafourche bayous
have been rendered navigable, and New Orleans has been given canal outlets to the sea through
Lakes Salvador, Pontchartrain and Borgne.

[Sidenote: Watershed canals.]

As the dividing channels of the lower course point to the feasibility of amplifying the connection
with the ocean highway, so the spreading branches of a river's source, which approach other
head waters on a low divide, suggest the extension of inland navigation by the union of two
such drainage systems through canals. Where the rivers of a country radiate from a relatively
low central watershed, as from the Central Plateau of France and the Valdai Hills of Russia,
nature offers conditions for extensive linking of inland waterways. Hence we find a continuous
passway through Russia from the Caspian Sea to the Baltic by the canal uniting the Volga and
Neva rivers; another from the Black Sea up the Dnieper, which by canals finds three different
outlets to the Baltic through the Vistula, Niemen and Duna.[670] The Northern Dwina, linked,
by canals, with the Neva through Lakes Onega and Ladoga, unites the White Sea with the Baltic.[671]
Sully, the great minister of Henry IV. of France, saw that the relief of the country would
permit the linking of the Loire, Seine, Meuse, Saône and Rhine, and the Mediterranean with
the Garonne. All his plans were carried out by his successors, but he himself, at the end of
the sixteenth century, began the construction of the Briare Canal between the Loire near Orleans
and the Seine at Fontainebleau.[672] Similarly in the eastern half of the United States, the
long, low watershed separating the drainage basin of the St. Lawrence and Great Lakes from
that of the Mississippi and the Hudson made feasible the succession of canals completing the
"Great Belt" of inland navigation from St. Lawrence and New York bays to the Gulf. Albert Gallatin's
famous report of 1808[673] pointed out the adaptation of the three low divides to canal communication;
but long before this, every line of possible canoe travel by river and portage over swamp or
lake-dotted watershed had been used by savages, white explorers and French voyageurs, from
Lake Champlain to Lake Winnebago, so that the canal engineer had only to select from the numerous
portage paths already beaten out by the moccasined feet of Indian or fur-trader.

[Sidenote: Rivers and railroads.]

The cheapness and ease of river travel have tended to check or delay the construction of highroads
and railways, where facilities for inland navigation have been abundant, and later to regulate
railway freight charges. Conversely, riverless lands have everywhere experienced an exaggerated
and precocious railroad development, and have suffered from its monopoly of transportation.
Even canals have in most lands had a far earlier date than paved highroads. This has been true
of Spain, France, Holland, and England.[674] In the Hoang-ho Valley of northern China where
waterways are restricted, owing to the rapid current and shallowness of this river, highroads
are comparatively common; but they are very rare in central and southern China where navigable
rivers and canals abound.[675] New England, owing to its lack of inland navigation, was the
first part of the United States to develop a complete system of turnpikes and later of railroads.
On the other hand, the great river valleys of America have generally slighted the highroad
phase of communication, and slowly passed to that of railroads. The abundance of natural waterways
in Russia--51,800 miles including canals--has contributed to the retardation of railroad construction.[676]
The same thing is true in the Netherlands, where 4875 miles (7863 kilometers) of navigable
waterways[677] in an area of only 12,870 square miles (33,000 square kilometers) have kept
the railroads down to a paltry 1818 miles (2931 kilometers); but smaller Belgium, commanding
only 1375 miles (3314 kilometers) of waterway and stimulated further by a remarkable industrial
and commercial development, has constructed 4228 miles (6819 kilometers) of railroad.

[Sidenote: Relation of rivers to railroads in recent colonial lands.]

If we compare the countries of Central and South America, where railroads are still mere adjuncts
of river and coastwise routes, a stage of development prevalent in the United States till 1858,
we find an unmistakable relation between navigable waterways and railroad mileage. The countries
with ample or considerable river communication, like Brazil, Venezuela, Colombia and Paraguay,
are all relatively slow in laying railroads as compared with Mexico and Argentine, even when
allowance is made for differences of zonal location, economic development, and degree of European
elements in their respective populations. Mexico and Argentine, having each an area only about
one-fourth that of Brazil but a railroad mileage nearly one-fourth greater, have been pushed
to this development primarily by a common lack of inland navigation. Similarly South Africa,
stricken with poverty of water communication south of the Zambesi, has constructed 7500 miles
of railroads[678] in spite of the youth of the country and the sparsity of its white population.
Similar geographic conditions have forced the mileage of Australian railways up to twice that
of South Africa, in a country which is still in the pastoral and agricultural stage of development,
and whose most densely populated province Victoria has only fourteen inhabitants to the square
mile. In the almost unpeopled wastes of Trans-Caspia, where two decades ago the camel was the
only carrier, the Russian railroad has worked a commercial revolution by stimulating production
and affording an outlet for the irrigated districts of the encircling mountains.[679] In our
own Trans-Missouri country, where the scanty volume of the streams eliminated all but the Missouri
itself as a dependable waterway, even for the canoe travel of the early western trappers, railroads
have developed unchecked by the competition of river transportation.[680] With no rival nearer
than the Straits of Magellan and the Isthmus of Panama for transportation between the Mississippi
and the Pacific coast, they have fixed their own charges on a monopoly basis, and have fought
the construction of the Isthmian Canal.

[Sidenote: Unity of a river system.]

A river system is a system of communication. It therefore makes a bond of union between the
people living among its remoter sources and those settled at its mouth. Every such river system
forms geographically an unbroken whole. Only where a wild, torrent-filled gorge, like the Brahmaputra's
path through the Himalayas, interrupts communication between the upper and lower course, is
human life in the two sections divorced. But such cases are rare. Even the River Jhelam, which
springs with mad bounds from the lofty Vale of Kashmir through the outer range of the Himalayas
down to its junction with the Indus, carries quantities of small logs to be used as railway
sleepers; and though it shatters a large per cent. of them, it makes a link between the lumber
men of the Kashmir forests and British railroad engineers in the treeless plains of the Indus.[681]

[Sidenote: The effect of common water supply in arid lands.]

In arid lands, where the scant and variable streams are useless for navigation, but invaluable
for irrigation, a rival interest in the limited water supply leads almost inevitably to conflict,
and often to the political union of the peoples holding the upper and lower courses, in order
to secure adjustment of their respective claims. The ancient Salassi of the upper Doria Baltea
Valley in the Alps drew off all the water of the stream for washing gold, and thus deprived
the agricultural people lower down the valley of the water necessary for irrigation. The result
was frequent wars between the two tribes.[682] The offensive is taken by the downstream people,
whose fields and gardens suffer from every extension of tillage or increase of population in
the settlements above them. Occasionally a formal agreement is a temporary expedient. The River
Firenze and other streams watering southern Trans-Caspia have their sources in the mountains
of northern Persia; hence the Russians, in the boundary convention with Persia of 1881, stipulated
that no new settlement be established along these streams within Persian territory, no extension
of land under cultivation beyond the present amount, and no eduction of the water beyond that
necessary to irrigate the existing fields.[683] Russia's designs upon Afghanistan aim not only
at access to India, but also at the control of the upper Murghab River, on whose water depends
the prosperity of the Pendjeh and Merv oases.[684] In such regions the only logical course
is the extension of the political frontier to the watershed, a principle which Russia is applying
in western Asia, and which California applied in drawing her eastern boundary to include even
Goose Lake.

[Sidenote: Union of opposite river banks.]

Rivers unite. Ancient Rome grew up on both banks of the Tiber, and extended her commercial
and political supremacy up and down stream. Both sides of the Rhine were originally occupied
by the Gallic tribes, whose villages were in some instances bisected by the river. Cæsar found
the Menapii, a Belgian people on the lower Rhine, with their fields, farmhouses and villages
on both banks.[685] Then the westward advance of the Teutonic tribes gradually transformed
the Rhine into a German river, from the island of Batavia at its mouth up to the great elbow
at the foot of the Jura Mountains.[686] To the American Indians even the widest rivers were
no barriers. Christopher Gist, exploring the Ohio in 1751, found a Shawnee village situated
on both sides of the river below the mouth of the Scioto, with about a hundred houses on the
north bank and forty on the south.[687] The small and unique nation of the Mandan Indians were
found by Lewis and Clark near the northern bend of the Missouri in 1804, in two groups of villages
on opposite sides of the river. They had previously in 1772 occupied nine villages lower down
the stream, two on the east bank and seven on the west.[688] The Connecticut River settlers
of early colonial days laid out all their towns straight across the valley, utilizing the alluvial
meadows on both banks for tillage, the terraces for residence sites, and the common river for
intercourse.[689]

[Sidenote: Tendency toward ethnic and cultural unity in a river valley.]

Every river tends to become a common artery feeding all the life of its basin, and gradually
obliterating ethnic and cultural differences among the peoples of its valley. The Nile, with
its narrow hem of flood-plain on either bank and barrier sands beyond, has so linked race and
history in Egypt and Nubia, that the two countries cannot be separated. A common highway from
mountains to sea, a common frontier of trackless desert have developed here a blended similarity
of race, language and culture from the delta to Kordofan. The Hamitic race seems to have originated
in the south and migrated northward down the Nile towards the delta. Later the whole valley,
north and south, received the same Semitic or Arab immigration, which spread from Cairo to
the old Sudanese capital of Sennar, while a strain of negro blood has filtered in from the
equatorial black belt and followed the current down to the sea.[690] The culture of the valley
originated in Lower Egypt, and, with that easy transmissibility which characterizes ideas,
it moved upstream into Ethiopia, which never evolved a culture of its own. Just as noticeable
is the political interplay. The rule of the Pharaohs extended far up the Nile, at times to
the Third Cataract at 20° N.L.; and at one period Ethiopian kings extended their sway over
Egypt. At another, a large body of mutinous Egyptian soldiers abandoned their country and their
wives, and emigrated along the one line of slight resistance open to them into Ethiopia, to
found there a new state and new families by marriage with native women, thus contributing to
the amalgamation of races in the valley.

[Sidenote: Identity of country with river valley.]

The most pronounced types of the identity of a country with a river valley are found where
strongly marked geographical boundaries, like deserts and mountains, emphasize the inner unity
of the basins by accentuating their isolation from without. This is especially the case in
high mountain regions; here canton or commune or county coincides with the river valley. Population
hugs the margins of the streams where alone is soil fit for cultivation, and fairly level land
suitable for dwellings. Above are the unoccupied heights, at once barrier and boundary. In
the Alps, Salzburg is approximately identical with the valley of the Salzach, Uri with that
of the Reuss, the Valais with the upper Rhone, the Engadine with the upper Inn, Glarus with
the Linth, Graubünden or Grisons with the upper Rhine, Valtellina with the Adda. So in the
great upheaved area of the Himalayas, the state of Kashmir was originally the valley of the
upper Jhelam River, while Assam, in its correct delimitation, is the valley of the Brahmaputra
between the Himalayan gorge and the swamps of Bengal.[691]

In mountain regions which are also arid, the identity of a district with a stream basin becomes
yet more pronounced, because here population must gather about the common water supply, must
organize to secure its fair distribution, and cooperate in the construction of irrigation channels
to make the distribution as economical and effective as possible. Thus in Chinese Turkestan,
the districts of Yarkand, Kashgar, Aksu and Kut-sha are identical with as many mountain tributaries
of the Tarim, whose basin in turn comprises almost the whole of Chinese Turkestan.

[Sidenote: Enclosed river valleys.]

In all such desert and mountain-rimmed valleys, the central stream attracts to its narrow hem
of alluvial soil the majority of the population, determines the course of the main highroad,
and is itself often the only route through the encompassing barriers. Hence the importance
attached to the river by the inhabitants, an importance reflected in the fact that the river
often gives its name to the whole district. To the most ancient Greeks Aigiptos meant the river,
whose name was later transferred to the whole land; for the narrow arable strip which constituted
Egypt was "the gift of the Nile." The Aryans, descending into India through the mountains on
its northwest border, gave the name of Sindhu, "the flood" or "the ocean," to the first great
river they met. In the mouth of Persians and Greeks the name was corrupted into Indus, and
then applied to the whole country; but it still survives in its original form in the local
designation of the Sind province, which comprises the valley of the Indus below the confluence
of the five rivers, which again formed and named the original Punjab. Significantly enough
the western political boundary of the Sind extends into the barren foothills of Baluchistan
only so far as the affluents of the Indus render the land arable by irrigation; for the Indus
performs for the great province of the Sind, by annual inundation and perennial irrigation,
the same service that the Nile does for Egypt.

The segregation of such districts, and the concentration of their interests and activities
along the central streams have tended to develop in the population an intense but contracted
national consciousness, and to lend them a distinctive history. Their rivers become interwoven
with their mythology and religion, are gods to be worshipped or appeased, become goals of pilgrimages,
or acquire a peculiar sanctity. The Nile, Ganges, Jamna, Jordan, Tiber and Po are such sacred
streams, while the Rhine figures in German mythology.

[Sidenote: Rivers as boundaries of races and peoples.]

From the uniting power of rivers it follows that they are poor boundaries. Only mountains and
seas divide sharply enough to form scientific frontiers. Rivers may serve as political lines
of demarcation and therefore fix political frontiers; but they can never take the place of
natural boundaries. A migrating or expanding people tend always to occupy both slopes of a
river valley. They run their boundary of race or language across the axis of their river basin,
only under exceptional circumstances along the stream itself. The English-French boundary in
the St. Lawrence Valley crosses the river in a broad transitional zone of mingled people and
speech in and above the city of Montreal. The French-German linguistic frontier in Switzerland
crosses the upper Rhone Valley just above Sierre, but the whole canton of Valais above the
elbow of the river at Martigny shows fundamental ethnic unity, indicated by identity of head
form, stature and coloring.[692] Where the Elbe flows through the low plains of North Germany,
its whole broad valley is occupied by a pure Teutonic population--fair, tall, long-headed;
a more brunette type occupies its middle course across the uplands of Saxony, and speaks German
like the downstream folk; but its upper course, hemmed in by the Erz and Riesen Mountains,
shows the short, dark and broad-headed people of the Bohemian basin, speaking the Czech language.[693]
On the Danube, too, the same thing is true. The upper stream is German in language and predominantly
Alpine in race stock down to the Austro-Hungarian boundary; from this point to the Drave mouth
it is Hungarian; and from the Drave to the Iron Gate it is Serbo-Croatian on both banks.[694]
Lines of ethnic demarcation, therefore, cut the Elbe and Danube transversely, not longitudinally.
[See map page 223.]

The statements of Cæsar and Pliny that the Seine and Marne formed the boundary between the
Gauls and Belgians, and the Garonne that between the Gauls and Aquitanians, must be accepted
merely as general and preliminary; for exceptions are noted later in the text. Parisii, for
instance, were represented as holding both banks of the Seine and Marne at their confluence,
and the Gallic Bituriges were found on the Aquitanian side of the Garonne estuary.

[Sidenote: Scientific river boundaries.]

Only under peculiar conditions do rivers become effective as ethnic, tribal or political boundaries.
Most often it is some physiographic feature which makes the stream an obstacle to communication,
and lends it the character of a scientific boundary. The division of the Alpine foreland of
southern Germany first into tribal and later into political provinces by the Iller, Lech, Inn,
and Salzach can be ascribed in part to the tumultuous course of these streams from the mountains
to the Danube, which renders them useless for communication.[695] The lower Danube forms a
well maintained linguistic boundary between the Bulgarians and Roumanians, except in the northwest
corner of Bulgaria, where the hill country between the Timok River and the Danube has enticed
a small group of Roumanians across to the southern side. From this point down the stream, a
long stretch of low marshy bank on the northern side, offering village sites only at the few
places where the loess terrace of Roumania comes close to the river, exposed to overflows,
strewn with swamps and lakes, and generally unfit for settlement, has made the Danube an effective
barrier.[696] Similarly, the broad, sluggish Shannon River, which spreads out to lake breadth
at close intervals in its course across the boggy central plain of Ireland, has from the earliest
times proved a sufficient barrier to divide the plain into two portions, Connaught and Meath,[697]
contrasted in history, in speech and to some extent even in race elements.[698] A different
cause gave the Thames its unique rôle among the larger English rivers as a boundary between
counties from source to mouth. London's fortified position at the head of the Thames estuary
closed this stream as a line of invasion to the early Saxons, and forced them to make detours
to the north and south of the river, which therefore became a tribal boundary.[699]

Where navigation is peculiarly backward, a river may present a barrier. An instructive instance
is afforded by the River Yo, which flows eastward through northern Bornu into Lake Chad, and
serves at once as boundary and protection to the agricultural tribes of the Kanuri against
the depredations of the Tibbu robbers living in the Sahara or the northern grassland. But during
the dry season from April to August, when the trickling stream is sucked up by the thirsty
land and thirstier air, the Tibbu horsemen sweep down on the unprotected Kanuri and retreat
with their booty across the vanished barrier. The primitive navigation by reed or brushwood
rafts, practiced in this almost streamless district, affords no means of retreat for mounted
robbers; so the raiding season opens with the fall of the river.[700]

[Sidenote: Rivers as political boundaries.]

For political boundaries, which are often adopted with little reference to race distribution,
rivers serve fairly well. They are convenient lines of demarcation and strategic lines of defense,
as is proved by the military history of the Rhine, Danube, Ebro, Po, and countless other streams.
On the lower Zambesi Livingstone found the territories of the lesser chiefs defined by the
rivulets draining into the main river. The leader of the Makololo formally adopted the Zambesi
as his political and military frontier, though his people spread and settled beyond the river.[701]
Long established political frontiers may become ethnic boundaries, more or less distinct, because
of protracted political exclusion. To the Romans, the Danube and Rhine as a northeastern frontier
had the value chiefly of established lines in an imperfectly explored wilderness, and of strategic
positions for the defense of an oft assailed border; but the long maintenance of this political
frontier resulted in the partial segregation and hence differentiation of the people dwelling
on the opposite banks.

Poor as a scientific boundary, a river is not satisfactory even as a line of demarcation, because
of its tendency to shift its bed in every level stretch of its course. A political boundary
that follows a river, therefore, is often doomed to frequent surveys. The plantations on the
meanders of the lower Mississippi are connected now with one, now with the other of the contiguous
states, as the great stream straightens its course after the almost annual overflow.[702] The
Rio Grande has proved a troublesome and expensive boundary between the United States and Mexico.
Almost every rise sees it cutting a new channel for itself, now through Texas, now through
Mexican territory, occasioning endless controversies as to the ownership of the detached land,
and demanding fresh surveys. Recent changes in the lower course of the Helmund between Nasralabad
and the Sistan Swamp, which was adopted in 1872 as the boundary between Afghanistan and Persia,
have necessitated a new demarcation of the frontier; and on this task a commission is at present
engaged.[703] In a like manner Strabo tells us that the River Achelous, forming the boundary
between ancient Acarnania and Aetolia in western Hellas, by overflowing its delta region, constantly
obliterated the boundaries agreed upon by the two neighbors, and thereby gave rise to disputes
that were only settled by force of arms.[704]

[Sidenote: Fluvial settlements and peoples.]

Rivers tend always to be centers of population, not outskirts or perimeters. They offer advantages
that have always attracted settlement--fertile alluvial soil, a nearby water supply, command
of a natural highway for intercourse with neighbors and access to markets. Among civilized
peoples fluvial settlements have been the nuclei of broad states, passing rapidly through an
embryonic development to a maturity in which the old center can still be distinguished by a
greater density of population. Only among savages or among civilized people who have temporarily
reverted to primitive conditions in virgin colonial lands, do we find genuine riverine folk,
whose existence is closely restricted to their bordering streams. The river tribes of the Congo
occupy the banks or the larger islands, while the land only three or four miles back from the
stream is held by different tribes with whom the riverine people trade their fish. The latter
are expert fishermen and navigators, and good agriculturists, raising a variety of fruits and
vegetables. On the river banks at regular intervals are market greens, neutral ground, whither
people come from up and down stream and from the interior to trade. Their long riparian villages
consist of a single street, thirty feet wide and often two miles long, on which face perhaps
three hundred long houses,[705] Fisher and canoe people line the Welle, the great northern
tributary of the Congo.[706] The same type appeared in South America in the aboriginal Caribs
and Tupis dwelling along the southern tributaries of the Amazon and the affluents of the Paraguay.
These were distinctly a water race, having achieved a meager development only in navigation,
fishing and the cultivation of their alluvial soil.[707] The ancient mound-builders of America
located their villages chiefly, though not exclusively, along the principal watercourses, like
the Mississippi, Illinois, Miami, Wabash, Wisconsin, and Fox,[708] on the very streams later
dotted by the trading posts of the French voyageurs.

[Sidenote: Riparian villages of French Canada.]

The presence of the great waterways of Canada and the demand of the fur trade for extensive
and easy communication made the early French colonists as distinctly a riverine people as the
savage Congo tribes. Like these, they stretched out their villages in a single line of cabins
and clearings, three or four miles long, facing the river, which was the King's highway. Such
a village was called a côte. One côte ran into the next, for their expansion was always longitudinal,
never lateral. These riparian settlements lined the main watercourses of French Canada, especially
the St. Lawrence, whose shores from Beaupre, fifteen miles below Quebec, up to Montreal at
an early date presented the appearance of a single street. Along the river passed the stately
trading ship from France with its cargo of wives and merchandise for the colonists, the pirogue
of the habitant farmer carrying his onions and grain to the Quebec market, the birchbark canoe
of the adventurous voyageur bringing down his winter's hunt of furs from the snow-bound forests
of the interior, and the fleet of Jesuit priests bound to some remote inland mission.

On this water thoroughfare every dwelling faced. Hence land on the river was at a premium,
while that two miles back was to be had for the taking. The original grants measured generally
766 feet in width and 7,660 in depth inland; but when bequeathed from generation to generation,
they were divided up along lines running back at right angles to the all important waterway.
Hence each habitant farm measured its precious river-front by the foot and its depth by the
mile, while the cabins were ranged side by side in cosy neighborliness. The côte type of village,
though eminently convenient for the Indian trade, was ill adapted for government and defense
against the savages; but the need for the communication supplied by the river was so fundamental,
that it nullified all efforts of the authorities to concentrate the colonists in more compact
settlements. Parkman says: "One could have seen almost every house in Canada by paddling a
canoe up the St. Lawrence and Richelieu."[709] The same type of land-holding can be traced
to-day on the Chaudiere River, where the fences run back from the stream like the teeth of
a comb. It is reproduced on a larger scale in the long, narrow counties ranged along the lower
St. Lawrence, whose shape points to the old fluvial nuclei of settlement. Similarly the early
Dutch grants on the Hudson gave to the patroons four miles along the river and an indefinite
extension back from the stream. In the early Connecticut River settlements, the same consideration
of a share in the river and its alluvial bottoms distributed the town lots among the inhabitants
in long narrow strips running back from the banks.[710]

[Sidenote: Boatmen tribes or castes.]

In undeveloped countries, where rivers are the chief highways, we occasionally see the survival
of a distinct race of boatmen amid an intruding people of different stock, preserved in their
purity by their peculiar occupation, which has given them the aloofness of a caste. In the
Kwang-tung province of southern China are 40,000 Tanka boat people, who live in boats and pile-dwellings
in the Canton River. The Chinese, from whom they are quite distinct, regard them as a remnant
of the original population, which was dislodged by their invasion and forced to take refuge
on the water. They gradually established intercourse with the conquerors of the land, but held
themselves aloof. They marry only among themselves, have their own customs, and enjoy a practical
monopoly of carrying passengers and messages between the steamers and the shore at Macao, Hongkong
and Canton.[711] In the same way, the middle Niger above Gao possesses a distinct aquatic people,
the Somnos or Bosos, who earn their living as fishermen and boatmen on the river. They spread
their villages along the Niger and its tributaries, and occupy separate quarters in the large
towns like Gao and Timbuctoo. They are creatures of the river rather than of the land, and
show great skill and endurance in paddling and poling their narrow dugouts on their long Niger
voyages.[712]

Reference has been made before to the large river population of China who live on boats and
rafts, and forward the trade of the vast inland waterways. These are people, differentiated
not in race, but in occupation and mode of life, constantly recruited from the congested population
of the land. Allied to them are the trackers or towing crews whose villages form a distinctive
feature of the turbulent upper Yangtze, and who are employed, sometimes three hundred at a
time, to drag junks up the succession of rapids above Ichang.[713] Similarly the complex of
navigable waterways centering about Paris, as far back as the reign of Tiberius Cæsar, gave
rise to the Nautae Parisii or guild of mariners, from whom the city of Paris derived its present
coat of arms--a vessel under full sail. These Lutetian boatmen handled the river traffic in
all the territory drained by the Seine, Marne, and Oise. Later, in the reign of Louis the Fat,
they were succeeded by the Mercatores aquae Parisiaci, and from them sprang the municipal body
appointed to regulate the river navigation and commerce.[714]

[Sidenote: River islands as protected sites.]

The location of the ancient tribe of the Parisii is typical of many other weak riverine folk
who seek in the islands of a river a protected position to compensate for their paucity of
number. The Parisii, one of the smallest of the Gallic tribes, ill-matched against their populous
neighbors, took refuge on ten islands and sandbars of the Seine and there established themselves.[715]
Stanley found an island in the Congo near the second cataract of Stanley Falls occupied by
five villages of the Baswa, who had taken refuge there from the attacks of the bloodthirsty
Bakuma.[716] During the Tartar invasions of Russia in the thirteenth and fourteenth centuries,
bands of refugees from the surrounding country gathered for mutual defense on the islands of
the Dnieper River, and became the nucleus of the Dnieper Cossacks.[717] The Huron tribe of
American Indians, reduced to a mere fragment by repeated Iroquois attacks, fled first to the
islands of St. Joseph and Michilimackinac in Lake Huron, and in 1856 to the Isle of Orleans
in the St. Lawrence. But even this location under the guns of their French allies in Quebec
failed to protect them, for the St. Lawrence was a highway for the war fleets of their implacable
foe.[718]

[Sidenote: River and lake islands as robber strongholds.]

A river island not only confers the negative benefit of protection, but affords a coign of
vantage for raids on the surrounding country, being to some extent proof against punitive attacks.
It offers special facilities for depredations on parties crossing the river; here the divided
current, losing something of its force, is less of an obstacle, and the island serves as a
resting place on the passage. Immunity from punishment breeds lawlessness. The Ba Toka who,
fifty years ago, inhabited the islands in the great southern bend of the Zambesi, utilized
their location to lure wandering tribes on to their islands, under the pretext of ferrying
them across, and then to rob them, till Sebituane, the great Makololo chief, cleaned out their
fastnesses and opened the river for trade.[719] The islands in the wide stretches of the Lualaba
River in the Babemba country were described to Livingstone as harboring a population of marauders
and robbers, who felt themselves safe from attack.[720] The same unenviable reputation attaches
to the Budumas of the Lake Chad islands. A weak, timid, displaced people, they nevertheless
lose no chance of raiding the herds of the Sudanese tribes inhabiting the shores of the Lake,
and carrying off the stolen cattle on their wretched rafts to their island retreats.[721]

[Sidenote: River peninsulas as protected sites.]

The protection of an island location is almost equalled in the peninsulas formed by the serpentines
or meanders of a river. Hence these are choice sites for fortress or settlement in primitive
communities, where hostilities are always imminent and rivers the sole means of communication.
The defensive works of the mound-builders in great numbers occupied such river peninsulas.
The neck of the loop was fortified by a single or double line of ditch and earthen wall, constructed
from bank to bank of the encircling stream.[722] This was exactly the location of Vesontio,
now Besançon, once the ancient stronghold of the Sequani in eastern Gaul. It was situated in
a loop of the Dubis, so nearly a circle that its course seems to have been "described by a
compass," Cæsar says, while fortifications across the isthmus made the position of the town
almost impregnable.[723] Verona, lying at the exit of the great martial highway of the Brenner
Pass, occupies just such a loop of the Adige, as does Capua on the Volturno, and Berne on the
Aare. Shrewsbury, in the Middle Ages an important military point for the preservation of order
on the marches of Wales, is almost encircled by the River Severn, while a castle on the neck
of the peninsula completes the defense on the land side.[724] Graaf Reinett, at one time an
exposed frontier settlement of the Dutch in Cape Colony, had a natural moat around it in the
Sunday River, which here describes three-fourths of a circle.

[Sidenote: River islands as sites of trading posts and colonies.]

The need of protection felt by all colonists in new countries amid savage or barbarous people
whom encroachment sooner or later makes hostile, leads them if possible to place their first
trading posts and settlements on river islands, especially at the mouth of the streams, where
a delta often affords the site required, and where the junction of ocean and river highway
offers the best facilities for trade. A river island fixed the location of the English settlement
at Jamestown in Virginia, the French at Montreal and New Orleans, the Dutch at Manhattan and
Van Renssellær Island in the Hudson, the Swedes at Tinicum Island in the Delaware River a few
miles below the mouth of the Schuylkill.[725] St. Louis, located on a delta island of the Senegal
River, is one of the oldest European towns in West Africa;[726] and Bathurst, founded in 1618
on a similar site at the mouth of the Gambia, has for centuries now been the safe outlet for
the trade of this stream.[727] Such island settlements at river mouths are a phenomenon of
the outer edge of every coastal region; but inland stations for trade or military control also
seek the protection of an island site. The Russians in the seventeenth century secured their
downstream conquest of the Amur by a succession of river island forts,[728] which recall Colonel
Byrd's early frontier post on an island in the Holston River, and George Rogers Clark's military
stockade on Corn Island in the Ohio, which became the nucleus of the later city of Louisville.

[Sidenote: Swamps as barriers and boundaries.]

More effective than rivers in the protection which they afford are swamps. Neither solid land
nor navigable water, their sluggish, passive surface raises an obstacle of pure inertia to
the movements of mankind. Hence they form one of those natural boundaries that segregate. In
southern England, Ronmey Marsh, reinforced by the Wealden Forest, fixed the western boundary
of the ancient Saxon kingdom of Kent by blocking expansion in that direction, just as the bordering
swamps of the Lea and Colne rivers formed the eastern and western boundaries of Middlesex.[729]
The Fenland of the Wash, which extended in Saxon days from the highland about Lincoln south
to Cambridge and Newmarket, served to hem in the Angles of Norfolk and Suffolk on the west,
so that the occupation of the interior was left to later bands who entered by the estuaries
of the Humber and Forth.[730] In northern Germany, the low cross valleys of the Spree, Havel
and Netze rivers, bordered by alder swamps, were long a serious obstacle to communication,
and therefore became boundaries of districts,[731] just as the Bourtanger Moor drew the dividing
line between Holland and Hanover.

[Sidenote: Swamps as regions of survival.]

Swamp-bordered regions, as areas of natural isolation, guard and keep intact the people which
they hold. Therefore they are regions of survival of race and language. The scattered islets
of the Fens of England furnished an asylum to the early British Celts from Teutonic attacks,[732]
and later protected them against dominant infusion of Teutonic blood. Hence to-day in the Fenland
and in the district just to the south we find a darker, shorter people than in the country
to the east or west.[733] Similarly the White Russians, occupying the poor, marshy region of
uncertain watershed between the sources of the Duna, Dnieper and Volga, have the purest blood
of all the eastern Slavs, though this distinction is coupled with poverty and retarded culture,[734]
a combination that anthropo-geography often reveals. Wholly distinct from the Russians and
segregated from them by a barrier of swampy forests, we find the Letto-Lithuanians in the Baltic
province of Courland, speaking the most primitive form of flectional languages classed as Aryan.
The isolation which preserved their archaic speech, of all European tongues the nearest to
the Sanskrit, made them the last European people to accept Christianity.[735] The great race
of the Slavic Wends, who once occupied all northern Germany between the Vistula and Elbe, has
left only a small and declining remnant of its language in the swampy forests about the sources
of the Spree.[736] [See ethnographical map, p. 223.] The band of marshlands stretching through
Holland from the shallow Zuyder Zee east to the German frontier, has given to Friesland and
the coast islands of Holland a peculiar isolation, which has favored the development and survival
of the peculiar Friesian dialect, that speech so nearly allied to Saxon English, and has preserved
here the purest type of the tall, blond Teuton among the otherwise mixed stock of the Netherlands.[737]

[Sidenote: Swamps as places of refuge.]

Inaccessible to all except those familiar with their treacherous paths and labyrinthine channels,
swamps have always afforded a refuge for individuals and peoples; and therefore as places of
defense they have played no inconspicuous part in history. What the Dismal Swamp of North Carolina
and the cypress swamps of Louisiana were to the run-away slaves, that the Everglades of Florida
have been to the defeated Seminoles. In that half-solid, half-fluid area, penetrable only to
the native Indian who poles his canoe along its tortuous channels of liquid mud, the Seminoles
have set up their villages on the scattered hummocks of solid land, and there maintained themselves,
a tribe of 350 souls, despite all efforts of the United States government to remove them to
the Indian Territory. The swamps of the Nile delta have been the asylum of Egyptian independence
from the time King Amysis took refuge there for fifty years during an invasion of the Ethiopians,[738]
to the retreat thither of Amyrtaeus, a prince of Sais, after his unsuccessful revolt against
the Persian conqueror Artaxerxes I.[739] The Isle of Athelney among the marshes of the Parret
River afforded a refuge to Alfred the Great and a band of his followers during the Danish invasion
of Wessex in 878,[740] while the Isle of Ely in the Fenland was another point of sustained
resistance to the invaders. It was the Fenland that two hundred years later was the last stronghold
of Saxon resistance to William of Normandy. Here on the Isle of Ely the outlawed leader Hereward
maintained Saxon independence, till the Conqueror at last constructed a long causeway across
the marshes to the "Camp of Refuge."[741]

[Sidenote: The spirit of the marshes.]

The spirit of the marshlands is the spirit of freedom. Therefore these small and scarcely habitable
portions of the land assume an historical dignity and generate stirring historical events out
of all proportion to their size and population. Their content is ethical rather than economic.
They attract to their fastnesses the vigorous souls protesting against conquest or oppression,
and then by their natural protection sustain and nourish the spirit of liberty. It was the
water-soaked lowlands of the Rhine that enabled the early Batavians,[742] Ditmarscher and Frieslanders
to assert and to maintain their independence, generated the love of Independence among the
Dutch and helped them defend their liberty against the Spanish[743] and French. So the Fenland
of England was the center of resistance to the despotism of King John, who therefore fixed
his headquarters for the suppression of the revolt at Lincoln and his military depôt at Lynn.
Later in the conflict of the barons with Henry III, Simon de Montfort and other disaffected
nobles entrenched themselves in the islands of Ely and Axholm, till the Provisions of Oxford
in 1267 secured them some degree of constitutional rights.[744] Four centuries later the same
spirit sent many Fenlanders to the support of Cromwell.

[Sidenote: Economic and political importance of lakes.]

A river that spreads out into the indeterminate earthform of a marsh is an effective barrier;
but one that gathers waters into a natural basin and forms a lake retains the uniting power
of a navigable stream and also, by the extension of its area and elimination of its current,
approaches the nature of an enclosed sea. Mountain rivers, characterized by small volume and
turbulent flow, first become navigable when they check their impetuosity and gather their store
of water in some lake basin. The whole course of the upper Rhone, from its glacier source on
the slope of Mount Furca to its confluence with the Saône at Lyon, is unfit for navigation,
except where it lingers in Lake Geneva. The same thing is true of the Reuss in Lake Lucerne,
the upper Rhine in Lake Constance, the Aare in Thun and Brienze, and the Linth in Lake Zurich.
Hence such torrent-fed lakes assume economic and political importance in mountainous regions,
owing to the paucity of navigable waterways. The lakes of Alpine Switzerland and Italy and
of Highland Scotland form so many centers of intercourse and exchange. Even such small bodies
of water as the Alpine lakes have therefore become goals of expansion, so that we find the
shores of Geneva, Maggiore, Lugano, and Garda, each shared by two countries. Switzerland, the
Austrian Tyrol, and the three German states of Baden, Wurtemberg and Bavaria, have all managed
to secure a frontage upon Lake Constance. Lake Titicaca, lying 12,661 feet (3854 meters) above
sea level but affording a navigable course 136 miles (220 kilometers) long, is an important
waterway for Peru and Bolivia. In the central Sudan, where aridity reduces the volume of all
streams, even the variable and indeterminate Lake Chad has been an eagerly sought objective
for expanding boundaries. Twenty years ago it was divided among the native states of Bornu,
Bagirmi and Kanem; today it is shared by British Nigeria, French Sudan, and German Kamerun.
The erratic northern extension of the German boundary betrays the effort to reach this goal.

[Sidenote: Lakes as nuclei of states.]

The uniting power of lakes manifests itself in the tendency of such basins to become the nuclei
of states. Attractive to settlement in primitive times, because of the protected frontier they
afford--a motive finding its most emphatic expression in the pile villages of the early lake-dwellers--later
because of the fertility of their bordering soil and the opportunity for friendly intercourse,
they gradually unite their shores in a mesh of reciprocal relations, which finds its ultimate
expression in political union. It is a significant fact that the Swiss Confederation originated
in the four forest cantons of Lucerne, Schwyz, Uri and Unterwalden, which are linked together
by the jagged basin of Lake Lucerne or the Lake of the Four Forest Cantons, as the Swiss significantly
call it, but are otherwise divided by mountain barriers. So we find that Lake Titicaca was
the cradle of the Inca Empire, just as Lake Tezcoco was that of the Toltecs in Mexico and an
island in Lake Chalco later that of the Aztec domain.[745] The most stable of the short-lived
native states of Africa have apparently found an element of strength and permanence in a protected
lake frontier. Such are the petty kingdoms of Bornu, Bagirmi and Kanem on Lake Chad, and Uganda
on Victoria Nyanza.

Large lakes, which include in their area islands, peninsulas, tides, currents, fiords, inlets,
deltas, and dunes, and present every geographical feature of an enclosed sea, approach the
latter too in historical importance. Some of the largest, however, have long borne the name
of seas. The Caspian, which exceeds the Baltic in area, and the Aral, which outranks Lake Michigan,
show the closest physical resemblance to thalassic basins, because of their size, salinity
and enclosed drainage systems; but their anthropo-geographical significance is slight. The
very salinity which groups them with the sea points to an arid climate that forever deprives
them of the densely populated coasts characteristic of most enclosed seas, and hence reduces
their historical importance. Their tributary streams, robbed of their water by irrigation canals,
like "the shorn and parcelled Oxus", renounce their function of highways into the interior.
To this rule the Volga is a unique exception. Finally, cut off from union with the ocean, these
salt lakes lose the supreme historical advantage which is maintained by freshwater lakes, like
Ladoga, Nyassa, Maracaibo and the Great Lakes of North America, all lying near sea level.

[Sidenote: Lakes as fresh water seas.]

Lakes as part of a system of inland waterways may possess commercial importance surpassing
that of many seas. This depends upon the productivity, accessibility and extent of their hinterland,
and this in turn depends upon the size and shape of the inland basin. The chain of the five
Great Lakes, which together present a coastline of four thousand miles and a navigable course
as long as the Baltic between the Skager Rack and the head of the Gulf of Bothnia, constitutes
a freshwater Mediterranean. It has played the part of an enclosed sea in American history and
has enabled the Atlantic trade to penetrate 1400 miles inland to Chicago and Duluth. Its shores
have therefore been a coveted object of territorial expansion. The early Dutch trading posts
headed up the Hudson and Mohawk toward Lake Ontario, as did the English settlements which succeeded
them. The French, from their vantage point at Montreal, threw out a frail casting-net of fur
stations and missions, which caught and held all the Lakes for a time. Later the American shores
were divided among eight of our states. The northern boundaries of Indiana and Illinois were
fixed by Congress for the express purpose of giving these commonwealths access to Lake Michigan.
Pennsylvania with great difficulty succeeded in protruding her northwestern frontier to cover
a meager strip of Erie coast, while New York's frontage on the same lake became during the
period of canal and early railroad construction, a great factor in her development.

In 1901, the tonnage of our merchant vessels on the Great Lakes was half that of our Pacific,
Atlantic and Gulf coasts combined,[746] constituting a freshwater fleet greater than the merchant
marine of either France or sea-bred Norway. A remote but by no means faint echo of this fact
is found in the five hundred or more boats, equally available for trade or war, which Henry
M. Stanley saw the Uganda prince muster on the shore of Victoria Nyanza Lake. Ocean, sea, bay,
estuary, river, swamp, lake: here is Nature's great circle returning upon itself, a circle
faintly notched into arcs, but one in itself and one in man's uses.

NOTES TO CHAPTER XI

[630] Isabella B. Bishop, The Yangtze Valley and Beyond, Vol. I, pp. 26-27. New York and London,
1900.

[631] Fiske, Discovery of America, Vol. I, p. 492. Boston, 1892.

[632] Capt. James Cook, Voyage to the Pacific Ocean, 1776-1780, Vol. II, pp. 321-332. New York,
1796.

[633] John Richard Green, The Making of England, Vol. I, pp. 63-66, 84-86, 95, 96. London, 1904.

[634] E. Lavisse, Histoire de France, Vol. II, Part I, pp. 374-375, 378-379, 381-382, 385-386.
Paris, 1903. New York, 1902-1906.

[636] Ibid., Vol. I, pp. 192-194.

[637] G.W. Kitchen, History of France, Vol. I, pp. 59-60. Oxford, 1892.

[638] Dietrich Schaeffer, Die Hansestädte und König Waldemar von Dänemark, p. 36. Jena, 1879.

[639] G.G. Chisholm, Commercial Geography, p. 311. London, 1904.

[640] Capt. A.T. Mahan, The Problem of Asia, pp. 41, 60, 120. New York, 1900.

[641] Isabella B. Bishop, The Yangtze Valley and Beyond, Vol. I, pp. 97-98. New York and London,
1900.

[642] E.C. Semple, Development of the Hanse Towns in Relation to their Geographic Environment,
Bulletin Amer. Geog. Soc., Vol. 31. No. 3. 1899.

[643] Nordenskiold, Voyage of the Vega, pp. 519-530, 552. New York, 1882. Anatole Leroy-Beaulieu,
The Empire of the Tsars, Vol. I, Note pp. 278-281. New York, 1902.

[644] Agnes Laut, Voyagers of the Northern Ocean, Harper's Magazine, January, 1906.

[645] Alexis Krausse, Russia in Asia, pp. 21-54. New York, 1899.

[646] Felix Dubois, Timbuctoo, pp. 198-190, 251-257. New York, 1896.

[647] Ibid., p. 38.

[648] D. Livingstone, Missionary Travels, pp. 71, 177. New York, 1858.

[649] W. Deecke, Italy, p. 87. London, 1904.

[650] G. Adam Smith, Historical Geography of the Holy Land, map facing p. 167; also pp. 287,
327-328. New York, 1897.

[651] F.M. Stapff, Karte des unteren Khiusebthal, Petermanns Mitteilungen, p. 202. July, 1885.

[652] Strabo, Book III, chap. II, 4.

[653] For full discussion, see Roscher, National-Oekonomik des Handels und Gewerbefleisses.
Stuttgart, 1889.

[654] Rambaud, History of Russia, Vol. I, pp. 24-28. Boston, 1886.

[655] A.B. Hulbert, Historic Highways of America, Vol. VII, Portage Paths, pp. 182-183, 187-188.
Cleveland, 1903.

[656] Herodotus, Book I, 194. A.H. Layard, Nineveh and Its Remains, Vol. II, pp. 79-81. New
York, 1849.

[657] Charles W. Hawes, The Uttermost East, p. 60. New York, 1904.

[658] Transportation by Water in 1906, Table 30, p. 181. Report of Department of Commerce and
Labor, Washington, 1908.

[659] G.G. Chisholm, Commercial Geography, p. 277. London, 1904.

[660] E.A. Freeman, Historical Geography of Europe, p. 466. London. 1882.

[661] J. Ellis Barker, Modern Germany, pp. 68-85. London, 1907.

[662] Heinrich von Treitschke, Politik, Vol. I, p. 218. Leipzig, 1897.

[663] E.A. Freeman, Historical Geography of Europe, p. 466. London, 1882.

[664] G.G. Chisholm, Commercial Geography, p. 511. London, 1904.

[665] J. Partsch, Central Europe, p. 318. London, 1903.

[666] Ratzel, Politische Geographie, pp. 739-740. Munich, 1903.

[667] Annual Register for 1901, p. 358. New Series, London and New York, 1902.

[668] H.R. Mill, International Geography, p. 958. New York, 1902.

[669] Ratzel, History of Mankind, Vol. III, p. 473. London, 1896-1898.

[670] H.R. Mill, International Geography, p. 406. New York, 1902.

[671] G.G. Chisholm, Commercial Geography, map p. 312. London, 1904.

[672] Blanqui, History of Political Economy, pp. 273, 277, 296. New York, 1880.

[673] Albert Gallatin, American State Papers, Misc. Doc., Vol. I, No. 250. Washington, 1834.
Stuttgart, 1889.

[675] H.R. Mill, International Geography, pp. 530-531. New York, 1902.

[676] G.G. Chisholm, Commercial Geography, pp. 310, 312. London, 1904.

[677] J. Partsch, Central Europe, p. 314. London, 1903.

[678] Statesman's Yearbook for 1907.

[679] Henry Norman, All the Russias, pp. 254-255, 285-292. New York, 1902.

[680] E.C. Semple, American History and Its Geographic Conditions, pp. 251-255. Boston, 1903.

[681] E.F. Knight, Where Three Empires Meet, p. 6. London, 1897.

[682] Strabo, Book IV, chap. VI, 7.

[683] Alexis Krausse, Russia in Asia, pp. 361-362. New York, 1899.

[684] Angus Hamilton, Afghanistan, pp. 137-141. New York and London, 1906. Henry Norman, All
the Russias, pp. 276-277. New York, 1902.

[685] Bella Gallico, Book IV, chap. IV.

[686] Ibid., Book I, chap. XXXI; Book II, chap. III; Book IV, chap. I.

[687] Journals of Dr. Thomas Walker and Christopher Gist, p. 129. Filson Club Publications,
Louisville, 1898.

[688] H.R. Schoolcraft, Indian Tribes of the United States, Vol. III, pp. 248-249. Philadelphia,
1853.

[689] Martha K. Genthe, The Valley Towns of Connecticut, Bull. of Amer. Geog. Society, Vol.
39, pp. 1-7. New York, 1907.

[690] Ratzel, History of Mankind, Vol. III, pp. 181-182, 192. London, 1898.

[691] H.R. Mill, International Geography, p. 495. New York, 1902.

[692] W.Z. Ripley, Races of Europe, pp. 284-285. New York, 1899.

[693] Ibid., Maps pp. 222, 340, 350.

[694] Ibid., Maps pp. 402, 429.

[695] J. Partsch, Central Europe, pp. 43, 241. London, 1903.

[696] Ibid., p. 69. Sydow-Wagner, Methodischer Schul-Atlas, compare maps No. 13 and No. 25.

[697] Elisée Reclus, Europe, Vol. IV, pp. 380, 389-390. New York, 1882.

[698] W.Z. Ripley, Races of Europe, p. 318, map. New York, 1899.

[699] H.J. Mackinder, Britain and the British Seas, pp. 202-203. London, 1904.

[700] Boyd Alexander, From the Niger to the Nile, Vol. I, pp. 168, 169, 232, 306-307. London, 1907.

[701] Livingstone, Missionary Travels, pp. 102, 642. New York, 1858.

[702] See Century Atlas, maps of Mississippi, Louisiana and Arkansas for boundary line of 1850.

[703] Sir Thomas Holdich, India, p. 57. London, 1905.

[704] Strabo, Book X, chap. II, 19.

[705] Henry M. Stanley, Through the Dark Continent, Vol. II, pp. 120-124, 155-158, 168, 169,
173, 176, 177, 182, 266-274, 327. New York, 1879.

[706] Boyd Alexander, From the Niger to the Nile, Vol. II, pp. 252, 269-270. London, 1907.

[707] Helmolt, History of the World, Vol. I, pp. 189, 192-194. New York, 1902-1906.

[708] Cyrus Thomas, Mound Explorations, pp. 526-527, 531, 551. Twelfth Annual Report of Bureau
of Ethnology, Washington, 1894.

[709] Parkman, The Old Regime in Canada, pp. 292-303. Boston, 1904. 36, pp. 449-466. 1904.

[710] Martha Krug Genthe, Valley Towns of Connecticut, pp. 10-12, figures V. and VI, Bull.
of Amer. Geog. Society, Vol. 39, 1907.

[711] J. Nacken, Die Provinz Kwantung und ihre Bevölkerung, Petermanns Mitteilungen, Vol. 24,
p. 421, 1878. W.M. Wood, Fankwei, pp. 276-277. New York, 1859.

[712] Felix Dubois, Timbuctoo, pp. 19-22, 38. New York, 1896.

[713] Isabella B. Bishop, The Yangtze Valley and Beyond, Vol. I, pp. 164, 174-175, 179, 182,
189, 215. London and New York, 1900.

[714] William Walton, Paris, Vol. I, pp. 31-32, 35. Philadelphia, 1899.

[715] Cæsar, Bella Gallico, Book VIII, chaps, 57, 58.

[716] Henry M. Stanley, Through the Dark Continent, Vol. II, pp. 227-228. New York, 1879.

[717] Article, Cossack, Encyclopedia Britannica.

[718] Parkman, The Jesuits in North. America, pp. 292-303, 498-505, 534, 535. Boston, 1904.

[719] Livingstone, Missionary Travels, pp. 100, 102. New York, 1858.

[720] Livingstone, Last Journals, Vol. I, p. 359. London, 1874. New York, 1857. Boyd Alexander,
From the Niger to the Nile, Vol. I, pp. 237, 303-304, 320, 331-336; Vol. II, pp. 54, 56-58,
67-68, 96-99, 104-105. London, 1907.

[722] J.P. McLean, The Mound Builders, p. 20. Cincinnati, 1904. Squier and Davis, Ancient Monuments
of the Mississippi Valley, pp. 6, 9, 10. New York, 1848.

[723] Cæsar, Bello Gallico, Book I, chaps. 38, 39.

[724] Elisée Reclus, Europe, Vol. IV, pp. 101-102. New York, 1882.

[725] John Fiske, Dutch and Quaker Colonies in America, Vol. I, p. 241. Boston.

[726] H.E. Mill, International Geography, p. 956. New York, 1902.

[727] H.B. George, Historical Geography of the British Empire, pp. 259-260. London, 1904.

[728] Alexis Krausse, Russia in Asia, pp. 30-33, 50. New York, 1899.

[729] H.J. Mackinder, Britain and the British Seas, pp. 198-199. London, 1904. London, 1904.

[731] J. Partsch, Central Europe, p. 102. London, 1903.

[732] Miller and Skertchley, The Fenland Past and Present, pp. 10, 11, 27-30. London, 1878.

[733] W.Z. Ripley, Races of Europe, pp. 322-323. Map p. 327. New York, 1899.

[734] Anatole Leroy-Beaulieu, The Empire of the Tsars, Vol. I, p. 108. New York, 1893.

[735] Ibid., pp. 104-106. W.Z. Ripley, Races of Europe, pp. 340-342, 352, 365. New York, 1899.

[736] J. Partsch, Central Europe, p. 135. London, 1903.

[737] Ibid., p. 133. W.Z. Ripley, Races of Europe, pp. 294-295. New York, 1899.

[738] Herodotus, II, 137, 140.

[739] Thucydides, I, 110. Brugsch-Bey, History of Egypt, Vol. II, p. 333. London, 1881.

[740] John Richard Green, History of the English People, Vol. I, chap. III, p. 71.

[741] Miller and Skertchley, The Fenland Past and Present, pp. 83, 101, 104, 107, 108. London,
1878.

[742] Tacitus, History of the Germans, Book VI, chap. VI. Motley, Rise of the Dutch Republic,
Vol. I, pp. 2-5, 13. New York, 1885.

[743] J. Partsch, Central Europe, p. 299. London, 1903.

[744] Miller and Skertchley, The Fenland Past and Present, pp. 113-114. London, 1878. Oxford,
1892. Ratzel, History of Mankind, Vol. II, p. 163. London, 1896-1898.

[746] U.S. Report of Commission of Navigation, p. 10. Washington, 1901.

CHAPTER XII

CONTINENTS AND THEIR PENINSULAS

[Sidenote: Insularity of the land-masses.]

The division of the earth's surface into 28 per cent. land and 72 per cent. water is an all
important fact of physical geography and anthropo-geography. Owing to this proportion, the
land-masses, which alone provide habitats for man, rise as islands out of the three-fold larger
surface of the uninhabitable ocean. Consequently, the human species, like the other forms of
terrestrial life, bears a deeply ingrained insular character. Moreover, the water causes different
degrees of separation between the land-masses, according as it appears as inlet, strait, sea,
an island-strewn or islandless ocean; it determines the grouping of the habitable areas and
consequently the geographic basis of the various degrees of ethnic and cultural kinship between
the divisions of land. Finally, since the sea is for man only a highway to some ulterior shore,
this geography of the land-masses in relation to the encompassing waters points the routes
and goals of human wanderings.

Each fragment of habitable land, large or small, continent or islet, means a corresponding
group or detachment of the vast human family. Its size fixes the area at the service of the
group which occupies it. Its location, however, may either endow it with a neighborliness like
that subsisting between Africa and Europe and involving an interwoven history; or remoteness
like that of South America from Australia, so complete that even the close net of intercourse
thrown by modern commerce over the whole world has scarcely sufficed to bring them into touch.
Therefore the highly irregular distribution of the land areas, here compactly grouped, there
remote, deserves especial attention, since it produces far-reaching results. Finally, continents
and islands, by their zonal situation, their land forms, rainfall, river systems, flora and
fauna, produce for man varied life conditions, which in their turn are partially dependent
upon the size and grouping of the land-masses.

[Sidenote: Classification of land-masses according to size and location.]

A comparison of the large and small land-masses of the from the standpoint of both physical
and anthropological geography yields a classification based upon size and location on the one
hand, and historical influences on the other. The following table indicates the relation between
the two.

  I. Independent Land-masses.

    A. Continents. Independent by reason of size, which enables them
    to support a large number of people and afford the conditions for
    civilization.

      (a) Insular continents, whose primitive and modern development are
      marked by remoteness. Australia.

      (b) Neighboring continents, separated by narrow seas and showing
      community of historical events. Europe and Africa. Asia and North
      America around Bering Sea.

    B. Islands. Independent by reason of location.

      (a) Oceanic islands, characterized by greatest remoteness from
      continents and other islands, and also by independent or detached
      history. St. Helena and Iceland.

      (b) Member of a group of oceanic islands, therefore less
      independent. Hawaii, Fayal in the Azores, Tongatabu.

      (c) Large islands, approaching by reason of size the independence
      of continents and thereby finding compensation for a less
      independent location. New Guinea, Borneo, Madagascar; in a cultural
      sense, Great Britain and Japan.

  II. Dependent Land-masses.

    (a) Inshore or coast islands, whose history is intimately connected
    with that of the nearby mainland. Euboea, Long Island, Vancouver,
    Sakhalin, Ceylon.

    (b) Neighboring islands, showing less intimate historical
    relations. Formosa, the Canaries, Ireland in contrast to Great
    Britain.

    (c) Islands of enclosed or marginal seas, contained in a circle of
    lands and exposed to constant intercourse from all sides. Jamaica,
    Java, Crete, Sicily, Zealand, Gotland, St. Lawrence in Bering Sea.

    (d) Island groups not to be considered apart from other groups.
    Samoa, Fiji and Friendly Isles; Philippine, Sulu and Sunda Islands;
    Greater and Lesser Antilles.

[Sidenote: Effect of size of land-masses.]

As the homes of man, these land-masses vary greatly owing to difference of size. Only the six
continents have been large enough to generate great bodies of people, to produce differentiated
branches of the human family, and to maintain them in such numerical force that alien intermixtures
were powerless essentially to modify the gradually developing ethnic type. The larger continents
are marked by such diversity of climate, relief and contour, that they have afforded the varied
environments and the area for the development of several great types or sub-types of mankind.
Australia has been just large enough to produce one distinct native race, the result of a very
ancient blend of Papuan and Malayan stocks. But prevailing aridity has cast a mantle of monotony
over most of the continent, nullifying many local geographic differences in highland and lowland,
curtailing the available area of its already restricted surface, and hence checking the differentiation
that results either from the competition of large numbers or from a varied environment. We
find Australia characterized above all other continents by monotony of culture, mode of life,
customs, languages, and a uniform race type from the Murray River to York peninsula.[747] The
twin continents of the Americas developed a race singularly uniform in its physical traits,[748]
if we leave out of account the markedly divergent Eskimos, but displaying a wide range of political,
social and economic developments, from the small, unorganized groups of wandering savages,
like the desert Shoshones and coast Fuegians, to the large, stable empire of the Incas, with
intensive agriculture, public works, a state religion and an enlightened government.

Even the largest islands of the world, such as Borneo, New Guinea and Madagascar, show no such
independent ethnic development. This is the distinguishing characteristic of the largest land-masses.
Europe, except on the basis of its size and peninsula form, has no title to the name of continent;
certainly not on anthropo-geographical grounds. Its classification as a continent arose in
the Mediterranean among the Greeks, as a geographical expression of the antagonism between
themselves and their Carian, Phoenician and Persian enemies across the Aegean; the idea had
therefore a political origin, and was formed without knowledge of that vast stretch of plains
between the Black Sea and the Arctic Ocean, where Asia's climate and races lap over into Europe,
and where to-day we find the Muscovite Empire, in point of geographic conditions, its underlying
ethnic stock and form of government, as much Asiatic as European. The real or western Europe,
which the Roman Empire gradually added to the narrow Europe of the Greeks, and which is strikingly
contrasted to Asia in point of size, relief, contour, climate and races, only served to maintain
the distinction between the two continents in men's minds. But from a geographical standpoint
the distinction is an error. It has confused the interpretation of the history of the Greeks
and the development of the Russians. It has brought disorder into the question of the European
or Asiatic origin of the Aryan linguistic family, which the anthropo-geographer would assign
to the single continent of Eurasia. The independent development that falls to the lot of great
world islands like the Americas and Australia is impossible in a peninsular continent like
Europe, large as it is.

[Sidenote: Independence of location versus independence of size.]

The independence of a land-mass is based not alone on size: there is also an independence of
location. This, owing to the spherical form of the earth, tends to be neutralized by the independence
based upon large area. The larger a land-mass is, the nearer it approaches to others. Eurasia,
the largest of all the continents, comes into close proximity and therefore close relations
with Africa, North America, and even Australia; whereas Australia is at once the smallest and
the most isolated of the continents. The remote oceanic islands of the Atlantic Ocean, measuring
only a few square miles in area, have a location so independent of other inhabited lands, that
before the period of the great discoveries they had never appeared on the horizon of man.

[Sidenote: The case of Asia.]

Asia's size and central location to the other continents were formerly taken as an argument
for its correspondingly significant position in the creation and history of man. Its central
location is reflected in the hypothesis of the Asiatic origin of the Indo-European linguistic
group of peoples; and though the theory has been justly called into question, these peoples
have undoubtedly been subjected to Asiatic influences. The same thing is true of the native
American race, both as to Asiatic origin and influences; because the approximation of Siberia
to Alaska is too close to exclude human relations between the two continents. The Malays, too,
were probably sprung from the soil of southeastern Asia and spread thence over their close-packed
Archipelago. Even the native Australians betray a Malayan and therefore Asiatic element in
their composition,[749] while the same element can be traced yet more distinctly in the widely
scattered Polynesians and the Hovas of Madagascar. This radiation of races seems to reflect
Asia's location at the core of the land-masses. Yet the capacity to form such centers of ethnic
distribution is not necessarily limited to the largest continents; history teaches us that
small areas which have early achieved a relatively dense population are prone to scatter far
their seeds of nations.

[Sidenote: Location of hemispheres and ethnic kinship.]

The continents harbor the most widely different races where they are farthest apart; where
they converge most nearly, they show the closest ethnic kinships. The same principle becomes
apparent in their plants and animals. The distribution of the land-masses over the earth is
conspicuous for their convergence in the north and divergence in long peninsular forms toward
the south. The contrasted grouping is reflected in both, the lower animals and the peoples
inhabiting these respectively vicinal and remote lands. Only where North America and Eurasia
stretch out arms to one another around the polar sea do Eastern and Western Hemisphere show
a community of mammalian forms. These are all strictly Arctic animals, such as the reindeer,
elk, Arctic fox, glutton and ermine.[750] This is the Boreal sub-region of the Holoarctic zoological
realm, characterized by a very homogeneous and very limited fauna.[751] In contrast, the portion
of the hemispheres lying south of the Tropic of Cancer is divided into four distinct zoological
realms, corresponding to Central and South America, Africa south of Sahara, the two Indian
peninsulas with the adjacent islands, and Australia.[752] But when we consider the continental
extremities projecting beyond the Tropic of Capricorn, where geographic divergence reaches
a climax, we find their faunas and floras utterly dissimilar, despite the fact that climate
and physical conditions are very similar.[753] We find also widely divergent races in the southern
sections of Africa, Australia or Tasmania and South America, while Arctic Eurasia and America
come as near meeting ethnically as they do geographically. Here and here only both Eastern
and Western Hemisphere show a strong affinity of race. The Eskimo, long classed as Mongoloid,
are now regarded as an aberrant variety of the American race, owing to their narrow headform
and linguistic affinity; though in Alaska even their headform closely approximates the Mongoloid
Siberian type.[754] But in stature, color, oblique eyes, broad flat face, and high cheek bones,
in his temperament and character, artistic productions and some aspects of his culture, he
groups with the Asiatic Hyperboreans across the narrow sixty miles of water forming Bering
Strait.[755] In the northern part of the earth's land area, the distribution of floras, faunas,
and races shows interdependence, intercourse; in the southern, separation, isolation.

[Sidenote: Continental convergence and ethnic kinship.]

What is true where the hemispheres come together is true also where continents converge. The
core of the Old World is found in the Mediterranean basin where Europe, Asia and Africa form
a close circle of lands and where they are inhabited by the one white Mediterranean race. Contrast
their racial unity about this common center with the extremes of ethnic divergence in their
remote peripheries, where Teutons, Mongols, Malays and Negroes differ widely from the Mediterranean
stock and from each other. Eastern Australia represents the ethnic antipodes of western Asia,
in harmony with the great dividing distance between them, but the sides of these continents
facing each other across the bridge of the Sunda Islands are sparsely strewn with a common
Malay element.

[Sidenote: Africa's location.]

Africa's early development was never helped by the fact that the continent lay between Asia
and South America. It was subjected to strong and persistent Asiatic Influences, but apparently
to no native American ones. From that far-off trans-Atlantic shore came no signs of life. Africa
appears in history as an appendage of Asia, a cultural peninsula of the larger continent. This
was due not only to the Suez Isthmus and the narrowness of the Red Sea rift, but to its one-sided
invasion by Asiatic races and trade from the east, while the western side of the continent
lay buried in sleep, unstirred by any voice from the silent shores of America. Semitic influences,
in successive waves, spread over the Dark Continent as far as Morocco, the Senegal, Niger,
Lake Chad, Nyanza, Tanganyika and Nyassa, and gave it such light as it had before the 16th
century. Only after the Atlantic gulf was finally crossed did influences from the American
side of the ocean begin to impinge upon the West African coast, first in the form of the slave
and rum trade, then in the more humane aspect of the Liberian colony. But with the full development
of the Atlantic period in history, we see all kinds of Atlantic influences, though chiefly
from the Atlantic states of Europe, penetrating eastward into the heart of Africa, and there
meeting other commercial and political activities pressing inland from the Indian Ocean.

[Sidenote: The Atlantic abyss.]

