The pulse of the Quarter begins really to beat at 6 P.M. At this hour the streets are alive
with throngs of workmen--after their day's work, seeking their favorite cafés to enjoy their
apéritifs with their comrades--and women hurrying back from their work, many to their homes
and children, buying the dinner en route.

Henriette, who sews all day at one of the fashionable dressmakers' in the rue de la Paix, trips
along over the Pont Neuf to her small room in the Quarter to put on her best dress and white
kid slippers, for it is Bullier night and she is going to the ball with two friends of her cousin.

In the twilight, and from my studio window the swallows, like black cinders against the yellow
sky, dart and swoop above the forest of chimney-pots and tiled and gabled roofs.

It is the hour to dine, and with this thought uppermost in every one's mind studio doors are
slammed and night-keys tucked in pockets. And arm in arm the poet and the artist swing along
to that evening Mecca of good Bohemians--the Boulevard St. Michel.

CHAPTER II

THE BOULEVARD ST. MICHEL

From the Place St. Michel, this ever gay and crowded boulevard ascends a long incline, up which
the tired horses tug at the traces of the fiacres, and the big double-decked steam trams crawl,
until they reach the Luxembourg Gardens,--and so on a level road as far as the Place de l'Observatoire.
Within this length lies the life of the "Boul' Miche."

Nearly every highway has its popular side, and on the "Boul' Miche" it is the left one, coming
up from the Seine. Here are the cafés, and from 5 P.M. until long past midnight, the life of
the Quartier pours by them--students, soldiers, families, poets, artists, sculptors, wives,
and sweethearts; bicycle girls, the modern grisette, the shop girl, and the model; fakirs,
beggars, and vagrants. Yet the word vagrant is a misnomer in this city, where economy has reached
a finesse that is marvelous. That fellow, in filth and rags, shuffling along, his eyes scrutinizing,
like a hungry rat, every nook and corner under the café tables on the terrace, carries a stick
spiked with a pin. The next instant, he has raked the butt of your discarded cigarette from
beneath your feet with the dexterity of a croupier. The butt he adds to the collection in his
filthy pocket, and shuffles on to the next café. It will go so far at least toward paying for
his absinthe. He is hungry, but it is the absinthe for which he is working. He is a "marchand
de mégots"; it is his profession.

One finds every type of restaurant, tavern, and café along the "Boul' Miche." There are small
restaurants whose plat du jour might be traced to some faithful steed finding a final oblivion
in a brown sauce and onions--an important item in a course dinner, to be had with wine included
for one franc fifty. There are brasseries too, gloomy by day and brilliant by night (dispensing
good Munich beer in two shades, and German and French food), whose rich interiors in carved
black oak, imitation gobelin, and stained glass are never half illumined until the lights are lit.

All day, when the sun blazes, and the awnings are down, sheltering those chatting on the terrace,
the interiors of these brasseries appear dark and cavernous.

The clientèle is somber too, and in keeping with the place; silent poets, long haired, pale,
and always writing; serious-minded lawyers, lunching alone, and fat merchants who eat and drink
methodically.

Then there are bizarre cafés, like the d'Harcourt, crowded at night with noisy women tawdry
in ostrich plumes, cheap feather boas, and much rouge. The d'Harcourt at midnight is ablaze
with light, but the crowd is common and you move on up the boulevard under the trees, past
the shops full of Quartier fashions--velvet coats, with standing collars buttoning close under
the chin; flamboyant black silk scarfs tied in a huge bow; queer broad-brimmed, black hats
without which no "types" wardrobe is complete.

On the corner facing the square, and opposite the Luxembourg gate, is the Taverne du Panthéon.
This is the most brilliant café and restaurant of the Quarter, forming a V with its long terrace,
at the corner of the boulevard and the rue Soufflot, at the head of which towers the superb
dome of the Panthéon.

It is 6 P.M. and the terrace, four rows deep with little round tables, is rapidly filling.
The white-aproned garçons are hurrying about or squeezing past your table, as they take the
various orders.

"Un demi! un!" shouts the garçon.

"Deux pernod nature, deux!" cries another, and presently the "Omnibus" in his black apron hurries
to your table, holding between his knuckles, by their necks, half a dozen bottles of different
apéritifs, for it is he who fills your glass.

It is the custom to do most of one's correspondence in these cafés. The garçon brings you a
portfolio containing note-paper, a bottle of violet ink, an impossible pen that spatters, and
a sheet of pink blotting-paper that does not absorb. With these and your apéritif, the place
is yours as long as you choose to remain. No one will ask you to "move on" or pay the slightest
attention to you.

Should you happen to be a cannibal chief from the South Seas, and dine in a green silk high
hat and a necklace of your latest captive's teeth, you would occasion a passing glance perhaps,
but you would not be a sensation.

Céleste would say to Henriette:

"Regarde ça, Henriette! est-il drôle, ce sauvage?"

And Henriette would reply quite assuringly:

"Eh bien quoi! c'est pas si extraordinaire, il est peut-être de Madagascar; il y en a beaucoup
à Paris maintenant."

There is no phase of character, or eccentricity of dress, that Paris has not seen.

Nor will your waiter polish off the marble top of your table, with the hope that your ordinary
sensibility will suggest another drink. It would be beneath his professional dignity as a good
garçon de café. The two sous you have given him as a pourboire, he is well satisfied with,
and expresses his contentment in a "merci, monsieur, merci," the final syllable ending in a
little hiss, prolonged in proportion to his satisfaction. After this just formality, you will
find him ready to see the point of a joke or discuss the current topics of the day. He is intelligent,
independent, very polite, but never servile.

It is difficult now to find a vacant chair on the long terrace. A group of students are having
a "Pernod," after a long day's work at the atelier. They finish their absinthe and then, arm
in arm, start off to Madame Poivret's for dinner. It is cheap there; besides, the little "boîte,"
with its dingy room and sawdust floor, is a favorite haunt of theirs, and the good old lady,
with her credit slate, a friendly refuge in time of need.

At your left sits a girl in bicycle bloomers, yellow-tanned shoes, and short black socks pulled
up snug to her sunburned calves. She has just ridden in from the Bois de Boulogne, and has
scorched half the way back to meet her "officier" in pale blue. The two are deep in conversation.
Farther on are four older men, accompanied by a pale, sweet-faced woman of thirty, her blue-black
hair brought in a bandeau over her dainty ears. She is the model of the gray-haired man on
the left, a man of perhaps fifty, with kindly intelligent eyes and strong, nervous, expressive
hands--hands that know how to model a colossal Greek war-horse, plunging in battle, or create
a nymph scarcely a foot high out of a lump of clay, so charmingly that the French Government
has not only bought the nymph, but given him a little red ribbon for his pains.

He is telling the others of a spot he knows in Normandy, where one can paint--full of quaint
farm-houses, with thatched roofs; picturesque roadsides, rich in foliage; bright waving fields,
and cool green woods, and purling streams; quaint gardens, choked with lavender and roses and
hollyhocks--and all this fair land running to the white sand of the beach, with the blue sea
beyond. He will write to old Père Jaqueline that they are all coming--it is just the place
in which to pose a model "en plein air,"--and Suzanne, his model, being a Normande herself,
grows enthusiastic at the thought of going down again to the sea. Long before she became a
Parisienne, and when her beautiful hair was a tangled shock of curls, she used to go out in
the big boats, with the fisherwomen--barefooted, brown, and happy. She tells them of those
good days, and then they all go into the Taverne to dine, filled with the idea of the new trip,
and dreaming of dinners under the trees, of "Tripes à la mode de Caen," Normandy cider, and
a lot of new sketches besides.

Already the tables within are well filled. The long room, with its newer annex, is as brilliant
as a jewel box--the walls rich in tiled panels suggesting the life of the Quarter, the woodwork
in gold and light oak, the big panels of the rich gold ceiling exquisitely painted.

At one of the tables two very chic young women are dining with a young Frenchman, his hair
and dress in close imitation of the Duc d'Orleans. These poses in dress are not uncommon.

A strikingly pretty woman, in a scarlet-spangled gown as red as her lips, is dining with a
well-built, soldierly-looking man in black; they sit side by side as is the custom here.

The woman reminds one of a red lizard--a salamander--her "svelte" body seemingly boneless in
its gown of clinging scales. Her hair is purple-black and freshly onduléd; her skin as white
as ivory. She has the habit of throwing back her small, well-posed head, while under their
delicately penciled lids her gray eyes take in the room at a glance.

She is not of the Quarter, but the Taverne du Panthéon is a refuge for her at times, when she
grows tired of Paillard's and Maxim's and her quarreling retinue.

"Let them howl on the other bank of the Seine," says this empress of the half-world to herself,
"I dine with Raoul where I please."

And now one glittering, red arm with its small, heavily-jeweled hand glides toward Raoul's
open cigarette case, and in withdrawing a cigarette she presses for a moment his big, strong
hand as he holds near her polished nails the flaming match.

Her companion watches her as she smokes and talks--now and then he leans closer to her, squaring
his broad shoulders and bending lower his strong, determined face, as he listens to her,--half-amused,
replying to her questions leisurely, in short, crisp sentences. Suddenly she stamps one little
foot savagely under the table, and, clenching her jeweled hands, breathes heavily. She is trembling
with rage; the man at her side hunches his great shoulders, flicks the ashes from his cigarette,
looks at her keenly for a moment, and then smiles. In a moment she is herself again, almost
penitent; this little savage, half Roumanian, half Russian, has never known what it was to
be ruled! She has seen men grow white when she has stamped her little foot, but this big Raoul,
whom she loves--who once held a garrison with a handful of men--he does not tremble! she loves
him for his devil-me-care indifference--and he enjoys her temper.

But the salamander remembers there are some whom she dominated, until they groveled like slaves
at her feet; even the great Russian nobleman turned pale when she dictated to him archly and
with the voice of an angel the price of his freedom.

"Poor fool! he shot himself the next day," mused the salamander.

Yes, and even the adamant old banker in Paris, crabbed, stern, unrelenting to his debtors--shivered
in his boots and ended in signing away half his fortune to her, and moved his family into a
permanent chateau in the country, where he keeps himself busy with his shooting and his books.

       *     *     *     *     *

As it grows late, the taverne becomes more and more animated.

Every one is talking and having a good time. The room is bewildering in gay color, the hum
of conversation is everywhere, and as there is a corresponding row of tables across the low,
narrow room, friendly greetings and often conversations are kept up from one side to the other.
The dinner, as it progresses, assumes the air of a big family party of good bohemians. The
French do not bring their misery with them to the table. To dine is to enjoy oneself to the
utmost; in fact the French people cover their disappointment, sadness, annoyances, great or
petty troubles, under a masque of "blague," and have such an innate dislike of sympathy or
ridicule that they avoid it by turning everything into "blague."

This veneer is misleading, for at heart the French are sad. Not to speak of their inmost feelings
does not, on the other hand, prevent them at times from being most confidential. Often, the
merest exchange of courtesies between those sharing the same compartment in a train, or a seat
on a "bus," seems to be a sufficient introduction for your neighbor to tell you where he comes
from, where he is going, whether he is married or single, whom his daughter married, and what
regiment his son is in. These little confidences often end in his offering you half his bottle
of wine and extending to you his cigarettes.

If you have finished dinner, you go out on the terrace for your coffee. The fakirs are passing
up and down in front, selling their wares--little rabbits, wonderfully lifelike, that can jump
along your table and sit on their hind legs, and wag their ears; toy snakes; small leaden pigs
for good luck; and novelties of every description. Here one sees women with baskets of écrivisse
boiled scarlet; an acrobat tumbles on the pavement, and two men and a girl, as a marine, a
soldier, and a vivandière, in silvered faces and suits, pose in melodramatic attitudes. The
vivandière is rescued alternately from a speedy death by the marine and the soldier.

Presently a little old woman approaches, shriveled and smiling, in her faded furbelows now
in rags. She sings in a piping voice and executes between the verses a tottering pas seul,
her eyes ever smiling, as if she still saw over the glare of the footlights, in the haze beyond,
the vast audience of by-gone days; smiling as if she still heard the big orchestra and saw
the leader with his vibrant baton, watching her every movement. She is over seventy now, and
was once a premier danseuse at the opera.

But you have not seen all of the Taverne du Panthéon yet. There is an "American Bar" downstairs;
at least, so the sign reads at the top of a narrow stairway leading to a small, tavern-like
room, with a sawdust floor, heavy deal tables, and wooden stools. In front of the bar are high
stools that one climbs up on and has a lukewarm whisky soda, next to Yvonne and Marcelle, who
are both singing the latest catch of the day at the top of their lungs, until they are howled
at to keep still or are lifted bodily off their high stools by the big fellow in the "type"
hat, who has just come in.

Before a long table at one end of the room is the crowd of American students singing in a chorus.
The table is full now, for many have come from dinners at other cafés to join them. At one
end, and acting as interlocutor for this impromptu minstrel show, presides one of the best
fellows in the world. He rises solemnly, his genial round face wreathed in a subtle smile,
and announces that he will sing, by earnest request, that popular ballad, "'Twas Summer and
the Little Birds were Singing in the Trees."

There are some especially fine "barber chords" in this popular ditty, and the words are so
touching that it is repeated over and over again. Then it is sung softly like the farmhand
quartettes do in the rural melodrama outside the old homestead in harvest time. Oh! I tell
you it's a truly rural octette. Listen to that exhibition bass voice of Jimmy Sands and that
wandering tenor of Tommy Whiteing, and as the last chord dies away (over the fields presumably)
a shout goes up:

"How's that?"

"Out of sight," comes the general verdict from the crowd, and bang go a dozen beer glasses
in unison on the heavy table.

"Oh, que c'est beau!" cries Mimi, leading the successful chorus in a new vocal number with
Edmond's walking-stick; but this time it is a French song and the whole room is singing it,
including our old friend, Monsieur Frank, the barkeeper, who is mixing one of his famous concoctions
which are never twice quite alike, but are better than if they were.

The harmonic beauties of "'Twas Summer and the Little Birds were Singing in the Trees" are
still inexhausted, but it sadly needs a piano accompaniment--with this it would be perfect;
and so the whole crowd, including Yvonne, and Céleste, and Marcelle, and the two Frenchmen,
and the girl in the bicycle clothes, start for Jack Thompson's studio in the rue des Fourneaux,
where there is a piano that, even if the candles in the little Louis XVI brackets do burn low
and spill down the keys, and the punch rusts the strings, it will still retain that beautiful,
rich tone that every French upright, at seven francs a month, possesses.

CHAPTER III

THE "BAL BULLIER"

There are all types of "bals" in Paris. Over in Montmartre, on the Place Blanche, is the well-known
"Moulin Rouge," a place suggestive, to those who have never seen it, of the quintessence of
Parisian devil-me-care gaiety. You expect it to be like those clever pen-and-ink drawings of
Grevin's, of the old Jardin Mabille in its palmiest days, brilliant with lights and beautiful
women extravagantly gowned and bejeweled. You expect to see Frenchmen, too, in pot-hats, crowding
in a circle about Fifine, who is dancing some mad can-can, half hidden in a swirl of point
lace, her small, polished boots alternately poised above her dainty head. And when she has
finished, you expect her to be carried off to supper at the Maison Dorée by the big, fierce-looking
Russian who has been watching her, and whose victoria, with its spanking team--black and glossy
as satin--champing their silver bits outside, awaiting her pleasure.

But in all these anticipations you will be disappointed, for the famous Jardin Mabille is no
more, and the ground where it once stood in the Champs Elysées is now built up with private
residences. Fifine is gone, too--years ago--and most of the old gentlemen in pot-hats who used
to watch her are buried or about to be. Few Frenchmen ever go to the "Moulin Rouge," but every
American does on his first night in Paris, and emerges with enough cab fare to return him to
his hotel, where he arrives with the positive conviction that the red mill, with its slowly
revolving sails, lurid in crimson lights, was constructed especially for him. He remembers,
too, his first impressions of Paris that very morning as his train rolled into the Gare St.
Lazare. His aunt could wait until to-morrow to see the tomb of Napoleon, but he would see the
"Moulin Rouge" first, and to be in ample time ordered dinner early in his expensive, morgue-like
hotel.

I remember once, a few hours after my arrival in Paris, walking up the long hill to the Place
Blanche at 2 P.M., under a blazing July sun, to see if they did not give a matinée at the "Moulin
Rouge." The place was closed, it is needless to say, and the policeman I found pacing his beat
outside, when I asked him what day they gave a matinée, put his thumbs in his sword belt, looked
at me quizzically for a moment, and then roared. The "Moulin Rouge" is in full blast every
night; in the day-time it is being aired.

Farther up in Montmartre, up a steep, cobbly hill, past quaint little shops and cafés, the
hill becoming so steep that your cab horse finally refuses to climb further, and you get out
and walk up to the "Moulin de la Galette." You find it a far different type of ball from the
"Moulin Rouge," for it is not made for the stranger, and its clientèle is composed of the rougher
element of that quarter.

A few years ago the "Galette" was not the safest of places for a stranger to go to alone. Since
then, however, this ancient granary and mill, that has served as a ball-room for so many years,
has undergone a radical change in management; but it is still a cliquey place, full of a lot
of habitués who regard a stranger as an intruder. Should you by accident step on Marcelle's
dress or jostle her villainous-looking escort, you will be apt to get into a row, beginning
with a mode of attack you are possibly ignorant of, for these "maquereaux" fight with their
feet, having developed this "manly art" of self-defense to a point of dexterity more to be
evaded than admired. And while Marcelle's escort, with a swinging kick, smashes your nose with
his heel, his pals will take the opportunity to kick you in the back.

So, if you go to the "Galette," go with a Parisian or some of the students of the Quarter;
but if you must go alone--keep your eyes on the band. It is a good band, too, and its chef
d'orchestre, besides being a clever musical director, is a popular composer as well.

Go out from the ball-room into the tiny garden and up the ladder-like stairs to the rock above,
crowned with the old windmill, and look over the iron railing. Far below you, swimming in a
faint mist under the summer stars, all Paris lies glittering at your feet.

       *     *     *     *     *

You will find the "Bal Bullier" of the Latin Quarter far different from the "bals" of Montmartre.
It forms, with its "grand fête" on Thursday nights, a sort of social event of the week in this
Quarter of Bohemians, just as the Friday afternoon promenade does in the Luxembourg garden.

If you dine at the Taverne du Panthéon on a Thursday night you will find that the taverne is
half deserted by 10 o'clock, and that every one is leaving and walking up the "Boul' Miche"
toward the "Bullier." Follow them, and as you reach the place l'Observatoire, and turn a sharp
corner to the left, you will see the façade of this famous ball, illumined by a sizzling blue
electric light over the entrance.

The façade, with its colored bas-reliefs of students and grisettes, reminds one of the proscenium
of a toy theater. Back of this shallow wall bristle the tops of the trees in the garden adjoining
the big ball-room, both of which are below the level of the street and are reached by a broad
wooden stairway.

The "Bal Bullier" was founded in 1847; previous to this there existed the "Closerie des Lilas"
on the Boulevard Montparnasse. You pass along with the line of waiting poets and artists, buy
a green ticket for two francs at the little cubby-hole of a box-office, are divested of your
stick by one of half a dozen white-capped matrons at the vestiaire, hand your ticket to an
elderly gentleman in a silk hat and funereal clothes, at the top of the stairway sentineled
by a guard of two soldiers, and the next instant you see the ball in full swing below you.

