It were a waste of ink to do so in a serious spirit. Let us dedicate our horror to acts of
a more mingled strain, where crime preserves some features of nobility, and where reason and
humanity can still relish the temptation. Horror, in this case, is due to Mr. Parnell: he sits
before posterity silent, Mr. Forster's appeal echoing down the ages. Horror is due to ourselves,
in that we have so long coquetted with political crime; not seriously weighing, not acutely
following it from cause to consequence; but with a generous, unfounded heat of sentiment, like
the schoolboy with the penny tale, applauding what was specious. When it touched ourselves
(truly in a vile shape), we proved false to these imaginations; discovered, in a clap, that
crime was no less cruel and no less ugly under sounding names; and recoiled from our false deities.

But seriousness comes most in place when we are to speak of our defenders. Whoever be in the
right in this great and confused war of politics; whatever elements of greed, whatever traits
of the bully, dishonour both parties in this inhuman contest;--your side, your part, is at
least pure of doubt. Yours is the side of the child, of the breeding woman, of individual pity
and public trust. If our society were the mere kingdom of the devil (as indeed it wears some
of his colours), it yet embraces many precious elements and many innocent persons whom it is
a glory to defend. Courage and devotion, so common in the ranks of the police, so little recognised,
so meagrely rewarded, have at length found their commemoration in an historical act. History,
which will represent Mr. Parnell sitting silent under the appeal of Mr. Forster, and Gordon
setting forth upon his tragic enterprise, will not forget Mr. Cole carrying the dynamite in
his defenceless hands, nor Mr. Cox coming coolly to his aid.

     ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.
     FANNY VAN DE GRIFT STEVENSON.

A NOTE FOR THE READER

It is within the bounds of possibility that you may take up this volume, and yet be unacquainted
with its predecessor: the first series of NEW ARABIAN NIGHTS. The loss is yours--and mine;
or, to be more exact, my publishers'. But if you are thus unlucky, the least I can do is to
pass you a hint. When you shall find a reference in the following pages to one Theophilus Godall
of the Bohemian Cigar Divan in Rupert Street, Soho, you must be prepared to recognise under
his features no less a person than Prince Florizel of Bohemia, formerly one of the magnates
of Europe, now dethroned, exiled, impoverished, and embarked in the tobacco trade.

     R. L. S.

MORE NEW ARABIAN NIGHTS

THE DYNAMITER

PROLOGUE OF THE CIGAR DIVAN

In the city of encounters, the Bagdad of the West, and, to be more precise, on the broad northern
pavement of Leicester Square, two young men of five- or six-and-twenty met after years of separation.
The first, who was of a very smooth address, and clothed in the best fashion, hesitated to
recognise the pinched and shabby air of his companion.

"What!" he cried, "Paul Somerset!"

"I am indeed Paul Somerset," returned the other, "or what remains of him after a well-deserved
experience of poverty and law. But in you, Challoner, I can perceive no change; and time may
be said, without hyperbole, to write no wrinkle on your azure brow."

"All," replied Challoner, "is not gold that glitters. But we are here in an ill posture for
confidences, and interrupt the movement of these ladies. Let us, if you please, find a more
private corner."

"If you will allow me to guide you," replied Somerset, "I will offer you the best cigar in London."

And taking the arm of his companion, he led him in silence and at a brisk pace to the door
of a quiet establishment in Rupert Street, Soho. The entrance was adorned with one of those
gigantic Highlanders of wood which have almost risen to the standing of antiquities; and across
the window-glass, which sheltered the usual display of pipes, tobacco, and cigars, there ran
the gilded legend: "Bohemian Cigar Divan, by T. Godall." The interior of the shop was small,
but commodious and ornate; the salesman grave, smiling, and urbane; and the two young men,
each puffing a select regalia, had soon taken their places on a sofa of mouse-coloured plush,
and proceeded to exchange their stories.

"I am now," said Somerset, "a barrister; but Providence and the attorneys have hitherto denied
me the opportunity to shine. A select society at the Cheshire Cheese engaged my evenings; my
afternoons, as Mr. Godall could testify, have been generally passed in this divan; and my mornings,
I have taken the precaution to abbreviate by not rising before twelve. At this rate, my little
patrimony was very rapidly and, I am proud to remember, most agreeably expended. Since then
a gentleman, who has really nothing else to recommend him beyond the fact of being my maternal
uncle, deals me the small sum of ten shillings a week; and if you behold me once more revisiting
the glimpses of the street lamps in my favourite quarter, you will readily divine that I have
come into a fortune."

"I should not have supposed so," replied Challoner. "But doubtless I met you on the way to
your tailors."

"It is a visit that I purpose to delay," returned Somerset, with a smile. "My fortune has definite
limits. It consists, or rather this morning it consisted, of one hundred pounds."

"That is certainly odd," said Challoner; "yes, certainly the coincidence is strange. I am myself
reduced to the same margin."

"You!" cried Somerset. "And yet Solomon in all his glory----"

"Such is the fact. I am, dear boy, on my last legs," said Challoner. "Besides the clothes in
which you see me, I have scarcely a decent trouser in my wardrobe; and if I knew how, I would
this instant set about some sort of work or commerce. With a hundred pounds for capital, a
man should push his way."

"It may be," returned Somerset; "but what to do with mine is more than I can fancy.--Mr. Godall,"
he added, addressing the salesman, "you are a man who knows the world: what can a young fellow
of reasonable education do with a hundred pounds?"

"It depends," replied the salesman, withdrawing his cheroot. "The power of money is an article
of faith in which I profess myself a sceptic. A hundred pounds will with difficulty support
you for a year; with somewhat more difficulty you may spend it in a night; and without any
difficulty at all you may lose it in five minutes on the Stock Exchange. If you are of that
stamp of man that rises, a penny would be as useful; if you belong to those that fall, a penny
would be no more useless. When I was myself thrown unexpectedly upon the world, it was my fortune
to possess an art: I knew a good cigar. Do you know nothing, Mr. Somerset?"

"Not even law," was the reply.

"The answer is worthy of a sage," returned Mr. Godall.--"And you, sir," he continued, turning
to Challoner, "as the friend of Mr. Somerset, may I be allowed to address you the same question?"

"Well," replied Challoner, "I play a fair hand at whist."

"How many persons are there in London," returned the salesman, "who have two-and-thirty teeth?
Believe me, young gentleman, there are more still who play a fair hand at whist. Whist, sir,
is wide as the world; 'tis an accomplishment like breathing. I once knew a youth who announced
that he was studying to be Chancellor of England; the design was certainly ambitious; but I
find it less excessive than that of the man who aspires to make a livelihood by whist."

"Dear me," said Challoner, "I am afraid I shall have to fall to be a working man."

"Fall to be a working man?" echoed Mr. Godall. "Suppose a rural dean to be unfrocked, does
he fall to be a major? suppose a captain were cashiered, would he fall to be a puisne judge?
The ignorance of your middle class surprises me. Outside itself, it thinks the world to lie
quite ignorant and equal, sunk in a common degradation; but to the eye of the observer, all
ranks are seen to stand in ordered hierarchies, and each adorned with its particular aptitudes
and knowledge. By the defects of your education you are more disqualified to be a working man
than to be the ruler of an empire. The gulf, sir, is below; and the true learned arts--those
which alone are safe from the competition of insurgent laymen--are those which give his title
to the artisan."

"This is a very pompous fellow," said Challoner in the ear of his companion.

"He is immense," said Somerset.

Just then the door of the divan was opened, and a third young fellow made his appearance, and
rather bashfully requested some tobacco. He was younger than the others; and, in a somewhat
meaningless and altogether English way, he was a handsome lad. When he had been served, and
had lighted his pipe and taken his place upon the sofa, he recalled himself to Challoner by
the name of Desborough.

"Desborough, to be sure," cried Challoner. "Well, Desborough, and what do you do?"

"The fact is," said Desborough, "that I am doing nothing."

"A private fortune, possibly?" inquired the other.

"Well, no," replied Desborough, rather sulkily. "The fact is that I am waiting for something
to turn up."

"All in the same boat!" cried Somerset. "And have you, too, one hundred pounds?"

"Worse luck," said Mr. Desborough.

"This is a very pathetic sight, Mr. Godall," said Somerset: "three futiles."

"A character of this crowded age," returned the salesman.

"Sir," said Somerset, "I deny that the age is crowded; I will admit one fact, and one fact
only: that I am futile, that he is futile, and that we are all three as futile as the devil.
What am I? I have smattered law, smattered letters, smattered geography, smattered mathematics;
I have even a working knowledge of judicial astrology; and here I stand, all London roaring
by at the street's end, as impotent as any baby. I have a prodigious contempt for my maternal
uncle; but without him, it is idle to deny it, I should simply resolve into my elements like
an unstable mixture. I begin to perceive that it is necessary to know some one thing to the
bottom--were it only literature. And yet, sir, the man of the world is a great feature of this
age; he is possessed of an extraordinary mass and variety of knowledge; he is everywhere at
home; he has seen life in all its phases; and it is impossible but that this great habit of
existence should bear fruit. I count myself a man of the world, accomplished, cap-à-pie. So
do you, Challoner. And you, Mr. Desborough?"

"Oh yes," returned the young man.

"Well, then, Mr. Godall, here we stand, three men of the world, without a trade to cover us,
but planted at the strategic centre of the universe (for so you will allow me to call Rupert
Street), in the midst of the chief mass of people, and within earshot of the most continuous
chink of money on the surface of the globe. Sir, as civilised men, what do we do? I will show
you. You take in a paper?"

"I take," said Mr. Godall solemnly, "the best paper in the world, the Standard."

"Good," resumed Somerset. "I now hold it in my hand, the voice of the world, a telephone repeating
all men's wants. I open it, and where my eye first falls--well, no, not Morrison's Pills--but
here, sure enough, and but a little above, I find the joint that I was seeking; here is the
weak spot in the armour of society. Here is a want, a plaint, an offer of substantial gratitude:
'Two Hundred Pounds Reward.--The above reward will be paid to any person giving information
as to the identity and whereabouts of a man observed yesterday in the neighbourhood of the
Green Park. He was over six feet in height, with shoulders disproportionately broad, close
shaved, with black moustaches, and wearing a sealskin great-coat.' There, gentlemen, our fortune,
if not made, is founded."

"Do you then propose, dear boy, that we should turn detectives?" inquired Challoner.

"Do I propose it? No, sir," cried Somerset. "It is reason, destiny, the plain face of the world,
that commands and imposes it. Here all our merits tell; our manners, habit of the world, powers
of conversation, vast stores of unconnected knowledge, all that we are and have builds up the
character of the complete detective. It is, in short, the only profession for a gentleman."

"The proposition is perhaps excessive," replied Challoner; "for hitherto I own I have regarded
it as of all dirty, sneaking, and ungentlemanly trades, the least and lowest."

"To defend society?" asked Somerset; "to stake one's life for others? to deracinate occult
and powerful evil? I appeal to Mr. Godall. He, at least, as a philosophic looker-on at life,
will spit upon such philistine opinions. He knows that the policeman, as he is called upon
continually to face greater odds, and that both worse equipped and for a better cause, is in
form and essence a more noble hero than the soldier. Do you, by any chance, deceive yourself
into supposing that a general would either ask or expect, from the best army ever marshalled,
and on the most momentous battlefield, the conduct of a common constable at Peckham Rye?"[1]

"I did not understand we were to join the force," said Challoner.

"Nor shall we. These are the hands; but here--here, sir, is the head," cried Somerset. "Enough;
it is decreed. We shall hunt down this miscreant in the sealskin coat."

"Suppose that we agreed," retorted Challoner, "you have no plan, no knowledge; you know not
where to seek for a beginning."

"Challoner!" cried Somerset, "is it possible that you hold the doctrine of Free Will? And are
you devoid of any tincture of philosophy, that you should harp on such exploded fallacies?
Chance, the blind Madonna of the Pagan, rules this terrestrial bustle; and in Chance I place
my sole reliance. Chance has brought us three together; when we next separate and go forth
our several ways, Chance will continually drag before our careless eyes a thousand eloquent
clues, not to this mystery only, but to the countless mysteries by which we live surrounded.
Then comes the part of the man of the world, of the detective born and bred. This clue, which
the whole town beholds without comprehension, swift as a cat, he leaps upon it, makes it his,
follows it with craft and passion, and from one trifling circumstance divines a world."

"Just so," said Challoner; "and I am delighted that you should recognise these virtues in yourself.
But in the meanwhile, dear boy, I own myself incapable of joining. I was neither born nor bred
as a detective, but as a placable and very thirsty gentleman; and, for my part, I begin to
weary for a drink. As for clues and adventures, the only adventure that is ever likely to occur
to me will be an adventure with a bailiff."

"Now there is the fallacy," cried Somerset. "There I catch the secret of your futility in life.
The world teems and bubbles with adventure; it besieges you along the streets; hands waving
out of windows, swindlers coming up and swearing they knew you when you were abroad, affable
and doubtful people of all sorts and conditions begging and truckling for your notice. But
not you: you turn away, you walk your seedy mill round, you must go the dullest way. Now here,
I beg of you, the next adventure that offers itself, embrace it in with both your arms; whatever
it looks, grimy or romantic, grasp it. I will do the like; the devil is in it, but at least
we shall have fun; and each in turn we shall narrate the story of our fortunes to my philosophic
friend of the divan, the great Godall, now hearing me with inward joy. Come, is it a bargain?
Will you, indeed, both promise to welcome every chance that offers, to plunge boldly into every
opening, and, keeping the eye wary and the head composed, to study and piece together all that
happens? Come, promise: let me open to you the doors of the great profession of intrigue."

"It is not much in my way," said Challoner, "but, since you make a point of it, amen."

"I don't mind promising," said Desborough, "but nothing will happen to me."

"O faithless ones!" cried Somerset. "But at least I have your promises; and Godall, I perceive,
is transported with delight."

"I promise myself at least much pleasure from your various narratives," said the salesman,
with the customary calm polish of his manner.

"And now, gentlemen," concluded Somerset, "let us separate. I hasten to put myself in fortune's
way. Hark how, in this quiet corner, London roars like the noise of battle; four million destinies
are here concentred; and in the strong panoply of one hundred pounds, payable to the bearer,
I am about to plunge into that web."

FOOTNOTE:

  [1] Hereupon the Arabian author enters on one of his digressions.
    Fearing, apparently, that the somewhat eccentric views of Mr.
    Somerset should throw discredit on a part of truth, he calls upon
    the English people to remember with more gratitude the services of
    the police; to what unobserved and solitary acts of heroism they are
    called; against what odds of numbers and of arms, and for how small
    a reward, either in fame or money: matter, it has appeared to the
    translators, too serious for this place.

CHALLONER'S ADVENTURE:

THE SQUIRE OF DAMES

Mr. Edward Challoner had set up lodgings in the suburb of Putney, where he enjoyed a parlour
and bedroom and the sincere esteem of the people of the house. To this remote home he found
himself, at a very early hour in the morning of the next day, condemned to set forth on foot.
He was a young man of a portly habit; no lover of the exercises of the body; bland, sedentary,
patient of delay, a prop of omnibuses. In happier days he would have chartered a cab; but these
luxuries were now denied him; and with what courage he could muster he addressed himself to walk.

It was then the height of the season and the summer; the weather was serene and cloudless;
and as he paced under the blinded houses and along the vacant streets, the chill of the dawn
had fled, and some of the warmth and all the brightness of the July day already shone upon
the city. He walked at first in a profound abstraction, bitterly reviewing and repenting his
performances at whist; but as he advanced into the labyrinth of the south-west, his ear was
gradually mastered by the silence. Street after street looked down upon his solitary figure,
house after house echoed upon his passage with a ghostly jar, shop after shop displayed its
shuttered front and its commercial legend; and meanwhile he steered his course, under day's
effulgent dome and through this encampment of diurnal sleepers, lonely as a ship.

"Here," he reflected, "if I were like my scatter-brained companion, here were indeed the scene
where I might look for an adventure. Here, in broad day, the streets are secret as in the blackest
night of January, and in the midst of some four million sleepers, solitary as the woods of
Yucatan. If I but raise my voice I could summon up the number of an army, and yet the grave
is not more silent than this city of sleep."

He was still following these quaint and serious musings when he came into a street of more
mingled ingredients than was common in the quarter. Here, on the one hand, framed in walls
and the green tops of trees, were several of those discreet, bijou residences on which propriety
is apt to look askance. Here, too, were many of the brick-fronted barracks of the poor; a plaster
cow, perhaps, serving as ensign to a dairy, or a ticket announcing the business of the mangler.
Before one such house, that stood a little separate among walled gardens, a cat was playing
with a straw, and Challoner paused a moment, looking on this sleek and solitary creature, who
seemed an emblem of the neighbouring peace. With the cessation of the sound of his own steps
the silence fell dead; the house stood smokeless; the blinds down, the whole machinery of life
arrested; and it seemed to Challoner that he should hear the breathing of the sleepers.

As he so stood, he was startled by a dull and jarring detonation from within. This was followed
by a monstrous hissing and simmering as from a kettle of the bigness of St. Paul's; and at
the same time from every chink of door and window spurted an ill-smelling vapour. The cat disappeared
with a cry. Within the lodging-house feet pounded on the stairs; the door flew back, emitting
clouds of smoke; and two men and an elegantly dressed young lady tumbled forth into the street
and fled without a word. The hissing had already ceased, the smoke was melting in the air,
the whole event had come and gone as in a dream, and still Challoner was rooted to the spot.
At last his reason and his fear awoke together, and with the most unwonted energy he fell to
running.

Little by little this first dash relaxed, and presently he had resumed his sober gait and begun
to piece together, out of the confused report of his senses, some theory of the occurrence.
But the occasion of the sounds and stench that had so suddenly assailed him, and the strange
conjunction of fugitives whom he had seen to issue from the house, were mysteries beyond his
plummet. With an obscure awe he considered them in his mind, continuing, meanwhile, to thread
the web of streets, and once more alone in morning sunshine.

In his first retreat he had entirely wandered; and now, steering vaguely west, it was his luck
to light upon an unpretending street, which presently widened so as to admit a strip of gardens
in the midst. Here was quite a stir of birds; even at that hour, the shadow of the leaves was
grateful; instead of the burnt atmosphere of cities, there was something brisk and rural in
the air; and Challoner paced forward, his eyes upon the pavement and his mind running upon
distant scenes, till he was recalled, upon a sudden, by a wall that blocked his further progress.
This street, whose name I have forgotten, is no thoroughfare.

He was not the first who had wandered there that morning; for, as he raised his eyes with an
agreeable deliberation, they alighted on the figure of a girl, in whom he was struck to recognise
the third of the incongruous fugitives. She had run there, seemingly, blindfold; the wall had
checked her career; and being entirely wearied, she had sunk upon the ground beside the garden
railings, soiling her dress among the summer dust. Each saw the other in the same instant of
time; and she, with one wild look, sprang to her feet and began to hurry from the scene.

Challoner was doubly startled to meet once more the heroine of his adventure and to observe
the fear with which she shunned him. Pity and alarm, in nearly equal forces, contested the
possession of his mind; and yet, in spite of both, he saw himself condemned to follow in the
lady's wake. He did so gingerly, as fearing to increase her terrors; but, tread as lightly
as he might, his footfalls eloquently echoed in the empty street. Their sound appeared to strike
in her some strong emotion; for scarce had he begun to follow ere she paused. A second time
she addressed herself to flight; and a second time she paused. Then she turned about, and,
with doubtful steps and the most attractive appearance of timidity, drew near to the young
man. He on his side continued to advance with similar signals of distress and bashfulness.
At length, when they were but some steps apart, he saw her eyes brim over, and she reached
out both her hands in eloquent appeal.

"Are you an English gentleman?" she cried.

The unhappy Challoner regarded her with consternation. He was the spirit of fine courtesy,
and would have blushed to fail in his devoirs to any lady; but, in the other scale, he was
a man averse from amorous adventures. He looked east and west; but the houses that looked down
upon this interview remained inexorably shut; and he saw himself, though in the full glare
of the day's eye, cut off from any human intervention. His looks returned at last upon the
suppliant. He remarked with irritation that she was charming both in face and figure, elegantly
dressed and gloved: a lady undeniable; the picture of distress and innocence; weeping and lost
in the city of diurnal sleep.

"Madam," he said, "I protest you have no cause to fear intrusion; and if I have appeared to
follow you, the fault is in this street, which has deceived us both."

An unmistakable relief appeared upon the lady's face. "I might have guessed it!" she exclaimed.
"Thank you a thousand times! But at this hour, in this appalling silence, and among all these
staring windows, I am lost in terrors--oh, lost in them!" she cried, her face blanching at
the words. "I beg you to lend me your arm," she added with the loveliest, suppliant inflection.
"I dare not go alone; my nerve is gone--I had a shock, O what a shock! I beg of you to be my
escort."

"My dear madam," responded Challoner heavily, "my arm is at your service."

She took it and clung to it for a moment, struggling with her sobs; and the next, with feverish
hurry, began to lead him in the direction of the city. One thing was plain, among so much that
was obscure: it was plain her fears were genuine. Still, as she went, she spied around as if
for dangers; and now she would shiver like a person in a chill, and now clutch his arm in hers.
To Challoner her terror was at once repugnant and infectious; it gained and mastered, while
it still offended him; and he wailed in spirit and longed for release.

"Madam," he said at last, "I am, of course, charmed to be of use to any lady; but I confess
I was bound in a direction opposite to that you follow, and a word of explanation----"

"Hush!" she sobbed, "not here--not here!"

The blood of Challoner ran cold. He might have thought the lady mad; but his memory was charged
with more perilous stuff; and in view of the detonation, the smoke, and the flight of the ill-assorted
trio, his mind was lost among mysteries. So they continued to thread the maze of streets in
silence, with the speed of a guilty flight, and both thrilling with incommunicable terrors.
In time, however, and above all by their quick pace of walking, the pair began to rise to firmer
spirits; the lady ceased to peer about the corners; and Challoner, emboldened by the resonant
tread and distant figure of a constable, returned to the charge with more of spirit and directness.

"I thought," he said, in the tone of conversation, "that I had indistinctly perceived you leaving
a villa in the company of two gentlemen."

"Oh!" she said, "you need not fear to wound me by the truth. You saw me flee from a common
lodging-house, and my companions were not gentlemen. In such a case, the best of compliments
is to be frank."

"I thought," resumed Challoner, encouraged as much as he was surprised by the spirit of her
reply, "to have perceived, besides, a certain odour. A noise, too--I do not know to what I
should compare it----"

"Silence!" she cried. "You do not know the danger you invoke. Wait, only wait; and as soon
as we have left those streets and got beyond the reach of listeners, all shall be explained.
Meanwhile, avoid the topic. What a sight is this sleeping city!" she exclaimed; and then, with
a most thrilling voice, "'Dear God,'" she quoted, "'the very houses seem asleep, and all that
mighty heart is lying still.'"

"I perceive, madam," said he, "you are a reader."

"I am more than that," she answered, with a sigh. "I am a girl condemned to thoughts beyond
her age; and so untoward is my fate, that this walk upon the arm of a stranger is like an interlude
of peace."

They had come by this time to the neighbourhood of the Victoria Station; and here, at a street
corner, the young lady paused, withdrew her arm from Challoner's, and looked up and down as
though in pain or indecision. Then, with a lovely change of countenance, and laying her gloved
hand upon his arm:

"What you already think of me," she said, "I tremble to conceive; yet I must here condemn myself
still further. Here I must leave you, and here I beseech you to wait for my return. Do not
attempt to follow me or spy upon my actions. Suspend yet awhile your judgment of a girl as
innocent as your own sister; and do not, above all, desert me. Stranger as you are, I have
none else to look to. You see me in sorrow and great fear; you are a gentleman, courteous and
kind; and when I beg for a few minutes' patience, I make sure beforehand you will not deny me."

Challoner grudgingly promised; and the young lady, with a grateful eye-shot, vanished round
the corner. But the force of her appeal had been a little blunted; for the young man was not
only destitute of sisters, but of any female relative nearer than a great-aunt in Wales. Now
he was alone, besides, the spell that he had hitherto obeyed began to weaken; he considered
his behaviour with a sneer; and plucking up the spirit of revolt, he started in pursuit. The
reader, if he has ever plied the fascinating trade of the noctambulist, will not be unaware
that, in the neighbourhood of the great railway centres, certain early taverns inaugurate the
business of the day. It was into one of these that Challoner, coming round the corner of the
block, beheld his charming companion disappear. To say he was surprised were inexact, for he
had long since left that sentiment behind him. Acute disgust and disappointment seized upon
his soul; and with silent oaths he damned this commonplace enchantress. She had scarce been
gone a second ere the swing-doors reopened, and she appeared again in company with a young
man of mean and slouching attire. For some five or six exchanges they conversed together with
an animated air; then the fellow shouldered again into the tap; and the young lady, with something
swifter than a walk, retraced her steps towards Challoner. He saw her coming, a miracle of
grace; her ankle, as she hurried, flashing from her dress; her movements eloquent of speed
and youth; and though he still entertained some thoughts of flight, they grew miserably fainter
as the distance lessened. Against mere beauty he was proof: it was her unmistakable gentility
that now robbed him of the courage of his cowardice. With a proved adventuress he had acted
strictly on his right; with one whom, in spite of all, he could not quite deny to be a lady,
he found himself disarmed. At the very corner from whence he had spied upon her interview,
she came upon him, still transfixed, and--"Ah!" she cried, with a bright flush of colour. "Ah!
Ungenerous!"

The sharpness of the attack somewhat restored the Squire of Dames to the possession of himself.

"Madam," he returned, with a fair show of stoutness, "I do not think that hitherto you can
complain of any lack of generosity; I have suffered myself to be led over a considerable portion
of the metropolis; and if I now request you to discharge me of my office of protector, you
have friends at hand who will be glad of the succession."

She stood a moment dumb.

"It is well," she said. "Go! go, and may God help me! You have seen me--me, an innocent girl!
fleeing from a dire catastrophe and haunted by sinister men; and neither pity, curiosity, nor
honour move you to await my explanation or to help in my distress. Go!" she repeated. "I am
lost indeed." And with a passionate gesture she turned and fled along the street.

Challoner observed her retreat and disappear, an almost intolerable sense of guilt contending
with the profound sense that he was being gulled. She was no sooner gone than the first of
these feelings took the upper hand; he felt, if he had done her less than justice, that his
conduct was a perfect model of the ungracious; the cultured tone of her voice, her choice of
language, and the elegant decorum of her movements, cried out aloud against a harsh construction;
and between penitence and curiosity he began slowly to follow in her wake. At the corner he
had her once more full in view. Her speed was failing like a stricken bird's. Even as he looked,
she threw her arm out gropingly, and fell and leaned against the wall. At the spectacle, Challoner's
fortitude gave way. In a few strides he overtook her, and, for the first time removing his
hat, assured her in the most moving terms of his entire respect and firm desire to help her.
He spoke at first unheeded; but gradually it appeared that she began to comprehend his words;
she moved a little, and drew herself upright; and finally, as with a sudden movement of forgiveness,
turned on the young man a countenance in which reproach and gratitude were mingled. "Ah, madam,"
he cried, "use me as you will!" And once more, but now with a great air of deference, he offered
her the conduct of his arm. She took it with a sigh that struck him to the heart; and they
began once more to trace the deserted streets. But now her steps, as though exhausted by emotion,
began to linger on the way; she leaned the more heavily upon his arm; and he, like the parent
bird, stooped fondly above his drooping convoy. Her physical distress was not accompanied by
any failing of her spirits; and hearing her strike so soon into a playful and charming vein
of talk, Challoner could not sufficiently admire the elasticity of his companion's nature.
"Let me forget," she had said, "for one half-hour, let me forget"; and sure enough, with the
very word, her sorrows appeared to be forgotten. Before every house she paused, invented a
name for the proprietor, and sketched his character: here lived the old general whom she was
to marry on the fifth of the next month, there was the mansion of the rich widow who had set
her heart on Challoner; and though she still hung wearily on the young man's arm, her laughter
sounded low and pleasant in his ears. "Ah," she sighed, by way of commentary, "in such a life
as mine I must seize tight hold of any happiness that I can find."

When they arrived, in this leisurely manner, at the head of Grosvenor Place, the gates of the
park were opening, and the bedraggled company of night-walkers were being at last admitted
into that paradise of lawns. Challoner and his companion followed the movement, and walked
for awhile in silence in that tatterdemalion crowd; but as one after another, weary with the
night's patrolling of the city pavement, sank upon the benches or wandered into separate paths,
the vast extent of the park had soon utterly swallowed up the last of these intruders; and
the pair proceeded on their way alone in the grateful quiet of the morning.

Presently they came in sight of a bench, standing very open on a mound of turf. The young lady
looked about her with relief.

"Here," she said, "here at last we are secure from listeners. Here, then, you shall learn and
judge my history. I could not bear that we should part, and that you should still suppose your
kindness squandered upon one who was unworthy."

Thereupon she sat down upon the bench, and motioning Challoner to take a place immediately
beside her, began in the following words, and with the greatest appearance of enjoyment, to
narrate the story of her life.

STORY OF THE DESTROYING ANGEL

My father was a native of England, son of a cadet of a great ancient but untitled family; and
by some event, fault, or misfortune he was driven to flee from the land of his birth and to
lay aside the name of his ancestors. He sought the States; and instead of lingering in effeminate
cities, pushed at once into the Far West with an exploring party of frontiersmen. He was no
ordinary traveller; for he was not only brave and impetuous by character, but learned in many
sciences, and above all in botany, which he particularly loved. Thus it fell that, before many
months, Fremont himself, the nominal leader of the troop, courted and bowed to his opinion.

They had pushed, as I have said, into the still unknown regions of the West. For some time
they followed the track of Mormon caravans, guiding themselves in that vast and melancholy
desert by the skeletons of men and animals. Then they inclined their route a little to the
north, and, losing even these dire memorials, came into a country of forbidding stillness.
I have often heard my father dwell upon the features of that ride: rock, cliff, and barren
moor alternated; the streams were very far between; and neither beast nor bird disturbed the
solitude. On the fortieth day they had already run so short of food that it was judged advisable
to call a halt and scatter upon all sides to hunt. A great fire was built, that its smoke might
serve to rally them; and each man of the party mounted and struck off at a venture into the
surrounding desert.

My father rode for many hours with a steep range of cliffs upon the one hand, very black and
horrible; and upon the other an unwatered vale dotted with boulders like the site of some subverted
city. At length he found the slot of a great animal, and from the claw-marks and the hair among
the brush, judged that he was on the track of a cinnamon bear of most unusual size. He quickened
the pace of his steed, and, still following the quarry, came at last to the division of two
watersheds. On the far side the country was exceeding intricate and difficult, heaped with
boulders, and dotted here and there with a few pines, which seemed to indicate the neighbourhood
of water. Here, then, he picketed his horse, and, relying on his trusty rifle, advanced alone
into that wilderness.

Presently, in the great silence that reigned, he was aware of the sound of running water to
his right; and leaning in that direction, was rewarded by a scene of natural wonder and human
pathos strangely intermixed. The stream ran at the bottom of a narrow and winding passage,
whose wall-like sides of rock were sometimes for miles together unscalable by man. The water,
when the stream was swelled with rains, must have filled it from side to side; the sun's rays
only plumbed it in the hour of noon; the wind, in that narrow and damp funnel, blew tempestuously.
And yet, in the bottom of this den, immediately below my father's eyes as he leaned over the
margin of the cliff, a party of some half a hundred men, women, and children lay scattered
uneasily among the rocks. They lay, some upon their backs, some prone, and not one stirring;
their upturned faces seemed all of an extraordinary paleness and emaciation; and from time
to time, above the washing of the stream, a faint sound of moaning mounted to my father's ears.

While he thus looked, an old man got staggering to his feet, unwound his blanket, and laid
it, with great gentleness, on a young girl who sat hard by propped against a rock. The girl
did not seem to be conscious of the act; and the old man, after having looked upon her with
the most engaging pity, returned to his former bed and lay down again uncovered on the turf.
But the scene had not passed without observation even in that starving camp. From the very
outskirts of the party, a man with a white beard and seemingly of venerable years, rose up
on his knees and came crawling stealthily among the sleepers towards the girl; and judge of
my father's indignation, when he beheld this cowardly miscreant strip from her both the coverings
and return with them to his original position. Here he lay down for a while below his spoils,
and, as my father imagined, feigned to be asleep; but presently he had raised himself again
upon one elbow, looked with sharp scrutiny at his companions, and then swiftly carried his
hand into his bosom and thence to his mouth. By the movement of his jaws he must be eating;
in that camp of famine he had reserved a store of nourishment; and, while his companions lay
in the stupor of approaching death, secretly restored his powers.

My father was so incensed at what he saw that he raised his rifle; and but for an accident,
he has often declared, he would have shot the fellow dead upon the spot. How different would
then have been my history! But it was not to be: even as he raised the barrel, his eye lighted
on the bear, as it crawled along a ledge some way below him; and ceding to the hunter's instinct,
it was at the brute, not at the man, that he discharged his piece. The bear leaped and fell
into a pool of the river; the cañon re-echoed the report; and in a moment the camp was afoot.
With cries that were scarce human, stumbling, falling, and throwing each other down, these
starving people rushed upon the quarry; and before my father, climbing down by the ledge, had
time to reach the level of the stream, many were already satisfying their hunger on the raw
flesh, and a fire was being built by the more dainty.

His arrival was for some time unremarked. He stood in the midst of these tottering and clay-faced
marionettes; he was surrounded by their cries; but their whole soul was fixed on the dead carcase;
even those who were too weak to move, lay, half-turned over, with their eyes riveted upon the
bear; and my father, seeing himself stand as though invisible in the thick of this dreary hubbub,
was seized with a desire to weep. A touch upon the arm restrained him. Turning about, he found
himself face to face with the old man he had so nearly killed; and yet, at the second glance,
recognised him for no old man at all, but one in the full strength of his years, and of a strong,
speaking, and intellectual countenance stigmatised by weariness and famine. He beckoned my
father near the cliff, and there, in the most private whisper, begged for brandy. My father
looked at him with scorn: "You remind me," he said, "of a neglected duty. Here is my flask;
it contains enough, I trust, to revive the women of your party; and I will begin with her whom
I saw you robbing of her blankets." And with that, not heeding his appeals, my father turned
his back upon the egoist.

The girl still lay reclined against the rock; she lay too far sunk in the first stage of death
to have observed the bustle round her couch; but when my father had raised her head, put the
flask to her lips, and forced or aided her to swallow some drops of the restorative, she opened
her languid eyes and smiled upon him faintly. Never was there a smile of a more touching sweetness;
never were eyes more deeply violet, more honestly eloquent of the soul! I speak with knowledge,
for these were the same eyes that smiled upon me in the cradle. From her who was to be his
wife, my father, still jealously watched and followed by the man with the grey beard, carried
his attentions to all the women of the party, and gave the last drainings of his flask to those
among the men who seemed in the most need.

"Is there none left? not a drop for me?" said the man with the beard.

"Not one drop," replied my father; "and if you find yourself in want, let me counsel you to
put your hand into the pocket of your coat."

"Ah!" cried the other, "you misjudge me. You think me one who clings to life for selfish and
commonplace considerations. But let me tell you, that were all this caravan to perish, the
world would but be lightened of a weight. These are but human insects, pullulating, thick as
may-flies, in the slums of European cities, whom I myself have plucked from degradation and
misery, from the dung-heap and gin-palace door. And you compare their lives with mine!"

"You are then a Mormon missionary?" asked my father.

"Oh!" cried the man, with a strange smile, "a Mormon missionary if you will! I value not the
title. Were I no more than that, I could have died without a murmur. But with my life as a
physician is bound up the knowledge of great secrets and the future of man. This it was, when
we missed the caravan, tried for a short cut and wandered to this desolate ravine, that ate
into my soul and, in five days, has changed my beard from ebony to silver."

"And you are a physician," mused my father, looking on his face, "bound by oath to succour
man in his distresses."

"Sir," returned the Mormon, "my name is Grierson: you will hear that name again; and you will
then understand that my duty was not to this caravan of paupers, but to mankind at large."

My father turned to the remainder of the party, who were now sufficiently revived to hear;
told them that he would set off at once to bring help from his own party; "and," he added,
"if you be again reduced to such extremities, look round you, and you will see the earth strewn
with assistance. Here, for instance, growing on the underside of fissures in this cliff, you
will perceive a yellow moss. Trust me, it is both edible and excellent."

"Ha!" said Dr. Grierson, "you know botany!"

"Not I alone," returned my father, lowering his voice; "for see where these have been scraped
away. Am I right? Was that your secret store?"

My father's comrades, he found, when he returned to the signal-fire, had made a good day's
hunting. They were thus the more easily persuaded to extend assistance to the Mormon caravan;
and the next day beheld both parties on the march for the frontiers of Utah. The distance to
be traversed was not great; but the nature of the country and the difficulty of procuring food
extended the time to nearly three weeks; and my father had thus ample leisure to know and appreciate
the girl whom he had succoured. I will call my mother Lucy. Her family name I am not at liberty
to mention; it is one you would know well. By what series of undeserved calamities this innocent
flower of maidenhood, lovely, refined by education, ennobled by the finest taste, was thus
cast among the horrors of a Mormon caravan, I must not stay to tell you. Let it suffice, that
even in these untoward circumstances, she found a heart worthy of her own. The ardour of attachment
which united my father and mother was perhaps partly due to the strange manner of their meeting;
it knew, at least, no bounds, either divine or human; my father, for her sake, determined to
renounce his ambition and abjure his faith; and a week had not passed upon the march before
he had resigned from his party, accepted the Mormon doctrine, and received the promise of my
mother's hand on the arrival of the party at Salt Lake.

The marriage took place, and I was its only offspring. My father prospered exceedingly in his
affairs, remained faithful to my mother; and, though you may wonder to hear it, I believe there
were few happier homes in any country than that in which I saw the light and grew to girlhood.
We were, indeed, and in spite of all our wealth, avoided as heretics and half-believers by
the more precise and pious of the faithful: Young himself, that formidable tyrant, was known
to look askance upon my father's riches; but of this I had no guess. I dwelt, indeed, under
the Mormon system, with perfect innocence and faith. Some of our friends had many wives; but
such was the custom; and why should it surprise me more than marriage itself? From time to
time one of our rich acquaintances would disappear, his family be broken up, his wives and
houses shared among the elders of the church, and his memory only recalled with bated breath
and dreadful head-shakings. When I had been very still, and my presence perhaps was forgotten,
some such topic would arise among my elders by the evening fire; I would see them draw the
closer together and look behind them with scared eyes; and I might gather from their whisperings
how some one, rich, honoured, healthy, and in the prime of his days, some one, perhaps, who
had taken me on his knees a week before, had in one hour been spirited from home and family,
and vanished like an image from a mirror, leaving not a print behind. It was terrible, indeed;
but so was death, the universal law. And even if the talk should wax still bolder, full of
ominous silences and nods, and I should hear named in a whisper the Destroying Angels, how
was a child to understand these mysteries? I heard of a Destroying Angel as some more happy
child might hear in England of a bishop or a rural dean, with vague respect and without the
wish for further information. Life anywhere, in society as in nature, rests upon dread foundations;
I beheld safe roads, a garden blooming in the desert, pious people crowding to worship; I was
aware of my parents' tenderness and all the harmless luxuries of my existence; and why should
I pry beneath this honest seeming surface for the mysteries on which it stood?

We dwelt originally in the city; but at an early date we moved to a beautiful house in a green
dingle, musical with splashing water, and surrounded on almost every side by twenty miles of
poisonous and rocky desert. The city was thirty miles away; there was but one road, which went
no farther than my father's door; the rest were bridle-tracks impassable in winter; and we
thus dwelt in a solitude inconceivable to the European. Our only neighbour was Dr. Grierson.
To my young eyes, after the hair-oiled, chin-bearded elders of the city, and the ill-favoured
and mentally stunted women of their harems, there was something agreeable in the correct manner,
the fine bearing, the thin white hair and beard, and the piercing looks of the old doctor.
Yet, though he was almost our only visitor, I never wholly overcame a sense of fear in his
presence; and this disquietude was rather fed by the awful solitude in which he lived and the
obscurity that hung about his occupations. His house was but a mile or two from ours, but very
differently placed. It stood overlooking the road on the summit of a steep slope, and planted
close against a range of overhanging bluffs. Nature, you would say, had here desired to imitate
the works of man; for the slope was even, like the glacis of a fort, and the cliffs of a constant
height, like the ramparts of a city. Not even spring could change one feature of that desolate
scene; and the windows looked down across a plain, snowy with alkali, to ranges of cold stone
sierras on the north. Twice or thrice I remember passing within view of this forbidding residence;
and seeing it always shuttered, smokeless, and deserted, I remarked to my parents that some
day it would certainly be robbed.

"Ah, no," said my father, "never robbed"; and I observed a strange conviction in his tone.

At last, and not long before the blow fell on my unhappy family, I chanced to see the doctor's
house in a new light. My father was ill; my mother confined to his bedside; and I was suffered
to go, under the charge of our driver, to the lonely house some twenty miles away, where our
packages were left for us. The horse cast a shoe; night overtook us half-way home; and it was
well on for three in the morning when the driver and I, alone in a light waggon, came to that
part of the road which ran below the doctor's house. The moon swam clear; the cliffs and mountains
in this strong light lay utterly deserted; but the house, from its station on the top of the
long slope and close under the bluff, not only shone abroad from every window like a place
of festival, but from the great chimney at the west end poured forth a coil of smoke so thick
and so voluminous, that it hung for miles along the windless night-air, and its shadow lay
far abroad in the moonlight upon the glittering alkali. As we continued to draw near, besides,
a regular and panting throb began to divide the silence. First it seemed to me like the beating
of a heart; and next it put into my mind the thought of some giant, smothered under mountains,
and still, with incalculable effort, fetching breath. I had heard of the railway, though I
had not seen it, and I turned to ask the driver if this resembled it. But some look in his
eye, some pallor, whether of fear or moonlight on his face, caused the words to die upon my
lips. We continued, therefore, to advance in silence, till we were close below the lighted
house; when suddenly, without premonitory rustle, there burst forth a report of such a bigness
that it shook the earth and set the echoes of the mountains thundering from cliff to cliff.
A pillar of amber flame leaped from the chimney-top and fell in multitudes of sparks; and at
the same time the lights in the windows turned for one instant ruby red and then expired. The
driver had checked his horse instinctively, and the echoes were still rumbling farther off
among the mountains, when there broke from the now darkened interior a series of yells--whether
of man or woman it was impossible to guess--the door flew open, and there ran forth into the
moonlight, at the top of the long slope, a figure clad in white, which began to dance and leap
and throw itself down, and roll as if in agony, before the house. I could no more restrain
my cries; the driver laid his lash about the horse's flank, and we fled up the rough track
at the peril of our lives; and did not draw rein till, turning the corner of the mountain,
we beheld my father's ranch and deep, green groves and gardens, sleeping in the tranquil light.

This was the one adventure of my life, until my father had climbed to the very topmost point
of material prosperity, and I myself had reached the age of seventeen. I was still innocent
and merry like a child; tended my garden or ran upon the hills in glad simplicity; gave not
a thought to coquetry or to material cares; and if my eye rested on my own image in a mirror
or some sylvan spring, it was to seek and recognise the features of my parents. But the fears
which had long pressed on others were now to be laid on my youth. I had thrown myself, one
sultry, cloudy afternoon, on a divan; the windows stood open on the verandah, where my mother
sat with her embroidery; and when my father joined her from the garden, their conversation,
clearly audible to me, was of so startling a nature that it held me enthralled where I lay.

"The blow has come," my father said, after a long pause.

I could hear my mother start and turn, but in words she made no reply.

"Yes," continued my father, "I have received to-day a list of all that I possess; of all, I
say; of what I have lent privately to men whose lips are sealed with terror; of what I have
buried with my own hand on the bare mountain, when there was not a bird in heaven. Does the
air, then, carry secrets? Are the hills of glass? Do the stones we tread upon preserve the
footprint to betray us? Oh, Lucy, Lucy, that we should have come to such a country!"

"But this," returned my mother, "is no very new or very threatening event. You are accused
of some concealment. You will pay more taxes in the future, and be mulcted in a fine. It is
disquieting, indeed, to find our acts so spied upon, and the most private known. But is this
new? Have we not long feared and suspected every blade of grass?"

"Ay, and our shadows!" cried my father. "But all this is nothing. Here is the letter that accompanied
the list."

I heard my mother turn the pages; and she was some time silent.

"I see," she said at last; and then, with the tone of one reading; "'From a believer so largely
blessed by Providence with this world's goods,'" she continued, "'the Church awaits in confidence
some signal mark of piety.' There lies the sting. Am I not right? These are the words you fear?"

"These are the words," replied my father. "Lucy, you remember Priestley? Two days before he
disappeared, he carried me to the summit of an isolated butte; we could see around us for ten
miles; sure, if in any quarter of this land a man were safe from spies, it were in such a station;
but it was in the very ague-fit of terror that he told me, and that I heard, his story. He
had received a letter such as this; and he submitted to my approval an answer in which he offered
to resign a third of his possessions. I conjured him, as he valued life, to raise his offering;
and, before we parted, he had doubled the amount. Well, two days later he was gone--gone from
the chief street of the city in the hour of noon--and gone for ever. O God!" cried my father,
"by what art do they thus spirit out of life the solid body? What death do they command that
leaves no traces? that this material structure, these strong arms, this skeleton that can resist
the grave for centuries, should be thus reft in a moment from the world of sense? A horror
dwells in that thought more awful than mere death."

"Is there no hope in Grierson?" asked my mother.

"Dismiss the thought," replied my father. "He now knows all that I can teach, and will do naught
to save me. His power, besides, is small, his own danger not improbably more imminent than
mine; for he, too, lives apart; he leaves his wives neglected and unwatched; he is openly cited
for an unbeliever; and unless he buys security at a more awful price--but no; I will not believe
it: I have no love for him, but I will not believe it."

"Believe what?" asked my mother; and then, with a change of note, "But oh, what matters it?"
she cried. "Abimelech, there is but one way open: we must fly!"

"It is in vain," returned my father. "I should but involve you in my fate. To leave this land
is hopeless: we are closed in it as men are closed in life; and there is no issue but the grave."

"We can but die then," replied my mother. "Let us at least die together. Let not Asenath[2]
and myself survive you. Think to what a fate we should be doomed!"

My father was unable to resist her tender violence; and though I could see he nourished not
one spark of hope, he consented to desert his whole estate, beyond some hundreds of dollars
that he had by him at the moment, and to flee that night, which promised to be dark and cloudy.
As soon as the servants were asleep, he was to load two mules with provisions; two others were
to carry my mother and myself; and, striking through the mountains by an unfrequented trail,
we were to make a fair stroke for liberty and life. As soon as they had thus decided, I showed
myself at the window, and, owning that I had heard all, assured them that they could rely on
my prudence and devotion. I had no fear, indeed, but to show myself unworthy of my birth; I
held my life in my hand without alarm; and when my father, weeping upon my neck, had blessed
Heaven for the courage of his child, it was with a sentiment of pride and some of the joy that
warriors take in war, that I began to look forward to the perils of our flight.

Before midnight, under an obscure and starless heaven, we had left far behind us the plantations
of the valley, and were mounting a certain cañon in the hills, narrow, encumbered with great
rocks, and echoing with the roar of a tumultuous torrent. Cascade after cascade thundered and
hung up its flag of whiteness in the night, or fanned our faces with the wet wind of its descent.
The trail was break-neck, and led to famine-guarded deserts; it had been long since deserted
for more practicable routes; and it was now a part of the world untrod from year to year by
human footing. Judge of our dismay when, turning suddenly an angle of the cliffs, we found
a bright bonfire blazing by itself under an impending rock; and on the face of the rock, drawn
very rudely with charred wood, the great Open Eye which is the emblem of the Mormon faith.
We looked upon each other in the firelight; my mother broke into a passion of tears; but not
a word was said. The mules were turned about; and leaving that great eye to guard the lonely
cañon, we retraced our steps in silence. Day had not yet broken ere we were once more at home,
condemned beyond reprieve.

What answer my father sent I was not told; but two days later, a little before sundown, I saw
a plain, honest-looking man ride slowly up the road in a great pother of dust. He was clad
in homespun, with a broad straw hat; wore a patriarchal beard; and had an air of a simple rustic
farmer, that was, in my eyes, very reassuring. He was, indeed, a very honest man and pious
Mormon; with no liking for his errand, though neither he nor any one in Utah dared to disobey;
and it was with every mark of diffidence that he had had himself announced as Mr. Aspinwall,
and entered the room where our unhappy family was gathered. My mother and me he awkwardly enough
dismissed; and as soon as he was alone with my father laid before him a blank signature of
President Young's, and offered him a choice of services: either to set out as a missionary
to the tribes about the White Sea, or to join the next day, with a party of Destroying Angels,
in the massacre of sixty German immigrants. The last, of course, my father could not entertain,
and the first he regarded as a pretext: even if he could consent to leave his wife defenceless,
and to collect fresh victims for the tyranny under which he was himself oppressed, he felt
sure he would never be suffered to return. He refused both; and Aspinwall, he said, betrayed
sincere emotion, part religious, as the spectacle of such disobedience, but part human, in
pity for my father and his family. He besought him to reconsider his decision; and at length,
finding he could not prevail, gave him till the moon rose to settle his affairs, and say farewell
to wife and daughter. "For," said he, "then, at the latest, you must ride with me."

I dare not dwell upon the hours that followed: they fled all too fast; and presently the moon
out-topped the eastern range, and my father and Mr. Aspinwall set forth, side by side, on their
nocturnal journey. My mother, though still bearing an heroic countenance, had hastened to shut
herself in her apartment, thenceforward solitary; and I, alone in the dark house, and consumed
by grief and apprehension, made haste to saddle my Indian pony, to ride up to the corner of
the mountain, and to enjoy one farewell sight of my departing father. The two men had set forth
at a deliberate pace; nor was I long behind them, when I reached the point of view. I was the
more amazed to see no moving creature in the landscape. The moon, as the saying is, shone bright
as day; and nowhere, under the whole arch of night, was there a growing tree, a bush, a farm,
a patch of tillage, or any evidence of man, but one. From the corner where I stood, a rugged
bastion of the line of bluffs concealed the doctor's house; and across the top of that projection
the soft night wind carried and unwound about the hills a coil of sable smoke. What fuel could
produce a vapour so sluggish to dissipate in that dry air, or what furnace pour it forth so
copiously, I was unable to conceive; but I knew well enough that it came from the doctor's
chimney; I saw well enough that my father had already disappeared; and in despite of reason,
I connected in my mind the loss of that dear protector with the ribbon of foul smoke that trailed
along the mountains.

Days passed, and still my mother and I waited in vain for news; a week went by, a second followed,
but we heard no word of the father and husband. As smoke dissipates, as the image glides from
the mirror, so in the ten or twenty minutes that I had spent in getting my horse and following
upon his trail, had that strong and brave man vanished out of life. Hope, if any hope we had,
fled with every hour; the worst was now certain for my father, the worst was to be dreaded
for his defenceless family. Without weakness, with a desperate calm at which I marvel when
I look back upon it, the widow and the orphan awaited the event. On the last day of the third
week we rose in the morning to find ourselves alone in the house, alone, so far as we searched,
on the estate; all our attendants, with one accord, had fled, and as we knew them to be gratefully
devoted, we drew the darkest intimations from their flight. The day passed, indeed, without
event; but in the fall of the evening we were called at last into the verandah by the approaching
clink of horse's hoofs.

The doctor, mounted on an Indian pony, rode into the garden, dismounted, and saluted us. He
seemed much more bent, and his hair more silvery than ever; but his demeanour was composed,
serious, and not unkind.

"Madam," said he, "I am come upon a weighty errand; and I would have you recognise it as an
effect of kindness in the President, that he should send as his ambassador your only neighbour
and your husband's oldest friend in Utah."

"Sir," said my mother, "I have but one concern, one thought. You know well what it is. Speak:
my husband?"

"Madam," returned the doctor, taking a chair on the verandah, "if you were a silly child my
position would now be painfully embarrassing. You are, on the other hand, a woman of great
intelligence and fortitude: you have, by my forethought, been allowed three weeks to draw your
own conclusions and to accept the inevitable. Further words from me are, I conceive, superfluous."

My mother was as pale as death, and trembled like a reed; I gave her my hand, and she kept
it in the folds of her dress and wrung it till I could have cried aloud. "Then, sir," said
she at last, "you speak to deaf ears. If this be indeed so, what have I to do with errands?
what do I ask of Heaven but to die?"

"Come," said the doctor, "command yourself. I bid you dismiss all thoughts of your late husband,
and bring a clear mind to bear upon your own future and the fate of that young girl."

"You bid me dismiss----" began my mother. "Then you know!" she cried.

"I know," replied the doctor.

"You know?" broke out the poor woman. "Then it was you who did the deed! I tear off the mask,
and with dread and loathing see you as you are--you, whom the poor fugitive beholds in nightmares,
and awakes raving--you, the Destroying Angel!"

"Well, madam, and what then?" returned the doctor. "Have not my fate and yours been similar?
Are we not both immured in this strong prison of Utah? Have you not tried to flee, and did
not the Open Eye confront you in the cañon? Who can escape the watch of that unsleeping eye
of Utah? Not I, at least. Horrible tasks have, indeed, been laid upon me; and the most ungrateful
was the last; but had I refused my offices, would that have spared your husband? You know well
it would not. I, too, had perished along with him; nor would I have been able to alleviate
his last moments, nor could I to-day have stood between his family and the hand of Brigham Young."

"Ah!" cried I, "and could you purchase life by such concessions?"

"Young lady," answered the doctor, "I both could and did; and you will live to thank me for
that baseness. You have a spirit, Asenath, that it pleases me to recognise. But we waste time.
Mr. Fonblanque's estate reverts, as you doubtless imagine, to the church; but some part of
it has been reserved for him who is to marry the family; and that person, I should perhaps
tell you without more delay, is no other than myself."

At this odious proposal my mother and I cried out aloud, and clung together like lost souls.

"It is as I supposed," resumed the doctor, with the same measured utterance. "You recoil from
this arrangement. Do you expect me to convince you? You know very well that I have never held
the Mormon view of women. Absorbed in the most arduous studies, I have left the slatterns whom
they call my wives to scratch and quarrel among themselves; of me, they have had nothing but
my purse; such was not the union I desired, even if I had the leisure to pursue it. No, you
need not, madam, and my old friend--" and here the doctor rose and bowed with something of
gallantry--"you need not apprehend my importunities. On the contrary, I am rejoiced to read
in you a Roman spirit; and if I am obliged to bid you follow me at once, and that in the name,
not of my wish, but of my orders, I hope it will be found that we are of a common mind."

So, bidding us dress for the road, he took a lamp (for the night had now fallen) and set off
to the stable to prepare our horses.

"What does it mean?--what will become of us?" I cried.

"Not that, at least," replied my mother, shuddering. "So far we can trust him. I seem to read
among his words a certain tragic promise. Asenath, if I leave you, if I die, you will not forget
your miserable parents?"

Thereupon we fell to cross-purposes: I beseeching her to explain her words; she putting me
by, and continuing to recommend the doctor for a friend. "The doctor!" I cried at last; "the
man who killed my father?"

"Nay," said she, "let us be just. I do believe, before Heaven, he played the friendliest part.
And he alone, Asenath, can protect you in this land of death."

At this the doctor returned, leading our two horses; and when we were all in the saddle, he
bade me ride on before, as he had matter to discuss with Mrs. Fonblanque. They came at a foot's-pace,
eagerly conversing in a whisper; and presently after the moon rose and showed them looking
eagerly into each other's faces as they went, my mother laying her hand upon the doctor's arm,
and the doctor himself, against his usual custom, making vigorous gestures of protest or asseveration.

At the foot of the track which ascended the talus of the mountain to his door, the doctor overtook
me at a trot.

"Here," he said, "we shall dismount; and as your mother prefers to be alone, you and I shall
walk together to my house."

"Shall I see her again?" I asked.

"I give you my word," he said, and helped me to alight. "We leave the horses here," he added.
"There are no thieves in this stone wilderness."

The track mounted gradually, keeping the house in view. The windows were once more bright;
the chimney once more vomited smoke; but the most absolute silence reigned, and, but for the
figure of my mother very slowly following in our wake, I felt convinced there was no human
soul within a range of miles. At the thought, I looked upon the doctor, gravely walking by
my side, with his bowed shoulders and white hair, and then once more at his house, lit up and
pouring smoke like some industrious factory. And then my curiosity broke forth. "In Heaven's
name," I cried, "what do you make in this inhuman desert?"

He looked at me with a peculiar smile, and answered with an evasion:

"This is not the first time," said he, "that you have seen my furnaces alight. One morning,
in the small hours, I saw you driving past; a delicate experiment miscarried; and I cannot
acquit myself of having startled either your driver or the horse that drew you."

"What!" cried I, beholding again in fancy the antics of the figure, "could that be you?"

"It was I," he replied; "but do not fancy that I was mad. I was in agony. I had been scalded
cruelly."

We were now near the house, which, unlike the ordinary houses of the country, was built of
hewn stone and very solid. Stone, too, was its foundation, stone its background. Not a blade
of grass sprouted among the broken mineral about the walls, not a flower adorned the windows.
Over the door, by way of sole adornment, the Mormon Eye was rudely sculptured; I had been brought
up to view that emblem from my childhood; but since the night of our escape, it had acquired
a new significance, and set me shrinking. The smoke rolled voluminously from the chimney-top,
its edges ruddy with the fire; and from the far corner of the building, near the ground, angry
puffs of steam shone snow-white in the moon and vanished.

The doctor opened the door and paused upon the threshold. "You ask me what I make here," he
observed: "Two things: Life and Death." And he motioned me to enter.

"I shall await my mother," said I.

"Child," he replied, "look at me: am I not old and broken? Of us two, which is the stronger,
the young maiden or the withered man?"

I bowed and, passing by him, entered a vestibule or kitchen, lit by a good fire and a shaded
reading-lamp. It was furnished only with a dresser, a rude table, and some wooden benches;
and on one of these the doctor motioned me to take a seat; and passing by another door into
the interior of the house, he left me to myself. Presently I heard the jar of iron from the
far end of the building; and this was followed by the same throbbing noise that had startled
me in the valley, but now so near at hand as to be menacing by loudness, and even to shake
the house with every recurrence of the stroke. I had scarce time to master my alarm when the
doctor returned, and almost in the same moment my mother appeared upon the threshold. But how
am I to describe to you the peace and ravishment of that face? Years seemed to have passed
over her head during that brief ride, and left her younger and fairer; her eyes shone, her
smile went to my heart; she seemed no more a woman, but the angel of ecstatic tenderness. I
ran to her in a kind of terror; but she shrank a little back and laid her finger on her lips,
with something arch and yet unearthly. To the doctor, on the contrary, she reached out her
hand as to a friend and helper; and so strange was the scene that I forgot to be offended.

"Lucy," said the doctor, "all is prepared. Will you go alone, or shall your daughter follow us?"

"Let Asenath come," she answered, "dear Asenath! At this hour when I am purified of fear and
sorrow, and already survive myself and my affections, it is for your sake, and not for mine,
that I desire her presence. Were she shut out, dear friend, it is to be feared she might misjudge
your kindness."

"Mother," I cried wildly, "mother, what is this?"

But my mother, with her radiant smile, said only "Hush!" as though I were a child again, and
tossing in some fever-fit; and the doctor bade me be silent and trouble her no more. "You have
made a choice," he continued, addressing my mother, "that has often strangely tempted me. The
two extremes: all, or else nothing; never, or this very hour upon the clock--these have been
my incongruous desires. But to accept the middle term, to be content with a half-gift, to flicker
awhile and to burn out--never for an hour, never since I was born, has satisfied the appetite
of my ambition." He looked upon my mother fixedly, much of admiration and some touch of envy
in his eyes; then, with a profound sigh, he led the way into the inner room.

It was very long. From end to end it was lit up by many lamps, which by the changeful colour
of their light, and by the incessant snapping sounds with which they burned, I have since divined
to be electric. At the extreme end an open door gave us a glimpse into what must have been
a lean-to shed beside the chimney; and this, in strong contrast to the room, was painted with
a red reverberation as from furnace-doors. The walls were lined with books and glazed cases,
the tables crowded with the implements of chemical research; great glass accumulators glittered
in the light; and through a hole in the gable near the shed door a heavy driving-belt entered
the apartment and ran overhead upon steel pulleys, with clumsy activity and many ghostly and
fluttering sounds. In one corner I perceived a chair resting upon crystal feet, and curiously
wreathed with wire. To this my mother advanced with a decisive swiftness.

"Is this it?" she asked.

The doctor bowed in silence.

"Asenath," said my mother, "in this sad end of my life I have found one helper. Look upon him:
it is Doctor Grierson. Be not, O my daughter, be not ungrateful to that friend!"

She sat upon the chair, and took in her hands the globes that terminated the arms.

"Am I right?" she asked, and looked upon the doctor with such a radiancy of face that I trembled
for her reason. Once more the doctor bowed, but this time leaning hard against the wall. He
must have touched a spring. The least shock agitated my mother where she sat; the least passing
jar appeared to cross her features; and she sank back in the chair like one resigned to weariness.
I was at her knees that moment; but her hands fell loosely in my grasp; her face, still beatified
with the same touching smile, sank forward on her bosom: her spirit had for ever fled.

I do not know how long may have elapsed before, raising for a moment my tearful face, I met
the doctor's eyes. They rested upon mine with such a depth of scrutiny, pity, and interest,
that even from the freshness of my sorrow I was startled into attention.

"Enough," he said, "to lamentation. Your mother went to death as to a bridal, dying where her
husband died. It is time, Asenath, to think of the survivors. Follow me to the next room."

I followed him, like a person in a dream; he made me sit by the fire, he gave me wine to drink;
and then, pacing the stone floor, he thus began to address me:

"You are now, my child, alone in the world, and under the immediate watch of Brigham Young.
It would be your lot, in ordinary circumstances, to become the fiftieth bride of some ignoble
elder, or by particular fortune, as fortune is counted in this land, to find favour in the
eyes of the President himself. Such a fate for a girl like you were worse than death; better
to die as your mother died than to sink daily deeper in the mire of this pit of woman's degradation.
But is escape conceivable? Your father tried; and you beheld yourself with what security his
jailers acted, and how a dumb drawing on a rock was counted a sufficient sentry over the avenues
of freedom. Where your father failed, will you be wiser or more fortunate? or are you, too,
helpless in the toils?"

I had followed his words with changing emotion, but now I believed I understood.

"I see," I cried; "you judge me rightly. I must follow where my parents led; and oh! I am not
only willing, I am eager!"

"No," replied the doctor, "not death for you. The flawed vessel we may break, but not the perfect.
No, your mother cherished a different hope, and so do I. I see," he cried, "the girl develop
to the completed woman, the plan reach fulfilment, the promise--ay, outdone! I could not bear
to arrest so lively, so comely a process. It was your mother's thought," he added, with a change
of tone, "that I should marry you myself." I fear I must have shown a perfect horror of aversion
from this fate, for he made haste to quiet me. "Reassure yourself, Asenath," he resumed. "Old
as I am, I have not forgotten the tumultuous fancies of youth. I have passed my days, indeed,
in laboratories; but in all my vigils I have not forgotten the tune of a young pulse. Age asks
with timidity to be spared intolerable pain; youth, taking fortune by the beard, demands joy
like a right. These things I have not forgotten; none, rather, has more keenly felt, none more
jealously considered them; I have but postponed them to their day. See, then: you stand without
support; the only friend left to you, this old investigator, old in cunning, young in sympathy.
Answer me but one question: Are you free from the entanglement of what the world calls love?
Do you still command your heart and purposes? or are you fallen in some bond-slavery of the
eye and ear?"

I answered him in broken words; my heart, I think I must have told him, lay with my dead parents.

"It is enough," he said. "It has been my fate to be called on often, too often, for those services
of which we spoke to-night; none in Utah could carry them so well to a conclusion; hence there
has fallen into my hands a certain share of influence which I now lay at your service, partly
for the sake of my dead friends, your parents; partly for the interest I bear you in your own
right. I shall send you to England, to the great city of London, there to await the bridegroom
I have selected. He shall be a son of mine, a young man suitable in age, and not grossly deficient
in that quality of beauty that your years demand. Since your heart is free, you may well pledge
me the sole promise that I ask in return for much expense and still more danger: to await the
arrival of that bridegroom with the delicacy of a wife."

I sat awhile stunned. The doctor's marriages, I remembered to have heard, had been unfruitful;
and this added perplexity to my distress. But I was alone, as he had said, alone in that dark
land; the thought of escape, of any equal marriage, was already enough to revive in me some
dawn of hope; and, in what words I know not, I accepted the proposal.

He seemed more moved by my consent than I could reasonably have looked for. "You shall see,"
he cried; "you shall judge for yourself." And hurrying to the next room he returned with a
small portrait somewhat coarsely done in oils. It showed a man in the dress of nearly forty
years before, young indeed, but still recognisable to be the doctor. "Do you like it?" he asked.
"That is myself when I was young. My--my boy will be like that, like, but nobler; with such
health as angels might condescend to envy; and a man of mind, Asenath, of commanding mind.
That should be a man, I think; that should be one among ten thousand. A man like that--one
to combine the passions of youth with the restraint, the force, the dignity of age--one to
fill all the parts and faculties, one to be man's epitome--say, will that not satisfy the needs
of an ambitious girl? Say, is not that enough?" And as he held the picture close before my
eyes, his hand shook.

I told him briefly I would ask no better, for I was transpierced with this display of fatherly
emotion; but even as I said the words, the most insolent revolt surged through my arteries.
I held him in horror, him, his portrait, and his son; and had there been any choice but death
or a Mormon marriage, I declare before Heaven I had embraced it.

"It is well," he replied, "and I had rightly counted on your spirit. Eat, then, for you have
far to go." So saying, he set meat before me; and while I was endeavouring to obey, he left
the room and returned with an armful of coarse raiment. "There," said he, "is your disguise.
I leave you to your toilet."

The clothes had probably belonged to a somewhat lubberly boy of fifteen; and they hung about
me like a sack, and cruelly hampered my movements. But what filled me with uncontrollable shudderings
was the problem of their origin and the fate of the lad to whom they had belonged. I had scarcely
effected the exchange when the doctor returned, opened a back window, helped me out into the
narrow space between the house and the overhanging bluffs, and showed me a ladder of iron foot-holds
mortised in the rock. "Mount," he said, "swiftly. When you are at the summit, walk, so far
as you are able, in the shadow of the smoke. The smoke will bring you, sooner or later, to
a cañon; follow that down, and you will find a man with two horses. Him you will implicitly
obey. And remember, silence! That machinery which I now put in motion for your service may
by one word be turned against you. Go; Heaven prosper you!"

The ascent was easy. Arrived at the top of the cliff, I saw before me on the other side a vast
and gradual declivity of stone, lying bare to the moon and the surrounding mountains. Nowhere
was any vantage or concealment; and knowing how these deserts were beset with spies, I made
haste to veil my movements under the blowing trail of smoke. Sometimes it swam high, rising
on the night wind, and I had no more substantial curtain than its moon-thrown shadow; sometimes
again it crawled upon the earth, and I would walk in it, no higher than to my shoulders, like
some mountain fog. But, one way or another, the smoke of that ill-omened furnace protected
the first steps of my escape, and led me unobserved to the cañon.

There, sure enough, I found a taciturn and sombre man beside a pair of saddle-horses; and thenceforward,
all night long, we wandered in silence by the most occult and dangerous paths among the mountains.
A little before the dayspring we took refuge in a wet and gusty cavern at the bottom of a gorge;
lay there all day concealed; and the next night, before the glow had faded out of the west,
resumed our wanderings. About noon we stopped again, in a lawn upon a little river, where was
a screen of bushes; and here my guide, handing me a bundle from his pack, bade me change my
dress once more. The bundle contained clothing of my own, taken from our house, with such necessaries
as a comb and soap. I made my toilet by the mirror of a quiet pool; and as I was so doing and
smiling with some complacency to see myself restored to my own image, the mountains rang with
a scream of far more than human piercingness; and where I still stood astonished, there sprang
up and swiftly increased a storm of the most awful and earth-rending sounds. Shall I own to
you that I fell upon my face and shrieked? And yet this was but the overland train winding
among the near mountains: the very means of my salvation: the strong wings that were to carry
me from Utah!

When I was dressed the guide gave me a bag, which contained, he said, both money and papers;
and, telling me that I was already over the borders in the territory of Wyoming, bade me follow
the stream until I reached the railway station, half a mile below. "Here," he added, "is your
ticket as far as Council Bluffs. The East express will pass in a few hours." With that, he
took both horses and, without further words or any salutation, rode off by the way that we
had come.

Three hours afterwards, I was seated on the end platform of the train as it swept eastward
through the gorges and thundered in tunnels of the mountains. The change of scene, the sense
of escape, the still throbbing terror of pursuit--above all the astounding magic of my new
conveyance, kept me from any logical or melancholy thought. I had gone to the doctor's house
two nights before prepared to die, prepared for worse than death; what had passed, terrible
although it was, looked almost bright compared to my anticipations; and it was not till I had
slept a full night in the flying palace car that I awoke to the sense of my irreparable loss
and to some reasonable alarm about the future. In this mood I examined the contents of the
bag. It was well supplied with gold; it contained tickets and complete directions for my journey
as far as Liverpool, and a long letter from the doctor, supplying me with a fictitious name
and story, recommending the most guarded silence, and bidding me to await faithfully the coming
of his son. All then had been arranged beforehand: he had counted upon my consent, and, what
was tenfold worse, upon my mother's voluntary death. My horror of my only friend, my aversion
for this son who was to marry me, my revolt against the whole current and conditions of my
life, were now complete. I was sitting stupefied by my distress and helplessness, when, to
my joy, a very pleasant lady offered me her conversation. I clutched at the relief; and I was
soon glibly telling her the story in the doctor's letter: how I was a Miss Gould, of Nevada
City, going to England to an uncle, what money I had, what family, my age, and so forth, until
I had exhausted my instructions, and, as the lady still continued to ply me with questions,
began to embroider on my own account. This soon carried one of my inexperience beyond her depth;
and I had already remarked a shadow on the lady's face, when a gentleman drew near and very
civilly addressed me:

"Miss Gould, I believe?" said he; and then, excusing himself to the lady by the authority of
my guardian, drew me to the fore platform of the Pullman car. "Miss Gould," he said in my ear,
"is it possible that you suppose yourself in safety? Let me completely undeceive you. One more
such indiscretion and you return to Utah. And, in the meanwhile, if this woman should again
address you, you are to reply with these words: 'Madam, I do not like you, and I will be obliged
if you will suffer me to choose my own associates.'"

Alas, I had to do as I was bid; this lady, to whom I already felt myself drawn with the strongest
cords of sympathy, I dismissed with insult; and thenceforward, through all that day I sat in
silence, gazing on the bare plains and swallowing my tears. Let that suffice: it was the pattern
of my journey. Whether on the train, at the hotels, or on board the ocean steamer, I never
exchanged a friendly word with any fellow-traveller but I was certain to be interrupted. In
every place, on every side, the most unlikely persons, man or woman, rich or poor, became protectors
to forward me upon my journey or spies to observe and regulate my conduct. Thus I crossed the
States, thus passed the ocean, the Mormon Eye still following my movements; and when at length
a cab had set me down before that London lodging-house from which you saw me flee this morning,
I had already ceased to struggle and ceased to hope.

The landlady, like every one else through all that journey, was expecting my arrival. A fire
was lighted in my room, which looked upon the garden; there were books on the table, clothes
in the drawers; and there (I had almost said with contentment, and certainly with resignation)
I saw month follow month over my head. At times my landlady took me for a walk or an excursion,
but she would never suffer me to leave the house alone; and I, seeing that she also lived under
the shadow of that widespread Mormon terror, felt too much pity to resist. To the child born
on Mormon soil, as to the man who accepts the engagements of a secret order, no escape is possible;
so I had clearly read, and I was thankful even for this respite. Meanwhile, I tried honestly
to prepare my mind for my approaching nuptials. The day drew near when my bridegroom was to
visit me, and gratitude and fear alike obliged me to consent. A son of Dr. Grierson's be he
what he pleased, must still be young, and it was even probable he should be handsome; on more
than that I felt I dared not reckon; and in moulding my mind towards consent I dwelt the more
carefully on these physical attractions which I felt I might expect, and averted my eyes from
moral or intellectual considerations. We have a great power upon our spirits; and as time passed
I worked myself into a frame of acquiescence, nay, and I began to grow impatient for the hour.
At night sleep forsook me; I sat all day by the fire, absorbed in dreams, conjuring up the
features of my husband, and anticipating in fancy the touch of his hand and the sound of his
voice. In the dead level and solitude of my existence, this was the one eastern window and
the one door of hope. At last I had so cultivated and prepared my will, that I began to be
besieged with fears upon the other side. How if it was I that did not please? How if this unseen
lover should turn from me with disaffection? And now I spent hours before the glass, studying
and judging my attractions, and was never weary of changing my dress or ordering my hair.

When the day came I was long about my toilet; but at last, with a sort of hopeful desperation,
I had to own that I could do no more, and must now stand or fall by nature. My occupation ended,
I fell a prey to the most sickening impatience, mingled with alarms; giving ear to the swelling
rumour of the streets, and at each change of sound or silence, starting, shrinking, and colouring
to the brow. Love is not to be prepared, I know, without some knowledge of the object; and
yet, when the cab at last rattled to the door, and I heard my visitor mount the stairs, such
was the tumult of hopes in my poor bosom that love itself might have been proud to own their
parentage. The door opened, and it was Dr. Grierson that appeared. I believe I must have screamed
aloud, and I know, at least, that I fell fainting to the floor.

When I came to myself he was standing over me, counting my pulse. "I have startled you," he
said. "A difficulty unforeseen--the impossibility of obtaining a certain drug in its full purity--has
forced me to resort to London unprepared. I regret that I should have shown myself once more
without those poor attractions which are much, perhaps, to you, but to me are no more considerable
than rain that falls into the sea. Youth is but a state, as passing as that syncope from which
you are but just awakened, and, if there be truth in science, as easy to recall; for I find,
Asenath, that I must now take you for my confidant. Since my first years I have devoted every
hour and act of life to one ambitious task; and the time of my success is at hand. In these
new countries, where I was so long content to stay, I collected indispensable ingredients;
I have fortified myself on every side from the possibility of error; what was a dream now takes
the substance of reality; and when I offered you a son of mine I did so in a figure. That son--that
husband, Asenath, is myself--not as you now behold me, but restored to the first energy of
youth. You think me mad? It is the customary attitude of ignorance. I will not argue; I will
leave facts to speak. When you behold me purified, invigorated, renewed, restamped in the original
image--when you recognise in me (what I shall be) the first perfect expression of the powers
of mankind--I shall be able to laugh with a better grace at your passing and natural incredulity.
To what can you aspire--fame, riches, power, the charm of youth, the dear-bought wisdom of
age--that I shall not be able to afford you in perfection? Do not deceive yourself. I already
excel you in every human gift but one: when that gift also has been restored to me you will
recognise your master."

Hereupon, consulting his watch, he told me he must now leave me to myself; and bidding me consult
reason, and not girlish fancies, he withdrew. I had not the courage to move; the night fell,
and found me still where he had laid me during my faint, my face buried in my hands, my soul
drowned in the darkest apprehensions. Late in the evening he returned, carrying a candle, and,
with a certain irritable tremor, bade me rise and sup. "Is it possible," he added, "that I
have been deceived in your courage? A cowardly girl is no fit mate for me."

I flung myself before him on my knees, and with floods of tears besought him to release me
from this engagement, assuring him that my cowardice was abject, and that in every point of
intellect and character I was his hopeless and derisible inferior.

"Why, certainly," he replied. "I know you better than yourself; and I am well enough acquainted
with human nature to understand this scene. It is addressed to me," he added with a smile,
"in my character of the still untransformed. But do not alarm yourself about the future. Let
me but attain my end, and not you only, Asenath, but every woman on the face of the earth becomes
my willing slave."

Thereupon he obliged me to rise and eat; sat down with me to table; helped and entertained
me with the attentions of a fashionable host; and it was not till a late hour that, bidding
me courteously good-night, he once more left me alone to my misery.

In all this talk of an elixir and the restoration of his youth, I scarce knew from which hypothesis
I should the more eagerly recoil. If his hopes reposed on any base of fact, if, indeed, by
some abhorrent miracle, he should discard his age, death were my only refuge from that most
unnatural, that most ungodly union. If, on the other hand, these dreams were merely lunatic,
the madness of a life waxed suddenly acute, my pity would become a load almost as heavy to
bear as my revolt against the marriage. So passed the night, in alternations of rebellion and
despair, of hate and pity; and with the next morning I was only to comprehend more fully my
enslaved position. For though he appeared with a very tranquil countenance, he had no sooner
observed the marks of grief upon my brow than an answering darkness gathered on his own. "Asenath,"
he said, "you owe me much already; with one finger I still hold you suspended over death; my
life is full of labour and anxiety; and I choose," said he, with a remarkable accent of command,
"that you shall greet me with a pleasant face." He never needed to repeat the recommendation:
from that day forward I was always ready to receive him with apparent cheerfulness; and he
rewarded me with a good deal of his company, and almost more than I could bear of his confidence.
He had set up a laboratory in the back part of the house, where he toiled day and night at
his elixir, and he would come thence to visit me in my parlour: now with passing humours of
discouragement; now, and far more often, radiant with hope. It was impossible to see so much
of him, and not to recognise that the sands of his life were running low; and yet all the time
he would be laying out vast fields of future, and planning, with all the confidence of youth,
the most unbounded schemes of pleasure and ambition. How I replied I know not; but I found
a voice and words to answer, even while I wept and raged to hear him.

A week ago the doctor entered my room with the marks of great exhilaration contending with
pitiful bodily weakness. "Asenath," said he, "I have now obtained the last ingredient. In one
week from now the perilous moment of the last projection will draw nigh. You have once before
assisted, although unconsciously, at the failure of a similar experiment. It was the elixir
which so terribly exploded one night when you were passing my house; and it is idle to deny
that the conduct of so delicate a process, among the million jars and trepidations of so great
a city, presents a certain element of danger. From this point of view, I cannot but regret
the perfect stillness of my house among the deserts; but, on the other hand, I have succeeded
in proving that the singularly unstable equilibrium of the elixir, at the moment of projection,
is due rather to the impurity than to the nature of the ingredients; and as all are now of
an equal and exquisite nicety, I have little fear for the result. In a week then from to-day,
my dear Asenath, this period of trial will be ended." And he smiled upon me in a manner unusually
paternal.

I smiled back with my lips, but at my heart there raged the blackest and most unbridled terror.
What if he failed? And oh, tenfold worse! what if he succeeded? What detested and unnatural
changeling would appear before me to claim my hand? And could there, I asked myself with a
dreadful sinking, be any truth in his boasts of an assured victory over my reluctance? I knew
him, indeed, to be masterful, to lead my life at a sign. Suppose, then, this experiment to
succeed; suppose him to return to me, hideously restored, like a vampire in a legend; and suppose
that, by some devilish fascination.... My head turned; all former fears deserted me; and I
felt I could embrace the worst in preference to this.

My mind was instantly made up. The doctor's presence in London was justified by the affairs
of the Mormon polity. Often, in our conversation, he would gloat over the details of that great
organisation, which he feared even while yet he wielded it; and would remind me that, even
in the humming labyrinth of London, we were still visible to that unsleeping eye in Utah. His
visitors, indeed, who were of every sort, from the missionary to the destroying angel, and
seemed to belong to every rank of life, had, up to that moment, filled me with unmixed repulsion
and alarm. I knew that if my secret were to reach the ear of any leader my fate were sealed
beyond redemption; and yet in my present pass of horror and despair, it was to these very men
that I turned for help. I waylaid upon the stair one of the Mormon missionaries, a man of a
low class, but not inaccessible to pity; told him I scarce remember what elaborate fable to
explain my application; and by his intermediacy entered into correspondence with my father's
family. They recognised my claim for help, and on this very day I was to begin my escape.

Last night I sat up fully dressed, awaiting the result of the doctor's labours, and prepared
against the worst. The nights at this season and in this northern latitude are short; and I
had soon the company of the returning daylight. The silence in and around the house was only
broken by the movements of the doctor in the laboratory; to these I listened, watch in hand,
awaiting the hour of my escape, and yet consumed by anxiety about the strange experiment that
was going forward overhead. Indeed, now that I was conscious of some protection for myself,
my sympathies had turned more directly to the doctor's side; I caught myself even praying for
his success; and when some hours ago a low, peculiar cry reached my ears from the laboratory,
I could no longer control my impatience, but mounted the stairs and opened the door.

The doctor was standing in the middle of the room; in his hand a large, round-bellied, crystal
flask, some three parts full of a bright amber-coloured liquid; on his face a rapture of gratitude
and joy unspeakable. As he saw me he raised the flask at arm's-length. "Victory!" he cried.
"Victory, Asenath!" And then--whether the flask escaped his trembling fingers, or whether the
explosion was spontaneous, I cannot tell--enough that we were thrown, I against the door-post,
the doctor into the corner of the room; enough that we were shaken to the soul by the same
explosion that must have startled you upon the street; and that, in the brief space of an indistinguishable
instant, there remained nothing of the labours of the doctor's lifetime but a few shards of
broken crystal and those voluminous and ill-smelling vapours that pursued me in my flight.

FOOTNOTE:

  [2] In this name the accent falls upon the e; the s is sibilant.

THE SQUIRE OF DAMES (concluded)

What with the lady's animated manner and dramatic conduct of her voice, Challoner had thrilled
to every incident with genuine emotion. His fancy, which was not perhaps of a very lively character,
applauded both the matter and the style; but the more judicial functions of his mind refused
assent. It was an excellent story; and it might be true, but he believed it was not. Miss Fonblanque
was a lady, and it was doubtless possible for a lady to wander from the truth; but how was
a gentleman to tell her so? His spirits for some time had been sinking, but they now fell to
zero; and long after her voice had died away he still sat with a troubled and averted countenance,
and could find no form of words to thank her for her narrative. His mind, indeed, was empty
of everything beyond a dull longing for escape. From this pause, which grew the more embarrassing
with every second, he was roused by the sudden laughter of the lady. His vanity was alarmed;
he turned and faced her; their eyes met; and he caught from hers a spark of such frank merriment
as put him instantly at ease.

"You certainly," he said, "appear to bear your calamities with excellent spirit."

"Do I not?" she cried, and fell once more into delicious laughter. But from this access she
more speedily recovered. "This is all very well," said she, nodding at him gravely, "but I
am still in a most distressing situation, from which, if you deny me your help, I shall find
it difficult indeed to free myself."

At this mention of help Challoner fell back to his original gloom.

"My sympathies are much engaged with you," he said, "and I should be delighted, I am sure.
But our position is most unusual; and circumstances over which I have, I can assure you, no
control, deprive me of the power--the pleasure----Unless, indeed," he added, somewhat brightening
at the thought, "I were to recommend you to the care of the police?"

She laid her hand upon his arm and looked hard into his eyes; and he saw with wonder that,
for the first time since the moment of their meeting, every trace of colour had faded from
her cheek.

"Do so," she said, "and--weigh my words well--you kill me as certainly as with a knife."

"God bless me!" exclaimed Challoner.

"Oh," she cried, "I can see you disbelieve my story, and make light of the perils that surround
me; but who are you to judge? My family share my apprehensions; they help me in secret; and
you saw yourself by what an emissary, and in what a place, they have chosen to supply me with
the funds for my escape. I admit that you are brave and clever, and have impressed me most
favourably; but how are you to prefer your opinion before that of my uncle, an ex-minister
of State, a man with the ear of the Queen, and of a long political experience? If I am mad,
is he? And you must allow me, besides, a special claim upon your help. Strange as you may think
my story, you know that much of it is true; and if you who heard the explosion, and saw the
Mormon at Victoria, refuse to credit and assist me, to whom am I to turn?"

"He gave you money then?" asked Challoner, who had been dwelling singly on that fact.

"I begin to interest you," she cried. "But, frankly, you are condemned to help me. If the service
I had to ask of you were serious, were suspicious, were even unusual, I should say no more.
But what is it? To take a pleasure trip (for which, if you will suffer me, I propose to pay)
and to carry from one lady to another a sum of money! What can be more simple?"

"Is the sum," asked Challoner, "considerable?"

She produced a packet from her bosom; and observing that she had not yet found time to make
the count, tore open the cover and spread upon her knees a considerable number of Bank of England
notes. It took some time to make the reckoning, for the notes were of every degree of value;
but at last, and counting a few loose sovereigns, she made out the sum to be a little under
£710 sterling. The sight of so much money worked an immediate revolution in the mind of Challoner.

"And you propose, madam," he cried, "to intrust that money to a perfect stranger?"

"Ah!" said she, with a charming smile, "but I no longer regard you as a stranger."

"Madam," said Challoner, "I perceive I must make you a confession. Although of a very good
family--through my mother, indeed, a lineal descendant of the patriot Bruce--I dare not conceal
from you that my affairs are deeply, very deeply, involved. I am in debt; my pockets are practically
empty; and, in short, I am fallen to that state when a considerable sum of money would prove
to many men an irresistible temptation."

"Do you not see," returned the young lady, "that by these words you have removed my last hesitation?
Take them." And she thrust the notes into the young man's hand.

He sat so long, holding them, like a baby at the font, that Miss Fonblanque once more bubbled
into laughter.

"Pray," she said, "hesitate no further; put them in your pocket; and to relieve our position
of any shadow of embarrassment, tell me by what name I am to address my knight-errant, for
I find myself reduced to the awkwardness of the pronoun."

Had borrowing been in question, the wisdom of our ancestors had come lightly to the young man's
aid; but upon what pretext could he refuse so generous a trust? Upon none, he saw, that was
not unpardonably wounding; and the bright eyes and the high spirits of his companion had already
made a breach in the rampart of Challoner's caution. The whole thing, he reasoned, might be
a mere mystification, which it were the height of solemn folly to resent. On the other hand,
the explosion, the interview at the public-house, and the very money in his hands, seemed to
prove beyond denial the existence of some serious danger; and if that were so, could he desert
her? There was a choice of risks: the risk of behaving with extraordinary incivility and unhandsomeness
to a lady, and the risk of going on a fool's errand. The story seemed false; but then the money
was undeniable. The whole circumstances were questionable and obscure; but the lady was charming,
and had the speech and manners of society. While he still hung in the wind, a recollection
returned upon his mind with some of the dignity of prophecy. Had he not promised Somerset to
break with the traditions of the commonplace, and to accept the first adventure offered? Well,
here was the adventure.

He thrust the money into his pocket.

"My name is Challoner," said he.

"Mr. Challoner," she replied, "you have come very generously to my aid when all was against
me. Though I am myself a very humble person, my family commands great interest; and I do not
think you will repent this handsome action."

Challoner flushed with pleasure.

"I imagine that, perhaps, a consulship," she added, her eyes dwelling on him with a judicial
admiration, "a consulship in some great town or capital--or else----But we waste time; let
us set about the work of my delivery."

She took his arm with a frank confidence that went to his heart; and once more laying by all
serious thoughts, she entertained him, as they crossed the park, with her agreeable gaiety
of mind. Near the Marble Arch they found a hansom, which rapidly conveyed them to the terminus
at Euston Square; and here, in the hotel, they sat down to an excellent breakfast. The young
lady's first step was to call for writing materials, and write, upon one corner of the table,
a hasty note; still, as she did so, glancing with smiles at her companion. "Here," said she,
"here is the letter which will introduce you to my cousin." She began to fold the paper. "My
cousin, although I have never seen her, has the character of a very charming woman and a recognised
beauty; of that I know nothing, but at least she has been very kind to me; so has my lord her
father; so have you--kinder than all--kinder than I can bear to think of." She said this with
unusual emotion; and, at the same time, sealed the envelope. "Ah!" she cried, "I have shut
my letter! It is not quite courteous; and yet, as between friends, it is perhaps better so.
I introduce you, after all, into a family secret; and though you and I are already old comrades,
you are still unknown to my uncle. You go, then, to this address, Richard Street, Glasgow;
go, please, as soon as you arrive; and give this letter with your own hands into those of Miss
Fonblanque, for that is the name by which she is to pass. When we next meet, you will tell
me what you think of her," she added, with a touch of the provocative.

"Ah," said Challoner, almost tenderly, "she can be nothing to me."

"You do not know," replied the young lady, with a sigh. "By the by, I had forgotten--it is
very childish, and I am almost ashamed to mention it--but when you see Miss Fonblanque, you
will have to make yourself a little ridiculous; and I am sure the part in no way suits you.
We had agreed upon a watchword. You will have to address an earl's daughter in these words:
'Nigger, nigger, never die'; but reassure yourself," she added, laughing, "for the fair patrician
will at once finish the quotation. Come now, say your lesson."

"'Nigger, nigger, never die,'" repeated Challoner, with undisguised reluctance.

Miss Fonblanque went into fits of laughter. "Excellent," said she, "it will be the most humorous
scene!" And she laughed again.

"And what will be the counterword?" asked Challoner stiffly.

"I will not tell you till the last moment," said she; "for I perceive you are growing too imperious."

Breakfast over, she accompanied the young man to the platform, bought him the Graphic, the
Athenæum, and a paper-cutter, and stood on the step conversing till the whistle sounded. Then
she put her head into the carriage. "Black face and shining eye!" she whispered, and instantly
leaped down upon the platform, with a trill of gay and musical laughter. As the train steamed
out of the great arch of glass, the sound of that laughter still rang in the young man's ears.

Challoner's position was too unusual to be long welcome to his mind. He found himself projected
the whole length of England, on a mission beset with obscure and ridiculous circumstances,
and yet, by the trust he had accepted, irrevocably bound to persevere. How easy it appeared,
in the retrospect, to have refused the whole proposal, returned the money, and gone forth again
upon his own affairs, a free and happy man! And it was now impossible: the enchantress who
had held him with her eye had now disappeared, taking his honour in pledge; and as she had
failed to leave him an address, he was denied even the inglorious safety of retreat. To use
the paper-knife, or even to read the periodicals with which she had presented him, was to renew
the bitterness of his remorse; and as he was alone in the compartment, he passed the day staring
at the landscape in impotent repentance, and long before he was landed on the platform of St.
Enoch's, had fallen to the lowest and coldest zones of self-contempt.

As he was hungry, and elegant in his habits, he would have preferred to dine and to remove
the stains of travel; but the words of the young lady, and his own impatient eagerness, would
suffer no delay. In the late, luminous, and lamp-starred dusk of the summer evening he accordingly
set forward with brisk steps.

The street to which he was directed had first seen the day in the character of a row of small
suburban villas on a hillside; but the extension of the city had, long since and on every hand,
surrounded it with miles of streets. From the top of the hill a range of very tall buildings,
densely inhabited by the poorest classes of the population and variegated by drying-poles from
every second window, overplumbed the villas and their little gardens like a sea-board cliff.
But still, under the grime of years of city smoke, these antiquated cottages, with their venetian
blinds and rural porticoes, retained a somewhat melancholy savour of the past.

The street, when Challoner entered it, was perfectly deserted. From hard by, indeed, the sound
of a thousand footfalls filled the ear; but in Richard Street itself there was neither light
nor sound of human habitation. The appearance of the neighbourhood weighed heavily on the mind
of the young man; once more, as in the streets of London, he was impressed by the sense of
city deserts; and as he approached the number indicated, and somewhat falteringly rang the
bell, his heart sank within him.

The bell was ancient, like the house; it had a thin and garrulous note; and it was some time
before it ceased to sound from the rear quarters of the building. Following upon this an inner
door was stealthily opened, and careful and catlike steps drew near along the hall. Challoner,
supposing he was to be instantly admitted, produced his letter and, as well as he was able,
prepared a smiling face. To his indescribable surprise, however, the footsteps ceased, and
then, after a pause and with the like stealthiness, withdrew once more, and died away in the
interior of the house. A second time the young man rang violently at the bell; a second time,
to his keen hearkening, a certain bustle of discreet footing moved upon the hollow boards of
the old villa; and again the faint-hearted garrison only drew near to retreat. The cup of the
visitor's endurance was now full to overflowing; and, committing the whole family of Fonblanque
to every mood and shade of condemnation, he turned upon his heel and redescended the steps.
Perhaps the mover in the house was watching from a window, and plucked up courage at the sight
of this desistance; or perhaps, where he lurked trembling in the back parts of the villa, reason
in its own right had conquered his alarms. Challoner, at least, had scarce set foot upon the
pavement when he was arrested by the sound of the withdrawal of an inner bolt; one followed
another, rattling in their sockets; the key turned harshly in the lock; the door opened; and
there appeared upon the threshold a man of a very stalwart figure in his shirt sleeves. He
was a person neither of great manly beauty nor of a refined exterior; he was not the man, in
ordinary moods, to attract the eyes of the observer; but as he now stood in the doorway he
was marked so legibly with the extreme passion of terror that Challoner stood wonder-struck.
For a fraction of a minute they gazed upon each other in silence; and then the man of the house,
with ashen lips and gasping voice, inquired the business of his visitor. Challoner replied,
in tones from which he strove to banish his surprise, that he was the bearer of a letter to
a certain Miss Fonblanque. At this name, as at a talisman, the man fell back and impatiently
invited him to enter; and no sooner had the adventurer crossed the threshold than the door
was closed behind him and his retreat cut off.

It was already long past eight at night; and though the late twilight of the north still lingered
in the streets, in the passage it was already groping dark. The man led Challoner directly
to a parlour looking on the garden to the back. Here he had apparently been supping; for by
the light of a tallow dip, the table was seen to be covered with a napkin, and set out with
a quart of bottled ale and the heel of a Gouda cheese. The room, on the other hand, was furnished
with faded solidity, and the walls were lined with scholarly and costly volumes in glazed cases.
The house must have been taken furnished; for it had no congruity with this man of the shirt
sleeves and the mean supper. As for the earl's daughter, the earl and the visionary consulships
in foreign cities, they had long ago begun to fade in Challoner's imagination. Like Dr. Grierson
and the Mormon angels, they were plainly woven of the stuff of dreams. Not an illusion remained
to the knight-errant; not a hope was left him but to be speedily relieved from this disreputable
business.

The man had continued to regard his visitor with undisguised anxiety, and began once more to
press him for his errand.

"I am here," said Challoner, "simply to do a service between two ladies; and I must ask you,
without further delay, to summon Miss Fonblanque, into whose hands alone I am authorised to
deliver the letter that I bear."

A growing wonder began to mingle on the man's face with the lines of solicitude. "I am Miss
Fonblanque," he said; and then, perceiving the effect of this communication, "Good God!" he
cried, "what are you staring at? I tell you I am Miss Fonblanque."

Seeing the speaker wore a chin-beard of considerable length, and the remainder of his face
was blue with shaving, Challoner could only suppose himself the subject of a jest. He was no
longer under the spell of the young lady's presence; and with men, and above all with his inferiors,
he was capable of some display of spirit.

"Sir," said he, pretty roundly, "I have put myself to great inconvenience for persons of whom
I know too little, and I begin to be weary of the business. Either you shall immediately summon
Miss Fonblanque, or I leave this house and put myself under the direction of the police."

"This is horrible!" exclaimed the man. "I declare before Heaven I am the person meant, but
how shall I convince you? It must have been Clara, I perceive, that sent you on this errand--a
madwoman, who jests with the most deadly interests; and here we are, incapable, perhaps, of
an agreement, and Heaven knows what may depend on our delay!"

He spoke with a really startling earnestness; and at the same time there flashed upon the mind
of Challoner the ridiculous jingle which was to serve as password. "This may, perhaps, assist
you," he said; and then, with some embarrassment: "'Nigger, nigger, never die.'"

A light of relief broke upon the troubled countenance of the man with the chin-beard. "'Black
face and shining eye'--give me the letter," he panted, in one gasp.

"Well," said Challoner, though still with some reluctance, "I suppose I must regard you as
the proper recipient; and though I may justly complain of the spirit in which I have been treated,
I am only too glad to be done with all responsibility. Here it is," and he produced the envelope.

The man leaped upon it like a beast, and with hands that trembled in a manner painful to behold,
tore it open and unfolded the letter. As he read, terror seemed to mount upon him to the pitch
of nightmare. He struck one hand upon his brow, while with the other, as if unconsciously,
he crumpled the paper to a ball. "My gracious powers!" he cried; and then, dashing to the window,
which stood open on the garden, he clapped forth his head and shoulders and whistled long and
shrill. Challoner fell back into a corner, and resolutely grasping his staff, prepared for
the most desperate events; but the thoughts of the man with the chin-beard were far removed
from violence. Turning again into the room, and once more beholding his visitor, whom he appeared
to have forgotten, he fairly danced with trepidation. "Impossible!" he cried. "Oh, quite impossible!
O Lord, I have lost my head." And then, once more striking his hand upon his brow, "The money!"
he exclaimed. "Give me the money."

"My good friend," replied Challoner, "this is a very painful exhibition; and until I see you
reasonably master of yourself, I decline to proceed with any business."

"You are quite right," said the man. "I am of a very nervous habit; a long course of the dumb
ague has undermined my constitution. But I know you have money; it may be still the saving
of me; and oh, dear young gentleman, in pity's name be expeditious!"

Challoner, sincerely uneasy as he was, could scarce refrain from laughter; but he was himself
in a hurry to be gone, and without more delay produced the money. "You will find the sum, I
trust, correct," he observed; "and let me ask you to give me a receipt."

But the man heeded him not. He seized the money, and disregarding the sovereigns that rolled
loose upon the floor, thrust the bundle of notes into his pocket.

"A receipt," repeated Challoner, with some asperity. "I insist on a receipt."

"Receipt?" repeated the man, a little wildly. "A receipt? Immediately! Await me here."

Challoner, in reply, begged the gentleman to lose no unnecessary time, as he was himself desirous
of catching a particular train.

"Ah, by God, and so am I!" exclaimed the man with the chin-beard; and with that he was gone
out of the room, and had rattled upstairs, four at a time, to the upper story of the villa.

"This is certainly a most amazing business," thought Challoner; "certainly a most disquieting
affair; and I cannot conceal from myself that I have become mixed up with either lunatics or
malefactors. I may truly thank my stars that I am so nearly and so creditably done with it."
Thus thinking, and perhaps remembering the episode of the whistle, he turned to the open window.
The garden was still faintly clear; he could distinguish the stairs and terraces with which
the small domain had been adorned by former owners, and the blackened bushes and dead trees
that had once afforded shelter to the country birds; beyond these he saw the strong retaining
wall, some thirty feet in height, which enclosed the garden to the back; and again above that,
the pile of dingy buildings rearing its frontage high into the night. A peculiar object lying
stretched upon the lawn for some time baffled his eyesight; but at length he had made it out
to be a long ladder, or series of ladders bound into one; and he was still wondering of what
service so great an instrument could be in such a scant enclosure, when he was recalled to
himself by the noise of some one running violently down the stairs. This was followed by the
sudden, clamorous banging of the house door; and that again, by rapid and retreating footsteps
in the street.

Challoner sprang into the passage. He ran from room to room, upstairs and downstairs; and in
that old dingy and worm-eaten house, he found himself alone. Only in one apartment looking
to the front were there any traces of the late inhabitant: a bed that had been recently slept
in and not made, a chest of drawers disordered by a hasty search and on the floor a roll of
crumpled paper. This he picked up. The light in this upper story looking to the front was considerably
brighter than in the parlour; and he was able to make out that the paper bore the mark of the
hotel at Euston, and even, by peering closely, to decipher the following lines in a very elegant
and careful female hand:

   "DEAR M'GUIRE,--It is certain your retreat is known. We have just had
   another failure, clockwork thirty hours too soon, with the usual
   humiliating result. Zero is quite disheartened. We are all scattered,
   and I could find no one but the solemn ass who brings you this and
   the money. I would love to see your meeting.--Ever yours,

     "SHINING EYE."

Challoner was stricken to the heart. He perceived by what facility, by what unmanly fear of
ridicule, he had been brought down to be the gull of this intriguer; and his wrath flowed forth
in almost equal measure against himself, against the woman, and against Somerset, whose idle
counsels had impelled him to embark on that adventure. At the same time a great and troubled
curiosity, and a certain chill of fear, possessed his spirits. The conduct of the man with
the chin-beard, the terms of the letter, and the explosion of the early morning, fitted together
like parts in some obscure and mischievous imbroglio. Evil was certainly afoot; evil, secrecy,
terror, and falsehood were the conditions and the passions of the people among whom he had
begun to move, like a blind puppet; and he who began as a puppet, his experience told him,
was often doomed to perish as a victim.

From the stupor of deep thought into which he had glided with the letter in his hand, he was
awakened by the clatter of the bell. He glanced from the window; and conceive his horror and
surprise when he beheld, clustered on the steps, in the front garden and on the pavement of
the street, a formidable posse of police! He started to the full possession of his powers and
courage. Escape, and escape at any cost, was the one idea that possessed him. Swiftly and silently
he redescended the creaking stairs; he was already in the passage when a second and more imperious
summons from the door awoke the echoes of the empty house; nor had the bell ceased to jangle
before he had bestridden the window-sill of the parlour and was lowering himself into the garden.
His coat was hooked upon the iron flower-basket; for a moment he hung dependent heels and head
below; and then, with the noise of rending cloth and followed by several pots, he dropped upon
the sod. Once more the bell was rung, and now with furious and repeated peals. The desperate
Challoner turned his eyes on every side. They fell upon the ladder, and he ran to it, and with
strenuous but unavailing effort sought to raise it from the ground. Suddenly the weight, which
was thus resisting his whole strength, began to lighten in his hands; the ladder, like a thing
of life, reared its bulk from off the sod; and Challoner, leaping back with a cry of almost
superstitious terror, beheld the whole structure mount, foot by foot, against the face of the
retaining-wall. At the same time, two heads were dimly visible above the parapet, and he was
hailed by a guarded whistle. Something in its modulation recalled, like an echo, the whistle
of the man with the chin-beard.

Had he chanced upon a means of escape prepared beforehand by those very miscreants, whose messenger
and gull he had become? Was this, indeed, a means of safety, or but the starting-point of further
complication and disaster? He paused not to reflect. Scarce was the ladder reared to its full
length than he had sprung already on the rounds; hand over hand, swift as an ape, he scaled
the tottering stairway. Strong arms received, embraced, and helped him; he was lifted and set
once more upon the earth; and with the spasm of his alarm yet unsubsided, found himself, in
the company of two rough-looking men, in the paved back-yard of one of the tall houses that
crowned the summit of the hill. Meanwhile, from below, the note of the bell had been succeeded
by the sound of vigorous and redoubling blows.

"Are you all out?" asked one of his companions; and as soon as he had babbled an answer in
the affirmative, the rope was cut from the top round, and the ladder thrust roughly back into
the garden, where it fell and broke with clattering reverberations. Its fall was hailed with
many broken cries; for the whole of Richard Street was now in high emotion, the people crowding
to the windows or clambering on the garden walls. The same man who had already addressed Challoner
seized him by the arm; whisked him through the basement of the house and across the street
upon the other side; and before the unfortunate adventurer had time to realise his situation,
a door was opened, and he was thrust into a low and dark compartment.

"Bedad," observed his guide, "there was no time to lose. Is M'Guire gone, or was it you that
whistled?"

"M'Guire is gone," said Challoner.

The guide now struck a light. "Ah," said he, "this will never do. You dare not go upon the
streets in such a figure. Wait quietly here and I will bring you something decent."

With that the man was gone, and Challoner, his attention thus rudely awakened, began ruefully
to consider the havoc that had been worked in his attire. His hat was gone; his trousers were
cruelly ripped; and the best part of one tail of his very elegant frock-coat had been left
hanging from the iron crockets of the window. He had scarce had time to measure these disasters
when his host re-entered the apartment and proceeded, without a word, to envelop the refined
and urbane Challoner in a long ulster of the cheapest material and of a pattern so gross and
vulgar that his spirit sickened at the sight. This calumnious disguise was crowned and completed
by a soft felt hat of the Tyrolese design and several sizes too small. At another moment Challoner
would simply have refused to issue forth upon the world thus travestied; but the desire to
escape from Glasgow was now too strongly and too exclusively impressed upon his mind. With
one haggard glance at the spotted tails of his new coat, he inquired what was to pay for this
accoutrement. The man assured him that the whole expense was easily met from funds in his possession,
and begged him, instead of wasting time, to make his best speed out of the neighbourhood.

The young man was not loath to take the hint. True to his usual courtesy, he thanked the speaker
and complimented him upon his taste in greatcoats; and leaving the man somewhat abashed by
these remarks and the manner of their delivery, he hurried forth into the lamp-lit city. The
last train was gone ere, after many deviations, he had reached the terminus. Attired as he
was he dared not present himself at any reputable inn; and he felt keenly that the unassuming
dignity of his demeanour would serve to attract attention, perhaps mirth, and possibly suspicion,
in any humbler hostelry. He was thus condemned to pass the solemn and uneventful hours of a
whole night in pacing the streets of Glasgow; supperless; a figure of fun for all beholders;
waiting the dawn, with hope indeed, but with unconquerable shrinkings; and above all things,
filled with a profound sense of the folly and weakness of his conduct. It may be conceived
with what curses he assailed the memory of the fair narrator of Hyde Park; her parting laughter
rang in his ears all night with damning mockery and iteration; and when he could spare a thought
from this chief artificer of his confusion, it was to expend his wrath on Somerset and the
career of the amateur detective. With the coming of the day, he found in a shy milk-shop the
means to appease his hunger. There were still many hours to wait before the departure of the
south express; these he passed wandering with indescribable fatigue in the obscurer by-streets
of the city; and at length slipped quietly into the station and took his place in the darkest
corner of a third-class carriage. Here, all day long, he jolted on the bare boards, distressed
by heat and continually reawakened from uneasy slumbers. By the half return ticket in his purse,
he was entitled to make the journey on the easy cushions and with the ample space of the first-class;
but alas! in his absurd attire, he durst not, for decency, commingle with his equals; and this
small annoyance, coming last in such a series of disasters, cut him to the heart.

That night, when, in his Putney lodging, he reviewed the expense, anxiety, and weariness of
his adventure; when he beheld the ruins of his last good trousers and his last presentable
coat; and above all, when his eye by any chance alighted on the Tyrolese hat or the degrading
ulster, his heart would overflow with bitterness, and it was only by a serious call on his
philosophy that he maintained the dignity of his demeanour.

SOMERSET'S ADVENTURE

THE SUPERFLUOUS MANSION

Mr. Paul Somerset was a young gentleman of a lively and fiery imagination, with very small
capacity for action. He was one who lived exclusively in dreams and in the future: the creature
of his own theories, and an actor in his own romances. From the cigar divan he proceeded to
parade the streets, still heated with the fire of his eloquence, and scouting upon every side
for the offer of some fortunate adventure. In the continual stream of passers-by, on the sealed
fronts of houses, on the posters that covered the hoardings, and in every lineament and throb
of the great city, he saw a mysterious and hopeful hieroglyph. But although the elements of
adventure were streaming by him as thick as drops of water in the Thames, it was in vain that,
now with a beseeching, now with something of a braggadocio air, he courted and provoked the
notice of the passengers; in vain that, putting fortune to the touch, he even thrust himself
into the way and came into direct collision with those of the more promising demeanour. Persons
brimful of secrets, persons pining for affection, persons perishing for lack of help or counsel,
he was sure he could perceive on every side; but by some contrariety of fortune, each passed
upon his way without remarking the young gentleman, and went farther (surely to fare worse!)
in quest of the confidant, the friend, or the adviser. To thousands he must have turned an
appealing countenance, and yet not one regarded him.

A light dinner, eaten to the accompaniment of his impetuous aspirations, broke in upon the
series of his attempts on fortune; and when he returned to the task, the lamps were already
lighted, and the nocturnal crowd was dense upon the pavement. Before a certain restaurant,
whose name will readily occur to any student of our Babylon, people were already packed so
closely that passage had grown difficult; and Somerset, standing in the kennel, watched, with
a hope that was beginning to grow somewhat weary, the faces and the manners of the crowd. Suddenly
he was startled by a gentle touch upon the shoulder, and facing about, he was aware of a very
plain and elegant brougham, drawn by a pair of powerful horses, and driven by a man in sober
livery. There were no arms upon the panel; the window was open, but the interior was obscure;
the driver yawned behind his palm; and the young man was already beginning to suppose himself
the dupe of his own fancy, when a hand, no larger than a child's and smoothly gloved in white,
appeared in a corner of the window and privily beckoned him to approach. He did so, and looked
in. The carriage was occupied by a single small and very dainty figure, swathed head and shoulders
in impenetrable folds of white lace; and a voice, speaking low and silvery, addressed him in
these words:

"Open the door and get in."

"It must be," thought the young man, with an almost unbearable thrill, "it must be that duchess
at last!" Yet, although the moment was one to which he had long looked forward, it was with
a certain share of alarm that he opened the door, and, mounting into the brougham, took his
seat beside the lady of the lace. Whether or no she had touched a spring, or given some other
signal, the young man had hardly closed the door before the carriage, with considerable swiftness,
and with a very luxurious and easy movement on its springs, turned and began to drive towards
the west.

Somerset, as I have written, was not unprepared; it had long been his particular pleasure to
rehearse his conduct in the most unlikely situations; and this, among others, of the patrician
ravisher, was one he had familiarly studied. Strange as it may seem, however, he could find
no apposite remark; and as the lady, on her side, vouchsafed no further sign, they continued
to drive in silence through the streets. Except for alternate flashes from the passing lamps,
the carriage was plunged in obscurity; and beyond the fact that the fittings were luxurious,
and that the lady was singularly small and slender in person and, all but one gloved hand,
still swathed in her costly veil, the young man could decipher no detail of an inspiring nature.
The suspense began to grow unbearable. Twice he cleared his throat, and twice the whole resources
of the language failed him. In similar scenes, when he had forecast them on the theatre of
fancy, his presence of mind had always been complete, his eloquence remarkable; and at this
disparity between the rehearsal and the performance, he began to be seized with a panic of
apprehension. Here, on the very threshold of adventure, suppose him ignominiously to fail;
suppose that after ten, twenty, or sixty seconds of still uninterrupted silence, the lady should
touch the check-string and re-deposit him, weighed and found wanting, on the common street!
Thousands of persons of no mind at all, he reasoned, would be found more equal to the part;
could, that very instant, by some decisive step, prove the lady's choice to have been well
inspired, and put a stop to this intolerable silence.

His eye, at this point, lighted on the hand. It was better to fall by desperate councils than
to continue as he was; and with one tremulous swoop he pounced on the gloved fingers and drew
them to himself. One overt step, it had appeared to him, would dissolve the spell of his embarrassment;
in act, he found it otherwise: he found himself no less incapable of speech or further progress;
and, with the lady's hand in his, sat helpless. But worse was in store. A peculiar quivering
began to agitate the form of his companion; the hand that lay unresistingly in Somerset's trembled
as with ague; and presently there broke forth, in the shadow of the carriage, the bubbling
and musical sound of laughter, resisted but triumphant. The young man dropped his prize; had
it been possible, he would have bounded from the carriage. The lady, meanwhile, lying back
upon the cushions, passed on from trill to trill of the most heartfelt, high-pitched, clear,
and fairy-sounding merriment.

"You must not be offended," she said at last, catching an opportunity between two paroxysms.
"If you have been mistaken in the warmth of your attentions, the fault is solely mine; it does
not flow from your presumption, but from my eccentric manner of recruiting friends; and, believe
me, I am the last person in the world to think the worse of a young man for showing spirit.
As for to-night, it is my intention to entertain you to a little supper; and if I shall continue
to be as much pleased with your manners as I was taken with your face, I may perhaps end by
making you an advantageous offer."

Somerset sought in vain to find some form of answer, but his discomfiture had been too recent
and complete.

"Come," returned the lady, "we must have no display of temper; that is for me the one disqualifying
fault; and as I perceive we are drawing near our destination, I shall ask you to descend and
offer me your arm."

Indeed, at that very moment the carriage drew up before a stately and severe mansion in a spacious
square; and Somerset, who was possessed of an excellent temper, with the best grace in the
world assisted the lady to alight. The door was opened by an old woman of a grim appearance,
who ushered the pair into a dining-room somewhat dimly lighted, but already laid for supper,
and occupied by a prodigious company of large and valuable cats. Here, as soon as they were
alone, the lady divested herself of the lace in which she was enfolded; and Somerset was relieved
to find, that although still bearing the traces of great beauty, and still distinguished by
the fire and colour of her eye, her hair was of silvery whiteness and her face lined with years.

"And now, mon preux," said the old lady, nodding at him with a quaint gaiety, "you perceive
that I am no longer in my first youth. You will soon find that I am all the better company
for that."

As she spoke, the maid re-entered the apartment with a light but tasteful supper. They sat
down, accordingly, to table, the cats with savage pantomime surrounding the old lady's chair;
and what with the excellence of the meal and the gaiety of his entertainer, Somerset was soon
completely at his ease. When they had well eaten and drunk, the old lady leaned back in her
chair, and taking a cat upon her lap, subjected her guest to a prolonged but evidently mirthful
scrutiny.

"I fear, madam," said Somerset, "that my manners have not risen to the height of your preconceived
opinion."

"My dear young man," she replied, "you were never more mistaken in your life. I find you charming,
and you may very well have lighted on a fairy godmother. I am not one of those who are given
to change their opinions, and short of substantial demerit, those who have once gained my favour
continue to enjoy it; but I have a singular swiftness of decision, read my fellow men and women
with a glance, and have acted throughout life on first impressions. Yours, as I tell you, has
been favourable; and if, as I suppose, you are a young fellow of somewhat idle habits, I think
it not improbable that we may strike a bargain."

"Ah, madam," returned Somerset, "you have divined my situation. I am a man of birth, parts,
and breeding; excellent company, or at least so I find myself; but by a peculiar iniquity of
fate, destitute alike of trade or money. I was, indeed, this evening upon the quest of an adventure,
resolved to close with any offer of interest, emolument, or pleasure; and your summons, which
I profess I am still at some loss to understand, jumped naturally with the inclination of my
mind. Call it, if you will, impudence; I am here, at least, prepared for any proposition you
can find it in your heart to make, and resolutely determined to accept."

"You express yourself very well," replied the old lady, "and are certainly a droll and curious
young man. I should not care to affirm that you were sane, for I have never found any one entirely
so besides myself; but at least the nature of your madness entertains me, and I will reward
you with some description of my character and life."

Thereupon the old lady, still fondling the cat upon her lap, proceeded to narrate the following
particulars.

NARRATIVE OF THE SPIRITED OLD LADY

I was the eldest daughter of the Reverend Bernard Fanshawe, who held a valuable living in the
diocese of Bath and Wells. Our family, a very large one, was noted for a sprightly and incisive
wit, and came of a good old stock where beauty was an heirloom. In Christian grace of character
we were unhappily deficient. From my earliest years I saw and deplored the defects of those
relatives whose age and position should have enabled them to conquer my esteem; and while I
was yet a child, my father married a second wife, in whom (strange to say) the Fanshawe failings
were exaggerated to a monstrous and almost laughable degree. Whatever may be said against me,
it cannot be denied I was a pattern daughter; but it was in vain that, with the most touching
patience, I submitted to my stepmother's demands; and from the hour she entered my father's
house, I may say that I met with nothing but injustice and ingratitude.

I stood not alone, however, in the sweetness of my disposition; for one other of the family
besides myself was free from any violence of character. Before I had reached the age of sixteen,
this cousin, John by name, had conceived for me a sincere but silent passion; and although
the poor lad was too timid to hint at the nature of his feelings, I had soon divined and begun
to share them. For some days I pondered on the odd situation created for me by the bashfulness
of my admirer; and at length, perceiving that he begun, in his distress, rather to avoid than
seek my company, I determined to take the matter into my own hands. Finding him alone in a
retired part of the rectory garden, I told him that I had divined his amiable secret; that
I knew with what disfavour our union was sure to be regarded; and that, under the circumstances,
I was prepared to flee with him at once. Poor John was literally paralysed with joy; such was
the force of his emotions, that he could find no words in which to thank me; and that I, seeing
him thus helpless, was obliged to arrange, myself, the details of our flight, and of the stolen
marriage which was immediately to crown it. John had been at that time projecting a visit to
the metropolis. In this I bade him persevere, and promised on the following day to join him
at the Tavistock Hotel.

True, on my side, to every detail of our arrangement, I arose, on the day in question, before
the servants, packed a few necessaries in a bag, took with me the little money I possessed,
and bade farewell for ever to the rectory. I walked with good spirits to a town some thirty
miles from home; and was set down the next morning in this great city of London. As I walked
from the coach-office to the hotel, I could not help exulting in the pleasant change that had
befallen me; beholding, meanwhile, with innocent delight, the traffic of the streets, and depicting,
in all the colours of fancy, the reception that awaited me from John. But alas! when I inquired
for Mr. Fanshawe, the porter assured me there was no such gentleman among the guests. By what
channel our secret had leaked out, or what pressure had been brought to bear on the too facile
John, I could never fathom. Enough that my family had triumphed; that I found myself alone
in London, tender in years, smarting under the most sensible mortification, and by every sentiment
of pride and self-respect debarred for ever from my father's house.

I rose under the blow, and found lodgings in the neighbourhood of Euston Road, where, for the
first time in my life, I tasted the joys of independence. Three days afterwards, an advertisement
in The Times directed me to the office of a solicitor whom I knew to be in my father's confidence.
There I was given the promise of a very moderate allowance, and a distinct intimation that
I must never look to be received at home. I could not but resent so cruel a desertion, and
I told the lawyer it was a meeting I desired as little as themselves. He smiled at my courageous
spirit, paid me the first quarter of my income, and gave me the remainder of my personal effects,
which had been sent to me, under his care, in a couple of rather ponderous boxes. With these
I returned in triumph to my lodgings, more content with my position than I should have thought
possible a week before, and fully determined to make the best of the future.

All went well for several months; and, indeed, it was my own fault alone that ended this pleasant
and secluded episode of life. I have, I must confess, the fatal trick of spoiling my inferiors.
My landlady, to whom I had as usual been overkind, impertinently called me in fault for some
particular too small to mention; and I, annoyed that I had allowed her the freedom upon which
she thus presumed, ordered her to leave my presence. She stood a moment dumb, and then, recalling
her self-possession, "Your bill," said she, "shall be ready this evening, and to-morrow, madam,
you shall leave my house. See," she added, "that you are able to pay what you owe me; for If
I do not receive the uttermost farthing, no box of yours shall pass my threshold."

I was confounded at her audacity, but, as a whole quarter's income was due to me, not otherwise
affected by the threat. That afternoon, as I left the solicitor's door, carrying in one hand,
and done up in a paper parcel, the whole amount of my fortune, there befell me one of those
decisive incidents that sometimes shape a life. The lawyer's office was situated in a street
that opened at the upper end upon the Strand and was closed at the lower, at the time of which
I speak, by a row of iron railings looking on the Thames. Down this street, then, I beheld
my stepmother advancing to meet me, and doubtless bound to the very house I had just left.
She was attended by a maid whose face was new to me; but her own was too clearly printed on
my memory; and the sight of it, even from a distance, filled me with generous indignation.
Flight was impossible. There was nothing left but to retreat against the railing, and with
my back turned to the street, pretend to be admiring the barges on the river or the chimneys
of transpontine London.

I was still so standing, and had not yet fully mastered the turbulence of my emotions, when
a voice at my elbow addressed me with a trivial question. It was the maid whom my stepmother,
with characteristic hardness, had left to await her on the street, while she transacted her
business with the family solicitor. The girl did not know who I was; the opportunity was too
golden to be lost; and I was soon hearing the latest news of my father's rectory and parish.
It did not surprise me to find that she detested her employers; and yet the terms in which
she spoke of them were hard to bear, hard to let pass unchallenged. I heard them, however,
without dissent, for my self-command is wonderful; and we might have parted as we met, had
she not proceeded, in an evil hour, to criticise the rector's missing daughter, and with the
most shocking perversions to narrate the story of her flight. My nature is so essentially generous
that I can never pause to reason. I flung up my hand sharply, by way, as well as I remember,
of indignant protest; and, in the act, the packet slipped from my fingers, glanced between
the railings, and fell and sunk in the river. I stood a moment petrified, and then, struck
by the drollery of the incident, gave way to peals of laughter. I was still laughing when my
stepmother reappeared, and the maid, who doubtless considered me insane, ran off to join her;
nor had I yet recovered my gravity when I presented myself before the lawyer to solicit a fresh
advance. His answer made me serious enough, for it was a flat refusal; and it was not until
I had besought him even with tears, that he consented to lend me ten pounds from his own pocket.
"I am a poor man," said he, "and you must look for nothing further at my hands."

The landlady met me at the door. "Here, madam," said she, with a curtsey insolently low, "here
is my bill. Would it inconvenience you to settle it at once?"

"You shall be paid, madam," said I, "in the morning, in the proper course." And I took the
paper with a very high air, but inwardly quaking.

I had no sooner looked at it than I perceived myself to be lost. I had been short of money
and had allowed my debt to mount; and it had now reached the sum, which I shall never forget,
of twelve pounds thirteen and fourpence halfpenny. All evening I sat by the fire considering
my situation. I could not pay the bill; my landlady would not suffer me to remove my boxes;
and without either baggage or money, how was I to find another lodging? For three months, unless
I could invent some remedy, I was condemned to be without a roof and without a penny. It can
surprise no one that I decided on immediate flight; but even here I was confronted by a difficulty,
for I had no sooner packed my boxes than I found I was not strong enough to move, far less
to carry them.

In this strait I did not hesitate a moment, but throwing on a shawl and bonnet, and covering
my face with a thick veil, I betook myself to that great bazaar of dangerous and smiling chances,
the pavement of the city. It was already late at night, and the weather being wet and windy,
there were few abroad besides policemen. These, on my present mission, I had wit enough to
know for enemies; and wherever I perceived their moving lanterns, I made haste to turn aside
and choose another thoroughfare. A few miserable women still walked the pavement; here and
there were young fellows returning drunk, or ruffians of the lowest class lurking in the mouths
of alleys; but of any one to whom I might appeal in my distress, I began almost to despair.

At last, at the corner of a street, I ran into the arms of one who was evidently a gentleman,
and who, in all his appointments, from his furred greatcoat to the fine cigar which he was
smoking, comfortably breathed of wealth. Much as my face has changed from its original beauty,
I still retain (or so I tell myself) some traces of the youthful lightness of my figure. Even
veiled as I then was, I could perceive the gentleman was struck by my appearance; and this
emboldened me for my adventure.

"Sir," said I, with a quickly beating heart, "sir, are you one in whom a lady can confide?"

"Why, my dear," said he, removing his cigar, "that depends on circumstances. If you will raise
your veil--"

"Sir," I interrupted, "let there be no mistake. I ask you, as a gentleman, to serve me, but
I offer no reward."

"That is frank," said he; "but hardly tempting. And what, may I inquire, is the nature of the
service?"

But I knew well enough it was not my interest to tell him on so short an interview. "If you
will accompany me," said I, "to a house not far from here, you can see for yourself."

He looked at me awhile with hesitating eyes; and then, tossing away his cigar, which was not
yet a quarter smoked, "Here goes!" said he, and with perfect politeness offered me his arm.
I was wise enough to take it; to prolong our walk as far as possible, by more than one excursion
from the shortest line; and to beguile the way with that sort of conversation which should
prove to him indubitably from what station in society I sprang. By the time we reached the
door of my lodging, I felt sure I had confirmed his interest, and might venture, before I turned
the pass-key, to beseech him to moderate his voice and to tread softly. He promised to obey
me; and I admitted him into the passage, and thence into my sitting-room, which was fortunately
next the door.

"And now," said he, when with trembling fingers I had lighted a candle, "what is the meaning
of all this?"

"I wish you," said I, speaking with great difficulty, "to help me out with these boxes--and
I wish nobody to know."

He took up the candle. "And I wish to see your face," said he.

I turned back my veil without a word, and looked at him with every appearance of resolve that
I could summon up. For some time he gazed into my face, still holding up the candle. "Well,"
said he at last, "and where do you wish them taken?"

I knew that I had gained my point; and it was with a tremor in my voice that I replied. "I
had thought we might carry them between us to the corner of Euston Road," said I, "where, even
at this late hour, we may still find a cab."

"Very good," was his reply; and he immediately hoisted the heavier of my trunks upon his shoulder,
and taking one handle of the second, signed to me to help him at the other end. In this order
we made good our retreat from the house, and without the least adventure, drew pretty near
to the corner of Euston Road. Before a house, where there was a light still burning, my companion
paused. "Let us here," said he, "set down our boxes, while we go forward to the end of the
street in quest of a cab. By doing so, we can still keep an eye upon their safety; and we avoid
the very extraordinary figure we should otherwise present--a young man, a young lady, and a
mass of baggage, standing castaway at midnight on the streets of London." So it was done, and
the event proved him to be wise; for long before there was any word of a cab, a policeman appeared
upon the scene, turned upon us the full glare of his lantern, and hung suspiciously behind
us in a doorway.

"There seem to be no cabs about, policeman," said my champion, with affected cheerfulness.
But the constable's answer was ungracious; and as for the offer of a cigar, with which this
rebuff was most unwisely followed up, he refused it point-blank, and without the least civility.
The young gentleman looked at me with a warning grimace, and there we continued to stand, on
the edge of the pavement, in the beating rain, and with the policeman still silently watching
our movements from the doorway.

At last, and after a delay that seemed interminable, a four-wheeler appeared lumbering along
in the mud, and was instantly hailed by my companion. "Just pull up here, will you?" he cried.
"We have some baggage up the street."

And now came the hitch of our adventure; for when the policeman, still closely following us,
beheld my two boxes lying in the rain, he arose from mere suspicion to a kind of certitude
of something evil. The light in the house had been extinguished; the whole frontage of the
street was dark; there was nothing to explain the presence of these unguarded trunks; and no
two innocent people were ever, I believe, detected in such questionable circumstances.

"Where have these things come from?" asked the policeman, flashing his light full into my champion's
face.

"Why, from that house of course," replied the young gentleman, hastily shouldering a trunk.

The policeman whistled and turned to look at the dark windows; he then took a step towards
the door, as though to knock, a course which had infallibly proved our ruin; but seeing us
already hurrying down the street under our double burthen, thought better or worse of it, and
followed in our wake.

"For God's sake," whispered my companion, "tell me where to drive to."

"Anywhere," I replied, with anguish. "I have no idea. Anywhere you like."

Thus it fell that, when the boxes had been stowed and I had already entered the cab, my deliverer
called out in clear tones the address of the house in which we are now seated. The policeman,
I could see, was staggered. This neighbourhood, so retired, so aristocratic, was far from what
he had expected. For all that, he took the number of the cab, and spoke for a few seconds and
with a decided manner, in the cabman's ear.

"What can he have said?" I gasped, as soon as the cab had rolled away.

"I can very well imagine," replied my champion; "and I can assure you that you are now condemned
to go where I have said; for, should we attempt to change our destination by the way, the jarvey
will drive us straight to a police-office. Let me compliment you on your nerves," he added.
"I have had, I believe, the most horrible fright of my existence."

But my nerves, which he so much misjudged, were in so strange a disarray that speech was now
become impossible; and we made the drive thenceforward in unbroken silence. When we arrived
before the door of our destination, the young gentleman alighted, opened it with a pass-key
like one who was at home, bade the driver carry the trunks into the hall, and dismissed him
with a handsome fee. He then led me into this dining-room, looking nearly as you behold it,
but with certain marks of bachelor occupancy, and hastened to pour out a glass of wine, which
he insisted on my drinking. As soon as I could find my voice, "In God's name," I cried, "where
am I?"

He told me I was in his house, where I was very welcome, and had no more urgent business than
to rest myself and recover my spirits. As he spoke he offered me another glass of wine, of
which, indeed, I stood in great want, for I was faint, and inclined to be hysterical. Then
he sat down beside the fire, lit another cigar, and for some time observed me curiously in silence.

"And now," said he, "that you have somewhat restored yourself, will you be kind enough to tell
me in what sort of crime I have become a partner? Are you murderer, smuggler, thief, or only
the harmless and domestic moonlight flitter?"

I had been already shocked by his lighting a cigar without permission, for I had not forgotten
the one he threw away on our first meeting; and now, at these explicit insults, I resolved
at once to reconquer his esteem. The judgment of the world I have consistently despised, but
I had already begun to set a certain value on the good opinion of my entertainer. Beginning
with a note of pathos, but soon brightening into my habitual vivacity and humour, I rapidly
narrated the circumstances of my birth, my flight, and subsequent misfortunes. He heard me
to an end in silence, gravely smoking. "Miss Fanshawe," said he, when I had done, "you are
a very comical and most enchanting creature; and I can see nothing for it but that I should
return to-morrow morning and satisfy your landlady's demands."

"You strangely misinterpret my confidence," was my reply; "and if you had at all appreciated
my character, you would understand that I can take no money at your hands."

"Your landlady will doubtless not be so particular," he returned; "nor do I at all despair
of persuading even your unconquerable self. I desire you to examine me with critical indulgence.
My name is Henry Luxmore, Lord Southwark's second son. I possess nine thousand a year, the
house in which we are now sitting and seven others in the best neighbourhoods in town. I do
not believe I am repulsive to the eye, and as for my character, you have seen me under trial.
I think you simply the most original of created things; I need not tell you what you know very
well, that you are ravishingly pretty; and I have nothing more to add, except that foolish
as it may appear, I am already head over heels in love with you."

"Sir," said I, "I am prepared to be misjudged; but while I continue to accept your hospitality,
that fact alone should be enough to protect me from insult."

"Pardon me," said he: "I offer you marriage." And leaning back in his chair he replaced his
cigar between his lips.

I own I was confounded by an offer, not only so unprepared, but couched in terms so singular.
But he knew very well how to obtain his purposes, for he was not only handsome in person, but
his very coolness had a charm; and to make a long story short, a fortnight later I became the
wife of the Honourable Henry Luxmore.

For nearly twenty years I now led a life of almost perfect quiet. My Henry had his weaknesses;
I was twice driven to flee from his roof, but not for long; for though he was easily over-excited,
his nature was placable below the surface, and, with all his faults, I loved him tenderly.
At last he was taken from me; and such is the power of self-deception, and so strange are the
whims of the dying, he actually assured me, with his latest breath, that he forgave the violence
of my temper!

There was but one pledge of the marriage, my daughter Clara. She had, indeed, inherited a shadow
of her father's failing; but in all things else, unless my partial eyes deceived me, she derived
her qualities from me, and might be called my moral image. On my side, whatever else I may
have done amiss, as a mother I was above reproach. Here, then, was surely every promise for
the future; here, at last, was a relation in which I might hope to taste repose. But it was
not to be. You will hardly credit me when I inform you that she ran away from home; yet such
was the case. Some whim about oppressed nationalities--Ireland, Poland, and the like--has turned
her brain; and if you should anywhere encounter a young lady (I must say of remarkable attractions)
answering to the name of Luxmore, Lake, or Fonblanque (for I am told she uses these indifferently,
as well as many others), tell her, from me, that I forgive her cruelty, and though I will never
more behold her face, I am at any time prepared to make her a liberal allowance.

On the death of Mr. Luxmore I sought oblivion in the details of business. I believe I have
mentioned that seven mansions, besides this, formed part of Mr. Luxmore's property: I have
found them seven white elephants. The greed of tenants, the dishonesty of solicitors, and the
incapacity that sits upon the bench, have combined together to make these houses the burthen
of my life. I had no sooner, indeed, begun to look into these matters for myself, than I discovered
so many injustices and met with so much studied incivility, that I was plunged into a long
series of lawsuits, some of which are pending to this day. You must have heard my name already;
I am the Mrs. Luxmore of the Law Reports: a strange destiny, indeed, for one born with an almost
cowardly desire for peace! But I am of the stamp of those who, when they have once begun a
task, will rather die than leave their duty unfulfilled. I have met with every obstacle: insolence
and ingratitude from my own lawyers; in my adversaries, that fault of obstinacy which is to
me perhaps the most distasteful in the calendar; from the bench, civility indeed--always, I
must allow, civility--but never a spark of independence, never that knowledge of the law and
love of justice which we have a right to look for in a judge, the most august of human officers.
And still, against all these odds, I have undissuadably persevered.

It was after the loss of one of my innumerable cases (a subject on which I will not dwell)
that it occurred to me to make a melancholy pilgrimage to my various houses. Four were at that
time tenantless and closed, like pillars of salt, commemorating the corruption of the age and
the decline of private virtue. Three were occupied by persons who had wearied me by every conceivable
unjust demand and legal subterfuge--persons whom, at that very hour, I was moving heaven and
earth to turn into the streets. This was perhaps the sadder spectacle of the two; and my heart
grew hot within me to behold them occupying, in my very teeth, and with an insolent ostentation,
these handsome structures which were as much mine as the flesh upon my body.

One more house remained for me to visit, that in which we now are. I had let it (for at that
period I lodged in a hotel, the life that I have always preferred) to a Colonel Geraldine,
a gentleman attached to Prince Florizel of Bohemia, whom you must certainly have heard of;
and I had supposed, from the character and position of my tenant, that here, at least, I was
safe against annoyance. What was my surprise to find this house also shuttered and apparently
deserted! I will not deny that I was offended; I conceived that a house, like a yacht, was
better to be kept in commission; and I promised myself to bring the matter before my solicitor
the following morning. Meanwhile the sight recalled my fancy naturally to the past; and, yielding
to the tender influence of sentiment, I sat down opposite the door upon the garden parapet.
It was August and a sultry afternoon, but that spot is sheltered, as you may observe by daylight,
under the branches of a spreading chestnut; the square, too, was deserted; there was a sound
of distant music in the air; and all combined to plunge me into that most agreeable of states,
which is neither happiness nor sorrow, but shares the poignancy of both.

From this I was recalled by the arrival of a large van, very handsomely appointed, drawn by
valuable horses, mounted by several men of an appearance more than decent, and bearing on its
panels, instead of a trader's name, a coat of arms too modest to be deciphered from where I
sat. It drew up before my house, the door of which was immediately opened by one of the men.
His companions--I counted seven of them in all--proceeded, with disciplined activity, to take
from the van and carry into the house a variety of hampers, bottle-baskets, and boxes, such
as are designed for plate and napery. The windows of the dining-room were thrown widely open,
as though to air it; and I saw some of those within laying the table for a meal. Plainly, I
concluded, my tenant was about to return; and while still determined to submit to no aggression
on my rights, I was gratified by the number and discipline of his attendants, and the quiet
profusion that appeared to reign in his establishment. I was still so thinking when, to my
extreme surprise, the windows and shutters of the dining-room were once more closed; the men
began to reappear from the interior and resume their stations on the van; the last closed the
door behind his exit; the van drove away; and the house was once more left to itself, looking
blindly on the square with shuttered windows, as though the whole affair had been a vision.

It was no vision, however; for, as I rose to my feet and thus brought my eyes a little nearer
to the level of the fanlight over the door, I saw that, though the day had still some hours
to run, the hall lamps had been lighted and left burning. Plainly, then, guests were expected,
and were not expected before night. For whom, I asked myself with indignation, were such secret
preparations likely to be made? Although no prude, I am a woman of decided views upon morality;
if my house, to which my husband had brought me, was to serve in the character of a petite
maison, I saw myself forced, however unwillingly, into a new course of litigation; and, determined
to return and know the worst, I hastened to my hotel for dinner.

I was at my post by ten. The night was clear and quiet; the moon rode very high and put the
lamps to shame; and the shadow below the chestnut was black as ink. Here, then, I ensconced
myself on the low parapet, with my back against the railings, face to face with the moonlit
front of my old home, and ruminating gently on the past. Time fled; eleven struck on all the
city clocks; and presently after I was aware of the approach of a gentleman of stately and
agreeable demeanour. He was smoking as he walked; his light paletot, which was open, did not
conceal his evening clothes; and he bore himself with a serious grace that immediately awakened
my attention. Before the door of this house he took a pass-key from his pocket, quietly admitted
himself, and disappeared into the lamp-lit hall.

He was scarcely gone when I observed another and a much younger man approaching hastily from
the opposite side of the square. Considering the season of the year and the genial mildness
of the night, he was somewhat closely muffled up; and as he came, for all his hurry, he kept
looking nervously behind him. Arrived before my door, he halted and set one foot upon the step,
as though about to enter; then, with a sudden change, he turned and began to hurry away; halted
a second time, as if in painful indecision; and lastly, with a violent gesture, wheeled about,
returned straight to the door, and rapped upon the knocker. He was almost immediately admitted
by the first arrival.

My curiosity was now broad awake. I made myself as small as I could in the very densest of
the shadow, and waited for the sequel. Nor had I long to wait. From the same side of the square
a second young man made his appearance, walking slowly and softly, and like the first, muffled
to the nose. Before the house he paused; looked all about him with a swift and comprehensive
glance; and seeing the square lie empty in the moon and lamp-light, leaned far across the area
railings and appeared to listen to what was passing in the house. From the dining-room there
came the report of a champagne cork, and following upon that, the sound of rich and manly laughter.
The listener took heart of grace, produced a key, unlocked the area gate, shut it noiselessly
behind him, and descended the stair. Just when his head had reached the level of the pavement,
he turned half round and once more raked the square with a suspicious eyeshot. The mufflings
had fallen lower round his neck; the moon shone full upon him; and I was startled to observe
the pallor and passionate agitation of his face.

I could remain no longer passive. Persuaded that something deadly was afoot, I crossed the
roadway and drew near the area railings. There was no one below; the man must therefore have
entered the house, with what purpose I dreaded to imagine. I have at no part of my career lacked
courage; and now, finding the area gate was merely laid-to, I pushed it gently open and descended
the stairs. The kitchen door of the house, like the area gate, was closed but not fastened.
It flashed upon me that the criminal was thus preparing his escape; and the thought, as it
confirmed the worst of my suspicions, lent me new resolve. I entered the house; and being now
quite reckless of my life, I shut and locked the door.

From the dining-room above I could hear the pleasant tones of a voice in easy conversation.
On the ground floor all was not only profoundly silent, but the darkness seemed to weigh upon
my eyes. Here, then, I stood for some time, having thrust myself uncalled into the utmost peril,
and being destitute of any power to help or interfere. Nor will I deny that fear had begun
already to assail me, when I became aware, all at once and as though by some immediate but
silent incandescence, of a certain glimmering of light upon the passage floor. Towards this
I groped my way with infinite precaution; and having come at length as far as the angle of
the corridor, beheld the door of the butler's pantry standing just ajar and a narrow thread
of brightness falling from the chink. Creeping still closer, I put my eye to the aperture.
The man sat within upon a chair, listening, I could see, with the most rapt attention. On a
table before him he had laid a watch, a pair of steel revolvers, and a bull's-eye lantern.
For one second many contradictory theories and projects whirled together in my head; the next,
I had slammed the door and turned the key upon the malefactor. Surprised at my own decision,
I stood and panted, leaning on the wall. From within the pantry not a sound was to be heard;
the man, whatever he was, had accepted his fate without a struggle, and now, as I hugged myself
to fancy, sat frozen with terror and looking for the worst to follow. I promised myself that
he should not be disappointed; and the better to complete my task, I turned to ascend the stairs.

The situation, as I groped my way to the first floor, appealed to me suddenly by my strong
sense of humour. Here was I, the owner of the house, burglariously present in its walls; and
there, in the dining-room, were two gentlemen, unknown to me, seated complacently at supper,
and only saved by my promptitude from some surprising or deadly interruption. It were strange
if I could not manage to extract the matter of amusement from so unusual a situation.

Behind this dining-room there is a small apartment intended for a library. It was to this that
I cautiously groped my way; and you will see how fortune had exactly served me. The weather,
I have said, was sultry: in order to ventilate the dining-room and yet preserve the uninhabited
appearance of the mansion to the front, the window of the library had been widely opened and
the door of communication between the two apartments left ajar. To this interval I now applied
my eye.

Wax tapers, set in silver candlesticks, shed their chastened brightness on the damask of the
tablecloth and the remains of a cold collation of the rarest delicacy. The two gentlemen had
finished supper, and were now trifling with cigars and maraschino; while in a silver spirit-lamp,
coffee of the most captivating fragrance was preparing in the fashion of the East. The elder
of the two, he who had first arrived, was placed directly facing me; the other was set on his
left hand. Both, like the man in the butler's pantry, seemed to be intently listening; and
on the face of the second I thought I could perceive the marks of fear. Oddly enough, however,
when they came to speak, the parts were found to be reversed.

"I assure you," said the elder gentleman, "I not only heard the slamming of a door, but the
sound of very guarded footsteps."

"Your highness was certainly deceived," replied the other. "I am endowed with the acutest hearing,
and I can swear that not a mouse has rustled." Yet the pallor and contraction of his features
were in total discord with the tenor of his words.

His highness (whom, of course, I readily divined to be Prince Florizel) looked at his companion
for the least fraction of a second; and though nothing shook the easy quiet of his attitude,
I could see that he was far from being duped. "It is well," said he: "let us dismiss the topic.
And now, sir, that I have very freely explained the sentiments by which I am directed, let
me ask you, according to your promise, to imitate my frankness."

"I have heard you," replied the other, "with great interest."

"With singular patience," said the prince politely.

"Ay, your highness, and with unlooked-for sympathy," returned the young man. "I know not how
to tell the change that has befallen me. You have, I must suppose, a charm, to which even your
enemies are subject." He looked at the clock on the mantelpiece and visibly blanched. "So late!"
he cried. "Your highness--God knows I am now speaking from the heart--before it be too late,
leave this house!"

The prince glanced once more at his companion, and then very deliberately shook the ash from
his cigar. "That is a strange remark," said he; "and à propos de bottes, I never continue a
cigar when once the ash is fallen; the spell breaks, the soul of the flavour flies away, and
there remains but the dead body of tobacco; and I make it a rule to throw away that husk and
choose another." He suited the action to the words.

"Do not trifle with my appeal," resumed the young man, in tones that trembled with emotion.
"It is made at the price of my honour and to the peril of my life. Go--go now! lose not a moment;
and if you have any kindness for a young man, miserably deceived indeed, but not devoid of
better sentiments, look not behind you as you leave."

"Sir," said the prince, "I am here upon your honour; I assure you upon mine that I shall continue
to rely upon that safeguard. The coffee is ready; I must again trouble you, I fear." And with
a courteous movement of the hand, he seemed to invite his companion to pour out the coffee.

The unhappy young man rose from his seat. "I appeal to you," he cried, "by every holy sentiment,
in mercy to me, if not in pity to yourself, begone before it is too late."

"Sir," replied the prince, "I am not readily accessible to fear; and if there is one defect
to which I must plead guilty, it is that of a curious disposition. You go the wrong way about
to make me leave this house, in which I play the part of your entertainer; and, suffer me to
add, young man, if any peril threaten us, it was of your contriving, not of mine."

"Alas, you do not know to what you condemn me," cried the other. "But I at least will have
no hand in it." With these words he carried his hand to his pocket, hastily swallowed the contents
of a phial, and, with the very act, reeled back and fell across his chair upon the floor. The
prince left his place and came and stood above him, where he lay convulsed upon the carpet.
"Poor moth!" I heard his highness murmur. "Alas, poor moth! must we again inquire which is
the more fatal--weakness or wickedness? And can a sympathy with ideas, surely not ignoble in
themselves, conduct a man to this dishonourable death?"

By this time I had pushed the door open and walked into the room. "Your highness," said I,
"this is no time for moralising; with a little promptness we may save this creature's life;
and as for the other, he need cause you no concern, for I have him safely under lock and key."

The prince had turned about upon my entrance, and regarded me certainly with no alarm, but
with a profundity of wonder which almost robbed me of my self-possession. "My dear madam,"
he cried at last, "and who the devil are you?"

I was already on the floor beside the dying man. I had, of course, no idea with what drug he
had attempted his life, and I was forced to try him with a variety of antidotes. Here were
both oil and vinegar, for the prince had done the young man the honour of compounding for him
one of his celebrated salads; and of each of these I administered from a quarter to half a
pint, with no apparent efficacy. I next plied him with the hot coffee, of which there may have
been near upon a quart.

"Have you no milk?" I inquired.

"I fear, madam, that milk has been omitted," returned the prince.

"Salt, then," said I; "salt is a revulsive. Pass the salt."

"And possibly the mustard?" asked his highness, as he offered me the contents of the various
salt-cellars poured together on a plate.

"Ah," cried I, "the thought is excellent! Mix me about half a pint of mustard, drinkably dilute."

Whether it was the salt or the mustard, or the mere combination of so many subversive agents,
as soon as the last had been poured over his throat, the young sufferer obtained relief.

"There!" I exclaimed, with natural triumph, "I have saved a life!"

"And yet, madam," returned the prince, "your mercy may be cruelly disguised. Where the honour
is lost, it is, at least, superfluous to prolong the life."

"If you had led a life as changeable as mine, your highness," I replied, "you would hold a
very different opinion. For my part, and after whatever extremity of misfortune or disgrace,
I should still count to-morrow worth a trial."

"You speak as a lady, madam," said the prince; "and for such you speak the truth. But to men
there is permitted such a field of licence, and the good behaviour asked of them is at once
so easy and so little, that to fail in that is to fall beyond the reach of pardon. But will
you suffer me to repeat a question, put to you at first, I am afraid, with some defect of courtesy;
and to ask you once more, who you are and how I have the honour of your company?"

"I am the proprietor of the house in which we stand," said I.

"And still I am at fault," returned the prince.

But at that moment the timepiece on the mantelshelf began to strike the hour of twelve; and
the young man, raising himself upon one elbow, with an expression of despair and horror that
I have never seen excelled, cried lamentably: "Midnight? oh, just God!" We stood frozen to
our places, while the tingling hammer of the timepiece measured the remaining strokes; nor
had we yet stirred, so tragic had been the tones of the young man, when the various bells of
London began in turn to declare the hour. The timepiece was inaudible beyond the walls of the
chamber where we stood; but the second pulsation of Big Ben had scarcely throbbed into the
night, before a sharp detonation rang about the house. The prince sprang for the door by which
I had entered; but quick as he was, I yet contrived to intercept him.

"Are you armed?" I cried.

"No, madam," replied he. "You remind me appositely; I will take the poker."

"The man below," said I, "has two revolvers. Would you confront him at such odds?"

He paused, as though staggered in his purpose. "And yet, madam," said he, "we cannot continue
to remain in ignorance of what has passed."

"No!" cried I. "And who proposes it? I am as curious as yourself, but let us rather send for
the police; or, if your highness dreads a scandal, for some of your own servants."

"Nay, madam," he replied, smiling, "for so brave a lady, you surprise me. Would you have me,
then, send others where I fear to go myself."

"You are perfectly right," said I, "and I was entirely wrong. Go, in God's name, and I will
hold the candle!"

Together, therefore, we descended to the lower story, he carrying the poker, I the light; and
together we approached and opened the door of the butler's pantry. In some sort, I believe,
I was prepared for the spectacle that met our eyes; I was prepared, that is, to find the villain
dead, but the rude details of such a violent suicide I was unable to endure. The prince, unshaken
by horror as he had remained unshaken by alarm, assisted me with the most respectful gallantry
to regain the dining-room.

There we found our patient, still, indeed, deadly pale, but vastly recovered and already seated
on a chair. He held out both his hands with a most pitiful gesture of interrogation.

"He is dead," said the prince.

"Alas!" cried the young man, "and it should be I! What do I do, thus lingering on the stage
I have disgraced, while he, my sure comrade, blameworthy indeed for much, but yet the soul
of fidelity, has judged and slain himself for an involuntary fault? Ah, sir," said he, "and
you too, madam, without whose cruel help I should be now beyond the reach of my accusing conscience,
you behold in me the victim equally of my own faults and virtues. I was born a hater of injustice;
from my most tender years my blood boiled against Heaven when I beheld the sick, and against
men when I witnessed the sorrows of the poor; the pauper's crust stuck in my throat when I
sat down to eat my dainties, and the cripple child has set me weeping. What was there in that
but what was noble? and yet observe to what a fall these thoughts have led me! Year after year
this passion for the lost besieged me closer. What hope was there in kings? what hope in these
well-feathered classes that now roll in money? I had observed the course of history; I knew
the burgess, our ruler of to-day, to be base, cowardly, and dull; I saw him, in every age,
combine to pull down that which was immediately above and to prey upon those that were below;
his dulness, I knew, would ultimately bring about his ruin; I knew his days were numbered,
and yet how was I to wait? how was I to let the poor child shiver in the rain? The better days,
indeed, were coming, but the child would die before that. Alas, your highness, in surely no
ungenerous impatience I enrolled myself among the enemies of this unjust and doomed society;
in surely no unnatural desire to keep the fires of my philanthropy alight, I bound myself by
an irrevocable oath.

"That oath is all my history. To give freedom to posterity, I had forsworn my own. I must attend
upon every signal; and soon my father complained of my irregular hours and turned me from his
house. I was engaged in betrothal to an honest girl; from her also I had to part, for she was
too shrewd to credit my inventions and too innocent to be intrusted with the truth. Behold
me, then, alone with conspirators! Alas! as the years went on, my illusions left me. Surrounded
as I was by the fervent disciples and apologists of revolution, I beheld them daily advance
in confidence and desperation; I beheld myself, upon the other hand, and with an almost equal
regularity, decline in faith. I had sacrificed all to further that cause in which I still believed;
and daily I began to grow in doubts if we were advancing it indeed. Horrible was the society
with which we warred, but our own means were not less horrible.

"I will not dwell upon my sufferings; I will not pause to tell you how, when I beheld young
men still free and happy, married, fathers of children, cheerfully toiling at their work, my
heart reproached me with the greatness and vanity of my unhappy sacrifice. I will not describe
to you how, worn by poverty, poor lodging, scanty food, and an unquiet conscience, my health
began to fail, and in the long nights, as I wandered bedless in the rainy streets, the most
cruel sufferings of the body were added to the tortures of my mind. These things are not personal
to me; they are common to all unfortunates in my position. An oath, so light a thing to swear,
so grave a thing to break: an oath, taken in the heat of youth, repented with what sobbings
of the heart, but yet in vain repented, as the years go on: an oath, that was once the very
utterance of the truth of God, but that falls to be the symbol of a meaningless and empty slavery;
such is the yoke that many young men joyfully assume, and under whose dead weight they live
to suffer worse than death.

"It is not that I was patient. I have begged to be released; but I knew too much, and I was
still refused. I have fled; ay, and for the time successfully. I reached Paris. I found a lodging
in the Rue St. Jacques, almost opposite the Val de Grâce. My room was mean and bare, but the
sun looked into it towards evening; it commanded a peep of a green garden; a bird hung by a
neighbour's window and made the morning beautiful; and I, who was sick, might lie in bed and
rest myself: I, who was in full revolt against the principles that I had served, was now no
longer at the beck of the council, and was no longer charged with shameful and revolting tasks.
Oh! what an interval of peace was that! I still dream, at times, that I can hear the note of
my neighbour's bird.

"My money was running out, and it became necessary that I should find employment. Scarcely
had I been three days upon the search, ere I thought that I was being followed. I made certain
of the features of the man, which were quite strange to me, and turned into a small café, where
I whiled away an hour, pretending to read the papers, but inwardly convulsed with terror. When
I came forth again into the street, it was quite empty, and I breathed again; but alas, I had
not turned three corners, when I once more observed the human hound pursuing me. Not an hour
was to be lost; timely submission might yet preserve a life which otherwise was forfeit and
dishonoured; and I fled, with what speed you may conceive, to the Paris agency of the society
I served.

"My submission was accepted. I took up once more the hated burthen of that life; once more
I was at the call of men whom I despised and hated, while yet I envied and admired them. They
at least were whole-hearted in the things they purposed; but I, who had once been such as they,
had fallen from the brightness of my faith, and now laboured, like a hireling, for the wages
of a loathed existence. Ay, sir, to that I was condemned; I obeyed to continue to live, and
lived but to obey.

"The last charge that was laid upon me was the one which has to-night so tragically ended.
Boldly telling who I was, I was to request from your highness, on behalf of my society, a private
audience, where it was designed to murder you. If one thing remained to me of my old convictions,
it was the hate of kings; and when this task was offered me, I took it gladly. Alas, sir, you
triumphed. As we supped, you gained upon my heart. Your character, your talents, your designs
for our unhappy country, all had been misrepresented. I began to forget you were a prince;
I began, all too feelingly, to remember that you were a man. As I saw the hour approach, I
suffered agonies untold; and when, at last, we heard the slamming of the door which announced
in my unwilling ears the arrival of the partner of my crime, you will bear me out with what
instancy I besought you to depart. You would not, alas! and what could I? Kill you, I could
not; my heart revolted, my hand turned back from such a deed. Yet it was impossible that I
should suffer you to stay; for when the hour struck and my companion came, true to his appointment,
and he, at least, true to our design, I could neither suffer you to be killed nor yet him to
be arrested. From such a tragic passage, death, and death alone, could save me; and it is no
fault of mine if I continue to exist.

"But you, madam," continued the young man, addressing himself more directly to myself, "were
doubtless born to save the prince and to confound our purposes. My life you have prolonged;
and by turning the key on my companion, you have made me the author of his death. He heard
the hour strike; he was impotent to help; and thinking himself forfeit to honour, thinking
that I should fall alone upon his highness and perish for lack of his support, he has turned
his pistol on himself."

"You are right," said Prince Florizel: "it was in no ungenerous spirit that you brought these
burthens on yourself; and when I see you so nobly to blame, so tragically punished, I stand
like one reproved. For is it not strange, madam, that you and I, by practising accepted and
inconsiderable virtues, and commonplace but still unpardonable faults, should stand here, in
the sight of God, with what we call clean hands and quiet consciences; while this poor youth,
for an error that I could almost envy him, should be sunk beyond the reach of hope?

"Sir," resumed the prince, turning to the young man, "I cannot help you; my help would but
unchain the thunderbolt that overhangs you; and I can but leave you free."

"And, sir," said I, "as this house belongs to me, I will ask you to have the kindness to remove
the body. You and your conspirators, it appears to me, can hardly in civility do less."

"It shall be done," said the young man, with a dismal accent.

"And you, dear madam," said the prince, "you, to whom I owe my life, how can I serve you?"

"Your highness," I said, "to be very plain, this is my favourite house, being not only a valuable
property, but endeared to me by various associations. I have endless troubles with tenants
of the ordinary class; and at first applauded my good fortune when I found one of the station
of your Master of the Horse. I now begin to think otherwise; dangers set a siege about great
personages; and I do not wish my tenement to share these risks. Procure me the resiliation
of the lease, and I shall feel myself your debtor."

"I must tell you, madam," replied his highness, "that Colonel Geraldine is but a cloak for
myself; and I should be sorry indeed to think myself so unacceptable a tenant."

"Your highness," said I, "I have conceived a sincere admiration for your character; but on
the subject of house property I cannot allow the interference of my feelings. I will, however,
to prove to you that there is nothing personal in my request, here solemnly engage my word
that I will never put another tenant in this house."

"Madam," said Florizel, "you plead your cause too charmingly to be refused."

Thereupon we all three withdrew. The young man, still reeling in his walk, departed by himself
to seek the assistance of his fellow-conspirators; and the prince, with the most attentive
gallantry, lent me his escort to the door of my hotel. The next day the lease was cancelled;
nor from that hour to this, though sometimes regretting my engagement, have I suffered a tenant
in this house.

THE SUPERFLUOUS MANSION (continued)

As soon as the old lady had finished her relation, Somerset made haste to offer her his compliments.

"Madam," said he, "your story is not only entertaining but instructive; and you have told it
with infinite vivacity. I was much affected towards the end, as I held at one time very liberal
opinions, and should certainly have joined a secret society if I had been able to find one.
But the whole tale came home to me; and I was the better able to feel for you in your various
perplexities, as I am myself of somewhat hasty temper."

"I do not understand you," said Mrs. Luxmore, with some marks of irritation. "You must have
strangely misinterpreted what I have told you. You fill me with surprise."

Somerset, alarmed by the old lady's change of tone and manner, hurried to recant.

"Dear Mrs. Luxmore," said he, "you certainly misconstrue my remark. As a man of somewhat fiery
humour, my conscience repeatedly pricked me when I heard what you had suffered at the hands
of persons similarly constituted."

"Oh, very well indeed," replied the old lady; "and a very proper spirit. I regret that I have
met with it so rarely."

"But in all this," resumed the young man, "I perceive nothing that concerns myself."

"I am about to come to that," she returned. "And you have already before you, in the pledge
I gave Prince Florizel, one of the elements of the affair. I am a woman of the nomadic sort,
and when I have no case before the courts I make it a habit to visit continental spas: not
that I have ever been ill; but then I am no longer young, and I am always happy in a crowd.
Well, to come more shortly to the point, I am now on the wing for Evian; this incubus of a
house, which I must leave behind and dare not let, hangs heavily upon my hands; and I propose
to rid myself of that concern, and do you a very good turn into the bargain, by lending you
the mansion, with all its fittings, as it stands. The idea was sudden; it appealed to me as
humorous; and I am sure it will cause my relatives, if they should ever hear of it, the keenest
possible chagrin. Here, then, is the key; and when you return at two to-morrow afternoon, you
will find neither me nor my cats to disturb you in your new possession."

So saying, the old lady arose, as if to dismiss her visitor; but Somerset, looking somewhat
blankly on the key, began to protest.

"Dear Mrs. Luxmore," said he, "this is a most unusual proposal. You know nothing of me, beyond
the fact that I displayed both impudence and timidity. I may be the worst kind of scoundrel;
I may sell your furniture--"

"You may blow up the house with gunpowder, for what I care!" cried Mrs. Luxmore. "It is in
vain to reason. Such is the force of my character that, when I have one idea clearly in my
head, I do not care two straws for any side consideration. It amuses me to do it, and let that
suffice. On your side, you may do what you please--let apartments, or keep a private hotel;
on mine, I promise you a full month's warning before I return, and I never fail religiously
to keep my promises."

The young man was about to renew his protest, when he observed a sudden and significant change
in the old lady's countenance.

"If I thought you capable of disrespect!" she cried.

"Madam," said Somerset, with the extreme fervour of asseveration, "madam, I accept. I beg you
to understand that I accept with joy and gratitude."

"Ah, well," returned Mrs. Luxmore, "if I am mistaken, let it pass. And now, since all is comfortably
settled, I wish you a good-night."

Thereupon, as if to leave him no room for repentance, she hurried Somerset out of the front
door, and left him standing, key in hand, upon the pavement.

The next day, about the hour appointed, the young man found his way to the square, which I
will here call Golden Square, though that was not its name. What to expect, he knew not; for
a man may live in dreams, and yet be unprepared for their realisation. It was already with
a certain pang of surprise that he beheld the mansion, standing in the eye of day, a solid
among solids. The key, upon trial, readily opened the front door; he entered that great house,
a privileged burglar; and, escorted by the echoes of desertion, rapidly reviewed the empty
chambers. Cats, servant, old lady, the very marks of habitation, like writing on a slate, had
been in these few hours obliterated. He wandered from floor to floor, and found the house of
great extent; the kitchen offices commodious and well appointed; the rooms many and large;
and the drawing-room, in particular, an apartment of princely size and tasteful decoration.
Although the day without was warm, genial, and sunny, with a ruffling wind from the quarter
of Torquay, a chill, as it were, of suspended animation, inhabited the house. Dust and shadows
met the eye; and but for the ominous procession of the echoes, and the rumour of the wind among
the garden trees, the ear of the young man was stretched in vain.

Behind the dining-room, that pleasant library, referred to by the old lady in her tale, looked
upon the flat roofs and netted cupolas of the kitchen quarters; and on a second visit, this
room appeared to greet him with a smiling countenance. He might as well, he thought, avoid
the expense of lodging: the library fitted with an iron bedstead which he had remarked, in
one of the upper chambers, would serve his purpose for the night; while in the dining-room,
which was large, airy, and lightsome, looking on the square and garden, he might very agreeably
pass his days, cook his meals, and study to bring himself to some proficiency in that art of
painting which he had recently determined to adopt. It did not take him long to make the change:
he had soon returned to the mansion with his modest kit; and the cabman who brought him was
readily induced, by the young man's pleasant manner and a small gratuity, to assist him in
the installation of the iron bed. By six in the evening, when Somerset went forth to dine,
he was able to look back upon the mansion with a sense of pride and property. Four-square it
stood, of an imposing frontage, and flanked on either side by family hatchments. His eye, from
where he stood whistling in the key, with his back to the garden railings, reposed on every
feature of reality; and yet his own possession seemed as flimsy as a dream.

In the course of a few days, the genteel inhabitants of the square began to remark the customs
of their neighbour. The sight of a young gentleman discussing a clay pipe, about four o'clock
of the afternoon, in the drawing-room balcony of so discreet a mansion; and perhaps still more,
his periodical excursion to a decent tavern in the neighbourhood, and his unabashed return,
nursing the full tankard: had presently raised to a high pitch the interest and indignation
of the liveried servants of the square. The disfavour of some of these gentlemen at first proceeded
to the length of insult; but Somerset knew how to be affable with any class of men; and a few
rude words merrily accepted, and a few glasses amicably shared, gained for him the right of
toleration.

The young man had embraced the art of Raphael, partly from a notion of its ease, partly from
an inborn distrust of offices. He scorned to bear the yoke of any regular schooling; and proceeded
to turn one half of the dining-room into a studio for the reproduction of still life. There
he amassed a variety of objects, indiscriminately chosen from the kitchen, the drawing-room,
and the back garden; and there spent his days in smiling assiduity. Meantime, the great bulk
of empty building overhead lay, like a load, upon his imagination. To hold so great a stake
and to do nothing, argued some defect of energy; and he at length determined to act upon the
hint given by Mrs. Luxmore herself, and to stick, with wafers, in the window of the dining-room,
a small hand-bill announcing furnished lodgings. At half-past six of a fine July morning, he
affixed the bill, and went forth into the square to study the result. It seemed, to his eye,
promising and unpretentious; and he returned to the drawing-room balcony to consider, over
a studious pipe, the knotty problem of how much he was to charge.

Thereupon he somewhat relaxed in his devotion to the art of painting. Indeed, from that time
forth, he would spend the best part of the day in the front balcony, like the attentive angler
poring on his float; and the better to support the tedium, he would frequently console himself
with his clay pipe. On several occasions passers-by appeared to be arrested by the ticket,
and on several others ladies and gentlemen drove to the very doorstep by the carriageful; but
it appeared there was something repulsive in the appearance of the house; for, with one accord,
they would cast but one look upward, and hastily resume their onward progress, or direct the
driver to proceed. Somerset had thus the mortification of actually meeting the eye of a large
number of lodging-seekers; and though he hastened to withdraw his pipe, and to compose his
features to an air of invitation, he was never rewarded by so much as an inquiry. "Can there,"
he thought, "be anything repellent in myself?" But a candid examination in one of the pier-glasses
of the drawing-room led him to dismiss the fear.

Something, however, was amiss. His vast and accurate calculations on the fly-leaves of books,
or on the backs of playbills, appeared to have been an idle sacrifice of time. By these, he
had variously computed the weekly takings of the house, from sums as modest as five-and-twenty-shillings,
up to the more majestic figure of a hundred pounds; and yet, in despite of the very elements
of arithmetic, here he was making literally nothing.

This incongruity impressed him deeply and occupied his thoughtful leisure on the balcony; and
at last it seemed to him that he had detected the error of his method. "This," he reflected,
"is an age of generous display: the age of the sandwich-man, of Griffiths, of Pears' legendary
soap, and of Eno's fruit salt which, by sheer brass and notoriety, and the most disgusting
pictures I ever remember to have seen, has overlaid that comforter of my childhood, Lamplough's
pyretic saline. Lamplough was genteel, Eno was omnipresent; Lamplough was trite, Eno original
and abominably vulgar; and here have I, a man of some pretensions to knowledge of the world,
contented myself with half a sheet of note-paper, a few cold words which do not directly address
the imagination, and the adornment (if adornment it may be called) of four red wafers! Am I,
then, to sink with Lamplough, or to soar with Eno? Am I to adopt that modesty which is doubtless
becoming in a duke? or to take hold of the red facts of life with the emphasis of the tradesman
and the poet?"

Pursuant upon these meditations, he procured several sheets of the very largest size of drawing-paper;
and laying forth his paints, proceeded to compose an ensign that might attract the eye and
at the same time, in his own phrase, directly address the imagination of the passenger. Something
taking in the way of colour, a good, savoury choice of words, and a realistic design setting
forth the life a lodger might expect to lead within the walls of that palace of delight: these,
he perceived, must be the elements of his advertisement. It was possible, upon the one hand,
to depict the sober pleasures of domestic life, the evening fire, blond-headed urchins, and
the hissing urn; but on the other, it was possible (and he almost felt as if it were more suited
to his muse) to set forth the charms of an existence somewhat wider in its range, or, boldly
say, the paradise of the Mohammedan. So long did the artist waver between these two views,
that, before he arrived at a conclusion, he had finally conceived and completed both designs.
With the proverbially tender heart of the parent, he found himself unable to sacrifice either
of these offspring of his art; and decided to expose them on alternate days. "In this way,"
he thought, "I shall address myself indifferently to all classes of the world."

The tossing of a penny decided the only remaining point; and the more imaginative canvas received
the suffrages of fortune and appeared first in the window of the mansion. It was of a high
fancy, the legend eloquently writ, the scheme of colour taking and bold; and but for the imperfection
of the artist's drawing, it might have been taken for a model of its kind. As it was, however,
when viewed from his favourite point against the garden railings, and with some touch of distance,
it caused a pleasurable rising of the artist's heart. "I have thrown away," he ejaculated,
"an invaluable motive; and this shall be the subject of my first Academy picture."

The fate of neither of these works was equal to its merit. A crowd would certainly, from time
to time, collect before the area-railings; but they came to jeer and not to speculate; and
those who pushed their inquiries further, were too plainly animated by the spirit of derision.
The racier of the two cartoons displayed, indeed, no symptom of attractive merit; and though
it had a certain share of that success called scandalous, failed utterly of its effect. On
the day, however, of the second appearance of the companion work, a real inquirer did actually
present himself before the eyes of Somerset.

This was a gentlemanly man, with some marks of recent merriment, and his voice under inadequate
control.

"I beg your pardon," said he, "but what is the meaning of your extraordinary bill?"

"I beg yours," returned Somerset hotly. "Its meaning is sufficiently explicit." And being now,
from dire experience, fearful of ridicule, he was preparing to close the door, when the gentleman
thrust his cane into the aperture.

"Not so fast, I beg of you," said he. "If you really let apartments, here is a possible tenant
at your door; and nothing would give me greater pleasure than to see the accommodation and
to learn your terms."

His heart joyously beating, Somerset admitted the visitor, showed him over the various apartments,
and, with some return of his persuasive eloquence, expounded their attractions. The gentleman
was particularly pleased by the elegant proportions of the drawing-room.

"This," he said, "would suit me very well. What, may I ask, would be your terms a week, for
this floor and the one above it?"

"I was thinking," returned Somerset, "of a hundred pounds."

"Surely not," exclaimed the gentleman.

"Well, then," returned Somerset, "fifty."

The gentleman regarded him with an air of some amazement. "You seem to be strangely elastic
in your demands," said he. "What if I were to proceed on your own principle of division, and
offer twenty-five?"

"Done!" cried Somerset; and then, overcome by a sudden embarrassment, "you see," he added apologetically,
"it is all found money for me."

"Really?" said the stranger, looking at him all the while with growing wonder. "Without extras,
then?"

"I--I suppose so," stammered the keeper of the lodging-house.

"Service included?" pursued the gentleman.

"Service?" cried Somerset. "Do you mean that you expect me to empty your slops?"

The gentleman regarded him with a very friendly interest. "My dear fellow," said he, "if you
take my advice, you will give up this business." And thereupon he resumed his hat and took
himself away.

This smarting disappointment produced a strong effect on the artist of the cartoons; and he
began with shame to eat up his rosier illusions. First one and then the other of his great
works was condemned, withdrawn from exhibition, and relegated, as a mere wall-picture, to the
decoration of the dining-room. Their place was taken by a replica of the original watered announcement,
to which, in particularly large letters, he had added the pithy rubric: "No service." Meanwhile
he had fallen into something as nearly bordering on low spirits as was consistent with his
disposition; depressed, at once by the failure of his scheme, the laughable turn of his late
interview, and the judicial blindness of the public to the merit of the twin cartoons.

Perhaps a week had passed before he was again startled by the note of the knocker. A gentleman
of a somewhat foreign and somewhat military air, yet closely shaven and wearing a soft hat,
desired in the politest terms to visit the apartments. He had (he explained) a friend, a gentleman
in tender health, desirous of a sedate and solitary life, apart from interruptions and the
noises of the common lodging-house. "The unusual clause," he continued, "in your announcement,
particularly struck me. 'This,' I said, 'is the place for Mr. Jones.' You are yourself, sir,
a professional gentleman?" concluded the visitor, looking keenly in Somerset's face.

"I am an artist," replied the young man lightly.

"And these," observed the other, taking a side glance through the open door of the dining-room,
which they were then passing, "these are some of your works. Very remarkable." And he again
and still more sharply peered into the countenance of the young man.

Somerset, unable to suppress a blush, made the more haste to lead his visitor upstairs and
to display the apartments.

"Excellent," observed the stranger, as he looked from one of the back windows. "Is that a mews
behind, sir? Very good. Well, sir: see here. My friend will take your drawing-room floor; he
will sleep in the back drawing-room; his nurse, an excellent Irish widow, will attend on all
his wants and occupy a garret; he will pay you the round sum of ten dollars a week; and you,
on your part, will engage to receive no other lodger? I think that fair."

Somerset had scarcely words in which to clothe his gratitude and joy.

"Agreed," said the other; "and to spare you trouble, my friend will bring some men with him
to make the changes. You will find him a retiring inmate, sir; receives but few, and rarely
leaves the house except at night."

"Since I have been in this house," returned Somerset, "I have myself, unless it were to fetch
beer, rarely gone abroad except in the evening. But a man," he added, "must have some amusement."

An hour was then agreed on; the gentleman departed; and Somerset sat down to compute in English
money the value of the figure named. The result of this investigation filled him with amazement
and disgust; but it was now too late; nothing remained but to endure; and he awaited the arrival
of his tenant, still trying, by various arithmetical expedients, to obtain a more favourable
quotation for the dollar. With the approach of dusk, however, his impatience drove him once
more to the front balcony. The night fell, mild and airless; the lamps shone around the central
darkness of the garden; and through the tall grove of trees that intervened, many warmly illuminated
windows on the farther side of the square told their tale of white napery, choice wine, and
genial hospitality. The stars were already thickening overhead, when the young man's eyes alighted
on a procession of three four-wheelers, coasting round the garden railing and bound for the
Superfluous Mansion. They were laden with formidable boxes; moved in a military order, one
following another; and, by the extreme slowness of their advance, inspired Somerset with the
most serious ideas of his tenant's malady.

By the time he had the door open, the cabs had drawn up beside the pavement; and from the two
first, there had alighted the military gentleman of the morning and two very stalwart porters.
These proceeded instantly to take possession of the house; with their own hands, and firmly
rejecting Somerset's assistance, they carried in the various crates and boxes; with their own
hands dismounted and transferred to the back drawing-room the bed in which the tenant was to
sleep; and it was not until the bustle of arrival had subsided, and the arrangements were complete,
that there descended, from the third of the three vehicles, a gentleman of great stature and
broad shoulders, leaning on the shoulder of a woman in a widow's dress, and himself covered
by a long cloak and muffled in a coloured comforter.

Somerset had but a glimpse of him in passing; he was soon shut into the back drawing-room;
the other men departed; silence redescended on the house; and had not the nurse appeared a
little before half-past ten, and, with a strong brogue, asked if there were a decent public-house
in the neighbourhood, Somerset might have still supposed himself to be alone in the Superfluous
Mansion.

Day followed day; and still the young man had never come by speech or sight of his mysterious
lodger. The doors of the drawing-room flat were never open; and although Somerset could hear
him moving to and fro, the tall man had never quitted the privacy of his apartments. Visitors,
indeed, arrived; sometimes in the dusk, sometimes at intempestuous hours of night or morning;
men, for the most part; some meanly attired, some decently; some loud, some cringing; and yet
all, in the eyes of Somerset, displeasing. A certain air of fear and secrecy was common to
them all; they were all voluble, he thought, and ill at ease; even the military gentleman proved,
on a closer inspection, to be no gentleman at all; and as for the doctor who attended the sick
man, his manners were not suggestive of a university career. The nurse, again, was scarcely
a desirable house-fellow. Since her arrival, the fall of whisky in the young man's private
bottle was much accelerated; and though never communicative, she was at times unpleasantly
familiar. When asked about the patient's health, she would dolorously shake her head, and declare
that the poor gentleman was in a pitiful condition.

Yet somehow Somerset had early begun to entertain the notion that his complaint was other than
bodily. The ill-looking birds that gathered to the house, the strange noises that sounded from
the drawing-room in the dead hours of night, the careless attendance and intemperate habits
of the nurse, the entire absence of correspondence, the entire seclusion of Mr. Jones himself,
whose face, up to that hour, he could not have sworn to in a court of justice--all weighed
unpleasantly upon the young man's mind. A sense of something evil, irregular and underhand,
haunted and depressed him; and this uneasy sentiment was the more firmly rooted in his mind,
when, in the fulness of time, he had an opportunity of observing the features of his tenant.
It fell in this way. The young landlord was awakened about four in the morning by a noise in
the hall. Leaping to his feet, and opening the door of the library, he saw the tall man, candle
in hand, in earnest conversation with the gentleman who had taken the rooms. The faces of both
were strongly illuminated; and in that of his tenant Somerset could perceive none of the marks
of disease, but every sign of health, energy, and resolution. While he was still looking, the
visitor took his departure; and the invalid, having carefully fastened the front door, sprang
upstairs without a trace of lassitude.

That night upon his pillow, Somerset began to kindle once more into the hot fit of the detective
fever; and the next morning resumed the practice of his art with careless hand and an abstracted
mind. The day was destined to be fertile in surprises; nor had he long been seated at the easel
ere the first of these occurred. A cab laden with baggage drew up before the door; and Mrs.
Luxmore in person rapidly mounted the steps and began to pound upon the knocker. Somerset hastened
to attend the summons.

"My dear fellow," she said, with the utmost gaiety, "here I come dropping from the moon. I
am delighted to find you faithful; and I have no doubt you will be equally pleased to be restored
to liberty."

Somerset could find no words, whether of protest or welcome; and the spirited old lady pushed
briskly by him, and paused on the threshold of the dining-room. The sight that met her eyes
was one well calculated to inspire astonishment. The mantelpiece was arrayed with saucepans
and empty bottles; on the fire some chops were frying; the floor was littered from end to end
with books, clothes, walking-canes, and the materials of the painter's craft; but what far
outstripped the other wonders of the place was the corner which had been arranged for the study
of still-life. This formed a sort of rockery; conspicuous upon which, according to the principles
of the art of composition, a cabbage was relieved against a copper kettle, and both contrasted
with the mail of a boiled lobster.

"My gracious goodness!" cried the lady of the house; and then, turning in wrath on the young
man, "From what rank in life are you sprung?" she demanded. "You have the exterior of a gentleman;
but from the astonishing evidences before me, I should say you can only be a green-grocer's
man. Pray, gather up your vegetables, and let me see no more of you."

"Madam," babbled Somerset, "you promised me a month's warning."

"That was under a misapprehension," returned the old lady. "I now give you warning to leave
at once."

"Madam," said the young man, "I wish I could; and indeed, as far as I am concerned, it might
be done. But then, my lodger!"

"Your lodger?" echoed Mrs. Luxmore.

"My lodger: why should I deny it?" returned Somerset. "He is only by the week."

The old lady sat down upon a chair. "You have a lodger?--you?" she cried. "And pray, how did
you get him?"

"By advertisement," replied the young man. "O madam, I have not lived unobservantly. I adopted"--his
eyes involuntarily shifted to the cartoons--"I adopted every method."

Her eyes had followed his; for the first time in Somerset's experience, she produced a double
eyeglass; and as soon as the full merit of the works had flashed upon her, she gave way to
peal after peal of her trilling and soprano laughter.

"Oh, I think you are perfectly delicious!" she cried. "I do hope you had them in the window.
M'Pherson," she continued, crying to her maid, who had been all this time grimly waiting in
the hall, "I lunch with Mr. Somerset. Take the cellar key and bring some wine."

In this gay humour she continued throughout the luncheon; presented Somerset with a couple
of dozen of wine, which she made M'Pherson bring up from the cellar--"as a present, my dear,"
she said, with another burst of tearful merriment, "for your charming pictures, which you must
be sure to leave me when you go"; and finally, protesting that she dared not spoil the absurdest
houseful of madmen in the whole of London, departed (as she vaguely phrased it) for the continent
of Europe.

She was no sooner gone than Somerset encountered in the corridor the Irish nurse; sober, to
all appearance, and yet a prey to singularly strong emotion. It was made to appear, from her
account, that Mr. Jones had already suffered acutely in his health from Mrs. Luxmore's visit,
and that nothing short of a full explanation could allay the invalid's uneasiness. Somerset,
somewhat staring, told what he thought fit of the affair.

"Is that all?" cried the woman. "As God sees you, is that all?"

"My good woman," said the young man, "I have no idea what you can be driving at. Suppose the
lady were my friend's wife, suppose she were my fairy godmother, suppose she were the Queen
of Portugal; and how should that affect yourself or Mr. Jones?"

"Blessed Mary!" cried the nurse, "it's he that will be glad to hear it!"

And immediately she fled upstairs.

Somerset, on his part, returned to the dining-room, and, with a very thoughtful brow and ruminating
many theories, disposed of the remainder of the bottle. It was port; and port is a wine, sole
among its equals and superiors, that can in some degree support the competition of tobacco.
Sipping, smoking, and theorising, Somerset moved on from suspicion to suspicion, from resolve
to resolve, still growing braver and rosier as the bottle ebbed. He was a sceptic, none prouder
of the name; he had no horror at command, whether for crimes or vices, but beheld and embraced
the world, with an immoral approbation, the frequent consequence of youth and health. At the
same time, he felt convinced that he dwelt under the same roof with secret malefactors; and
the unregenerate instinct of the chase impelled him to severity. The bottle had run low; the
summer sun had finally withdrawn; and at the same moment, night and the pangs of hunger recalled
him from his dreams.

He went forth, and dined in the Criterion: a dinner in consonance, not so much with his purse,
as with the admirable wine he had discussed. What with one thing and another, it was long past
midnight when he returned home. A cab was at the door; and entering the hall, Somerset found
himself face to face with one of the most regular of the few who visited Mr. Jones: a man of
powerful figure, strong lineaments, and a chin-beard in the American fashion. This person was
carrying on one shoulder a black portmanteau, seemingly of considerable weight. That he should
find a visitor removing baggage in the dead of night, recalled some odd stories to the young
man's memory; he had heard of lodgers who thus gradually drained away, not only their own effects,
but the very furniture and fittings of the house that sheltered them; and now, in a mood between
pleasantry and suspicion, and aping the manner of a drunkard, he roughly bumped against the
man with the chin-beard and knocked the portmanteau from his shoulder to the floor. With a
face struck suddenly as white as paper, the man with the chin-beard called lamentably on the
name of his Maker, and fell in a mere heap on the mat at the foot of the stairs. At the same
time, though only for a single instant, the heads of the sick lodger and the Irish nurse popped
out like rabbits over the banisters of the first floor; and on both the same scare and pallor
were apparent.

The sight of this incredible emotion turned Somerset to stone, and he continued speechless,
while the man gathered himself together, and, with the help of the hand-rail and audibly thanking
God, scrambled once more upon his feet.

"What in Heaven's name ails you?" gasped the young man as soon as he could find words and utterance.

"Have you a drop of brandy?" returned the other. "I am sick."

Somerset administered two drams, one after the other, to the man with the chin-beard; who then,
somewhat restored, began to confound himself in apologies for what he called his miserable
nervousness, the result, he said, of a long course of dumb ague; and having taken leave with
a hand that still sweated and trembled, he gingerly resumed his burthen and departed.

Somerset retired to bed but not to sleep. What, he asked himself, had been the contents of
the black portmanteau? Stolen goods? the carcass of one murdered? or--and at the thought he
sat upright in bed--an infernal machine? He took a solemn vow that he would set these doubts
at rest; and, with the next morning, installed himself beside the dining-room window, vigilant
with eye and ear, to await and profit by the earliest opportunity.

The hours went heavily by. Within the house there was no circumstance of novelty; unless it
might be that the nurse more frequently made little journeys round the corner of the square,
and before afternoon was somewhat loose of speech and gait. A little after six, however, there
came round the corner of the gardens a very handsome and elegantly dressed young woman, who
paused a little way off, and for some time, and with frequent sighs, contemplated the front
of the Superfluous Mansion. It was not the first time that she had thus stood afar and looked
upon it, like our common parents at the gates of Eden; and the young man had already had occasion
to remark the lively slimness of her carriage, and had already been the butt of a chance arrow
from her eye. He hailed her coming, then, with pleasant feelings, and moved a little nearer
to the window to enjoy the sight. What was his surprise, however, when, as if with a sensible
effort, she drew near, mounted the steps, and tapped discreetly at the door! He made haste
to get before the Irish nurse, who was not improbably asleep, and had the satisfaction to receive
this gracious visitor in person.

She inquired for Mr. Jones; and then, without transition, asked the young man if he were the
person of the house (and at the words, he thought he could perceive her to be smiling), "because,"
she added, "if you are, I should like to see some of the other rooms."

Somerset told her he was under an engagement to receive no other lodgers; but she assured him
that would be no matter, as these were friends of Mr. Jones's. "And," she continued, moving
suddenly to the dining-room door, "let us begin here." Somerset was too late to prevent her
entering, and perhaps lacked the courage to essay. "Ah!" she cried, "how changed it is!"

"Madam," cried the young man, "since your entrance, it is I who have the right to say so."

She received this inane compliment with a demure and conscious droop of the eyelids, and gracefully
steering her dress among the mingled litter, now with a smile, now with a sigh, reviewed the
wonders of the two apartments. She gazed upon the cartoons with sparkling eyes, and a heightened
colour, and, in a somewhat breathless voice, expressed a high opinion of their merits. She
praised the effective disposition of the rockery, and in the bedroom, of which Somerset had
vainly endeavoured to defend the entry, she fairly broke forth in admiration. "How simple and
manly!" she cried: "none of that effeminacy of neatness, which is so detestable in a man!"
Hard upon this, telling him, before he had time to reply, that she very well knew her way,
and would trouble him no further, she took her leave with an engaging smile, and ascended the
staircase alone.

For more than an hour the young lady remained closeted with Mr. Jones; and at the end of that
time, the night being now come completely, they left the house in company. This was the first
time since the arrival of his lodger that Somerset had found himself alone with the Irish widow;
and without the loss of any more time than was required by decency, he stepped to the foot
of the stairs and hailed her by her name. She came instantly, wreathed in weak smiles and with
a nodding head; and when the young man politely offered to introduce her to the treasures of
his art, she swore that nothing could afford her greater pleasure, for, though she had never
crossed the threshold, she had frequently observed his beautiful pictures through the door.
On entering the dining-room, the sight of a bottle and two glasses prepared her to be a gentle
critic; and as soon as the pictures had been viewed and praised, she was easily persuaded to
join the painter in a single glass. "Here," she said, "are my respects; and a pleasure it is,
in this horrible house, to see a gentleman like yourself, so affable and free, and a very nice
painter, I am sure." One glass so agreeably prefaced, was sure to lead to the acceptance of
a second; at the third, Somerset was free to cease from the affectation of keeping her company;
and as for the fourth, she asked it of her own accord. "For indeed," said she, "what with all
these clocks and chemicals, without a drop of the creature life would be impossible entirely.
And you seen yourself that even M'Guire was glad to beg for it. And even himself, when he is
downhearted with all these cruel disappointments, though as temperate a man as any child, will
be sometimes crying for a glass of it. And I'll thank you for a thimbleful to settle what I
got." Soon after, she began with tears to narrate the deathbed dispositions and lament the
trifling assets of her husband. Then she declared she heard "the master" calling her, rose
to her feet, made but one lurch of it into the still-life rockery, and with her head upon the
lobster, fell into stertorous slumbers.

Somerset mounted at once to the first story, and opened the door of the drawing-room, which
was brilliantly lit by several lamps. It was a great apartment; looking on the square with
three tall windows, and joined by a pair of ample folding-doors to the next room; elegant in
proportion, papered in sea-green, furnished in velvet of a delicate blue, and adorned with
a majestic mantelpiece of variously tinted marbles. Such was the room that Somerset remembered;
that which he now beheld was changed in almost every feature: the furniture covered with a
figured chintz; the walls hung with a rhubarb-coloured paper, and diversified by the curtained
recesses for no less than seven windows. It seemed to himself that he must have entered, without
observing the transition, into the adjoining house. Presently from these more specious changes,
his eye condescended to the many curious objects with which the floor was littered. Here were
the locks of dismounted pistols; clocks and clockwork in every stage of demolition, some still
busily ticking, some reduced to their dainty elements; a great company of carboys, jars, and
bottles; a carpenter's bench and a laboratory-table.

The back drawing-room, to which Somerset proceeded, had likewise undergone a change. It was
transformed to the exact appearance of a common lodging-house bedroom; a bed with green curtains
occupied one corner; and the window was blocked by the regulation table and mirror. The door
of a small closet here attracted the young man's attention; and striking a vesta, he opened
it and entered. On a table, several wigs and beards were lying spread; about the walls hung
an incongruous display of suits and overcoats; and conspicuous among the last the young man
observed a large overall of the most costly sealskin. In a flash his mind reverted to the advertisement
in the Standard newspaper. The great height of his lodger, the disproportionate breadth of
his shoulders, and the strange particulars of his instalment, all pointed to the same conclusion.

The vesta had now burned to his fingers; and taking the coat upon his arm, Somerset hastily
returned to the lighted drawing-room. There, with a mixture of fear and admiration, he pored
upon its goodly proportions and the regularity and softness of the pile. The sight of a large
pier-glass put another fancy in his head. He donned the fur coat; and standing before the mirror
in an attitude suggestive of a Russian prince, he thrust his hands into the ample pockets.
There his fingers encountered a folded journal. He drew it out, and recognised the type and
paper of the Standard; and at the same instant his eyes alighted on the offer of two hundred
pounds. Plainly then, his lodger, now no longer mysterious, had laid aside his coat on the
very day of the appearance of the advertisement.

He was thus standing, the tell-tale coat upon his back, the incriminating paper in his hand,
when the door opened and the tall lodger, with a firm but somewhat pallid face, stepped into
the room and closed the door again behind him. For some time the two looked upon each other
in perfect silence; then Mr. Jones moved forward to the table, took a seat, and, still without
once changing the direction of his eyes, addressed the young man.

"You are right," he said. "It is for me the blood money is offered. And now what will you do?"

It was a question to which Somerset was far from being able to reply. Taken as he was at unawares,
masquerading in the man's own coat, and surrounded by a whole arsenal of diabolical explosives,
the keeper of the lodging-house was silenced.

"Yes," resumed the other, "I am he. I am that man, whom with impotent hate and fear they still
hunt from den to den, from disguise to disguise. Yet, my landlord, you have it in your power,
if you be poor, to lay the basis of your fortune; if you be unknown, to capture honour at one
snatch. You have hocussed an innocent widow; and I find you here in my apartment, for whose
use I pay you in stamped money, searching my wardrobe, and your hand--shame, sir!--your hand
in my very pocket. You can now complete the cycle of your ignominious acts, by what will be
at once the simplest, the safest, and the most remunerative." The speaker paused as if to emphasise
his words; and then, with a great change of tone and manner, thus resumed: "And yet, sir, when
I look upon your face, I feel certain that I cannot be deceived: certain that in spite of all,
I have the honour and pleasure of speaking to a gentleman. Take off my coat, sir--which but
cumbers you. Divest yourself of this confusion: that which is but thought upon, thank God,
need be no burthen to the conscience; we have all harboured guilty thoughts; and if it flashed
into your mind to sell my flesh and blood, my anguish in the dock, and the sweat of my death
agony--it was a thought, dear sir, you were as incapable of acting on, as I of any further
question of your honour." At these words the speaker, with a very open, smiling countenance,
like a forgiving father, offered Somerset his hand.

It was not in the young man's nature to refuse forgiveness or dissect generosity. He instantly,
and almost without thought, accepted the proffered grasp.

"And now," resumed the lodger, "now that I hold in mine your loyal hand, I lay by my apprehensions,
I dismiss suspicion, I go further--by an effort of will, I banish the memory of what is past.
How you came here, I care not: enough that you are here--as my guest. Sit ye down; and let
us, with your good permission, improve acquaintance over a glass of excellent whisky."

So speaking, he produced glasses and a bottle; and the pair pledged each other in silence.

"Confess," observed the smiling host, "you were surprised at the appearance of the room."

"I was indeed," said Somerset; "nor can I imagine the purpose of these changes."

"These," replied the conspirator, "are the devices by which I continue to exist. Conceive me
now, accused before one of your unjust tribunals; conceive the various witnesses appearing,
and the singular variety of their reports! One will have visited me in this drawing-room as
it originally stood; a second finds it as it is to-night; and to-morrow or next day, all may
have been changed. If you love romance (as artists do), few lives are more romantic than that
of the obscure individual now addressing you. Obscure yet famous. Mine is an anonymous, infernal
glory. By infamous means, I work towards my bright purpose. I found the liberty and peace of
a poor country desperately abused; the future smiles upon that land; yet, in the meantime,
I lead the existence of a hunted brute, work towards appalling ends, and practise hell's dexterities."

Somerset, glass in hand, contemplated the strange fanatic before him, and listened to his heated
rhapsody, with indescribable bewilderment. He looked him in the face with curious particularity;
saw there the marks of education; and wondered the more profoundly.

"Sir," he said--"for I know not whether I should still address you as Mr. Jones--"

"Jones, Breitman, Higginbotham, Pumpernickel, Daviot, Henderland, by all or any of these you
may address me," said the plotter; "for all I have at some time borne. Yet that which I most
prize, that which is most feared, hated, and obeyed, is not a name to be found in your directories;
it is not a name current in post-offices or banks; and indeed, like the celebrated clan M'Gregor,
I may justly describe myself as being nameless by day. But," he continued, rising to his feet,
"by night, and among my desperate followers, I am the redoubted Zero."

Somerset was unacquainted with the name; but he politely expressed surprise and gratification.
"I am to understand," he continued, "that, under this alias, you follow the profession of a
dynamiter?"[3]

The plotter had resumed his seat and now replenished the glasses.

"I do," he said. "In this dark period of time, a star--the star of dynamite--has risen for
the oppressed; and among those who practise its use, so thick beset with dangers and attended
by such incredible difficulties and disappointments, few have been more assiduous, and not
many--" He paused, and a shade of embarrassment appeared upon his face--"not many have been
more successful than myself."

"I can imagine," observed Somerset, "that, from the sweeping consequences looked for, the career
is not devoid of interest. You have, besides, some of the entertainment of the game of hide-and-seek.
But it would still seem to me--I speak as a layman--that nothing could be simpler or safer
than to deposit an infernal machine and retire to an adjacent county to await the painful consequences."

"You speak, indeed," returned the plotter, with some evidence of warmth, "you speak, indeed,
most ignorantly. Do you make nothing, then, of such a peril as we share this moment? Do you
think it nothing to occupy a house like this one, mined, menaced, and, in a word, literally
tottering to its fall?"

"Good God!" ejaculated Somerset.

"And when you speak of ease," pursued Zero, "in this age of scientific studies, you fill me
with surprise. Are you not aware that chemicals are proverbially fickle as woman, and clockwork
as capricious as the very devil? Do you see upon my brow these furrows of anxiety? do you observe
the silver threads that mingle with my hair? Clockwork, clockwork has stamped them on my brow--chemicals
have sprinkled them upon my locks! No, Mr. Somerset," he resumed, after a moment's pause, his
voice still quivering with sensibility, "you must not suppose the dynamiter's life to be all
gold. On the contrary: you cannot picture to yourself the bloodshot vigils and the staggering
disappointments of a life like mine. I have toiled (let us say) for months, up early and down
late; my bag is ready, my clock set; a daring agent has hurried with white face to deposit
the instrument of ruin; we await the fall of England, the massacre of thousands, the yell of
fear and execration; and lo! a snap like that of a child's pistol, an offensive smell, and
the entire loss of so much time and plant! If," he concluded musingly, "we had been merely
able to recover the lost bags, I believe, with but a touch or two, I could have remedied the
peccant engine. But what with the loss of plant and the almost insuperable scientific difficulties
of the task, our friends in France are almost ready to desert the chosen medium. They propose,
instead, to break up the drainage system of cities and sweep off whole populations with the
devastating typhoid pestilence: a tempting and a scientific project: a process, indiscriminate
indeed, but of idyllical simplicity. I recognise its elegance; but, sir, I have something of
the poet in my nature; something, possibly, of the tribune. And, for my small part, I shall
remain devoted to that more emphatic, more striking, and (if you please) more popular method
of the explosive bomb. Yes," he cried, with unshaken hope, "I will still continue and, I feel
it in my bosom, I shall yet succeed."

"Two things I remark," said Somerset. "The first somewhat staggers me. Have you, then--in all
this course of life, which you have sketched so vividly--have you not once succeeded?"

"Pardon me," said Zero. "I have had one success. You behold in me the author of the outrage
of Red Lion Court."

"But if I remember right," objected Somerset, "the thing was a fiasco. A scavenger's barrow
and some copies of the Weekly Budget--these were the only victims."

"You will pardon me again," returned Zero, with positive asperity: "a child was injured."

"And that fitly brings me to my second point," said Somerset. "For I observed you to employ
the word 'indiscriminate.' Now, surely, a scavenger's barrow and a child (if child there were)
represent the very acme and top pin-point of indiscriminate and, pardon me, of ineffectual
reprisal."

"Did I employ the word?" asked Zero. "Well, I will not defend it. But for efficiency, you touch
on graver matters; and before entering upon so vast a subject, permit me once more to fill
our glasses. Disputation is dry work," he added, with a charming gaiety of manner.

Once more accordingly the pair pledged each other in a stalwart grog; and Zero, leaning back
with an air of some complacency, proceeded more largely to develop his opinions.

"The indiscriminate?" he began. "War, my dear sir, is indiscriminate. War spares not the child;
it spares not the barrow of the harmless scavenger. No more," he concluded, beaming, "no more
do I. Whatever may strike fear, whatever may confound or paralyse the activities of the guilty
nation, barrow or child, imperial Parliament or excursion steamer, is welcome to my simple
plans. You are not," he inquired, with a shade of sympathetic interest, "you are not, I trust,
a believer?"

"Sir, I believe in nothing," said the young man.

"You are then," replied Zero, "in a position to grasp my argument. We agree that humanity is
the object, the glorious triumph of humanity; and being pledged to labour for that end, and
face to face with the banded opposition of kings, parliaments, churches, and the members of
the force, who am I--who are we, dear sir--to affect a nicety about the tools employed? You
might, perhaps, expect us to attack the Queen, the sinister Gladstone, the rigid Derby, or
the dexterous Granville; but there you would be in error. Our appeal is to the body of the
people; it is these that we would touch and interest. Now, sir, have you observed the English
housemaid?"

"I should think I had," cried Somerset.

"From a man of taste and a votary of art, I had expected it," returned the conspirator politely.
"A type apart; a very charming figure; and thoroughly adapted to our ends. The neat cap, the
clean print, the comely person, the engaging manner; her position between classes, parents
in one, employers in another; the probability that she will have at least one sweetheart, whose
feelings we shall address:--yes, I have a leaning--call it, if you will, a weakness--for the
housemaid. Not that I would be understood to despise the nurse. For the child is a very interesting
feature: I have long since marked out the child as the sensitive point in society." He wagged
his head, with a wise, pensive smile. "And talking, sir, of children and of the perils of our
trade, let me now narrate to you a little incident of an explosive bomb, that fell out some
weeks ago under my own observation. It fell out thus."

And Zero leaning back in his chair narrated the following simple tale.

FOOTNOTE:

  [3] The Arabian author of the original has here a long passage
    conceived in a style too oriental for the English reader. We subjoin
    a specimen, and it seems doubtful whether it should be printed as
    prose or verse: "Any writard who writes dynamitard shall find in me
    a never-resting fightard"; and he goes on (if we correctly gather
    his meaning) to object to such elegant and obviously correct
    spellings as lamp-lightard, corn-dealard, apple-filchard (clearly
    justified by the parallel--pilchard), and opera-dançard.
    "Dynamitist," he adds, "I could understand."

ZERO'S TALE OF THE EXPLOSIVE BOMB[4]

I dined by appointment with one of our most trusted agents, in a private chamber at St. James's
Hall. You have seen the man: it was M'Guire, the most chivalrous of creatures, but not himself
expert in our contrivances. Hence the necessity of our meeting; for I need not remind you what
enormous issues depend upon the nice adjustment of the engine. I set our little petard for
half an hour, the scene of action being hard by; and, the better to avert miscarriage, employed
a device, a recent invention of my own, by which the opening of the Gladstone bag in which
the bomb was carried should instantly determine the explosion. M'Guire was somewhat dashed
by this arrangement, which was new to him: and pointed out, with excellent, clear good sense,
that should he be arrested, it would probably involve him in the fall of our opponents. But
I was not to be moved, made a strong appeal to his patriotism, gave him a good glass of whisky,
and despatched him on his glorious errand.

Our objective was the effigy of Shakespeare in Leicester Square: a spot, I think, admirably
chosen; not only for the sake of the dramatist, still very foolishly claimed as a glory by
the English race, in spite of his disgusting political opinions; but from the fact that the
seats in the immediate neighbourhood are often thronged by children, errand-boys, unfortunate
young ladies of the poorer class, and infirm old men--all classes making a direct appeal to
public pity, and therefore suitable with our designs. As M'Guire drew near, his heart was inflamed
by the most noble sentiment of triumph. Never had he seen the garden so crowded; children,
still stumbling in the impotence of youth, ran to and fro, shouting and playing, round the
pedestal; an old, sick pensioner sat upon the nearest bench, a medal on his breast, a stick
with which he walked (for he was disabled by wounds) reclining on his knee. Guilty England
would thus be stabbed in the most delicate quarters; the moment had, indeed, been well selected;
and M'Guire, with a radiant prevision of the event, drew merrily nearer. Suddenly his eye alighted
on the burly form of a policeman, standing hard by the effigy in an attitude of watch. My bold
companion paused; he looked about him closely; here and there, at different points of the enclosure,
other men stood or loitered, affecting an abstraction, feigning to gaze upon the shrubs, feigning
to talk, feigning to be weary and to rest upon the benches. M'Guire was no child in these affairs;
he instantly divined one of the plots of the Machiavellian Gladstone.

A chief difficulty with which we have to deal is a certain nervousness in the subaltern branches
of the corps; as the hour of some design draws near, these chicken-souled conspirators appear
to suffer some revulsion of intent; and frequently despatch to the authorities, not indeed
specific denunciations, but vague anonymous warnings. But for this purely accidental circumstance,
England had long ago been an historical expression. On the receipt of such a letter, the Government
lays a trap for its adversaries, and surrounds the threatened spot with hirelings. My blood
sometimes boils in my veins, when I consider the case of those who sell themselves for money
in such a cause. True, thanks to the generosity of our supporters, we patriots receive a very
comfortable stipend; I myself, of course, touch a salary which puts me quite beyond the reach
of any peddling, mercenary thoughts; M'Guire, again, ere he joined our ranks, was on the brink
of starving, and now, thank God! receives a decent income. That is as it should be; the patriot
must not be diverted from his task by any base consideration; and the distinction between our
position and that of the police is too obvious to be stated.

Plainly, however, our Leicester Square design had been divulged; the Government had craftily
filled the place with minions; even the pensioner was not improbably a hireling in disguise;
and our emissary, without other aid or protection than the simple apparatus in his bag, found
himself confronted by force; brutal force; that strong hand which was a character of the ages
of oppression. Should he venture to deposit the machine, it was almost certain that he would
be observed and arrested; a cry would arise; and there was just a fear that the police might
not be present in sufficient force to protect him from the savagery of the mob. The scheme
must be delayed. He stood with his bag on his arm, pretending to survey the front of the Alhambra,
when there flashed into his mind a thought to appal the bravest. The machine was set; at the
appointed hour, it must explode; and how, in the interval, was he to be rid of it?

Put yourself, I beseech you, into the body of that patriot. There he was, friendless and helpless;
a man in the very flower of life, for he is not yet forty; with long years of happiness before
him; and now condemned, in one moment, to a cruel and revolting death by dynamite! The square,
he said, went round him like a thaumatrope; he saw the Alhambra leap into the air like a balloon;
and reeled against the railing. It is probable he fainted.

When he came to himself, a constable had him by the arm.

"My God!" he cried.

"You seem to be unwell, sir," said the hireling.

"I feel better now," cried poor M'Guire: and with uneven steps, for the pavement of the square
seemed to lurch and reel under his footing, he fled from the scene of this disaster. Fled?
Alas, from what was he fleeing? Did he not carry that from which he fled, along with him? and
had he the wings of the eagle, had he the swiftness of the ocean winds, could he have been
rapt into the uttermost quarters of the earth, how should he escape the ruin that he carried?
We have heard of living men who have been fettered to the dead; the grievance, soberly considered,
is no more than sentimental; the case is but a flea-bite to that of him who should be linked,
like poor M'Guire, to an explosive bomb.

A thought struck him in Green Street, like a dart through his liver: suppose it were the hour
already. He stopped as though he had been shot, and plucked his watch out. There was a howling
in his ears, as loud as a winter tempest; his sight was now obscured as if by a cloud, now,
as by a lightning flash, would show him the very dust upon the street. But so brief were these
intervals of vision, and so violently did the watch vibrate in his hands, that it was impossible
to distinguish the numbers on the dial. He covered his eyes for a few seconds; and in that
space, it seemed to him that he had fallen to be a man of ninety. When he looked again, the
watch-plate had grown legible: he had twenty minutes. Twenty minutes, and no plan!

Green Street, at that time, was very empty; and he now observed a little girl of about six
drawing near to him and, as she came, kicking in front of her, as children will, a piece of
wood. She sang, too; and something in her accent recalling him to the past produced a sudden
clearness in his mind. Here was a God-sent opportunity!

"My dear," said he, "would you like a present of a pretty bag?"

The child cried aloud with joy and put out her hands to take it. She had looked first at the
bag, like a true child; but most unfortunately, before she had yet received the fatal gift,
her eyes fell directly on M'Guire; and no sooner had she seen the poor gentleman's face than
she screamed out and leaped backward, as though she had seen the devil. Almost at the same
moment a woman appeared upon the threshold of a neighbouring shop, and called upon the child
in anger. "Come here, colleen," she said, "and don't be plaguing the poor old gentleman!" With
that she re-entered the house, and the child followed her, sobbing aloud.

With the loss of this hope M'Guire's reason swooned within him. When next he awoke to consciousness,
he was standing before St. Martin's-in-the-Fields, wavering like a drunken man; the passers-by
regarded him with eyes in which he read, as in a glass, an image of the terror and horror that
dwelt within his own.

"I am afraid you are very ill, sir," observed a woman, stopping and gazing hard in his face.
"Can I do anything to help you?"

"Ill?" said M'Guire. "O God!" And then, recovering some shadow of his self-command, "Chronic,
madam," said he: "a long course of the dumb ague. But since you are so compassionate--an errand
that I lack the strength to carry out," he gasped--"this bag to Portman Square. O compassionate
woman, as you hope to be saved, as you are a mother, in the name of your babes that wait to
welcome you at home, oh, take this bag to Portman Square! I have a mother, too," he added,
with a broken voice. "Number 19 Portman Square."

I suppose he had expressed himself with too much energy of voice; for the woman was plainly
taken with a certain fear of him. "Poor gentleman!" said she. "If I were you, I would go home."
And she left him standing there in his distress.

"Home!" thought M'Guire, "what a derision!" What home was there for him, the victim of philanthropy?
He thought of his old mother, of his happy youth; of the hideous, rending pang of the explosion;
of the possibility that he might not be killed, that he might be cruelly mangled, crippled
for life, condemned to life-long pains, blinded perhaps, and almost surely deafened. Ah, you
spoke lightly of the dynamiter's peril; but even waiving death, have you realised what it is
for a fine, brave young man of forty, to be smitten suddenly with deafness, cut off from all
the music of life, and from the voice of friendship and love? How little do we realise the
sufferings of others! Even your brutal Government, in the heyday of its lust for cruelty, though
it scruples not to hound the patriot with spies, to pack the corrupt jury, to bribe the hangman,
and to erect the infamous gallows, would hesitate to inflict so horrible a doom: not, I am
well aware, from virtue, not from philanthropy, but with the fear before it of the withering
scorn of the good.

But I wander from M'Guire. From this dread glance into the past and future, his thoughts returned
at a bound upon the present. How had he wandered there? and how long--O heavens! how long had
he been about it? He pulled out his watch; and found that but three minutes had elapsed. It
seemed too bright a thing to be believed. He glanced at the church clock; and sure enough,
it marked an hour four minutes in advance of the watch.

Of all that he endured, M'Guire declares that pang was the most desolate. Till then, he had
had one friend, one counsellor, in whom he plenarily trusted; by whose advertisement he numbered
the minutes that remained to him of life; on whose sure testimony he could tell when the time
was come to risk the last adventure, to cast the bag away from him, and take to flight. And
now in what was he to place reliance? His watch was slow; it might be losing time; if so, in
what degree? What limit could he set to its derangement? and how much was it possible for a
watch to lose in thirty minutes? Five? ten? fifteen? It might be so; already, it seemed years
since he had left St. James's Hall on this so promising enterprise; at any moment, then, the
blow was to be looked for.

In the face of this new distress, the wild disorder of his pulses settled down; and a broken
weariness succeeded, as though he had lived for centuries and for centuries been dead. The
buildings and the people in the street became incredibly small, and far-away, and bright; London
sounded in his ears stilly, like a whisper; and the rattle of the cab that nearly charged him
down was like a sound from Africa. Meanwhile, he was conscious of a strange abstraction from
himself; and heard and felt his footfalls on the ground, as those of a very old, small, debile,
and tragically fortuned man, whom he sincerely pitied.

As he was thus moving forward past the National Gallery, in a medium, it seemed, of greater
rarity and quiet than ordinary air, there slipped into his mind the recollection of a certain
entry in Whitcomb Street hard by, where he might perhaps lay down his tragic cargo unremarked.
Thither, then, he bent his steps, seeming, as he went, to float above the pavement; and there,
in the mouth of the entry, he found a man in a sleeved waistcoat, gravely chewing a straw.
He passed him by, and twice patrolled the entry, scouting for the barest chance; but the man
had faced about and continued to observe him curiously.

Another hope was gone. M'Guire re-issued from the entry, still followed by the wondering eyes
of the man in the sleeved waistcoat. He once more consulted his watch: there were but fourteen
minutes left to him. At that, it seemed as if a sudden, genial heat were spread about his brain;
for a second or two, he saw the world as red as blood; and thereafter entered into a complete
possession of himself, with an incredible cheerfulness of spirits, prompting him to sing and
chuckle as he walked. And yet this mirth seemed to belong to things external; and within, like
a black and leaden-heavy kernel, he was conscious of the weight upon his soul.

  "I care for nobody, no, not I,
   And nobody cares for me,"

he sang, and laughed at the appropriate burthen, so that the passengers stared upon him on
the street. And still the warmth seemed to increase and to become more genial. What was life?
he considered, and what he, M'Guire? What even Erin, our green Erin? All seemed so incalculably
little that he smiled as he looked down upon it. He would have given years, had he possessed
them, for a glass of spirits; but time failed, and he must deny himself this last indulgence.

At the corner of the Haymarket, he very jauntily hailed a hansom cab; jumped in; bade the fellow
drive him to a part of the Embankment, which he named; and as soon as the vehicle was in motion,
concealed the bag as completely as he could under the vantage of the apron, and once more drew
out his watch. So he rode for five interminable minutes, his heart in his mouth at every jolt,
scarce able to possess his terrors, yet fearing to wake the attention of the driver by too
obvious a change of plan, and willing, if possible, to leave him time to forget the Gladstone bag.

At length, at the head of some stairs on the Embankment, he hailed; the cab was stopped; and
he alighted--with how glad a heart! He thrust his hand into his pocket. All was now over; he
had saved his life; nor that alone, but he had engineered a striking act of dynamite; for what
could be more pictorial, what more effective, than the explosion of a hansom cab, as it sped
rapidly along the streets of London? He felt in one pocket; then in another. The most crushing
seizure of despair descended on his soul; and, struck into abject dumbness, he stared upon
the driver. He had not one penny.

"Hillo," said the driver, "don't seem well."

"Lost my money," said M'Guire, in tones so faint and strange that they surprised his hearing.

The man looked through the trap. "I dessay," said he: "you've left your bag."

M'Guire half unconsciously fetched it out; and looking on that black continent at arm's length,
withered inwardly and felt his features sharpen as with mortal sickness.

"This is not mine," said he. "Your last fare must have left it. You had better take it to the
station."

"Now look here," returned the cabman: "are you off your chump? or am I?"

"Well, then, I'll tell you what," exclaimed M'Guire: "you take it for your fare!"

"Oh, I dessay," replied the driver. "Anything else? What's in your bag? Open it, and let me see."

"No, no," returned M'Guire. "O no, not that. It's a surprise; it's prepared expressly: a surprise
for honest cabmen."

"No, you don't," said the man, alighting from his perch, and coming very close to the unhappy
patriot. "You're either going to pay my fare, or get in again and drive to the office."

It was at this supreme hour of his distress, that M'Guire spied the stout figure of one Godall,
a tobacconist of Rupert Street, drawing near along the Embankment. The man was not unknown
to him; he had bought of his wares, and heard him quoted for the soul of liberality; and such
was now the nearness of his peril, that even at such a straw of hope he clutched with gratitude.

"Thank God!" he cried. "Here comes a friend of mine. I'll borrow." And he dashed to meet the
tradesman. "Sir," said he, "Mr. Godall, I have dealt with you--you doubtless know my face--calamities
for which I cannot blame myself have overwhelmed me. Oh, sir, for the love of innocence, for
the sake of the bonds of humanity, and as you hope for mercy at the throne of grace, lend me
two-and-six!"

"I do not recognise your face," replied Mr. Godall; "but I remember the cut of your beard,
which I have the misfortune to dislike. Here, sir, is a sovereign; which I very willingly advance
to you, on the single condition that you shave your chin."

M'Guire grasped the coin without a word; cast it to the cabman, calling out to him to keep
the change; bounded down the steps, flung the bag far forth into the river, and fell headlong
after it. He was plucked from a watery grave, it is believed, by the hands of Mr. Godall. Even
as he was being hoisted dripping to the shore, a dull and choked explosion shook the solid
masonry of the Embankment, and far out in the river a momentary fountain rose and disappeared.

FOOTNOTE:

  [4] The Arabian author, with that quaint particularity of touch
    which our translation usually prætermits, here registers a somewhat
    interesting detail. Zero pronounced the word "boom"; and the reader,
    if but for the nonce, will possibly consent to follow him.

THE SUPERFLUOUS MANSION (continued)

Somerset in vain strove to attach a meaning to these words. He had, in the meanwhile, applied
himself assiduously to the flagon; the plotter began to melt in twain, and seemed to expand
and hover on his seat; and with a vague sense of nightmare, the young man rose unsteadily to
his feet, and, refusing the proffer of a third grog, insisted that the hour was late and he
must positively get to bed.

"Dear me," observed Zero, "I find you very temperate. But I will not be oppressive. Suffice
it that we are now fast friends; and, my dear landlord, au revoir!"

So saying the plotter once more shook hands; and with the politest ceremonies, and some necessary
guidance, conducted the bewildered young gentleman to the top of the stair.

Precisely how he got to bed was a point on which Somerset remained in utter darkness; but the
next morning when, at a blow, he started broad awake, there fell upon his mind a perfect hurricane
of horror and wonder. That he should have suffered himself to be led into the semblance of
intimacy with such a man as his abominable lodger, appeared, in the cold light of day, a mystery
of human weakness. True, he was caught in a situation that might have tested the aplomb of
Talleyrand. That was perhaps a palliation; but it was no excuse. For so wholesale a capitulation
of principle, for such a fall into criminal familiarity, no excuse indeed was possible; nor
any remedy, but to withdraw at once from the relation.

As soon as he was dressed, he hurried upstairs, determined on a rupture. Zero hailed him with
the warmth of an old friend.

"Come in," he cried, "dear Mr. Somerset! Come in, sit down, and, without ceremony, join me
at my morning meal."

"Sir," said Somerset, "you must permit me first to disengage my honour. Last night, I was surprised
into a certain appearance of complicity; but once for all, let me inform you that I regard
you and your machinations with unmingled horror and disgust, and I will leave no stone unturned
to crush your vile conspiracy."

"My dear fellow," replied Zero, with an air of some complacency, "I am well accustomed to these
human weaknesses. Disgust? I have felt it myself; it speedily wears off. I think none the worse,
I think the more of you, for this engaging frankness. And in the meanwhile, what are you to
do? You find yourself, if I interpret rightly, in very much the same situation as Charles the
Second (possibly the least degraded of your British sovereigns) when he was taken into the
confidence of the thief. To denounce me is out of the question; and what else can you attempt?
No, dear Mr. Somerset, your hands are tied; and you find yourself condemned, under pain of
behaving like a cad, to be that same charming and intellectual companion who delighted me last
night."

"At least," cried Somerset, "I can, and do, order you to leave this house."

"Ah!" cried the plotter, "but there I fail to follow you. You may, if you please, enact the
part of Judas; but if, as I suppose, you recoil from that extremity of meanness, I am, on my
side, far too intelligent to leave these lodgings, in which I please myself exceedingly, and
from which you lack the power to drive me. No, no, dear sir; here I am, and here I propose
to stay."

"I repeat," cried Somerset, beside himself with a sense of his own weakness, "I repeat that
I give you warning. I am master of this house; and I emphatically give you warning."

"A week's warning?" said the imperturbable conspirator. "Very well: we will talk of it a week
from now. That is arranged; and, in the meanwhile, I observe my breakfast growing cold. Do,
dear Mr. Somerset, since you find yourself condemned, for a week at least, to the society of
a very interesting character, display some of that open favour, some of that interest in life's
obscurer sides, which stamp the character of the true artist. Hang me, if you will, to-morrow;
but to-day show yourself divested of the scruple of the burgess, and sit down pleasantly to
share my meal."

"Man!" cried Somerset, "do you understand my sentiments?"

"Certainly," replied Zero; "and I respect them! Would you be outdone in such a contest? will
you alone be partial? and in this nineteenth century, cannot two gentlemen of education agree
to differ on a point of politics? Come, sir: all your hard words have left me smiling; judge
then, which of us is the philosopher!"

Somerset was a young man of a very tolerant disposition and by nature easily amenable to sophistry.
He threw up his hands with a gesture of despair, and took the seat to which the conspirator
invited him. The meal was excellent; the host not only affable, but primed with curious information.
He seemed, indeed, like one who had too long endured the torture of silence, to exult in the
most wholesale disclosures. The interest of what he had to tell was great; his character, besides,
developed step by step; and Somerset, as the time fled, not only outgrew some of the discomfort
of his false position, but began to regard the conspirator with a familiarity that verged upon
contempt. In any circumstances, he had a singular inability to leave the society in which he
found himself; company, even if distasteful, held him captive like a limed sparrow; and on
this occasion, he suffered hour to follow hour, was easily persuaded to sit down once more
to table, and did not even attempt to withdraw till, on the approach of evening, Zero, with
many apologies, dismissed his guest. His fellow-conspirators, the dynamiter handsomely explained,
as they were unacquainted with the sterling qualities of the young man, would be alarmed at
the sight of a strange face.

As soon as he was alone, Somerset fell back upon the humour of the morning. He raged at the
thought of his facility; he paced the dining-room, forming the sternest resolutions for the
future; he wrung the hand which had been dishonoured by the touch of an assassin; and among
all these whirling thoughts, there flashed in from time to time, and ever with a chill of fear,
the thought of the confounded ingredients with which the house was stored. A powder magazine
seemed a secure smoking-room alongside of the Superfluous Mansion.

He sought refuge in flight, in locomotion, in the flowing bowl. As long as the bars were open,
he travelled from one to another, seeking light, safety, and the companionship of human faces;
when these resources failed him, he fell back on the belated baked-potato man; and at length,
still pacing the streets, he was goaded to fraternise with the police. Alas, with what a sense
of guilt he conversed with these guardians of the law; how gladly had he wept upon their ample
bosoms; and how the secret fluttered to his lips and was still denied an exit! Fatigue began
at last to triumph over remorse; and about the hour of the first milkman, he returned to the
door of the mansion; looked at it with a horrid expectation, as though it should have burst
that instant into flames; drew out his key, and when his foot already rested on the steps,
once more lost heart and fled for repose to the grisly shelter of a coffee-shop.

It was on the stroke of noon when he awoke. Dismally searching in his pockets, he found himself
reduced to half-a-crown; and, when he had paid the price of his distasteful couch, saw himself
obliged to return to the Superfluous Mansion. He sneaked into the hall and stole on tiptoe
to the cupboard where he kept his money. Yet half a minute, he told himself, and he would be
free for days from his obseding lodger, and might decide at leisure on the course he should
pursue. But fate had otherwise designed: there came a tap at the door and Zero entered.

"Have I caught you?" he cried, with innocent gaiety. "Dear fellow, I was growing quite impatient."
And on the speaker's somewhat stolid face there came a glow of genuine affection. "I am so
long unused to have a friend," he continued, "that I begin to be afraid I may prove jealous."
And he wrung the hand of his landlord.

Somerset was, of all men, least fit to deal with such a greeting. To reject these kind advances
was beyond his strength. That he could not return cordiality for cordiality was already almost
more than he could carry. That inequality between kind sentiments which, to generous characters,
will always seem to be a sort of guilt, oppressed him to the ground; and he stammered vague
and lying words.

"That is all right," cried Zero--"that is as it should be--say no more! I had a vague alarm;
I feared you had deserted me; but I now own that fear to have been unworthy, and apologise.
To doubt of your forgiveness were to repeat my sin. Come, then; dinner waits; join me again
and tell me your adventures of the night."

Kindness still sealed the lips of Somerset; and he suffered himself once more to be set down
to table with his innocent and criminal acquaintance. Once more the plotter plunged up to the
neck in damaging disclosures: now it would be the name and biography of an individual, now
the address of some important centre, that rose, as if by accident, upon his lips; and each
word was like another turn of the thumbscrew to his unhappy guest. Finally, the course of Zero's
bland monologue led him to the young lady of two days ago; that young lady, who had flashed
on Somerset for so brief a while but with so conquering a charm; and whose engaging grace,
communicative eyes, and admirable conduct of the sweeping skirt, remained imprinted on his memory.

"You saw her?" said Zero. "Beautiful, is she not? She, too, is one of ours: a true enthusiast:
nervous, perhaps, in presence of the chemicals; but in matters of intrigue the very soul of
skill and daring. Lake, Fonblanque, de Marly, Valdevia, such are some of the names that she
employs; her true name--but there, perhaps, I go too far. Suffice it, that it is to her I owe
my present lodging, and, dear Somerset, the pleasure of your acquaintance. It appears she knew
the house. You see, dear fellow, I make no concealment: all that you can care to hear, I tell
you openly."

"For God's sake," cried the wretched Somerset, "hold your tongue! You cannot imagine how you
torture me!"

A shade of serious discomposure crossed the open countenance of Zero.

"There are times," he said, "when I begin to fancy that you do not like me. Why, why, dear
Somerset, this lack of cordiality? I am depressed; the touchstone of my life draws near; and
if I fail"--he gloomily nodded--"from all the height of my ambitious schemes, I fall, dear
boy, into contempt. These are grave thoughts, and you may judge my need of your delightful
company. Innocent prattler, you relieve the weight of my concerns. And yet ... and yet...."
The speaker pushed away his plate, and rose from table. "Follow me," said he, "follow me. My
mood is on; I must have air, I must behold the plain of battle."

So saying, he led the way hurriedly to the top flat of the mansion, and thence, by ladder and
trap, to a certain leaded platform, sheltered at one end by a great stalk of chimneys and occupying
the actual summit of the roof. On both sides, it bordered, without parapet or rail, on the
incline of slates; and, northward above all, commanded an extensive view of housetops, and,
rising through the smoke, the distant spires of churches.

"Here," cried Zero, "you behold this field of city, rich, crowded, laughing with the spoil
of continents; but soon, how soon, to be laid low! Some day, some night, from this coign of
vantage, you shall perhaps be startled by the detonation of the judgment gun--not sharp and
empty like the crack of cannon, but deep-mouthed and unctuously solemn. Instantly thereafter,
you shall behold the flames break forth. Ay," he cried, stretching forth his hand, "ay, that
will be a day of retribution. Then shall the pallid constable flee side by side with the detected
thief. Blaze!" he cried, "blaze, derided city! Fall, flatulent monarchy, fall like Dagon!"

With these words his foot slipped upon the lead; and but for Somerset's quickness, he had been
instantly precipitated into space. Pale as a sheet, and limp as a pocket-handkerchief, he was
dragged from the edge of downfall by one arm; helped, or rather carried, down the ladder; and
deposited in safety on the attic landing. Here he began to come to himself, wiped his brow,
and at length, seizing Somerset's hand in both of his, began to utter his acknowledgments.

"This seals it," said he. "Ours is a life and death connection. You have plucked me from the
jaws of death; and if I were before attracted by your character, judge now of the ardour of
my gratitude and love! But I perceive I am still greatly shaken. Lend me, I beseech you, lend
me your arm as far as my apartment."

A dram of spirits restored the plotter to something of his customary self-possession; and he
was standing, glass in hand and genially convalescent, when his eye was attracted by the dejection
of the unfortunate young man.

"Good Heavens, dear Somerset," he cried, "what ails you? Let me offer you a touch of spirits."

But Somerset had fallen below the reach of this material comfort.

"Let me be," he said. "I am lost; you have caught me in the toils. Up to this moment, I have
lived all my life in the most reckless manner, and done exactly what I pleased, with the most
perfect innocence. And now--what am I? Are you so blind and wooden that you do not see the
loathing you inspire me with? Is it possible you can suppose me willing to continue to exist
upon such terms? To think," he cried, "that a young man, guilty of no fault on earth but amiability,
should find himself involved in such a damned imbroglio!" And, placing his knuckles in his
eyes, Somerset rolled upon the sofa.

"My God," said Zero, "is this possible? And I so filled with tenderness and interest! Can it
be, dear Somerset, that you are under the empire of these outworn scruples? or that you judge
a patriot by the morality of the religious tract? I thought you were a good agnostic."

"Mr. Jones," said Somerset, "it is in vain to argue. I boast myself a total disbeliever not
only in revealed religion, but in the data, method, and conclusions of the whole of ethics.
Well! what matters it? what signifies a form of words? I regard you as a reptile, whom I would
rejoice, whom I long, to stamp under my heel. You would blow up others? Well then, understand:
I want, with every circumstance of infamy and agony, to blow up you!"

"Somerset, Somerset!" said Zero, turning very pale, "this is wrong; this is very wrong. You
pain, you wound me, Somerset."

"Give me a match!" cried Somerset wildly. "Let me set fire to this incomparable monster! Let
me perish with him in his fall!"

"For God's sake," cried Zero, clutching hold of the young man, "for God's sake command yourself!
We stand upon the brink; death yawns around us; a man--a stranger in this foreign land--one
whom you have called your friend----"

"Silence!" cried Somerset, "you are no friend, no friend of mine. I look on you with loathing,
like a toad: my flesh creeps with physical repulsion; my soul revolts against the sight of you."

Zero burst into tears. "Alas!" he sobbed, "this snaps the last link that bound me to humanity.
My friend disowns--he insults me. I am indeed accurst."

Somerset stood for an instant staggered by this sudden change of front. The next moment, with
a despairing gesture, he fled from the room and from the house. The first dash of his escape
carried him hard upon half way to the next police-office; but presently began to droop; and
before he reached the house of lawful intervention, he fell once more among doubtful counsels.
Was he an agnostic? had he a right to act? Away with such nonsense, and let Zero perish! ran
his thoughts. And then again: had he not promised, had he not shaken hands and broken bread?
and that with open eyes? and if so, how could he take action, and not forfeit honour? But honour?
what was honour? A figment, which, in the hot pursuit of crime, he ought to dash aside. Ay,
but crime? A figment, too, which his enfranchised intellect discarded. All day, he wandered
in the parks, a prey to whirling thoughts; all night, patrolled the city; and at the peep of
day he sat down by the wayside in the neighbourhood of Peckham and bitterly wept. His gods
had fallen. He who had chosen the broad, daylit, unencumbered paths of universal scepticism,
found himself still the bondslave of honour. He who had accepted life from a point of view
as lofty as the predatory eagle's, though with no design to prey; he who had clearly recognised
the common moral basis of war, of commercial competition, and of crime; he who was prepared
to help the escaping murderer or to embrace the impenitent thief, found, to the overthrow of
all his logic, that he objected to the use of dynamite. The dawn crept among the sleeping villas
and over the smokeless fields of city; and still the unfortunate sceptic sobbed over his fall
from consistency.

At length he rose and took the rising sun to witness. "There is no question as to fact," he
cried; "right and wrong are but figments and the shadow of a word; but for all that, there
are certain things that I cannot do, and there are certain others that I will not stand." Thereupon
he decided to return, to make one last effort of persuasion, and, if he could not prevail on
Zero to desist from his infernal trade, throw delicacy to the winds, give the plotter an hour's
start, and denounce him to the police. Fast as he went, being winged by this resolution, it
was already well on in the morning when he came in sight of the Superfluous Mansion. Tripping
down the steps, was the young lady of the various aliases; and he was surprised to see upon
her countenance the marks of anger and concern.

"Madam," he began, yielding to impulse and with no clear knowledge of what he was to add.

But at the sound of his voice she seemed to experience a shock of fear or horror; started back;
lowered her veil with a sudden movement; and fled, without turning, from the square.

Here, then, we step aside a moment from following the fortunes of Somerset, and proceed to
relate the strange and romantic episode of THE BROWN BOX.

DESBOROUGH'S ADVENTURE

THE BROWN BOX

Mr. Harry Desborough lodged in the fine and grave old quarter of Bloomsbury, roared about on
every side by the high tides of London, but itself rejoicing in romantic silences and city
peace. It was in Queen Square that he had pitched his tent, next door to the Children's Hospital,
on your left hand as you go north: Queen Square, sacred to humane and liberal arts, whence
homes were made beautiful, where the poor were taught, where the sparrows were plentiful and
loud, and where groups of patient little ones would hover all day long before the hospital,
if by chance they might kiss their hand or speak a word to their sick brother at the window.
Desborough's room was on the first floor and fronted to the square; but he enjoyed besides,
a right by which he often profited, to sit and smoke upon a terrace at the back, which looked
down upon a fine forest of back gardens, and was in turn commanded by the windows of an empty room.

On the afternoon of a warm day, Desborough sauntered forth upon this terrace, somewhat out
of hope and heart, for he had been now some weeks on the vain quest of situations, and prepared
for melancholy and tobacco. Here, at least, he told himself that he would be alone; for, like
most youths who are neither rich, nor witty, nor successful, he rather shunned than courted
the society of other men. Even as he expressed the thought, his eye alighted on the window
of the room that looked upon the terrace; and, to his surprise and annoyance, he beheld it
curtained with a silken hanging. It was like his luck, he thought; his privacy was gone, he
could no longer brood and sigh unwatched, he could no longer suffer his discouragement to find
a vent in words or soothe himself with sentimental whistling; and in the irritation of the
moment, he struck his pipe upon the rail with unnecessary force. It was an old, sweet, seasoned
briar-root, glossy and dark with long employment, and justly dear to his fancy. What, then,
was his chagrin, when the head snapped from the stem, leaped airily in space, and fell and
disappeared among the lilacs of the garden?

He threw himself savagely into the garden chair, pulled out the story-paper which he had brought
with him to read, tore off a fragment of the last sheet, which contains only the answers to
correspondents, and set himself to roll a cigarette. He was no master of the art; again and
again, the paper broke between his fingers and the tobacco showered upon the ground; and he
was already on the point of angry resignation, when the window swung slowly inward, the silken
curtain was thrust aside, and a lady somewhat strangely attired stepped forth upon the terrace.

"Señorito," said she, and there was a rich thrill in her voice, like an organ note, "Señorito,
you are in difficulties. Suffer me to come to your assistance."

With the words, she took the paper and tobacco from his unresisting hands; and with a facility
that, in Desborough's eyes, seemed magical, rolled and presented him a cigarette. He took it,
still seated, still without a word; staring with all his eyes upon that apparition. Her face
was warm and rich in colour; in shape, it was that piquant triangle, so innocently sly, so
saucily attractive, so rare in our more northern climates; her eyes were large, starry, and
visited by changing lights; her hair was partly covered by a lace mantilla, through which her
arms, bare to the shoulder, gleamed white; her figure, full and soft in all the womanly contours,
was yet alive and active, light with excess of life, and slender by grace of some divine proportion.

"You do not like my cigarrito, Señor?" she asked. "Yet it is better made than yours." At that
she laughed, and her laughter trilled in his ear like music; but the next moment her face fell.
"I see," she cried. "It is my manner that repels you. I am too constrained, too cold. I am
not," she added, with a more engaging air, "I am not the simple English maiden I appear."

"Oh!" murmured Harry, filled with inexpressible thoughts.

"In my own dear land," she pursued, "things are differently ordered. There, I must own, a girl
is bound by many and rigorous restrictions; little is permitted her; she learns to be distant,
she learns to appear forbidding. But here, in free England--oh, glorious liberty!" she cried,
and threw up her arms with a gesture of inimitable grace--"here there are no fetters; here
the woman may dare to be herself entirely, and the men, the chivalrous men--is it not written
on the very shield of your nation, honi soit? Ah, it is hard for me to learn, hard for me to
dare to be myself. You must not judge me yet awhile; I shall end by conquering this stiffness,
I shall end by growing English. Do I speak the language well?"

"Perfectly--oh, perfectly!" said Harry, with a fervency of conviction worthy of a graver subject.

"Ah, then," she said, "I shall soon learn; English blood ran in my father's veins; and I have
had the advantage of some training in your expressive tongue. If I speak already without accent,
with my thorough English appearance, there is nothing left to change except my manners."

"Oh no," said Desborough. "Oh, pray not! I--madam----"

"I am," interrupted the lady, "the Señorita Teresa Valdevia. The evening air grows chill. Adios,
Señorito." And before Harry could stammer out a word, she had disappeared into her room.

He stood transfixed, the cigarette still unlighted in his hand. His thoughts had soared above
tobacco, and still recalled and beautified the image of his new acquaintance. Her voice re-echoed
in his memory; her eyes, of which he could not tell the colour, haunted his soul. The clouds
had risen at her coming, and he beheld a new-created world. What she was, he could not fancy,
but he adored her. Her age, he durst not estimate; fearing to find her older than himself,
and thinking sacrilege to couple that fair favour with the thought of mortal changes. As for
her character, beauty, to the young, is always good. So the poor lad lingered late upon the
terrace, stealing timid glances at the curtained window, sighing to the gold laburnums, rapt
into the country of romance; and when at length he entered and sat down to dine, on cold boiled
mutton and a pint of ale, he feasted on the food of gods.

Next day when he returned to the terrace, the window was a little ajar and he enjoyed a view
of the lady's shoulder, as she sat patiently sewing and all unconscious of his presence. On
the next, he had scarce appeared when the window opened, and the Señorita tripped forth into
the sunlight, in a morning disorder, delicately neat, and yet somehow foreign, tropical, and
strange. In one hand she held a packet.

"Will you try," she said, "some of my father's tobacco--from dear Cuba? There, as I suppose
you know, all smoke, ladies as well as gentlemen. So you need not fear to annoy me. The fragrance
will remind me of home. My home, Señor, was by the sea." And as she uttered these few words,
Desborough, for the first time in his life, realised the poetry of the great deep. "Awake or
asleep, I dream of it; dear home, dear Cuba!"

"But some day," said Desborough, with an inward pang, "some day you will return!"

"Never!" she cried; "ah, never, in Heaven's name!"

"Are you then resident for life in England?" he inquired, with a strange lightening of spirit.

"You ask too much, for you ask more than I know," she answered sadly; and then, resuming her
gaiety of manner: "But you have not tried my Cuban tobacco," she said.

"Señorita," said he, shyly abashed by some shadow of coquetry in her manner, "whatever comes
to me--you--I mean," he concluded, deeply flushing, "that I have no doubt the tobacco is delightful."

"Ah, Señor," she said, with almost mournful gravity, "you seemed so simple and good, and already
you are trying to pay compliments--and besides," she added, brightening, with a quick upward
glance, into a smile, "you do it so badly! English gentlemen, I used to hear, could be fast
friends, respectful, honest friends; could be companions, comforters, if the need arose, or
champions, and yet never encroach. Do not seek to please me by copying the graces of my countrymen.
Be yourself: the frank, kindly, honest English gentleman that I have heard of since my childhood
and still longed to meet."

Harry, much bewildered, and far from clear as to the manners of the Cuban gentlemen, strenuously
disclaimed the thought of plagiarism.

"Your national seriousness of bearing best becomes you, Señor," said the lady. "See!" marking
a line with her dainty, slippered foot, "thus far it shall be common ground; there, at my window-sill,
begins the scientific frontier. If you choose, you may drive me to my forts; but if, on the
other hand, we are to be real English friends, I may join you here when I am not too sad; or,
when I am yet more graciously inclined, you may draw your chair beside the window and teach
me English customs, while I work. You will find me an apt scholar, for my heart is in the task."
She laid her hand lightly upon Harry's arm, and looked into his eyes. "Do you know," said she,
"I am emboldened to believe that I have already caught something of your English aplomb? Do
you not perceive a change, Señor? Slight, perhaps, but still a change? Is my deportment not
more open, more free, more like that of the dear 'British Miss,' than when you saw me first?"
She gave a radiant smile; withdrew her hand from Harry's arm; and before the young man could
formulate in words the eloquent emotions that ran riot through his brain--with an "Adios, Señor:
good-night, my English friend," she vanished from his sight behind the curtain.

The next day, Harry consumed an ounce of tobacco in vain upon the neutral terrace; neither
sight nor sound rewarded him, and the dinner-hour summoned him at length from the scene of
disappointment. On the next, it rained; but nothing, neither business nor weather, neither
prospective poverty nor present hardship, could now divert the young man from the service of
his lady; and wrapt in a long ulster, with the collar raised, he took his stand against the
balustrade, awaiting fortune, the picture of damp and discomfort to the eye, but glowing inwardly
with tender and delightful ardours. Presently the window opened; and the fair Cuban, with a
smile imperfectly dissembled, appeared upon the sill.

"Come here," she said, "here, beside my window. The small verandah gives a belt of shelter."
And she graciously handed him a folding-chair.

As he sat down, visibly aglow with shyness and delight, a certain bulkiness in his pocket reminded
him that he was not come empty-handed.

"I have taken the liberty," said he, "of bringing you a little book. I thought of you, when
I observed it on the stall, because I saw it was in Spanish. The man assured me it was by one
of the best authors, and quite proper." As he spoke, he placed the little volume in her hand.
Her eyes fell as she turned the pages, and a flush rose and died again upon her cheeks, as
deep as it was fleeting. "You are angry," he cried in agony. "I have presumed."

"No, Señor, it is not that," returned the lady. "I"--and a flood of colour once more mounted
to her brow--"I am confused and ashamed because I have deceived you. Spanish," she began, and
paused--"Spanish is of course my native tongue," she resumed, as though suddenly taking courage;
"and this should certainly put the highest value on your thoughtful present; but alas, sir,
of what use is it to me? And how shall I confess to you the truth--the humiliating truth--that
I cannot read?"

As Harry's eyes met hers in undisguised amazement, the fair Cuban seemed to shrink before his
gaze. "Read?" repeated Harry. "You!"

She pushed the window still more widely open with a large and noble gesture. "Enter, Señor,"
said she. "The time has come to which I have long looked forward, not without alarm; when I
must either fear to lose your friendship, or tell you without disguise the story of my life."

It was with a sentiment bordering on devotion that Harry passed the window. A semi-barbarous
delight in form and colour had presided over the studied disorder of the room in which he found
himself. It was filled with dainty stuffs, furs and rugs and scarves of brilliant hues, and
set with elegant and curious trifles--fans on the mantelshelf, an antique lamp upon a bracket,
and on the table a silver-mounted bowl of cocoa-nut about half full of unset jewels. The fair
Cuban, herself a gem of colour and the fit masterpiece for that rich frame, motioned Harry
to a seat, and, sinking herself into another, thus began her history.

STORY OF THE FAIR CUBAN

I am not what I seem. My father drew his descent, on the one hand, from grandees of Spain,
and on the other, through the maternal line, from the patriot Bruce. My mother, too, was the
descendant of a line of kings; but, alas! these kings were African. She was fair as the day:
fairer than I, for I inherited a darker stain of blood from the veins of my European father;
her mind was noble, her manners queenly and accomplished; and seeing her more than the equal
of her neighbours and surrounded by the most considerate affection and respect, I grew up to
adore her, and when the time came, received her last sigh upon my lips, still ignorant that
she was a slave and alas! my father's mistress. Her death, which befell me in my sixteenth
year, was the first sorrow I had known: it left our home bereaved of its attractions, cast
a shade of melancholy on my youth, and wrought in my father a tragic and durable change. Months
went by: with the elasticity of my years, I regained some of the simple mirth that had before
distinguished me; the plantation smiled with fresh crops; the negroes on the estate had already
forgotten my mother and transferred their simple obedience to myself; but still the cloud only
darkened on the brows of Señor Valdevia. His absences from home had been frequent even in the
old days, for he did business in precious gems in the city of Havana; they now became almost
continuous; and when he returned, it was but for the night and with the manner of a man crushed
down by adverse fortune.

The place where I was born and passed my days was an isle set in the Caribbean Sea, some half-hour's
rowing from the coasts of Cuba. It was steep, rugged, and, except for my father's family and
plantation, uninhabited and left to nature. The house, a low building surrounded by spacious
verandahs, stood upon a rise of ground and looked across the sea to Cuba. The breezes blew
about it gratefully, fanned us as we lay swinging in our silken hammocks, and tossed the boughs
and flowers of the magnolia. Behind and to the left, the quarter of the negroes and the waving
fields of the plantation covered an eighth part of the surface of the isle. On the right and
closely bordering on the garden, lay a vast and deadly swamp, densely covered with wood, breathing
fever, dotted with profound sloughs, and inhabited by poisonous oysters, man-eating crabs,
snakes, alligators, and sickly fishes. Into the recesses of that jungle none could penetrate
but those of African descent; an invisible, unconquerable foe lay there in wait for the European;
and the air was death.

One morning (from which I must date the beginning of my ruinous misfortune) I left my room
a little after day, for in that warm climate all are early risers, and found not a servant
to attend upon my wants. I made the circuit of the house, still calling; and my surprise had
almost changed into alarm, when, coming at last into a large verandahed court, I found it thronged
with negroes. Even then, even when I was amongst them, not one turned or paid the least regard
to my arrival. They had eyes and ears for but one person: a woman, richly and tastefully attired;
of elegant carriage, and a musical speech; not so much old in years, as worn and marred by
self-indulgence: her face, which was still attractive, stamped with the most cruel passions,
her eye burning with the greed of evil. It was not from her appearance, I believe, but from
some emanation of her soul, that I recoiled in a kind of fainting terror; as we hear of plants
that blight and snakes that fascinate, the woman shocked and daunted me. But I was of a brave
nature; trod the weakness down; and forcing my way through the slaves, who fell back before
me in embarrassment, as though in the presence of rival mistresses, I asked, in imperious tones:
"Who is this person?"

A slave girl, to whom I had been kind, whispered in my ear to have a care, for that was Madam
Mendizabal; but the name was new to me.

In the meanwhile the woman, applying a pair of glasses to her eyes, studied me with insolent
particularity from head to foot.

"Young woman," said she at last, "I have had a great experience in refractory servants, and
take a pride in breaking them. You really tempt me; and if I had not other affairs, and these
of more importance, on my hand, I should certainly buy you at your father's sale."

"Madam----" I began, but my voice failed me.

"Is it possible that you do not know your position?" she returned, with a hateful laugh. "How
comical! Positively, I must buy her. Accomplishments, I suppose?" she added, turning to the
servants.

Several assured her that the young mistress had been brought up like any lady, for so it seemed
in their inexperience.

"She would do very well for my place of business in Havana," said Señora Mendizabal, once more
studying me through her glasses; "and I should take a pleasure," she pursued, more directly
addressing myself, "in bringing you acquainted with a whip." And she smiled at me with a savoury
lust of cruelty upon her face.

At this, I found expression. Calling by name upon the servants, I bade them turn this woman
from the house, fetch her to the boat, and set her back upon the mainland. But with one voice
they protested that they durst not obey, coming close about me, pleading and beseeching me
to be more wise; and when I insisted, rising higher in passion and speaking of this foul intruder
in the terms she had deserved, they fell back from me as from one who had blasphemed. A superstitious
reverence plainly encircled the stranger; I could read it in their changed demeanour, and in
the paleness that prevailed upon the natural colour of their faces; and their fear perhaps
reacted on myself. I looked again at Madam Mendizabal. She stood perfectly composed, watching
my face through her glasses with a smile of scorn; and at the sight of her assured superiority
to all my threats, a cry broke from my lips, a cry of rage, fear, and despair, and I fled from
the verandah and the house.

I ran I knew not where, but it was towards the beach. As I went, my head whirled; so strange,
so sudden, were these events and insults. Who was she? what, in Heaven's name, the power she
wielded over my obedient negroes? Why had she addressed me as a slave? why spoken of my father's
sale? To all these tumultuary questions I could find no answer; and, in the turmoil of my mind,
nothing was plain except the hateful, leering image of the woman.

I was still running, mad with fear and anger, when I saw my father coming to meet me from the
landing-place; and, with a cry that I thought would have killed me, leaped into his arms and
broke into a passion of sobs and tears upon his bosom. He made me sit down below a tall palmetto
that grew not far off; comforted me, but with some abstraction in his voice; and, as soon as
I regained the least command upon my feelings, asked me, not without harshness, what this grief
betokened. I was surprised by his tone into a still greater measure of composure; and in firm
tones, though still interrupted by sobs, I told him there was a stranger in the island, at
which I thought he started and turned pale; that the servants would not obey me; that the stranger's
name was Madam Mendizabal, and, at that, he seemed to me both troubled and relieved; that she
had insulted me, treated me as a slave (and here my father's brow began to darken), threatened
to buy me at a sale, and questioned my own servants before my face; and that, at last, finding
myself quite helpless and exposed to these intolerable liberties, I had fled from the house
in terror, indignation, and amazement.

"Teresa," said my father, with singular gravity of voice, "I must make to-day a call upon your
courage; much must be told you, there is much that you must do to help me; and my daughter
must prove herself a woman by her spirit. As for this Mendizabal, what shall I say? or how
am I to tell you what she is? Twenty years ago, she was the loveliest of slaves; to-day she
is what you see her--prematurely old, disgraced by the practice of every vice and every nefarious
industry, but free, rich, married, they say, to some reputable man, whom may Heaven assist!
and exercising among her ancient mates, the slaves of Cuba, an influence as unbounded as its
reason is mysterious. Horrible rites, it is supposed, cement her empire: the rites of Hoodoo.
Be that as it may, I would have you dismiss the thought of this incomparable witch; it is not
from her that danger threatens us; and into her hands, I make bold to promise, you shall never
fall."

"Father!" I cried. "Fall? Was there any truth, then, in her words? Am I--O father, tell me
plain; I can bear anything but this suspense."

"I will tell you," he replied, "with merciful bluntness. Your mother was a slave; it was my
design, so soon as I had saved a competence, to sail to the free land of Britain, where the
law would suffer me to marry her: a design too long procrastinated; for death, at the last
moment, intervened. You will now understand the heaviness with which your mother's memory hangs
about my neck."

