"Good luck sign wuz w'en a stray cat kum ter yo' house an' stay dere. Bad luck sign wuz a black
kat crossin' yo' path in frunt ob yer. Ter ke'p frum havin' de bad luck yo' back up pas' whar
hit crossed yer path en den spit an' yer hab no bad luck."

"Dem air ships luk nice but dey ez spoke 'boud in de Holy Bible, dat sum day dere wud be flyin'
things in de air'h an' I think dat dese things am it. De otomobeels kiver nuder passag' in
de Bible which seze de peeple 'll rid' on de streets widout hosses en mules."

"Mah fav'rite songs am "I Gwine to Jine de Gideon Band," and "Keep Yo' Lits Bunnin'."

"Ter ole now ter wuk an' mah haid don' se'm ter be tergedder an' I'se gits he'ps frum de Welfare."

INTERVIEW ANN MATTHEWS 719 9th Ave. South Nashville, Tennessee

"I wuz bawn in Murfreesboro on Stones River. I dunno how ole I ez en hit meks me 'shamed ter
tell peeple dat, but mah mammy would hit me in de mouth w'en I'd ax how ole I wuz. She say
I wuz jes' tryin' ter be grown."

"Mah mammy's name wuz Frankie en mah daddy wuz Henry Ken Kannon. Don' member much 'bout mah
mammy 'cept she wuz a sho't fat Indian 'oman wid a turrible tempah. She d'ed, durin' de war,
wid black measles."

"Mah daddy wuz part Indian en couldn't talk plain. W'en he go ter de store he'd hab ter put
his han' on w'at he want ter buy. He d'ed eight months 'fore de Centennial."

"Our marster en missis wuz Landon en Sweenie Ken Kannon. Dey wuz good ter us, en we had'n good
things ter eat."

"I member de Yankee en Southern soldiers. One day me en mah young missis, en sum chilluns went
up ter de road en we se'ed sum Yankee soldiers kumin', I clum'ed on de fence, de urthurs run
'way en hid. One ob de soldiers sezs ter me, 'Lettle girl who wuz dat wid you,' en I sezs,
'Hit wuz Miss Puss en sum chilluns.' He laughed en sezs, 'You ez brave ain' you?'"

"Our missis let us go ter chuch. I 'long ter de chuch ob Christ."

"I dunno ob but one slave dat got lan' er nothin' w'en freedum wuz 'clared. We didn't git nuthin
at freedum. Mah daddy went back in de woods en built us a saplin house en dobbed hit wid mud.
Atter freedum mah daddy went 'way, en we chilluns staid in dat house in de woods by oursel's.
Dere wuz two weeks we didn't see a bit ob bre'd. I went up w'at ez called de nine mile cut
neah Tullahoma, en axed a 'oman ef she would let us hab sum bre'd. She gib me sum meat en bre'd,
en tole me ter kum back. I went back home en we et sump'in, en I went back ter de 'oman's house,
she gib me a sack ob flour en a big piece ob midlin' meat. We wuz skeered, bein' dere 'lone
so I would set up wile mah br'ers slep', den I'd sleep in de daytime. One nite sumbody knocked
at de do'er en hit wuz mah daddy en he had two sacks ob food, en de urthur chilluns got up
en we et a big meal."

"I useter 'yer de folks talk 'bout de sta'rs fallin', but dat happen' 'fore I wuz bawn."

"I didn't go ter schul, mah daddy wouldin' let me. Said he needed me in de fiel wors den I
needed schul. I wuz allus sassy en stubbun. I run 'way fum mah daddy en kum ter Nashville.
I stayed at a schul on Franklin Pike, run by Mrs. McGathey. I wuz de only cul'ed person dere.
Dey wuz good ter me en eve'y Chrismus I would git a big box ob clothes en things."

"In Manchester de Klu Klux Klan wore big high hats, red handkerchiefs on dere faces en red
covers on dere hosses. Dey tuk two niggers out ob jail en hung dem ter a chestnut tree."

"One nite w'en I wuz gwine wid mah daddy fum de fiel' home, we met sum ob de K.K.K. en dey
said, 'Ain't you out late Henry? En who ez dat gal wid you?' Mah daddy said, 'We ez gwine home
fum wuk, en dis ez mah daughter.' Dey said, 'Whar has she bin, we ain't nebber se'ed her.'
He told dem, 'I'd bin in Nashville.' Dey said dey'd be back dat nite but we didn't see dem."

"W'en I wuz in Manchester I promus de Lawd I wouldin' dance. But one nite I wuz on de ball
floor, dancin' fum one end ob de room ter de urthur en sump'in sezs go ter de do'er. I didn't
go right den en 'gin hit sezs you ez not keepin' yo promus. I went ter de do'er en you could
pick a pin off de groun' hit wuz so light. In de sky wuz de prettiest thing you ebber se'ed,
so many culors, blue, white, green, red en yellow."

"Since freedum I'se wuked wid diff'ent peeple, cookin' en keepin' house. I'se de mammy ob three
chilluns. Two ob dem ez 'way fum 'yer, en I live 'yer wid mah daughter."

"Old songs, I member ez:

Dark wuz de Nite. I'll Live wid Gawd Forever, Bye en Bye. Fum dis Earth I go, Oh Lawd, W'at
Will 'kum ob Me."

"So yer wan't me ter tell you de truf? I think de young peeple ez nothin'. Dey think dey ez
smaht. Most ob de ex-slaves I'se knowed has cooked en nussed, done laundry wuk; wuked in fiel's
en diff'ent things."

"I'se neber voted en hab neber paid any 'tention ter de niggers gittin' ter vote. Don't hab
any frens in political office. Can't member any tales er signs."

"I don't b'leeve in dese mixed white and black families en hit shouldn't be 'lowed."

"Durin' slavery de white folks didn't want de niggahs ter sing en pray, but dey would turn
a pot down en meet at de pot in de nite en sing en pray en de white folks wouldn't 'yer dem."

"Ef a slave died de white folks wouldn't let nobody set up wid de body 'cept de niggers ob
dat plantation, but urthur slaves would slip in atter dark, set up en den slip back ter dere
plantation 'fore day."

"W'en I useter go ter camp meetin' dey had big dinnahs en spread hit on de groun'. Dey preached,
sung, shouted en eve'ybody had a good time."

"Fum de camp meetin's dey would go ter de wharf en baptize. Dey would tie handkerchiefs 'roun
dere haids. W'en dey wuz dipped under de water sum ob dem would kum up shoutin'."

A TALE

One time de preacher wuz in de river fixin' ter baptize a man. Eve'ybody wuz singin' ole time
'ligion. A 'oman sung, "I don' lak dat thing 'hind you." Bout dat time de pahson en de udder
man se'd an alligator. De parson sezs, "No-By-God I Don't Either." He turned de man loose en
dey both run 'way.

INTERVIEW REV. JOHN MOORE 809 7th Avenue So. Nashville, Tennessee

"I wuz bawn in Georgia (exact time not known) en mah mammy wuz half Indian en mah daddy a slave.
Both ob dem owned by William Moore. Sum time atter dat Marster Moore sold mah daddy en den
de Moore Sistuhs looked atter me en wuz allus good ter me. "Lawdy, dey wuz good white folks."

"Durin' slavery times de slaves would hab ter git fum dere marster a pas' 'fore dey could visit
dere own people on de uther plantations. Ef'n you had no pass you would git in trouble ef caught
wid out one which allus ment a good whuppin' w'en dey returned. At dat time menny slaves would
run 'way en hide in caves en menny ob dem would go by de "ondergroun' railroad" ter Canada
whar slavery wuz not recognized." (The underground railroad consisted of hiding places throughout
the states to Canada and the slaves would make the trip under cover from station to station.)

"De slaves would slip out at nite ter private meetin's en turn a pot bottom up on de groun'
en leave a little hole under hit so de sound ob dere talkin' would go onder de pot en no one
would 'year whut dey wuz talkin' 'bout."

"De ex-slaves ob de better class did vote en de white peeple stuck wid de good cul'ed folks.
I don' member now 'bout de Nat Turner 'Bellion."

"Atter freedum de slaves wuz 'lowed ter stay on de plantation en 'lowed ter farm en gib half
dey made. Atter slavery I useter wuk fer fifty cents en git a peck ob meal, three pounds ob
bacon en a quart ob syrup which would las' a week."

"De Ku Klux Klan's plan wuz ter whup all white er cul'ed people dat didn't stay at home en
support dere families but would run 'roun en live a bad life. W'en de Klan would be passin'
through de slaves would call dem ghostus."

"One nite mah br'er en me wuz sleepin' in de dining room. Sumpin woke us an we seed sumpin'
dat kum through de yard en got hold ob sum blocks. Dat thing didn't hab no haid en didn't hab
no tale en looked lak hit wuz backin' up on all four legs. Nex mawnin' we could fin' no tracks
ob whuteber hit wuz en de gate wuz also fasened."

"Dis young peoples 'cordin' ter de Bible ez on de broad road ter ruin. Dey think dey ez as
good as de white people but dey ez classed as niggahs in mah eyes."

"Caint member any ob de ole songs now."

SUBJECT--EX-SLAVE STORIES

Andrew Moss #88 Auburn Streets Knoxville, Tennessee

"One ting dat's all wrong wid dis world today," according to Andrew Moss, aged negro, as he
sits through the winter days before an open grate fire in his cabin, with his long, lean fingers
clasped over his crossed knees, "is dat dey ain no 'prayer grounds'. Down in Georgia whar I
was born,--dat was 'way back in 1852,--us colored folks had prayer grounds. My Mammy's was
a ole twisted thick-rooted muscadine bush. She'd go in dar and pray for deliverance of de slaves.
Some colored folks cleaned out knee-spots in de cane breaks. Cane you know, grows high and
thick, and colored folks could hide de'seves in dar, an nobody could see an pester em."

"You see it was jes like dis. Durin' de war, an befo de war too, white folks make a heap o
fun of de colored folks for alltime prayin. Sometime, say, you was a slave en you git down
to pray in de field or by de side of de road. White Marster come 'long and see a slave on his
knees. He say, 'What you prayin' 'bout?' An you say, 'Oh, Marster I'se jes prayin' to Jesus
cause I wants to go to Heaven when I dies.' An Marster say, 'Youse my negro. I git ye to Heaven.
Git up off'n your knees.' De white folks what owned slaves thought that when dey go to Heaven
de collored folk's would be dar to wait on em. An ef'n it was a Yank come 'long, he say too,
'What you prayin' 'bout?' You gives de same 'sponse. An he say, 'We'se gwine save you. We goin'
to set you free. You wants to be free, dont you?' 'Yessir, Boss!' 'Well den, Yank say, come
go 'long wid me.' Ain no use keep sayin' 'Please sir Boss, I'll have to arsk my Master.' Yank
say, 'what you mean, Marster? You aint got no Marster. We's settin' you free.'"

"Sometimes dey takes a' tie a rope 'round you, and they starts ridin' off but dey dont go too
fas' so you walks behind. Sometimes 'long comes another Yank on a horse an he arsk, 'Boy ain
you tired?' 'Yessir Boss.' 'Well den you git up here behind me and ride some.' Den he wrop
de rope all 'round de saddle horn. Wrops and wrops, but leaves some slack. But he keeps you
tied, so's you wont jump down and run away. An many's de time a prayin' negro got took off
like dat, and want never seen no more."

"'Course ef'n you goes wid em, you 'member your trainin' and 'fore you leaves de field, you
stacks your hoe nice, like you was quittin' de days work. Dey learned the little'uns to do
dat, soon's dey begins to work in de fields. Dey had little hoes, handles 'bout de size of
my arm, for de little fellers. I've walked many a mile, when I was a little feller, up and
down de rows, followin' de grown folks, an chopping wid de hoe 'round de corners whar de earth
was soft so de little uns could hoe easy. Whoopee! Let dat dinner horn blow, and evy body stacks
dey hoes, nince, neat stacks standin up, and starts to run. Some eats in dey own cabins, but
dem what eats at de big house, sets down at a long table, and gets good grub too! Evy night,
our Marster give us evy one a glass o whiskey. Dat's to keep off decease. Mornins' we had to
all drink tar water for de same purpose. Dat want so tasty."

"My Marster's name was George Hopper. Dat man paid taxes on more'n two-thousand acres of land
in two counties. I lived in dem two counties. Was born in Wilkes and raised in Lincoln County,
Georgia. We called it de middle-south. My Marster he never did marry. Lots of folks didnt,
dey jes took up wid one another. Marster Hopper had five children by my grandmother. She was
his house woman, dat's what he call 'er. An when he died he willed her and all dem chilluns
a house, some land, and a little money. He'd of left em a heap more money and ud been one of
the richest men in the country, ef'n de war hadn't broke out. When it was over he had a barrel
full of 'Federate greenbacks. But t'want no count. He done broke den. One day my uncle, he
was the colored overseer, he went to Danbury, six miles from whar we lived at, and he paid
$5 for a pound of coffee. Dat was befo de North whupped de South, and dey had'n killed-down
de money value for de South."

"Talk about hard times! We see'd em in dem days, durin' de war and most specially after de
Surrender. Folks dese days dont know what trouble looks like. We was glad to eat ash-cakes
and drink parched corn and rye 'stead o coffee. I've seed my grandmother go to de smoke house,
and scrape up de dirt whar de meat had drapped, and take it to de house fer seasonin. You see,
both armies fed off'n de white folks, and dey cleaned out dey barns and cellars and smoke houses
when dey come. One time, when de Yanks was on de way to Augusta, I was picking up chips to
make the supper fire, when I see'd em comin'. I hit it out from dar and hide behind two little
hills down by de big spring. After awhile my brother find me and he tell me to come on back
to the house and see dem white mens dance. De Yanks kep' comin' and dey eat all night. By daylight
they was through marchin past."

"An den come de Rebels. When dey come we had five-thousand bushel of corn, one-hundred head
o hogs, three-hundred and fifty galons of syrup 'en sech. When dey left, they took an set fire
to evything, to keep it away from the Yanks, aimin to starve em out o dat country. Dat's what
dey done. Some of dem Rebs was mean as the Yanks. And dat was bein' mean. Some called de Yanks,
'de Hornets', 'cause dey fight so. Take a Yank an he'd fight acrost a buzz saw and it circlin'
fifty mile a minute."

"Dat time when the Yanks was goin' to Augusta, an I went to black my Marster's boot,--he'd
give us a two-cent peice, big as a quarter--for boot blackin, I say, 'Marster who is dem soldiers?'
An he say to me, 'Dey's de Yankees, come to try to take you awy from me.' An I say, 'Looks
like to me Marster, ef'n dey wants to take us dey'd arsk you fer us.' Marster laughed and say,
'Boy! Dem fellers dont axes wid words. Dey does all dey talkin' wid cannons.' Did you know
that a white woman shot de first cannon dat was ever fired in de state o Georgia? She was a
Yankee Colonel's wife, dey say, named Miss Anna, I dunno the rest o her name. She wants to
be de first to fire a cannon she say, to set the negroes free. Dat was befo' de war, begin.
De roar of dat cannon was in folkes ears for more'n five days and nights."

Uncle Andrew gave a little grunt as he lifted himself out of his chair. His little frame seemed
lost in the broad-shouldered lumber jacket that he wore. He had laid aside the paper sack from
which he had been eating, when the visitor came, and removed an old stocking cap from his head.
When the visitor suggested that he keep it on, as he might catch cold he replied, "I dont humor
myself none." The sunlight fell upon his head and shoulders as he stood, to steady himself
on his feet. Traces of his ancestry of Indian blood,--one of his grandfathers was a Cherokee
Indian,--were evident in his features. His skin is jet-black, but his forehead high and his
nose straight, with nostrils only slightly full. There was dignity in his bearing and beauty
in his face, with its halo of cotton-white hair and beard, cut short and neatly parted in the
middle of his chin.

Walking about the room, he called the visitor's attention to family portraits on the walls.
Some were colored crayons, and a few were enlarged snap-shots. Proudly he pointed to the photograph
of a huge-sized Negro man, apparently in his thirties, and said, "He was our first comins'.
Reckon he took after his great granddaddy, who was eight feet tall and weighed twe-hundred
and fifty pounds. That man's arms was so long, when dey hung down by his side, his fingers
was below his knees. Dis grandfather was free-born. My father, Dave Moss, he was sold three
times. He had twenty-five children. But he had two wives. As I aforesaid, folks didn't always
marry in dem days, jes took up wid one another. My mother was his title-wife. By her, he jes
had me and my two full-brothers an one sister. My mother died two years after de war. My father
give my sister to my grandmother. Jes give 'er to 'er."

"How come I live in Knoxville, I was a young man, when I started off from Georgia, aimin to
go over de mountains to Kentucky whar I heard dey pay good wages. I stopped in Campbell country,
Tennessee wid another feller, an' I see'd a pretty gal workin' in de field. An I say's, I'm
goin' to marry dat gal. Sho 'nough me an her was married in less dan six months. Her Marster
build us a log house and we lived dar 'till we come to Knoxville, Tennessee. Now, all o my
boys is dead. Evy one o em worked for Mr. Peters (Peters and Bradley Flour Mills, of Knoxville)--and
dey all died workin' fer him. So Mister Willie, he say he gwine let me live here, in de company
house, the rest o my days."

The four room frame house stands near a creek at the dead end of an alley on which both whites
and negroes live. The huge double bed, neatly made, stands between two windows from which there
is an unobstructed view of the highway traversing north and south through northern Knoxville,
several blocks away from Andrew's home. "I jes lay down on dat bed nights and watch them autimobiles
flyin by. Dey go Blip! Blip! and Blip! An I say to my self, 'Watch them fools!' Folkes ain
got de sense dey's born wid. Ain smart like dey used to be. An times ain good like dey was.
Ef'n it hadnt been for some of dem crazy fools, actin up and smarty, me an my wife'd be gittin
maybe a hun'ered an' more dollars a month, 'stead o the fifteen we gits 'tween us for ole'
age help. They'd ought to let Rosevelt alone. An its his own folks as is fitin' 'im. He is
a big man even ef he is a Democrat. I'm a Republican though. Voted my first time for Blaine."

"Yes I votes sometimes now, when dey come gits me. An befo I got sick, I would ride the street
car to town. An I goes down to de Court House, and when I see dem cannons in deyard I cain
keep from cryin'. My wife arsk me what make me go look at dem cannon ef'n dey makes me cry.
An I tells her I cry 'bout de good and de bad times dem cannon bringed us. But no cannons or
nothin' else, seems like going to bring back de good old times. But I dont worry 'bout all
dese things much. Accordin' to de Good Book's promise, weepin' may endure for a night, den
come joy in de mornin. An I knows dat de day's soon come when I goes to meet my folks and my
Lord an Marster in his Heaven, whar dey ain no more weepin.'"

SUBJECT--EX-SLAVE STORIES

Aunt Mollie Moss # 88- Auburn Street, Knoxville, Tennessee

There is no street sign or a number on any of the ramshackled frame cottages that seemingly
lean with the breezes, first one direction, then another, along the alley that wind's through
the city's northernmost boundary and stops its meanderings at the doorstep of "Uncle Andrew
Moss" and his wife, "Aunt Mollie."

The City Directory of Knoxville, Tennessee officially lists the Moss residence as # 88 Auburn
Street. It rests upon its foundations more substantially, and is in better kept condition than
its neighbors. In lieu of a "reg'lar" house number, the aged negro couple have placed a rusty
automobile lisence tag of ancient vintage conspicuously over their door. It is their jesture
of contempt for their nearest white neighbors who "dont seem to care whedder folkses know whar
dey lib an maybe don wants em to."

As for Aunt Mollie, she holds herself superior to all of her neighbors. She "Ain got no time
for po white trash noway." She shoo'ed two little tow-headed white girls from her doorstep
with her broom as she stood in her door and watched a visitor approach. "G'wan way frum here
now, can be bodder wid you chillun messin ups my front yard. Take yo tings an go on back to
yo own place!"

"Dats way dey do," she mummled as she lead the visitor inside the cottage, through the dining-room
and kitchen into the living-room and bedroom. "Don know what I gwine do when come summer time.
Keeps me all time lookin out for dem chilluns. Dey's dat troublesome. Brings trash in on my
flo what I jes scoured, an musses 'roun, maybe tryin to steal sumpin an me watchin em too.
Dey wasnt teached manners and 'havior in odder folkses houses like what I war."

When Aunt Mollie learned that it was to hear her story of how she was trained in manners end
behaviorism, that the visitor had come, and to hear something of her recollections of slave
days, her belligerent mood vanished. The satisfied manner in which she drew up chairs before
the fire, took a pinch of snuff and settled her skirts, indicated that was going to be quite
a session. She leaned her elbows on her knees, held her head between the palms of her hands
and fumbled in her cloudy memory to gather a few facts to relate.

Uncle Andrew, the more intelligent of the two, and quick to seize upon his opportunity, began
his reminiscences immediately, saying "Honey, wait now," when his wife thought herself well
organized to talk, and frequently broke into his narrative. "Wait untell I gits through. Den
you can talk." Aunt Mollie would frown and grunt, mumble to herself as she rocked back and
forth in her chair. She pulled the two long braids of brown silky hair, streaked with white,
and tied at the ends with cotton strings. She spat vigorously into the fire, kept muttering
and shuffling her feet, which were encased in men's shoes.

At last it came Aunt Mollie's turn to talk war-times. Uncle Andrew, well pleased with his recital,
retired to his corner by the hearth and listened "mannerdly"--after first warning the visitor
in a gentle undertone, that "My wife she ain got much mem'ry an she don hear good." Aunt Mollie's
rambling reminiscences backed up his statement. She began.

"Reckon I mus be 'bout eighty-two, three year old. I dunno exactly. Ef I knowed whar to find
em, deys some my white folkes lib in dis town. Seem like I can 'member dey names. I b'longed
to Marster Billy Cain, and was raised on his farm in Campbell county, Tennessee. Oh, 'bout
six, seven mile from Jacksboro. Wish I could go back dar some time. Ain been dar sence me an
Moss married an live eight, ten or some more years in a log cabin he built for us. We was married
March 7, de day atter Cleveland was 'lected presi-dent. In 1885 did you say? Well, reckon you're
right. I ain had no schoolin an I can 'member lots o tings I used to know."

"Billy Cain worked me in de fields. An his wife Miss Nancy say she gwine stop it, 'cause I
was so pretty she fraid somebody come steal me." Aunt Mollie buried her face in her apron and
had a good laugh. "Dey said I was de pretties' girl anywhars about. Had teeth jes like pearls.
Whoops! Look at em now. Ain got 'nuff left to chaw wid. You notices how light-complected I
is? My own father was a full-blooded Cherokee Indian. De Yanks captured him an killed him."

"I was hoein in de field dat time Moss com 'long and see me and say he gwine marry me. An,
jes like he tell you, we was married in less dan six months. We been livin togedder evy since
and we gits along good. We have had blessins' and got a lot to be thankful for. Could have
more to eat sometimes, but we gits along someways. I am a good cook. Miss Nancy she teached
me all kinds o cookin, puttin up berries, makin pickles and bakin bread and cake an evy'ting.
Her ole man Cain give us good grub dem days. Monday mornins' we go to de Cains to git rations
for de week. Dey gib us three pounds wheat, a peck o meal, a galon o molasses, two pound o
lard, two pound o brown sugar, rice an evy'ting. I use to have plates an china white folks
gib me. White woman come one day, say she wan buy 'em. Took plum nigh all I had. Did'n pay
me much o nothin' either."

"Yes, Lord. I does 'member 'bout de war. I've see'd de blue an I've see'd de grey. In 1862
I see'd de soldiers formin' in line. I was a great big girl. Dem swords glisen' like stars.
Can' member whar dey was goin dat time. But I ain forgit de times soldiers come foragin. Dey
got all dey wanted, too. Hep' dey sef's an dont pay for it, never. Soldier see a chicken go
under de house, he plop down and shoot, and den call me to crawl under de house and fetch it
out." Aunt Mollie buried her head in her apron again and laughed like a child. "Lordy how scared
I was of de old gander dat blowed at me, whilst I was tryin' to drag 'em out alive, when I
see'd de soldiers comin'."

"Billy Cain, he was brudder-in-law to Old Townslee, who lived on a plantation in Alabama. How
come my mother was give to Cain an come to Tennessee, was one mornin' Old Townslee rode his
horse out under a tree to blow up de slaves. Blow de horn you know, to call 'em to work. Somebody
shot 'im. Right off his horse. It was so dark, 'fore daylight, an' couldnt see and dey never
did find out who shot 'im. Heap o white folks had enemies dem days. So de slaves he owned was
divided munxt his chilluns. My mother was one of nine dat come to Billy Cain dat way."

"Talk 'bout your shootin jest for devilment. Lemme tell you 'bout old men John Wynn. He live
down dar 'bout ten mile from whar Moss lived when he was a boy. I've heard em tell it many
a time. Dey say John Wynn had 185 slaves. Evy time it come George Washington's birthday, Old
Wynn he had a feast and invite all de slaves! He celebratin! he say. He seta a long table wid
all kind good tings to eat. An he count de slaves, so's to be sure dey all come. An' den he'd
take an pick out one and shoot him! Den he say, "Now youse all can go 'head an eat. Throw dat
nigger 'side an we bury im in mornin'." And he walks off to de big house. No! He wasn't drunk.
Jes de debil in 'im. Well, he shot ten, twelve, maybe thirty dat way. An den de white folks
hanged 'im to a tree. Hanged im t'well he was good and dead, dey did."

"Now folkes can 'joy dey victuals wid sech goin's on. De slaves git so's dey scared to hear
de bell ring. Don' know what it mean. Maybe death, maybe fire, maybe nudder sale o some body.
Gwine take 'em way. But when de bell ring dey had to come. Let dat ole bell ring and de woods
was full o negroes. Maybe 500 hundred come from all over date county."

Aunt Mollie was beginning to ramble and babble incoherently, her memories of her own and the
experiences of others all confused in her mind. When she had about finished a story about how
one of the slave women, "bust de skull" of the head of her marster,'" 'cause she was nussin
a sick baby an' he tell her she got to git out in dat field an hoe" and the gory details of
what the shovel did to the white marster's head, it was time for the visitors to close the
interview.

Both Uncle Andrew and Aunt Mollie followed the visitor to the front door, and wished her "All
de luck in de world. An thank you for comin'. An come see us agin, nudder time."

INTERVIEW ANDY ODELL 1313 Pearl Street Nashville, Tennessee

"I wuz bawn east ob Spring Hill, Tennessee. I dunno in w'at y'ar, but I wuz a ful' grown man
w'en I wuz freed. (This will make him about 96 years old.). I wuz an onlies' chile en I nebber
knowed mah daddy. Mah mammy wuz sold 'way fum me. She ma'ied a man named Brown en dey had seven
chillun."

"At fust I 'longed ter Marster Jim Caruthers. W'en his daughter ma'ied Fount Odell, I wuz willed
ter her en den mah marsters wuz Fount en Albert Odell who wuz br'ers. Mah white folks let us
go ter chuch. I b'leeves in de Baptist 'ligion. I nebber knowed any slave dat had ter hide
ter sing er pray. I members de comet en hit wuz a sta'r wid a long tail en looked lak hit wuz
burnin'. De sta'rs fell 'fore I wuz bawn." (The stars fell in 1833).

"We had ter hab passes en if you didn't hab one, you got whupped. Mah marster let me go ter
chuch wid' out a pass. I members de Klu Klux Klan but dey nebber bothered me, tho I 'yeard
a lot 'bout dem. Dey called demselves "White Caps" en said dey wuz rite fum de grave. W'en
a slave got whupped hit wuz cose dey disobey dere white folks en de overseer whupped dem. I
though mah white folks wuz awful mean ter me sumtime."

"I nebber b'leeved in ghos' but hab yeard lots 'bout dem. Lots of peeples did b'leeve in dem
back in dem times. Uster sing a lot but I dunno names ob dem now. I dunno w'at ez gwine ter
'kum ob dis young crowd. I sho don't think diff'ent culers oughter ma'rie. De Lawd didn't mean
fer hit ter be dun. Dunno ob any slave 'risin's in Virginia er any uther place. Don't member
now de tales en sayin' ob de ole times."

"Member well w'en de war broke out en how dey had big dinners en marched 'round ovuh de fiel's,
gittin' ready fer de war. I had a br'er kilt in de war en mah mammy got a lettle money fum
'im. Also member dat w'en mah mammy got de money she bought me a hat."

"I don't git nuthin at freedum en I dunno ob any slaves gittin' any land er money. I know dat
w'en we wuz freed Marster Albert called us slaves in en said, "You all ez as free as I ez,
but you can stay 'yer en wuk fer me ef'n you want ter." I staid wid 'im a good w'ile attar
freedum."

"Since freedum I hab plowed, hoed, cut wood, en wuk'd in quarries pecking rock. Hab nebber
wuk'd in town fer I dunno de things 'bout town. I hab voted almost eve'y election since freedum
'til dese last few years. I hab had two frens in office but both ez de'd now. I uster think
'omen shouldn't vote, but I guess hit ez alri'te."

INTERVIEW LAURA RAMSEY PARKER 715 Gay St. Nashville, Tennessee

"I'se 87 y'ars ole. Wuz bawn in slavery. Wuz freed w'en de slavery stopped. Mack Ramsey wuz
mah marster en he wuz sho good ter his slaves. He treated dem as human bein's. W'en he turned
his slaves 'loose he gib dem no money, but gib dem lands, clothin' en food 'til dey could brang
in dere fust crop. Mah daddy rented a strip ob land 'til he wuz able ter buy de place. He lived
on de same fer menny y'ars."

"W'en I wuz ole er'nuff I wuz taught ter spin en weav. I bucum de nuss ter de marster's onlies'
chile. Soon atter I wuz freed, I went ter Wisconsin, but only wuz dere fer a y'ar, den I kum
back ter Tennessee en Nashville. I settled in dis house en I'se bin livin' in hit fer ovuh
fifty y'ars. Dere wuz no uther houses 'round 'yer at de time. I own de place. Hab wuk'd all
mah life seem ter me. At one time I wuz a chambermaid at de Nicholson House now de Tulane en
later 'kum a sick nuss, a seamstress, dressmaker but now I pieces en sells bed quilts. I does
mah own housekeepin' en washin'."

"I don't member now, very much 'bout de Ku Klux Klan. I do member dat one nite dey passed our
home en I grab'ed a shotgun en said dat I wuz gwine ter shoot dem ef dey kum on de place. I
members de Battle ob Murfreesboro, but I'se got no membrances ob any slave uprisin'."

