This cockatoo is the first I have seen, and is a great prize. It has a rather small and weak
body, long weak legs, large wings, and an enormously developed head, ornamented with a magnificent
crest, and armed with a sharp-pointed hoofed bill of immense size and strength. The plumage
is entirely black, but has all over it the curious powdery white secretion characteristic of
cockatoo. The cheeks are bare, and of an intense blood-red colour. Instead of the harsh scream
of the white cockatoos, its voice is a somewhat plaintive whistle. The tongue is a curious
organ, being a slender fleshy cylinder of a deep red colour, terminated by a horny black plate,
furrowed across and somewhat prehensile. The whole tongue has a considerable extensile power.
I will here relate something of the habits of this bird, with which I have since become acquainted.
It frequents the lower parts of the forest, and is seen singly, or at most two or three together.
It flies slowly and noiselessly, and may be killed by a comparatively slight wound. It eats
various fruits and seeds, but seems more particularly attached to the kernel of the kanary-nut,
which grows on a lofty forest tree (Canarium commune), abundant in the islands where this bird
is found; and the manner in which it gets at these seeds shows a correlation of structure and
habits, which would point out the "kanary" as its special food. The shell of this nut is so
excessively hard that only a heavy hammer will crack it; it is somewhat triangular, and the
outside is quite smooth. The manner in which the bird opens these nuts is very curious. Taking
one endways in its bill and keeping it firm by a pressure of the tongue, it cuts a transverse
notch by a lateral sawing motion of the sharp-edged lower mandible. This done, it takes hold
of the nut with its foot, and biting off a piece of leaf retains it in the deep notch of the
upper mandible, and again seizing the nut, which is prevented from slipping by the elastic
tissue of the leaf, fixes the edge of the lower mandible in the notch, and by a powerful nip
breaks of a piece of the shell, again taking the nut in its claws, it inserts the very long
and sharp point of the bill and picks out the kernel, which is seized hold of, morsel by morsel,
by the extensible tongue. Thus every detail of form and structure in the extraordinary bill
of this bird seems to have its use, and we may easily conceive that the black cockatoos have
maintained themselves in competition with their more active and more numerous white allies,
by their power of existing on a kind of food which no other bird is able to extract from its
stony shell. The species is the Microglossum aterrimum of naturalists.

During the two weeks which I spent in this little settlement, I had good opportunities of observing
the natives at their own home, and living in their usual manner. There is a great monotony
and uniformity in everyday savage life, and it seemed to me a more miserable existence than
when it had the charm of novelty. To begin with the most important fact in the existence of
uncivilized peoples--their food--the Aru men have no regular supply, no staff of life, such
as bread, rice, mandiocca, maize, or sago, which are the daily food of a large proportion of
mankind. They have, however, many sorts of vegetables, plantains, yams, sweet potatoes, and
raw sago; and they chew up vast quantities of sugar-cane, as well as betel-nuts, gambir, and
tobacco. Those who live on the coast have plenty of fish; but when inland, as we are here,
they only go to the sea occasionally, and then bring home cockles and other shell-fish by the
boatload. Now and then they get wild pig or kangaroo, but too rarely to form anything like
a regular part of their diet, which is essentially vegetable; and what is of more importance,
as affecting their health, green, watery vegetables, imperfectly cooked, and even these in
varying and often in sufficient quantities. To this diet may be attributed the prevalence of
skin diseases, and ulcers on the legs and joints. The scurfy skin disease so common among savages
has a close connexion with the poorness and irregularity of their living. The Malays, who are
never without their daily rice, are generally free from it; the hill-Dyaks of Borneo, who grow
rice and live well, are clean skinned while the less industrious and less cleanly tribes, who
live for a portion of the year on fruits and vegetables only, are very subject to this malady.
It seems clear that in this, as in other respects, man is not able to make a beast of himself
with impunity, feeding like the cattle on the herbs and fruits of the earth, and taking no
thought of the morrow. To maintain his health and beauty he must labour to prepare some farinaceous
product capable of being stored and accumulated, so as to give him a regular supply of wholesome
food. When this is obtained, he may add vegetables, fruits, and meat with advantage.

The chief luxury of the Aru people, besides betel and tobacco, is arrack (Java rum), which
the traders bring in great quantities and sell very cheap. A day's fishing or rattan cutting
will purchase at least a half-gallon bottle; and when the tripang or birds' nests collected
during a season are sold, they get whole boxes, each containing fifteen such bottles, which
the inmates of a house will sit round day and night till they have finished. They themselves
tell me that at such bouts they often tear to pieces the house they are in, break and destroy
everything they can lay their hands on, and make such an infernal riot as is alarming to behold.

The houses and furniture are on a par with the food. A rude shed, supported on rough and slender
sticks rather than posts, no walls, but the floor raised to within a foot of the eaves, is
the style of architecture they usually adopt. Inside there are partition walls of thatch, forming
little boxes or sleeping places, to accommodate the two or three separate families that usually
live together. A few mats, baskets, and cooking vessels, with plates and basins purchased from
the Macassar traders, constitute their whole furniture; spears and bows are their weapons;
a sarong or mat forms the clothing of the women, a waistcloth of the men. For hours or even
for days they sit idle in their houses, the women bringing in the vegetables or sago which
form their food. Sometimes they hunt or fish a little, or work at their houses or canoes, but
they seem to enjoy pure idleness, and work as little as they can. They have little to vary
the monotony of life, little that can be called pleasure, except idleness and conversation.
And they certainly do talk! Every evening there is a little Babel around me: but as I understand
not a word of it, I go on with my book or work undisturbed. Now and then they scream and shout,
or laugh frantically for variety; and this goes on alternately with vociferous talking of men,
women, and children, till long after I am in my mosquito curtain and sound asleep.

At this place I obtained some light on the complicated mixture of races in Aru, which would
utterly confound an ethnologist. Many of the natives, though equally dark with the others,
have little of the Papuan physiognomy, but have more delicate features of the European type,
with more glossy, curling hair: These at first quite puzzled me, for they have no more resemblance
to Malay than to Papuan, and the darkness of skin and hair would forbid the idea of Dutch intermixture.
Listening to their conversation, however, I detected some words that were familiar to me. "Accabó"
was one; and to be sure that it was not an accidental resemblance, I asked the speaker in Malay
what "accabó" meant, and was told it meant "done or finished," a true Portuguese word, with
its meaning retained. Again, I heard the word "jafui" often repeated, and could see, without
inquiry, that its meaning was "he's gone," as in Portuguese. "Porco," too, seems a common name,
though the people have no idea of its European meaning. This cleared up the difficulty. I at
once understood that some early Portuguese traders had penetrated to these islands, and mixed
with the natives, influencing their language, and leaving in their descendants for many generations
the visible characteristics of their race. If to this we add the occasional mixture of Malay,
Dutch, and Chinese with the indigenous Papuans, we have no reason to wonder at the curious
varieties of form and feature occasionally to be met with in Aru. In this very house there
was a Macassar man, with an Aru wife and a family of mixed children. In Dobbo I saw a Javanese
and an Amboyna man, each with an Aru wife and family; and as this kind of mixture has been
going on for at least three hundred years, and probably much longer, it has produced a decided
effect on the physical characteristics of a considerable portion of the population of the islands,
more especially in Dobbo and the parts nearest to it.

March 28th.--The "Orang-kaya" being very ill with fever had begged to go home, and had arranged
with one of the men of the house to go on with me as his substitute. Now that I wanted to move,
the bugbear of the pirates was brought up, and it was pronounced unsafe to go further than
the next small river. This world not suit me, as I had determined to traverse the channel called
Watelai to the "blakang-tana;" but my guide was firm in his dread of pirates, of which I knew
there was now no danger, as several vessels had gone in search of them, as well as a Dutch
gunboat which had arrived since I left Dobbo. I had, fortunately, by this time heard that the
Dutch "Commissie" had really arrived, and therefore threatened that if my guide did not go
with me immediately, I would appeal to the authorities, and he would certainly be obliged to
gig a back the cloth which the "Orang-kaya" had transferred to him in prepayment. This had
the desired effect; matters were soon arranged, and we started the next morning. The wind,
however, was dead against us, and after rowing hard till midday we put in to a small river
where there were few huts, to cook our dinners. The place did not look very promising, but
as we could not reach our destination, the Watelai river, owing to the contrary wind, I thought
we might as well wait here a day or two. I therefore paid a chopper for the use of a small
shed, and got my bed and some boxes on shore. In the evening, after dark, we were suddenly
alarmed by the cry of "Bajak! bajak!" (Pirates!) The men all seized their bows and spears,
and rushed down to the beach; we got hold of our guns and prepared for action, but in a few
minutes all came back laughing and chattering, for it had proved to be only a small boat and
some of their own comrades returned from fishing. When all was quiet again, one of the men,
who could speak a little Malay, came to me and begged me not to sleep too hard. "Why?" said
I. "Perhaps the pirates may really come," said he very seriously, which made me laugh and assure
him I should sleep as hard as I could.

Two days were spent here, but the place was unproductive of insects or birds of interest, so
we made another attempt to get on. As soon as we got a little away from the land we had a fair
wind, and in six hours' sailing reached the entrance of the Watelai channel, which divides
the most northerly from the middle portion of Aru. At its mouth this was about half a mile
wide, but soon narrowed, and a mile or two on it assumed entirely the aspect of a river about
the width of the Thames at London, winding among low but undulating and often hilly country.
The scene was exactly such as might be expected in the interior of a continent. The channel
continued of a uniform average width, with reaches and sinuous bends, one bank being often
precipitous, or even forming vertical cliffs, while the other was flat and apparently alluvial;
and it was only the pure salt-water, and the absence of any stream but the slight flux and
reflux of the tide, that would enable a person to tell that he was navigating a strait and
not a river. The wind was fair, and carried us along, with occasional assistance from our oars,
till about three in the afternoon, when we landed where a little brook formed two or three
basins in the coral rock, and then fell in a miniature cascade into the salt water river. Here
we bathed and cooked our dinner, and enjoyed ourselves lazily till sunset, when we pursued
our way for two hours snore, and then moored our little vessel to an overhanging tree for the
night.

At five the next morning we started again, and in an hour overtook four large praus containing
the "Commissie," who had come from Dobbo to make their official tour round the islands, and
had passed us in the eight. I paid a visit to the Dutchmen, one of whom spoke a little English,
but we found that we could get on much better with Malay. They told me that they had been delayed
going after the pirates to one of the northern islands, and had seen three of their vessels
but could not catch them, because on being pursued they rowed out in the wind's eye, which
they are enabled to do by having about fifty oars to each boat. Having had some tea with thorn,
I bade them adieu, and turned up a narrow channel which our pilot said would take us to the
village of Watelai, on the west side of Are. After going some miles we found the channel nearly
blocked up with coral, so that our boat grated along the bottom, crunching what may truly be
called the living rock. Sometimes all hands had to get out and wade, to lighten the vessel
and lift it over the shallowest places; but at length we overcame all obstacles and reached
a wide bay or estuary studded with little rocks and islets, and opening to the western sea
and the numerous islands of the "blakang-tuna." I now found that the village we were going
to was miles away; that we should have to go out to sea, and round a rocky point. A squall
seemed coming on, and as I have a horror of small boats at sea, and from all I could learn
Watelai village was not a place to stop at (no birds of Paradise being found there), I determined
to return and go to a village I had heard of up a tributary of the Watelai river, and situated
nearly in the centre of the mainland of Aru. The people there were said to be good, and to
be accustomed to hunting and bird-catching, being too far inland to get any part of their food
from the sea. While I was deciding this point the squall burst upon us, and soon raised a rolling
sea in the shallow water, which upset an oil bottle and a lamp, broke some of my crockery,
and threw us all into confusion. Rowing hard we managed to get back into the main river by
dusk, and looked out for a place to cook our suppers. It happened to be high water, and a very
high tide, so that every piece of sand or beach was covered, and it was with the greatest difficulty,
and after much groping in the dark, that we discovered a little sloping piece of rock about
two feet square on which to make a fire and cook some rice. The next day we continued our way
back, and on the following day entered a stream on the south side of the Watelai river, and
ascending to where navigation ceased found the little village of Wanumbai, consisting of two
large houses surrounded by plantations, amid the virgin forests of Aru.

As I liked the look of the place, and was desirous of staying some time, I sent my pilot to
try and make a bargain for house accommodation. The owner and chief man of the place made many
excuses. First, he was afraid I would not like his house, and then was doubtful whether his
son, who was away, would like his admitting me. I had a long talk with him myself, and tried
to explain what I was doing, and how many things I would buy of them, and showed him my stock
of heads, and knives, and cloth, and tobacco, all of which I would spend with his family and
friends if he would give me house-room. He seemed a little staggered at this, and said he,
would talk to his wife, and in the meantime I went for a little walk to see the neighbourhood.
When I came back, I again sent my pilot, saying that I would go away if he would not dive me
part of his house. In about half an hour he returned with a demand for about half the cost
of building a house, for the rent of a small portion of it for a few weeks. As the only difficulty
now was a pecuniary one, I got out about ten yards of cloth, an axe, with a few beads and some
tobacco, and sent them as my final offer for the part of the house which I had before pointed
out. This was accepted after a little more talk, and I immediately proceeded to take possession.

The house was a good large one, raised as usual about seven feet on posts, the walls about
three or four feet more, with a high-pitched roof. The floor was of bamboo laths, and in the
sloping roof way an immense shutter, which could be lifted and propped up to admit light and
air. At the end where this was situated the floor was raised about a foot, and this piece,
about ten feet wide by twenty long, quite open to the rest of the house, was the portion I
was to occupy. At one end of this piece, separated by a thatch partition, was a cooking place,
with a clay floor and shelves for crockery. At the opposite end I had my mosquito curtain hung,
and round the walls we arranged my boxes and other stores, fated up a table and seat, and with
a little cleaning and dusting made the place look quite comfortable. My boat was then hauled
up on shore, and covered with palm-leaves, the sails and oars brought indoors, a hanging-stage
for drying my specimens erected outside the house and another inside, and my boys were set
to clean their gnus and get all ready for beginning work.

The next day I occupied myself in exploring the paths in the immediate neighbourhood. The small
river up which we had ascended ceases to be navigable at this point, above which it is a little
rocky brook, which quite dries up in the hot season. There was now, however, a fair stream
of water in it; and a path which was partly in and partly by the side of the water, promised
well for insects, as I here saw the magnificent blue butterfly, Papilio ulysses, as well as
several other fine species, flopping lazily along, sometimes resting high up on the foliage
which drooped over the water, at others settling down on the damp rock or on the edges of muddy
pools. A little way on several paths branched off through patches of second-growth forest to
cane-fields, gardens, and scattered houses, beyond which again the dark wall of verdure striped
with tree-trunks, marked out the limits of the primeval forests. The voices of many birds promised
good shooting, and on my return I found that my boys had already obtained two or three kinds
I had not seen before; and in the evening a native brought me a rare and beautiful species
of ground-thrush (Pitta novaeguinaeae) hitherto only known from New Guinea.

As I improved my acquaintance with them I became much interested in these people, who are a
fair sample of the true savage inhabitants of the Aru Islands, tolerably free from foreign
admixture. The house I lived in contained four or five families, and there were generally from
six to a dozen visitors besides. They kept up a continual row from morning till night--talking,
laughing, shouting, without intermission--not very pleasant, but interesting as a study of
national character. My boy Ali said to me, "Banyak quot bitchara Orang Aru" (The Aru people
are very strong talkers), never having been accustomed to such eloquence either in his own
or any other country he had hitherto visited. Of an evening the men, having got over their
first shyness, began to talk to me a little, asking about my country, &c., and in return I
questioned them about any traditions they had of their own origin. I had, however, very little
success, for I could not possibly make them understand the simple question of where the Aru
people first came from. I put it in every possible way to them, but it was a subject quite
beyond their speculations; they had evidently never thought of anything of the kind, and were
unable to conceive a thing so remote and so unnecessary to be thought about, as their own origin.
Finding this hopeless, I asked if they knew when the trade with Aru first began, when the Bugis
and Chinese and Macassar men first came in their praus to buy tripang and tortoise-shell, and
birds' nests, and Paradise birds?

This they comprehended, but replied that there had always been the same trade as long as they
or their fathers recollected, but that this was the first time a real white man had come among
them, and, said they, "You see how the people come every day from all the villages round to
look at you." This was very flattering, and accounted for the great concourse of visitors which
I had at first imagined was accidental. A few years before I had been one of the gazers at
the Zoolus, and the Aztecs in London. Now the tables were turned upon me, for I was to these
people a new and strange variety of man, and had the honour of affording to them, in my own
person, an attractive exhibition, gratis.

