Cardinal de Retz severely reprehends the historians of his time for their pedantic affectation
of explaining and accounting for every event they record--the motives that actuated this statesman,
the reasons which prompted that policy, the wherefore it was this enterprise miscarried, or
that undertaking brought to a successful issue. It would not be difficult to furnish a lengthy
catalogue of the blunders historical writers have perpetrated through their overweening addiction
to this folly. Let two instances here suffice: When the Roman Church, about the middle of the
eleventh century, was endeavouring to insure the celibacy of its priesthood, the married clergy,
who braved its censures and contemned its authority, became known as Nicolaites; which name,
grave writers assure us, was given them in consequence of the active share Pope Nicholas II.
had taken in punishing their contumacy and effecting their suppression. The notion that any
sect or class of religionists should have borrowed its name from that of its most zealous opponent
and indefatigable persecutor, is worthy only of those critics, so severely reprehended by Quintilian,
who professed to discover the etymon of the Latin word lucus, a grove, in the substantive lux,
light; and vindicated the derivation on the ground, that in groves darkness usually prevailed.
The familiar expression of lucus à non lucendo, owes its birth to this striking manifestation
of critical sagacity.

Again: a certain portion of the eastern and southern coast of England was, in early times,
denominated 'the Saxon Shore'--Littus Saxonicum--and was, during the days of Roman supremacy,
under the government of a military court enjoying the appellative of Comes Littoris Saxonici.
Acute historical critics inform us, that this tract was so denominated in consequence of its
being open to the aggressions of the Saxons; that, in short, it received its name from its
occasional invaders, and not from its permanent inhabitants. The absurdity of this explanation
is the greater, inasmuch as, on the other side of the Channel, there was a large district bearing
precisely the same name, and settled entirely by adventurers, Saxon in birth or by descent.
This, one would have thought, would have suggested to our English antiquaries a more probable
explanation of the name than that they adopted. The people of Genoa have, or had, in speaking,
a peculiar way of clipping or cutting short their syllables. Their Italian has never been considered
pure. You must not go to maritime towns for purity of language, especially to such as have
been long and extensively engaged in commercial pursuits. Labat, however, gives a special and
peculiar reason for the fashion of mutilated speech in which, he declares, the Genoese indulge,
telling us they call their superb city Gena, and not Genoa. He refers their 'chopping' pronunciation
to their habitual economy--an economy distinctly traceable to their mercantile habits. 'Telle
est leur économie,' he says, 'ils rognent tout jusqu'aux paroles.'

The old English law-writer, Bracton, desiring to account for the ancient doctrine of English
law, that inheritances shall lineally descend, and never lineally ascend, finds a reason in
the fact, that a bowl being trundled, runs down a hill and never up a hill; and Littleton,
the first great writer on English real property-law, traces the origin of the phrase 'hotchpot'--a
familiar legal term--to the archaic denomination of a pudding, in our English tongue. 'It seemeth,'he
says, 'that this word, hotchpot, is in English a pudding; for in this pudding is not commonly
put one thing alone, and therefore it behoveth, in this case, to put the lands given in frank-marriage,'
&c. Erasmus used to say of lawyers, that of ignorant people, they were the most learned. Questionless
they are not always sound logicians. When the clown in Hamlet disserts so learnedly on 'crowner's
quest-law,' he is only parodying, and that closely, a scarcely less ludicrous judgment which
had actually been pronounced, not long before, in the Court of Queen's Bench. Dr Clarke, the
traveller, tells an amusing story to the purpose. According to him, the Turkish lawyers recognise
as an offence what they style 'homicide by an intermediate cause'--an instance of which offence
our traveller details in these words: 'A young man, desperately in love with a girl of Stanchio--the
ancient Cos, the birthplace of Hippocrates and Apelles, the lovely isle renowned for its lettuces
and turpentine--eagerly sought to marry her. But his proposals were rejected. In consequence,
he destroyed himself by poison. The Turkish police arrested the father of the obdurate fairy,
and tried him for culpable homicide. "If the accused," they argued, with becoming gravity,
"had not had a daughter, the deceased would not have fallen in love; consequently, he would
not have been disappointed; consequently, he would not have died: but he (the accused) had
a daughter, and the deceased had fallen in love," &c. &c. Upon all these counts he was called
upon to pay the price of the young man's life; and this, being eighty piastres, was accordingly
exacted.' When the amiable and gentle John Evelyn was in the Netherlands, a woman was pointed
out to him who had had twenty-five husbands, and was then a widow; 'yet it could not be proved,'
he says, that 'she had made any of her husbands away, though the suspicion had brought her
several times to trouble.' However, the Dutch logicians made no difficulty of the matter; and
arguing, from the number of the woman's husbands, that she could not be wholly innocent of
their death, prohibited her from marrying again--which, her addiction to matrimony being considered,
was perhaps, of all the 'troubles' she had undergone, by no means the least.

The logical faculty, which not only consists with the poetical, but is invariably and necessarily
associated with it, whenever the latter exists in an advanced stage of development, is in no
writer more conspicuous as an intellectual characteristic than in Schiller. In this respect
he is not excelled even by Wordsworth himself; but Homer sometimes snoozes, and Schiller's
reasoning is not always consequential: as, for instance, when he denies two compositions of
Ovid--the Tristia and Ex Ponto--to be genuine poetry, on the ground that they were the results
not of inspiration, but of necessity; just as if poetry were not a thing to be judged of by
itself; and as if one could not determine whether it were present or absent in a composition,
without knowing to what influences the author was subjected at the time the composition was
produced!

Rousseau, in one of his moods of bilious cynicism, falls foul of human reason altogether. No
man despised it more in action; no one could more consistently decry it in speculation. In
his opinion, the exercise of the reasoning powers is absolutely sinful--l'homme qui raisonne
est l'homme qui péche. Franklin, on the other hand, in a familiar tone of playful banter, vindicates
its utility, alleging that it is mightily 'convenient to be a rational animal, who knows how
to find or invent a plausible pretext for whatever it has an inclination to do.' Examples of
this convenience abound. The Barbary Jews were rich and industrious, and, accordingly, their
wealth provoke the cupidity of the indolent and avaricious Mussulmans. These latter, whenever
a long drought had destroyed vegetation, and the strenuous prayers offered up in the mosques
had proved unavailing for its removal, were accustomed to argue--and a mighty convenient argument
it was--that it was the foul breath of the Jews that had offended Heaven, and rendered the
pious petitions of the faithful of none effect. The remedy for the drought, then, who could
doubt? The true believers drove the Jews out of their cities, and quietly confiscated their
goods. Dryden, anxious to congratulate Charles II. on his 'happy restoration,' amidst a thousand
fulsome compliments--all tending to shew that that prince was the author of blessings, not
only to his own kingdoms, but to universal humanity--declares, that it was to Charles, and
to him only, Spain was indebted for her magnificent colonial possessions in either hemisphere.
Addressing the sovereign, his words are--

    'Spain to your gift alone her Indies owes,
    For what the powerful takes not, he bestows.'

A convenient fashion of reasoning truly: as convenient every whit as that of Daniel Burgess,
a witty Presbyterian minister, devoted to the House of Brunswick and the principles of the
Revolution, who was wont to affirm, as the reason the descendants of Jacob were called Israelites,
and did not receive the original name of their progenitor, that Heaven was unwilling they should
bear a name in every way so odious as that of Jacobites.

Once more: it appears from Dr Tschudi's valuable and interesting work on South America, that
in Peru rice is cheap, and servants both lazy and dirty. Now, the servants in Lima have a theory
about rice. They consider it possesses certain qualities antagonistic to water, so that, after
eating, to touch water would be seriously injurious to health; and thus does their frequent
consumption of rice supply them with a most convenient reason or excuse for their habitual
abstinence from an operation they detest--that of washing their hands.

Verily, they are mighty fine and convenient words, THEREFORE and BECAUSE.

DAVID'S LAST PICTURE.

The whole population of the good city of Brussels was in a state of excitement. Talma, the
great French tragedian, was that evening to close his engagement by appearing in his favourite
character of Leonidas; and from an early hour in the morning, the doors of the theatre were
beset with waiting crowds, extending to the very end of the large square in which it stood.
It was evident that the building, spacious as it was, could not contain one-half of the eager
expectants already assembled, and yet every moment brought a fresh accession to the number
destined to be disappointed. The hero of this ovation, and the object of all this unusual excitement
to the worthy and naturally phlegmatic beer-drinkers of old Brabant, was standing near a window
in the White Cross Hotel, engaged most prosaically in shaving himself; and, from time to time,
casting on the crowd, to which he was the magnet of attraction, the careless glance of a monarch
become from habit almost insensible to the loyal enthusiasm of his subjects.

'So he will not come?' said the tragedian to an old friend who was with him. 'He is a cynical
old fool; and yet, I assure you, my dear M. Lesec, that I had Leonidas got up expressly for
him, thinking to tickle his old republican fancies, for to my mind it is as stupid a play as
Germanicus, though I contrive to produce an effect with some of its high-sounding patriotic
passages; and I thought the worthy David would have recognised his own picture vivified. But
he will not come: he positively refused, you tell me. I might have known it. Age, exile, the
memory of the past--all this has cut him up terribly: he is the David of the Consulate no longer.'

'I am just come from him,' answered Collector Lesec: 'he received me almost as Hermione receives
Orestes in the fourth act of Andromache. To say the least of it, he was somewhat tart. "I never
go to the theatre," he answered abruptly. "Tell my friend Talma, that I thank him for his kindness;
but I always go to bed at nine. I should be very glad if he would come, before he left Brussels,
and have a tankard and a smoke with me."'

'I see,' said Talma with a half-ironical smile, 'he is turned quite Flemish. Poor fellow! to
what has he come?--to smoking tobacco, and losing all faith in art. Persecution does more harm
than the guillotine,' added the tragedian in a tone of bitterness. 'There is a living death.
David's exile has deprived us of many a chef-d'oeuvre. I can forgive the Restoration for surrounding
itself with nobodies, but it need not banish our men of talent: they are not to be found now-a-days
in every corner. But enough. Another word, and we should be talking politics.'

Leonidas finished shaving like any other man; and then turned suddenly to his friend: 'I bet
you ten napoleons,' said he, 'that David would have come to the play had I gone myself to him
with the invitation! I intended it, but I had not time; these rehearsals kill me--I might as
well be a galley-slave. However, I have about three-quarters of an hour to myself now, and
I will go beard the old Roman in his stronghold. What say you to going with me?'

It would have been difficult to name a place to which M. Lesec would not have gone, to have
the honour of being seen arm-in-arm with the great Talma; and in another half hour they were
on their way across the Place de la Monnaie into the Rue Pierre Plate.

'Now for a storm!' said Lesec. 'We are in for it: so be prepared. I leave it all on your shoulders,
noble sir, for I must keep clear of him.'

'Is he, then, so entirely changed?' exclaimed Talma, quickening his pace. 'Poor exile! unhappy
genius! torn from thy native soil, to languish and die!'

The visitors soon reached the large, though somewhat dilapidated mansion of the celebrated
artist; and after they had been reconnoitred through a small grating by an old female servant,
they were ushered into a rather gloomy apartment, presenting a singular discrepancy between
its antique decorations and modern furniture.

The illustrious exile came out of an adjoining apartment in his dressing-gown, and advanced
towards them with a quick yet almost majestic step, though his form was slightly bent, apparently
by age. To Talma's great surprise, David received him most cordially, even throwing away his
usually inseparable companion, a long pipe, to grasp both his hands. 'Welcome, welcome, my
old friend!' he said; 'you could not have come at a better time. I have not for many a day
felt so happy, and the sight of you is a great addition.' And the old painter kept rubbing
his hands, a token with him of exuberant satisfaction.

Talma looked at Lesec as much as to say: 'The devil is not quite so black as he is painted;'
while the worthy collector only shrugged his shoulders, and lifted his eyebrows in pantomimic
expression of his inability to comprehend such a sudden change in the atmosphere.

'You must promise to come and dine with me to-morrow,' continued the painter, accompanying
his invitation with a smile, or rather a grin, for David's face was very much disfigured by
a wen on his cheek, which also, by causing a twitching of the jaw, rendered his articulation
indistinct.

'To my great regret, I am obliged to decline your invitation, my dear friend,' said Talma.
'This is my last night here, and I must set off for Paris to-morrow.'

'Set off to-morrow!'

'Positively. Michelet and Dumas have the whole management on their shoulders, and are pressing
my return; and Lemercier is only waiting for me to read to us a sort of Richard the Third.'

'Nevertheless, you dine with me to-morrow. One day longer will not matter to them, and is a
great matter to me. I suspect Lemercier's Richard the Third is cold enough to keep a little
longer. I am to have my friend Girodet with me; so dine with us you must. It will make me grow
young again, man, and bring back the happy meetings at Moliker's, near the gate of the Louvre.'

The illustrious exile accompanied this sentence with another of his grim smiles. The actor
was deeply moved by it, for in that bitter smile he read how the artist pined for his country.
'I will stay with you, I will stay with you, dear David!' now eagerly cried Talma. 'For your
sake, I will desert my post, and steal a holiday from my Paris friends; but it can only be
on condition that you, too, will make a little sacrifice for me, and come this evening to see
me in Leonidas.'

'Well, I don't care if I do,' answered the painter, whom the sight of one friend, and the expectation
of seeing another, had made quite a different being from the David of the morning. 'Here goes
for Leonidas; but, remember, I give you fair warning--I shall go to sleep. I have scarcely
ever been in a theatre that I did not take a sound nap.'

'But when Talma plays, plaudits will keep you awake, M. David,' said the courtly M. Lesec;
and this seasonable compliment obtained for him a smile, and an invitation for the next day,
so flattering to his vanity that, even at the risk of compromising himself with the Prince
of Orange, he unhesitatingly accepted.

That evening, between six and seven o'clock, the old French painter, a Baron of the Empire,
entered the theatre in full dress, and with a new red ribbon in his button-hole; but, as if
shrinking from notice, he took his seat at the back of the stage-box, reserved for him by his
friend Talma, with M. Lesec by his side, prouder, more elated, more frizzled and befrilled,
than if he had been appointed first-commissioner of finance. But notwithstanding all the care
of the modest artist to preserve his incognito, it was soon whispered through the theatre that
he was one of the audience; and it was not long before he was pointed out, when instantly the
whole house stood up respectfully, and repeated cheers echoed from pit to vaulted roof. The
prince himself was among the first to offer this tribute to the illustrious exile, who, confused,
agitated, and scarcely able to restrain his tears, bowed to the audience rather awkwardly,
as he whispered to M. Lesec: 'So, then, I am still remembered. I thought no one at Brussels
cared whether I was dead or alive.'

Soon Talma appeared as Leonidas; and in his turn engrossed every eye, every thought of that
vast assembly. A triple round of applause hailed every speech uttered by the generous Spartan.
The painter of the Sabines, of Brutus, of the Horatii, of the Coronation, seemed to heed neither
the noisy acclamations nor the deep silence that succeeded each other. Mute, motionless, transfixed,
he heard not the plaudits: it was not Talma he saw, not Talma he was listening to. He was at
Thermopylæ by the side of Leonidas himself; ready to die with him and his three hundred heroes.
Never had he been so deeply moved. He had talked of sleep, but he was as much alive, as eager,
as animated, as if he were an actual sharer in the heroic devotedness that was the subject
of the drama. For some moments after the curtain fell, he seemed equally absorbed; it was not
till he was out of the theatre, and in the street, that he recovered sufficiently to speak;
and then it was only to repeat every five minutes: 'What a noble talent it is! What a power
he has had over me!'

A night of tranquil sleep, and dreams of bright happy days, closed an evening of such agreeable
excitement to the poor exile; and so cheering was its effect upon him, that he was up the next
morning before day, and his old servant, to her surprise, saw her usually gloomy and taciturn
master looking almost gay while charging her to have breakfast ready, and to be sure that dinner
was in every way befitting the honoured guests he expected.

'And are you going out, sir, and so early?' exclaimed the old woman; now, for the first time,
perceiving that her master had his hat on and his cane in his hand.

'Yes, Dame Rebecca,' answered David, as he gained the outer gate. 'I have grown a great boy,
and may be trusted to go alone.'

'But it is scarcely daylight yet. None of the shops are open.'

'I do not want to make any purchases.'

'Then, where in the world can you be going, sir, at this hour?'

'Sacre bleu!' returned the painter, losing all patience: 'could you not guess, you old fool,
that I am going as far as the Flanders-gate to meet my old friend Girodet?'

'O that, indeed! But are you sure he will come that way? And did he tell you the exact time?'

'What matter, you old torment? Suppose I have to wait a few minutes for him, I can walk up
and down, and it will be exercise for me, which, you know, Dr Fanchet has desired me to take.
Go along in, and don't let the dinner be spoiled.' And the old man went on his way with an
almost elastic step. Once more was he young, gay, happy. Was he not soon to see the friend
dearer to him than all the world? But his eagerness had made him anticipate by two hours the
usual time for the arrival of the diligence, and he was not made aware of his miscalculation
till after he had been a good while pacing up and down the suburb leading to the Flanders-gate.
The constant companion alike of his studio and his exile, his pipe, he had left behind him,
forgotten in his hurry; so that he had no resource but to continue his solitary walk, the current
of his happy thoughts flowing on, meanwhile, uninterrupted, save by an occasional greeting
from labourers going to their work, or the countrywomen hastening, as much as their Flemish
embonpoint would allow, to the city markets. When sauntering about alone, especially when waiting,
we, like children, make the most of everything that can while away the time, or give even the
semblance of being occupied: a flower-pot in a window, a parrot in a cage, nay, even an insect
flying past, is an absolute gain to us. David felt it quite a fortunate chance when he suddenly
caught sight of a sign-painter carrying on his work in the open air. Though evidently more
of a whitewasher than a painter, yet, from the top of his ladder, he was flourishing his brush
in a masterly style, and at times pausing and contemplating his work with as much complacency
as Gros could have done his wonderful cupola of Sainte-Geneviève.

The painter of Napoleon passed the self-satisfied dauber twice, not without some admiring glances
at the way in which he was plastering the background of his landscape with indigo, by way of
making a sky. At top of the sign, now nearly finished, was traced, in large characters, 'Break
of Day;' a precaution as indispensable to point out the artist's design, as the inscription,
'Dutch and Flemish Beer,' was to announce the articles dealt in by the owner of the house upon
which this masterpiece was to figure.

'Here's a pretty fellow!' said the artist to himself; 'with as much knowledge of perspective
as a carthorse; and yet, I doubt not, thinking himself a second Rubens. He brushes away as
if he were polishing a pair of boots. And what matter? Why should he not enjoy himself in his
own way?' But when he passed the ladder for the third time, and saw a fresh layer of indigo
putting over the first, his patience could hold out no longer, and he exclaimed, without stopping
or even looking at the offender: 'There is too much blue!'

'Eh! Do you want anything, sir?' said the sign-painter; but he who had ventured the criticism
was already at a distance.

Again, David passed by. Another glance at the 'Break of Day,' and another exclamation: 'Too
much blue, you blockhead!' The insulted plasterer turned round to reconnoitre the speaker,
and as if concluding, from his appearance, that he could be no very great connoisseur, he quietly
set to work again, shrugging his shoulders in wonder how it could possibly be any business
of his whether the sky was red, green, or blue. For the fourth time the unknown lounger repeated
his unwelcome criticism: 'Too much blue!'

The Brussels Wouvermans coloured, but said, in the subdued tone of a man wishing to conceal
anger he cannot help feeling: 'The gentleman may not be aware that I am painting a sky.' By
this time he had come down from the ladder, and was standing surveying his work with one eye
closed, and at the proper distance from it to judge of its effect; and his look of evident
exultation shewed that nothing could be more ill-timed than any depreciation of his labours.

'It is because I suppose you do want to paint a sky, that for that very reason I wished to
give you this little piece of advice, and to tell you that there is too much blue in it.'

'And pray, Mr Amateur, when was there ever a sky seen without blue?'

'I am no amateur; but I tell you once more, that there is too much blue. And now do as you
like; and if you do not think you have enough, you can put more.'

'This is entirely too bad!' cried the now exasperated sign-painter. 'You are an old fool, and
know nothing of painting. I should like to see you make a sky without blue.'

'I do not say I am a good hand at a sky; but if I did set about it, there should be no blue.'

'A pretty job it would be!'

'It would look like something, at all events.'

'That is as much as to say mine is like nothing at all.'

'No indeed, for it is very like a dish of spinach, and very like a vile daub, or like anything
else you please.'

'A dish of spinach! a vile daub!' cried the artist of Brabant in a rage. 'I, the pupil of Ruysdael--I,
fourth cousin to Gerard Dow! and you pretend to know more of my art than I do--an art I have
practised with such credit at Antwerp, Louvain, and Liege! A dish of spinach, indeed!' And
by this time the fury of the insulted painter had increased to such a degree, that he seized
David by the arm, and shaking him violently, added: 'Do you know, you old dotard, that my character
has been long established? I have a red horse at Mechlin, a stag at Namur, and a Charlemagne
at Aix-la-Chapelle, that no one has ever seen without admiring!'

'This is beyond all patience,' said David; and suddenly extricating himself from the man's
grasp, and snatching his palette from him, he was up the ladder in an instant, shouting: 'Wait
awhile, and you shall have yourself to admire, with your fool's pate and your ass's ears!'

'Stop, stop, you villain!' roared the luckless artist, pale with consternation. 'My splendid
sign! A painting worth thirty-five francs! I am ruined and undone!' And he continued shaking
the ladder, and pouring out a torrent of abuse upon David, who, caring neither for the reproaches
of his victim, nor for the crowd that the sudden clamour had attracted, went on pitilessly
effacing the 'Break of Day,' and mingling in one confused mass sky and sun, and trees and figures;
or what was intended, at least, to represent them. And now--not less rapid in creating than
in destroying--and with the lightest possible touch of his brush, the new sign-painter sketched
and finished, with magic rapidity, a sky with the gray tints of early dawn, and a group of
three men, glass in hand, watching the rising sun; one of these figures being a striking likeness
of the whitewasher, shewn at once by his bushy eyebrows and snub-nose.

The crowd, that had at first shewn every inclination to take the part of their countryman against
a stranger unfairly interfering with him, now stood quietly watching the outlines as they shone
through the first layers of colour, and shouts of applause burst from them as the figures grew
beneath the creative hand of the artist. The tavern-keeper himself now swelled the number of
admirers, having come out to ascertain the cause of the tumult; and even the fourth-cousin
of Gerard Dow felt his fury fast changing into admiration.

'I see it all now,' he said to those nearest him in the crowd. 'He is a French or Dutch sign-painter,
one of ourselves, and he only wanted to have a joke against me. It is but fair to own that
he has the real knack, and paints even better than I do.'

The artist to whom this equivocal compliment was paid, was now coming down from the ladder
amid the cheers of the spectators, when a new admirer was added to them in the person of a
man who, mounted on a fine English horse, seemed inclined to ride over the crowd in his eagerness
to get a good view of the painting.

'That picture is mine!' he exclaimed; 'I will have it. I will buy it, even if I have to cover
it with guineas!'

'What do you mean?' asked the tavern-keeper.

'I mean, that I will give any price you choose to name for that sign,' answered the stranger.

'The picture is not to be sold, young man; I could not think of parting with it,' said the
whitewasher with as much paternal pride as if it had been indeed his workmanship.

'Certainly not,' said the vender of beer; 'for it has been already sold, and partly paid for
in advance. The picture is mine; and, though not very anxious to dispose of it, yet, perhaps,
we may come to some understanding, and make a bargain.'

'Not so fast,' said the dauber; 'the sign belongs to me, and my brother-artist was only kindly
giving me a helping-hand. It is my lawful property; and if this gentleman wants to buy it,
he must deal with me for it.'

'I tell you,' replied the tavern-keeper, 'that the "Break of Day" is my property, as sure as
it is now hanging in front of my house.'

The dispute was waxing louder and louder, when David broke in: 'And am I to go for nothing
in the matter? Methinks I might be allowed a voice in it.'

'And a good right you have, brother,' said the sign-painter; 'and I am sure you and I shall
have no difference about it. But the open street is no place for all this. We had better go
into the house, and settle the matter over a pot of beer.'

David, wishing to escape the continually increasing crowd, consented to the adjournment, which,
however, had no effect upon the disputants, and the contest waged more fiercely than ever;
nor did the Englishman's reiterated offers to give for the picture its weight in gold tend
to allay it.

'But what will you say, if I won't let it be sold?' cried David, at length losing all patience.

'Ah, good sir,' said the tavern-keeper, 'you would not deprive a poor, struggling man like
me of this opening for getting a little ready money to enable me to lay in a stock of beer.
As for that sign-painter, he is a drunken sot, who has left himself without as much as a stiver
to give his daughter, who ought to have been married a year ago.'

'Do not believe him, sir,' cried David's brother-artist. 'Every one knows there is not a fonder
father in the whole town; and more shame to me if I were not, for never was there such a good
daughter as my dear, pretty Lizette. I have no money to give her, to be sure, but she is betrothed
to an honest fellow, who is glad to get her, poor as she is. He is a young Frenchman, a cabinet-maker,
and no better workman in the whole city; and they are to be married whenever he has anything
saved.'

'A good child, and a good workman, and only waiting for wherewithal to live! This alters the
matter entirely,' said David; 'and the young couple shall have the picture. We leave it to
this gentleman's liberality to name the price he is willing to give for it.'

'Illustrious artist,' said the Englishman, 'I rejoice in the decision you have come to: Solomon
himself could not have given a wiser one. As for me, I have already offered a hundred guineas
for the sign as it stands; but I will give two hundred, if you will consent to inscribe on
it the two words "Pierre David."'

The name was no sooner pronounced, than a cry of astonishment and delight burst from all present;
and the poor sign-painter, with tears in his eyes, implored pardon for all his rudeness and
presumption, and poured out grateful thanks for the Master's kind intentions in favour of the
young couple.

By this time the news had reached the crowd without, and was received with repeated shouts,
and cries of 'Long live David!' 'Long live the prince of artists!' But the cheers became almost
deafening, when the pretty Lizette, having heard the wonderful story of a sign having been
painted that was to hasten her marriage, and give her a dowry of 200 guineas, made her appearance,
and, without a moment's hesitation, threw her arms about the neck of her benefactor, who returned
her caresses most cordially; declaring that, all things considered, he did not know any one
who had a better right to a kiss from the bride.

At this instant Talma, followed by Girodet and the collector, hurriedly entered the tavern.
Not finding David at his house, and being told of his having left home very early, they became
uneasy lest some accident had befallen him, and set off in search of him.

'Thank Heaven, we have found him!' said Girodet.

'And very well employed, too, I declare,' cried Talma. 'If I could be sure of meeting such
a kind welcome from a pretty girl, I should not mind getting up early myself!'

'Bravo, bravo, my old friend!' said Girodet, as, after a warm embrace from him, he turned to
examine the picture: 'I never expected to hear of your changing your style, and turning Flemish
sign-painter. But it is no shame for David to end as Rembrandt began.'

ADMIRAL BLAKE.[1]

A good biography is ever welcome; and if it be the biography of a good and a great man, the
cordiality of the bienvenu is doubled. Mr Prescott remarks,[2] that there is no kind of writing,
having truth and instruction for its main object, which, on the whole, is so interesting and
popular as biography: its superiority, in this point of view, to history, consisting in the
fact, that the latter has to deal with masses--with nations, which, like corporate societies,
seem to have no soul, and whose chequered vicissitudes may be contemplated rather with curiosity
for the lessons they convey, than with personal sympathy. Among contemporary biographers, Mr
Hepworth Dixon has already established for himself a name of some distinction by his popular
lives of William Penn and John Howard; nor will his credit suffer a decline in the instance
of the memoir now before us--that of the gallant and single-minded patriot, Robert Blake. Of
this fine old English worthy, republican as he was, the Tory Hume freely affirms, that never
man, so zealous for a faction, was so much respected and even esteemed by his opponents. Mr
Dixon has consulted several scarce works, of genuine though obsolete authority, and a large
mass of original documents and family papers, in preparing the present able and attractive
memoir; not omitting a careful examination of the squibs, satires, and broadsides of that time,
in his endeavour to trace, in forgotten nooks and corners, the anecdotes and details requisite,
as he says, to complete a character thus far chiefly known by a few heroic outlines. We propose
taking a brief survey of his life-history of the great admiral and general at sea--the 'Puritan
Sea-King,' as Mr Dixon more characteristically than accurately calls his hero. A sea-king he
was, every inch of him; but to dub him Puritan, is like giving up to party what was meant for
British mankind. To many, the term suggests primarily a habit of speaking through the nose;
and Blake had thundered commands through too many a piping gale and battle blast for that.

Robert Blake was born at Bridgewater, in August 1599. His father, Humphrey Blake, was a merchant
trading with Spain--a man whose temper seems to have been too sanguine and adventurous for
the ordinary action of trade, finally involving him in difficulties which clouded his latter
days, and left his family in straitened circumstances: his name, however, was held in general
respect; and we find that he lived in one of the best houses in Bridgewater, and twice filled
the chair of its chief magistrate. The perils to which mercantile enterprise was then liable--the
chance escapes and valorous deeds which the successful adventurer had to tell his friends and
children on the dark winter nights--doubtless formed a part of the food on which the imagination
of young Blake, 'silent and thoughtful from his childhood,' was fed in the 'old house at home.'
At the Bridgewater grammar-school, Robert received his early education, making tolerable acquaintance
with Latin and Greek, and acquiring a strong bias towards a literary life. This penchant was
confirmed by his subsequent career at Oxford, where he matriculated at sixteen, and where he
strove hard but fruitlessly for scholarships and fellowships at different colleges. His failure
to obtain a Merton fellowship has been attributed to a crotchet of the warden's, Sir Henry
Savile, in favour of tall men: 'The young Somersetshire student, thick-set, fair complexioned,
and only five feet six, fell below his standard of manly beauty;' and thus the Cavalier warden,
in denying this aspirant the means of cultivating literature on a little university oatmeal,
was turning back on the world one who was fated to become a republican power of the age. This
shining light, instead of comfortably and obscurely merging in a petty constellation of Alma
Mater, was to become a bright particular star, and dwell apart. The avowed liberalism of Robert
may, however, have done more in reality to shock Sir Henry, than his inability to add a cubit
to his stature. It is pleasant to know, that the 'admiral and general at sea' never outgrew
a tenderness for literature--his first-love, despite the rebuff of his advances. Even in the
busiest turmoil of a life teeming with accidents by flood and field, he made it a point of
pride not to forget his favourite classics. Nor was it till after nine years' experience of
college-life, and when his father was no longer able to manage his res angusta vitæ, that Robert
finally abandoned his long-cherished plans, and retired with a sigh and last adieu from the
banks of the Isis.

