Butter the size of an egg, one tablespoonful of sugar, one teaspoonful of salt, two mashed
potatoes, one and one half cups of tepid water or milk, one cake of yeast, flour enough to
make a stiff batter. Put to rise over night, and in the morning put into buttered rings; put
to rise again until rings are full, then bake in a slow oven.

MUFFINS.

MRS. HENRY THOMSON.

Two cups sweet milk, four cups of flour, two eggs, two tablespoons of melted butter, four teaspoons
baking powder and pinch of salt.

POP OVERS.

MRS. FARQUHARSON SMITH.

A breakfast cup of flour, a cup of milk, three eggs and a pinch of salt: beat the eggs very
well, add them to the milk and beat in the flour; the mixture ought to be the consistency of
good custard. Butter the moulds very well before putting in the batter; don't put more than
a tablespoonful in each. The oven should be very hot and the pop-overs will only take ten minutes
to bake.

POP OVERS.

MISS M'GEE.

Three eggs well beaten, add a tablespoon of melted butter and a little salt, pour this mixture
over one cup of flour and add milk enough to make a thin batter.

JOHNNY CAKE.

MRS. STUART OLIVER.

One pint of sour milk, one teaspoonful of soda, (good) one egg, butter size of an egg, two
tablespoonfuls of sugar, about two small cups each of Indian meal and flour (to make a thin
batter.)

SHORT-CAKE.

MRS. R. M. STOCKING.

One pint of flour, one cup of sour cream, one small teaspoon soda, three eggs.

SHORTBREAD.

MRS. W. REID.

Place on a bake-board two pounds of sifted flour, one pound butter (if salt, wash,) and half
a pound of sugar; this quantity will make four cakes. Knead all altogether and when well mixed
form into cakes half an inch thick, pinch round the edge, and probe all over with a fork, place
some confits in the centre, then a sheet of stiff paper under each cake, place on the baking
sheet and bake in an oven of moderate heat.

ALMOND SHORTBREAD.

MRS. W. COOK.

One pound ground sweet almonds, eight ounces sugar, eight ounces sifted flour, eight ounces
good butter. The yolks of eight eggs, about eight drops of essence of ratafia. First see that
the ground almonds are fresh. Mix them with the flour and sugar and then very, very carefully
add a few drops of ratafia. Mix everything thoroughly. Make a space in centre, and in this
drop the yolks of the eggs. Then melt the butter, add that and mix up the whole together until
it is a nice firm stiff paste. This should now be rolled a great many times; cannot be rolled
too much. When sufficiently rolled to appear like a strip of cream coloured satin a quarter
of an inch thick, cut in small squares with a sharp knife. Pinch the edges of each square and
in centre of each cake, put a split half of blanched almond. Butter baking tins and bake in
a moderate oven to a fine pale yellow tint. These are delicious and are particularly good in
summer eaten with fruit.

SCOTCH SHORT BREAD.

MRS. BLAIR.

One pound of flour, one half pound butter, six ounces sugar; cream butter and sugar, add flour.
Roll into a smooth ball and work down until half an inch in thickness, an operation which is
rather difficult for a novice, as it is apt to crack at the edges; but the knack is soon learned,
and the more it is worked the better. Prick with a small skewer, strew with large carraway
comfits, and bake slowly, a pale brown.

BANANA FRITTERS.

MRS. GEORGE ELLIOTT.

Take six bananas, peel and dip in beaten white of egg, then roll in bread crumbs. Fry in butter
a golden brown. Put them on a dish, squeeze lemon juice over them, also a little sifted sugar.

APPLE FRITTERS.

MRS. HARRY LAURIE.

Three tart apples, two eggs; one cup milk; one teaspoonful salt; about one and one half cups
of flour; one teaspoonful baking powder. Pare and core the apples; cut them into rings; dust
with sugar and cinnamon; stand aside to use. Beat eggs without separating until light; add
milk, salt and sufficient flour to make a soft batter; beat well and add the baking powder;
beat again; Have ready very hot a deep pan of lard, dip each ring of apple in the batter, drop
it in the fat and fry until brown. Serve hot, dusted with powdered sugar.

FRENCH PANCAKES.

MRS. BENSON BENNETT.

Four eggs, weight of four eggs in butter, sugar and flour, one half a teaspoonful of soda,
one half teaspoonful of cream of tartar. As much milk as will make a batter. Beat the butter
and sugar to a cream, add the four eggs well beaten stir in all the other ingredients. Bake
in tin plates.

SCOTCH HAGGIS.

MRS. ANDREW T. LOVE.

Boil a sheep's draught for three quarters of an hour in as much water as will cover it. Grate
down the liver and mince the heart and lights very fine. Mince two pounds of onions, and two
pounds of beef suet, put in three or four handsful of oatmeal with pepper and salt to taste.
Having these ingredients very well mixed, put them into the bag with a little of the boilings
of the draught. Pick the bag well to prevent its bursting. It requires from three to four hours
boiling, so if you make it a day or two before you intend using it, it is better to boil it
two hours after it is made, and two hours when going to use it. Great care must be taken in
having the bag very particularly scraped and cleansed by frequent washings in salt and water.
The liver and heart, etc., are better, to be boiled before, then they can be grated down easily.
Half of this receipt makes a very good sized Haggis.

INDEX.

                                                    PAGES.
    Soups                                           1 to 13
    Fish and Oysters                               14 to 21
    Meats                                          22 to 29
    Game                                           30 to 33
    Vegetables                                     34 to 42
    Entrées and Meats Réchauffé                    43 to 52
    Salads and Salad Dressing                      53 to 58
    Eggs                                           59 to 62
    Cheese Dishes                                        63
    The Chafing Dish                               64 to 66
    Pies                                           67 to 71
    Puddings                                       72 to 86
    Desserts                                       87 to 97
    Cakes                                          98 to 115
    Icings for Cakes                              116 to 118
    Gingerbread and Small Cakes                   119 to 125
    Confections                                   126 to 128
    Pickles                                       129 to 133
    Preserves                                     134 to 140
    Beverages                                     141 to 145
    Cooking for the Sick                          146 to 147
    Bread, Buns, Fritters                         148 to 155
    Scotch Haggis                                        156

     *     *     *     *     *     *

    YOU WILL FIND IT TO YOUR INTEREST TO MAKE
    INQUIRIES ABOUT THE

    Quebec & Lake St. John Ry.

    THE NEW ROUTE TO THE
    FAR-FAMED SAGUENAY

    And the ONLY RAIL LINE to the Delightful SUMMER
    RESORTS and FISHING GROUNDS north of
    Quebec and to Lake St. John and
    Chicoutimi, through the

    .. CANADIAN ADIRONDACKS ..

    Trains connect at Chicoutimi with
    Saguenay Steamers for

    TADOUSAC,
        CACOUNA,
          MURRAY BAY
            and QUEBEC.

    A round trip unequalled in America,
    through matchless Forest,
    Mountain, River and Lake Scenery,
    down the majestic Saguenay by daylight
    and back to the Fortress City.

    TOUCHING AT ALL THE
    BEAUTIFUL
    SEA-SIDE RESORTS,

    on the Lower St. Lawrence, with
    their Chain of Commodious Hotels.

