From this place Cyrus marched through Babylonia three stages--twelve    1 parasangs. Now, on
the third stage, about midnight, Cyrus held a review of the Hellenes and Asiatics in the plain,
expecting that the king would arrive the following day with his army to offer battle. He gave
orders to Clearchus to take command of the right wing, and to Menon the Thessalian of the left,
while he himself undertook to the disposition of his own forces in person. After the review,
with the first approach of day, deserters from the great king arrived, bringing Cyrus information
about the royal army. Then Cyrus summoned the generals and captains of the Hellenes, and held
a council of war to arrange the plan of battle. He took this opportunity also to address the
following words of compliment and encouragement to the meeting: "Men of Hellas," he said, "it
is certainly not from dearth of barbarians to fight my battles that I put myself at your head
as my allies; but because I hold you to be better and stronger than many barbarians. That is
why I took you. See then that you prove yourselves to be men worthy of the liberty which you
possess, and which I envy you. Liberty--it is a thing which, be well assured, I would choose
in preference to all my other possessions, multiplied many times. But I would like you to know
into what sort of struggle you are going: learn its nature from one who knows. Their numbers
are great, and they come on with much noise; but if you can hold out against these two things,
I confess I am ashamed to think, what a sorry set of folk you will      4 find the inhabitants
of this land to be. But you are men, and brave you must be, being men: it is agreed; then if
you wish to return home, any of you, I undertake to send you back, in such sort that your friends
at home shall envy you; but I flatter myself I shall persuade many of you to accept what I
will offer you here, in lieu of what you left at home."

Here Gaulites, a Samian exile, and a trusty friend of Cyrus, being present, exclaimed: "Ay,
Cyrus, but some say you can afford to make large promises now, because you are in the crisis
of impending danger; but let matters go well with you, will you recollect? They shake their
heads. Indeed, some add that, even if you did recollect, and were ever so willing, you would
not be able to make good all your promises, and repay." When Cyrus heard that, he answered:
"You forget, sirs, my father's empire stretches southwards to a region where men cannot dwell
by reason of the heat, and northwards to a region uninhabitable through cold; but all the intervening
space is mapped out in satrapies belonging to my brother's friends: so that if the victory
be ours, it will be ours also to put our friends in possession in their room. On the whole
my fear is, not that I may not have enough to give to each of my friends, but lest I may not
have friends enough on whom to bestow what I have to give, and to each of you Hellenes I will
give a crown of gold."

So they, when they heard these words, were once more elated than ever themselves, and spread
the good news among the rest outside. And there came into his presence both the generals and
some of the other Hellenes also, claiming to know what they should have in the event of victory;
and Cyrus satisfied the expectations of each and all, and so dismissed them. Now the advice
and admonition of all who came into conversation with him was, not to enter the battle himself,
but to post himself in rear of themselves; and at this season Clearchus put a question to him:
"But do you think that your brother will give battle   9 to you, Cyrus?" and Cyrus answered:
"Not without a battle, be assured, shall the prize be won; if he be the son of Darius and Parysatis,
and a brother of mine."

In the final arming for battle at this juncture, the numbers were as follows: Of Hellenes there
were ten thousand four hundred heavy infantry with two thousand five hundred targeteers, while
the barbarians with Cyrus reached a total of one hundred thousand. He had too about twenty
scythe-chariots. The enemy's forces were reported to number one million two hundred thousand,
with two hundred scythe-chariots, besides which he had six thousand cavalry under Artagerses.
These formed the immediate vanguard of the king himself. The royal army was marshalled by four
generals or field-marshals, each in command of three hundred thousand men. Their names were
Abrocomas, Tissaphernes, Gobryas, and Arbaces. (But of this total not more than nine hundred
thousand were engaged in the battle, with one hundred and fifty scythe-chariots; since Abrocomas,
on his march from Phoenicia, arrived five days too late for the battle.) Such was the information
brought to Cyrus by deserters who came in from the king's army before the battle, and it was
corroborated after the battle by those of the enemy who were taken prisoners.

From this place Cyrus advanced one stage--three parasangs--with the whole body of his troops,
Hellenic and barbarian alike in order of battle. He expected the king to give battle the same
day, for in the middle of this day's march a deep sunk trench was reached, thirty feet broad,
and eighteen feet deep. The trench was carried inland through the plain, twelve parasang's
distance, to the wall of Media (1).  (Here are canals, flowing from the river Tigris; they
are four in number, each a hundred feet broad, and very deep, with corn ships plying upon 
15 them; they empty themselves into the Euphrates, and are at intervals of one parasang apart,
and are spanned by bridges.)

 (1) For "the wall of Media" see Grote, "Hist. of Greece," vol. ix. p.
    87 and foll. note 1 (1st ed.), and various authorities there
    quoted or referred to. The next passage enclosed in  () may
    possibly be a commentator's or editor's note, but, on the whole, I
    have thought it best to keep the words in the text instead of
    relegating them, as heretofore, to a note. Perhaps some future
    traveller may clear up all difficulties.

Between the Euphrates and the trench was a narrow passage, twenty feet only in breadth. The
trench itself had been constructed by the great king upon hearing of Cyrus's approach, to serve
as a line of defence. Through this narrow passage then Cyrus and his army passed, and found
themselves safe inside the trench. So there was no battle to be fought with the king that day;
only there were numerous unmistakable traces of horse and infantry in retreat. Here Cyrus summoned
Silanus, his Ambraciot soothsayer, and presented him with three thousand darics; because eleven
days back, when sacrificing, he had told him that the king would not fight within ten days,
and Cyrus had answered: "Well, then, if he does not fight within that time, he will not fight
at all; and if your prophecy comes true, I promise you ten talents." So now, that the ten days
were passed, he presented him with the above sum.

But as the king had failed to hinder the passage of Cyrus's army at the trench, Cyrus himself
and the rest concluded that he must have abandoned the idea of offering battle, so that next
day Cyrus advanced with less than his former caution. On the third day he was conducting the
march, seated in his carriage, with only a small body of troops drawn up in front of him. The
mass of the army was moving on in no kind of order: the soldiers having consigned their heavy
arms to be carried in the wagons or on the backs of beasts.

VIII

