Like Rimini, Pesaro too fell without the striking of a blow, for all that it was by no means
as readily relinquished on the part of its ruler. Giovanni Sforza had been exerting himself
desperately for the past two months to obtain help that should enable him to hold his tyranny
against the Borgia might. But all in vain. His entreaties to the emperor had met with no response,
whilst his appeal to Francesco Gonzaga of Mantua--whose sister, it will be remembered, had
been his first wife--had resulted in the Marquis's sending him a hundred men under an Albanian,
named Giacopo.

What Giovanni was to do with a hundred men it is difficult to conceive, nor are the motives
of Gonzaga's action clear. We know that at this time he was eagerly seeking Cesare's friendship,
sorely uneasy as to the fate that might lie in store for his own dominions, once the Duke of
Valentinois should have disposed of the feudatories of the Church. Early in that year 1500
he had asked Cesare to stand godfather for his child, and Cesare had readily consented, whereby
a certain bond of relationship and good feeling had been established between them, which everything
shows Gonzaga most anxious to preserve unsevered. The only reasonable conclusion in the matter
of that condotta of a hundred men is that Gonzaga desired to show friendliness to the Lord
of Pesaro, yet was careful not to do so to any extent that might be hurtful to Valentinois.

As for Giovanni Sforza of whom so many able pens have written so feelingly as the constant,
unfortunate victim of Borgia ambition, there is no need to enter into analyses for the purpose
of judging him here. His own subjects did so in his own day. When a prince is beloved by all
classes of his people, it must follow that he is a good prince and a wise ruler; when his subjects
are divided into two factions, one to oppose and the other to support him, he may be good or
bad, or good and bad; but when a prince can find none to stand by him in the hour of peril,
it is to be concluded that he has deserved little at the hands of those whom he has ruled.
The latter is the case of Giovanni Sforza--this prince whom, Yriarte tells us, "rendered sweet
the lives of his subjects." The nobility and the proletariate of Pesaro abhorred him; the trader
classes stood neutral, anxious to avoid the consequences of partisanship, since it was the
class most exposed to those consequences.

On Sunday, October 11--the day after Pandolfo Malatesta had relinquished Rimini--news reached
Pesaro that Ercole Bentivogli's horse was marching upon the town, in advance of the main body
of Cesare's army. Instantly there was an insurrection against Giovanni, and the people, taking
to arms, raised the cry of "Duca!" in acclamation of the Duke of Valentinois, under the very
windows of their ruler's palace.

Getting together the three hundred men that constituted his army, Giovanni beat a hasty retreat
to Pesaro's magnificent fortress, and that same night he secretly took ship to Ravenna accompanied
by the Albanian Giacopo, and leaving his half-brother, Galeazzo Sforza di Cotignola, in command
of the citadel. Thence Giovanni repaired to Bologna, and, already repenting his precipitate
flight, he appealed for help to Bentivogli, who was himself uneasy, despite the French protection
he enjoyed. Similarly, Giovanni addressed fresh appeals to Francesco Gonzaga; but neither of
these tyrants could or dared avail him, and, whilst he was still imploring their intervention
his fief had fallen into Cesare's power.

Ercole Bentivogli, with a small body of horse, had presented himself at the gates of Pesaro
on October 21, and Galeazzo Sforza, having obtained safe-conduct for the garrison, surrendered.

Cesare, meanwhile, was at Fano, where he paused to allow his army to come up with him, for
he had outridden it from Fossate, through foul wintry weather, attended only by his light horse.
It was said that he hoped that Fano might offer itself to him as other fiefs had done, and--if
Pandolfo Collenuccio is correct--he had been counselled by the Pope not to attempt to impose
himself upon Fano, but to allow the town a free voice in the matter. If his hopes were as stated,
he was disappointed in them, for Fano made no offer to him, and matters remained for the present
as they were.

On the 27th, with the banners of the bull unfurled, he rode into Pesaro at the head of two
thousand men, making his entrance with his wonted pomp, of whose dramatic values he was so
fully aware. He was met at the gates by the Council, which came to offer him the keys of the
town, and, despite the pouring rain under which he entered the city, the people of Pesaro thronged
the streets to acclaim him as he rode.

He took up his lodgings at the Sforza Palace, so lately vacated by Giovanni--the palace where
Lucrezia Borgia had held her Court when, as Giovanni's wife, she had been Countess of Pesaro
and Cotignola. Early on the morrow he visited the citadel, which was one of the finest in Italy,
rivalling that of Rimini for strength. On his arrival there, a flourish of trumpets imposed
silence, while the heralds greeted him formally as Lord of Pesaro. He ordered one of the painters
in his train to draw up plans of the fortress to be sent to the Pope, and issued instructions
for certain repairs and improvements which he considered desirable.

Here in Pesaro came to him the famous Pandolfo Collenuccio, as envoy from the Duke of Ferrara,
to congratulate Cesare upon the victory. In sending Collenuccio at such a time Ercole d'Este
paid the Duke of Valentinois a subtle, graceful compliment. This distinguished poet, dramatist,
and historian was a native of Pesaro who had been exiled ten years earlier by Giovanni--which
was the tyrant's way of showing his gratitude to the man who, more than any other, had contributed
to the bastard Sforza's succession to his father as Lord of Pesaro and Cotignola.

Collenuccio was one of the few literary men of his day who was not above using the Italian
tongue, treating it seriously as a language and not merely as a debased form of Latin. He was
eminent as a juris­consult, and, being a man of action as well as a man of letters, he had
filled the office of Podestá in various cities; he had found employment under Lorenzo dei Medici,
and latterly under Ercole d'Este, whom we now see him representing.

Cesare received him with all honour, sending the master of his household, Ramiro de Lorqua,
to greet him on his arrival and to bear him the usual gifts of welcome, of barley, wine, capons,
candles, sweet-meats, etc., whilst on the morrow the duke gave him audience, treating him in
the friendliest manner, as we see from Collenuccio's own report to the Duke of Ferrara. In
this he says of Cesare: "He is accounted valiant, joyous, and open-handed, and it is believed
that he holds honest men in great esteem. Harsh in his vengeance, according to many, he is
great of spirit and of ambition, athirst for eminence and fame."

Collenuccio was reinstated by Cesare in the possessions of which Giovanni had stripped him,
a matter which so excited the resentment of the latter that, when ultimately he returned to
his dominions, one of his first acts was to avenge it. Collenuccio, fearing that he might not
stand well with the tyrant, had withdrawn from Pesaro. But Giovanni, with all semblance of
friendliness, treacherously lured him back to cast him into prison and have him strangled--a
little matter which those who, to the detriment of the Borgia, seek to make a hero of this
Giovanni Sforza, would do well not to suppress.

A proof of the splendid discipline prevailing in Cesare's army is afforded during his brief
sojourn in Pesaro. In the town itself, some two thousand of his troops were accommodated, whilst
some thousands more swarmed in the surrounding country. Occupation by such an army was, naturally
enough, cause for deep anxiety on the part of a people who were but too well acquainted with
the ways of the fifteenth­century men-at-arms. But here was a general who knew how to curb
and control his soldiers. Under the pain of death his men were forbidden from indulging any
of the predations or violences usual to their kind; and, as a consequence, the inhabitants
of Pesaro had little to complain of.

Justolo gives us a picture of the Duke of Valentinois on the banks of the River Montone, which
again throws into relief the discipline which his very presence--such was the force of his
personality--was able to enforce. A disturbance arose among his soldiers at the crossing of
this river, which was swollen with rains and the bridge of which had been destroyed. It became
necessary to effect the crossing in one small boat--the only craft available--and the men,
crowding to the bank, stormed and fought for precedence until the affair grew threatening.
Cesare rode down to the river, and no more than his presence was necessary to restore peace.
Under that calm, cold eye of his the men instantly became orderly, and, whilst he sat his horse
and watched them, the crossing was soberly effected, and as swiftly as the single craft would
permit.

The duke remained but two days in Pesaro. On the 29th, having appointed a lieutenant to represent
him, and a captain to the garrison, he marched out again, to lie that night at Cattolica and
enter Rimini on the morrow.

There again he was received with open arms, and he justified the people's welcome of him by
an immediate organization of affairs which gave universal satisfaction. He made ample provision
for the proper administration of justice and the preservation of the peace; he recalled the
fuorusciti exiled by the unscrupulous Pandolfaccio, and he saw them reinstated in the property
of which that tyrant had dispossessed them. As his lieutenant in Rimini, with strict injunctions
to preserve law and order, he left Ramiro de Lorqua, when, on November 2, he departed to march
upon Faenza, which had prepared for resistance.

What Cesare did in Rimini was no more than he was doing throughout the Romagna, as its various
archives bear witness. They bear witness no less to his vast ability as an administrator, showing
how he resolved the prevailing chaos into form and order by his admirable organization and
suppression of injustice. The same archives show us also that he found time for deeds of beneficence
which endeared him to the people, who everywhere hailed him as their deliverer from thraldom.
It would not be wise to join in the chorus of those who appear to have taken Cesare's altruism
for granted. The rejection of the wild stories that picture him as a corrupt and murderous
monster, utterly inhuman, and lay a dozen ghastly crimes to his account need not entail our
viewing Cesare as an angel of deliverance, a divine agent almost, rescuing a suffering people
from oppression out of sheer humanitarianism.

He is the one as little as the other. He is just--as Collenuccio wrote to Ercole d'Este--"great
of spirit and of ambition, athirst for eminence and fame." He was consumed by the desire for
power and worldly greatness, a colossus of egotism to whom men and women were pieces to be
handled by him on the chess-board of his ambition, to be sacrificed ruthlessly where necessary
to his ends, but to be husbanded and guarded carefully where they could serve him.

With his eyes upon the career of Cesare Borgia, Macchiavelli was anon to write of principalities
newly-acquired, that "however great may be the military resources of a prince, he will discover
that, to obtain firm footing in a province, he must engage the favour and interest of the inhabitants."

That was a principle self-evident to Cesare--the principle upon which he acted throughout in
his conquest of the Romagna. By causing his new subjects to realize at once that they had exchanged
an oppressive for a generous rule, he attached them to himself.

CHAPTER VII. THE SIEGE OF FAENZA

The second campaign of the Romagna had opened for Cesare as easily as had the first. So far
his conquest had been achieved by little more than a processional display of his armed legions.
Like another Joshua, he reduced cities by the mere blare of his trumpets. At last, however,
he was to receive a check. Where grown men had fled cravenly at his approach, it remained for
a child to resist him at Faenza, as a woman had resisted him at Forli.

His progress north from Pesaro was of necessity slow. He paused, as we have seen, at Rimini,
and he paused again, and for a rather longer spell, at Forli, so that it was not until the
second week of November that Astorre Manfredi--the boy of sixteen who was to hold Faenza--caught
in the distance the flash of arms and the banners with the bull device borne by the host which
the Duke of Valentinois led against him.

At first it had been Astorre's intent to follow the examples set him by Malatesta and Sforza,
and he had already gone so far as to remove his valuables to Ravenna, whither he, too, meant
to seek refuge. But he was in better case than any of the tyrants so far deposed inasmuch as
his family, which had ruled Faenza for two hundred years, had not provoked the hatred of its
subjects, and these were now ready and willing to stand loyally by their young lord. But loyalty
alone can do little, unless backed by the might of arms, against such a force as Cesare was
prepared to hurl upon Faenza. This Astorre realized, and for his own and his subjects' sake
was preparing to depart, when, to his undoing, support reached him from an unexpected quarter.

Bologna--whose ruler, Giovanni Bentivogli, was Astorre's grandfather--in common with Florence
and Urbino, grew daily more and more alarmed at the continual tramp of armed multitudes about
her frontiers, and at the steady growth in numbers and in capacity of this splendid army which
followed Casare--an army captained by such enemies of the Bentivogli as the Baglioni, the Orsini,
and the exiled Malvezzi.

Bentivogli had good grounds for his anxiety, not knowing how long he might depend upon the
protection of France, and well aware that, once that protection was removed, there would be
no barrier between Bologna and Cesare's manifest intentions concerning her.

Next to Cesare's utter annihilation, to check his progress was the desire dearest just then
to the heart of Bentivogli, and with this end in view he dispatched Count Guido Torella to
Faenza, in mid-October, with an offer to assist Astorre with men and money.

Astorre, who had succeeded Galeotto Manfredi in the tyranny of Faenza at the age of three,
had been and still continued under the tutelage of the Council which really governed his territories.
To this Council came Count Torella with Bentivogli's offer, adding the proposal that young
Astorre should be sent to Venice for his personal safety. But to this the Council replied that
it would be useless, if that course were adopted, to attempt resistance, as the people could
only be urged to it by their affection for their young lord, and that, if he were removed from
their midst, they would insist upon surrender.

News of these negotiations reached Rome, and on October 24 Alexander sent Bentivogli his commands
to refrain, under pain of excommunication, from interfering in the affairs of Faenza. Bentivogli
made a feeble attempt to mask his disobedience. The troops with which he intended to assist
his grandson were sent ostensibly to Castel Bolognese, but with instructions to desert thence
and make for Faenza. This they did, and thus was Astorre strengthened by a thousand men, whilst
the work of preparing his city for resistance went briskly forward.

Meanwhile, ahead of Cesare Borgia, swept Vitellozzo Vitelli with his horse into Astorre's dominions.
He descended upon the valley of the Lamone, and commenced hostilities by the capture and occupation
of Brisghella on November 7. The other lesser strongholds and townships offered no resistance
to Cesare's arms. Indeed they were induced into ready rebellion against their lord by Dionigio
di Naldo--the sometime defender of Imola, who had now taken service with Cesare.

On November 10 Cesare himself halted his host beneath the walls of Faenza and called upon the
town to surrender. Being denied, he encamped his army for the siege. He chose the eastern side
of the town, between the rivers Lamone and Marzano, and, that his artillery might have free
play, he caused several houses to be demolished.

In Faenza itself, meanwhile, the easy conquest of the valley had not produced a good effect.
Moreover, the defenders had cause to fear treachery within their gates, for a paper had been
picked up out of the moat containing an offer of terms of surrender. It had been shot into
the castle attached to an arbalest­bolt, and was intended for the castellan Castagnini. This
Castagnini was arrested, thrown into prison, and his possessions confiscated, whilst the Council
placed the citadel in the hands of four of its own members together with Gianevangelista Manfredi--Astorre's
half-brother, and a bastard of Galeotto's. These set about defending it against Cesare, who
had now opened fire. The duke caused the guns to be trained upon a certain bastion through
which he judged that a good assault might be delivered and an entrance gained. Night and day
was the bombardment of that bastion kept up, yet without producing visible effect until the
morning of the 20th, when suddenly one of its towers collapsed thunderously into the moat.

Instantly, and without orders, the soldiers, all eager to be among the first to enter, flung
themselves forward in utter and fierce disorder to storm the breach. Cesare, at breakfast--as
he himself wrote to the Duke of Urbino--sprang up at the great noise, and, surmising what was
taking place, dashed out to restrain his men. But the task was no easy one, for, gathering
excitement and the frenzy of combat as they ran, they had already gained the edge of the ditch,
and thither Cesare was forced to follow them, using voice and hands to beat back again.

At last he succeeded in regaining control of them, and in compelling them to make an orderly
retreat, and curb their impatience until the time for storming should have come, which was
not yet. In the affair Cesare had a narrow escape from a stone-shot fired from the castle,
whilst one of his officers--Onorio Savelli--was killed by a cannon-ball from the duke's own
guns, whose men, unaware of what was taking place, were continuing the bombardment.

Hitherto the army had been forced to endure foul weather--rain, fogs, and wind; but there was
worse come. Snow began to fall on the morning of the 22nd. It grew to a storm, and the blizzard
continued all that day, which was a Sunday, all night, and all the following day, and lashed
the men pitilessly and blindingly. The army, already reduced by shortness of victuals, was
now in a miserable plight in its unsheltered camp, and the defenders of Faenza, as if realizing
this, made a sortie on the 23rd, from which a fierce fight ensued, with severe loss to both
sides. On the 25th the snow began again, whereupon the hitherto unconquerable Cesare, defeated
at last by the elements and seeing that his men could not possibly continue to endure the situation,
was compelled to strike camp on the 26th and go into winter quarters, no doubt with immense
chagrin at leaving so much work unaccomplished.

So he converted the siege into a blockade, closing all roads that lead to Faenza, with a view
to shutting out supplies from the town; and he distributed troops throughout the villages of
the territory with orders constantly to harass the garrison and allow it no rest.

He also sent an envoy with an offer of terms of surrender, but the Council rejected it with
the proud answer that its members "had agreed, in general assembly, to defend the dominions
of Manfredi to the death."

Thereupon Cesare withdrew to Forli with 150 lances and 2,500 foot, and here he affords a proof
of his considerateness. The town had already endured several occupations and the severities
of being the seat of war during the siege of the citadel. Cesare was determined that it should
feel the present occupation as little as possible; so he issued an order to the inhabitants
upon whom his soldiers were billeted to supply the men only with bed, light, and fire. What
more they required must be paid for, and, to avoid disputes as to prices of victuals and other
necessaries, he ordered the Council to draw up a tariff, and issued an edict forbidding his
soldiers, under pain of death, from touching any property of the townsfolk. Lest they should
doubt his earnestness, he hanged two of his soldiers on December 7--a Piedmontese and a Gascon--and
on the 13th a third, all from the windows of his own palace, and all with a label hanging from
their feet proclaiming that they had been hanged for taking goods of others in spite of the
ban of the Lord Duke, etc.

He remained in Forli until the 23rd, when he departed to Cesena, which was really his capital
in Roomagna, and in the huge citadel of which there was ample accommodation for the troops
that accompanied him. In Forli he left, as his lieutenants, the Bishop of Trani and Don Michele
da Corella--the "Michieli" of Capello's Relation and the "Michelotto" of so many Borgia fables.
That this officer ruled the soldiers left with him in Forli in accordance with the stern example
set him by his master we know from the chronicles of Bernardi.

In Cesena the duke occupied the splendid palace of Malatesta Novello, which had been magnificently
equipped for him, and there, on Christmas Eve, he entertained the Council of the town and other
important citizens to a banquet worthy of the repuation for lavishness which he enjoyed. He
was very different in this from his father, whose table habits were of the most sparing--to
which, no doubt, his Holiness owed the wonderful, almost youthful vigour which he still enjoyed
in this his seventieth year. It was notorious that ambassadors cared little for invitations
to the Pope's table, where the meal never consisted of more than one dish.

On Christmas Day the duke attended Mass at the Church of San Giovanni Evangelista with great
pomp, arrayed in the ducal chlamys and followed by his gentlemen. With these young patricians
Cesare made merry during the days that followed. The time was spent in games and joustings,
in all of which the duke showed himself freely, making display of his physical perfections,
fully aware, no doubt, of what a short cut these afforded him to the hearts of the people,
ever ready to worship physical beauty, prowess, and address.

Yet business was not altogether neglected, for on January 4 he went to Porto Cesenatico, and
there published an edict against all who had practised with the fuorusciti from his States,
forbidding the offence under pain of death and forfeiture of possessions.

He remained in winter quarters until the following April, from which, however, it is not to
be concluded that Faenza was allowed to be at peace for that spell. The orders which he had
left behind him, that the town was constantly to be harassed, were by no means neglected. On
the night of January 21, by arrangement with some of the inhabitants of the beleaguered city,
the foot surrounding Faenza attempted to surprise the garrison by a secret escalade. They were,
however, discovered betimes in the attempt and repulsed, some who had the mischance--as it
happened--to gain the battlements before the alarm was raised being taken and hanged. The duke's
troops, however, consoled themselves by capturing Russi and Solarolo, the last two strongholds
in the valley that had held for Astorre.

Meanwhile, Cesare and his merry young patricians spent the time as agreeably as might be in
Cesena during that carnival. The author of the Diario Cesenate is moved by the duke's pastimes
to criticize him severely as indulging in amusements unbecoming the dignity of his station.
He is particularly shocked to know that the duke should have gone forth in disguise with a
few companions to repair to carnival festivities in the surrounding villages and there to wrestle
with the rustics. It is not difficult to imagine the discomfiture suffered by many a village
Hercules at the hands of this lithe young man, who could behead a bull at a single stroke of
a spadoon and break a horseshoe in his fingers. The diary in question, you will have gathered,
is that of a pedant, prim and easily scandalized. So much being obvious, it is noteworthy that
Cesare's conduct should have afforded him no subject for graver strictures than these, Cesare
being such a man as has been represented, and the time being that of carnival when licence
was allowed full play.

The Pope accounted that the check endured by Cesare before Faenza was due not so much to the
foul weather by which his army had been beset as to the assistance which Giovanni Bentivogli
had rendered his grandson Astorre, and bitter were the complaints of it which he addressed
to the King of France. Alarmed by this, and fearing that he might have compromised himself
and jeopardized the French protection by his action in the matter, Bentivogli made haste to
recall his troops, and did in fact withdraw them from Faenza early in December, shortly after
Cesare had gone into winter quarters. Nevertheless, the Pope's complaints continued, Alexander
in his secret, crafty heart no doubt rejoicing that Bentivogli should have afforded him so
sound a grievance. As Louis XII desired, for several reasons, to stand well with Rome, he sent
an embassy to Bentivogli to express his regret and censure of the latter's intervention in
the affairs of Faenza. He informed Bentivogli that the Pope was demanding the return of Bologna
to the States of the Church, and, without expressing himself clearly as to his own view of
the matter, he advised Bentivogli to refrain from alliances with the enemies of the Holy See
and to secure Bologna to himself by some sound arrangement. This showed Bentivogli in what
danger he stood, and his uneasiness was increased by the arrival at Modena of Yves d'Allègre,
sent by the King of France with a condotta of 500 horse for purposes which were not avowed
but which Bentivogli sorely feared might prove to be hostile to himself.

At the beginning of February Cesare moved his quarters from Cesena to Imola, and thence he
sent his envoys to demand winter quarters for his troops in Castel Bolognese. This flung Bentivogli
into positive terror, as he interpreted the request as a threat of invasion. Castel Bolognese
was too valuable a stronghold to be so lightly placed in the duke's hands. Thence Bentivogli
might, in case of need, hold the duke in check, the fortress commanding, as it did, the road
from Imola to Faenza. He had the good sense, however, to compromise the matter by returning
Cesare an offer of accommodation for his men with victuals, artillery, etc., but without the
concession of Castel Bolognese. With this Cesare was forced to be content, there being no reasonable
grounds upon which he could decline so generous an offer. It was a cunning concession on Bentivogli's
part, for, without strengthening the duke's position, it yet gave the latter what he ostensibly
required, and left no cause for grievance and no grounds upon which to molest Bologna. So much
was this the case that on February 26 the Pope wrote to Bentivogli expressing his thanks at
the assistance which he had thus given Cesare in the Faenza emprise.

It was during this sojourn of Cesare's at Imola that the abduction took place of Dorotea Caracciolo,
the young wife of Gianbattista Caracciolo, a captain of foot in the Venetian service. The lady,
who was attached to the Duchess of Urbino, had been residing at the latter's Court, and in
the previous December Caracciolo had begged leave of the Council of Ten that he might himself
go to Urbino for the purpose of escorting her to Venice. The Council, however, had replied
that he should send for her, and this the captain had done. Near Cervia, on the confines of
the Venetian territory, towards evening of February 14, the lady's escort was set upon by ten
well­armed men, and rudely handled by them, some being wounded and one at least killed, whilst
the lady and a woman who was with her were carried off.

The Podestá of Cervia reported to the Venetian Senate that the abductors were Spaniards of
the army of the Duke of Valentinois, and it was feared in Venice--according to Sanuto--that
the deed might be the work of Cesare.

The matter contained in that Relation of Capello's to the Senate must by now have been widespread,
and of a man who could perpetrate the wickednesses therein divulged anything could be believed.
Indeed, it seems to have followed that, where any act of wickedness was brought to light, at
once men looked to see if Cesare might not be responsible, nor looked close enough to make
quite sure. To no other cause can it be assigned that, in the stir which the Senate made, the
name of Cesare was at once suggested as that of the abductor, and this so broadly that letters
poured in upon him on all sides begging him to right this cruel wrong. So much do you see assumed,
upon no more evidence than was contained in that letter from the Podestá of Cervia, which went
no further than to say that the abductors were "Spaniards of the Duke of Valentinois' army."
The envoy Manenti was dispatched at once to Cesare by the Senate, and he went persuaded, it
is clear, that Cesare Borgia was the guilty person. He enlisted the support of Monsieur de
Trans (the French ambassador then on his way to Rome) and that of Yves d'Allègre, and he took
them with him to the Duke at Imola.

There, acting upon his strong suspicions, Manenti appears to have taken a high tone, representing
to the duke that he had done an unworthy thing, and imploring him to restore the lady to her
husband. Cesare's patience under the insolent assumption in justification of which Manenti
had not a single grain of evidence to advance, is--guilty or innocent--a rare instance of self-control.
He condescended to take oath that he had not done this thing which they imputed to him. He
admitted that he had heard of the outrage, and he expressed the belief that it was the work
of one Diego Ramires--a captain of foot in his service. This Ramires, he explained, had been
in the employ of the Duke of Urbino, and in Urbino had made the acquaintance and fallen enamoured
of the lady; and he added that the fellow had lately disappeared, but that already he had set
on foot a search for him, and that, once taken, he would make an example of him.

In conclusion he begged that the Republic should not believe this thing against him, assuring
the envoy that he had not found the ladies of the Romagna so difficult that he should be driven
to employ such rude and violent measures.

The French ambassador certainly appears to have attached implicit faith to Cesare's statement,
and he privately informed Manenti that Ramires was believed to be at Medola, and that the Republic
might rest assured that, if he were taken, exemplary justice would be done.

All this you will find recorded in Sanuto. After that his diary entertains us with rumours
which were reaching Venice, now that the deed was the duke's, now that the lady was with Ramires.
Later the two rumours are consolidated into one, in a report of the Podestá of Cervia to the
effect that "the lady is in the Castle of Forli with Ramires, and that he took her there by
order of the duke." The Podestá says that a man whom he sent to gather news had this story
from one Benfaremo. But he omits to say who and what is this Benfaremo, and what the source
of his information.

Matters remaining thus, and the affair appearing in danger of being forgotten, Caracciolo goes
before the Senate on March 16 and implores permission to deal with it himself. This permission
is denied him, the Doge conceiving that the matter will best be dealt with by the Senate, and
Caracciolo is ordered back to his post at Gradisca. Thence he writes to the Senate on March
30 that he is certain his wife is in the citadel of Forli.

After this Sanuto does not mention the matter again until December of 1503--nearly three years
later--when we gather that, under pressure of constant letters from the husband, the Venetian
ambassador at the Vatican makes so vigorous a stir that the lady is at last delivered up, and
goes for the time being into a convent. But we are not told where or how she is found, nor
where the convent in which she seeks shelter. That is Sanuto's first important omission.

And now an odd light is thrown suddenly upon the whole affair, and it begins to look as if
the lady had been no unwilling victim of an abduction, but, rather, a party to an elopement.
She displays a positive reluctance to return to her husband; she is afraid to do so--"in fear
for her very life"--and she implores the Senate to obtain from Caracciolo some security for
her, or else to grant her permission to withdraw permanently to a convent.

The Senate summons the husband, and represents the case to him. He assures the Senate that
he has forgiven his wife, believing her to be innocent. This, however, does not suffice to
allay her uneasiness--or her reluctance--for on January 4, 1504, Sanuto tells us that the Senate
has received a letter of thanks from her in which she relates her misfortunes, and in which
again she begs that her husband be compelled to pledge security to treat her well ("darli buona
vita") or else that she should be allowed to return to her mother. Of the nature of the misfortunes
which he tells us she related in her letter, Sanuto says nothing. That is his second important
omission.

The last mention of the subject in Sanuto relates to her restoration to her husband. He tells
us that Caracciolo received her with great joy; but he is silent on the score of the lady's
emotions on that occasion.

There you have all that is known of Dorotea Caracciolo's abduction, which later writers--including
Bembo in his Historiae--have positively assigned to Cesare Borgia, drawing upon their imagination
to fill up the lacunae in the story so as to support their point of view.

Those lacunae, however, are invested with a certain eloquence which it is well not to disregard.
Admitting that the construing of silence into evidence is a dangerous course, all fraught with
pitfalls, yet it seems permissible to pose the following questions:

If the revelation of the circumstances under which she was found, the revelations contained
in her letters to the Senate, and the revelations which one imagines must have followed her
return to her husband, confirm past rumours and convict Cesare of the outrage, how does it
happen that Sanuto--who has never failed to record anything that could tell against Cesare--should
be silent on the matter? And how does it happen that so many pens that busied themselves greedily
with scandal that touched the Borgias should be similarly silent? Is it unreasonable to infer
that those revelations did not incriminate him--that they gave the lie to all the rumours that
had been current? If that is not the inference, then what is?

It is further noteworthy that on January 16--after Dorotea's letter to the Senate giving the
details of her misfortunes, which details Sanuto has suppressed--Diego Ramires, the real and
known abductor, is still the object of a hunt set afoot by some Venetians. Would that be the
case had her revelations shown Ramires to be no more than the duke's instrument? Possibly;
but not probably. In such a case he would not have been worth the trouble of pursuing.

Reasonably may it be objected: How, if Cesare was not guilty, does it happen that he did not
carry out his threat of doing exemplary justice upon Ramires when taken--since Ramires obviously
lay in his power for years after the event? The answer to that you will find in the lady's
reluctance to return to Caracciolo, and the tale it tells. It is not in the least illogical
to assume that, when Cesare threatened that vengeance upon Ramires for the outrage which it
was alleged had been committed, he fully intended to execute it; but that, upon taking Ramires,
and upon discovering that here was no such outrage as had been represented, but just the elopement
of a couple of lovers, he found there was nothing for him to avenge. Was it for Cesare Borgia
to set up as a protector and avenger of cuckolds? Rather would it be in keeping with the feelings
of his age and race to befriend the fugitive pair who had planted the antlers upon the brow
of the Venetian captain.

Lastly, Cesare's attitude towards women may be worth considering, that we may judge whether
such an act as was imputed to him is consistent with it. Women play no part whatever in his
history. Not once shall you find a woman's influence swaying him; not once shall you see him
permitting dalliance to retard his advancement or jeopardize his chances. With him, as with
egotists of his type, governed by cold will and cold intellect, the sentimental side of the
relation of the sexes has no place. With him one woman was as another woman; as he craved women,
so he took women, but with an almost contemptuous undiscrimination. For all his needs concerning
them the lupanaria sufficed.

Is this mere speculation, think you? Is there no evidence to support it, do you say? Consider,
pray, in all its bearings the treatise on pudendagra dedicated to a man of Cesare Borgia's
rank by the physician Torella, written to meet his needs, and see what inference you draw from
that. Surely such an inference as will invest with the ring of truth--expressing as it does
his intimate nature, and confirming further what has here been said--that answer of his to
the Venetian envoy, "that he had not found the ladies of Romagna so difficult that he should
be driven to such rude and violent measures."

CHAPTER VIII. ASTORRE MANFREDI

On March 29 Cesare Borgia departed from Cesena--whither, meanwhile, he had returned--to march
upon Faenza, resume the attack, and make an end of the city's stubborn resistance.

During the past months, however, and notwithstanding the presence of the Borgia troops in the
territory, the people of Faenza had been able to increase their fortifications by the erection
of out-works and a stout bastion in the neighbourhood of the Osservanza Hospital, well beyond
the walls. This bastion claimed Cesare's first attention, and it was carried by assault on
April 12. Thither he now fetched his guns, mounted them, and proceeded to a steady bombardment
of the citadel. But the resistance continued with unabated determination--a determination amounting
to heroism, considering the hopelessness of their case and the straits to which the Faentini
were reduced by now. Victuals and other necessaries of life had long since been running low.
Still the men of Faenza tightened their belts, looked to their defences, and flung defiance
at the Borgia. The wealthier inhabitants distributed wine and flour at prices purely nominal,
and lent Astorre money for the payment of his troops. It is written that to the same end the
very priests, their patriotism surmounting their duty to the Holy Father in whose name this
war was waged, consented to the despoiling of the churches and the melting down of the sacred
vessels.

Even the women of Faenza bore their share of the burden of defence, carrying to the ramparts
the heavy stones that were to be hurled down upon the besiegers, or actually donning casque
and body-armour and doing sentry duty on the walls while the men rested.

But the end was approaching. On April 18 the Borgia cannon opened at last a breach in the walls,
and Cesare delivered a terrible assault upon the citadel. The fight upon the smoking ruins
was fierce and determined on both sides, the duke's men pressing forward gallantly under showers
of scalding pitch and a storm of boulders, launched upon them by the defenders, who used the
very ruins of the wall for ammunition. For four hours was that assault maintained; nor did
it cease until the deepening dusk compelled Cesare to order the retreat, since to continue
in the failing light was but to sacrifice men to no purpose.

Cesare's appreciation of the valour of the garrison ran high. It inspired him with a respect
which shows his dispassionate breadth of mind, and he is reported to have declared that with
an army of such men as those who held Faenza against him he would have conquered all Italy.
He did not attempt a second assault, but confined himself during the three days that followed
to continuing the bombardment.

Within Faenza men were by now in desperate case. Weariness and hunger were so exhausting their
endurance, so sapping their high valour that nightly there were desertions to the duke's camp
of men who could bear no more. The fugitives from the town were well received, all save one--a
man named Grammante, a dyer by trade--who, in deserting to the duke, came in to inform him
that at a certain point of the citadel the defences were so weak that an assault delivered
there could not fail to carry it.

This man afforded Cesare an opportunity of marking his contempt for traitors and his respect
for the gallant defenders of Faenza. The duke hanged him for his pains under the very walls
of the town he had betrayed.

On the 21st the bombardment was kept up almost without interruption for eight hours, and so
shattered was the citadel by that pitiless cannonade that the end was in sight at last. But
the duke's satisfaction was tempered by his chagrin at the loss of Achille Tiberti, one of
the most valiant of his captains, and one who had followed his fortunes from the first with
conspicuous devotion. He was killed by the bursting of a gun. A great funeral at Cesena bore
witness to the extent to which Cesare esteemed and honoured him.

Astorre, now seeing the citadel in ruins and the possibility of further resistance utterly
exhausted, assembled the Council of Faenza to determine upon their course of action, and, as
a result of their deliberations, the young tyrant sent his ambassadors to the duke to propose
terms of surrender. It was a belated proposal, for there was no longer on Cesare's part the
necessity to make terms. The city's defences were destroyed, and to talk of surrender now was
to talk of giving something that no longer existed. Yet Cesare met the ambassadors in a spirit
of splendid generosity.

The terms proposed were that the people of Faenza should have immunity for themselves and their
property; that Astorre should have freedom to depart and to take with him his moveable possessions,
his immoveables remaining at the mercy of the Pope. By all the laws of war Cesare was entitled
to a heavy indemnity for the losses he had sustained through the resistance opposed to him.
Considering those same laws and the application they were wont to receive in his day, no one
could have censured him had he rejected all terms and given the city over to pillage. Yet not
only does he grant the terms submitted to him, but in addition he actually lends an ear to
the Council's prayer that out of consideration for the great suffering of the city in the siege
he should refrain from exacting any indemnity. This was to be forbearing indeed; but he was
to carry his forbearance even further. In answer to the Council's expressed fears of further
harm at the hands of his troopers once these should be in Faenza, he actually consented to
effect no entrance into the town.

We are not for a moment to consider Cesare as actuated in all this by any lofty humanitarianism.
He was simply pursuing that wise policy of his, in refraining from punishing conquered States
which were to be subject henceforth to his rule, and which, therefore, must be conciliated
that they might be loyal to him. But it is well that you should at least appreciate this policy
and the fruit it bore when you read that Cesare Borgia was a blood-glutted monster of carnage
who ravaged the Romagna, rending and devouring it like some beast of prey.

On the 26th the Council waited upon Cesare at the Hospital of the Osservanza--where he was
lodged--to tender the oath of fealty. That same evening Astorre himself, attended by a few
of his gentlemen, came to the duke.

To this rather sickly and melancholy lad, who had behind him a terrible family history of violence,
and to his bastard brother, Gianevangelista, the duke accorded the most gracious welcome. Indeed,
so amiable did Astorre find the duke that, although the terms of surrender afforded him perfect
liberty to go whither he listed, he chose to accept the invitation Cesare extended to him to
remain in the duke's train.

It is eminently probable, however, that the duke's object in keeping the young man about him
was prompted by another phase of that policy of his which Macchiavelli was later to formulate
into rules of conduct, expedient in a prince:

"In order to preserve a newly acquired State particular attention should be given to two points.
In the first place care should be taken entirely to extinguish the family of the ancient sovereign;
in the second, laws should not be changed, nor taxes increased."

Thus Macchiavelli. The second point is all that is excellent; the first is all that is wise--cold,
horrible, and revolting though it be to our twentieth-century notions.

Cesare Borgia, as a matter of fact, hardly went so far as Macchiavelli advises. He practised
discrimination. He did not, for instance, seek the lives of Pandolfaccio Malatesta, or of Caterina
Sforza-Riario. He saw no danger in their living, no future trouble to apprehend from them.
The hatred borne them by their subjects was to Cesare a sufficient guarantee that they would
not be likely to attempt a return to their dominions, and so he permitted them to keep their
lives. But to have allowed Astorre Manfredi, or even his bastard brother, to live would have
been bad policy from the appallingly egotistical point of view which was Cesare's--a point
of view, remember, which receives Macchiavelli's horribly intellectual, utterly unsentimental,
revoltingly practical approval.

So--to anticipate a little--we see Cesare taking Astorre and Gianevangelista Manfredi to Rome
when he returned thither in the following June. A fortnight later--on June 26--the formidable
amazon of Forli, the Countess Sforza-Riario, was liberated, as we know, from the Castle of
Sant' Angelo, and permitted to withdraw to Florence. But the gates of that grim fortress, in
opening to allow her to pass out, opened also for the purpose of admitting Astorre and Gianevangelista,
upon whom they closed.

All that is known positively of the fate of these unfortunate young men is that they never
came forth again alive.

The record in Burchard (June 9, 1502) of Astorre's body having been found in the Tiber with
a stone round his neck, suffers in probability from the addition that, "together with it were
found the bodies of two young men with their arms tied, a certain woman, and many others."

The dispatch of Giustiniani to the effect that: "It is said that this night were thrown into
Tiber and drowned the two lords of Faenza together with their seneschal," was never followed
up by any other dispatch confirming the rumour, nor is it confirmed by any dispatch so far
discovered from any other ambassador, nor yet does the matter find place in the Chronicles
of Faenza.

But that is of secondary importance. The ugliest feature of the case is not the actual assassination
of the young men, but the fact that Cesare had pledged himself that Astorre should go free,
and yet had kept him by him--at first, it would seem, in his train, and later as a prisoner--until
he put an end to his life. It was an ugly, unscrupulous deed; but there is no need to exaggerate
its heinousness, as is constantly done, upon no better authority than Guicciardini's, who wrote
that the murder had been committed "saziata prima la libidine di qualcuno."

Of all the unspeakable calumnies of which the Borgias have been the subject, none is more utterly
wanton than this foul exhalation of Guicciardini's lewd invention. Let the shame that must
eternally attach to him for it brand also those subsequent writers who repeated and retailed
that abominable and utterly unsupported accusation, and more particularly those who have not
hesitated to assume that Guicciardini's "qualcuno" was an old man in his seventy-second year--Pope
Alexander VI.

Others a little more merciful, a little more careful of physical possibilities (but no whit
less salacious) have taken it that Cesare was intended by the Florentine historian.

But, under one form or another, the lie has spread as only such foulness can spread. It has
become woven into the warp of history; it has grown to be one of those "facts" which are unquestioningly
accepted, but it stands upon no better foundation than the frequent repetition which a charge
so monstrous could not escape. Its source is not a contemporary one. It is first mentioned
by Guicciardini; and there is no logical conclusion to be formed other than that Guicciardini
invented it. Another story which owes its existence mainly, and its particulars almost entirely,
to Guicciardini's libellous pen--the story of the death of Alexander VI, which in its place
shall be examined--provoked the righteous anger of Voltaire. Atheist and violent anti-clerical
though he was, the story's obvious falseness so revolted him that he penned his formidable
indictment in which he branded Guicciardini as a liar who had deceived posterity that he might
vent his hatred of the Borgias. Better cause still was there in this matter of Astorre Manfredi
for Voltaire's indignation, as there is for the indignation of all conscientious seekers after
truth.

CHAPTER IX. CASTEL BOLOGNESE AND PIOMBINO

To return to the surrender of Faenza on April 26, 1501, we see Cesare on the morrow of that
event, striking camp with such amazing suddenness that he does not even pause to provide for
the government of the conquered tyranny, but appoints a vicar four days later to attend to it.

He makes his abrupt departure from Faenza, and is off like a whirlwind to sweep unexpectedly
into the Bolognese territory, and, by striking swiftly, to terrify Bentivogli into submission
in the matter of Castel Bolognese.

This fortress, standing in the duke's dominions, on the road between Faenza and Imola, must
be a menace to him whilst in the hands of a power that might become actively hostile.

Ahead of him Cesare sent an envoy to Bentivogli, to demand its surrender.

The alarmed Lord of Bologna, having convened his Council (the Reggimento), replied that they
must deliberate in the matter; and two days later they dispatched their ambassador to lay before
Cesare the fruits of these deliberations. They were to seek the duke at Imola; but they got
no farther than Castel S. Pietro, which to their dismay they found already in the hands of
Vitellozzo Vitelli's men-at­arms. For, what time Bentivogli had been deliberating, Cesare Borgia
had been acting with that promptness which was one of his most salient characteristics, and,
in addition to Castel S. Pietro he had already captured Casalfiuminense, Castel Guelfo, and
Medecina, which were now invested by his troops.

When the alarming news of this swift action reached Bologna it caused Bentivogli to bethink
him at last of Louis XII's advice, that he should come to terms with Cesare Borgia, and he
realized that the time to do so could no longer be put off. He made haste, therefore, to agree
to the surrender of Castel Bolognese to the duke, to concede him stipend for one hundred lances
of three men each, and to enter into an undertaking to lend him every assistance for one year
against any power with which he might be at war, the King of France excepted. In return, Cesare
was to relinquish the captured strongholds and undertake that the Pope should confirm Bentivogli
in his ancient privileges. On April 29 Paolo Orsini went as Cesare's plenipotentiary to Bologna
to sign this treaty.

It was a crafty arrangement on Bentivogli's part, for, over and above the pacification of Cesare
and the advantage of an alliance with him, he gained as a result the alliance also of those
famous condottieri Vitelli and Orsini, both bitter enemies of Florence--the latter intent upon
the restoration of the Medici, the former impatient to avenge upon the Signory the execution
of his brother Paolo. As an instalment, on account of that debt, Vitelli had already put to
death Pietro da Marciano--the brother of Count Rinuccio da Marciano--when this gentleman fell
into his hands at Medicina.

Two days before the treaty was signed, Bentivogli had seized four members of the powerful House
of Marescotti. This family was related to the exiled Malvezzi, who were in arms with Cesare,
and Bentivogli feared that communications might be passing between the two to his undoing.
On that suspicion he kept them prisoners for the present, nor did be release them when the
treaty was signed, nor yet when, amid public rejoicings expressing the relief of the Bolognese,
it was published on May 2.

Hermes Bentivogli--Giovanni's youngest son--was on guard at the palace with several other young
Bolognese patricians, and he incited these to go with him to make an end of the traitors who
had sought to destroy the peace by their alleged plottings with Bentivogli's enemies in Cesare's
camp. He led his companions to the chamber where the Marescotti were confined, and there, more
or less in cold blood, those four gentlemen were murdered for no better reason--ostensibly--than
because it was suspected they had been in communication with their relatives in the Duke of
Valentinois's army. That was the way of the Cinquecento, which appears to have held few things
of less account than human life.

In passing, it may be mentioned that Guicciardini, of course, does his ludicrous best to make
this murder appear--at least indirectly, since directly it would be impossible--the work of
Cesare Borgia.

As for Castel Bolognese itself, Cesare Borgia sent a thousand demolishers in the following
July to raze it to the ground. It is said to have been the most beautiful castle in the Romagna;
but Cesare had other qualities than beauty to consider in the matter of a stronghold. Its commanding
position rendered it almost in the nature of a gateway controlling, as we know, the road from
Faenza to Imola, and its occupation by the Bolognese or other enemies in time of disturbance
might be of serious consequence to Cesare. Therefore he ruthlessly ordered Ramiro de Lorqua
to set about its demolition.

The Council of Castel Bolognese made great protest, and implored Ramiro to stay his hand until
they should have communicated with the duke petitioning for the castle's preservation; but
Ramiro--a hard, stern man, and Cesare's most active officer in the Romagna--told them bluntly
that to petition the duke in such a matter would be no better than a waste of time. He was
no more than right; for Cesare, being resolved upon the expediency of the castle's destruction,
would hardly be likely to listen to sentimental reasonings for its preservation. Confident
of this, Ramiro without more ado set about the execution of the orders he had received. He
pulled down the walls and filled up the moat, until nothing remained so much as to show the
place where the fortress had stood.

Another fortress which shared the fate of Castel Bolognese was the Castle of Sant' Arcangelo,
and similarly would Cesare have disposed of Solarolo, but that, being of lesser importance
and the inhabitants offering, in their petition for its preservation, to undertake, themselves,
the payment of the Castellan, he allowed it to remain.

Scarcely was the treaty with Bologna signed than Cesare received letters from the Pope recalling
him to Rome, and recommending that he should not molest the Florentines in his passage--a recommendation
which Alexander deemed very necessary considering the disposition towards Florence of Vitelli
and Orsini. He foresaw that they would employ arguments to induce Valentinois into an enterprise
of which all the cost would be his, and all the possible profit their own.

The duke would certainly have obeyed and avoided Tuscany, but that--precisely as the shrewd
Pope had feared--Vitelli and Orsini implored him to march through Florentine territory. Vitelli,
indeed, flung himself on his knees before Cesare in the vehemence of his supplications, urging
that his only motive was to effect the deliverance from his unjust imprisonment of Cerbone,
who had been his executed brother's chancellor. Beyond that, he swore he would make no demands
upon Florence, that he would not attempt to mix himself in the affairs of the Medici, and that
he would do no violence to town or country.

Thus implored, Cesare gave way. Probably he remembered the very circumstances under which Vitelli
had joined his banner, and considered that he could not now oppose a request backed by a promise
of so much moderation; so on May 7 he sent his envoys to the Signory to crave leave of passage
for his troops through Florentine territory.

Whilst still in the Bolognese he was sought out by Giuliano de'Medici, who begged to be allowed
to accompany him, a request which Cesare instantly refused, as being contrary to that to which
he had engaged himself, and he caused Giuliano to fall behind at Lojano. Nor would he so much
as receive in audience Piero de'Medici, who likewise sought to join him in Siennese territory,
as soon as he perceived what was toward. Yet, however much the duke protested that he had no
intention to make any change in the State of Florence, there were few who believed him. Florence,
weary and sorely reduced by the long struggle of the Pisan war, was an easy prey. Conscious
of this, great was her anxiety and alarm at Cesare's request for passage. The Signory replied
granting him the permission sought, but imposing the condition that he should keep to the country,
refraining from entering any town, nor bring with him into Florentine territory Vitelli, Orsini,
or any other enemy of the existing government. It happened, however, that when the Florentine
ambassador reached him with this reply the duke was already over the frontier of Tuscany with
the excluded condottieri in his train.

It was incumbent upon him, as a consequence, to vindicate this high-handed anticipation of
the unqualified Florentine permission which had not arrived. So he declared that he had been
offended last year by Florence in the matter of Forli, and again this year in the matter of
Faenza, both of which cities he charged the Signory with having assisted to resist him, and
he announced that, to justify his intentions so far as Florence was concerned, he would explain
himself at Barberino.

There, on May 12, he gave audience to the ambassador. He declared to him that he desired a
good understanding with Florence, and that she should offer no hindrance to the conquest of
Piombino, upon which he was now bound; adding that since he placed no trust in the present
government, which already had broken faith with him, he would require some good security for
the treaty to be made. Of reinstating the Medici he said nothing; but he demanded that some
satisfaction be given Vitelli and Orsini, and, to quicken Florence in coming to a decision,
he pushed forward with his army as far as Forno dei Campi--almost under her very walls.

The Republic was thrown into consternation. Instantly she got together what forces she disposed
of, and proceeded to fling her artillery into the Arno, to the end that she should be constrained
neither to refuse it to Cesare upon his demand, nor yet to deliver it.

Macchiavelli censures the Signory's conduct of this affair as impolitic. He contends that the
duke, being in great strength of arms, and Florence not armed at all, and therefore in no case
to hinder his passage, it would have been wiser and the Signory would better have saved its
face and dignity, had it accorded Cesare the permission to pass which he demanded, rather than
have been subjected to behold him enforce that passage by weight of arms. But all that now
concerned the Florentines was to be rid of an army whose presence in their territory was a
constant menace. And to gain that end they were ready to give any undertakings, just as they
were resolved to fulfil none.

Similarly, it chanced that Cesare was in no less a hurry to be gone; for he had received another
letter from the Pope commanding his withdrawal, and in addition, he was being plagued by Vitelli
and Orsini--grown restive--with entreaties for permission to go into either Florence or Pistoja,
where they did not lack for friends. To resist them Cesare had need of all the severity and
resolution he could command; and he even went so far as to back his refusal by a threat himself
to take up arms against them if they insisted.

On the 15th, at last, the treaty--which amounted to an offensive and defensive alliance--was
signed. By the terms of this, Florence undertook to give Cesare a condotta of 300 lances for
three years, to be used in Florentine service, with a stipend of 36,000 ducats yearly. How
much this really meant the duke was to discover two days later, when he sent to ask the Signory
to lend him some cannon for the emprise against Piombino, and to pay him the first instalment
of one quarter of the yearly stipend before he left Florentine territory. The Signory replied
that, by the terms of the agreement, there was no obligation for the immediate payment of the
instalment, whilst in the matter of the artillery they put him off from day to day, until Cesare
understood that their only aim in signing the treaty had been the immediate one of being rid
of his army.

The risk Florence incurred in so playing fast-and-loose with such a man, particularly in a
moment of such utter unfitness to resist him, is, notwithstanding the French protection enjoyed
by the Signory, amazing in its reckless audacity. It was fortunate for Florence that the Pope's
orders tied the duke's hands--and it may be that of this the Signory had knowledge, and that
it was upon such knowledge, in conjunction with France's protection, that it was presuming.
Cesare took the matter in the spirit of an excellent loser.

Not a hint of his chagrin and resentment did he betray; instead, he set about furnishing his
needs elsewhere, sending Vitelli to Pisa with a request for artillery, a request to which Pisa
very readily responded, as much on Vitelli's account as on the duke's. As for Florence, if
Cesare Borgia could be terribly swift in punishing, he could also be formidably slow. If he
could strike upon the instant where the opening for a blow appeared, he could also wait for
months until the opening should be found. He waited now.

It would be at about this time that young Loenardo da Vinci sought employment in Cesare Borgia's
service. Leonardo had been in Milan until the summer of 1500, when he repaired to Florence
in quest of better fortune; but, finding little or no work to engage him there, he took the
chance of the duke of Valentinois's passage to offer his service to one whose liberal patronage
of the arts was become proverbial. Cesare took him into his employ as engineer and architect,
leaving him in the Romagna for the present. Leonardo may have superintended the repairs of
the Castle of Forli, whilst he certainly built the canal from Cesena to the Porto Cesenatico,
before rejoining the duke in Rome.

On May 25 Cesare moved by the way of the valley of Cecina to try conclusions with Giacomo d'Appiano,
Tyrant of Piombino, who with some Genoese and some Florentine aid, was disposed to offer resistance
to the duke. The first strategic movement in this affair must be the capture of the Isle of
Elba, whence aid might reach Piombino on its promontory thrusting out into the sea. For this
purpose the Pope sent from Civita Vecchia six galleys, three brigantines, and two galleons
under the command of Lodovico Mosca, captain of the papal navy, whilst Cesare was further reinforced
by some vessels sent him from Pisa together with eight pieces of cannon. With these he made
an easy capture of Elba and Pianosa. That done, he proceeded to lay siege to Piombino, which,
after making a gallant resistance enduring for two months, was finally pressed to capitulate.

Long before that happened, however, Cesare had taken his departure. Being awaited in Rome,
he was unable to conduct the siege operations in person. So he quitted Piombino in June to
join the French under d'Aubigny, bound at last upon the conquest of Naples, and claiming--as
their treaty with him provided--Cesare's collaboration.

CHAPTER X. THE END OF THE HOUSE OF ARAGON

Cesare arrived in Rome on June 13. There was none of the usual pomp on this occasion. He made
his entrance quietly, attended only by a small body of men-at-arms, and he was followed, on
the morrow, by Yves d'Allègre with the army--considerably reduced by the detachments which
had been left to garrison the Romagna, and to lay siege to Piombino.

Repairing to his quarters in the Vatican, the duke remained so close there for the few weeks
that he abode in Rome on this occasion(1) that, from now onward, it became a matter of the
utmost difficulty to obtain audience from him. This may have been due to his habit of turning
night into day and day into night, whether at work or at play, which in fact was the excuse
offered by the Pope to certain envoys sent to Cesare from Rimini, who were left to cool their
heels about the Vatican ante-chambers for a fortnight without succeeding in obtaining an audience.

  1 "Mansit in Palatio secrete," says Burchard.

Cesare Borgia was now Lord of Imola, Forli, Rimini, Faenza and Piombino, warranting his assumption
of the inclusive title of Duke of Romagna which he had taken immediately after the fall of Faenza.

As his State grew, so naturally did the affairs of government; and, during those four weeks
in Rome, business claimed his attention and an enormous amount of it was dispatched. Chiefly
was he engaged upon the administration of the affairs of Faenza, which he had so hurriedly
quitted. In this his shrewd policy of generosity is again apparent. As his representative and
lieutenant he appointed a prominent citizen of Faenza named Pasi, one of the very members of
that Council which had been engaged in defending the city and resisting Cesare. The duke gave
it as his motive for the choice that the man was obviously worthy of trust in view of his fidelity
to Astorre.

And there you have not only the shrewdness of the man who knows how to choose his servants--which
is one of the most important factors of success--but a breadth of mind very unusual indeed
in the Cinquecento.

In addition to the immunity from indemnity provided for by the terms of the city's capitulation,
Cesare actually went so far as to grant the peasantry of the valley 2,000 ducats as compensation
for damage done in the war. Further, he supported the intercessions of the Council to the Pope
for the erection of a new convent to replace the one that had been destroyed in the bombardment.
In giving his consent to this--in a brief dated July 12, 1501--the Pope announces that he does
so in response to the prayers of the Council and of the duke.

Giovanni Vera, Cesare's erstwhile preceptor--and still affectionately accorded this title by
the duke--was now Archbiship of Salerno, Cardinal of Santa Balbina, and papal legate in Macerata,
and he was chosen by the Pope to go to Pesaro and Fano for the purpose of receiving the oath
of fealty. With him Cesare sent, as his own personal representative, his secretary, Agabito
Gherardi, who had been in his employ in that capacity since the duke's journey into France,
and who was to follow his fortunes to the end.

However the people of Fano may have refrained from offering themselves to the duke's dominion
when, in the previous October, he had afforded them by his presence the opportunity of doing
so, their conduct now hardly indicated that the earlier abstention had been born of reluctance,
or else their minds had undergone, in the meanwhile, a considerable change. For, when they
received the brief appointing him their lord, they celebrated the event by public rejoicings
and illuminations; whilst on July 21 the Council, representing the people, in the presence
of Vera and Gherardi, took oath upon the Gospels of allegiance to Cesare and his descendants
for ever.

In the Consistory of June 25 of that year the French and Spanish ambassadors came formally
to notify the Holy Father of the treaty of Granada, entered into in the previous November by
Louis XII of the one part, and Ferdinand and Isabella of the other, concerning the conquest
and division of the Kingdom of Naples. The rival claimants had come to a compromise by virtue
of which they were to undertake together the conquest and thereafter share the spoil--Naples
and the Abruzzi going to France, and Calabria and Puglia to Spain.

Alexander immediately published his Bull declaring Federigo of Naples deposed for disobedience
to the Church, and for having called the Turk to his aid, either of which charges it would
have taxed Alexander's ingenuity--vast though it was--convincingly to have established; or,
being established, to censure when all the facts were considered. The charges were no better
than pretexts for the spoliation of the unfortunate king who, in the matter of his daughter's
alliance with Cesare, had conceived that he might flout the Borgias with impunity.

On June 28 d'Aubigny left Rome with the French troops, accompanied by the bulk of the considerable
army with which Cesare supported his French ally, besides 1,000 foot raised by the Pope and
a condotta of 100 lances under Morgante Baglioni. As the troops defiled before the Castle of
Sant' Angelo they received the apostolic benediction from the Pope, who stood on the lower
ramparts of the fortress.

Cesare himself cannot have followed to join the army until after July 10, for as late as that
date there is an edict indited by him against all who should offer injury to his Romagna officers.
At about the same time that he quitted Rome to ride after the French, Gonsalo de Cordoba landed
a Spanish army in Calabria, and the days of the Aragon dominion in Naples were numbered.

King Federigo prepared to face the foe. Whilst himself remaining in Naples with Prospero Colonna,
he sent the bulk of his forces to Capua under Fabrizio Colonna and Count Rinuccio Marciano--the
brother of that Marciano whom Vitelli had put to death in Tuscany.

Ravaging the territory and forcing its strongholds as they came, the allies were under the
walls of Capua within three weeks of setting out; but on July 17, when within two miles of
the town, they were met by six hundred lances under Colonna, who attempted to dispute their
passage. It was Cesare Borgia himself who led the charge against them. Jean d'Auton--in his
Chronicles of Louis XII--speaks in warm terms of the duke's valour and of the manner in which,
by words and by example, he encouraged his followers to charge the Colonna forces, with such
good effect that they utterly routed the Neapolitans, and drove them headlong back to the shelter
of Capua's walls.

The allies brought up their cannon, and opened the bombardment. This lasted incessantly from
July 17--which was a Monday--until the following Friday, when two bastions were so shattered
that the French were able to gain possession of them, putting to the sword some two hundred
Neapolitan soldiers who had been left to defend those outworks. Thence admittance to the town
itself was gained four days later--on the 25th--through a breach, according to some, through
the treacherous opening of a gate, according to others. Through gate or breach the besiegers
stormed to meet a fierce resistance, and the most horrible carnage followed. Back and back
they drove the defenders, fighting their way through the streets and sparing none in the awful
fury that beset them. The defence was shattered; resistance was at an end; yet still the bloody
work went on. The combat had imperceptibly merged into a slaughter; demoralized and panic-stricken
in the reaction from their late gallantry, the soldiers of Naples flung down their weapons
and fled, shrieking for quarter. But none was given. The invader butchered every human thing
he came upon, indiscriminant of age or sex, and the blood of some four thousand victims flowed
through the streets of Capua like water after a thundershower. That sack of Capua is one of
the most horrid pages in the horrid history of sacks. You will find full details in d'Auton's
chronicle, if you have a mind for such horrors. There is a brief summary of the event in Burchard's
diary under date of July 26, 1501, which runs as follows:

"At about the fourth hour last night the Pope had news of the capture of Capua by the Duke
of Valentinois. The capture was due to the treason of one Fabrizio--a citizen of Capua--who
secretly introduced the besiegers and was the first to be killed by them. After him the same
fate was met by some three thousand foot and some two hundred horse-soldiers, by citizens,
priests, conventuals of both sexes, even in the very churches and monasteries, and all the
women taken were given in prey to the greatest cruelty. The total number of the slain is estimated
at four thousand."

D'Auton, too, bears witness to this wholesale violation of the women, "which," he adds, "is
the very worst of all war's excesses." He informs us further that "the foot-soldiers of the
Duke of Valentinois acquitted themselves so well in this, that thirty of the most beautiful
women went captive to Rome," a figure which is confirmed by Burchard.

"What an opportunity was not this for Guicciardini!

Under his nimble, malicious, unscrupulous pen that statement is re-edited until not thirty
but forty is the number of the captured victims taken to Rome, and not Valentinois's foot,
but Valentinois himself the ravisher of the entire forty! But hear the elegant Florentine's
own words:

"It was spread about [divulgossi]" he writes, "that, besides other wickednesses worthy of eternal
infamy, many women who had taken refuge in a tower, and thus escaped the first fury of the
assault, were found by the Duke of Valentinois, who, with the title of King's Lieutenant, followed
the army with no more people than his gentlemen and his guards.(1) He desired to see them all,
and, after carefully examining them [consideratele diligentemente] he retained forty of the
most beautiful."

  1  This, incidentally, is another misstatement.  Valentinois had with
him, besides the thousand foot levied by the Pope and the hundred lances
under Morgante Baglioni, an army some thousands strong led for him by
Yves d'Allègre.

Guicciardini's aim is, of course, to shock you; he considers it necessary to maintain in Cesare
the character of ravenous wolf which he had bestowed upon him. The marvel is not that Guicciardini
should have penned that utterly ludicrous accusation, but that more or less serious subsequent
writers--and writers of our own time even--instead of being moved to contemptuous laughter
at the wild foolishness of the story, instead of seeking in the available records the germ
of true fact from which it was sprung, should sedulously and unblushingly have carried forward
its dissemination.

Yriarte not only repeats the tale with all the sober calm of one utterly destitute of a sense
of the ridiculous, but he improves upon it by a delicious touch, worthy of Guicciardini himself,
when he assures us that Cesare took these forty women for his harem!

It is a nice instance of how Borgia history has grown, and is still growing.

If verisimilitude itself does not repudiate Guicciardini's story, there are the Capuan chronicles
to do it--particularly that of Pellegrini, who witnessed the pillage. In those chronicles from
which Guicciardini drew the matter for this portion of his history of Italy, you will seek
in vain for any confirmation of that fiction with which the Florentine historian--he who had
a pen of gold for his friends and one of iron for his foes--thought well to adorn his facts.

If the grotesque in history-building is of interest to you, you may turn the pages of the Storia
Civile di Capua, by F. Granata, published in 1752. This writer has carefully followed the Capuan
chroniclers in their relation of the siege; but when it comes to these details of the forty
ladies in the tower (in which those chroniclers fail him) he actually gives Guicciardini as
his authority, setting a fashion which has not lacked for unconscious, and no less egregious,
imitators.

To return from the criticism of fiction to the consideration of fact, Fabrizio Colonna and
Rinuccio da Marciano were among the many captains of the Neapolitan army that were taken prisoners.
Rinuccio was the head of the Florentine faction which had caused the execution of Paolo Vitelli,
and Giovio has it that Vitellozzo Vitelli, who had already taken an instalment of vengeance
by putting Pietro da Marciano to death in Tuscany, caused Rinuccio's wounds to be poisoned,
so that he died two days later.

The fall of Capua was very shortly followed by that of Gaeta, and, within a week, by that of
Naples, which was entered on August 3 by Cesare Borgia in command of the vanguard of the army.
"He who had come as a cardinal to crown King Federigo, came now as a condottiero to depose him."

Federigo offered to surrender to the French all the fortresses that still held for him, on
condition that he should have safe-conduct to Ischia and liberty to remain there for six months.
This was agreed, and Federigo was further permitted to take with him his moveable possessions
and his artillery, which latter, however, he afterwards sold to the Pope.

Thus the last member of the House of Aragon to sit upon the throne of Naples took his departure,
accompanied by the few faithful ones who loved him well enough to follow him into exile; amongst
these was that poet Sanazzaro, who, to avenge the wrong suffered by the master whom he loved,
was to launch his terrible epigrams against Alexander, Cesare, and Lucrezia, and by means of
those surviving verses enable the enemies of the House of Borgia to vilify their memories through
centuries to follow.

Federigo's captains Prospero and Fabrizio Colonna, upon being ransomed, took their swords to
Gonzalo de Cordoba, hoping for the day when they might avenge upon the Borgia the ruin which,
even in this Neapolitan conquest they attributed to the Pope and his son.

And here, so far as Naples is concerned, closes the history of the House of Aragon. In Italy
it was extinct; and it was to become so, too, in Spain within the century.

CHAPTER XI. THE LETTER TO SILVIO SAVELLI

By September 15 Cesare was back in Rome, the richer in renown, in French favour, and in a matter
of 40,000 ducats, which is estimated as the total of the sums paid him by France and Spain
for the support which his condotta had afforded them.

During his absence two important events had taken place: the betrothal of his widowed sister
Lucrezia to Alfonso d'Este, son of Duke Ercole of Ferrara, and the publication of the Bull
of excommunication (of August 20) against the Savelli and Colonna in consideration of all that
they had wrought against the Holy See from the pontificate of Sixtus IV to the present time.
By virtue of that Bull the Pope ordered the confiscation of the possessions of the excommunicated
families, whilst the Caetani suffered in like manner at the same time.

These possessions were divided into two parts, and by the Bull of September 17 they were bestowed,
one upon Lucrezia's boy Roderigo, and with them the title of Duke of Sermoneta; the other to
a child, Giovanni Borgia (who is made something of a mystery) with the title of Duke of Nepi
and Palestrina.

The entire proceeding is undoubtedly open to grave censure, since the distribution of the confiscated
fiefs subjects to impeachment the purity of the motives that prompted this confiscation. It
was on the part of Alexander a gross act of nepotism, a gross abuse of his pontifical authority;
but there is, at least, this to be said, that in perpetrating it he was doing no more than
in his epoch it was customary for Popes to do. Alexander, it may be said again in this connection,
was part of a corrupt system, not the corrupter of a pure one.

Touching the boy Giovanni Borgia, the mystery attaching to him concerns his parentage, and
arises out of the singular circumstance that there are two papal Bulls, both dated September
1, 1501, in each of which a different father is assigned to him, the second appearing to supplement
and correct the first.

The first of these Bulls, addressed to "Dilecto Filio Nobili Joanni de Borgia, Infanti Romano,"
declares him to be a child of three years of age, the illegitimate son of Cesare Borgia, unmarried
(as Cesare was at the time of the child's birth) and of a woman (unnamed, as was usual in such
cases) also unmarried.

The second declares him, instead, to be the son of Alexander, and runs: "Since you bear this
deficiency not from the said duke, but from us and the said woman, which we for good reasons
did not desire to express in the preceding writing."

That the second Bull undoubtedly contains the truth of the matter is the only possible explanation
of its existence, and the "good reasons" that existed for the first one are, no doubt, as Gregorovius
says, that officially and by canon law the Pope was inhibited from recognizing children. (His
other children, be it remembered, were recognized by him during his cardinalate and before
his elevation to St. Peter's throne.) Hence the attempt by these Bulls to circumvent the law
to the end that the child should not suffer in the matter of his inheritance.

Burchard, under date of November 3 of that year, freely mentions this Giovanni Borgia as the
son of the Pope and "a certain Roman woman" ("quadam Romana").

On the same date borne by those two Bulls a third one was issued confirming the House of Este
perpetually in the dominion of Ferrara and its other Romagna possessions, and reducing by one-third
the tribute of 4,000 ducats yearly imposed upon that family by Sixtus IV; and it was explicitly
added that these concessions were made for Lucrezia and her descendants.

Three days later a courier from Duke Ercole brought the news that the marriage contract had
been signed in Ferrara, and it was in salvoes of artillery that day and illuminations after
dark that the Pope gave expression to the satisfaction afforded him by the prospect of his
daughter's entering one of the most ancient families and ascending one of the noblest thrones
in Italy.

It would be idle to pretend that the marriage was other than one of convenience. Love between
the contracting parties played no part in this transaction, and Ercole d'Este was urged to
it under suasion of the King of France, out of fear of the growing might of Cesare, and out
of consideration for the splendid dowry which he demanded and in the matter of which he displayed
a spirit which Alexander contemptuously described as that of a tradesman. Nor would Ercole
send the escort to Rome for the bride until he had in his hands the Bull of investiture in
the fiefs of Cento and Pieve, which, with 100,000 ducats, constituted Lucrezia's dowry. Altogether
a most unromantic affair.

The following letter from the Ferrarese ambassador in Rome, dated September 23, is of interest
in connection with this marriage:

"MOST ILLUSTRIOUS PRINCE AND MOST NOBLE LORD,

"His Holiness the Pope, taking into consideration such matters as might occasion displeasure
not only to your Excellency and to the Most Illustrious Don Alfonso, but also to the duchess
and even to himself, has charged us to write to your Excellency to urge you so to contrive
that the Lord Giovanni of Pesaro, who, as your Excellency is aware, is in Mantua, shall not
be in Ferrara at the time of the nuptials. Notwithstanding that his divorce from the said duchess
is absolutely legitimate and accomplished in accordance with pure truth, as is publicly known
not only from the proceedings of the trial but also from the free confession of the said Don
Giovanni, it is possible that he may still be actuated by some lingering ill-will; wherefore,
should he find himself in any place where the said lady might be seen by him, her Excellency
might, in consequence, be compelled to withdraw into privacy, to be spared the memory of the
past. Wherefore, his Holiness exhorts your Excellency to provide with your habitual prudence
against such a contingency."

Meanwhile, the festivities wherewith her betrothal was celebrated went merrily amain, and into
the midst of them, to bear his share, came Cesare crowned with fresh laurels gained in the
Neapolitan war. No merry-makings ever held under the auspices of Pope Alexander VI at the Vatican
had escaped being the source of much scandalous rumour, but none had been so scandalous and
disgraceful as the stories put abroad on this occasion. These found a fitting climax in that
anonymous Letter to Silvio Savelli, published in Germany--which at the time, be it borne in
mind, was extremely inimical to the Pope, viewing with jaundiced eyes his ever-growing power,
and stirred perhaps to this unspeakable burst of venomous fury by the noble Este alliance,
so valuable to Cesare in that it gave him a friend upon the frontier of his Romagna possessions.

The appalling publication, which is given in full in Burchard, was fictitiously dated from
Gonzola de Cordoba's Spanish camp at Taranto on November 25. A copy of this anonymous pamphlet,
which is the most violent attack on the Borgias ever penned, perhaps the most terrible indictment
against any family ever published--a pamphlet which Gregorovius does not hesitate to call "an
authentic document of the state of Rome under the Borgias"--fell into the hands of the Cardinal
of Modena, who on the last day of the year carried it to the Pope.

Before considering that letter it is well to turn to the entries in Burchard's diary under
the dates of October 27 and November 11 of that same year. You will find two statements which
have no parallel in the rest of the entire diary, few parallels in any sober narrative of facts.
The sane mind must recoil and close up before them, so impossible does it seem to accept them.

The first of these is the relation of the supper given by Cesare in the Vatican to fifty courtesans--a
relation which possibly suggested to the debauched Regent d'Orléans his fêtes d'Adam, a couple
of centuries later.

Burchard tells us how, for the amusement of Cesare, of the Pope, and of Lucrezia, these fifty
courtesans were set to dance after supper with the servants and some others who were present,
dressed at first and afterwards not so. He draws for us a picture of those fifty women on all
fours, in all their plastic nudity, striving for the chestnuts flung to them in that chamber
of the Apostolic Palace by Christ's Vicar--an old man of seventy--by his son and his daughter.
Nor is that all by any means. There is much worse to follow--matter which we dare not translate,
but must leave more or less discreetly veiled in the decadent Latin of the Caerimoniarius:

"Tandem exposita dona ultima, diploides de serico, paria caligarum, bireta ed alia pro illis
qui pluries dictas meretrices carnaliter agnoscerent; que fuerunt ibidem in aula publice carnaliter
tractate arbitrio presentium, dona distributa victoribus."

Such is the monstrous story!

Gregorovius, in his defence of Lucrezia Borgia, refuses to believe that she was present; but
he is reluctant to carry his incredulity any further.

"Some orgy of that nature," he writes, "or something similar may very well have taken place.
But who will believe that Lucrezia, already the legal wife of Alfonso d'Este and on the eve
of departure for Ferrara, can have been present as a smiling spectator?"

Quite so. Gregorovius puts his finger at once upon one of the obvious weaknesses of the story.
But where there is one falsehood there are usually others; and if we are not to believe that
Lucrezia was present, why should we be asked to believe in the presence of the Pope? If Burchard
was mistaken in the one, why might he not be mistaken in the other? But the question is not
really one of whom you will believe to have been present at that unspeakable performance, but
rather whether you can possibly bring yourself to believe that it ever took place as it is
related in the Diarium.

Gregorovius says, you will observe, "Some orgy of that nature, or something similar, may very
well have taken place." We could credit that Cesare held "some orgy of that nature." He had
apartments in the Vatican, and if it shock you to think that it pleased him, with his gentlemen,
to make merry by feasting a parcel of Roman harlots, you are--if you value justice--to be shocked
at the times rather than the man. The sense of humour of the Cinquecento was primitive, and
in primitive humour prurience plays ever an important part, as is discernible in the literature
and comedies of that age. If you would appreciate this to the full, consider Burchard's details
of the masks worn at Carnival by some merry-makers ("Venerunt ad plateam St. Petri larvati...habentes
nasos lungos et grossos in forma priaporum") and you must realize that in Cesare's conduct
in this matter there would have been nothing so very abnormal considered from the point of
view of the Cinquecento, even though it were to approach the details given by Burchard.

But even so, you will hesitate before you accept the story of that saturnalia in its entirety,
and before you believe that an old man of seventy, a priest and Christ's Vicar, was present
with Cesare and his friends. Burchard does not say that he himself was a witness of what he
relates. But the matter shall presently be further considered.

Meanwhile, let us pass to the second of these entries in the diary, and (a not unimportant
detail) on the very next page of it, under the date of November 11. In this it is related that
certain peasants entered Rome by the Viridarian Gate, driving two mares laden with timber;
that, in crossing the Square of St. Peter's, some servants of the Pope's ran out and cut the
cords so that the timber was loosened and the beasts relieved of their burden; they were then
led to a courtyard within the precincts of the palace, where four stallions were loosed upon
them. "Ascenderunt equas et coierunt cum eis et eas graviter pistarunt et leserunt," whilst
the Pope at a window above the doorway of the Palace, with Madonna Lucrezia, witnessed with
great laughter and delight, the show which it is suggested was specially provided for their
amusement.

The improbabilities of the saturnalia of the fifty courtesans pale before the almost utter
impossibility of this narrative. To render it possible in the case of two chance animals as
these must have been under the related circumstances, a biological coincidence is demanded
so utterly unlikely and incredible that we are at once moved to treat the story with scorn,
and reject it as a fiction. Yet not one of those many writers who have retailed that story
from Burchard's Diarium as a truth incontestable as the Gospels, has paused to consider this--so
blinded are we when it is a case of accepting that which we desire to accept.

The narrative, too, is oddly--suspiciously--circumstantial, even to the unimportant detail
of the particular gate by which the peasants entered Rome. In a piece of fiction it is perfectly
natural to fill in such minor details to the end that the picture shall be complete; but they
are rare in narratives of fact. And one may be permitted to wonder how came the Master of Ceremonies
at the Vatican to know the precise gate by which those peasants came. It is not--as we have
seen--the only occasion on which an excess of detail in the matter of a gate renders suspicious
the accuracy of a story of Burchard's.

Both these affairs find a prominent place in the Letter to Silvio Savelli. Indeed Gregorovius
cites the pamphlet as one of the authorities to support Burchard, and to show that what Burchard
wrote must have been true; the other authority he cites is Matarazzo, disregarding not only
the remarkable discrepancy between Matarazzo's relation and that of Burchard, but the circumstance
that the matter of that pamphlet became current throughout Italy, and that it was thus--and
only thus--that Matarazzo came to hear of the scandal.(1)

  1  The frequency with which the German historian cites Matarazzo as an
authority is oddly inconsistent, considering that when he finds
Matarazzo's story of the murder of the Duke of Gandia upsetting the
theory which Gregorovius himself prefers, by fastening the guilt
upon Giovanni Sforza, he devotes some space to showing--with perfect
justice--that Matarazzo is no authority at all.

The Letter to Silvio Savelli opens by congratulating him upon his escape from the hands of
the robbers who had stripped him of his possessions, and upon his having found a refuge in
Germany at the Emperor's Court. It proceeds to marvel that thence he should have written letters
to the Pope begging for justice and reinstatement, his wonder being at the credulity of Savelli
in supposing that the Pope--"betrayer of the human race, who has spent his life in betrayals"--will
ever do any just thing other than through fear or force. Rather does the writer suggest the
adoption of other methods; he urges Savelli to make known to the Emperor and all princes of
the Empire the atrocious crimes of that "infamous wild beasts" which have been perpetrated
in contempt of God and religion. He then proceeds to relate these crimes. Alexander, Cesare,
and Lucrezia, among others of the Borgia family, bear their share of the formidable accusations.
Of the Pope are related perfidies, simonies, and ravishments; against Lucrezia are urged the
matter of her incest, the supper of the fifty courtesans, and the scene of the stallions; against
Cesare there are the death of Biselli, the murder of Pedro Caldes, the ruin of the Romagna,
whence he has driven out the legitimate lords, and the universal fear in which he is held.

It is, indeed, a compendium of all the stories which from Milan, Naples, and Venice--the three
States where the Borgias for obvious reasons are best hated--have been disseminated by their
enemies, and a more violent work of rage and political malice was never uttered. This malice
becomes particularly evident in the indictment of Cesare for the ruin of the Romagna. Whatever
Cesare might have done, he had not done that--his bitterest detractor could not (without deliberately
lying) say that the Romagna was other than benefiting under his sway. That is not a matter
of opinion, not a matter of inference or deduction. It is a matter of absolute fact and irrefutable
knowledge.

To return now to the two entries in Burchard's Diarium when considered in conjunction with
the Letter to Silvio Savelli (which Burchard quotes in full), it is remarkable that nowhere
else in the discovered writings of absolute contemporaries is there the least mention of either
of those scandalous stories. The affair of the stallions, for instance, must have been of a
fairly public character. Scandal-mongering Rome could not have resisted the dissemination of
it. Yet, apart from the Savelli letter, no single record of it has been discovered to confirm
Burchard.

At this time, moreover, it is to be remembered, Lucrezia's betrothal to Alfonso d'Este was
already accomplished; preparations for her departure and wedding were going forward, and the
escort from Ferrara was daily expected in Rome. If Lucrezia had never been circumspect, she
must be circumspect now, when the eyes of Italy were upon her, and there were not wanting those
who would have been glad to have thwarted the marriage--the object, no doubt, of the pamphlet
we are considering. Yet all that was written to Ferrara was in praise of her--in praise of
her goodness and her modesty, her prudence, her devoutness, and her discretion, as presently
we shall see.

If from this we are to conclude--as seems reasonable--that there was no gossip current in Rome
of the courtesans' supper and the rest, we may assume that there was no knowledge in Rome of
such matters; for with knowledge silence would have been impossible. So much being admitted,
it becomes a matter of determining whether the author of the Letter to Silvio Savelli had access
to the diary of Burchard for his facts, or whether Burchard availed himself of the Letter to
Silvio Savelli to compile these particular entries. The former alternative being out of the
question, there but remains the latter--unless it is possible that the said entries have crept
into the copies of the "Diarium" and are not present in the original, which is not available.

This theory of interpolation, tentatively put forward, is justified, to some extent at least,
by the following remarkable circumstances: that two such entries, having--as we have said--absolutely
no parallel in the whole of the Diarium, should follow almost immediately the one upon the
other; and that Burchard should relate them coldly, without reproof or comment of any kind--a
most unnatural reticence in a writer who loosed his indignation one Easter-tide to see Lucrezia
and her ladies occupying the choir of St. Peter's, where women never sat.

The Pope read the anonymous libel when it was submitted to him by the Cardinal of Modena--read
it, laughed it to scorn, and treated it with the contempt which it deserved, yet a contempt
which, considering its nature, asks a certain greatness of mind.

If the libel was true it is almost incredible that he should not have sought to avenge it,
for an ugly truth is notoriously hurtful and provocative of resentment, far more so than is
a lie. Cesare, however, was not of a temper quite as long-suffering as his father. Enough and
more of libels and lampoons had he endured already. Early in December a masked man--a Neapolitan
of the name of Mancioni--who had been going through Rome uttering infamies against him was
seized and so dealt with that he should in future neither speak nor write anything in any man's
defamation. His tongue was cut out and his right hand chopped off, and the hand, with the tongue
attached to its little finger, was hung in sight of all and as a warning from a window of the
Church of Holy Cross.

And towards the end of January, whilst Cesare's fury at that pamphlet out of Germany was still
unappeased, a Venetian was seized in Rome for having translated from Greek into Latin another
libel against the Pope and his son. The Venetian ambassador intervened to save the wretch,
but his intervention was vain. The libeller was executed that same night.

Costabili--the Ferrara ambassador--who spoke to the Pope on the matter of this execution, reported
that his Holiness said that more than once had he told the duke that Rome was a free city,
in which any one was at liberty to say or write what he pleased; that of himself, too, much
evil was being spoken, but that he paid no heed to it.

"The duke," proceeded Alexander, "is good-natured, but he has not yet learnt to bear insult."
And he added that, irritated, Cesare had protested that, "However much Rome may be in the habit
of speaking and writing, for my own part I shall give these libellers a lesson in good manners."

The lesson he intended was not one they should live to practise.

CHAPTER XII. LUCREZIA'S THIRD MARRIAGE

At about the same time that Burchard was making in his Diarium those entries which reflect
so grossly upon the Pope and Lucrezia, Gianluca Pozzi, the ambassador of Ferrara at the Vatican,
was writing the following letter to his master, Duke Ercole, Lucrezia's father-in-law elect:

"This evening, after supper, I accompanied Messer Gerardo Saraceni to visit the Most Illustrious
Madonna Lucrezia in your Excellency's name and that of the Most Illustrious Don Alfonso. We
entered into a long discussion touching various matters. In truth she showed herself a prudent,
discreet, and good-natured lady."(1)

  1  See Gregorovius's Lucrezia Borgia.

The handsome, athletic Cardinal Ippolito d'Este, with his brothers Sigismondo and Fernando,
had arrived in Rome on December 23 with the imposing escort that was to accompany their brother
Alfonso's bride back to Ferrara.

Cesare was prominent in the welcome given them. Never, perhaps, had he made greater display
than on the occasion of his riding out to meet the Ferrarese, accompanied by no fewer than
4,000 men-at-arms, and mounted on a great war-horse whose trappings of cloth of gold and jewels
were estimated at 10,000 ducats.

The days and nights that followed, until Lucrezia's departure a fortnight later, were days
and nights of gaiety and merry-making at the Vatican; in banquets, dancing, the performance
of comedies, masques, etc., was the time made to pass as agreeably as might be for the guests
from Ferrara, and in all Cesare was conspicuous, either for the grace and zest with which he
nightly danced, or for the skill and daring which he displayed in the daily joustings and entertainments,
and more particularly in the bull-fight that was included in them.

Lucrezia was splendidly endowed, to the extent, it was estimated, of 300,000 ducats, made up
by 100,000 ducats in gold, her jewels and equipage, and the value of the Castles of Pieve and
Cento. Her departure from Rome took place on January 6, and so she passes out of this chronicle,
which, after all, has been little concerned with her.

Of the honour done her everywhere on that journey to Ferrara, the details are given elsewhere,
particularly in the book devoted to her history and rehabilitation by Herr Gregorovius. After
all, the real Lucrezia Borgia fills a comparatively small place in the actual history of her
house. It is in the fictions concerning her family that she is given such unenviable importance,
and presented as a Maenad, a poisoner, and worse. In reality she appears to us, during her
life in Rome, as a rather childish, naïve, and entirely passive figure, important only in so
far as she found employment at her father's or brother's hands for the advancement of their
high ambitions and unscrupulous aims.

In the popular imagination she lives chiefly as a terrific poisoner, an appalling artist in
venenation. It is remarkable that this should be the case, for not even the scandal of her
day so much as suggests that she was connected--directly or even indirectly--with a single
case of poisoning. No doubt that popular conception owes its being entirely to Victor Hugo's drama.

Away from Rome and settled in Ferrara from the twenty-second year of her age, to become anon
its duchess, her life is well known and admits of no argument. The archives of the State she
ruled show her devout, god-fearing, and beloved in life, and deeply mourned in death by a sorrowing
husband and a sorrowing people. Not a breath of scandal touches her from the moment that she
quits the scandalous environment of the Papal Court.

Cesare continued at the Vatican after her departure. His duchess was to have come to Rome in
that Easter of 1502, and it had been disposed that the ladies and gentlemen who had gone as
escort of honour with Lucrezia should proceed--after leaving her in Ferrara--to Lombardy, to
do the like office by Charlotte d'Albret, and, meeting her there, accompany her to Rome. She
was coming with her brother, the Cardinal Amanieu d'Albret, and bringing with her Cesare's
little daughter, Louise de Valentinois, now two years of age. But the duchess fell ill at the
last moment, and was unable to undertake the journey, of which Cardinal d'Albret brought word
to Rome, where he arrived on February 7.

Ten days later Cesare set out with his father for Piombino, for which purpose six galleons
awaited them at Civita Vecchia under the command of Lodovico Mosca, the captain of the Pontifical
navy. On these the Pope and his son embarked, upon their visit to the scene of the latest addition
to Cesare's ever-growing dominions.

They landed at Piombino on February 21, and made a solemn entrance into the town, the Pope
carried in state in the Sedia Gestatoria, under a canopy, attended by six cardinals and six
singers from the Sixtine Chapel, whilst Cesare was accompanied by a number of his gentlemen.

They abode four days in Piombino, whence they crossed to Elba, for the purpose of disposing
for the erection there of two fortresses--a matter most probably entrusted to Leonardo da Vinci,
who continued in the ducal train as architect and engineer.

On March 1 they took ship to return to Rome; but they were detained at sea for five days by
a tempest which seems to have imperilled the vessels. The Pope was on board the captain's galley
with his cardinals-in-waiting and servants, and when these were reduced by the storm and the
imminent danger to a state of abject terror, the Pope--this old man of seventy-one--sat calm
and intrepid, occasionally crossing himself and pronouncing the name of Jesus, and encouraging
the very sailors by his example as much as by his words.

In Piombino Cesare had left Michele da Corella as his governor. This Corella was a captain
of foot, a soldier of fortune, who from the earliest days of Cesare's military career had followed
the duke's fortunes--the very man who is alleged to have strangled Alfonso of Aragon by Cesare's
orders. He is generally assumed to have been a Spaniard, and is commonly designated as Michelotto,
or Don Miguel; but Alvisi supposes him, from his name of Corella, to have been a Venetian,
and he tells us that by his fidelity to Cesare and the implicit manner in which he executed
his master's orders, he earned--as is notorious--considerable hatred. He has been spoken of,
indeed, as the âme damnée of Cesare Borgia; but that is a purely romantic touch akin to that
which gave the same designation to Richelieu's Father Joseph.

The Romagna was at this time administered for Cesare Borgia by Ramiro de Lorqua, who, since
the previous November, had held the office of Governor in addition to that of Lieutenant-General
in which he had been earlier invested. His power in the Romagna was now absolute, all Cesare's
other officers, even the very treasurers, being subject to him.

He was a man of some fifty years of age, violent and domineering, feared by all, and the dispenser
of a harsh justice which had at least the merit of an impartiality that took no account of persons.

Bernardi gives us an instance of the man's stern, uncompromising, pitiless nature. On January
29, 1502, two malefactors were hanged in Faenza. The rope suspending one of them broke while
the fellow was alive, and the crowd into which he tumbled begged for mercy for him at first,
then, swayed by pity, the people resolved to save him in spite of the officers of justice who
demanded his surrender. Preventing his recapture, the mob bore him off to the Church of the
Cerviti. The Lieutenant of Faenza came to demand the person of the criminal, but he was denied
by the Prior, who claimed to extend him sanctuary.

But the days of sanctuary were overpast, and the laws of the time held that any church or consecrated
place in which a criminal took refuge should ipso facto be deemed unconsecrated by his pursuers,
and further, that any ecclesiastic sheltering such a fugitive did so under peril of excommunication
from his bishop. This law Ramiro accounted it his duty to enforce when news was carried to
him at Imola of what had happened.

He came at once to Faenza, and, compelling the Prior by actual force to yield up the man he
sheltered, he hanged the wretch, for the second time, from a window of the Palace of the Podestá.
At the same time he seized several who were alleged to have been ringleaders of the fellow's
rescue from the hands of the officers, and made the citizens of Faenza compromise for the lives
of these by payment of a fine of 10,000 ducats, giving them a month in which to find the money.

The Faentini sent their envoys to Ramiro to intercede with him; but that harsh man refused
so much as to grant them audience--which was well for them, for, as a consequence, the Council
sent ambassadors to Rome to submit the case to the Pope's Holiness and to the Duke of Valentinois,
together with a petition that the fine should be remitted--a petition that was readily granted.

Harsh as it was, however, Ramiro's rule was salutary, its very harshness necessary in a province
where lawlessness had become a habit through generations of misgovernment. Under Cesare's dominion
the change already was remarkable. During his two years of administration--to count from its
commencement--the Romagna was already converted from a seething hell of dissensions, disorders
and crimes--chartered brigandage and murder--into a powerful State, law-abiding and orderly,
where human life and personal possessions found zealous protection, and where those who disturbed
the peace met with a justice that was never tempered by mercy.

A strong hand was wanted there, and the duke, supreme judge of the tools to do his work, ruled
the Romagna and crushed its turbulence by means of the iron hand of Ramiro de Lorqua.

It was also under the patronage of Valentinois that the first printing-press of any consequence
came to be established in Italy. This was set up at Fano by Girolamo Sancino in 1501, and began
the issue of worthy books. One of the earliest works undertaken (says Alvisi) was the printing
of the Statutes of Fano for the first time in January of 1502. And it was approved by the Council,
civil and ecclesiastical, that Sancino should undertake this printing of the Statutes "Ad perpetuam
memoriam Illmi. Domini nostri Ducis."

CHAPTER XIII. URBINO AND CAMERINO

It may well be that it was about this time that Cesare, his ambition spreading--as men's ambition
will spread with being gratified--was considering the consolidation of Central Italy into a
kingdom of which he would assume the crown.

It was a scheme in the contemplation of which he was encouraged by Vitellozzo Vitelli, who
no doubt conceived that in its fulfilment the ruin of Florence would be entailed--which was
all that Vitelli cared about. What to Cesare would have been no more than the means, would
have been to Vitelli a most satisfactory end.

Before, however, going so far there was still the work of subjugating the States of the Church
to be completed, as this could not be so considered until Urbino, Camerino, and Sinigaglia
should be under the Borgia dominion.

For this, no doubt, Cesare was disposing during that Easter of 1502 which he spent in Rome,
and during which there were heard from the south the first rumblings of the storm of war whereof
ill-starred Naples was once more--for the third time within ten years--to be the scene. The
allies of yesterday were become the antagonists of to-day, and France and Spain were ready
to fly at each other's throats over the division of the spoil, as a consequence of certain
ill-definitions of the matter in the treaty of Granada. The French Viceroy, Louis d'Armagnac,
and the great Spanish Captain, Gonzalo de Cordoba, were on the point of coming to blows.

Nor was the menace of disturbance confined to Naples. In Florence, too, the torch of war was
alight, and if--as he afterwards swore--Cesare Borgia had no hand in kindling it, it is at
least undeniable that he complacently watched the conflagration, conscious that it would make
for the fulfilment of his own ends. Besides, there was still that little matter of the treaty
of Forno dei Campi between Cesare and Florence, a treaty which the Signory had never fulfilled
and never intended to fulfil, and Cesare was not the man to forget how he had been fooled.

But for the protection of France which she enjoyed, Florence must long ere this have been called
to account by him, and crushed out of all shape under the weight of his mailed hand. As it
was she was to experience the hurt of his passive resentment, and find this rather more than
she could bear.

Vitellozzo Vitelli, that vindictive firebrand whose original motive in allying himself with
Cesare had been the hope that the duke might help him to make Florence expiate his brother's
blood, finding that Cesare withheld the expected help, was bent at last upon dealing, himself,
with Florence. He entered into plots with the exiled Piero de'Medici to restore the latter
to his dominion; he set intrigues afoot in Pisa, where his influence was vast, and in Siena,
whose tyrant, Pandolfo Petrucci, was ready and willing to forward his designs, and generally
made so disturbing a stir in Tuscany that the Signory became gravely alarmed.

Cesare certainly took no apparent active part in the affair. He lent Vitelli no aid; but neither
did he attempt to restrain him or any other of the Borgia condottieri who were allied with him.

The unrest, spreading and growing sullenly a while, burst suddenly forth in Arezzo on June
4, when the cries of "Medici!" and "Marzocco!" rang in its streets, to announce that the city
was in arms against the government of Florence. Arezzo followed this up by summoning Vitelli,
and the waiting, watchful condottiero was quick to answer the desired call. He entered the
town three days later at the head of a small body of foot, and was very shortly afterwards
followed by his brother Giulio Vitelli, Bishop of Città di Castello, with the artillery, and,
presently, by Gianpaolo Baglioni with a condotta of horse.

A few days later Vitelli was in possession of all the strongholds of the Val di Chiana, and
panic-stricken Florence was speeding ambassadors hot-foot to Rome to lay her complaints of
these matters before the Pope.

Alexander was able to reply that, far from supporting the belligerents, he had launched a Bull
against them, provoked by the poisoning of the Bishop de'Pazzi.

Cesare looked on with the inscrutable calm for which Macchiavelli was presently to find him
so remarkable. Aware as he was of the French protection which Florence enjoyed and could invoke,
he perceived how vain must ultimately prove Vitelli's efforts, saw, perhaps, in all this the
grave danger of ultimate ruin which Vitelli was incurring. Yet Vitelli's action served Cesare's
own purposes, and, so that his purposes were served, there were no other considerations likely
to weigh with that cold egotist. Let Vitelli be caught in the toils he was spinning, and be
choked in them. Meanwhile, Florence was being harrowed, and that was all to Cesare's satisfaction
and advantage. When sufficiently humbled, it might well befall that the Republic should come
on her knees to implore his intervention, and his pardon for having flouted him.

While matters stood so in Arezzo, Pisa declared spontaneously for Cesare, and sent (on June
10) to offer herself to his dominion and to announce to him that his banner was already flying
from her turrets--and the growth of Florence's alarm at this is readily conceived.

To Cesare it must have been a sore temptation. To accept such a pied-à-terre in Tuscany as
was now offered him would have been the first great step towards founding that kingdom of his
dreams. An impulsive man had surely gulped the bait. But Cesare, boundless in audacity, most
swift to determine and to act, was not impulsive. Cold reason, foresight and calculation were
the ministers of his indomitable will. He looked ahead and beyond in the matter of Pisa's offer,
and he perceived the danger that might await him in the acceptance. The time for that was not
yet. To take what Pisa offered might entail offending France, and although Cesare was now in
case to dispense with French support, he was in no case to resist her opposition.

And so, the matter being considered and determined, Cesare quitted Rome on the 12th and left
it for the Pope to give answer to the Pisan envoys in the Consistory of June 14--that neither
his Holiness nor the Duke of Valentinois could assent to the proposals which Pisa made.

From Rome Cesare travelled swiftly to Spoleto, where his army, some ten thousand strong, was
encamped. He was bent at last upon the conquest of Camerino, and, ever an opportunist, he had
seized the moment when Florence, which might have been disposed to befriend Varano, Tyrant
of Camerino, was over-busy with her own affairs.

In addition to the powerful army awaiting him at Spoleto, the duke had a further 2,000 men
in the Romagna; another 1,000 men held themselves at his orders between Sinigaglia and Urbino,
and Dionigio di Naldo was arming yet another 1,000 men at Verucchio for his service. Yet further
to increase this force, Cesare issued an edict during his brief sojourn at Spoleto ordering
every house in the Romagna to supply him with one man-at-arms.

It was whilst here--as he afterwards wrote to the Pope--that news reached him that Guidobaldo
da Montefeltre, Duke of Urbino, was arming men and raising funds for the assistance of Camerino.
He wrote that he could not at first believe it, but that shortly afterwards--at Foligni--he
took a chancellor of Camerino who admitted that the hopes of this State were all founded upon
Urbino's assistance; and later, a messenger from Urbino falling into his hands, he discovered
that there was a plot afoot to seize the Borgia artillery as it passed through Ugubio, it being
known that, as Cesare had no suspicions, the guns would be guarded only by a small force. Of
this treachery the duke strongly expressed his indignation in his letter to the Pope.

Whether the matter was true--or whether Cesare believed it to be true--it is impossible to
ascertain with absolute conviction. But it is in the highest degree unlikely that Cesare would
have written such a letter to his father solely by way of setting up a pretext. Had that been
his only aim, letters expressing his simulated indignation would have been in better case to
serve his ends had they been addressed to others.

If Guidobaldo did engage in such an act, amounting to a betrayal, he was certainly paid by
Cesare in kind and with interest. If the duke had been short of a pretext for carrying a drawn
sword into the dominions of Guidobaldo, he had that pretext now in this act of enmity against
himself and the Holy See.

First, however, he disposed for the attack upon Camerino. This State, lying on the Eastern
spurs of the Apennines, midway between Spoleto and Urbino, was ruled by Giulio Cesare Varano,
an old war-dog of seventy years of age, ruthless and bloodthirsty, who owed his throne to his
murder of his own brother.

He was aided in the government of his tyranny by his four sons, Venanzio, Annibale, Pietro,
and Gianmaria.

Several times already had he been menaced by Cesare Borgia, for he was one of the Vicars proscribed
for the non-payment of tribute due to the Holy See, and at last his hour was come. Against
him Cesare now dispatched an army under the command of Francesco Orsini, Duke of Gravina, and
Oliverotto Eufreducci, another murderous, bloody gentleman who had hitherto served the duke
in Vitelli's condotta, and who, by an atrocious act of infamy and brigandage, had made himself
Lord of Fermo, which he pretended--being as sly as he was bloody--to hold as Vicar for the
Holy See.

This Oliverotto Eufreducci--hereafter known as Oliverotto da Fermo--was a nephew of Giovanni
Fogliano, Lord of Fermo. He had returned home to his uncle's Court in the early part of that
year, and was there received with great honour and affection by Fogliano and his other relatives.
To celebrate his home-coming, Oliverotto invited his uncle and the principal citizens of Fermo
to a banquet, and at table contrived to turn the conversation upon the Pope and the Duke of
Valentinois; whereupon, saying that these were matters to be discussed more in private, he
rose from table and begged them to withdraw with him into another room.

All unsuspecting--what should old Fogliano suspect from one so loved and so deeply in his debt?--they
followed him to the chamber where he had secretly posted a body of his men-at-arms. There,
no sooner had the door closed upon this uncle, and those others who had shown him so much affection,
than he gave the signal for the slaughter that had been concerted. His soldiers fell upon those
poor, surprised victims of his greed, and made a speedy and bloody end of all.

That first and chief step being taken, Oliverotto flung himself on his horse, and, gathering
his men-at-arms about him, rode through Fermo on the business of butchering what other relatives
and friends of Fogliano might remain. Among these were Raffaele della Rovere and two of his
children, one of whom was inhumanly slaughtered in its mother's lap.

Thereafter he confiscated to his own uses the property of those whom he had murdered, and of
those who, more fortunate, had fled his butcher's hands. He dismissed the existing Council
and replaced it by a government of his own. Which done--to shelter himself from the consequences--he
sent word to the Pope that he held Fermo as Vicar of the Church.

Whilst a portion of his army marched on Camerino, Cesare, armed with his pretext for the overthrow
of Guidobaldo, set himself deliberately and by an elaborate stratagem to the capture of Urbino.
Of this there can be little doubt. The cunning of the scheme is of an unsavoury sort, when
considered by the notions that obtain to-day, for the stratagem was no better than an act of
base treachery. Yet, lest even in this you should be in danger of judging Cesare Borgia by
standards which cannot apply to his age, you will do well to consider that there is no lack
of evidence that the fifteenth century applauded the business as a clever coup.

Guidobaldo da Montefeltre was a good prince. None in all Italy was more beloved by his people,
towards whom he bore himself with a kindly, paternal bonhomie. He was a cultured, scholarly
man, a patron of the arts, happiest in the splendid library of the Palace of Urbino. It happened,
unfortunately, that he had no heir, which laid his dominions open to the danger of division
amongst the neighbouring greedy tyrants after his death. To avoid this he had adopted Francesco
Maria della Rovere, hereditary Prefect of Sinigaglia, his sister's child and a nephew of Cardinal
Giuliano della Rovere's. There was wisdom and foresight in the adoption, considering the favour
enjoyed in Rome and in France by the powerful cardinal.

From Nocera Cesare sent Guidobaldo a message calculated to allay whatever uneasiness he may
have been feeling, and to throw him completely off his guard. The duke notified him that he
was marching upon Camerino--which was at once true and untrue--and begged Guidobaldo to assist
him in this enterprise by sending him provisions to Gubbio, which he should reach on the morrow--since
he was marching by way of Cagli and Sassoferrato. Further--and obviously with intent that the
Duke of Urbino should reduce the forces at his disposal--he desired Guidobaldo to send Vitelli
the support of a thousand men, which the latter had earlier solicited, but which Guidobaldo
had refused to supply without orders from the Pope. Cesare concluded his letter with protestations
of brotherly love--the Judas' kiss which makes him hateful to us in this affair.

It all proved very reassuring to Guidobaldo who set his mind at ease and never bethought him
of looking to his defences, when, from Nocera, Cesare made one of those sudden movements, terrible
in their swiftness as the spring of a tiger--enabling him to drive home his claws where least
expected. Leaving all baggage behind him, and with provisions for only three days, he brought
his troops by forced marches to Cagli, within the Urbino State, and possessed himself of it
almost before the town had come to realize his presence.

Not until the citadel, taken entirely by surprise, was in Cesare's hands did a messenger speed
to Guidobaldo with the unwelcome tidings that the Duke of Valentinois was in arms, as an enemy,
within the territory. Together with that message came others into the garden of the Zoccolanti
monastery--that favourite resort of Guidobaldo's--where he was indulging his not unusual custom
of supping in the cool of that summer evening. They brought him word that, while Valentinois
was advancing upon him from the south, a force of 1,000 men were marching upon Urbino from
Isola di Fano in the east, and twice that number through the passes of Sant' Angelo and Verucchio
in the north--all converging upon his capital.

The attack had been shrewdly planned and timed, and if anything can condone the treachery by
which Guidobaldo was lulled into his false security, it is the circumstance that this conduct
of the matter avoided bloodshed--a circumstance not wholly negligible, and one that was ever
a part of Cesare Borgia's policy, save where punishment had to be inflicted or reprisals taken.

Guidobaldo, seeing himself thus beset upon all sides at once, and being all unprepared for
resistance, perceived that nothing but flight remained him; and that very night he left Urbino
hurriedly, taking with him the boy Francesco Maria, and intending at first to seek shelter
in his Castle of S. Leo--a fortress that was practically impregnable. But already it was too
late. The passes leading thither were by now in the hands of the enemy, as Guidobaldo discovered
at dawn. Thereupon, changing his plans, he sent the boy and his few attendants to Bagno, and,
himself, disguised as a peasant, took to the hills, despite the gout by which he was tormented.
Thus he won to Ravenna, which was fast becoming a home for dethroned princes.

Urbino, meanwhile, in no case to resist, sent its castellan to meet Cesare and to make surrender
to him--whereof Cesare, in the letter already mentioned, gives news to the Pope, excusing himself
for having undertaken this thing without the Pope's knowledge, but that "the treachery employed
against me by Guidobaldo was so enormous that I could not suffer it."

Within a few hours of poor Guidobaldo's flight Cesare was housed in Urbino's splendid palace,
whose stupendous library was the marvel of all scholars of that day. Much of this, together
with many of the art-treasures collected by the Montefeltri, Cesare began shortly afterwards
to transfer to Cesena.

In addition to publishing an edict against pillage and violence in the City of Urbino, Cesare
made doubly sure that none should take place by sending his soldiers to encamp at Fermignano,
retaining near him in Urbino no more than his gentlemen-at-arms. The capital being taken, the
remainder of the duchy made ready surrender, all the strongholds announcing their submission
to Cesare with the exception of that almost inaccessible Castle of S. Leo, which capitulated
only after a considerable resistance.

From Urbino Cesare now entered into communication with the Florentines, and asked that a representative
should be sent to come to an agreement with him. In response to this request, the Republic
sent him Bishop Soderini as her ambassador. The latter arrived in Urbino on June 25 and was
immediately and very cordially received by the duke. With him, in the subordinate capacity
of secretary, came a lean, small-headed, tight-lipped man, with wide-set, intelligent eyes
and prominent cheek-bones--one Niccolò Macchiavelli, who, in needy circumstances at present,
and comparatively obscure, was destined to immortal fame. Thus did Macchiavelli meet Cesare
Borgia for the first time, and, for all that we have no records of it, it is not to be doubted
that his study of that remarkable man began then in Urbino, to be continued presently, as we
shall see, when Macchiavelli returns to him in the quality of an ambassador himself.

To Soderini the duke expounded his just grievance, founded upon the Florentines' unobservance
of the treaty of Forno dei Campi; he demanded that a fresh treaty should be drawn up to replace
the broken one, and that, for the purpose, Florence should change her government, as in the
ruling one, after what had passed, he could repose no faith. He disclaimed all associations
with the affair of Vitelli, but frankly declared himself glad of it, as it had, no doubt, led
Florence to perceive what came of not keeping faith with him. He concluded by assuring Soderini
that, with himself for their friend, the Florentines need fear no molestation from any one;
but he begged that the Republic should declare herself in the matter, since, if she did not
care to have him for her friend, she was, of course, at liberty to make of him her enemy.

So impressed was Soderini by Cesare Borgia that on that same night he wrote to the Signory:

"This lord is very magnificent and splendid, and so spirited in feats of arms that there is
nothing so great but that it must seem small to him. In the pursuit of glory and in the acquisition
of dominions he never rests, and he knows neither danger nor fatigue. He moves so swiftly that
he arrives at a place before it is known that he has set out for it. He knows how to make himself
beloved of his soldiers, and he has in his service the best men of Italy. These things render
him victorious and formidable, and to these is yet to be added his perpetual good fortune.
He argues," the Florentine envoy proceeds, "with such sound reason that to dispute with him
would be a long affair, for his wit and eloquence never fail him" ("dello ingegno e della lingua
si vale quanto vuole").

You are to remember that this homage is one of the few surviving impressions of one who came
into personal contact with Cesare, and of one, moreover, representing a Government more or
less inimical to him, who would therefore have no reason to draw a favourable portrait of him
for that Government's benefit. One single page of such testimony is worth a dozen volumes of
speculation and inference drawn afterwards by men who never knew him--in many cases by men
who never began to know his epoch.

The envoy concludes by informing the Signory that he has the duke's assurances that the latter
has no thought of attempting to deprive Florence of any of her possessions, as "the object
of his campaign has not been to tyrannize, but to extirpate tyrants."

Whilst Cesare awaited the Florentines' reply to their ambassador's communication, he withdrew
to the camp at Fermignano, where he was sought on July 6 by a herald from Louis XII. This messenger
came to exhort Cesare to embark upon no enterprise against the Florentine Republic, because
to offend Florence would be to offend the Majesty of France. Simultaneously, however, Florence
received messages from the Cardinal d'Amboise, suggesting that they should come to terms with
Valentinois by conceding him at least a part of what had been agreed in the Treaty of Forno
dei Campi.

As a consequence, Soderini was able to inform Cesare that the Republic was ready to treat with
him, but that first he must withdraw Vitelli from Arezzo, and compel him to yield up the captured
fortresses. The duke, not trusting--as he had frankly avowed--a Government which once already
had broken faith with him, and perceiving that, if he whistled his war-dogs to heel as requested,
he would have lost the advantages of his position, refused to take any such steps until the
treaty should be concluded. He consented, however, to enforce meanwhile an armistice.

But now it happened that news reached Florence of the advance of Louis XII with an army of
20,000 men, bound for Naples to settle the dispute with Spain. So the Republic--sly and treacherous
as any other Italian Government of the Cinquecento--instructed Soderini to temporize with the
duke; to spend the days in amiable, inconclusive interviews and discussions of terms which
the Signory did not mean to make. Thus they counted upon gaining time, until the arrival of
the French should put an end to the trouble caused by Vitelli, and to the need for any compromise.

But Cesare, though forced to submit, was not fooled by Soderini's smooth, evasive methods.
He too--having private sources of information in France--was advised of the French advance
and of the imminence of danger to himself in consequence of the affairs of Florence. And it
occasioned him no surprise to see Soderini come on July 19 to take his leave of him, advised
by the Signory that the French vanguard was at hand, and that, consequently, the negotiations
might now with safety be abandoned.

To console him, he had news on the morrow of the conquest of Camerino.

The septuagenarian Giulio Cesare Varano had opposed to the Borgia forces a stout resistance,
what time he sent his two sons Pietro and Gianmaria to Venice for help. It was in the hope
of this solicited assistance that he determined to defend his tyranny, and the war opened by
a cavalry skirmish in which Venanzio Varano routed the Borgia horse under the command of the
Duke of Gravina. Thereafter, however, the Varani had to endure a siege; and the old story of
the Romagna sieges was repeated. Varano had given his subjects too much offence in the past,
and it was for his subjects now to call the reckoning.

A strong faction, led by a patrician youth of Camerino, demanded the surrender of the State,
and, upon being resisted, took arms and opened the gates to the troops of Valentinois. The
three Varani were taken prisoners. Old Giulio Cesare was shut up in the Castle of Pergola,
where he shortly afterwards died--which was not wonderful or unnatural at his time of life,
and does not warrant Guicciardini for stating, without authority, that he was strangled. Venanzio
and Annibale were imprisoned in the fortress of Cattolica.

In connection with this surrender of Camerino, Cesare wrote the following affectionate letter
to his sister Lucrezia--who was dangerously ill at Ferrara in consequence of her delivery of
a still-born child:

"Most Illustrious and most Excellent Lady, our very dear Sister,--Confident of the circumstance
that there can be no more efficacious and salutary medicine for the indisposition from which
you are at present suffering than the announcement of good and happy news, we advise you that
at this very moment we have received sure tidings of the capture of Camerino. We beg that you
will do honour to this message by an immediate improvement, and inform us of it, because, tormented
as we are to know you so ill, nothing, not even this felicitous event, can suffice to afford
us pleasure. We beg you also kindly to convey the present to the Illustrious Lord Don Alfonso,
your husband and our beloved Brother-in-law, to whom we are not writing to-day."

CHAPTER XIV. THE REVOLT OF THE CONDOTTIERI

The coincidence of the arrival of the French army with the conquest of Urbino and Camerino
and the Tuscan troubles caused one more to be added to that ceaseless stream of rumours that
flowed through Italy concerning the Borgias. This time the envy and malice that are ever provoked
by success and power gave voice in that rumour to the thing it hoped, and there ensued as pretty
a comedy as you shall find in the pages of history.

The rumour had it that Louis XII, resentful and mistrustful of the growth of Cesare's might,
which tended to weaken France in Italy and became a menace to the French dominions, was come
to make an end of him. Instantly Louis's Court in Milan was thronged by all whom Cesare had
offended--and they made up by now a goodly crowd, for a man may not rise so swiftly to such
eminence without raising a rich crop of enemies.

Meanwhile, however, Valentinois in the Montefeltre Palace at Urbino remained extremely at ease.
He was not the man to be without intelligences. In the train of Louis was Francesco Troche,
the Pope's confidential chamberlain and Cesare's devoted servant, who, possessed of information,
was able to advise Valentinois precisely what were the intentions of the King of France. Gathering
from these advices that it was Louis's wish that the Florentines should not be molested further,
and naturally anxious not to run counter to the king's intentions, Cesare perceived that the
time to take action had arrived, the time for passivity in the affairs of Florence was at an end.

So he dispatched an envoy to Vitelli, ordering his instant evacuation of Arezzo and his withdrawal
with his troops from Tuscany, and he backed the command by a threat to compel Vitelli by force
of arms, and to punish disobedience by depriving him of his state of Città di Castello--"a
matter," Cesare informed him, "which would be easily accomplished, as the best men of that
State have already offered themselves to me."

It was a command which Vitelli had no choice but to obey, not being in sufficient force to
oppose the duke. So on July 29, with Gianpaolo Baglioni, he relinquished the possession of
Arezzo and departed out of Tuscany, as he had been bidden. But so incensed was he against the
duke for this intervention between himself and his revenge, and so freely did he express himself
in the matter, that it was put about at once that he intended to go against Cesare.

And that is the first hint of the revolt of the condottieri.

Having launched that interdict of his, Cesare, on July 25, in the garb of a knight of St. John
of Jerusalem, and with only four attendants, departed secretly from Urbino to repair to Milan
and King Louis. He paused for fresh horses at Forli on the morrow, and on the 28th reached
Ferrara, where he remained for a couple of hours to visit Lucrezia, who was now in convalescence.
Ahead of him he dispatched, thence, a courier to Milan to announce his coming, and, accompanied
by Alfonso d'Este, resumed his journey.

Meanwhile, the assembly of Cesare's enemies had been increasing daily in Milan, whither they
repaired to support Louis and to vent their hatred of Cesare and their grievances against him.
There, amongst others, might be seen the Duke of Urbino, Pietro Varano (one of the sons of
the deposed Lord of Camerino), Giovanni Sforza of Pesaro, and Francesco Gonzaga of Mantua--which
latter was ever ready to turn whichever way the wind was blowing, and was now loudest in his
denunciations of Cesare and eagerly advocating the formation of a league against him.

Louis received the news of Cesare's coming, and--endowed, it is clear, with a nice sense of
humour-­kept the matter secret until within a few hours of the duke's actual arrival. On the
morning of August 5, according to Bernardi,(1) he whispered the information in Trivulzio's
ear-­and whispered it loudly enough to be overheard by those courtiers who stood nearest.

  1 Cronache Forlivesi.

Whatever check their satisfaction at the supposed state of things may have received then was
as nothing to their feelings a few hours later when they witnessed the greeting that passed
between king and duke. Under their uneasy eyes Louis rode forth to meet his visitor, and gave
him a glad and friendly welcome, addressing him as "cousin" and "dear relative," and so, no
doubt, striking dismay into the hearts of those courtiers, who may well have deemed that perhaps
they had expressed themselves too freely.

Louis, in person, accompanied Valentinois to the apartments prepared for him in the Castle
of Milan, and on the morrow gave a banquet and commanded merry-makings in his visitor's honour.

Conceive the feelings of those deposed tyrants and their friends, and the sudden collapse of
the hopes which they had imagined the king to be encouraging. They did, of course, the only
thing there was to do. They took their leave precipitately and went their ways--all save Gonzaga,
whom the king retained that he might make his peace with Cesare, and engage in friendship with
him, a friendship consolidated there and then by the betrothal of their infant children: little
Francesco Gonzaga and Louise de Valentinois, aged two, the daughter whom Cesare had never beheld
and was never to behold.

Two factors were at work in the interests of Valentinois--the coming war in Naples with the
Spaniard, which caused Louis to desire to stand well with the Pope; and the ambition of Louis's
friend and counsellor, the Cardinal d'Amboise, to wear the tiara, which caused this prelate
to desire to stand well with Cesare himself, since the latter's will in the matter of a Pope
to succeed his father should be omnipotent with the Sacred College.

Therefore, that they might serve their interests in the end, both king and cardinal served
Cesare's in the meantime.

The Duke of Valentinois's visit to Milan had served to increase the choler of Vitelli, who
accounted that by this action Cesare had put him in disgrace with the King of France; and Vitelli
cried out that thus was he repaid for having sought to make Cesare King of Tuscany. In such
high dudgeon was the fierce Tyrant of Città di Castello that he would not go to pay his court
to Louis, and was still the more angry to hear of the warm welcome accorded in Milan to the
Cardinal Orsini. In this he read approval of the Orsini for having stood neutral in the Florentine
business, and, by inference from that, disapproval of himself.

Before accusing Valentinois of treachery to his condottieri, before saying that he shifted
the blame of the Tuscan affair on to the shoulders of his captains, it would be well to ascertain
that there was any blame to shift--that is to say, any blame that must originally have fallen
upon Cesare. Certainly he made no effort to restrain Vitelli until the King of France had arrived
and he had secret information which caused him to deem it politic to intervene. But of what
avail until that moment, would any but an armed intervention have been with so vindictive and
one-idea'd a man, and what manner of fool would not Cesare have been to have spent his strength
in battle with his condottieri for the purpose of befriending a people who had never shown
themselves other than his own enemies?

Like the perfect egotist he was, he sat on the fence, and took pleasure in the spectacle of
the harassing of his enemies by his friends, prepared to reap any advantages there might be,
but equally prepared to avoid any disadvantages.

It was not heroic, it was not noble; but it was extremely human.

Cesare was with the King of France in Genoa at the end of August, and remained in his train
until September 2, when finally he took his leave of him. When they heard of his departure
from the Court of Louis, his numerous enemies experienced almost as much chagrin as that which
had been occasioned them by his going thither. For they had been consoling themselves of late
with a fresh rumour; and again they were believing what it pleased them to believe. Rumours,
you perceive, were never wanting where the Borgias were concerned, and it may be that you are
beginning to rate these voces populi at their proper value, and to apprehend the worth of many
of those that have been embalmed as truths in the abiding records.

This last one had it that Louis was purposely keeping Cesare by him, and intended ultimately
to carry him off to France, and so put an end to the disturbances the duke was creating in
Italy. What a consolation would not that have been to those Italian princelings to whose undoing
he had warred! And can you marvel that they believed and circulated so readily the thing for
which they hoped so fondly? By your appreciation of that may you measure the fresh disappointment
that was theirs.

So mistaken were they, indeed, as it now transpired, that Louis had actually, at last, removed
his protection from Bologna, under the persuasion of Cesare and the Pope. Before the duke took
his departure from King Louis's Court, the latter entered into a treaty with him in that connection
to supply him with three hundred lances: "De bailler au Valentinois trois cents lances pour
l'aider à conquérir Bologne au nome de l'Eglise, et opprimer les Ursins, Baillons et Vitelozze."

It was a double-dealing age, and Louis's attitude in this affair sorted well with it. Feeling
that he owed Bologna some explanation, he presently sent a singularly lame one by Claude de
Seyssel. He put it that the Bentivogli personally were none the less under his protection than
they had been hitherto, but that the terms of the protection provided that it was granted exclusively
of the rights and authority of the Holy Roman See over Bologna, and that the king could not
embroil himself with the Pope. With such a shifty message went M. de Seyssel to make it quite
clear to Bentivogli what his position was. And on the heels of it came, on September 2, a papal
brief citing Bentivogli and his two sons to appear before the Pontiff within fifteen days for
the purpose of considering with his Holiness the matter of the pacification and better government
of Bologna, which for so many years had been so disorderly and turbulent. Thus the Pope's summons,
with a menace that was all too thinly veiled.

But Bentivogli was not taken unawares. He was not even astonished. Ever since Cesare's departure
from Rome in the previous spring he had been disposing against such a possibility as this--fortifying
Bologna, throwing up outworks and erecting bastions beyond the city, and levying and arming
men, in all of which he depended largely upon the citizens and particularly upon the art-guild,
which was devoted to the House of Bentivogli.

Stronger than the affection for their lord--which, when all is said, was none too great in
Bologna--was the deep-seated hatred of the clergy entertained by the Bolognese. This it was
that rallied to Bentivogli such men as Fileno della Tuate, who actually hated him. But it was
a choice of evils with Fileno and many of his kidney. Detesting the ruling house, and indignant
at the injustices it practised, they detested the priests still more--so much that they would
have taken sides with Satan himself against the Pontificals. In this spirit did they carry
their swords to Bentivogli.

Upon the nobles Bentivogli could not count--less than ever since the cold-blooded murder of
the Marescotti; but in the burghers' adherence he deemed himself secure, and indeed on September
17 he had some testimony of it.

On that date--the fortnight's grace expiring--the brief was again read to the Reggimento; but
it was impossible to adopt any resolution. The people were in arms, and, with enormous uproar,
protested that they would not allow Giovanni Bentivogli or his sons to go to Rome, lest they
should be in danger once they had left their own State.

Italy was full of rumours at the time of Cesare's proposed emprise against Bologna, and it
was added that he intended, further, to make himself master of Città di Castello and Perugia,
and thus, by depriving them of their tyrannies, punish Vitelli and Baglioni for their defection.

This was the natural result of the terms of Cesare's treaty with France having become known;
but the part of it which regarded the Orsini, Vitelli, and Baglioni was purely provisional.
Considering that these condottieri were now at odds with Cesare, they might see fit to consider
themselves bound to Bentivogli by the Treaty of Villafontana, signed by Vitelli and Orsini
on the duke's behalf at the time of the capitulation of Castel Bolognese. They might choose
to disregard the fact that this treaty had already been violated by Bentivogli himself, through
the non-fulfilment of the terms of it, and refuse to proceed against him upon being so bidden
by Valentinois.

It was for such a contingency as this that provision was made by the clause concerning them
in Cesare's treaty with Louis.

The Orsini were still in the duke's service, in command of troops levied for him and paid by
him, and considering that with them Cesare had no quarrel, it is by no means clear why they
should have gone over to the alliance of the condottieri that was now forming against the duke.
Join it, however, they did. They, too, were in the Treaty of Villafontana; but that they should
consider themselves bound by it, would have been--had they urged it--more in the nature of
a pretext than a reason. But they chose a pretext even more slender. They gave out that in
Milan Louis XII had told Cardinal Orsini that the Pope's intention was to destroy the Orsini.

To accept such a statement as true, we should have to believe in a disloyalty and a double-dealing
on the part of Louis XII altogether incredible. To what end should he, on the one side, engage
to assist Cesare with 300 lances to "oppress" the Orsini--if necessary, and among others--whilst,
on the other, he goes to Orsini with the story which they attribute to him? What a mean, treacherous,
unkingly figure must he not cut as a consequence! He may have been--we know, indeed, that he
was--no more averse to double­dealing than any other Cinquecentist; but he was probably as
averse to being found out in a meanness and made to look contemptible as any double-dealer
of our own times. It is a consideration worth digesting.

When word of the story put about by the Orsini was carried to the Pope he strenuously denied
the imputation, and informed the Venetian ambassador that he had written to complain of this
to the King of France, and that, far from such a thing being true, Cesare was so devoted to
the Orsini as to be "more Orsini than Borgian."

It is further worth considering that the defection of the Orsini was neither immediate nor
spontaneous, as must surely have been the case had the story been true. It was the Baglioni
and Vitelli only who first met to plot at Todi, to declare that they would not move against
their ally of Bologna, and to express the hope that they might bring the Orsini to the same
mind. They succeeded so well that the second meeting was held at Magione--a place belonging
to the powerful Cardinal Orsini, situated near the Baglioni's stronghold of Perugia. Vitellozzo
was carried thither on his bed, so stricken with the morbo gallico--which in Italy was besetting
most princes, temporal and ecclesiastical--that he was unable to walk.

Gentile and Gianpaolo Baglioni, Cardinal Gianbattista Orsini, Francesco Orsini, Duke of Gravina,
Paolo Orsini, the bastard son of the Archbishop of Trani, Pandolfo Petrucci--Lord of Siena--and
Hermes Bentivogli were all present. The last-named, prone to the direct methods of murder by
which he had rid Bologna of the Marescotti, is said to have declared that he would kill Cesare
Borgia if he but had the opportunity, whilst Vitelli swore solemnly that within a year he would
slay or capture the duke, or else drive him out of Italy.

From this it will be seen that the Diet of Magione was no mere defensive alliance, but actually
an offensive one, with the annihilation of Cesare Borgia for its objective.

They certainly had the power to carry out their resolutions, for whilst Cesare disposed at
that moment of not more than 2,500 foot, 300 men-at-arms, and the 100 lances of his Caesarean
guard of patricians, the confederates had in arms some 9,000 foot and 1,000 horse. Conscious
of their superior strength, they determined to strike at once, before Cesare should be further
supported by the French lances, and to make sure of him by assailing him on every side at once.
To this end it was resolved that Bentivogli should instantly march upon Imola, where Cesare
lay, whilst the others should possess themselves of Urbino and Pesaro simultaneously.

They even approached Florence and Venice in the matter, inviting the Republics to come into
the league against Valentinois.

The Florentines, however, could not trust such enemies of their own as Vitelli and the Orsini,
nor dared they join in an enterprise which had for scope to make war upon an ally of France;
and they sent word to Cesare of their resolve to enter into no schemes against him.

The Venetians would gladly have moved to crush a man who had snatched the Romagna from under
their covetous eyes; but in view of the league with France they dared not. What they dared,
they did. They wrote to Louis at length of the evils that were befalling Italy at the hands
of the Duke of Valentinois, and of the dishonour to the French crown which lay for Louis in
his alliance with Cesare Borgia. They even went so far--and most treacherously, considering
the league--as to allow their famous captain, Bartolomeo d'Alviano, to reconduct Guidobaldo
to Urbino, as we shall presently see.

Had the confederates but kept faith with one another Cesare's knell had soon been tolled. But
they were a weak-kneed pack of traitors, irresolute in their enmity as in their friendships.
The Orsini hung back. They urged that they did not trust themselves to attack Cesare with men
actually in his pay; whilst Bentivogli--treacherous by nature to the back-bone of him--actually
went so far as to attempt to open secret negotiations with Cesare through Ercole d'Este of Ferrara.

CHAPTER XV. MACCHIAVELLI'S LEGATION

On October 2 news of the revolt of the condottieri and the diet of Magione had reached the
Vatican and rendered the Pope uneasy. Cesare, however, had been informed of it some time before
at Imola, where he was awaiting the French lances that should enable him to raid the Bolognese
and drive out the Bentivogli.

Where another might have been paralyzed by a defection which left him almost without an army,
and would have taken the course of sending envoys to the rebels to attempt to make terms and
by concessions to patch up a treaty, Cesare, with characteristic courage, assurance, and promptitude
of action, flung out officers on every side to levy him fresh troops.

His great reputation as a condottiero, the fame of his wealth and his notorious liberality,
stood him now in excellent stead. The response to his call was instantaneous. Soldiers of fortune
and mercenaries showed the trust they had in him, and flocked to his standard from every quarter.
One of the first to arrive was Gasparo Sanseverino, known as Fracassa, a condottiero of great
renown, who had been in the Pontifical service since the election of Pope Alexander. He was
a valuable acquisition to Cesare, who placed him in command of the horse. Another was Lodovico
Pico della Mirandola, who brought a small condotta of 60 lances and 60 light horse. Ranieri
della Sassetta rode in at the head of 100 mounted arbalisters, and Francesco de Luna with a
body of 50 arquebusiers.(1)

  1  The arquebus, although it had existed in Italy for nearly a century,
was only just coming into general use.

Valentinois sent out Raffaele dei Pazzi and Galeotto Pallavicini, the one into Lombardy to
recruit 1,000 Gascons, the other to raise a body of Swiss mercenaries. Yet, when all is said,
these were but supplementary forces; the main strength of Cesare's new army lay in the troops
raised in the Romagna, which, faithful to him and confident of his power and success, rallied
to him now in the hour of his need. Than this there can be no more eloquent testimony to the
quality of his rule. In command of these Romagnuoli troops he placed such Romagnuoli captains
as Dionigio di Naldo and Marcantonio da Fano, thereby again affording proof of his wisdom,
by giving these soldiers their own compatriots and men with whom they were in sympathy for
their leaders.

With such speed had he acted, and such was the influence of his name, that already, by October
14, he had assembled an army of upwards of 6,000 men, which his officers were diligently drilling
at Imola, whilst daily now were the French lances expected, and the Swiss and Gascon mercenaries
he had sent to levy.

It may well be that this gave the confederates pause, and suggested to them that they should
reconsider their position and ask themselves whether the opportunity for crushing Cesare had
not slipped by whilst they had stood undecided.

It was Pandolfo Petrucci who took the first step towards a reconciliation, by sending word
to Valentinois that it was not his intention to take any measures that might displease his
Excellency. His Excellency will no doubt have smiled at that belated assurance from the sparrow
to the hawk. Then, a few days later, came news that Giulio Orsini had entered into an agreement
with the Pope. This appeared to give the confederacy its death-blow, and Paolo Orsini was on
the point of setting out to seek Cesare at Imola for the purpose of treating with him--which
would definitely have given burial to the revolt--when suddenly there befell an event which
threw the scales the other way.

Cesare's people were carrying out some work in the Castle of S. Leo, in the interior of which
a new wall was in course of erection. For the purposes of this, great baulks of timber were
being brought into the castle from the surrounding country. Some peasants, headed by one Brizio,
who had been a squire of Guidobaldo's, availed themselves of the circumstance to capture the
castle by a stratagem. Bringing forward some great masses of timber and felled trees, they
set them down along the drawbridge in such a manner as to prevent its being hoisted. That done,
an attack in force was directed against the fortress. The place, whose natural defences rendered
it practically impregnable, was but slightly manned; being thus surprised, and unable to raise
the bridge, it was powerless to offer any resistance, so that the Montefeltre peasants, having
killed every Borgia soldier of the garrison, took possession of it and held it for Duke Guidobaldo.

This capture of S. Leo was as a spark that fired a train. Instantly the hardy hillmen of Urbino
were in arms to reconquer Guidobaldo's duchy for him. Stronghold after stronghold fell into
their hands, until they were in Urbino itself. They made short work of the capital's scanty
defenders, flung Cesare's governor into prison, and finally obtained possession of the citadel.

It was the news of this that caused the confederates once more to pause. Before declaring themselves,
they waited to see what action Venice would take, whilst in the meantime they sought shelter
behind a declaration that they were soldiers of the Church and would do nothing against the
will of the Pontiff. They were confidently assured that Venice would befriend Guidobaldo, and
help him back to his throne now that his own people had done so much towards that end. It remained,
however, to be seen whether Venice would at the same time befriend Pesaro and Rimini.

Instantly Cesare Borgia--who was assailed by grave doubts concerning the Venetians--took his
measures. He ordered Bartolomeo da Capranica, who was chief in command of his troops in Urbino,
to fall back upon Rimini with all his companies, whilst to Pesaro the duke dispatched Michele
da Corella and Ramiro de Lorqua.

It was a busy time of action with the duke at Imola, and yet, amid all the occupation which
this equipment of a new army must have given him, he still found time for diplomatic measures,
and, taking advantage of the expressed friendliness of Florence, he had replied by desiring
the Signory to send an envoy to confer with him. Florence responded by sending, as her representative,
that same Niccolò Macchiavelli who had earlier accompanied Soderini on a similar mission to
Valentinois, and who had meanwhile been advanced to the dignity of Secretary of State.

Macchiavelli has left us, in his dispatches to his Government, the most precious and valuable
information concerning that period of Cesare Borgia's history during which he was with the
duke on the business of his legation. Not only is it the rare evidence of an eye-witness that
Macchiavelli affords us, but the evidence, as we have said, of one endowed with singular acumen
and an extraordinary gift of psychological analysis. The one clear and certain inference to
be drawn, not only from those dispatches, but from the Florentine secretary's later writings,
is that, at close quarters with Cesare Borgia, a critical witness of his methods, he conceived
for him a transcending admiration which was later to find its fullest expression in his immortal
book The Prince--a book, remember, compiled to serve as a guide in government to Giuliano de'Medici,
the feeble brother of Pope Leo X, a book inspired by Cesare Borgia, who is the model prince
held up by Macchiavelli for emulation.

Does it serve any purpose, in the face of this work from the pen of the acknowledged inventor
of state-craft, to describe Cesare's conquest of the Romagna by opprobrious epithets and sweeping
statements of condemnation and censure--statements kept carefully general, and never permitted
to enter into detail which must destroy their own ends and expose their falsehood?

Gregorovius, in this connection, is as full of contradictions as any man must be who does not
sift out the truth and rigidly follow it in his writings. Consider the following scrupulously
translated extracts from his Geschichte der Stadt Rom:

  (a) "Cesare departed from Rome to resume his bloody work in the
Romagna."

  (b) "...the frightful deeds performed by Cesare on both sides of the
Apennines. He assumes the semblance of an exterminating angel, and
performs such hellish iniquities that we can only shudder at the
contemplation of the evil of which human nature is capable."

And now, pray, consider and compare with those the following excerpt from the very next page
of that same monumental work:

"Before him [Cesare] cities trembled; the magistrates prostrated themselves in the dust; sycophantic
courtiers praised him to the stars. Yet it is undeniable that his government was energetic
and good; for the first time Romagna enjoyed peace and was rid of her vampires. In the name
of Cesare justice was administered by Antonio di Monte Sansovino, President of the Ruota of
Cesena, a man universally beloved."

It is almost as if the truth had slipped out unawares, for the first period hardly seems a
logical prelude to the second, by which it is largely contradicted. If Cesare's government
was so good that Romagna knew peace at last and was rid of her vampires, why did cities tremble
before him? There is, by the way, no evidence of such trepidations in any of the chronicles
of the conquered States, one and all of which hail Cesare as their deliverer. Why, if he was
held in such terror, did city after city--as we have seen--spontaneously offer itself to Cesare's
dominion?

But to rebut those statements of Gregorovius's there is scarce the need to pose these questions;
sufficiently does Gregorovius himself rebut them. The men who praised Cesare, the historian
tells us, were sycophantic courtiers. But where is the wonder of his being praised if his government
was as good as Gregorovius admits it to have been? What was unnatural in that praise? What
so untruthful as to deserve to be branded sycophantic? And by what right is an historian to
reject as sycophants the writers who praise a man, whilst accepting every word of his detractors
as the words of inspired evangelists, even when their falsehoods are so transparent as to provoke
the derision of the thoughtful and analytic?

As l'Espinois points out in his masterly essay in the Revue des Questions Historiques, Gregorovius
refuses to recognize in Cesare Borgia the Messiah of a united Central Italy, but considers
him merely as a high-flying adventurer; whilst Villari, in his Life and Times of Macchiavelli,
tells you bluntly that Cesare Borgia was neither a statesman nor a soldier but a brigand-chief.

These are mere words; and to utter words is easier than to make them good.

"High-flying adventurer," or "brigand-chief," by all means, if it please you. What but a high-flying
adventurer was the wood-cutter, Muzio Attendolo, founder of the ducal House of Sforza? What
but a high-flying adventurer was that Count Henry of Burgundy who founded the kingdom of Portugal?
What else was the Norman bastard William, who conquered England? What else the artillery officer,
Napoleon Bonaparte, who became Emperor of the French? What else was the founder of any dynasty
but a high-flying adventurer--or a brigand-chief, if the melodramatic term is more captivating
to your fancy?

These terms are used to belittle Cesare. They achieve no more, however, than to belittle those
who penned them; for, even as they are true, the marvel is that the admirable matter in these
truths appears to have escaped those authors.

What else Gregorovius opines--that Cesare was no Messiah of United Italy--is true enough. Cesare
was the Messiah of Cesare. The well-being of Italy for its own sake exercised his mind not
so much as the well-being of the horse he rode. He wrought for his own aggrandisement--but
he wrought wisely; and, whilst the end in view is no more to be censured than the ambition
of any man, the means employed are in the highest degree to be commended, since the well-being
of the Romagna, which was not an aim, was, nevertheless, an essential and praiseworthy incident.

When it can be shown that every other of those conquerors who cut heroic figures in history
were purest altruists, it will be time to damn Cesare Borgia for his egotism.

What Villari says, for the purpose of adding rhetorical force to his "brigand-chief"--that
Cesare was no statesman and no soldier--is entirely of a piece with the rest of the chapter
in which it occurs(1)--a chapter rich in sweeping inaccuracies concerning Cesare. But it is
staggering to find the statement in such a place, amid Macchiavelli's letters on Cesare, breathing
an obvious and profound admiration of the duke's talents as a politician and a soldier--an
admiration which later is to go perilously near to worship. To Macchiavelli, Cesare is the
incarnation of a hazy ideal, as is abundantly shown in The Prince. For Villari to reconcile
all this with his own views must seem impossible. And impossible it is; yet Villari achieves
it, with an audacity that leaves you breathless.

  1  In his Niccolò Machiavelli.

No--he practically tells you--this Macchiavelli, who daily saw and spoke with Cesare for two
months (and during a critical time, which is when men best reveal their natures), this acute
Florentine--the acutest man of his age, perhaps--who studied and analysed Cesare, and sent
his Government the results of his analyses, and was inspired by them later to write The Prince--this
man did not know Cesare Borgia. He wrote, not about Cesare himself, but about a creation of
his own intellect.

That is what Villari pretends. Macchiavelli, the representative of a power unfriendly at heart
under the mask of the expedient friendliness, his mind already poisoned by all the rumours
current throughout Italy, comes on this mission to Valentinois. Florence, fearing and hating
Valentinois as she does, would doubtless take pleasure in detractory advices. Other ambassadors--particularly
those of Venice--pander to their Governments' wishes in this respect, conscious that there
is a sycophancy in slander contrasted with which the ordinary sycophancy of flattery is as
water to wine; they diligently send home every scrap of indecent or scandalous rumour they
can pick up in the Roman ante-chambers, however unlikely, uncorroborated, or unconcerning the
business of an ambassador.

But Macchiavelli, in Cesare Borgia's presence, is overawed by his greatness, his force and
his intellect, and these attributes engage him in his dispatches. These same dispatches are
a stumbling-block to all who prefer to tread the beaten, sensational track, and to see in Cesare
Borgia a villain of melodrama, a monster of crime, brutal, and, consequently, of no intellectual
force. But Villari contrives to step more or less neatly, if fatuously, over that formidable
obstacle, by telling you that Macchiavelli presents to you not really Cesare Borgia, but a
creation of his own intellect, which he had come to admire. It is a simple, elementary expedient
by means of which every piece of historical evidence ever penned may be destroyed--including
all that which defames the House of Borgia.

Macchiavelli arrived at Imola on the evening of October 7, 1502, and, all travel-stained as
he was, repaired straight to the duke, as if the message with which he was charged was one
that would not brook a moment's delay in its deliverance. Actually, however, he had nothing
to offer Cesare but the empty expressions of Florence's friendship and the hopes she founded
upon Cesare's reciprocation. The crafty young Florentine--he was thirty-three at the time--was
sent to temporize and to avoid committing himself or his Government.

Valentinois listened to the specious compliments, and replied by similar protestations and
by reminding Florence how he had curbed the hand of those very condottieri who had now rebelled
against him as a consequence. He showed himself calm and tranquil at the loss of Urbino, telling
Macchiavelli that he "had not forgotten the way to reconquer it," when it should suit him.
Of the revolted condottieri he contemptuously said that he accounted them fools for not having
known how to choose a more favourable moment in which to harm him, and that they would presently
find such a fire burning under their feet as would call for more water to quench it than such
men as these disposed of.

Meanwhile, the success of those rustics of Urbino who had risen, and the ease of their victories,
had fired others of the territory to follow their example. Fossombrone and Pergola were the
next to rebel and to put the Borgia garrisons to the sword; but, in their reckless audacity,
they chose their moment ill, for Michele da Corella was at hand with his lances, and, although
his orders had been to repair straight to Pesaro, he ventured to depart from them to the extent
of turning aside to punish the insurgence of those towns by launching his men-at-arms upon
them and subjecting them to an appalling and pitiless sack.

When Cesare heard the news of it and the details of the horrors that had been perpetrated,
he turned, smiling cruelly, to Macchiavelli, who was with him, and, "The constellations this
year seem unfavourable to rebels," he observed.

A battle of wits was toward between the Florentines' Secretary of State and the Duke of Valentinois,
each mistrustful of the other. In the end Cesare, a little out of patience at so much inconclusiveness,
though outwardly preserving his immutable serenity, sought to come to grips by demanding that
Florence should declare whether he was to account her his friend or not. But this was precisely
what Macchiavelli's instructions forbade him from declaring. He answered that he must first
write to the Signory, and begged the duke to tell him what terms he proposed should form the
treaty. But there it was the duke's turn to fence and to avoid a direct answer, desiring that
Florence should open the negotiations and that from her should come the first proposal.

He reminded Macchiavelli that Florence would do well to come to a decision before the Orsini
sought to patch up a peace with him, since, once that was done, there would be fresh difficulties,
owing, of course, to Orsini's enmity to the existing Florentine Government. And of such a peace
there was now every indication, Paolo Orsini having at last sent Cesare proposals for rejoining
him, subject to his abandoning the Bologna enterprise (in which, the Orsini argued, they could
not bear a hand without breaking faith with Bentivogli) and turning against Florence. Vitelli,
at the same time, announced himself ready to return to Cesare's service, but first he required
some "honest security."

Well might it have pleased Cesare to oblige the Orsini to the letter, and to give a lesson
in straight-dealing to these shuffling Florentine pedlars who sent a nimble-witted Secretary
of State to hold him in play with sweet words of barren meaning. But there was France and her
wishes to be considered, and he could not commit himself. So his answer was peremptory and
condescending. He told them that, if they desired to show themselves his friends, they could
set about reconquering and holding Urbino for him.

It looked as if the condottieri agreed to this, for on October 11 Vitelli seized Castel Durante,
and on the next day Baglioni was in possession of Cagli.

In view of this, Cesare bade the troops which he had withdrawn to advance again upon the city
of Urbino and take possession of it. But suddenly, on the 12th, a messenger from Guidobaldo
rode into Urbino to announce their duke's return within a few days to defend the subjects who
had shown themselves so loyal to him. This, the shifty confederates accounted, must be done
with the support of Venice, whence they concluded that Venice must have declared against Valentinois,
and again they treacherously changed sides.

The Orsini proceeded to prompt action. Assured of their return to himself, and counting upon
their support in Urbino, Cesare had contented himself with sending thither a small force of
100 lances and 200 light horse. Upon these fell the Orsini, and put them to utter rout at Calmazzo,
near Fossombrone, capturing Ugo di Moncada, who commanded one of the companies, but missing
Michele da Corella, who contrived to escape to Fossombrone.

The conquerors entered Urbino that evening, and, as if to put it on record that they burnt
their boats with Valentinois, Paolo Orsini wrote that same night to the Venetian Senate advices
of the victory won. Three days later--on October 18--Guidobaldo, accompanied by his nephews
Ottaviano Fregioso and Gianmaria Varano, re-entered his capital amid the cheers and enthusiasm
of his loyal and loving people.

Vitelli made haste to place his artillery at Guidobaldo's disposal for the reduction of Cagli,
Pergola, and Fossombrone, which were still held for Valentinois, whilst Oliverotto da Fermo
went with Gianmaria Varano to attempt the reconquest of Camerino, and Gianpaolo Baglioni to
Fano, which, however, he did not attempt to enter as an enemy--an idle course, seeing how loyally
the town held for Cesare--but as a ducal condottiero.

Fired by Orsini's example, Bentivogli also took the offensive, and began by ordering the canonists
of Bologna University to go to the churches and encourage the people to disregard the excommunications
launched against the city. He wrote to the King of France to complain that Cesare had broken
the Treaty of Villafontana by which he had undertaken never again to molest Bologna--naïvely
ignoring the circumstance that he himself had been the first to violate the terms of that same
treaty, and that it was precisely upon such grounds that Cesare was threatening him.

Thus matters stood, the confederates turning anxious eyes towards Venice, and, haply, beginning
to wonder whether the Republic was indeed going to move to their support as they had so confidently
expected, and realizing perhaps by now their rashness, and the ruin that awaited them should
Venice fail them. And fail them Venice did. The Venetians had received a reply from Louis XII
to that letter in which they had heaped odium upon the Borgia and shown the king what dishonour
to himself dwelt in his alliance with Valentinois. Their criticisms and accusations were ignored
in that reply, which resolved itself into nothing more than a threat that "if they opposed
themselves to the enterprise of the Church they would be treated by him as enemies," and of
this letter he sent Cesare a copy, as Cesare himself told Macchiavelli.

So, whilst Valentinois in Imola was able to breathe more freely, the condottieri in Urbino
may well have been overcome with horror at their position and at having been thus left in the
lurch by Venice. None was better aware than Pandolfo Petrucci of the folly of their action
and of the danger that now impended, and he sent his secretary to Valentinois to say that if
the duke would but reassure them on the score of his intentions they would return to him and
aid him in recovering what had been lost.

Following upon this message came Paolo Orsini himself to Imola on the 25th, disguised as a
courier, and having first taken the precaution of obtaining a safe-conduct. He left again on
the 29th, bearing with him a treaty the terms of which had been agreed between himself and
Cesare during that visit. These were that Cesare should engage to protect the States of all
his allied condottieri, and they to serve him and the Church in return. A special convention
was to follow, to decide the matter of the Bentivogli, which should be resolved by Cesare,
Cardinal Orsini, and Pandolfo Petrucci in consultation, their judgment to be binding upon all.

Cesare's contempt for the Orsini and the rest of the shifty men who formed that confederacy--that
"diet of bankrupts," as he had termed it--was expressed plainly enough to Macchiavelli.

"To-day," said he, "Messer Paolo is to visit me, and to-morrow there will be the cardinal;
and thus they think to befool me, at their pleasure. But I, on my side, am only dallying with
them. I listen to all they have to say and bide my own time."

Later, Macchiavelli was to remember those words, which meanwhile afforded him matter for reflection.

As Paolo Orsini rode away from Imola, the duke's secretary, Gherardi, followed and overtook
him to say that Cesare desired to add to the treaty another clause--one relating to the King
of France. To this Paolo Orsini refused to consent, but, upon being pressed in the matter by
Gherardi, went so far as to promise to submit the clause to the others.

On October 30 Cesare published a notice in the Romagna, intimating the return to obedience
on the part of his captains.

Macchiavelli was mystified by this, and apprehensive--as men will be of the things they cannot
fathom--of what might be reserved in it for Florence. It was Gherardi who reassured him, laughing
in the face of the crafty Florentine, as he informed him that even children should come to
smile at such a treaty as this. He added that he had gone after Paolo Orsini to beg the addition
of another clause, intentionally omitted by the duke.

"If they accept that clause," concluded Messer Agabito, "it will open a window; if they refuse
it, a door, by which the duke can issue from the treaty."

Macchiavelli's wonder increased. But the subject of it now was that the condottieri should
be hoodwinked by a document in such terms, and well may he have bethought him then of those
words which Cesare had used to him a few days earlier.

CHAPTER XVI. RAMIRO DE LORQUA

It really seemed as if the condottieri were determined to make their score as heavy as possible.
For even whilst Paolo Orsini had been on his mission of peace to Cesare, and whilst they awaited
his return, they had continued in arms against the duke. The Vitelli had aided Guidobaldo to
reconquer his territory, and had killed, in the course of doing so, Bartolomeo da Capranica,
Cesare's most valued captain and Vitelli's brother­in-arms of yesterday. The Baglioni were
pressing Michele da Corella in Pesaro, but to little purpose; whilst the butcher Oliverotto
da Fermo in Camerino--of which he had taken possession with Gianmaria Varano--was slaughtering
every Spaniard he could find.

On the other side, Corella in Pesaro hanged five men whom he caught practising against the
duke's government, and, having taken young Pietro Varano--who was on his way to join his brother
in Camerino in view of the revolt there--he had him strangled in the market-place. There is
a story that, with life not yet extinct, the poor youth was carried into church by the pitiful
crowd. But here a friar, discovering that he still lived, called in the soldiers and bade them
finish him. This friar, going later through Cagli, was recognized, set upon by a mob, and torn
to pieces--in which, if the rest of the tale be true, he was richly served.

Into the theatre of bloodshed came Paolo Orsini from his mission to Valentinois, bringing with
him the treaty for signature by the condottieri. Accustomed as they were to playing fast and
loose, they opined that, so far as Urbino was concerned, enough changes of government had they
contrived there already. Vitelli pointed out the unseemliness of once again deposing Guidobaldo,
whom they had just reseated upon his throne. Besides, he perceived in the treaty the end of
his hopes of a descent upon Florence, which was the cause of all his labours. So he rejected it.

But Valentinois had already got the Orsini and Pandolfo Petrucci on his side, and so the confederacy
was divided. Another factor came to befriend the duke. On November 2 he was visited by Antonio
Galeazzo Bentivogli, sent by his father Giovanni to propose a treaty with him--this state of
affairs having been brought about by the mediation of Ercole d'Este. From the negotiations
that followed it resulted that, on the 13th, the Orsini had word from Cesare that he had entered
into an alliance with the Bentivogli--which definitely removed their main objection to bearing
arms with him.

It was resigning much on Cesare's part, but the treaty, after all, was only for two years,
and might, of course, be broken before then, as they understood these matters. This treaty
was signed at the Vatican on the 23rd, between Borgia and Bentivogli, to guarantee the States
of both. The King of France, the Signory of Florence, and the Duke of Ferrara guaranteed the
alliance.

Inter alia, it was agreed between them that Bologna should supply Cesare with 100 lances and
200 light horse for one or two enterprises within the year, and that the condotta of 100 lances
which Cesare held from Bologna by the last treaty should be renewed. The terms of the treaty
were to be kept utterly secret for the next three months, so that the affairs of Urbino and
Camerino should not be prejudiced by their publication.

The result was instantaneous. On November 27 Paolo Orsini was back at Imola with the other
treaty, which bore now the signatures of all the confederates. Vitelli, finding himself isolated,
had swallowed his chagrin in the matter of Florence, and his scruples in the matter of Urbino,
abandoning the unfortunate Guidobaldo to his fate. This came swiftly. From Imola, Paolo Orsini
rode to Fano on the 29th, and ordered his men to advance upon Urbino and seize the city in
the Duke of Valentinois's name, proclaiming a pardon for all rebels who would be submissive.

Guidobaldo and the ill-starred Lord of Faenza were the two exceptions in Romagna--the only
two who had known how to win the affections of their subjects. For Guidobaldo there was nothing
that the men of Urbino would not have done. They rallied to him now, and the women of Valbone--like
the ladies of England to save Coeur-de-Lion--came with their jewels and trinkets, offering
them that he might have the means to levy troops and resist. But this gentle, kindly Guidobaldo
could not subject his country to further ravages of war; and so he determined, in his subjects'
interests as much as in his own, to depart for the second time.

Early in December the Orsini troops are in his territory, and Paolo, halting them a few miles
out of Urbino, sends to beg Guidobaldo's attendance in his camp. Guidobaldo, crippled by gout
and unable at the time to walk a step, sends Paolo his excuses and begs that he will come to
Urbino, where he awaits him. There Guidobaldo makes formal surrender to him, takes leave of
his faithful friends, enjoins fidelity to Valentinois and trust in God, and so on December
19 he departs into exile, the one pathetic noble figure amid so many ignoble ones. Paolo, taking
possession of the duchy, assumes the title of governor.

The Florentines had had their chance of an alliance with Cesare, and had deliberately neglected
it. Early in November they had received letters from the King of France urging them to come
to an accord with Cesare, and they had made known to the duke that they desired to reoccupy
Pisa and to assure themselves of Vitelli; but, when he pressed that Florence should give him
a condotta, Macchiavelli--following his instructions not to commit the Republic in any way--had
answered "that his Excellency must not be considered as other lords, but as a new potentate
in Italy, with whom it is more seemly to make an alliance or a friendship than to grant him
a condotta; and, as alliances are maintained by arms, and that is the only power to compel
their observance, the Signory could not perceive what security they would have when three-quarters
or three-fifths of their arms would be in the duke's hands." Macchiavelli added diplomatically
that "he did not say this to impugn the duke's good faith, but to show him that princes should
be circumspect and never enter into anything that leaves a possibility of their being put at
a disadvantage."(1)

  1  See the twenty-first letter from Macchiavelli on this legation.

Cesare answered him calmly ("senza segno d'alterazione alcuna") that without a condotta, he
didn't know what to make of a private friendship whose first principles were denied him. And
there the matter hung, for Macchiavelli's legation had for only aim to ensure the immunity
of Tuscany and to safeguard Florentine interests without conceding any advantages to Cesare--as
the latter had perceived from the first.

On December 10 Cesare moved from Imola with his entire army, intent now upon the conquest of
Sinigaglia, which State Giuliano della Rovere had been unable to save for his nephew, as king
and Pope had alike turned a deaf ear upon the excuses he had sought to make for the Prefetessa,
Giovanna da Montefeltre--the mother of the young prefect--who had aided her brother Guidobaldo
in the late war in Urbino.

On the morrow Valentinois arrived in Cesena and encamped his army there for Christmas, as in
the previous year. The country was beginning to feel the effects of this prolonged vast military
occupation, and although the duke, with intent to relieve the people, had done all that was
possible to provision the troops, and had purchased from Venice 30,000 bushels of wheat for
the purpose, yet all had been consumed. "The very stones have been eaten," says Macchiavelli.

To account for this state of things--and possibly for certain other matters--Messer Ramiro
de Lorqua, the Governor-General, was summoned from Pesaro; whilst to avert the threatened famine
Cesare ordered that the cereals in the private granaries of Cesena should be sold at reduced
prices, and he further proceeded, at heavy expense, to procure grain from without. Another,
less far-seeing than Valentinois, might have made capital out of Urbino's late rebellion, and
pillaged the country to provide for pressing needs. But that would have been opposed to Cesare's
policy, of fostering the goodwill of the people he subjected.

On December 20 three of the companies of French lances that had been with Cesare took their
leave of him and returned to Lombardy, so that Cesare was left with only one company. There
appears to be some confusion as to the reasons for this, and it is stated by some that those
companies were recalled to Milan by the French governor. Macchiavelli, ever inquisitive and
inquiring, questioned one of the French officers in the matter, to be told that the lances
were returning because the duke no longer needed them, the inference being that this was in
consequence of the return of the condottieri to their allegiance. But the astute secretary
did not at the time account this convincing, arguing that the duke could not yet be said to
be secure, nor could he know for certain how far he might trust Vitelli and the Orsini. Presumably,
however, he afterwards obtained more certain information, for he says later that Valentinois
himself dismissed the French, and that the dismissal was part of the stratagem he was preparing,
and had for object to reassure Vitelli and the other confederates, and to throw them off their
guard, by causing them to suppose him indifferently supported.

But the departure of the French did not take place without much discussion being provoked,
and rumour making extremely busy, whilst it was generally assumed that it would retard the
Sinigaglia conquest. Nevertheless, the duke calmly pursued his preparations, and proceeded
now to send forward his artillery. There was no real ground upon which to assume that he would
adopt any other course. Cesare was now in considerable strength, apart from French lances,
and even as these left him he was joined by a thousand Swiss, and another six hundred Romagnuoli
from the Val di Lamone. Moreover, as far as the reduction of Sinigaglia was concerned, no resistance
was to be expected, for Cardinal Giuliano della Rovere had written enjoining the people to
surrender peacefully to the duke.

What matters Cesare may have found in Cesena to justify the arrest of his Governor-General
we do not know to the full with absolute certainty. On December 22 Ramiro de Lorqua, coming
from Pesaro in response to his master's summons, was arrested on his arrival and flung into
prison. His examination was to follow.

Macchiavelli, reporting the arrest, says: "It is thought he [Cesare] may sacrifice him to the
people, who have a very great desire of it."

Ramiro had made himself detested in Romagna by the ruthlessness of his rule, and a ruthless
servant reflects upon his master, a matter which could nowise suit Borgia. To all who have
read The Prince it will be clear that upon that ground alone--of having brought Valentinois's
justice into disrepute by the harshness which in Valentinois's name he practised--Macchiavelli
would have approved the execution of Ramiro. He would have accounted it perfectly justifiable
that Ramiro should be sacrificed to the people for no better reason than because he had provoked
their hatred, since this sacrifice made for the duke's welfare. He does, as a matter of fact,
justify this execution, but upon much fuller grounds than these. Still, had the reasons been
no better than are mentioned, he would still have justified it upon those. So much is clear;
and, when so much is clear, much more will be clear to you touching this strange epoch.

There was, however, more than a matter of sacrificing the Governor-General to the hatred of
the people. There was, for one thing, the matter of that wheat which had disappeared. Ramiro
was charged with having fraudulently sold it to his own dishonest profit, putting the duke
to the heavy expense of importing fresh supplies for the nourishment of the people. The seriousness
of the charge will be appreciated when it is considered that, had a famine resulted from this
peculation, grave disorder might have ensued and perhaps even a rebellion against a government
which could provide no better.

The duke published the news of the governor's arrest throughout Romagna. He announced his displeasure
and regret at the harshnesses and corrupt practices of Ramiro de Lorqua, in spite of the most
urgent admonishings that he should refrain from all undue exactions and the threat of grave
punishment should he disobey. These frauds, corruption, extortion, and rapine practised by
the governor were so grave, continuous and general, stated the duke in his manifesto, that
"there is no city, country-side, or castle, nor any place in all Romagna, nor officer or minister
of the duke's, who does not know of these abuses; and, amongst others, the famine of wheat
occasioned by the traffic which he held against our express prohibition, sending out such quantities
as would abundantly have sufficed for the people and the army."

He concludes with assurances of his intention that, in the future, they shall be ruled with
justice and integrity, and he urges all who may have charges to prefer against the said governor
to bring them forward immediately.

It was freely rumoured that the charges against Ramiro by no means ended there, and in Bologna--and
from Bologna the truth of such a matter might well transpire, all things considered--it was
openly said that Ramiro had been in secret treaty with the Bentivogli, Orsini, and Vitelli,
against the Duke of Valentinois: "Aveva provixione da Messer Zoane Bentivogli e da Orsini e
Vitelozo contro el duca," writes Fileno della Tuate, who, it will be borne in mind, was no
friend of the Borgia, and would be at no pains to find justification for the duke's deeds.

But of that secret treaty there was, for the moment, no official mention. Later the rumour
of it was to receive the fullest confirmation, and, together with that, we shall give, in the
next chapter, the duke's obvious reasons for having kept the matter secret at first. Matter
enough and to spare was there already upon which to dispose of Messer Ramiro de Lorqua and
disposed of he was, with the most summary justice.

On the morning of December 26 the first folk to be astir in Cesena beheld, in the grey light
of that wintry dawn, the body of Ramiro lying headless in the square. It was richly dressed,
with all his ornaments upon it, a scarlet cloak about it, and the hands were gloved. On a pike
beside the body the black-bearded head was set up to view, and so remained throughout that
day, a terrible display of the swift and pitiless justice of the duke.

Macchiavelli wrote: "The reason of his death is not properly known" ("non si sa bene la cagione
della sua morte") "beyond the fact that such was the pleasure of the prince, who shows us that
he can make and unmake men according to their deserts."

The Cronica Civitas Faventiae, the Diariurn Caesenate, and the Cronache Forlivese, all express
the people's extreme satisfaction at the deed, and endorse the charges of brutality against
the man which are contained in Cesare's letter.

CHAPTER XVII. "THE BEAUTIFUL STRATAGEM"

Cesare left Cesena very early on the morning of December 26--the morning of Ramiro's execution--and
by the 29th he was at Fano, where he received the envoys who came from Ancona with protestations
of loyalty, as well as a messenger from Vitellozzo Vitelli, who brought him news of the surrender
of Sinigaglia. The citadel itself was still being held by Andrea Doria--the same who was afterwards
to become so famous in Genoa; this, it was stated, was solely because Doria desired to make
surrender to the duke himself. The Prefectress, Giovanna da Montefeltre, had already departed
from the city, which she ruled as regent for her eleven-year old boy, and had gone by sea to
Venice.

The duke returned answer to Vitelli that he would be in Sinigaglia himself upon the morrow,
and he invited the condottieri to receive him there, since he was decided to possess himself
of the citadel at once, whether Doria chose to surrender it peacefully or not; and that, to
provide for emergencies, he would bring his artillery with him. Lastly, Vitelli was bidden
to prepare quarters within the new town for the troops that would accompany Cesare. To do this
it was necessary to dispose the soldiers of Oliverotto da Fermo in the borgo. These were the
only troops with the condottieri in Sinigaglia; the remainder of their forces were quartered
in the strongholds of the territory at distances of from five to seven miles of the town.

On the last day of that year 1502 Cesare Borgia appeared before Sinigaglia to receive the homage
of those men who had used him so treacherously, and whom--with the exception of Paolo Orsini--he
now met face to face for the first time since their rebellion. Here were Francesco Orsini,
Duke of Gravina, with Paolo and the latter's son Fabio; here was Oliverotto, the ruffianly
Lord of Fermo, who had won his lordship by the cold-blooded murder of his kinsman, and concerning
whom a rumour ran in Rome that Cesare had sworn to choke him with his own hands; and here was
Vitellozzo Vitelli, the arch-traitor of them all.

Gianpaolo Baglioni was absent through illness--a matter less fatal to him than was their health
to those who were present--and the Cardinal and Giulio Orsini were in Rome.

Were these captains mad to suppose that such a man as Cesare Borgia could so forget the wrong
they had done him, and forgive them in this easy fashion, exacting no amends? Were they mad
to suppose that, after such proofs as they had given him of what manner of faith they kept,
he would trust them hereafter with their lives to work further mischief against him? (Well
might Macchiavelli have marvelled when he beheld the terms of the treaty the duke had made
with them.) Were they mad to imagine that one so crafty as Valentinois would so place himself
into their hands--the hands of men who had sworn his ruin and death? Truly, mad they must have
been--rendered so by the gods who would destroy them.

The tale of that happening is graphically told by the pen of the admiring Macchiavelli, who
names the affair "Il Bellissimo Inganno." That he so named it should suffice us and restrain
us from criticisms of our own, accepting that criticism of his. To us, judged from our modern
standpoint, the affair of Sinigaglia is the last word in treachery and iscariotism. But you
are here concerned with the standpoint of the Cinquecento, and that standpoint Macchiavelli
gives you when he describes this business as "the beautiful stratagem." To offer judgment in
despite of that is to commit a fatuity, which too often already has been committed.

Here, then, is Macchiavelli's story of the event:

On the morning of December 31 Cesare's army, composed of 10,000 foot and 3,000 horse,(1) was
drawn up on the banks of the River Metauro--some five miles from Sinigaglia--in accordance
with his orders, awaiting his arrival. He came at daybreak, and immediately ordered forward
200 lances under the command of Don Michele da Corella; he bade the foot to march after these,
and himself brought up the rear with the main body of the horse.

  1 This is Macchiavelli's report of the forces; but, it appears to be an
exaggeration, for, upon leaving Cesena, Cesare does not appear to have
commanded more than 10,000 men in all.

In Sinigaglia, as we have seen, the condottieri had only the troops of Oliverotto--1,000 foot
and 150 horse--which had been quartered in the borgo, and were now drawn up in the market-place,
Oliverotto at their head, to do honour to the duke.

As the horse under Don Michele gained the little river Misa and the bridge that spanned it,
almost directly opposite to the gates of Sinigaglia, their captain halted them and drew them
up into two files, between which a lane was opened. Through this the foot went forward and
straight into the town, and after came Cesare himself, a graceful, youthful figure, resplendent
in full armour at the head of his lances. To meet him advanced now the three Orsini and Vitellozzo
Vitelli. Macchiavelli tells us of the latter's uneasiness, of his premonitions of evil, and
the farewells (all of which Macchiavelli had afterwards heard reported) which he had taken
of his family before coming to Sinigaglia. Probably these are no more than the stories that
grow up about such men after such an event as that which was about to happen.

The condottieri came unarmed, Vitelli mounted on a mule, wearing a cloak with a green lining.
In that group he is the only man deserving of any respect or pity--a victim of his sense of
duty to his family, driven to his rebellion and faithlessness to Valentinois by his consuming
desire to avenge his brother's death upon the Florentines. The others were poor creatures,
incapable even of keeping faith with one another. Paolo Orsini was actually said to be in secret
concert with Valentinois since his mission to him at Imola, and to have accepted heavy bribes
from him. Oliverotto you have seen at work, making a holocaust of his family and friends under
the base spur of his cupidity; whilst of the absent ones, Pandolfo Petrucci alone was a man
of any steadfastness and honesty.

The duke's reception of them was invested with that gracious friendliness of which none knew
the art better than did he, intent upon showing them that the past was forgiven and their offences
against himself forgotten. As they turned and rode with him through the gates of Sinigaglia
some of the duke's gentlemen hemmed them about in the preconcerted manner, lest even now they
should be taken with alarm. But it was all done unostentatiously and with every show of friendliness,
that no suspicions should be aroused.

From the group Cesare had missed Oliverotto, and as they now approached the market-square,
where the Tyrant of Fermo sat on his horse at the head of his troops, Cesare made a sign with
his eyes to Don Michele, the purport of which was plain to the captain. He rode ahead to suggest
to Ohiverotto that this was no time to have his men under arms and out of their lodgings, and
to point out to him that, if they were not dismissed they would be in danger of having their
quarters snatched from them by the duke's men, from which trouble might arise. To this he added
that the duke was expecting his lordship.

Oliverotto, persuaded, gave the order for the dismissal of his troops, and the duke, coming
up at that moment, called to him. In response he went to greet him, and fell in thereafter
with the others who were riding with Valentinois.

In amiable conversation with them all, and riding between Vitelli and Francesco Orsini, the
duke passed from the borgo into the town itself, and so to the palace, where the condottieri
disposed to take their leave of him. But Cesare was not for parting with them yet; he bade
them in with him, and they perforce must accept his invitation. Besides, his mood was so agreeable
that surely there could be nought to fear.

But scarce were they inside when his manner changed of a sudden, and at a sign from him they
were instantly overpowered and arrested by those gentlemen of his own who were of the party
and who came to it well schooled in what they were to do.

Buonaccorsi compiled his diary carefully from the letters of Macchiavelli to the Ten, in so
far as this and other affairs are concerned; and to Buonaccorsi we must now turn for what immediately
follows, which is no doubt from Macchiavelli's second letter of December 31, in which the full
details of the affair are given. His first letter no more than briefly states the happening;
the second unfortunately is missing; so that the above particulars--and some yet to follow--are
culled from the relations which he afterwards penned ("Del modo tenuto," etc.), edited, however,
by the help of his dispatches at the time in regard to the causes which led to the affair.
Between these and the actual relation there are some minor discrepancies. Unquestionably the
dispatches are the more reliable, so that, where such discrepancies occur, the version in the
dispatches has been preferred.

To turn for a moment to Buonaccorsi, he tells us that, as the Florentine envoy (who was, of
course, Macchiavelli) following the Duke of Valentinois entered the town later, after the arrest
of the condottieri, and found all uproar and confusion, he repaired straight to the palace
to ascertain the truth. As he approached he met the duke, riding out in full armour to quell
the rioting and restrain his men, who were by now all out of hand and pillaging the city. Cesare,
perceiving the secretary, reined in and called him.

"This," he said, "is what I wanted to tell Monsignor di Volterra [Soderini] when he came to
Urbino, but I could not entrust him with the secret. Now that my opportunity has come, I have
known very well how to make use of it, and I have done a great service to your masters."

And with that Cesare left him, and, calling his captains about him, rode down into the town
to put an end to the horrors that were being perpetrated there.

Immediately upon the arrest of the condottieri Cesare had issued orders to attack the soldiers
of Vitelli and Orsini, and to dislodge them from the castles of the territory where they were
quartered, and similarly to dislodge Oliverotto's men and drive them out of Sinigaglia. This
had been swiftly accomplished. But the duke's men were not disposed to leave matters at that.
Excited by the taste of battle that had been theirs, they returned to wreak their fury upon
the town, and were proceeding to put it to sack, directing particular attention to the wealthy
quarter occupied by the Venetian merchants, which is said to have been plundered by them to
the extent of some 20,000 ducats. They would have made an end of Sinigaglia but for the sudden
appearance amongst them of the duke himself. He rode through the streets, angrily ordering
the pillage to cease; and, to show how much he was in earnest, with his own hands he cut down
some who were insolent or slow to obey him; thus, before dusk, he had restored order and quiet.

As for the condottieri, Vitelli and Oliverotto were dealt with that very night. There is a
story that Oliverotto, seeing that all was lost, drew a dagger and would have put it through
his heart to save himself from dying at the hands of the hangman. If it is true, then that
was his last show of spirit. He turned craven at the end, and protested tearfully to his judges--for
a trial was given them--that the fault of all the wrong wrought against the duke lay with his
brother-in-law, Vitellozzo. More wonderful was it that the grim Vitelli's courage also should
break down at the end, and that he should beg that the Pope be implored to grant him a plenary
indulgence and that his answer be awaited.

But at dawn--the night having been consumed in their trial--they were placed back to back,
and so strangled, and their bodies were taken to the church of the Misericordia Hospital.

The Orsini were not dealt with just yet. They were kept prisoners, and Valentinois would go
no further until he should have heard from Rome that Giulio Orsini and the powerful cardinal
were also under arrest. To put to death at present the men in his power might be to alarm and
so lose the others. They are right who say that his craft was devilish; but what else was to
be expected of the times?

On the morrow--January 1, 1503--the duke issued dispatches to the Powers of Italy giving his
account of the deed. It set forth that the Orsini and their confederates, notwithstanding the
pardon accorded them for their first betrayal and revolt, upon learning of the departure of
the French lances--and concluding that the duke was thereby weakened, and left with only a
few followers of no account--had plotted a fresh and still greater treachery. Under pretence
of assisting him in the taking of Sinigaglia, whither it was known that he was going, they
had assembled there in their full strength, but displaying only one-third of it, and concealing
the remainder in the castles of the surrounding country. They had then agreed with the castellan
of Sinigaglia, that on that night they should attack him on every side of the new town, which,
being small, could contain, as they knew, but few of his people. This treachery coming to his
knowledge, he had been able to forestall it, and, entering Sinigaglia with all his troops,
he had seized the traitors and taken the forces of Oliverotto by surprise. He concluded by
exhorting all to render thanks unto God that an end was set to the many calamities suffered
in Italy in consequence of those malignant ones.(1)

  1  See this letter in the documents appended to Alvisi's Cesare Borgia,
document 76.

For once Cesare Borgia is heard giving his own side of an affair. But are the particulars of
his version true? Who shall say positively? His statement is not by any means contrary to the
known facts, although it sets upon them an explanation rather different to that afforded us
by Macchiavelli. But it is to be remembered that, after all, Macchiavelli had to fall back
upon the inferences which he drew from what he beheld, and that there is no scrap of evidence
directly to refute any one of Cesare's statements. There is even confirmation of the statement
that the condottieri conceived that he was weakened by the departure of the French lances and
left with only a few followers of no account. For Macchiavelli himself dwells upon the artifice
with which Cesare broke up his forces and disposed of them in comparatively small numbers here
and there to the end that his full strength should remain concealed; and he admires the strategy
of that proceeding.

Certainly the duke's narrative tends to increase his justification for acting as he did. But
at best it can only increase it, for the actual justification was always there, and by the
light of his epoch it is difficult to see how he should be blamed. These men had openly sworn
to have his life, and from what has been seen of them there is little reason to suppose they
would not have kept their word had they but been given the opportunity.

In connection with Cesare's version, it is well to go back for a moment to the execution of
Ramiro de Lorqua, and to recall the alleged secret motives that led to it. Macchiavelli himself
was not satisfied that all was disclosed, and that the governor's harshness and dishonesty
had been the sole causes of the justice done upon him. "The reason of his death is not properly
known," wrote the Florentine secretary. Another envoy of that day would have filled his dispatches
with the rumours that were current, with the matters that were being whispered at street corners.
But Macchiavelli's habit was to disregard rumours as a rule, knowing their danger--a circumstance
which renders his evidence the most valuable which we possess.

It is perhaps permissible to ask: What dark secrets had the torture of the cord drawn from
Messer Ramiro? Had these informed the duke of the true state of affairs at Sinigaglia, and
had the knowledge brought him straight from Cesena to deal with the matter?

There is justification for these questions, inasmuch as on January 4 the Pope related to Giustiniani--for
which see his dispatches--that Ramiro de Lorqua, being sentenced to death, stated that he desired
to inform the duke of certain matters, and informed him that he had concerted with the Orsini
to give the latter the territory of Cesena; but that, as this could not now be done, in consequence
of Cesare's treaty with the condottieri, Vitelli had arranged to kill the duke, in which design
he had the concurrence of Oliverotto. They had planned that a crossbow-man should shoot the
duke as he rode into Sinigaglia, in consequence of which the duke took great care of himself
and never put off his armour until the affair was over. Vitellozzo, the Pope said, had confessed
before he died that all that Ramiro had told the duke was true, and at the Consistory of January
6, when the Sacred College begged for the release of the old Cardinal Orsini--who had been
taken with the Archbishop of Florence, Giacomo di Santacroce, and Gianbattista da Virginio--the
Pope answered by informing the cardinals of this plot against the duke's life.

These statements by Cesare and his father are perfectly consistent with each other and with
the events. Yet, for want of independent confirmation, they are not to be insisted upon as
affording the true version--as, of course, the Pope may have urged what he did as a pretext
to justify what was yet to follow.

It is readily conceivable that Ramiro, under torture, or in the hope perhaps of saving his
life, may have betrayed the alleged plot to murder Cesare. And it is perfectly consistent with
Cesare's character and with his age that he should have entered into a bargain to learn what
Ramiro might have to disclose, and then have repudiated it and given him to the executioner.
If Cesare, under such circumstances as these, had learnt what was contemplated, he would very
naturally have kept silent on the score of it until he had dealt with the condottieri. To do
otherwise might be to forewarn them. He was, as Macchiavelli says, a secret man, and the more
dangerous for his closeness, since he never let it be known what he intended until he had executed
his designs.

Guicciardini, of course, has called the Sinigaglia affair a villainy ("scelleragine") whilst
Fabio Orsini and a nephew of Vitelli's who escaped from Sinigaglia and arrived two days later
at Perugia, sought to engage sympathy by means of an extraordinary tale, so alien to all the
facts--apart from their obvious reasons to lie and provoke resentment against Cesare--as not
to be worth citing.

CHAPTER XVIII. THE ZENITH

Andrea Doria did not remain to make formal surrender of the citadel of Sinigaglia to the duke--for
which purpose, be it borne in mind, had Cesare been invited, indirectly, to come to Sinigaglia.
He fled during the night that saw Vitelli and Oliverotto writhing their last in the strangler's
hands. And his flight adds colour to the versions of the affair that were afforded the world
by Cesare and his father. Andrea Doria, waiting to surrender his trust, had nothing to fear
from the duke, no reason to do anything but remain. Andrea Doria, intriguing against the duke's
life with the condottieri, finding them seized by the duke, and inferring that all was discovered,
had every reason to fly.

The citadel made surrender on that New Year's morning, when Cesare summoned it to do so, whilst
the troops of the Orsini and Vitelli lodged in the castles of the territory, being taken unawares,
were speedily disposed of. So, there being nothing more left to do in Sinigaglia, Cesare once
more marshalled his men and set out for Città di Castello--the tyranny of the Vitelli, which
he found undefended and of which he took possession in the name of the Church. Thence he rushed
on towards Perugia, for he had word that Guidobaldo of Urbino, Fabio Orsini, Annibale and Venanzio
Varano, and Vitelli's nephew were assembled there under the wing of Gianpaolo Baglioni, who,
with a considerable condotta at his back, was making big talk of resisting the Duke of Romagna
and Valentinois. In this, Gianpaolo persevered most bravely until he had news that the duke
was as near as Gualdo, when precipitately he fled--leaving his guests to shift for themselves.
He had remembered, perhaps, at the last moment how narrow an escape he had had of it at Sinigaglia,
and he repaired to Siena to join Pandolfo Petrucci, who had been equally fortunate in that
connection.

To meet the advancing and irresistible duke came ambassadors from Perugia with smooth words
of welcome, the offer of the city, and their thanks for his having delivered them of the tyrants
that oppressed them; and there is not the slightest cause to suppose that this was mere sycophancy,
for a more bloody, murderous crew than these Baglioni--whose feuds not only with the rival
family of the Oddi, but among their very selves, had more than once embrued the walls of that
city in the hills--it would be difficult to find in Italy, or anywhere in Europe. The history
of the Baglioni is one record of slaughter. Under their rule in Perugia human blood seems commonly
to have flowed anywhere more freely than in human veins. It is no matter for wonder that the
people sent their ambassador to thank Cesare for having delivered them from the yoke that had
oppressed them.

Perugia having rendered him her oath of fealty, the duke left her his secretary, Agabito Gherardi,
as his commissioner, whilst sending Vincenzo Calmeta to Fermo--Oliverotto's tyranny--another
State which was very fervent in the thanks it expressed for this deliverance.

Scarcely was Cesare gone from Perugia when into the hands of his people fell the person of
the Lady Panthasilea Baglioni d'Alviano--the wife of the famous Venetian condottiero Bartolomeo
d'Alviano--and they, aware of the feelings prevailing between their lord and the Government
of Venice, bethought them that here was a valuable hostage. So they shut her up in the Castle
of Todi, together with her children and the women who had been with her when she was taken.

As in the case of Dorotea Caracciolo, the rumour is instantly put about that it was Cesare
who had seized her, that he had taken her to his camp, and that this poor woman had fallen
a prey to that lustful monster. So--and in some such words--ran the story, and such a hold
did it take upon folks' credulity that we see Piero di Bibieno before the Council of Ten, laying
a more or less formal charge against the duke in rather broader terms than are here set down.
So much, few of those who have repeated his story omit to tell you. But for some reason, not
obviously apparent, they do not think it worth while to add that the Doge himself--better informed,
it is clear, for he speaks with finality in the matter--reproved him by denying the rumour
and definitely stating that it was not true, as you may read in the Diary of Marino Sanuto.
That same diary shows you the husband--a person of great consequence in Venice--before the
Council, clamouring for the enlargement of his lady; yet never once does he mention the name
of Valentinois. The Council of Ten sends an envoy to wait upon the Pope; and the Pope expresses
his profound regret and his esteem for Alviano, and informs the envoy that he is writing to
Valentinois to demand her instant release--in fact, shows the envoy the letter.

To that same letter the duke replied on January 29 that he had known nothing of the matter
until this communication reached him; that he has since ascertained that the lady was indeed
captured and that she has since been detained in the Castle of Todi with all the consideration
due to her rank; and that, immediately upon ascertaining this he had commanded that she should
be set at liberty, which was done.

And so the Lady Panthasilea returned unharmed to her husband.

In Assisi Cesare received the Florentine ambassador Salviati, who came to congratulate the
duke upon the affair of Sinigaglia and to replace Macchiavelli--the latter having been ordered
home again. Congratulations indeed were addressed to him by all those Powers that had received
his official intimation of the event. Amongst these were the felicitations of the beautiful
and accomplished Isabella d'Este, Marchioness of Gonzaga--whose relations with him were ever
of the friendliest, even when Faenza by its bravery evoked her pity--and with these she sent
him, for the coming carnival, a present of a hundred masks of rare variety and singular beauty,
because she opined that "after the fatigues he had suffered in these glorious enterprises,
he would desire to contrive for some recreation."

Here in Assisi, too, he received the Siennese envoys who came to wait upon him, and he demanded
that, out of respect for the King of France, they should drive out Pandolfo Petrucci from Siena.
For, to use his own words, "having deprived his enemies of their weapons, he would now deprive
them of their brain," by which he paid Petrucci the compliment of accounting him the "brain"
of all that had been attempted against him. To show the Siennese how much he was in earnest,
he leaves all baggage and stores at Assisi, and, unhampered, makes one of his sudden swoops
towards Siena, pausing on January 13 at Castel della Pieve to publish, at last, his treaty
with Bentivogli. The latter being now sincere, no doubt out of fear of the consequences of
further insincerity, at once sends Cesare 30 lances and 100 arbalisters under the command of
Antonio della Volta.

It was there in Assisi, on the morning of striking his camp again, that Cesare completed the
work that had been begun at Sinigaglia by having Paolo Orsini and the Duke of Gravina strangled.
There was no cause to delay the matter longer. He had word from Rome of the capture of Cardinal
Orsini, of Gianbattista da Virginio, of Giacomo di Santacroce, and Rinaldo Orsini, Archbishop
of Florence.

On January 27, Pandolfo Petrucci being still in Siena, and Cesare's patience exhausted, he
issued an ultimatum from his camp at Sartiano in which he declared that if, within twenty-four
hours, Petrucci had not been expelled from the city, he would loose his soldiers upon Siena
to devastate the territory, and would treat every inhabitant "as a Pandolfo and an enemy."

Siena judged it well to bow before that threatening command, and Cesare, seeing himself obeyed,
was free to depart to Rome, whither the Pope had recalled him and where work awaited him. He
was required to make an end of the resistance of the barons, a task which had been entrusted
to his brother Giuffredo, but which the latter had been unable to carry out.

In this matter Cesare and his father are said to have violently disagreed, and it is reported
that high words flew between them; for Cesare--who looked ahead and had his own future to consider,
which should extend beyond the lifetime of Alexander VI--would not move against Silvio Savelli
in Palombara, nor Gian Giordano in Bracciano, alleging, as his reason for the latter forbearance,
that Gian Giordano, being a knight of St. Michael like himself, he was inhibited by the terms
of that knighthood from levying war upon him. To that he adhered, whilst disposing, however,
to lay siege to Ceri, where Giulio and Giovanni Orsini had taken refuge.

In the meantime, the Cardinal Gianbattista Orsini had breathed his last in the Castle of Sant'
Angelo.

Soderini had written ironically to Florence on February 15: "Cardinal Orsini, in prison, shows
signs of frenzy. I leave your Sublimities to conclude, in your wisdom, the judgment that is
formed of such an illness."

It was not, however, until a week later--on February 22--that he succumbed, when the cry of
"Poison!" grew so loud and general that the Pope ordered the cardinal's body to be carried
on a bier with the face exposed, that all the world might see its calm and the absence of such
stains as were believed usually to accompany venenation.

Nevertheless, the opinion spread that he had been poisoned--and the poisoning of Cardinal Orsini
has been included in the long list of the Crimes of the Borgias with which we have been entertained.
That the rumour should have spread is not in the least wonderful, considering in what bad odour
were the Orsini at the Vatican just then, and--be it remembered--what provocation they had
given. Although Valentinois dubbed Pandolfo Petrucci the "brain" of the conspiracy against
him, the real guiding spirit, there can be little doubt, was this Cardinal Orsini, in whose
stronghold at Magione the diet had met to plot Valentinois's ruin--the ruin of the Gonfalonier
of the Church, and the fresh alienation from the Holy See of the tyrannies which it claimed
for its own, and which at great cost had been recovered to it.

Against the Pope, considered as a temporal ruler, that was treason in the highest degree, and
punishable by death; and, assuming that Alexander did cause the death of Cardinal Orsini, the
only just censure that could fall upon him for the deed concerns the means employed. Yet even
against that it might be urged that thus was the dignity of the purple saved the dishonouring
touch of the hangman's hands.

Some six weeks later--on April 10--died Giovanni Michieli, Cardinal of Sant' Angelo, and Giustiniani,
the Venetian ambassador, wrote to his Government that the cardinal had been ill for only two
days, and that his illness had been attended by violent sickness. This--and the reticence of
it--was no doubt intended to arouse the suspicion that the cardinal had been poisoned. Giustiniani
adds that Michieli's house was stripped that very night by the Pope, who profited thereby to
the extent of some 150,000 ducats, besides plate and other valuables; and this was intended
to show an indecent eagerness on the Pope's part to possess himself of that which by the cardinal's
death he inherited, whereas, in truth, the measure would be one of wise precaution against
the customary danger of pillage by the mob.

But in March of the year 1504, under the pontificate of Julius II (Cardinal Giuliano della
Rovere) a subdeacon, named Asquino de Colloredo, was arrested for defaming the dead cardinal
("interfector bone memorie Cardinalis S. Angeli").(1) What other suspicions were entertained
against him, what other revelations it was hoped to extract from him, cannot be said; but Asquino
was put to the question, to the usual accompaniment of the torture of the cord, and under this
he confessed that he had poisoned Cardinal Michieli, constrained to it by Pope Alexander VI
and the Duke of Valentinois, against his will and without reward ("verumtamen non voluisse
et pecunias non habuisse").

  1  Burchard's Diarium, March 6, 1504.

Now if Asquino defamed the memory of Cardinal Michieli it seems to follow naturally that he
had hated the cardinal; and, if we know that he hated him, we need not marvel that, out of
that hatred, he poisoned him. But something must have been suspected as a motive for his arrest
in addition to the slanders he was uttering, otherwise how came the questions put to him to
be directed so as to wring from him the confession that he had poisoned the cardinal? If you
choose to believe his further statement that he was constrained to it by Pope Alexander and
the Duke of Valentinois, you are, of course, at liberty to do so. But you will do well first
to determine precisely what degree of credit such a man might be worth when seeking to extenuate
a fault admitted under pressure of the torture--and offering the extenuation likeliest to gain
him the favour of the della Rovere Pope, whose life's task--as we shall see--was the defamation
of the hated Borgias. You will also do well closely to examine the last part of his confession--that
he was constrained to it "against his will and without reward." Would the deed have been so
very much against the will of one who went about publishing his hatred of the dead cardinal
by the slanders he emitted?

Upon such evidence as that the accusation of the Pope's murder of Cardinal Michieli has been
definitely established--and it must be admitted that it is, if anything, rather more evidence
than is usually forthcoming of the vampirism and atrocities alleged against him.

Giustiniani, writing to his Government in the spring of 1503, informs the Council of Ten that
it is the Pope's way to fatten his cardinals before disposing of them--that is to say, enriching
them before poisoning them, that he may inherit their possessions. It was a wild and sweeping
statement, dictated by political animus, and it has since grown to proportions more monstrous
than the original. You may read usque ad nauseam of the Pope and Cesare's constant practice
of poisoning cardinals who had grown rich, for the purpose of seizing their possessions, and
you are very naturally filled with horror at so much and such abominable turpitude. In this
matter, assertion--coupled with whorling periods of vituperation--have ever been considered
by the accusers all that was necessary to establish the accusations. It has never, for instance,
been considered necessary to cite the names of the cardinals composing that regiment of victims.
That, of course, would be to challenge easy refutation of the wholesale charge; and refutation
is not desired by those who prefer the sensational manner.

The omission may, in part at least, be repaired by giving a list of the cardinals who died
during the eleven years of the pontificate of Alexander VI. Those deaths, in eleven years,
number twenty-one--representing, incidentally, a percentage that compares favourably with any
other eleven years of any other pontificate or pontificates. They are:

     Ardicino della Porta   .   .     In 1493, at Rome
     Giovanni de'Conti.   .   .       In 1493, at Rome
     Domenico della Rovere  .   .     In 1494, at Rome
     Gonzalo de Mendoza.   .   .      In 1495, in Spain
     Louis André d'Epinay   .   .     In 1495, in France
     Gian Giacomo Sclafetano.   .     In 1496, at Rome
     Bernardino di Lunati   .   .     In 1497, at Rome
     Paolo Fregosi.   .   .   .       In 1498, at Rome
     Gianbattista Savelli   .   .     In 1498, at Rome
     Giovanni della Grolaye .   .     In 1499, at Rome
     Giovanni Borgia  .   .   .       In 1500, at Fossombrone
     Bartolomeo Martini.   .   .      In 1500, at Rome
     John Morton.   .   .   .         In 1500, in England
     Battista Zeno.   .   .   .       In 1501, at Rome
     Juan Lopez .   .   .   .         In 1501, at Rome
     Gianbattista Ferrari   .   .     In 1502, at Rome
     Hurtado de Mendoza.   .   .      In 1502, in Spain
     Gianbattista Orsini.   .   .     In 1503, at Rome
     Giovanni Michieli.   .   .       In 1503, at Rome
     Giovanni Borgia (Seniore).   .   In 1503, at Rome
     Federico Casimir .   .   .       In 1503, in Poland

Now, search as you will, not only such contemporary records as diaries, chronicles, and dispatches
from ambassadors in Rome during that period of eleven years but also subsequent writings compiled
from them, and you shall find no breath of scandal attaching to the death of seventeen of those
cardinals, no suggestion that they died other than natural deaths.

Four remain: Cardinals Giovanni Borgia (Giuniore), Gianbattista Ferrari (Cardinal of Modena),
Gianbattista Orsini, and Giovanni Michieli, all of whom the Pope and Cesare have, more or less
persistently, been accused of poisoning.

Giovanni Borgia's death at Fossombrone has been dealt with at length in its proper place, and
it has been shown how utterly malicious and groundless was the accusation.

Giovanni Michieli's is the case that has just been reviewed, and touching which you may form
your own conclusions.

Gianbattista Orsini's also has been examined. It rests upon rumour; but even if that rumour
be true, it is unfair to consider the deed in any but the light of a political execution.

There remains the case of the Cardinal of Modena, a man who had amassed enormous wealth in
the most questionable manner, and who was universally execrated. The epigrams upon his death,
in the form of epitaphs, dealt most terribly with "his ignominious memory"--as Burchard has
it. Of these the Master of Ceremonies collected upwards of a score, which he gives in his Diarium.
Let one suffice here as a fair example of the rest, the one that has it that the earth has
the cardinal's body, the bull (i.e. the Borgia) his wealth, and hell his soul.

     "Hac Janus Baptista jacet Ferrarius urna,
     Terra habuit corpus, Bos bona, Styx animam."

The only absolutely contemporary suggestion of his having been poisoned emanated from the pen
of that same Giustiniani. He wrote to the Venetian Senate to announce the cardinal's death
on July 20. In his letter he relates how his benefices were immediately distributed, and how
the lion's share fell to the cardinal's secretary, Sebastiano Pinzone, and that it was said
("é fama") that this man had received them as the price of blood ("in premium sanguinis"),
"since it is held, from many evident signs, that the cardinal died from poison" ("ex veneno").

Already on the 11th he had written: "The Cardinal of Modena lies ill, with little hope of recovery.
Poison is suspected" ("si dubita di veleno").

That was penned on the eighth day of the cardinal's sickness, for he was taken ill on the 3rd--as
Burchard shows. Burchard, further, lays before us the whole course of the illness; tells us
how, from the beginning, the cardinal refused to be bled or to take medicine of any kind, tells
us explicitly and positively that the cardinal was suffering from a certain fever--so prevalent
and deadly in Rome during the months of July and August; he informs us that, on the 11th (the
day on which Giustiniani wrote the above-cited dispatch), the fever abated, to return on the
16th. He was attended (Burchard continues) by many able physicians, who strove to induce him
to take their medicines; but he refused persistently until the following day, when he accepted
a small proportion of the doses proposed. On July 20--after an illness of seventeen days--he
finally expired.

Those entries in the diary of the Master of Ceremonies constitute an incontrovertible document,
an irrefutable testimony against the charges of poisoning when taken in conjunction with the
evidence of fact afforded by the length of the illness.

It is true that, under date of November 20, 1504 (under the pontificate of Julius II), there
is the following entry:

"Sentence was pronounced in the 'Ruota' against Sebastiano Pinzone, apostolic scribe, contumaciously
absent, and he was deprived of all benefices and offices in that he had caused the death of
the Cardinal of Modena, his patron, who had raised him from the dust."

But not even that can shake the conviction that must leap to every honest mind from following
the entries in the diary contemporary with the cardinal's decease. They are too circumstantial
and conclusive to be overthrown by this recorded sentence of the Ruota two years later against
a man who was not even present to defend himself. Besides, it is necessary to discriminate.
Burchard is not stating opinions of his own when he writes "in that he caused the death of
the Cardinal of Modena," etc.; he is simply--and obviously--recording the finding of the Tribunal
of the Ruota, without comment of his own. Lastly, it is as well to observe that in that verdict
against Pinzone--of doubtful justice as it is--there is no mention made of the Borgias.

The proceedings instituted against Sebastiano Pinzone were of a piece with those instituted
against Asquino de Colloredo and others yet to be considered; they were set on foot by Giuliano
della Rovere--that implacable enemy of the House of Borgia--when he became Pope, for the purpose
of heaping ignominy upon the family of his predecessor. But that shall be further dealt with
presently.

Another instance of the unceasing growth of Borgia history is afforded in connection with this
Sebastiano Pinzone by Dr. Jacob Burckhardt (in Der Cultur der Renaissance in Italien) who,
in the course of the usual sweeping diatribe against Cesare, mentions "Michele da Corella,
his strangler, and Sebastiano Pinzone, his poisoner." It is an amazing statement; for, whilst
obviously leaning upon Giustiniani's dispatch for the presumption that Pinzone was a poisoner
at all, he ignores the statement contained in it that Pinzone was the secretary and favourite
of Cardinal Ferrari, nor troubles to ascertain that the man was never in Cesare Borgia's service
at all, nor is ever once mentioned anywhere as connected in any capacity whatever with the
duke. Dr. Burckhardt felt, no doubt, the necessity of linking Pinzone to the Borgias, that
the alleged guilt of the former may recoil upon the latter, and so he accomplished it in this
facile and irresponsible manner.

Now, notwithstanding the full and circumstantial evidence afforded by Burchard's Diarium of
the Cardinal of Modena's death of a tertian fever, the German scholar Gregorovius does not
hesitate to write of this cardinal's death: "It is certain that it was due to their [the Borgias']
infallible white powders."

Oh the art of writing history in sweeping statements to support a preconceived point of view!
Oh that white powder of the Borgias!

Giovio tells us all about it. Cantarella, he calls it--Cantharides. Why Cantarella? Possibly
because it is a pleasing, mellifluous word that will help a sentence hang together smoothly;
possibly because the notorious aphrodisiac properties of that drug suggested it to Giovio as
just the poison to be kept handy by folk addicted to the pursuits which he and others attribute
to the Borgias. Can you surmise any better reason? For observe that Giovio describes the Cantarella
for you--a blunder of his which gives the lie to his statement. "A white powder of a faint
and not unpleasing savour," says he; and that, as you know, is nothing like cantharides, which
is green, intensely acrid, and burning. Yet who cares for such discrepancies? Who will ever
question anything that is uttered against a Borgia? "Cantarella--a white powder of a faint
and not unpleasing savour," answers excellently the steady purpose of supporting a defamation
and pandering to the tastes of those who like sensations in their reading--and so, from pen
to pen, from book to book it leaps, as unchallenged as it is impossible.

