When we find actually embalmed in a book the simple and touching song, "Let me kiss him for
his mother," our first inclination is to take all its merit for granted and hurry by, capping
the matter as we pass with the inevitable quotation which also begins with a let me, and refers
to making the songs of a people, with infinitive contempt for the adjustment of their laws.
The people for whom Mr. MacKellar's ballad was made, being young women in ringlets who press
the suburban piano, have, we may reasonably hope, small need of the law any how, and we may
be pretty sure that the verses which have touched the great popular heart are made in a spirit
which is better than any law, even the law of metre. On reading attentively the poem in question
we find a touching theme handled with simplicity, and in a certain sense earning its popular
place, though no poem could possibly be so good as the simple fact--an ancient woman in a hospital
at New Orleans arresting the coffin-lid they were placing over a young fever-patient from the
North with the natural impulse, "Stop! let me kiss him for his mother!" That little sunbeam
of pure feeling, sent straight from the affections of the people, is the real poet in the affair,
though Mr. MacKellar has succeeded in investing himself with its simplicity, supporting his
subject with tenderness and directness. When a writer happens, with luck in his theme and luck
in his mood, to strike such a keynote, he is astonished in a moment by a mighty and impressive
diapason, a whole nation breaking into song at the bid of his whisper. Mr. MacKellar doubtless
would think it strange, and a little hard to be told, that this trifle outweighs the whole
bulk, body and sum of his collection. He is a writer of old acceptance and experience, who
began to rhyme long ago in Neal's Gazette, with "occasional verses" about "no poetry in a hat"--a
question which was bandied, in the fashion of the times, through half a dozen assertions and
replies, assisted by voluntaries from the public. A stage-ride from New York to Singsing at
that day was something of an adventure, affording a subject for six cantos, which Neal was
doubtless very glad to get for his journal. Neal's death, and the parting with Henry Reed and
Dr. Kane, with some other local changes, extracted short laments from the author, whose tone
is nevertheless usually cheerful and canny; but his ballad is his best.

       *       *       *       *       *

Books Received.

The Philosophy of Art. By H. Taine, Professor of Aesthetics and of History of Art in the École
des Beaux-Arts, Paris. Translated by John Durand. Second edition. Thoroughly revised by the
translator. New York: Holt & Williams.

Fleurange: A Novel. From the French of Madame Augustus Craven, author of "A Sister's Story,"
"Anne Severin," etc. Translated by M.M.R. New York: Holt & Williams.

Love is Enough; or, The Freeing of Pharamond. By William Morris. Boston: Roberts Brothers.

Ralph Harding's Success. By the author of "Robert Joy's Victory." Boston: Henry Hoyt.

The Mysterious Guest. By Miss Eliza A. Dupuy. Philadelphia: T.B. Peterson & Brothers.

Madame de Chamblay. By Alexander Dumas. Philadelphia: T.B. Peterson & Brothers.

Not Forsaken. By Agnes Giberne. Illustrated. Boston: Henry Hoyt.