It would be difficult to say which side worked the harder; for the boys went before school
began to build up the barricade, and the girls stayed after lessons were over to pull down
the last one made in afternoon recess. They had their play-time first, and, while the boys
waited inside, they heard the shouts of the girls, the banging of the wood, and the final crash
as the well-packed pile went down. Then, as the lassies came in, rosy, breathless, and triumphant,
the lads rushed out to man the breach, and labor gallantly till all was as tight as hard blows
could make it.

So the battle raged, and bruised knuckles, splinters in fingers, torn clothes, and rubbed shoes,
were the only wounds received, while a great deal of fun was had out of the maltreated logs,
and a lasting peace secured between two of the boys.

When the party was safely over, Sam began to fall into his old way of tormenting Ben by calling
names, as it cost no exertion to invent trying speeches and slyly utter them when most likely
to annoy; Ben bore it as well as he could, but fortune favored him at last, as it usually does
the patient, and he was able to make his own terms with his tormentor.

When the girls demolished the wood-pile they performed a jubilee chorus on combs, and tin kettles
played like tambourines; the boys celebrated their victories with shrill whistles, and a drum
accompaniment with fists on the shed walls. Billy brought his drum, and this was such an addition
that Sam hunted up an old one of his little brother's, in order that he might join the drum
corps. He had no sticks, however, and, casting about in his mind for a good substitute for
the genuine thing, bethought him of bulrushes.

"Those will do first-rate, and there are lots in the ma'sh, if I can only get 'em," he said
to himself, and turned off from the road on his way home to get a supply.

Now, this marsh was a treacherous spot, and the tragic story was told of a cow who got in there
and sank till nothing was visible but a pair of horns above the mud, which suffocated the unwary
beast. For this reason it was called "Cowslip Marsh," the wags said, though it was generally
believed to be so named for the yellow flowers which grew there in great profusion in the spring.

Sam had seen Ben hop nimbly from one tuft of grass to another when he went to gather cowslips
for Betty, and the stout boy thought he could do the same. Two or three heavy jumps landed
him, not among the bulrushes as he had hoped, but in a pool of muddy water where he sank up
to his middle with alarming rapidity. Much scared, he tried to wade out, but could only flounder
to a tussock of grass and cling there while he endeavored to kick his legs free. He got them
out, but struggled in vain to coil them up or to hoist his heavy body upon the very small island
in this sea of mud. Down they splashed again, and Sam gave a dismal groan as he thought of
the leeches and water-snakes which might be lying in wait below. Visions of the lost cow also
flashed across his agitated mind, and he gave a despairing shout very like a distracted "Moo!"

Few people passed along the lane, and the sun was setting, so the prospect of a night in the
marsh nerved Sam to make a frantic plunge toward the bulrush island, which was nearer than
the main-land, and looked firmer than any tussock around him. But he failed to reach this haven
of rest, and was forced to stop at an old stump which stuck up, looking very like the moss-grown
horns of the "dear departed." Roosting here, Sam began to shout for aid in every key possible
to the human voice. Such hoots and howls, whistles and roars, never woke the echoes of the
lonely marsh before, or scared the portly frog who resided there in calm seclusion.

