We were on the great pilgrim-route, which twenty centuries ago was annually crowded with pilgrims
from the north hastening to Jerusalem for the Passover feast. The Child of Nazareth, when,
at the age of twelve, he went for the first time to the Temple, must have pressed this road
with his sacred feet, must have looked with deep, inquiring eyes upon these fields and hills.
There was enough in the early hour and the associations of the scenes through which we were
passing to keep us for a long time silent. My horse stumbled and brought us both back from
Dreamland. A look ahead showed us--for the sun was now above the hills--that the worst piece
of road in Palestine was just before us. It is wholly unartificial: for years no human hand
has touched it, except as mine did when, on dismounting and undertaking to pick my way over
the rocks, I found myself on all-fours. In fact, this Oriental boulevard is made up for some
distance entirely of boulders, round and sharp, triangular and square, which the spring freshets
of the last five or six decades were regretfully obliged to leave behind. After a short halt
for lunch, about two o'clock, the muleteer assured us, on starting again, we had still five
hours of steady pushing before us, and said something in the same breath about robbers. Men
of his class all through the East are notorious cowards; but we had been told in Jerusalem
that such dangers were not altogether imaginary, and, almost as our guide spoke, we heard shrieks,
and for a moment we all thought the nefarious crew were at their work just ahead. The muleteer
dropped mysteriously to the rear, and we rode on over a slight ascent, and there we saw a tall
Samaritan exerting himself in a way most unlike the good one of the parable. He appeared to
be a man of importance,--probably a sheik. His horse, tied to a little tree, was a very handsome
one, and gayly decked out with red leather and ribbons. He had hold of the hind legs of a poor
little goat, and was intent on pulling the creature away from a smaller man, much more poorly
dressed, whose hands had a death-like grip of the horns. I was for setting lance in rest and
charging to the rescue; but my more cautious friend put one or two questions to the sheik,
who told, in a somewhat jerky style,--perhaps the result of the strugglings of the goat and
the man at the other end of him,--as straightforward a story as was possible under the circumstances.
He was the proprietor of the hut the owner of the goat lived in. He had come to collect his
lawful rent, and he knew the money was ready, but he couldn't get it, and so had seized the
only movable object of any value. The poor wretch, who still had the goat by the horns, denied
the story, but in such a way that we feared he would only injure his conscience by other prevarications
if we encouraged him. So we rode on; and in less than half an hour the sheik swept proudly
by us, with no goat slung over his shoulders, but as he passed he shot out a single word, that
told, like Caesar's vici, the whole story of his victory.

The muleteer of Palestine will start on a journey at almost any hour of the morning, but he
has a superstitious dread of the darkness that falls after sunset, and our Hassan was now too
frightened to make any answer to our questions except a short, tremulous half threat, half
entreaty to hurry. We were riding along the valley between Gerizim and Ebal. We had left Joseph's
tomb, and Jacob's well, where our Lord, wearied with his journey, as we were with ours, sat
and rested as he talked with a woman who had come from the town toward which we were hurrying.
The two mountains, their sides covered with fig-trees and olives, loomed up dimly out of the
twilight on either side. We thought of the day when the hosts of Israel were encamped here
and the antiphonal choirs chanted blessings from Gerizim and curses from Ebal in the ears of
the vastest congregation ever gathered on earth. There was no sound now of blessing or cursing.
The very stillness was oppressive. Hassan almost ceased to breathe, and it was not till our
horses' hoofs rang on the rough pavement of Nablous--the ancient Shechem--that he relaxed his
muscles and gave a long sigh of relief.

We rode at once to the Latin convent, where we felt sure of a cordial reception and a comfortable
bed. There was no light anywhere in the gloomy building; but Hassan knocked at the great door,
confidently at first, and then angrily. At last came an Arab youth about nineteen, who stuck
one eye in the crack of the door, and asked our business.

"Yes," he said, "you stay here all night, but go away early in the morning."

This was definite, if not hospitable; but we went in, and asked to see the monks.

"None here," said the Arab, with a chuckle: "all gone to Tiberias." We ordered dinner, and,
after half an hour, the Arab brought a saucer holding two boiled eggs, put it on a chair, and
said, "There's your dinner." We were indignant, but it did no good: this boy was the head of
the house for the time, and neither promises nor threats were of any avail to add anything,
besides a little salt and pepper, to the dinner he had prepared. We went to bed very hungry,
but very tired, and in the morning, before breakfast, hunted out the house of an English missionary,
who took pity on us and gave us to eat. But it is an unusual thing for any one to leave Nablous
without having an experience of some sort more or less disagreeable to fasten the name of the
place in his recollection. When the brilliant author of "Eothen" sojourned for a day or two
in this "hot furnace of Mohammedanism," as he calls it, the whole Greek population chose him
as an involuntary deliverer of a young Christian maiden who had been perverted by rich gifts
to the faith of Islam, or at least to a belief that a rich Mohammedan was to be preferred as
a husband to a poor Christian.

We went, of course, to the little Samaritan synagogue, to see the famous copy of the Pentateuch,
whose age no man knoweth. We rode up the steep slopes of Gerizim to the ruins of the temple
where the woman of Samaria said her fathers had always worshipped, and then, in a pouring rain,
we started for Jenin. Hassan sunk his head down in a huge Oriental cloak, undoubtedly manufactured
in Birmingham or Manchester, and his horse, left to himself, lost his way, for a Palestine
road may at any time, like a Western trail, turn into a squirrel's track and run up a tree.
When we found ourselves again we were all wet and not in the best of humor, but in sight of
the old city of Samaria on her high hills.

The magnificent capital of Ahab and Jezebel, we saw at a glance, is now only a ruined, dirty
village, where a European could not hope for shelter for a night. The hills sank into a heavy
plain that seemed interminable. The short twilight faded into untempered darkness. Hassan was
again in the rear. He would have fled incontinently at the first sign of danger. Our only consolation
was that his horse was tired and he couldn't get very far away from us under any circumstances.
I had a letter to a Christian at Jenin that was thought to be good for supper and lodging.
We filed through the muddy streets to the door of the Christian's house, sent in the letter
by Hassan, and a man came out, saluted us, told us to follow and he would take us to "a most
comfortable place." When we stopped, it was before the door of a little mud hut. An old woman
opened it, but, before letting us in, fixed the price we were to pay. We entered a room that
did service for the entire wants of our hostess. It was very small, but it could not have been
made larger without knocking out the sidewalls of her house. The floor was of dry mud, and
there was nothing to sit upon except our saddles. We supped from the bread and meat our good
missionary friend had given us, and, rolling ourselves in our blankets, we slept; but not long.
The mud beneath us was not that dull, inanimate, clog-like thing we trample thoughtlessly under
our feet along our country roads: it was that sort of matter in which Tyndale thought he could
discern "the form and potency of life." They were both there, and in the still darkness they
made themselves felt. My friend, for some mysterious reason, was left untouched, but the regiments
that should have quartered on him joined those that were banqueting on my too unsolid flesh.
My sufferings were but slightly mitigated by the remembrance that probably the progenitors
of these fierce feeders on human blood may have dined as sumptuously on prophets and apostles,
and that, intense as my anguish was, the chances were against any fatal termination. I rose
often and went to the door, hoping for the morning, but it came not. Each time on returning
to my couch I found the number of my tormentors had been augmented: so I kept still, like an
Indian at the stake, and only refrained for my friend's sake from singing a triumphant song
as I found myself growing used to the pain and at last able to sleep a troubled sort of sleep,
such as Damiens may have had on the rack. When I showed my arms in the morning to Hassan, he
lifted his eyes to heaven and muttered a prayer to Allah, of which I thought I could divine
the meaning.

Our ride that day was across the great plain of Esdraelon. We were charitable enough to believe
that travellers who have raved over the exquisite beauty of this valley, who tell of "the green
meadow-land flaming with masses of red anemones," of "myriads of nodding daisies," and of "sheets
of burning azure in the sun," did actually look upon all these splendors in the early spring;
but it was January now, and we seemed to be pushing our way through a sea of dull, dead brown.
The ground was soft with the winter rains, and our horses' feet sank to the fetlocks and gathered
huge balls of the thick adhesive earth, deposited every hundred yards or so to give place to
others. We rode through the dirty little village of Nain, where once a widow's son, carried
out to burial, heard the only voice that reaches the dead and rose from his bier; but all solemn
and tender thoughts were frightened away by the crowd of maimed and blind and ragged and hungry
men, women, and children that came pouring out of the huts, crying, begging, demanding backsheesh.
"This," one of our American consuls said, "is the language of Canaan now;" and it is one of
the least melodious of earth. We lunched on the dry grass in the sun in full sight of Tabor,
on the remnants of what the good missionary at Nablous had given us, and, tightening our saddle-girths,
we began the ascent of the mountain. We clambered up the rude bridle-path, covered with loose
stones, and knocked timidly, with the remembrance of our Nablous experiences, at the door of
a large and very sightly monastery. Almost immediately a monk of kindly face and soft black
Italian eyes gave us a cordial greeting, and the unexpectedness of it nearly enticed us into
throwing our arms around his neck and leaving an Oriental salutation upon his cheek. He led
us into a large, clean refectory, and then into two clean rooms. I might use other epithets,
but none other means so much in the East. After a very satisfying supper, the good monk--he
was so good to us, we tried to think he was as clean within as the rooms of his monastery--took
us out to the pinnacle of the mountain and enjoyed our enthusiasm over the magnificent view
that was spread out before us. Almost the whole of Palestine was within sight beneath us. We
looked southward, across the plain we had struggled over so laboriously, to the mountains behind
Jerusalem. We could see the depression where the Dead Sea lay in its bowl, encircled by the
hills of Moab. To the west we were looking upon Carmel, at whose base the blue waves of the
Mediterranean sigh, and moan, and thunder. To the east, across the Jordan, from which the mists
of evening were already rising, we could distinguish the wild, deep ravines of the land of
the Bedawin; and in the north, grandest of all, stood Hermon, his great white head touched
with the crimson of the setting sun, just plunging, like an old Moabite deity, into the mountains
of Lebanon beyond. By almost common consent it is agreed among the Biblical scholars of our
day that not here on Tabor where we stood, but northward, there on one of the peaks of Hermon,
was the place where our Lord was transfigured; but the Christian imagination, like the Christian
consciousness, is not always submissive to fact, and we shall continue, with the larger part
of the Christian world, to think of Tabor as the Mount of Transfiguration, while we speak of
Hermon as the true site.

We had an easy ride the next morning to Nazareth, and a kindly reception from the monks. The
hospitality at all these convents is untrammelled by pecuniary conditions; but all travellers
who have purses and hearts and consciences do, in fact, on their departure, present the Superior
with a sum about equal to the charges for the same length of time at an Eastern hotel. I mention
this in the interests of historic truth, and not with any desire to throw a garish light of
self-interest upon the cordiality of these Latin "religious." We were in the heart of the little
city where He whom millions of human beings call their Saviour and God lived for more than
twenty years. Somewhere among these houses that fill the valley and cling to the hill-side
was Joseph's home. Not a house, of course, is here now that was here then; all the sacred places
they show you--the Virgin's home, the place of the Annunciation, the workshop of Joseph--must
be unauthentic; but these hills are what they were. They shut out the great world He had come
to redeem, but not the heavens above Him or the sinfulness and needs of the segment of humanity
around Him. When we rode toward Tiberias in the early morning there were a dozen or more of
the girls of Nazareth going out to Mary's spring, as the fountain at the entrance of the town
is called; but their garments were ragged and uncleanly and their swarthy faces heavily tattooed,
and, while we were ready to accept the season of the year as an excuse for any deficiency in
the attractiveness of the landscape, we could not admit it in extenuation of the uncomeliness
of the maidens of Palestine. Their beauty we believe to be almost entirely a fiction of the
tourist's imagination.

On our way to the Sea of Galilee we passed through Cana, where they show you still some of
the water-pots in which "the conscious water blushed" when it saw its Lord, and crossed the
plain of Hattin, on one of whose round, horn-like acclivities the Sermon on the Mount is said
to have been given. Here the Crusaders made their last stand against the victorious army of
Saladin; and when at nightfall their bugles sounded the retreat, the Holy Land was given over
to the unbeliever for centuries:--who is prophet enough to say for how many? As we first saw
the lake that afternoon, with the sunlight on it, and the low Moabite hills rising lonely and
sad against the blue sky, and Hermon, cold and regal, far away to the north, and yet standing
out so prominently as to be the most striking feature in the scene, we felt that Gennesaret
had been ruthlessly robbed of her rights by certain well-known critics who, professing to be
her best friends, have denied her all claim to beauty except by association. Tiberias ranks
with Jerusalem and Hebron and Safed as one of the four holy cities of the Jews, but its houses
are filthy huts and its streets muddy lanes. Here we saw the Jew, down-trodden, oppressed,
wretched, but still proud, the unhappiest creature, this Tiberian descendant of David, in all
the Holy Land, with his long yellow cloak, his hair hanging upon his shoulders in corkscrew
curls, and an expression on his wan, sallow face that would force tears from your eyes if you
did not know that his life is ordinarily as contemptible as his condition is pitiable. We spent
an hour or more in one of the two boats that to-day make up the entire fishing-fleet of Galilee,
and then found hospitable shelter under the roof of the Latin monastery, the last that was
to open its doors to us in Palestine; and when we rode away on Monday morning we made a vow
in our hearts never to speak ill of that part of the Romish Church which presides over the
convents of the Holy Land. As our muleteer confessed he was as ignorant as any dog of a European
Christian of the route we wished to take from Tiberias to Banias and Deir Mimas, the monks
advised us, to save time, and perhaps our purses, perhaps our lives, by taking a Turkish soldier
as a combined guide and guard. We sent to the proper official, and two savage-looking fellows
came to the monastery. They swore by the beard of Mohammed that our lives would be worth less
than that of a Tiberian flea if we went alone, or even with one soldier; they talked our few
remaining powers of resistance to death, and we took them at their own price, less one-half,
which was conceded to be very liberal on our part. We felt we had a new lease of life, and
spent the rest of the afternoon in sweet unconcern and content; but late that evening word
was sent that one of the brave soldiers, in consideration of the great risk involved in the
enterprise, had concluded to raise his price, and of course his companion, deeply as he regretted
it, felt compelled to follow his example. We at once sent back word that our poverty would
not permit us to accede to their most modest request, and threw ourselves on the Superior of
the convent to extricate us from our dilemma. A guard had now become a necessity, for the poor
muleteer was so badly frightened by all the terrible things he had heard, that if we had promised
him his weight in gold to be delivered at Beirut he would not have stirred a step unprotected.
A request was sent to the commandant of the city, and he was pleased to present us with a Kurdish
cavalryman, who was to be our slave for the next four days, if on our part we would agree to
pay him well and do as he said. We were now humble. We promised, and the Kurd came riding to
the gates of the convent the next morning at the hour fixed for our departure. He was immensely
long and lean. He looked hungry all over. Even his musket, longer by some inches than himself,
had the appearance of existing on a very low diet of powder and ball. An awful doubt of its
efficacy crept into my heart, but we gave him the matutinal greetings of the country, and our
cavalcade followed at his heels.

We rode along the lake at a fairly rapid walk to the little mud village of Magdala, the home,
it is supposed, of Mary Magdalene. We stopped to breathe our horses at Khan Minyeh, the site,
some scholars assert, of the once beautiful city of Capernaum, and then rode along a rocky
road to Tel Hun, at the end of the lake, chosen by the best judgment of the day as the actual
spot where the city, exalted by her pride to heaven, rested lightly on the earth. We picked
our way in and out among fluted marble columns, the very ruins, some insist, of the synagogue
which the good centurion built for the city he loved. Here, then, may have been the home of
our Lord during those earliest days of his public ministry, the happiest days of his earthly
life, before baffled hate had begun to weave its net around him.

Our course now lay due north, away from the lake, across trackless fields covered with round
basaltic stones. The Kurd's horse was a better one than ours, and it was all we could do to
keep him in sight. The sun was hot. What would it have been on those hills in midsummer? We
threw off our heavy coats, that had been more than comfortable in the early morning along the
lake, and pushed doggedly on. To our left, higher even than the hill we climbed, was holy Safed,
to which it is thought our Lord may have pointed when he spoke of a city set upon a hill, that
cannot be hid; and straight before us, the object of our hopes and efforts, was snow-clad Hermon,
as beautiful, we thought, as an Alp. We crossed the mountain at last, and, as our horses waded
through a deep brook on the other side, the Kurd bent slightly in his saddle, and, reaching
down, brought up great handfuls of water to stay his thirst, without stopping for an instant.
There was a sly twinkle of pleasure in his eye when the muleteer told him we had admired his skill.

Late in the afternoon we came to the marshy lakes, "the waters of Merom," where Joshua smote
the kings of the north, who made a final stand here with their united armies, "like the sands
of the sea in number." We should have been glad to find one of their royal palaces in tolerable
repair, for we were tired and wanted to stop for the night, but there were no ruined regal
mansions in sight, not even a mud hut such as had given us shelter and hunting at Jenin. The
sun had gone down, and our horses shivered in the night air. The prospect was gloomy, and grew
no brighter as we went on. At last we saw some long black tents across the plain sheltered
by the hills; and, while we were wondering what the chances might be of escaping robbery by
the Bedawin at this late hour of the night, the Kurd turned his horse out of the bridle-path
and headed for the largest tent. The probabilities seemed now about equal that the Kurd was
in league with these wild, wandering tribes, and that they would pluck us, and torture us,
and bury us without the aid of undertaker or parson, or, on the other hand, that they might
welcome us to the few comforts within their command. The sheik was standing, with a half-dozen
of his leading men, at the door of his tent, and, as we dismounted, he came forward with much
grace and dignity and embraced my friend, kissing him on each cheek. He only waved his hand
to me, as a younger and less important personage, and led us into his tent. Cushions were thrown
down for us on the bare earth, and we were told to be seated. A little fire was burning just
in front of the tent, and around that the privileged persons of the tribe squatted, only the
chief and some of his great warriors being under the tent with ourselves. They were as curious
as civilized people to know where we were going, and why; and they concealed with difficulty
their surprise and suspicion when they were told that our only object was to see the country.
No Oriental, much less a Bedawin, ranks that among possible reasons for passing from one place
to another. After more conversation than we thought necessary before supper, a dish of rice
was brought in, and with it two wooden spoons; but how these came to be in a sheik's tent we
thought it wise not to ask. They looked on while we ate, refusing all our entreaties to join
with us; but when we had finished, they thrust their hands into the bowl, and, with a deft
movement, made round balls as large as a lemon, and shot these with great skill into their
mouths. While they ate, my friend asked if he might read them a story. They consented eagerly;
and, taking out his Arabic Testament, he read them the parable of the Prodigal Son. A more
appreciative company never listened to it. At each crisis of the narrative the sheik looked
around and said, "Fayib ketir,"--"Very good,"--and then, as if devoutly making the responses,
they all said, "Fayib ketir" I thought I saw one of them brush away a tear as the story was
finished: perhaps he was a father with a prodigal son, or something in his heart may have told
him that he was a prodigal himself.

They all rose at a signal, and left us to our slumbers. We were to share the tent with the
sheik; and when we had laid ourselves down on the cushions and covered ourselves with our overcoats,
the sheik came anxiously to my friend and asked "if we would not be very cold with nothing
over our heads." The Oriental lets his feet take care of themselves if only his head is warm.
The flap of the tent was not lowered, and we could look from where we were lying on the Eastern
hills and the stars above them. It was long before I could sleep in such surroundings. We were
unprotected in the tent of a Bedawin sheik on the waters of Merom, and all the past faded away:
for the moment I did not believe that there were such cities as New York and London and Paris,--they
were buried deep under the streets of Jerusalem and Tiberias and Safed. I was no longer an
American, but the son of this sheik, destined to be the ruler of all the tribes that dwell
in black tents of hair-cloth. My friend lying at my side groaned in his sleep, and the baseless
fabric of my dream crumbled. I was myself again, and felt a sharp blow from my own familiar
conscience when I found myself smiling with vengeful satisfaction at certain movements of my
sleeping friend that made it apparent he was being visited by certain inhabitants of the night
that find their way to Bedawin tents as well as peasants' huts. He had been almost untouched
when I suffered so at Jenin; and I found my confidence increased in the law of compensation
as I watched his struggles, wholly unscathed myself.

Our next day's work was the longest and hardest we had yet had. We were to crowd two days into
one. We were well on our way before it was fairly light. We crossed the Jordan on a little
stone bridge, and rode straight over the plain to Banias, the Caesarea Philippi of apostolic
times. We left our horses in the little village near which the Jordan comes pouring out of
a rocky opening in the hills, and, with an Arab boy, hurried at our best pace up the mountain
to the magnificent ruins of a mediaeval castle, the finest of its class in the Holy Land. Our
Kurd and muleteer were waiting for us as we came down the hill like veritable mountain-goats,
and the latter pointed triumphantly to something wrapped in an Arab newspaper under his arm.
As soon as we were out of sight of the village he stopped and displayed his prize: it was a
chicken, cooked in some unknown but most savory way. It was long since we had eaten anything
of the sort, and, leaping to the ground, with the help of a clasp-knife bought in Nablous,
the only eating-utensil our party could boast, we bisected our dinner, and, sitting under a
gray old gnarled olive, ate it with such expressions of satisfaction as would not be honest,
even if allowable, at the grandest civilized banquets.

