"Dear child, there be women whom the Lord crowns with beauty when they know it not, and our
dear Mother sheds so much of her spirit into their hearts that it shines out in their faces;
and among such must the painter look. Dear little child, be not ignorant that our Lord hath
shed this great grace on thee. I have received a light that thou art to be the model for the
'Hail, Mary!' in my Breviary."

"Oh, no, no, no! it cannot be!" said Agnes, covering her face with her hands.

"My daughter, thou art very beautiful, and this beauty was given thee not for thyself, but
to be laid like a sweet flower on the altar of thy Lord. Think how blessed, if, through thee,
the faithful be reminded of the modesty and humility of Mary, so that their prayers become
more fervent,--would it not be a great grace?"

"Dear uncle,"--said Agnes, "I am Christ's child. If it be as you say,--which I did not know,--give
me some days to pray and prepare my soul, that I may offer myself in all humility."

During this conversation Elsie had left the garden and gone a little way down the gorge, to
have a few moments of gossip with an old crony. The light of the evening sky had gradually
faded away, and the full moon was pouring a shower of silver upon the orange-trees. As Agnes
sat on the parapet, with the moonlight streaming down on her young, spiritual face, now tremulous
with deep suppressed emotion, the painter thought he had never seen any human creature that
looked nearer to his conception of a celestial being.

They both sat awhile in that kind of quietude which often falls between two who have stirred
some deep fountain of emotion. All was so still around them, that the drip and trickle of the
little stream which fell from the garden wall into the dark abyss of the gorge could well be
heard as it pattered from one rocky point to another, with a slender, lulling sound.

Suddenly the reveries of the two were disturbed by the shadow of a figure which passed into
the moonlight and seemed to rise from the side of the gorge. A man enveloped in a dark cloak
with a peaked hood stepped across the moss-grown garden parapet, stood a moment irresolute,
then the cloak dropped suddenly from him, and the Cavalier stood in the moonlight before Agnes.
He bore in his hand a tall stalk of white lily, with open blossoms and buds and tender fluted
green leaves, such as one sees in a thousand pictures of the Annunciation. The moonlight fell
full upon his face, revealing his haughty yet beautiful features, agitated by some profound
emotion. The monk and the girl were both too much surprised for a moment to utter a sound;
and when, after an instant, the monk made a half-movement as if to address him, the cavalier
raised his right hand with a sudden authoritative gesture which silenced him. Then turning
toward Agnes, he kneeled, and kissing the hem of her robe, and laying the lily in her lap,
"Holiest and dearest," he said, "oh, forget not to pray for me!" He rose again in a moment,
and, throwing his cloak around him, sprang over the garden wall, and was heard rapidly descending
into the shadows of the gorge.

All this passed so quickly that it seemed to both the spectators like a dream. The splendid
man, with his jewelled weapons, his haughty bearing, and air of easy command, bowing with such
solemn humility before the peasant girl, reminded the monk of the barbaric princes in the wonderful
legends he had read, who had been drawn by some heavenly inspiration to come and render themselves
up to the teachings of holy virgins, chosen of the Lord, in divine solitudes. In the poetical
world in which he lived all such marvels were possible. There were a thousand precedents for
them in that devout dream-land, "The Lives of the Saints."

"My daughter," he said, after looking vainly down the dark shadows upon the path of the stranger,
"have you ever seen this man before?"

"Yes, uncle; yesterday evening I saw him for the first time, when sitting at my stand at the
gate of the city. It was at the Ave Maria; he came up there and asked my prayers, and gave
me a diamond ring for the shrine of Saint Agnes, which I carried to the Convent to-day."

"Behold, my dear daughter, the confirmation of what I have just said to thee! It is evident
that our Lady hath endowed thee with the great grace of a beauty which draws the soul upward
towards the angels, instead of downward to sensual things, like the beauty of worldly women.
What saith the blessed poet Dante of the beauty of the holy Beatrice?--that it said to every
man who looked on her, 'Aspire!'[A] Great is the grace, and thou must give special praise therefor."
Giulietta said he was the King's brother, and was called the Lord Adrian. What sorrow can he
have, or what need for the prayers of a poor maid like me?"

"Perhaps the Lord hath pierced him with a longing after the celestial beauty and heavenly purity
of paradise, and wounded him with a divine sorrow, as happened to Saint Francis and to the
blessed Saint Dominic," said the monk. "Beauty is the Lord's arrow, wherewith he pierceth to
the inmost soul, with a divine longing and languishment which find rest only in him. Hence
thou seest the wounds of love in saints are always painted by us with holy flames ascending
from them. Have good courage, sweet child, and pray with fervor for this youth; for there be
no prayers sweeter before the throne of God than those of spotless maidens. The Scripture saith,
'My beloved feedeth among the lilies.'"

At this moment the sharp, decided tramp of Elsie was heard reëntering the garden.

"Come, Agnes," she said, "It is time for you to begin your prayers, or, the saints know, I
shall not get you to bed till midnight. I suppose prayers are a good thing," she added, seating
herself wearily; "but if one must have so many of them, one must get about them early. There's
reason in all things."

Agnes, who had been sitting abstractedly on the parapet, with her head drooped over the lily-spray,
now seemed to collect herself. She rose up in a grave and thoughtful manner, and, going forward
to the shrine of the Madonna, removed the flowers of the morning, and holding the vase under
the spout of the fountain, all feathered with waving maiden-hair, filled it with fresh water,
the drops falling from it in a thousand little silver rings in the moonlight.

"I have a thought," said the monk to himself, drawing from his girdle a pencil and hastily
sketching by the moonlight. What he drew was a fragile maiden form, sitting with clasped hands
on a mossy ruin, gazing on a spray of white lilies which lay before her. He called it, The
Blessed Virgin pondering the Lily of the Annunciation.

"Hast thou ever reflected," he said to Agnes, "what that lily might be like which the angel
Gabriel brought to our Lady?--for, trust me, it was no mortal flower, but grew by the river
of life. I have often meditated thereon, that it was like unto living silver with a light in
itself, like the moon,--even as our Lord's garments in the Transfiguration, which glistened
like the snow. I have cast about in myself by what device a painter might represent so marvellous
a flower."

"Now, brother Antonio," said Elsie, "if you begin to talk to the child about such matters,
our Lady alone knows when we shall get to bed. I am sure I'm as good a Christian as anybody;
but, as I said, there's reason in all things, and one cannot always be wondering and inquiring
into heavenly matters,--as to every feather in Saint Michael's wings, and as to our Lady's
girdle and shoe-strings and thimble and work-basket; and when one gets through with our Lady,
then one has it all to go over about her mother, the blessed Saint Anne (may her name be ever
praised!). I mean no disrespect, but I am certain the saints are reasonable folk and must see
that poor folk must live, and, in order to live, must think of something else now and then
besides them. That's my mind, brother."

"Well, well, sister," said the monk, placidly, "no doubt you are right. There shall be no quarrelling
in the Lord's vineyard; every one hath his manner and place, and you follow the lead of the
blessed Saint Martha, which is holy and honorable."

"Honorable! I should think it might be!" said Elsie. "I warrant me, if everything had been
left to Saint Mary's doings, our Blessed Lord and the Twelve Apostles might have gone supperless.
But it's Martha gets all the work, and Mary all the praise."

"Quite right, quite right," said the monk, abstractedly, while he stood out in the moonlight
busily sketching the fountain. By just such a fountain, he thought, our Lady might have washed
the clothes of the Blessed Babe. Doubtless there was some such in the court of her dwelling,
all mossy and with sweet waters forever singing a song of praise therein.

Elsie was heard within the house meanwhile making energetic commotion, rattling pots and pans,
and producing decided movements among the simple furniture of the dwelling, probably with a
view to preparing for the night's repose of the guest.

Meanwhile Agnes, kneeling before the shrine, was going through with great feeling and tenderness
the various manuals and movements of nightly devotion which her own religious fervor and the
zeal of her spiritual advisers had enjoined upon her. Christianity, when it entered Italy,
came among a people every act of whose life was colored and consecrated by symbolic and ritual
acts of heathenism. The only possible way to uproot this was in supplanting it by Christian
ritual and symbolism equally minute and pervading. Besides, in those ages when the Christian
preacher was utterly destitute of all the help which the press now gives in keeping under the
eye of converts the great inspiring truths of religion, it was one of the first offices of
every saint whose preaching stirred the heart of the people, to devise symbolic forms, signs,
and observances, by which the mobile and fluid heart of the multitude might crystallize into
habits of devout remembrance. The rosary, the crucifix, the shrine, the banner, the procession,
were catechisms and tracts invented for those who could not read, wherein the substance of
pages was condensed and gave itself to the eye and the touch. Let us not, from the height of
our day, with the better appliances which a universal press gives us, sneer at the homely rounds
of the ladder by which the first multitudes of the Lord's followers climbed heavenward.

If there seemed somewhat mechanical in the number of times which Agnes repeated the "Hail,
Mary!"--in the prescribed number of times she rose or bowed or crossed herself or laid her
forehead in low humility on the flags of the pavement, it was redeemed by the earnest fervor
which inspired each action. However foreign to the habits of a Northern mind or education such
a mode of prayer may be, these forms to her were all helpful and significant, her soul was
borne by them Godward,--and often, as she prayed, it seemed to her that she could feel the
dissolving of all earthly things, and the pressing nearer and nearer of the great cloud of
witnesses who ever surround the humblest member of Christ's mystical body.

  "Sweet loving hearts around her beat,
    Sweet helping hands are stirred,
  And palpitates the veil between
    With breathings almost heard."

Certain English writers, looking entirely from a worldly and philosophical standpoint, are
utterly at a loss to account for the power which certain Italian women of obscure birth came
to exercise in the councils of nations merely by the force of a mystical piety; but the Northern
mind of Europe is entirely unfitted to read and appreciate the psychological religious phenomena
of Southern races. The temperament which in our modern days has been called the mediïstic,
and which with us is only exceptional, is more or less a race-peculiarity of Southern climates,
and gives that objectiveness to the conception of spiritual things from which grew up a whole
ritual and a whole world of religious Art. The Southern saints and religious artists were seers,--men
and women of that peculiar fineness and delicacy of temperament which made them especially
apt to receive and project outward the truths of the spiritual life; they were in that state
of "divine madness" which is favorable to the most intense conception of the poet and artist,
and something of this influence descended through all the channels of the people.

When Agnes rose from prayer, she had a serene, exalted expression, like one who walks with
some unseen excellence and meditates on some untold joy. As she was crossing the court to come
towards her uncle, her eye was attracted by the sparkle of something on the ground, and, stooping,
she picked up a heart-shaped locket, curiously made of a large amethyst, and fastened with
a golden arrow. As she pressed upon this, the locket opened and disclosed to her view a folded
paper. Her mood at this moment was so calm and elevated that she received the incident with
no start or shiver of the nerves. To her it seemed a Providential token, which would probably
bring to her some further knowledge of this mysterious being who had been so especially confided
to her intercessions.

Agnes had learned of the Superior of the Convent the art of reading writing, which would never
have been the birthright of the peasant-girl in her times, and the moon had that dazzling clearness
which revealed every letter. She stood by the parapet, one hand lying in the white blossoming
alyssum which filled its marble crevices, while she read and seriously pondered the contents
of the paper.

TO AGNES.

  Sweet saint, sweet lady, may a sinful soul
  Approach thee with an offering of love,
  And lay at thy dear feet a weary heart
  That loves thee, as it loveth God above!
  If blessed Mary may without a stain
  Receive the love of sinners most defiled,
  If the fair saints that walk with her in white
  Refuse not love from earth's most guilty child,
  Shouldst thou, sweet lady, then that love deny
  Which all-unworthy at thy feet is laid?
  Ah, gentlest angel, be not more severe
  Than the dear heavens unto a loving prayer!
  Howe'er unworthily that prayer be said,
  Let thine acceptance be like that on high!

There might have been times in Agnes's life when the reception of this note would have astonished
and perplexed her; but the whole strain of thought and conversation this evening had been in
exalted and poetical regions, and the soft stillness of the hour, the wonderful calmness and
clearness of the moonlight, all seemed in unison with the strange incident that had occurred,
and with the still stranger tenor of the paper. The soft melancholy, half-religious tone of
it was in accordance with the whole undercurrent of her life, and prevented that start of alarm
which any homage of a more worldly form might have excited. It is not to be wondered at, therefore,
that she read it many times with pauses and intervals of deep thought, and then with a movement
of natural and girlish curiosity examined the rich jewel which had inclosed it. At last, seeming
to collect her thoughts, she folded the paper and replaced it in its sparkling casket, and,
unlocking the door of the shrine, laid the gem with its inclosure beneath the lily-spray, as
another offering to the Madonna. "Dear Mother," she said, "if indeed it be so, may he rise
from loving me to loving thee and thy dear Son, who is Lord of all! Amen!" Thus praying, she
locked the door and turned thoughtfully to her repose, leaving the monk pacing up and down
in the moonlit garden.

Meanwhile the Cavalier was standing on the velvet mossy bridge which spanned the stream at
the bottom of the gorge, watching the play of moonbeams on layer after layer of tremulous silver
foliage in the clefts of the black, rocky walls on either side. The moon rode so high in the
deep violet-colored sky, that her beams came down almost vertically, making green and translucent
the leaves through which they passed, and throwing strongly marked shadows here and there on
the flower-embroidered moss of the old bridge. There was that solemn, plaintive stillness in
the air which makes the least sound--the hum of an insect's wing, the cracking of a twig, the
patter of falling water--so distinct and impressive.

It needs not to be explained how the Cavalier, following the steps of Agnes and her grandmother
at a distance, had threaded the path by which they ascended to their little sheltered nook,--how
he had lingered within hearing of Agnes's voice, and, moving among the surrounding rocks and
trees, and drawing nearer and nearer as evening shadows drew on, had listened to the conversation,
hoping that some unexpected chance might gain him a moment's speech with his enchantress.

The reader will have gathered from the preceding chapter that the conception which Agnes had
formed as to the real position of her admirer from the reports of Giulietta was false, and
that in reality he was not Lord Adrian, the brother of the King, but an outcast and landless
representative of one branch of an ancient and noble Roman family, whose estates had been confiscated
and whose relations had been murdered, to satisfy the boundless rapacity of Caesar Borgia,
the infamous favorite of the notorious Alexander VI.

The natural temperament of Agostino Sarelli had been rather that of the poet and artist than
of the warrior. In the beautiful gardens of his ancestral home it had been his delight to muse
over the pages of Dante and Ariosto, to sing to the lute and to write in the facile flowing
rhyme of his native Italian the fancies of the dream-land of his youth.

He was the younger brother of the family,--the favorite son and companion of his mother, who,
being of a tender and religious nature, had brought him up in habits of the most implicit reverence
and devotion for the institutions of his fathers.

The storm which swept over his house, and blasted all his worldly prospects, blasted, too,
and withered all those religious hopes and beliefs by which alone sensitive and affectionate
natures can be healed of the wounds of adversity without leaving distortion or scar. For his
house had been overthrown, his elder brother cruelly and treacherously murdered, himself and
his retainers robbed and cast out, by a man who had the entire sanction and support of the
Head of the Christian Church, the Vicar of Christ on Earth. So said the current belief of his
times,--the faith in which his sainted mother died; and the difficulty with which a man breaks
away from such ties is in exact proportion to the refinement and elevation of his nature.

In the mind of our young nobleman there was a double current. He was a Roman, and the traditions
of his house went back to the time of Mutius Scaevola; and his old nurse had often told him
that grand story of how the young hero stood with his right hand in the fire rather than betray
his honor. If the legends of Rome's ancient heroes cause the pulses of colder climes and alien
races to throb with sympathetic heroism, what must their power be to one who says, "These were
my fathers"? Agostino read Plutarch, and thought, "I, too, am a Roman!"--and then he looked
on the power that held sway over the Tarpeian Rock and the halls of the old "Sanctus Senatus,"
and asked himself, "By what right does it hold these?" He knew full well that in the popular
belief all those hardy and virtuous old Romans whose deeds of heroism so transported him were
burning in hell for the crime of having been born before Christ; and he asked himself, as he
looked on the horrible and unnatural luxury and vice which defiled the Papal chair and ran
riot through every ecclesiastical order, whether such men, without faith, without conscience,
and without even decency, were indeed the only authorized successors of Christ and his Apostles?

To us, of course, from our modern stand-point, the question has an easy solution,--but not
so in those days, when the Christianity of the known world was in the Romish Church, and when
the choice seemed to be between that and infidelity. Not yet had Luther flared aloft the bold,
cheery torch which showed the faithful how to disentangle Christianity from Ecclesiasticism.
Luther in those days was a star lying low in the gray horizon of a yet unawakened dawn.

All through Italy at this time there was the restless throbbing and pulsating, the aimless
outreach of the popular heart, which marks the decline of one cycle of religious faith and
calls for some great awakening and renewal. Savonarola, the priest and prophet of this dumb
desire, was beginning to heave a great heart of conflict towards that mighty struggle with
the vices and immoralities of his time in which he was yet to sink a martyr; and even now his
course was beginning to be obstructed by the full energy of the whole aroused serpent brood
which hissed and knotted in the holy places of Rome.

Here, then, was our Agostino, with a nature intensely fervent and poetic, every fibre of whose
soul and nervous system had been from childhood skilfully woven and intertwined with the ritual
and faith of his fathers, yearning towards the grave of his mother, yearning towards the legends
of saints and angels with which she had lulled his cradle slumbers and sanctified his childhood's
pillow, and yet burning with the indignation of a whole line of old Roman ancestors against
an injustice and oppression wrought under the full approbation of the head of that religion.
Half his nature was all the while battling the other half. Would he be Roman, or would he be
Christian? All the Roman in him said "No!" when he thought of submission to the patent and
open injustice and fiendish tyranny which had disinherited him, slain his kindred, and held
its impure reign by torture and by blood. He looked on the splendid snow-crowned mountains
whose old silver senate engirdles Rome with an eternal and silent majesty of presence, and
he thought how often in ancient times they had been a shelter to free blood that would not
endure oppression; and so gathering to his banner the crushed and scattered retainers of his
father's house, and offering refuge and protection to multitudes of others whom the crimes
and rapacities of the Borgias had stripped of possessions and means of support, he fled to
a fastness in the mountains between Rome and Naples, and became an independent chieftain, living
by his sword.

The rapacity, cruelty, and misgovernment of the various regular authorities of Italy at this
time made brigandage a respectable and honored institution in the eyes of the people, though
it was ostensibly banned both by Pope and Prince. Besides, in the multitude of contending factions
which were every day wrangling for supremacy, it soon became apparent, even to the ruling authorities,
that a band of fighting-men under a gallant leader, advantageously posted in the mountains
and understanding all their passes, was a power of no small importance to be employed on one
side or the other; and therefore it happened, that, though nominally outlawed or excommunicated,
they were secretly protected on both sides, with a view to securing, their assistance in critical
turns of affairs.

Among the common people of the towns and villages their relations were of the most comfortable
kind, their depredations being chiefly confined to the rich and prosperous, who, as they wrung
their wealth out of the people, were not considered particular objects of compassion when the
same kind of high-handed treatment was extended toward themselves.

The most spirited and brave of the young peasantry, if they wished to secure the smiles of
the girls of their neighborhood, and win hearts past redemption, found no surer avenue to favor
than in joining the brigands. The leaders of these bands sometimes piqued themselves on elegant
tastes and accomplishments; and one of them is said to have sent to the poet Tasso, in his
misfortunes and exile, an offer of honorable asylum and protection in his mountain-fortress.

Agostino Sarelli saw himself, in fact, a powerful chief; and there were times when the splendid
scenery of his mountain-fastness, its inspiring air, its wild eagle-like grandeur, independence,
and security, gave him a proud contentment, and he looked at his sword and loved it as a bride.
But then again there were moods in which he felt all that yearning and disquiet of soul which
the man of wide and tender moral organization must feel who has had his faith shaken in the
religion of his fathers. To such a man the quarrel with his childhood's faith is a never-ending
anguish; especially is it so with a religion so objective, so pictorial, and so interwoven
with the whole physical and nervous nature of man, as that which grew up and flowered in modern
Italy.

Agostino was like a man who lives in an eternal struggle of self-justification,--his reason
forever going over and over with its plea before his regretful and never-satisfied heart, which
was drawn every hour of the day by some chain of memory towards the faith whose visible administrators
he detested with the whole force of his moral being. When the vesper-bell, with its plaintive
call, rose amid the purple shadows of the olive-silvered mountains,--when the distant voices
of chanting priest and choir reached him solemnly from afar,--when he looked into a church
with its cloudy pictures of angels, and its window-panes flaming with venerable forms of saints
and martyrs,--it roused a yearning anguish, a pain and conflict, which all the efforts of his
reason could not subdue. How to be a Christian and yet defy the authorized Head of the Christian
Church, or how to be a Christian and recognize foul men of obscene and rapacious deeds as Christ's
representatives, was the inextricable Gordian knot, which his sword could not divide. He dared
not approach the Sacrament, he dared not pray, and sometimes he felt wild impulses to tread
down in riotous despair every fragment of a religious belief which seemed to live in his heart
only to torture him. Is there a God that judgeth in the earth?"

The first time he saw Agnes bending like a flower in the slanting evening sunbeams by the old
gate of Sorrento, while he stood looking down the kneeling street and striving to hold his
own soul in the sarcastic calm of utter indifference, he felt himself struck to the heart by
an influence he could not define. The sight of that young face, with its clear, beautiful lines,
and its tender fervor, recalled a thousand influences of the happiest and purest hours of his
life, and drew him with an attraction he vainly strove to hide under an air of mocking gallantry.

When she looked him in the face with such grave, surprised eyes of innocent confidence, and
promised to pray for him, he felt a remorseful tenderness as if he had profaned a shrine. All
that was passionate, poetic, and romantic in his nature was awakened to blend itself in a strange
mingling of despairing sadness and of tender veneration about this sweet image of perfect purity
and faith. Never does love strike so deep and immediate a root as in a sorrowful and desolated
nature; there it has nothing to dispute the soil, and soon fills it with its interlacing fibres.

In this case it was not merely Agnes that he sighed for, but she stood to him as the fair symbol
of that life-peace, that rest of soul which he had lost, it seemed to him, forever.

"Behold this pure, believing child," he said to himself,--"a true member of that blessed Church
to which thou art a rebel! How peacefully this lamb walketh the old ways trodden by saints
and martyrs, while thou art an infidel and unbeliever!" And then a stern voice within him answered,--"What
then? Is the Holy Ghost indeed alone dispensed through the medium of Alexander and his scarlet
crew of cardinals? Hath the power to bind and loose in Christ's Church been indeed given to
whoever can buy it with the wages of robbery and oppression? Why does every prayer and pious
word of the faithful reproach me? Why is God silent? Or is there any God? Oh, Agnes, Agnes!
dear lily! fair lamb! lead a sinner into the green pastures where thou restest!"

So wrestled the strong nature, tempest-tossed in its strength,--so slept the trustful, blessed
in its trust,--then in Italy, as now in all lands.

MAIL-CLAD STEAMERS.

Exposed as we are to treason at home and jealousy abroad, it becomes the policy as well as
the duty of our country to prepare with promptitude for every contingency by availing itself
of all improvements in the art of war. Superior weapons double the courage and efficiency of
our troops, carry dismay to the foe, and diminish the cost and delays of warfare. The match-lock
and the field-piece in their rudest form triumphed over the shield, the spear, and the javelin,
while the long-bow, once so formidable, is now rarely drawn, except by those who cater for
sensation-journals. The king's-arm and artillery of the last war cannot stand before the Minié
rifle and Whitworth cannon any more than the sickle can keep pace with the McCormick reaper,
or the slow coach with the railway-car or the telegraph. Mail-clad steamers, impervious to
shells and red-hot balls, and almost, if not quite, invulnerable by solid shot and balls from
rifled cannon at the distance of a hundred yards, have been launched upon the deep, and already
form an important part of the navies of France and England. They have been adopted by Russia,
Austria, and Spain; and yet, although our country furnishes iron which has no superior,--although
it has taken the lead in the steamship, the telegraph, and the railway,--although at this moment
it requires the mail-clad steamer more than any other nation, to relieve its fortresses, to
recover the cotton ports, and to defend its great cities from foreign aggression, not a single
one has yet been launched, or even been authorized by Congress. For years we have had no more
efficient Secretary of the Navy, or more able and energetic chiefs of the bureaus, if we may
judge from what has already been accomplished; but it depends on Congress to give the proper
authority to construct a mail-clad navy, and to provide the necessary funds.

