But that is not all. There is reflected glory too. To know a person who has a relation at the
Front is to be immeasurably promoted socially, and most of the conversations which one overhears
in trains and elsewhere have some such opening as this: "A friend of my brother's has seen
a Belgian...." "A cousin of my wife's who is a doctor in a field hospital says...." "I know
a man who was talking with a wounded Tommy, and he...." "An undergraduate friend of my boy's
who is just back from France...." Once stories begun in this way would empty a room; but not
so now. Now they no longer devastate but fascinate. It does not matter what the stories are
about, the fact remains that an opening gambit which three months ago would stamp a man as
a triple bore now holds everyone breathless. In short, relations at last have come to their
own. Another achievement of WILLIAM HOHENZOLLERN!

For the most part they bear upon German atrocities, just as a little while ago they were the
preliminaries to unmistakable evidence of the presence in this country of thousands of Russians
travelling from Scotland to Southampton by underground passage and other mysterious ways. I
myself believed in those Russians absolutely, and relinquished them with pain and sorrow; and
all because they were attested to by other people's relations. This helps to show what a hold
the relation is getting on us. In fact no story of the war is now possible without some kith
and kin in it.

Personally I am much out in the cold. Those two brothers I told you of may serve to fill a
gap now and then--a gap left by other more entertaining raconteurs--but they are not, as I
said, any real good. Both are in England, and one will never leave it. But if things were different....
If only that soldier brother had joined earlier and had written to me from Rheims, say, or
Compiègne, how my stock would fly up! Or if that other one would even now fling away his truncheon,
enlist in time to share the march to Berlin, and then sit down to tell me all about it, what
a swell I should become! How dinner-parties would assemble to hear me!

As it is, I have to-day to do the best I can either with the tame home-keeping exploits of
these two, or, by listening with excessive sympathy or by other parasitical endeavour, acquire
a reversionary interest in someone else's relation's narrative. I have even, in order to cut
some sort of a figure in a company where relations were being used with dashing success--I
have even gone so far as to appropriate the gardener's boy's uncle, last heard of from Cambrai,
as a personal and communicative friend, and claim an intimate association with his letter home.

And how splendid if all that could be changed!

"My brother," I could say boldly and with truth,--"my brother has sent me a few lines from
Berlin, the substance of which you might care to hear." Of course they would be falling over
each other to hear, but that is my artful way. "He camped out," I should go on, "in the Thiergarten.
He says that to see the French waving their arms and cheering on the top of the Brandenburg
Gate was one of the finest things possible to imagine. He had one bit of special luck: he was
chosen to be one of the guard to protect the removal of the Kaiser Friedrich Museum pictures
which are coming to London. He says that among these is the famous portrait of ALEXANDER DEL
BORRO (No. 413A) which is among our little lot."

That would be worth living for--the triumph of that relation's letter! It cannot, I fear, be
mine; but surely it will be somebody's....

       *       *       *       *       *

Illustration: Sergeant (looking for likely talent). "DOES YOUR HORSE JUMP AT ALL?"

Recruit. "OH NO, SIR, THANK YOU. On the cover I am told that the author "chooses to be anonymous
in order that his story should not suffer from the least suggestion of a party bias." And of
course, after reading this, I simply had to discover who it was. By the time I reached the
last page I had formed a tolerably confident guess. But I will not commit myself further than
to say that no one, however "well-known in Great Britain and America" (the publisher again
is my authority), need be ashamed to own up to Tributaries, which is quite one of the best
written novels of the year. It is the story of a modern demagogue, a young apostle of political
nonconformity, part charlatan, part zealot, who comes to town from a provincial chapel, and
ends up a glorious failure as a soured and unpopular Cabinet Minister. There is an unusual
quality in the characterisation and humour of this story of Maurice Sangster. Page after page
abounds with touches of observation which betray the practised hand. The end, in its dry, unemotional
justice, approaches real tragedy. One small point. Maurice's father-in-law, who hates and wishes
to humiliate him, finds his opportunity when a turn of the party wheel throws the Minister
out of office and into poverty. Her father thereupon allows Mrs. Sangster fifteen hundred a
year for household expenses on condition that Maurice, who is scraping a bare hundred by his
pen, shall not learn of this help till the old man's selected moment for abasing him. An intelligent
woman who read the tale objected that no man, even a journalist, could long remain ignorant
that he was spending fifteen hundred pounds more than he earned. I think she had a case. But
the book remains a remarkable one.

My own feeling about A Soldier of the Legion (METHUEN) is that it suffers from some excess
of plot. That clever couple, C. N. and A. M. WILLIAMSON, can handle a complicated intrigue
better than most; but here their battle-front, so to speak, is of such extent that even they
seem to have found it impossible to sustain the attack at every point. We began splendidly.
When Max Doran, rich, popular and just betrothed to a star of musical comedy, hears suddenly
that he isn't Max Doran at all, but a pauper changeling, and that the real child of his parents
(if I make myself clear) is a dull-witted girl who has been spirited away to Africa--I said
to myself, now there is an exciting time ahead. So there was, but not in the way I had expected.
For when Max goes out to Africa to find the missing one he finds her all right, but himself
gets involved in a totally different and not so promising complication. The consequence is
that the career of the enriched Josephine and her union with the wicked lawyer (all things
about which I greatly wanted to hear) have to be dismissed in a few lines. As compensation
we get some good desert pictures and a moving description of life in the Foreign Legion, of
which Max becomes a member. But his other African adventures, and the sub-sub-plot of the abduction
of a Moorish maiden by her Spanish lover, left me disappointed and detached. Of course Max
embraces the heroine on the last page; and I could not but admire the resource with which,
having dropped the curtain upon this climax, the authors ring it up again for an added paragraph
(my metaphor is getting somewhat uncertain, but no matter), which brings the story to the warlike
present. On the whole a readable book, but not quite equal to the best from the same firm.

       *       *       *       *       *

