We have now reached the extreme navigable point of the Missouri, which our observation places
in latitude 43° 30' 43" north. It is difficult to comprise in any general description the characteristics
of a river so extensive, and fed by so many streams which have their sources in a great variety
of soils and climates. But the Missouri is still sufficiently powerful to give to all its waters
something of a common character, which is of course decided by the nature of the country through
which it passes. The bed of the river is chiefly composed of a blue mud from which the water
itself derives a deep tinge. From its junction here to the place near which it leaves the mountains,
its course is embarrassed by rapids and rocks which the hills on each side have thrown into
its channel. From that place, its current, with the exception of the falls, is not difficult
of navigation, nor is there much variation in its appearance till the mouth of the Platte.
That powerful river throws out vast quantities of coarse sand which contribute to give a new
face to the Missouri, which is now much more impeded by islands. The sand, as it is drifted
down, adheres in time to some of the projecting points from the shore, and forms a barrier
to the mud, which at length fills to the same height with the sandbar itself; as soon as it
has acquired a consistency, the willow grows there the first year, and by its roots assists
the solidity of the whole: as the mud and sand accumulate the cottonwood tree next appears;
till the gradual excretion of soils raises the surface of the point above the highest freshets.
Thus stopped in its course the water seeks a passage elsewhere, and as the soil on each side
is light and yielding, what was only a peninsula, becomes gradually an island, and the river
indemnifies itself for the usurpation by encroaching on the adjacent shore. In this way the
Missouri like the Mississippi is constantly cutting off the projections of the shore, and leaving
its ancient channel, which is then marked by the mud it has deposited and a few stagnant ponds.

The general appearance of the country as it presents itself on ascending may be thus described:
From its mouth to the two Charletons, a ridge of highlands borders the river at a small distance,
leaving between them fine rich meadows. From the mouth of the two Charletons the hills recede
from the river, giving greater extent to the low grounds, but they again approach the river
for a short distance near Grand river, and again at Snake creek. From that point they retire,
nor do they come again to the neighbourhood of the river till above the Sauk prairie, where
they are comparatively low and small. Thence they diverge and reappear at the Charaton Searty,
after which they are scarcely if at all discernible, till they advance to the Missouri nearly
opposite to the Kanzas.

The same ridge of hills extends on the south side, in almost one unbroken chain, from the mouth
of the Missouri to the Kanzas, though decreasing in height beyond the Osage. As they are nearer
the river than the hills on the opposite sides, the intermediate low grounds are of course
narrower, but the general character of the soil is common to both sides.

