Ever since the fall of Kalmar, Christina's boy had been in Stockholm, under the surveillance
of the king. Gustavus for some reason had never liked the boy, and in April, 1527, he sent
him to his mother with a reprimand, at the same time urging that he be placed for a period
under the quiet influence of some rural town. This incident was the signal for another conspiracy
against the crown. This time the aspirant was a gay young hostler, who conceived the desperate
project of posing as the regent's son. Relying on his own audacity and on the perennial state
of insurrection in the north of Sweden, he went to Dalarne with the story that he had escaped
the clutches of Gustavus, whose orders were that he be put to death. He then proceeded from
one village to another, extolling the virtues of the young Sten Sture, and urging the people,
since they had sworn allegiance to his father, to do the same to him. The support which he
received was small. One or two villages were at first deceived, but the majority of them told
him flatly that he lied. He therefore followed the course of earlier impostors, and betook
himself to Norway. Approaching first the archbishop of Trondhem, he told his story and awoke
the archbishop's interest by announcing that Gustavus had fallen from the faith. It being bruited
that certain of the church dignitaries were on terms of friendship with this impostor, the
archbishop received him kindly, and though he refused to give him shelter, promised he would
take no steps to harm him. Gustavus then addressed the archbishop and the Cabinet of Norway,
urging that the traitor be returned. He pointed out, moreover, that, Sten Sture having been
married only fourteen years before, it was impossible that this traitor was his son. This argument
producing no effect, Gustavus prevailed upon Fredrik's emissaries, then in Stockholm, to join
him in his appeal. An answer then came back from the archbishop of Trondhem that he had refused
to shelter the impostor, though he had promised that he would not harm him. Since then a letter
had arrived from Dalarne saying that the Swedish king was dead. The impostor had therefore
collected a band of refugees in Norway, and was now once more in Sweden. With this mendacious
explanation Gustavus was forced to be content. The fraud had been discovered, and by the close
of 1527 the insurrection in Dalarne was practically at an end.[134]

FOOTNOTES:

[122] Christ. II.'s arkiv, vol. iv. pp. 1510-1511, 1517-1588 and 1568-1575; Dipl. Dal., vol.
ii. pp. 66-67; Handl. rör.

[123] Christ. II.'s arkiv, vol. iv. pp. 1576-1584, 1587-1591, 1593-1596 and 1602-1605; and
Kon. Gust. den Förstes registrat., vol. iii. pp. 2-3, 13-15, 30-32, 38-39, 61-62, 78-80, 353-355,
364-365, 369-370 and 375-376.

[124] Christ. II.'s arkiv, vol. iv. pp. 1585-1587 and 1589-1593; Dipl. Dal., vol. ii. pp. 82-83
and 89; Handl. rör.

[125] Svart, Gust. I.'s krön., pp. 84-85; Christ. II.'s arkiv, vol. i. pp. 1-144 and vol. iv.
pp. 1584, 1606-1612, 1614-1626, 1633-1635, 1639-1643 and 1646-1651; Handl. rör.

[126] Svart, Gust. I.'s krön., pp. 112-114; Christ. II.'s arkiv, vol. iii. pp. 1075-1083, and
vol. iv. pp. 1627-1628; Dipl. Dal., vol. ii. p. 92, and vol. iii. pp. 30-32; Handl. rör.

[127] Alla riksdag. och möt. besluth, vol. i. pp. 42-56; Christ. II.'s arkiv, vol. iv. pp.
1492 and 1613; Dipl. Dal., vol. ii. pp. 79-80 and Handl. rör. Skand. hist., vol. xiv. pp. 89-90,
vol. xv. pp. 29-32, and vol. xvi. pp. 15-16; Handl. rör.

[128] Christ. II.'s arkiv, vol. iv. pp. 1548-1553; Handl. rör.

[129] Christ. II.'s arkiv, vol. iv. pp. 1491-1492; Dipl. Dal., vol. ii. pp. 90-91 and 115-116;
Handl. rör.

[130] This was clearly a misstatement. It has been already shown (p. 121) that in 1523 Gustavus
put the debt at over 300,000 marks.

[131] Alla riksdag. och möt. besluth, vol. i. pp. 60-61; Dipl. Dal., vol. ii. pp. 97, 99-101,
105-109 and 115-116; Kon.

[132] Christ.

[133] Christ. II.'s arkiv, vol. iv.

[134] Svart, Gust. I.'s krön., pp. 104-112; Dipl. Dal., vol. ii. pp. 115-116; Handl. rör.

In most instances the stirring periods of a nation's history are not the periods in which the
nation grows. Warfare, even though it end in victory, must be accompanied by loss, and the
very achievements that arouse our ardor bring with them evils that long years of prosperity
cannot efface. Take, as a single example, the dazzling victories of Charles XII. He was, beyond
all doubt, the most successful general that Sweden ever had. One after another the provinces
around the Baltic yielded to his sway, and at one time the Swedish frontiers had been extended
into regions of which no man before his age had dreamt. Yet with what result? Sweden was impoverished,
commerce was at a standstill, education had been neglected, and the dominions for which his
people had poured out their blood during many years were lost almost in a single day. His career
shows, if it shows anything, that prosperity is incompatible with war. No man can serve two
masters. So long as nations are in active and continued warfare, they cannot enjoy the blessings
or even the comforts that belong to them in time of peace.

A like argument may be drawn from the reign of Gustavus Vasa. The early years of the Swedish
Revolution were marked by bloodshed. The country was in a state of famine, superstition was
universal, literature was almost without a champion, and art was practically dead. Not till
the warfare ceased did people turn their thoughts to matters of education, of religion, or
of other things that lend a charm to life; and even then the country was hampered during a
considerable period by poverty,--an outcome of the war. It is in this last period of the Revolution--a
period of peace--that the chief work of Gustavus Vasa was accomplished. Then occurred the great
changes in Church government and doctrine that made Lutherans out of Roman Catholics, and in
place of accountability to the pope made every soul accountable to God. In the first few years
of his supremacy the monarch's opposition to popery was based almost entirely on politics,
but by the middle of 1525 he began openly to oppose the Romish Church on grounds of faith.

The heaviest blow to popery was the order issued by the king in 1525 that the Scriptures be
translated into Swedish. This all-important measure resulted doubtless from the general dissension
that had arisen about the Word of God. If, as Luther urged, the Scriptures were our sole criterion
of faith, it was obviously proper that they should be published in a form which every one could
understand. Luther had already three years before translated the Bible into German, but in
Swedish the only effort at a translation was in a manuscript of several centuries before, which
even Brask knew only by report. Gustavus, therefore, toward the middle of 1525, instructed
Archbishop Magni to have a new translation made. His purpose, he affirmed, was not merely to
instruct the people but to instruct the priests, for many of them were themselves incompetent
to read the Latin version. As shepherds their duty was to feed Christ's flock with the Word
of God; and if they failed to do so, they were unworthy of their name. This reasoning the archbishop
was unable to refute. He was himself disgusted with the ignorance of his clergy, and promised
Gustavus that the translation should be made. Not wishing, however, to undertake too much,
he devoted his attention wholly to the New Testament, dividing it into several parts and assigning
the translation of different parts to different men. Matthew and the Epistle to the Romans
he took himself. Mark and the Epistles to the Corinthians were assigned to Brask, while Luke
and the Epistle to the Galatians were given to the Chapter of Skara, and John and the Epistle
to the Ephesians to the Chapter of Strengnäs. The announcement of this choice was made to Brask
on the 11th of June, and he was asked to forward his translation to Upsala by September 10,
when a congress of the translators should be held to arrange the various portions into one
harmonious whole. This project was not received with favor by the crafty bishop. He felt it
to be the knell of popery, and in writing to Peder Galle he inveighed against it. "We marvel
much," he wrote, "that the archbishop should enter this labyrinth without consulting the prelates
and chapters of the Church. Every one knows that translations into the vernacular have already
given rise to frequent heresy.... It is said the Bible is capable of four different interpretations.
Therefore it would imperil many souls were a mere literal translation made. Moreover, laymen
cannot read the Bible even if it be translated, and the clergy can understand it quite as well
in Latin as in Swedish. We fear that if this translation be published while the Lutheran heresy
is raging, the heresy will become more pestilent, and, new error springing up, the Church will
be accused of fostering it." This letter was dated on the 9th of August. Clearly Brask's share
of the translation would not be ready by September 10. The fact was, Brask had no notion of
furthering the scheme. At every opportunity he raised his voice against it, and the weight
of his influence was such that finally the whole project was given up. The Lutherans, however,
were not disheartened. Finding that nothing could be effected through the Church, they proceeded
to make a translation of their own. This was published, though without the translators' names,
in 1526. It did not, of course, receive the sanction of the archbishop, but it paved the way
for new reforms by checking the Roman Catholics in their scholastic doctrine and by educating
the common people in the Word of God.[135]

Brask was now openly beneath the monarch's frown. The rupture between them was becoming every
day more wide, and both parties gradually grew conscious it could not be healed. Brask had
never forgiven the king for sanctioning the marriage of Olaus Petri. Some six months after
the event he alluded to it in a letter to Peder Galle. "I am much troubled," he declared, "that
marriage is permitted to the clergy, and that no one cries out against it. I have urged the
king that Petri be excommunicated for his act, that evil example may not spread, but have had
only a half-hearted answer from his Majesty." While this wrong still rankled in the prelate's
breast, his ire was further kindled by the monarch's evident intention to rob the Church of
several of her chief estates. As an entering wedge Gustavus had pastured his soldiers' horses
on the rich but fallow lands belonging to the monasteries, and in some cases the officers had
been billeted in the monasteries themselves. Against this practice Brask protested, and received
this soothing answer: "When you say that this mode of billeting cripples the service of God,
you are right, provided his service consists in feeding a body of hypocrites sunk, many of
them, in licentiousness, rather than in providing protection for the common people. As to your
assertion that the monasteries were not founded by the crown, and hence are not subject to
our dominion, we will look into the matter, though our humble opinion is that the monasteries
were originally bound to pay taxes to the crown." The argument which the monarch strove to
make was this: Those monasteries which were founded by individuals comprised estates held by
the donors in consideration of military service to be rendered to the crown; and so soon as
the military service ended, the tenure by which the lands were held no longer existed, and
the crown once more became entitled to the lands. It is difficult to feel that the monarch's
view was right. In countries where there is no written law, all controversies must be determined
by the law of custom, and it is certain that for centuries Swedish subjects had been allowed
to dedicate for religious purposes the property which they held by military tenure of the crown.
With Gustavus it appears that custom was of little moment. The monasteries were wealthy, and
could be encroached upon without directly injuring the people. He resolved, therefore, as soon
as possible to confiscate their property, using a plausible argument if one was ready; otherwise,
to close their doors by force.[136]

In May, 1525, the king found pretext for interfering with the Dominican monks of Vesterås.
That order numbered among its brothers a very large proportion of Norwegians; and one of them
had assumed the generalship of the order in Sweden, contrary to the mandates of the king. This
seemed an opportunity to play the patriot and at the same time secure a footing in the monastery.
So Gustavus wrote to the Swedish vicar-general and declared: "We understand that the conspiracy
in Dalarne and other places is largely due to this man and several of the Norwegian brothers.
We have therefore appointed our subject Nils Andreæ to be prior of Vesterås, trusting that
he will prove a friend to Sweden, by expelling the foreigners and preventing all such conspiracies
in future. We beg you also ... to punish all offenders among your brotherhood, that we be not
forced to punish them ourselves."[137]

Later in the same year Gustavus asserted his claim with even more distinctness to the monastery
of Gripsholm. That monastery, it will be remembered, was on the estate at one time belonging
to the monarch's father. It therefore was a special object of his greed. At a meeting of the
Cabinet he laid his case before them, and offered to abide by their decree. There was, of course,
no question what their decree would be. The monastery was adjudged the property of the king,
and all the inmates were instructed to withdraw. This judgment naturally caused an outcry in
certain quarters. So Gustavus addressed the monks of Gripsholm with unctious promises, and
under the mask of friendship obtained from them a written statement that they were satisfied
of the justice of his claim. This document, a copy of which was filed among the royal papers,
bears singular testimony to the meanness of the king. "Our title to Gripsholm Monastery," the
wretched victims wrote, "has been disputed, and, the matter being laid before the Cabinet,
they have determined that Gustavus, as heir of the founder, is entitled to the premises. He
has offered us another monastery in place of this, but we feared lest that too might some day
prove to be the property of other heirs, and have requested permission to disband and retire
each of us according to his own caprice. It has now been agreed that Gustavus shall provide
us with the money and clothing which we need, and in return that he shall be entitled to the
monastery together with all the property that we have acquired." At the close of this affecting
document the writers expressed their gratitude to the monarch for his generosity. Armed with
this evidence of his good intentions, Gustavus addressed the Dalesmen with a view to calm their
wrath. "You are aware," he wrote with confidence, "that the elder Sten Sture, who was a brother
of our father's mother, founded Gripsholm Monastery with property that would have descended
by law to our father, and that Sten Sture induced our father to append his signature to the
deed. The signature was obtained, however, only on condition that if the monastery should be
unable to keep up its standing, Gripsholm and all its possessions should revert to the heirs.
Hence we have good right to protest and to claim the inheritance of which our father was deprived
by threats and fraud. Indeed, the good brothers have considered the matter well, and have agreed
to withhold no longer property to which they have no right. We have therefore offered them
another monastery.... But they have not ventured to accept it, fearing to offend the brothers
already occupying it. So they have asked permission to go back to their friends and to the
posts which they held before entering the monastery. This, at the desire of our Cabinet, we
have granted, since we are ever ready to listen to their counsel, and we have furnished the
good brothers with clothing and money to aid them. We trust they will be grateful; and to prove
to you that such is the case, we enclose herewith an extract from the letter which they have
written." As the deed conveying Gripsholm to the brotherhood is lost, we cannot discuss with
thoroughness the merits of the case. It is enough that the monarch's action accorded with the
policy which he adopted later toward all the monasteries in the land. The seizure of Gripsholm
was justified, at any rate, by a show of right. Of later cases it is difficult to say even
this. The Gripsholm Monastery had not been closed six months when Gustavus claimed another
monastery, this time in the diocese of Brask. The abbot it appears had died, and Brask was
busy making a list of the monastery's property, that nothing should be lost. Gustavus wrote
to Brask with orders to leave the place alone. "Your fathers," he added, "did not found the
monastery; and even though your predecessors in the bishopric may have founded it, they did
so with money belonging to the people.... We intend, therefore, to take charge of it ourselves."
To these imperative orders the wearied bishop answered: "I feel a special obligation to this
monastery, since it was founded by the yearly incomes of the bishopric." This assertion, however,
proved of no avail. Within a year the monastery was yielded to the crown, and one of the monarch's
officers took the entire property in fee.[138]

All things apparently conspired to bring the aged bishop to the dust. The seizure of his monastery
occurred at a moment when he was in deep distress about the newly levied tax. Early in 1525
Gustavus had written him to surrender all the tithes accruing in his diocese for the year last
past; and following close upon this order, the royal stewards had deprived him of a right of
fishery which he possessed. The hapless bishop murmured, but did not rebel. In writing to a
fellow bishop, he declared: "The king has recently demanded of us all our tithes, and the chief
prelates of Upland have yielded their consent. This policy appears to me unwise. I dread an
outburst from the people, and scarce have courage to make the announcement to them." A few
days later he said: "I have written Gustavus about the tithes, but do not dare to discuss the
matter seriously with the people.... Only a year ago the officers seized our tithes without
consulting us. You can imagine, therefore, what the people will say to this new levy. However,
if his Majesty will not countermand the order, we shall do our duty by writing and speaking
to the people. The feeding of the army, which he wishes by consent of his advisers to impose
upon the monasteries, we asserted at Vadstena was a foreign practice that ought never to be
introduced." Despite these protests, Brask appears to have obeyed the monarch's orders. He
wrote to the clergy of his diocese urging them to send their quota, and to send it quickly.
"Bis dat qui cito dat," translated for the ignorant among his clergy, "He gives nothing who
delays." The result was precisely what the bishop feared. The people fought against the imposition,
and Brask, as a reward for his efforts, was accused by Gustavus of being a party to the revolt.
The charge was utterly groundless and unfair. From beginning to end the bishop's object had
been to avoid friction, and finally he had sacrificed his own interests in order to prevent
friction with the king. When in January, 1526, it was once more voted that the tithes be given
to the crown, he wrote to all his clergy urging them immediately to obey. Gustavus, however,
would not be appeased; and a parishioner claiming that the bishop had withheld some jewels
that belonged to her, Gustavus, without examining the matter, wrote to Brask: "The law, as
we interpret it, gives you no power to take high-handed measures of this sort." A few days
later Brask asserted: "The royal officers are beginning to enter upon the possessions of the
Church, much to the displeasure of the people." What he alluded to particularly was the acts
of Arvid Vestgöte, who had seized Church tithes and committed every sort of violence to the
priests in Öland. Against this Brask protested, and before the year was over Vestgöte was removed.
By this time the spirit of the aged bishop was well-nigh broken. In answer to a summons from
Gustavus in 1526, he wrote the king: "Though shattered by illness and the infirmities of age,
I will obey your orders with all the haste I can, provided the weather or my death does not
prevent me."[139]

Early in 1526, at one of the public fairs, an enthusiast came forward and announced in public
that a leading Lutheran in Stockholm was preaching heresy, and that the king himself had violated
old Church customs in his food and drink. This silly assertion burst like a bomb upon the town,
and for a short period there was danger that the fanaticism of the year before would be renewed.
However, the excitement soon died away; and Gustavus, when he heard of it, declared the story
to be a fabrication. "Would to God," he wrote, "that people would examine into their own lives
and not borrow trouble about the lives of others! Let them first pluck the beam out of their
own eye, and then they can see clearly to pluck the mote out of their brother's eye." Lutheranism
had by this time attained so general acceptance that the monarch deemed it unnecessary to offer
arguments in its support. In August, 1526, Laurentius Andreæ forwarded to the archbishop of
Trondhem the New Testament in Swedish, and added that some two or three hundred copies of the
edition were still unsold, and could be had if he desired them. This wide-spread distribution
of the Scriptures produced its natural effect. The flame of theological discord that had been
slumbering for a year broke out afresh. Brask, as an offset to the new translation, interpreted
into Swedish some tracts composed in Germany against the Lutherans; and the monarch, hearing
of this move, sent off a letter commanding the aged bishop to desist. "Report has reached us,
venerable father," he began, "that you have translated into Swedish certain proclamations of
the emperor against the doctrines now current, ... and that you have circulated them among
the common people. We are well aware that these proclamations are used to cast aspersions on
us, since we are not so zealous as he is in opposition to these doctrines. It is, therefore,
our desire and our command that you be patient, and send hither certain scholars from your
cathedral to prove that anything is taught here other than the holy gospel. They shall be given
a fair hearing, and may postulate their views without prejudice in any way. And if they can
prove that any one preaches unchristian doctrine, he shall be punished. Furthermore, we object
to having a printing-press established in Söderköping, lest it may do injury to the one established
here." Gustavus was determined that the enemies of Luther should defend their faith. The disputation
between Galle and Olaus Petri two years before had been unsystematic, and had produced no permanent
effect. So the king resolved to force the parties to debate again. This time he put down in
writing certain questions, and sent them to the leading prelates of the land, with orders to
forward him their answers. The questions were similar to those already raised; among them being
these: Whether we may reject all teaching of the Fathers and all Church customs that are unsupported
by the Word of God; whether the dominion of the pope and his satellites is for or against Christ;
whether any authority can be found in the Bible for monastic life; whether any revelation is
to be relied on other than that recorded in the Bible; whether the saints are to be considered
patrons, or in any way are mediators between ourselves and God. Gustavus intended that when
the answers were all received, a public hearing should be had, and every prelate given an opportunity
to refute the doctrines of his opponents. Some of the Roman Catholics, however, refused to
enter the arena. Brask, in writing to the monarch, declared his clergy to be satisfied with
their present doctrines, and unwilling to discuss them publicly. The bishop also wrote to Galle,
hoping to dissuade him from the contest. But Galle, it appears, was eager for the fray. He
put his answers down in writing, and sent them to the king. Other prelates, it is reported,
did the same. The contest, however, presumably from lack of combatants, did not succeed. Petri
therefore took the written answers filed by Galle, and printed them in book form, along with
comments by himself. This book does little credit either to Petri or to the general intelligence
of his time. Should any one ask proof that we are more rational creatures than our fathers,
he can do no better than study in Petri's book the controversy that raged between the intellectual
giants of Sweden at the close of 1526. Of the positions taken by the two contestants, Petri's
was certainly less consistent than that of his opponent. Galle declared explicitly: "Not everything
done by the Apostles or their successors is written in the Scriptures;"[140] and on matters
concerning which the Bible does not speak we must obey the practices handed down by the Apostles
through the Church. Petri, while granting that many Fathers were inspired, declared we must
not follow their instructions, "lest we be led away by the devil;"[141] and yet the Bible,
compiled from various sources by the Fathers, he held should be implicitly obeyed. In the light
of recent scholarship, both combatants were wrong. The Bible is no more intelligible without
a knowledge of its history than is the teaching of the Fathers without a knowledge of the Bible.[142]

The contest has its chief value in the opportunity that it gives us to study the methods of
the king. From first to last it was a blow at popery and the temporal supremacy of Rome. Each
question was worded with the very purpose of offering insult to the Church. Take for example
the second question: whether the dominion of the pope and his satellites is for or against
Christ. The monarch could not have thrown the question into a more irritating form. Certainly
Galle showed forbearance in arguing the point at all. His answer was an appeal to history.
From the days of Gregory popes had enjoyed vast riches along with temporal power; this showed
that they were justified in possessing wealth.[143] Galle's logic on the subject is not altogether
clear. Petri's was somewhat better. Christ had distinctly told the Apostles that his kingdom
was not of this world,[144] and Paul had declared that the Apostles were not to be masters
but servants.[145] Petri then broke out into a tirade against his opponent's view. What right,
he asked, had Galle to set up Gregory against Christ and Paul? "What authority has he to expound
the Word of God according to the deeds of petty men? Rather, I conceive, are the deeds of men
to be judged according to the Word of God."[146] To an assertion by Galle that the Church had
held temporal power for the last twelve centuries, Petri answered: "For that matter, the Word
of God has lasted still longer than twelve centuries.... However, the question is not how old
the thing is, but how right it is. The devil is old, and none the better for it. That bishops
are temporal lords is contrary to the Word of God; and the longer they have been so, the worse
for them. Princes and emperors have granted the pope vast privileges, by which in course of
time he has become their master, till now all men bow down and kiss his feet. Where he was
given an inch, he has taken an ell.... Christ told Saint Peter to feed his lambs. But the popes
with their satellites have long since ceased to feed Christ's lambs, and for centuries have
done naught but fleece and slaughter them, not acting like faithful shepherds, but like ravening
wolves."[147] This vehement language must have pleased the king. If bishops were not entitled
to worldly goods, it was an easy task to confiscate their property to the crown. A like incentive
called forth the question: whether any authority can be found in the Bible for monastic life.
The question, in that form, permitted no reference to the Fathers. So Galle cited the command
of Jesus: "Go, sell all that thou hast, and give to the poor;" and he further commended monastic
life as a step on the way to heaven.[148] Petri replied that monks did not sell all they had
and give to the poor, but clung fast to their possessions, bringing vast treasures into the
monasteries with them.[149]

