Among the minor charitable organisations of London not the least admirable and useful is the
Santa Claus Home at Highgate, which the two Misses CHARLES have been administering with such
devotion and success since 1891. Its modest aim is to keep open twenty beds for small children
suffering from hip and spinal disease, and to give them such treatment as will prevent them
becoming hopeless cripples; and this purpose hitherto has been fulfilled no one can say exactly
how, but with help not only from known friends but mysteriously from the ravens. To-day, however,
the high cost of living has set up a very serious obstacle, and debt and failure seem inevitable
unless five hundred pounds can be collected quickly. Any reader of Punch moved to bestow alms
on as sincere and deserving a a work of altruism as could be found is urged to send a donation
to Miss CHARLES, Santa Claus Home, Cholmeley Park, Highgate, N.6.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Although its run in the evening bill must necessarily be limited to
    two weeks, steps will be taken to remove it to other quarters should it
    prove to the taste of the public. That failing, it will continue to be
    given at the ---- Theatre for a series of matinées."--Daily Paper.

The italics are ours, though it is not really our funeral, as we never go to matinées.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

THE SHRIMP TEST.

At last we have an explanation of a good deal of the social and industrial unrest of recent
months. Since April there has been a serious shrimp shortage.

How far this is responsible for dissatisfaction among the miners and other workers it is impossible
to say; but in other circles of society this shrimp shortage has been responsible for much.
From golf-courses this summer has come a stream of complaint that the game is not what it was.
Sportsmen, again, have gone listlessly to their task and have petulantly wondered why the bags
have been so poor. House-parties have been failures. In many a Grand Stand nerves have gone
to pieces. Undoubtedly this grave news from the North Sea is the explanation. What can one
expect when there are no shrimps for tea?

For the eating of shrimps is more than a mere assimilation of nourishment, more even than the
consumption of an article of diet which is beneficial to brain tissues and nerve centres. After
all, the oyster or the haddock serves equally well for those purposes.

But before one eats a shrimp a certain deftness and delicacy of manipulation are needed to
effect the neat extraction of the creature from its unpalatable cuticle. Not so with the haddock.

Shrimp-eating is something more than table deportment; it is a test of sangfroid and savoir
faire, qualities so necessary to the welfare of the nation. The man who can efficiently prepare
shrimps for seemly consumption, chatting brightly the while with his fair neighbour and showing
neither mental nor physical distress, can be relied upon to comport himself with efficiency
whether in commerce or statecraft.

Watch a man swallow an oyster, and how much more do you know of him after the operation than
you knew before? But put him in a Marchioness's drawing-room and set a shrimp before him, and
the manner in which he tackles the task will reveal the sort of stuff he is made of.

The shrimp test is one before which physically strong men have broken down, while the seemingly
weak have displayed amazing fortitude.

In these days, when it behoves every man among us to be at his best, we view this famine in
shrimps with grave concern, and we trust that the Board of Agriculture and Fisheries is alive
to the significance of this crisis.

       *       *       *       *       *

PUBLISHER'S COLUMN.

      "Colonel Repington's Diary.

          NEW BOOKS.
      The Revelation of St. John.

          NEW FICTION.
  The Autobiography of Judas Iscariot."--Scotch Paper.

And MARGOT next week.

       *       *       *       *       *

RAINY MORNING.

  As I was walking in the rain
  I met a fairy down a lane.
  We walked along the road together;
  I soon forgot about the weather.
  He told me lots of lovely things:
  The story that the robin sings,
  And where the rabbits go to school,
  And how to know a fairy pool,
  And what to say and what to do
  If bogles ever bother you.

  The flowers peeped from hedgy places
  And shook the raindrops from their faces,
  And furry creatures all the way
  Came popping out and said "Good-day."
  But when we reached the little bend
  Just where the village houses end
  He seemed to slip into the ground,
  And when I looked about I found
  The rain was suddenly all over
  And the sun shining on the clover.

  R.F.

       *       *       *       *       *

PAROCHIAL HUMOUR.

    "CHURCH OUTING.--All arrangements for the outing were made by the Hon.
    Sec., and we are grateful to him for a very happy day. A walk to ----
    Church, cricket, tea and a game of bounders formed the programme."--
    Parish Magazine.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "PRONUNCIATIONS IN THIS PAPER.

    Bona fides ... Boner-fy-dees.
    Grasse ... Grar."--The Children's Newspaper.

The idear!

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

MIRIAM'S TWO BABIES.

That last morning at Easthaven, Miriam, alone of us three, preserved her equanimity. I had
arisen with the lark, having my own things to pack, to say nothing--though nothing was not
the only thing I said--of Billie's pram and Billie's cot and Billie's bath. I wished afterwards
I had let the lark rise by himself; if I do heavy work before breakfast I always feel a little
depressed ("snappy" is Miriam's crude synonym) for the remainder of the day.

As to Billie, his first farewells went off admirably. He blew a kiss to the lighthouse, that
tall friend who had winked at him so jovially night after night. And it was good to see him
hoisted aloft--pale-blue jersey, goldilocks and small wild-rose face--to hug his favourite
fisherman, Mr. Moy, of the grizzled beard and the twinkling eyes.

But when the time came for Billie to say good-bye to the beach he refused point-blank.

"Billie wants to keep it," he vociferated.

Miriam, woman-like, was all for compromise. Billie should fill his pail with pretty pebbles
and take them to London in the puffer-train. I demurred. The fishermen already complained that
the south-easterly gales were scouring their beach away. Moreover, as I explained to Miriam,
ere long it would devolve upon me to carry the dressing-case, Billie himself and--as likely
as not--the deck-chairs and the tea-basket. Why increase my burdens by a hundredweight or so
of Easthaven beach?

It ended by her admitting I was perfectly right, and--by Billie filling his pail with pretty
pebbles.

I still had that feeling of depression when we returned to our rooms for an early luncheon
(there's nothing I so detest); after which we discovered that Miriam thought I had told the
man to call for the luggage at 12.45, while I thought that Miriam had told the man to call
for the luggage at 12.45.

And then we had to change twice, and the trains were crowded, and Miriam insisted on looking
at The Daily Dressmaker, and Billie insisted on not looking at Mother Goose.

At Liverpool Street station I kept my temper in an iron control while pointing out to quite
a number of taxi-men the ease with which Billie's pram and Billie's cot and Billie's bath could
be balanced upon their vehicles. But the climax came when, Miriam having softened the heart
of one of them, we were held up in a block at Oxford Circus, and Billie, à propos of nothing,
drooped his under lip and broke into a roar--

"Billie wants the sea-side! Billie wants Mr. Moy!"

I suppose Miriam did her best, but he was not to be quieted, and old ladies in omnibuses peered
reproaches at me, the cruel, cruel parent. I frowned upon Miriam.

"Will nothing stop the child?"

"There's a smut on your nose, dear," was all she replied. I rubbed my nose; I also ground my
teeth....

I was still wrestling on the pavement with the pram, the cot and the rest of it, when Billie's
cries from within the house suddenly ceased. Had the poor little chap burst something? I hurried
indoors and found him--all sunshine after showers--seated on the floor with rocking-horse and
Noah's ark and butcher's shop grouped around him.

"He's quite good now he's got his toys," he assured me, no doubt echoing something Miriam had
just said.

       *       *       *       *       *

I reached my study and collapsed into a chair. What a day! But little by little, shelf upon
shelf, I became aware of the books I had not seen for a whole month: LAMB, my Elizabethans,
a row of STEVENSON. I did not want to read; it was enough to feast one's eyes on their backs,
to take down a volume and handle it my old green-jacketed BROWNING, for instance. And the small
red MEREDITHS all needed rearranging.

A little later I turned round to see Miriam standing in the doorway. Remorse seized me; I put
an arm about her, with--"Tired, old thing?"

She looked down at my books and, half-smiling, she looked up again.

"He's quite good now he's got his toys," she said, and kissed me.

       *       *       *       *       *

VERY PERSONAL.

Just to see what it looks like with my name in it, I have been making a diary of my doings
(some real, some imaginary) in the approved language of the Society and Personal column.

I am Mr. James Milfly. This is how it looks:--

"Yesterday was the fortieth birthday of Mr. James Milfly. He passed it quietly at the office
and at home. No congratulatory messages were received and no replies will be sent."

"Among the outgoing passengers on the paddle steamer Solent Tortoise, on Tuesday, was Mr. James
Milfly. He returned to the mainland the same evening, and will be at Southsea four days longer,
after which, unless he can think of an adequate excuse, he will return to town."

"Mr. James Milfly, who recently sustained a laceration of the finger while cleaning his safety
razor after use, passed another good night. The injured member is healing satisfactorily, and
no further bulletins will be issued."

"The performance of The Bibulous Butler at the Corinthian Theatre last night was witnessed
by Mr. James Milfly and party, who occupied two seats in the eighth row of the pit."

"Mr. James Milfly is a guest for the week-end at Acacia Lodge, Clumpton, the residence of his
old friend, Mr. Albert Purges. Excellent sparrow- shooting was enjoyed after tea on Saturday
in the famous home coverts from which the lodge derives its title."

"Among those unable to be present at the Duchess of Dibdale's reception on Friday was Mr. James
Milfly, no invitation having reached him."

"Mr. James Milfly has been granted his wife's authority to wear on his watch-chain the bronze
medal of the Blimpham Horticultural Society, won by his exhibit of a very large marrow at the
society's recent show."

"Maria, Mrs. Murdon, is visiting her son-in-law, Mr. James Milfly. Her stay is likely to be
a lengthy one."

"Mr. James Milfly will spend the greater part of to-morrow in London. No letters will be forwarded."

Try this for yourself. You have no idea what a sense of pomp and well-fed importance it gives you.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

    "THE WEATHER.

    'Fair generally: night frosts,' is the forecast for the next 24
    months."--Provincial Paper.

The best news for a long time.

       *       *       *       *       *

HOW TO BRIGHTEN VILLAGE LIFE.

    "The exterior painting of the day school has been completed by the
    Vicar, assisted by the caretaker. Their appearance is greatly improved
    as a result."--Provincial Paper.

       *       *       *       *       *

  "---- HOTEL  DINING-ROOM.

  OPEN TO NON-RESIDENTS WITH ORCHESTRAL ACCOMPANIMENT."--Jersey Paper.

Residents, we understand, need only bring their mouth (and other) organs.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Wanted, 'Cello (could reside in if desired)."--Provincial Paper.

The housing problem solved at last.

       *       *       *       *       *

Smith Minor says he would rather be called Smith Secundus. There is a pleasanter sound about
that qualification just now.

       *       *       *       *       *

AT THE PLAY.

"A Night Out."

Everybody except myself seems to recall the fact that the late farce of this name, adapted
from L'Hôtel du Libre Echange, ran for five hundred nights before it expired. Some restorative
music has now been applied to it and the corpse has revived. Indeed there are the usual signs
of another long run. The trouble is that nearly all the cast at the Winter Garden Theatre seem
to think that, if the play is to run, they must run too. They don't keep still for a moment,
because they dare not. Even Mr. LESLIE HENSON, whose fun would be more effective if he didn't
try so hard, feels that he must be at top pressure all the while with his face and his body
and his words. Yet he could well afford to keep some of his strength in reserve, for he is
a born humourist (in what one might perhaps call the Golliwog vein). But, whether it is that
he underrates his own powers or that he can't contain himself, he keeps nothing in reserve;
and the others, less gifted, follow his lead. They persist in "pressing," as if they had no
confidence in their audience or their various authors or even themselves.

One is, of course, used to this with singers in musical comedy, who make a point of turning
the lyrics assigned to them into unintelligible patter. Perhaps in the present case we lost
little by that, though there was one song (of which I actually heard the words) that seemed
to me to contain the elements of a sound and consoling philosophy. It ran something like this:--

  For you won't be here and I won't be here
    When a hundred years are gone,
  But somebody else will be well in the cart*
    And the world will still go on.

          * Or, alternatively, soup.

Mr. LESLIE HENSON, as I have hinted, allowed himself--and us--no rest. His energy was devastating;
he gave the audience so much for their money that in the retrospect I feel ashamed of not having
paid for my seat. One's taste for him may need acquiring; but, once acquired, there is clearly
no getting away from it. Perhaps his most irresistible moment was when he laid out six policemen
and then meekly surrendered to a female constable who led him off by the ear.

Mr. FRED LESLIE (a name to conjure with!) was almost fiercely emphatic in the part of Paillard,
and I preferred the relatively quiet methods of Mr. AUSTIN MELFORD, who did without italics.
Mr. RALPH ROBERTS was droll as a waiter; and it may have been my fault that I found Mr. DAVY
BURNABY rather unfunny in the part of Matthieu.

Of the ladies, two could sing and two, or even three, could act (Miss LILY ST. JOHN could do
both); nearly all had good looks and a few of them were pleasantly acrobatic.

The scene of the Hotel Pimlico, with an alleged private sitting-room on one side, an alleged
bedroom on the other, and a hall and staircase in the middle, was extraordinarily unconvincing.
The partition walls came to an end at quite a long distance from the front; and, with the general
company spreading themselves at large over the whole width of the foreground, it was very difficult
to entertain any illusion of that privacy which is of the essence of the cabinet particulier.
I say nothing of the bedroom, whose tenancy was frankly promiscuous.

The fun, of course, is old-fashioned; if one may say it of a French farce, it is Victorian.
Apart from a few topical allusions worked in rather perfunctorily there is scarcely anything
said or done that might not have been said or done in the 'eighties. But for a certain type
of Englishman there is a perennial attraction in feeling that at any moment the proprieties
may be outraged. That they never actually are outraged does not seem very greatly to affect
his pleasure. He can always console himself with easy conjecture of the wickedness of the original.
So there will never be wanting a public for these Noctes Parisianæ.

Let us hope that somehow it all helps to keep the sacred flame of the Entente burning. Vive
MILLERAND!

O.S.

       *       *       *       *       *

BETTERING THE BANYOROS.

(By a Student of Anthropology.)

Sir JAMES FRAZER'S luminous résumé of the investigations of the MACKIE Expedition amongst the
Banyoros has only one defect. He omits all reference to the subsequent and even more fruitful
visit of the Expedition to the adjoining Noxas tribe, whose manners and customs are of extraordinary
interest. This remarkable race are noted not merely for their addiction to the dance, but for
the kaleidoscopic rapidity with which the dances themselves are changed from season to season.
Only a few years ago the entire tribe were under the spell of the Ognat, which in turn gave
place to the Tortskof and the Zaj, the last named being an exercise in which violent contortions
of the body were combined with the profoundest melancholy of facial expression. Curiously enough
the musicians who are employed at these dances are not of indigenous stock, but of a negroid
type and are imported from a distance at high salaries.

The literary gifts of this singular tribe are on a par with their saltatory talent, but are
at present mainly occupied in the keeping of personal records, led therein by a chieftainess
named Togram, in which the conversations, peculiarities, complexions and dresses of their friends
are set down and described with ferocious bonhomie. The tablets containing these records are
then posted up in conspicuous places of resort, with the most stimulating and entertaining results.

It is noteworthy that the ruler of the country is not chosen from the dancing or Bunihugoro
section of the community, but from the powerful Renim clan, who devote themselves intermittently
to the task of providing the country with fuel. The chieftain wields great power and is regarded
with reverence by his followers, but is in turn expected to devote himself entirely to their
interests, and if he fails to satisfy is promptly replaced by a more energetic leader. As the
great bulk of the community yield allegiance to an hereditary sovereign of strictly defined
powers this interesting country offers the agreeable spectacle of a state in which the dulness
of constitutional government is happily tempered by the delights of industrial dictatorship.

       *       *       *       *       *

TO CERTAIN CAUTIOUS PROPHETS.

(Suggested by the almost invariable form of the last sentence in the Weather Report.)

  Ye watchers of the wind and rain,
    Forgive me for becoming nettled
  By your monotonous refrain:
    "The further outlook is unsettled."

  When, on a bright and sunlit morn,
    I rise refreshed and finely fettled
  Your cue is not to cheer but warn:
    "The further outlook is unsettled."

  They are too rare, these halcyon days,
    When earth's a paradise  rose-petalled,
  For you to chill us with a phrase:
    "The further outlook is unsettled."

