Captain Moncrieff gazed upon me with a look of deep interest. "Young man," said he, "you are
aware I sailed from New York the same day with the Mary. My vessel was cleared at the custom
house for Savannah; this was necessary in consequence of the embargo; but I was in reality
bound for LaGuayra, on the Spanish Main, being the bearer of despatches of importance to a
ship belonging to New York. On egging off to the eastward, to cross the Gulf Stream, my crew,
convinced that Savannah was not my destined port, began to murmur. And when I acknowledged
I was bound to the Spanish Main, they, one and all, refused to proceed further on the voyage,
and insisted on my running into some port on the coast. I have told Captain Thompson that if
I can procure ONE MAN from his schooner, I will leave these mutinous fellows with him and proceed
on my voyage. Say, then, my good fellow, that you will go with me. I will allow you twenty
dollars a month, and a month's pay in advance more if you wish it. You shall receive good treatment,
and will always find a friend in Archibald Moncrieff."

When the captain of the pilot-boat, who seemed much excited, finished his narrative, I quietly
answered without hesitation, "I WILL GO WITH YOU."

He grasped my hand, gave it a hearty shake, and said, "I thank you. You shall have no cause
to regret your decision. Pack up your things, my lad, and be ready to go on board when I return."

He entered his yawl, and was soon on the deck of the pilot-boat. It took me but a few minutes
to get ready for my departure. Captain Thompson said not a word, but looked thoughtful and
dejected. He appeared already to regret having been so easily persuaded to accommodate Captain
Moncrieff, by granting me permission to embark on this uncertain expedition.

It was not long before the yawl returned from the little schooner, laden with chests, bags,
and bundles, and having on board the captain, four seamen, and the cook. The luggage was tumbled
out of the boat in short order; my chest was deposited in the stern seats. I shook hands with
my old shipmates, took an affectionate leave of Captain Thompson, who had always treated me
with the kindness of a father, and entered the boat. Captain Moncrieff took one oar, I took
another, and in a few minutes I stood on the deck of the Young Pilot. A tackle was hooked on
to the yawl, which was, which was hoisted in and snugly stowed on deck; the helm was put up,
the fore-sheet hauled to leeward, and, before I had time to realize this change in my situation,
I found myself in a strange vessel, with strange companions, bound on a strange voyage to the
Spanish Main.

Chapter XXI. ON BOARD THE YOUNG PILOT

After the vessels had separated and were rapidly increasing the space between them, I looked
back upon the schooner Mary and recalled the many pleasant hours I had passed in that vessel,
and asked myself if it would not have been better to have remained on board, trusting to the
friendship of Captain Thompson and the promises of Mr. Jarvis. When I looked around, and fully
comprehended the situation in which I had so unthinkingly placed myself, I saw little to give
me consolation or encouragement. Captain Moncrieff was not prepossessing in his person or deportment.
He was a tall, large-limbed Scotchman, about forty years of age, with light blue eyes and coarse,
bloated features. He was abrupt in his language, had an exalted opinion of his merits and capacity,
was always the hero of his own story; and, although he subsequently proved to be a man of generous
feelings, to my unpractised optics he looked more like a bully than a gentleman.

Mr. Campbell, the mate, was also a Scotchman; but his appearance and character differed essentially
from those of the captain. He was slightly built, with thin, pale features. There was nothing
genial in his looks; and a certain vulpine cast of countenance, a low forehead, and a brow
deeply wrinkled but not with age conveyed the idea of a selfish, narrow-minded individual.

With the exception of myself, there was no other person on board the pilot-boat. On acceding
to the proposition of Captain Moncrieff, it escaped my notice that the cook was to leave the
schooner with the rest of the crew. It now flashed across my mind, communicating any thing
but a pleasurable sensation, that in addition to the ordinary duties of a seaman, I was expected
to perform the part of that sable functionary. I therefore found myself monopolizing several
responsible situations, and held at one and the same time the office of second mate, cook,
and all hands.

In the novelty of my situation, however, I found a source of amusement; and the very uncertainty
of the expedition, the singular manner in which I joined the pilot-boat, and the abundant cause
I had for wondering "what would turn up next," imparted to the whole enterprise an unexpected
charm. My duties, although various, were not arduous, but occupied a large portion of my time.
The mate and myself stood watch by turns through the night, each steering the schooner his
regular trick of four hours at a time. The captain seldom came on deck during the night, but
enjoyed his rest of eight or ten hours undisturbed.

The Young Pilot steered so easily, the helmsman being snugly seated in the cuddy, that it was
next to impossible for any one to remain four hours in that comfortable situation, in pleasant
weather, with no one to converse with or even to look at, without falling asleep. Aware of
the responsibility of my situation, and remembering the lesson I had received when lying at
anchor inside of Charleston bar, I strove hard to resist the influence of the drowsy god, but
was often compelled to nod to his dominion; and many a sweet and stolen nap have I enjoyed
when stationed at the helm, and the vessel left entirely in my charge. Sometimes, on arousing
myself from my slumbers, I found the rebellious little vessel running along four or five points
off her course. In more than one instance, when the orders were to keep close-hauled, the schooner
gradually fell off until she got before the wind, when the sails gibed, all standing, making
a terrible clatter, and awakening not only myself, but the captain also, who, on coming on
deck, must have divined the true state of things; but, with a degree of consideration which
I could hardly have expected, and did not deserve, he never gave me a word of reproof. How
these matters were managed by Mr. Campbell, I could never learn. He was one of those nervous,
restless mortals who require but little sleep. It can hardly be doubted, however, that he sometimes
fell asleep in his watch, and steered the schooner in every direction but the right one. This
wild steering during the night will sufficiently account for a long passage, and errors in
navigation. Dead reckoning is of little use when the courses and distances are not correctly
noted. In the daytime, Captain Moncrieff would sometimes steer hours at a time, especially
when I was employed in other business or taking a nap below.

The most unpleasant duty I was expected to perform was that of cooking. I had never been inducted
into the mysteries of that art, and was disgusted with its drudgeries. While in the Dolphin,
with Captain Turner, I tried my hand at cooking more than once, when the cook had been so badly
flogged as to be unable to perform his duties. But I gained no laurels in that department.
Indeed, dissatisfaction was expressed in the forecastle and the cabin at the bungling and unartistic
style in which I prepared the food on those occasions. In the Young Pilot I succeeded but little
better; and the captain, who was something of an epicure in his way, whenever a good cup of
coffee was required for breakfast, or a palatable dish for dinner, released me from my vocation
for the time, and installed himself in the camboose. And it would have been amusing to a looker-on,
to see the big, burly Scotchman steaming over the fire and smoke, rattling the pans and kettles,
and compounding various materials, while I sat quietly at the helm, watching his operations,
and thanking my stars that I had no genius for cooking.

The greatest cause I had for disquiet on this passage was the want of society. The captain
and mate could spin their yarns and discuss subjects of nautical philosophy; but the mate,
naturally unsocial and taciturn, seldom spoke to me, and the captain never honored me by entering
into familiar conversation, excepting when he had indulged in an extra glass, and Mr. Campbell
was not on deck. At such times, being in a garrulous humor, he would, as a sort of "Hogson's
choice," address himself to me, and rattle off narratives of adventures of the most astounding
description.

The schooner was easily managed, being a small vessel of only thirty tons burden. In ordinary
weather, one man, without leaving his station at the helm, could tack ship, gibe, and trim
every sail. The schooner was a good-sailing vessel in light winds; but her chief excellence
consisted in ability to beat to windward. When within four points of the wind she progressed
at the rate of six or seven knots with a moderate breeze, while with a strong wind on the quarter
eight knots was her greatest speed. An opportunity offered of testing her sailing qualities
a few days after I had the honor to constitute her whole crew.

One morning, at daylight, as we were steering to the southward on a wind, a sail was made on
the lee bow. It proved to be a large ship with two tiers of ports, not more than three or four
miles off, steering to the westward. As soon as we were seen, the ship hauled her wind, spread
every sail, and seemed determined to ascertain our character and business in those seas. Captain
Moncrieff, with perfect propriety, resolved, if possible, to prevent the gratification of such
impertinent curiosity. The British cruiser sailed remarkably well; and if we had been under
her lee, our voyage would have ended before it was fairly begun. But we made short tacks to
windward, shooting into the wind's eye every time we went about, and by three o'clock the ship
was hull down to leeward, when she gave up the chase, squared away the yards, and steered to
the westward.

A few days after this incident we fell in with a large, rakish-looking schooner on our weather
bow. The schooner was heavily armed and her decks were full of men. She crossed our hawse and
kept on her course until some distance under the lee bow, then hauled to the wind on the starboard
tack, and on reaching our wake tacked within long gunshot and stood directly after us. She
now fired a blank cartridge and hoisted the Patriot flag.

If Captain Moncrieff had kept his wits about him, and had not been afraid of cannon balls,
we might have escaped, by keeping on our course or making short tacks to windward. This was
worth the trial, as it was not unlikely the schooner, although showing Patriot colors, was
a Spanish privateer or government cruiser; in which case, it would appear by letters and other
documents that we were bound to LaGuayra, which at that time was in possession of the Patriot
forces, and could expect little forbearance from the Spaniards, who were waging war to the
knife against the patriots. This was forcibly represented to Captain Moncrieff by Mr. Campbell;
and we trimmed every sail carefully, and kept close to the wind, with a fair prospect of making
our escape.

The piratical-looking craft, perceiving we took no notice of her hint to heave to, yawed off
a couple of points and sent a messenger after us in the shape of a twenty-four pound shot,
which struck the water a short distance astern, and, playfully skipping along, sank beneath
the surface near the weather quarter. Captain Moncrieff said not a word, but looked amazingly
sober. Campbell, who cared little for his life, but had great fear of being robbed, and who
regarded all privateers as neither more nor less than thieves and pirates, coolly remarked,
"O, he may fire away as much as he likes; he cannot hit us at that distance."

"I don't know that," replied captain Moncrieff, much agitated. "I believe he is gaining on
us. The next shot may take away one of the masts."

"He is NOT gaining on us," said Campbell. "If he should hit one of the masts we should be COMPELLED
to heave to; it would no longer be a matter of choice. But I don't believe he can do it"

At this moment the schooner yawed, and gave us another gun. The ball came whizzing along, passed
just over the mast-head, and fell in the water a couple of lengths off on the starboard bow.

"I'll bet a beaver hat," said Campbell, "he can't do that again."

"This will never do," exclaimed the captain, greatly alarmed, and pale as a ghost. "He will
hull us next time, and send us all to 'Davy's locker.' Haul the foresheet to windward!"

This was done; and the pilot-boat lay like a log on the water, waiting the approach of our pursuer.

"Now," said Campbell, with a scowl of disappointment, "I will go below and take care of 'number
one.' And Hawser," continued he, "I know those chaps better than you do. They glory in robbing
a sailor's chest when there is anything in it worth taking. I advise you to do as I mean to
do clothe yourself in two or three suits of your best garments; for I never knew them strip
the clothing from a man's back."

"I thank you for your counsel, sir," said I; "but if they overhaul MY chest in expectation
of a prize, they will be woefully disappointed."

Mr. Campbell went below a slight-built, thin-looking man, bearing a closer resemblance to Shakespeare's
portrait of Prince Hal than to that of Falstaff. When, fifteen minutes afterwards, he appeared
on deck, staggering under the load of three pairs of trousers, an equal number of vests, covering
half a dozen shirts, with two or three silk kerchiefs around his neck, he looked, from his
chin downwards, more like the "fat knight" than Prince Hal; and his thin face, peaked nose,
and chin showing itself above such a portly corporation and huge limbs, gave him an unnatural
appearance ludicrous in the extreme. He told me he had stowed away the remainder of his property
where it would puzzle the privateersmen to find it, and chuckled over the ingenuity by which
he expected to outwit the rascals.

It was not long before the armed schooner ranged alongside. She was a formidable-looking craft,
with a "long Tom" and a stout armament besides. We were hailed in broken English: "You capitan,
come on board directly, and bring your papers."

The captain remonstrated, saying we were short-manned, and unable to launch the boat, or to
man it afterwards. They did not, or would not, understand his objections, but repeated the
order in a style which silenced further remonstrance: "Come on board, Senor Capitan, this minute,
and bring your papers, or I shall shoot directly!"

There was no alternative. After much labor and heavy lifting we launched the boat. Captain
Moncrieff put his papers in his pocket, and leaving Mr. Campbell in charge of the schooner,
followed me into the yawl. Putting his dignity along with his papers, he took an oar, I took
another, and we pulled for the privateer, which by this time was out of hail to leeward. We
went alongside, and were roughly ordered on deck, where we found a motley set. Some of the
crew were savage, desperate-looking fellows:

"As ever scuttled ship, or cut a throat."

Others were squalid, ragged, and filthy, to a degree I had never before witnessed. There was
apparently but little discipline on board, but a great deal of disputation and a continual
jabbering. A ruffianly-looking fellow, with a swarthy complexion and big black whiskers, who
proved to be the commander, beckoned Captain Moncrieff to the quarter-deck, where he examined
the schooner's papers and various letters, all of which proved, beyond a doubt, that the schooner
was an American vessel, bound to a Patriot port on the Spanish Main.

Fortunately for us our captor was a Patriot privateer, and our little vessel, under no pretext,
could be regarded as a prize. If we had been bound to a port on the Spanish Main where the
inhabitants had not thrown off their allegiance to the king or if the privateer had been a
Spaniard, the case would have been different, and the pilot-boat would have been taken possession
of and confiscated to the benefit of the captors, probably without trial. In those days other
nations, following the example of France and England, trampled on the great principles of international
law so far as our insulted country was concerned.

As the privateersmen could not take our vessel without avowing themselves pirates, they reluctantly
limited themselves to plunder. An officer and half a dozen men, armed with pistols and cutlasses,
were despatched in our boat to the schooner, which they thoroughly examined from stem to stern.
As we had no goods, hey removed the ballast to find valuable property or money, which we might
have concealed. They overhauled chests, trunks, and writing-desks, looking for specie or hidden
papers; helped themselves to whatever they particularly fancied, and finally conveyed to the
privateer all the water, beef, bread, sugar, coffee, and other provisions and stores which
they could find, with the exception of a very scanty supply for our own use!

After a detention of a couple of hours, the last boat load of provisions was transferred to
the deck of the privateer, and Captain Moncrieff and myself were about to step into the boat
on our return, when the officer who had superintended the piratical operations suggested to
the commander of the privateer that our boat was a remarkably fine one; far better and more
serviceable than any one in their possession, and THEREFORE it would be right and proper for
us the captain and crew of the pilot-boat to return to our own vessel in a skiff belonging
to the privateer, and leave our boat for their use.

The case was forcibly put; the logic was unanswerable, and the conclusion inevitable. The stern-boat,
a light skiff, was lowered and brought alongside, and then it appeared why the privateersmen
did not board us in their own boat, as is usual on such occasions. They had had an engagement
the day before with a Spanish government brig; had been roughly handled, had several men killed
and wounded, and sustained damage in hull and spars. The boats had been riddled with shot,
and, not having been subsequently repaired, were not seaworthy.

When the little skiff was brought beneath the gangway the water was pouring through the bottom
in divers places. No time was given for deliberation. We were unceremoniously shoved into the
skiff, the painter was cast loose, and a dark, ugly-visaged scoundrel told us, in broken English
and with a diabolical grin, to "pull for our lives!" So, indeed, we did. The pilot-boat was
not far off, nevertheless we should have swamped ere we could have reached her had not the
captain, with admirable presence of mind, ordered me to lay in my oar, and at the same time
handed me his hat, a large one and in tolerable good condition, and pointing to the water in
which our legs were immersed, bade me "bale away!" Then placing his oar over the stern of the
boat, he sculled off towards the schooner like an excited Hercules!

