"Peace, Jem Bottles," said I soothingly. "I took no thought of such a thing. I would be thinking
only of the ballads, and how honourable it is that a gallant and dashing life should be celebrated
in song. I, for certain, have never done anything to make a pothouse ring with my name, and
I liken you to the knights of olden days who tilted in all simple fair bravery without being
able to wager a brass farthing as to who was right and who was wrong. Admirable Jem Bottles,"
I cried enthusiastically, "tell me, if you will, of your glories; tell me with your own tongue,
so that when I hear the ballads waxing furious with praise of you, I shall recall the time
I marched with your historic person."

"My beginning was without pretence," said the highwayman. "Little Susan, daughter of Farmer
Hants, was crossing the fields with a basket of eggs. I, a masked figure, sprang out at her
from a thicket. I seized the basket. She screamed. There was a frightful tumult. But in the
end I bore away this basket of eight eggs, creeping stealthily through the wood. The next day
Farmer Hants met me. He had a long whip. There was a frightful tumult. But he little knew that
he was laying with his whip the foundation of a career so illustrious. For a time I stole his
sheep, but soon grew weary of this business. Once, after they had chased me almost to Bristol,
I was so weary that I resolved to forego the thing entirely. Then I became a highwayman, whom
you see before you. One of the ballads begins thus:

    "What ho! the merry Jem!
    Not a pint he gives for them.
    All his--"

"Stop," said I, "we'll have it at Dame Bottles's fireside. Hearing songs in the night air always
makes me hoarse the next morning."

"As you will," he answered without heat. "We're a'most there."

Soon a lighted window of the highwayman's humble home shone out in the darkness, and a moment
later Jem Bottles was knocking at the door. It was immediately opened, and he stalked in with
his blood-marks still upon his face. There was a great outcry in a feminine voice, and a large
woman rushed forward and flung her arms about the highwayman.

"Oh, Jemmie, my son, my son!" she screamed, "whatever have they done to ye this time?"

"Silence, mother dear," said Bottles. "'Tis nought but a wind-broken bough fallen on my head.
Have you no manners? Do you not see the gentleman waiting to enter and warm himself?"

The woman turned upon me, alarmed, but fiery and defiant. After a moment's scrutiny she demanded:

"Oh, ho, and the gentleman had nought to do of course with my Jem's broken head?"

"'Tis a priest but newly arrived from his native island of Asia," said Bottles piously; "and
it ill beseems you, mother dear, to be haggling when you might be getting the holy man and
I some supper."

"True, Jemmie, my own," responded Dame Bottles. "But there are so many rogues abroad that you
must forgive your old mother if she grow often affrighted that her good Jemmie has been misled."
She turned to me. "Pardon, my good gentleman," she said almost in tears. "Ye little know what
it is to be the mother of a high-spirited boy."

"I can truthfully say that I do not, Dame Bottles," said I, with one of my father's French
bows. She was immensely pleased. Any woman may fall a victim to a limber, manly, and courteous bow.

Presently we sat down to a supper of plum-stew and bread. Bottles had washed the blood from
his face and now resembled an honest man.

"You may think it strange, sir," said Dame Bottles with some housewifely embarrassment, "that
a highwayman of such distinction that he has had written of him in Bristol six ballads--"

"Seven," said the highwayman.

"Seven in Bristol and in Bath two."

"Three," said the highwayman.

"And three in Bath," continued the old woman. "You may think it strange, sir, that a highwayman
of such distinction that he has had written of him in Bristol seven ballads, and in Bath three,
is yet obliged to sit down to a supper of plum-stew and bread."

"Where is the rest of that cheese I took on last Michaelmas?" demanded Bottles suddenly.

"Jemmie," answered his mother with reproach, "you know you gave the last of it to the crippled
shepherd over on the big hill."

"So I did, mother dear," assented the highwayman, "and I regret now that I let no less than
three cheeses pass me on the highway because I thought we had plenty at home."

"If you let anything pass on the road because you do not lack it at the moment, you will ultimately
die of starvation, Jemmie dear," quoth the mother. "How often have I told you?"

"Aye," he answered somewhat irritably, "you also often have told me to take snuff-boxes."

"And was I at fault," she retorted, "because the cheating avarice of the merchants led them
to make sinful, paltry snuff-boxes that were mere pictures of the good old gold and silver?
Was it my mischief? Or was it the mischief of the plotting swineherds who now find it to their
interest to deal in base and imitative metals?"

"Peace, my mother," said the highwayman. "The gentleman here has not the same interest in snuff-boxes
which moves us to loud speech."

"True," said Dame Bottles, "and I readily wish that my Jemmie had no reason to care if snuff-boxes
were made from cabbage-leaves."

I had been turning a scheme in my mind, and here I thought I saw my opportunity to introduce
it. "Dame Bottles," said I, "your words fit well with the plan which has brought me here to
your house. Know you, then, that I am a nobleman--"

"Alack, poor Jemmie!" cried the woman, raising her hands.

"No," said I, "I am not a nobleman rampant. I am a nobleman in trouble, and I need the services
of your son, for which I will reward him with such richness that he will not care if they make
snuff-boxes out of water or wind. I am in pursuit of a man--"

"The little black man," cried the alert Bottles.

"And I want your son to ride with me to catch this thief. He need never pass through the shadow
of the creeping, clanking tree. He will be on an honest hunt to recover a great property. Give
him to me. Give him fourteen guineas from his store, and bid us mount his horses and away.
Save your son!"

The old woman burst into tears. "Sir," she answered, "I know little of you, but, as near as
I can see in the light of this one candle, you are a hangel. Take my boy! Treat him as you
would your own stepson, and if snuff-boxes ever get better I will let you both hear of it."

Less than an hour later Jem Bottles and I were off for Bath, riding two very good horses.

CHAPTER IV

Now my whole mind was really bent on finding my black Forister, but yet, as Jem Bottles and
I rode toward Bath, I thought of a cloaked figure and a pair of shining eyes, and it seemed
to me that I recalled the curve of sweet, proud lips. I knew that I should be thinking of my
papers, my future; but a quick perversity made me dwell for a long trotting time in a dream
of feminine excellence, in a dream of feminine beauty which was both ascetic and deeply sensuous.
I know hardly how to say that two eyes, a vision of lips, a conception of a figure, should
properly move me as I bounced along the road with Jem Bottles. But it is certain that it came
upon me. The eyes of the daughter of the great Earl of Westport had put in chains the redoubtable
O'Ruddy. It was true. It was clear. I admitted it to myself. The admission caused a number
of reflections to occur in my mind, and the chief of these was that I was a misfortunate wretch.

Jem Bottles recalled me to the immediate business.

"'Tis the lights of Bath, sir," he said, "and if it please you, sir, I shall await you under
yonder tree, since the wretched balladists have rendered me so well known in the town that
I dare not venture in it for fear of a popular welcome from the people who have no snuff-boxes
whatever."

"I will go and listen to the ballads," I replied, "and in the mean time do you await me here
under that tree."

So saying I galloped into Bath, my soul sharp to find Forister and to take him by the neck
and strangle out of him those papers which were my sole reasons for living. But the landlord
of the best inn met me with an unmistakable frankness.

"Mr. Forister?" said he. "Yes, your lordship, but Mr. Forister is gone back to Bristol."

I was so pleased with his calling me "your lordship" that I hesitated a moment. But I was recalled
to sense by the thought that although Jem Bottles and I had fifteen guineas between us, he
had fourteen and I had the one. Thanking the landlord I galloped out of Bath.

Bottles was awaiting me under the tree. "To Bristol," I cried. "Our chase lies toward Bristol.
He has doubled back."

"'Twas while we were at supper," said Bottles, as he cantered up to my shoulder. "I might have
had two trials at him if I had not had the honour of meeting your worship. I warrant you, sir,
he would not have escaped me twice."

"Think of his crack in your skull, and be content," I replied. "And in the mean time ride for
Bristol."

Within five miles of Bristol we came upon a wayside inn in which there was progressing a great
commotion. Lights flashed from window to window, and we could hear women howling. To my great
surprise Bottles at once became hugely excited.

"Damme, sir," he shouted, "my sweetheart is a chambermaid here, and if she be hurted I will
know it."

He spurred valiantly forward, and, after futilely calling to him to check his career, I followed.
He leaped from his horse at the door of the inn and bounced into the place, pistol in hand.
I was too confused to understand much, but it seemed to my ears that his entrance was hailed
with a roar of relief and joy. A stable-boy, fearfully anxious, grasped my bridle, crying,
"Go in, sir, in God's name. They will be killing each other." Thinking that, whatever betide,
it was proper to be at the back of my friend Bottles, I too sprang from my horse and popped
into the inn.

A more unexpected sight never met my experienced gaze. A fat landlady, mark you, was sobbing
in the arms of my villainous friend, and a pretty maid was clinging to his arm and screaming.
At the same time there were about him a dozen people of both sexes who were yelling,--

"Oh, pray, Master Bottles! Good Master Bottles, do stop them. One is a great Afric chief, red
as a fire, and the other is Satan, Satan himself! Oh, pray, good Master Bottles, stop them!"

My fine highwayman was puffed out like a poisoned frog. I had no thought that he could be so grand.

"What is this disturbance?" he demanded in a bass voice.

"O good Master Bottles," clamoured the people. "Satan wishes to kill the Red Giant, who has
Satan barred in the best room in the inn. And they make frightful destruction of chairs and
tables. Bid them cease, O good Master Bottles!"

From overhead we could hear the sound of blows upon wood mingled with threatening talk.

"Stand aside," said the highwayman in a great gruff voice which made me marvel at him. He unhesitatingly
dumped the swooning form of the landlady into another pair of arms, shook off the pretty maid,
and moved sublimely upon the foot of the stairs amid exclamations of joy, wonder, admiration,
even reverence.

But the voice of an unseen person hailed suddenly from the head of the stairs.

"And if ye have not said enough masses for your heathen soul," remarked the voice, "you would
be better mustering the neighbours this instant to go to church for you and bid them do the
best they can in a short time. You will never be coming downstairs if you once come up."

Bottles hesitated; the company shuddered out: "'Tis the Red Giant."

"And I would be having one more word with you," continued the unseen person. "I have him here,
and here I keep him. 'Tis not me that wants the little black rogue, what with his hammering
on the door and his calling me out of my name. 'Tis no work that I like, and I would lever
go in and put my heel in his face. But I was told to catch a little black man, and I have him,
and him I will keep. 'Tis not me that wished to come here and catch little black men for anybody;
but here I am in this foreign country, catching little black men, and I will have no interference."

But here I gave a great call of recognition.

"Paddy!"

I saw the whole thing. This wild-headed Paddy, whom I had told to catch me a little black man,
had followed after me toward Bath and somehow managed to barricade in a room the very first
man he saw who was small and black. At first I wished to laugh; an instant later I was furious.

"Paddy," I thundered; "come down out of that now! What would you be doing? Come down out of
that now!"

The reply was sulky, but unmistakably from Paddy. Most of it was mumbled.

"Sure I've gone and caught as little and as black a man as is in the whole world, and was keeping
the scoundrel here safe, and along he comes and tells me to come down out of that now with
no more gratitude than if he had given me a gold goose. And yet I fought a duel for him and
managed everything so finely that he came away well enough to box me on the ear, which was
mere hilarity and means nothing between friends."

Jem Bottles was still halted on the stair. He and all the others had listened to Paddy's speeches
in a blank amazement which had much superstition in it.

"Shall I go up, sir?" he asked, not eagerly.

"No," said I. "Leave me to deal with it. I fear a great mistake. Give me ten minutes, and I
promise to empty the inn of all uproar."

A murmur of admiration arose, and as the sound leaped about my ears I moved casually and indifferently
up against Paddy. It was a grand scene.

"Paddy," I whispered as soon as I had reached a place on the stairs safe from the ears of the
people below. "Paddy, you have made a great blunder. You have the wrong man."

"'Tis unlikely," replied Paddy with scorn. "You wait until you see him, and if he is not little
and black, then--"

"Yes, yes," said I hastily, "but it was not any little black man at all which I wanted. It
was a particular little black man."

"But," said the ruffian brightly, "it would be possible this one will serve your end. He's
little and he's black."

At this moment the voice of the captive came intoning through the door of a chamber.

"When I am free I will first cut out your liver and have it grilled, and feed it to you as
you are dying."

Paddy had stepped forward and placed his lips within about six inches of one of the panels.

"Come now, be easy!" he said. "You know well that if you should do as you say, I would beat
your head that it would have the looks of a pudding fallen from a high window, and that's the
truth."

"Open the door, rascal," called the captive, "and we shall see."

"I will be opening no doors," retorted Paddy indignantly. "Remain quiet, you little black devil,
or, by the mass, I'll--"

"I'll slice your heart into pieces of paper," thundered Paddy's prisoner, kicking and pounding.

By this time I was ready to interfere. "Paddy," said I, catching him by the shoulder, "you
have the wrong man. Leave it to me; mind you, leave it to me."

"He's that small and black you'd think--" he began dejectedly, but I cut him short.

Jem Bottles, unable to endure the suspense, had come up from below. He was still bristling
and blustering, as if all the maids were remarking him.

"And why does this fine gentleman kick and pound on the door?" he demanded in a gruff voice
loud enough to be heard in all appreciative parts of the inn. "I'll have him out and slit his
nose."

The thunder on the door ceased, and the captive observed:

"Ha! another scoundrel! If my ears do not play me false, there are now three waiting for me
to kick them to the hangman."

Restraining Paddy and Bottles, who each wished to reply in heroic verse to this sally, I stepped
to the door.

"Sir," said I civilly, "I fear a great blunder has been done. I--"

"Why," said the captive with a sneer, "'tis the Irishman! 'Tis the king of the Irelands. Open
the door, pig."

My elation knew no bounds.

"Paddy," cried I, "you have the right little black man." But there was no time for celebration.
I must first answer my enemy. "You will remember that I kicked you once," said I, "and if you
have a memory as long as my finger be careful I do not kick you again, else even people as
far away as the French will think you are a meteor. But I would not be bandying words at long
range. Paddy, unbar the door."

"If I can," muttered Paddy, fumbling with a lot of machinery so ingenious that it would require
a great lack of knowledge to thoroughly understand it. In the mean time we could hear Forister
move away from the door, and by the sound of a leisurely scrape of a chair on the floor I judge
he had taken his seat somewhere near the centre of the room. Bottles was handling his pistol
and regarding me.

"Yes," said I, "if he fires, do you pepper him fairly. Otherwise await my orders. Paddy, you
slug, unbar the door."

"If I am able," said Paddy, still muttering and fumbling with his contrivances. He had no sooner
mouthed the words than the door flew open as if by magic, and we discovered a room bright with
the light of a fire and candles. Forister was seated negligently at a table in the centre of
the room. His legs were crossed, but his naked sword lay on the table at his hand. He had the
first word, because I was amazed, almost stunned, by the precipitous opening of the door.

"Ho! ho!" he observed frigidly, "'tis indeed the king of the Irelands, accompanied by the red-headed
duke who has entertained me for some time, and a third party with a thief's face who handles
a loaded pistol with such abandon as leads me to suppose that he once may have been a highwayman.
A very pretty band."

"Use your tongue for a garter, Forister," said I. "I want my papers."

CHAPTER V

"Your 'papers'?" said Forister. "Damn you and your papers. What would I know of your papers?"

"I mean," said I fiercely, "the papers that you stole out of my chamber in the inn at Bristol."

The man actually sank back in his chair and laughed me up to the roof.

"'Papers'!" he shouted. "Here's the king of the Irelands thinking that I have made off with
his papers!"

"You choose a good time for laughing," said I, with more sobriety. "In a short time you will
be laughing with the back of your head."

He sat up and looked at me with quick decision.

"Now, what is all this rubbish about papers?" he said sharply. "What have I to do with your
filthy papers? I had one intention regarding you,--of that I am certain. I was resolved to
kill you on the first occasion when we could cross swords, but--'papers'--faugh! What do you mean?"

The hoarse voice of Jem Bottles broke in from somewhere behind me. "We might easily throw him
to the earth and tie him, sir, and then make search of him."

"And you would know how to go about the business, I warrant me," laughed Forister. "You muzzle-faced
rogue, you!"

To my astonishment the redoubtable highwayman gave back before the easy disdain of this superior
scoundrel.

"My ways may not always have been straight and narrow, master," he rejoined, almost in a whine,
"but you have no call to name me muzzle-faced."

Forister turned from him contemptuously and fixed his regard with much enthusiasm upon Paddy.

"Very red," said he. "Very red, indeed. And thick as fagots, too. A very delectable head of
hair, fit to be spun into a thousand blankets for the naked savages in heathen parts. The wild
forests in Ireland must indeed be dark when it requires a lantern of this measure to light
the lonely traveller on his way."

But Paddy was an honest man even if he did not know it, and he at once walked to Forister and
held against his ear a fist the size of a pig's hind-leg.

"I cannot throw the talk back to you," he said. "You are too fast for me, but I tell you to
your face that you had better change your tongue for a lock of an old witch's hair unless you
intend to be battered this moment."

"Peace," said Forister calmly. "I am a man of natural wit, and I would entertain myself. Now,
there is your excellent chieftain the king of the Irelands. Him I regard as a very good specimen,
whose ancestors were not very long ago swinging by their tails from the lofty palms of Ireland
and playing with cocoanuts to and fro." He smiled and leaned back, well satisfied with himself.

All this time I had been silent, because I had been deep in reflection upon Forister. Now I said:

"Forister, you are a great rogue. I know you. One thing is certain. You have not my papers
and never did you have them."

He looked upon me with some admiration and cried:

"Aye, the cannibal shows a glimmer of reason. No, I have not your foolish papers, and I only
wish I had them in order to hurl the bundle at your damned stupid head."

"For a kicked man you have a gay spirit," I replied. "But at any rate I have no time for you
now. I am off to Bristol after my papers, and I only wish for the sake of ease that I had to
go no farther than this chamber. Come, Paddy! Come, Jem!"

My two henchmen were manifestly disappointed; they turned reluctantly at my word.

"Have I the leave of one crack at him, your honour?" whispered Paddy earnestly. "He said my
head was a lantern."

"No," said I, "leave him to his meditations."

As we passed down the corridor we heard him laugh loudly, and he called out to me,--

"When I come to Bristol I will kill you."

I had more than a mind to go back and stuff this threat into his throat, but I better knew
my business, which was to recover the papers.

"Come," said I, and we passed down stairs.

The people of the inn made way for Paddy as if he had been a falling tree, and at the same
time they worshipped Jem Bottles for having performed everything. I had some wonder as to which
would be able to out-strut the other. I think Jem Bottles won the match, for he had the advantage
of being known as one of the most dangerous men in southwestern England, whereas Paddy had
only his vanity to help him.

"'Tis all arranged," said Bottles pompously. "Your devil will come forth as quiet as a rabbit."

We ordered our horses, and a small crowd of obsequious stable-boys rushed to fetch them. I
marvelled when I saw them lead out Paddy's horse. I had thought from what I perceived over
my shoulder when I left Bristol that he would never be able to make half a league in the saddle.
Amid the flicker of lanterns, Bottles and I mounted and then I heard Paddy calling to him all
the stable-boys:

"Now, when I give the word, you heave for your lives. Stand, you beast! Cannot four of you
hold him by the legs? I will be giving the word in a moment. Are you all ready? Well, now,
ready again--heave!"

There was a short scuffle in the darkness, and presently Paddy appeared above the heads of
the others in the mêlée.

"There, now," said he to them, "that was well done. One would easily be telling that I was
an ex-trooper of the king." He rode out to us complacently. "'Tis a good horse, if only he
steered with a tiller instead of these straps," he remarked, "and he goes well before the wind."

"To Bristol," said I. "Paddy, you must follow as best you may. I have no time to be watching
you, although you are interesting."

An unhappy cry came from behind Bottles, and I spurred on, but again I could not wait for my
faithful countryman. My papers were still the stake for which I played. However I hoped that
Paddy would now give over his ideas about catching little black men.

As we neared Bristol Jem Bottles once more became backward. He referred to the seven ballads,
and feared that the unexpected presence of such a well-known character would create an excitement
which would not be easy to cool. So we made a rendezvous under another tree, and I rode on
alone. Thus I was separated from both my good companions. However, before parting, I took occasion
to borrow five guineas from Jem's store.

I was as weary as a dog, although I had never been told that gentlemen riding amid such adventures
were ever aweary. At the inn in Bristol a sleepy boy took my horse, and a sleepy landlord aroused
himself as he recognized me.

"My poor inn is at your disposal, sir," he cried as he bowed. "The Earl has inquired for you
to-day, or yesterday, as well as my young Lord Strepp and Colonel Royale."

"Aye?" said I carelessly. "Did they so? Show me to a chamber. I am much enwearied. I would
seek a good bed and a sound sleep, for I have ridden far and done much since last I had repose."

"Yes, sir," said the landlord deferentially.

After a long hard sleep I was aroused by a constant pounding on my door. At my cry a servant
entered. He was very abject. "His lordship's valet has been waiting to give you a message from
his lordship, sir." I bid him let the valet enter. The man whose heroic nose had borne the
brunt of Forister's swift departure from the inn when I kicked him came into my chamber with
distinguished grace and dignity and informed me that his noble master cared to see me in his
chamber when it would suit my convenience.

Of course the old Earl was after his papers. And what was I to tell him,--that I was all befooled
and befuddled?--that after my father had kept these papers for so many years in faithful trust
I had lost them on the very brink of deliverance of them to their rightful owner? What was
I to speak?

I did not wish to see the Earl of Westport, but some sudden and curious courage forced me into
my clothes and out to the corridor. The Earl's valet was waiting there. "I pray you, sir, follow
me," he said. I followed him to an expensive part of the inn, where he knocked upon a door.
It was opened by a bending serving-man. The room was a kind of parlour, and in it, to my surprise,
were Lord Strepp and Colonel Royale. They gazed at me with a surprise equivalent to mine own.

Young Lord Strepp was the first one thoroughly to collect himself. Then he advanced upon me
with outstretched hand.

"Mr. O'Ruddy," he cried, "believe me, we are glad to see you. We thought you had gone for all
time."

Colonel Royale was only a moment behind his friend, but as he extended his hand his face flushed
painfully.

"Sir," he said somewhat formally, "not long ago I lost my temper, I fear. I know I have to
thank you for great consideration and generosity. I--I--you--"

Whereupon we both began to stammer and grimace. All the time I was chocking out:

"Pray--pray--, don't speak of it--a--nothing--in truth, you kindly exaggerate--I--"

It was young Lord Strepp who brought us out of our embarrassment. "Here, you two good fellows,"
he cried heartily, "a glass of wine with you."

We looked gratefully at him, and in the business of filling our glasses we lost our awkwardness.
"To you," said Lord Strepp; and as we drained our wine I knew that I had two more friends in
England.

During the drinking the Earl's valet had been hovering near my coat-tails. Afterward he took
occasion to make gentle suggestion to me:

"His lordship awaits your presence in his chamber, sir, when it pleases you."

The other gentlemen immediately deferred to my obligation, and I followed the valet into a
large darkened chamber. It was some moments before my eyes could discover that the Earl was
abed. Indeed, a rasping voice from beneath the canopies called to me before I knew that anybody
was in the chamber but myself and the valet.

"Come hither, O'Ruddy," called the Earl. "Tompkins, get out! Is it your duty to stand there
mummified? Get out!"

The servant hastily withdrew, and I walked slowly to the great man's bedside. Two shining shrewd
eyes looked at me from a mass of pillows, and I had a knowledge of an aged face, half smiling
and yet satirical, even malignant.

"And so this is the young fortune-hunter from Ireland," he said in a hoarse sick-man's voice.
"The young fortune-hunter! Ha! With his worthless papers! Ha!"

"Worthless?" cried I, starting.

"Worthless!" cried the Earl vehemently. He tried to lift himself in his bed, in order to make
more emphasis. "Worthless! Nothing but straw--straw--straw!" Then he cackled out a laugh.

And this was my inheritance! I could have sobbed my grief and anger, but I took firm hold on
myself and resolved upon another way of dealing with the nobleman.

"My lord," said I coolly, "My father is dead. When he was dying he gave certain papers into
my hands,--papers which he had guarded for many years,--and bade me, as his son, to deliver
them into the hands of an old friend and comrade; and I come to this old friend and comrade
of my father, and he lies back in his bed and cackles at me like a hen. 'Tis a small foot I
would have set upon England if I had known more of you, you old skate!"

But still he laughed and cried: "Straw! Straw! Nothing but straw!"

"Well, sir," said I with icy dignity, "I may be a fool of an Irishman with no title save an
older one than yours; but I would be deeply sorry if there came a day when I should throw a
trust back in the teeth of a dead comrade's son."

"No," said the bright-eyed old man, comforting himself amid his pillows. "Look you, O'Ruddy!
You are a rascal! You came over in an attempt to ruin me! I know it!"

I was awed by this accusation. It seemed to me to be too grand, too gorgeous for my personal
consumption. I knew not what to do with this colossus. It towered above me in splendour and
gilt. I had never expected to be challenged with attempting to ruin earls. My father had often
ruined sea-captains, but he never in his life ruined so much as a baronet. It seemed altogether
too fine for my family, but I could only blurt weakly, "Yessir." I was much like a lackey.

"Aye," said the old man, suddenly feeble from the excitement, "I see you admit it, you black
Irish rogue." He sank back and applied a napkin to his mouth. It seemed to come away stained
with blood. "You scoundrel!"

I had a strange cowardly inclination to fling myself upon this ancient survival and squeeze
his throat until it closed like a pursel. And my inclination was so strong that I stood like
a stone.

The valet opened the door. "If it please your Lordship--Lady Mary," he announced, and stood
aside to let a lady pass. The Earl seemed immediately to forget my presence. He began at once
to make himself uncomfortable in his bed. Then he cried fretfully: "Come, Mary, what caused
you to be so long? Make me easy! Ruffle my pillows! Come, daughter."

"Yes, father," answered a soothing and sweet voice. A gracious figure passed before me and
bended over the bed of the Earl. I was near blinded. It was not a natural blindness. It was
an artificial blindness which came from my emotion. Was she tall? I don't know. Was she short?
I don't know. But I am certain that she was exactly of the right size. She was, in all ways,
perfection. She was of such glory, she was so splendid, that my heart ceased to beat. I remained
standing like a stone, but my sword scabbard, reminiscent of some movement, flapped gently
against my leg. I thought it was a horrible sound. I sought to stay it, but it continued to
tinkle, and I remember that, standing there in the room with the old Earl and my love-'til-death,
I thought most of my scabbard and its inability to lay quiet at my thigh.

She smoothed his bed and coaxed him and comforted him. Never had I seen such tenderness. It
was like a vision of a classic hereafter. In a second I would have exchanged my youth for the
position of this doddering old nobleman who spat blood into a napkin.

Suddenly the Earl wheeled his eyes and saw me.

"Ha, Mary!" he cried feebly, "I wish to point out a rogue. There he stands! The O'Ruddy! An
Irishman and a fine robber! Mark him well, and keep stern watch of your jewels."

The beautiful young lady turned upon me an affrighted glance. And I stood like a stone.

"Aye," said the old wretch, "keep stern watch of your jewels. He is a very demon for skill.
He could take a ring from your finger while you were thinking he was fluttering his hands in
the air."

I bowed gallantly to the young lady. "Your rings are safe, my lady. I would ill requite the
kindness shown by your father to the son of an old friend if I deprived your white fingers
of a single ornament."

"Clever as ever, clever as ever," chuckled the wicked old man.

The young lady flushed and looked first at me and then at her father. I thought her eye, as
it rested upon me, was not without some sympathetic feeling. I adored her. All the same I wished
to kill her father. It is very curious when one wishes to kill the father of the woman one
adores. But I suppose the situation was made more possible for me by the fact that it would
have been extremely inexpedient to have killed the Earl in his sick bed. I even grinned at him.

"If you remember my father, your lordship," said I amiably, "despite your trying hard to forget
him, you will remember that he had a certain native wit which on occasion led him to be able
to frustrate his enemies. It must have been a family trait, for I seem to have it. You are
an evil old man! You yourself stole my papers!"

CHAPTER VI

At first I thought that my speech had given the aged Earl a stroke. He writhed on his bed,
and something appeared at his lips which was like froth. His lovely daughter sprang to him
with a cry of fear and woe. But he was not dying; he was only mad with rage.

"How dare you? How dare you?" he gasped. "You whelp of Satan!"

"'Tis me that would not be fearing to dare anything," I rejoined calmly. "I would not so. I
came here with a mind for fair words, but you have met me with insult and something worse.
We cannot talk the thing. We must act it. The papers are yours, but you took them from me unfairly.
You may destroy them. Otherwise I will have them back and discover what turned you into a great
rogue near the end of your days."

"Hearken!" screamed the Earl. "Hearken! He threatens." The door into the parlour flew open,
and Lord Strepp and Colonel Royale appeared on the threshold, their faces blank with wonder.

"Father," cried the young lord, stepping hastily forward, "whatever is wrong?"

"That!" screamed the Earl, pointing a palsied finger at me. "That! He comes here and threatens
me,--a peer of England."

The Lady Mary spoke swiftly to her brother and the Colonel.

"'Tis a sick man's fancy," she said. "There have been no threats. Father has had a bad day.
He is not himself. He talks wildly. He--"

"Mary!" yelled the Earl as well as he was able. "Do you betray me? Do you betray your own father?
Oh, a woman Judas and my daughter!"

