"Of course, seeing the interest we all took in it, we weren't going to do the thing half, so
we clubbed together and got Kirby a suit of store-clothes and a shiny valise, and he went off
as proper as a parson,--begging your pardon!--and we settled down again. He wrote pretty prompt,
and said everything was going on as smooth as oil. The old man had called out that it was Clint
as soon as he saw him, before he'd said a word, and Kirby wrote it would have been kind of
cruel to have told him better. So he didn't. He wrote several more letters, and once Jack White
had a letter from his sister saying that Clint Bowers had come home, and it was said that the
old man was tickled to death with his manners, and meant to leave him all he had. This clinched
it sure enough, and Clint became tip-top among the boys, and his credit was good for all the
drinks he chose to order, and I must say he was liberal enough, and nobody contradicted him.
He wrote to Kirby,--he was all the time writing to him,--but this time he told how handsome
he thought it was in him to do all this, considering everything. When the answer came, Kirby
said he didn't profess much religion, and he thought that generally speakin' heaping coals
of fire on any one's head was against the grain, but Clint was more than welcome to his services."

"He was a good fellow," exclaimed George. "I don't wonder you liked him!"

"Yes, I allers stood up for Kirby when the boys were hardest on him. But to finish up, for
I'm telling an oncommon long yarn, at last a letter came saying that the old man was dead and
the money fixed. How much it was Kirby couldn't say yet, but he meant to hurry matters up,
he said. Of course he didn't put all he meant into plain words, for it wouldn't do to trust
it, and he was allers more careful than Clint, who never knew when to hush. But now Kirby said
he'd have everything straight inside of two weeks, and we weren't to look for another letter
from him.

"Well, it was surprisin' how many birds Clint broiled for Kirby the next few weeks! You see,
Kirby allers was a gentleman in his tastes, and had a particular liking for birds on toast,
and of course Clint wanted to give him a proper welcome home. We knew just when the boats were
likely to come, and Clint was allers ready for a surprise."

"And he came just when he was least expected," said George, with a bright smile; "that is the
way things always happen in this world. I am sure of that!"

"Why, no, bless your heart, he never came back! I allers knew he wouldn't! He bought a share
in a circus with the money, and went down South. They said he married the girl who did the
flying trapeze, but I'm not sure about that. Anyway, it appears he's done a good business,
and I'm sure he's kept Clint's letters to him. There was true grit in Kirby, I've allers stuck
to that! Does the pipe seem too strong for you? The wind does blow it your way, that's a fact."

PASSAGES FROM THE JOURNAL OF A SOCIAL WRECK.

BY MARGARET FLOYD.

Harper's Magazine, October, 1882.

January 13th, 188-.--Twenty-nine to-day, with two painful facts staring me blankly in the face.
I am reduced almost literally to my last cent, and have no prospect of increasing this sum.
For the first time in my life I may as well examine the situation impartially. It is not my
fault that it is a physical impossibility for me to get up early in the morning, and therefore
that I never have stayed in any office more than two or three weeks at the longest. It is constitutional.
I can't write a good hand, or keep books correctly, for the same reason. Mathematics were left
out of my composition. I must smoke, and it is impossible for me to smoke a poor cigar. If
I am in debt for cigars, as well as other necessities, how can I help it? I would willingly
work if I could only find the kind of work that would suit me. I am not a fool. There is not
a man in New York who speaks French with a better accent than I do. I can sing better than
most amateurs. There is no vanity in saying that people consider me good-looking. I don't find
it difficult to please when I make an effort, and yet I am a complete failure. It is not my
fault. I'm a round peg in a square hole. I ought to have been the oldest son of a duke, with
a large allowance. Instead, I am a helpless orphan, with nothing a year. I seem to joke; in
reality I am in despair. Fortunately, my landlady trusts me blindly, or I would be turned into
the street.

I have sold or pawned all my valuables. I might pawn my dress suit and studs, but if I did,
I couldn't go out to dinner if I were asked, and that is always a saving. I cannot get a place
in an opera company, because my voice has not been sufficiently trained. There always is something
to prevent my success, no matter what I try.

To-day I met Morton in the street. He stopped me and said: "By the way, Valentine, your name
will come up at the Amsterdam very soon. You are sure to get in."

Imagine paying club dues in my present condition! Yet to belong to the Amsterdam has been one
of my ambitions. I had to get out of it, and said, in an offhand way: "Ah, thanks, Morton,
but you may as well take my name off the list. I'm thinking of living out of town."

So I am--I think of occupying six feet of real estate in the country, if something doesn't
happen soon. Morton always irritates me. He is one of those prosperous, fortunate creatures,
always so completely the thing, that I feel hopelessly my own deficiencies.

January 15th.--Something has happened. I have an idea. It strikes me as strange, yet feasible.
When I came in this afternoon I found a letter lying on my table. I opened it; it ran as follows:

                         "NEW YORK, January 14, 188-.

     "Families who are about to give receptions, dinner parties,
     or other entertainments will be gratified to know that
     persons who will assist in making these events pleasant and
     enjoyable can be obtained through the medium of the Globe
     Employment Bureau. These persons will not be professionals,
     but parties of culture and refinement, who will appear well,
     dress elegantly, and mingle with the guests, while able and
     willing to play, sing, converse fluently, tell a good story,
     give a recitation, or anything that will help to make an
     evening pass pleasantly.

     "The Globe Employment Bureau in this plan simply complies
     with the increasing demands of a large class of its patrons.
     The attendance of these persons, young or old, can be had
     for the sum of fifteen dollars per evening each. We will
     guarantee them to be strictly honorable and reliable
     persons. Respectfully yours,

                         "THE GLOBE EMPLOYMENT BUREAU."

The idea amused me. I moralized on it as a phase of New York society; wondered what sort of
people would employ these individuals; wondered what the individuals would feel like themselves;
smiled grimly at the inference that I could go to the expense of fifteen dollars to procure
the services of one of the persons. While I stood with the letter in my hand, a thought flashed
into my mind. It widened and developed, until now it possesses my whole being. I can't hire
a Globe young man, but anything is better than starvation: I will be a Globe young man!

