THE ATLANTIC MONTHLY.

A MAGAZINE OF LITERATURE, ART, AND POLITICS.

CONTENTS

Agrarianism

Bulls and Bears Bundle of Old Letters, A

Calculus, The Differential and Integral Charge with Prince Rupert Charles Lamb and Sydney Smith
Coffee and Tea

Did I?

El Llanero

Gymnasium, The

Holbein and the Dance of Death

Illustrious Obscure, The In a Cellar In the Pines

Juanita

Letter to a Dyspeptic, A Lizzy Griswold's Thanksgiving

Men of the Sea Mien-yaun Minister's Wooing, The

New Life of Dante, The

Odds and Ends from the Old World Olympus and Asgard Ought Women to Learn the Alphabet?

Palfrey's and Arnold's Histories Plea for the Fijians, A Professor at the Breakfast-Table, The

Roba di Roma

Shakespeare's Art Smollett, Some Unedited Memorials of Stereoscope and Stereograph, The

Trip to Cuba, A Two Sniffs

Utah Expedition, The

White's Shakspeare Why did the Governess Faint? Winter Birds, The

POETRY.

Achmed and his Mare At Sea

Bloodroot

Chicadee

Double-Headed Snake of Newbury, The Drifting

Hamlet at the Boston

Inscription for an Alms-Chest

Joy-Month

Last Bird, The Left Behind

Morning Street, The

Our Skater Belle

Palm and the Pine, The Philter, The Prayer for Life

Sphinx, The Spring

Two Years After

Walker of the Snow, The Waterfall, The

REVIEWS AND LITERARY NOTICES.

OLYMPUS AND ASGARD.

How remote from the nineteenth century of the Christian era lies the old Homeric world! By
the magic of the Ionian minstrel's verse that world is still visible to the inner eye. Through
the clouds and murk of twenty centuries and more, it is still possible to catch clear glimpses
of it, as it lies there in the golden sunshine of the ancient days. A thousand objects nearer
in the waste of past time are far more muffled, opaque, and impervious to vision. As you enter
it through the gates of the "Ilias" and "Odusseia," you bid a glad adieu to the progress of
the age, to railroads and telegraph-wires, to cotton-spinning, (there might have been some
of that done, however, in some Nilotic Manchester or Lowell,) to the diffusion of knowledge
and the rights of man and societies for the improvement of our race, to humanitarianism and
philanthropy, to science and mechanics, to the printing-press and gunpowder, to industrialism,
clipper-ships, power-looms, metaphysics, geology, observatories, light-houses, and a myriad
other things too numerous for specification,--and you pass into a sunny region of glorious
sensualism, where there are no obstinate questionings of outward things, where there are no
blank misgivings of a creature moving about in worlds not realized, no morbid self-accusings
of a morbid methodistic conscience. All there in that old world, lit "by the strong vertical
light" of Homer's genius, is healthful, sharply-defined, tangible, definite, and sensualistic.
Even the divine powers, the gods themselves, are almost visible to the eyes of their worshippers,
as they revel in their mountain-propped halls on the far summits of many-peaked Olympus, or
lean voluptuously from their celestial balconies and belvederes, soothed by the Apollonian
lyre, the Heban nectar, and the fragrant incense, which reeks up in purple clouds from the
shrines of windy Ilion, hollow Lacedaemon, Argos, Mycenae, Athens, and the cities of the old
Greek isles, with their shrine-capped headlands. The outlooks and watch-towers of the chief
deities were all visible from the far streets and dwellings of their earthly worshippers, in
that clear, shining, Grecian atmosphere. Uranography was then far better understood than geography,
and the personages composing the heavenly synod were almost as definitely known to the Homeric
men as their mortal acquaintances. The architect of the Olympian palaces was surnamed Amphiguëeis,
or the Halt. The Homeric gods were men divinized with imperishable frames, glorious and immortal
sensualists, never visited by qualms of conscience, by headache, or remorse, or debility, or
wrinkles, or dyspepsia, however deep their potations, however fiercely they indulged their
appetites. Zeus, the Grand Seignior or Sultan of Olympus and father of gods and men, surpassed
Turk and Mormon Elder in his uxoriousness and indiscriminate concubinage. With Olympian goddess
and lone terrestrial nymph and deep-bosomed mortal lass of Hellas, the land of lovely women,
as Homer calls it, did he pursue his countless intrigues, which he sometimes had the unblushing
coolness and impudence to rehearse to his wedded wife, Herè. His list would have thrown Don
Giovanni's entirely into the shade. Herè, the queen of Olympus, called the Golden-Throned,
the Venerable, the Ox-Eyed, was a sort of celestial Queen Bess, the undaunted she-Tudor, whose
father, bluff Harry, was not a bad human copy of Zeus himself, the Rejoicer in Thunder.

In that old Homeric heaven,--in those quiet seats of the gods of the heroic world, which were
never shaken by storm-wind, nor lashed by the tempest that raved far below round the dwellings
of wretched mortals,--in those quiet abodes above the thunder, there was for the most part
nought but festal joy, music, choral dances, and emptying of nectar-cups, interrupted now and
then by descents into the low-lying region of human life in quest of adventure, or on errands
of divine intervention in the affairs of men, for whom, on the whole, Zeus and his court entertained
sentiments of profound contempt. Once in a while Zeus and all his courtiers went on a festal
excursion to the land of the blameless Ethiops, which lay somewhere over the ocean, where they
banqueted twelve days. Why such a special honor as this was shown to these Ethiops is not explained.
Within their borders were evidently the summer resorts, Newport and Baden-Baden, frequented
by the Olympians. Only in great crises was the whole mythic host of the Grecian religion summoned
to meet in full forum on the heights of the immemorial mountain. At such times, all the fountains,
rivers, and groves of Hellas were emptied of their guardian daemons, male and female, who hastened
to pay their homage to and receive their orders from the Cloud-Gatherer, sitting on his throne,
in his great skyey Capitolium, and invested with all the pomp of mythic majesty, his ambrosial
locks smoothly combed and brushed by some Olympian friseur, his eagle perched with ruffled
plumes upon his fist, and everything else so arranged as most forcibly to impress the country
visitors and rural incumbents with salutary awe for the occupant of their sky-Vatican. Whether
these last were compelled to salute the Jovine great toe with a kiss is not recorded, there
being no account extant of the ceremonial and etiquette of Olympus. Whatever it was, doubtless
it was rigidly enforced; for the Thunderer, it would seem, had a Bastile, or lock-up, with
iron doors and a brazen threshold specially provided for contumacious and disobedient gods.

Zeus, although he could claim supreme dominion under the law of primogeniture, was originally
only a coequal ruler with his two brothers, Hades, king of the underworld, and Ennosigaeus,
monarch of the salt sea-foam. They were alike the sons and coequal heirs of Kronos, or Time,
and the Moerae, or Destinies, had parcelled out the universe in three equal parts between them.
But the position of Zeus in his serene air-realm gave him the advantage over his two brothers,--as
the metropolitan situation of the Roman see in the capital of the world gave its diocesan,
who was originally nothing more than the peer of the Bishops of Antioch, Alexandria, Carthage,
and Constantinople, an opportunity finally to assert and maintain a spiritual lordship. This
is a case exactly in point. It is certainly proper to illustrate a theocratic usurpation by
an hierarchic one. Zeus, with his eagle and thunder and that earthquaking nod, was too strong
for him of the trident and him of the three-headed hound. The whole mythic host regarded Jove's
court as a place of final resort, of ultimate appeal. He was recognized as the Supreme Father,
Papa, or Pope, of the Greek mythic realm. The nod of his immortal head was decisive. His azure
eyebrows and ambrosial hair were full of fate.

The wars of mortals in Hellas and Dardanland were matters of more interest to the Olympian
celestials than any other mere human transactions. These occasioned partisanships, heartburnings,
and factions in the otherwise serene Olympian palaces. Even Father Zeus himself acknowledged
a bias for sacred Ilium and its king and people over all the cities of terrestrial men beneath
the sun and starry heaven. In the ten-years' war at Troy, the Olympians were active partisans
upon both sides at times, now screening their favorites from danger, and now even pitting themselves
against combatants of more vulnerable flesh and blood. But in the matter of vulnerability they
seem not to have enjoyed complete exemption, any more than did Milton's angels. Although they
ate not bread nor drank wine, still there was in their veins a kind of ambrosial blood called
ichor, which the prick of a javelin or spear would cause to flow freely. Even Ares, the genius
of homicide and slaughter, was on one occasion at least wounded by a mortal antagonist, and
sent out of the melee badly punished, so that he bellowed like a bull-calf, as he mounted on
a dusty whirlwind to Olympus. Over his misadventures while playing his own favorite game certainly
there were no tears to be shed; but when, prompted by motherly tenderness, Aphrodite, the soft
power of love,--she of the Paphian boudoir, whose recesses were glowing with the breath of
Sabaean frankincense fumed by a hundred altars,--she at whose approach the winds became hushed,
and the clouds fled, and the daedal earth poured forth sweet flowers,--when such a presence
manifested herself on the field of human strife on an errand of motherly affection, and attempted
to screen her bleeding son from the shafts of his foes with a fold of her shining peplum, surely
the audacious Grecian king should have forborne, and, lowering his lance, should have turned
his wrath elsewhere. But no,--he pierced her skin with his spear, so that, shrieking, she abandoned
her child, and was driven, bleeding, to her immortal homestead.

Homer, in the first books of his "Ilias," permits us to glance into the banqueting-hall of
Olympus. The two regular pourers of nectar, to wit, Hebe and Ganymede, are off duty. Hephaestus
the Cripple has taken their place; and as he halts about from guest to guest, inextinguishable
laughter arises among the gods at his awkward method of "passing the rosy." His lameness was
owing to that sunset fall on the isle of Lemnos from the threshold of heaven. So, all day long,
says the poet, they revelled, Apollo and the Muses performing the part of a ballet-troop. It
is pleasing to learn that the Olympians kept early hours, conforming, in this respect, to the
rule of Poor Richard. Duly at set of sun they betook themselves to their couches. Zeus himself
slept, and by his side Herè of the Golden Throne. That Greek heaven was heartless, libidinous,
and cold. It had no mild divinities appointed to bind up the broken heart and assuage the grief
of the mourner. The weary and the heavy-laden had no celestial resource amongst its immortal
revellers and libertines, male and female. There was no sympathy for mortal suffering amongst
those divine sensualists. They talked with contempt and unsympathizing ridicule of the woes
of the earthborn, of the brevity of mortal life, and of its miseries. A boon, indeed, and a
grateful exchange, was the Mother Mild of the Roman Catholic Pantheon, the patroness of the
broken-hearted, who inclines her countenance graciously to the petitions of womanly anguish,
for the voluptuous Aphrodite, the haughty Juno, the Di-Vernonish Artemis, and the lewd and
wanton nymphs of forest, mountain, ocean, lake, and river. Ceres alone, of the old female classic
daemons, seemed to be endowed with a truly womanly tenderness and regard for humankind. She,
like the Mater Dolorosa, is represented in the myths to have known bereavement and sorrow,
and she, therefore, could sympathize with the grief of mothers sprung from Pyrrha's stem. Nay,
she had envied them their mortality, which enabled them to join their lost ones, who could
not come back to them, in the grave. Vainly she sought to descend into the dark underworld
to see her "young Persephone, transcendent queen of shades." Not for her weary, wandering feet
was a single one of the thousand paths that lead downward to death. Her only consolation was
in the vernal flowers, which, springing from the dark earthly mould, seemed to her to be

  "heralds from the dreary deep,
  Soft voices from the solemn streams,"

by whose shores, veiled in eternal twilight, wandered her sad child, the queen of the realm
of Dis, with its nine-fold river, gates of adamant, and minarets of fire. The heartlessness
of all the ethnic deities, of whatever age or nation, is a noticeable feature, especially when
contrasted with the unfathomable pity of their Exterminator, who wept over the chief city of
his fatherland, and would have gathered it, as a hen gathereth her chickens, under the wings
of his love, though its sons were seeking to compass his destruction. Those old ethnic deities
were cruel, inexorable, and relentless. They knew nothing of mercy and forgiveness. They ministered
no balm to human sorrow. The daemons who wandered in human shape over the classic lands of
old were all fickle and malevolent. They oftentimes impelled their victims to suicide. The
ghouls that haunt the tombs and waste places of the regions where they were once worshipped
are their lineal descendants and modern representatives. The vampires and pest-hags of the
Levant are their successors in malignity. The fair humanities of the old religion were fair
only in shape and exterior. The old pagan gods were friendly only to kings, heroes, and grandees;
they had no beatitude for the poor and lowly. Human despair, under their dispensation, knew
no alleviation but a plunge from light and life into the underworld, --rather than be monarch
of which, the shade of Achilles avers, in the "Odusseia," that it would prefer to be the hireling
and drudge of some poor earthly peasant. Elysium was only for a privileged few.

It has been said that the old ethnic creeds were the true religion "growing wild,"--that the
human soil was prepared by such kind of spiritual crops and outgrowths, with their tares and
weeds intermingled with wheat, for the seed that was finally to be sown by the Divine Sower,--that,
erroneous as they were in a thousand respects, they were genuine emanations of the religious
nature in man, and as such not to be stigmatized or harshly characterized,--that without them
the human soil could not have been made ready for the crop of unmixed truth. This may be true
of some of them, though surely not of the popular form of the old Greek ethnic faith. Its deities
were nothing better than the passions of human nature projected upon ethereal heights, and
incarnated and made personal in undecaying demonic shapes,--not conditioned and straitened
like the bodies of man, but enjoying perpetual youth and immunity from death in most cases,
with permission to take liberties with Space and Time greater even than are granted to us by
steam and telegraph-wires.

The vulgar Grecian polytheism was all material. It had no martyrs and confessors. It was not
worth dying for, as it was good for nothing to live by. The religion of Hellas was the religion
of sensualistic beauty simply. It was just the worship for Pheidias and Praxiteles, for the
bard of Teos and the soft Catullus, for sensual poet, painter, and sculptor. But "the blind
old man of Scio's rocky isle," although we gather most of our knowledge of Olympus and the
Olympians from his verse, was worthy of a loftier and purer heaven than the low one under which
he wandered from city to city, singing the tale of Troy divine, and hymns and paeans to the
gods. The good and the true were mere metaphysical abstractions to the old Greek. What must
he have been when it would not have been safe for him to leave his wife alone with the best
and highest of his gods? The ancient Hellenes were morally most vicious and depraved, even
when compared with contemporary heathen nations. The old Greek was large in brain, but not
in heart. He had created his gods in his own image, and they were--what they were. There was
no goodness in his religion, and we can tolerate it only as it is developed in the Homeric
rhapsodies, in the far-off fable-time of the old world, and amongst men who were but partially
self-conscious. In that remote Homeric epoch it is tolerable, when cattle-stealing and war
were the chief employments of the ruling caste,--and we may add, woman-stealing, into the bargain.
"I did not come to fight against the Trojans," says Achilles, "because I had suffered any grievance
at their hands. They never drove off my oxen and horses or stole my harvests in rich-soiled
Phthia, the nurse of heroes; for vale-darkening mountains and a tumultuous sea separate us."

Into that old Homeric world we enter through the portals of the "Ilias" and "Odusseia," and
see the peaks of Olympus shining afar off in white splendor like silvery clouds, not looking
for or expecting either a loftier or a purer heaven. Somewhere on the bounds of the dim ocean-world
we know that there is an exiled court, a faded sort of St. Germain celestial dynasty, geologic
gods, coevals of the old Silurian strata,--to wit, Kronos, Rhea, Nox, et al. Here these old,
unsceptred, discrowned, and sky-fallen potentates "cogitate in their watery ooze," and in "the
shady sadness of vales,"--sometimes visited by their successors for counsel or concealment,
or for the purpose of establishing harmony amongst them. The Sleep and Death of the Homeric
mythology were naturally gentle divinities,--sometimes lifting the slain warrior from the field
of his fame, and bearing him softly through the air to his home and weeping kindred. This was
a gracious office. The saintly legends of the Roman Church have borrowed a hint from this old
Homeric fancy. One pleasant feature of the Homeric battles is, that, when some blameless, great-souled
champion falls, the blind old bard interrupts the performances for a moment and takes his reader
with him away from the din and shouting of the battle, following, as it were, the spirit of
the fallen hero to his distant abode, where sit his old father, his spouse, and children,--thus
throwing across the cloud of battle a sweet gleam of domestic, pastoral life, to relieve its
gloom. Homer, both in the "Ilias" and "Odusseia," gives his readers frequent glimpses into
the halls of Olympus; for messengers are continually flashing to and fro, like meteors, between
the throne of Zeus and the earth. Sometimes it is Hermes sandalled with down; sometimes it
is wind-footed Iris, who is winged with the emerald plumes of the rainbow; and sometimes it
is Oneiros, or a Dream, that glides down to earth, hooded and veiled, through the shadow of
night, bearing the behests of Jove. But however often we are permitted to return to the ambrosial
homestead of the ever-living gods in the wake of returning messengers, we always find it the
same calm region, lifted far up above the turbulence, the perturbations, the clouds and storms of

  "That low spot which men call earth,"

--a glorious aërial Sans-Souci and house of pleasaunce.

It is curious that the atheistic Lucretius has given us a most glowing description of the Olympian
mansions; but perhaps the Olympus of the Epicurean poet and philosopher is somewhat higher
up and more sublimated and etherealized than the Olympus of Homer and of the popular faith.
In a flash of poetic inspiration, he says, "The walls of the universe are cloven. I see through
the void inane. The splendor (numen) of the gods appears, and the quiet seats which are not
shaken by storm-winds nor aspersed by rain-clouds; nor does the whitely falling snow-flake,
with its hoar rime, violate their summery warmth, but an ever-cloudless ether laughs above
them with widespread radiance." Lucretius had all these lineaments of his Epicurean heaven
from old Homer. They are scattered up and down the "Ilias" and "Odusseia" in the shape of disjecta
membra. For instance, the Olympus which he beholds through a chasm in the walls of the universe,
towering into the pure empyrean, has some of the features of Homer's island Elysiums, the blissful
abodes of mortal heroes who have been divinized or translated. The Celtic island-valley of
Avalon, the abode of King Arthur, "with its orchard-lawns and bowery hollows," so exquisitely
alluded to by Tennyson, is a kindred spot with the Homeric Elysian plain. Emerson says, "The
race of gods, or those we erring own, are shadows floating up and down in the still abodes."
This is exactly the meaning of Lucretius also. They are all air-cities, these seats of the
celestials, whatever be the creed,--summery, ethereal climes, fanned with spice-winds and zephyrs.
Meru, Kaf, Olympus, Elboorz,--they are all alike. The ethnic superior daemons were well termed
the powers of the air. Upward into the far blue gazes the weary and longing saint and devotee
of every faith. Beyond the azure curtains of the sky, upward into the pure realm, over the
rain-cloud and the thunder and the silver bars of the scirrhus, he places his quiet seats,
his mansions of rest.

