In the "Tom Thumb" article, Latin "-que" was abbreviated with a
  notation similar to "-q;". It has been "unpacked" for this e-text as
  [que] in brackets.

  The original texts printed all names in Italic type; italicized
  passages put names in Roman type. To avoid ambiguity, these have been
  marked with *asterisks*.
The editors hope, in the near future, to issue a volume
in his memory.

       *       *       *       *       *

INTRODUCTION

Joseph Addison's enthusiasm for ballad poetry (Spectators 70, 74, 85) was not a sheer novelty.
He had a ringing English precedent in Sidney, whom he quotes. And he may have had one in Jonson;
at least he thought he had. He cited Dryden and Dorset as collectors and readers of ballads;
and he might have cited others. He found comfort in the fact that Molière's Misanthrope was
on his side. The modern or broadside version of Chevy Chase, the one which Addison quoted,
had been printed, with a Latin translation, in the third volume of Dryden's Miscellany (1702)
and had been appreciated along with The Nut-Brown Maid in an essay Of the Old English Poets
and Poetry in The Muses Mercury for June, 1707. The feelings expressed in Addison's essays
on the ballads were part of the general patriotic archaism which at that time was moving in
rapport with cyclic theories of the robust and the effete, as in Temple's essays, and was complicating
the issue of the classical ancients versus the moderns. Again, these feelings were in harmony
with the new Longinianism of boldness and bigness, cultivated in one way by Dennis and in another
by Addison himself in later Spectators. The tribute to the old writers in Rowe's Prologue to
Jane Shore (1713) is of course not simply the result of Addison's influence.[1]

  Those venerable ancient Song-Enditers
  Soar'd many a Pitch above our modern Writers.

It is true also that Addison exhibits, at least in the first of the two essays on Chevy Chase,
a degree of the normal Augustan condescension to the archaic--the vision which informs the
earlier couplet poem on the English poets. And some of the Virgilian passages in Chevy Chase
which Addison picked out for admiration were not what Sidney had known but the literary invention
of the more modern broadside writer.

Nevertheless, the two Spectators on Chevy Chase and the sequel on the Children in the Wood
were startling enough. The general announcement was ample, unabashed, soaring--unmistakable
evidence of a new polite taste for the universally valid utterances of the primitive heart.
The accompanying measurement according to the epic rules and models was not a qualification
of the taste, but only a somewhat awkward theoretical dimension and justification.

Professor Clarence D. Thorpe is surely correct in his view of Addison as a "grandfather" of
such that would come in romantic aesthetics for the next hundred years.[2] Not that Addison
invents anything; but he catches every current whisper and swells it to the journalistic audibility.
Here, if we take Addison at his word, are the key ideas for Wordsworth's Preface on the language
of rustic life, for Tolstoy's ruthless reduction of taste to the peasant norm. Addison went
on to urge what was perfectly just, that the old popular ballads ought to be read and liked;
at the same time he pushed his praise to a rather wild extreme, and he made some comic comparisons
between Chevy Chase and Virgil and Homer.

We know now that he was on the right track; he was riding the wave of the future. It will be
sufficient here merely to allude to that well established topic of English literary history,
the rise of the ballad during the eighteenth century--in A Collection of Old Ballads (1723-1725),
in Ramsay's Evergreen and Tea-Table, in Percy's Reliques, and in all the opinions, the critiques,
the imitations, the modern ballads, and the forgeries of that era--in Henry and Emma, Colin
and Lucy, and Hardyknute, in Gay, Shenstone, and Gray, in Chatterton's Rowley. All these in
a sense testified to the influence of Addison's essays. Addison was often enough given honorable
mention and quoted.

On the other hand, neo-classic stalwart good sense and the canons of decorum did not collapse
easily, and the cultivation of the ballads had, as we have suggested, a certain aspect of silliness.
It is well known that Addison's essays elicited the immediate objections of Dennis. The Spectator's
"Design is to see how far he can lead his Reader by the Nose." He wants "to put Impotence and
Imbecility upon us for Simplicity." Later Johnson in his Life of Addison quoted Dennis and
added his own opinion of Chevy Chase: "The story cannot possibly be told in a manner that shall
make less impression on the mind."

It was fairly easy to parody the ballads themselves, or at least the ballad imitations, as
Johnson would demonstrate ex tempore. And it was just as easy to parody ballad criticism. The
present volume is an anthology of two of the more deserving mock-criticisms which Addison's
effort either wholly or in part inspired.

An anonymous satirical writer who was later identified, on somewhat uncertain authority, as
the Tory Dr. William Wagstaffe was very prompt in responding. His Comment Upon the History
of Tom Thumb appeared in 1711 perhaps within a week or two of the third guilty Spectator (June
7) and went into a second edition, "Corrected," by August 18. An advertisement in the Post
Man of that day referred to yet a third "sham" edition, "full of errors."[3] The writer alludes
to the author of the Spectators covertly ("we have had an enterprising Genius of late") and
quotes all three of the ballad essays repeatedly. The choice of Tom Thumb as the corpus vile
was perhaps suggested by Swift's momentary "handling" of it in A Tale of a Tub.[4] The satirical
method is broad and easy and scarcely requires comment. This is the attack which was supposed
by Addison's editor Henry Morley (Spectator, 1883, I, 318) to have caused Addison to "flinch"
a little in his revision of the ballad essays. It is scarcely apparent that he did so. The
last paragraph of the third essay, on the Children in the Wood, is a retort to some other and
even prompter unfriendly critics--"little conceited Wits of the Age," with their "little Images
of Ridicule."

But Addison is not the only target of "Wagstaffe's" Comment. "Sir B------ B--------" and his
"Arthurs" are another, and "Dr. B--tly" another. One of the most eloquent moments in the Comment
occurs near the end in a paragraph on what the author conceives to be the follies of the historical
method. The use of the slight vernacular poem to parody the Bentleyan kind of classical scholarship
was to be tried by Addison himself in Spectator 470 (August 29, 1712) and had a French counterpart
in the Chef d'oeuvre d'un inconnu, 1714. A later example was executed by Defoe's son-in-law
Henry Baker in No. XIX of his Universal Spectator, February 15, 1729.[5] And that year too
provided the large-scale demonstration of the Dunciad Variorum. Addison's criticism of the
ballads was scarcely a legitimate object for this kind of attack, but Augustan satire and parody
were free and hospitable genres, always ready to entertain more than one kind of "bard and
blockhead side by side."[6]

No less a person than George Canning (as a schoolboy) was the author of the second of the two
parodies reproduced in the present volume. A group of precocious Eton lads, Canning, J. Hookham
Frere, John Smith, and Robert (Bobus) Smith, during the years 1786-1787 produced forty octavo
numbers of a weekly paper called The Microcosm. They succeeded in exciting some interest among
the literati,[7] were coming out in a "Second Edition" as early as the Christmas vacation of
1786,[8] and in the end sold their copyright for fifty pounds to their publisher, Charles Knight
of Windsor.[9] Canning wrote Nos. XI and XII (February 12, 1787), a critique of the "Epic Poem"
concerning "The Reformation of the Knave of Hearts."[10] This essay in two parts, running for
nearly as many pages as Wagstaffe's archetypal pamphlet, is a much more systematic and theoretically
ambitious effort than any predecessor. The Knave of Hearts is praised for its beginning (in
medias res), its middle (all "bustle and business"), and its end (full of Poetical Justice
and superior Moral). The earlier writers had directly labored the resemblance of the ballads
to passages in Homer and Virgil. That method is now hardly invoked at all. Criticism according
to the epic rules of Aristotle had been well enough illustrated by Addison on Paradise Lost
(see especially Spectator 267) if not by Addison on ballads. The decline of simple respect
for the "Practice and Authority" of the ancient models during the neo-classic era, the general
advance of something like reasoning in criticism, finds one of its quainter testimonials in
the Eton schoolboy's cleverness. A page or two of irony concerning the "plain and simple" opening
of the poem seems to hark back to something more subtle in the Augustans than the Wagstaffian
derision, no doubt to Pope's victory over Philips in a Guardian on pastorals. Their value is
indirect, half accidental, a glancing revelation of ideas concerning simplicity, feeling, genius,
the primitive, the historical which run steadily beneath all the ripples during the century
that moves from "classic" to "romantic." Not all of Addison's parodists taken together muster
as much fun, as such whimsical charm, as Addison himself in a single paragraph such as the
one on "accidental readings" which opens the Spectator on the Children in the Wood. But this
passage, as it happens, requires only a slightly sophistical application to be taken as a cue
to a useful attitude in our present reading. "I once met with a Page of Mr. Baxter under a
Christmas Pye.... I might likewise mention a Paper-Kite, from which I have received great Improvement."

  William K. Wimsatt, Jr.
  Yale University

  NOTES TO THE INTRODUCTION

    [Footnote 1: The chief authorities for the history which I am
    summarizing are W. L. Phelps, The Beginnings of the English
    Romantic Movement, Boston, 1893, Chapter VII; E. K. Broadus,
    "Addison's Influence on the Development of Interest in Folk-Poetry
    in the Eighteenth Century," Modern Philology, VIII (July, 1910),
    123-134; S. B. Hustvedt, Ballad Criticism in Scandinavia and
    Great Britain During the Eighteenth Century, New York, 1916.]

    [Footnote 2: "Addison's Contribution to Criticism," in R. F. Jones
    et al., The Seventeenth Century (Stanford, 1951), p. 329.]

    [Footnote 3: Edward B. Reed, "Two Notes on Addison," Modern
    Philology, VI (October, 1908), 187. The attribution of A Comment
    Upon Tom Thumb and other satirical pieces to the Dr. William
    Wagstaffe who died in 1725 as Physician to St. Bartholomew's
    Hospital depends entirely upon the fact that a collection of such
    pieces was published, with an anonymous memoir, in 1726 under the
    title Miscellaneous Works of Dr. William Wagstaffe. Charles
    Dilke, Papers of a Critic (London, 1875), I, 369-382. argues
    that not Wagstaffe but Swift was the author of some of the pieces
    in the volume. The case for Wagstaffe is put by Nicholas Moore in
    a letter to The Athenaeum, June 10, 1882 and in his article on
    Wagstaffe in the DNB. Paul V. Thompson, "Swift and the Wagstaffe
    Papers," Notes and Queries, 175 (1938), 79, supports the notion
    of Wagstaffe as an understrapper of Swift. The negative part of
    Dilke's thesis is perhaps the more plausible. A Comment Upon Tom
    Thumb, as Dilke himself confesses (Papers, p. 377), scarcely
    sounds very much like Swift.]

    [Footnote 4: Text, p. 6. The nursery rhyme Tom Thumb, His Life
    and Death, 1630, and the augmented History of Tom Thumb,
    c. 1670, are printed with introductory remarks by W. C. Hazlitt,
    Remains of the Early Popular Poetry of England, II (London,
    1866), 166-250.]

    [Footnote 5: Cf. George R. Potter, "Henry Baker, F.R.S.
    (1698-1774)," Modern Philology, XXIX (1932), 305. Nathan Drake,
    The Gleaner, I (London, 1811), 220 seems mistaken in his remark
    that Baker's Scriblerian commentary (upon the nursery rhyme "Once
    I was a Batchelor, and lived by myself") was the model for later
    mock-ballad-criticisms.]

    [Footnote 6: For another early instance of our genre and a very
    pure one, see an anonymous Cambridge correspondent's critique of
    the burlesque broadside ballad of "Moor of Moore-Hall and the
    Dragon of Wantley," in Nathaniel Mist's Weekly Journal (second
    series), September 2, 1721, reproduced by Roger P. McCutcheon,
    "Another Burlesque of Addison's Ballad Criticism," Studies in
    Philology, XXXIII (October, 1926), 451-456.]

    [Footnote 7: Diary & Letters of Madame d'Arblay (London,
    1904-1905), III, 121-122, 295: November 28, 1786; July 29, 1787;
    William Roberts, Memoirs of the Life and Correspondence of Mrs.
    Hannah More (London, 1834), II, 46, letter from W. W. Pepys,
    December 31, 1786.]

    [Footnote 8: Advertisement inserted before No. I in a collected
    volume dated 1787 (Yale 217. 304g).]

    [Footnote 9: The source of the anecdote seems to be William
    Jordan, National Portrait Gallery (London, 1831), II, 3, quoting
    a communication from Charles Knight the publisher, son of Charles
    Knight of Windsor.

    The present reprint of Nos. XI and XII of The Microcosm is from
    the "Second" octavo collected edition, Windsor, 1788. The
    Microcosm had reappeared at least seven times by 1835.]

    [Footnote 10: Iona and Peter Opie, The Oxford Dictionary of
    Nursery Rhymes (Oxford, 1951), are unable to find an earlier
    printed source for this rhyme than the European Magazine, I
    (April, 1782), 252.]

    [Footnote 11: No. XXXVI of The Microcosm is a letter from Capel
    Lofft defending the "Middle Style" of Addison in contrast to the
    more modern Johnsonian eloquence. Robert Bell, The Life of the
    Rt. Hon. George Canning (London, 1846), pp. 48-54, in a helpful
    account of The Microcosm, stresses its general fidelity to
    Spectator style and themes.]

    [Footnote 12: Canning's critique closes with an appendix of three
    and a half pages alluding to the Eton Shrovetide custom of writing
    Latin verses, known as the "Bacchus." See H. C. Maxwell Lyte,
    A History of Eton College (London, 1911), pp. 146-147.]

    [Footnote 13: As late as the turn of the century the trick was
    still in a manner feasible. The anonymous author of Literary
    Leisure, or the Recreations of Solomon Saunter, Esq. (1799-1800)
    divides two numbers, VIII and XV, between other affairs and a
    Shandyesque argument about the nursery charm for the hiccup "Peter
    Piper picked a peck of pickled pepper." This author was most
    likely not Byron's assailant Hewson Clarke (born 1787, author of
    The Saunterer in 1804), as asserted in the Catalogue of the
    Hope Collection (Oxford, 1865), p. 128.

    A historical interest may be not only retrospective but
    contemporary. The reader of the present volume will appreciate
    "How to Criticize a Poem (In the Manner of Certain Contemporary
    Poets)", a critique of the mnemonic rhyme "Thirty days hath
    September," in the New Republic, December 6, 1943.]

       *       *       *       *       *
           *       *       *       *

                       A

                    COMMENT

                    upon the

                    HISTORY

                       of

                   Tom Thumb.

    ----Juvat immemorata ferentem
    Ingenuis oculis[que] legi manibus[que] teneri.
        Hor.

                    LONDON,

 Printed for J. Morphew near Stationers-Hall.
     1711.    Price 3 d.

        A
     COMMENT

    upon the
     HISTORY

       of
  TOM THUMB.

It is a surprising thing that in an Age so Polite as this, in which we have such a Number of
Poets, Criticks and Commentators, some of the best things that are extant in our Language shou'd
pass unobserv'd amidst a Croud of inferiour Productions, and lie so long buried as it were,
among those that profess such a Readiness to give Life to every thing that is valuable. Indeed
we have had an Enterprising Genius of late, that has thought fit to disclose the Beauties of
some Pieces to the World, that might have been otherwise indiscernable, and believ'd to have
been trifling and insipid, for no other Reason but their unpolish'd Homeliness of Dress. And
if we were to apply our selves, instead of the Classicks, to the Study of Ballads and other
ingenious Composures of that Nature, in such Periods of our Lives, when we are arriv'd to a
Maturity of Judgment, it is impossible to say what Improvement might be made to Wit in general,
and the Art of Poetry in particular: And certainly our Passions are describ'd in them so naturally,
in such lively, tho' simple, Colours, that how far they may fall short of the Artfulness and
Embellishments of the Romans in their Way of Writing, yet cannot fail to please all such Readers
as are not unqualify'd for the Entertainment by their Affectation or Ignorance.

It was my good Fortune some time ago to have the Library of a School-Boy committed to my Charge,
where, among other undiscover'd valuable Authors, I pitch'd upon Tom Thumb and Tom Hickathrift,
Authors indeed more proper to adorn the Shelves of Bodley or the Vatican, than to be confin'd
to the Retirement and Obscurity of a private Study. I have perus'd the first of these with
an infinite Pleasure, and a more than ordinary Application, and have made some Observations
on it, which may not, I hope, prove unacceptable to the Publick; and however it may have been
ridicul'd, and look'd upon as an Entertainment only for Children, and those of younger Years,
may be found perhaps a Performance not unworthy the Perusal of the Judicious, and the Model
superiour to either of those incomparable Poems of Chevy Chase, or The Children in the Wood.
The Design was undoubtedly to recommend Virtue, and to shew that however any one may labour
under the Disadvantages of Stature or Deformity, or the Meanness of Parentage, yet if his Mind
and Actions are above the ordinary Level, those very Disadvantages that seem to depress him,
shall add a Lustre to his Character.

There are Variety of Incidents, dispers'd thro' the whole Series of this Historical Poem, that
give an agreeable Delight and Surprise, and are such as *Virgil* himself wou'd have touch'd
upon, had the like Story been told by that Divine Poet, viz. his falling into the Pudding-Bowl
and others; which shew the Courage and Constancy, the Intrepidity and Greatness of Soul of
this little Hero, amidst the greatest Dangers that cou'd possibly befall him, and which are
the unavoidable Attendants of human Life.

  Si fractus illabatur orbis,
  Impavidum ferient ruinæ.

The Author of this was unquestionably a Person of an Universal Genius, and if we consider that
the Age he wrote in, must be an Age of the most profound Ignorance, as appears from the second
Stanza of the first Canto, he was a Miracle of a Man.

I have consulted Monsieur Le Clerk, and my Friend Dr. B--ly concerning the Chronology of this
Author, who both assure me, tho' Neither can settle the Matter exactly, that he is the most
ancient of our Poets, and 'tis very probable he was a Druid, who, as Julius Cæsar mentions
in his Commentaries, us'd to deliver their Precepts in Poetry and Metre. The Author of The
Tale of a Tub, believes he was a Pythagorean Philosopher, and held the Metempsichosis; and
Others that he had read Ovid's Metamorphosis, and was the first Person that ever found out
the Philosopher's Stone. A certain Antiquary of my Acquaintance, who is willing to forget every
thing he shou'd remember, tells me, He can scarcely believe him to be Genuine, but if he is,
he must have liv'd some time before the Barons Wars; which he proves, as he does the Establishment
of Religion in this Nation, upon the Credit of an old Monument.

There is another Matter which deserves to be clear'd, whether this is a Fiction, or whether
there was really such a Person as Tom Thumb. As to this, my Friends tell me, 'Twas Matter of
Fact, and that 'twas an unpardonable Omission in a certain Author never once to mention him
in his Arthur's, when nothing is more certain than that he was the greatest Favourite of that
Prince, and a Person who had perform'd some very eminent Services for his Country. And indeed
I can't excuse his taking no Notice of our Poet who has afforded him such Helps, and to whom
he is so much oblig'd for the Model of those Productions: Besides it had been but a Debt of
Gratitude, as Sir R---- B---- was a Member of the Faculty, to have made honourable mention
of him who has spoke so honourably of the Profession, on the Account of the Sickness of his Hero.

I have an old Edition of this Author by me, the Title of which is more Sonorous and Heroical,
than those of later Date, which for the better Information of the Reader, it may not be improper
to insert in this Place. *Tom Thumb* his Life and Death, wherein is declar'd his many marvellous
Acts of Manhood, full of Wonder and strange Merriment: Then he adds, which little Knight liv'd
in King *Arthur*'s Time in the Court of *Great Britain*. Indeed there are so many spurious
Editions of this Piece upon one Account or other, that I wou'd advise my Readers to be very
cautious in their Choice, and it would be very wisely done, if they wou'd consult the curious
Ælianus concerning this Matter, who has the choicest Collection of any Man in England, and
understands the most correct Editions of Books of this Nature.

I have took a great deal of Pains to set these Matters of Importance in as clear a Light as
we Criticks generally do, and shall begin with the first Canto, which treats of our Hero's
Birth and Parentage, and Education, with some other Circumstances which you'll find are carry'd
on in a manner not very inelegant, and cannot fail to please those who are not Judges of Language,
or those who notwithstanding they are Judges of Language, have a genuine and unprejudic'd Tast
of Nature.

  In Arthur's Court Tom Thumb did live;
  A Man of mickle Might,
  The best of all the Table round,
  And eke a doubty Knight,
  In Stature but an Inch in Height,
  Or quarter of a Span;
  Then think you not this worthy Knight
  Was prov'd a valiant Man.

This Beginning is agreeable to the best of the Greek and Latin Poets; Homer and Virgil give
an Idea of the whole Poem in a few of the first Lines, and here our Author draws the Character
of his Hero, and shews what you may expect from a Person so well qualify'd for the greatest
Undertakings.

In the Description of him, which is very fine, he insinuates, that tho' perhaps his Person
may appear despicable and little, yet you'll find him an Hero of the most consummate Bravery
and Conduct, and is almost the same Account Statius gives of Tydeus.

  --------Totos infusa per artus,
  Major in exiguo regnabat corpore virtus.

But to proceed,

  His Father was a Plowman plain,
  His Mother milk'd the Cow,
  And yet a Way to get a Son
  This Couple knew not how,
  Until such time the good old Man
  To learned Merlin goes,
  And there to him in deep Distress
  In secret Manner shows,
  How in his Heart he wish'd to have,
  A Child in time to come,
  To be his Heir, tho' it might be
  No bigger than his Thumb.
  Of which old Merlin was foretold,
  That he his Wish should have,
  And so a Son of Stature small
  The Charmer to him gave.

There is nothing more common throughout the Poets of the finest Taste, than to give an Account
of the Pedigree of their Hero. So Virgil,

  ----Æneas quem Dardanio Anchisæ
  Alma Venus Phrygii genuit Simoentis ad undas.

And the Manner of the Countryman's going to consult Merlin, is like that of Æneas's approaching
the Oracle of Delphos.

  ----Egressi veneramur Apollinis Urbem.

And how naturally and poetically does he describe the Modesty of the Man, who wou'd be content,
if Merlin wou'd grant him his Request, with a Son no bigger than his Thumb.

The Two next Stanza's carry on the Idea with a great deal of Probability and Consistence; and
to convince the World that he was born to be something more than Man, he produces a Miracle
to bring him into it.

  Begot, and born in half an Hour,
  To fit his Father's Will.

The following Stanza continues the Miracle, and brings the Fairy Queen and her Subjects, who
gives him his Name, and makes him a Present of his Apparel.

  Whereas she cloath'd him fine and brave,
  In Garments richly fair,
  The which did serve him many Years
  In seemly sort to wear.

So Virgil of Queen Dido's Present to Ascanius:

  Hoc Juvenem egregium præstanti munere donat.

And again,

  --------Quem candida Dido
  Esse sui dederat Monumentum & pignus Amoris.

The Description of his Dress is very agreeable, and is not unlike what I have met with somewhere
of a Giant going a Fishing, with an Account of his Implements equal to his Proportion.

  His Hat made of an Oaken Leaf,
    His Shirt a Spider's Web,
  Both light and soft for these his Limbs
    That were so smally bred.
  His Hose and Doublet Thistle Down,
    Together weav'd full fine;
  His Stockings of an Apple green,
    Made of the outward Rind;
  His Garters were two little Hairs
    Pluck'd from his Mothers Eye;
  His Shooes made of a Mouse's Skin,
    And Tann'd most curiously.

The next Stanza's relate his Diversions, bearing some Analogy to those of Ascanius and other
Lads in Virgil:

  Thus like a valiant Gallant He
    Adventures forth to go,
  With other Children in the Street,
    His pretty Tricks to show.

  Una Acies Juvenum ducit quam Parvus Ovantem
  Nomen Avi referens Priamus.

There is a Piece of Revenge our little Hero took upon a Play-fellow, which proves, to what
an height Mechanical and Experimental Philosophy was arriv'd to in that Age, and may be worth
while to be considered by the Royal Society.

  Of whom to be reveng'd, he took
    In Mirth and pleasant Game,
  Black Pots and Glasses, which he hung
    Upon a bright Sun-Beam.

The third Line is a Demonstration of the Antiquity of Drinking out of Black-Pots, which still
prevails in most Counties of this Nation, among the Justices of Peace at their Petty and Quarter
Sessions.

The last four Lines of this Canto, and the beginning of the next, contain the miraculous Adventure
of the Pudding-Bowl: And, by the by, we may observe, That it was the Custom of the Christians
at that time, to make Hog-Puddings instead of Minc'd-Pies at Christmas; a laudable Custom very
probably brought up to distinguish 'em more particularly from the Jews.

  Whereas about a Christmas time,
    His Father an Hog had kill'd,
  And Tom to see the Pudding made,
    Fear that it should be spill'd;
  He sat, the Candle for to Light,
    Upon the Pudding-Bowl:
  Of which there is unto this Day
    A pretty Pastime told:
      For Tom fell in----

Perhaps some may think it below our Hero to stoop to such a mean Employment as the Poet has
here enjoyn'd him, of holding the Candle, and that it looks too much like a Citizen, or a Cot,
as the Women call it: But if we reflect on the Obedience due to Parents, as our Author undoubtedly
did, and the Necessities those People labour'd under, we cannot but admire at his ready Compliance
with what could by no Means be agreeable to the Heroical Bent of his Inclinations, and perceive
what a tender Regard he had for the Wellfare of his Family, when he took the strictest Care
imaginable for the Preservation of the Hog-Pudding. And what can be more remarkable? What can
raise the Sentiments of Pity and Compassion to an higher Pitch, than to see an Hero fall into
such an unforeseen Disaster in the honourable Execution of his Office? This certainly is conformable
to the way of Thinking among the Ancient Poets, and what a good-natur'd Reader cannot but be
affected with.

The following Part of this Canto is the Relation of our Hero's being put into a Pudding, and
convey'd away in a Tinker's Budget; which is design'd by our Author to prove, if it is understood
literally, That the greatest Men are subject to Misfortunes. But it is thought by Dr. B--tly
to be all Mythology, and to contain the Doctrine of the Transmutation of Metals, and is design'd
to shew, that all Matter is the same, tho' very differently Modified. He tells me, he intends
to publish a distinct Treatise of this Canto; and I don't question, but he'll manage the Dispute
with the same Learning, Conduct, and good Manners, he has done others, and as Dr. Salmon uses
in his Corrections of Dr. Sydenham and the Dispensatory.

The next Canto is the Story of Tom Thumb's being Swallow'd by a Cow, and his Deliverance out
of her, which is treated of at large by Giordano Bruno in his Spaccio de la Bestia trionfante;
which Book, tho' very scarce, yet a certain Gentleman, who has it in his Possession, has been
so obliging as to let every Body know where to meet with it. After this, you find him carried
off by a Raven, and swallow'd by a Giant; and 'tis almost the same Story as that of Ganimede,
and the Eagle in Ovid.

  Now by a Raven of great Strength,
    Away poor Tom was born.

  Nec mora: percusso mendacibus aere pennis
  Abripit Iliaden.

A certain great Critick and Schoolmaster who has publish'd such Notes upon Horace as were never
seen before, is of Opinion, and has very good Authority for what he says, that 'twas rather
an Owl than a Raven; for, as he observes with a wonderful deal of Penetration and Sagacity,
our Hero's Shoes were made of a Mouse's Skin which might induce the Owl to run away with him.
The Giant, he owns, looks very probable, because we find 'em swallowing People very fast in
almost all Romances.

This Canto concludes with our Hero's Arrival at Court; after he had spent a considerable Part
of his Youth in Labours and Fatigues, had been inur'd to nothing else but Hardships and Adventures,
we see him receive the Recompence of his Merit, and become the Favourite of his Prince: And
here we may perceive all the Fineness of the Gentleman, mixt with all the Resolution and Courage
of the Warriour; We may behold him as ready to oblige the Ladies with a Dance, as he was to
draw his Sword in their Defence.

  Amongst the Deeds of Courtship done,
    His Highness did command,
  That he shou'd dance a Galliard brave
    Upon the Queen's Left Hand.
  The which he did----

This shews he had all the Accomplishments of Achilles who was undoubtedly one of the best Dancers
in the Age he liv'd, according to the Character Homer gives him so frequently of the Agility
of his Feet. I have consulted a Master of the Profession of Dancing, who is excellently vers'd
in the Chronology of all Dances, he tells me that this Galliard came into Vogue about the latter
End of the Reign of Uter Pendragon, and continu'd during that of King Arthur, which is Demonstration
to me that our Poet liv'd about that Age.

It is asserted very positively in the later Editions of this Poem, that the four following
Lines are a Relation of the King and Tom Thumb's going together an Hunting, but I have took
indefatigable Pains to consult all the Manuscripts in Europe concerning this Matter, and I
find it an Interpolation. I have also an Arabick Copy by me, which I got a Friend to translate,
being unacquainted with the Language, and it is plain by the Translation that 'tis there also
interpolated.

  Now after that the King wou'd not
    Abroad for Pleasure go,
  But still Tom Thumb must go with him
   Plac'd on his Saddle Bow.

  ----Ipse Uno graditur comitatus Achate.

There is scarcely any Scene more moving than this that follows, and is such an one as wou'd
have shined in *Homer* or *Virgil*. When he was favour'd with his Prince's Ear, and might have
ask'd the most profitable and important Posts in the Government, and been indemnified if guilty
of a Peculatus; He only used his Interest to relieve the Necessities of his Parents, when another
Person wou'd have scarcely own'd 'em for his Relations. This discovers such a Generosity of
Soul, such an Humility in the greatest Prosperity, such a tender Affection for his Parents,
as is hardly to be met with, but in our Author.

  And being near his Highness Heart
    He crav'd a wealthy Boon,
  A noble Gift, the which the King
    Commanded to be done;
  To relieve his Father's Wants,
    And Mother being old.

The rest of this Canto relates the Visit to his Father, in which there is something very soft
and tender, something that may move the Mind of the most polite Reader, with the inward Meltings
of Humanity and Compassion.

The Next Canto of the Tilts and Tournaments, is much like the Fifth Book of Virgil, and tho'
we can't suppose our Poet ever saw that Author, yet we may believe he was directed to almost
the same Passages, by the same kind of Poetical Genius, and the same Copyings after Nature.

  Longeque ante omnia Corpora Nisus
  Emicat----

And agen,

  Post Elymus subit, & nunc tertia palma Diores.

  In Honour of which noble Day,
    And for his Lady's Sake,
  A Challenge in King Arthur's Court,
    Tom Thumb did bravely make.

  Talis prima Dares caput altum in prælia tollit,
  Ostendit[que] humeros latos, alterna[que] Iactat
  Brachia portendens, & verberat Ictibus auras,
  Quæritur huic alius:----

  'Gainst whom those noble Knights did run,
    Sir Chion and the rest,
  But, still Tom Thumb with all his Might
    Did bear away the best.

  Et primum ante omnes victorem appellat Acesten.

At the same time our Poet shews a laudable Partiality for his Hero, he represents Sir Lancelot
after a manner not unbecoming so bold and brave a Knight.

  At last Sir Lancelot of Lake,
    In manly sort came in,
  And with this stout and hardy Knight
    A Battle to begin.

  Huic contra Æneas, speculatus in agmine longo
  Obvius ire parat----

  Which made the Courtiers all aghast.

  Obstupuere animi----

This Canto concludes with the Presents made by the King to the Champion according to the Custom
of the Greeks and Romans in such Cases; only his tumbling thro' the Queen's Ring is observable,
and may serve to give some Light into the Original of that ingenious Exercise so much practis'd
by the Moderns, of tumbling thro' an Hoop.

The last Canto treats of the Champion's Sickness and Death, and whoever considers the Beauty,
Regularity and majestic Simplicity of the Relation, cannot but be surpris'd at the Advances
that may be made in Poetry by the Strength of an uncultivated Genius, and may see how far Nature
can proceed without the Ornamental Helps and Assistances of Art. The Poet don't attribute his
Sickness to a Debauch, to the Irregularity or Intemperance of his Life, but to an Exercise
becoming an Hero; and tho' he dies quietly in his Bed, he may be said in some measure to die
in the Bed of Honour. And to shew the great Affection the King had for him, he sends for his
Physicians, and orders all the Care imaginable to be taken for the Conservation of his Life.

  He being slender and tall,
    This cunning Doctor took
  A fine perspective Glass, with which,
    He did in Secret look.

It is a Wonder that the learned World shou'd differ so in their Opinions concerning the Invention
and Antiquity of Optic Glasses, and that any one should contend for Metius of Alcmaer, or,
as Dr. Plot does, for Fryar Bacon, when, if this Author had been consulted, Matters might have
been so easily adjusted. Some great Men indeed wou'd prove from hence, our Knight was the Inventor
of 'em, that his Valet might the more commodiously see to dress him; but if we consider there
were no Beau's in that Age, or reflect more maturely on the Epithet here given to the Doctor,
we may readily conclude, that the Honour of this Invention belongs more particularly to that
ingenious Profession.

How lovely is the Account of the Departure of his Soul from his Body:

  And so with Peace and Quietness
    He left the World below.

  Placida[que] demum ibi morte quievit.

  And up into the Fairy Land
    His Soul did fleeting go.

  ----At Æthereas repetit mens ignea sedes.

  Whereas the Fairy Queen receiv'd
    With happy Mourning Cheer
  The Body of this valiant Knight,
    Whom she esteem'd so dear;
  For with her dancing Nymphs in Green
    She fetch'd him from his Bed,
  With Musick and with Melody,
    As soon as Life was fled.

  ----Et fotum gremio Dea tollit in Altos
  Idaliæ lucos----

So one of our Modern Poets;

  Thither the Fairys and their Train resort,
  And leave their Revels, and their midnight Sport.

We find in all the most celebrated Poets some Goddess that takes upon her to be the peculiar
Guardian of the Hero, which has been carry'd on very elegantly in this Author.

But agen;

  For whom King Arthur and his Knights,
    Full forty Days did mourn,
  And in Remembrance of his name,
    Who was so strangely born,
  He built a Tomb of Marble grey,
    And Year by Year did come,
  To celebrate the Mournful Day,
    And Burial of Tom Thumb,
  Whose Fame lives here in England still,
    Among the Country sort,
  Of whom their Wives and Children small,
    Tell Tales of pleasant Sport.

So Ovid;

  ----Luctus monumenta manebunt
  Semper Adoni mei, repetita[que] mortis Imago
  Annua plangoris peragit simulamina Nostri.

Nor is this Conclusion unlike one of the best Latin Poems this Age has produc'd.

  Tu Taffi Æternum vives, tua munera Cambri
  Nunc etiam Celebrant, quoties[que] revolvitur Annus
  Te memorant, Patrium Gens tota tuetur Honorem,
  Et cingunt viridi redolentia tempora Porro.

And now, tho' I am very well satisfied with this Performance, yet, according to the usual Modesty
of us Authors, I am oblig'd to tell the World, it will be a great Satisfaction to me, knowing
my own Insufficiency, if I have given but some Hints of the Beauties of this Poem, which are
capable of being improv'd by those of greater Learning and Abilities. And I am glad to find
by a Letter I have receiv'd from one of the Literati in Holland, That the learned Huffius,
a great Man of our Nation, is about the Translation of this Piece into Latin Verse, which he
assures me will be done with a great deal of Judgment, in case he has enough of that Language
to furnish out the Undertaking. I am very well Appris'd, That there has been publish'd Two
Poems lately, Intituled, The Second and Third Parts of this Author; which treat of our little
Hero's rising from the Dead in the Days of King Edgar: But I am inform'd by my Friend the Schoolmaster,
and others, That they were compos'd by an Enthusiast in the last Century, and have been since
Printed for the Establishment of the Doctrine of Monsieur Marion and his Followers, and the
Resurrection of Dr. Ems.

I hope no Body will be offended at my asserting Things so positively, since 'tis the Priviledge
of us Commentators, who understand the meaning of an Author Seventeen Hundred Years after he
has wrote, much better than ever he cou'd be suppos'd to do himself. And certainly, a Critick
ought not only to know what his Authors Thoughts were when he was Writing such and such Passages,
but how those Thoughts came into his Head, where he was when he wrote, or what he was doing
of; whether he wrote in a Garden, a Garret, or a Coach; upon a Lady, or a Milkmaid; whether
at that Time he was scratching his Elbow, drinking a Bottle, or playing at Questions and Commands.
These are material and important Circumstances so well known to the True Commentator, that
were Virgil and Horace to revisit the World at this time, they'd be wonderfully surpris'd to
see the minutest of their Perfections discover'd by the Assistances of Modern Criticism. Nor
have the Classicks only reap'd Benefit from Inquiries of this Nature, but Divinity it self
seems to be render'd more intelligible. I know a Divine, who understands what St. Paul meant
by Higher Powers, much better than that Apostle cou'd pretend to do; and another, That can
unfold all the Mysteries of the Revelations without Spectacles.

I know there are some People that cast an Odium on me, and others, for pointing out the Beauties
of such Authors, as have, they say, been hitherto unknown, and argue, That 'tis a sort of Heresie
in Wit, and is like the fruitless Endeavours of proving the Apostolical Constitutions Genuine,
that have been indisputably Spurious for so many Ages: But let these Gentlemen consider, whether
they pass not the same Judgment on an Author, as a Woman does on a Man, by the gayety of his
Dress, or the gaudy Equipage of his Epithets. And however they may call me second-sighted,
for discerning what they are Blind to, I must tell them this Poem has not been altogether so
obscure, but that the most refin'd Writers of this Age have been delighted with the reading
it. Mr. Tho. D'Urfey, I am told, is an Admirer, and Mr. John Dunton has been heard to say,
more than once, he had rather be the Author of it than all his Works.

How often, says my Author, have I seen the Tears trickle down the Face of the Polite Woodwardius
upon reading some of the most pathetical Encounters of Tom Thumb! How soft, how musically sorrowful
was his Voice! How good Natur'd, how gentle, how unaffected was the Ceremoniale of his Gesture,
and how unfit for a Profession so Merciless and Inhumane!

I was persuaded by a Friend to write some Copies of Verses and place 'em in the Frontispiece
of this Poem, in Commendation of My self and my Comment, suppos'd to be compos'd by AG. FT.
LM. RW. and so forth. To their very worthy and honour'd Friend C. D. upon his admirable and
useful Comment on the History of Tom Thumb; but my Bookseller told me the Trick was so common,
'twou'd not answer. Then I propos'd a Dedication to my Lord such an One, or Sir Thomas such
an One; but he told me the Stock to be rais'd on Dedications was so small now a Days, and the
Discount to my Lord's Gentleman, &c. so high, that 'twou'd not be worth while; besides, says
he, it is the Opinion of some Patrons, that a Dinner now and then, with, Sir, I shall expect
to see you sometimes, is a suitable Reward for a publick Compliment in Print. But if, continues
my Bookseller, you have a Mind it shou'd turn to Advantage, write Treason or Heresy, get censur'd
by the Parliament or Convocation, and condemn'd to be burnt by the Hands of the common Hangman,
and you can't fail having a Multitude of Readers, by the same Reason, A notorious Rogue has
such a Number of Followers to the Gallows.

FINIS.

       *       *       *       *       *
           *       *       *       *

                THE MICROCOSM.

                       by

                Gregory Griffin.

  No. XI. of the

  MICROCOSM.

  MONDAY, February 12, 1787.

  Res gestæ regumque, ducumque, et tristia bella,
  Quo scribi possint numero, monstravit Homerus.--HOR.
  By Homer taught, the modern poet sings,
  In Epic strains, of heroes, wars, and Kings.--FRANCIS.

There are certain forms and etiquettes in life, which, though the neglect of them does not
amount to the commission of a crime, or the violation of a duty, are yet so established by
example, and sanctioned by custom, as to pass into Statutes, equally acknowledged by society,
and almost equally binding to individuals, with the laws of the land, or the precepts of morality.
A man guilty of breaking these, though he cannot be transported for a felon, or indicted for
treasonable practices, is yet, in the High Court of Custom, branded as a flagrant offender
against decorum, as notorious for an unprecedented infringement on propriety.

There is no race of men on whom these laws are more severe than Authors; and no species of
Authors more subject to them, than Periodical Essayists. Homer having prescribed the form,
or to use a more modern phrase, set the fashion of Epic Poems, whoever presumes to deviate
from his plan, must not hope to participate his dignity: And whatever method, The Spectator,
The Guardian, and others, who first adopted this species of writing, have pursued in their
undertaking, is set down as a rule for the conduct of their followers; which, whoever is bold
enough to transgress, is accused of a deviation from the original design, and a breach of established
regulation.

It has hitherto been customary for all Periodical Writers, to take some opportunity, in the
course of their labours, to display their Critical abilities, either by making observations
on some popular Author, and work of known character, or by bringing forth the performances
of hidden merit, and throwing light on genius in obscurity. To the critiques of The Spectator,
Shakespear, and more particularly, Milton, are indebted, for no inconsiderable share of the
reputation, which they now so universally enjoy; and by his means were the ruder graces, and
more simple beauties of Chevy Chace held up to public view, and recommended to general admiration.

I should probably be accused of swerving from the imitation of so great an example, were not
I to take occasion to shew that I too am not entirely destitute of abilities of this kind;
but that by possessing a decent share of critical discernment, and critical jargon, I am capable
of becoming a very tolerable commentator. For the proof of which, I shall rather prefer calling
the attention of my readers to an object as yet untreated of by any of my immediate predecessors,
than venture to throw in my observations on any work which has before passed the ordeal of
frequent examination. And this I shall do for two reasons; partly, because were I to choose
a field, how fertile soever, of which many others had before me been reaping the fruits, mine
would be at best but the gleanings of criticism; and partly, from a more interested view, from
a selfish desire of accumulated praise; since, by making a work, as yet almost wholly unknown,
the subject of my consideration, I shall acquire the reputation of taste, as well as judgement;--of
judiciousness in selection, as well as justness in observation;--of propriety in choosing the
object, as well as skill in using the language, of commentary.

  No. XII.

  of the

  MICROCOSM.

  MONDAY, February 12, 1787.

      HORACE.

  From his first Entrance to the closing Scene,
  Let him one equal Character maintain.

      FRANCIS.

Having some space left in this paper, I will now, with the permission of my readers of the
great world, address myself more particularly to my fellow-citizens.

To them, the essay which I have here presented, will, I flatter myself, be peculiarly serviceable
at this time; and I would earnestly recommend an attentive perusal of it, to all of them whose
muses are engaged in compositions of the Epic kind.--I am very much afraid that I may run into
the error, which I have myself pointed out, of becoming too local,--but where it is evidently
intended for the good of my fellow citizens, it may, I hope, be now and then pardonable. At
the present juncture, as many have applied for my assistance, I cannot find in my heart to
refuse it them. Were I to attempt fully explaining, why, at the present juncture, I fear it
would be vain. Would it not seem incredible to the Ladies, were I to tell them, that the period
approaches, when upwards of a hundred Epic Poems will be exposed to public view, most of them
nearly of equal length, and many of them nearly of equal merit, with the one which I have here
taken into consideration; illustrated moreover with elegant etchings, designed either as hieroglyphical
explanations of the subject, or as practical puns on the name of the author?--And yet in truth
so it is,--and on this subject I wish to give a word of advice to my countrymen.

Many of them have applied to me by letter, to assist them with designs for prefixing to their
poems; and this I should very willingly have done, had those gentlemen been kind enough to
subscribe their real names to their requests: whereas, all that I have received have been signed,
Tom Long, Philosophus, Philalethes, and such like. I have therefore been prevented from affording
them the assistance I wished; and cannot help wondering, that the gentlemen did not consider,
that it was impossible for me to provide typical references for feigned names; as, for ought
I know, the person who signs himself Tom Long may not be four feet high; Philosophus may be
possessed of a considerable share of folly; and Philalethes may be as arrant a liar as any
in the kingdom.

It may not however be useless to offer some general reflections for all who may require them.
It is not improbable, that, as the subject of their poems is the Restoration, many of my fellow-citizens
may choose to adorn their title-pages with the representation of His Majesty, Charles the Second,
escaping the vigilance of his pursuers in the Royal Oak. There are some particularities generally
observable in this picture, which I shall point out to them, lest they fall into similar errors.
Though I am as far as any other Briton can be, from wishing to "curtail" his Majesty's Wig
"of its fair proportion;" yet I have sometimes been apt to think it rather improper, to make
the Wig, as is usually done, of larger dimensions than the tree in which it and his Majesty
are concealed. It is a rule in Logic, and I believe may hold good in most other Sciences, that
"omne majus continet in se minus," that "every thing larger can hold any thing that is less;"
but I own, I never heard the contrary advanced or defended with any plausible arguments, viz.
"that every little thing can hold one larger." I therefore humbly propose, that there should
be at least an edge of foliage round the outskirts of the said wig; and that its curls should
not exceed in number the leaves of the tree. There is also another practice almost equally
prevalent, of which I am sceptic enough to doubt the propriety. I own, I cannot think it by
any means conducive to the more effectual concealment of his Majesty, that there should be
three Regal Crowns stuck on three different branches of the tree.

  Painters and Poets our indulgence claim,
  Their daring equal, and their art the same.--FRAN.

And this may be reckoned a very allowable poetical licence; inasmuch as it lets the spectator
into the secret, who is in the tree. But it is apt to make him at the same time throw the accusation
of negligence and want of penetration on the three dragoons, who are usually depicted on the
foreground, cantering along very composedly, with serene countenances, erect persons, and drawn
swords, very little longer than themselves. [#7018]

53.
    [#7780]

       *       *       *       *       *
           *       *       *       *
       *       *       *       *       *

Errors corrected by transcriber:

  the Spectator's critiques of Shakespeare
    [not underlined in original]
  Artfulness and Embellishments of the Romans
    [text reads "Embel/llishments" at line break]
  the first Person that ever found out the Philosopher's Stone
    [text reads "that that"]
  But if, continues my Bookseller
    [text reads "conti/tinues" at line break]
  denouèment
    accent unchanged (grave on second "e")
  every thing larger can hold any thing that is less
    [text reads "every think"]

