"And you had thought well, Fanfulla. Did I not say that the reason I gave you was but one of
many? Tell me, sirs, what cause have you to believe that I should rule you wisely and well?
It so chances that in the crisis now threatening Babbiano a captain is needed for its ruler.
But let not this delude you, for there may come a season in the fortunes of the State when
such a man might be as unfitted for dominion as is the present Duke in this. What then? A good
knight-errant is an indifferent courtier and a bad statesman. Lastly, my friends--since you
must know all that is in my heart--there remains the fact that I love myself a little. I love
my liberty too well, and I have no mind to stifle in the scented atmosphere of courts. You
see I am frank with you. It is my pleasure to roam the world, my harness on my back, free as
the blessed wind of heaven. Shall a ducal crown and a cloak of purple----" He broke off sharply
with a laugh. "There, my friends! You have had reasons and to spare. Again I thank you, and
deplore that being such as I am, I may not become such as you would have me."

He sank back in his chair, eyeing them with a glance never so wistful, and after a second's
silence, Da Lodi's voice implored him, in accents that trembled with pathetic emphasis, to
reconsider his resolve. The old man would have proceeded to fresh argument, but Aquila cut
him short.

"I have already so well considered it, Messer Fabrizio," he answered resolutely, "that nothing
now could sway me. But this, sirs, I will promise you: I will ride with you to Babbiano, and
I will seek to reason with my cousin. More will I do; I will seek at his hands the office of
Gonfalonier, and if he grant it me; I will so reorganise our forces, and enter into such alliances
with our neighbours as shall ensure, at least in some degree, the safety of our State."

Still they endeavoured to cajole him, but he held firm against their efforts, until in the
end, with a sorrowful mien, Da Lodi thanked him for his promise to use his influence with Gian
Maria.

"For this, at least, we thank your Excellency, and on our part we shall exert such power as
we still wield in Babbiano to the end that the high office of Gonfalonier be conferred upon
you. We had preferred to see you fill with honour a position higher still, and should you later
come to consider----"

"Dismiss your hopes of that," put in the Count, with a solemn shake of his head. And then,
before another word was uttered, young Fanfulla degli Arcipreti leapt of a sudden to his feet,
his brows knit, and an expression of alarm spreading upon his comely face. A second he remained
thus; then, going swiftly to the door, he opened it, and stood listening, followed by the surprised
glances of the assembled company. But it needed not the warning cry with which he turned, to
afford them the explanation of his odd behaviour. In the moment's tense silence that had followed
his sudden opening of the door they had caught from without the distant fall of marching feet.

CHAPTER II. ON A MOUNTAIN PATH

"Armed men, my lords!" had been Fanfulla's cry. "We are betrayed!"

They looked at one another with stern eyes, and with that grimness that takes the place which
fear would hold in meaner souls.

Then Aquila rose slowly to his feet, and with him rose the others, looking to their weapons.
He softly breathed a name--"Masuccio Torri."

"Aye," cried Lodi bitterly, "would that we had heeded your warning! Masuccio it will be, and
at his heels his fifty mercenaries."

"Not less, I'll swear, by the sound of them," said Ferrabraccio. "And we but six, without our
harness."

"Seven," the Count laconically amended, resuming his hat and loosening his sword in its scabbard.

"Not so, my lord," exclaimed Lodi, laying a hand upon the Count's arm. "You must not stay with
us. You are our only hope--the only hope of Babbiano. If we are indeed betrayed--though by
what infernal means I know not--and they have knowledge that six traitors met here to-night
to conspire against the throne of Gian Maria, at least, I'll swear, it is not known that you
were to have met us. His Highness may conjecture, but he cannot know for sure, and if you but
escape, all may yet he well--saving with us, who matter not. Go, my lord! Remember your promise
to seek at your cousin's hand the gonfalon, and may God and His blessed Saints prosper your
Excellency."

The old man caught the young man's hand, and bending his head until his face was hidden in
his long white hair, he imprinted a kiss of fealty upon it. But Aquila was not so easily to
be dismissed.

"Where are your horses?" he demanded.

"Tethered at the back. But who would dare ride them at night adown this precipice?"

"I dare for one," answered the young man steadily, "and so shall you all dare. A broken neck
is the worst that can befall us, and I would as lief break mine on the rocks of Sant' Angelo
as have it broken by the executioner of Babbiano."

"Bravely said, by the Virgin!" roared Ferrabraccio. "To horse, sirs!"

"But the only way is the way by which they come," Fanfulla remonstrated. "The rest is sheer cliff."

"Why, then, my sweet seducer, we'll go to meet them," rejoined Ferrabraccio gaily. "They are
on foot, and we'll sweep over them like a mountain torrent. Come, sirs, hasten! They draw nigh."

"We have but six horses, and we are seven," another objected.

"I have no horse," said Francesco, "I'll follow you afoot."

"What?" cried Ferrabraccio, who seemed now to have assumed command of the enterprise. "Let
our St. Michael bring up the rear! No, no. You, Da Lodi, you are too old for this work."

"Too old?" blazed the old man, drawing himself up to the full height of what was still a very
imposing figure, and his eyes seeming to take fire at this reflection upon his knightly worth.
"Were the season other, Ferrabraccio, I could crave leave to show you how much of youth there
is still left in me. But----" He paused. His angry eyes had alighted upon the Count, who stood
waiting by the door, and the whole expression of his countenance changed. "You are right, Ferrabraccio,
I grow old indeed--a dotard. Take you my horse, and begone."

"But you?" quoth the Count solicitously.

"I shall remain. If you do your duty well by those hirelings they will not trouble me. It will
not occur to them that one was left behind. They will think only of following you after you
have cut through them. Go, go, sirs, or all is lost."

They obeyed him now with a rush that seemed almost to partake of panic. In a frenzied haste
Fanfulla and another tore the tetherings loose, and a moment later they were all mounted and
ready for that fearful ride. The night was dark, yet not too dark. The sky was cloudless and
thickly starred, whilst a minguant moon helped to illumine the way by which they were to go.
But on that broken and uncertain mountain path the shadows lay thickly enough to make their
venture desperate.

Ferrabraccio claiming a better knowledge than his comrades of the way, placed himself at their
head, with the Count beside him. Behind them, two by two, came the four others. They stood
on a small ledge in the shadow of the great cliff that loomed on their left. Thence the mountain-side
might be scanned--as well as in such a light it was to be discerned. The tramp of feet had
now grown louder and nearer, and with it came the clank of armour. In front of them lay the
path which sloped, for a hundred yards or more, to the first corner. Below them, on the right,
the path again appeared at the point where it jutted out for some half-dozen yards in its zigzag
course, and there Fanfulla caught the gleam of steel, reflecting the feeble moonlight. He drew
Ferrabraccio's attention to it, and that stout warrior at once gave the word to start. But
Francesco interposed.

"If we do so," he objected, "we shall come upon them past the corner, and at that corner we
shall be forced to slacken speed to avoid being carried over the edge of the cliff. Besides,
in such a strait our horses may fail us, and refuse the ground. In any event, we shall not
descend upon them with the same force as we shall carry if we wait until they come into a straight
line with us. The shadows here will screen us from them meanwhile."

"You are right, Lord Count. We will wait," was the ready answer. And what time they waited
he grumbled lustily.

"To be caught in such a trap as this! Body of Satan! It was a madness to have met in a hut
with but one approach."

"We might perhaps have retreated down the cliff behind," said Francesco.

"We might indeed--had we been sparrows or mountain cats. But being men, the way we go is the
only way--and a mighty bad way it is. I should like to be buried at Sant' Angelo, Lord Count,"
he continued whimsically. "It will be conveniently near; for once I go over the mountain-side,
I'll swear naught will stop me until I reach the valley--a parcel of broken bones."

"Steady, my friends," murmured the voice of Aquila. "They come."

And round that fateful corner they were now swinging into view--a company in steel heads and
bodies with partisan on shoulder. A moment they halted now, so that the waiting party almost
deemed itself observed. But it soon became clear that the halt was to the end that the stragglers
might come up. Masuccio was a man who took no chances; every knave of his fifty would he have
before he ventured the assault.

"Now," murmured the Count, tightening his hat upon his brow, so that it might the better mask
his features. Then rising in his stirrups, and raising his sword on high, he let his voice
be heard again. But no longer in a whisper. Like a trumpet-call it rang, echoed and re-echoed
up the mountain-side.

"Forward! St. Michael and the Virgin!"

That mighty shout, followed as it was by a thunder of hooves, gave pause to the advancing mercenaries.
Masuccio's voice was heard, calling to them to stand firm; bidding them kneel and ward the
charge with their pikes; assuring them with curses that they had but to deal with half-dozen
men. But the mountain echoes were delusive, and that thunder of descending hooves seemed to
them not of a half-dozen but of a regiment. Despite Masuccio's imprecations the foremost turned,
and in that moment the riders were upon them, through them and over them, like the mighty torrent
of which Ferrabraccio had spoken.

A dozen Swiss went down beneath that onslaught, and another dozen that had been swept aside
and over the precipice were half-way to the valley before that cavalcade met any check. Masuccio's
remaining men strove lustily to stem this human cataract, now that they realised how small
was the number of their assailants. They got their partisans to work, and for a few moments
the battle raged hot upon that narrow way. The air was charged with the grind and ring of steel,
the stamping of men and horses and the shrieks and curses of the maimed.

The Lord of Aquila, ever foremost, fought desperately on. Not only with his sword fought he,
but with his horse as well. Rearing the beast on its hind legs, he would swing it round and
let it descend where least it was expected, laying about him with his sword at the same time.
In vain they sought to bring down his charger with their pikes; so swift and furious was his
action, that before their design could be accomplished, he was upon those that meditated it,
scattering them out of reach to save their skins.

In this ferocious manner he cleared a way before him, and luck served him so well that what
blows were wildly aimed at him as he dashed by went wide of striking him. At last he was all
but through the press, and but three men now fronted him. Again his charger reared, snorting,
and pawing the air like a cat, and two of the three knaves before him fled incontinently aside.
But the third, who was of braver stuff, dropped on one knee and presented his pike at the horse's
belly. Francesco made a wild attempt to save the roan that had served him so gallantly, but
he was too late. It came down to impale itself upon that waiting partisan. With a hideous scream
the horse sank upon its slayer, crushing him beneath its mighty weight, and hurling its rider
forward on to the ground. In an instant he was up and had turned, for all that he was half-stunned
by his fall and weakened by the loss of blood from a pike-thrust in the shoulder--of which
he had hitherto remained unconscious in the heat of battle. Two mercenaries were bearing down
upon him--the same two that had been the last to fall back before him. He braced himself to
meet them, thinking that his last hour was indeed come, when Fanfulla degli Arcipreti, who
had followed him closely through the press, now descended upon his assailants from behind,
and rode them down. Beside the Count he reined up, and stretched down his hand.

"Mount behind me, Excellency," he urged him.

"There is not time," answered Francesco, who discerned a half-dozen figures hurrying towards
them. "I will cling to your stirrup-leather, thus. Now spur!" And without waiting for Fanfulla
to obey him, he caught the horse a blow with the flat of his sword across the hams, which sent
it bounding forward. Thus they continued now that perilous descent, Fanfulla riding, and the
Count half-running, half-swinging from his stirrup. At last, when they had covered a half-mile
in this fashion, and the going had grown easier, they halted that the Count might mount behind
his companion, and as they now rode along at an easier pace Francesco realised that he and
Fanfulla were the only two that had come through that ugly place. The gallant Ferrabraccio,
hero of a hundred strenuous battles, had gone to the ignoble doom which half in jest he had
prophesied himself. His horse had played him false at the outset of the charge, and taking
fright it had veered aside despite his efforts to control it, until, losing its foothold, man
and beast had gone hurtling over the cliff. Amerini, Fanfulla had seen slain, whilst the remaining
two, being both unhorsed, would doubtless be the prisoners of Masuccio.

Some three miles beyond Sant' Angelo, Fanfulla's weary horse splashed across a ford of the
Metauro, and thus, towards the second hour of night, they gained the territory of Urbino, where
for the time they might hold themselves safe from all pursuit.

CHAPTER III. SACKCLOTH AND MOTLEY

The fool and the friar had fallen a-quarrelling, and--to the shame of the friar and the glory
of the fool be it spoken--their subject of contention was a woman. Now the friar, finding himself
no match for the fool in words, and being as broad and stout of girth and limb as the other
was puny and misshapen, he had plucked off his sandal that with it he might drive the full
force of his arguments through the jester's skull. At that the fool, being a very coward, had
fled incontinently through the trees.

Running, like the fool he was, with his head turned to learn whether the good father followed
him, he never saw the figure that lay half-hidden in the bracken, and might never have guessed
its presence but that tripping over it he shot forward, with a tinkle of bells, on to his crooked
nose.

He sat up with a groan, which was answered by an oath from the man into whose sides he had
dug his flying feet. The two looked at one another in surprise, tempered with anger in the
one and dismay in the other.

"A good awakening to you, noble sir," quoth the fool politely; for by the mien and inches of
the man he had roused, he thought that courtesy might serve him best.

The other eyed him with interest, as well he might; for an odder figure it would be hard to
find in Italy.

Hunched of back, under-sized, and fragile of limb, he was arrayed in doublet, hose and hood,
the half of which was black the other crimson, whilst on his shoulders fell from that same
hood--which tightly framed his ugly little face--a foliated cape, from every point of which
there hung a tiny silver bell that glimmered in the sunlight, and tinkled as he moved. From
under bulging brows a pair of bright eyes, set wide as an owl's, took up the mischievous humour
of his prodigious mouth.

"A curse on you and him that sent you," was the answering greeting he received. Then the man
checked his anger and broke into a laugh at sight of the fear that sprang into the jester's eyes.

"I crave your pardon--most humbly do I crave it, Illustrious," said the fool, still in fear.
"I was pursued."

"Pursued?" echoed the other, in a tone not free from a sudden uneasiness. "And, pray, by whom?"

"By the very fiend, disguised in the gross flesh and semblance of a Dominican brother."

"Do you jest?" came the angry question.

"Jest? Had you caught his villainous sandal between your shoulders, as did I, you would know
how little I have a mind to jest."

"Now answer me a plain question, if you have the wit to answer with," quoth the other, anger
ever rising in his voice. "Is there hereabouts a monk?"

"Aye, is there--may a foul plague rot him!--lurking in the bushes yonder. He is over-fat to
run, or you had seen him at my heels, arrayed in that panoply of avenging wrath that is the
cognisance of the Church Militant."

"Go bring him hither," was the short answer.

"Gesù!" gasped the fool, in very real affright. "I'll not go near him till his anger cools--not
if you made me straight and bribed me with the Patrimony of St. Peter."

The man turned from him impatiently, and rising his voice:

"Fanfulla!" he called over his shoulder, and then, after a moment's pause, again: "Olá, Fanfulla!"

"I am here, my lord," came an answering voice from behind a clump of bushes on their right,
and almost immediately the very splendid youth who had gone to sleep in its shadow stood up
and came round to them. At sight of the fool he paused to take stock of him, what time the
fool returned the compliment with wonder-stricken interest. For however much Fanfulla's raiment
might have suffered in yesternight's affray, it was very gorgeous still, and in the velvet
cap upon his head a string of jewels was entwined. Yet not so much by the richness of his trappings
was the fool impressed, as by the fact that one so manifestly noble should address by such
a title, and in a tone of so much deference, this indifferently apparelled fellow over whom
he had stumbled. Then his gaze wandered back to the man who lay supported on his elbow, and
he noticed now the gold net in which his hair was coiffed, and which was by no means common
to mean folk. His little twinkling eyes turned their attention full upon the face before him,
and of a sudden a gleam of recognition entered them. His countenance underwent a change, and
from grotesque that it had been, it became more grotesque still in its hasty assumption of
reverence.

"My Lord of Aquila!" he murmured, scrambling to his feet.

Scarcely had he got erect when a hand gripped him by the shoulder, and Fanfulla's dagger flashed
before his startled eyes.

"Swear on the cross of this, never to divulge his Excellency's presence here, or take you the
point of it in your foolish heart."

"I swear, I swear!" he cried, in fearful haste, his hand upon the hilt, which Fanfulla now
held towards him.

"Now fetch the priest, good fool," said the Count, with a smile at the hunchback's sudden terror.
"You have nothing to fear from us."

When the jester had left them to go upon his errand, Francesco turned to his companion.

"Fanfulla, you are over-cautious," he said, with an easy smile. "What shall it matter that
I am recognised?"

"I would not have it happen for a kingdom while you are so near Sant' Angelo. The six of us
who met last night are doomed--those of us who are not dead already. For me, and for Lodi if
he was not taken, there may be safety in flight. Into the territory of Babbiano I shall never
again set foot whilst Gian Maria is Duke, unless I be weary of this world. But of the seventh--yourself--you
heard old Lodi swear that the secret could not have transpired. Yet should his Highness come
to hear of your presence in these parts and in my company, suspicion might set him on the road
that leads to knowledge."

"Ah! And then?"

"Then?" returned the other, eyeing Francesco in surprise. "Why, then, the hopes we found on
you--the hopes of every man in Babbiano worthy of the name--would be frustrated. But here comes
our friend the fool, and, in his wake, the friar."

Fra Domenico--so was he very fitly named, this follower of St. Dominic--approached with a solemnity
that proceeded rather from his great girth than from any inflated sense of the dignity of his
calling. He bowed before Fanfulla until his great crimson face was hidden, and he displayed
instead a yellow, shaven crown. It was as if the sun had set, and the moon had risen in its place.

"Are you skilled in medicine?" quoth Fanfulla shortly.

"I have some knowledge, Illustrious."

"Then see to this gentleman's wounds."

"Eh? Dio mio! You are wounded, then?" he began, turning to the Count, and he would have added
other questions as pregnant, but that Aquila, drawing aside his hacketon at the shoulder, answered
him quickly:

"Here, sir priest."

His lips pursed in solicitude, the friar would have gone upon his knees, but that Francesco,
seeing with what labour the movement must be fraught, rose up at once.

"It is not so bad that I cannot stand," said he, submitting himself to the monk's examination.

The latter expressed the opinion that it was nowise dangerous, however much it might be irksome,
whereupon the Count invited him to bind it up. To this Fra Domenico replied that he had neither
unguents nor linen, but Fanfulla suggested that he might get these things from the convent
of Acquasparta, hard by, and proffered to accompany him thither.

This being determined, they departed, leaving the Count in the company of the jester. Francesco
spread his cloak, and lay down again, whilst the fool, craving his permission to remain, disposed
himself upon his haunches like a Turk.

"Who is your master, fool?" quoth the Count, in an idle spirit.

"There is a man who clothes and feeds me, noble sir, but Folly is my only master."

"To what end does he do this?"

"Because I pretend to be a greater fool than he, so that by contrast with me he seems unto
himself wise, which flatters his conceit. Again, perhaps, because I am so much uglier than
he that, again by contrast, he may account himself a prodigy of beauty."

"Odd, is it not?" the Count humoured him.

"Not half so odd as that the Lord of Aquila should lie here, roughly clad, a wound in his shoulder,
talking to a fool."

Francesco eyed him with a smile.

"Give thanks to God that Fanfulla is not here to hear you, or they had been your last words
for pretty though he be, Messer Fanfulla is a very monster of bloodthirstiness. With me it
is different. I am a man of very gentle ways, as you may have heard, Messer Buffoon. But see
that you forget at once my station and my name, or you may realise how little they need buffoons
in the Court of Heaven."

"My lord, forgive. I shall obey you," answered the hunchback, with a stricken manner. And then
through the glade came a voice--a woman's voice, wondrous sweet and rich--calling: "Peppino!
Peppino!"

"It is my mistress calling me," quoth the fool, leaping to his feet.

