THE MIRROR OF LITERATURE, AMUSEMENT, AND INSTRUCTION.

       *       *       *       *       *

VOL XVII, NO. 470.] SATURDAY, JANUARY 8, 1831. [PRICE 2d.

       *       *       *       *       *

Few places in Britain can boast of higher antiquity than the city of Chichester. Its origin
is supposed to date back beyond the invasion of Britain by the Romans. It was destroyed towards
the close of the fifth century, by Ella, but rebuilt by his son, Cissa, the second king of
the South Saxons, who named it after himself, and made it the royal residence and capital of
his dominions.

Chichester, as may be expected, is a fertile field for antiquarian research. Its cathedral,
churches, and ecclesiastical buildings abound with fine architecture; and its Cross is entitled
to special mention. It is thus minutely described in the Beauties of England and Wales:

The Cross stands in the centre of the city, at the intersection of the four principal streets.
According to the inscription upon it, this Cross was built by Edward Story, who was translated
to this see from that of Carlisle, in 1475. It was repaired during the reign of Charles II.,
and at the expense of the Duke of Richmond, in 1746; though we are told that Bishop Story left
an estate at Amberley, worth full 25l. per annum, to keep it in constant repair; but a few
years afterwards the mayor and corporation sold it, in order to purchase another nearer home.
The date of the erection of this structure is not mentioned in the inscription; but, from the
style and ornaments, it must be referred to the time of Edward IV. This Cross is universally
acknowledged to be one of the most elegant buildings of the kind existing in England. Its form
is octangular, having a strong butment at each angle, surmounted with pinnacles. On each of
its faces is an entrance through a pointed arch, ornamented with crockets and a finial. Above
this, on four of its sides, is a tablet, to commemorate its reparation in the reign of Charles
II. Above each tablet is a dial, exhibiting the hour to each of the three principal streets;
the fourth being excluded from this advantage by standing at an angle. In the centre is a large
circular column, the basement of which forms a seat: into this column is inserted a number
of groinings, which, spreading from the centre, form the roof beautifully moulded. The central
column appears to continue through the roof, and is supported without by eight flying buttresses,
which rest on the several corners of the building. Till a few years since this Cross was used
as a market-place; but the increased population of the city requiring a more extensive area
for that purpose, a large and convenient market-house was, about the year 1807, erected in
the North-street; on the completion of which, it was proposed to take down this Cross, then
considered as a nuisance. Fortunately, however, the city was exempted from the reproach of
such a proceeding by the public spirit of some of the members of the corporation, who purchased
several houses on the north side of the Cross, in order to widen that part of the street, by
their demolition.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE TOPOGRAPHER

COUNTY COLLECTIONS.

(For the Mirror.)

Kent.

  He that will not live long,
  Let him dwell at Murston, Tenham, or Tong.

Queen Elizabeth's Gun at Dover.

  "O'er hill and dale I throw my ball,
  Breaker my name of mound and wall."

  Deal famed much vaunts of new turrets high,
  A place well known by Cæsar's victory.

                                  Leland.

  Dover, Sandwich, and Winchelsea,
  Rumney and Rye the Five Ports be.

Hampshire--Sir Bevis of Southampton.

  Bevis conquered Ascupart
  And after slew the Boar,
  And then he crossed beyond the seas
  To combat with the Moor.

Westmoreland.

                 Drunken Barnaby's Journal.

Cheshire.

  Chester of Castria took the name,
  As if that Castria were the same.

SHROPSHIRE.

  "To all friends round the Wrekin."
                                         Merlin.

STAFFORDSHIRE.

  Or Trent who like some earth-born giant spreads
  His thirsty arms along the indented meads.
                                       Milton.

  And beauteous Trent that in himself enseams (fattens)
  Both thirty sorts of fish and thirty sundry streams.
                                       Spenser.

BERKSHIRE.--ABINGDON.

  (From Piers Plowman's MSS.

  A noble park near Sarum's stately town,
  In form a mount's clear top call'd Clarendon;
  There twenty groves, and each a mile in space,
  With grateful shades, at once protect the place.

GLOUCESTERSHIRE.

  An owl shall build her nest upon the walls of Gloucester,
  And in her nest shall be brought forth an ass.

  The Severn sea shall discharge itself through seven mouths,
  And the river Usk shall burn seven months.
                                       Merlin.

YORKSHIRE.

  Robin Hood in Barnesdale stood,
   An arrow to head drew he,
  "How far I can shoot," quoth he, "by the rood
    My merry men shall see."
                                      Spenser.

  The chalky Wey that rolls a milky wave.
                                      Pope.

SOMERSETSHIRE.

  What ear so empty is, that hath not heard the sound
  Of Tannton's fruitful Deane; not matched by any ground.
                                       Drayton.

  "Stanton Drew,
  One mile from Pensford, and another from Chew."

  Bristol Castle.

  The castle there and noble tower,
  Of all the towers of England is held the flower.

  Redcliffe Church.

  Stay curious traveller, and pass not bye,
  Until this fetive (elegant) pile astound thine eye,
  That shoots aloft into the realms of day,
  The Record of the Builder's fame for aie--
  The pride of Bristowe and the Western Lande.
                                       Chatterton.

WALES.--GLAMORGANSHIRE.

  When the hoarse waves of Severn are screaming aloud,
  And Penline's lofty castle involv'd in a cloud,
  If true, the old proverb, a shower of rain,
  Is brooding above, and will soon drench the plain.

  When Percelly weareth a hat,
  All Pembrokeshire shall weet of that.

SCOTLAND.--STIRLINGSHIRE--BANNOCKBURN, 1314.

  "Maidens of England, sore may ye mourn,
  For your lemans ye've lost at Bannockburn"

ROXBURGH.
                                     Scott.

WESTERN ISLES.

  Seven years before that awful day,
    When time shall be no more,
  A watery deluge will o'ersweep
    Hibernia's mossy shore.
  The green clad Isla too shall sink,
    While with the great and good,
  Columba's happy isle shall rear
    Her towers above the flood.

This prophecy is said to be the reason why so many kings of Scotland, Norway, and Ireland have
selected Icombkill for the place of their interment.

DUMBARTON.

  So cold the waters are of Lomond Lake,
  What once were sticks, they hardened stones will make.

PERTH.

  "Fear not till Birnam Wood
  Do come to Dunsinane"

       *       *       *       *       *

RETROSPECTIVE GLEANINGS

GREEK BALLOT.--VOTING AMONG THE ANCIENT GREEKS.

The manner of giving their suffrages (says Potter) was by holding up their hands. This was
the common method of voting among the citizens in the civil government; but in some cases,
particularly when they deprived magistrates of their offices for mal-administration, they gave
their votes in private, lest the power and greatness of the persons accused should lay a restraint
upon them, and cause them to act contrary to their judgments and inclinations.

