It is perhaps not to be regretted. Nothing is more diverting to the perceptive playgoer than
these little dramatic-simplicities; as when, the great Suez deal having been completed--a fact
that it was enormously important to conceal from the Press and the country (and the adventuress)--a
telegram with full details in the plainest of plain English is despatched from the local post-office
to the great financier who had made the deal possible. The charming naïveté of the family gathering
at the Foreign Office (it might have been Mme. TUSSAUD's) and the adorable ingenuousness of
the idea of bringing down a great international financier by holding up his cargo of bullion
in a foreign port, should lead no one to complain that high politics are dull.

I wouldn't have missed Mr. DENNIS EADIE's Disraeli for a good deal. Where it was at all possible--which
it was in general; Mr. PARKER only sprinkled his extravagances--the ease and plausibility of
it were quite admirable. This adroit player gave us the tact, the wit, the gallantry, the generosity,
the romantic exuberance. It was a fine performance, and it will be finer as its firm outline
is filled in. The play, for all its vagaries, may even serve to remind a careless age of its
too lightly forgotten spacious dead. Miss MARY JERROLD'S Lady Beaconsfield was, I suppose,
more in the nature of an imaginary portrait. It was beautiful and convincing. As a stage adventuress
MME. DORZIAT was most attractive, if only she had been credible. She had no business to be
in any of the situations in which she found herself, and must have needed all her skill to
conceal the fact from herself. Miss MARY GLYNNE as The Lady Clarissa, the portentous Duchess
of Glastonbury's pretty daughter and the doomed bride of the egregious Deeford, was quite charming
to watch and hear. Mr. CYRIL RAYMOND should, I am sure, mitigate the asinine priggishness of
the young viscount's bearing in the First Act. His conversion from this to the merely crass
stupidity of the second was too much for us to bear. Mr. VINCENT STERNROYD as Mr. Hugh Meyers
looked quite as if he might have been able to put his hand on two million; Mr. HARBEN as Sir
Michael Probert just as if he would sign any document which was put before him under threat
or suggestion. Mr. CAMPBELL GULLAN, as the adventuress's husband, made himself the kind of
clerk that no one would have trusted for a moment with even the petty cash. These things I
know are necessary and I acquit him of any artistic impropriety. But you will go to see this
piece chiefly for the sake of Mr. EADIE's tour de force, for the thrill of the rather pleasant
sensation (mingled with a slightly horrified suspicion of sacrilege) of seeing a queer resurrection,
and for the fragrance of a touching little idyll of married friendship--one of the most enduring
of Disraeliana.

T.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

A Special Matinée, at which the Queen will be present, is to be given at the Theatre Royal,
Drury Lane, at 2.30, on Friday, April 14th, in aid of of the Y. W. C. A.'s fund for providing
Hostels, Canteens and Rest Rooms for women engaged in munition and other war-work. Among the
artists who have promised to appear are Madame SARAH BERNHARDT, Miss GLADYS COOPER, Mr. JOSEPH
COYNE, Mr. GERALD DU MAURIER, Mr. DENNIS EADIE, Miss LILY ELSIE, Madame GENÉE, Mr. ROBERT HALE,
Mr. CHARLES HAWTREY, Madame KIRKBY LUNN, Mr. GEORGE ROBEY and Miss IRENE VANBRUGH. The Matinée
has been organised by Miss OLGA NETHERSOLE, and the stage will be under the direction of Mr.
DION BOUCICAULT.

Applications for seats should be addressed to the Manager, Box Office, Theatre Royal, Drury
Lane. Cheques to be made payable to Lady SYDENHAM.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

THEATRICAL ECONOMY.

We learn that at a recent matinée performance of a play by Mr. W. B. YEATS, "instead of scenery
a Chorus of singers was introduced, who described the scene as well as commenting upon the
action." In these times that call for frugality other managements would do well to copy. One
might mount an entire West-End Society comedy, and bring as it were the scent of Hay Hill across
the footlights, at no greater expense than the cost of a back-curtain and a Chorus. The latter
might go something as follows:--

  This is the morning-room of the heroine's house in Half Moon Street;
  Noble and large is the room, with three windows, two doors and a fireplace
  (Goodness knows how many more in the wall through which we are looking).
  Nobly and well is it furnished, with chairs and with tables and couches,
  Couches beyond computation, and all of them soon to be sat on;
  So may you see that the play will be dialogue rather than action.
  Pleasant and fresh in the footlights the chintzes with which they are covered,
  Giving a summer effect, helped out by the plants in the fireplace.
  Curtains at each of the windows are flooded with limelight of amber,
  Whence you may learn that the time is a fine afternoon in the season.
  Centre of back a piano, whose makers are told on the programme,
  Promises snatches of song, or it may be a heartbroken solo.
  Carpets and rugs and the like you can fill in without any prompting;
  Pictures and china and books, and photographs circled in silver.
  Yes, you may take it from us that the piece has been mounted regardless.

[Enter the leading lady. She just pushes the back-curtains apart and emerges on to the stage,
dressed in any old thing (what a saving!). The Chorus continues ecstatically.]

  See where the heroine comes, flinging open the door from the staircase
  (Marked you the head of the stairs and the artist-proof on the landing?
  That's what I call realistic). She's threaded her way through the couches,
  Sinks upon one for an instant, then rises and walks to the window,
  Showing the back of her gown to be fully as chic as the front part.
  So to the door (in the curtain) and slams it with signs of emotion,
  Slams it so hard and so fierce that the walls of the room are a-quiver;
  Even the opposite side of the roadway, as seen through the windows,
  Shares in the general movement, as though it were struck by an earthquake.

And so on. You catch the idea? Bare boards, a passion and a Chorus; and the management would
save enough to make the amusement-tax a matter of indifference.

       *       *       *       *       *

NURSERY RHYMES OF LONDON TOWN.

V.--SWISS COTTAGE.

  I heard a Jodeller
    In a Swiss cottage
  Eating a crust
    And a bowlful of pottage.

  He jodelled and jodelled
    'Twixt every bite;
  He jodelled until
    Not a crumb was in sight.

  He jodelled and jodelled
    'Twixt every sup;
  He jodelled until
    He had drunk it all up.

  He put down his bowl
    And he came to the door,
  And jodelled and jodelled
    And jodelled for more!

       *       *       *       *       *

    "The exportation of the following goods is prohibited to all
    destinations:--

    Acetic acid, cinematograph films, ferro-molybdenum,
    ferro-silicon, ferro-tungsten, gramophone and other sound
    records, photographic sensitive firms, &c., &c."

    Liverpool Daily Post.

    "Two photographers from Devonport, who had been already deferred
    ten groups, asked that their claims should be heard in camera."

    Western Morning News.

No doubt they belonged to one of the sensitive firms above mentioned.

       *       *       *       *       *

ROOSEVELT IN THE RING.

Every Englishman who has taken even a very humble part in the consideration and discussion
of public affairs is or ought to be aware that the most gratuitous error he can commit is to
take a side in American politics and to criticise American public men from the British point
of view. From that error I propose to abstain most rigorously. It is the right of Americans
to criticise their own Government and the public acts of their statesmen, and on that right
I shall not infringe. It cannot, however, be improper for an Englishman to set out before his
fellow-countrymen the utterances of a great American on matters which vitally affect not only
America but the whole civilised world. Mr. Roosevelt--for Mr. Roosevelt is the great American
of whom I speak--has done more than give utterance to his opinions; he has deliberately collected
them into a book, Fear God and Take Your Own Part (HODDER AND STOUGHTON), and has thus invited
us to read and consider his views. I accept his invitation and trust I shall not abuse the
privilege.

It is a refreshment to go about with Mr. ROOSEVELT through the pages of this book. Here are
no doubts and no hesitations, no timidity and no blurred outlines. Everything is clear cut
and well defined. Where Mr. ROOSEVELT blames he blames with a vigour which is overwhelming;
where he approves he approves with a resonant zeal and enjoyment. He has no drop of English
blood in his veins--he himself has said it more than once--yet he is strong in his praise of
our conduct and even stronger in his denunciation of the faithlessness and inhumanity of Germany.
The contemplation of German atrocities and of what he considers to be America's weak compliance
with them fills him with a rage which is fortunately articulate. His indictment of Germany
is as vigorous as the most ardent pro-Ally can desire. It would be agreeable to watch the KAISER's
face if he should happen to take up this book in an idle moment between one front and another.

Mr. ROOSEVELT's position can be best defined in his own words. "We Americans," he says, "must
pay to the great truths set forth by Lincoln a loyalty of the heart and not of the lips only.
In this crisis I hold that we have signally failed in our duty to Belgium and Armenia, and
in our duty to ourselves. In this crisis I hold that the Allies are standing for the principles
to which Abraham Lincoln said this country was dedicated; and the rulers of Germany have, in
practical fashion, shown this to be the case by conducting a campaign against Americans on
the ocean, which has resulted in the wholesale murder of American men, women and children,
and by conducting within our own borders a campaign of the bomb and the torch against American
industries. They have carried on war against our people; for wholesale and repeated killing
is war, even though the killing takes the shape of assassination of non-combatants, instead
of battle against armed men."

Here again is a passage which is not lacking in emphasis: "Of course, incidentally, we have
earned contempt and derision by our conduct in connection with the hundreds of Americans thus
killed in time of peace without action on our part. The United States Senator or Governor of
a State or other public representative who takes the position that our citizens should not,
in accordance with their lawful rights, travel on such ships, and that we need not take action
about their deaths, occupies a position precisely and exactly as base and as cowardly (and
I use those words with scientific precision) as if his wife's face were slapped on the public
streets and the only action he took was to tell her to stay in the house."

This, too, on the hyphenated is good: "As regards the German-Americans who assail me in this
contest because they are really mere transported Germans, hostile to this country and to human
rights, I feel, not sorrow, but stern disapproval. I am not interested in their attitude toward
me, but I am greatly interested in their attitude toward this nation. I am standing for the
larger Americanism, for true Americanism; and as regards my attitude in this matter I do not
ask as a favour, but challenge as a right, the support of all good American citizens, no matter
where born and no matter of what creed or national origin." That puts the matter in a nutshell.

I might continue with pithy extracts until the columns of Punch were filled to overflowing,
and even then I should not have exhausted the interest of this virile and timely book. The
reading of it can only serve to confirm an Englishman's faith in his country's cause. Thank
you, Mr. ROOSEVELT, for your admirable tonic.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

VICTORIA.

He entered the train at St. James' Park--a dark-eyed young Belgian wearing the new khaki uniform
of KING ALBERT'S heroic Army. I had watched him hobbling along the platform, and my own boots
and puttees being coated with mud after a day's trench-digging in Surrey I drew them in as
he took the corner seat opposite mine, stretching out rather stiffly before him the leg which
had no doubt stopped a Bosch's bullet. Here was the opportunity for an interesting exchange
of views. I was mentally rehearsing a few bright opening sentences in French when the train
again stopped. Half twisting in his seat he peered uncertainly out of window.

"Victoria," I informed him; but he obviously didn't understand. I raised my voice.

"Victoria Station," I told him again. "Er--er, Victoire."

His stick fell clattering to the floor, his mouth broadened into a fraternal smile and, seizing
both my hands, he worked them like pump-handles.

"Ah, bon, bon! À la victoire! Vivent les Alliés!"

       *       *       *       *       *

    "BRAZIL.--The British Consul at Porto Alegre states that there
    appears to be a prospect of the work of repaying the town being
    carried out in the near future. The contract provides for the
    repaving of an area of 500,000 square miles at a total cost of
    £223,200." Morning Paper.

If these figures are correct Porto Alegre must have the record for cheap paving, always excepting
an even warmer place where good intentions are the material employed.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

"CONKY'S" UNCLE.

There are some men whose patronymics are swallowed up in their nicknames, and my friend "Conky"
is one of these. He has quite a decorative surname of his own, but it never counted. For the
rest he is the possessor of a big booming bass voice, which he uses with more gusto than art.
He is, apart from a certain pride in his musical accomplishments, a very good fellow; and so
is Mrs. "Conky"--an amiable and agreeable woman, whose only fault is an excessive anxiety for
the comfort of her guests, leading her at times to forget, in the words of the Chinese proverb,
that "inattention is often the highest form of civility."

They are a devoted couple, and the only cloud on their happiness was caused by Conky's expectations
from a mysterious and eccentric uncle. For a long time I was inclined to disbelieve in his
existence, as he never "materialised." But I was converted from my scepticism, some three years
ago, when, on meeting Conky, I was informed that Uncle Joseph had invited himself on a short
visit. My friend betrayed a certain agitation. "You know," he said, "it is twenty years since
I saw him last, when he came to look me up at school, and rather frightened me."

"Frightened you! But how?"

"Well, you see, he's got a way of thinking aloud, and it's rather embarrassing. I don't mind
being called 'Conky,' as you know, but it was rather trying to hear him say, 'I hope his nose
has stopped growing.' However, I couldn't very well put him off now. I'm his only nephew; he's
an old man, and said to be very rich." Conky sighed, but added more hopefully, "Anyhow, I'm
sure Marjorie will rise to the occasion." Personally I was by no means so sure. I felt that
Marjorie might overdo it: also that Conky, who loved the sound of his voice, might be tempted
to soothe the old man with intempestive gusts of song.

Unhappily my misgivings were realised. A few weeks later, on my way home from the club, I called
in late one afternoon on the Conkys. They greeted me cordially as usual, but I could see something
was amiss, and soon it all came out. The visit had been a fiasco. Uncle Joseph had been very
friendly and even courteous, but at intervals he thought aloud with devastating frankness.
Marjorie had exhausted herself in the labours of hospitality, but all in vain. Conky had sung,
but the voice of the charmer had failed. And just as Uncle Joseph was going he observed in
a final burst of candour, "Goo-ood people, very goo-ood people; but she's a second-rate Martha,
and he sings like a bank-holiday trombone-player on Blackpool sands."

From that day till a week ago I never heard Conky or his wife allude to Uncle Joseph. The memory
was too painful. And yet it is impossible to deny that the experience was salutary. Marjorie
is certainly less overwhelming in her hospitality, and Conky less prodigal of song. And when
Conky told me last week that Uncle Joseph had died and left him £10,000, I felt that the old
man had atoned handsomely for his unconscious indulgence in a habit for which, after all, a
good deal was to be said. It is the record of a not specially distinguished, but entirely charming,
lad during his career at his private and public schools. Incidentally, as such records must,
it becomes the history of certain other boys, two especially, and of David's relations with
them. It is this that is the real motive of the book. The friendship between Maddox and David,
its dangers and its rewards, seems to me to have been handled with the rarest delicacy and
judgment. The hazards of the theme are obvious. There have been books in plenty before now
that, essaying to navigate the uncharted seas of schoolboy friendship, have foundered beneath
the waves of sloppiness that are so ready to engulph them. The more credit then to Mr. BENSON
for bringing his barque triumphantly to harbour. To drop metaphor, the captious or the forgetful
may call the whole sentimental--as if one could write about boys and leave out what is the
greatest common factor of the race. But the sentiment is never mawkish. There is indeed an
atmosphere of clean, fresh-smelling youth about the book that is vastly refreshing. Friendship
and games make up the matter of it; there is nothing that I could repeat by way of plot; but
if you care for a close and sympathetic study of boyhood at its happiest here is the book for
your money. Finally I may mention that, though in sympathetic studies of boyhood the pedagogue
receives as a rule scant courtesy, Mr. BENSON'S masters are (with one unimportant exception)
such delightful persons that I can only hope that they are actual and not imaginary portraits.

       *       *       *       *       *

You will get quite a serviceable impression of what the highlands and highlanders of Serbia
and Montenegro were like in war, behind the lines when the lines still held, from The Luck
of Thirteen (SMITH, ELDER), by JAN GORDON (colourist) and CORA his wife, if you are not blinded
by the perpetual flashes of brightness--such flashes as "somebody had gnawed a piece from one
of the wheels" as an explanation of jolting; "the twistiest stream, which seemed as though
it had been designed by a lump of mercury on a wobbling plate;" the trees in the mist "seemed
to stand about with their hands in their pockets, like vegetable Charlie----" But no! I am
hanged if I will write the accurséd name. This plucky pair of souls had put in some stiff months
of typhus-fighting with a medical mission in the early months of the war, and these are impressions
of the holiday which they took thereafter among those fateful hills, with a little carrying
of despatches, retrieving of stores and a good deal of parasite-hunting thrown in, until they
were finally caught up in the tragic Serbian retreat; still remaining, of course, incurably
"bright." I think I detect a certain amount of the too-British attitude that contemns what
is strange and is more than a little scornful of poverty, official and private. And I suppose
the artist's wife will scoff if I tell her that I was shocked that she should have taken some
shots at the Austrians with a Montenegrin machine gun, as if war was just a cock-shy for tourists.
But I was. If Mr. JAN GORDON found a good deal more colour in his subjects than we other fellows
would have been able to see, that's what an artist's for.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

In Jitny and the Boys (SMITH, ELDER) there are those elements of patriotism, humour and pathos
which I find so desirable in War-time books. Jitny was neither man nor woman, but a motor-car,
and without disparaging those who drove her and rode in her I am bound to say that she was
as much alive as any one of them. She certainly talked--or was responsible for--a lot of motor-shop,
and I took it all in with the greatest ease and comfort. Jitny indeed is a great car, but she
is not exactly the heroine of a novel. She is just the sit-point from which a very human family
surveys the world at a time when that world is undergoing a vast upheaval. In the father of
this family Mr. BENNET COPPLESTONE has scored an unqualified success, but the boys are perhaps
a little old for their years. This, however, is no great matter, for the essential fact is
that the book is full of the thoughts which make us proud to-day and help us to face to-morrow.
Yes, Jitny has my blessing.

       *       *       *       *       *

Little Willie goes for more Loot.

    "In the Woevre the Germans attempted on three occasions to
    capture from us an earthquake."--Glasgow Evening News.

       *       *       *       *       *

A schoolgirl's translation:--"La marquise recommanda son âme à Dieu." "The Marquis wished his
donkey good-bye."

       *       *       *       *       *

    "A number of officers in the province of Yunnan, China, hatched
    a plot to behead the Governor-General at Urumtsi, and proclaim
    the independence of the province of Sinkiang. The Governor,
    discovering the plot, invited ten of the conspirators to an
    official dinner, at which he beheaded them in turn."--Reuter.

"Another glass of wine, Mr. Wung Ti?" "No? Very well, then, if you would kindly stand up a
moment and place your neck on the back of your chair---- Thank you. After the savoury I shall
have the pleasure of calling upon the next on my list, Mr. Ah Sin," and so on. Quite a jolly
dinner-party.