Whatever may be said about the power of the press, it is undeniable that it can set the entire
public thinking and talking about any topic, however insignificant in itself, that it may elect
to make the sensation of the day--a wedding, a murder, a political scandal, a divorce, a social
event, a defalcation, a lost child, an unidentified victim of accident or crime, an election,
or--that undefined quickener of patriotism called a casus belli. It can impose any topic it
pleases upon the public mind. In case there is no topic, it is necessary to make one, for it
is an indefeasible right of the public to have news.

These reports of the Mavick ball had a peculiar interest for at least two people in New York.
Murad Ault read them with a sardonic smile and an enjoyment that would not have been called
altruistic. Philip searched them with the feverish eagerness of a maiden who scans the report
of a battle in which her lover has been engaged.

All summer long he had lived upon stray bits of news in the society columns of the newspapers.
To see Evelyn's name mentioned, and only rarely, as a guest at some entertainment, and often
in connection with that of Lord Montague, did not convey much information, nor was that little
encouraging. Was she well? Was she absorbed in the life of the season? Did she think of him
in surroundings so brilliant? Was she, perhaps, unhappy and persecuted? No tidings came that
could tell him the things that he ached to know.

Only recently intelligence had come to him that at the same time wrung his heart with pity
and buoyed him up with hope. He had not seen Miss McDonald since her dismissal, for she had
been only one night in the city, but she had written to him. Relieved by her discharge of all
obligations of silence, she had written him frankly about the whole affair, and, indeed, put
him in possession of unrecorded details and indications that filled him with anxiety, to be
sure, but raised his courage and strengthened his determination. If Evelyn loved him, he had
faith that no manoeuvres or compulsion could shake her loyalty. And yet she was but a girl;
she was now practically alone, and could she resist the family and the social pressure? Few
women could, few women do, effectively resist under such circumstances. With one of a tender
heart, duty often takes the most specious and deceiving forms. In yielding to the impulses
of her heart, which in her inexperience may be mistaken, has a girl the right--from a purely
rational point of view--to set herself against, nay, to destroy, the long-cherished ambitions
of her parents for a brilliant social career for her, founded upon social traditions of success?
For what had Mr. Mavick toiled? For what had Mrs. Mavick schemed all these years? Could the
girl throw herself away? Such disobedience, such disregard for social law, would seem impossible
to her mother.

Some of the events that preceded the Mavick ball throw light upon that interesting function.
After the departure of Miss McDonald, Mrs. Mavick, in one of her confidential talks with her
proposed son-in-law, confessed that she experienced much relief. An obstacle seemed to be removed.

In fact, Evelyn rather surprised her mother by what seemed a calm acceptance of the situation.
There was no further outburst. If the girl was often preoccupied and seemed listless, that
was to be expected, on the sudden removal of the companion of her lifetime.

But she did not complain. She ceased after a while to speak of McDonald. If she showed little
enthusiasm in what was going on around her, she was compliant, she fell in at once with her
mother's suggestions, and went and came in an attitude of entire obedience.

"It isn't best for you to keep up a correspondence, my dear, now that you know that McDonald
is nicely settled--all reminiscent correspondence is very wearing--and, really, I am more than
delighted to see that you are quite capable of walking alone. Do you know, Evelyn, that I am
more and more proud of you every day, as my daughter. I don't dare to tell you half the nice
things that are said of you. It would make you vain." And the proud mother kissed her affectionately.
The letters ceased. If the governess wrote, Evelyn did not see the letters.

As the days went by, Lord Montague, in high and confident spirits, became more and more a familiar
inmate of the house. Daily he sent flowers to Evelyn; he contrived little excursions and suppers;
he was marked in his attentions wherever they went. "He is such a dear fellow," said Mrs. Mavick
to one of her friends; "I don't know how we should get on without him."

Only, in the house, owing to some unnatural perversity of circumstances, he did not see much
of Evelyn, never alone for more than a moment. It is wonderful what efficient, though invisible,
defenses most women, when they will, can throw about themselves.

That the affair was "arranged" Lord Montague had no doubt. It was not conceivable that the
daughter of an American stock-broker would refuse the offer of a position so transcendent and
so evidently coveted in a democratic society. Not that the single-minded young man reasoned
about it this way. He was born with a most comfortable belief in himself and the knowledge
that when he decided to become a domestic man he had simply, as the phrase is, to throw his
handkerchief.

At home, where such qualities as distinguished him from the common were appreciated without
the need of personal exertion, this might be true; but in America it did seem to be somehow
different. American women, at least some of them, did need to be personally wooed; and many
of them had a sort of independence in the bestowal of their affections or, what they understood
to be the same thing, themselves that must be taken into account. And it gradually dawned upon
the mind of this inheritor of privilege that in this case the approval of the family, even
the pressure of the mother, was not sufficient; he must have also Evelyn's consent. If she
were a mature woman who knew and appreciated the world, she would perceive the advantages offered
to her without argument. But a girl, just released from the care of her governess, unaccustomed
to society, might have notions, or, in the vernacular of the scion, might be skittish.

And then, again, to do the wooer entire justice, the dark little girl, so much mistress of
herself, so evidently spirited, with such an air of distinction, began to separate herself
in his mind as a good goer against the field, and he had a real desire to win her affection.
The more indifferent she was to him, the keener was his desire to possess her. His unsuccessful
wooing had passed through several stages, first astonishment, then pique, and finally something
very like passion, or a fair semblance of devotion, backed, of course, since all natures are
more or less mixed, by the fact that this attractive figure of the woman was thrown into high
relief by the colossal fortune behind her.

And Evelyn herself? Neither her mother nor her suitor appreciated the uncommon circumstances
that her education, her whole training in familiarity with pure and lofty ideals, had rendered
her measurably insensible to the social considerations that seemed paramount to them, or that
there could be any real obstacle to the bestowal of her person. where her heart was not engaged.
Yet she perfectly understood her situation, and, at times, deprived of her lifelong support,
she felt powerless in it, and she suffered as only the pure and the noble can suffer. Day after
day she fought her battle alone, now and then, as the situation confronted her, assailed by
a shudder of fear, as of one awakening in the night from a dream of peril, the clutch of an
assassin, or the walking on an icy precipice. If McDonald were only with her! If she could
only hear from Philip! Perhaps he had lost hope and was submitting to the inevitable.

The opportunity which Lord Montague had long sought came one day unexpectedly, or perhaps it
was contrived. They were waiting in the drawing-room for an afternoon drive. The carriage was
delayed, and Mrs. Mavick excused herself to ascertain the cause of the delay. Evelyn and her
suitor were left alone. She was standing by a window looking out, and he was standing by the
fireplace watching the swing of the figure on the pendulum of the tall mantelpiece clock. He
was the first to break the silence.

"Your clock, Miss Mavick, is a little fast." No reply. "Or else I am slow." Still no reply.
"They say, you know, that I am a little slow, over here." No reply. "I am not, really, you
know. I know my mind. And there was something, Miss Mavick, something particular, that I wanted
to say to you."

"Yes?" without turning round. "The carriage will be here in a minute."

"Never mind that," and Lord Montague moved away from the fireplace and approached the girl;
"take care of the minutes and the hours will take care of themselves, as the saying is." At
this unexpected stroke of brilliancy Evelyn did turn round, and stood in an expectant attitude.
The moment had evidently come, and she would not meet it like a coward.

"We have been friends a long time; not so very long, but it seems to me the best part of my
life," he was looking down and speaking slowly, with the modest deference of a gentleman, "and
you must have seen, that is, I wanted you to see, you know well, that is--er--what I was staying
on here for."

"Because you like America, I suppose," said Evelyn, coolly.

"Because I like some things in America--that is just the fact," continued the little lord,
with more confidence. "And that is why I stayed. You see I couldn't go away and leave what
was best in the world to me."

There was an air of simplicity and sincerity about this that was unexpected, and could not
but be respected by any woman. But Evelyn waited, still immovable.

"It wasn't reasonable that you should like a stranger right off," he went on, "just at first,
and I waited till you got to know me better. Ways are different here and over there, I know
that, but if you came to know me, Miss Mavick, you would see that I am not such a bad sort
of a fellow." And a deprecatory smile lighted up his face that was almost pathetic. To Evelyn
this humility seemed genuine, and perhaps it was, for the moment. Certainly the eyes she bent
on, the odd little figure were less severe.

"All this is painful to me, Lord Montague."

"I'm sorry," he continued, in the same tone. "I cannot help it. I must say it. I--you must
know that I love you." And then, not heeding the nervous start the girl gave in stepping backward,
"And--and, will you be my wife?"

"You do me too much honor, Lord Montague," said Evelyn, summoning up all her courage.

"No, no, not a bit of it."

"I am obliged to you for your good opinion, but you know I am almost a school-girl. My governess
has just left me. I have never thought of such a thing. And, Lord Montague, I cannot return
your feeling. That is all. You must see how painful this is to me."

"I wouldn't give you pain, Miss Mavick, not for the world. Perhaps when you think it over it
will seem different to you. I am sure it will. Don't answer now, for good."

"No, no, it cannot be," said Evelyn, with something of alarm in her tone, for the full meaning
of it all came over her as she thought of her mother.

"You are not offended?"

"No," said Evelyn.

"I couldn't bear to offend you. You cannot think I would. And you will not be hard-hearted.
You know me, Miss Mavick, just where I am. I'm just as I said."

"The carriage is coming," said Mrs. Mavick, who returned at this moment.

