(Adapted from published stories not original)

1. Rome in the early centuries after Christ. Three persons are involved, one man and two women,
one of whom has just pledged troth to the man. The man and the other woman are devotees of
a mystic faith, whose priest residing in a dark cavern in the hills calls now one, now another
devotee to pass through the "void" to eternal fellowship with God.

2. Oklahoma at the time of the opening of the strip for settlement. A man and his wife and
two children come from Kansas to find land in the strip on the day of the run. They have failed
in Kansas and are almost out of money. The husband, who is to make the run for the strip on
horseback when the signal guns are fired, falls sick.

3. A lumber camp. In addition to the men, a man and his wife who cook and take care of the
camp, and a half-witted chore boy. The chore boy tries to take care of the men and keep them
from drinking. A number of the men go off to a neighboring town for a spree, and the chore
boy goes with them.

4. Some place in the region of the mountain whites of the Carolinas and Tennessee. A beautiful
girl with a tinge of negro blood that does not show in nature, intellectual endowment, or appearance.
A mountain white to whom she is betrothed. A young man from the North visiting the family with
whom she is staying is attracted by her. The contrast of the life of the mountain whites to
which her betrothal if fulfilled dooms her, and that of the world of taste and culture which
her nature demands.

QUESTIONS ON "A DOCTOR OF THE OLD SCHOOL," FROM THE "BONNIE BRIER BUSH"

I

1. a. What has been accomplished in your sympathies by this? 2. b. Has this been through direct
statement of things calling for your sympathies, or through "effects"? c. Is the method cumulative
and gradual, or direct and insistent? d. Would you say that the method here is objective or
subjective? e. What symbols do you find that you have employed largely, and for what purpose
have the devices for which two of these stand been employed? f. Would you say that the author
puts much or little meaning into his words? Is the style diffuse and thin, or does it accomplish
much with few words? Indicate a paragraph or page that justifies your conclusion and say how.
g. Are the inferences which you are made to draw logical or emotional, and do they seem to
you delicate and subtle or simple and direct? Indicate some of them in confirmation of your
conclusion.

II

1. a. Do you see any change in the method of presenting MacLure here? b. How is it an advance
in the development of the story or not? c. Was Part I. preparation for this or not, and if
so, how? d. Does this have a definite climax and dénouement, and if so, where?

III

1. a. How does this make an advance upon the preceding in the revelation of MacLure? b. Does
it in any way get nearer to elemental human feeling? c. Does it anywhere appeal directly to
sensation? d. Do you find in this any feeling for the mystery of existence? Does it seem to
be an integral part of the story, coming from its essential emotion and free from obtrusive
moralizing, or not? e. Is there any increase in intensity of feeling in this or not, and if
so, how is it indicated in the symbols you have employed? f. Has MacLure now been presented
to us with full showing of his distinguishing characteristics or not? and do we find in him
a vital human nature?

IV

1. a. Do you think a death-bed scene a good subject for literary presentation or not? Why?
b. Would you call it a difficult thing to present or not? c. Do you find anything objectionable
here? d. Has the interest of the whole story depended upon incident or upon showing of character?
e. Does this Part IV. serve in any particular way to round out our knowledge of MacLure, and
if so, in what way? f. What is the especially appealing thing in the portrait of MacLure? And
what in the fortune and circumstance of his life? g. Does this appeal touch in any fashion
upon our sense of a something inscrutable governing our lives? h. Which of the different sorts
of subject-matter (see section 9) seem to you to be the more largely employed here? So far
as it is concerned with experience, is it a reviving of what we have experienced or an addition
to our knowledge of life? Is there in it a truth that you could formulate into a law of life,
or is the truth so much a matter of emotion as merely to touch the sensibilities and so give
us a wider vision?

QUESTIONS ON "LOVELINESS," BY ELIZABETH STUART PHELPS-WARD

(Atlantic Monthly, August, 1899)

1. a. Do you detect in this story any purpose beyond that of recounting a series of happenings?
If so, what? b. If you were to write the story, would you think it prospectively a difficult
thing to arouse interest in a dog? c. Has that been done here or not? d. If so, what are some
of the author's devices and how successfully employed?

2. a. What is the artistic purpose of the first two paragraphs? Why does the author delay so
long in telling us that she is writing of a dog? b. Does she let her own feeling for the girl
and dog appear or not? If so, is it obtrusive or not? Effective or not, as your markings indicate?
c. Are there any incidents in the story that a reader might for any reason be unwilling to
accept? d. If so, how is the handling such as to disguise the difficulty or not, as the case
may be?

3. a. What devices are employed to make us interested in Adah? b. Are we made to feel that
her dependence upon the dog is natural and deserving of sympathy or not, and if so, how? c.
Are the incidents so managed as to maintain interest in the expectation of the dénouement or
not? d. Does the story seem to have sufficient unity of purpose and plan or not?

4. a. What symbols do you notice that you have employed most largely? b. Is the story written
in the way of direct statement or of suggestion? c. For what frequent purpose would you say
that the writer employs F2? M3? M2? d. Can you say in what the art of the story especially
consists? e. What would you probably have thought of the story were its art less delicate and sure?

GENERAL OUTLINE QUESTIONS FOR STUDY OF STORIES IN CURRENT MAGAZINES, ETC.

1. a. Upon what is the interest of the story especially dependent? b. Are the incidents presented
rapidly and coherently, or slowly and disconnectedly? c. Is there a clearly defined plot or
not? d. Does the plot have a climax of entanglement, or does it fail in developing this feature
of the story interest?

2. a. How is character presented? b. Are the characters well chosen for their reactions among
themselves? c. Are the things they do and say continually consistent or not? d. Are they sufficiently
individualized to escape the appearance of the conventional and to hold interest?

3. a. Does the story state facts and happenings merely, or does it get hold of vital sensations
and revive them? b. If so, in what ways does it seem to do that? c. In general does it seem
to you subjective or objective in method?

4. a. How much of the interest of the story is in the development of the plot and how much
in the stirring of vital sensations, including sympathetic moods? b. Does the development of
the story center about any idea or attitude toward life? c. What excellences and what faults
do you find in the story?

SOME STORIES AVAILABLE FOR STUDY

"Five Hundred Dollars," "The Village Convict," and "Eli," all in a volume under the title of
the first, Heman White Chaplin, Little, Brown & Co., $1.00.

"The Flail of Time," Helen Choate Prince, Atlantic Monthly, August, 1899.

"A Christmas Carol," Dickens, Cassel's National Library, 10 cents.

"Beside the Bonnie Brier Bush," Ian MacLaren, David C. Cook, Elgin and Chicago, paper, 5 cents.

"The Luck of Roaring Camp," "Tennessee's Partner," Bret Harte, Houghton, Mifflin & Co., $1.00,
Overland Monthly, September, 1902.

"Bonaventure" (Chapters XVI-XVIII), George W. Cable, copyrighted, but obtainable in a cheap
reprint.

"The Game and the Nation," Owen Wister, Harper's Monthly, May, 1900.

Nettleton's "Specimens of the Short Story," Henry Holt & Co., 50 cents.

BOOKS THAT MAY PROFITABLY BE CONSULTED

"Education of the Central Nervous System," R. P. Halleck, The Macmillan Co.

"The Philosophy of the Short Story," Brander Matthews, Longmans, Green & Co.

"The Short Story," Yale Studies in English, Henry Holt & Co.

"Forms of Prose Literature," J. H. Gardiner, Chas. Scribner's Sons.

"Working Principles of Rhetoric," J. F. Genung, Ginn & Co.

"Outline of Psychology," E. B. Titchener, The Macmillan Co.

"Short Story Writing," C. R. Barrett, Baker & Taylor Co., $ 1.00.

Chapter XII, "A Study of Prose Fiction," Bliss Perry, Houghton, Mifflin & Co.

       *       *       *       *       *

ENGLISH LITERATURE.

The Arden Shakespeare.

    The Greater Plays in their literary aspect. One play in each
    volume, with Introduction, Notes, Essay on Metre, and Glossary.
    Based on the Globe text. From 144 to 224 pages. Cloth. Price, 25
    cents a volume.

This edition presents the greater plays in their literary aspect, and not merely as material
for the study of philology or grammar. Verbal and textual criticism has been included only
so far as may serve to help the student in his appreciation of the poetry.

Questions of date and literary history have been fully dealt with in the Introductions, but
the larger space has been devoted to the interpretative rather than to the matter-of-fact order
of scholarship. Æsthetic judgments are never final, but the editors have attempted to suggest
points of view from which the analysis of dramatic motive and dramatic character may be profitably
undertaken.

In the Notes likewise, though it is hoped that unfamiliar expressions and allusions have been
adequately explained, it has been thought more important to consider the dramatic value of
each scene, and the part that it plays in relation to the whole.

Each volume has a Glossary, an Essay upon Metre, and an Index. Appendices are added upon points
of interest that could not be treated in the Introduction or the Notes. The text is based on
that of the Globe edition. The following plays are ready:--

    HAMLET.--Edited by Edmund K. Chambers, B.A.

    MACBETH.--Edited by Edmund K. Chambers, B.A., Oxford.

    JULIUS CÆSAR.--Edited by Arthur D. Innes, M.A., Oxford.

    THE MERCHANT OF VENICE.--Edited by H. L. Withers, B.A., Oxford.

    TWELFTH NIGHT.--Edited by Arthur D. Innes, M.A., Oxford.

    AS YOU LIKE IT.--Edited by J. C. Smith, M.A., Edinburgh.

    A MIDSUMMER NIGHT'S DREAM.--Edited by Edmund K. Chambers, B.A.

    CYMBELINE.--Edited by A. J. Wyatt, M.A., Cambridge.

    THE TEMPEST.--Edited by F. S. Boas, M.A., Oxford.

    KING JOHN.--Edited by G. C. Moore Smith, M.A., Cambridge.

    RICHARD II.--Edited by C. H. Herford, L.H.D., Cambridge.

    RICHARD III.--Edited by George Macdonald, M.A., Oxford.

    HENRY V.--Edited by G. C. Moore Smith, M.A., Cambridge.

    HENRY VIII.--Edited by D. Nichol Smith, M.A., Edinburgh.

    CORIOLANUS.--Edited by Edmund K. Chambers, B.A., Oxford.

    MUCH ADO ABOUT NOTHING.--Edited by J. C. Smith, M.A., Oxford.

    KING LEAR.--Edited by D. Nichol Smith, M.A., Edinburgh.

Introduction to Shakespeare. Cloth. 400 pages. Introduction
    price, $1.00.

This work indicates some lines of Shakespearean thought which serve to introduce to the study
of the plays as plays. The introductory chapter is followed by chapters on: The Shakespeare-Bacon
controversy,--The Authenticity of the First Folio,--The Chronology of the Plays,--Shakespeare's
Verse,--The Latin and Anglo-Saxon Elements of Shakespeare's English. The larger portion of
the book is devoted to commentaries and critical chapters upon Romeo and Juliet, King John,
Much Ado about Nothing, Hamlet, Macbeth, and Anthony and Cleopatra. These aim to present the
points of view demanded for a proper appreciation of Shakespeare's general attitude toward
things, and his resultant dramatic art, rather than the textual study of the plays.

Introduction to Browning. Cloth. 348 pages. Introduction
    price, $1.00. Cloth. xiv + 370 pages. Illustrated.
    Introduction price, $1.00.

This book serves several purposes. It (1) supplies illustrative material, drawn from the best
Greek sources, that may be used to supplement the school narrative; (2) by means of searching
questions, it furnishes opportunity for more intensive study of certain periods; (3) by supplying
data upon the writer of source, and at times, more than one source upon the same topic, it
makes possible the study of simple problems in the value of evidence; (4) extracts are of sufficient
length so that the pupil may be given some idea of Greek literature, as far as that is possible
through the use of translations; (5) the illustrations not only supplement the written sources
on the life of the Greeks, but have been selected with a view to impressing upon the minds
of students the great value of the artistic work of the Greeks.

A Source Book of Roman History

    By DANA C. MUNRO, University of Wisconsin. Cloth. Illustrated,
    x + 258 pages. Introduction price, $1.00.

The series of extracts from original sources contained in this book cover the following topics:
Sources and credibility of early Roman history; religion; the army; monarchical institutions;
the constitution of the republic; early laws and history; the conquest of the Mediterranean;
the Punic wars; results of foreign wars; misrule of the optimates; the last century of the
republic; the early empire; Christianity and Stoicism; Roman life and society--slavery, education,
manners, customs, amusements; provinces and provincial administration, etc. References to supplementary
sources are prefixed to each chapter.

A Day in Ancient Rome

    A revision of Lohr's Aus dem alten Rom, by EDGAR S. SHUMWAY,
    recently Professor of Latin in Rutgers College. Cloth. 96 pages.
    Fifty-nine illustrations (seventeen full page). Retail price, 75
    cents. Paper, 30 cents.

This attractive little book gives a picture of the famous old city as compared with the new.
Availing himself of the latest excavations and of recent photographs, the author pictures graphically
persons and places of classic fame as though vividly present.

Studies in General History

    (1000 B.C. to 1880 A.D.) By MARY D. SHELDON, formerly Professor
    of History in Wellesley College, and Assistant Professor in
    Leland Stanford Jr. University. Half leather, xvi + 556 pages.
    Introduction price, $1.60.

This book gives a collection of historic material, which may be dealt with first-hand, as the
pupil deals with the actual substance in chemistry, and with the living plant in botany. Work
of this kind stimulates the student's historic sense and judgment. It is especially adapted
to help students and teachers who do not have access to large libraries; it contains within
itself all that is absolutely necessary for the work required. The material given consists
of maps, pictures, lists of important events, men, works, and deeds, tables of political organizations,
and extracts from original sources, including constitutions, creeds, laws, chronicles, and
poems. It is accompanied by questions in the nature of problems, the answers to which must
be worked out by the pupil himself from the given data. It is a book to be studied, not read.

Greek and Roman History

    Or, Studies in General History, from 1000 B.C. to 476 A.D. By
    MARY SHELDON BARNES, formerly Professor of History in Wellesley
    College, and in Leland Stanford Jr. University. Cloth, xiii +
    255 pages. Introduction price, $1.00.

This book contains the portion of Sheldon's Studies in General History which relates to Greece
and Rome, including a small amount of prefatory ancient history.

Teacher's Manual to General History

    By MARY SHELDON BARNES. Cloth. 172 pages. Retail price, 85
    cents.

The student's edition of the Studies in General History contains material and problems for
independent study. The Teacher's Manual contains the answers to these problems, embodied in
tabulations, and a running commentary of text, which will furnish suggestions for discussions
and summaries.

Aids to the Teaching of General History

    A pamphlet of 30 pages, by MARY SHELDON BARNES. Retail price, 10
    cents. Also bound with the Teacher's Manual.

English Etymology.

    A select glossary, serving as an introduction to the history of
    the English Language. By FRIEDRICH KLUGE, Professor at the
    University of Freiburg, Germany, and author of Etymologisches
    Wörterbuch der deutschen Sprache, and FREDERICK LUTZ, Professor
    at Albion College, Mich. Cloth. 242 pages. Introduction price,
    60 cents.

The purpose of this work is to serve as an introduction to the study of the historical development
of the English language. The scope of the book is sufficient to give the student an insight
into the main linguistic phenomena. While the method of discussion is concise, care has been
taken to include all words the history of which bears on the development of the language at
large. The authors have, in the first place, traced back to the older periods loanwords of
Scandinavian, French and Latin origin, and such genuine English words as may afford matter
for investigation. In this way there has been provided a "basis for every historical grammar
of English."

A History of English Critical Terms.

    By J. W. BRAY. Cloth. 352 pages. Retail price, $1.00.

In literary criticism, and in the discussion of art, there are more than a hundred important
terms whose history determines their present use and meaning. There are also several hundred
others terms occasionally used in explaining the larger terms or their synonyms. All these
terms are here arranged in alphabetical order. The history of the more important terms is presented
in full. Under each is given: (1) Its grouping (by synonyms). (2) The historical limits of
its use. (3) A brief statement of its meanings. (4) An explanation of its changes of meaning.
(5) Representative quotations.

About one hundred and fifty critics are represented in the quotations, the work thus covering
the entire field of English criticism.

The vocabulary of criticism is preceded by an Introduction, which gives a philosophical discussion
of critical terms under three heads: (1) What is a Critical term? (2) General Historical Movements
and Tendencies in Critical Terms. (3) Method of Dealing with the Separate Critical Terms.

    The Outlook, New York: The book is not simply a collection of
    information; it is both a contribution to the history of
    criticism and a text-book for its study.

English Literature

    =The Arden Shakespeare.= The plays in their literary aspect,
        each with introduction, interpretative notes, glossary, and
        essay on metre. 25 cts.

    =Bronson's History of American Literature.= 384 pages. 80 cents.

    =Burke's American Orations.= (A. J. GEORGE.) Five complete
        selections. 50 cts.

    =Burns's Select Poems.= (A. J. GEORGE.) 118 poems
        chronologically arranged, with introduction, notes, and
        glossary. Illustrated. 75 cts.

    =Coleridge's Principles of Criticism.= (A. J. GEORGE.) From the
        Biographia Literaria. With portrait. 60 cts.

