Such, unless most unintentionally injured by compression, is Hume's famous argument against
miracles, of which the author was sufficiently proud to boast openly that in it he had discovered
what 'will be useful, as long as the world endures,' as 'an everlasting check to all kinds
of superstitious delusion,' but which, as I nevertheless venture to repeat, is compounded in
about equal moieties of transparent sophism and baseless assumption. For is it not the veriest
juggle of words to insist on the necessary inferiority of copies to an original, without adverting
to the indispensable proviso that the original with which the copies are compared should be
the original from which the copies have been taken? May not a copy of Leonardo Da Vinci's 'Last
Supper' quite possibly be equal in force and vividness of expression to the original painting
by Benjamin West bearing the same name? Might it not be wise to trust rather to an Airy, or
a De la Rue, or a Lockyer's account of what he had observed during a solar eclipse than to
your own immediate observations on the same occasion? Besides, this first branch of Hume's
argument, if sound, would tell quite as much for, as against, miracles, rendering it equally
incumbent on actual witnesses to believe, as on all but actual witnesses to disbelieve. If
you are always to prefer your own original experience to mere descriptions given by other people
of theirs, then should it happen to be yourself to whom the sun appeared in the west at an
hour when, according to custom, he ought to have been in the east, you are not to allow the
protestations of any number of persons who, happening at the time to have been looking the
other way, saw the sun in his usual place, to persuade you that what you saw was a mock sun
or an ignis fatuus. Rather than imagine that your own senses can have deceived you, you are
to suppose that all about you are in a league to deceive you. For precisely the same reason
for which you should reject even universal testimony in favour of a miracle which you have
not witnessed, you are equally to reject universal testimony in opposition to a miracle the
similitude of which you have witnessed.

Or is it possible for a question to be more distinctly begged than when, to the question whether
a miracle has occurred, it is answered that a miracle is not a miracle unless there be uniform
experience against it; that uniformly adverse experience is direct and full proof against anything;
and that therefore there must always be full proof against miracles? What is here taken for
granted to be full proof is the very thing requiring to be proved. If past uniformity really
be a pledge for continued uniformity, of course there can be no departure from uniformity.
If the whole question does not at once fall to the ground, it is because no question has ever
really arisen. But what shadow of pretext is there for treating an hitherto unvaried course
of events as necessarily invariable? From past experience we have deduced what we are pleased
to call laws of nature, but it is morally impossible that we can seriously think, whatever
we are in the habit of saying, that these laws are self-denying ordinances whereby nature's
God has voluntarily abdicated part of His inalienable prerogative. The utmost efficacy we are
warranted in ascribing to them is that of lines marking certain of the courses within which
God's providence is pleased to move. But how can we pretend to know for how long a season such
may continue to be the divine pleasure? How do we know that the present season may not be the
first of an alternating series, and that it may not at any moment terminate, and be succeeded
by one of an opposite character? What though we have some shadow of historical evidence that
most physical phenomena have been going on in much the same order for some six thousand years,
is that a basis whereon to theorise with regard to the proceedings of Him in whose sight one
day is as a thousand years and a thousand years as one day? Might not as well some scientific
member of an insect tribe of ephemera, whom ancestral tradition, confirmed by personal experience,
had assured that an eight-day clock had already gone on for six days, pronounce it to be a
law of the clock's nature that it should go on for ever without being again wound up? Would
the insect philosopher's dogmatism be one whit less absurd than that of those human ephemera
who so positively lay down the law about the clockwork of the universe? Those laws of nature
to which unerring regularity and perpetuity of operation are so confidently attributed, may
they not, perchance, be but single clauses of much farther reaching laws, according to whose
other provisions the force of these isolated clauses may, in novel combinations of circumstances,
be counteracted by some latent and hitherto unsuspected force? Or is it not, at all events,
open to their divine promulgator to suspend their operation at his pleasure? May it not conceivably
have been preordained that the globe of our earth, after revolving for a given number of ages,
in one direction, shall then, like a meat-jack, or like an Ascidian's heart,[31] reverse its
order of procedure, and commence a contrary series of revolutions? Or might not He who prescribed
to the earth its rotatory movement, will that the rotation should for some hours cease, and
that the sun should in consequence seem to stand still, as it is recorded to have done at the
command of Joshua? Improbable as these suppositions may be, who that has not been taken into
counsel by his Creator can presume to say that they may not be correct? The events which they
involve are not inconceivable, and whatever is not utterly inconceivable may possibly occur,
however numerous the chances against its occurrence. It is not then the fact that 'past experience,'
however unvaried, affords full proof of the future existence of any event, or constitutes certainty
against the future existence of the reverse of that event. Completest uniformity of experience
cannot create a certainty by which any opposite probability would be completely annihilated.
It only creates a probability which, however great, is still only a probability, and which
would become a smaller probability by deduction from it of any opposite probability. But mere
probability, however great, always includes some doubt as to its own correctness, some suspicion
that its opposite may possibly be correct. How much soever, therefore, uniform experience may
vouch for the inviolability of natural laws, it always remains possible for those laws to be
violated, and, as miracles are nothing else but violations of natural laws, it always remains
possible for miracles to happen. But since miracles are possible, testimony to their occurrence
may, with equal possibility, be true, and no further refutation can, I submit, be needed for
an argument which insists that all such testimony should be set aside without enquiry as self-evidently
false.

Had Hume been content to insist that testimony in favour of miracles should never be received
without extreme doubt and hesitation, his lesson might well have passed without further objection
than that of its being superfluous for any one with sense enough to profit by it. Nor might
it have been easy to discover a flaw in his logic, although he had gone so far as to maintain
that no one of the miracles as yet on record is either adequately attested, or would, even
if it had undoubtedly occurred, afford sufficient evidence of any religious truth. The best
and only adequate evidence for any religious creed is the satisfaction which it affords to
the soul's cravings and promises to the soul's aspirations; and no rational Christian would
be at all the more disposed to turn Mussulman, even though it should be demonstrated to his
entire conviction that Christ did not raise Lazarus from the dead, and that Mahomet did turn
the hill Safa into gold, instead of prudently confining himself to boasting that he could have
effected the transmutation if he had thought proper. But for the purpose which Hume had in
view, it was necessary to establish, not merely the doubtfulness, but the absolute falsehood
of the miracular testimony on which, in his opinion, 'our holy religion' rests, in order that
the character of the superstructure being inferred from that of the foundation, both might
be condemned together. There is, however, an irreligious as well as a religious fanaticism,
and, though it is difficult, while looking at Hume's portrait, to credit the owner of that
plump, good-humoured face with feeling of any sort warm enough to be termed fanatical, it is
humiliating to note from his example into what strange inconsistency the coolest and calmest
judgment may be warped by irreligious prejudice. Having not long before, in order to disparage
natural religion, emphatically denied the existence of any causal connection between successive
events, he now, in order equally to discredit the very possibility of revealed religion, tacitly
assumes that same connection, not simply to exist, but to be of an efficacy which no disturbing
forces can impair. Admitting that 'the Indian prince who refused to believe the first relations
concerning the effects of frost' was wrong in his belief, Hume will have it that the prince
nevertheless 'reasoned justly.' Although recognising truth to be the sole worthy object of
quest, he yet enjoins rigid adherence to a rule which he is aware must inevitably lead to frequent
error.

Rather strikingly contrasted, in respect of execution, with Hume's chapter on Miracles, comes
the one next in order on a Providence and a Future State, which, for the skill with which the
fallacy involved in it is disguised, may be regarded as quite a masterpiece of false reasoning.
Among its leading propositions there is but one which does not command immediate assent. That
we can argue but from what we know; that of causes, known to us only by their effects, our
estimate ought to be exactly proportioned to the effects; that of a Creator manifested only
by His works, no higher qualities, no greater degrees of power, intelligence, justice, or benevolence,
can be confidently predicated--whatever be conjectured--than are apparent in his workmanship:
all this, on one moment's reflection, is perceived to be indisputable. Needs must it be, however
reluctantly, admitted that nothing can be more illogical than to return back to the cause,
and infer from it other effects beyond those by which alone it is known to us, or to infer
from creative attributes, distinctly manifested, the existence of other and not apparent attributes,
endowed with some efficacy additional to that possessed by the former. But does it hence follow
that faith in a superintending Providence is so mere a matter of 'conceit and imagination,'
a faith so absolutely irrational as Hume considered it? A candid examination of God's works
will warrant us in coming to a widely different conclusion. Among those works is man--a being
who, in spite of the utter insignificance of his greatest performances, is capable of forming
most exalted conceptions of justice, benevolence, and goodness in general, and of feeling the
most eager desire to act up to his own ideal. If the divine notions of goodness in its several
varieties be not identical with the human, it can only be because they are superior; and so,
too, of the divine love of, and zeal for, goodness. It cannot be that the Creator is inferior
to the creature in virtues which the creature derives from Him alone. Demonstrably, therefore,
God is good and just in the very highest degree in which those qualities can be conceived by
man. Demonstrably, too, since the universe is the work of His hands, He must be possessed of
power which, if not necessarily unbounded, is at least as boundless as the universe. Thus,
rigidly arguing from effects to causes, and scrupulously proportioning the one to the other,
man sees imaged on the face of creation a creator, both realising his highest conception of
goodness, and wielding measureless might. Is not such a being worthy to be looked up to, and
confided in, and adored and loved as a superintending providence? Is not faith in such a providence
not simply not irrational, but the direct result of a strictly inductive process? And would
it be an irrational stretch of faith sanguinely to hope, if not implicitly to believe, that
an union of infinite justice with measureless might may, in some future stage of existence,
afford compensation for the apparently inequitable distribution of good and evil which, according
to all experience, has hitherto taken place among human beings?

Were it desirable to amplify the apology with which this paper commenced, some additional justification
of the freedom of the foregoing criticisms might be found in hints thrown out by Hume in various
parts of the treatise which we have been examining, and particularly in its concluding chapter,
that in many of his most startling doctrines he was but half in earnest. Hume's temperament,
too cool for fanaticism, had yet in it enough of a certain tepid geniality to save him from
becoming a scoffer. The character which he claims for himself, and somewhat ostentatiously
parades, is that of a sceptic or general doubter--a character in which, when rightly understood,
there is nothing to be ashamed of. To take nothing on trust, to believe nothing without proof,
to show no greater respect for authority than may consist in attentive and candid examination
of its statements, to accept only verified facts as bases for reasoning on matters of fact
and existence--these are golden rules of philosophical research, principles in which lies the
secret of all real progress in any of the higher departments of science. By Hume they were
adopted con amore, and with keen appreciation, not more of their practical utility, than of
the sport which he perceived them to be capable of yielding. His serious purpose was to unmask
the numberless pretences which in politics, political economy, metaphysics, morals, and theology
he found universally current as gospel truths; to expose the ambiguity and contradictions latent
in popular thought, and in the popular forms of expression which are so apt to be mistaken
for thought, and to indicate the only safe mode of investigation and the only trustworthy tests
of genuine knowledge; his favourite amusement to put time-honoured commonplaces on the rack,
and demanding their raison d'être, to pass on them summary sentence of extinction if they failed
to account satisfactorily for their existence. Unfortunately, in his keen enjoyment of the
fun of the thing, he not unfrequently overlooked the solid interests at stake. Like a huntsman
who, for the sake of a better run, should outrace his quarry, or who, seeing that the dogs
were close upon the hare, should, in order to prolong the chase, start a fresh hare, kept till
then snug at his saddle-bow, so Hume, in the excitement of metaphysical pursuit, instead of
stopping to gather up whatever verified affirmations came in his way, would prefer to follow
any new negation that he espied, or, if momentarily accepting any affirmation as established,
would proceed forthwith to affirm its direct opposite with the view of neutralising both. In
this, his practice resembled that of metaphysicians in general, who take a singular delight
in setting themselves riddle after riddle, which they either assume to be hopelessly insoluble,
or which they no sooner solve than they use the solution as the subject of another riddle involving
its predecessor in redoubled perplexity. Now, little harm, and little, perhaps, of anything
but good, might thereby be done if the lovers of this game were content to play it by themselves,
without inviting others to join who are constitutionally unfit for such intellectual wrestling.
But mental exercises may to philosophers be health and invigorating sport, and yet be death
to the multitude; and Hume, as an Utilitarian, stands self-condemned for making ordinary people
uncomfortable by challenging them to disputations confessedly leading no whither, and bewildering
them with confessedly 'vain and profane babblings, and strivings after words to no profit,
but to subverting of the hearers, and overthrow of the faith of some.' And it is as poor an
excuse for this wanton tampering with other people's creeds, as it is poor amends for its mischievous
consequences, that Hume offers when, after watching for a while his puzzled disciples blown
about by the winds of adverse doctrine that he has let loose upon them, he proceeds to rally
them on their 'whimsical condition,' which he speaks of as a mere laughing matter got up chiefly
for amusement. It is only an aggravation of offence that, while, on the one hand, he solemnly
pronounces everything to be 'a riddle, an enigma, an inexplicable mystery,' he, on the other
hand, cheerily exhorts us not to suffer the 'doubts raised by philosophy to affect our actions.'
'Nature,' he says, 'is always too strong for principles, will always maintain her rights, and
prevail, in the end, against all reasoning whatever.' 'The great subverter of Pyrrhonism,'
he continues, 'is actual employment and the occupations of common life,' in presence of which
its overstrained scruples 'vanish like smoke.' Although real knowledge consists solely in knowing
that we know nothing, and in doubting everything, and although sceptics may 'justly triumph'
in principles which lead them to deny even the attraction of gravitation, still they had better
beware how they act on these principles, lest by stepping unconcernedly out of window they
come fatally to grief on the stones below, and so the sect and its tenets be annihilated together.
So, or to such effect, Hume: but how can there be just ground for pride in speculations which,
as their own professors admit, would, on the first attempt to reduce them to practice, be shattered
to pieces by hard facts? That cannot possibly, even on Hume's recommendation, be accepted as
metaphysical truth, which flatly contradicts common sense, nor can there be any unbecoming
self-confidence in seeking, even though Hume pronounce the search hopeless, for metaphysical
truth, with which common sense may be reconciled.

FOOTNOTES:

[29] Analysis of the Phenomena of the Human Mind. By James Mill. Edition of 1869, with Notes
by Alexander Bain, Andrew Findlater, George Grote, and John Stuart Mill, vol. i. pp. 78 et seq.

[30] Mill's 'Logic.' 5th Edition. Vol. i. p. 377.

CHAPTER IV.

HUXLEYISM.

  'À force d'esprit tout lui paroît matière.'

In one of his interesting 'Lay Sermons,' the most interesting perhaps of the whole interesting
series, Professor Huxley, taking for his theme the 'Physical Basis of Life,' combats 'the widely-spread
conception of life as a something which works through matter, but is independent of it;' affirming,
on the contrary, 'that matter and life are inseparably connected, and that there is one kind
of matter which is common to all living beings.' The preacher may be safely allowed to have
satisfactorily made out the second portion of this affirmation. With his own singular felicity
of illustration, he shows how all vegetable and animal tissues, without exception, from that
of the brightly coloured lichen looking so like a mere mineral incrustation on the rock that
bears it, to that of the painter who admires or the botanist who dissects it, are, however
diverse in aspect, essentially one in composition and structure. He explains how the microscopic
fungi clustering by millions within the body of a single fly, the giant pine of California
towering to the height of a cathedral spire, the Indian fig-tree covering acres with its profound
shadow, the animalcules of ocean's lowest deep, minute enough to dance in myriads on the point
of a needle, and the Finner whale, hugest of beasts, that disports its ninety feet of bone
and blubber on ocean's billowy heights, the flower that a girl wears in her hair, and the blood
that courses through her veins, are, each and all, smaller or larger multiples or aggregates
of one and the same structural unit, which, again, is invariably resolvable into the same identical
elements. That unit, he tells us, is an atom or corpuscle composed of oxygen, nitrogen, hydrogen,
and carbon, which, and which alone, seem to be required by nature for laying withal the foundations
of vitality, inasmuch as no substance from which any one of these ingredients is totally absent,
ever exhibits any sign of life, while, on the other hand, not only are these four ingredients
sufficient of themselves to form a substance capable of living, but they actually do with very
little (when any) foreign admixture, form all substances whatsoever that are ever found vivified.
All such substances, he informs us, are but varieties of protoplasm, differing indeed from
each other in texture, colour, and general appearance, even as a diamond differs from granite,
yet all being equally protoplasm, just as a diamond and a block of granite are equally stones,
or as heart of oak and the outer case of a nettle's sting are equally wood. The human ovum,
he gives us to understand, is in its earliest stage but a single particle of protoplasm; the
human foetus but an aggregation of such particles, variously modified; the human body perfectly
matured, but a larger aggregation of such particles still further modified.

He proceeds to point out, as following from these premises, that a solution of smelling salts,
together with an infinitesimal quantity of certain other salts, contains all the elements that
enter into the composition of protoplasm, and consequently of whatever substance the very highest
animal requires for sustenance. He does not, however, leave us to suppose that any abundance
of the fluid in question would avail aught to save a hungry creature of any sort from starving,
but continues his exposition to the following effect. Not only is there no animal, there is
not even any vegetable organism, to which the elements of food can serve as food, as long as
they remain elementary. It is indispensable that hydrogen and oxygen should combine to form
water, nitrogen and hydrogen to form ammonia, carbon and oxygen to form carbonic acid; and
even then, even at a table groaning under whole hogsheads of these primitive compounds, there
is no single animal that would not find itself at a Barmecide feast. There are many plants
likewise, which in the midst of such uncongenial plenty would be equally without a drop to
drink; but there are also multitudes of others which, without the aid of any more elaborated
nutriment, would be able to grow into a million, nay million million fold of their original
bulk. Provided there be in the seed or germ of any of these latter one single particle of living
protoplasm to begin with, that single particle may convert into animated protoplasm an indefinite
quantity of inanimate ammonia, carbonic acid, and water. The protoplasm thus created in the
first instance, and created, let us suppose, in the form of a lichen or a fungus, is converted
by decay into vegetable mould, in which grass may take root and grow, and which, in that case,
will be converted into herbaceous protoplasm; which, being eaten by sheep or oxen, becomes
ovine or bovine protoplasm, commonly called mutton or beef; which, again, being eaten by man,
becomes human protoplasm, and, if eaten by a philosopher, becomes part of a mass of protoplasm
capable of investigating and of expounding in lectures or lay sermons, the changes which itself
and its several components have undergone.

So far we advance with willing steps like dutiful disciples along the path of knowledge indicated
by our distinguished biological teacher, who here, however, pulls us up short by suddenly intimating
that he sees no break in the series of transubstantiations whereby precisely such oxygen, hydrogen,
nitrogen, and carbon as he is lecturing upon, have become metamorphosed into him, the lecturer,
and us, the lectured audience, and cannot 'understand why the language which is applicable
to any one term of the series should not be used in regard to any of the others.' Oxygen and
hydrogen, he reminds us, are gases, whose particles, at and also much below 32° Fahrenheit,
tend to rush away from each other with great force; and this tendency we call a property of
each gas. But amongst the properties of the water will be some, the direct opposites of those
of its components; watery particles, for example, at any temperature not higher than 32° Fahrenheit,
tending not to rush asunder, but to cohere into definite geometrical shapes or to build up
frosty imitations of vegetable foliage. And let the water be brought into conjunction with
ammonia and carbonic acid, and the three will, under certain conditions, give rise to protoplasm,
which again, if subjected to a certain succession of processes, will rise by successive stages
from protoplasm that gives no other signs of life than those of feeding and reproducing its
kind, to protoplasm endowed with the power of spontaneous motion, and finally to protoplasm
that thinks and reasons, speculates and philosophises. Now why should any of the various phenomena
of life exhibited by these varieties of protoplasm be supposed to be of a different class from
the appearances of activity exhibited by any of the varieties of lifeless matter? What reason
is there why, for instance, thought should not be termed a property of thinking protoplasm,
just as congelation is a property of water, and centrifugience of gas? Professor Huxley protests
that he is aware of no reason. Why imagine that into the newly formed hydro-nitrogenised oxide
of carbon a something called vitality entered and took possession?

In pronouncing this to be exceedingly evil counsel, as with the most unfeigned respect for
its author I feel bound at once to do, it might not be necessary for me to undertake a detailed
topographical survey of the path alluded to. It might, perhaps, suffice to specify the conclusions
to which the path is represented as leading, in order to show that those conclusions cannot
possibly be reached by any such route. If matter have no real, and only a nominal existence,
life, which is undeniably a reality, cannot be a property of matter. If life, being an undisputed
reality, be a property of matter, matter must needs be a reality also, and not merely a name.
Any one, however, who, like myself, is thoroughly convinced that both halves of the doctrine
are equally and utterly erroneous, is precluded from employing one for the refutation of the
other, and in order to prove, as I shall now attempt to do, that life is in no sense either
a product or a property of matter, must resort for the purpose to independent reasoning.

I commence by defining one of the principal terms occurring in the debate. When in scientific
discourse we speak of anything as a property of an object, we mean thereby not simply that
it is a thing belonging to the object, but also that it is a thing without which the object
could not subsist. We mean that it is one of the constituents inherent in and inseparable from
the object, whose union gives to the object its distinctive character. When we call fluidity
at one temperature, solidity at another, and vaporisation at a third, properties of water,
we mean that matter which did not liquefy, congeal, and evaporate at different temperatures
would not be water. The habits of exhibiting these phenomena, in conjunction with certain other
habits, make up the aquosity or wateriness of water. They are parts of water's nature, and,
in the absence of any one of them, water would not be its own self, and could not exist. But
in no such sense, nor in any sense whatever, is the life or vitality whereby what we are accustomed
to call animated are distinguished from inanimate objects, essential to the existence of the
species of matter termed matter of life or protoplasm. Take from water its aquosity, and water
ceases to be water; but you may take away vitality from protoplasm, and yet leave protoplasm
as much protoplasm as before. Vitality, therefore, evidently bears to protoplasm a quite different
relation from that which aquosity bears to water. Protoplasm can do perfectly well without
the one, but water cannot for a moment dispense with the other. Protoplasm, whether living
or lifeless, is equally itself; but unaqueous water is unmitigated gibberish. But if protoplasm,
although deprived of its vitality, still remains protoplasm, vitality plainly is not indispensable
to protoplasm, is not therefore a property of protoplasm.

And that it is not a product of protoplasm, or a result of any particular arrangement of protoplasmic
particles or molecules, is not less easily or unanswerably demonstrable. For if it were, as
long as the particular molecular arrangement remained unaltered, life would necessarily be
in attendance; an amputated joint would, until decomposition set in, be as much alive as the
trunk from which it had been lopped, even as water poured from a jug into a glass is quite
as much liquid as the water remaining in the jug. There would be no such thing as dead meat,
which was not putrid as well as dead, any more than water can freeze without changing from
a fluid to a solid; and there would moreover be production antecedent in origin to its own
producer. The force of the last at least of these objections is not to be resisted. Water,
ammonia, and carbonic acid cannot, it is admitted, combine to form protoplasm, unless a principle
of life preside over the operation. Unless under those auspices the combination never takes
place. At present, whenever assuming its presidential functions, the principle of life seems
to be invariably embodied in a portion of pre-existing protoplasm; but there certainly was
a time when the fact was otherwise. Time was, as geology places beyond all doubt, when our
globe and its appurtenances consisted wholly of inorganic matter, and possessed not one single
animal or vegetable inhabitant. In order, then, that any protoplasm or the substance of any
organism should have been brought into existence in the first instance, life plainly must have
been already existent. It must at one time have been possible for life, without being previously
embodied, to mould and vivify inert matter; and it must needs have been by unembodied life
that inorganic matter was first organised and animated. There is no possible alternative to
this conclusion, except that of supposing that death may have given birth to life--that absolutely
lifeless and inert matter may have spontaneously exerted itself with all the marvellous energy
requisite for its conversion into living matter, exerting for the purpose powers which, under
the conditions of the case, it could not have acquired without exercising before it acquired
them. Whoever declines to swallow such absurdity has no choice but to admit that unembodied
life must have been the original manufacturer of protoplasm: but to admit this, and yet to
suppose that when now-a-days embodied life is observed to give birth to new embodied life,
the credit of the operation belongs not to the life itself but to its protoplasmic embodiment,
is much the same as to suppose that when a tailor, dressed in clothes of his own making, makes
a second suit of clothes, this latter is the product not of the tailor himself but of the clothes
he is wearing.

Thus, irrespectively of whatever grounds there may be for believing that life still does, it
is incontestable that life once did, exist apart from protoplasm; and that protoplasm both
may and continually does exist apart from what is commonly understood by life, must be obvious
to every one who is aware that protoplasm is the substance of which all plants and all animals
are composed, and has observed also that plants and animals are in the habit of dying. That
matter and life are inseparably connected cannot, therefore, it would seem, be asserted except
in total disregard of the teachings both of reason and observation, and 'the popular conception
of life as a something which works through matter but is independent of it,' would seem to
be as true as it is popular. If the only choice allowed to us be between 'the old notion of
an Archæus governing and directing blind matter,' and the new conception of life as the product
of a certain disposition of material molecules, the absolute certainty that the latter conception
is wrong, may be fairly urged as equivalent to certainty, equally absolute, that the former
notion is right.

How far soever it may be true that, as Professor Huxley says, 'the progress of physical science
means, and has in all ages meant, the extension of the province of matter and causation,' it
is certainly not true that, as he proceeds to predict, the same province will ever be extended
sufficiently to banish from the region of human thought not 'spontaneity' simply, but likewise
'spirit.' In one direction at least, limits are clearly discernible which scientific investigation
need not hope to overleap. How much soever we may eventually discover of the changes whereby
inorganic matter becomes gradually adapted for the reception of life, physical science can
never teach us what or whence is the life that eventually takes possession of the finished
receptacle. Possibly we at length may, as Professor Huxley doubts not that we by-and-by shall,
see how it is that the properties peculiar to water have resulted from the properties peculiar
to the gases whose junction constitutes water; and similarly how the characteristic properties
of protoplasm have sprung from properties in the water, ammonia, and carbonic acid that have
united to form protoplasm; but knowing all this, we shall not be a hair's breadth nearer to
the more recondite knowledge up to which it is expected to lead. To extract the genesis of
life from any data that completest acquaintance with the stages and processes of protoplasmic
growth can furnish, is a truly hopeless problem. Given the plan of a house, with samples of
its brick and mortar, to find the name and nationality of the householder, would be child's
play in comparison. Life, as we have seen, is not the offspring of protoplasm, but something
which has been superinduced upon, and may be separated from, the protoplasm that serves as
its material basis. It is, therefore, distinct from the matter which it animates, and, being
thus immaterial, cannot possibly become better known by any analysis of matter.

