That night, with all the high hopes and generous ideals and merciful ignorance of youth, we
decided--without knowing what we were about--to go into the jungle and attack the Beast!

THE CAT PURRS

Denver was then, as it is now, a beautiful city, built on a slope, between the prairies and
mountains, always sunny, cool, and clear-skyed with the very sparkle of happiness in its air;
and on the crown of its hill, facing the romantic prospect of the Rockies, the State Capitol
raised its dome--as proud as the ambition of a liberty-loving people--the symbol of an aspiration
and the expression of its power. That Capitol, I confess, was to me a sort of granite temple
erected by the Commonwealth of Colorado to law, to justice, to the ideals of self-government
that have made our republic the promised land of all the oppressed of Europe; and I could conceive
of no nobler work than to serve those ideals in the assembly halls of that building, with those
eternal mountains on the horizon and that sun of freedom overhead. Surely a man may confess
so much, without shame, of his youth and his inexperience. . . .  It is not merely the gold
on the dome of the Capitol that has given it another look to me now.

It was the year 1897.  I was about twenty-eight years old, and my partner, Gardener, was three
years younger.  He was more worldly-wise than I was, even then; for while I had been busy with
briefs and court-work, he had been the "business head" of the firm, out among business friends
and acquaintances--"mixing," as they say--and through his innumerable connections, here and
there, with this man and that fraternity, bringing in the cases that kept us employed.  He
was a "Silver Republican"; I, a Democrat.  But we both knew that if he was to get into politics
it must be with the backing of the party "organization" and the endorsement of the party "boss."

The "Silver Republican" boss of the day was a man whom we both admired--George Graham.  Everybody
admired him.  Everybody was fond of him.  "Why," they would tell you, "there isn't a man in
town who is kinder to his family.  He's such a good man in his home!  And he's so charitable!"
At Christmas time, when free baskets of food were distributed to the poor, George Graham was
chairman of the committee for their distribution.  He was prominent in the fraternal orders
and used his political power to help the needy, the widow, and the orphan. He had an engaging
manner of fellowship, a personal magnetism, a kindly interest in aspiring young men, a pleasant
appearance--smooth and dark in complexion, with a gentle way of smiling.  I liked him; and
he seemed to discover an affection for both Gardener and me, as we became more intimate with
him, in the course of Gardener's progress toward his coveted nomination by the party.

That progress was so rapid and easy that it surprised us.  We knew, of course, that we had
attracted some public attention and much newspaper notice by our legal battles with "the corporation
heavyweights" in our three big cases against the surgeon, the tramway company, and the factory
owner.  But this did not account to us for the ease with which Gardener penetrated to the inner
circles of the Boss's court.  It did not explain why Graham should come to see us in our office,
and call us by our first names.  The explanation that we tacitly accepted was one more personal
and flattering to us.  And when Gardener would come back from a chat with Graham, full of "inside
information" about the party's plans--about who was to be nominated for this office at the
coming convention, and what chance So-and-so had for that one--the sure proofs (to us) that
he was being admitted to the intimate secrets of the party and found worthy of the confidence
of those in power--I was as proud of Gardener as only a young man can be of a friend who has
all the brilliant qualities that he himself lacks.  Gardener was a handsome fellow, well built,
always well dressed, self-assured and ambitious; I did not wonder that the politicians admired
him and made much of him. I accepted his success as a tribute to those qualities in him that
had already attached me to him with an affection rather more than brotherly.

We said nothing to the politicians about our projected bills.  Indeed, from the first, my interest
in our measures of reform was greater than Gardener's.  His desire to be in the Legislature
Was due to a natural ambition to "get on" in life, to acquire power in the community as well
as the wealth and distinction that come with power.  Such ambitions were, of course, beyond
me; I had none of the qualities that would make them possible; and I could only enjoy them,
as it were, by proxy, in Gardener's person.  I enjoyed, in the same way, his gradual penetration
behind the scenes in politics.  I saw, with him, that the party convention, to which we had
at first looked as the source of honours, was really only a sort of puppet show of which the
Boss held the wires. All the candidates for nomination were selected by Graham in advance--in
secret caucus with his ward leaders, executive committeemen, and such other "practical" politicians
as "Big Steve"--and the convention, with more or less show of independence, did nothing but
ratify his choice.  When I spoke of canvassing some of the chosen delegates of the convention,
Gardener said: "What's the use of talking to those small fry?  If we can get the big fellows,
we've got the rest.  They do what the big ones tell them--and won't do anything they aren't
told.  You leave it to me."  I had only hoped to see him in the Lower House, but he, with his
wiser audacity, soon proclaimed himself a candidate for the Senate.  "We can get the big thing
as easy as the little one," he said.  "I'm going to tell Graham it's the Senate or nothing
for me."  And he got his promise.  And when we knew, at last, that his name was really on "the
slate" of candidates to be presented to the convention, we were ready to throw up our hats
and cheer for ourselves--and for the Boss.

The convention met in September, 1898.  There had been a fusion of Silver Republicans, Democrats,
and Populists, that year, and the political offices had been apportioned out among the faithful
machine-men of these parties.  Gardener was nominated by "Big Steve," in a eulogistic speech
that was part of the farce; and the convention ratified the nomination with the unanimity of
a stage mob.  We knew that his election was as sure as sunrise, and I set to work looking up
models for my bills with all the enthusiasm of the first reformer.

Meanwhile there was the question of the campaign and of the campaign expenses.  Gardener had
been assessed $500 by the committee as his share of the legitimate costs of the election, and
Boss Graham generously offered to get the money for him "from friends."  We were rather inclined
to let Graham do so, feeling a certain delicacy about refusing his generosity and being aware,
too, that we were not millionaires.  But Graham was not the only one who made the offer; for
example, Ed. Chase, since head of the gambler's syndicate in Denver, made similar proposals
of kindly aid; and we decided, at last, that perhaps it would be well to be quite independent.
Our law practice was improving.  Doubtless, it would continue to improve now that we were "in
right" with the political powers.  We put up $250 each and paid the assessment.

The usual business of political rallies, mass-meetings, and campaign speeches followed in due
course, and in November, 1898, Gardener was elected a State Senator on the fusion ticket. 
I had been busy with my "three-fourths jury" bill, studying the constitution of the State of
Colorado, comparing it with those of the other states, and making myself certain that such
a law as we proposed was possible.  Unlike most of the state constitutions, Colorado's preserved
inviolate the right of jury trial in criminal cases only, and therefore it seemed to me that
the Legislature had plenary power to regulate it in civil suits.  I found that the Supreme
Court of the state had so decided in two cases, and I felt very properly elated; there seemed
to be nothing to prevent us having a law that should make "hung" juries practically impossible
in Colorado and relieve the courts of an abuse that thwarted justice in scores of cases.  At
the same time I prepared a bill allowing parents to recover damages for "anguish of mind" when
a child of theirs was killed in an accident; and, after much study, I worked up an "employer's
liability" bill to protect men who were compelled by necessity to work under needlessly dangerous
conditions.  With these three bills in his pocket, Senator Gardener went up to the Capitol,
like another David, and I went joyfully with him to aid and abet.

Happy?  I was as happy as if Gardener had been elected President and I was to be his Secretary
of State.  I was as happy as a man who has found his proper work and knows that it is for the
good of his fellows. I would not have changed places that day with any genius of the fine arts
who had three masterpieces to unveil to an admiring world.

I did not know, of course--but I was soon to learn--that the Legislature's time was almost
wholly taken up with the routine work of government, that most of the bills passed were concerned
with appropriations and such necessary details of administration, and that only twenty or thirty
bills such as ours--dealing with other matters--could possibly be passed, among the hundreds
offered.  It was Boss Graham who warned us that we had better concentrate on one measure, if
we wished to succeed with any at all, and we decided to put all our strength behind the "three-fourths
jury" bill.  Since Graham seemed to doubt its constitutionality, I went to the Attorney General
for his opinion, and he referred me to his assistant--whom I convinced. I came back with the
assistant's decision that the Legislature had power to pass such a law, and Gardener promptly
introduced it in the Senate.

It proved at once mildly unpopular, and after a preliminary debate, in which the senators rather
laughed at it as visionary and unconstitutional, it was referred to the Attorney General for
his opinion.  We waited, confidently.  To our amazement he reported it unconstitutional, and
the very assistant who had given me a favourable opinion before, now conducted the case against
it.  Nothing daunted, Gardener fought to get it referred to the Supreme Court, under the law;
and the Senate sent it there.  I got up an elaborate brief, had it printed at our expense,
and spent a day in arguing it before the Supreme Court judges.  They held that the Court had
already twice found the Legislature possessed of plenary powers in such matters, and Gardener
brought the bill back into the Senate triumphantly, and got a favourable report from the Judiciary
Committee.

By this time, Boss Graham was seriously alarmed.  He had warned Gardener that the bill was
distasteful to him and to those whom he called his "friends."  It was particularly distasteful,
it seemed, to the Denver City Tramway Company.  And he could promise, he said, that if we dropped
the bill, the railway company would see that we got at least four thousand dollars' worth of
litigation a year to handle.  To both Gardener and myself, flushed with success and roused
to the battle, this offer seemed an amusing confession of defeat on the part of the opposition;
and we went ahead more gaily than ever.

We were enjoying ourselves.  If we had been a pair of chums in college, we could not have had
a better time.  Whenever I could get away from my court cases and my office work, I rushed
up to watch the fight in the Senate, as eagerly as a Freshman hurrying from his studies to
see his athletic room-mate carry everything before him in a football game.  The whole atmosphere
of the Capitol--with its corridors of coloured marble, its vistas of arch and pillar, its burnished
metal balustrades, its great staircases--all its majesty of rich grandeur and solidity of power--affected
me with an increased respect for the functions of government that were discharged there and
for the men who had them to discharge.  I felt the reflection of that importance beaming upon
myself when I was introduced as "Senator Gardener's law partner, sir"; and I accepted the bows
and greetings of lobbyists and legislators with all the pleasure in the world.

When Gardener got our bill up for its final reading in the Senate, I was there to watch, and
it tickled me to the heart to see him.  He made a fine figure of an orator, the handsomest
man in the Senate; and he was not afraid to raise his voice and look as independent and determined
as his words.  He had given the senators to understand that any one who opposed his bill would
have him as an obstinate opponent on every other measure; and the Senate evidently realized
that it would be wise to let him have his way.  The bill was passed.  But it had to go through
the Lower House, too, and it was sent there, to be taken care of by its opponents--with the
tongue in the cheek, no doubt.

I met Boss Graham in the corridor.  "Hello, Ben," he greeted me. "What's the matter with that
partner of yours?" I laughed; he looked worried.  "Come in here," he said.  "I'd like to have
a talk with you." He led me into a quiet side room and shut the door.  "Now look here," he
said.  "Did you boys ever stop to think what a boat you'll be in with this law that you're
trying to get, if you ever have to defend a corporation in a jury suit?  Now they tell me down
at the tramway offices"--the offices of the Denver City Tramway Company--"that they're going
to need a lot more legal help.  There's every prospect that they'll appoint you boys assistant
counsel.  But they can't expect to do much, even with you bright boys as counsel, if they have
this law against them.  You know that all the money there is in law is in corporation business.
I don't see what you're fighting for."

I explained, as well as I could, that we were fighting for the bill because we thought it was
right--that it was needed.  He did not seem to believe me; he objected that this sort of talk
was not "practical."

"Well," I ended, "we've made up our minds to put it through.  And we're going to try."

"You'll find you're making a mistake, boy," he warned me.  "You'll find you're making a mistake."

We laughed over it together--Gardener and I.  It was another proof to us that we had our opponents
on their knees.  We thought we understood Graham's position in the matter; he had made no disguise
of the fact that he was intimate and friendly with Mr. William G. Evans--the great "Bill" Evans--head
of the tramway company and an acknowledged power in politics.  And it was natural to us that
Graham should do what he could to induce us to spare his friends.  That was all very well,
but we had made no pledges; we were under no obligations to any one except the public whom
we served.  Gardener was making himself felt.  He did not intend to stultify himself, even
for Graham's good "friends."  I, of course, went along with him, rejoicing.

He had another bill in hand (House Bill 235) to raise the tax on large foreign insurance companies
so as to help replenish the depleted treasury of the state.  Governor Thomas had been appealing
for money; the increased tax was conceded to be just, and it would add at least $100,000 in
revenue to the public coffers.  Gardener handled it well in the Senate, and--though we were
indirectly offered a bribe of $2,500 to drop it--he got it passed and returned it to the Lower
House.  He had two other bills--one our "anguish of mind" provision and the second a bill regulating
the telephone companies; but he was not able to move them out of committee.  The opposition
was silent but solid.

It became my duty to watch the two bills that we had been able to get as far as the House calendar
on final passage--to see that they were given their turn for consideration.  The jury bill
came to the top very soon, but it was passed over, and next day it was on the bottom of the
list.  This happened more than once.  And once it disappeared from the calendar altogether.
The Clerk of the House, when I demanded an explanation, said that it was an oversight--a clerical
error--and put it back at the foot.  I began to suspect jugglery, but I was not yet sure of it.

One day while I was on this sentry duty, a lobbyist who was a member of a fraternal order to
which I belonged, came to me with the fraternal greeting and a thousand dollars in bills. 
"Lindsey," he said, "this is a legal fee for an argument we want you to make before the committee,
as a lawyer, against that insurance bill.  It's perfectly legitimate. We don't want you to
do anything except in a legal way.  You know our other lawyer has made an able argument, showing
how the extra tax will come out of the people in increased premiums"--and so on.  I refused
the money and continued trying to push along the bill.  In a few days he came back to me, with
a grin.  "Too bad you didn't take that money," he said.  "There's lots of it going round. 
But the joke of it is, I got the whole thing fixed up for $250.  Watch Cannon."  I watched
Cannon--Wilbur F. Cannon, a member of the House and a "floor leader" there.  He had already
voted in favour of the bill.  But--to anticipate somewhat the sequence of events--I saw Wilbur
F. Cannon, in the confusion and excitement of the closing moments of the session, rush down
the aisle toward the Speaker's chair and make a motion concerning the insurance bill--to what
effect I could not hear.  The motion was put, in the midst of the uproar, and declared carried;
and the bill was killed.  It was killed so neatly that there is to-day no record of its decease
in the official account of the proceedings of the House! Expert treason, bold and skilful! [4]

Meanwhile, I had been standing by our jury bill.  It went up and it went down on the calendar,
and at last when it arrived at a hearing it was referred back to the Judiciary Committee with
two other anti-corporation bills.  The session was drawing toward the day provided by the constitution
for its closing, and we could no longer doubt that we were being juggled out of our last chance
by the Clerk and the Speaker--who was Mr. William G. Smith, since known as "Tramway Bill." [5]

"All right," Gardener said.  "Not one of Speaker Smith's House bills will get through the Senate
until he lets our jury bill get to a vote." He told Speaker Smith what he intended to do and
next day he began to do it.

That afternoon, tired out, I was resting, during a recess of the House, in a chair that stood
in a shadowed corner, when the Speaker hurried by heavily, evidently unaware of me, and rang
a telephone.  I heard him mention the name of "Mr. Evans," in a low, husky voice.  I heard,
sleepily, not consciously listening; and I did note at first connect "Mr. Evans" with William
G. Evans of the tramway company.  But a little later I heard the Speaker say: "Well, unless
Gardener can be pulled off, we'll have to let that 'three-fourths' bill out.  He's raising
hell with a lot of our measures over in the Senate. . .  What? . . . Yes. . . .  Well, get
at it pretty quick."

