With every hour the storm gathered new force, and over the barren knolls, along which my course
for some distance lay, the snow whirled furiously.  The track George and I had made on our
downward journey soon was obliterated.  Once in the forenoon, as I pushed blindly on against
the storm, I heard a snort, and, looking up, beheld, only a few yards away, a big caribou.
He was standing directly in my path.  For a second he regarded me, with his head thrown back
in fear and wonder; and then, giving another snort, he dashed away into the maze of whirling snow.

My eyes troubled me greatly, and the pain at length grew so intense that I was forced to sit
down in the snow for perhaps half an hour with both eyes tightly closed.  I was keeping some
distance from the river, as the obstructions here were fewer than near the bank.  In the afternoon
it occurred to me that I might have turned in my course, and I took my compass from its case,
to satisfy myself that I was going in the right direction; but my sight was so impaired that
I could not read the dial, nor be certain which way the needle pointed.  And I wondered vaguely
whether I was becoming totally blind.

My day's progress was not satisfactory.  I had hoped to reach the place where George and I
had forded the river, and cross to the north shore before bivouacking, but in the deepening
snow it was impossible.  With the first indications of night, I halted in a thick spruce grove
near the river and drew together a fairly good supply of dead wood.  On the under side of the
branches of the fir trees was generally to be found a thick growth of hairy moss, and with
a handful of this as tinder it did not take me long to get a good fire blazing.  Close to the
fire I threw a pile of spruce boughs that I broke from low branches and the smaller trees.
I melted snow in my cup for water, and in this put a few lumps of mould from the flour bag,
eating the mixture after it had cooked a while.  On the couch of boughs by the fire I spent
a fairly comfortable night, waking only at intervals to throw on more wood and shake the snow
from my back.

The storm was still raging in the morning (Wednesday, October 21st). With the first grey streaks
of dawn, I boiled another cup of snow water and mould, and then, slinging the flour bag over
my shoulder, began my day's struggle.  The snow was now knee-deep. Soon I reached the fording
place.  The river was beginning to freeze over.  For two or three yards from shore the ice
bore my weight; then I sank up to my waist in the cold current. Approaching the other shore,
I broke the outer ice with my arms until it became thick enough to permit me to climb out upon it.

The ice that immediately formed on my clothing make walking impossible, and reluctantly I halted
to build a fire and dry myself.  This took fully an hour and a half, to my extreme vexation.
I realised now that my hope of reaching Hubbard that night was vain.  While I dried my clothing,
I made a cup of tea. I had just enough left for two brewings, so after drinking the tea I preserved
the leaves for further use, wrapping them carefully in a bit of rag.  Once more on my way up
the valley, I found, to my consternation and almost despair, that my eyes would again compel
me to stop, and for nearly an hour I sat with them closed.  That night, with the snow still
falling, though very lightly, I made my couch of boughs by a fairly comfortable fire, and rested
well.

On Thursday morning (October 22d) a light snow was failing, and the weather was very cold.
The cup of thin gruel that I made from the green lumps of mould nauseated me, and I had to
brew some tea to settle my stomach and stimulate me.  With my piece of blanket drawn over my
head to protect my ears from the biting wind, and with my hands wrapped in the folds, I continued
my struggle towards camp.  I had to force my way, blindly and desperately, through thick clumps
of fir trees, and as the branches were hanging low under their weight of feathery snow, I continually
received a deluge of snow in my face.

My stock of matches was small and time was precious, and I did not stop at noon to build a
fire.  Even when night began to close in upon me I still plodded on, believing that I now must
be near Hubbard.  The snow was falling gently, and as there was a moon behind the clouds the
night was sufficiently light for me to make my way tediously through the trees, with the roar
of the rapids to guide me.  It must have been near midnight when, utterly exhausted, I was
forced to abandon the hope of finding Hubbard before morning.  Fearing that the mould would
again sicken me, I ate nothing when I halted; I simply collected a few dry sticks and huddled
for the remainder of the night by a miserable fire, dozing and awaking with a shudder from
awful dreams.

The storm continued during the night, and with the morning of Friday (October 23d) broke upon
the world and me with renewed fury.  I prepared myself another dose of the mould, and forced
it down.  I was nervously anxious to get on and find Hubbard.  I knew I must be near him now,
although the snow had changed the whole face of the country and obliterated all the landmarks.
Soon I crossed a brook, frozen and covered with snow, that I felt must be the one near our
camp.  Eagerly I looked about me for the tent. Because of the falling snow and the snow-bent
branches, I could scarcely see twenty yards in any direction. From snow-covered rock to snow-covered
rock I went, believing each in turn to be the tent, but always to meet disappointment.  Repeatedly
I stopped to peer into the maze of snow for smoke.  But there was none. Again and again I shouted.
But there was no answer.  The tent was really near me, but it kept its secret well.

I travelled on and on.  I became desperate.  Over and over I repeated to myself, "I must find
Hubbard before night comes--I must find him--I must--I must."  At length the first signs of
night warned me that I must collect my wood, that I might be as comfortable as possible through
the dreary hours of darkness.  As night came on the storm moderated.  The wind ceased.  An
unwonted, solemn, awful stillness came upon the world.  It seemed to choke me.  I was filled
with an unutterable, a sickening dread. Hubbard's face as I had last seen it was constantly
before me. Was he looking and waiting for me?  Why could I not find him?  I must find him in
the morning.  I must, I must. Before going to sleep I made some more gruel and tea, drinking
them both as a duty.

The snow was falling gently on Saturday (October 24th), the wind had mercifully abated, and
the temperature was somewhat milder. After more gruel and the last cup of tea I was to have
in my lonely wanderings, I renewed my search for Hubbard.  I decided that possibly I was below
the camp, and pushed on to the westward. Finally I became convinced I was in a part of the
country I had never seen before.  I began to feel that possibly I was far above the camp; that
a rescuing party had found Hubbard, and that, as my tracks in the snow had been covered, they
had abandoned the hope of finding me and had returned.  They might even have passed me in the
valley below; it was quite possible.  But perhaps George's strength had failed him, and help
never would come to any of us.

I turned about, and again started down the valley.  After a time I attempted to cross the ice
on the river, to try and discover some familiar landmark on the south shore.  In midstream,
where the current had not permitted thick ice to form, I broke through.  The water was nearly
up to my armpits.  Standing there with the icy current swirling about me, I said, "What's the
use?"  It seemed to me I had reached the limit of human endurance.  Instead of trying to struggle
on, how much pleasanter to permit myself to sink beneath the water and thus end it all!  It
would be such a relief to die.

Then there came to me the remembrance that it was my duty to live as long as I could.  I must
do my best.  As long as I had any strength left, I must exert myself to live.  With a great
effort I climbed out on the hard ice, and made my way back to the north shore.  Night was approaching.
I staggered into the spruce growth, and there came upon the same brook I have previously mentioned
as crossing.  Near its bank I made my night fire.  That fire was within two hundred yards of
the tent.  Perhaps it is just as well that I did not know it.

The snow, which had fallen rather mildly, all day, thickened with the coming of night.  All
the loose wood was now buried under the snow, and it was with difficulty that I gathered a
scant supply for the night. My wet rags were freezing hard and stiff.  I moved about, half-dazed.
I broke only a few branches for my bed, and sat down.  Scarcely had I done so when a woman's
voice came to me, kindly and low and encouraging.

"Hadn't you better break a few more boughs?" it said.  "You will rest better then."

There was no mistaking the voice.  It was clear and distinct.  It was the voice of my wife,
who had been dead for more than three years.  I remember it did not impress me as being at
all strange that my wife, who was dead, should be speaking to me up there in the Labrador wilderness.
It seemed to me perfectly natural that she should be looking after my comfort, even as she
had done in life.  I arose and broke the boughs.

I am not a spiritist.  I have never taken any stock in the theory that the spirits of the dead
are able to communicate with the living.  So far as I have thought about them at all, it has
been my opinion that spiritists are either fools or frauds.  But I am endeavouring to give
a faithful account of my feelings and sensations at the time of which I am writing, and the
incident of the voice cannot be ignored.  Perhaps it was all a delusion--an hallucination,
if you will, due to the gradual breaking down of my body and mind.  As to that, the reader
can form his own conclusions.  Certain it is, that from this time on, when I needed help and
encouragement the most, I felt a vague assurance that my wife was by my side; and I verily
believe, that if it had not been for this,--hallucination, delusion, actuality, reality, or
whatever it may have been,--I should now be in a land where the truth about these things is
probably known for certain.

At times I even thought I saw my wife.  And often, often throughout those terrible days her
voice came to me, kindly and low and encouraging.  When I felt I really could plod no farther
through the snow, her voice would tell me not to lose heart, but to do my best, and all would
be right in the end.  And when, wearied beyond measure at night, I would fall into a heavy
sleep, and my fire would burn low, a hand on my shoulder would arouse me, and her voice would
tell me to get up and throw on more wood.  Now and again I fancied I heard the voice of my
mother, who died when I was a boy, also encouraging and reassuring me.  Indescribably comforting
were those voices, whatever their origin may have been. They soothed me, and brought balm for
my loneliness.  In the wilderness, and amid the falling snow, those that loved me were ministering
unto me and keeping me from harm.  At least, so it seemed to me.  And now, as I think of those
dear voices, and feel once more that loving touch on my shoulder, there comes back to me that
verse from the Psalm George read at our parting--"For He shall give His angels charge over
thee, to keep thee in all thy ways."

It is all like a half-dream to me now.  I know that after Saturday night (October 24th), when
I bivouacked within a stone's throw of Hubbard's tent, I lost all count of the days, and soon
could not recall even the month.  I travelled on and on, always down the valley. Sometimes
I fancied I heard men shouting, and I would reply.  But the men did not come, and I would say
to myself over and over again, "Man proposes, God disposes; it is His will and best for all."

The flour mould nauseated me to such an extent that for a day at a time I could not force myself
to eat it.  The snow clogged in all that was left of my cowhide moccasins (larigans), and I
took them off and fastened them to my belt, walking thereafter in my stocking feet.  I wore
two pairs of woollen socks, but holes already were beginning to appear in the toes and heels.
The bushes tore away the legs of my trousers completely, and my drawers, which thus became
the sole protection of my legs from the middle of my thighs down, had big holes in them.  Each
night I cut a piece of leather from my moccasin uppers, and boiled it in my cup until morning,
when I would eat it and drink the water.  I found afterward, carefully preserved in my match
box, one of the brass eyelets from the moccasins.  Probably I put it away thinking I might
have to eat even that.

I knew there was something the matter with my feet; they complained to me every night.  They
seemed to me like individuals that were dependent upon me, and they told me it was my duty
to care for them.  But I gave no heed to their complaints.  I had enough to do to care for
myself. My feet must look out for themselves.  Why should I worry about them?

And still it snowed, night and day--sometimes gently, sometimes blindingly; but always it snowed.
Once while plodding along the side of a rocky hill, I staggered over the edge of a shelving
rock and fell several feet into a snow drift.  I was uninjured, but extricating myself was
desperately hard work, and it was very pleasant and soft in the snow, and I was so tired and
sleepy.  Why not give it up and go to sleep?  But she was with me, and she whispered, "Struggle
on, and all will be well," and reluctantly I dragged my poor old body out.

There were times when the feeling was strong upon me that I had been alone and wandering on
forever, and that, like the Wandering Jew, I must go on forever.  At other times I fancied
I was dead, and that the snow-covered wilderness was another world. Instinctively I built my
fire at night under the stump of a fallen tree, if I could find one; for the rotten wood would
smoulder until morning, and a supply of other wood was very hard to get.

One evening I remember crossing the river, which had now gone into its long winter sleep tucked
away under a blanket of ice and snow, and building a fire under a rotten stump on the south
side behind a bank near the shore.  I felt that I must be well down the valley.  My supply
of wood was miserably small, but I had worked hard all day and could not gather any more. 
I fell down by the fire and struggled against sleep.  She told me I must not sleep. When I
dozed, her hand on my shoulder would arouse me.  Thus the night passed.

At dawn I realised in a vague sort of way that the clouds had at last broken away; that the
weather was clear and biting cold. Before me was the river.  It had been a raging torrent when
I first saw it; now it lay quiet and still under its heavy winter blanket.  At my back the
low bank with its stunted spruce trees hid the ridge of barren, rocky hills and knolls that
lay beyond.

