I got my name from the Rogers', but I was loaned around to their relatives most of the time.
I helped around the house for Bill McCracken, then I was with Cornelius and Carline Wright,
and when I was freed my Mistress was a Mrs. O'Neal, wife of a officer at Fort Gibson. She treated
me the best of all and gave me the first doll I ever had. It was a rag doll with charcoal eyes
and red thread worked in for the mouth. She allowed me one hour every day to play with it.
When the War ended Mistress O'Neal wanted to take me with her to Richmond, Virginia, but my
people wouldn't let me go. I wanted to stay with her, she was so good, and she promised to
come back for me when I get older, but she never did.

All the time I was at the fort I hear the bugles and see the soldiers marching around, but
never did I see any battles. The fighting must have been too far away.

Master Rogers kept all our family together, but my folks have told me about how the slaves
was sold. One of my aunts was a mean, fighting woman. She was to be sold and when the bidding
started she grabbed a hatchet, laid her hand on a log and chopped it off. Then she throwed
the bleeding hand right in her master's face. Not long ago I hear she is still living in the
country around Nowata, Oklahoma.

Sometimes I would try to get mean, but always I got me a whipping for it. When I was a little
girl, moving around from one family to another, I done housework, ironing, peeling potatoes
and helping the main cook. I went barefoot most of my life, but the master would get his shoes
from the Government at Fort Gibson.

I wore cotton dresses, and the Mistress wore long dresses, with different colors for Sunday
clothes, but us slaves didn't know much about Sunday in a religious way. The Master had a brother
who used to preach to the Negroes on the sly. One time he was caught and the Master whipped
him something awful.

Years ago I married Joe Bean. Our children died as babies. Twenty year ago Joe Bean and I separated
for good and all.

The good Lord knows I'm glad slavery is over. Now I can stay peaceful in one place--that's
all I aim to do.

Oklahoma Writers' Project Ex-Slaves [Date stamp: AUG 16 1937]

PRINCE BEE Age 85 yrs. Red Bird, Okla.

I don't know how old I was when I found myself standing on the toppen part of a high stump
with a lot of white folks walking around looking at the little scared boy that was me. Pretty
soon the old master, (that's my first master) Saul Nudville, he say to me that I'm now belonging
to Major Bee and for me to get down off the auction block.

I do that. Major Bee he comes over and right away I know I'm going to like him. Then when I
get to the Major's plantation and see his oldest daughter Mary and all her brothers and sisters,
and see how kind she is to all them and to all the colored children, why, I just keeps right
on liking 'em more all the time.

They was about nine white children on the place and Mary had to watch out for them 'cause the
mother was dead.

That Mary gal seen to it that we children got the best food on the place, the fattest possum
and the hottest fish. When the possum was all browned, and the sweet 'taters swimming in the
good mellow gravy, then she call us for to eat. Um-um-h! That was tasty eating!

And from the garden come the vegetables like okra and corn and onions that Mary would mix all
up in the soup pot with lean meats. That would rest kinder easy on the stomach too, 'specially
if they was a bit of red squirrel meats in with the stew!

Major Bee say it wasn't good for me to learn reading and writing. Reckoned it would ruin me.
But they sent me to Sunday School. Sometimes. Wasn't many of the slaves knew how to read the
Bible either, but they all got the religion anyhow. I believed in it then and I still do.

That religion I got in them way back days is still with me. And it ain't this pie crust religion
such as the folks are getting these days. The old time religion had some filling between the
crusts, wasn't so many empty words like they is today.

They was haunts in them way back days, too. How's I know? 'Cause I stayed right with the haunts
one whole night when I get caught in a norther when the Major sends me to another plantation
for to bring back some cows he's bargained for. That was a cold night and a frightful one.

The blizzard overtook me and it was dark on the way. I come to an old gin house that everybody
said was the hauntinest place in all the county. But I went in account of the cold and then
when the noises started I was just too scared to move, so there I stood in the corner, all
the time 'til morning come.

There was nobody I could see, but I could hear peoples feet a-tromping and stomping around
the room and they go up and down the stairway like they was running a race.

Sometimes the noises would be right by my side and I would feel like a hot wind passing around
me, and lights would flash all over the room. Nobody could I see. When daylight come I went
through that door without looking back and headed for the plantation, forgetting all about
the cows that Major Bee sent me for to get.

When I tells them about the thing, Mary she won't let the old Major scold, and she fixes me
up with some warm foods and I is all right again. But I stays me away from that gin place,
even in the daylight, account of the haunts.

When the War come along the Major got kinder mean with some of the slaves, but not with me.
I never did try to run off, but some of 'em did. One of my brothers tried and got caught.

The old Master whipped him 'til the blood spurted all over his body, the bull whip cutting
in deeper all the time. He finish up the whipping with a wet coarse towel and the end got my
brother in the eye. He was blinded in the one eye but the other eye is good enough he can see
they ain't no use trying to run away no more.

After the War they was more whippings. This time it was the night riders--them Klan folks didn't
fool with mean Negroes. The mean Negroes was whipped and some of them shot when they do something
the Klan folks didn't like, and when they come a-riding up in the night, all covered with white
spreads, they was something bound to happen.

Them way back days is gone and I is mighty glad. The Negroes of today needs another leader
like Booker Washington. Get the young folks to working, that's what they need, and get some
filling in their pie crust religion so's when they meet the Lord their soul won't be empty
like is their pocketbooks today!

Oklahoma Writers' Project Ex-Slaves

LEWIS BONNER Age 87 yrs. 507 N. Durland Oklahoma City, Oklahoma

I was born 7 miles north of Palestine, Texas, on Matt Swanson's place in 1850, but I kin not
remember the date. My mistress was name Celia Swanson. My mistress was so good to me till I
jest loved her.

My family and all slaves on our place was treated good. Mighty few floggings went on 'round
and about. Master was the overseer over his darkies and didn't use no other'n. I waited table
and churned in the Big House.

I ate at the table with my mistress and her family and nothing was evah said. We ate bacon,
greens, Irish potatoes and such as we git now. Aunt Chaddy was the cook and nurse for all the
chillun on the place.

We used to hear slaves on de other places hollering from whippings, but master never whipped
his niggers 'less they lied. Sometimes slaves from other places would run off and come to our
place. Master would take them back and tell the slave-holders how to treat them so dey wouldn't
run off again.

Mistress had a little stool for me in the big house, and if I got sleepy, she put me on the
foot of her bed and I stayed there til morning, got up washed my face and hands and got ready
to wait on the table.

There was four or five hundred slaves on our place. One morning during slavery, my father killed
18 white men and ran away. They said he was lazy and whipped him, and he just killed all of
'em he could, which was 18 of 'em. He stayed away 3 years without being found. He come back
and killed 7 before they could kill him. When he was on the place he jest made bluing.

My mother worked in the field and weaved cloth. Shirts dat she made lasted 12 months, even
if wore and washed and ironed every day. Pants could not be ripped with two men pulling on
dem with all their might. You talking 'bout clothes, them was some clothes then. Clothes made
now jest don't come up to them near abouts.

Doing of slavery, we had the best church, lots better than today. I am a Baptist from head
to foot, yes sir, yes sir. Jest couldn't be nothing else. In the first place, I wouldn't even try.

I knows when the war started and ceaseted. I tell you it was some war. When it was all over,
the Yankees come thoo' singing, "You may die poor but you won't die a slave."

When the War was over, master told us that we could go out and take care of the crops already
planted and plant the ones that need planting 'cause we knowed all 'bout the place and we would
go halvers. We stayed on 3 years after slavery. We got a little money, but we got room and
board and didn't have to work too hard. It was enough difference to tell you was no slaves
any more.

After slavery and when I was old enough I got married. I married a gal that was a daughter
of her master. He wanted to own her, but she sho' didn't return it. He kept up with her till
he died and sent her money jest all the time. Before he died, he put her name in his will and
told his oldest son to be sure and keep up with her. The son was sure true to his promise,
for till she died, she was forever hearing from him or he would visit us, even after we moved
to Oklahoma from Texas.

Our chillun and grandchillun will git her part since she is gone. She was sure a good wife
and for no reason did I take the second look at no woman. That was love, which don't live no
more in our hearts.

I make a few pennies selling fish worms and doing a little yard work and raising vegetables.
Not much money in circulation. When I gets my old age pension, it will make things a little
mite better. I guess the time will be soon.

Tain't nothing but bad treatment that makes people die young and I ain't had none.

Oklahoma Writers' Project Ex-Slaves [Date stamp: AUG 19 1937]

FRANCIS BRIDGES Age 73 yrs. Oklahoma City, Okla.

I was born in Red River County, Texas in 1864, and that makes me 73 years old. I had myself
75, and I went to my white folks and they counted it up and told me I was 73, but I always
felt like I was older than that.

My husband's name is Henry Bridges. We was raised up children together and married. I had five
sisters. My brother died here in Oklahoma about two years ago. He was a Fisher. Mary Russell,
my sister, she lives in Parish, Texas; Willie Ann Poke, she lives in Greenville, Texas; Winnie
Jackson, lives in Adonia, Texas, and Mattie White, my other sister, lives in Long Oak, Texas,
White Hunt County.

Our Master was named Master Travis Wright, and we all ate nearly the same thing. Such things
as barbecued rabbits, coon, possums baked with sweet potatoes and all such as that. I used
to hang round the kitchen. The cook, Mama Winnie Long, used to feed all us little niggers on
the flo', jest like little pigs, in tin cups and wooden spoons. We ate fish too, and I like
to go fishing right this very day.

