Some two miles of dusty suburb lie between Resina and Torre del Greco, which has been destroyed
time after time by the lava streams descending from “that peak of Hell rising out of Paradise,”
as Goethe once named the burning mountain overhead. Nevertheless, the Torrese continue to sit
patiently at the feet of the fire-spouting monster, trembling when he is angry, pleased when
he is quiescent, and ready to abandon meekly their homes when he renders them insupportable
by his furious outbursts. Yet these people never fail to return and risk the ever-present chances
of death and destruction. And little can we blame them for their fatalism, when we gaze upon
the glorious views that reveal themselves at this spot, whence Naples rising proudly from the
sea, the rocky islands of Ischia and Capri, the aerial heights of Monte Sant’ Angelo and all
the features of the placid bay are seen spread around us in a panorama of unsurpassed loveliness.
Beneath lava rocks, black and sinister, that contrast strangely in their sombre hues with the
brilliant tints of sea and sky, lie little beaches of glittering gravel that would afford delightful
retreats for meditation, were it not for the dozens of half-naked brown-skinned imps, children
of the fisher-folk of Torre del Greco, who wallow in the warm sand or rush with joyful screams
into the tepid surf. The population must have increased not a little since those days, nearly
a century ago, when the unhappy Shelley could find peace and solitude in his darkest hours
of unrest upon these shores, where it would be well-nigh impossible for a twentieth-century
poet to espy a retreat for soothing his soul in verse. Yet somehow, during the drowsy noontide
rest when the active life of the South ceases, if only for an hour or so, it is still possible
to catch the spirit in which that melancholy wanderer indited one of his most exquisite lyrics:—sunshine,
clear sky, murmuring seas, the fragrance of the Italian spring, all are present to our reverie;
and how true and perfect a picture has the poet-artist drawn for us of this beautiful Vesuvian
shore! As in all the towns of the Terra di Lavoro, as this collection of human ant-hills on
the eastern side of Naples is sometimes designated, the old command given to the first parents
of mankind—“by the sweat of thy brow shalt thou eat bread”—is scrupulously observed in Torre
del Greco. It is little enough, however, that these frugal people demand, for a hunk of coarse
bread, tempered with a handful of beans or an orange in winter or with a slice of luscious
pink water-melon or a few figs in summer, is thought to constitute a full meal in this climate;
nor are these simple viands washed down by anything more potent than a draught of mezzo-vino,
the weak sour wine of the country. A dish of maccaroni or a plateful of kid or veal garnished
with vegetables is a treat to be reserved for a marriage or some great Church festival, whilst
a chicken is regarded as a luxury in which only gran’ signori of boundless wealth can afford
to indulge. Amongst the many classes of toilers with which populous Torre del Greco abounds,
that of the coral-fishers is perhaps the most interesting. There is pure romance in the very
notion of hunting for the beautiful coloured substance lying hidden in the crystalline depths
of the Mediterranean, and its quest is not a little suggestive of azure caverns beneath the
waves, peopled by soft-eyed mermaids and strange iridescent fishes. As a matter of fact, it
would be difficult to name a harder occupation or a more dismal monotonous existence than that
of the coral-fishers, many hundreds of whom leave this little port every spring in order to
spend the summer months on the coasts of Tripoli, Sardinia, or Sicily. The men employed, who
work under contract during some six months of unending drudgery, are by no means all natives
of Torre del Greco, but are collected from various places of the neighbourhood, not a few of
them being thrifty youths from Capri, who are eager to amass as quickly as possible the lump
sum of money requisite to permit of marriage. It is true that the amount actually paid by the
owners of the coral fleet sounds proportionately large, yet it is in reality poor enough recompense
when measured by the ceaseless toil, the burning heat and the wretched food, which the venture
entails. The lot of the coral-fisher has however much improved of late years, partly by measures
of government which now compel the contractors to treat their servants more humanely, and partly
by the fact that the practice of emigration in Southern Italy has reduced the numbers of applicants
for the coral-fishing business and has thereby, indirectly at least, raised wages and bettered
the old conditions of service. A truly pitiable account is given of these poor creatures some
thirty years ago by an English writer, whose knowledge of the Neapolitan people and character
remains probably unsurpassed; and it is some satisfaction to reflect that even in Mr Stamer’s
day the bad old oppressive system had already been somewhat tempered for the benefit of these
white slaves, who for nearly half the round of the year were worse treated than King Bomba’s
unhappy victims in the pestilent prisons of Naples and Gaeta.

“Badly paid, badly fed, and hard worked is the poor coral-fisher. Compared with his, the life
of a galley-slave is one of sybaritical indolence. His treatment was, until very recently,
not one whit better than that of the poor oppressed negro as he existed in the vivid imagination
of Mrs Harriet Beecher Stowe; immeasurably worse than that of the real Simon Pure. The thirty
ducats for which he sold his seven months’ services once paid, he was just as much a slave
as Uncle Tom of pious memory, harder worked, more brutally handled. His padrone was a sea-monster,
alongside of whom Mr Legree would have seemed a paragon of Quaker-like gentleness and amiability.
His word was law and a rope’s end well laid on his sole reply to any remonstrance on the part
of his bondsmen. For six days out of the seven he kept them working incessantly, not unfrequently
on the seventh into the bargain, if the weather was favourable; and that they might be strong,
hearty and able to haul away, their food consisted of dry biscuits; a dish of maccaroni with
just sufficient oil to make the sign of the cross being served out for the Sunday’s dinner.”(1)

In those “good old days,” not so very far distant, the dredging nets were coarse and weighty,
and the capstan of the clumsiest and most primitive description, so that the coral-seeking
serfs under contract were worked like bullocks until they were often wont to fall asleep out
of sheer exhaustion as they hauled away mechanically. We can imagine then with what raptures
of joy these ill-treated mortals must have hailed the advent of October, the month that terminated
their long spell of suffering and semi-starvation, and with what eagerness they must have returned
homewards, the more industrious to perform odd jobs during the winter season on farms or in
factories; the lazier to enjoy a well-earned holiday of loafing on the quay or in the piazza.
And although times have changed for the better in the eyes of the coral-fisher, his lot still
remains hard enough, even in the present days of grace; whilst any employment that saps the
workman’s strength during the hot summer months and leaves him idle or unemployed in winter
time cannot well be described as a desirable trade. Yet the temptation to obtain a considerable
sum of money in advance, as is the case in this particular industry, often proves overwhelming
to the young man of the Torres or of Castellamare, imprudently married before he is out of
his teens and with an ever-increasing family. It is so easy to accept the proffered gold, which
will keep wife and babies in comparative comfort throughout the long hot summer; unskilled
labour is paid so lightly on these teeming shores of the Terra di Lavoro; saddled already with
children he cannot make up his feeble mind to emigrate; in short, to go a-coralling is his
sole chance, if he wishes to keep his home together and to stave off charity or starvation
from his young wife and family.

Beyond Torre del Greco we seem to escape to a certain extent from the enveloping network of
human dwellings, so that we are at last enabled to gain some idea of the natural features of
the country. The oriental character of the landscape, which marks more or less distinctly the
whole of the Neapolitan coast-line, will at once be noticed in the domed farm buildings, not
unlike Mahommedan koubbas, washed a glistening white, that stand out sharply against the lugubrious
tints of the lava beds. Above us, crowning a bosky hillock that juts forth from the mountain
flank, stands one of the many convents of the monks of Camaldoli, whose houses are scattered
throughout the breadth of Southern Italy. The position of their Vesuvian settlement is certainly
unique, for the rising ground on which it is perched appears like some verdant oasis amid the
arid fields of sable lava. Secure in its commanding site, the monastery has many a time been
completely surrounded by burning streams, which have invariably left the building and its woody
demesne unscathed. More than once have the good brethren, who wear the white robe of St Romualdo
of Ravenna, looked down from their convent walls upon the work of destruction below, and have
watched the waves of liquid fire surging angrily but uselessly round the rocky base of their
retreat. Hard manual labour, prayer, solitude and contemplation: these are the chief duties
enjoined by the famous Tuscan order, and surely no more suitable place for carrying out such
precepts could have been chosen by the pious founder of this Vesuvian convent. For what scenes
on earth could be deemed more beautiful to contemplate, we wonder, than the wide stretches
of heaven and ocean, of fertile plain and of rugged mountain, that are ever before the eyes
of the brethren; or more instructive than the constant spectacle of disappointed human ambition
and energy, which is afforded by the barren lava beds and the ruined cities close at hand!

Descending from the slopes of Camaldoli, we cross a tract of country wherein black lava alternates
with patches of rich cultivation and of thriving vineyards, and gaining the high road we soon
reach Torre Annunziata. Here it is evident that the manufacture of maccaroni forms the chief
industry of its population, for on all sides are to be seen the frames filled with the golden
coloured strings of pasta that have been hung up to dry in the sunshine. Every flat roof in
the place, moreover, is covered with smooth concrete and protected by a low parapet for the
spreading of the grain, and on the beach are laid huge cloths of coarse brown material that
are heaped with masses of the crude corn, whilst men with their naked feet from time to time
turn the grain so as to dry the whole bulk. Torre Annunziata and its inland neighbour, Gragnano,
are in fact the two chief local scenes of this industry with which the Bay of Naples has always
been so closely associated, and it is here that we can best make ourselves acquainted with
the process of manufacturing maccaroni. By following any one of the tall brown-skinned fellows,
stripped to the waist and bare-legged, who have been breathing the fresh air of the street
for a few moments, we quickly arrive at the entrance of one of the many small factories with
which the town abounds. In spite of open doors and windows its atmosphere feels hot and stifling,
for it is impregnated with tiny particles of flour dust, which too often, alas! are apt to
affect permanently the lungs of the workmen. The dough of maccaroni is obtained by mixing pure
wheaten flour with semolina in certain proportions, only water being used for the purpose,
whilst the task of kneading is carried out in primitive fashion by means of a lever worked
continuously by two or more men. When the dough has at length arrived at the required consistency
after some hours of steady kneading, it is placed in a large perforated copper cylinder, each
hole having a central pin at the bottom and a valve on top. A powerful screw is then employed
to press down upon the dough, which is thus squeezed out of the imprisoning cylinder through
the holes in the serpentine shape that is so familiar to us. On reaching a certain length these
pipes, issuing from the holes, are twisted off and are then removed for drying to the frames
in the open air. Maccaroni has, of course, many varieties of form and quality, from the thin
fluffy vermicelli, known under the poetical name of Capilli degli Angeli, to the great thick
pipe-stem-like article of ordinary commerce. There are endless means of cooking and dressing
this, the national dish of Italy, but perhaps the most popular of all is alla Napolitana, wherein
it is served with tomato sauce, to which a sprinkling of grated Parmesan cheese is frequently
added. A compound of eggs and maccaroni, sometimes known as a Neapolitan omelette, likewise
makes an appetising dish, though it is one that is little known to foreigners. One circumstance
is patent; the dismal so-called “maccaroni pudding” one meets with in England seems to have
nothing in common with the delicately flavoured, sustaining dish that can be obtained for a
few pence in any Southern restaurant.

Torre Annunziata has the reputation of being a dirty malodorous town, composed of shabby stone
houses and full of quarrelsome people. Well, perhaps there is a scintilla of truth in the sweeping
observation, yet if we can contrive to endure the smells and racket of the place for a brief
space of time, there is much of human interest to be observed in the daily scenes of its crowded
beach and its noisy streets. After all, no odours of the South can compare in all-pervading
intensity with the blended aroma of fried fish and London fog that old Drury Lane can often
produce; nor are the Torrese more dangerous to strangers or more objectionable in their habits
than the crowds of Lambeth or Seven Dials. In strength of lungs, it must be granted, the Italian
easily surpasses the Londoner, for the Southern voice is positively alarming in its vigour
and its far-reaching power. No one—man, woman or child—can apparently speak below a scream;
even the most amiable or trivial of conversations seems to our unaccustomed ears to portend
an imminent quarrel, to so high a pitch are the naturally harsh voices strained. Morning, noon
and night the same hubbub of men shouting, of women screeching, and of children yelling continues
for nobody minds noise in Italy, where people are troubled with no nerves of their own and
consequently have no consideration for those of strangers. And why, therefore, should they
suspend their native habits to please a handful of cavilling forestieri?

A stroll through Torre Annunziata, although it possesses not a few drawbacks, can be made both
amusing and instructive; we can even find something attractive in the quality of the local
atmosphere, which suggests at one and the same time sunshine, garlic, incense, stale fish and
wood smoke; it is the pungent but characteristic aroma of the South, filled “with spicy odours
Time can never mar.” And what truly charming pictures do the family groups present in the wide
archways giving on the untidy courts within, full of sun and shadow and gay with bright-coloured
garments swaying in the wind! The ebon-haired young mother with teeth like pearls and with
warm-tinted cheeks sits fondling the last helpless little addition to her growing family, whilst
toddlers of any age from two to seven, unkempt but bright-eyed and engaging, play around the
door-step, watched over by their grandmother, or may be their great-grandam, who with her wizened
face enfolded in her yellow kerchief, her skinny neck, and her distaff in the bony fingers,
looks as if she had stepped out of some Renaissance painting of the Three Fates in a Florentine
gallery. Crimson carnations in earthenware pots stand on the steps of the outside staircase,
giving a touch of refinement to the squalid home, and from the balcony overhead the glossy-black,
yellow-billed passer solitario, the favourite cage-bird of the Neapolitan poor, chirrups with
apparent cheerfulness in his wicker-work prison. Behind, in the dim shadows of the large room,
which serves as sole habitation, we can espy the inevitable household altar with the oil lamp
glimmering before the little crude-coloured print of the Virgin and Child, and its usual accessory,
the piece of palm or olive that was blessed by the priest last Palm Sunday; poor and mean though
the chamber be, its bed linen and simple appointments are more cleanly than might perhaps be
inferred from the appearance of the family itself. In a shady corner close by, three or four
young labourers at their mid-day rest have finished their frugal repast of bread and beans,
and are now playing eagerly the popular game of zecchinetto with a frayed and grimy pack of
cards. Wives or sweethearts watch with anxious faces from a respectful distance, for it is
not meet to disturb the lords of creation when they happen to be engaged in a game of chance.
What possibilities of farce and tragedy can be drawn from so simple, so common a scene upon
these shores, where human life is less artificially conducted than elsewhere in Europe, and
where human passions are kept under less restraint? Terrible are the tales of jealousy and
revenge, of deliberate treachery and of uncontrolled violence, which are related of these quick-tempered
grown-up children of the South, who seem to love and hate with the blind intensity of untutored
savages.

  “Lo ’nnamorato’ mmio sse chiammo Peppo,
  Lo capo jocatore de le carte;
  Ss’ ha jocato ’sto core a zecchinetto,
  Dice ca mo’ lo venne, e mo’ lo parte.
  Che n’agg’ io a fare lo caro de carte?
  Vogho lo core che tinite ’m pietto!”

  (“That lover of mine is called Handsome Beppo,
  The best player of cards all around this way;
  He’s been playing on Hearts at zecchinetto,
  And says now they turn up, now are sorted away.
  What matters the heart in the card-pack to me?
  The heart in his bosom’s the heart for me!”)

Here lies the sleeping fisherman, worn out probably with hours of hauling at the heavy nets,
who is snatching a chance hour of repose, prone upon his chest with face buried in his crossed
arms. Little he seems to reck of the damp of the soil or the heat of the sun, nor can a noisy
game of mora played by a couple of his companions beside him disturb his deep slumber. Mora
has ever been the classic game of the South, and indeed, there is abundant evidence to show
that it was played by the ancestors of these dwellers in Magna Graecia hundreds of years before
Pompeii was overthrown. The game, which requires nothing but the human fingers, bears no little
resemblance to our own humble pastime of “Up Jenkin!” which may almost be described as a species
of drawing-room mora; perhaps some Italian traveller in a past age may actually have introduced
this form of the southern diversion into prosaic England. The two players, face to face and
craning forward with outstretched necks, simultaneously extend their right hands with one or
more fingers pointing upward, the aim of each man being to guess the exact number, from two
to ten, jointly displayed by both right hands. If one of them hit upon the correct figure,
then he gains one point towards the stakes, which are usually made in centesimi rather than
in soldi. How rapidly do the lean supple brown fingers flash backwards and forwards, and with
what gusto do the two frenzied combatants yell out their numbers! Mora has been a favourite
recreation with these people almost from their cradles, and he would be a bold man indeed who
would venture to challenge a Torrese at this game, for the native’s skill and experience are
almost bound to tell eventually in his favour, and the odds are “Lombard Street to a China
orange” against the outside player. There are certain maxims too with regard to the game which
are closely observed by those who play it, as well as peculiar expressions, such as tutte to
denote that all ten fingers are being shown, or chiarella for all but one. Five points usually
make the game, and these are commonly marked by holding up one or more fingers of the disengaged
left hand.—These are a few of the many sights to be witnessed by those who can afford to endure
the pestering attentions of small boys, and the uncomplimentary staring of the adult population
in such places as the Torres or Castellamare; and such as wish to make themselves acquainted
with the details of southern life and manners cannot do better than pass an idle hour in the
fishmarket or the piazza of these little industrial towns of the Vesuvian shore. For to regard
Southern Italy from the majestic isolation of a railway compartment or a hired carriage cannot
possibly give the traveller the smallest insight into the ordinary phases of local life; for
he is ever looking, as it were, into a picture from which all trace of colour has vanished.

It is but a short quarter of an hour by train from Torre Annunziata to Castellamare di Stabia,
the ill-fated Stabiae of the Romans, which shared the evil lot of Pompeii and Herculaneum.
On our right we have the sea, with the castle-topped islet of Revigliano, whilst on looking
to the left we can survey the fertile valley of the Sarno, and the shapeless mounds which hide
that precious goal of every traveller to these shores, the buried city of Pompeii. Everywhere
thrives sub-tropical vegetation:—cactus and aloe draped in wreaths of smilax; tall straggling
masses of scarlet geranium that cling for protection to the Indian fig, and blossom in security
amid their spiky but safe retreats; shrubs of fragrant yellow genista; clumps of purple-leaved
ricini, as the Italians name the castor-oil plant. If it were summer time, the daturas would
be covered with their great white floral trumpets, and every oleander bush would be one blaze
of the coarse carmine blossoms that are here called Mazza di San Giuseppe, or St Joseph’s nosegay,
and a very gaudy rank bouquet they make. But in spring-time the oleander can but display long
greyish leaves and pods of snowy fluff, which is blown hither and thither like thistle-down
on the air; and it is only in flaming summer that these regions are brightened by St Joseph’s
flower, or by the still more gorgeous masses of the mesembryanthemum, which clambers on all
sides over the lava rock and hangs in crimson festoons from tufa cliffs, making impossibly
splendid splashes of colour in the landscape.

                              * * * * * * *

So many writers have expatiated upon the sordid ugliness of Castellamare and upon the beauty
of the wooded slopes above the town, that a further description of the place may well be dispensed
with. Uninteresting, however, as this industrial town appears, it boasts a long historical
record, to which its crumbling medieval castle bears witness. The great Emperor Frederick the
Second, the scholar-pope Pius the Second, and all the monarchs of the Angevin, Aragonese and
Bourbon dynasties have been associated with this “castle by the sea.” The whole district was
once the property of that human monster Pier-Luigi Farnese, duke of Parma, heir of Pope Paul
the Third, of whose demoniacal cruelty and treachery the racy pages of Cellini’s Memoirs give
so vivid an account, and whose repulsive face has grown familiar to us from Titian’s famous
portraits in the gallery of Naples. It was the evil Pier-Luigi’s descendant and heiress-general
of the family, Elizabeth Farnese, Queen of Spain, who conveyed the beautiful villa and woods
of Quisisana to the Bourbon kings, and here the Neapolitan royal family for several generations
sought health (as the name of the place implies) and repose upon the breezy heights that lie
so conveniently near to the great city in full view to the west. Nowadays the old royal villa,
deserted by crowned heads since Ferdinand’s days and fallen from its high estate to its present
use of a hotel and pension, forms with its park the chief attraction of Castellamare, where
English travellers are wont to congregate in winter, and Neapolitan and Greek seekers of pleasure
or drinkers of medicinal waters resort in the hot summer months. The Southerners who come here
for their villeggiatura certainly enjoy a better time than the winter visitors, for the bulky
form of Monte Sant’ Angelo intercepts much of the sunshine, thereby rendering the place damp
and chilly in the cold season of the year. Nominally it is the mineral springs that attract
the Neapolitan folk, wherein they have a fine choice of health-giving beverages, varying from
the acqua ferrata, a mild chalybeate that is found useful as a tonic, to the powerful acqua
del Muraglione, that is warranted to reduce the stoutest mortal to a mere shadow of his former
self in a trice. But though the waters may be occasionally sipped of a morning and wry faces
made, it is in reality the warm sea-bathing on the shore, where people spend hours pickling
in tepid salt water, and also the cool rides or walks amongst the shady alleys of sweet chestnut
and ilex woods of Quisisana and Monte Coppola, which draw hither in summer the elegant world
of Naples, and even of Athens, to visit Castellamare. The leafy groves on the zephyr-swept
hill sides, once sacred to the pleasures of Bourbon tyrants, now ring with peals of noisy laughter,
with gallant compliments, and with the harsh shouting of the ciucciari, the leaders of the
poor over-driven donkeys. Unhappy patient beasts! usually covered with raws and galls, that
are urged forward at a gallop by the remorseless stick, or even by the goad, for the Neapolitan
donkey-boy is absolutely callous to the feelings of his animal. Not that he is cruel out of
sheer cussedness, for cruelty’s sake, for he can be really kind to his dog or his cat; but
the beast of burden, the helpless uncomplaining servant of man, suffers terribly at his hands.
It is useless to remonstrate or argue with the young ruffian, who at our sharp reprimand will
merely open wide his big black eyes and stare in genuine amazement. Non sono Cristiani—they
have no souls, and the beasts are their property and not yours; what does it matter then to
you how they are treated, provided they carry you properly? That is the sum total of the donkey-boy’s
argument, and he has high ecclesiastical authority to back up his private theory, if he had
the wit to enter into a discussion with us on the subject. Almost equally hopeless is it to
point to the simple fact that a well-groomed, well-treated animal lasts longer than a half-starved,
mutilated scare-crow. “How old is your horse?” we once asked a driver in the south.