A quaint tale from the Arabian Nights suggested the very subject for a light work of this description,
the title of which, if I remember rightly, was Mannerlist grosser als Frauenlist ('Man outwits
Woman').

I transplanted the story from Bagdad to a modern setting. A young goldsmith offends the pride
of a young woman by placing the above motto on the sign over his shop; deeply veiled, she steps
into his shop and asks him, as he displays such excellent taste in his work, to express his
opinion on her own physical charms; he begins with her feet and her hands, and finally, noticing
his confusion, she removes the veil from her face. The jeweller is carried away by her beauty,
whereupon she complains to him that her father, who has always kept her in the strictest seclusion,
describes her to all her suitors as an ugly monster, his object being, she imagines, simply
to keep her dowry. The young man swears that he will not be frightened off by these foolish
objections, should the father raise them against his suit. No sooner said than done. The daughter
of this peculiar old gentleman is promised to the unsuspecting jeweller, and is brought to
her bridegroom as soon as he has signed the contract. He then sees that the father has indeed
spoken the truth, the real daughter being a perfect scarecrow. The beautiful lady returns to
the bridegroom to gloat over his desperation, and promises to release him from his terrible
marriage if he will remove the motto from his signboard. At this point I departed from the
original, and continued as follows: The enraged jeweller is on the point of tearing down his
unfortunate signboard when a curious apparition leads him to pause in the act. He sees a bear-
leader in the street making his clumsy beast dance, in whom the luckless lover recognises at
a glance his own father, from whom he has been parted by a hard fate.

He suppresses any sign of emotion, for in a flash a scheme occurs to him by which he can utilise
this discovery to free himself from the hated marriage with the daughter of the proud old aristocrat.

He instructs the bear-leader to come that evening to the garden where the solemn betrothal
is to take place in the presence of the invited guests.

He then explains to his young enemy that he wishes to leave the signboard up for the time being,
as he still hopes to prove the truth of the motto.

After the marriage contract, in which the young man arrogates to himself all kinds of fictitious
titles of nobility, has been read to the assembled company (composed, say, of the elite of
the noble immigrants at the time of the French Revolution), there is heard suddenly the pipe
of the bear-leader, who enters the garden with his prancing beast. Angered by this trivial
diversion, the astonished company become indignant when the bridegroom, giving free vent to
his feelings, throws himself with tears of joy into the arms of the bear-leader and loudly
proclaims him as his long- lost father. The consternation of the company becomes even greater,
however, when the bear itself embraces the man they supposed to be of noble birth, for the
beast is no less a person than his own brother in the flesh who, on the death of the real bear,
had donned its skin, thus enabling the poverty-stricken pair to continue to earn their livelihood
in the only way left to them. This public disclosure of the bridegroom's lowly origin at once
dissolves the marriage, and the young woman, declaring herself outwitted by man, offers her
hand in compensation to the released jeweller.

To this unassuming subject I gave the title of the Gluckliche Barenfamilie, and provided it
with a dialogue which afterwards met with Holtei's highest approval.

