 Behold
Cymon, view Themistocles, and a thousand others, how they have differed, and fallen to better
from themselves, and deceive the expectation of such as knowe them. The young whelps both of
Dogges and Beares at first sight shew their naturall disposition, but men headlong embracing
this custome or fashion, following that humor or opinion, admitting this or that passion, allowing
of that or this law, are easily changed, and soone disguised; yet it is hard to force the naturall
propension or readinesse of the mind, whereby it followeth, that for want of heedie fore-sight
in those that could not guide their course well, they often employ much time in vaine, to addresse
young children in those matters whereunto they are not naturally addicted. All which difficulties
notwithstanding, mine opinion is, to bring them up in the best and profitablest studies, and
that a man should slightly passe over those fond presages, and deceiving prognostikes, which
we over precisely gather in their infancie. And (without offence be it said) me thinks that
Plato in his "Commonwealth" allowed them too- too much authoritie.

Madame, Learning joyned with true knowledge is an especiall and gracefull ornament, and an
implement of wonderful use and consequence, namely, in persons raised to that degree of fortune
wherein you are. And in good truth, learning hath not her owne true forme, nor can she make
shew of her beauteous lineaments, if she fall into the hands of base and vile persons. [For,
as famous Torquato Tasso saith: "Philosophie being a rich and noble Queene, and knowing her
owne worth, graciously smileth upon and lovingly embraceth Princes and noble men, if they become
suiters to her, admitting them as her minions, and gently affoording them all the favours she
can; whereas upon the contrarie, if she be wooed, and sued unto by clownes, mechanicall fellowes,
and such base kind of people, she holds herselfe disparaged and disgraced, as holding no proportion
with them. And therefore see we by experience, that if a true Gentleman or nobleman follow
her with any attention, and woo her with importunitie, he shall learne and know more of her,
and prove a better scholler in one yeare, than an ungentle or base fellow shall in seven, though
he pursue her never so attentively."] She is much more readie and fierce to lend her furtherance
and direction in the conduct of a warre, to attempt honourable actions, to command a people,
to treat a peace with a prince of forraine nation, than she is to forme an argument in Logick,
to devise a Syllogisme, to canvase a case at the barre, or to prescribe a receit of pills.
So (noble Ladie) forsomuch as I cannot perswade myselfe, that you will either forget or neglect
this point, concerning the institution of yours, especially having tasted the sweetnesse thereof,
and being descended of so noble and learned a race. For we yet possesse the learned compositions
of the ancient and noble Earles of Foix, from out whose heroicke loynes your husband and you
take your of-spring. And Francis Lord of Candale, your worthie uncle, doth daily bring forth
such fruits thereof, as the knowledge of the matchlesse qualitie of your house shall hereafter
extend itselfe to many ages; I will therefore make you acquainted with one conceit of mine,
which contrarie to the common use I hold, and that is all I am able to affoord you concerning
that matter. The charge of the Tutor, which you shall appoint your sonne, in the choice of
whom consisteth the whole substance of his education and bringing up; on which are many branches
depending, which (forasmuch as I can adde nothing of any moment to it) I will not touch at
all. And for that point, wherein I presume to advise him, he may so far forth give credit unto
it, as he shall see just cause. To a gentleman borne of noble parentage, and heire of a house
that aymeth at true learning, and in it would be disciplined, not so much for gane or commoditie
to himselfe (because so abject an end is far unworthie the grace and favour of the Muses, and
besides, hath a regard or dependencie of others) nor for externall shew and ornament, but to
adorne and enrich his inward minde, desiring rather to shape and institute an able and sufficient
man, than a bare learned man; my desire is therefore, that the parents or overseers of such
a gentleman be very circumspect, and careful in chusing his director, whom I would rather commend
for having a well composed and temperate braine, than a full stuft head, yet both will doe
well. And I would rather prefer wisdome, judgement, civill customes, and modest behaviour,
than bare and meere literall learning; and that in his charge he hold a new course. Some never
cease brawling in their schollers eares (as if they were still pouring in a tonell) to follow
their booke, yet is their charge nothing else but to repeat what hath beene told them before.
I would have a tutor to correct this part, and that at first entrance, according to the capacitie
of the wit he hath in hand, he should begin to make shew of it, making him to have a smacke
of all things, and how to choose and distinguish them, without helpe of others, sometimes opening
him the way, other times leaving him to open it by himselfe. I would not have him to invent
and speake alone, but suffer his disciple to speake when his turne commeth. Socrates, and after
him Arcesilaus, made their schollers to speake first, and then would speake themselves. De
Nat. 1. i] "Most commonly the authoritie of them that teach, hinders them that would learne."

It is therefore meet that he make him first trot-on before him, whereby he may the better judge
of his pace, and so guesse how long he will hold out, that accordingly he may fit his strength;
for want of which proportion we often marre all. And to know how to make a good choice, and
how far forth one may proceed (still keeping a due measure), is one of the hardest labours
I know. It is a signe of a noble, and effect of an undanted spirit, to know how to second,
and how far forth he shall condescend to his childish proceedings, and how to guide them. As
for myselfe, I can better and with more strength walke up than downe a hill. Those which, according
to our common fashion, undertake with one selfe-same lesson, and like maner of education, to
direct many spirits of divers formes and different humours, it is no marvell if among a multitude
of children, they scarce meet with two or three that reap any good fruit by their discipline,
or that come to any perfection. I would not only have him to demand an accompt of the words
contained in his lesson, but of the sense and substance thereof, and judge of the profit he
hath made of it, not by the testimonie of his memorie, but by the witnesse of his life. That
what he lately learned, he cause him to set forth and pourtray the same into sundrie shapes,
and then to accommodate it to as many different and severall subjects, whereby he shal perceive,
whether he have yet apprehended the same, and therein enfeoffed himselfe, [Footnote: Taken
possession.] at due times taking his instruction from the institution given by Plato. It is
a signe of cruditie and indigestion for a man to yeeld up his meat, even as he swallowed the
same; the stomacke hath not wrought his full operation, unlesse it have changed forme, and
altered fashion of that which was given him to boyle and concoct.

[Wee see men gape after no reputation but learning, and when they say, such a one is a learned
man, they thinke they have said enough;] Our minde doth move at others pleasure, and tyed and
forced to serve the fantasies of others, being brought under by authoritie, and forced to stoope
to the lure of their bare lesson; wee have beene so subjected to harpe upon one string, that
we have no way left us to descant upon voluntarie; our vigor and libertie is cleane extinct.
Nunquam tutelae suae fiunt: "They never come to their owne tuition." It was my hap to bee familiarlie
acquainted with an honest man at Pisa, but such an Aristotelian, as he held this infallible
position; that a conformitie to Aristotles doctrine was the true touchstone and squire [Footnote:
Square.] of all solid imaginations and perfect veritie; for, whatsoever had no coherencie with
it, was but fond Chimeraes and idle humors; inasmuch as he had knowne all, seene all, and said
all. This proposition of his being somewhat over amply and injuriously interpreted by some,
made him a long time after to be troubled in the inquisition of Rome. I would have him make
his scholler narrowly to sift all things with discretion, and harbour nothing in his head by
mere authoritie, or upon trust. Aristotles principles shall be no more axiomes unto him, than
the Stoikes or Epicurians. Let this diversitie of judgements be proposed unto him, if he can,
he shall be able to distinguish the truth from falsehood, if not, he will remaine doubtful.

     Che non men che saper dubbiar m'aggrata.
     [Footnote: DANTE, Inferno, cant. xi. 93.]

     No lesse it pleaseth me,
     To doubt, than wise to be.

For if by his owne discourse he embrace the opinions of Xenophon or of Plato, they shall be
no longer theirs, but his. He that meerely followeth another, traceth nothing, and seeketh
nothing: Non sumus sub Rege, sibi quisque se vindicet: [Footnote: SEN. Epist. xxxiii.] "We
are not under a Kings command, every one may challenge himselfe, for let him at least know
that he knoweth." It is requisite he endevour as much to feed himselfe with their conceits,
as labour to learne their precepts; which, so he know how to applie, let him hardily forget,
where or whence he had them. Truth and reason are common to all, and are no more proper unto
him that spake them heretofore, then unto him that shall speake them hereafter. And it is no
more according to Platoes opinion than to mine, since both he and I understand and see alike.
The Bees do here and there sucke this and cull that flower, but afterward they produce the
hony, which is peculiarly their owne, then is it no more Thyme or Majoram. So of peeces borrowed
of others, he may lawfully alter, transforme, and confound them, to shape out of them a perfect
peece of worke, altogether his owne; alwaies provided his judgement, his travell, [Footnote:
Travail, labor.] studie, and institution tend to nothing, but to frame the same perfect. Let
him hardily conceale where or whence he hath had any helpe, and make no shew of anything, but
of that which he hath made himselfe. Pirates, pilchers, and borrowers, make a shew of their
purchases and buildings, but not of that which they have taken from others: you see not the
secret fees or bribes Lawyers take of their Clients, but you shall manifestly discover the
alliances they make, the honours they get for their children, and the goodly houses they build.
No man makes open shew of his receits, but every one of his gettings. The good that comes of
studie (or at least should come) is to prove better, wiser and honester. It is the understanding
power (said Epicharmus) that seeth and heareth, it is it that profiteth all and disposeth all,
that moveth, swayeth, and ruleth all: all things else are but blind, senselesse, and without
spirit. And truly in barring him of libertie to doe any thing of himselfe, we make him thereby
more servile and more coward. Who would ever enquire of his scholler what he thinketh of Rhetorike,
of Grammar, of this or of that sentence of Cicero? Which things thoroughly fethered (as if
they were oracles) are let flie into our memorie; in which both letters and syllables are substantiall
parts of the subject. To know by roat is no perfect knowledge, but to keep what one hath committed
to his memories charge, is commendable: what a man directly knoweth, that will he dispose of,
without turning still to his booke or looking to his pattern. A meere bookish sufficiencie
is unpleasant. All I expect of it is an imbellishing of my actions, and not a foundation of
them, according to Platoes mind, who saith, constancie, faith, and sinceritie are true Philosophie;
as for other Sciences, and tending elsewhere, they are but garish paintings. I would faine
have Paluel or Pompey, those two excellent dauncers of our time, with all their nimblenesse,
teach any man to doe their loftie tricks and high capers, only with seeing them done, and without
stirring out of his place, as some Pedanticall fellowes would instruct our minds without moving
or putting it in practice. And glad would I be to find one that would teach us how to manage
a horse, to tosse a pike, to shoot-off a peece, to play upon the lute, or to warble with the
voice, without any exercise, as these kind of men would teach us to judge, and how to speake
well, without any exercise of speaking or judging. In which kind of life, or as I may terme
it, Prentiship, what action or object soever presents itselfe into our eies, may serve us in
stead of a sufficient booke. A prettie pranke of a boy, a knavish tricke of a page, a foolish
part of a lackey, an idle tale or any discourse else, spoken either in jest or earnest, at
the table or in companie, are even as new subjects for us to worke upon: for furtherance whereof,
commerce or common societie among men, visiting of forraine countries, and observing of strange
fashions, are verie necessary, not only to be able (after the manner of our yong gallants of
France) to report how many paces the Church of Santa Rotonda is in length or breadth, or what
rich garments the curtezan Signora Livia weareth, and the worth of her hosen; or as some do,
nicely to dispute how much longer or broader the face of Nero is, which they have seene in
some old ruines of Italie, than that which is made for him in other old monuments else-where.
But they should principally observe, and be able to make certaine relation of the humours and
fashions of those countries they have seene, that they may the better know how to correct and
prepare their wits by those of others. I would therefore have him begin even from his infancie
to travell abroad; and first, that at one shoot he may hit two markes he should see neighbour-
countries, namely where languages are most different from ours; for, unlesse a mans tongue
be fashioned unto them in his youth, he shall never attaine to the true pronunciation of them
if he once grow in yeares. Moreover, we see it received as a common opinion of the wiser sort,
that it agreeth not with reason, that a childe be alwaies nuzzled, cockered, dandled, and brought
up in his parents lap or sight; forsomuch as their naturall kindnesse, or (as I may call it)
tender fondnesse, causeth often, even the wisest to prove so idle, so over-nice, and so base-minded.
For parents are not capable, neither can they find in their hearts to see them checkt, corrected,
or chastised, nor indure to see them brought up so meanly, and so far from daintinesse, and
many times so dangerously, as they must needs be. And it would grieve them to see their children
come home from those exercises, that a Gentleman must necessarily acquaint himselfe with, sometimes
all wet and bemyred, other times sweatie and full of dust, and to drinke being either extreme
hot or exceeding cold; and it would trouble them to see him ride a rough-untamed horse, or
with his weapon furiously incounter a skilful Fencer, or to handle or shoot-off a musket; against
which there is no remedy, if he will make him prove a sufficient, compleat, or honest man:
he must not be spared in his youth; and it will come to passe, that he shall many times have
occasion and be forced to shocke the rules of Physicke.

     Vitamque sub dio et trepidis agat
     In rebus.
     [Footnote: Hor. I. i. Od. ii. 4.]

     Leade he his life in open aire,
     And in affaires full of despaire.

It is not sufficient to make his minde strong, his muskles must also
be strengthened: the mind is over-borne if it be not seconded: and
it is too much for her alone to discharge two offices. I have a
feeling how mine panteth, being joyned to so tender and sensible
[Footnote: Sensitive.] a bodie, and that lieth so heavie upon it And
in my lecture, I often perceive how my Authors in their writings
sometimes commend examples for magnanimitie and force, that rather
proceed from a thicke skin and hardnes of the bones. I have knowne
men, women and children borne of so hard a constitution, that a blow
with a cudgell would lesse hurt them, than a filip would doe me, and
so dull and blockish, that they will neither stir tongue nor
eyebrowes, beat them never so much. When wrestlers goe about to
counterfeit the Philosophers patience, they rather shew the vigor of
their sinnewes than of their heart. For the custome to beare
travell, is to tolerate griefe: Labor callum obducit dolori.
[Footnote: Cic. Tusc. Qu. I. ii.] "Labour worketh a hardnesse upon
sorrow." Hee must be enured to suffer the paine and hardnesse of
exercises, that so he may be induced to endure the paine of the
colicke, of cauterie, of fals, of sprains, and other diseases
incident to mans bodie: yea, if need require, patiently to beare
imprisonment and other tortures, by which sufferance he shall come
to be had in more esteeme and accompt: for according to time and
place, the good as well as the bad man may haply fall into them; we
have seen it by experience. Whosoever striveth against the lawes,
threats good men with mischiefe and extortion. Moreover, the
authoritie of the Tutor (who should be soveraigne over him) is by
the cockering and presence of the parents, hindred and interrupted:
besides the awe and respect which the houshold beares him, and the
knowledge of the meane, possibilities, and greatnesse of his house,
are in my judgement no small lets [Footnote: Hindrances.]in a young
Gentleman. In this schoole of commerce, and societie among men, I
have often noted this vice, that in lieu of taking acquaintance of
others, we only endevour to make our selves knowne to them: and we
are more ready to utter such merchandize as we have, than to
ingrosse and purchase new commodities. Silence and modestie are
qualities very convenient to civil conversation. It is also
necessary that a young man be rather taught to be discreetly-sparing
and close-handed, than prodigally-wastfull and lavish in his
expences, and moderate in husbanding his wealth when he shall come
to possesse it. And not to take pepper in the nose for every foolish
tale that shall be spoken in his presence, because it is an uncivil
importunity to contradict whatsoever is not agreeing to our humour:
let him be pleased to correct himselfe. And let him not seeme to
blame that in others which he refuseth to doe himselfe, nor goe
about to withstand common fashions, Licet sapere sine pompa, sine
invidia: [Footnote: SEN. Epist. ciii. f.] "A man may bee wise
without ostentation, without envie." Let him avoid those imperious
images of the world, those uncivil behaviours and childish ambition
wherewith, God wot, too-too many are possest: that is, to make a
faire shew of that which is not in him: endevouring to be reputed
other than indeed he is; and as if reprehension and new devices were
hard to come by, he would by that meane acquire into himselfe the
name of some peculiar vertue. As it pertaineth but to great Poets to
use the libertie of arts; so is it tolerable but in noble minds and
great spirits to have a preheminence above ordinarie fashions. Off. 1. i.] "If
Socrates and Aristippus have done ought against custome or good
manner, let not a man thinke he may doe the same: for they obtained
this licence by their great and excellent good parts:" He shall be
taught not to enter rashly into discourse or contesting, but when he
shall encounter with a Champion worthie his strength; And then would
I not have him imploy all the tricks that may fit his turne, but
only such as may stand him in most stead. That he be taught to be
curious in making choice of his reasons, loving pertinency, and by
consequence brevitie. That above all, he be instructed to yeeld, yea
to quit his weapons unto truth, as soone as he shall discerne the
same, whether it proceed from his adversarie, or upon better advice
from himselfe; for he shall not be preferred to any place of
eminencie above others, for repeating of a prescript [Footnote:
Fixed beforehand.] part; and he is not engaged to defend any cause,
further than he may approove it; nor shall he bee of that trade
where the libertie for a man to repent and re-advise himselfe is
sold for readie money, Neque, ut omnia, que praescripta et imperata
sint, defendat, necessitate ulla cogitur: [Footnote: CIC. Acad. Qu.
I. iv.] "Nor is he inforced by any necessitie to defend and make
good all that is prescribed and commanded him." If his tutor agree
with my humour, he shall frame his affection to be a most loyall and
true subject to his Prince, and a most affectionate and couragious
Gentleman in al that may concerne the honor of his Soveraigne or the
good of his countrie, and endevour to suppresse in him all manner of
affection to undertake any action Otherwise than for a publike good
and dutie. Besides many inconveniences, which greatly prejudice our
libertie by reason of these particular bonds, the judgment of a man
that is waged and bought, either it is lesse free and honest, or
else it is blemisht with oversight and ingratitude. A meere and
precise Courtier can neither have law nor will to speake or thinke
otherwise than favourablie of his Master, who among so many
thousands of his subjects hath made choice of him alone, to
institute and bring him up with his owne hand. These favours, with
the commodities that follow minion [Footnote: Favorite.] Courtiers,
corrupt (not without some colour of reason) his libertie, and dazle
his judgement. It is therefore commonly scene that the Courtiers-
language differs from other mens, in the same state, and to be of no
great credit in such matters. Let therefore his conscience and
vertue shine in his speech, and reason be his chiefe direction, Let
him be taught to confesse such faults as he shall discover in his
owne discourses, albeit none other perceive them but himselfe; for
it is an evident shew of judgement, and effect of sinceritie, which
are the chiefest qualities he aymeth at. That wilfully to strive,
and obstinately to contest in words, are common qualities, most
apparent in basest mindes: That to readvise and correct himselfe,
and when one is most earnest, to leave an ill opinion, are rare,
noble, and Philosophicall conditions. Being in companie, he shall be
put in minde, to cast his eyes round about, and every where: For I
note, that the chiefe places are usually seezed upon by the most
unworthie and lesse capable; and that height of fortune is seldome
joyned with sufficiencie. I have scene that whilst they at the upper
end of a board were busie entertaining themselves with talking of
the beautie of the hangings about a chamber, or of the taste of some
good cup of wine, many good discourses at the lower end have utterly
been lost. He shall weigh the carriage of every man in his calling,
a Heardsman, a Mason, a Stranger, or a Traveller; all must be
imployed; every one according to his worth; for all helps to make up
houshold; yea, the follie and the simplicitie of others shall be as
instructions to him. By controlling the graces and manners of
others, he shall acquire unto himselfe envie of the good and
contempt of the bad. Let him hardly be possest with an honest
curiositie to search out the nature and causes of all things: let
him survay whatsoever is rare and singular about him; a building, a
fountaine, a man, a place where any battell hath been fought, or the
passages of Caesar or Charlemaine.
     [Footnote: Prop. 1. iv. El. iii. 39.]

     What land is parcht with heat, what clog'd with frost.
     What wind drives kindly to th' Italian coast.

He shall endevour to be familiarly acquainted with the customes, with the meanes, with the
state, with the dependances and alliances of all Princes; they are things soone and pleasant
to be learned, and most profitable to be knowne. In this acquaintance of men, my intending
is, that hee chiefely comprehend them, that live but by the memorie of bookes. He shall, by
the help of Histories, in forme himselfe of the worthiest minds that were in the best ages.
It is a frivolous studie, if a man list, but of unvaluable worth to such as can make use of
it, and as Plato saith, the only studie the Lacedemonians reserved for themselves. What profit
shall he not reap, touching this point, reading the lives of our Plutark? Alwayes conditioned,
the master bethinke himselfe whereto his charge tendeth, and that he imprint not so much in
his schollers mind the date of the ruine of Carthage, as the manners of Hanniball and Scipio,
nor so much where Marcellus died, as because he was unworthy of his devoire [Footnote: Task.]
he died there: that he teach him not so much to know Histories as to judge of them. It is amongst
things that best agree with my humour, the subject to which our spirits doe most diversly applie
themselves. I have read in Titus Livius a number of things, which peradventure others never
read, in whom Plutarke haply read a hundred more than ever I could read, and which perhaps
the author himselfe did never intend to set downe. To some kind of men it is a meere gramaticali
studie, but to others a perfect anatomie [Footnote: Dissection, analytical exposition.] of
Philosophie; by meanes whereof the secretest part of our nature is searched into. There are
in Plutarke many ample discourses most worthy to be knowne: for in my judgement, he is the
chiefe work- master of such works, whereof there are a thousand, whereat he hath but slightly
glanced; for with his finger he doth but point us out a way to walke in, if we list; and is
sometimes pleased to give but a touch at the quickest and maine point of a discourse, from
whence they are by diligent studie to be drawne, and so brought into open market. As that saying
of his, That the inhabitants of Asia served but one alone, because they could not pronounce
one onely syllable, which is Non, gave perhaps both subject and occasion to my friend Boetie
to compose his booke of voluntarie servitude. If it were no more but to see Plutarke wrest
a slight action to mans life, or a word that seemeth to beare no such sence, it will serve
for a whole discourse. It is pittie men of understanding should so much love brevitie; without
doubt their reputation is thereby better, but we the worse. Plutarke had rather we should commend
him for his judgement than for his knowledge, he loveth better to leave a kind of longing-desire
in us of him, than a satietie. He knew verie well that even in good things too much may be
said: and that Alexandridas did justly reprove him who spake verie good sentences to the Ephores,
but they were over tedious. Oh stranger, quoth he, thou speakest what thou oughtest, otherwise
then [Footnote: Than.] thou shouldest. Those that have leane and thin bodies stuffe them up
with bumbasting. [Footnote: Padding.] And such as have but poore matter, will puffe it up with
loftie words. There is a marvelous cleerenesse, or as I may terme it an enlightning of mans
judgement drawne from the commerce of men, and by frequenting abroad in the world; we are all
so contrived and compact in our selves, that our sight is made shorter by the length of our
nose. When Socrates was demaunded whence he was, he answered, not of Athens, but of the world;
for he, who had his imagination more full and farther stretching, embraced all the world for
his native Citie, and extended his acquaintance, his societie, and affections to all man- kind:
and not as we do, that looke no further than our feet. If the frost chance to nip the vines
about my village, my Priest doth presently argue that the wrath of God hangs over our head,
and threatneth all mankind: and judgeth that the Pippe [Footnote: A disease.] is alreadie falne
upon the Canibals.

In viewing these intestine and civill broiles of ours, who doth not exclaime, that this worlds
vast frame is neere unto a dissolution, and that the day of judgement is readie to fall on
us? never remembering that many worse revolutions have been seene, and that whilest we are
plunged in griefe, and overwhelmed in sorrow, a thousand other parts of the world besides are
blessed with happinesse, and wallow in pleasures, and never thinke on us? whereas, when I behold
our lives, our licence, and impunitie, I wonder to see them so milde and easie. He on whose
head it haileth, thinks all the Hemispheare besides to be in a storme and tempest. And as that
dull-pated Savoyard said, that if the seelie [Footnote 31: Simple.] King of France could cunningly
have managed his fortune, he might verie well have made himselfe chiefe Steward of his Lords
household, whose imagination conceived no other greatnesse than his Masters; we are all insensible
of this kind of errour: an errour of great consequence and prejudice. But whosoever shall present
unto his inward eyes, as it were in a Table, the Idea of the great image of our universall
mother Nature, attired in her richest robes, sitting in the throne of her Majestic, and in
her visage shall read so generall and so constant a varietie; he that therein shall view himselfe,
not himselfe alone, but a whole Kingdome, to be in respect of a great circle but the smallest
point that can be imagined, he onely can value things according to their essentiall greatnesse
and proportion. This great universe (which some multiplie as Species under one Genus) is the
true looking-glasse wherein we must looke, if we will know whether we be of a good stamp or
in the right byase. To conclude, I would have this worlds-frame to be my Schollers choise-booke.
[Footnote: Book of examples] So many strange humours, sundrie sects, varying judgements, diverse
opinions, different lawes, and fantasticall customes teach us to judge rightly of ours, and
instruct our judgement to acknowledge his imperfections and naturall weaknesse, which is no
easie an apprentiship: So many innovations of estates, so many fals of Princes, and changes
of publike fortune, may and ought to teach us, not to make so great accompt of ours: So many
names, so many victories, and so many conquests buried in darke oblivion, makes the hope to
perpetuate our names but ridiculous, by the surprising of ten Argo-lettiers, [Footnote: Mounted
Bowmen.] or of a small cottage, which is knowne but by his fall. The pride and fiercenesse
of so many strange and gorgeous shewes: the pride-puft majestie of so many courts, and of their
greatnesse, ought to confirme and assure our sight, undauntedly to beare the affronts and thunder-claps
of ours, without feeling our eyes: So many thousands of men, lowlaide in their graves afore
us, may encourage us not to feare, or be dismaied to go meet so good companie in the other
world, and so of all things else. Our life (said Pithagoras) drawes neare unto the great and
populous assemblies of the Olympike games, wherein some, to get the glorie and to win the goale
of the games, exercise their bodies with all industrie; others, for greedinesse of gaine, bring
thither marchandise to sell: others there are (and those be not the worst) that seek after
no other good, but to marke how wherefore, and to what end, all things are done: and to be
spectators or observers of other mens lives and actions, that so they may the better judge
and direct their owne. Unto examples may all the most profitable Discourses of Philosophic
be sorted, which ought to be the touch- stone of human actions, and a rule to square them by,
to whom may be said,

    ---quid fas optare, quid asper
     Vtile nummus habet, patriae charisque propinquis
     Quantum elargiri deceat, quem te Deus esse
     lussit, et humana qua parte locaius es in re.
     [Footnote: Pers. Sat. iii. 69.]
     Quid sumus, aut quidnam victuri gignimur.
     [Footnote: Ib. 67.]

     What thou maiest wish, what profit may come cleare,
     From new-stampt coyne, to friends and countrie deare
     What thou ought'st give: whom God would have thee bee,
     And in what part mongst men he placed thee.
     What we are, and wherefore,
     To live heer we were bore.

What it is to know, and not to know (which ought to be the scope of studie), what valour, what
temperance, and what justice is: what difference there is betweene ambition and avarice, bondage
and freedome, subjection and libertie, by which markes a man may distinguish true and perfect
contentment, and how far-forth one ought to feare or apprehend death, griefe, or shame.

     Et quo quemque modo fugiatque. feratque laborem.
     [Footnote: Virg. Aen. 1. iii. 853.]

     How ev'ry labour he may plie,
     And beare, or ev'ry labour flie.

What wards or springs move us, and the causes of so many motions in
us: For me seemeth, that the first discourses, wherewith his conceit
should be sprinkled, ought to be those that rule his manners and
direct his sense; which will both teach him to know himselfe, and
how to live and how to die well. Among the liberall Sciences, let us
begin with that which makes us free: Indeed, they may all, in some
sort stead us, as an instruction to our life, and use of it, as all
other things else serve the same to some purpose or other. But let
us make especiall choice of that which may directly and pertinently
serve the same. If we could restraine and adapt the appurtenances of
our life to their right byase and naturall limits, we should find
the best part of the Sciences that now are in use, cleane out of
fashion with us: yea, and in those that are most in use, there are
certaine by-wayes and deep-flows most profitable, which we should do
well to leave, and according to the institution of Socrates, limit
the course of our studies in those where profit is wanting.
     [Footnote: Hor. I. i. Epist. ii. 40.]

     Be bold to be wise: to begin, be strong,
     He that to live well doth the time prolong,
     Clowne-like expects, till downe the streame be run,
     That runs, and will run, till the world be done.
     [Footnote: Prop. I. El. i. 85.]
     What Pisces move, or hot breath'd Leos beames,
     Or Capricornus bath'd in western streames,

the knowledge of the starres, and the motion of the eighth spheare,
before their owne;
     [Greek text quote omited]
     [Footnote: Anacr. Od. xvii. 10, 12.]

     What longs it to the seaven stars, and me,
     Or those about Bootes be.

